Forty-eight States, the Federal Government, and the Dis-trict of Columbia (all of which, for simplicity, we shall call"States") have entered into the Interstate Agreement on De-tainers (Agreement), 18 U. S. C. App. $ 2, p. 692, an interstatecompact. The Agreement creates uniform procedures forlodging and executing a detainer,i. e., a legal order that re-quires a State in which an individual is currently imprisonedto hold that individual when he has finished serving his sen-tence so that he may be tried by a different State for a different crime.The Agreement provides for expeditious delivery of theprisoner to the receiving State for trial prior to the termina-tion of his sentence in the sending State. And it seeks tominimize the consequent interruption of the prisoner's ongo-ing prison term. In particular, Article IV(c) specifies thatthe receiving State shall begin the prisoner's "trial . . .within one hundred and twenty days of the arrival of theprisoner in the receiving State." At the same time, ArticleIV(e) prohibits return of the individual to the sending Statebefore that trial is complete. It says:*Mary E. Hunley and Alexander Taylor filed a brief for the NationalAssociation of Extradition Officials as amicus curiae urging reversal.#Justice Scalia and Justice Thomas join all but Part II-B of thisopinion.533US1 Unit: $U72 [11-21-01 06:43:16] PAGES PGT: OPIN149Cite as: 533 U. S. 146 (2001)Opinion of the Court"If trial is not had on any indictment, information, orcomplaint contemplated hereby prior to the prisoner'sbeing returned to the original place of imprisonmentpursuant to article V(e) hereof, such indictment, information, or complaint shall not be of any further force oreffect, and the court shall enter an order dismissing thesame with prejudice." (Emphasis added.)The case before us requires us to interpret the Article IVlanguage that we have just quoted. SeeNew York v. Hill,528 U. S. 110, 111 (2000) ("As `a congressionally sanctionedinterstate compact' within the Compact Clause of the UnitedStates Constitution, Art. I, $ 10, cl. 3, the [Interstate Agreement on Detainers] is a federal law subject to federal con-struction") (quoting Carchman v. Nash, 473 U. S. 716, 719(1985); Cuyler v. Adams, 449 U. S. 433, 442 (1981)). Thecase concerns a defendant whose initial imprisonment wasinterrupted briefly--for a single day--during which time hewas brought to the receiving State for purposes of arraignment and then returned immediately to his original place ofimprisonment. The question is whether, in such circumstances, the literal language of Article IV(e) bars any furthercriminal proceedings--because the defendant was "returnedto the original place of imprisonment" before "trial" was"had." We conclude that Article IV(e) does bar further proceedings, despite the fact that the interruption of the initialimprisonment lasted for only one day.IAThe Council of State Governments drafted the language ofthe Agreement in 1956. SeeUnited States v. Mauro, 436U. S. 340, 349-350 (1978). The United States joined in 1970.Id., at 343. And Alabama is one of the 49 other currentmembers. Hill, supra, at 111; Ala. Code $ 15-9-81 (1995).The Agreement contains nine articles. Article I sets forth533US1 Unit: $U72 [11-21-01 06:43:16] PAGES PGT: OPIN150 ALABAMA v. BOZEMANOpinion of the Courtthe problems that led to the Agreement's creation, namely,that"charges outstanding against a prisoner, detainers basedon untried indictments, informations, or complaints anddifficulties in securing speedy trial of persons alreadyincarcerated in other jurisdictions, produce uncertainties which obstruct programs of prisoner treatmentand rehabilitation."Article I then adds that "it is the . . . purpose of this agree-ment to encourage the expeditious and orderly disposition ofsuch charges and determination of the proper status of . . .detainers . . . ."Article II sets forth definitions. Article III gives a pris-oner against whom a detainer has been lodged the right to"request" a "final disposition" of the relevant charges, inwhich case "he shall be brought to trial within one hundredand eighty days" (unless extended by the trial court for"good cause"); otherwise, the relevant "indictment, information, or complaint shall not be of any further force or effect,and the court shall enter an order dismissing the same withprejudice." Art. III(a), (d).Article IV gives "the jurisdiction in which an untried in-dictment, information, or complaint is pending,"i. e., the receiving State, the right "to have a prisoner against whom"it "has lodged a detainer . . . made available" for trial.Art. IV(a). It says further that, once the prisoner arrivesin the receiving State, the "trial" must begin "within onehundred and twenty days" unless extended for "good cause."Art. IV(c). Article IV also sets forth the "antishuttling"provision at issue here. To repeat: that provision says thattrial must be "had . . . prior to the prisoner's being returnedto the original place of imprisonment"; otherwise, thecharges "shall" be dismissed with prejudice. Art. IV(e).Article V sets forth conditions on the receiving State obtaining temporary custody of the prisoner. The remaining arti533US1 Unit: $U72 [11-21-01 06:43:16] PAGES PGT: OPIN151Cite as: 533 U. S. 146 (2001)Opinion of the Courtcles deal with subsidiary matters, not relevant here with oneexception: Article IX provides that the "agreement shall beliberally construed so as to effectuate its purposes."For present purposes, it is important to keep in mind thatthe Agreement basically (1) gives a prisoner the right to de-mand a trial within 180 days; and (2) gives a State the rightto obtain a prisoner for purposes of trial, in which case theState (a) must try the prisoner within 120 days of his arrival,and (b) must not return the prisoner to his "original place ofimprisonment" prior to that trial.BIn January 1997, respondent Michael Bozeman was servinga sentence of imprisonment for a federal drug crime in federal prison in Marianna, Florida. At the beginning of thatmonth, the district attorney of Covington County, Alabama,who had earlier lodged a detainer against Bozeman in con-nection with charges related to discharging firearms, soughttemporary custody in order to arraign Bozeman on thosefirearms charges and secure the appointment of counsel. OnJanuary 23, federal authorities released Bozeman to local of-ficials. Those officials took him to Covington County, about80 miles from the federal prison, where he arrived later inthe day. Bozeman spent the night in the county jail, appeared in local court the next morning, obtained local ap-pointed counsel, and was transported back to federal prisonthat evening. About one month later, Bozeman was broughtback to Covington County for trial.At that time, Bozeman's local counsel filed a motion to dis-miss the state charges on the ground that in January Bozeman had been "returned to the original place of imprison-ment" (namely, the federal prison) "prior to" "trial" on statecharges being "had." See App. 37-42. Consequently, heargued, under Article IV(e) the state charges were without"any further force or effect," and the local court had to"enter an order dismissing the same with prejudice."533US1 Unit: $U72 [11-21-01 06:43:16] PAGES PGT: OPIN152 ALABAMA v. BOZEMANOpinion of the CourtBozeman was convicted, and the trial court subsequentlydenied Bozeman's motion for dismissal. It wrote that it"made much sense to bring" Bozeman "into the countybriefly" to deal with "short pre-trial matters" and then to"return him to the surroundings to which he was accus-tomed." App. to Pet. for Cert. 28a. Doing so furtheredBozeman's "interest in maintaining . . . rehabilitation avail-able to him in federal prison."Ibid. In the trial judge'sview, Bozeman "certainly would not [have] receive[d] muchrehabilitation in a county jail." Ibid. Consequently, thejudge concluded, the January transfer was "wholly consistentwith" the Agreement's goal, "to expedite the prosecution ofstate charges without interfering with any rehabilitativeprograms of the federal government." Id., at 29a.An intermediate State Court of Appeals affirmed theconviction. 738 So. 2d 934 (1998). But the Alabama StateSupreme Court reversed by a 5-to-3 vote. 781 So. 2d 165(2000). In its view, the literal language of the Agreementcontrolled and required dismissal of the state charges. Thedissenters argued that the Agreement violation was merely"technical," and consequently did not require dismissal.Id.,at 170. The State petitioned for certiorari. In light ofdifferences among the lower courts, we granted the writ.Compare, e. g., United States v. Schrum, 638 F. 2d 214, 215(CA10 1981) (per curiam) (adopting District Court's literalinterpretation of Agreement), with United States v. Daniels,3 F. 3d 25, 27-28 (CA1 1993) (rejecting literal interpretationof Agreement). And we now affirm the Alabama SupremeCourt's decision. IIAlabama does not deny a violation of Article IV(e) as liter-ally interpreted, for it concedes that its officials "returned"Bozeman to his "original place of imprisonment," beforeBozeman's county court "trial" was "had." Nor does Alabama claim that Bozeman waived the right to trial beforereturn that Article IV provides. See Reply Brief for Peti533US1 Unit: $U72 [11-21-01 06:43:16] PAGES PGT: OPIN153Cite as: 533 U. S. 146 (2001)Opinion of the Courttioner 1, n. 1. Cf. Hill, 528 U. S., at 114-115 (holding thatdefendant may waive his rights under Art. III of the Agreement). Rather, Alabama, supported by the United StatesSolicitor General and others, claims that Article IV(e)'s basicpurpose is to prevent shuttling that would interrupt the pris-oner's rehabilitation. See, e. g., United States v. Roy, 830F. 2d 628, 636 (CA7 1987) (provision is "meant to protect theprisoner against endless interruption of the rehabilitationprograms because of criminal proceedings in other jurisdic-tions"). They say the one-day interruption that occurredhere did not interrupt rehabilitation significantly. Hence,any violation is "technical," "harmless," or "de minimis."And Article IV(e) contains an implicit exception for suchtrivial violations. Brief for Petitioner 26; Brief for UnitedStates as Amicus Curiae 12-13. Cf. Wisconsin Dept. ofRevenue v. William Wrigley, Jr., Co., 505 U. S. 214, 231(1992) (laws ordinarily are enacted with understanding thatde minimis exceptions will be recognized). We cannot ac-cept this argument, however, for two reasons.AFirst, the language of the Agreement militates against animplicit exception, for it is absolute. It says that, when aprisoner is "returned" before trial, the indictment, informa-tion, or complaint "shall not be of any further force or effect,and the court shall enter an order dismissing the same withprejudice." Art. IV(e) (emphasis added). "The word `shall'is ordinarily `the language of command.' " Anderson v.Yungkau, 329 U. S. 482, 485 (1947) (quoting Escoe v. Zerbst,295 U. S. 490, 493 (1935)).The cases Alabama cites as supporting a "harmless error"construction involved statutes that lacked this absolutelanguage. See, e. g., United States v. Montalvo-Murillo,495 U. S. 711, 716-717 (1990) (Bail Reform Act "is silenton the issue of a remedy for violations of its time limits").Cf.William Wrigley, Jr., supra, at 231-232 (applying "de533US1 Unit: $U72 [11-21-01 06:43:16] PAGES PGT: OPIN154 ALABAMA v. BOZEMANOpinion of the Courtminimis exception" presumption as "part of the establishedbackground of legal principles against which all enactments are adopted," where text did not provide a "contraryindication").Moreover, the Agreement makes no distinction among dif-ferent kinds of IV(c) "arrivals," say, by exempting those thatare followed by return within a short, specified period oftime, or those that are simply for the purpose of arraignment. Given the Agreement's language and the importantconsequences of starting the running of the 120-day timelimit, we see no basis for such a distinction. Hence, we mustassume thatevery prisoner arrival in the receiving State,whether followed by a very brief stay or a very longstay in the receiving State, triggers IV(e)'s "no return"requirement.BSecond, even were we to assume for argument's sake thatthe Agreement exempts violations that, viewed in terms ofthe Agreement's purposes, are de minimis, cf. Article IX(stating that Agreement "shall be liberally construed so asto effectuate its purposes"), we could not say that the viola-tion at issue here qualifies as trivial. That is because thepurpose of the "no return" provision cannot be as Alabamaand the Solicitor General describe it, namely, as a simple,direct effort to prevent the interruption of rehabilitation. Aprovision that prevents returning a prisoner who has arrivedin the receiving State does not directly increase the numberof days the prisoner will spend in rehabilitation in the sending State. Rather, it directly and intentionally decreasesthe number of days that prisoner will spend in the sendingState.This point is obvious once one keeps in mind that the trialmust take place within 120 days of the prisoner's arrival inthe receiving State. Article IV(e)'s requirement that theprisoner remain in the county jail means that the prisonerwill spend all of those 120 days away from the sending533US1 Unit: $U72 [11-21-01 06:43:16] PAGES PGT: OPIN155Cite as: 533 U. S. 146 (2001)Opinion of the CourtState's rehabilitation programs. By contrast, returning theprisoner prior to trial--in violation of Article IV(e)--wouldpermit the prisoner to participate in the sending State's program for some of those days. But to call such a violation"technical," because it means fewer days spent away fromthe sending State, is to call virtually every conceivable antishuttling violation "technical"--a circumstance which, likethe 13th chime of the clock, shows that Alabama's conceptionof the provision's purpose is seriously flawed.Article IV(e) may seek to remove obstructions to prisonerrehabilitation in a different way. The Agreement not onlyprevents "return," but it also requires the receiving State topay for the prisoner's incarceration in that State during theperiod prior to trial. Art. V(h) ("From the time that a partyState receives custody of a prisoner pursuant to this agreement until such prisoner is returned to the territory and custody of the sending State, the [receiving] State . . . shall beresponsible for the prisoner and shall also pay all costs oftransporting, caring for, keeping, and returning the prisoner"). That requirement may provide the receiving Statewith an incentive to shorten the pretrial period--to proceedto trial faster than 120 days or not to seek extensions--thusdisposing of detainers, and the attendant "uncertaintieswhich obstruct programs of prisoner treatment and rehabilitation," in the most "expeditious" manner. Art. I. See alsoCuyler, 449 U. S., at 449 (discussing negative effects of detainers on prisoners). But if that is Article IV(e)'s purpose,the transfer here was inconsistent with it. By returningBozeman to federal prison, the county saved itself the costof housing him--and for a nontrivial several week period,which may have allowed it to delay resolving the detainer.Alternatively, the Agreement's drafters may have thoughtthat the "shuttling" itself, i. e., the movement back and forthamong prisons, adds to the "uncertainties which obstructprograms of prisoner treatment and rehabilitation." Art. I533US1 Unit: $U72 [11-21-01 06:43:16] PAGES PGT: OPIN156 ALABAMA v. BOZEMANOpinion of the Court(emphasis added). And they may have sought to minimizethe number of "shuttles" for that reason alone.Viewing the Agreement in terms of either purpose, wecannot say that the one-day violation here is de mimimis,technical, or harmless. Neither do the briefs (or, to ourknowledge, any lower court opinion) point to any otherplausible rehabilitation-related purpose of Article IV(e) spe-cifically, in terms of which the violation here might count astrivial. But we need not decide precisely what led Congressand the many other legislatures to agree to Article IV(e)'santishuttling remedy. Given the Agreement's absolute lan-guage, it is enough to explain why Alabama's view of theAgreement's purpose is not plausible and to point to otherpurposes more easily squared with Article IV(e)'s text andoperation. CAlabama and amici make additional claims, basically elab-orating on the trial court's view that return to the sendingState after a brief journey to the receiving State for pretrialpurposes is helpful, not harmful, to the prisoner. But givenArticle IV's text, which indicates a contrary view, the partieswould more appropriately address these policy argumentsto legislatures.The Solicitor General also points to a federal statutoryprovision that says expressly that an "order of a court dis-missing any indictment, information, or complaint may bewith or without prejudice," depending on the "seriousness ofthe offense," the "facts and circumstances of the case," andthe "impact of a reprosecution on the administration of theagreement" and "on the administration of justice." 18U. S. C. App. $ 9(1), p. 695. This statutory provision, how-ever, governs only when "the United States is a receivingState." $ 9. And here the United States is not the receiv-ing State. We fail to see how this provision helps, ratherthan hurts, Alabama's cause. Although we reject Alabama'sinterpretation of the Agreement, our decision does not bar a533US1 Unit: $U72 [11-21-01 06:43:16] PAGES PGT: OPIN157Cite as: 533 U. S. 146 (2001)Opinion of the Courtreceiving State from returning a prisoner when it would bemutually advantageous and the prisoner accordingly waiveshis rights under Article IV(e). Cf. Hill, 528 U. S., at 114-115 (holding that defendant may waive his rights underArt. III of the Agreement)For these reasons, the judgment of the Alabama SupremeCourt is affirmed.