The issue in this case concerns the application of Brutonv.United States, 391 U. S. 123 (1968). Bruton involved twodefendants accused of participating in the same crime andtried jointly before the same jury. One of the defendantshad confessed. His confession named and incriminated theother defendant. The trial judge issued a limiting instruc-tion, telling the jury that it should consider the confession asevidence only against the codefendant who had confessed andnot against the defendant named in the confession.Brutonheld that, despite the limiting instruction, the Constitutionforbids the use of such a confession in the joint trial.The case before us differs from Bruton in that the prosecution here redacted the codefendant's confession by substi-tuting for the defendant's name in the confession a blankspace or the word "deleted." We must decide whether thesesubstitutions make a significant legal difference. We holdthat they do not and that Bruton's protective rule applies.IIn 1993, Stacey Williams died after a severe beating. An-thony Bell gave a confession, to the Baltimore City police, inwhich he said that he (Bell), Kevin Gray, and Jacquin "Tank"Vanlandingham had participated in the beating that resultedin Williams' death. Vanlandingham later died. A Marylandgrand jury indicted Bell and Gray for murder. The State ofMaryland tried them jointly.The trial judge, after denying Gray's motion for a separatetrial, permitted the State to introduce Bell's confession intoevidence at trial. But the judge ordered the confession redacted. Consequently, the police detective who read theconfession into evidence said the word "deleted" or "deletion" whenever Gray's name or Vanlandingham's name ap-peared. Immediately after the police detective read theredacted confession to the jury, the prosecutor asked, "afterhe gave you that information, you subsequently were able523US1 Unit: $U39 [04-29-00 20:26:30] PAGES PGT: OPIN189Cite as: 523 U. S. 185 (1998)Opinion of the Courtto arrest Mr. Kevin Gray; is that correct?" The officer responded, "That's correct." App. 12. The State also introduced into evidence a written copy of the confession withthose two names omitted, leaving in their place blank whitespaces separated by commas. See Appendix, infra. TheState produced other witnesses, who said that six persons(including Bell, Gray, and Vanlandingham) participated in thebeating. Gray testified and denied his participation. Belldid not testify.When instructing the jury, the trial judge specified thatthe confession was evidence only against Bell; the instructions said that the jury should not use the confession as evidence against Gray. The jury convicted both Bell and Gray.Gray appealed.Maryland's intermediate appellate court accepted Gray'sargument that Bruton prohibited use of the confession andset aside his conviction. 107 Md. App. 311, 667 A. 2d 983(1995). Maryland's highest court disagreed and reinstatedthe conviction. 344 Md. 417, 687 A. 2d 660 (1997). Wegranted certiorari in order to consider Bruton's applicationto a redaction that replaces a name with an obvious blankspace or symbol or word such as "deleted."IIIn deciding whether Bruton's protective rule applies tothe redacted confession before us, we must consider bothBruton and a later case, Richardson v. Marsh, 481 U. S. 200(1987), which limited Bruton's scope. We shall briefly summarize each of these two cases.Bruton, as we have said, involved two defendants--Evansand Bruton--tried jointly for robbery. Evans did not testify, but the Government introduced into evidence Evans'confession, which stated that both he (Evans) and Brutontogether had committed the robbery. 391 U. S., at 124.The trial judge told the jury it could consider the confession523US1 Unit: $U39 [04-29-00 20:26:30] PAGES PGT: OPIN190 GRAY v. MARYLANDOpinion of the Courtas evidence only against Evans, not against Bruton. Id., at125.This Court held that, despite the limiting instruction, theintroduction of Evans' out-of-court confession at Bruton'strial had violated Bruton's right, protected by the SixthAmendment, to cross-examine witnesses. Id., at 137. TheCourt recognized that in many circumstances a limiting instruction will adequately protect one defendant from theprejudicial effects of the introduction at a joint trial of evidence intended for use only against a different defendant.Id., at 135. But it said:"[T]here are some contexts in which the risk that thejury will not, or cannot, follow instructions is so great,and the consequences of failure so vital to the defend-ant, that the practical and human limitations of the jurysystem cannot be ignored. Such a context is presentedhere, where the powerfully incriminating extrajudicialstatements of a codefendant, who stands accused sideby-side with the defendant, are deliberately spreadbefore the jury in a joint trial. Not only are the incriminations devastating to the defendant but theircredibility is inevitably suspect . . . . The unreliabilityof such evidence is intolerably compounded when thealleged accomplice, as here, does not testify and cannotbe tested by cross-examination." Id., at 135-136 (cita-tions omitted).The Court found that Evans' confession constituted just sucha "powerfully incriminating extrajudicial statemen[t]," andthat its introduction into evidence, insulated from crossexamination, violated Bruton's Sixth Amendment rights.Id., at 135.In Richardson v. Marsh, supra, the Court considered aredacted confession. The case involved a joint murder trialof Marsh and Williams. The State had redacted the confession of one defendant, Williams, so as to "omit all reference"523US1 Unit: $U39 [04-29-00 20:26:30] PAGES PGT: OPIN191Cite as: 523 U. S. 185 (1998)Opinion of the Courtto his codefendant, Marsh--"indeed, to omit all indicationthatanyone other than . . . Williams" and a third person had"participated in the crime." Id., at 203 (emphasis in origi-nal). The trial court also instructed the jury not to considerthe confession against Marsh. Id., at 205. As redacted, theconfession indicated that Williams and the third person haddiscussed the murder in the front seat of a car while theytraveled to the victim's house. Id., at 203-204, n. 1. Theredacted confession contained no indication that Marsh--orany other person--was in the car. Ibid. Later in the trial,however, Marsh testified that she was in the back seat of thecar. Id., at 204. For that reason, in context, the confessionstill could have helped convince the jury that Marsh knewabout the murder in advance and therefore had participatedknowingly in the crime.The Court held that this redacted confession fell outsideBruton's scope and was admissible (with appropriate limitinginstructions) at the joint trial. The Court distinguishedEvans' confession in Bruton as a confession that was "in-criminating on its face," and which had "expressly implicat[ed]" Bruton. 481 U. S., at 208. By contrast, Williams'confession amounted to "evidence requiring linkage" in thatit "became" incriminating in respect to Marsh "only whenlinked with evidence introduced later at trial." Ibid. TheCourt held"that the Confrontation Clause is not violated by theadmission of a nontestifying codefendant's confessionwith a proper limiting instruction when, as here, theconfession is redacted to eliminate not only the defendant's name, but any reference to his or her existence."Id., at 211.The Court added: "We express no opinion on the admissibility of a confession in which the defendant's name has beenreplaced with a symbol or neutral pronoun." Id., at 211,n. 5.523US1 Unit: $U39 [04-29-00 20:26:30] PAGES PGT: OPIN192 GRAY v. MARYLANDOpinion of the CourtIIIOriginally, the codefendant's confession in the case beforeus, like that inBruton, referred to, and directly implicated,another defendant. The State, however, redacted that confession by removing the nonconfessing defendant's name.Nonetheless, unlike Richardson's redacted confession, thisconfession refers directly to the "existence" of the noncon-fessing defendant. The State has simply replaced the nonconfessing defendant's name with a kind of symbol, namely,the word "deleted" or a blank space set off by commas. Theredacted confession, for example, responded to the question"Who was in the group that beat Stacey," with the phrase,"Me, , and a few other guys." SeeAppendix,infra, at 199. And when the police witness readthe confession in court, he said the word "deleted" or "deletion" where the blank spaces appear. We therefore mustdecide a question thatRichardson left open, namely,whether redaction that replaces a defendant's name withan obvious indication of deletion, such as a blank space,the word "deleted," or a similar symbol, still falls withinBruton's protective rule. We hold that it does.Bruton, as interpreted by Richardson, holds that certain"powerfully incriminating extrajudicial statements of a co-defendant"--those naming another defendant--considered asa class, are so prejudicial that limiting instructions cannotwork.Richardson, 481 U. S., at 207; Bruton, 391 U. S., at135. Unless the prosecutor wishes to hold separate trials orto use separate juries or to abandon use of the confession,he must redact the confession to reduce significantly or toeliminate the special prejudice that the Bruton Court found.Redactions that simply replace a name with an obvious blankspace or a word such as "deleted" or a symbol or other simi-larly obvious indications of alteration, however, leave statements that, considered as a class, so closely resemble Bruton's unredacted statements that, in our view, the law mustrequire the same result.523US1 Unit: $U39 [04-29-00 20:26:30] PAGES PGT: OPIN193Cite as: 523 U. S. 185 (1998)Opinion of the CourtFor one thing, a jury will often react similarly to an unre-dacted confession and a confession redacted in this way, forthe jury will often realize that the confession refers specifi-cally to the defendant. This is true even when the Statedoes not blatantly link the defendant to the deleted name, asit did in this case by asking whether Gray was arrested onthe basis of information in Bell's confession as soon as theofficer had finished reading the redacted statement. Con-sider a simplified but typical example, a confession that reads"I, Bob Smith, along with Sam Jones, robbed the bank." Toreplace the words "Sam Jones" with an obvious blank willnot likely fool anyone. A juror somewhat familiar withcriminal law would know immediately that the blank, in thephrase "I, Bob Smith, along with , robbed the bank,"refers to defendant Jones. A juror who does not know thelaw and who therefore wonders to whom the blank mightrefer need only lift his eyes to Jones, sitting at counsel table,to find what will seem the obvious answer, at least if thejuror hears the judge's instruction not to consider the confession as evidence against Jones, for that instruction will provide an obvious reason for the blank. A more sophisticatedjuror, wondering if the blank refers to someone else, mightalso wonder how, if it did, the prosecutor could argue theconfession is reliable, for the prosecutor, after all, has beenarguing that Jones, not someone else, helped Smith committhe crime.For another thing, the obvious deletion may well call thejurors' attention specially to the removed name. By encouraging the jury to speculate about the reference, the redactionmay overemphasize the importance of the confession's accusation--once the jurors work out the reference. That is whyJudge Learned Hand, many years ago, wrote in a similarinstance that blacking out the name of a codefendant not only"would have been futile. . . . [T]here could not have been theslightest doubt as to whose names had been blacked out,"but "even if there had been, that blacking out itself would523US1 Unit: $U39 [04-29-00 20:26:30] PAGES PGT: OPIN194 GRAY v. MARYLANDOpinion of the Courthave not only laid the doubt, but underscored the answer."United States v. Delli Paoli, 229 F. 2d 319, 321 (CA2 1956),aff 'd, 352 U. S. 232 (1957), overruled by Bruton v. UnitedStates, 391 U. S. 123 (1968). See also Malinski v. New York,324 U. S. 401, 430 (1945) (Rutledge, J., dissenting) (describingsubstitution of names in confession with "X" or "Y" andother similar redactions as "devices . . . so obvious as perhaps to emphasize the identity of those they purported toconceal").Finally, Bruton's protected statements and statementsredacted to leave a blank or some other similarly obvious alteration function the same way grammatically. They aredirectly accusatory. Evans' statement in Bruton used aproper name to point explicitly to an accused defendant.And Bruton held that the "powerfully incriminating" effectof what Justice Stewart called "an out-of-court accusation,"391 U. S., at 138 (concurring opinion), creates a special, andvital, need for cross-examination--a need that would be immediately obvious had the codefendant pointed directly tothe defendant in the courtroom itself. The blank space inan obviously redacted confession also points directly to thedefendant, and it accuses the defendant in a manner similarto Evans' use of Bruton's name or to a testifying codefendant's accusatory finger. By way of contrast, the factualstatement at issue in Richardson--a statement about whatothers said in the front seat of a car--differs from directlyaccusatory evidence in this respect, for it does not pointdirectly to a defendant at all.We concede certain differences between Bruton and thiscase. A confession that uses a blank or the word "delete"(or, for that matter, a first name or a nickname) less obviously refers to the defendant than a confession that uses thedefendant's full and proper name. Moreover, in some instances the person to whom the blank refers may not beclear: Although the followup question asked by the State inthis case eliminated all doubt, the reference might not be523US1 Unit: $U39 [04-29-00 20:26:30] PAGES PGT: OPIN195Cite as: 523 U. S. 185 (1998)Opinion of the Courttransparent in other cases in which a confession, like thepresent confession, uses two (or more) blanks, even thoughonly one other defendant appears at trial, and in which thetrial indicates that there are more participants than the confession has named. Nonetheless, as we have said, we believe that, considered as a class, redactions that replace aproper name with an obvious blank, the word "delete," asymbol, or similarly notify the jury that a name has beendeleted are similar enough to Bruton's unredacted confessions as to warrant the same legal results.IVThe State, in arguing for a contrary conclusion, reliesheavily upon Richardson. But we do not believe Richardson controls the result here. We concede that Richardsonplaced outside the scope of Bruton's rule those statementsthat incriminate inferentially. 481 U. S., at 208. We alsoconcede that the jury must use inference to connect thestatement in this redacted confession with the defendant.But inference pure and simple cannot make the critical difference, for if it did, then Richardson would also place outside Bruton's scope confessions that use shortened firstnames, nicknames, descriptions as unique as the "red-haired,bearded, one-eyed man-with-a-limp," United States v. Grinnell Corp., 384 U. S. 563, 591 (1966) (Fortas, J., dissenting),and perhaps even full names of defendants who are alwaysknown by a nickname. This Court has assumed, however,that nicknames and specific descriptions fall inside, not outside, Bruton's protection. See Harrington v. California,395 U. S. 250, 253 (1969) (assuming Bruton violation whereconfessions describe codefendant as the "white guy" andgives a description of his age, height, weight, and hair color).The Solicitor General, although supporting Maryland in thiscase, concedes that this is appropriate. Brief for UnitedStates as Amicus Curiae 18-19, n. 8.523US1 Unit: $U39 [04-29-00 20:26:30] PAGES PGT: OPIN196 GRAY v. MARYLANDOpinion of the CourtThat being so, Richardson must depend in significant partupon the kind of, not the simple fact of, inference. Richardson's inferences involved statements that did not refer di-rectly to the defendant himself and which became incriminating "only when linked with evidence introduced later attrial." 481 U. S., at 208. The inferences at issue here involve statements that, despite redaction, obviously refer di-rectly to someone, often obviously the defendant, and whichinvolve inferences that a jury ordinarily could make immedi-ately, even were the confession the very first item introducedat trial. Moreover, the redacted confession with the blankprominent on its face, inRichardson's words, "facially in-criminat[es]" the codefendant.Id., at 209 (emphasis added).Like the confession in Bruton itself, the accusation that theredacted confession makes "is more vivid than inferential in-crimination, and hence more difficult to thrust out of mind."481 U. S., at 208.Nor are the policy reasons that Richardson provided insupport of its conclusion applicable here. Richardson ex-pressed concern lest application ofBruton's rule applywhere "redaction" of confessions, particularly "confessionsincriminating by connection," would often "not [be] possi-ble," thereby forcing prosecutors too often to abandon useeither of the confession or of a joint trial. 481 U. S., at 209.Additional redaction of a confession that uses a blank space,the word "delete," or a symbol, however, normally is possi-ble. Consider as an example a portion of the confession before us: The witness who read the confession told the jurythat the confession (among other things) said,"Question: Who was in the group that beat Stacey?"Answer: Me, deleted, deleted, and a few other guys."App. 11.Why could the witness not, instead, have said:"Question: Who was in the group that beat Stacey?"Answer: Me and a few other guys."523US1 Unit: $U39 [04-29-00 20:26:30] PAGES PGT: OPIN197Cite as: 523 U. S. 185 (1998)Opinion of the CourtRichardson itself provides a similar example of this kind ofredaction. The confession there at issue had been "redactedto omit all reference to respondent--indeed, to omit all indi-cation that anyone other than Martin and Williams participated in the crime," 481 U. S., at 203 (emphasis deleted), andit did not indicate that it had been redacted. But cf. post,at 203 (Scalia, J., dissenting) (suggesting that the Court has"never before endorsed . . . the redaction of a statement bysome means other than the deletion of certain words, withthe fact of the deletion shown").TheRichardson Court also feared that the inclusion,within Bruton's protective rule, of confessions that incriminated "by connection" too often would provoke mistrials, orwould unnecessarily lead prosecutors to abandon the confession or joint trial, because neither the prosecutors nor thejudge could easily predict, until after the introduction of allthe evidence, whether or not Bruton had barred use of theconfession. 481 U. S., at 209. To include the use of blanks,the word "delete," symbols, or other indications of redaction,within Bruton's protections, however, runs no such risk.Their use is easily identified prior to trial and does not depend, in any special way, upon the other evidence introducedin the case. We also note that several Circuits have interpreted Bruton similarly for many years, see, e. g., UnitedStates v. Garcia, 836 F. 2d 385 (CA8 1987); Clark v. Maggio,737 F. 2d 471 (CA5 1984), yet no one has told us of any significant practical difficulties arising out of their administration of that rule.For these reasons, we hold that the confession here atissue, which substituted blanks and the word "delete" for thepetitioner's proper name, falls within the class of statementsto which Bruton's protections apply.The judgment of the Court of Appeals is vacated, and thecase is remanded for further proceedings not inconsistentwith this opinion.