This Fourth Amendment case focuses upon a highwaycheckpoint where police stopped motorists to ask them forinformation about a recent hit-and-run accident. We holdthat the police stops were reasonable, hence, constitutional.*Briefs of amici curiae urging reversal were filed for the State of Ohioet al. by Jim Petro, Attorney General of Ohio, Douglas R. Cole, StateSolicitor, and Robert C. Maier, Assistant Solicitor, Robert J. Spagnoletti,Acting Corporation Counsel of the District of Columbia, and by the Attorneys General for their respective jurisdictions as follows: WilliamH. Pryor, Jr., of Alabama, Terry Goddard of Arizona, M. Jane Brady ofDelaware, Steve Carter of Indiana, Thomas J. Miller of Iowa, G. StevenRowe of Maine, J. Joseph Curran, Jr., of Maryland, Mike Hatch of Minnesota, Mike McGrath of Montana, Brian Sandoval of Nevada, Peter Heedof New Hampshire, W. A. Drew Edmondson of Oklahoma, Hardy Myersof Oregon, D. Michael Fisher of Pennsylvania, Henry Dargan McMasterof South Carolina, Lawrence E. Long of South Dakota, Greg Abbott ofTexas, Mark L. Shurtleff of Utah, William H. Sorrell of Vermont, JerryW. Kilgore of Virginia, and Iver A. Stridiron of the Virgin Islands; for theCriminal Justice Legal Foundation by Kent S. Scheidegger and Charles L.Hobson; and for the Illinois Association of Chiefs of Police et al. by JamesG. Sotos.Briefs of amici curiae urging affirmance were filed for the NationalAssociation of Criminal Defense Lawyers et al. by Lawrence S. Lustberg,Joshua L. Dratel, Steven R. Shapiro, and Harvey Grossman; and for theNational College for DUI Defense by Barry T. Simons and W. TroyMcKinney.540US2 Unit: $U12 [11-07-05 13:03:25] PAGES PGT: OPIN422 ILLINOIS v. LIDSTEROpinion of the CourtIThe relevant background is as follows: On Saturday, Au-gust 23, 1997, just after midnight, an unknown motorist traveling eastbound on a highway in Lombard, Illinois, struckand killed a 70-year-old bicyclist. The motorist drove offwithout identifying himself. About one week later at aboutthe same time of night and at about the same place, localpolice set up a highway checkpoint designed to obtain moreinformation about the accident from the motoring public.Police cars with flashing lights partially blocked the east-bound lanes of the highway. The blockage forced traffic toslow down, leading to lines of up to 15 cars in each lane. Aseach vehicle drew up to the checkpoint, an officer would stopit for 10 to 15 seconds, ask the occupants whether they hadseen anything happen there the previous weekend, and handeach driver a flyer. The flyer said "ALERT . . . FATALHIT & RUN ACCIDENT" and requested "ASSISTANCEIN IDENTIFYING THE VEHICLE AND DRIVER IN-VOLVED IN THIS ACCIDENT WHICH KILLED A 70YEAR OLD BICYCLIST." App. 9.Robert Lidster, the respondent, drove a minivan toward the checkpoint. As he approached the checkpoint, hisvan swerved, nearly hitting one of the officers. The officersmelled alcohol on Lidster's breath. He directed Lidster toa side street where another officer administered a sobrietytest and then arrested Lidster. Lidster was tried and convicted in Illinois state court of driving under the influenceof alcohol.Lidster challenged the lawfulness of his arrest and convic-tion on the ground that the government had obtained muchof the relevant evidence through use of a checkpoint stopthat violated the Fourth Amendment. The trial courtre jected that challenge. But an Illinois appellate courtreached the opposite conclusion. 319 Ill. App. 3d 825, 747N. E. 2d 419 (2001). The Illinois Supreme Court agreed540US2 Unit: $U12 [11-07-05 13:03:25] PAGES PGT: OPIN423Cite as: 540 U. S. 419 (2004)Opinion of the Courtwith the appellate court. It held (by a vote of 4 to 3) thatour decision in Indianapolis v. Edmond, 531 U. S. 32 (2000),required it to find the stop unconstitutional. 202 Ill. 2d 1,779 N. E. 2d 855 (2002).Because lower courts have reached different conclusionsabout this matter, we granted certiorari. See Burns v.Commonwealth, 261 Va. 307, 541 S. E. 2d 872, cert. denied,534 U. S. 1043 (2001) (finding similar checkpoint stop constitutional). We now reverse the Illinois Supreme Court'sdetermination.IIThe Illinois Supreme Court basically held that our deci-sion in Edmond governs the outcome of this case. We donot agree. Edmond involved a checkpoint at which policestopped vehicles to look for evidence of drug crimes committed by occupants of those vehicles. After stopping a ve-hicle at the checkpoint, police would examine (from outsidethe vehicle) the vehicle's interior; they would walk a drug-sniffing dog around the exterior; and, if they found sufficientevidence of drug (or other) crimes, they would arrest thevehicle's occupants. 531 U. S., at 35. We found that policehad set up this checkpoint primarily for general "crime con-trol" purposes, i. e., "to detect evidence of ordinary criminalwrongdoing." Id., at 41. We noted that the stop was madewithout individualized suspicion. And we held that theFourth Amendment forbids such a stop, in the absence ofspecial circumstances. Id., at 44.The checkpoint stop here differs significantly from that inEdmond. The stop's primary law enforcement purpose wasnot to determine whether a vehicle's occupants were committing a crime, but to ask vehicle occupants, as members of thepublic, for their help in providing information about a crimein all likelihood committed by others. The police expectedthe information elicited to help them apprehend, not the vehicle's occupants, but other individuals.540US2 Unit: $U12 [11-07-05 13:03:25] PAGES PGT: OPIN424 ILLINOIS v. LIDSTEROpinion of the CourtEdmond's language, as well as its context, makes clearthat the constitutionality of this latter, information-seekingkind of stop was not then before the Court. Edmond refersto the subject matter of its holding as "stops justified onlyby the generalized and ever-present possibility that interrogation and inspection may reveal that any given motoristhas committed some crime." Ibid. (emphasis added). Weconcede that Edmond describes the law enforcement objective there in question as a "general interest in crime control," but it specifies that the phrase "general interest incrime control" does not refer to every "law enforcement" objective. Id., at 44, n. 1. We must read this and related general language in Edmond as we often read general languagein judicial opinions--as referring in context to circumstancessimilar to the circumstances then before the Court and notreferring to quite different circumstances that the Court wasnot then considering.Neither do we believe, Edmond aside, that the FourthAmendment would have us apply an Edmond-type rule ofautomatic unconstitutionality to brief, information-seekinghighway stops of the kind now before us. For one thing, thefact that such stops normally lack individualized suspicioncannot by itself determine the constitutional outcome. Asin Edmond, the stop here at issue involves a motorist. TheFourth Amendment does not treat a motorist's car as hiscastle. See, e. g., New York v. Class, 475 U. S. 106, 112-113(1986); United States v. Martinez-Fuerte, 428 U. S. 543, 561(1976). And special law enforcement concerns will sometimes justify highway stops without individualized suspicion.See Michigan Dept. of State Police v. Sitz, 496 U. S. 444(1990) (sobriety checkpoint); Martinez-Fuerte, supra (BorderPatrol checkpoint). Moreover, unlike Edmond, the contexthere (seeking information from the public) is one in which,by definition, the concept of individualized suspicion has littlerole to play. Like certain other forms of police activity, say,540US2 Unit: $U12 [11-07-05 13:03:25] PAGES PGT: OPIN425Cite as: 540 U. S. 419 (2004)Opinion of the Courtcrowd control or public safety, an information-seeking stopis not the kind of event that involves suspicion, or lack ofsuspicion, of the relevant individual.For another thing, information-seeking highway stops areless likely to provoke anxiety or to prove intrusive. Thestops are likely brief. The police are not likely to ask questions designed to elicit self-incriminating information. Andcitizens will often react positively when police simply askfor their help as "responsible citizen[s]" to "give whateverinformation they may have to aid in law enforcement." Miranda v. Arizona, 384 U. S. 436, 477-478 (1966).Further, the law ordinarily permits police to seek the voluntary cooperation of members of the public in the investigation of a crime. "[L]aw enforcement officers do not violatethe Fourth Amendment by merely approaching an individualon the street or in another public place, by asking him if heis willing to answer some questions, [or] by putting questionsto him if the person is willing to listen." Florida v. Royer,460 U. S. 491, 497 (1983). See also ALI, Model Code ofPre-Arraignment Procedure $ 110.1(1) (1975) ("[L]aw enforcement officer may . . . request any person to furnish information or otherwise cooperate in the investigation or prevention of crime"). That, in part, is because voluntaryrequests play a vital role in police investigatory work. See,e. g., Haynes v. Washington, 373 U. S. 503, 515 (1963) ("[I]nterrogation of witnesses . . . is undoubtedly an essential toolin effective law enforcement"); U. S. Dept. of Justice, Eyewitness Evidence: A Guide for Law Enforcement 14-15 (Oct.1999) (instructing law enforcement to gather informationfrom witnesses near the scene).The importance of soliciting the public's assistance is offsetto some degree by the need to stop a motorist to obtain thathelp--a need less likely present where a pedestrian, not amotorist, is involved. The difference is significant in lightof our determinations that such an involuntary stop amounts540US2 Unit: $U12 [11-07-05 13:03:25] PAGES PGT: OPIN426 ILLINOIS v. LIDSTEROpinion of the Courtto a "seizure" in Fourth Amendment terms. E. g., Edmond,531 U. S., at 40. That difference, however, is not importantenough to justify an Edmond-type rule here. After all, aswe have said, the motorist stop will likely be brief. Anyaccompanying traffic delay should prove no more onerousthan many that typically accompany normal traffic congestion. And the resulting voluntary questioning of a motoristis as likely to prove important for police investigation as isthe questioning of a pedestrian. Given these considerations,it would seem anomalous were the law (1) ordinarily to allowpolice freely to seek the voluntary cooperation of pedestriansbut (2) ordinarily to forbid police to seek similar voluntarycooperation from motorists.Finally, we do not believe that an Edmond-type rule isneeded to prevent an unreasonable proliferation of policecheckpoints. Cf. 202 Ill. 2d, at 9-10, 779 N. E. 2d, at 859-860 (expressing that concern). Practical considerations--namely, limited police resources and community hostility torelated traffic tieups--seem likely to inhibit any such proliferation. See Fell, Ferguson, Williams, & Fields, WhyAren't Sobriety Checkpoints Widely Adopted as an Enforcement Strategy in the United States? 35 Accident Analysis &Prevention 897 (Nov. 2003) (finding that sobriety checkpointsare not more widely used due to the lack of police resourcesand the lack of community support). And, of course, theFourth Amendment's normal insistence that the stop be reasonable in context will still provide an important legal limitation on police use of this kind of information-seekingcheckpoint.These considerations, taken together, convince us that anEdmond-type presumptive rule of unconstitutionality doesnot apply here. That does not mean the stop is automatically, or even presumptively, constitutional. It simplymeans that we must judge its reasonableness, hence, its constitutionality, on the basis of the individual circumstances.And as this Court said in Brown v. Texas, 443 U. S. 47, 51540US2 Unit: $U12 [11-07-05 13:03:25] PAGES PGT: OPIN427Cite as: 540 U. S. 419 (2004)Opinion of the Court(1979), in judging reasonableness, we look to "the gravity ofthe public concerns served by the seizure, the degree towhich the seizure advances the public interest, and the se-verity of the interference with individual liberty." See alsoSitz, 496 U. S., at 450-455 (balancing these factors in de-termining reasonableness of a checkpoint stop); MartinezFuerte, 428 U. S., at 556-564 (same).IIIWe now consider the reasonableness of the checkpoint stopbefore us in light of the factors just mentioned, an issue that,in our view, has been fully argued here. See Brief for Peti-tioner 14-18; Brief for Respondent 17-27. We hold that thestop was constitutional.The relevant public concern was grave. Police were investigating a crime that had resulted in a human death. Noone denies the police's need to obtain more information atthat time. And the stop's objective was to help find the per-petrator of a specific and known crime, not of unknowncrimes of a general sort. Cf. Edmond, supra, at 44.The stop advanced this grave public concern to a significant degree. The police appropriately tailored their check-point stops to fit important criminal investigatory needs.The stops took place about one week after the hit-and-runaccident, on the same highway near the location of the accident, and at about the same time of night. And police usedthe stops to obtain information from drivers, some of whommight well have been in the vicinity of the crime at the timeit occurred. See App. 28-29 (describing police belief thatmotorists routinely leaving work after night shifts at nearbyindustrial complexes might have seen something relevant).Most importantly, the stops interfered only minimally withliberty of the sort the Fourth Amendment seeks to protect.Viewed objectively, each stop required only a brief wait inline--a very few minutes at most. Contact with the policelasted only a few seconds. Cf. Martinez-Fuerte, supra, at547 (upholding stops of three-to-five minutes); Sitz, supra,540US2 Unit: $U12 [11-07-05 13:03:25] PAGES PGT: OPIN428 ILLINOIS v. LIDSTEROpinion of Stevens, J.at 448 (upholding delays of 25 seconds). Police contact con-sisted simply of a request for information and the distribution of a flyer. Cf. Martinez-Fuerte, supra, at 546 (uphold-ing inquiry as to motorists' citizenship and immigrationstatus); Sitz, supra, at 447 (upholding examination of all driv-ers for signs of intoxication). Viewed subjectively, the contact provided little reason for anxiety or alarm. The policestopped all vehicles systematically. Cf.Martinez-Fuerte,supra, at 558; Sitz, supra, at 452-453. And there is no allegation here that the police acted in a discriminatory or other-wise unlawful manner while questioning motorists duringstops.For these reasons we conclude that the checkpoint stopwas constitutional.The judgment of the Illinois Supreme Court is