Before seeking a federal writ of habeas corpus, a stateprisoner must exhaust available state remedies, 28 U. S. C.$ 2254(b)(1), thereby giving the State the " ` "opportunity topass upon and correct" alleged violations of its prisoners'federal rights.' " Duncan v. Henry, 513 U. S. 364, 365 (1995)(per curiam) (quoting Picard v. Connor, 404 U. S. 270, 275(1971)). To provide the State with the necessary "opportunity," the prisoner must "fairly present" his claim in eachappropriate state court (including a state supreme courtwith powers of discretionary review), thereby alerting thatcourt to the federal nature of the claim.Duncan, supra,at 365- 366; O'Sull iv an v. Boerckel, 526 U. S. 838, 845(1999). This case focuses upon the requirement of "fairpresentation."IMichael Reese, the respondent, appealed his state-courtkidnaping and attempted sodomy convictions and sentencesthrough Oregon's state court system. He then brought col-lateral relief proceedings in the state courts (where he wasrepresented by appointed counsel). After the lower courtsdenied him collateral relief, Reese filed a petition for discretionary review in the Oregon Supreme Court.The petition made several different legal claims. In relevant part, the petition asserted that Reese had received "in-effective assistance of both trial court and appellate courtcounsel." App. 47. The petition added that "his imprisonBill Lockyer of California, Ken Salazar of Colorado, M. Jane Brady ofDelaware, G. Steven Rowe of Maine, Mike McGrath of Montana, MattMcNair of Nebraska, Brian Sandoval of Nevada, Wayne Stenehjem ofNorth Dakota, Jim Petro of Ohio, W. A. Drew Edmondson of Oklahoma,D. Michael Fisher of Pennsylvania, Lawrence E. Long of South Dakota,Greg Abbott of Texas, Mark L. Shurtleff of Utah, William Sorrell of Vermont, Christine O. Gregoire of Washington, Darrell V. McGraw, Jr., ofWest Virginia, and Patrick J. Crank of Wyoming; and for the CriminalJustice Legal Foundation by Kent S. Scheidegger.541US1 Unit: $U28 [05-08-06 13:17:22] PAGES PGT: OPIN30 BALDWIN v. REESEOpinion of the Courtment is in violation of [Oregon state law]." Id., at 48.It said that his trial counsel's conduct violated several provisions of the Federal Constitution. Ibid. But it did notsay that his separate appellate "ineffective assistance" claimviolated federal law. The Oregon Supreme Court deniedreview.Reese ultimately sought a federal writ of habeas corpus,raising, among other claims, a federal constitutional claimthat his appellate counsel did not effectively represent himduring one of his direct state-court appeals. The FederalDistrict Court held that Reese had not "fairly presented" hisfederal "ineffective assistance of appellate counsel" claim tothe higher state courts because his brief in the state appealscourt had not indicated that he was complaining about a violation of federal law.A divided panel of the Ninth Circuit reversed the DistrictCourt. 282 F. 3d 1184 (2002). Although the majority ap-parently believed that Reese's petition itself did not alert theOregon Supreme Court to the federal nature of the appellate"ineffective assistance" claim, it did not find that fact determinative. Id., at 1193-1194. Rather, it found that Reesehad satisfied the "fair presentation" requirement because thejustices of the Oregon Supreme Court had had "the opportu-nity to read . . . the lower [Oregon] court decision claimed tobe in error before deciding whether to grant discretionaryreview." Id., at 1194 (emphasis added). Had they read theopinion of the lower state trial court, the majority added,the justices would have, or should have, realized that Reese'sclaim rested upon federal law. Ibid.We granted certiorari to determine whether the NinthCircuit has correctly interpreted the "fair presentation"requirement.IIWe begin by assuming that Reese's petition by itself didnot properly alert the Oregon Supreme Court to the federalnature of Reese's claim. On that assumption, Reese failed541US1 Unit: $U28 [05-08-06 13:17:22] PAGES PGT: OPIN31Cite as: 541 U. S. 27 (2004)Opinion of the Courtto meet the "fair presentation" standard, and the Ninth Cir-cuit was wrong to hold the contrary.We recognize that the justices of the Oregon SupremeCourt did have an "opportunity" to read the lower courtopinions in Reese's case. That opportunity means that thejudgescould have read them. But to say that a petitioner"fairly presents" a federal claim when an appellate judge candiscover that claim only by reading lower court opinions inthe case is to say that those judgesmust read the lowercourt opinions--for otherwise they would forfeit the State'sopportunity to decide that federal claim in the first instance.In our view, federal habeas corpus law does not impose sucha requirement.For one thing, the requirement would force state appellatejudges to alter their ordinary review practices. Appellatejudges, of course, will often read lower court opinions, butthey do not necessarily do so in every case. Sometimes anappellate court can decide a legal question on the basis ofthe briefs alone. That is particularly so where the questionat issue is whether to exercise a discretionary power of review, i. e., whether to review the merits of a lower courtdecision. In such instances, the nature of the issue maymatter more than does the legal validity of the lower courtdecision. And the nature of the issue alone may lead thecourt to decide not to hear the case. Indeed, the OregonSupreme Court is a court with a discretionary power of review. And Oregon Rule of Appellate Procedure 9.05(7)(2003) instructs litigants seeking discretionary review toidentify clearly in the petition itself the legal questions presented, why those questions have special importance, a shortstatement of relevant facts, and the reasons for reversal, "including appropriate authorities."For another thing, the opinion-reading requirement wouldimpose a serious burden upon judges of state appellatecourts, particularly those with discretionary review powers.Those courts have heavy workloads, which would be signifi541US1 Unit: $U28 [05-08-06 13:17:22] PAGES PGT: OPIN32 BALDWIN v. REESEOpinion of the Courtcantly increased if their judges had to read through lowercourt opinions or briefs in every instance. See NationalCenter for State Courts, State Court Caseload Statistics2002, pp. 106-110 (Table 2) (for example, in 2001, Oregonappellate courts received a total of 5,341 appeals, includ-ing 908 petitions for discretionary review to its SupremeCourt; California appellate courts received 32,273, including8,860 discretionary Supreme Court petitions; Louisiana appellate courts received 13,117, including 3,230 discretion-ary Supreme Court petitions; Illinois appellate courts received 12,411, including 2,325 discretionary Supreme Courtpetitions).Finally, we do not find such a requirement necessary toavoid imposing unreasonable procedural burdens upon stateprisoners who may eventually seek habeas corpus. A liti-gant wishing to raise a federal issue can easily indicate thefederal law basis for his claim in a state-court petition orbrief, for example, by citing in conjunction with the claimthe federal source of law on which he relies or a case decidingsuch a claim on federal grounds, or by simply labeling theclaim "federal."For these reasons, we believe that the requirement imposed by the Ninth Circuit would unjustifiably undercut theconsiderations of federal-state comity that the exhaustion requirement seeks to promote. We consequently hold that or-dinarily a state prisoner does not "fairly present" a claim toa state court if that court must read beyond a petition or abrief (or a similar document) that does not alert it to thepresence of a federal claim in order to find material, such asa lower court opinion in the case, that does so.IIIReese argues in the alternative that it is wrong to assumethat his petition by itself failed to alert the Oregon SupremeCourt to the federal nature of his "ineffective assistance ofappellate counsel" claim. We do not agree.541US1 Unit: $U28 [05-08-06 13:17:22] PAGES PGT: OPIN33Cite as: 541 U. S. 27 (2004)Opinion of the CourtReese must concede that his petition does not explicitlysay that the words "ineffective assistance of appellate counsel" refer to a federal claim. The petition refers to provisions of the Federal Constitution in respect to other claimsbut not in respect to this one. The petition provides no citation of any case that might have alerted the court to thealleged federal nature of the claim. And the petition doesnot even contain a factual description supporting the claim.Cf. Gray v. Netherland, 518 U. S. 152, 163 (1996); Duncan,513 U. S., at 366.Reese asserts that the petition nonetheless "fairly presents" a federal "ineffective assistance of appellate counsel"claim for two reasons. First, he says that the word "ineffective" is a term of art in Oregon that refers only to federal-lawclaims and not to similar state-law claims, which, he adds, inOregon are solely referred to as "inadequate assistance"claims. And thus the Oregon Supreme Court should haveknown, from his use of the word "ineffective," that his claimwas federal.Reese, however, has not demonstrated that Oregon lawuses the words "ineffective assistance" in the manner he suggests, that is, as referring only to a federal-law claim. See,e. g., Lichau v. Baldwin, 166 Ore. App. 411, 415, 417, 999 P.2d 1207, 1210, 1211 (2000) (using "ineffective assistance" torefer to violations of the Oregon Constitution), rev'd in part,333 Ore. 350, 39 P. 3d 851 (2002). Indeed, Reese's own petition uses both phrases--"ineffective assistance" and "inadequate assistance"--at different points to refer to what isapparently a single claim.Second, Reese says that in Oregon the standards for adjudicating state and federal "inadequate/ineffective appellateassistance" claims are identical. He adds that, where thatidentity exists, a petitioner need not indicate a claim's federalnature, because, by raising a state-law claim, he would necessarily "fairly present" the corresponding federal claim.541US1 Unit: $U28 [05-08-06 13:17:22] PAGES PGT: OPIN34 BALDWIN v. REESEStevens, J., dissentingHowever, the Ninth Circuit did not address this argument,and our reading of the briefs filed in the Ninth Circuit leadsus to conclude that Reese did not there seek consideration ofthe argument in that court. Indeed, the argument firstmade its appearance in this Court in Reese's brief on themerits. Under this Court's Rule 15.2, "a nonjurisdictionalargument not raised in a respondent's brief in opposition toa petition for a writ of certiorari may be deemed waived."Caterpillar Inc. v. Lewis, 519 U. S. 61, 75, n. 13 (1996) (internal quotation marks omitted). This argument falls squarelywithin the rule. The complex nature of Reese's claim andits broad implications suggest that its consideration by thelower courts would help in its resolution. Hence, withoutexpressing any view on the merits of the issue, we exerciseour Rule 15.2 discretion and deem the argument waivedin this Court. See, e. g., Roberts v. Galen of Va., Inc.,525 U. S. 249, 253-254 (1999)(per curiam); South CentralBell Telephone Co. v. Alabama, 526 U. S. 160, 171 (1999);cf. Sprietsma v. Mercury Marine, 537 U. S. 51, 56, n. 4 (2002).For these reasons, the judgment of the Ninth Circuit is