The question presented is whether the Constitution per-mits the Government to administer antipsychotic drugs involuntarily to a mentally ill criminal defendant--in order torender that defendant competent to stand trial for serious,but nonviolent, crimes. We conclude that the Constitutionallows the Government to administer those drugs, evenagainst the defendant's will, in limited circumstances, i. e.,upon satisfaction of conditions that we shall describe. Because the Court of Appeals did not find that the requisitecircumstances existed in this case, we vacate its judgment.IAPetitioner Charles Sell, once a practicing dentist, has along and unfortunate history of mental illness. In September 1982, after telling doctors that the gold he used forfillings had been contaminated by communists, Sell was hospitalized, treated with antipsychotic medication, and subse-quently discharged. App. 146. In June 1984, Sell called thepolice to say that a leopard was outside his office boarding abus, and he then asked the police to shoot him.Id., at 148;Record, Forensic Report, p. 1 (June 20, 1997) (Sealed). Sell*Briefs of amici curiae urging reversal were filed for the AmericanCivil Liberties Union of Eastern Missouri by Peter A. Joy; for the Centerfor Cognitive Liberty & Ethics by Richard Glen Boire; for the Drug Policy Alliance by David T. Goldberg and Daniel N. Abrahamson; for theNational Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers by Burton H. Shostak;for the New York State Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers byJoshua L. Dratel; and for the Rutherford Institute by John W. Whiteheadand Steven H. Aden.Briefs of amici curiae were filed for the American Psychological Association by David W. Ogden, Paul R. Q. Wolfson, and Nathalie F. P. Gilfoyle;and for the American Psychiatric Association et al. by Richard G. Taranto.539US1 Unit: $U74 [05-03-05 21:40:12] PAGES PGT: OPIN170 SELL v. UNITED STATESOpinion of the Courtwas again hospitalized and subsequently released. On vari-ous occasions, he complained that public officials, for example, a State Governor and a police chief, were trying to killhim.Id., at 4. In April 1997, he told law enforcement personnel that he "spoke to God last night," and that "God toldme every [Federal Bureau of Investigation] person I kill, asoul will be saved." Id., at 1.In May 1997, the Government charged Sell with submit-ting fictitious insurance claims for payment. See 18 U. S. C.$ 1035(a)(2). A Federal Magistrate Judge (Magistrate),after ordering a psychiatric examination, found Sell "currently competent," but noted that Sell might experience"a psychotic episode" in the future. App. 321. The Magistrate released Sell on bail. A grand jury later produced asuperseding indictment charging Sell and his wife with 56counts of mail fraud, 6 counts of Medicaid fraud, and 1 countof money laundering. Id., at 12-22.In early 1998, the Government claimed that Sell hadsought to intimidate a witness. The Magistrate held a bailrevocation hearing. Sell's behavior at his initial appearancewas, in the judge's words, " `totally out of control,' " involving"screaming and shouting," the use of "personal insults" and"racial epithets," and spitting "in the judge's face." Id., at322. A psychiatrist reported that Sell could not sleep because he expected the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI)to " `come busting through the door,' " and concluded thatSell's condition had worsened. Ibid. After consideringthat report and other testimony, the Magistrate revokedSell's bail.In April 1998, the grand jury issued a new indictmentcharging Sell with attempting to murder the FBI agent whohad arrested him and a former employee who planned to testify against him in the fraud case. Id., at 23-29. The attempted murder and fraud cases were joined for trial.In early 1999, Sell asked the Magistrate to reconsider hiscompetence to stand trial. The Magistrate sent Sell to the539US1 Unit: $U74 [05-03-05 21:40:12] PAGES PGT: OPIN171Cite as: 539 U. S. 166 (2003)Opinion of the CourtUnited States Medical Center for Federal Prisoners (MedicalCenter) at Springfield, Missouri, for examination. Subsequently the Magistrate found that Sell was "mentally incom-petent to stand trial." Id., at 323. He ordered Sell to "behospitalized for treatment" at the Medical Center for up tofour months, "to determine whether there was a substantialprobability that [Sell] would attain the capacity to allow histrial to proceed."Ibid.Two months later, Medical Center staff recommended thatSell take antipsychotic medication. Sell refused to do so.The staff sought permission to administer the medicationagainst Sell's will. That effort is the subject of the presentproceedings.BWe here review the last of five hierarchically orderedlower court and Medical Center determinations. First, inJune 1999, Medical Center staff sought permission from in-stitutional authorities to administer antipsychotic drugs toSell involuntarily. A reviewing psychiatrist held a hearingand considered Sell's prior history; Sell's current persecutional beliefs (for example, that Government officials weretrying to suppress his knowledge about events in Waco,Texas, and had sent him to Alaska to silence him); staff medi-cal opinions (for example, that "Sell's symptoms point to adiagnosis of Delusional Disorder but . . . there well may bean underlying Schizophrenic Process"); staff medical concerns (for example, about "the persistence of Dr. Sell's beliefthat the Courts, FBI, and federal government in general areagainst him"); an outside medical expert's opinion (that Sellsuffered only from delusional disorder, which, in that expert's view, "medication rarely helps"); and Sell's own views,as well as those of other laypersons who know him (to theeffect that he did not suffer from a serious mental illness).Id., at 147-150.The reviewing psychiatrist then authorized involuntaryadministration of the drugs, both (1) because Sell was "men539US1 Unit: $U74 [05-03-05 21:40:12] PAGES PGT: OPIN172 SELL v. UNITED STATESOpinion of the Courttally ill and dangerous, and medication is necessary to treatthe mental illness," and (2) so that Sell would "become competent for trial." Id., at 145. The reviewing psychiatristadded that he considered Sell "dangerous based on threatsand delusions if outside, but not necessarily in[side] prison"and that Sell was "[a]ble to function" in prison in the "openpopulation." Id., at 144.Second, the Medical Center administratively reviewed thedetermination of its reviewing psychiatrist. A Bureau ofPrisons official considered the evidence that had been pre-sented at the initial hearing, referred to Sell's delusions,noted differences of professional opinion as to proper classification and treatment, and concluded that antipsychoticmedication represents the medical intervention "most likely"to "ameliorate" Sell's symptoms; that other "less restrictiveinterventions" are "unlikely" to work; and that Sell's "pervasive belief " that he was "being targeted for nefariousactions by various governmental . . . parties," along withthe "current charges of conspiracy to commit murder," madeSell "a potential risk to the safety of one or more othersin the community." Id., at 154-155. The reviewing official "upheld" the "hearing officer's decision that [Sell] wouldbenefit from the utilization of anti-psychotic medication."Id., at 157.Third, in July 1999, Sell filed a court motion contesting theMedical Center's right involuntarily to administer antipsychotic drugs. In September 1999, the Magistrate who hadordered Sell sent to the Medical Center held a hearing. Theevidence introduced at the hearing for the most part replicated the evidence introduced at the administrative hearing,with two exceptions. First, the witnesses explored thequestion of the medication's effectiveness more thoroughly.Second, Medical Center doctors testified about an incident that took place at the Medical Center after theadministrative proceedings were completed. In July 1999,Sell had approached one of the Medical Center's nurses, sug539US1 Unit: $U74 [05-03-05 21:40:12] PAGES PGT: OPIN173Cite as: 539 U. S. 166 (2003)Opinion of the Courtgested that he was in love with her, criticized her for havingnothing to do with him, and, when told that his behavior wasinappropriate, added " `I can't help it.' " Id., at 168-170, 325.He subsequently made remarks or acted in ways indicatingthat this kind of conduct would continue. The Medical Cen-ter doctors testified that, given Sell's prior behavior, diagnosis, and current beliefs, boundary-breaching incidents of thissort were not harmless and, when coupled with Sell's inabil-ity or unwillingness to desist, indicated that he was a safetyrisk even within the institution. They added that he hadbeen moved to a locked cell.In August 2000, the Magistrate found that "the government has made a substantial and very strong showing thatDr. Sell is a danger to himself and others at the institutionin which he is currently incarcerated"; that "the governmenthas shown that anti-psychotic medication is the only way torender him less dangerous"; that newer drugs and/or changing drugs will "ameliorat[e]" any "serious side effects"; that"the benefits to Dr. Sell . . . far outweigh any risks"; andthat "there is a substantial probability that" the drugs will"retur[n]" Sell "to competency." Id., at 333-334. The Magistrate concluded that "the government has shown in asstrong a manner as possible, that anti-psychotic medicationsare the only way to render the defendant not dangerous andcompetent to stand trial." Id., at 335. The Magistrate issued an order authorizing the involuntary administration ofantipsychotic drugs to Sell, id., at 331, but stayed that orderto allow Sell to appeal the matter to the Federal DistrictCourt, id., at 337.Fourth, the District Court reviewed the record and, inApril 2001, issued an opinion. The court addressed theMagistrate's finding "that defendant presents a danger tohimself or others sufficient" to warrant involuntary administration of antipsychotic drugs. Id., at 349. After notingthat Sell subsequently had "been returned to an open ward,"the District Court held the Magistrate's "dangerousness"539US1 Unit: $U74 [05-03-05 21:40:12] PAGES PGT: OPIN174 SELL v. UNITED STATESOpinion of the Courtfinding "clearly erroneous." Id., at 349, and n. 5. The courtlimited its determination to Sell's "dangerousnessat thistime to himself and to those around him in his institutionalcontext." Id., at 349 (emphasis in original).Nonetheless, the District Court affirmed the Magistrate'sorder permitting Sell's involuntary medication. The courtwrote that "anti-psychotic drugs are medically appropriate,"that "they represent the only viable hope of rendering de-fendant competent to stand trial," and that "administrationof such drugs appears necessary to serve the government'scompelling interest in obtaining an adjudication of defendant's guilt or innocence of numerous and serious charges"(including fraud and attempted murder). Id., at 354. Thecourt added that it was "premature" to consider whether"the effects of medication might prejudice [Sell's] defenseat trial." Id., at 351, 352. The Government and Sell bothappealed.Fifth, in March 2002, a divided panel of the Court of Appeals affirmed the District Court's judgment. 282 F. 3d 560(CA8). The majority affirmed the District Court's determination that Sell was not dangerous. The majority notedthat, according to the District Court, Sell's behavior at theMedical Center "amounted at most to an `inappropriate familiarity and even infatuation' with a nurse." Id., at 565.The Court of Appeals agreed, "[u]pon review," that "the evidence does not support a finding that Sell posed a danger tohimself or others at the Medical Center." Ibid.The Court of Appeals also affirmed the District Court'sorder requiring medication in order to render Sell competentto stand trial. Focusing solely on the serious fraud charges,the panel majority concluded that the "government has anessential interest in bringing a defendant to trial." Id., at568. It added that the District Court "correctly concludedthat there were no less intrusive means." Ibid. After reviewing the conflicting views of the experts, id., at 568-571,the panel majority found antipsychotic drug treatment "med539US1 Unit: $U74 [05-03-05 21:40:12] PAGES PGT: OPIN175Cite as: 539 U. S. 166 (2003)Opinion of the Courtically appropriate" for Sell, id., at 571. It added that the"medical evidence presented indicated a reasonable probability that Sell will fairly be able to participate in his trial."Id., at 572. One member of the panel dissented primarilyon the ground that the fraud and money laundering chargeswere "not serious enough to warrant the forced medicationof the defendant." Id., at 574 (opinion of Bye, J.).We granted certiorari to determine whether the EighthCircuit "erred in rejecting" Sell's argument that "allowing the government to administer antipsychotic medicationagainst his will solely to render him competent to stand trialfor non-violent offenses," Brief for Petitioner i, violatedthe Constitution--in effect by improperly depriving Sell ofan important "liberty" that the Constitution guarantees,Amdt. 5.IIWe first examine whether the Eighth Circuit had jurisdiction to decide Sell's appeal. The District Court's judgment,from which Sell had appealed, was a pretrial order. Thatjudgment affirmed a Magistrate's order requiring Sell involuntarily to receive medication. The Magistrate enteredthat order pursuant to an earlier delegation from the DistrictCourt of legal authority to conduct pretrial proceedings.App. 340; see 28 U. S. C. $ 636(b)(1)(A). The order embodiedlegal conclusions related to the Medical Center's administrative efforts to medicate Sell; these efforts grew out of Sell'sprovisional commitment; and that provisional commitmenttook place pursuant to an earlier Magistrate's order seeking a medical determination about Sell's future competenceto stand trial. Cf. Riggins v. Nevada, 504 U. S. 127 (1992)(reviewing, as part of criminal proceeding, trial court's denial of defendant's motion to discontinue medication); Stackv. Boyle, 342 U. S. 1, 6-7 (1951) (district court's denial of defendant's motion to reduce bail is part of criminal proceedingand is not reviewable in separate habeas action).539US1 Unit: $U74 [05-03-05 21:40:12] PAGES PGT: OPIN176 SELL v. UNITED STATESOpinion of the CourtHow was it possible for Sell to appeal from such an order?The law normally requires a defendant to wait until the endof the trial to obtain appellate review of a pretrial order.The relevant jurisdictional statute, 28 U. S. C. $ 1291, authorizes federal courts of appeals to review "final decisions ofthe district courts." (Emphasis added.) And the term"final decision" normally refers to a final judgment, such asa judgment of guilt, that terminates a criminal proceeding.Nonetheless, there are exceptions to this rule. The Courthas held that a preliminary or interim decision is appealableas a "collateral order" when it (1) "conclusively determine[s]the disputed question," (2) "resolve[s] an important issuecompletely separate from the merits of the action," and (3) is"effectively unreviewable on appeal from a final judgment."Coopers & Lybrand v. Livesay, 437 U. S. 463, 468 (1978).And this District Court order does appear to fall within the"collateral order" exception.The order (1) "conclusively determine[s] the disputed question," namely, whether Sell has a legal right to avoid forcedmedication. Ibid. The order also (2) "resolve[s] an important issue," for, as this Court's cases make clear, involuntarymedical treatment raises questions of clear constitutional importance. Ibid. See Winston v. Lee, 470 U. S. 753, 759(1985) ("A compelled surgical intrusion into an individual'sbody . . . implicates expectations of privacy and security" ofgreat magnitude); see also Riggins, supra, at 133-134; Cruzan v. Director, Mo. Dept. of Health, 497 U. S. 261, 278-279(1990); Washington v. Harper, 494 U. S. 210, 221-222 (1990).At the same time, the basic issue--whether Sell must undergo medication against his will--is "completely separatefrom the merits of the action," i. e., whether Sell is guilty orinnocent of the crimes charged. Coopers & Lybrand, 437U. S., at 468. The issue is wholly separate as well fromquestions concerning trial procedures. Finally, the issue is(3) "effectively unreviewable on appeal from a final judgment." Ibid. By the time of trial Sell will have undergone539US1 Unit: $U74 [05-03-05 21:40:12] PAGES PGT: OPIN177Cite as: 539 U. S. 166 (2003)Opinion of the Courtforced medication--the very harm that he seeks to avoid.He cannot undo that harm even if he is acquitted. Indeed,if he is acquitted, there will be no appeal through which hemight obtain review. Cf. Stack, supra, at 6-7 (permittingappeal of order setting high bail as "collateral order").These considerations, particularly those involving the severity of the intrusion and corresponding importance ofthe constitutional issue, readily distinguish Sell's case fromthe examples raised by the dissent. See post, at 191-192(opinion of Scalia, J.).We add that the question presented here, whether Sell hasa legal right to avoid forced medication, perhaps in part because medication may make a trial unfair, differs from thequestion whether forced medication did make a trial unfair.The first question focuses upon the right to avoid administration of the drugs. What may happen at trial is relevant, butonly as a prediction. See infra, at 181. The second question focuses upon the right to a fair trial. It asks what didhappen as a result of having administered the medication.An ordinary appeal comes too late for a defendant to enforcethe first right; an ordinary appeal permits vindication ofthe second.We conclude that the District Court order from which Sellappealed was an appealable "collateral order." The EighthCircuit had jurisdiction to hear the appeal. And we consequently have jurisdiction to decide the question presented,whether involuntary medication violates Sell's constitutional rights.IIIWe turn now to the basic question presented: Does forcedadministration of antipsychotic drugs to render Sell competent to stand trial unconstitutionally deprive him of his "liberty" to reject medical treatment? U. S. Const., Amdt. 5(Federal Government may not "depriv[e]" any person of "liberty . . . without due process of law"). Two prior prece539US1 Unit: $U74 [05-03-05 21:40:12] PAGES PGT: OPIN178 SELL v. UNITED STATESOpinion of the Courtdents, Harper, supra, and Riggins v. Nevada, 504 U. S. 127(1992), set forth the framework for determining the legalanswer.InHarper, this Court recognized that an individual hasa "significant" constitutionally protected "liberty interest"in "avoiding the unwanted administration of antipsychoticdrugs." 494 U. S., at 221. The Court considered a statelaw authorizing forced administration of those drugs "to in-mates who are . . . gravely disabled or represent a significantdanger to themselves or others." Id., at 226. The Statehad established "by a medical finding" that Harper, a mentally ill prison inmate, had "a mental disorder . . . whichis likely to cause harm if not treated." Id., at 222. Thetreatment decision had been made "by a psychiatrist," it hadbeen approved by "a reviewing psychiatrist," and it "ordered" medication only because that was "in the prisoner'smedical interests, given the legitimate needs of his institutional confinement." Ibid.The Court found that the State's interest in administeringmedication was "legitima[te]" and "importan[t]," id., at 225;and it held that "the Due Process Clause permits the Stateto treat a prison inmate who has a serious mental illnesswith antipsychotic drugs against his will, if the inmate isdangerous to himself or others and the treatment is in theinmate's medical interest," id., at 227. The Court concludedthat, in the circumstances, the state law authorizing involuntary treatment amounted to a constitutionally permissible"accommodation between an inmate's liberty interest inavoiding the forced administration of antipsychotic drugs andthe State's interests in providing appropriate medical treatment to reduce the danger that an inmate suffering froma serious mental disorder represents to himself or others."Id., at 236.In Riggins, the Court repeated that an individual has aconstitutionally protected liberty "interest in avoiding involuntary administration of antipsychotic drugs"--an interest539US1 Unit: $U74 [05-03-05 21:40:12] PAGES PGT: OPIN179Cite as: 539 U. S. 166 (2003)Opinion of the Courtthat only an "essential" or "overriding" state interest mightovercome. 504 U. S., at 134, 135. The Court suggestedthat, in principle, forced medication in order to render a de-fendant competent to stand trial for murder was constitutionally permissible. The Court, citing Harper, noted thatthe State "would have satisfied due process if the prosecutionhad demonstrated . . . that treatment with antipsychoticmedication was medically appropriate and, considering lessintrusive alternatives, essential for the sake of Riggins'ownsafety or the safety of others." 504 U. S., at 135 (emphasisadded). And it said that the State "[s]imilarly . . . mighthave been able to justify medically appropriate, involuntarytreatment with the drug by establishing that it could notobtain an adjudication of Riggins' guilt or innocence" of themurder charge "by using less intrusive means." Ibid. (emphasis added). Because the trial court had permitted forcedmedication of Riggins without taking account of his "libertyinterest," with a consequent possibility of trial prejudice, theCourt reversed Riggins' conviction and remanded for furtherproceedings. Id., at 137-138. Justice Kennedy, concurring in the judgment, emphasized that antipsychotic drugsmight have side effects that would interfere with the defendant's ability to receive a fair trial. Id., at 145 (findingforced medication likely justified only where State showsdrugs would not significantly affect defendant's "behaviorand demeanor").These two cases, Harper and Riggins, indicate that theConstitution permits the Government involuntarily to administer antipsychotic drugs to a mentally ill defendant facing serious criminal charges in order to render that defendant competent to stand trial, but only if the treatment ismedically appropriate, is substantially unlikely to have sideeffects that may undermine the fairness of the trial, and,taking account of less intrusive alternatives, is necessary significantly to further important governmental trial-relatedinterests.539US1 Unit: $U74 [05-03-05 21:40:12] PAGES PGT: OPIN180 SELL v. UNITED STATESOpinion of the CourtThis standard will permit involuntary administration ofdrugs solely for trial competence purposes in certain instances. But those instances may be rare. That is becausethe standard says or fairly implies the following:First, a court must find that important governmental in-terests are at stake. The Government's interest in bringingto trial an individual accused of a serious crime is important.That is so whether the offense is a serious crime against theperson or a serious crime against property. In both instances the Government seeks to protect through applicationof the criminal law the basic human need for security. SeeRiggins, supra, at 135-136 (" `[P]ower to bring an accused totrial is fundamental to a scheme of "ordered liberty" andprerequisite to social justice and peace' " (quoting Illinois v.Allen, 397 U. S. 337, 347 (1970) (Brennan, J., concurring))).Courts, however, must consider the facts of the individualcase in evaluating the Government's interest in prosecution.Special circumstances may lessen the importance of that interest. The defendant's failure to take drugs voluntarily, forexample, may mean lengthy confinement in an institution forthe mentally ill--and that would diminish the risks that ordinarily attach to freeing without punishment one who hascommitted a serious crime. We do not mean to suggest thatcivil commitment is a substitute for a criminal trial. TheGovernment has a substantial interest in timely prosecution.And it may be difficult or impossible to try a defendant whoregains competence after years of commitment during whichmemories may fade and evidence may be lost. The potentialfor future confinement affects, but does not totally undermine, the strength of the need for prosecution. The same istrue of the possibility that the defendant has already beenconfined for a significant amount of time (for which he wouldreceive credit toward any sentence ultimately imposed, see18 U. S. C. $ 3585(b)). Moreover, the Government has a concomitant, constitutionally essential interest in assuring thatthe defendant's trial is a fair one.539US1 Unit: $U74 [05-03-05 21:40:12] PAGES PGT: OPIN181Cite as: 539 U. S. 166 (2003)Opinion of the CourtSecond, the court must conclude that involuntary medica-tion willsignificantly further those concomitant state interests. It must find that administration of the drugs is sub-stantially likely to render the defendant competent to standtrial. At the same time, it must find that administration ofthe drugs is substantially unlikely to have side effects thatwill interfere significantly with the defendant's ability to assist counsel in conducting a trial defense, thereby renderingthe trial unfair. SeeRiggins, 504 U. S., at 142-145 (Kennedy, J., concurring in judgment).Third, the court must conclude that involuntary medication is necessary to further those interests. The court mustfind that any alternative, less intrusive treatments are unlikely to achieve substantially the same results. Cf. Brieffor American Psychological Association as Amicus Curiae10-14 (nondrug therapies may be effective in restoring psychotic defendants to competence); but cf. Brief for AmericanPsychiatric Association et al. as Amici Curiae 13-22 (alternative treatments for psychosis commonly not as effectiveas medication). And the court must consider less intrusivemeans for administering the drugs, e. g., a court order to thedefendant backed by the contempt power, before consideringmore intrusive methods.Fourth, as we have said, the court must conclude that administration of the drugs is medically appropriate, i. e., inthe patient's best medical interest in light of his medicalcondition. The specific kinds of drugs at issue may matterhere as elsewhere. Different kinds of antipsychotic drugsmay produce different side effects and enjoy different levelsof success.We emphasize that the court applying these standards isseeking to determine whether involuntary administration ofdrugs is necessary significantly to further a particular governmental interest, namely, the interest in rendering the defendant competent to stand trial. A court need not considerwhether to allow forced medication for that kind of purpose,539US1 Unit: $U74 [05-03-05 21:40:12] PAGES PGT: OPIN182 SELL v. UNITED STATESOpinion of the Courtif forced medication is warranted for a different purpose,such as the purposes set out inHarper related to the individual's dangerousness, or purposes related to the individual'sown interests where refusal to take drugs puts his healthgravely at risk. 494 U. S., at 225-226. There are oftenstrong reasons for a court to determine whether forced administration of drugs can be justified on these alternativegrounds before turning to the trial competence question.For one thing, the inquiry into whether medication is permissible, say, to render an individual nondangerous is usuallymore "objective and manageable" than the inquiry intowhether medication is permissible to render a defendantcompetent. Riggins, supra, at 140 (Kennedy, J., concurring in judgment). The medical experts may find it easierto provide an informed opinion about whether, given therisk of side effects, particular drugs are medically appropriate and necessary to control a patient's potentially dangerous behavior (or to avoid serious harm to the patient himself) than to try to balance harms and benefits related tothe more quintessentially legal questions of trial fairnessand competence.For another thing, courts typically address involuntarymedical treatment as a civil matter, and justify it on thesealternative, Harper-type grounds. Every State providesavenues through which, for example, a doctor or institutioncan seek appointment of a guardian with the power to makea decision authorizing medication--when in the best interests of a patient who lacks the mental competence to makesuch a decision. E. g., Ala. Code $$ 26-2A-102(a), 26-2A-105, 26-2A-108 (West 1992); Alaska Stat. $$ 13.26.105(a),13.26.116(b) (2002); Ariz. Rev. Stat. Ann. $$ 14-5303, 14-5312(West 1995); Ark. Code Ann. $$ 28-65-205, 28-65-301 (1987).And courts, in civil proceedings, may authorize involuntarymedication where the patient's failure to accept treatmentthreatens injury to the patient or others. See, e. g., 28 CFR$ 549.43 (2002); cf. 18 U. S. C. $ 4246.539US1 Unit: $U74 [05-03-05 21:40:12] PAGES PGT: OPIN183Cite as: 539 U. S. 166 (2003)Opinion of the CourtIf a court authorizes medication on these alternativegrounds, the need to consider authorization on trial competence grounds will likely disappear. Even if a court decidesmedication cannot be authorized on the alternative grounds,the findings underlying such a decision will help to informexpert opinion and judicial decisionmaking in respect to arequest to administer drugs for trial competence purposes.At the least, they will facilitate direct medical and legal focusupon such questions as: Why is it medically appropriate forc-ibly to administer antipsychotic drugs to an individual who(1) is not dangerous and (2) is competent to make up his ownmind about treatment? Can bringing such an individual totrial alone justify in whole (or at least in significant part)administration of a drug that may have adverse side effects,including side effects that may to some extent impair a de-fense at trial? We consequently believe that a court, askedto approve forced administration of drugs for purposes ofrendering a defendant competent to stand trial, should ordinarily determine whether the Government seeks, or has firstsought, permission for forced administration of drugs onthese other Harper-type grounds; and, if not, why not.When a court must nonetheless reach the trial competencequestion, the factors discussed above, supra, at 180-181,should help it make the ultimate constitutionally requiredjudgment. Has the Government, in light of the efficacy, theside effects, the possible alternatives, and the medical appropriateness of a particular course of antipsychotic drug treat-ment, shown a need for that treatment sufficiently importantto overcome the individual's protected interest in refusing it?See Harper, supra, at 221-223; Riggins, supra, at 134-135.IVThe Medical Center and the Magistrate in this case, apply-ing standards roughly comparable to those set forth hereand in Harper, approved forced medication substantially, ifnot primarily, upon grounds of Sell's dangerousness to oth539US1 Unit: $U74 [05-03-05 21:40:12] PAGES PGT: OPIN184 SELL v. UNITED STATESOpinion of the Courters. But the District Court and the Eighth Circuit took adifferent approach. The District Court found "clearly erroneous" the Magistrate's conclusion regarding dangerousness,and the Court of Appeals agreed. Both courts approvedforced medication solely in order to render Sell competent tostand trial.We shall assume that the Court of Appeals' conclusionabout Sell's dangerousness was correct. But we make thatassumption only because the Government did not contest,and the parties have not argued, that particular matter. Ifanything, the record before us, described in Part I, suggeststhe contrary.The Court of Appeals apparently agreed with the DistrictCourt that "Sell's inappropriate behavior . . . amounted atmost to an `inappropriate familiarity and even infatuation'with a nurse." 282 F. 3d, at 565. That being so, it alsoagreed that "the evidence does not support a finding thatSell posed a danger to himself or others at the MedicalCenter." Ibid. The Court of Appeals, however, did notdiscuss the potential differences (described by a psychiatristtestifying before the Magistrate) between ordinary "overfamiliarity" and the same conduct engaged in persistently bya patient with Sell's behavioral history and mental illness.Nor did it explain why those differences should be minimizedin light of the fact that the testifying psychiatrists concludedthat Sell was dangerous, while Sell's own expert denied, notSell's dangerousness, but the efficacy of the drugs proposedfor treatment.The District Court's opinion, while more thorough, placesweight upon the Medical Center's decision, taken after theMagistrate's hearing, to return Sell to the general prisonpopulation. It does not explain whether that return reflected an improvement in Sell's condition or whether theMedical Center saw it as permanent rather than temporary.Cf. Harper, supra, at 227, and n. 10 (indicating that physical539US1 Unit: $U74 [05-03-05 21:40:12] PAGES PGT: OPIN185Cite as: 539 U. S. 166 (2003)Opinion of the Courtrestraints and seclusion often not acceptable substitutes formedication).Regardless, as we have said, we must assume that Sell wasnot dangerous. And on that hypothetical assumption, wefind that the Court of Appeals was wrong to approve forcedmedication solely to render Sell competent to stand trial.For one thing, the Magistrate's opinion makes clear that hedid not find forced medication legally justified on trial competence grounds alone. Rather, the Magistrate concludedthat Sell was dangerous, and he wrote that forced medicationwas "the only way to render the defendant not dangerousand competent to stand trial." App. 335 (emphasis added).Moreover, the record of the hearing before the Magistrateshows that the experts themselves focused mainly uponthe dangerousness issue. Consequently the experts did notpose important questions--questions, for example, abouttrial-related side effects and risks--the answers to whichcould have helped determine whether forced medication waswarranted on trial competence grounds alone. Rather, theMedical Center's experts conceded that their proposed medications had "significant" side effects and that "there hasto be a cost benefit analysis." Id., at 185 (testimony ofDr. DeMier); id., at 236 (testimony of Dr. Wolfson). And inmaking their "cost-benefit" judgments, they primarily tookinto account Sell's dangerousness, not the need to bring himto trial.The failure to focus upon trial competence could well havemattered. Whether a particular drug will tend to sedate adefendant, interfere with communication with counsel, prevent rapid reaction to trial developments, or diminish theability to express emotions are matters important in determining the permissibility of medication to restore competence, Riggins, 504 U. S., at 142-145 (Kennedy, J., concurring in judgment), but not necessarily relevant whendangerousness is primarily at issue. We cannot tell whether539US1 Unit: $U74 [05-03-05 21:40:12] PAGES PGT: OPIN186 SELL v. UNITED STATESScalia, J., dissentingthe side effects of antipsychotic medication were likely toundermine the fairness of a trial in Sell's case.Finally, the lower courts did not consider that Sell has al-ready been confined at the Medical Center for a long periodof time, and that his refusal to take antipsychotic drugsmight result in further lengthy confinement. Those factors,the first because a defendant ordinarily receives credit to-ward a sentence for time served, 18 U. S. C. $ 3585(b), and thesecond because it reduces the likelihood of the defendant'scommitting future crimes, moderate--though they do noteliminate--the importance of the governmental interest inprosecution. Seesupra, at 180.VFor these reasons, we believe that the present orders au-thorizing forced administration of antipsychotic drugs cannotstand. The Government may pursue its request for forcedmedication on the grounds discussed in this opinion, including grounds related to the danger Sell poses to himself orothers. Since Sell's medical condition may have changedover time, the Government should do so on the basis of cur-rent circumstances.The judgment of the Eighth Circuit is vacated, and thecase is remanded for further proceedings consistent withthis opinion. It is so ordered.Justice Scalia, with whom Justice O'Connor and Justice Thomas join, dissenting.The District Court never entered a final judgment in thiscase, which should have led the Court of Appeals to wonderwhether it had any business entertaining petitioner's appeal.Instead, without so much as acknowledging that Congresshas limited court-of-appeals jurisdiction to "appeals from allfinal decisions of the district courts of the United States,"28 U. S. C. $ 1291 (emphasis added), and appeals from certainspecified interlocutory orders, see $ 1292, the Court of Ap539US1 Unit: $U74 [05-03-05 21:40:12] PAGES PGT: OPIN187Cite as: 539 U. S. 166 (2003)Scalia, J., dissentingpeals proceeded to the merits of Sell's interlocutory appeal.282 F. 3d 560 (CA8 2002). Perhaps this failure to discussjurisdiction was attributable to the United States' refusal tocontest the point there (as it has refused here, see Brief forUnited States 10, n. 5), or to the panel's unexpressed agree-ment with the conclusion reached by other Courts of Appeals, that pretrial forced-medication orders are appealableunder the "collateral order doctrine," see,e. g., United Statesv. Morgan, 193 F. 3d 252, 258-259 (CA4 1999); United Statesv. Brandon, 158 F. 3d 947, 950-951 (CA6 1998). But thisCourt's cases do not authorize appeal from the DistrictCourt's April 4, 2001, order, which was neither a "final deci-sion" under $ 1291 nor part of the class of specified interlocutory orders in $ 1292. We therefore lack jurisdiction, and Iwould vacate the Court of Appeals' decision and remand withinstructions to dismiss. IAfter petitioner's indictment, a Magistrate Judge foundthat petitioner was incompetent to stand trial because hewas unable to understand the nature and consequences ofthe proceedings against him and to assist in his defense. Asrequired by 18 U. S. C. $ 4241(d), the Magistrate Judge com-mitted petitioner to the custody of the Attorney General, andpetitioner was hospitalized to determine whether there wasa substantial probability that in the foreseeable future hewould attain the capacity to stand trial. On June 9, 1999, areviewing psychiatrist determined, after a $ 549.43 administrative hearing,1 that petitioner should be required to take1 Title 28 CFR $ 549.43 (2002) provides the standards and proceduresused to determine whether a person in the custody of the Attorney General may be involuntarily medicated. Before that can be done, a reviewing psychiatrist must determine that it is "necessary in order to attemptto make the inmate competent for trial or is necessary because the inmateis dangerous to self or others, is gravely disabled, or is unable to functionin the open population of a mental health referral center or a regularprison," $ 549.43(a)(5).539US1 Unit: $U74 [05-03-05 21:40:12] PAGES PGT: OPIN188 SELL v. UNITED STATESScalia, J., dissentingantipsychotic medication, finding the medication necessary torender petitioner competent for trial and medically appropriate to treat his mental illness. Petitioner's administra-tive appeal from that decision2 was denied with a writtenstatement of reasons.At that point the Government possessed the requisiteauthority to administer forced medication. Petitioner re-sponded, not by appealing to the courts the $ 549.43 administrative determination, see 5 U. S. C. $ 702, but by movingin the District Court overseeing his criminal prosecution fora hearing regarding the appropriateness of his medication.A Magistrate Judge granted the motion and held a hearing.The Government then requested from the Magistrate Judgean order authorizing the involuntary medication of petitioner, which the Magistrate Judge entered.3 On April 4,2001, the District Court affirmed this Magistrate Judge'sorder, and it is from this order that petitioner appealed tothe Eighth Circuit.IIAPetitioner and the United States maintain that 28 U. S. C.$ 1291, which permits the courts of appeals to review "all2 Section 549.43(a)(6) provides: "The inmate . . . may submit an appeal tothe institution mental health division administrator regarding the decisionwithin 24 hours of the decision and . . . the administrator shall review thedecision within 24 hours of the inmate's appeal."3 It is not apparent why this order was necessary, since the Governmenthad already received authorization to medicate petitioner pursuant to$ 549.43. If the Magistrate Judge had denied the Government's motion(or if this Court were to reverse the Magistrate Judge's order) the Bureauof Prisons' administrative decision ordering petitioner's forcible medication would remain in place. Which is to suggest that, in addition to thejurisdictional defect of interlocutoriness to which my opinion is addressed,there may be no jurisdiction because, at the time this suit was filed, petitioner failed to meet the "remediability" requirement of Article III standing. See Steel Co. v. Citizens for Better Environment, 523 U. S. 83 (1998).The Court of Appeals should address this jurisdictional issue on remand.539US1 Unit: $U74 [05-03-05 21:40:12] PAGES PGT: OPIN189Cite as: 539 U. S. 166 (2003)Scalia, J., dissentingfinal decisions of the district courts of the United States"(emphasis added), allowed the Court of Appeals to reviewthe District Court's April 4, 2001, order. We have described$ 1291, however, as a "final judgment rule," Flanagan v.United States, 465 U. S. 259, 263 (1984), which "[i]n a criminalcase . . . prohibits appellate review until conviction andimposition of sentence," ibid. (emphasis added). See alsoAbney v. United States, 431 U. S. 651, 656-657 (1977). Wehave invented4 a narrow exception to this statutory command: the so-called "collateral order" doctrine, which per-mits appeal of district court orders that (1) "conclusively determine the disputed question," (2) "resolve an importantissue completely separate from the merits of the action," and(3) are "effectively unreviewable on appeal from a final judg-ment." Coopers & Lybrand v. Livesay, 437 U. S. 463, 468(1978). But the District Court's April 4, 2001, order fails tosatisfy the third requirement of this test.Our decision in Riggins v. Nevada, 504 U. S. 127 (1992),demonstrates that the District Court's April 4, 2001, orderis reviewable on appeal from conviction and sentence. Thedefendant inRiggins had been involuntarily medicated whilea pretrial detainee, and he argued, on appeal from his murder conviction, that the State of Nevada had contravenedthe substantive-due-process standards set forth in Washington v. Harper, 494 U. S. 210 (1990). Rather than holdingthat review of this claim was not possible on appeal from acriminal conviction, the Riggins Court held that forced medi-cation of a criminal defendant that fails to comply withHarper creates an unacceptable risk of trial error and enti-tles the defendant to automatic vacatur of his conviction.504 U. S., at 135-138. The Court is therefore wrong to saythat "[a]n ordinary appeal comes too late for a defendant toenforce" this right, ante, at 177, and appellate review of anysubstantive-due-process challenge to the District Court's4 I use the term "invented" advisedly. The statutory text provides nobasis.539US1 Unit: $U74 [05-03-05 21:40:12] PAGES PGT: OPIN190 SELL v. UNITED STATESScalia, J., dissentingApril 4, 2001, order must wait until after conviction and sen-tence have been imposed.5It is true that, if petitioner must wait until final judgmentto appeal, he will not receive thetype of remedy he wouldprefer--a predeprivation injunction rather than the postdep-rivation vacatur of conviction provided byRiggins. Butthat ground for interlocutory appeal is emphatically rejectedby our cases. See, e. g., Flanagan, supra (disallowing inter-locutory appeal of an order disqualifying defense counsel);United States v. Hollywood Motor Car Co., 458 U. S. 263(1982)(per curiam) (disallowing interlocutory appeal of anorder denying motion to dismiss indictment on grounds ofprosecutorial vindictiveness);Carroll v. United States, 354U. S. 394 (1957) (disallowing interlocutory appeal of an orderdenying motion to suppress evidence).We have until today interpreted the collateral-order ex-ception to $ 1291 " `with theutmost strictness' " in criminalcases. Midland Asphalt Corp. v. United States, 489 U. S.794, 799 (1989) (emphasis added). In the 54 years since weinvented the exception, see Cohen v. Beneficial IndustrialLoan Corp., 337 U. S. 541 (1949), we have found only threetypes of prejudgment orders in criminal cases appealable:denials of motions to reduce bail, Stack v. Boyle, 342 U. S. 1(1951), denials of motions to dismiss on double-jeopardygrounds, Abney, supra, and denials of motions to dismissunder the Speech or Debate Clause, Helstoski v. Meanor, 442U. S. 500 (1979). The first of these exceptions was justifiedon the ground that the denial of a motion to reduce bail becomes moot (and thus effectively unreviewable) on appeal5 To be sure, the order here is unreviewable after final judgment if thedefendant is acquitted. But the "unreviewability" leg of our collateralorder doctrine--which, as it is framed, requires that the interlocutoryorder be "effectively unreviewable on appeal from a final judgment,"Coopers & Lybrand v. Livesay, 437 U. S. 463, 468 (1978) (emphasisadded)--is not satisfied by the possibility that the aggrieved party willhave no occasion to appeal.539US1 Unit: $U74 [05-03-05 21:40:12] PAGES PGT: OPIN191Cite as: 539 U. S. 166 (2003)Scalia, J., dissentingfrom conviction. See Flanagan, supra, at 266. As Rigginsdemonstrates, that is not the case here. The interlocutoryappeals in Abney and Helstoski were justified on the groundthat it was appropriate to interrupt the trial when the precise right asserted was the right not to be tried. See Abney,supra, at 660-661; Helstoski, supra, at 507-508. Petitionerdoes not assert a right not to be tried, but a right not tobemedicated. BToday's narrow holding will allow criminal defendants inpetitioner's position to engage in opportunistic behavior.They can, for example, voluntarily take their medicationuntil halfway through trial, then abruptly refuse and demandan interlocutory appeal from the order that medication con-tinue on a compulsory basis. This sort of concern for thedisruption of criminal proceedings--strangely missing fromthe Court's discussion today--is what has led us to statemany times that we interpret the collateral-order exceptionnarrowly in criminal cases. See Midland Asphalt Corp.,supra, at 799; Flanagan, 465 U. S., at 264.But the adverse effects of today's narrow holding are asnothing compared to the adverse effects of the new rule oflaw that underlies the holding. The Court's opinion announces that appellate jurisdiction is proper because reviewafter conviction and sentence will come only after "Sell willhave undergone forced medication--the very harm that heseeks to avoid."Ante, at 176-177. This analysis effects abreathtaking expansion of appellate jurisdiction over interlocutory orders. If it is applied faithfully (and some appel-late panels will be eager to apply it faithfully), any criminaldefendant who asserts that a trial court order will, if imple-mented, cause an immediate violation of his constitutional(or perhaps even statutory?) rights may immediately appeal.He is empowered to hold up the trial for months by claimingthat review after final judgment "would come too late" toprevent the violation. A trial-court order requiring the de539US1 Unit: $U74 [05-03-05 21:40:13] PAGES PGT: OPIN192 SELL v. UNITED STATESScalia, J., dissentingfendant to wear an electronic bracelet could be attacked asan immediate infringement of the constitutional right to"bodily integrity"; an order refusing to allow the defendantto wear a T-shirt that says "Black Power" in front of thejury could be attacked as an immediate violation of FirstAmendment rights; and an order compelling testimony couldbe attacked as an immediate denial of Fifth Amendmentrights. All these orders would be immediately appealable.Flanagan and Carroll, which held that appellate reviewof orders that might infringe a defendant's constitutionallyprotected rightsstill had to wait until final judgment,are seemingly overruled. The narrow gate of entry to thecollateral-order doctrine--hitherto traversable by only (1)orders unreviewable on appeal from judgment and (2) ordersdenying an asserted right not to be tried--has been generously widened.The Court dismisses these concerns in a single sentenceimmediately following its assertion that the order heremeets the three Cohen-exception requirements of (1) conclusively determining the disputed question (correct); (2) resolving an important issue separate from the merits of theaction (correct); and (3) being unreviewable on appeal (quiteplainly incorrect). That sentence reads as follows: "Theseconsiderations, particularly those involving the severity ofthe intrusion and corresponding importance of the constitutional issue, readily distinguish Sell's case from the examplesraised by the dissent." Ante, at 177. That is a brand newconsideration put forward in rebuttal, not at all discussed inthe body of the Court's analysis, which relies on the groundthat (contrary to my contention) this order is not reviewableon appeal. The Court's last-minute addition must meanthat it is revising the Cohen test, to dispense with the thirdrequirement (unreviewable on appeal) only when the important separate issue in question involves a "severe intrusion"and hence an "important constitutional issue." Of courseI welcome this narrowing of a misguided revision--but I still539US1 Unit: $U74 [05-03-05 21:40:13] PAGES PGT: OPIN193Cite as: 539 U. S. 166 (2003)Scalia, J., dissentingwould not favor the revision, not only because it is a noveltywith no basis in our prior opinions, but also because of theuncertainty, and the obvious opportunity for gamesmanship,that the revision-as-narrowed produces. If, however, I didmake this more limited addition to the textually unsupportedCohen doctrine, I would at least do so in an undisguisedfashion. * * *Petitioner could have obtained pre-trial review of the$ 549.43 medication order by filing suit under the Administrative Procedure Act, 5 U. S. C. $ 551 et seq., or even by filingaBivens v. Six Unknown Fed. Narcotics Agents, 403 U. S.388 (1971), action, which is available to federal pretrial detainees challenging the conditions of their confinement, see,e. g., Lyons v. United States Marshals, 840 F. 2d 202 (CA31987). In such a suit, he could have obtained immediate ap-pellate review of denial of relief.6 But if he chooses to challenge his forced medication in the context of a criminal trial,he must abide by the limitations attached to such a challenge--which prevent him from stopping the proceedings intheir tracks. Petitioner's mistaken litigation strategy, andthis Court's desire to decide an interesting constitutionalissue, do not justify a disregard of the limits that Congresshas imposed on courts of appeals' (and our own) jurisdiction.We should vacate the judgment here, and remand the caseto the Court of Appeals with instructions to dismiss.6 Petitioner points out that there are disadvantages to such an approach--for example, lack of constitutional entitlement to appointed counsel in a Bivens action. That does not entitle him or us to disregard thelimits on appellate jurisdiction.539US1 Unit: $U75 [05-03-05 22:10:55] PAGES PGT: OPIN194 OCTOBER TERM, 2002SyllabusUNITED STATES et al. v. AMERICAN LIBRARYASSOCIATION, INC.,et al.appeal from the united states district court for theeastern district of pennsylvaniaNo. 02-361. Argued March 5, 2003--Decided June 23, 2003Two forms of federal assistance help public libraries provide patrons withInternet access: discounted rates under the E-rate program and grantsunder the Library Services and Technology Act (LSTA). Upon discovering that library patrons, including minors, regularly search theInternet for pornography and expose others to pornographic images byleaving them displayed on Internet terminals or printed at library printers, Congress enacted the Children's Internet Protection Act (CIPA),which forbids public libraries to receive federal assistance for Internetaccess unless they install software to block obscene or pornographicimages and to prevent minors from accessing material harmful to them.Appellees, a group of libraries, patrons, Web site publishers, and relatedparties, sued the Government, challenging the constitutionality ofCIPA's filtering provisions. Ruling that CIPA is facially unconstitutional and enjoining the Government from withholding federal assistance for failure to comply with CIPA, the District Court held, inter alia,that Congress had exceeded its authority under the Spending Clausebecause any public library that complies with CIPA's conditions willnecessarily violate the First Amendment; that the CIPA filtering software constitutes a content-based restriction on access to a public forumthat is subject to strict scrutiny; and that, although the Government hasa compelling interest in preventing the dissemination of obscenity, childpornography, or material harmful to minors, the use of software filtersis not narrowly tailored to further that interest.Held: The judgment is reversed.201 F. Supp. 2d 401, reversed.Chief Justice Rehnquist, joined by Justice O'Connor, JusticeScalia, and Justice Thomas, concluded:1. Because public libraries' use of Internet filtering software does notviolate their patrons' First Amendment rights, CIPA does not inducelibraries to violate the Constitution, and is a valid exercise of Congress'spending power. Congress has wide latitude to attach conditions to thereceipt of federal assistance to further its policy objectives, South Dakota v. Dole, 483 U. S. 203, 206, but may not "induce" the recipient "toengage in activities that would themselves be unconstitutional," id., at539US1 Unit: $U75 [05-03-05 22:10:55] PAGES PGT: OPIN195Cite as: 539 U. S. 194 (2003)Syllabus210. To determine whether libraries would violate the First Amendment by employing the CIPA filtering software, the Court must firstexamine their societal role. To fulfill their traditional missions of facilitating learning and cultural enrichment, public libraries must havebroad discretion to decide what material to provide to their patrons.This Court has held in two analogous contexts that the Governmenthas broad discretion to make content-based judgments in deciding whatprivate speech to make available to the public. Arkansas Ed. Television Comm'n v. Forbes, 523 U. S. 666, 672-674; National Endowmentfor Arts v. Finley, 524 U. S. 569, 585-586. Just as forum analysis andheightened judicial scrutiny were incompatible with the role of publictelevision stations in the former case and the role of the National Endowment for the Arts in the latter, so are they incompatible with thebroad discretion that public libraries must have to consider content inmaking collection decisions. Thus, the public forum principles on whichthe District Court relied are out of place in the context of this case.Internet access in public libraries is neither a "traditional" nor a "designated" public forum. See, e. g., Cornelius v. NAACP Legal Defense &Ed. Fund, Inc., 473 U. S. 788, 802-803. Unlike the "Student ActivityFund" at issue in Rosenberger v. Rector and Visitors of Univ. of Va.,515 U. S. 819, 834, Internet terminals are not acquired by a library inorder to create a public forum for Web publishers to express themselves.Rather, a library provides such access for the same reasons it offersother library resources: to facilitate research, learning, and recreationalpursuits by furnishing materials of requisite and appropriate quality.The fact that a library reviews and affirmatively chooses to acquireevery book in its collection, but does not review every Web site thatit makes available, is not a constitutionally relevant distinction. Thedecisions by most libraries to exclude pornography from their print collections are not subjected to heightened scrutiny; it would make littlesense to treat libraries' judgments to block online pornography any differently. Moreover, because of the vast quantity of material on the Internet and the rapid pace at which it changes, libraries cannot possiblysegregate, item by item, all the Internet material that is appropriate forinclusion from all that is not. While a library could limit its Internetcollection to just those sites it found worthwhile, it could do so only atthe cost of excluding an enormous amount of valuable information thatit lacks the capacity to review. Given that tradeoff, it is entirely reasonable for public libraries to reject that approach and instead exclude certain categories of content, without making individualized judgmentsthat everything made available has requisite and appropriate quality.Concerns over filtering software's tendency to erroneously "overblock"access to constitutionally protected speech that falls outside the catego539US1 Unit: $U75 [05-03-05 22:10:55] PAGES PGT: OPIN196 UNITED STATES v. AMERICAN LIBRARY ASSN., INC.Syllabusries software users intend to block are dispelled by the ease with whichpatrons may have the filtering software disabled. Pp. 203-209.2. CIPA does not impose an unconstitutional condition on librariesthat receive E-rate and LSTA subsidies by requiring them, as a condition on that receipt, to surrender their First Amendment right to provide the public with access to constitutionally protected speech. Assuming that appellees may assert an "unconstitutional conditions" claim,that claim would fail on the merits. When the Government appropriates public funds to establish a program, it is entitled to broadly define that program's limits. Rust v. Sullivan, 500 U. S. 173, 194. As inRust, the Government here is not denying a benefit to anyone, but isinstead simply insisting that public funds be spent for the purpose forwhich they are authorized: helping public libraries fulfill their traditional role of obtaining material of requisite and appropriate qualityfor educational and informational purposes. Especially because publiclibraries have traditionally excluded pornographic material from theirother collections, Congress could reasonably impose a parallel limitationon its Internet assistance programs. As the use of filtering softwarehelps to carry out these programs, it is a permissible condition underRust. Appellees mistakenly contend, in reliance on Legal Services Corporation v. Velazquez, 531 U. S. 533, 542-543, that CIPA's filtering conditions distort the usual functioning of public libraries. In contrast to thelawyers who furnished legal aid to the indigent under the program atissue in Velazquez, public libraries have no role that pits them againstthe Government, and there is no assumption, as there was in that case,that they must be free of any conditions that their benefactors mightattach to the use of donated funds. Pp. 210-214.Justice Kennedy concluded that if, as the Government represents,a librarian will unblock filtered material or disable the Internet softwarefilter without significant delay on an adult user's request, there is littleto this case. There are substantial Government interests at stake here:The interest in protecting young library users from material inappropriate for minors is legitimate, and even compelling, as all Members of theCourt appear to agree. Given this interest, and the failure to show thatadult library users' access to the material is burdened in any significantdegree, the statute is not unconstitutional on its face. If some librariesdo not have the capacity to unblock specific Web sites or to disable thefilter or if it is shown that an adult user's election to view constitutionally protected Internet material is burdened in some other substantialway, that would be the subject for an as-applied challenge, not this facialchallenge. Pp. 214-215.Justice Breyer agreed that the "public forum" doctrine is inapplicable here and that the statute's filtering software provisions do not vio539US1 Unit: $U75 [05-03-05 22:10:55] PAGES PGT: OPIN197Cite as: 539 U. S. 194 (2003)Syllabuslate the First Amendment, but would reach that ultimate conclusionthrough a different approach. Because the statute raises special FirstAmendment concerns, he would not require only a "rational basis" forthe statute's restrictions. At the same time, "strict scrutiny" is notwarranted, for such a limiting and rigid test would unreasonably interfere with the discretion inherent in the "selection" of a library's collection. Rather, he would examine the constitutionality of the statute'srestrictions as the Court has examined speech-related restrictions inother contexts where circumstances call for heightened, but not "strict,"scrutiny--where, for example, complex, competing constitutional interests are potentially at issue or speech-related harm is potentially justified by unusually strong governmental interests. The key question insuch instances is one of proper fit. The Court has asked whether theharm to speech-related interests is disproportionate in light of both thejustifications and the potential alternatives. It has considered the legitimacy of the statute's objective, the extent to which the statute willtend to achieve that objective, whether there are other, less restrictiveways of achieving that objective, and ultimately whether the statuteworks speech-related harm that is out of proportion to that objective.The statute's restrictions satisfy these constitutional demands. Its objectives--of restricting access to obscenity, child pornography, and material that is comparably harmful to minors--are "legitimate," andindeed often "compelling." No clearly superior or better fitting alternative to Internet software filters has been presented. Moreover,the statute contains an important exception that limits the speechrelated harm: It allows libraries to permit any adult patron access to an"overblocked" Web site or to disable the software filter entirely uponrequest. Given the comparatively small burden imposed upon librarypatrons seeking legitimate Internet materials, it cannot be said that anyspeech-related harm that the statute may cause is disproportionatewhen considered in relation to the statute's legitimate objectives.Pp. 215-220.Rehnquist, C. J., announced the judgment of the Court and deliveredan opinion, in which O'Connor, Scalia, and Thomas, JJ., joined. Kennedy, J., post, p. 214, and Breyer, J., post, p. 215, filed opinions concurringin the judgment. Stevens, J., filed a dissenting opinion, post, p. 220.Souter, J., filed a dissenting opinion, in which Ginsburg, J., joined,post, p. 231.Solicitor General Olson argued the cause for appellants.With him on the briefs were Assistant Attorney General539US1 Unit: $U75 [05-03-05 22:10:55] PAGES PGT: OPIN198 UNITED STATES v. AMERICAN LIBRARY ASSN., INC.Opinion of Rehnquist, C. J.McCallum, Deputy Solicitor General Kneedler, Irving L.Gornstein, Barbara L. Herwig, and Jacob M. Lewis.Paul M. Smith argued the cause for appellees. With himon the brief for appellees American Library Association, Inc.,et al. were Theresa A. Chmara, Daniel Mach, Elliot M.Mincberg, and Lawrence S. Ottinger. Christopher A. Hansen, Ann Beeson, Steven R. Shapiro, Charles S. Sims, StefanPresser, and David L. Sobel filed a brief for appellees Mult-nomah County Public Library et al.*Chief Justice Rehnquist announced the judgment ofthe Court and delivered an opinion, in whichJustice O'Connor, Justice Scalia, and Justice Thomas joined.To address the problems associated with the availability ofInternet pornography in public libraries, Congress enacted*Briefs of amici curiae urging reversal were filed for the State of Texasby Greg Abbott, Attorney General, Barry R. McBee, First Assistant Attorney General, Jeffrey S. Boyd, Deputy Attorney General, Philip A.Lionberger, Solicitor General, and Amy Warr and Ryan D. Clinton, Assistant Solicitors General; for the American Center for Law and Justiceet al. by Jay Alan Sekulow, Colby M. May, Ben Bull, James M. Henderson, Joel H. Thornton, John P. Tuskey, and Laura B. Hernandez; for theAmerican Civil Rights Union by Peter Ferrara; for Cities, Mayors, andCounty Commissioners by Kelly Shackelford; for the Greenville, SouthCarolina, Public Library et al. by Kenneth C. Bass III; for the NationalLaw Center for Children and Families et al. by Kristina A. Bullock, BruceA. Taylor, and Janet M. LaRue; and for Sen. Trent Lott et al. by BrianFahling, Stephen M. Crampton, and Michael J. DePrimo.Briefs of amici curiae urging affirmance were filed for the Associationof American Publishers, Inc., et al. by R. Bruce Rich, Jonathan Bloom,and John B. Morris, Jr.; for the Brennan Center for Justice by Burt Neuborne, Laura K. Abel, and David S. Udell; for the Cleveland Public Library et al. by David W. Ogden; and for Partnership for Progress on theDigital Divide et al. by Marjorie Heins.Briefs of amici curiae were filed for the National School Boards Association et al. by Julie Underwood, Naomi Gittins, and Stuart L. Knade; forthe Online Policy Group, Inc., et al. by Daniel H. Bromberg and CharlesR. A. Morse; and for Jonathan Wallace d/ b/a The Ethical Spectacle byMichael B. Green and Jonathan D. Wallace.539US1 Unit: $U75 [05-03-05 22:10:55] PAGES PGT: OPIN199Cite as: 539 U. S. 194 (2003)Opinion of Rehnquist, C. J.the Children's Internet Protection Act (CIPA), 114 Stat.2763A-335. Under CIPA, a public library may not receivefederal assistance to provide Internet access unless it installssoftware to block images that constitute obscenity or childpornography, and to prevent minors from obtaining access tomaterial that is harmful to them. The District Court heldthese provisions facially invalid on the ground that they induce public libraries to violate patrons' First Amendmentrights. We now reverse.To help public libraries provide their patrons with In-ternet access, Congress offers two forms of federal assistance. First, the E-rate program established by the Telecommunications Act of 1996 entitles qualifying libraries tobuy Internet access at a discount. 110 Stat. 71, 47 U. S. C.$ 254(h)(1)(B). In the year ending June 30, 2002, librariesreceived $58.5 million in such discounts. Redacted JointTrial Stipulations of All Parties in Nos. 01-CV-1303, etc.(ED Pa.), || 128, p. 16 (hereinafter Jt. Tr. Stip.). Second, pursuant to the Library Services and Technology Act (LSTA),110 Stat. 3009-295, as amended, 20 U. S. C. $ 9101 et seq.,the Institute of Museum and Library Services makes grantsto state library administrative agencies to "electronicallylin[k] libraries with educational, social, or information services," "assis[t] libraries in accessing information throughelectronic networks," and "pa[y] costs for libraries to acquireor share computer systems and telecommunications technologies." $$ 9141(a)(1)(B), (C), (E). In fiscal year 2002, Congress appropriated more than $149 million in LSTA grants.Jt. Tr. Stip. || 185, p. 26. These programs have succeededgreatly in bringing Internet access to public libraries: By2000, 95% of the Nation's libraries provided public Internetaccess. J. Bertot & C. McClure, Public Libraries and theInternet 2000: Summary Findings and Data Tables, p. 3(Sept. 7, 2000), http://www.nclis.gov/statsurv/2000plo.pdf (allInternet materials as visited Mar. 25, 2003, and available inClerk of Court's case file).539US1 Unit: $U75 [05-03-05 22:10:55] PAGES PGT: OPIN200 UNITED STATES v. AMERICAN LIBRARY ASSN., INC.Opinion of Rehnquist, C. J.By connecting to the Internet, public libraries provide pa-trons with a vast amount of valuable information. But thereis also an enormous amount of pornography on the Internet,much of which is easily obtained. 201 F. Supp. 2d 401, 419(ED Pa. 2002). The accessibility of this material has createdserious problems for libraries, which have found that patronsof all ages, including minors, regularly search for online por-nography.Id., at 406. Some patrons also expose others topornographic images by leaving them displayed on Internetterminals or printed at library printers. Id., at 423.Upon discovering these problems, Congress became concerned that the E-rate and LSTA programs were facilitat-ing access to illegal and harmful pornography. S. Rep.No. 105-226, p. 5 (1998). Congress learned that adults "us[e]library computers to access pornography that is then exposed to staff, passersby, and children," and that "minorsacces[s] child and adult pornography in libraries."1But Congress also learned that filtering software thatblocks access to pornographic Web sites could provide a reasonably effective way to prevent such uses of library re-sources.Id., at 20-26. By 2000, before Congress enactedCIPA, almost 17% of public libraries used such software onat least some of their Internet terminals, and 7% had filterson all of them. Library Research Center of U. Ill., Surveyof Internet Access Management in Public Libraries 8, http://alexia.lis.uiuc.edu/gslis/research/internet.pdf. A library can1 The Children's Internet Protection Act: Hearing on S. 97 before theSenate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation, 106thCong., 1st Sess., 49 (1999) (prepared statement of Bruce Taylor, Presidentand Chief Counsel, National Law Center for Children and Families). Seealso Obscene Material Available Via The Internet: Hearing before the Subcommittee on Telecommunications, Trade, and Consumer Protection of theHouse Committee on Commerce, 106th Cong., 2d Sess., 1, 27 (2000) (citingD. Burt, Dangerous Access, 2000 Edition: Uncovering Internet Pornography in America's Libraries (2000)) (noting more than 2,000 incidents ofpatrons, both adults and minors, using library computers to view onlinepornography, including obscenity and child pornography).539US1 Unit: $U75 [05-03-05 22:10:55] PAGES PGT: OPIN201Cite as: 539 U. S. 194 (2003)Opinion of Rehnquist, C. J.set such software to block categories of material, such as"Pornography" or "Violence." 201 F. Supp. 2d, at 428.When a patron tries to view a site that falls within such acategory, a screen appears indicating that the site is blocked.Id., at 429. But a filter set to block pornography may some-times block other sites that present neither obscene nor pornographic material, but that nevertheless trigger the filter.To minimize this problem, a library can set its software toprevent the blocking of material that falls into categorieslike "Education," "History," and "Medical." Id., at 428-429.A library may also add or delete specific sites from a blockingcategory, id., at 429, and anyone can ask companies that furnish filtering software to unblock particular sites, id., at 430.Responding to this information, Congress enacted CIPA.It provides that a library may not receive E-rate or LSTAassistance unless it has "a policy of Internet safety for minors that includes the operation of a technology protectionmeasure . . . that protects against access" by all persons to"visual depictions" that constitute "obscen[ity]" or "child pornography," and that protects against access by minors to"visual depictions" that are "harmful to minors." 20 U. S. C.$$ 9134(f )(1)(A)(i) and (B)(i); 47 U. S. C. $$ 254(h)(6)(B)(i) and(C)(i). The statute defines a "[t]echnology protection measure" as "a specific technology that blocks or filters Internetaccess to material covered by" CIPA. $ 254(h)(7)(I). CIPAalso permits the library to "disable" the filter "to enable access for bona fide research or other lawful purposes." 20U. S. C. $ 9134(f )(3); 47 U. S. C. $ 254(h)(6)(D). Under the Erate program, disabling is permitted "during use by anadult." $ 254(h)(6)(D). Under the LSTA program, disabling is permitted during use by any person. 20 U. S. C.$ 9134(f)(3).Appellees are a group of libraries, library associations, library patrons, and Web site publishers, including the American Library Association (ALA) and the Multnomah CountyPublic Library in Portland, Oregon (Multnomah). They539US1 Unit: $U75 [05-03-05 22:10:55] PAGES PGT: OPIN202 UNITED STATES v. AMERICAN LIBRARY ASSN., INC.Opinion of Rehnquist, C. J.sued the United States and the Government agencies andofficials responsible for administering the E-rate and LSTAprograms in District Court, challenging the constitutionalityof CIPA's filtering provisions. A three-judge District Courtconvened pursuant to $ 1741(a) of CIPA, 114 Stat. 2763A-351,note following 20 U. S. C. $ 7001.After a trial, the District Court ruled that CIPA was facially unconstitutional and enjoined the relevant agenciesand officials from withholding federal assistance for failureto comply with CIPA. The District Court held that Con-gress had exceeded its authority under the Spending Clause,U. S. Const., Art. I, $ 8, cl. 1, because, in the court's view,"any public library that complies with CIPA's conditions willnecessarily violate the First Amendment." 201 F. Supp. 2d,at 453. The court acknowledged that "generally the FirstAmendment subjects libraries' content-based decisions aboutwhich print materials to acquire for their collections to onlyrational [basis] review." Id., at 462. But it distinguishedlibraries' decisions to make certain Internet material inaccessible. "The central difference," the court stated, "is thatby providing patrons with even filtered Internet access, thelibrary permits patrons to receive speech on a virtually unlimited number of topics, from a virtually unlimited numberof speakers, without attempting to restrict patrons' access tospeech that the library, in the exercise of its professionaljudgment, determines to be particularly valuable." Ibid.Reasoning that "the provision of Internet access within apublic library . . . is for use by the public . . . for expressiveactivity," the court analyzed such access as a "designatedpublic forum." Id., at 457 (citation and internal quotationmarks omitted). The District Court also likened Internetaccess in libraries to "traditional public fora . . . such as sidewalks and parks" because it "promotes First Amendmentvalues in an analogous manner." Id., at 466.Based on both of these grounds, the court held that thefiltering software contemplated by CIPA was a content539US1 Unit: $U75 [05-03-05 22:10:55] PAGES PGT: OPIN203Cite as: 539 U. S. 194 (2003)Opinion of Rehnquist, C. J.based restriction on access to a public forum, and was there-fore subject to strict scrutiny. Ibid. Applying this standard, the District Court held that, although the Governmenthas a compelling interest "in preventing the dissemination ofobscenity, child pornography, or, in the case of minors, mate-rial harmful to minors," id., at 471, the use of software filtersis not narrowly tailored to further those interests, id., at 479.We noted probable jurisdiction, 537 U. S. 1017 (2002), andnow reverse.Congress has wide latitude to attach conditions to the receipt of federal assistance in order to further its policy objec-tives.South Dakota v. Dole, 483 U. S. 203, 206 (1987). ButCongress may not "induce" the recipient "to engage in activities that would themselves be unconstitutional." Id., at 210.To determine whether libraries would violate the FirstAmendment by employing the filtering software that CIPArequires,2 we must first examine the role of libraries in oursociety.Public libraries pursue the worthy missions of facilitatinglearning and cultural enrichment. Appellee ALA's LibraryBill of Rights states that libraries should provide "[b]ooksand other . . . resources . . . for the interest, information,and enlightenment of all people of the community the library2 Justice Stevens misapprehends the analysis we must perform to determine whether CIPA exceeds Congress' authority under the SpendingClause. He asks and answers whether it is constitutional for Congressto "impose [CIPA's filtering] requirement" on public libraries, instead of"allowing local decisionmakers to tailor their responses to local problems."Post, at 220 (dissenting opinion). But under our well-established Spending Clause precedent, that is not the proper inquiry. Rather, as the District Court correctly recognized, 201 F. Supp. 2d 401, 453 (ED Pa. 2002),we must ask whether the condition that Congress requires "would . . . beunconstitutional" if performed by the library itself. Dole, 483 U. S.,at 210.CIPA does not directly regulate private conduct; rather, Congress hasexercised its Spending Power by specifying conditions on the receipt offederal funds. Therefore, Dole provides the appropriate framework forassessing CIPA's constitutionality.539US1 Unit: $U75 [05-03-05 22:10:55] PAGES PGT: OPIN204 UNITED STATES v. AMERICAN LIBRARY ASSN., INC.Opinion of Rehnquist, C. J.serves." 201 F. Supp. 2d, at 420 (internal quotation marksomitted). To fulfill their traditional missions, public libraries must have broad discretion to decide what material toprovide to their patrons. Although they seek to provide awide array of information, their goal has never been to provide "universal coverage." Id., at 421. Instead, public libraries seek to provide materials "that would be of thegreatest direct benefit or interest to the community." Ibid.To this end, libraries collect only those materials deemed tohave "requisite and appropriate quality." Ibid. See W.Katz, Collection Development: The Selection of Materials forLibraries 6 (1980) ("The librarian's responsibility . . . is toseparate out the gold from the garbage, not to preserve everything"); F. Drury, Book Selection xi (1930) ("[I]t is theaim of the selector to give the public, not everything itwants, but the best that it will read or use to advantage");App. 636 (Rebuttal Expert Report of Donald G. Davis, Jr.)("A hypothetical collection of everything that has been produced is not only of dubious value, but actually detrimental to users trying to find what they want to find and reallyneed").We have held in two analogous contexts that the government has broad discretion to make content-based judgmentsin deciding what private speech to make available to the public. In Arkansas Ed. Television Comm'n v. Forbes, 523 U. S.666, 672-673 (1998), we held that public forum principles donot generally apply to a public television station's editorialjudgments regarding the private speech it presents to itsviewers. "[B]road rights of access for outside speakerswould be antithetical, as a general rule, to the discretion thatstations and their editorial staff must exercise to fulfill theirjournalistic purpose and statutory obligations." Id., at 673.Recognizing a broad right of public access "would [also] riskimplicating the courts in judgments that should be left tothe exercise of journalistic discretion." Id., at 674.539US1 Unit: $U75 [05-03-05 22:10:55] PAGES PGT: OPIN205Cite as: 539 U. S. 194 (2003)Opinion of Rehnquist, C. J.Similarly, in National Endowment for Arts v. Finley, 524U. S. 569 (1998), we upheld an art funding program that required the National Endowment for the Arts (NEA) to usecontent-based criteria in making funding decisions. We explained that "[a]ny content-based considerations that may betaken into account in the grant-making process are a consequence of the nature of arts funding." Id., at 585. In particular, "[t]he very assumption of the NEA is that grantswill be awarded according to the `artistic worth of competingapplicants,' and absolute neutrality is simply inconceivable."Ibid. (some internal quotation marks omitted). We expressly declined to apply forum analysis, reasoning that itwould conflict with "NEA's mandate . . . to make estheticjudgments, and the inherently content-based `excellence'threshold for NEA support." Id., at 586.The principles underlying Forbes and Finley also apply toa public library's exercise of judgment in selecting the material it provides to its patrons. Just as forum analysis andheightened judicial scrutiny are incompatible with the roleof public television stations and the role of the NEA, theyare also incompatible with the discretion that public librariesmust have to fulfill their traditional missions. Public librarystaffs necessarily consider content in making collection decisions and enjoy broad discretion in making them.The public forum principles on which the District Courtrelied, 201 F. Supp. 2d, at 457-470, are out of place in thecontext of this case. Internet access in public libraries isneither a "traditional" nor a "designated" public forum. SeeCornelius v. NAACP Legal Defense & Ed. Fund, Inc., 473U. S. 788, 802 (1985) (describing types of forums). First, thisresource--which did not exist until quite recently--has not"immemorially been held in trust for the use of the publicand, time out of mind, . . . been used for purposes of assembly,communication of thoughts between citizens, and discussingpublic questions." International Soc. for Krishna Consciousness, Inc. v. Lee, 505 U. S. 672, 679 (1992) (internal quo539US1 Unit: $U75 [05-03-05 22:10:55] PAGES PGT: OPIN206 UNITED STATES v. AMERICAN LIBRARY ASSN., INC.Opinion of Rehnquist, C. J.tation marks omitted). We have "rejected the view thattraditional public forum status extends beyond its historicconfines." Forbes, supra, at 678. The doctrines surround-ing traditional public forums may not be extended to situations where such history is lacking.Nor does Internet access in a public library satisfy ourdefinition of a "designated public forum." To create such aforum, the government must make an affirmative choice toopen up its property for use as a public forum.Cornelius,supra, at 802-803; Perry Ed. Assn. v. Perry Local Educators' Assn., 460 U. S. 37, 45 (1983). "The government doesnot create a public forum by inaction or by permitting limited discourse, but only by intentionally opening a nontraditional forum for public discourse." Cornelius, supra,at 802. The District Court likened public libraries' Internetterminals to the forum at issue in Rosenberger v. Rector andVisitors of Univ. of Va., 515 U. S. 819 (1995). 201 F. Supp.2d, at 465. In Rosenberger, we considered the "Student Activity Fund" established by the University of Virginia thatsubsidized all manner of student publications except thosebased on religion. We held that the fund had created a limited public forum by giving public money to student groupswho wished to publish, and therefore could not discriminateon the basis of viewpoint.The situation here is very different. A public library doesnot acquire Internet terminals in order to create a publicforum for Web publishers to express themselves, any morethan it collects books in order to provide a public forum forthe authors of books to speak. It provides Internet access,not to "encourage a diversity of views from private speakers," Rosenberger, supra, at 834, but for the same reasons itoffers other library resources: to facilitate research, learning,and recreational pursuits by furnishing materials of requisiteand appropriate quality. See Cornelius, supra, at 805 (noting, in upholding limits on participation in the CombinedFederal Campaign (CFC), that "[t]he Government did not539US1 Unit: $U75 [05-03-05 22:10:55] PAGES PGT: OPIN207Cite as: 539 U. S. 194 (2003)Opinion of Rehnquist, C. J.create the CFC for purposes of providing a forum for expres-sive activity"). As Congress recognized, "[t]he Internet issimply another method for making information available ina school or library." S. Rep. No. 106-141, p. 7 (1999). It is"no more than a technological extension of the book stack."Ibid.3The District Court disagreed because, whereas a libraryreviews and affirmatively chooses to acquire every book inits collection, it does not review every Web site that it makesavailable. 201 F. Supp. 2d, at 462-463. Based on this distinction, the court reasoned that a public library enjoys lessdiscretion in deciding which Internet materials to make3 Even if appellees had proffered more persuasive evidence that publiclibraries intended to create a forum for speech by connecting to the Internet, we would hesitate to import "the public forum doctrine . . . wholesale into" the context of the Internet. Denver Area Ed. Telecommunications Consortium, Inc. v. FCC, 518 U. S. 727, 749 (1996) (opinion ofBreyer, J.). "[W]e are wary of the notion that a partial analogy in onecontext, for which we have developed doctrines, can compel a full rangeof decisions in such a new and changing area." Ibid.The dissents agree with the District Court that less restrictive alternatives to filtering software would suffice to meet Congress' goals. Post, at223 (opinion of Stevens, J.) (quoting 201 F. Supp. 2d, at 410); post, at 234(opinion of Souter, J.) (quoting 201 F. Supp. 2d, at 422-427). But werequire the Government to employ the least restrictive means only whenthe forum is a public one and strict scrutiny applies. For the reasonsstated above, see supra, at 205-208, such is not the case here. In decidingnot to collect pornographic material from the Internet, a public libraryneed not satisfy a court that it has pursued the least restrictive means ofimplementing that decision.In any case, the suggested alternatives have their own drawbacks.Close monitoring of computer users would be far more intrusive than theuse of filtering software, and would risk transforming the role of a librarian from a professional to whom patrons turn for assistance into a compliance officer whom many patrons might wish to avoid. Moving terminalsto places where their displays cannot easily be seen by other patrons, orinstalling privacy screens or recessed monitors, would not address a library's interest in preventing patrons from deliberately using its computers to view online pornography. To the contrary, these alternatives wouldmake it easier for patrons to do so.539US1 Unit: $U75 [05-03-05 22:10:55] PAGES PGT: OPIN208 UNITED STATES v. AMERICAN LIBRARY ASSN., INC.Opinion of Rehnquist, C. J.available than in making book selections. Ibid. We do notfind this distinction constitutionally relevant. A library'sfailure to make quality-based judgments about all the material it furnishes from the Web does not somehow taint thejudgments it does make. A library's need to exercise judgment in making collection decisions depends on its traditional role in identifying suitable and worthwhile material;it is no less entitled to play that role when it collects materialfrom the Internet than when it collects material from anyother source. Most libraries already exclude pornographyfrom their print collections because they deem it inappropriate for inclusion. We do not subject these decisionsto heightened scrutiny; it would make little sense to treatlibraries' judgments to block online pornography any differently, when these judgments are made for just the samereason.Moreover, because of the vast quantity of material on theInternet and the rapid pace at which it changes, librariescannot possibly segregate, item by item, all the Internet material that is appropriate for inclusion from all that is not.While a library could limit its Internet collection to justthose sites it found worthwhile, it could do so only at thecost of excluding an enormous amount of valuable information that it lacks the capacity to review. Given that tradeoff,it is entirely reasonable for public libraries to reject thatapproach and instead exclude certain categories of content,without making individualized judgments that everythingthey do make available has requisite and appropriate quality.Like the District Court, the dissents fault the tendency offiltering software to "overblock"--that is, to erroneouslyblock access to constitutionally protected speech that fallsoutside the categories that software users intend to block.See post, at 221-222 (opinion of Stevens, J.); post, at 233-234(opinion of Souter, J.). Due to the software's limitations,"[m]any erroneously blocked [Web] pages contain content539US1 Unit: $U75 [05-03-05 22:10:55] PAGES PGT: OPIN209Cite as: 539 U. S. 194 (2003)Opinion of Rehnquist, C. J.that is completely innocuous for both adults and minors, andthat no rational person could conclude matches the filteringcompanies' category definitions, such as `pornography' or`sex.' " 201 F. Supp. 2d, at 449. Assuming that such erroneous blocking presents constitutional difficulties, any suchconcerns are dispelled by the ease with which patrons mayhave the filtering software disabled. When a patron en-counters a blocked site, he need only ask a librarian to unblock it or (at least in the case of adults) disable the filter.As the District Court found, libraries have the capacity topermanently unblock any erroneously blocked site, id., at429, and the Solicitor General stated at oral argument thata "library may . . . eliminate the filtering with respect tospecific sites . . . at the request of a patron," Tr. of Oral Arg.4. With respect to adults, CIPA also expressly authorizeslibrary officials to "disable" a filter altogether "to enable access for bona fide research or other lawful purposes." 20U. S. C. $ 9134(f )(3) (disabling permitted for both adults andminors); 47 U. S. C. $ 254(h)(6)(D) (disabling permitted foradults). The Solicitor General confirmed that a "librariancan, in response to a request from a patron, unblock the fil-tering mechanism altogether," Tr. of Oral Arg. 11, and further explained that a patron would not "have to explain . . .why he was asking a site to be unblocked or the filteringto be disabled," id., at 4. The District Court viewed un-blocking and disabling as inadequate because some patronsmay be too embarrassed to request them. 201 F. Supp. 2d,at 411. But the Constitution does not guarantee the rightto acquire information at a public library without any riskof embarrassment.44 The dissents argue that overblocking will " `reduce the adult population. . . to reading only what is fit for children.' " Post, at 222, n. 2 (opinionof Stevens, J.) (quoting Butler v. Michigan, 352 U. S. 380, 383 (1957)).See also post, at 222, and n. 2 (citing Ashcroft v. Free Speech Coalition,535 U. S. 234, 252 (2002); United States v. Playboy Entertainment Group,539US1 Unit: $U75 [05-03-05 22:10:55] PAGES PGT: OPIN210 UNITED STATES v. AMERICAN LIBRARY ASSN., INC.Opinion of Rehnquist, C. J.Appellees urge us to affirm the District Court's judgmenton the alternative ground that CIPA imposes an unconstitutional condition on the receipt of federal assistance. Underthis doctrine, "the government `may not deny a benefit to aperson on a basis that infringes his constitutionally protected. . . freedom of speech' even if he has no entitlement to thatbenefit." Board of Comm'rs, Wabaunsee Cty. v. Umbehr,518 U. S. 668, 674 (1996) (quotingPerry v. Sindermann, 408U. S. 593, 597 (1972)). Appellees argue that CIPA imposesan unconstitutional condition on libraries that receive E-rateand LSTA subsidies by requiring them, as a condition ontheir receipt of federal funds, to surrender their FirstAmendment right to provide the public with access to constitutionally protected speech. The Government counters thatthis claim fails because Government entities do not haveFirst Amendment rights. See Columbia Broadcasting Sys-tem, Inc. v. Democratic National Committee, 412 U. S. 94,Inc., 529 U. S. 803, 814 (2000); and Reno v. American Civil LibertiesUnion, 521 U. S. 844, 875 (1997)); see post, at 237-238 (opinion of Souter,J.). But these cases are inapposite because they addressed Congress' direct regulation of private conduct, not exercises of its Spending Power.The dissents also argue that because some library patrons would notmake specific unblocking requests, the interest of authors of blocked Internet material "in reaching the widest possible audience would beabridged." Post, at 225 (opinion of Stevens, J.); see post, at 242-243, n. 8(opinion of Souter, J.). But this mistakes a public library's purpose foracquiring Internet terminals: A library does so to provide its patrons withmaterials of requisite and appropriate quality, not to create a public forumfor Web publishers to express themselves. See supra, at 206-208.Justice Stevens further argues that, because some libraries' procedures will make it difficult for patrons to have blocked material unblocked,CIPA "will create a significant prior restraint on adult access to protectedspeech." Post, at 225. But this argument, which the District Court didnot address, mistakenly extends prior restraint doctrine to the context ofpublic libraries' collection decisions. A library's decision to use filteringsoftware is a collection decision, not a restraint on private speech. Contrary to Justice Stevens' belief, a public library does not have an obligation to add material to its collection simply because the material is constitutionally protected.539US1 Unit: $U75 [05-03-05 22:10:55] PAGES PGT: OPIN211Cite as: 539 U. S. 194 (2003)Opinion of Rehnquist, C. J.139 (1973) (Stewart, J., concurring) ("The First Amendmentprotects the press from governmental interference; it confers no analogous protection on the government"); id., at 139,n. 7 (" `The purpose of the First Amendment is to protectprivate expression' " (quoting T. Emerson, The System ofFreedom of Expression 700 (1970))). See also Warner CableCommunications, Inc., v. Niceville, 911 F. 2d 634, 638 (CA111990);Student Govt. Assn. v. Board of Trustees of the Univ.of Mass., 868 F. 2d 473, 481 (CA1 1989); Estiverne v. Louisiana State Bar Assn., 863 F. 2d 371, 379 (CA5 1989).We need not decide this question because, even assumingthat appellees may assert an "unconstitutional conditions"claim, this claim would fail on the merits. Within broad limits, "when the Government appropriates public funds to es-tablish a program it is entitled to define the limits of thatprogram." Rust v. Sullivan, 500 U. S. 173, 194 (1991). InRust, Congress had appropriated federal funding for familyplanning services and forbidden the use of such funds in pro-grams that provided abortion counseling.Id., at 178. Re-cipients of these funds challenged this restriction, arguingthat it impermissibly conditioned the receipt of a benefit onthe relinquishment of their constitutional right to engage inabortion counseling. Id., at 196. We rejected that claim,recognizing that "the Government [was] not denying a benefit to anyone, but [was] instead simply insisting that publicfunds be spent for the purposes for which they were authorized." Ibid.The same is true here. The E-rate and LSTA programswere intended to help public libraries fulfill their traditionalrole of obtaining material of requisite and appropriate quality for educational and informational purposes.5 Congress5 See 20 U. S. C. $ 9121 ("It is the purpose of [LSTA] (2) to stimulateexcellence and promote access to learning and information resources in alltypes of libraries for individuals of all ages"); S. Conf. Rep. No. 104-230,p. 132 (1996) (The E-rate program "will help open new worlds of knowledge, learning and education to all Americans . . . . [It is] intended, for539US1 Unit: $U75 [05-03-05 22:10:55] PAGES PGT: OPIN212 UNITED STATES v. AMERICAN LIBRARY ASSN., INC.Opinion of Rehnquist, C. J.may certainly insist that these "public funds be spent for thepurposes for which they were authorized." Ibid. Especially because public libraries have traditionally excludedpornographic material from their other collections, Congresscould reasonably impose a parallel limitation on its Internetassistance programs. As the use of filtering software helpsto carry out these programs, it is a permissible conditionunderRust.Justice Stevens asserts the premise that "[a] federalstatute penalizing a library for failing to install filtering software on every one of its Internet-accessible computers wouldunquestionably violate [the First] Amendment."Post, at226. See also post, at 230-231. But--assuming again thatpublic libraries have First Amendment rights--CIPA doesnot "penalize" libraries that choose not to install such software, or deny them the right to provide their patrons withunfiltered Internet access. Rather, CIPA simply reflectsCongress' decision not to subsidize their doing so. To theextent that libraries wish to offer unfiltered access, they arefree to do so without federal assistance. " `A refusal to fundprotected activity, without more, cannot be equated with theimposition of a "penalty" on that activity.' " Rust, supra, at193 (quotingHarris v. McRae, 448 U. S. 297, 317, n. 19(1980)). " `[A] legislature's decision not to subsidize the exercise of a fundamental right does not infringe the right.' "Rust, supra, at 193 (quoting Regan v. Taxation With Representation of Wash., 461 U. S. 540, 549 (1983)).6example, to provide the ability to browse library collections, review thecollections of museums, or find new information on the treatment of anillness, to Americans everywhere via . . . libraries").6 These holdings, which Justice Stevens ignores, also make clear thathis reliance on Rutan v. Republican Party of Ill., 497 U. S. 62 (1990),Elrod v. Burns, 427 U. S. 347 (1976), and Wieman v. Updegraff, 344 U. S.183 (1952), is misplaced. See post, at 227. The invalidated state actionin those cases involved true penalties, such as denial of a promotion oroutright discharge from employment, not nonsubsidies.539US1 Unit: $U75 [05-03-05 22:10:55] PAGES PGT: OPIN213Cite as: 539 U. S. 194 (2003)Opinion of Rehnquist, C. J.Appellees mistakenly contend, in reliance on Legal Serv-ices Corporation v. Velazquez, 531 U. S. 533 (2001), thatCIPA's filtering conditions "[d]istor[t] the [u]sual [f]unction-ing of [p]ublic [l]ibraries." Brief for Appellees ALA et al.40 (citing Velazquez, supra, at 543); Brief for Appellees Mult-nomah et al. 47-48 (same). In Velazquez, the Court concluded that a Government program of furnishing legal aid tothe indigent differed from the program inRust "[i]n th[e]vital respect" that the role of lawyers who represent clientsin welfare disputes is to advocate against the Government,and there was thus an assumption that counsel would be freeof state control. 531 U. S., at 542-543. The Court con-cluded that the restriction on advocacy in such welfare disputes would distort the usual functioning of the legal pro-fession and the federal and state courts before which thelawyers appeared. Public libraries, by contrast, have nocomparable role that pits them against the Government, andthere is no comparable assumption that they must be free ofany conditions that their benefactors might attach to the useof donated funds or other assistance.77 Relying on Velazquez, Justice Stevens argues mistakenly that Rustis inapposite because that case "only involved, and only applies to, . . .situations in which the government seeks to communicate a specific message," post, at 228, and unlike the Title X program in Rust, the E-rate andLSTA programs "are not designed to foster or transmit any particulargovernmental message." Post, at 229. But he misreads our cases discussing Rust, and again misapprehends the purpose of providing Internet terminals in public libraries. Velazquez held only that viewpointbased restrictions are improper " `when the [government] does not itselfspeak or subsidize transmittal of a message it favors but instead expendsfunds to encourage a diversity of views from private speakers.' " 531U. S., at 542 (quoting Rosenberger v. Rector and Visitors of Univ. of Va.,515 U. S. 819, 834 (1995) (emphasis added)). See also 531 U. S., at 542("[T]he salient point is that, like the program in Rosenberger, the LSC[Legal Services Corporation] program was designed to facilitate privatespeech . . ." (emphasis added)); Board of Regents of Univ. of Wis. Systemv. Southworth, 529 U. S. 217, 229 (2000) ("The University of Wisconsin539US1 Unit: $U75 [05-03-05 22:10:55] PAGES PGT: OPIN214 UNITED STATES v. AMERICAN LIBRARY ASSN., INC.Kennedy, J., concurring in judgmentBecause public libraries' use of Internet filtering softwaredoes not violate their patrons' First Amendment rights,CIPA does not induce libraries to violate the Constitution,and is a valid exercise of Congress' spending power. Nordoes CIPA impose an unconstitutional condition on publiclibraries. Therefore, the judgment of the District Court forthe Eastern District of Pennsylvania is