Two oil companies, petitioners here, seek restitution of$156 million they paid the Government in return for leasecontracts giving them rights to explore for and develop oiloff the North Carolina coast. The rights were not absolute,but were conditioned on the companies' obtaining a set offurther governmental permissions. The companies claimthat the Government repudiated the contracts when it de-nied them certain elements of the permission-seeking opportunities that the contracts had promised. We agree that theGovernment broke its promise; it repudiated the contracts;and it must give the companies their money back.IAA description at the outset of the few basic contract lawprinciples applicable to this action will help the reader understand the significance of the complex factual circum-stances that follow. "When the United States enters intocontract relations, its rights and duties therein are governedgenerally by the law applicable to contracts between privateindividuals." United States v. Winstar Corp., 518 U. S. 839,#J. Berry St. John, Craig Wyman, G. William Frick, David T. Deal,and Douglas Morris filed a brief for the American Petroleum Institute asamicus curiae urging reversal.A brief of amici curiae urging affirmance was filed for the State ofCalifornia et al. by Bill Lockyer, Attorney General of California, RichardM. Frank, Chief Assistant Attorney General, J. Matthew Rodriquez, Senior Assistant Attorney General, and John A. Saurenman, Deputy Attorney General, and by the Attorneys General for their respective States asfollows: Michael F. Easley of North Carolina, W. A. Drew Edmondson ofOklahoma, Hardy Myers of Oregon, Charlie Condon of South Carolina,and Christine O. Gregoire of Washington.530US2 Unit: $U81 [10-22-01 18:10:57] PAGES PGT: OPIN608 MOBIL OIL EXPLORATION & PRODUCINGSOUTHEAST, INC. v. UNITED STATESOpinion of the Court895 (1996) (plurality opinion) (internal quotation marks omit-ted). The Restatement of Contracts reflects many of theprinciples of contract law that are applicable to this action.As set forth in the Restatement of Contracts, the relevantprinciples specify that, when one party to a contract repudi-ates that contract, the other party "is entitled to restitutionfor any benefit that he has conferred on" the repudiatingparty "by way of part performance or reliance." Restatement (Second) of Contracts $ 373 (1979) (hereinafter Restate-ment). The Restatement explains that "repudiation" is a"statement by the obligor to the obligee indicating that theobligor will commit a breach that would of itself give theobligee a claim for damages for total breach." Id., $ 250.And "total breach" is a breach that "so substantially impairsthe value of the contract to the injured party at the time ofthe breach that it is just in the circumstances to allow himto recover damages based on all his remaining rights to per-formance."Id., $ 243.As applied to this action, these principles amount to thefollowing: If the Government said it would break, or didbreak, an important contractual promise, thereby "substantially impair[ing] the value of the contract[s]" to the compa-nies,ibid., then (unless the companies waived their rights torestitution) the Government must give the companies theirmoney back. And it must do so whether the contractswould, or would not, ultimately have proved financially beneficial to the companies. The Restatement illustrates thispoint as follows:"A contracts to sell a tract of land to B for $100,000.After B has made a part payment of $20,000, A wrongfully refuses to transfer title. B can recover the $20,000in restitution. The result is the same even if the market price of the land is only $70,000, so that performancewould have been disadvantageous to B."Id., $ 373,Comment a, Illustration 1.530US2 Unit: $U81 [10-22-01 18:10:57] PAGES PGT: OPIN609Cite as: 530 U. S. 604 (2000)Opinion of the CourtBIn 1981, in return for up-front "bonus" payments to theUnited States of about $156 million (plus annual rentalpayments), the companies received 10-year renewable leasecontracts with the United States. In these contracts, theUnited States promised the companies, among other things,that they could explore for oil off the North Carolina coastand develop any oil that they found (subject to further royalty payments) provided that the companies received exploration and development permissions in accordance with various statutes and regulations to which the lease contractswere made "subject." App. to Pet. for Cert. in No. 99-253,pp. 174a-185a.The statutes and regulations, the terms of which in effectwere incorporated into the contracts, made clear that obtaining the necessary permissions might not be an easy matter.In particular, the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act(OCSLA), 67 Stat. 462, as amended, 43 U. S. C. $ 1331 et seq.(1994 ed. and Supp. III), and the Coastal Zone ManagementAct of 1972 (CZMA), 86 Stat. 1280, 16 U. S. C. $ 1451 etseq., specify that leaseholding companies wishing to exploreand drill must successfully complete the following fourprocedures.First, a company must prepare and obtain Department ofthe Interior approval for a Plan of Exploration (ExplorationPlan or Plan). 43 U. S. C. $ 1340(c). Interior must approvea submitted Exploration Plan unless it finds, after "consider[ing] available relevant environmental information,"$ 1346(d), that the proposed exploration"would probably cause serious harm or damage to life(including fish and other aquatic life), to property, toany mineral . . . , to the national security or defense,or to the marine, coastal, or human environment."$ 1334(a)(2)(A)(i).530US2 Unit: $U81 [10-22-01 18:10:57] PAGES PGT: OPIN610 MOBIL OIL EXPLORATION & PRODUCINGSOUTHEAST, INC. v. UNITED STATESOpinion of the CourtWhere approval is warranted, Interior must act quickly--within "thirty days" of the company's submission of a proposed Plan. $ 1340(c)(1).Second, the company must obtain an exploratory well drilling permit. To do so, it must certify (under CZMA) thatits Exploration Plan is consistent with the coastal zonemanagement program of each affected State. 16 U. S. C.$ 1456(c)(3). If a State objects, the certification fails, unlessthe Secretary of Commerce overrides the State's objection.If Commerce rules against the State, then Interior maygrant the permit. $ 1456(c)(3)(A).Third, where waste discharge into ocean waters is at issue,the company must obtain a National Pollutant DischargeElimination System permit from the Environmental Protection Agency. 33 U. S. C. $$ 1311(a), 1342(a). It can obtainthis permit only if affected States agree that its ExplorationPlan is consistent with the state coastal zone managementprograms or (as just explained) the Secretary of Commerceoverrides the state objections. 16 U. S. C. $ 1456.Fourth, if exploration is successful, the company must prepare, and obtain Interior approval for, a Development andProduction Plan--a Plan that describes the proposed drillingand related environmental safeguards. 43 U. S. C. $ 1351.Again, Interior's approval is conditioned upon certificationthat the Plan is consistent with state coastal zone management plans--a certification to which States can object, subject to Commerce Department override. $ 1351(a)(3).CThe events at issue here concern the first two steps of theprocess just described--Interior's consideration of a submitted Exploration Plan and the companies' submission of theCZMA "consistency certification" necessary to obtain an exploratory well drilling permit. The relevant circumstancesare the following:530US2 Unit: $U81 [10-22-01 18:10:57] PAGES PGT: OPIN611Cite as: 530 U. S. 604 (2000)Opinion of the Court1. In 1981, the companies and the Government enteredinto the lease contracts. The companies paid the Government $156 million in up-front cash "bonus" payments.2. In 1989, the companies, Interior, and North Carolinaentered into a memorandum of understanding. In thatmemorandum, the companies promised that they would submit an initial draft Exploration Plan to North Carolina before they submitted their final Exploration Plan to Interior.Interior promised that it would prepare an environmentalreport on the initial draft. It also agreed to suspend thecompanies' annual lease payments (about $250,000 per year)while the companies prepared the initial draft and while anystate objections to the companies' CZMA consistency certifications were being worked out, with the life of each leasebeing extended accordingly.3. In September 1989, the companies submitted theirinitial draft Exploration Plan to North Carolina. Tenmonths later, Interior issued the promised ("informal" presubmission) environmental report, after a review which allparties concede was "extensive and intensive." App. 179(deposition of David Courtland O'Neal, former Assistant Secretary of the Interior) (agreeing that the review was "themost extensive and intensive" ever "afforded an explorationwell in the outer continental shelf (OCS) program"). Interior concluded that the proposed exploration would not "significantly affec[t]" the marine environment or "the qualityof the human environment." Id., at 138-140 (U. S. Dept. ofInterior Minerals Management Service, Environmental Assessment of Exploration Plan for Manteo Area Block 467(Sept. 1990)).4. On August 20, 1990, the companies submitted both theirfinal Exploration Plan and their CZMA "consistency certification" to Interior.5. Just two days earlier, on August 18, 1990, a new law,the Outer Banks Protection Act (OBPA), $ 6003, 104 Stat.555, had come into effect. That law prohibited the Secre530US2 Unit: $U81 [10-22-01 18:10:57] PAGES PGT: OPIN612 MOBIL OIL EXPLORATION & PRODUCINGSOUTHEAST, INC. v. UNITED STATESOpinion of the Courttary of the Interior from approving any Exploration Plan orDevelopment and Production Plan or to award any drillingpermit until (a) a new OBPA-created Environmental Sci-ences Review Panel had reported to the Secretary, (b) theSecretary had certified to Congress that he had sufficientinformation to make these OCSLA-required approval decisions, and (c) Congress had been in session an additional 45days, but (d) in no event could he issue an approval or permitfor the next 13 months (until October 1991). $ 6003(c)(3).OBPA also required the Secretary, in his certification, to ex-plain and justify in detail any differences between his owncertified conclusions and the new Panel's recommendations.$ 6003(c)(3)(A)(ii)(II).6. About five weeks later, and in light of the new statute,Interior wrote a letter to the Governor of North Carolinawith a copy to petitioner Mobil. It said that the final sub-mitted Exploration Plan "is deemed to be approvable in allrespects." It added:"[W]e are required to approve an Exploration Plan unless it is inconsistent with applicable law or because itwould result in serious harm to the environment. Because we have found that Mobil's Plan fully complieswith the law and will have only negligible effect on theenvironment, we are not authorized to disapprove thePlan or require its modification." App. to Pet. for Cert.in No. 99-253, p. 194a (letter from Regional DirectorBruce Weetman to the Honorable James G. Martin, Governor of North Carolina, dated Sept. 28, 1996).But, it noted, the new law, the "Outer Banks Protection Act(OBPA) of 1990 . . . prohibits the approval of any ExplorationPlan at this time." It concluded, "because we are currentlyprohibited from approving it, the Plan will remain on fileuntil the requirements of the OBPA are met." In the meantime a "suspension has been granted to all leases offshore530US2 Unit: $U81 [10-22-01 18:10:57] PAGES PGT: OPIN613Cite as: 530 U. S. 604 (2000)Opinion of the Courtthe State of North Carolina." Ibid. See also App. 129-131(letter from Lawrence H. Ake, Minerals Management Service, to William C. Whittemore, Mobil Exploration & Produc-ing U. S. Inc., dated Sept. 21, 1990 (notice of suspension ofleases, citing 30 CFR $ 250.10(b)(7) (1990) as the basis forthe suspensions)).About 18 months later, the Secretary of the Interior, afterreceiving the new Panel's report, certified to Congress thathe had enough information to consider the companies' Explo-ration Plan. He added, however, that he would not considerthe Plan until he received certain further studies that thenew Panel had recommended.7. In November 1990, North Carolina objected to the com-panies' CZMA consistency certification on the ground thatMobil had not provided sufficient information about possibleenvironmental impact. A month later, the companies askedthe Secretary of Commerce to override North Carolina'sobjection.8. In 1994, the Secretary of Commerce rejected the com-panies' override request, relying in large part on the factthat the new Panel had found a lack of adequate informationin respect to certain environmental issues.9. In 1996, Congress repealed OBPA. $ 109, 110 Stat.1321-177.DIn October 1992, after all but the two last-mentionedevents had taken place, petitioners joined a breach-of-contract lawsuit brought in the Court of Federal Claims.On motions for summary judgment, the court found that theUnited States had broken its contractual promise to followOCSLA's provisions, in particular the provision requiring In-terior to approve an Exploration Plan that satisfied OCSLA'srequirements within 30 days of its submission to Interior.The United States thereby repudiated the contracts. Andthat repudiation entitled the companies to restitution of the530US2 Unit: $U81 [10-22-01 18:10:57] PAGES PGT: OPIN614 MOBIL OIL EXPLORATION & PRODUCINGSOUTHEAST, INC. v. UNITED STATESOpinion of the Courtup-front cash "bonus" payments they had made. ConocoInc. v. United States, 35 Fed. Cl. 309 (1996).A panel of the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuitreversed, one judge dissenting. The panel held that theGovernment's refusal to consider the companies' final Explo-ration Plan was not the "operative cause" of any failure tocarry out the contracts' terms because the State's objectionto the companies' CZMA "consistency statement" wouldhave prevented the companies from exploring regardless.177 F. 3d 1331 (1999).We granted certiorari to review the Federal Circuit'sdecision.IIThe record makes clear (1) that OCSLA required Interiorto approve "within thirty days" a submitted ExplorationPlan that satisfies OCSLA's requirements, (2) that Interiortold Mobil the companies' submitted Plan met those requirements, (3) that Interior told Mobil it would not approve thecompanies' submitted Plan for at least 13 months, and likelylonger, and (4) that Interior did not approve (or disapprove)the Plan, ever. The Government does not deny that the contracts, made "pursuant to" and "subject to" OCSLA, incorpo-rated OCSLA provisions as promises. The Government further concedes, as it must, that relevant contract law entitlesa contracting party to restitution if the other party "substantially" breached a contract or communicated its intent to doso. See Restatement $ 373(1); 11 W. Jaeger, Williston onContracts $ 1312, p. 109 (3d ed. 1968) (hereinafter Williston);5 A. Corbin, Contracts $ 1104, p. 560 (1964); see alsoAnkenyv. Clark, 148 U. S. 345, 353 (1893). Yet the Government denies that it must refund the companies' money.This is because, in the Government's view, it did notbreach the contracts or communicate its intent to do so; anybreach was not "substantial"; and the companies waivedtheir rights to restitution regardless. We shall considereach of these arguments in turn.530US2 Unit: $U81 [10-22-01 18:10:57] PAGES PGT: OPIN615Cite as: 530 U. S. 604 (2000)Opinion of the CourtAThe Government's "no breach" arguments depend uponthe contract provisions that "subject" the contracts to various statutes and regulations. Those provisions state thatthe contracts are "subject to" (1) OCSLA, (2) "Sections 302and 303 of the Department of Energy Organization Act," (3)"all regulations issued pursuant to such statutes and in existence upon the effective date of " the contracts, (4) "all regula-tions issued pursuant to such statutes in the future whichprovide for the prevention of waste and the conservation" ofOuter Continental Shelf resources, and (5) "all other applicable statutes and regulations." App. to Pet. for Cert. inNo. 99-253, at 175a. The Government says that these provisions incorporate into the contracts, not only the OCSLAprovisions we have mentioned, but also certain other statutory provisions and regulations that, in the Government'sview, granted Interior the legal authority to refuse to approve the submitted Exploration Plan, while suspending theleases instead.First, the Government refers to 43 U. S. C. $ 1334(a)(1)(A),an OCSLA provision that authorizes the Secretary to promulgate regulations providing for "the suspension . . . of anyoperation or activity . . . at the request of a lessee, in thenational interest, to facilitate proper development of a lease."(Emphasis added.) This provision, as the emphasized termsshow, requires "the request of a lessee," i. e., the companies.The Government does not explain how this requirement wassatisfied here. Hence, the Government cannot rely uponthe provision.Second, the Government refers to 30 CFR $ 250.110(b)(4)(1999), formerly codified at 30 CFR $ 250.10(b)(4) (1997), aregulation stating that "[t]he Regional Supervisor may . . .direct . . . a suspension of any operation or activity . . . [whenthe] suspension is necessary for the implementation of therequirements of the National Environmental Policy Act or toconduct an environmental analysis." The Government says530US2 Unit: $U81 [10-22-01 18:10:57] PAGES PGT: OPIN616 MOBIL OIL EXPLORATION & PRODUCINGSOUTHEAST, INC. v. UNITED STATESOpinion of the Courtthat this regulation permitted the Secretary of the Interiorto suspend the companies' leases because that suspensionwas "necessary . . . to conduct an environmental analysis,"namely, the analysis demanded by the new statute, OBPA.The "environmental analysis" referred to, however, is ananalysis the need for which was created by OBPA, a laterenacted statute. The lease contracts say that they are subject to then-existing regulations and to certain future regu-lations, those issued pursuant to OCSLA and $$ 302 and 303of the Department of Energy Organization Act. This ex-plicit reference to future regulations makes it clear that thecatchall provision that references "all other applicable . . .regulations," supra, at 615, must include only statutes andregulations already existing at the time of the contract, see35 Fed. Cl., at 322-323, a conclusion not questioned here bythe Government. Hence, these provisions mean that thecontracts are not subject to future regulations promulgatedunder other statutes, such as new statutes like OBPA.Without some such contractual provision limiting the Government's power to impose new and different requirements,the companies would have spent $156 million to buy next tonothing. In any event, the Court of Claims so interpretedthe lease; the Federal Circuit did not disagree with that interpretation; nor does the Government here dispute it.Instead, the Government points out that the regulation inquestion--the regulation authorizing a governmental suspension in order to conduct "an environmental analysis"--was not itself a future regulation. Rather, a similar regulation existed at the time the parties signed the contracts, 30CFR $ 250.12(a)(iv) (1981), and, in any event, it was promulgated under OCSLA, a statute exempted from the contracts'temporal restriction. But that fact, while true, is not sufficient to produce the incorporation of future statutory requirements, which is what the Government needs to prevail.If the pre-existing regulation's words, "an environmentalanalysis," were to apply to analyses mandated by future530US2 Unit: $U81 [10-22-01 18:10:57] PAGES PGT: OPIN617Cite as: 530 U. S. 604 (2000)Opinion of the Courtstatutes, then they would make the companies subject to thesame unknown future requirements that the contracts' specific temporal restrictions were intended to avoid. Conse-quently, whatever the regulation's words might mean inother contexts, we believe the contracts before us must beinterpreted as excluding the words "environmental analysis"insofar as those words would incorporate the requirementsof future statutes and future regulations excluded by thecontracts' provisions. Hence, they would not incorporateinto the contracts requirements imposed by a new statutesuch as OBPA.Third, the Government refers to OCSLA, 43 U. S. C.$ 1334(a)(1), which, after granting Interior rulemaking authority, says that Interior's"regulations . . . shall include . . . provisions . . . for thesuspension . . . of any operation . . . pursuant to anylease . . .if there is a threat of serious, irreparable, orimmediate harm or damage to life . . . , to property, toany mineral deposits . . . , or to the marine, coastal, orhuman environment." (Emphasis added.)The Government points to the OBPA Conference Report,which says that any OBPA-caused delay is "related to . . .environmental protection" and to the need "for the collectionand analysis of crucial oceanographic, ecological, and socio-economic data," to "prevent a public harm." H. R. Conf.Rep. No. 101-653, p. 163 (1990); see also Brief for UnitedStates 32. At oral argument, the Government noted thatthe OBPA mentions "tourism" in North Carolina as a "majorindustry . . . which is subject to potentially significant disruption by offshore oil or gas development." $ 6003(b)(3).From this, the Government infers that the pre-existingOCSLA provision authorized the suspension in light of a"threat of . . . serious harm" to a "human environment."The fatal flaw in this argument, however, arises out of theInterior Department's own statement--a statement made530US2 Unit: $U81 [10-22-01 18:10:57] PAGES PGT: OPIN618 MOBIL OIL EXPLORATION & PRODUCINGSOUTHEAST, INC. v. UNITED STATESOpinion of the Courtwhen citing OBPA to explain its approval delay. Interiorthen said that the Exploration Plan "fully complies" with current legal requirements. And the OCSLA statutory provision quoted above was the most pertinent of those currentrequirements. Supra, at 609. The Government did notdeny the accuracy of Interior's statement, either in its brieffiled here or its brief filed in the Court of Appeals. Insofaras the Government means to suggest that the new statute,OBPA, changed the relevant OCSLA standard (or thatOBPA language and history somehow constitute findings Interior must incorporate by reference), it must mean thatOBPA in effect created a new requirement. For the reasonsset out supra, at 616, however, any such new requirementwould not be incorporated into the contracts.Finally, we note that Interior itself, when imposing thelengthy approval delay, did not rely upon any of the regulations to which the Government now refers. Rather, it reliedupon, and cited, a different regulation, 30 CFR $ 250.110(b)(7)(1999), which gives Interior the power to suspend leaseswhen "necessary to comply with judicial decrees prohibitingproduction or any other operation or activity." The Government concedes that no judicial decree was involved in thisaction and does not rely upon this regulation here.We conclude, for these reasons, that the Government violated the contracts. Indeed, as Interior pointed out in itsletter to North Carolina, the new statute, OBPA, requiredInterior to impose the contract-violating delay. See App.129 ("The [OBPA] contains provisions that specifically prohibit the Minerals Management Service from approving anyExploration Plan, approving any Application for Permit toDrill, or permitting any drilling offshore the State of NorthCarolina until at least October 1, 1991"). It therefore madeclear to Interior and to the companies that the United Stateshad to violate the contracts' terms and would continue todo so.530US2 Unit: $U81 [10-22-01 18:10:57] PAGES PGT: OPIN619Cite as: 530 U. S. 604 (2000)Opinion of the CourtMoreover, OBPA changed pre-existing contractincorporated requirements in several ways. It delayed approval, not only of an Exploration Plan but also of Development and Production Plans; and it delayed the issuance ofdrilling permits as well. It created a new type of InteriorDepartment environmental review that had not previouslyexisted, conducted by the newly created Environmental Sciences Review Panel; and, by insisting that the Secretary explain in detail any differences between the Secretary's findings and those of the Panel, it created a kind of presumptionin favor of the new Panel's findings.The dissent argues that only the statements contained inthe letter from Interior to the companies may constitute arepudiation because "the enactment of legislation is not typically conceived of as a `statement' of anything to any oneparty in particular," and a repudiation requires a "statementby the obligor to the obligee indicating that the obligor willcommit a breach." Post, at 630-631, n. 4 (opinion of Ste-vens, J.) (quoting Restatement $ 250). But if legislationpassed by Congress and signed by the President is not a"statement by the obligor," it is difficult to imagine whatwould constitute such a statement. In this action, it wasthe United States who was the "obligor" to the contract.See App. to Pet. for Cert. in No. 99-253, at 174a (lease, identifying "the United States of America" as the "Lessor").Although the dissent points out that legislation is "addressedto the public at large," post, at 631, n. 4, that "public" includes those to whom the United States had contractual obligations. If the dissent means to invoke a special exceptionsuch as the "sovereign acts" doctrine, which treats certainlaws as if they simply created conditions of impossibility,see Winstar, 518 U. S., at 891-899 (principal opinion ofSouter, J.); id., at 923-924 (Scalia, J., concurring in judgment), it cannot do so here. The Court of Federal Claimsrejected the application of that doctrine to this action, see530US2 Unit: $U81 [10-22-01 18:10:57] PAGES PGT: OPIN620 MOBIL OIL EXPLORATION & PRODUCINGSOUTHEAST, INC. v. UNITED STATESOpinion of the Court35 Fed. Cl., at 334-336, and the Government has not con-tested that determination here. Hence, under these circumstances, the fact that Interior's repudiation rested upon theenactment of a new statute makes no significant difference.We do not say that the changes made by the statute wereunjustified. We say only that they were changes of a kindthat the contracts did not foresee. They were changes inthose approval procedures and standards that the contractshad incorporated through cross-reference. The Governmenthas not convinced us that Interior's actions were authorized by any other contractually cross-referenced provision.Hence, in communicating to the companies its intent to followOBPA, the United States was communicating its intent toviolate the contracts.BThe Government next argues that any violation of the con-tracts' terms was not significant; hence there was no "substantial" or "material" breach that could have amounted to a"repudiation." In particular, it says that OCSLA's 30-dayapproval period "does not function as the `essence' of theseagreements." Brief for United States 37. The Court ofClaims concluded, however, that timely and fair consider-ation of a submitted Exploration Plan was a "necessary reciprocal obligation," indeed, that any "contrary interpreta-tion would render the bargain illusory." 35 Fed. Cl., at 327.We agree.We recognize that the lease contracts gave the companiesmore than rights to obtain approvals. They also gave thecompanies rights to explore for, and to develop, oil. But theneed to obtain Government approvals so qualified the likelyfuture enjoyment of the exploration and development rightsthat the contract, in practice, amounted primarily to an opportunity to try to obtain exploration and developmentrights in accordance with the procedures and under thestandards specified in the cross-referenced statutes and reg-ulations. Under these circumstances, if the companies did530US2 Unit: $U81 [10-22-01 18:10:57] PAGES PGT: OPIN621Cite as: 530 U. S. 604 (2000)Opinion of the Courtnot at least buy a promise that the Government would notdeviate significantly from those procedures and standards,then what did they buy? Cf. id., at 324 (the companiesbought exclusive rights to explore and develop oil "if theymet" OCSLA requirements (emphasis added)).The Government's modification of the contractincorporated processes was not technical or insubstantial.It did not announce an (OBPA-required) approval delay of afew days or weeks, but of 13 months minimum, and likelymuch longer. The delay turned out to be at least four years.And lengthy delays matter, particularly where several suc-cessive agency approvals are at stake. Whether an applicant approaches Commerce with an Interior Department ap-proval already in hand can make a difference (as can failureto have obtained that earlier approval). Moreover, as wehave pointed out, OBPA changed the contract-referencedprocedures in several other ways as well. Supra, at 619.The upshot is that, under the contracts, the incorporatedprocedures and standards amounted to a gateway to thecompanies' enjoyment of all other rights. To significantlynarrow that gateway violated material conditions in the con-tracts. The breach was "substantia[l]," depriving the companies of the benefit of their bargain. Restatement $ 243.And the Government's communication of its intent to committhat breach amounted to a repudiation of the contracts.CThe Government argues that the companies waived theirrights to restitution. It does not deny that the UnitedStates repudiated the contracts if (as we have found) OBPA'schanges amounted to a substantial breach. The Government does not claim that the United States retracted its re-pudiation. Cf.id., $ 256 (retraction will nullify the effectsof repudiation if done before the other party either changesposition in reliance on the retraction or communicates thatit considers the repudiation to be final). It cannot claim that530US2 Unit: $U81 [10-22-01 18:10:57] PAGES PGT: OPIN622 MOBIL OIL EXPLORATION & PRODUCINGSOUTHEAST, INC. v. UNITED STATESOpinion of the Courtthe companies waived their rights simply by urging perform-ance.Id., $ 257 (the injured party "does not change the effect of a repudiation by urging the repudiator to perform inspite of his repudiation"); see also 11 Williston $ 1334, at 177-178. Nor has the Government convinced us that the com-panies' continued actions under the contracts amount toanything more than this urging of performance. See 2E. Farnsworth, Contracts $ 8.22, p. 544 (2d ed. 1998) (citingUnited Cal. Bank v. Prudential Ins. Co., 140 Ariz. 238, 282-283, 681 P. 2d 390, 433-434 (App. 1983) (urging performanceand making "efforts of its own to fulfill the conditions" of thecontract come to the same thing)); cf. 11 Williston $ 1337, at186-187. Consequently the Government's waiver claimmust come down to a claim that the companies received atleast partial performance. Indeed, acceptance of performance under a once-repudiated contract can constitute awaiver of the right to restitution that repudiation would otherwise create. Restatement $ 373, Comment a; cf. Restatement of Restitution $ 68, Comment b (1936).The United States points to three events that, in its view,amount to continued performance of the contracts. But itdoes not persuade us. First, the oil companies submittedtheir Exploration Plan to Interior two days after OBPA became law. Supra, at 611. The performance question, however, is not just about what the oil companies did or requested, but also about what they actually received from theGovernment. And, in respect to the Exploration Plan, thecompanies received nothing.Second, the companies subsequently asked the Secretaryof Commerce to overturn North Carolina's objection to thecompanies' CZMA consistency certification. And, althoughthe Secretary's eventual response was negative, the companies did at least receive that reply. Supra, at 613. TheSecretary did not base his reply, however, upon applicationof the contracts' standards, but instead relied in large parton the findings of the new, OBPA-created, Environmental530US2 Unit: $U81 [10-22-01 18:10:57] PAGES PGT: OPIN623Cite as: 530 U. S. 604 (2000)Opinion of the CourtSciences Review Panel. See App. 224, 227, n. 35, 232-233,239, 244 (citing the Panel's report). Consequently, we cannot say that the companies received from Commerce the kindof consideration for which their contracts called.Third, the oil companies received suspensions of theirleases (suspending annual rents and extending lease terms)pending the OBPA-mandated approval delays. Supra, at612-613. However, a separate contract--the 1989 memorandum of understanding--entitled the companies to receivethese suspensions. See App. to Brief for United States 2a(letter from Toni D. Hennike, Counsel, Mobil Exploration &Producing U. S. Inc., to Ralph Melancon, Regional Supervisor, U. S. Dept. of Interior Minerals Management Service,dated Feb. 21, 1995 (quoting the memorandum as a basis forthe requested suspensions)). And the Government has pro-vided no convincing reason why we should consider the suspensions to amount to significant performance of the leasecontracts in question.We conclude that the companies did not receive significantpostrepudiation performance. We consequently find thatthey did not waive their right to restitution.DFinally, the Government argues that repudiation could nothave hurt the companies. Since the companies could nothave met the CZMA consistency requirements, they couldnot have explored (or ultimately drilled) for oil in any event.Hence, OBPA caused them no damage. As the Governmentputs it, the companies have already received "such damagesas were actually caused by the [Exploration Plan approval]delay," namely, none. Brief for United States 43-44; seealso 177 F. 3d, at 1340. This argument, however, misses thebasic legal point. The oil companies do not seek damagesfor breach of contract. They seek restitution of their initialpayments. Because the Government repudiated the leasecontracts, the law entitles the companies to that restitution530US2 Unit: $U81 [10-22-01 18:10:57] PAGES PGT: OPIN624 MOBIL OIL EXPLORATION & PRODUCINGSOUTHEAST, INC. v. UNITED STATESStevens, J., dissentingwhether the contracts would, or would not, ultimately haveproduced a financial gain or led them to obtain a definiteright to explore. See supra, at 608. If a lottery operatorfails to deliver a purchased ticket, the purchaser can get hismoney back--whether or not he eventually would have wonthe lottery. And if one party to a contract, whether oil company or ordinary citizen, advances the other party money,principles of restitution normally require the latter, upon repudiation, to refund that money. Restatement $ 373.IIIContract law expresses no view about the wisdom ofOBPA. We have examined only that statute's consistencywith the promises that the earlier contracts contained. Wefind that the oil companies gave the United States $156 million in return for a contractual promise to follow the termsof pre-existing statutes and regulations. The new statuteprevented the Government from keeping that promise. Thebreach "substantially impair[ed] the value of the contract[s]."Id., $ 243. And therefore the Government must give thecompanies their money back.For these reasons, the judgment of the Federal Circuitis reversed. We remand the cases for further proceedingsconsistent with this opinion.