The Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (ADA or Act),104 Stat. 328, 42 U. S. C. $ 12101et seq. (1994 ed. andSupp. V), prohibits an employer from discriminating againstan "individual with a disability" who, with "reasonable ac-commodation," can perform the essential functions of the job.$$ 12112(a) and (b) (1994 ed.). This case, arising in the con-text of summary judgment, asks us how the Act resolves apotential conflict between: (1) the interests of a disabledworker who seeks assignment to a particular position as a"reasonable accommodation," and (2) the interests of otherworkers with superior rights to bid for the job under an em*Briefs of amici curiae urging reversal were filed for the Air TransportAssociation of America, Inc., et al. by John J. Gallagher and Margaret H.Spurlin; and for the Equal Employment Advisory Council et al. by AnnElizabeth Reesman.Briefs of amici curiae urging affirmance were filed for the AmericanFederation of Labor and Congress of Industrial Organizations by Jonathan P. Hiatt, Deborah Greenfield, James B. Coppess, Michael H. Gottesman, and Laurence Gold; and for the National Employment Lawyers Association et al. by Brian East and Paula A. Brantner.Peter J. Petesch, Thomas J. Walsh, Jr., Timothy S. Bland, and DavidS. Harvey, Jr., filed a brief for the Society for Human Resource Management as amicus curiae.535US2 Unit: $U42 [10-01-03 18:21:42] PAGES PGT: OPIN394 US AIRWAYS, INC. v. BARNETTOpinion of the Courtployer's seniority system. In such a case, does the accom-modation demand trump the seniority system?In our view, the seniority system will prevail in the runof cases. As we interpret the statute, to show that a requested accommodation conflicts with the rules of a senior-ity system is ordinarily to show that the accommodationis not "reasonable." Hence such a showing will entitle anemployer/defendant to summary judgment on the question--unless there is more. The plaintiff remains free to presentevidence of special circumstances that make "reasonable" aseniority rule exception in the particular case. And sucha showing will defeat the employer's demand for summaryjudgment. Fed. Rule Civ. Proc. 56(e).IIn 1990, Robert Barnett, the plaintiff and respondent here,injured his back while working in a cargo-handling positionat petitioner US Airways, Inc. He invoked seniority rightsand transferred to a less physically demanding mailroomposition. Under US Airways' seniority system, that posi-tion, like others, periodically became open to senioritybased employee bidding. In 1992, Barnett learned that atleast two employees senior to him intended to bid for themailroom job. He asked US Airways to accommodate hisdisability-imposed limitations by making an exception thatwould allow him to remain in the mailroom. After per-mitting Barnett to continue his mailroom work for fivemonths while it considered the matter, US Airways eventu-ally decided not to make an exception. And Barnett losthis job.Barnett then brought this ADA suit claiming, amongother things, that he was an "individual with a disability"capable of performing the essential functions of the mailroom job, that the mailroom job amounted to a "reasonableaccommodation" of his disability, and that US Airways, inrefusing to assign him the job, unlawfully discriminated535US2 Unit: $U42 [10-01-03 18:21:42] PAGES PGT: OPIN395Cite as: 535 U. S. 391 (2002)Opinion of the Courtagainst him. US Airways moved for summary judgment.It supported its motion with appropriate affidavits, Fed.Rule Civ. Proc. 56, contending that its "well-established"seniority system granted other employees the right to obtainthe mailroom position.The District Court found that the undisputed facts aboutseniority warranted summary judgment in US Airways'favor. The Act says that an employer who fails to make"reasonable accommodations to the known physical or mentallimitations of an [employee] with a disability" discriminates"unless" the employer "can demonstrate that the accom-modation would impose anundue hardship on the opera-tion of [its] business." 42 U. S. C. $ 12112(b)(5)(A) (emphasisadded). The court said:"[T]he uncontroverted evidence shows that the USAirseniority system has been in place for `decades' and governs over 14,000 USAir Agents. Moreover, senioritypolicies such as the one at issue in this case are commonto the airline industry. Given this context, it seemsclear that the USAir employees were justified in relyingupon the policy. As such, any significant alteration ofthat policy would result in undue hardship to both thecompany and its non-disabled employees." App. to Pet.for Cert. 96a.An en banc panel of the United States Court of Appealsfor the Ninth Circuit reversed. It said that the presence ofa seniority system is merely "a factor in the undue hardshipanalysis." 228 F. 3d 1105, 1120 (2000). And it held that"[a] case-by-case fact intensive analysis is required to deter-mine whether any particular reassignment would constitutean undue hardship to the employer." Ibid.US Airways petitioned for certiorari, asking us to decidewhether"the [ADA] requires an employer to reassign a disabledemployee to a position as a `reasonable accommodation'535US2 Unit: $U42 [10-01-03 18:21:42] PAGES PGT: OPIN396 US AIRWAYS, INC. v. BARNETTOpinion of the Courteven though another employee is entitled to hold theposition under the employer's bona fide and establishedseniority system." Brief for Petitioner i.The Circuits have reached different conclusions about thelegal significance of a seniority system. Compare 228 F. 3d,at 1120, with EEOC v. Sara Lee Corp., 237 F. 3d 349, 354(CA4 2001). We agreed to answer US Airways' question.IIIn answering the question presented, we must considerthe following statutory provisions. First, the ADA saysthat an employer may not "discriminate against a qualifiedindividual with a disability." 42 U. S. C. $ 12112(a). Second, the ADA says that a "qualified" individual includes"an individual with a disability who, with or without reasonable accommodation, can perform the essential functions of "the relevant "employment position." $ 12111(8) (emphasisadded). Third, the ADA says that "discrimination" includesan employer's "not making reasonable accommodations tothe known physical or mental limitations of an otherwisequalified . . . employee, unless [the employer] can demonstrate that the accommodation would impose an undue hard-ship on the operation of [its] business." $ 12112(b)(5)(A)(emphasis added). Fourth, the ADA says that the term" `reasonable accommodation' may include . . . reassignmentto a vacant position." $ 12111(9)(B).The parties interpret this statutory language as applied toseniority systems in radically different ways. In US Air-ways' view, the fact that an accommodation would violate therules of a seniority system always shows that the accommo-dation is not a "reasonable" one. In Barnett's polar oppositeview, a seniority system violation never shows that an ac-commodation sought is not a "reasonable" one. Barnett concedes that a violation of seniority rules might help to showthat the accommodation will work "undue" employer "hardship," but that is a matter for an employer to demonstrate535US2 Unit: $U42 [10-01-03 18:21:42] PAGES PGT: OPIN397Cite as: 535 U. S. 391 (2002)Opinion of the Courtcase by case. We shall initially consider the parties' mainlegal arguments in support of these conflicting positions.AUS Airways' claim that a seniority system virtuallyalways trumps a conflicting accommodation demand restsprimarily upon its view of how the Act treats workplace"preferences." Insofar as a requested accommodation violates a disability-neutral workplace rule, such as a seniorityrule, it grants the employee with a disability treatment thatother workers could not receive. Yet the Act, US Airwayssays, seeks only "equal" treatment for those with disabilities.See, e. g., 42 U. S. C. $ 12101(a)(9). It does not, it contends,require an employer to grant preferential treatment.Cf. H. R. Rep. No. 101-485, pt. 2, p. 66 (1990); S. Rep.No. 101-116, pp. 26-27 (1989) (employer has no "obligationto prefer applicants with disabilities over other applicants"(emphasis added)). Hence it does not require the employerto grant a request that, in violating a disability-neutral rule,would provide a preference.While linguistically logical, this argument fails to recog-nize what the Act specifies, namely, that preferences willsometimes prove necessary to achieve the Act's basic equalopportunity goal. The Act requires preferences in the formof "reasonable accommodations" that are needed for thosewith disabilities to obtain the same workplace opportunities that those without disabilities automatically enjoy. Bydefinition any special "accommodation" requires the employer to treat an employee with a disability differently,i. e., preferentially. And the fact that the difference intreatment violates an employer's disability-neutral rulecannot by itself place the accommodation beyond the Act'spotential reach.Were that not so, the "reasonable accommodation" provision could not accomplish its intended objective. Neutraloffice assignment rules would automatically prevent the ac535US2 Unit: $U42 [10-01-03 18:21:42] PAGES PGT: OPIN398 US AIRWAYS, INC. v. BARNETTOpinion of the Courtcommodation of an employee whose disability-imposed limi-tations require him to work on the ground floor. Neutral"break-from-work" rules would automatically prevent theaccommodation of an individual who needs additional breaksfrom work, perhaps to permit medical visits. Neutral furni-ture budget rules would automatically prevent the accommodation of an individual who needs a different kind of chairor desk. Many employers will have neutral rules governingthe kinds of actions most needed to reasonably accommodatea worker with a disability. See 42 U. S. C. $ 12111(9)(b) (set-ting forth examples such as "job restructuring," "part-timeor modified work schedules," "acquisition or modification ofequipment or devices," "and other similar accommodations").Yet Congress, while providing such examples, said nothingsuggesting that the presence of such neutral rules wouldcreate an automatic exemption. Nor have the lower courtsmade any such suggestion. Cf. Garcia-Ayala v. LederleParenterals, Inc., 212 F. 3d 638, 648 (CA1 2000) (requiringleave beyond that allowed under the company's own leavepolicy); Hendricks-Robinson v. Excel Corp., 154 F. 3d 685,699 (CA7 1998) (requiring exception to employer's neutral"physical fitness" job requirement).In sum, the nature of the "reasonable accommodation" requirement, the statutory examples, and the Act's silenceabout the exempting effect of neutral rules together convince us that the Act does not create any such automaticexemption. The simple fact that an accommodation wouldprovide a "preference"--in the sense that it would permitthe worker with a disability to violate a rule that othersmust obey--cannot, in and of itself, automatically show thatthe accommodation is not "reasonable." As a result, we reject the position taken by US Airways and Justice Scaliato the contrary.US Airways also points to the ADA provisions stating thata " `reasonable accommodation' may include . . . reassignmentto a vacant position." $ 12111(9)(B) (emphasis added). And535US2 Unit: $U42 [10-01-03 18:21:42] PAGES PGT: OPIN399Cite as: 535 U. S. 391 (2002)Opinion of the Courtit claims that the fact that an established seniority systemwould assign that position to another worker automaticallyand always means that the position is not a "vacant" one.Nothing in the Act, however, suggests that Congress intended the word "vacant" to have a specialized meaning.And in ordinary English, a seniority system can give employees seniority rights allowing them to bid for a "vacant"position. The position in this case was held, at the timeof suit, by Barnett, not by some other worker; and that posi-tion, under the US Airways seniority system, became an"open" one. Brief for Petitioner 5. Moreover, US Airwayshas said that it "reserves the right to change any and all"portions of the seniority system at will. Lodging of Re-spondent 2 (US Air Personnel Policy Guide for Agents).Consequently, we cannot agree with US Airways about theposition's vacancy; nor do we agree that the Act would automatically deny Barnett's accommodation request for thatreason.BBarnett argues that the statutory words "reasonable ac-commodation" mean only "effective accommodation," authorizing a court to consider the requested accommodation'sability to meet an individual's disability-related needs, andnothing more. On this view, a seniority rule violation, hav-ing nothing to do with the accommodation's effectiveness,has nothing to do with its "reasonableness." It might, atmost, help to prove an "undue hardship on the operation ofthe business." But, he adds, that is a matter that the stat-ute requires the employer to demonstrate, case by case.In support of this interpretation Barnett points to EqualEmployment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) regulationsstating that "reasonable accommodation means . . . . [m]odifi-cations or adjustments . . . thatenable a qualified individualwith a disability to perform the essential functions of [a] position." 29 CFR $ 1630(o)(ii) (2001) (emphasis added). Seealso H. R. Rep. No. 101-485, pt. 2, at 66; S. Rep. No. 101-116,535US2 Unit: $U42 [10-01-03 18:21:42] PAGES PGT: OPIN400 US AIRWAYS, INC. v. BARNETTOpinion of the Courtat 35 (discussing reasonable accommodations in terms of"effectiveness," while discussing costs in terms of "unduehardship"). Barnett adds that any other view would makethe words "reasonable accommodation" and "undue hardship" virtual mirror images--creating redundancy in thestatute. And he says that any such other view would createa practical burden of proof dilemma.The practical burden of proof dilemma arises, Barnettargues, because the statute imposes the burden of demonstrating an "undue hardship" upon the employer, while theburden of proving "reasonable accommodation" remainswith the plaintiff, here the employee. This allocation seemssensible in that an employer can more frequently and easilyprove the presence of business hardship than an employeecan prove its absence. But suppose that an employeemust counter a claim of "seniority rule violation" in orderto prove that an "accommodation" request is "reasonable."Would that not force the employee to prove what is in effectan absence, i. e., an absence of hardship, despite the statute's insistence that the employer "demonstrate" hardship'spresence?These arguments do not persuade us that Barnett's legalinterpretation of "reasonable" is correct. For one thing,in ordinary English the word "reasonable" does not mean"effective." It is the word "accommodation," not the word"reasonable," that conveys the need for effectiveness. Anineffective "modification" or "adjustment" will not accommodate a disabled individual's limitations. Nor does an ordinary English meaning of the term "reasonable accommodation" make of it a simple, redundant mirror image of theterm "undue hardship." The statute refers to an "unduehardship on the operation of the business." 42 U. S. C.$ 12112(b)(5)(A). Yet a demand for an effective accommodation could prove unreasonable because of its impact, not onbusiness operations, but on fellow employees--say, becauseit will lead to dismissals, relocations, or modification of em535US2 Unit: $U42 [10-01-03 18:21:42] PAGES PGT: OPIN401Cite as: 535 U. S. 391 (2002)Opinion of the Courtployee benefits to which an employer, looking at the matterfrom the perspective of the business itself, may be relatively indifferent.Neither does the statute's primary purpose require Barnett's special reading. The statute seeks to diminish or toeliminate the stereotypical thought processes, the thoughtless actions, and the hostile reactions that far too often barthose with disabilities from participating fully in the Nation'slife, including the workplace. See generally $$ 12101(a)and (b). These objectives demand unprejudiced thoughtand reasonable responsive reaction on the part of employersand fellow workers alike. They will sometimes requireaffirmative conduct to promote entry of disabled people intothe work force. See supra, at 397-398. They do not, however, demand action beyond the realm of the reasonable.Neither has Congress indicated in the statute, or elsewhere, that the word "reasonable" means no more than"effective." The EEOC regulations do say that reasonableaccommodations "enable" a person with a disability to perform the essential functions of a task. But that phrasingsimply emphasizes the statutory provision's basic objective.The regulations do not say that "enable" and "reasonable"mean the same thing. And as discussed below, no court ofappeals has so read them. But see 228 F. 3d, at 1122-1123(Gould, J., concurring).Finally, an ordinary language interpretation of the word"reasonable" does not create the "burden of proof " dilemmato which Barnett points. Many of the lower courts, whilerejecting both US Airways' and Barnett's more absoluteviews, have reconciled the phrases "reasonable accommodation" and "undue hardship" in a practical way.They have held that a plaintiff/employee (to defeat adefendant/employer's motion for summary judgment) needonly show that an "accommodation" seems reasonable on itsface, i. e., ordinarily or in the run of cases. See, e. g., Reedv. LePage Bakeries, Inc., 244 F. 3d 254, 259 (CA1 2001)535US2 Unit: $U42 [10-01-03 18:21:42] PAGES PGT: OPIN402 US AIRWAYS, INC. v. BARNETTOpinion of the Court(plaintiff meets burden on reasonableness by showing that,"at least on the face of things," the accommodation will befeasible for the employer); Borkowski v. Valley CentralSchool Dist., 63 F. 3d 131, 138 (CA2 1995) (plaintiff satisfies"burden of production" by showing "plausible accommoda-tion"); Barth v. Gelb, 2 F. 3d 1180, 1187 (CADC 1993) (interpreting parallel language in Rehabilitation Act, stating thatplaintiff need only show he seeks a "method of accommo-dation that is reasonable in the run of cases" (emphasis inoriginal)).Once the plaintiff has made this showing, the defendant/employer then must show special (typically case-specific)circumstances that demonstrate undue hardship in the particular circumstances. See Reed, supra, at 258 (" `unduehardship inquiry focuses on the hardships imposed . . . in thecontext of the particular [employer's] operations' ") (quotingBarth, supra, at 1187); Borkowski, supra, at 138 (after plaintiff makes initial showing, burden falls on employer to showthat particular accommodation "would cause it to suffer anundue hardship"); Barth, supra, at 1187 ("undue hardshipinquiry focuses on the hardships imposed . . . in the contextof the particular agency's operations").Not every court has used the same language, but theirresults are functionally similar. In our opinion, that practi-cal view of the statute, applied consistently with ordinarysummary judgment principles, see Fed. Rule Civ. Proc. 56,avoids Barnett's burden of proof dilemma, while reconcilingthe two statutory phrases ("reasonable accommodation" and"undue hardship").IIIThe question in the present case focuses on the relation-ship between seniority systems and the plaintiff 's need toshow that an "accommodation" seems reasonable on its face,i. e., ordinarily or in the run of cases. We must assume thatthe plaintiff, an employee, is an "individual with a disability."He has requested assignment to a mailroom position as a535US2 Unit: $U42 [10-01-03 18:21:42] PAGES PGT: OPIN403Cite as: 535 U. S. 391 (2002)Opinion of the Court"reasonable accommodation." We also assume that nor-mally such a request would be reasonable within the meaning of the statute, were it not for one circumstance, namely,that the assignment would violate the rules of a senioritysystem. See $ 12111(9) ("reasonable accommodation" mayinclude "reassignment to a vacant position"). Does that circumstance mean that the proposed accommodation is not a"reasonable" one?In our view, the answer to this question ordinarily is"yes." The statute does not require proof on a case-by-casebasis that a seniority system should prevail. That is be-cause it would not be reasonable in the run of cases that theassignment in question trump the rules of a seniority sys-tem. To the contrary, it will ordinarily be unreasonable forthe assignment to prevail. ASeveral factors support our conclusion that a proposed ac-commodation will not be reasonable in the run of cases.Analogous case law supports this conclusion, for it has recog-nized the importance of seniority to employee-managementrelations. This Court has held that, in the context of aTitle VII religious discrimination case, an employer need notadapt to an employee's special worship schedule as a "reason-able accommodation" where doing so would conflict with theseniority rights of other employees. Trans World Airlines,Inc. v. Hardison, 432 U. S. 63, 79-80 (1977). The lowercourts have unanimously found that collectively bargainedseniority trumps the need for reasonable accommodation inthe context of the linguistically similar Rehabilitation Act.See Eckles v. Consolidated Rail Corp., 94 F. 3d 1041, 1047-1048 (CA7 1996) (collecting cases); Shea v. Tisch, 870 F. 2d786, 790 (CA1 1989); Carter v. Tisch, 822 F. 2d 465, 469 (CA41987); Jasany v. United States Postal Service, 755 F. 2d 1244,1251-1252 (CA6 1985). And several Circuits, though differing in their reasoning, have reached a similar conclusion inthe context of seniority and the ADA. SeeSmith v. Mid535US2 Unit: $U42 [10-01-03 18:21:42] PAGES PGT: OPIN404 US AIRWAYS, INC. v. BARNETTOpinion of the Courtland Brake, Inc., 180 F. 3d 1154, 1175 (CA10 1999); Felicianov.Rhode Island, 160 F. 3d 780, 787 (CA1 1998); Eckles, supra,at 1047-1048. All these cases discuss collectively bargainedseniority systems, not systems (like the present system)which are unilaterally imposed by management. But therelevant seniority system advantages, and related difficultiesthat result from violations of seniority rules, are not limitedto collectively bargained systems.For one thing, the typical seniority system provides important employee benefits by creating, and fulfilling, em-ployee expectations of fair, uniform treatment. These benefits include "job security and an opportunity for steady andpredictable advancement based on objective standards."Brief for Petitioner 32 (citing Fallon & Weiler, Firefightersv. Stotts: Conflicting Models of Racial Justice, 1984 S. Ct.Rev. 1, 57-58). See also 1 B. Lindemann & P. Grossman,Employment Discrimination Law 72 (3d ed. 1996) ("One ofthe most important aspects of competitive seniority is itsuse in determining who will be laid off during a reduction inforce"). They include "an element of due process," limiting"unfairness in personnel decisions." Gersuny, Origins of Seniority Provisions in Collective Bargaining, 33 Lab. L. J. 518,519 (1982). And they consequently encourage employees toinvest in the employing company, accepting "less than theirvalue to the firm early in their careers" in return for greaterbenefits in later years. J. Baron & D. Kreps, StrategicHuman Resources: Frameworks for General Managers 288(1999).Most important for present purposes, to require the typical employer to show more than the existence of a senioritysystem might well undermine the employees' expectations ofconsistent, uniform treatment--expectations upon which theseniority system's benefits depend. That is because such arule would substitute a complex case-specific "accommodation" decision made by management for the more uniform,impersonal operation of seniority rules. Such management535US2 Unit: $U42 [10-01-03 18:21:42] PAGES PGT: OPIN405Cite as: 535 U. S. 391 (2002)Opinion of the Courtdecisionmaking, with its inevitable discretionary elements,would involve a matter of the greatest importance to employees, namely, layoffs; it would take place outside, as wellas inside, the confines of a court case; and it might well takeplace fairly often. Cf. ADA, 42 U. S. C. $ 12101(a)(1) (esti-mating that some 43 million Americans suffer from physicalor mental disabilities). We can find nothing in the statutethat suggests Congress intended to undermine seniority systems in this way. And we consequently conclude that theemployer's showing of violation of the rules of a senioritysystem is by itself ordinarily sufficient.BThe plaintiff (here the employee) nonetheless remains freeto show that special circumstances warrant a finding that,despite the presence of a seniority system (which the ADAmay not trump in the run of cases), the requested "accommodation" is "reasonable" on the particular facts. That is be-cause special circumstances might alter the important expectations described above. Cf. Borkowski, 63 F. 3d, at 137("[A]n accommodation that imposed burdens that would beunreasonable for most members of an industry might never-theless be required of an individual defendant in light of thatemployer's particular circumstances"). See also Woodmanv.Runyon, 132 F. 3d 1330, 1343-1344 (CA10 1997). Theplaintiff might show, for example, that the employer, havingretained the right to change the seniority system unilater-ally, exercises that right fairly frequently, reducing employeeexpectations that the system will be followed--to the pointwhere one more departure, needed to accommodate an individual with a disability, will not likely make a difference.The plaintiff might show that the system already containsexceptions such that, in the circumstances, one further ex-ception is unlikely to matter. We do not mean these examples to exhaust the kinds of showings that a plaintiff mightmake. But we do mean to say that the plaintiff must bear535US2 Unit: $U42 [10-01-03 18:21:42] PAGES PGT: OPIN406 US AIRWAYS, INC. v. BARNETTStevens, J., concurringthe burden of showing special circumstances that make anexception from the seniority system reasonable in the particular case. And to do so, the plaintiff must explain why,in the particular case, an exception to the employer's seniority policy can constitute a "reasonable accommodation" eventhough in the ordinary case it cannot.IVIn its question presented, US Airways asked us whetherthe ADA requires an employer to assign a disabled employeeto a particular position even though another employee isentitled to that position under the employer's "establishedseniority system." We answer that ordinarily the ADAdoes not require that assignment. Hence, a showing thatthe assignment would violate the rules of a seniority sys-tem warrants summary judgment for the employer--unlessthere is more. The plaintiff must present evidence of that"more," namely, special circumstances surrounding the particular case that demonstrate the assignment is nonethelessreasonable.Because the lower courts took a different view of the mat-ter, and because neither party has had an opportunity toseek summary judgment in accordance with the principleswe set forth here, we vacate the Court of Appeals' judgmentand remand the case for further proceedings consistent withthis opinion.