A group of beneficiaries of a firm's employee welfare bene-fit plan, protected by the Employee Retirement Income Se*Briefs of amici curiae urging reversal were filed for the Chamber ofCommerce of the United States by Evan Miller, John G. Roberts, Jr.,and Stephen A. Bokat; and for the Eastman Kodak Co. et al. by RobertN. Eccles.Briefs of amici curiae urging affirmance were filed for the AmericanAssociation of Retired Persons by Steven S. Saleznick and Mary EllenSignorille; and for the National Employment Lawyers Association byStephen R. Bruce, Jeffrey Lewis, Ronald Dean, and Edgar Pauk.Briefs of amici curiae were filed for the Central States, Southeast andSouthwest Areas Health and Welfare and Pension Fund by Thomas C.Nyhan and Terence G. Craig; and for the National Association of Securitiesand Commercial Law Attorneys by Kevin P. Roddy, Jonathan W. Cuneo,Bryan L. Clobes, Stephen P. Hoffman, Henry H. Rossbacher, and SteveW. Berman.516us2$34Q 10-22-98 14:17:13 PAGES OPINPGT492 VARITY CORP. v. HOWEOpinion of the Courtcurity Act of 1974 (ERISA), 88 Stat. 832, as amended, 29U. S. C. $ 1001 et seq. (1988 ed.), have sued their plan's administrator, who was also their employer. They claim that theadministrator, through trickery, led them to withdraw fromthe plan and to forfeit their benefits. They seek, amongother things, an order that, in essence, would reinstate eachof them as a participant in the employer's ERISA plan. Thelower courts entered judgment in the employees' favor, andwe agreed to review that judgment.In conducting our review, we do not question the lowercourts' findings of serious deception by the employer, butinstead consider three legal questions. First, in the factualcircumstances (as determined by the lower courts), was theemployer acting in its capacity as an ERISA "fiduciary"when it significantly and deliberately misled the beneficiar-ies? Second, in misleading the beneficiaries, did the employer violate the fiduciary obligations that ERISA $ 404imposes upon plan administrators? Third, does ERISA$ 502(a)(3) authorize ERISA plan beneficiaries to bring alawsuit, such as this one, that seeks relief for individual beneficiaries harmed by an administrator's breach of fiduciaryobligations?We answer each of these questions in the beneficiaries'favor, and we therefore affirm the judgment of the Courtof Appeals. IThe key facts, as found by the District Court after trial,include the following: Charles Howe, and the other respondents, used to work for Massey-Ferguson, Inc., a farm equip-ment manufacturer, and a wholly owned subsidiary of thepetitioner, Varity Corporation. (Since the lower courtsfound that Varity and Massey-Ferguson were "alter egos,"we shall refer to them interchangeably.) These employeesall were participants in, and beneficiaries of, MasseyFerguson's self-funded employee welfare benefit plan--anERISA-protected plan that Massey-Ferguson itself administered. In the mid-1980's, Varity became concerned that516us2$34Q 10-22-98 14:17:13 PAGES OPINPGT493Cite as: 516 U. S. 489 (1996)Opinion of the Courtsome of Massey-Ferguson's divisions were losing too muchmoney and developed a business plan to deal with theproblem.The business plan--which Varity called "Project Sunshine"--amounted to placing many of Varity's money-losingeggs in one financially rickety basket. It called for a trans-fer of Massey-Ferguson's money-losing divisions, along withvarious other debts, to a newly created, separately incorpo-rated subsidiary called Massey Combines. The plan foresawthe possibility that Massey Combines would fail. But itviewed such a failure, from Varity's business perspective, ascloser to a victory than to a defeat. That is because MasseyCombine's failure would not only eliminate several of Varity'spoorly performing divisions, but it would also eradicate various debts that Varity would transfer to Massey Combines,and which, in the absence of the reorganization, Varity'smore profitable subsidiaries or divisions might have to pay.Among the obligations that Varity hoped the reorganization would eliminate were those arising from the Massey-Ferguson benefit plan's promises to pay medical and othernonpension benefits to employees of Massey-Ferguson'smoney-losing divisions. Rather than terminate those benefits directly (as it had retained the right to do), Varityattempted to avoid the undesirable fallout that could haveaccompanied cancellation by inducing the failing divisions'employees to switch employers and thereby voluntarily release Massey-Ferguson from its obligation to provide thembenefits (effectively substituting the new, self-funded MasseyCombines benefit plan for the former Massey-Fergusonplan). Insofar as Massey-Ferguson's employees did so, asubsequent Massey Combines failure would eliminate--simply and automatically, without distressing the remainingMassey-Ferguson employees--what would otherwise havebeen Massey-Ferguson's obligation to pay those employeestheir benefits.To persuade the employees of the failing divisions to accept the change of employer and benefit plan, Varity called516us2$34Q 10-22-98 14:17:13 PAGES OPINPGT494 VARITY CORP. v. HOWEOpinion of the Courtthem together at a special meeting and talked to them aboutMassey Combines' future business outlook, its likely financialviability, and the security of their employee benefits. Thethrust of Varity's remarks (which we shall discuss in greaterdetail infra, at 499-501) was that the employees' benefitswould remain secure if they voluntarily transferred to Mas-sey Combines. As Varity knew, however, the reality wasvery different. Indeed, the District Court found that Mas-sey Combines was insolvent from the day of its creation andthat it hid a $46 million negative net worth by overvaluingits assets and underestimating its liabilities.After the presentation, about 1,500 Massey-Ferguson employees accepted Varity's assurances and voluntarily agreedto the transfer. (Varity also unilaterally assigned to MasseyCombines the benefit obligations it owed to some 4,000 workers who had retired from Massey-Ferguson prior to this reorganization, without requesting permission or informingthem of the assignment.) Unfortunately for these employees, Massey Combines ended its first year with a loss of $88million, and ended its second year in a receivership, underwhich its employees lost their nonpension benefits. Many ofthose employees (along with several retirees whose benefitobligations Varity had assigned to Massey Combines andothers whose claims we do not now consider) brought thislawsuit, seeking the benefits they would have been owedunder their old, Massey-Ferguson plan, had they not transferred to Massey Combines.After trial, the District Court found, among other things,that Varity and Massey-Ferguson, acting as ERISA fiduciaries, had harmed the plan's beneficiaries through deliberate deception. The court held that Varity and MasseyFerguson thereby violated an ERISA-imposed fiduciaryobligation to administer Massey-Ferguson's benefit plan"solely in the interest of the participants and beneficiaries"of the plan. ERISA $ 404(a). The court added that ERISA$ 502(a)(3) gave the former Massey-Ferguson employees a516us2$34Q 10-22-98 14:17:13 PAGES OPINPGT495Cite as: 516 U. S. 489 (1996)Opinion of the Courtright to "appropriate equitable relief . . . to redress" theharm that this deception had caused them individually.Among other remedies the court considered "appropriate equitable relief " was an order that Massey-Ferguson reinstateits former employees into its own plan (which had continuedto provide benefits to employees of Massey-Ferguson'sprofitable divisions). The court also ordered certain monetary relief which is not at issue here. The Court of Appealslater affirmed the District Court's determinations, in relevant part. 36 F. 3d 746 (CA8 1994).We granted certiorari in this case primarily because theCourts of Appeals have disagreed about the proper interpretation of ERISA $ 502(a)(3), the provision the District Courtheld authorized the lawsuit and relief in this case. SomeCourts of Appeals have held that this section, when appliedto a claim of breach of fiduciary obligation, does not authorizeawards of relief to individuals, but instead only authorizessuits to obtain relief for the plan (as, for example, when abeneficiary sues in a representative capacity, seeking to compel a dishonest fiduciary to return embezzled funds to theplan). See McLeod v. Oregon Lithoprint Inc., 46 F. 3d 956(CA9 1995); Simmons v. Southern Bell Telephone and Telegraph Co., 940 F. 2d 614 (CA11 1991). Other Courts of Appeals, such as the Eighth Circuit in this case, have not readany such limitation into the statute. See Bixler v. CentralPennsylvania Teamsters Health & Welfare Fund, 12 F. 3d1292 (CA3 1993); Anweiler v. American Electric PowerService Corp., 3 F. 3d 986 (CA7 1993).Varity has raised two additional issues. First, Varitypoints out that the relevant ERISA section imposes liabilityonly upon plan fiduciaries; and it argues that it was actingonly as an employer and not as a plan fiduciary when it deceived its employees. Second, it argues that, in any event,its conduct did not violate the fiduciary standard thatERISA imposes.516us2$34Q 10-22-98 14:17:13 PAGES OPINPGT496 VARITY CORP. v. HOWEOpinion of the CourtWe consider all three issues to be fairly within the scopeof the questions that Varity posed in its petition for certiorari, although only with respect to the workers who weredeceived by Varity, for as we construe Varity's petition,it does not sufficiently call into question the District Court'sholding that Varity breached a fiduciary duty with respectto the Massey-Ferguson retirees whose benefit obligationshad been involuntarily assigned to Massey Combines.With these limitations in mind, we turn to the questionspresented.IIERISA protects employee pensions and other benefits byproviding insurance (for vested pension rights, see ERISA$ 4001 et seq.), specifying certain plan characteristics in detail(such as when and how pensions vest, see $$ 201-211), andby setting forth certain general fiduciary duties applicable tothe management of both pension and nonpension benefitplans. See $ 404. In this case, we interpret and apply thesegeneral fiduciary duties and several related statutoryprovisions.In doing so, we recognize that these fiduciary duties drawmuch of their content from the common law of trusts, the lawthat governed most benefit plans before ERISA's enactment.See Central States, Southeast & Southwest Areas PensionFund v. Central Transport, Inc., 472 U. S. 559, 570 (1985)("[R]ather than explicitly enumerating all of the powers andduties of trustees and other fiduciaries, Congress invokedthe common law of trusts to define the general scope oftheir authority and responsibility"); H. R. Rep. No. 93-533,pp. 3-5, 11-13 (1973), 2 Legislative History of the EmployeeRetirement Income Security Act of 1974 (Committee Printcompiled for the Senate Subcommittee on Labor of the Com-mittee on Labor and Public Welfare by the Library of Congress), Ser. No. 93-406, pp. 2350-2352, 2358-2360 (1976)(hereinafter Leg. Hist.); G. Bogert & G. Bogert, Law ofTrusts and Trustees $ 255, p. 343 (rev. 2d ed. 1992).516us2$34Q 10-22-98 14:17:13 PAGES OPINPGT497Cite as: 516 U. S. 489 (1996)Opinion of the CourtWe also recognize, however, that trust law does not tell theentire story. After all, ERISA's standards and proceduralprotections partly reflect a congressional determination thatthe common law of trusts did not offer completely satisfactory protection. See ERISA $ 2(a). See also H. R. Rep. No.93-533, supra, at 3-5, 11-13, 2 Leg. Hist. 2350-2352; 2358-2360; H. R. Conf. Rep. No. 93-1280, pp. 295, 302 (1974), 3 Leg.Hist. 4562, 4569. And, even with respect to the trust-likefiduciary standards ERISA imposes, Congress "expect[ed]that the courts will interpret this prudent man rule (and theother fiduciary standards) bearing in mind the special natureand purpose of employee benefit plans," id., at 302, 3 Leg.Hist. 4569, as they "develop a `federal common law of rightsand obligations under ERISA-regulated plans.' " FirestoneTire & Rubber Co. v. Bruch, 489 U. S. 101, 110-111 (1989)(quoting Pilot Life Ins. Co. v. Dedeaux, 481 U. S. 41, 56(1987)).Consequently, we believe that the law of trusts often willinform, but will not necessarily determine the outcome of,an effort to interpret ERISA's fiduciary duties. In some instances, trust law will offer only a starting point, after whichcourts must go on to ask whether, or to what extent, thelanguage of the statute, its structure, or its purposes requiredeparting from common-law trust requirements. And, indoing so, courts may have to take account of competing congressional purposes, such as Congress' desire to offer employees enhanced protection for their benefits, on the onehand, and, on the other, its desire not to create a system thatis so complex that administrative costs, or litigation expenses, unduly discourage employers from offering welfarebenefit plans in the first place. Compare ERISA $ 2 withCurtiss-Wright Corp. v. Schoonejongen, 514 U. S. 73, 78-81(1995), and Mertens v. Hewitt Associates, 508 U. S. 248, 262-263 (1993).We have followed this approach when interpreting, andapplying, the statutory provisions here before us.516us2$34Q 10-22-98 14:17:13 PAGES OPINPGT498 VARITY CORP. v. HOWEOpinion of the CourtAWe begin with the question of Varity's fiduciary status.In relevant part, the statute says that a "person is a fiduciarywith respect to a plan," and therefore subject to ERISA fi-duciary duties, "to the extent" that he or she "exercises anydiscretionary authority or discretionary control respectingmanagement" of the plan, or "has any discretionary authorityor discretionary responsibility in the administration" of theplan. ERISA $ 3(21)(A).Varity was both an employer and the benefit plan's admin-istrator, as ERISA permits. Compare ERISA $ 3(16) (employer is, in some circumstances, the default plan administra-tor) with NLRB v. Amax Coal Co., 453 U. S. 322, 329-330(1981) (common law of trusts prohibits fiduciaries from hold-ing positions that create conflict of interest with trust beneficiaries); Bogert & Bogert, supra, $ 543, at 218, 264 (same).But, obviously, not all of Varity's business activities involvedplan management or administration. Varity argues thatwhen it communicated with its Massey-Ferguson workersabout transferring to Massey Combines, it was not adminis-tering or managing the plan; rather, it was acting only in itscapacity as an employer and not as a plan administrator.The District Court, however, held that when the misrepresentations regarding employee benefits were made, Varitywas wearing its "fiduciary," as well as its "employer," hat.In reviewing this legal conclusion, we give deference to thefactual findings of the District Court, recognizing its comparative advantage in understanding the specific context inwhich the events of this case occurred. We believe thatthese factual findings (which Varity does not challenge) adequately support the District Court's holding that Varity wasexercising "discretionary authority" respecting the plan's"management" or "administration" when it made these mis-representations, which legal holding we have independentlyreviewed.516us2$34Q 10-22-98 14:17:13 PAGES OPINPGT499Cite as: 516 U. S. 489 (1996)Opinion of the CourtThe relevant factual circumstances include the following:In the spring of 1986, Varity summoned the employees ofMassey-Ferguson's money-losing divisions to a meeting atMassey-Ferguson's corporate headquarters for a 30-minutepresentation. The employees saw a 90-second videotapedmessage from Mr. Ivan Porter, a Varity vice president andMassey Combines' newly appointed president. They alsoreceived four documents: (a) a several-page, detailed comparison between the employee benefits offered by Massey-Ferguson and those offered by Massey Combines; (b) aquestion-and-answer sheet; (c) a transcript of the Portervideotape; and (d) a cover letter with an acceptance form.Each of these documents discussed employee benefits andbenefit plans, some briefly in general terms, and others atlength and in detail:(a) The longest document, the side-by-side benefits comparison, contained a fairly detailed description of the benefitplans. Its object was to show that after transfer, the employees' benefits would remain the same. It says, for exam-ple, that, under Massey-Ferguson's plan, "[d]iagnostic x-rayand laboratory expenses will be paid on the basis of reason-able and customary charges for such services." App. 70. Itthen repeats the same sentence in describing Massey Com-bines' "[d]iagnostic x-ray and laboratory expenses" benefits.Ibid. It describes about 20 different benefits in this way.(b) The eight questions and answers on the question-andanswer sheet include three that relate to welfare benefits orto the ERISA pension plan Varity also administered:"Q. 3. What happens to my benefits, pension, etc.?"A. 3. When you transfer to MCC [Massey Combines], pay levels and benefit programmes will remainunchanged. There will be no loss of seniority or pensionable service."Q. 4. Do you expect the terms and conditions ofemployment to change?516us2$34Q 10-22-98 14:17:13 PAGES OPINPGT500 VARITY CORP. v. HOWEOpinion of the Court"A. 4. Employment conditions in the future will de-pend on our ability to make Massey Combines Corporation a success and if changes are considered necessaryor appropriate, they will be made.. . . . ."Q. 8. Are the pensions protected under MCC?"A. 8. Responsibility for pension benefits earned byemployees transferring to Massey Combines Corpora-tion is being assumed by the Massey Combines Corporation Pension Plan."The assets which are held in the Massey Ferguson Pen-sion Plan to fund such benefits as determined by actuarial calculations, are being transferred to the MasseyCombines Corporation Plan. Such benefits and assetswill be protected by the same legislation that protectthe Massey Ferguson Pension Plan."There will be no change in pension benefits as a resultof your transfer to Massey Combines Corporation."Id., at 75-77.(c) The transcript of the 90-second videotape message re-peated much of the information in the question-and-answersheet, adding assurances about Massey Combines' viability:"This financial restructuring created Massey CombinesCorporation and will provide the funds necessary to ensure its future viability. I believe that with the con-tinued help and support of you we can make MasseyCombines Corporation the kind of successful businessenterprise which we all want to work for.". . . . When you transfer your employment to the Mas-sey Combines Corporation, pay levels and benefit programs will remain unchanged. There will be no loss ofseniority or pensionable service. Employment conditions in the future will depend on the success of theMassey Combines Corporation and should changes bedeemed appropriate or necessary, they will be made. . . .516us2$34Q 10-22-98 14:17:13 PAGES OPINPGT501Cite as: 516 U. S. 489 (1996)Opinion of the Court"Finally, despite the depression which persists in theNorth American economy, I am excited about the futureof Massey Combines Corporation." Id., at 80.(d) The cover letter, in five short paragraphs, repeatedverbatim these benefit-related assurances:"To enable us to accept you as an employee of MasseyCombines Corporation and to continue to process thepayment of benefits to you, we require that you completethe information below and return this letter . . . ."When you accept employment with Massey Com-bines Corporation, pay levels and benefit programs willremain unchanged. There will be no loss of seniorityor pensionable service. Employment conditions in thefuture will depend on our ability to make Massey Com-bines Corporation a success, and if changes are considered necessary or appropriate, they will be made."We are all very optimistic that our new company, hasa bright future, and are excited by the new challengesfacing all of us. . . ."In order to ensure uninterrupted continuation ofyour pay and benefits, please return this signed acceptance of employment . . . ." Id., at 82-83.Given this record material, the District Court determined,as a factual matter, that the key meeting, to a considerableextent, was about benefits, for the documents described themin detail, explained the similarity between past and futureplans in principle, and assured the employees that theywould continue to receive similar benefits in practice. TheDistrict Court concluded that the basic message conveyed tothe employees was that transferring from Massey-Fergusonto Massey Combines would not significantly undermine thesecurity of their benefits. And, given this view of the facts,we believe that the District Court reached the correct legalconclusion, namely, that Varity spoke, in significant part, inits capacity as plan administrator.516us2$34Q 10-22-98 14:17:13 PAGES OPINPGT502 VARITY CORP. v. HOWEOpinion of the CourtTo decide whether Varity's actions fall within the statu-tory definition of "fiduciary" acts, we must interpret the statutory terms which limit the scope of fiduciary activity to dis-cretionary acts of plan "management" and "administration."ERISA $ 3(21)(A). These words are not self-defining, andthe activity at issue here neither falls clearly within nor out-side of the common understanding of these words. The dissent looks to the dictionary for interpretive assistance. Seepost, at 528-529. Though dictionaries sometimes help insuch matters, we believe it more important here to look tothe common law, which, over the years, has given to termssuch as "fiduciary" and trust "administration" a legal meaning to which, we normally presume, Congress meant to refer.See, e. g., Nationwide Mut. Ins. Co. v. Darden, 503 U. S. 318,322 (1992). The ordinary trust law understanding of fiduciary "administration" of a trust is that to act as an administrator is to perform the duties imposed, or exercise the powers conferred, by the trust documents. See Restatement(Second) of Trusts $ 164 (1957); 76 Am. Jur. 2d, Trusts $ 321(1992). Cf. ERISA $ 404(a). The law of trusts also understands a trust document to implicitly confer "such powersas are necessary or appropriate for the carrying out of thepurposes" of the trust. 3 A. Scott & W. Fratcher, Law ofTrusts $ 186, p. 6 (4th ed. 1988). See also Bogert & Bogert,Law of Trusts and Trustees $ 551, at 41; Central States, 472U. S., at 570. Conveying information about the likely futureof plan benefits, thereby permitting beneficiaries to make aninformed choice about continued participation, would seemto be an exercise of a power "appropriate" to carrying out animportant plan purpose. After all, ERISA itself specificallyrequires administrators to give beneficiaries certain information about the plan. See, e. g., ERISA $$ 102, 104(b)(1),105(a). And administrators, as part of their administrativeresponsibilities, frequently offer beneficiaries more than theminimum information that the statute requires--for example, answering beneficiaries' questions about the meaning of516US2 Unit: $U34 [05-25-00 07:03:05] PAGES PGT: OPIN503Cite as: 516 U. S. 489 (1996)Opinion of the Courtthe terms of a plan so that those beneficiaries can more easilyobtain the plan's benefits. To offer beneficiaries detailedplan information in order to help them decide whether toremain with the plan is essentially the same kind of planrelated activity. Cf. Restatement (Second) of Agency$ 229(1) (1957) (determining whether an activity is within the"scope of . . . employment" in part by examining whether itis "of the same general nature as that authorized").Moreover, as far as the record reveals, Mr. Porter's letter,videotape, and the other documents came from those withinthe firm who had authority to communicate as fiduciarieswith plan beneficiaries. Varity does not claim that it authorized only special individuals, not connected with the meetingdocuments, to speak as plan administrators. See $ 402(b)(2)(a plan may describe a "procedure under the plan for theallocation of responsibilities for the operation and administration of the plan").Finally, reasonable employees, in the circumstances foundby the District Court, could have thought that Varity wascommunicating with them both in its capacity as employerand in its capacity as plan administrator. Reasonable employees might not have distinguished consciously betweenthe two roles. But they would have known that the employer was their plan's administrator and had expert knowledge about how their plan worked. The central conclusion("your benefits are secure") could well have drawn strengthfrom their awareness of that expertise, and one could reasonably believe that the employer, aware of the importance ofthe matter, so intended.We conclude, therefore, that the factual context in whichthe statements were made, combined with the plan-relatednature of the activity, engaged in by those who had planrelated authority to do so, together provide sufficient support for the District Court's legal conclusion that Varity wasacting as a fiduciary.516us2$34Q 10-22-98 14:17:13 PAGES OPINPGT504 VARITY CORP. v. HOWEOpinion of the CourtVarity raises three contrary arguments. First, Varity argues that it was not engaged in plan administration becauseneither the specific disclosure provisions of ERISA, nor thespecific terms of the plan instruments, App. 5-26, requiredit to make these statements. But that does not mean Varitywas not engaging in plan administration in making them, asthe dissent seems to suggest. See post, at 531-532, andn. 12. There is more to plan (or trust) administration thansimply complying with the specific duties imposed by theplan documents or statutory regime; it also includes the activities that are "ordinary and natural means" of achievingthe "objective" of the plan. Bogert & Bogert, supra, $ 551,at 41-52. Indeed, the primary function of the fiduciary dutyis to constrain the exercise of discretionary powers whichare controlled by no other specific duty imposed by the trustinstrument or the legal regime. If the fiduciary duty applied to nothing more than activities already controlled byother specific legal duties, it would serve no purpose.Second, Varity says that when it made the statements thatmost worried the District Court--the statements about Massey Combines' "bright future"--it must have been speakingonly as employer (and not as fiduciary), for statements abouta new subsidiary's financial future have virtually nothing todo with administering benefit plans. But this argumentparses the meeting's communications too finely. The ultimate message Varity intended to convey--"your benefits aresecure"--depended in part upon its repeated assurances thatbenefits would remain "unchanged," in part upon the detailed comparison of benefits, and in part upon assurancesabout Massey Combines' "bright" financial future. Varity'sworkers would not necessarily have focused upon each underlying supporting statement separately, because what primarily interested them, and what primarily interested theDistrict Court, was the truthfulness of the ultimate conclusion that transferring to Massey Combines would not ad516us2$34Q 10-22-98 14:17:13 PAGES OPINPGT505Cite as: 516 U. S. 489 (1996)Opinion of the Courtversely affect the security of their benefits. And, in thepresent context (see supra, at 499-501), Varity's statementsabout the security of benefits amounted to an act of planadministration. That Varity intentionally communicated itsconclusion through a closely linked set of statements (somedirectly concerning plan benefits, others concerning the viability of the corporation) does not change this conclusion.We do not hold, as the dissent suggests, post, at 529-531,that Varity acted as a fiduciary simply because it made statements about its expected financial condition or because "anordinary business decision turn[ed] out to have an adverseimpact on the plan." Post, at 539. Instead, we accept theundisputed facts found, and factual inferences drawn, by theDistrict Court, namely, that Varity intentionally connectedits statements about Massey Combines' financial health tostatements it made about the future of benefits, so that itsintended communication about the security of benefits wasrendered materially misleading. See App. to Pet. for Cert.64a-65a, |||| 65, 68. And we hold that making intentionalrepresentations about the future of plan benefits in that context is an act of plan administration.Third, Varity says that an employer's decision to amend orterminate a plan (as Varity had the right to do) is not an actof plan administration. See Curtiss-Wright Corp., 514 U. S.,at 78-81. How then, it asks, could conveying informationabout the likelihood of termination be an act of plan administration? While it may be true that amending or terminatinga plan (or a common-law trust) is beyond the power of a planadministrator (or trustee)-- and, therefore, cannot be an actof plan "management" or "administration"--it does not follow that making statements about the likely future of theplan is also beyond the scope of plan administration. As weexplained above, plan administrators often have, and commonly exercise, discretionary authority to communicate withbeneficiaries about the future of plan benefits.516us2$34Q 10-22-98 14:17:13 PAGES OPINPGT506 VARITY CORP. v. HOWEOpinion of the CourtBThe second question--whether Varity's deception violatedERISA-imposed fiduciary obligations--calls for a brief, affirmative answer. ERISA requires a "fiduciary" to "dis-charge his duties with respect to a plan solely in the interestof the participants and beneficiaries." ERISA $ 404(a). Toparticipate knowingly and significantly in deceiving a plan'sbeneficiaries in order to save the employer money at the ben-eficiaries' expense is not to act "solely in the interest of theparticipants and beneficiaries." As other courts have held,"[l]ying is inconsistent with the duty of loyalty owed by allfiduciaries and codified in section 404(a)(1) of ERISA,"Peoria Union Stock Yards Co. v. Penn Mut. Life Ins. Co.,698 F. 2d 320, 326 (CA7 1983). See also Central States, 472U. S., at 570-571 (ERISA fiduciary duty includes commonlaw duty of loyalty); Bogert & Bogert, Law of Trusts andTrustees $ 543, at 218-219 (duty of loyalty requires trusteeto deal fairly and honestly with beneficiaries); 2A Scott &Fratcher, Law of Trusts $ 170, pp. 311-312 (same); Restatement (Second) of Trusts $ 170 (same). Because the breachof this duty is sufficient to uphold the decision below, weneed not reach the question whether ERISA fiduciaries haveany fiduciary duty to disclose truthful information on theirown initiative, or in response to employee inquiries.We recognize, as mentioned above, that we are to applycommon-law trust standards "bearing in mind the special na-ture and purpose of employee benefit plans." H. R. Conf.Rep. No. 93-1280, at 302, 3 Leg. Hist. 4569. But we can findno adequate basis here, in the statute or otherwise, for anyspecial interpretation that might insulate Varity, acting as afiduciary, from the legal consequences of the kind of conduct(intentional misrepresentation) that often creates liabilityeven among strangers.We are aware, as Varity suggests, of one possible reasonfor a departure from ordinary trust law principles. In arguing about ERISA's remedies for breaches of fiduciary obli516us2$34Q 10-22-98 14:17:13 PAGES OPINPGT507Cite as: 516 U. S. 489 (1996)Opinion of the Courtgation, Varity says that Congress intended ERISA's fiduciary standards to protect only the financial integrity of theplan, not individual beneficiaries. This intent, says Varity,is shown by the fact that Congress did not provide remediesfor individuals harmed by such breaches; rather, Congresslimited relief to remedies that would benefit only the planitself. This argument fails, however, because, in our view,Congress did provide remedies for individual beneficiariesharmed by breaches of fiduciary duty, as we shall nextdiscuss.CThe remaining question before us is whether or not theremedial provision of ERISA that the beneficiaries invoked,ERISA $ 502(a)(3), authorizes this lawsuit for individual relief. That subsection is the third of six subsections contained within ERISA's "Civil Enforcement" provision (as itstood at the times relevant to this lawsuit):"Sec. 502. (a) A civil action may be brought--"(1) by a participant or beneficiary--"(A) for the relief provided for in subsection (c) ofthis section [providing for liquidated damages for failureto provide certain information on request], or"(B) to recover benefits due to him under the termsof his plan, to enforce his rights under the terms of theplan, or to clarify his rights to future benefits under theterms of the plan;"(2) by the Secretary, or by a participant, beneficiaryor fiduciary for appropriate relief under section 409[entitled "Liability for Breach of Fiduciary Duty"];"(3) by a participant, beneficiary, or fiduciary (A) toenjoin any act or practice which violates any provisionof this title or the terms of the plan, or (B) to obtainother appropriate equitable relief (i) to redress suchviolations or (ii) to enforce any provisions of this titleor the terms of the plan;516us2$34Q 10-22-98 14:17:13 PAGES OPINPGT508 VARITY CORP. v. HOWEOpinion of the Court"(4) by the Secretary, or by a participant, or benefi-ciary for appropriate relief in the case of a violation of105(c) [requiring disclosure of certain tax registrationstatements];"(5) except as otherwise provided in subsection (b),by the Secretary (A) to enjoin any act or practice whichviolates any provision of this title, or (B) to obtain otherappropriate equitable relief (i) to redress such violationor (ii) to enforce any provision of this title; or"(6) by the Secretary to collect any civil penaltyunder subsection (i)." ERISA $ 502(a), 88 Stat. 891, 29U. S. C. $ 1132(a) (1988 ed.) (emphasis added).The District Court held that the third subsection, whichwe have italicized, authorized this suit and the reliefawarded. Varity concedes that the plaintiffs satisfy most ofthis provision's requirements, namely, that the plaintiffs areplan "participants" or "beneficiaries," and that they are suingfor "equitable" relief to "redress" a violation of $ 404(a),which is a "provision of this title." Varity does not agree,however, that this lawsuit seeks equitable relief that is "appropriate." In support of this conclusion, Varity makes acomplicated, four-step argument:Step One: Section 502(a)'s second subsection says that aplaintiff may bring a civil action "for appropriate relief undersection 409."Step Two: Section 409(a), in turn, reads:"Liability for Breach of Fiduciary DutySec. 409. (a) Any person who is a fiduciary with respectto a plan who breaches any of the responsibilities, obligations, or duties imposed upon fiduciaries by this titleshall be personally liable to make good to such plan anylosses to the plan resulting from each such breach, andto restore to such plan any profits of such fiduciarywhich have been made through use of assets of the planby the fiduciary, and shall be subject to such other equi516us2$34Q 10-22-98 14:17:13 PAGES OPINPGT509Cite as: 516 U. S. 489 (1996)Opinion of the Courttable or remedial relief as the court may deem appro-priate, including removal of such fiduciary. . . ." (Emphasis added.)Step Three: In Massachusetts Mut. Life Ins. Co. v. Russell,473 U. S. 134 (1985), this Court pointed to the aboveitalicized language in $ 409 and concluded that this section(and its companion remedial provision, subsection (2)) did notauthorize the plaintiff 's suit for compensatory and punitivedamages against an administrator who had wrongfully delayed payment of her benefit claim. The first two italicizedphrases, the Court said, show that $ 409's "draftsmen wereprimarily concerned with the possible misuse of plan assets,and with remedies that would protect the entire plan, ratherthan with the rights of an individual beneficiary." Id., at142 (emphasis added). The Court added that, in this context, the last italicized phrase ("other equitable or remedialrelief ") does not "authorize any relief except for the planitself." Id., at 144.Step Four: In light of Russell, as well as ERISA's lan-guage, structure, and purposes, one cannot read the thirdsubsection (the subsection before us) as including (as "ap-propriate") the very kind of action--an action for individual,rather than plan, relief--that this Court found Congress excluded in subsection (2). It is at this point, however, thatwe must disagree with Varity. We have reexamined Russell, as well as the relevant statutory language, structure,and purpose. And, in our view, they support the beneficiaries' view of the statute, not Varity's.First, Russell discusses $ 502(a)'s second subsection, notits third subsection, and the language that the Court foundlimiting appears in a statutory section ($ 409) that thesecondsubsection, not the third, cross-references. Russell's plaintiff expressly disavowed reliance on the third subsection, id.,at 139, n. 5, perhaps because she was seeking compensatoryand punitive damages and subsection (3) authorizes only "eq-uitable" relief. See Mertens, 508 U. S., at 255, 256-258, and516us2$34Q 10-22-98 14:17:13 PAGES OPINPGT510 VARITY CORP. v. HOWEOpinion of the Courtn. 8 (compensatory and punitive damages are not "equitablerelief " within the meaning of subsection (3)); ERISA $ 409(a)(authorizing "other equitable or remedial relief ") (emphasisadded). Further,Russell involved a complicating factor notpresent here, in that another remedial provision (subsection(1)) already provided specific relief for the sort of injury theplaintiff had suffered (wrongful denial of benefits), but said"nothing about the recovery of extracontractual damages, orabout the possible consequences of delay in the plan administrators' processing of a disputed claim." Russell, supra, at144. These differences lead us to conclude thatRussell doesnot control, either implicitly or explicitly, the outcome of thecase before us.Second, subsection (3)'s language does not favor Varity.The words of subsection (3)--"appropriate equitable relief "to "redress" any "act or practice which violates any provisionof this title"--are broad enough to cover individual relief forbreach of a fiduciary obligation. Varity argues that the titleof $ 409--"Liability for Breach of Fiduciary Duty"--meansthat $ 409 (and its companion, subsection (2)) cover all suchliability. But that is not what the title or the provision says.And other language in the statute suggests the contrary.Section 502(l), added in 1989, calculates a certain civil penalty as a percentage of the sum "ordered by a court to bepaid by such fiduciary . . . to a plan or its participants andbeneficiaries" under subsection (5). Subsection (5) is identical to subsection (3), except that it authorizes suits by theSecretary, rather than the participants and beneficiaries.Compare $ 502(a)(3) with $ 502(a)(5). This new provision,therefore, seems to foresee instances in which the sort ofrelief provided by both subsection (5) and, by implication,subsection (3), would include an award to "participants andbeneficiaries," rather than to the "plan," for breach of fiduciary obligation.Third, the statute's structure offers Varity little support.Varity notes that the second subsection refers specifically516us2$34Q 10-22-98 14:17:13 PAGES OPINPGT511Cite as: 516 U. S. 489 (1996)Opinion of the Court(through its $ 409 cross-reference) to breaches of fiduciaryduty, while thethird subsection refers, as a kind of "catchall," to all ERISA Title One violations. And it argues that acanon of statutory construction, namely "the specific governsover the general," means that the more specific second (fiduciary breach) subsection makes the more general third(catchall) subsection inapplicable to claims of fiduciarybreach. Canons of construction, however, are simply "rulesof thumb" which will sometimes "help courts determine themeaning of legislation." Connecticut Nat. Bank v. Germain, 503 U. S. 249, 253 (1992). To apply a canon properlyone must understand its rationale. This Court has understood the present canon ("the specific governs the general")as a warning against applying a general provision whendoing so would undermine limitations created by a more specific provision. See, e. g., Morales v. Trans World Airlines,Inc., 504 U. S. 374, 384-385 (1992); HCSC-Laundry v. UnitedStates, 450 U. S. 1, 6, 8 (1981); Fourco Glass Co. v. Transmirra Products Corp., 353 U. S. 222, 228-229 (1957). Yet, inthis case, why should one believe that Congress intended thespecific remedies in $ 409 as a limitation?To the contrary, one can read $ 409 as reflecting a specialcongressional concern about plan asset management withoutalso finding that Congress intended that section to containthe exclusive set of remedies for every kind of fiduciarybreach. After all, ERISA makes clear that a fiduciary hasobligations other than, and in addition to, managing planassets. See $ 3(21)(A) (defining "fiduciary" as one who "exercises any discretionary authority . . . respecting management of such plan or . . . respecting management or disposition of its assets") (emphasis added). For example, as thedissent concedes, post, at 530, a plan administrator engagesin a fiduciary act when making a discretionary determinationabout whether a claimant is entitled to benefits under theterms of the plan documents. See $ 404(a)(1)(D); Dept. ofLabor, Interpretive Bulletin 75-8, 29 CFR $ 2509.75-8 (1995)516us2$34Q 10-22-98 14:17:13 PAGES OPINPGT512 VARITY CORP. v. HOWEOpinion of the Court("[A] plan employee who has the final authority to authorizeor disallow benefit payments in cases where a dispute existsas to the interpretation of plan provisions . . . would be afiduciary");Moore v. Reynolds Metals Co. Retirement Program, 740 F. 2d 454, 457 (CA6 1984); Birmingham v. SogenSwiss Intern. Corp. Retirement Plan, 718 F. 2d 515, 521-522(CA2 1983). And, as the Court pointed out inRussell, 473U. S., at 144, ERISA specifically provides a remedy forbreaches of fiduciary duty with respect to the interpretationof plan documents and the payment of claims, one that isoutside the framework of thesecond subsection and crossreferenced $ 409, and one that runs directly to the injuredbeneficiary. $ 502(a)(1)(B). See also Firestone, 489 U. S., at108. Why should we not conclude that Congress providedyet other remedies for yet other breaches of other sorts offiduciary obligation in another, "catchall" remedial section?Such a reading is consistent with $ 502's overall structure.Four of that section's six subsections focus upon specificareas, i. e., the first (wrongful denial of benefits and information), the second (fiduciary obligations related to the plan'sfinancial integrity), the fourth (tax registration), and thesixth (civil penalties). The language of the other two subsections, the third and the fifth, creates two "catchalls,"providing "appropriate equitable relief " for "any" statutoryviolation. This structure suggests that these "catchall" provisions act as a safety net, offering appropriate equitablerelief for injuries caused by violations that $ 502 does notelsewhere adequately remedy. And, contrary to Varity's argument, there is nothing in the legislative history that conflicts with this interpretation. See S. Rep. No. 93-127, p. 35(1973), 1 Leg. Hist. 621 (describing Senate version of enforcement provisions as intended to "provide both the Secretaryand participants and beneficiaries with broad remedies forredressing or preventing violations of [ERISA]"); H. R. Rep.No. 93-533, at 17, 2 Leg. Hist. 2364 (describing House versionin identical terms).516us2$34Q 10-22-98 14:17:13 PAGES OPINPGT513Cite as: 516 U. S. 489 (1996)Opinion of the CourtFourth, ERISA's basic purposes favor a reading of thethird subsection that provides the plaintiffs with a remedy.The statute itself says that it seeks"to protect . . . the interests of participants . . . and . . .beneficiaries . . . by establishing standards of conduct,responsibility, and obligation for fiduciaries . . . and . . .providing for appropriate remedies . . . and ready accessto the Federal courts." ERISA $ 2(b).Section 404(a), in furtherance of this general objective, re-quires fiduciaries to discharge their duties "solely in the interest of the participants and beneficiaries." Given theseobjectives, it is hard to imagine why Congress would wantto immunize breaches of fiduciary obligation that harm indi-viduals by denying injured beneficiaries a remedy.Amici supporting Varity find a strong contrary argumentin an important, subsidiary congressional purpose--the needfor a sensible administrative system. They say that holdingthat the Act permits individuals to enforce fiduciary obli-gations owed directly to them as individuals threatens toincrease the cost of welfare benefit plans and thereby dis-courage employers from offering them. Consider a plan administrator's decision not to pay for surgery on the groundthat it falls outside the plan's coverage. At present, courtsreview such decisions with a degree of deference to the administrator, provided that "the benefit plan gives the admin-istrator or fiduciary discretionary authority to determine eligibility for benefits or to construe the terms of the plan."Firestone, supra, at 115. But what will happen, ask amici,if a beneficiary can repackage his or her "denial of benefits"claim as a claim for "breach of fiduciary duty?" Wouldn't acourt, they ask, then have to forgo deference and hold theadministrator to the "rigid level of conduct" expected of fiduciaries? And, as a consequence, would there not then betwo "incompatible legal standards for courts hearing benefitclaim disputes" depending upon whether the beneficiary516us2$34Q 10-22-98 14:17:13 PAGES OPINPGT514 VARITY CORP. v. HOWEOpinion of the Courtclaimed simply "denial of benefits," or a virtually identical"breach of fiduciary duty?" See Brief for Chamber ofCommerce as Amicus Curiae 10. Consider, too, they add,a medical review board trying to decide whether certainproposed surgery is medically necessary. Will the board'sawareness of a "duty of loyalty" to the surgery-seeking beneficiary not risk inadequate attention to the countervailing,but important, need to constrain costs in order to preservethe plan's funds? Id., at 11.Thus, amici warn that a legally enforceable duty of loyaltythat extends beyond plan asset management to individualbeneficiaries will risk these and other adverse consequences.Administrators will tend to interpret plan documents as requiring payments to individuals instead of trying to preserveplan assets; nonexpert courts will try to supervise tooclosely, and second guess, the often technical decisions ofplan administrators; and, lawyers will complicate ordinarybenefit claims by dressing them up in "fiduciary duty" clothing. The need to avoid these consequences, they conclude,requires us to accept Varity's position.The concerns that amici raise seem to us unlikely to materialize, however, for several reasons. First, a fiduciary obligation, enforceable by beneficiaries seeking relief for themselves, does not necessarily favor payment over nonpayment.The common law of trusts recognizes the need to preserveassets to satisfy future, as well as present, claims and requires a trustee to take impartial account of the interests ofall beneficiaries. See Restatement (Second) of Trusts $ 183(discussing duty of impartiality); id., $ 232 (same).Second, characterizing a denial of benefits as a breach offiduciary duty does not necessarily change the standard acourt would apply when reviewing the administrator's decision to deny benefits. After all, Firestone, which authorizeddeferential court review when the plan itself gives the administrator discretionary authority, based its decision upon516us2$34Q 10-22-98 14:17:13 PAGES OPINPGT515Cite as: 516 U. S. 489 (1996)Opinion of the Courtthe same common-law trust doctrines that govern standardsof fiduciary conduct. See Restatement (Second) of Trusts$ 187 ("Where discretion is conferred upon the trustee withrespect to the exercise of a power, its exercise is not subjectto control by the court, except to prevent an abuse by thetrustee of his discretion") (as quoted in Firestone, 489 U. S.,at 111).Third, the statute authorizes "appropriate" equitable relief. We should expect that courts, in fashioning "appropriate" equitable relief, will keep in mind the "special natureand purpose of employee benefit plans," and will respect the"policy choices reflected in the inclusion of certain remediesand the exclusion of others." Pilot Life Ins. Co., 481 U. S.,at 54. See also Russell, 473 U. S., at 147; Mertens, 508 U. S.,at 263-264. Thus, we should expect that where Congresselsewhere provided adequate relief for a beneficiary's injury,there will likely be no need for further equitable relief, inwhich case such relief normally would not be "appropriate."Cf. Russell, supra, at 144.But that is not the case here. The plaintiffs in this casecould not proceed under the first subsection because theywere no longer members of the Massey-Ferguson plan and,therefore, had no "benefits due [them] under the terms of[the] plan." $ 502(a)(1)(B). They could not proceed underthe second subsection because that provision, tied to $ 409,does not provide a remedy for individual beneficiaries. Russell, supra, at 144. They must rely on the third subsectionor they have no remedy at all. We are not aware of anyERISA-related purpose that denial of a remedy would serve.Rather, we believe that granting a remedy is consistent withthe literal language of the statute, the Act's purposes, andpre-existing trust law.For these reasons, the judgment of the Court of Appeals is