The Tennessee Court of Appeals rejected respondent'sclaim that his counsel rendered ineffective assistance duringhis sentencing hearing under principles announced in Strick-land v. Washington, 466 U. S. 668 (1984). The Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit concluded that United States v.Cronic, 466 U. S. 648 (1984), should have controlled the statecourt's analysis and granted him a conditional writ of habeascorpus. We hold that respondent's claim was governed byStrickland, and that the state court's decision neither was*Briefs of amicus curiae urging reversal were filed for the State ofOhio et al. by Betty D. Montgomery, Attorney General of Ohio, DavidM. Gormley, State Solicitor, and Matthew Hellman, Assistant AttorneyGeneral, and by the Attorneys General for their respective jurisdictionsas follows: Bill Pryor of Alabama, Janet Napolitano of Arizona, Bill Lockyer of California, M. Jane Brady of Delaware, Robert A. Butterworth ofFlorida, Steve Carter of Indiana, Richard P. Ieyoub of Louisiana, J. JosephCurran, Jr., of Maryland, Jeremiah W. (Jay) Nixon of Missouri, MikeMcGrath of Montana, Don Stenberg of Nebraska, Frankie Sue Del Papaof Nevada, David Samson of New Jersey, W. A. Drew Edmondson ofOklahoma, Hardy Myers of Oregon, Mark Barnett of South Dakota, JohnCornyn of Texas, Mark L. Shurtleff of Utah, Iver A. Stridiron of theVirgin Islands, Jerry Kilgore of Virginia, Christine O. Gregoire of Washington, and Hoke MacMillan of Wyoming; and for the Criminal JusticeLegal Foundation by Kent S. Scheidegger.Walter Dellinger, Pamela Harris, and David M. Porter filed a brief forthe National Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers as amicus curiaeurging affirmance.Larry W. Yackle and Steven R. Shapiro filed a brief for the AmericanCivil Liberties Union et al. as amicus curiae.535US3 Unit: $U51 [09-22-03 21:02:42] PAGES PGT: OPIN689Cite as: 535 U. S. 685 (2002)Opinion of the Court"contrary to," nor involved "an unreasonable applicationof, clearly established Federal law" under the provisions of28 U. S. C. $ 2254(d)(1).IIn 1982, respondent was convicted of, and sentencedto death for, the murder of an elderly couple in Memphis,Tennessee. The killings culminated a 2-day crime rampagethat began when respondent robbed a Memphis jewelrystore of approximately $112,000 in merchandise on a Saturday in August 1980. Shortly after the 12:45 p.m. robbery, apolice officer in an unmarked vehicle spotted respondentdriving at a normal speed and began to follow him. Aftera few blocks, respondent accelerated, prompting a high-speedchase through midtown Memphis and into a residential neighborhood where respondent abandoned his vehicle.Attempting to flee, respondent shot an officer who tried toapprehend him, shot a citizen who confronted him, and, atgunpoint, demanded that another hand over his car keys.As a police helicopter hovered overhead, respondent tried toshoot the fleeing car owner, but was frustrated because hisgun was out of ammunition.Throughout the afternoon and into the next morning, respondent managed to elude detection as police combed thesurrounding area. In the meantime, officers inventoryinghis car found an array of illegal and prescription drugs, thestolen merchandise, and more than $2,400 in cash. Respondent reappeared early Sunday morning when he drew a gunon an elderly resident who refused to let him in to use hertelephone. Later that afternoon, respondent broke into thehome of Shipley and Cleopatra Todd, aged 93 and 79 yearsold, and killed them by repeatedly beating them about thehead with a blunt instrument. He moved their bodies sothat they would not be visible from the front and rear doorsand ransacked the first floor of their home. After shavinghis beard, respondent traveled to Florida. He was arrested535US3 Unit: $U51 [09-22-03 21:02:42] PAGES PGT: OPIN690 BELL v. CONEOpinion of the Courtthere for robbing a drugstore in Pompano Beach. He ad-mitted killing the Todds and shooting the police officer.A Tennessee grand jury charged respondent with twocounts of first-degree murder in the perpetration of a burglary in connection with the Todds' deaths, three counts ofassault with intent to murder in connection with the shootings and attempted shooting of the car owner, and one countof robbery with a deadly weapon for the jewelry store theft.At a jury trial in the Criminal Court of Shelby County, theprosecution adduced overwhelming physical and testimonialevidence showing that respondent perpetrated the crimesand that he killed the Todds in a brutal and callous fashion.The defense conceded that respondent committed most ofthe acts in question, but sought to prove that he was notguilty by reason of insanity. A clinical psychologist testifiedthat respondent suffered from substance abuse and posttraumatic stress disorders related to his military service in Vietnam. A neuropharmacologist recounted at length respondent's history of illicit drug use, which began after he joinedthe Army and escalated to the point where he was daily consuming "rather horrific" quantities. Tr. 1722-1763. Thatdrug use, according to the expert, caused chronic amphetamine psychosis, hallucinations, and ongoing paranoia, whichaffected respondent's mental capacity and ability to obey thelaw. Defense counsel also called respondent's mother, whospoke of her son coming back from Vietnam in 1969 achanged person, his honorable discharge from service, hisgraduation with honors from college, and the deaths of hisfather and fiance' e while he was in prison from 1972-1979for robbery. Although respondent did not take the stand,defense counsel was able to elicit through other testimonythat he had expressed remorse for the killings. Rejectinghis insanity defense, the jury found him guilty on all charges.Punishment for the first-degree murder counts was fixedin a separate sentencing hearing that took place the next dayand lasted about three hours. Under then-applicable Ten535US3 Unit: $U51 [09-22-03 21:02:42] PAGES PGT: OPIN691Cite as: 535 U. S. 685 (2002)Opinion of the Courtnessee law, a death sentence was required if the jury foundunanimously that the State proved beyond a reasonabledoubt the existence of at least one statutory aggravatingcircumstance that was not outweighed by any mitigatingcircumstance. Tenn. Code Ann. $ 39-2-203 (1982). In mak-ing these determinations, the jury could (and was instructedthat it could) consider evidence from both the guilt and punishment phases. Ibid.; Tr. 2219.During its opening statement, the State said it wouldprove four aggravating factors: that (1) respondent hadpreviously been convicted of one or more felonies involvingthe use or threat of violence to a person; (2) he knowinglycreated a great risk of death to two or more persons otherthan the victim during the act of murder; (3) the murder wasespecially heinous, atrocious, or cruel; and (4) the murderwas committed for the purpose of avoiding lawful arrest.In his opening statement, defense counsel called the jury'sattention to the mitigating evidence already before them.He suggested that respondent was under the influence of extreme mental disturbance or duress, that he was an addictwhose drug and other problems stemmed from the stress ofhis military service, and that he felt remorse. Counselurged the jury that there was a good reason for preservinghis client's life if one looked at "the whole man." App. 26.He asked for mercy, calling it a blessing that would raisethem above the State to the level of God.The prosecution then called a records custodian and fingerprint examiner to establish that respondent had threearmed robbery convictions and two officers who said theytried unsuccessfully to arrest respondent for armed robberyafter the jewelry store heist. Through cross-examination ofthe records custodian, respondent's attorney brought outthat his client had been awarded the Bronze Star in Vietnam.After defense counsel successfully objected to the State'sproffer of photos of the Todds' decomposing bodies, bothsides rested. The junior prosecuting attorney on the case535US3 Unit: $U51 [09-22-03 21:02:42] PAGES PGT: OPIN692 BELL v. CONEOpinion of the Courtgave what the state courts described as a "low-key" closing.1Defense counsel waived final argument, preventing the leadprosecutor, who by all accounts was an extremely effectiveadvocate, from arguing in rebuttal. The jury found in bothmurder cases four aggravating factors and no mitigatingcircumstances substantial enough to outweigh them. TheTennessee Supreme Court affirmed respondent's convictionsand sentence on appeal, State v. Cone, 665 S. W. 2d 87, andwe denied certiorari, 467 U. S. 1210 (1984).Respondent then petitioned for state postconviction relief,contending that his counsel rendered ineffective assistanceduring the sentencing phase by failing to present mitigatingevidence and by waiving final argument. After a hearing inwhich respondent's trial counsel testified, a division of theTennessee Criminal Court rejected this contention. TheTennessee Court of Criminal Appeals affirmed. Cone v.State, 747 S. W. 2d 353 (1987). The appellate court reviewedcounsel's explanations for his decisions concerning the callingof witnesses and the waiving of final argument. Id., at 356-357. Describing counsel's representation as "very conscientious," the court concluded that his performance was withinthe permissible range of competency, citing Baxter v. Rose,523 S. W. 2d 930 (Tenn. 1975), a decision the Tennessee Supreme Court deems to have announced the same attorneyperformance standard as Strickland v. Washington, 466U. S. 668 (1984). See, e. g., State v. Burns, 6 S. W. 3d 453,461 (1999). The court also expressed its view that respondent received the death penalty based on the law and facts,not on the shortcomings of counsel. 747 S. W. 2d, at 357-358. The Tennessee Supreme Court denied respondentpermission to appeal, and we denied further review, Cone v.Tennessee, 488 U. S. 871 (1988).In 1997, after his second application for state postconviction relief was dismissed, respondent sought a federal writ1 See Cone v. State, 747 S. W. 2d 353, 357 (Tenn. Crim. App. 1987).535US3 Unit: $U51 [09-22-03 21:02:42] PAGES PGT: OPIN693Cite as: 535 U. S. 685 (2002)Opinion of the Courtof habeas corpus under 28 U. S. C. $ 2254 as amended by theAntiterrorism and Effective Death Penalty Act of 1996. Hispetition alleged numerous grounds for relief including in-effective assistance at the sentencing phase. The DistrictCourt ruled that respondent did not meet $ 2254(d)'s require-ments and denied the petition.The Court of Appeals affirmed the refusal to issue a writwith respect to respondent's conviction, but reversed withrespect to his sentence. 243 F. 3d 961, 979 (CA6 2001). Itheld that respondent suffered a Sixth Amendment violationfor which prejudice should be presumed under United Statesv.Cronic, 466 U. S. 648 (1984), because his counsel, by notasking for mercy after the prosecutor's final argument, didnot subject the State's call for the death penalty to meaning-ful adversarial testing. 243 F. 3d, at 979. The state court'sadjudication of respondent's Sixth Amendment claim, in theCourt of Appeals' analysis, was therefore an unreasonableapplication of the clearly established law announced inStrickland. 243 F. 3d, at 979. We granted certiorari, 534U. S. 1064 (2001), and now reverse the Court of Appeals.IIThe Antiterrorism and Effective Death Penalty Act of1996 modified a federal habeas court's role in reviewing stateprisoner applications in order to prevent federal habeas"retrials" and to ensure that state-court convictions aregiven effect to the extent possible under law. See Williamsv. Taylor, 529 U. S. 362, 403-404 (2000). To these ends,$ 2254(d)(1) provides:"(d) An application for a writ of habeas corpus on be-half of a person in custody pursuant to the judgment ofa State court shall not be granted with respect to anyclaim that was adjudicated on the merits in State courtproceedings unless the adjudication of the claim--"(1) resulted in a decision that was contrary to, orinvolved an unreasonable application of, clearly estab535US3 Unit: $U51 [09-22-03 21:02:42] PAGES PGT: OPIN694 BELL v. CONEOpinion of the Courtlished Federal law, as determined by the Supreme Courtof the United States." 2As we stated in Williams, $ 2254(d)(1)'s "contrary to" and"unreasonable application" clauses have independent meaning. 529 U. S., at 404-405. A federal habeas court mayissue the writ under the "contrary to" clause if the statecourt applies a rule different from the governing law setforth in our cases, or if it decides a case differently than wehave done on a set of materially indistinguishable facts. Id.,at 405-406. The court may grant relief under the "unreasonable application" clause if the state court correctly identifies the governing legal principle from our decisions but unreasonably applies it to the facts of the particular case. Id.,at 407-408. The focus of the latter inquiry is on whetherthe state court's application of clearly established federal lawis objectively unreasonable, and we stressed in Williamsthat an unreasonable application is different from an incorrect one. Id., at 409-410. See also id., at 411 (a federalhabeas court may not issue a writ under the unreasonableapplication clause "simply because that court concludes inits independent judgment that the relevant state-court decision applied clearly established federal law erroneously orincorrectly").Petitioner contends that the Court of Appeals exceeded itsstatutory authority to grant relief under $ 2254(d)(1) becausethe decision of the Tennessee courts was neither contrary tonor an unreasonable application of the clearly established lawof Strickland. Respondent counters that he is entitled torelief under $ 2254(d)(1)'s "contrary to" clause because thestate court applied the wrong legal rule. In his view,Cronic, not Strickland, governs the analysis of his claim that2 Justice Stevens' dissent does not cite this statutory provision governing respondent's ability to obtain federal habeas relief, much lessexplain how his claim meets its standards.535US3 Unit: $U51 [09-22-03 21:02:42] PAGES PGT: OPIN695Cite as: 535 U. S. 685 (2002)Opinion of the Courthis counsel rendered ineffective assistance at the sentencinghearing. We address this issue first.In Strickland, which was decided the same day as Cronic,we announced a two-part test for evaluating claims that adefendant's counsel performed so incompetently in his or herrepresentation of a defendant that the defendant's sentenceor conviction should be reversed. We reasoned that therewould be a sufficient indication that counsel's assistance wasdefective enough to undermine confidence in a proceeding'sresult if the defendant proved two things: first, that counsel's"representation fell below an objective standard of reasonableness," 466 U. S., at 688; and second, that "there is a reasonable probability that, but for counsel's unprofessional errors, the result of the proceeding would have been different,"id., at 694. Without proof of both deficient performance andprejudice to the defense, we concluded, it could not be saidthat the sentence or conviction "resulted from a breakdownin the adversary process that rendered the result of the proceeding unreliable," id., at 687, and the sentence or conviction should stand.In Cronic, we considered whether the Court of Appealswas correct in reversing a defendant's conviction under theSixth Amendment without inquiring into counsel's actualperformance or requiring the defendant to show the effect ithad on the trial. 466 U. S., at 650, 658. We determined thatthe court had erred and remanded to allow the claim to beconsidered under Strickland's test. 466 U. S., at 666-667,and n. 41. In the course of deciding this question, we identified three situations implicating the right to counsel thatinvolved circumstances "so likely to prejudice the accusedthat the cost of litigating their effect in a particular case isunjustified." Id., at 658-659.First and "[m]ost obvious" was the "complete denial ofcounsel." Id., at 659. A trial would be presumptively unfair, we said, where the accused is denied the presence ofcounsel at "a critical stage," id., at 659, 662, a phrase we used535US3 Unit: $U51 [09-22-03 21:02:42] PAGES PGT: OPIN696 BELL v. CONEOpinion of the Courtin Hamilton v. Alabama, 368 U. S. 52, 54 (1961), and Whitev. Maryland, 373 U. S. 59, 60 (1963) (per curiam), to denotea step of a criminal proceeding, such as arraignment, thatheld significant consequences for the accused.3 Second, weposited that a similar presumption was warranted if "counselentirely fails to subject the prosecution's case to meaningfuladversarial testing." Cronic, supra, at 659. Finally, wesaid that in cases like Powell v. Alabama, 287 U. S. 45 (1932),where counsel is called upon to render assistance undercircumstances where competent counsel very likely couldnot, the defendant need not show that the proceedings wereaffected. Cronic, supra, at 659-662.Respondent argues that his claim fits within the secondexception identified in Cronic because his counsel failed to"mount some case for life" after the prosecution introducedevidence in the sentencing hearing and gave a closing statement. Brief for Respondent 26. We disagree. When we3 In a footnote, we also cited other cases besides Hamilton v. Alabamaand White v. Maryland where we found a Sixth Amendment error withoutrequiring a showing of prejudice. Each involved criminal defendants whohad actually or constructively been denied counsel by government action.See United States v. Cronic, 466 U. S. 648, 659, n. 25 (1984) (citing Gedersv. United States, 425 U. S. 80, 91 (1976) (order preventing defendant fromconsulting his counsel "about anything" during a 17-hour overnight recessimpinged upon his Sixth Amendment right to the assistance of counsel);Herring v. New York, 422 U. S. 853, 865 (1975) (trial judge's order denyingcounsel the opportunity to make a summation at close of bench trial denieddefendant assistance of counsel); Brooks v. Tennessee, 406 U. S. 605, 612-613 (1972) (law requiring defendant to testify first at trial or not at alldeprived accused of "the `guiding hand of counsel' in the timing of thiscritical element of his defense," i. e., when and whether to take the stand);Ferguson v. Georgia, 365 U. S. 570, 596 (1961) (statute retaining commonlaw incompetency rule for criminal defendants, which denied the accusedthe right to have his counsel question him to elicit his statements beforethe jury, was inconsistent with Fourteenth Amendment); Williams v. Kaiser, 323 U. S. 471 (1945) (allegation that petitioner requested counsel butdid not receive one at the time he was convicted and sentenced stated casefor denial of due process)).535US3 Unit: $U51 [09-22-03 21:02:42] PAGES PGT: OPIN697Cite as: 535 U. S. 685 (2002)Opinion of the Courtspoke in Cronic of the possibility of presuming prejudicebased on an attorney's failure to test the prosecutor's case,we indicated that the attorney's failure must be complete.We said "if counsel entirely fails to subject the prosecution'scase to meaningful adversarial testing." Cronic, supra, at659 (emphasis added). Here, respondent's argument is notthat his counsel failed to oppose the prosecution throughoutthe sentencing proceeding as a whole, but that his counselfailed to do so at specific points. For purposes of distin-guishing between the rule ofStrickland and that of Cronic,this difference is not of degree but of kind.4The aspects of counsel's performance challenged by re-spondent--the failure to adduce mitigating evidence and thewaiver of closing argument--are plainly of the same ilk asother specific attorney errors we have held subject to Strick4 In concluding that Cronic applies to respondent's ineffective-assistanceclaim, the dissent relies in part on inferences it draws from evidence thathis attorney sought treatment for a mental illness four years after respondent's trial. See post, at 715-716 (opinion of Stevens, J.). Whilethe dissent admits that counsel's mental health problems "may have onsetafter [respondent's] trial," it speculates that counsel's mental health problems began earlier based on its "complete reading of the trial transcriptand an assessment of [counsel's] actions at trial." Post, at 716. But, asthe dissent concedes, respondent did not present any evidence regardinghis counsel's mental health in the state-court proceedings. Before us, respondent does not argue that we could consider his attorney's medicalrecords obtained in the federal habeas proceedings in assessing his SixthAmendment claim, nor does he suggest that his counsel suffered from mental health problems at the time of his trial. Furthermore, any implicationthat trial counsel was impaired during his representation is contradictedby the testimony of the two experts called during the state postconvictionhearing. Both had extensive experience in prosecuting and defendingcriminal cases and were familiar with trial counsel's abilities. Wayne Emmons said that counsel was "not only fully capable, but one of the mostconscientious lawyers [he] knew." State Postconviction Tr. 73. And Stephen Shankman said he considered respondent's counsel "to be one of thefinest practitioners in [the] community in the area of criminal defensework," id., at 182, and "an extremely experienced lawyer" whom he wouldbe "hardpressed to second guess," id., at 190.535US3 Unit: $U51 [09-22-03 21:02:42] PAGES PGT: OPIN698 BELL v. CONEOpinion of the Courtland's performance and prejudice components. In Dardenv. Wainwright, 477 U. S. 168, 184 (1986), for example, weevaluated under Strickland a claim that counsel was ineffec-tive for failing to put on any mitigating evidence at a capitalsentencing hearing. In Burger v. Kemp, 483 U. S. 776, 788(1987), we did the same when presented with a challenge tocounsel's decision at a capital sentencing hearing not to offerany mitigating evidence at all.We hold, therefore, that the state court correctly identifiedthe principles announced inStrickland as those governingthe analysis of respondent's claim. Consequently, we findno merit in respondent's contention that the state court'sadjudication was contrary to our clearly established law.Cf. Williams, 529 U. S., at 405 ("The word `contrary' is com-monly understood to mean `diametrically different,' `oppositein character or nature,' or `mutually opposed' " (quoting Web-ster's Third New International Dictionary 495 (1976))).IIIThe remaining issue, then, is whether respondent can ob-tain relief on the ground that the state court's adjudicationof his claim involved an "unreasonable application" of Strick-land. In Strickland we said that "[ j]udicial scrutiny of acounsel's performance must be highly deferential" and that"every effort [must] be made to eliminate the distorting effects of hindsight, to reconstruct the circumstances of coun-sel's challenged conduct, and to evaluate the conduct fromcounsel's perspective at the time." 466 U. S., at 689. Thus,even when a court is presented with an ineffective-assistanceclaim not subject to $ 2254(d)(1) deference, a defendant mustovercome the "presumption that, under the circumstances,the challenged action `might be considered sound trial strat-egy.' "Ibid. (quoting Michel v. Louisiana, 350 U. S. 91,101 (1955)).For respondent to succeed, however, he must do more thanshow that he would have satisfiedStrickland's test if his535US3 Unit: $U51 [09-22-03 21:02:42] PAGES PGT: OPIN699Cite as: 535 U. S. 685 (2002)Opinion of the Courtclaim were being analyzed in the first instance, becauseunder $ 2254(d)(1), it is not enough to convince a federal habeas court that, in its independent judgment, the state-courtdecision appliedStrickland incorrectly. See Williams,supra, at 411. Rather, he must show that the TennesseeCourt of Appeals appliedStrickland to the facts of his casein an objectively unreasonable manner. This, we conclude,he cannot do.Respondent's counsel was faced with the formidable taskof defending a client who had committed a horribly brutaland senseless crime against two elderly persons in theirhome. He had just the day before shot a police officer andan unarmed civilian, attempted to shoot another person, andcommitted a robbery. The State had near conclusive proofof guilt on the murder charges as well as extensive evidencedemonstrating the cruelty of the killings. Making the situation more onerous were the facts that respondent, despite his high intelligence and relatively normal upbringing,had turned into a drug addict and had a history of robberyconvictions.Because the defense's theory at the guilt phase was notguilty by reason of insanity, counsel was able to put before the jury extensive testimony about what he believedto be the most compelling mitigating evidence in the case--evidence regarding the change his client underwent afterserving in Vietnam; his drug dependency, which apparentlydrove him to commit the robbery in the first place; andits effects. Before the state courts, respondent faulted hiscounsel for not recalling his medical experts during thesentencing hearing. But we think counsel reasonably couldhave concluded that the substance of their testimony wasstill fresh to the jury. Each had taken the stand not longbefore, and counsel focused on their testimony in his guiltphase closing argument, which took place the day before thesentencing hearing was held. Respondent's suggestion thatthe jury could not fully consider the mental health proof as535US3 Unit: $U51 [09-22-03 21:02:42] PAGES PGT: OPIN700 BELL v. CONEOpinion of the Courtpotentially mitigating because it was adduced during theguilt phase finds no support in the record. Defense counseladvised the jury that the testimony of the experts estab-lished the existence of mitigating circumstances, and thetrial court specifically instructed the jury that evidence of amental disease or defect insufficient to establish a criminaldefense could be considered in mitigation. Tr. 2221.Respondent also assigned error in his counsel's decisionnot to recall his mother. While counsel recognized that re-spondent's mother could have provided further informationabout respondent's childhood and spoken of her love for him,he concluded that she had not made a good witness at theguilt stage, and he did not wish to subject her to furthercross-examination. Respondent advances no argument thatwould call his attorney's assessment into question.In his trial preparations, counsel investigated the possibility of calling other witnesses. He thought respondent's sis-ter, who was closest to him, might make a good witness, butshe did not want to testify. And even if she had agreed,putting her on the stand would have allowed the prosecutorto question her about the fact that respondent called herfrom the Todds' house just after the killings. After consulting with his client, counsel opted not to call respondent him-self as a witness. And we think counsel had sound tacticalreasons for deciding against it. Respondent said he wasvery angry with the prosecutor and thought he might lashout if pressed on cross-examination, which could have onlyalienated him in the eyes of the jury. There was also thepossibility of calling other witnesses from his childhood ordays in the Army. But counsel feared that the prosecutionmight elicit information about respondent's criminal history.55 Respondent cites Cozzolino v. State, 584 S. W. 2d 765 (Tenn. 1979), toargue that calling additional witnesses would not have opened the door toevidence about his prior bad acts. We need not express any view as toTennessee law on this issue except to point out that Cozzolino does notstate such a broad, categorical rule. Cozzolino held that a trial court535US3 Unit: $U51 [09-22-03 21:02:42] PAGES PGT: OPIN701Cite as: 535 U. S. 685 (2002)Opinion of the CourtHe further feared that testimony about respondent's normalyouth might, in the jury's eyes, cut the other way.Respondent also focuses on counsel's decision to waivefinal argument. He points out that counsel could have explained the significance of his Bronze Star decoration andargues that his counsel's failure to advocate for life in closingnecessarily left the jury with the impression that he de-served to die. The Court of Appeals "reject[ed] out of hand"the idea that waiving summation could ever be consideredsound trial strategy. 243 F. 3d, at 979. In this case, wethink at the very least that the state court's contrary assessment was not "unreasonable." After respondent's counselgave his opening statement discussing the mitigating evidence before them and urging that they choose life for hisclient, the prosecution did not put on any particularly dramatic or impressive testimony. The State's witnesses testi-fied rather briefly about the undisputed facts that respondenthad prior convictions and was evading arrest.When the junior prosecutor delivered a very matter-offact closing that did not dwell on any of the brutal aspects ofthe crime, counsel was faced with a choice. He could make aclosing argument and reprise for the jury, perhaps in greaterdetail than his opening, the primary mitigating evidence con-cerning his client's drug dependency and posttraumaticstress from Vietnam. And he could plead again for life forhis client and impress upon the jurors the importance ofwhat he believed were less significant facts, such as theBronze Star decoration or his client's expression of remorse.But he knew that if he took this opportunity, he would givethe lead prosecutor, who all agreed was very persuasive, theerred in admitting evidence that the defendant committed crimes afterthe murder because that evidence was not relevant to any aggravatingfactors or mitigating factors raised by the defense. Id., at 767-768. Inthis case, at a minimum, any evidence about respondent's prior robberyconvictions would have been relevant because the State relied on thoseconvictions to prove an aggravating circumstance.535US3 Unit: $U51 [09-22-03 21:02:42] PAGES PGT: OPIN702 BELL v. CONEStevens, J., dissentingchance to depict his client as a heartless killer just beforethe jurors began deliberation. Alternatively, counsel couldprevent the lead prosecutor from arguing by waiving hisown summation and relying on the jurors' familiarity withthe case and his opening plea for life made just a few hoursbefore. Neither option, it seems to us, so clearly outweighsthe other that it was objectively unreasonable for the Tennessee Court of Appeals to deem counsel's choice to waiveargument a tactical decision about which competent lawyersmight disagree.We cautioned inStrickland that a court must indulge a"strong presumption" that counsel's conduct falls within thewide range of reasonable professional assistance because itis all too easy to conclude that a particular act or omissionof counsel was unreasonable in the harsh light of hindsight.466 U. S., at 689. Given the choices available to respondent'scounsel and the reasons we have identified, we cannot saythat the state court's application of Strickland's attorneyperformance standard was objectively unreasonable. Thejudgment of the Court of Appeals is therefore reversed, andthe case is remanded for further proceedings consistent withthis opinion.