Respondent Mark Owen McGuire was found guilty in aCalifornia state court of second-degree murder for the killing of his infant daughter. After unsuccessfully challenginghis conviction on appeal in the state courts, McGuire soughtfederal habeas relief, and the United States Court of Appealsfor the Ninth Circuit set aside his conviction. 902 F. 2d 749(1990). We hold that in so doing the Court of Appeals ex-ceeded the limited scope of federal habeas review of stateconvictions.McGuire and his wife brought their 6-month-old daughter,Tori, to a hospital in Hayward, California. The baby wasbluish in color and was not breathing. The attending physician noticed a large and relatively recent bruise on Tori'schest with multiple bruises around it, as well as black and*Briefs of amici curiae urging reversal were filed for the United Statesby Solicitor General Starr, Assistant Attorney General Mueller, DeputySolicitor General Bryson, and Clifford M. Sloan; and for the CriminalJustice Legal Foundation by Kent S. Scheidegger.Charles D. Weisselberg and Dennis E. Curtis filed a brief for the National Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers et al. as amici curiaeurging affirmance.502us1$$7H 08-21-96 15:22:21 PAGES OPINPGT65Cite as: 502 U. S. 62 (1991)Opinion of the Courtblue marks around her ears. Efforts to revive the childwere unsuccessful; Tori died 45 minutes after being broughtto the hospital. An autopsy revealed 17 contusions on thebaby's chest, 29 contusions in her abdominal area, a splitliver, a split pancreas, a lacerated large intestine, and damage to her heart and one of her lungs. The autopsy alsouncovered evidence of rectal tearing, which was at least sixweeks old, and evidence of partially healed rib fractures,which were approximately seven weeks old.The police questioned McGuire and his wife. McGuirestated his belief that Tori's injuries must have resulted froma fall off the family couch. He told the police that when hiswife went out to make a telephone call, he went upstairs,leaving Tori lying on the couch; when he heard the baby cry,he came back downstairs to find her lying on the floor.After a police officer expressed skepticism at this explanation, McGuire replied that "[m]aybe some Mexicans came in"while he was upstairs. Id., at 751. During separate questioning, McGuire's wife stated that she had not hit Tori, andthat she was unsure whether her husband had done so.McGuire was charged with second-degree murder. Attrial, the prosecution introduced both the statements madeby McGuire to police and the medical evidence, including theevidence of prior rectal tearing and fractured ribs. Twophysicians testified that Tori was a battered child, relying inpart on the prior rib and rectal injuries, as well as on themore recent injuries. McGuire's neighbor testified that shehad seen McGuire carry Tori by one of her arms to the carand roughly pinch her cheeks together when she cried. Theneighbor added that McGuire's wife had expressed fear inleaving Tori alone with McGuire, because he had been roughwith the baby and "did bad things" to her.In addition, the prosecution called a witness who had overheard a conversation between McGuire and his wife in thehospital emergency room the night of Tori's death. According to the witness, McGuire's wife several times insistently502us1$$7H 08-21-96 15:22:22 PAGES OPINPGT66 ESTELLE v. McGUIREOpinion of the Courtasked, "What really happened?" McGuire replied that he"didn't know," and that he "guessed" the baby fell off thecouch. His wife continued to press for an answer, stating,"I am very patient. I can wait a long time. I want to knowwhat really happened." Finally, she told McGuire that "thebaby was alright when I left. You are responsible." App.44; Brief for United States asAmicus Curiae 3-4. McGuire's wife was called by the prosecution to testify at trial,after having been granted transactional immunity from future prosecution. In contrast to her prior statement to thepolice and her declarations at the hospital, she stated thatshe had beaten Tori on the day of her death before her husband arrived home. The jury convicted McGuire of seconddegree murder.The California Court of Appeal affirmed McGuire's conviction. The court observed that the evidence of prior rib andrectal injuries was introduced to prove "battered child syndrome." That syndrome exists when a child has sustainedrepeated and/or serious injuries by nonaccidental means.People v. Bledsoe, 36 Cal. 3d 236, 249, 681 P. 2d 291, 299(1984). After reviewing California authority on the subject,the court concluded that "proof of Tori's `prior injuries' tending to establish the `battered child syndrome' was patentlyproper." App. 47. The California Supreme Court deniedreview.McGuire then filed a petition for habeas corpus relief inthe United States District Court for the Northern Districtof California. That court denied relief. The Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit reversed and granted McGuire'shabeas petition. The court ruled that the prior injury evidence was erroneously admitted to establish battered childsyndrome, because no evidence linked McGuire to the priorinjuries and no claim had been made at trial that the babydied accidentally. In addition, the court believed that thetrial court's instruction on the use of prior act evidence allowed a finding of guilt based simply on a judgment that502us1$$7H 08-21-96 15:22:22 PAGES OPINPGT67Cite as: 502 U. S. 62 (1991)Opinion of the CourtMcGuire committed the prior bad acts.1 The court con-cluded that the admission of the evidence, in conjunctionwith the prejudicial instruction, "rendered [McGuire's] trialarbitrary and fundamentally unfair" in violation of due process. 902 F. 2d, at 753. We hold that none of the allegederrors rise to the level of a due process violation, and soreverse. IWe first consider whether the admission of the prior injuryevidence justified habeas relief. In ruling that McGuire'sdue process rights were violated by the admission of the evi-dence, the Court of Appeals relied in part on its conclusionthat the evidence was "incorrectly admitted . . . pursuant toCalifornia law."Id., at 754. Such an inquiry, however, isno part of a federal court's habeas review of a state conviction. We have stated many times that "federal habeas cor-pus relief does not lie for errors of state law."Lewis v. Jef-fers, 497 U. S. 764, 780 (1990); see also Pulley v. Harris, 465U. S. 37, 41 (1984). Today, we reemphasize that it is not the1 The court instructed the jury:"Evidence has been introduced for the purpose of showing that the Defendant committed acts similar to those constituting a crime other thanthat for which he is on trial. Such evidence, if believed, was not received,and may not be considered by you[,] to prove that he is a person of badcharacter or that he has a disposition to commit crimes. Such evidencewas received and may be considered by you only for the limited purposeof determining if it tends to show three things:"1. The impeachment of Daisy McGuire's testimony that she had nocause to be afraid of the Defendant,"2. To establish the battered child syndrome, and"3. Also a clear connection between the other two offense[s] and the oneof which the Defendant is accused, so that it may be logically concludedthat if the Defendant committed other offenses, he also committed thecrime charged in this case."For the limited purpose for which you may consider such evidence,you must weigh it in the same manner as you do all other evidence in thecase. You are not permitted to consider evidence for any other purpose." App. 40-41.502us1$$7H 02-08-99 07:25:46 PAGES OPINPGT68 ESTELLE v. McGUIREOpinion of the Courtprovince of a federal habeas court to reexamine state-courtdeterminations on state-law questions. In conducting habeas review, a federal court is limited to deciding whether aconviction violated the Constitution, laws, or treaties of theUnited States. 28 U. S. C. $ 2241; Rose v. Hodges, 423 U. S.19, 21 (1975) (per curiam).2We thus turn to the question whether the admission ofthe evidence violated McGuire's federal constitutional rights.California law allows the prosecution to introduce experttestimony and evidence related to prior injuries in order toprove "battered child syndrome." People v. Bledsoe, supra,at 249, 681 P. 2d, at 299; Landeros v. Flood, 17 Cal. 3d 399,409, 551 P. 2d 389, 393 (1976); People v. Jackson, 18 Cal. App.3d 504, 506-508, 95 Cal. Rptr. 919, 921-922 (1971). The demonstration of battered child syndrome "simply indicates thata child found with [serious, repeated injuries] has not suffered those injuries by accidental means." Id., at 507, 95Cal. Rptr., at 921. Thus, evidence demonstrating batteredchild syndrome helps to prove that the child died at thehands of another and not by falling off a couch, for example;it also tends to establish that the "other," whoever it maybe, inflicted the injuries intentionally. When offered toshow that certain injuries are a product of child abuse,rather than accident, evidence of prior injuries is relevanteven though it does not purport to prove the identity of theperson who might have inflicted those injuries. See id., at506-508, 95 Cal. Rptr., at 921-922; People v. Bledsoe, supra,at 249, 681 P. 2d, at 299. Because the prosecution had2 In this regard, we observe that the Ninth Circuit reached a similarresult in Blair v. McCarthy, 881 F. 2d 602 (1989), cert. granted, 498 U. S.807, vacated as moot and remanded, 498 U. S. 954 (1990). In that case,the Court of Appeals based its grant of habeas relief solely on a violationof state law that prejudiced the defendant. Blair v. McCarthy, supra, at603-604. As our discussion above makes clear, such state-law violationsprovide no basis for federal habeas relief.502us1$$7H 02-08-99 07:25:46 PAGES OPINPGT69Cite as: 502 U. S. 62 (1991)Opinion of the Courtcharged McGuire with second-degree murder, it was re-quired to prove that Tori's death was caused by the defendant's intentional act. Proof of Tori's battered child statushelped to do just that; although not linked by any direct evidence to McGuire, the evidence demonstrated that Tori'sdeath was the result of an intentional act by someone, andnot an accident. The Court of Appeals, however, ignoredthe principle of battered child syndrome evidence in holdingthat this evidence was incorrectly admitted. For example,the court stated that "[e]vidence cannot have probative valueunless a party connects it to the defendant in some meaningful way." 902 F. 2d, at 753. We conclude that the evidenceof prior injuries presented at McGuire's trial, whether it wasdirectly linked to McGuire or not, was probative on the question of the intent with which the person who caused the injuries acted.In holding the prior injury evidence inadmissible, theCourt of Appeals also relied on the theory that, because noclaim was made at trial that Tori died accidentally, the battered child syndrome evidence was irrelevant and violativeof due process. Id., at 754. This ruling ignores the factthat the prosecution must prove all the elements of a criminal offense beyond a reasonable doubt. In this seconddegree murder case, for example, the prosecution was required to demonstrate that the killing was intentional. Cal.Penal Code Ann. $$ 187, 189 (West 1988). By eliminatingthe possibility of accident, the evidence regarding batteredchild syndrome was clearly probative of that essential element, especially in light of the fact that McGuire had claimedprior to trial that Tori had injured herself by falling fromthe couch. The Court of Appeals, however, ruled that theevidence should have been excluded because McGuire did notraise the defense of accidental death at trial. But the prosecution's burden to prove every element of the crime is notrelieved by a defendant's tactical decision not to contest anessential element of the offense. In the federal courts, "[a]502us1$$7H 02-08-99 07:25:46 PAGES OPINPGT70 ESTELLE v. McGUIREOpinion of the Courtsimple plea of not guilty . . . puts the prosecution to its proofas to all elements of the crime charged." Mathews v. UnitedStates, 485 U. S. 58, 64-65 (1988). Neither the Court of Appeals nor the parties have given us any reason to think thatthe rule is different in California. The evidence of batteredchild syndrome was relevant to show intent, and nothing inthe Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment requires the State to refrain from introducing relevant evidence simply because the defense chooses not to contest thepoint.Concluding, as we do, that the prior injury evidence wasrelevant to an issue in the case, we need not explore furtherthe apparent assumption of the Court of Appeals that it is aviolation of the due process guaranteed by the FourteenthAmendment for evidence that is not relevant to be receivedin a criminal trial. We hold that McGuire's due processrights were not violated by the admission of the evidence.See Spencer v. Texas, 385 U. S. 554, 563-564 (1967) ("Casesin this Court have long proceeded on the premise that theDue Process Clause guarantees the fundamental elements offairness in a criminal trial. . . . But it has never been thoughtthat such cases establish this Court as a rule-making organfor the promulgation of state rules of criminal procedure")(citations omitted).IIThe Court of Appeals, however, did not rely solely on afinding that the admission of the evidence was unconstitutional. It based its decision in part on a belief that the instruction given by the trial court, set forth in n. 1, supra,allowed the jury to consider the prior injury evidence formore than simply proof of the battered child syndrome, andthereby violated McGuire's due process rights. McGuire focuses on the portion of the instruction explaining to the jurythat the prior injury evidence502us1$$7H 08-21-96 15:22:22 PAGES OPINPGT71Cite as: 502 U. S. 62 (1991)Opinion of the Court"was received and may be considered by you only forthe limited purpose of determining if it tends to show. . . a clear connection between the other two offense[s]and the one of which the Defendant is accused, so thatit may be logically concluded that if the Defendant com-mitted other offenses, he also committed the crimecharged in this case." App. 41.McGuire argues that, despite the absence of any direct evi-dence showing that he caused the rib and rectal injuries, theinstruction told the jury to find that he had committed thoseprior offenses. Furthermore, he argues, the instruction leftthe jury with the mistaken impression that it could base itsfinding of guilt on the simple fact that he had previouslyharmed Tori. Under McGuire's reading, the instruction istransformed into a propensity instruction, allowing the juryto consider as evidence of his guilt the fact that his prioracts show a disposition to commit this type of crime. This,he contends, violates the Due Process Clause.In arguing his point, McGuire makes much of the fact that,in giving its instruction, the trial court deviated in part fromstandard jury instruction 2.50, 1 California Jury Instructions, Criminal (4th ed. 1979) (CALJIC).3 As we havestated above, however, the fact that the instruction was allegedly incorrect under state law is not a basis for habeas3 Meticulous compliance with CALJIC 2.50, as in effect at McGuire'strial, would have led the trial court to instruct the jury that the priorinjury evidence"was received and may be considered by you only for the limited purpose of determining if it tends to show:"A characteristic method, plan or scheme in the commission of criminal acts similar to the method, plan or scheme used in the commissionof the offense in this case which would further tend to show a clear connection between the other offense[s] and the one of which defendant is accusedso that it may be logically concluded that if defendant committed the otheroffense[s] he also committed the crime charged in this case" (portion initalics was omitted from the actual jury instruction given at McGuire'strial).502us1$$7H 08-21-96 15:22:22 PAGES OPINPGT72 ESTELLE v. McGUIREOpinion of the Courtrelief. See Marshall v. Lonberger, 459 U. S. 422, 438, n. 6(1983) ("[T]he Due Process Clause does not permit the federal courts to engage in a finely tuned review of the wisdomof state evidentiary rules"). Federal habeas courts therefore do not grant relief, as might a state appellate court,simply because the instruction may have been deficient incomparison to the CALJIC model. Nor do our habeas pow-ers allow us to reverse McGuire's conviction based on a beliefthat the trial judge incorrectly interpreted the CaliforniaEvidence Code in ruling that the prior injury evidence wasadmissible as bad acts evidence in this case. See Cal. Evid.Code Ann. $ 1101(b) (West 1988). The only question for usis "whether the ailing instruction by itself so infected theentire trial that the resulting conviction violates due process." Cupp v. Naughten, 414 U. S. 141, 147 (1973); see alsoHenderson v. Kibbe, 431 U. S. 145, 154 (1977); Donnelly v.DeChristoforo, 416 U. S. 637, 643 (1974) (" `[I]t must be estab-lished not merely that the instruction is undesirable, erroneous, or even "universally condemned," but that it violatedsome [constitutional] right' "). It is well established that theinstruction "may not be judged in artificial isolation," butmust be considered in the context of the instructions as awhole and the trial record. Cupp v. Naughten, supra, at147. In addition, in reviewing an ambiguous instructionsuch as the one at issue here, we inquire "whether there is areasonable likelihood that the jury has applied the challengedinstruction in a way" that violates the Constitution. Boydev. California, 494 U. S. 370, 380 (1990).4 And we also bear4 We acknowledge that language in the later cases of Cage v. Louisiana,498 U. S. 39 (1990), and Yates v. Evatt, 500 U. S. 391 (1991), might be readas endorsing a different standard of review for jury instructions. SeeCage, supra, at 41 ("In construing the instruction, we consider how reasonable jurors could have understood the charge as a whole"); Yates, supra,at 401 ("We think a reasonable juror would have understood the [instruction] to mean . . ."). In Boyde, however, we made it a point to settle ona single standard of review for jury instructions--the "reasonable likelihood" standard--after considering the many different phrasings that had502us1$$7H 08-21-96 15:22:22 PAGES OPINPGT73Cite as: 502 U. S. 62 (1991)Opinion of the Courtin mind our previous admonition that we "have defined thecategory of infractions that violate `fundamental fairness'very narrowly." Dowling v. United States, 493 U. S. 342,352 (1990). "Beyond the specific guarantees enumerated inthe Bill of Rights, the Due Process Clause has limited opera-tion."Ibid.McGuire first claims that the instruction directed the juryto find that he had caused the prior injuries, thereby effec-tively taking that question from the jury. One might arguethat the "two offense[s]" referred to in the instruction wereMcGuire's pinching of the child's cheeks and the lifting ofthe child by her arm. When read in context, however, weconclude that the most likely interpretation is that the refer-ence was to the rectal tearing and fractured ribs. McGuireargues that, despite the lack of any direct evidence linkinghim to those injuries, the instruction directed the jury tofind that he had committed them. This claim is clearly fore-closed, however, by the language of the instruction. Thechallenged portion of the instruction included the words "ifthe Defendant committed other offenses." App. 41. By including this phrase, the trial court unquestionably left it tothe jury to determine whether McGuire committed the prioracts;only if the jury believed he was the perpetrator couldit use the evidence in deciding whether McGuire was guiltyof the crime charged. Therefore, if the jury did not believeMcGuire caused the prior injuries, he was not harmed by thechallenged portion of the instruction. To the extent thatthe jury may have believed McGuire committed the prioracts and used that as a factor in its deliberation, we observethat there was sufficient evidence to sustain such a jurypreviously been used by this Court. 494 U. S., at 379-380 (consideringand rejecting standards that required examination of either what a reasonable juror "could" have done or "would" have done). So that we may onceagain speak with one voice on this issue, we now disapprove the standardof review language in Cage and Yates, and reaffirm the standard set outin Boyde.502us1$$7H 08-21-96 15:22:22 PAGES OPINPGT74 ESTELLE v. McGUIREOpinion of the Courtfinding by a preponderance of the evidence. Cf. People v.Simon, 184 Cal. App. 3d 125, 134, 228 Cal. Rptr. 855, 858(1986); Huddleston v. United States, 485 U. S. 681, 690 (1988).The proof of battered child syndrome itself narrowed thegroup of possible perpetrators to McGuire and his wife, because they were the only two people regularly caring forTori during her short life. SeePeople v. Jackson, 18 Cal.App. 3d, at 507, 95 Cal. Rptr., at 921 ("Only someone regu-larly `caring' for the child has the continuing opportunity toinflict these types of injuries; an isolated contact with a vi-cious stranger would not result in this pattern of successiveinjuries stretching through several months"). A neighbortestified that she had seen McGuire treat Tori roughly ontwo occasions, and that McGuire's wife was scared to leaveTori alone with McGuire because he "did bad things" to her;the neighbor further testified that she had never seen McGuire's wife abuse the child in any way. Futhermore, whenbeing questioned by the police after Tori died, McGuire'swife stated that she observed bruises on the baby's bodywhen bathing her. When asked by the police for an explanation, she replied, "I don't really know, you know, I am notthe only one who is taking care of her." App. 131. Theevidence described, along with other evidence in the record,convinces us that there was sufficient proof for the jury toconclude, if it so desired, that McGuire caused the prior riband rectal injuries.McGuire also contends that, even if the determination ofthe perpetrator was left to the jury, the instruction constituted a "propensity" instruction, allowing the jury to baseits determination of guilt in part upon the conclusion thatMcGuire had committed the prior acts and therefore had apropensity to commit this type of crime. While the instruction was not as clear as it might have been, we find thatthere is not a "reasonable likelihood" that the jury wouldhave concluded that this instruction, read in the context ofother instructions, authorized the use of propensity evidence502us1$$7H 08-21-96 15:22:22 PAGES OPINPGT75Cite as: 502 U. S. 62 (1991)Opinion of O'Connor, J.pure and simple. Boyde v. California, supra, at 380. Itseems far more likely that the jury understood the instruction, supra, at 71, to mean that if it found a "clear connec-tion" between the prior injuries and the instant injuries, andif it found that McGuire had committed the prior injuries,then it could use that fact in determining that McGuire committed the crime charged. The use of the evidence of prioroffenses permitted by this instruction was therefore parallelto the familiar use of evidence of prior acts for the purposeof showing intent, identity, motive, or plan. See,e. g., Fed.Rule Evid. 404(b). Furthermore, the trial court guardedagainst possible misuse of the instruction by specifically ad-vising the jury that the "[prior injury] evidence, if believed,was not received, and may not be considered by you[,] toprove that [McGuire] is a person of bad character or thathe has a disposition to commit crimes." See n. 1, supra.Especially in light of this limiting provision, we rejectMcGuire's claim that the instruction should be viewed as apropensity instruction.5We therefore hold that neither the introduction of the chal-lenged evidence, nor the jury instruction as to its use, "soinfused the trial with unfairness as to deny due process oflaw."Lisenba v. California, 314 U. S. 219, 228 (1941); seealso Donnelly v. DeChristoforo, 416 U. S., at 643. The judgment of the Court of Appeals is therefore