This case presents the question whether the use of athermal-imaging device aimed at a private home from apublic street to detect relative amounts of heat withinthe home constitutes a "search" within the meaning of theFourth Amendment. IIn 1991 Agent William Elliott of the United States De-partment of the Interior came to suspect that marijuanawas being grown in the home belonging to petitioner DannyKyllo, part of a triplex on Rhododendron Drive in Florence,Oregon. Indoor marijuana growth typically requires high-intensity lamps. In order to determine whether an amountof heat was emanating from petitioner's home consistentwith the use of such lamps, at 3:20 a.m. on January 16, 1992,Agent Elliott and Dan Haas used an Agema Thermovision210 thermal imager to scan the triplex. Thermal imagersdetect infrared radiation, which virtually all objects emitbut which is not visible to the naked eye. The imager converts radiation into images based on relative warmth--black*Briefs of amici curiae urging reversal were filed for the Liberty Project by Julie M. Carpenter; and for the National Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers et al. by James J. Tomkovicz, Lisa B. Kemler, andSteven R. Shapiro.533US1 Unit: $U69 [10-17-02 18:29:35] PAGES PGT: OPIN30 KYLLO v. UNITED STATESOpinion of the Courtis cool, white is hot, shades of gray connote relative differences; in that respect, it operates somewhat like a videocamera showing heat images. The scan of Kyllo's home tookonly a few minutes and was performed from the passengerseat of Agent Elliott's vehicle across the street from thefront of the house and also from the street in back of thehouse. The scan showed that the roof over the garage anda side wall of petitioner's home were relatively hot compared to the rest of the home and substantially warmerthan neighboring homes in the triplex. Agent Elliott concluded that petitioner was using halide lights to grow marijuana in his house, which indeed he was. Based on tips frominformants, utility bills, and the thermal imaging, a FederalMagistrate Judge issued a warrant authorizing a search ofpetitioner's home, and the agents found an indoor growingoperation involving more than 100 plants. Petitioner wasindicted on one count of manufacturing marijuana, in violation of 21 U. S. C. $ 841(a)(1). He unsuccessfully moved tosuppress the evidence seized from his home and then entereda conditional guilty plea.The Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit remanded thecase for an evidentiary hearing regarding the intrusivenessof thermal imaging. On remand the District Court foundthat the Agema 210 "is a non-intrusive device which emitsno rays or beams and shows a crude visual image of theheat being radiated from the outside of the house"; it"did not show any people or activity within the walls ofthe structure"; "[t]he device used cannot penetrate wallsor windows to reveal conversations or human activities";and "[n]o intimate details of the home were observed."Supp. App. to Pet. for Cert. 39-40. Based on these findings, the District Court upheld the validity of the warrantthat relied in part upon the thermal imaging, and reaffirmedits denial of the motion to suppress. A divided Court ofAppeals initially reversed, 140 F. 3d 1249 (1998), but that533US1 Unit: $U69 [10-17-02 18:29:35] PAGES PGT: OPIN31Cite as: 533 U. S. 27 (2001)Opinion of the Courtopinion was withdrawn and the panel (after a change in com-position) affirmed, 190 F. 3d 1041 (1999), with Judge Noonandissenting. The court held that petitioner had shown nosubjective expectation of privacy because he had madeno attempt to conceal the heat escaping from his home, id.,at 1046, and even if he had, there was no objectively reasonable expectation of privacy because the imager "did notexpose any intimate details of Kyllo's life," only "amorphous`hot spots' on the roof and exterior wall," id., at 1047. Wegranted certiorari. 530 U. S. 1305 (2000).IIThe Fourth Amendment provides that "[t]he right of thepeople to be secure in their persons, houses, papers, andeffects, against unreasonable searches and seizures, shallnot be violated." "At the very core" of the Fourth Amendment "stands the right of a man to retreat into his own homeand there be free from unreasonable governmental intrusion." Silverman v. United States, 365 U. S. 505, 511 (1961).With few exceptions, the question whether a warrantlesssearch of a home is reasonable and hence constitutional mustbe answered no. SeeIllinois v. Rodriguez, 497 U. S. 177,181 (1990); Payton v. New York, 445 U. S. 573, 586 (1980).On the other hand, the antecedent question whether or nota Fourth Amendment "search" has occurred is not so simpleunder our precedent. The permissibility of ordinary visualsurveillance of a home used to be clear because, well into the20th century, our Fourth Amendment jurisprudence was tiedto common-law trespass. See,e. g., Goldman v. UnitedStates, 316 U. S. 129, 134-136 (1942); Olmstead v. UnitedStates, 277 U. S. 438, 464-466 (1928). Cf. Silverman v.United States, supra, at 510-512 (technical trespass not necessary for Fourth Amendment violation; it suffices if thereis "actual intrusion into a constitutionally protected area").Visual surveillance was unquestionably lawful because " `the533US1 Unit: $U69 [10-17-02 18:29:35] PAGES PGT: OPIN32 KYLLO v. UNITED STATESOpinion of the Courteye cannot by the laws of England be guilty of a trespass.' "Boyd v. United States, 116 U. S. 616, 628 (1886) (quoting Entick v. Carrington, 19 How. St. Tr. 1029, 95 Eng. Rep. 807(K. B. 1765)). We have since decoupled violation of a person's Fourth Amendment rights from trespassory violationof his property, see Rakas v. Illinois, 439 U. S. 128, 143(1978), but the lawfulness of warrantless visual surveillanceof a home has still been preserved. As we observed inCali-fornia v. Ciraolo, 476 U. S. 207, 213 (1986), "[t]he FourthAmendment protection of the home has never been extendedto require law enforcement officers to shield their eyes whenpassing by a home on public thoroughfares."One might think that the new validating rationale wouldbe that examining the portion of a house that is in plainpublic view, while it is a "search"1 despite the absence oftrespass, is not an "unreasonable" one under the FourthAmendment. See Minnesota v. Carter, 525 U. S. 83, 104(1998) (Breyer, J., concurring in judgment). But in factwe have held that visual observation is no "search" at all--perhaps in order to preserve somewhat more intact ourdoctrine that warrantless searches are presumptively un-constitutional. SeeDow Chemical Co. v. United States, 476U. S. 227, 234-235, 239 (1986). In assessing when a searchis not a search, we have applied somewhat in reverse theprinciple first enunciated in Katz v. United States, 389 U. S.347 (1967).Katz involved eavesdropping by means of anelectronic listening device placed on the outside of a tele-phone booth--a location not within the catalog ("persons,houses, papers, and effects") that the Fourth Amendmentprotects against unreasonable searches. We held that the1 When the Fourth Amendment was adopted, as now, to "search" meant"[t]o look over or through for the purpose of finding something; to explore;to examine by inspection; as, to search the house for a book; to search thewood for a thief." N. Webster, An American Dictionary of the EnglishLanguage 66 (1828) (reprint 6th ed. 1989).533US1 Unit: $U69 [10-17-02 18:29:35] PAGES PGT: OPIN33Cite as: 533 U. S. 27 (2001)Opinion of the CourtFourth Amendment nonetheless protected Katz from thewarrantless eavesdropping because he "justifiably relied"upon the privacy of the telephone booth. Id., at 353.As Justice Harlan's oft-quoted concurrence described it,a Fourth Amendment search occurs when the governmentviolates a subjective expectation of privacy that societyrecognizes as reasonable. See id., at 361. We have sub-sequently applied this principle to hold that a FourthAmendment search does not occur--even when the explicitlyprotected location of ahouse is concerned--unless "the in-dividual manifested a subjective expectation of privacy inthe object of the challenged search," and "society [is] will-ing to recognize that expectation as reasonable." Ciraolo,supra, at 211. We have applied this test in holding thatit is not a search for the police to use a pen register atthe phone company to determine what numbers were dialedin a private home, Smith v. Maryland, 442 U. S. 735, 743-744 (1979), and we have applied the test on two differentoccasions in holding that aerial surveillance of private homesand surrounding areas does not constitute a search, Ciraolo,supra; Florida v. Riley, 488 U. S. 445 (1989).The present case involves officers on a public street engaged in more than naked-eye surveillance of a home. Wehave previously reserved judgment as to how much technological enhancement of ordinary perception from such avantage point, if any, is too much. While we upheld enhanced aerial photography of an industrial complex in DowChemical, we noted that we found "it important thatthis is not an area immediately adjacent to a private home,where privacy expectations are most heightened," 476 U. S.,at 237, n. 4 (emphasis in original).IIIIt would be foolish to contend that the degree of privacy secured to citizens by the Fourth Amendment has been533US1 Unit: $U69 [10-17-02 18:29:35] PAGES PGT: OPIN34 KYLLO v. UNITED STATESOpinion of the Courtentirely unaffected by the advance of technology. For example, as the cases discussed above make clear, the technology enabling human flight has exposed to public view(and hence, we have said, to official observation) uncoveredportions of the house and its curtilage that once wereprivate. See Ciraolo, supra, at 215. The question we confront today is what limits there are upon this power oftechnology to shrink the realm of guaranteed privacy.The Katz test--whether the individual has an expectation of privacy that society is prepared to recognize asreasonable--has often been criticized as circular, and hencesubjective and unpredictable. See 1 W. LaFave, Searchand Seizure $ 2.1(d), pp. 393-394 (3d ed. 1996); Posner, TheUncertain Protection of Privacy by the Supreme Court, 1979S. Ct. Rev. 173, 188; Carter, supra, at 97 (Scalia, J., concurring). But see Rakas, supra, at 143-144, n. 12. Whileit may be difficult to refine Katz when the search of areassuch as telephone booths, automobiles, or even the curtilageand uncovered portions of residences is at issue, in the caseof the search of the interior of homes--the prototypical andhence most commonly litigated area of protected privacy--there is a ready criterion, with roots deep in the commonlaw, of the minimal expectation of privacy that exists, andthat is acknowledged to be reasonable. To withdraw protection of this minimum expectation would be to permitpolice technology to erode the privacy guaranteed by theFourth Amendment. We think that obtaining by senseenhancing technology any information regarding the interiorof the home that could not otherwise have been obtainedwithout physical "intrusion into a constitutionally protectedarea," Silverman, 365 U. S., at 512, constitutes a search--at least where (as here) the technology in question is not ingeneral public use. This assures preservation of that degreeof privacy against government that existed when the FourthAmendment was adopted. On the basis of this criterion, the533US1 Unit: $U69 [10-17-02 18:29:35] PAGES PGT: OPIN35Cite as: 533 U. S. 27 (2001)Opinion of the Courtinformation obtained by the thermal imager in this case wasthe product of a search.2The Government maintains, however, that the thermalimaging must be upheld because it detected "only heat radiating from the external surface of the house," Brief forUnited States 26. The dissent makes this its leading point,see post, at 41, contending that there is a fundamental dif-ference between what it calls "off-the-wall" observationsand "through-the-wall surveillance." But just as a thermalimager captures only heat emanating from a house, so alsoa powerful directional microphone picks up only sound emanating from a house--and a satellite capable of scanning frommany miles away would pick up only visible light emanatingfrom a house. We rejected such a mechanical interpretationof the Fourth Amendment inKatz, where the eavesdroppingdevice picked up only sound waves that reached the exteriorof the phone booth. Reversing that approach would leavethe homeowner at the mercy of advancing technology--including imaging technology that could discern all human2 The dissent's repeated assertion that the thermal imaging did notobtain information regarding the interior of the home, post, at 43, 44 (opinion of Stevens, J.), is simply inaccurate. A thermal imager reveals therelative heat of various rooms in the home. The dissent may not find thatinformation particularly private or important, see post, at 43-44, 45, 49-50, but there is no basis for saying it is not information regarding theinterior of the home. The dissent's comparison of the thermal imagingto various circumstances in which outside observers might be able toperceive, without technology, the heat of the home--for example, by observing snowmelt on the roof, post, at 43--is quite irrelevant. Thefact that equivalent information could sometimes be obtained by othermeans does not make lawful the use of means that violate the FourthAmendment. The police might, for example, learn how many people arein a particular house by setting up year-round surveillance; but thatdoes not make breaking and entering to find out the same informationlawful. In any event, on the night of January 16, 1992, no outside observer could have discerned the relative heat of Kyllo's home withoutthermal imaging.533US1 Unit: $U69 [10-17-02 18:29:35] PAGES PGT: OPIN36 KYLLO v. UNITED STATESOpinion of the Courtactivity in the home. While the technology used in the pres-ent case was relatively crude, the rule we adopt must takeaccount of more sophisticated systems that are already in useor in development.3 The dissent's reliance on the distinctionbetween "off-the-wall" and "through-the-wall" observationis entirely incompatible with the dissent's belief, whichwe discuss below, that thermal-imaging observations ofthe intimate details of a home are impermissible. The mostsophisticated thermal-imaging devices continue to measure heat "off-the-wall" rather than "through-the-wall"; thedissent's disapproval of those more sophisticated thermalimaging devices, see post, at 49, is an acknowledgment thatthere is no substance to this distinction. As for the dissent's extraordinary assertion that anything learned through"an inference" cannot be a search, seepost, at 44, that wouldvalidate even the "through-the-wall" technologies that thedissent purports to disapprove. Surely the dissent does notbelieve that the through-the-wall radar or ultrasound tech-nology produces an 8-by-10 Kodak glossy that needs no analysis (i. e., the making of inferences). And, of course, thenovel proposition that inference insulates a search is bla-tantly contrary toUnited States v. Karo, 468 U. S. 705 (1984),where the police "inferred" from the activation of a beeperthat a certain can of ether was in the home. The police ac3 The ability to "see" through walls and other opaque barriers is aclear, and scientifically feasible, goal of law enforcement research anddevelopment. The National Law Enforcement and Corrections Technology Center, a program within the United States Department of Justice, features on its Internet Website projects that include a "RadarBased Through-the-Wall Surveillance System," "Handheld UltrasoundThrough the Wall Surveillance," and a "Radar Flashlight" that "will enable law enforcement officers to detect individuals through interior building walls." www.nlectc.org/techproj/ (visited May 3, 2001). Some devices may emit low levels of radiation that travel "through-the-wall," butothers, such as more sophisticated thermal-imaging devices, are entirelypassive, or "off-the-wall" as the dissent puts it.533US1 Unit: $U69 [10-17-02 18:29:35] PAGES PGT: OPIN37Cite as: 533 U. S. 27 (2001)Opinion of the Courttivity was held to be a search, and the search was heldunlawful.4The Government also contends that the thermal imagingwas constitutional because it did not "detect private activities occurring in private areas," Brief for United States 22.It points out that in Dow Chemical we observed that theenhanced aerial photography did not reveal any "intimatedetails." 476 U. S., at 238. Dow Chemical, however, involved enhanced aerial photography of an industrial complex, which does not share the Fourth Amendment sanctityof the home. The Fourth Amendment's protection of thehome has never been tied to measurement of the qualityor quantity of information obtained. In Silverman, for example, we made clear that any physical invasion of thestructure of the home, "by even a fraction of an inch," wastoo much, 365 U. S., at 512, and there is certainly no exception to the warrant requirement for the officer who barelycracks open the front door and sees nothing but the nonintimate rug on the vestibule floor. In the home, our casesshow, all details are intimate details, because the entire areais held safe from prying government eyes. Thus, in Karo,supra, the only thing detected was a can of ether in the4 The dissent asserts, post, at 44-45, n. 3, that we have misunderstoodits point, which is not that inference insulates a search, but that inferencealone is not a search. If we misunderstood the point, it was only in agood-faith effort to render the point germane to the case at hand. Theissue in this case is not the police's allegedly unlawful inferencing, buttheir allegedly unlawful thermal-imaging measurement of the emanationsfrom a house. We say such measurement is a search; the dissent saysit is not, because an inference is not a search. We took that to meanthat, since the technologically enhanced emanations had to be the basisof inferences before anything inside the house could be known, the use ofthe emanations could not be a search. But the dissent certainly knowsbetter than we what it intends. And if it means only that an inferenceis not a search, we certainly agree. That has no bearing, however, uponwhether hi-tech measurement of emanations from a house is a search.533US1 Unit: $U69 [10-17-02 18:29:35] PAGES PGT: OPIN38 KYLLO v. UNITED STATESOpinion of the Courthome; and in Arizona v. Hicks, 480 U. S. 321 (1987), the onlything detected by a physical search that went beyond whatofficers lawfully present could observe in "plain view" wasthe registration number of a phonograph turntable. Thesewere intimate details because they were details of the home,just as was the detail of how warm--or even how relativelywarm--Kyllo was heating his residence.5Limiting the prohibition of thermal imaging to "intimatedetails" would not only be wrong in principle; it would beimpractical in application, failing to provide "a workableaccommodation between the needs of law enforcement andthe interests protected by the Fourth Amendment,"Oliverv. United States, 466 U. S. 170, 181 (1984). To begin with,there is no necessary connection between the sophistica-tion of the surveillance equipment and the "intimacy" ofthe details that it observes--which means that one cannotsay (and the police cannot be assured) that use of the relatively crude equipment at issue here will always be lawful.The Agema Thermovision 210 might disclose, for example,at what hour each night the lady of the house takes herdaily sauna and bath--a detail that many would consider"intimate"; and a much more sophisticated system mightdetect nothing more intimate than the fact that someoneleft a closet light on. We could not, in other words, developa rule approving only that through-the-wall surveillancewhich identifies objects no smaller than 36 by 36 inches,but would have to develop a jurisprudence specifying which5 The Government cites our statement in California v. Ciraolo, 476U. S. 207 (1986), noting apparent agreement with the State of Californiathat aerial surveillance of a house's curtilage could become " `invasive' "if " `modern technology' " revealed " `those intimate associations, objects or activities otherwise imperceptible to police or fellow citizens.' "Id., at 215, n. 3 (quoting Brief for State of California 14-15). We thinkthe Court's focus in this secondhand dictum was not upon intimacy butupon otherwise-imperceptibility, which is precisely the principle we vindicate today.533US1 Unit: $U69 [10-17-02 18:29:35] PAGES PGT: OPIN39Cite as: 533 U. S. 27 (2001)Opinion of the Courthome activities are "intimate" and which are not. And evenwhen (if ever) that jurisprudence were fully developed, nopolice officer would be able to know in advance whether histhrough-the-wall surveillance picks up "intimate" details--and thus would be unable to know in advance whether itis constitutional.The dissent's proposed standard--whether the technologyoffers the "functional equivalent of actual presence in thearea being searched," post, at 47--would seem quite similarto our own at first blush. The dissent concludes thatKatzwas such a case, but then inexplicably asserts that if thesame listening device only revealed the volume of the con-versation, the surveillance would be permissible, post, at49-50. Yet if, without technology, the police could not dis-cern volume without being actually present in the phonebooth, Justice Stevens should conclude a search has oc-curred. Cf. Karo, 468 U. S., at 735 (Stevens, J., concurringin part and dissenting in part) ("I find little comfort in theCourt's notion that no invasion of privacy occurs until a lis-tener obtains some significant information by use of the device. . . . A bathtub is a less private area when the plumberis present even if his back is turned"). The same shouldhold for the interior heat of the home if only a person pres-ent in the home could discern the heat. Thus the drivingforce of the dissent, despite its recitation of the abovestandard, appears to be a distinction among different typesof information--whether the "homeowner would even careif anybody noticed," post, at 50. The dissent offers no practical guidance for the application of this standard, and forreasons already discussed, we believe there can be none.The people in their houses, as well as the police, deservemore precision.66 The dissent argues that we have injected potential uncertainty intothe constitutional analysis by noting that whether or not the technologyis in general public use may be a factor. See post, at 47. That quarrel,533US1 Unit: $U69 [10-17-02 18:29:35] PAGES PGT: OPIN40 KYLLO v. UNITED STATESOpinion of the CourtWe have said that the Fourth Amendment draws "a firmline at the entrance to the house," Payton, 445 U. S., at 590.That line, we think, must be not only firm but also bright--which requires clear specification of those methods of surveillance that require a warrant. While it is certainly possi-ble to conclude from the videotape of the thermal imagingthat occurred in this case that no "significant" compromiseof the homeowner's privacy has occurred, we must take thelong view, from the original meaning of the Fourth Amendment forward."The Fourth Amendment is to be construed in the lightof what was deemed an unreasonable search and seizurewhen it was adopted, and in a manner which will conserve public interests as well as the interests and rightsof individual citizens."Carroll v. United States, 267U. S. 132, 149 (1925).Where, as here, the Government uses a device that is notin general public use, to explore details of the home thatwould previously have been unknowable without physicalintrusion, the surveillance is a "search" and is presumptivelyunreasonable without a warrant.Since we hold the Thermovision imaging to have beenan unlawful search, it will remain for the District Court todetermine whether, without the evidence it provided, thesearch warrant issued in this case was supported by probablecause--and if not, whether there is any other basis for sup-porting admission of the evidence that the search pursuantto the warrant produced.however, is not with us but with this Court's precedent. See Ciraolo,supra, at 215 ("In an age where private and commercial flight in the publicairways is routine, it is unreasonable for respondent to expect that hismarijuana plants were constitutionally protected from being observedwith the naked eye from an altitude of 1,000 feet"). Given that we canquite confidently say that thermal imaging is not "routine," we decline inthis case to reexamine that factor.533US1 Unit: $U69 [10-17-02 18:29:35] PAGES PGT: OPIN41Cite as: 533 U. S. 27 (2001)Stevens, J., dissenting* * *The judgment of the Court of Appeals is reversed; thecase is remanded for further proceedings consistent withthis opinion.