In this case we consider whether the rule of Pennsylvaniav.Mimms, 434 U. S. 106 (1977) (per curiam), that a policeofficer may as a matter of course order the driver of a law-fully stopped car to exit his vehicle, extends to passengersas well. We hold that it does.At about 7:30 p.m. on a June evening, Maryland statetrooper David Hughes observed a passenger car drivingsouthbound on I-95 in Baltimore County at a speed of 64miles per hour. The posted speed limit was 55 miles perhour, and the car had no regular license tag; there was a tornpiece of paper reading "Enterprise Rent-A-Car" danglingfrom its rear. Hughes activated his lights and sirens, signal-ing the car to pull over, but it continued driving for anothermile and a half until it finally did so.During the pursuit, Hughes noticed that there were threeoccupants in the car and that the two passengers turned tolook at him several times, repeatedly ducking below sightlevel and then reappearing. As Hughes approached the caron foot, the driver alighted and met him halfway. Thedriver was trembling and appeared extremely nervous, butnonetheless produced a valid Connecticut driver's license.Hughes instructed him to return to the car and retrieve therental documents, and he complied. During this encounter,Hughes noticed that the front-seat passenger, respondentJerry Lee Wilson, was sweating and also appeared extremelyCharles W. Burson of Tennessee, Jan Graham of Utah, Jeffrey L. Amestoyof Vermont, Julio A. Brady of the U. S. Virgin Islands, Christine O. Gregoire of Washington, Darrell McGraw, Jr., of West Virginia, and James E.Doyle of Wisconsin; for Americans for Effective Law Enforcement, Inc.,et al. by Fred E. Inbau, Wayne W. Schmidt, Robert Wennerholm, JamesP. Manek, John Kaye, Richard M. Weintraub, and Bernard J. Farber; forthe National Association of Police Organizations, Inc., by William J. Johnson; and for the Criminal Justice Legal Foundation by Kent S. Scheideggerand Charles L. Hobson.519us2$25H 06-03-99 22:05:55 PAGES OPINPGT411Cite as: 519 U. S. 408 (1997)Opinion of the Courtnervous. While the driver was sitting in the driver's seatlooking for the rental papers, Hughes ordered Wilson out ofthe car.When Wilson exited the car, a quantity of crack cocainefell to the ground. Wilson was then arrested and chargedwith possession of cocaine with intent to distribute. Beforetrial, Wilson moved to suppress the evidence, arguing thatHughes' ordering him out of the car constituted an unreason-able seizure under the Fourth Amendment. The CircuitCourt for Baltimore County agreed, and granted respond-ent's motion to suppress. On appeal, the Court of SpecialAppeals of Maryland affirmed, 106 Md. App. 24, 664 A. 2d 1(1995), ruling that Pennsylvania v. Mimms does not applyto passengers. The Court of Appeals of Maryland deniedcertiorari. 340 Md. 502, 667 A. 2d 342 (1995). We grantedcertiorari, 518 U. S. 1003 (1996), and now reverse.In Mimms, we considered a traffic stop much like the onebefore us today. There, Mimms had been stopped for driving with an expired license plate, and the officer asked himto step out of his car. When Mimms did so, the officer noticed a bulge in his jacket that proved to be a .38-caliberrevolver, whereupon Mimms was arrested for carrying aconcealed deadly weapon. Mimms, like Wilson, urged thesuppression of the evidence on the ground that the officer'sordering him out of the car was an unreasonable seizure, andthe Pennsylvania Supreme Court, like the Court of SpecialAppeals of Maryland, agreed.We reversed, explaining that "[t]he touchstone of our analysis under the Fourth Amendment is always `the reasonableness in all the circumstances of the particular governmentalinvasion of a citizen's personal security,' " 434 U. S., at 108-109 (quoting Terry v. Ohio, 392 U. S. 1, 19 (1968)), and thatreasonableness "depends `on a balance between the publicinterest and the individual's right to personal security freefrom arbitrary interference by law officers,' " 434 U. S., at109 (quoting United States v. Brignoni-Ponce, 422 U. S. 873,519us2$25H 06-03-99 22:05:55 PAGES OPINPGT412 MARYLAND v. WILSONOpinion of the Court878 (1975)). On the public interest side of the balance, wenoted that the State "freely concede[d]" that there had beennothing unusual or suspicious to justify ordering Mimms outof the car, but that it was the officer's "practice to order alldrivers [stopped in traffic stops] out of their vehicles as amatter of course" as a "precautionary measure" to protectthe officer's safety. 434 U. S., at 109-110. We thought it"too plain for argument" that this justification--officersafety--was "both legitimate and weighty."Id., at 110. Inaddition, we observed that the danger to the officer of stand-ing by the driver's door and in the path of oncoming trafficmight also be "appreciable." Id., at 111.On the other side of the balance, we considered the intrusion into the driver's liberty occasioned by the officer's ordering him out of the car. Noting that the driver's car wasalready validly stopped for a traffic infraction, we deemedthe additional intrusion of asking him to step outside his car"de minimis." Ibid. Accordingly, we concluded that "oncea motor vehicle has been lawfully detained for a traffic violation, the police officers may order the driver to get out ofthe vehicle without violating the Fourth Amendment's proscription of unreasonable seizures." Id., at 111, n. 6.Respondent urges, and the lower courts agreed, that thisper se rule does not apply to Wilson because he was a passenger, not the driver. Maryland, in turn, argues that we havealready implicitly decided this question by our statement inMichigan v. Long, 463 U. S. 1032 (1983), that "[i]n [Mimms],we held that police may order persons out of an automobileduring a stop for a traffic violation," id., at 1047-1048 (emphasis added), and by Justice Powell's statement in Rakas v.Illinois, 439 U. S. 128 (1978), that "this Court determinedin [Mimms] that passengers in automobiles have no FourthAmendment right not to be ordered from their vehicle, oncea proper stop is made," id., at 155, n. 4 (Powell, J., joined byBurger, C. J., concurring) (emphasis added). We agree withrespondent that the former statement was dictum, and the519us2$25H 06-03-99 22:05:55 PAGES OPINPGT413Cite as: 519 U. S. 408 (1997)Opinion of the Courtlatter was contained in a concurrence, so that neither consti-tutes binding precedent.We must therefore now decide whether the rule of Mimmsapplies to passengers as well as to drivers.1 On the publicinterest side of the balance, the same weighty interest inofficer safety is present regardless of whether the occupantof the stopped car is a driver or passenger. Regrettably,traffic stops may be dangerous encounters. In 1994 alone,there were 5,762 officer assaults and 11 officers killed duringtraffic pursuits and stops. Federal Bureau of Investigation,Uniform Crime Reports: Law Enforcement Officers Killedand Assaulted 71, 33 (1994). In the case of passengers, thedanger of the officer's standing in the path of oncoming traf-fic would not be present except in the case of a passenger inthe left rear seat, but the fact that there is more than oneoccupant of the vehicle increases the possible sources ofharm to the officer.2On the personal liberty side of the balance, the case forthe passengers is in one sense stronger than that for thedriver. There is probable cause to believe that the driverhas committed a minor vehicular offense, but there is no suchreason to stop or detain the passengers. But as a practical1 Respondent argues that, because we have generally eschewed brightline rules in the Fourth Amendment context, see, e. g., Ohio v. Robinette,ante, p. 33, we should not here conclude that passengers may constitutionally be ordered out of lawfully stopped vehicles. But, that we typicallyavoid per se rules concerning searches and seizures does not mean thatwe have always done so; Mimms itself drew a bright line, and we believethe principles that underlay that decision apply to passengers as well.2 Justice Stevens' dissenting opinion points out, post, at 416, thatthese statistics are not further broken down as to assaults by passengersand assaults by drivers. It is, indeed, regrettable that the empirical dataon a subject such as this are sparse, but we need not ignore the data whichdo exist simply because further refinement would be even more helpful.Justice Stevens agrees that there is "a strong public interest in minimizing" the number of assaults on law officers, ibid., and we believe thatour holding today is more likely to accomplish that result than would bethe case if his views were to prevail.519us2$25H 06-03-99 22:05:55 PAGES OPINPGT414 MARYLAND v. WILSONOpinion of the Courtmatter, the passengers are already stopped by virtue of thestop of the vehicle. The only change in their circumstanceswhich will result from ordering them out of the car is thatthey will be outside of, rather than inside of, the stopped car.Outside the car, the passengers will be denied access to anypossible weapon that might be concealed in the interior ofthe passenger compartment. It would seem that the possibility of a violent encounter stems not from the ordinary re-action of a motorist stopped for a speeding violation, butfrom the fact that evidence of a more serious crime might beuncovered during the stop. And the motivation of a passenger to employ violence to prevent apprehension of such acrime is every bit as great as that of the driver.We think that our opinion in Michigan v. Summers, 452U. S. 692 (1981), offers guidance by analogy here. There thepolice had obtained a search warrant for contraband thoughtto be located in a residence, but when they arrived to executethe warrant they found Summers coming down the frontsteps. The question in the case depended "upon a determi-nation whether the officers had the authority to require himto re-enter the house and to remain there while they con-ducted their search."Id., at 695. In holding as it did, theCourt said:"Although no special danger to the police is suggestedby the evidence in this record, the execution of a war-rant to search for narcotics is the kind of transactionthat may give rise to sudden violence or frantic effortsto conceal or destroy evidence. The risk of harm toboth the police and the occupants is minimized if theofficers routinely exercise unquestioned command of thesituation." Id., at 702-703 (footnote omitted).In summary, danger to an officer from a traffic stop islikely to be greater when there are passengers in addition tothe driver in the stopped car. While there is not the samebasis for ordering the passengers out of the car as there is519us2$25H 06-03-99 22:05:55 PAGES OPINPGT415Cite as: 519 U. S. 408 (1997)Stevens, J., dissentingfor ordering the driver out, the additional intrusion on thepassenger is minimal. We therefore hold that an officermaking a traffic stop may order passengers to get out of thecar pending completion of the stop.3The judgment of the Court of Special Appeals of Marylandis reversed, and the case is remanded for proceedings notinconsistent with this opinion.