Petitioner Walter L. Nixon, Jr., asks this Court to decidewhether Senate Rule XI, which allows a committee of Senators to hear evidence against an individual who has beenimpeached and to report that evidence to the full Senate,violates the Impeachment Trial Clause, Art. I, $ 3, cl. 6.That Clause provides that the "Senate shall have the solePower to try all Impeachments." But before we reach themerits of such a claim, we must decide whether it is "justiciable," that is, whether it is a claim that may be resolved bythe courts. We conclude that it is not.Nixon, a former Chief Judge of the United States DistrictCourt for the Southern District of Mississippi, was convictedby a jury of two counts of making false statements before afederal grand jury and sentenced to prison. SeeUnitedStates v. Nixon, 816 F. 2d 1022 (CA5 1987). The grand juryinvestigation stemmed from reports that Nixon had accepteda gratuity from a Mississippi businessman in exchange forasking a local district attorney to halt the prosecution of thebusinessman's son. Because Nixon refused to resign fromhis office as a United States District Judge, he continued tocollect his judicial salary while serving out his prison sentence. See H. R. Rep. No. 101-36, p. 13 (1989).On May 10, 1989, the House of Representatives adoptedthree articles of impeachment for high crimes and misde*Patti A. Goldman and Alan B. Morrison filed a brief for Public Citizenas amicus curiae urging reversal.Joseph P. Galda, Daniel J. Popeo, and Paul D. Kamenar filed a brief forthe Washington Legal Foundation et al. as amici curiae urging affirmance.506us2$16I 08-22-96 17:53:40 PAGES OPINPGT227Cite as: 506 U. S. 224 (1993)Opinion of the Courtmeanors. The first two articles charged Nixon with givingfalse testimony before the grand jury and the third articlecharged him with bringing disrepute on the Federal Judi-ciary. See 135 Cong. Rec. H1811.After the House presented the articles to the Senate, theSenate voted to invoke its own Impeachment Rule XI, underwhich the presiding officer appoints a committee of Senatorsto "receive evidence and take testimony." Senate Impeachment Rule XI, reprinted in Senate Manual, S. Doc. No. 101-1,p. 186 (1989).1 The Senate committee held four days of hearings, during which 10 witnesses, including Nixon, testified.S. Rep. No. 101-164, p. 4 (1989). Pursuant to Rule XI, thecommittee presented the full Senate with a complete tran-script of the proceeding and a Report stating the uncontested facts and summarizing the evidence on the contestedfacts. Seeid., at 3-4. Nixon and the House impeachmentmanagers submitted extensive final briefs to the full Senate1 Specifically, Rule XI provides:"[I]n the trial of any impeachment the Presiding Officer of the Senate,if the Senate so orders, shall appoint a committee of Senators to receiveevidence and take testimony at such times and places as the committeemay determine, and for such purpose the committee so appointed and thechairman thereof, to be elected by the committee, shall (unless otherwiseordered by the Senate) exercise all the powers and functions conferredupon the Senate and the Presiding Officer of the Senate, respectively,under the rules of procedure and practice in the Senate when sitting onimpeachment trials."Unless otherwise ordered by the Senate, the rules of procedure andpractice in the Senate when sitting on impeachment trials shall govern theprocedure and practice of the committee so appointed. The committee soappointed shall report to the Senate in writing a certified copy of thetranscript of the proceedings and testimony had and given before suchcommittee, and such report shall be received by the Senate and the evidence so received and the testimony so taken shall be considered to allintents and purposes, subject to the right of the Senate to determine competency, relevancy, and materiality, as having been received and takenbefore the Senate, but nothing herein shall prevent the Senate from sending for any witness and hearing his testimony in open Senate, or by orderof the Senate having the entire trial in open Senate."506us2$16I 08-22-96 17:53:40 PAGES OPINPGT228 NIXON v. UNITED STATESOpinion of the Courtand delivered arguments from the Senate floor during thethree hours set aside for oral argument in front of that body.Nixon himself gave a personal appeal, and several Senatorsposed questions directly to both parties. 135 Cong. Rec.S14493-14517 (Nov. 1, 1989). The Senate voted by morethan the constitutionally required two-thirds majority toconvict Nixon on the first two articles.Id., at S14635 (Nov.3, 1989). The presiding officer then entered judgmentremoving Nixon from his office as United States DistrictJudge.Nixon thereafter commenced the present suit, arguingthat Senate Rule XI violates the constitutional grant of authority to the Senate to "try" all impeachments because itprohibits the whole Senate from taking part in the evidentiary hearings. See Art. I, $ 3, cl. 6. Nixon sought a declaratory judgment that his impeachment conviction was voidand that his judicial salary and privileges should be reinstated. The District Court held that his claim was nonjusticiable, 744 F. Supp. 9 (DC 1990), and the Court of Appealsfor the District of Columbia Circuit agreed. 290 U. S. App.D. C. 420, 938 F. 2d 239 (1991). We granted certiorari. 502U. S. 1090 (1992).A controversy is nonjusticiable--i. e., involves a politicalquestion--where there is "a textually demonstrable constitutional commitment of the issue to a coordinate political department; or a lack of judicially discoverable and manageablestandards for resolving it . . . ." Baker v. Carr, 369 U. S.186, 217 (1962). But the courts must, in the first instance,interpret the text in question and determine whether andto what extent the issue is textually committed. See ibid.;Powell v. McCormack, 395 U. S. 486, 519 (1969). As the discussion that follows makes clear, the concept of a textualcommitment to a coordinate political department is not completely separate from the concept of a lack of judicially discoverable and manageable standards for resolving it; the lackof judicially manageable standards may strengthen the con506us2$16I 08-22-96 17:53:40 PAGES OPINPGT229Cite as: 506 U. S. 224 (1993)Opinion of the Courtclusion that there is a textually demonstrable commitmentto a coordinate branch.In this case, we must examine Art. I, $ 3, cl. 6, to deter-mine the scope of authority conferred upon the Senate bythe Framers regarding impeachment. It provides:"The Senate shall have the sole Power to try all Impeachments. When sitting for that Purpose, they shallbe on Oath or Affirmation. When the President of theUnited States is tried, the Chief Justice shall preside:And no Person shall be convicted without the Concurrence of two thirds of the Members present."The language and structure of this Clause are revealing.The first sentence is a grant of authority to the Senate, andthe word "sole" indicates that this authority is reposed in theSenate and nowhere else. The next two sentences specifyrequirements to which the Senate proceedings shall conform:The Senate shall be on oath or affirmation, a two-thirds voteis required to convict, and when the President is tried theChief Justice shall preside.Petitioner argues that the word "try" in the first sentenceimposes by implication an additional requirement on the Senate in that the proceedings must be in the nature of a judicialtrial. From there petitioner goes on to argue that this limitation precludes the Senate from delegating to a select committee the task of hearing the testimony of witnesses, as wasdone pursuant to Senate Rule XI. " `[T]ry' means more thansimply `vote on' or `review' or `judge.' In 1787 and today,trying a case means hearing the evidence, not scanning acold record." Brief for Petitioner 25. Petitioner concludesfrom this that courts may review whether or not the Senate"tried" him before convicting him.There are several difficulties with this position which leadus ultimately to reject it. The word "try," both in 1787 andlater, has considerably broader meanings than those to whichpetitioner would limit it. Older dictionaries define try as506us2$16I 08-22-96 17:53:40 PAGES OPINPGT230 NIXON v. UNITED STATESOpinion of the Court"[t]o examine" or "[t]o examine as a judge." See 2 S. John-son, A Dictionary of the English Language (1785). In moremodern usage the term has various meanings. For example,try can mean "to examine or investigate judicially," "to conduct the trial of," or "to put to the test by experiment, investigation, or trial." Webster's Third New InternationalDictionary 2457 (1971). Petitioner submits that "try," ascontained in T. Sheridan, Dictionary of the English Lan-guage (1796), means "to examine as a judge; to bring beforea judicial tribunal." Based on the variety of definitions,however, we cannot say that the Framers used the word"try" as an implied limitation on the method by which theSenate might proceed in trying impeachments. "As a rulethe Constitution speaks in general terms, leaving Congressto deal with subsidiary matters of detail as the public interests and changing conditions may require . . . ." Dillon v.Gloss, 256 U. S. 368, 376 (1921).The conclusion that the use of the word "try" in the firstsentence of the Impeachment Trial Clause lacks sufficientprecision to afford any judicially manageable standard of review of the Senate's actions is fortified by the existence ofthe three very specific requirements that the Constitutiondoes impose on the Senate when trying impeachments: TheMembers must be under oath, a two-thirds vote is requiredto convict, and the Chief Justice presides when the Presidentis tried. These limitations are quite precise, and their nature suggests that the Framers did not intend to impose additional limitations on the form of the Senate proceedings bythe use of the word "try" in the first sentence.Petitioner devotes only two pages in his brief to negatingthe significance of the word "sole" in the first sentence ofClause 6. As noted above, that sentence provides that "[t]heSenate shall have the sole Power to try all Impeachments."We think that the word "sole" is of considerable significance.Indeed, the word "sole" appears only one other time in theConstitution--with respect to the House of Representatives'506us2$16I 08-22-96 17:53:40 PAGES OPINPGT231Cite as: 506 U. S. 224 (1993)Opinion of the Court"sole Power of Impeachment." Art. I, $ 2, cl. 5 (emphasisadded). The commonsense meaning of the word "sole" isthat the Senate alone shall have authority to determinewhether an individual should be acquitted or convicted.The dictionary definition bears this out. "Sole" is defined as"having no companion," "solitary," "being the only one," and"functioning . . . independently and without assistance or interference." Webster's Third New International Dictionary2168 (1971). If the courts may review the actions of theSenate in order to determine whether that body "tried" animpeached official, it is difficult to see how the Senate wouldbe "functioning . . . independently and without assistanceor interference."Nixon asserts that the word "sole" has no substantivemeaning. To support this contention, he argues that theword is nothing more than a mere "cosmetic edit" added bythe Committee of Style after the delegates had approved thesubstance of the Impeachment Trial Clause. There are twodifficulties with this argument. First, accepting as we mustthe proposition that the Committee of Style had no authorityfrom the Convention to alter the meaning of the Clause, see2 Records of the Federal Convention of 1787, p. 553 (M. Farrand ed. 1966) (hereinafter Farrand), we must presume thatthe Committee's reorganization or rephrasing accurately captured what the Framers meant in their unadorned language.See Powell v. McCormack, 395 U. S., at 538-539. That is,we must presume that the Committee did its job. This presumption is buttressed by the fact that the ConstitutionalConvention voted on, and accepted, the Committee of Style'slinguistic version. See 2 Farrand 663-667. We agree withthe Government that "the word `sole' is entitled to no lessweight than any other word of the text, because the Committee revision perfected what `had been agreed to.' " Brief forRespondents 25. Second, carrying Nixon's argument to itslogical conclusion would constrain us to say that the secondto last draft would govern in every instance where the Com506us2$16I 08-22-96 17:53:40 PAGES OPINPGT232 NIXON v. UNITED STATESOpinion of the Courtmittee of Style added an arguably substantive word. Sucha result is at odds with the fact that the Convention passedthe Committee's version, and with the well-established rulethat the plain language of the enacted text is the best indicator of intent.Petitioner also contends that the word "sole" should notbear on the question of justiciability because Art. II, $ 2, cl. 1,of the Constitution grants the President pardon authority"except in Cases of Impeachment." He argues that such alimitation on the President's pardon power would not havebeen necessary if the Framers thought that the Senate alonehad authority to deal with such questions. But the grantingof a pardon is in no sense an overturning of a judgment ofconviction by some other tribunal; it is "[a]n executive actionthat mitigates or sets aside punishment for a crime."Black's Law Dictionary 1113 (6th ed. 1990) (emphasis added).Authority in the Senate to determine procedures for tryingan impeached official, unreviewable by the courts, is therefore not at all inconsistent with authority in the President togrant a pardon to the convicted official. The exception fromthe President's pardon authority of cases of impeachmentwas a separate determination by the Framers that executiveclemency should not be available in such cases.Petitioner finally argues that even if significance be attributed to the word "sole" in the first sentence of the Clause,the authority granted is to the Senate, and this means that"the Senate--not the courts, not a lay jury, not a SenateCommittee--shall try impeachments." Brief for Petitioner42. It would be possible to read the first sentence of theClause this way, but it is not a natural reading. Petitioner'sinterpretation would bring into judicial purview not merelythe sort of claim made by petitioner, but other similar claimsbased on the conclusion that the word "Senate" has imposedby implication limitations on procedures which the Senatemight adopt. Such limitations would be inconsistent withthe construction of the Clause as a whole, which, as we506us2$16I 08-22-96 17:53:40 PAGES OPINPGT233Cite as: 506 U. S. 224 (1993)Opinion of the Courthave noted, sets out three express limitations in separatesentences.The history and contemporary understanding of the im-peachment provisions support our reading of the constitutional language. The parties do not offer evidence of a single word in the history of the Constitutional Convention orin contemporary commentary that even alludes to the possibility of judicial review in the context of the impeachmentpowers. See 290 U. S. App. D. C., at 424, 938 F. 2d, at 243;R. Berger, Impeachment: The Constitutional Problems 116(1973). This silence is quite meaningful in light of the several explicit references to the availability of judicial reviewas a check on the Legislature's power with respect to bills ofattainder, ex post facto laws, and statutes. See The Federalist No. 78, p. 524 (J. Cooke ed. 1961) ("Limitations . . . canbe preserved in practice no other way than through the medium of the courts of justice").The Framers labored over the question of where the impeachment power should lie. Significantly, in at least twoconsidered scenarios the power was placed with the FederalJudiciary. See 1 Farrand 21-22 (Virginia Plan); id., at 244(New Jersey Plan). Indeed, James Madison and the Committee of Detail proposed that the Supreme Court shouldhave the power to determine impeachments. See 2 id., at551 (Madison); id., at 178-179, 186 (Committee of Detail). Despite these proposals, the Convention ultimately decided thatthe Senate would have "the sole Power to try all Impeachments." Art. I, $ 3, cl. 6. According to Alexander Hamilton, the Senate was the "most fit depositary of this importanttrust" because its Members are representatives of the people. See The Federalist No. 65, p. 440 (J. Cooke ed. 1961).The Supreme Court was not the proper body because theFramers "doubted whether the members of that tribunalwould, at all times, be endowed with so eminent a portion offortitude as would be called for in the execution of so difficulta task" or whether the Court "would possess the degree of506us2$16I 08-22-96 17:53:40 PAGES OPINPGT234 NIXON v. UNITED STATESOpinion of the Courtcredit and authority" to carry out its judgment if it conflictedwith the accusation brought by the Legislature--the people'srepresentative. See id., at 441. In addition, the Framersbelieved the Court was too small in number: "The awful discretion, which a court of impeachments must necessarilyhave, to doom to honor or to infamy the most confidentialand the most distinguished characters of the community, forbids the commitment of the trust to a small number of per-sons."Id., at 441-442.There are two additional reasons why the Judiciary, andthe Supreme Court in particular, were not chosen to haveany role in impeachments. First, the Framers recognizedthat most likely there would be two sets of proceedings forindividuals who commit impeachable offenses--the impeachment trial and a separate criminal trial. In fact, the Consti-tution explicitly provides for two separate proceedings. SeeArt. I, $ 3, cl. 7. The Framers deliberately separated thetwo forums to avoid raising the specter of bias and to ensureindependent judgments:"Would it be proper that the persons, who had disposedof his fame and his most valuable rights as a citizen inone trial, should in another trial, for the same offence,be also the disposers of his life and his fortune? Wouldthere not be the greatest reason to apprehend, thaterror in the first sentence would be the parent of errorin the second sentence? That the strong bias of one decision would be apt to overrule the influence of any newlights, which might be brought to vary the complexionof another decision?" The Federalist No. 65, p. 442 (J.Cooke ed. 1961).Certainly judicial review of the Senate's "trial" would introduce the same risk of bias as would participation in thetrial itself.Second, judicial review would be inconsistent with theFramers' insistence that our system be one of checks and506us2$16I 08-22-96 17:53:40 PAGES OPINPGT235Cite as: 506 U. S. 224 (1993)Opinion of the Courtbalances. In our constitutional system, impeachment wasdesigned to be the only check on the Judicial Branch by theLegislature. On the topic of judicial accountability, Hamil-ton wrote:"The precautions for their responsibility are com-prised in the article respecting impeachments. Theyare liable to be impeached for mal-conduct by the houseof representatives, and tried by the senate, and if convicted, may be dismissed from office and disqualified forholding any other.This is the only provision on thepoint, which is consistent with the necessary independence of the judicial character, and is the only onewhich we find in our own constitution in respect to ourown judges." Id., No. 79, at 532-533 (emphasis added).Judicial involvement in impeachment proceedings, even ifonly for purposes of judicial review, is counterintuitive because it would eviscerate the "important constitutionalcheck" placed on the Judiciary by the Framers. See id.,No. 81, at 545. Nixon's argument would place final review-ing authority with respect to impeachments in the hands ofthe same body that the impeachment process is meant toregulate.2Nevertheless, Nixon argues that judicial review is neces-sary in order to place a check on the Legislature. Nixonfears that if the Senate is given unreviewable authority tointerpret the Impeachment Trial Clause, there is a graverisk that the Senate will usurp judicial power. The Framersanticipated this objection and created two constitutional2 Nixon contends that justiciability should not hang on the mere factthat the Judiciary's interest may be implicated or affected by the legislative action in question. In support, he cites our decisions in Mistretta v.United States, 488 U. S. 361 (1989), and Morrison v. Olson, 487 U. S. 654(1988). These cases do not advance his argument, however, since neitheraddressed the issue of justiciability. More importantly, neither case involved a situation in which judicial review would remove the only checkplaced on the Judicial Branch by the Framers.506us2$16I 08-22-96 17:53:40 PAGES OPINPGT236 NIXON v. UNITED STATESOpinion of the Courtsafeguards to keep the Senate in check. The first safeguardis that the whole of the impeachment power is divided between the two legislative bodies, with the House given theright to accuse and the Senate given the right to judge.Id.,No. 66, at 446. This split of authority "avoids the inconvenience of making the same persons both accusers and judges;and guards against the danger of persecution from the prevalency of a factious spirit in either of those branches." Thesecond safeguard is the two-thirds supermajority vote requirement. Hamilton explained that "[a]s the concurrenceof two-thirds of the senate will be requisite to a condemnation, the security to innocence, from this additional circumstance, will be as complete as itself can desire." Ibid.In addition to the textual commitment argument, we arepersuaded that the lack of finality and the difficulty of fashioning relief counsel against justiciability. See Baker v.Carr, 369 U. S., at 210. We agree with the Court of Appealsthat opening the door of judicial review to the proceduresused by the Senate in trying impeachments would "exposethe political life of the country to months, or perhaps years,of chaos." 290 U. S. App. D. C., at 427, 938 F. 2d, at 246.This lack of finality would manifest itself most dramaticallyif the President were impeached. The legitimacy of any successor, and hence his effectiveness, would be impaired severely, not merely while the judicial process was running itscourse, but during any retrial that a differently constitutedSenate might conduct if its first judgment of conviction wereinvalidated. Equally uncertain is the question of what reliefa court may give other than simply setting aside the judgment of conviction. Could it order the reinstatement of aconvicted federal judge, or order Congress to create an additional judgeship if the seat had been filled in the interim?Petitioner finally contends that a holding of nonjusticiability cannot be reconciled with our opinion in Powell v. McCormack, 395 U. S. 486 (1969). The relevant issue in Powellwas whether courts could review the House of Representa506us2$16I 08-22-96 17:53:40 PAGES OPINPGT237Cite as: 506 U. S. 224 (1993)Opinion of the Courttives' conclusion that Powell was "unqualified" to sit as aMember because he had been accused of misappropriatingpublic funds and abusing the process of the New York courts.We stated that the question of justiciability turned onwhether the Constitution committed authority to the Houseto judge its Members' qualifications, and if so, the extent ofthat commitment.Id., at 519, 521. Article I, $ 5, providesthat "Each House shall be the Judge of the Elections, Re-turns and Qualifications of its own Members." In turn, Art.I, $ 2, specifies three requirements for membership in theHouse: The candidate must be at least 25 years of age, acitizen of the United States for no less than seven years, andan inhabitant of the State he is chosen to represent. Weheld that, in light of the three requirements specified in theConstitution, the word "qualifications"--of which the Housewas to be the Judge--was of a precise, limited nature. Id.,at 522; see also The Federalist No. 60, p. 409 (J. Cooke ed.1961) ("The qualifications of the persons who may choose orbe chosen, as has been remarked upon another occasion, aredefined and fixed in the constitution; and are unalterable bythe legislature") (emphasis added) (quoted in Powell, supra,at 539).Our conclusion in Powell was based on the fixed meaningof "[q]ualifications" set forth in Art. I, $ 2. The claim by theHouse that its power to "be the Judge of the Elections, Returns and Qualifications of its own Members" was a textualcommitment of unreviewable authority was defeated by theexistence of this separate provision specifying the only qualifications which might be imposed for House membership.The decision as to whether a Member satisfied these qualifications was placed with the House, but the decision as towhat these qualifications consisted of was not.In the case before us, there is no separate provision of theConstitution that could be defeated by allowing the Senatefinal authority to determine the meaning of the word "try" inthe Impeachment Trial Clause. We agree with Nixon that506us2$16I 08-22-96 17:53:40 PAGES OPINPGT238 NIXON v. UNITED STATESStevens, J., concurringcourts possess power to review either legislative or execu-tive action that transgresses identifiable textual limits. Aswe have made clear, "whether the action of [either the Legis-lative or Executive Branch] exceeds whatever authority hasbeen committed, is itself a delicate exercise in constitutionalinterpretation, and is a responsibility of this Court as ul-timate interpreter of the Constitution."Baker v. Carr,supra, at 211; accord, Powell, supra, at 521. But we con-clude, after exercising that delicate responsibility, that theword "try" in the Impeachment Trial Clause does not pro-vide an identifiable textual limit on the authority which iscommitted to the Senate.For the foregoing reasons, the judgment of the Court ofAppeals is