Petitioner, Maria Ohler, was arrested and charged withimportation of marijuana and possession of marijuana withthe intent to distribute. The District Court granted theGovernment's motionin limine seeking to admit evidenceof her prior felony conviction as impeachment evidenceunder Federal Rule of Evidence 609(a)(1). Ohler testifiedat trial and admitted on direct examination that she hadbeen convicted of possession of methamphetamine in 1993.The jury convicted her of both counts, and the Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit affirmed. We agree with theCourt of Appeals that Ohler may not challenge thein limineruling of the District Court on appeal.Maria Ohler drove a van from Mexico to California in July1997. As she passed through the San Ysidro Port of Entry,a customs inspector noticed that someone had tamperedwith one of the van's interior panels. Inspectors searchedthe van and discovered approximately 81 pounds of mari-juana. Ohler was arrested and charged with importationof marijuana and possession of marijuana with the intent to*Jody Manier Kris and Lisa Kemler filed a brief for the National Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers et al. as amici curiae urgingreversal.529US3 Unit: $U58 [09-26-01 12:26:35] PAGES PGT: OPIN755Cite as: 529 U. S. 753 (2000)Opinion of the Courtdistribute. Before trial, the Government filed motions inlimine seeking to admit Ohler's prior felony conviction ascharacter evidence under Federal Rule of Evidence 404(b)and as impeachment evidence under Rule 609(a)(1). TheDistrict Court denied the motion to admit the convictionas character evidence, but reserved ruling on whether theconviction could be used for impeachment purposes. On thefirst day of trial, the District Court ruled that if Ohler tes-tified, evidence of her prior conviction would be admissibleunder Rule 609(a)(1). App. 97-98. She testified in her owndefense, denying any knowledge of the marijuana. She alsoadmitted on direct examination that she had been convicted of possession of methamphetamine in 1993. The juryfound Ohler guilty of both counts, and she was sentencedto 30 months in prison and 3 years' supervised release. Id.,at 140-141.On appeal, Ohler challenged the District Court's in limineruling allowing the Government to use her prior convictionfor impeachment purposes. The Court of Appeals for theNinth Circuit affirmed, holding that Ohler waived her objection by introducing evidence of the conviction duringher direct examination. 169 F. 3d 1200 (1999). We grantedcertiorari to resolve a conflict among the Circuits regardingwhether appellate review of an in limine ruling is availablein this situation. 528 U. S. 950 (1999). See United States v.Fisher, 106 F. 3d 622 (CA5 1997) (allowing review); UnitedStates v. Smiley, 997 F. 2d 475 (CA8 1993) (holding objectionwaived). We affirm.Generally, a party introducing evidence cannot complainon appeal that the evidence was erroneously admitted. See1 J. Weinstein & M. Berger, Weinstein's Federal Evidence$ 103.14, p. 103-30 (2d ed. 2000). Cf. 1 J. Strong, McCormickon Evidence $ 55, p. 246 (5th ed. 1999) ("If a party who hasobjected to evidence of a certain fact himself produces evidence from his own witness of the same fact, he has waivedhis objection"). Ohler seeks to avoid the consequences of529US3 Unit: $U58 [09-26-01 12:26:35] PAGES PGT: OPIN756 OHLER v. UNITED STATESOpinion of the Courtthis well-established commonsense principle by invokingRules 103 and 609 of the Federal Rules of Evidence. Butneither of these Rules addresses the question at issue here.Rule 103 sets forth the unremarkable propositions that aparty must make a timely objection to a ruling admittingevidence and that a party cannot challenge an evidentiaryruling unless it affects a substantial right.1 The Rule doesnot purport to determine when a party waives a prior objection, and it is silent with respect to the effect of introducing evidence on direct examination, and later assigningits admission as error on appeal.Rule 609(a) is equally unavailing for Ohler; it merelyidentifies the situations in which a witness' prior conviction may be admitted for impeachment purposes.2 The Ruleoriginally provided that admissible prior conviction evidence could be elicited from the defendant or established bypublic record during cross-examination, but it was amendedin 1990 to clarify that the evidence could also be introducedon direct examination. According to Ohler, it follows fromthis amendment that a party does not waive her objectionto the in limine ruling by introducing the evidence herself.However, like Rule 103, Rule 609(a) simply does not addressthis issue. There is no question that the Rule authorizes1 Federal Rule of Evidence 103(a): "Error may not be predicated upon aruling which admits or excludes evidence unless a substantial right of theparty is affected, and"(1) . . . In case the ruling is one admitting evidence, a timely objectionor motion to strike appears of record, stating the specific ground of objection, if the specific ground was not apparent from the context . . . ."2 Rule 609(a): "For the purpose of attacking the credibility of a witness,(1) evidence that a witness other than an accused has been convicted of acrime shall be admitted, subject to Rule 403, if the crime was punishableby death or imprisonment in excess of one year under the law under whichthe witness was convicted, and evidence that an accused has been convicted of such a crime shall be admitted if the court determines that theprobative value of admitting this evidence outweighs its prejudicial effectto the accused . . . ."529US3 Unit: $U58 [09-26-01 12:26:35] PAGES PGT: OPIN757Cite as: 529 U. S. 753 (2000)Opinion of the Courtthe eliciting of a prior conviction on direct examination, butit does no more than that.Next, Ohler argues that it would be unfair to apply sucha waiver rule in this situation because it compels a defendant to forgo the tactical advantage of pre-emptively introduc-ing the conviction in order to appeal thein limine ruling.She argues that if a defendant is forced to wait for evidenceof the conviction to be introduced on cross-examination, thejury will believe that the defendant is less credible becauseshe was trying to conceal the conviction. The Governmentdisputes that the defendant is unduly disadvantaged by waiting for the prosecution to introduce the conviction on crossexamination. First, the Government argues that it is debatable whether jurors actually perceive a defendant to bemore credible if she introduces a conviction herself. Brieffor United States 28. Second, even if jurors do consider thedefendant more credible, the Government suggests that it isan unwarranted advantage because the jury does not realizethat the defendant disclosed the conviction only after failingto persuade the court to exclude it. Ibid.Whatever the merits of these contentions, they tend toobscure the fact that both the Government and the defendantin a criminal trial must make choices as the trial progresses.For example, the defendant must decide whether or not totake the stand in her own behalf. If she has an innocentor mitigating explanation for evidence that might otherwise incriminate, acquittal may be more likely if she takesthe stand. Here, for example, Ohler testified that she hadno knowledge of the marijuana discovered in the van, thatthe van had been taken to Mexico without her permission, and that she had gone there simply to retrieve the van.But once the defendant testifies, she is subject to crossexamination, including impeachment by prior convictions,and the decision to take the stand may prove damaging instead of helpful. A defendant has a further choice to makeif she decides to testify, notwithstanding a prior conviction.529US3 Unit: $U58 [09-26-01 12:26:35] PAGES PGT: OPIN758 OHLER v. UNITED STATESOpinion of the CourtThe defendant must choose whether to introduce the conviction on direct examination and remove the sting or totake her chances with the prosecutor's possible elicitation ofthe conviction on cross-examination.The Government, too, in a case such as this, must makea choice. If the defendant testifies, it must choose whetheror not to impeach her by use of her prior conviction. Herethe trial judge had indicated he would allow its use,3 butthe Government still had to consider whether its use mightbe deemed reversible error on appeal. This choice is oftenbased on the Government's appraisal of the apparent effectof the defendant's testimony. If she has offered a plausible,innocent explanation of the evidence against her, it will beinclined to use the prior conviction; if not, it may decidenot to risk possible reversal on appeal from its use.Due to the structure of trial, the Government has oneinherent advantage in these competing trial strategies.Cross-examination comes after direct examination, andtherefore the Government need not make its choice untilthe defendant has elected whether or not to take the standin her own behalf and after the Government has heard thedefendant testify.Ohler's submission would deny to the Government itsusual right to decide, after she testifies, whether or not touse her prior conviction against her. She seeks to shortcircuit that decisional process by offering the conviction herself (and thereby removing the sting) and still preserve itsadmission as a claim of error on appeal.3 The District Court ruled on the first day of trial that Ohler's priorconviction would be admissible for impeachment purposes, and the courtlikely would have abided by that ruling at trial. However, in liminerulings are not binding on the trial judge, and the judge may alwayschange his mind during the course of a trial. See Luce v. United States,469 U. S. 38, 41-42 (1984). Ohler's position, therefore, would deprive thetrial court of the opportunity to change its mind after hearing all of thedefendant's testimony.529US3 Unit: $U58 [09-26-01 12:26:35] PAGES PGT: OPIN759Cite as: 529 U. S. 753 (2000)Opinion of the CourtBut here Ohler runs into the position taken by the Courtin a similar, but not identical, situation in Luce v. UnitedStates, 469 U. S. 38 (1984), that "[a]ny possible harm flowingfrom a district court's in limine ruling permitting impeachment by a prior conviction is wholly speculative." Id., at 41.Only when the Government exercises its option to elicit thetestimony is an appellate court confronted with a case where,under the normal rules of trial, the defendant can claim thedenial of a substantial right if in fact the district court'sin limine ruling proved to be erroneous. In our view, thereis nothing "unfair," as Ohler puts it, about putting her to herchoice in accordance with the normal rules of trial.Finally, Ohler argues that applying this rule to her situation unconstitutionally burdens her right to testify. She re-lies on Rock v. Arkansas, 483 U. S. 44 (1987), where we heldthat a prohibition of hypnotically refreshed testimony in-terfered with the defendant's right to testify. But here therule in question does not prevent Ohler from taking thestand and presenting any admissible testimony which shechooses. She is of course subject to cross-examination andsubject to impeachment by the use of a prior conviction. Ina sense, the use of these tactics by the Government maydeter a defendant from taking the stand. But, as we said inMcGautha v. California, 402 U. S. 183, 215 (1971):"It has long been held that a defendant who takes thestand in his own behalf cannot then claim the privilegeagainst cross-examination on matters reasonably relatedto the subject matter of his direct examination. . . . It isnot thought overly harsh in such situations to requirethat the determination whether to waive the privilegetake into account the matters which may be brought outon cross-examination. It is also generally recognizedthat a defendant who takes the stand in his own behalfmay be impeached by proof of prior convictions or thelike. . . . Again, it is not thought inconsistent with theenlightened administration of criminal justice to require529US3 Unit: $U58 [09-26-01 12:26:35] PAGES PGT: OPIN760 OHLER v. UNITED STATESSouter, J., dissentingthe defendant to weigh such pros and cons in decidingwhether to testify."For these reasons, we conclude that a defendant who pre-emptively introduces evidence of a prior conviction on direct examination may not on appeal claim that the admissionof such evidence was error.The judgment of the Court of Appeals for the NinthCircuit is therefore affirmed.