We granted certiorari to resolve the competing prioritiesof a federal tax lien and a private creditor's judgment lienas to a delinquent taxpayer's after-acquired real property.IOn December 9, 1986, the United States assessed Mr. andMrs. McDermott for unpaid federal taxes due for the taxyears 1977 through 1981. Upon that assessment, the lawcreated a lien in favor of the United States on all real andpersonal property belonging to the McDermotts, 26 U. S. C.$$ 6321 and 6322, including after-acquired property,GlassCity Bank v. United States, 326 U. S. 265 (1945). Pursuantto 26 U. S. C. $ 6323(a), however, that lien could "not be validas against any purchaser, holder of a security interest, me-chanic's lienor, orjudgment lien creditor until notice thereof. . . has been filed." (Emphasis added.) The United Statesdid not file this lien in the Salt Lake County Recorder'sOffice until September 9, 1987. Before that occurred,however--specifically, on July 6, 1987--Zions First NationalBank, N. A. (Bank), docketed with the Salt Lake CountyClerk a state-court judgment it had won against the McDer-motts. Under Utah law, that created a judgment lien on allof the McDermotts' real property in Salt Lake County,"owned . . . at the time or . . . thereafter acquired during theexistence of said lien." Utah Code Ann. $ 78-22-1 (1953).507us2$48K 11-19-96 16:12:44 PAGES OPINPGT449Cite as: 507 U. S. 447 (1993)Opinion of the CourtOn September 23, 1987, the McDermotts acquired title tocertain real property in Salt Lake County. To facilitatelater sale of that property, the parties entered into an escrowagreement whereby the United States and the Bank releasedtheir claims to the real property itself but reserved theirrights to the cash proceeds of the sale, based on their priorities in the property as of September 23, 1987. Pursuant tothe escrow agreement, the McDermotts brought this interpleader action in state court to establish which lien was entitled to priority; the United States removed to the UnitedStates District Court for the District of Utah.On cross-motions for partial summary judgment, the District Court awarded priority to the Bank's judgment lien.The United States Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuitaffirmed. McDermott v. Zions First Nat. Bank, N. A., 945F. 2d 1475 (1991). We granted certiorari. 504 U. S. 939(1992).IIFederal tax liens do not automatically have priority overall other liens. Absent provision to the contrary, priorityfor purposes of federal law is governed by the common-lawprinciple that " `the first in time is the first in right.' "United States v. New Britain, 347 U. S. 81, 85 (1954); cf. Rankin v. Scott, 12 Wheat. 177, 179 (1827) (Marshall, C. J.). Forpurposes of applying that doctrine in the present case--inwhich the competing state lien (that of a judgment creditor)benefits from the provision of $ 6323(a) that the federal lienshall "not be valid . . . until notice thereof . . . has beenfiled"--we must deem the United States' lien to have commenced no sooner than the filing of notice. As for theBank's lien: Our cases deem a competing state lien to be inexistence for "first in time" purposes only when it has been"perfected" in the sense that "the identity of the lienor, theproperty subject to the lien, and the amount of the lien areestablished." United States v. New Britain, 347 U. S., at 84507us2$48K 11-19-96 16:12:44 PAGES OPINPGT450 UNITED STATES v. McDERMOTTOpinion of the Court(emphasis added); see also id., at 86; United States v. PioneerAmerican Ins. Co., 374 U. S. 84 (1963).The first question we must answer, then, is whether theBank's judgment lien was perfected in this sense before theUnited States filed its tax lien on September 9, 1987. If so,that is the end of the matter; the Bank's lien prevails. TheCourt of Appeals was of the view that this question wasanswered (or rendered irrelevant) by our decision inUnitedStates v. Vermont, 377 U. S. 351 (1964), which it took to"stan[d] for the proposition that a non-contingent . . . lien onall of a person's real property, perfected prior to the federaltax lien, will take priority over the federal lien, regardlessof whether after-acquired property is involved."1 945 F. 2d,at 1480. That is too expansive a reading. Our opinion inVermont gives no indication that the property at issue hadbecome subject to the state lien only by application of anafter-acquired-property clause to property that the debtoracquired after the federal lien arose. To the contrary, theopinion says that the state lien met (presumably at the critical time when the federal lien arose) "the test laid down inNew Britain that . . . `the property subject to the lien . . .[be] established.' " 377 U. S., at 358 (citation omitted).21 As our later discussion will show, we think it contradictory to say thatthe state lien was "perfected" before the federal lien was filed, insofar asit applies to after-acquired property not acquired by the debtor until afterthe federal lien was filed. The Court of Appeals was evidently using theterm "perfected" (as the Bank would) in a sense not requiring attachmentof the lien to the property in question; our discussion of the Court ofAppeals' opinion assumes that usage.2 The dissent cannot both grant the assumption "that the debtor in Vermont acquired its interest in the bank account before the federal lienarose," post, at 459, n. 2, and contend that "the debtor's interest in thebank account . . . could have been uncertain or indefinite from the creditors' perspective," ibid. In the same footnote, the dissent misdescribesthe "critical argument that we rejected" in Vermont. Ibid. It was notthat "the State's claim could not be superior unless the account hadbeen `specifically identified' as property subject to the State's lien," ibid.,but rather that the State's claim could not be superior unless it had507us2$48K 11-19-96 16:12:44 PAGES OPINPGT451Cite as: 507 U. S. 447 (1993)Opinion of the CourtThe argument of the United States that we rejected in Ver-mont was the contention that a state lien is not perfectedwithin the meaning of New Britain if it "attach[es] to all ofthe taxpayer's property," rather than "to specifically identified portions of that property." 377 U. S., at 355 (empha-sis added).3 We did not consider, and the facts as reciteddid not implicate, the quite different argument made bythe United States in the present case: that a lien in afteracquired property is not "perfected" as to property yet tobe acquired.The Bank argues that, as of July 6, 1987, the date itdocketed its judgment lien, the lien was "perfected as to allreal property then and thereafter owned by" the McDer-motts, since "[n]othing further was required of [the Bank] toattach the non-contingent lien on after-acquired property."Brief for Respondent 21. That reflects an unusual notionof what it takes to "perfect" a lien.4 Under the Uniform"attach[ed] to specifically identified portions of that property," UnitedStates v. Vermont, 377 U. S., at 355 (emphasis added).3 The dissent claims that "the Government's `specificity' claim rejectedin Vermont is analytically indistinguishable from the `attachment' argument the Court accepts today," since "[i]f specific attachment is not required for the state lien to be `sufficiently choate,' then neither is specificacquisition." Post, at 459 (citation omitted). But the two are not comparable. Until the debtor has acquired the subject property, it is impossibleto say that "the property subject to the lien [has been] . . . established,"United States v. New Britain, 347 U. S. 81, 84 (1954). Judicial attachment,on the other hand (and it is important to note that judicial attachment ofthe property, rather than attachment of the lien to the property, was whatthe Government's argument in Vermont involved), merely brings into thecustody of a court property that is already--prior to judicial attachment--known to be subject to the lien.4 The dissent accepts the Bank's central argument that perfection occurred when "there was `nothing more to be done' by the Bank `to have achoate lien' on any real property the McDermotts might acquire." Post,at 457-458 (quoting United States v. New Britain, supra, at 84); see alsopost, at 461. This unusual definition of perfection has been achieved bymaking a small but substantively important addition to the language ofNew Britain. " `[N]othing more to be done . . . to have a choate lien' "507us2$48K 11-19-96 16:12:44 PAGES OPINPGT452 UNITED STATES v. McDERMOTTOpinion of the CourtCommercial Code, for example, a security interest in after-acquired property is generally not considered perfectedwhen the financing statement is filed, but only when the se-curity interest has attached to particular property upon thedebtor's acquisition of that property. $$ 9-203(1) and (2), 3U. L. A. 363 (1992); $ 9-303(1), 3A U. L. A. 117 (1992). Andattachment to particular property was also an element ofwhat we meant by "perfection" in New Britain. See 347U. S., at 84 ("when . . . the property subject to the lien . . .[is] established"); id., at 86 ("[T]he priority of each statutorylien contested here must depend on the time it attached tothe property in question and became [no longer inchoate]").5The Bank concedes that its lien did not actually attach to theproperty at issue here until the McDermotts acquired rights(the language of New Britain) becomes "nothing more to be done by theBank to have a choate lien." Once one recognizes that the dissent's concept of a lien's "becom[ing] certain as to the property subject thereto,"see post, at 457, 461, is meaningless, see n. 5, infra, it becomes apparentthat the dissent, like the Bank, would simply have us substitute the concept of "best efforts" for the concept of perfection.5 The dissent refuses to acknowledge the unavoidable realities that theproperty subject to a lien is not "established" until one knows what specificproperty that is, and that a lien cannot be anything other than "inchoate"with respect to property that is not yet subject to the lien. Hence thedissent says that, upon its filing, the lien at issue here "was perfected,even as to the real property later acquired by the McDermotts, in thesense that it was definite as to the property in question, noncontingent,and summarily enforceable." Post, at 457. But how could it have been,at that time, "definite" as to this property, when the identity of this property (established by the McDermotts' later acquisition) was yet unknown?Or "noncontingent" as to this property, when the property would haveremained entirely free of the judgment lien had the McDermotts not laterdecided to buy it? Or "summarily enforceable" against this propertywhen the McDermotts did not own, and had never owned, it? The dissentalso says that "[t]he lien was immediately enforceable through levy andexecution against all the debtors' property, whenever acquired." Ibid.(emphases added). But of course it was not "immediately enforceable"(as of its filing date, which is the relevant time) against property that theMcDermotts had not yet acquired.507us2$48K 11-19-96 16:12:44 PAGES OPINPGT453Cite as: 507 U. S. 447 (1993)Opinion of the Courtin that property. Brief for Respondent 16, 21. Since thatoccurredafter filing of the federal tax lien, the state lien wasnot first in time.6But that does not complete our inquiry: Though the statelien was not first in time, the federal tax lien was notnecessarily first in time either. Like the state lien, it applied to the property at issue here by virtue of a ( judiciallyinferred) after-acquired-property provision, which meansthat it did not attach until the same instant the state lienattached, viz., when the McDermotts acquired the property;and, like the state lien, it did not become "perfected" untilthat time. We think, however, that under the languageof $ 6323(a) ("shall not be valid as against any . . . judgmentlien creditor until notice . . . has been filed"), the filing ofnotice renders the federal tax lien extant for "first in time"priority purposes regardless of whether it has yet attachedto identifiable property. That result is also indicated bythe provision, two subsections later, which accords priority,even against filed federal tax liens, to security interestsarising out of certain agreements, including "commercialtransactions financing agreement[s]," entered into beforefiling of the tax lien. 26 U. S. C. $ 6323(c)(1). That provision protects certain security interests that, like the afteracquired-property judgment lien here, will have been recorded before the filing of the tax lien, and will attach to theencumbered property after the filing of the tax lien,and simultaneously with the attachment of the tax lien (i. e.,upon the debtor's acquisition of the subject property).According special priority to certain state security interests6 The dissent suggests, post, at 458, n. 1, that the Treasury Departmentregulation defining "judgment lien creditor," 26 CFR $ 301.6323(h)-1(g)(1992), contradicts our analysis. It would, if it contained only the threerequirements that the dissent describes. In fact, however, it says that toprevail the judgment lien must be perfected, and that "[a] judgment lienis not perfected until the identity of the lienor, the property subject to thelien, and the amount of the lien are established." Ibid. (emphasis added).507us2$48K 11-19-96 16:12:44 PAGES OPINPGT454 UNITED STATES v. McDERMOTTOpinion of the Courtin these circumstances obviously presumes that otherwisethe federal tax lien would prevail--i. e., that the federaltax lien is ordinarily dated, for purposes of "first in time"priority against $ 6323(a) competing interests, from the timeof its filing, regardless of when it attaches to the subjectproperty.7The Bank argues that "[b]y common law, the first lien ofrecord against a debtor's property has priority over thosesubsequently filed unless a lien-creating statute clearlyshows or declares an intention to cause the statutory lien tooverride." Brief for Respondent Zions First National Bank,N. A., 11.8 Such a strong "first-to-record" presumption maybe appropriate for simultaneously perfected liens under ordinary statutes creating private liens, which ordinarily arise7 The dissent contends that "there is no persuasive reason for not adopting as a matter of federal law the well-recognized common-law rule ofparity and giving the Bank an equal interest in the property." Post, at461, n. 4. As we have explained, the persuasive reason is the existenceof $ 6323(c), which displays the assumption that all perfected security interests are defeated by the federal tax lien. There is no reason why thisassumption should not extend to judgment liens as well. A "security interest," as defined in $ 6323, is not an insignificant creditor's preference.The term includes only interests protected against subsequent judgmentliens. See 26 U. S. C. $$ 6323(h)(1) and 6323(c)(1)(B). Moreover, the textof $ 6323(a) ("The lien . . . shall not be valid as against any purchaser,holder of a security interest, mechanic's lienor, or judgment lien creditor")treats security interests and judgment liens alike. Parity may be, as thedissent says, a "well-recognized common-law rule," post, at 461, n. 4, butwe have not hitherto adopted it as the federal law of tax liens in 127 yearsof tax lien enforcement.8 The dissent notes that "[n]othing in the law of judgment liens suggeststhat the possibility, which existed at the time the Bank docketed itsjudgment, that the McDermotts would not acquire the specific propertyhere at issue was a `contingency' that rendered the Bank's otherwise perfected general judgment lien subordinate to intervening liens." Post, at460. Perhaps. But priorities here are determined, not by "the law ofjudgment liens," but by $ 6323(a), as our case law has interpreted it. Therequirement that competing state liens be perfected is part of thatjurisprudence.507us2$48K 11-19-96 16:12:44 PAGES OPINPGT455Cite as: 507 U. S. 447 (1993)Thomas, J., dissentingout of voluntary transactions. When two private lendersboth exact from the same debtor security agreements withafter-acquired-property clauses, the second lender knows, byreason of the earlier recording, that that category of property will be subject to another claim, and if the remainingsecurity is inadequate he may avoid the difficulty by declin-ing to extend credit. The Government, by contrast, cannotindulge the luxury of declining to hold the taxpayer liablefor his taxes; notice of a previously filed security agreementcovering after-acquired property does not enable the Gov-ernment to protect itself. A strong "first-to-record" presumption is particularly out of place under the present tax-lien statute, whosegeneral rule is that the tax collectorprevails even if he has not recorded at all. 26 U. S. C.$$ 6321 and 6322; United States v. Snyder, 149 U. S. 210(1893). Thus, while we would hardly proclaim the statutorymeaning we have discerned in this opinion to be "clear," itis evident enough for the purpose at hand. The federal taxlien must be given priority.The judgment of the Court of Appeals is reversed, andthe case is remanded for further proceedings consistent withthis opinion.