Petitioners are the Boy Scouts of America and the Mon-mouth Council, a division of the Boy Scouts of America (colfor Constitutional Jurisprudence by Edwin Meese III; for the Eagle ForumEducation & Legal Defense Fund et al. by Erik S. Jaffe; for the FamilyDefense Council et al. by William E. Fay III; for the Family ResearchCouncil by Janet M. LaRue; for Gays and Lesbians for Individual Libertyby William H. Mellor, Clint Bolick, and Scott G. Bullock; for the Individual Rights Foundation by Paul A. Hoffman and Patrick J. Manshardt;for the Institute for Public Affairs of the Union of Orthodox Jewish Congregations of America by Nathan J. Diament; for the Liberty Legal Institute by Kelly Shackelford and George B. Flint; for the National CatholicCommittee on Scouting et al. by Von G. Keetch; for the National LegalFoundation by Barry C. Hodge; for the Pacific Legal Foundation by JohnH. Findley; for Public Advocate of the United States et al. by William J.Olson and John S. Miles; for the United States Catholic Conference et al.by Mark E. Chopko and Jeffrey Hunter Moon; and for John J. Hurleyet al. by Chester Darling, Michael Williams, and Dwight G. Duncan.Briefs of amici curiae urging affirmance were filed for the State of NewJersey by John J. Farmer, Jr., Attorney General, Jeffrey Burstein, SeniorDeputy Attorney General, and Charles S. Cohen, Deputy Attorney General; for the State of New York et al. by Eliot Spitzer, Attorney Generalof New York, Preeta D. Bansal, Solicitor General, and Adam L. Aronson,Assistant Solicitor General, and by the Attorneys General for their respective States as follows: Bill Lockyer of California, Earl I. Anzai of Hawaii,J. Joseph Curran, Jr., of Maryland, Thomas F. Reilly of Massachusetts,Philip T. McLaughlin of New Hampshire, W. A. Drew Edmondson ofOklahoma; Hardy Myers of Oregon, William H. Sorrell of Vermont, andChristine O. Gregoire of Washington; for the city of Atlanta et al. by PeterT. Barbur, Sara M. Darehshori, James K. Hahn, David I. Schulman,Jeffrey L. Rogers, Madelyn F. Wessel, Thomas J. Berning, Lawrence E.Rosenthal, Benna Ruth Solomon, Michael D. Hess, Leonard J. Koerner,Florence A. Hutner, and Louise Renne; for the American Association ofSchool Administrators et al. by Mitchell A. Karlan; for the American BarAssociation by William G. Paul and Robert H. Murphy; for the AmericanCivil Liberties Union et al. by Matthew A. Coles, Steven R. Shapiro, SaraL. Mandelbaum, and Lenora M. Lapidus; for the American Jewish Congress by Marc D. Stern; for the American Psychological Association byPaul M. Smith, Nory Miller, James L. McHugh, and Nathalie F. P. Gil530US2 Unit: $U82 [11-08-01 06:48:31] PAGES PGT: OPIN644 BOY SCOUTS OF AMERICA v. DALEOpinion of the Courtlectively, Boy Scouts). The Boy Scouts is a private, not-for-profit organization engaged in instilling its system of valuesin young people. The Boy Scouts asserts that homosexualconduct is inconsistent with the values it seeks to instill.Respondent is James Dale, a former Eagle Scout whose adultmembership in the Boy Scouts was revoked when the BoyScouts learned that he is an avowed homosexual and gayrights activist. The New Jersey Supreme Court held thatNew Jersey's public accommodations law requires that theBoy Scouts readmit Dale. This case presents the questionwhether applying New Jersey's public accommodations lawin this way violates the Boy Scouts' First Amendment rightof expressive association. We hold that it does.IJames Dale entered Scouting in 1978 at the age of eightby joining Monmouth Council's Cub Scout Pack 142. Dalebecame a Boy Scout in 1981 and remained a Scout until heturned 18. By all accounts, Dale was an exemplary Scout.In 1988, he achieved the rank of Eagle Scout, one of Scout-ing's highest honors.Dale applied for adult membership in the Boy Scouts in1989. The Boy Scouts approved his application for the position of assistant scoutmaster of Troop 73. Around the sametime, Dale left home to attend Rutgers University. Afterarriving at Rutgers, Dale first acknowledged to himself andfoyle; for the American Public Health Association et al. by Marvin E.Frankel, Jeffrey S. Trachtman, and Kerri Ann Law; for Bay Area Lawyers for Individual Freedom et al. by Edward W. Swanson and Paula A.Brantner; for Deans of Divinity Schools and Rabbinical Institutions byDavid A. Schulz; for the National Association for the Advancement ofColored People by Dennis C. Hayes and David T. Goldberg; for Parents,Families, and Friends of Lesbians and Gays, Inc., et al. by John H. Pickering, Daniel H. Squire, and Carol J. Banta; for the Society of AmericanLaw Teachers by Nan D. Hunter and David Cole; and for Roland Poolet al. by David M. Gische and Merril Hirsh.Michael D. Silverman filed a brief for the General Board of Church andSociety of the United Methodist Church et al.530US2 Unit: $U82 [11-08-01 06:48:31] PAGES PGT: OPIN645Cite as: 530 U. S. 640 (2000)Opinion of the Courtothers that he is gay. He quickly became involved with, andeventually became the copresident of, the Rutgers University Lesbian/Gay Alliance. In 1990, Dale attended a semi-nar addressing the psychological and health needs of lesbianand gay teenagers. A newspaper covering the event inter-viewed Dale about his advocacy of homosexual teenagers'need for gay role models. In early July 1990, the newspaper published the interview and Dale's photograph over acaption identifying him as the copresident of the Lesbian/Gay Alliance.Later that month, Dale received a letter from MonmouthCouncil Executive James Kay revoking his adult membership. Dale wrote to Kay requesting the reason for Monmouth Council's decision. Kay responded by letter that theBoy Scouts "specifically forbid membership to homosexuals." App. 137.In 1992, Dale filed a complaint against the Boy Scoutsin the New Jersey Superior Court. The complaint allegedthat the Boy Scouts had violated New Jersey's public accommodations statute and its common law by revoking Dale'smembership based solely on his sexual orientation. NewJersey's public accommodations statute prohibits, amongother things, discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation in places of public accommodation. N. J. Stat. Ann.$$ 10:5-4 and 10:5-5 (West Supp. 2000); see Appendix, infra,at 661-663.The New Jersey Superior Court's Chancery Divisiongranted summary judgment in favor of the Boy Scouts. Thecourt held that New Jersey's public accommodations law wasinapplicable because the Boy Scouts was not a place of publicaccommodation, and that, alternatively, the Boy Scouts is adistinctly private group exempted from coverage under NewJersey's law. The court rejected Dale's common-law claim,holding that New Jersey's policy is embodied in the publicaccommodations law. The court also concluded that the BoyScouts' position in respect of active homosexuality was clear530US2 Unit: $U82 [11-08-01 06:48:31] PAGES PGT: OPIN646 BOY SCOUTS OF AMERICA v. DALEOpinion of the Courtand held that the First Amendment freedom of expressiveassociation prevented the government from forcing the BoyScouts to accept Dale as an adult leader.The New Jersey Superior Court's Appellate Division affirmed the dismissal of Dale's common-law claim, but other-wise reversed and remanded for further proceedings. 308N. J. Super. 516, 706 A. 2d 270 (1998). It held that NewJersey's public accommodations law applied to the BoyScouts and that the Boy Scouts violated it. The AppellateDivision rejected the Boy Scouts' federal constitutionalclaims.The New Jersey Supreme Court affirmed the judgment ofthe Appellate Division. It held that the Boy Scouts was aplace of public accommodation subject to the public accommodations law, that the organization was not exempt fromthe law under any of its express exceptions, and that the BoyScouts violated the law by revoking Dale's membershipbased on his avowed homosexuality. After considering thestate-law issues, the court addressed the Boy Scouts' claimsthat application of the public accommodations law in this caseviolated its federal constitutional rights " `to enter into andmaintain . . . intimate or private relationships . . . [and] toassociate for the purpose of engaging in protected speech.' "160 N. J. 562, 605, 734 A. 2d 1196, 1219 (1999) (quoting Boardof Directors of Rotary Int'l v. Rotary Club of Duarte, 481U. S. 537, 544 (1987)). With respect to the right to intimateassociation, the court concluded that the Boy Scouts' "largesize, nonselectivity, inclusive rather than exclusive purpose,and practice of inviting or allowing nonmembers to attendmeetings, establish that the organization is not `sufficientlypersonal or private to warrant constitutional protection'under the freedom of intimate association." 160 N. J., at608-609, 734 A. 2d, at 1221 (quoting Duarte, supra, at 546).With respect to the right of expressive association, the court"agree[d] that Boy Scouts expresses a belief in moral valuesand uses its activities to encourage the moral development530US2 Unit: $U82 [11-08-01 06:48:31] PAGES PGT: OPIN647Cite as: 530 U. S. 640 (2000)Opinion of the Courtof its members." 160 N. J., at 613, 734 A. 2d, at 1223. Butthe court concluded that it was "not persuaded . . . that ashared goal of Boy Scout members is to associate in order topreserve the view that homosexuality is immoral." Ibid.,734 A. 2d, at 1223-1224 (internal quotation marks omitted).Accordingly, the court held "that Dale's membership doesnot violate the Boy Scouts' right of expressive associationbecause his inclusion would not `affect in any significant way[the Boy Scouts'] existing members' ability to carry out theirvarious purposes.' "Id., at 615, 734 A. 2d, at 1225 (quotingDuarte, supra, at 548). The court also determined thatNew Jersey has a compelling interest in eliminating "the de-structive consequences of discrimination from our society,"and that its public accommodations law abridges no morespeech than is necessary to accomplish its purpose. 160N. J., at 619-620, 734 A. 2d, at 1227-1228. Finally, the courtaddressed the Boy Scouts' reliance on Hurley v. IrishAmerican Gay, Lesbian and Bisexual Group of Boston, Inc.,515 U. S. 557 (1995), in support of its claimed First Amendment right to exclude Dale. The court determined thatHurley did not require deciding the case in favor of the BoyScouts because "the reinstatement of Dale does not compelBoy Scouts to express any message." 160 N. J., at 624, 734A. 2d, at 1229.We granted the Boy Scouts' petition for certiorari to de-termine whether the application of New Jersey's public accommodations law violated the First Amendment. 528 U. S.1109 (2000).IIIn Roberts v. United States Jaycees, 468 U. S. 609, 622(1984), we observed that "implicit in the right to engage inactivities protected by the First Amendment" is "a corre-sponding right to associate with others in pursuit of a widevariety of political, social, economic, educational, religious,and cultural ends." This right is crucial in preventing themajority from imposing its views on groups that would530US2 Unit: $U82 [11-08-01 06:48:31] PAGES PGT: OPIN648 BOY SCOUTS OF AMERICA v. DALEOpinion of the Courtrather express other, perhaps unpopular, ideas. See ibid.(stating that protection of the right to expressive associationis "especially important in preserving political and culturaldiversity and in shielding dissident expression from suppression by the majority"). Government actions that may un-constitutionally burden this freedom may take many forms,one of which is "intrusion into the internal structure or affairs of an association" like a "regulation that forces thegroup to accept members it does not desire."Id., at 623.Forcing a group to accept certain members may impair theability of the group to express those views, and only thoseviews, that it intends to express. Thus, "[f]reedom ofassociation . . . plainly presupposes a freedom not to associate." Ibid.The forced inclusion of an unwanted person in a groupinfringes the group's freedom of expressive association ifthe presence of that person affects in a significant waythe group's ability to advocate public or private viewpoints.New York State Club Assn., Inc. v. City of New York, 487U. S. 1, 13 (1988). But the freedom of expressive association, like many freedoms, is not absolute. We have held thatthe freedom could be overridden "by regulations adopted toserve compelling state interests, unrelated to the suppression of ideas, that cannot be achieved through means significantly less restrictive of associational freedoms." Roberts,supra, at 623.To determine whether a group is protected by the FirstAmendment's expressive associational right, we must determine whether the group engages in "expressive association."The First Amendment's protection of expressive associationis not reserved for advocacy groups. But to come withinits ambit, a group must engage in some form of expression,whether it be public or private.Because this is a First Amendment case where the ultimate conclusions of law are virtually inseparable from findings of fact, we are obligated to independently review the530US2 Unit: $U82 [11-08-01 06:48:31] PAGES PGT: OPIN649Cite as: 530 U. S. 640 (2000)Opinion of the Courtfactual record to ensure that the state court's judgment doesnot unlawfully intrude on free expression. See Hurley,supra, at 567-568. The record reveals the following. TheBoy Scouts is a private, nonprofit organization. Accordingto its mission statement:"It is the mission of the Boy Scouts of America toserve others by helping to instill values in young peopleand, in other ways, to prepare them to make ethicalchoices over their lifetime in achieving their fullpotential."The values we strive to instill are based on thosefound in the Scout Oath and Law:"Scout Oath"On my honor I will do my best"To do my duty to God and my country"and to obey the Scout Law;"To help other people at all times;"To keep myself physically strong,"mentally awake, and morally straight."Scout Law"A Scout is:"Trustworthy Obedient"Loyal Cheerful"Helpful Thrifty"Friendly Brave"Courteous Clean"Kind Reverent." App. 184.Thus, the general mission of the Boy Scouts is clear: "[T]oinstill values in young people."Ibid. The Boy Scoutsseeks to instill these values by having its adult leaders spendtime with the youth members, instructing and engagingthem in activities like camping, archery, and fishing. Duringthe time spent with the youth members, the scoutmastersand assistant scoutmasters inculcate them with the Boy530US2 Unit: $U82 [11-08-01 06:48:31] PAGES PGT: OPIN650 BOY SCOUTS OF AMERICA v. DALEOpinion of the CourtScouts' values--both expressly and by example. It seemsindisputable that an association that seeks to transmit sucha system of values engages in expressive activity. See Roberts, supra, at 636 (O'Connor, J., concurring) ("Even thetraining of outdoor survival skills or participation in commu-nity service might become expressive when the activity isintended to develop good morals, reverence, patriotism, anda desire for self-improvement").Given that the Boy Scouts engages in expressive activity,we must determine whether the forced inclusion of Dale asan assistant scoutmaster would significantly affect the BoyScouts' ability to advocate public or private viewpoints.This inquiry necessarily requires us first to explore, toa limited extent, the nature of the Boy Scouts' view ofhomosexuality.The values the Boy Scouts seeks to instill are "based on"those listed in the Scout Oath and Law. App. 184. The BoyScouts explains that the Scout Oath and Law provide "a positive moral code for living; they are a list of `do's' rather than`don'ts.' " Brief for Petitioners 3. The Boy Scouts assertsthat homosexual conduct is inconsistent with the values embodied in the Scout Oath and Law, particularly with the values represented by the terms "morally straight" and "clean."Obviously, the Scout Oath and Law do not expressly mention sexuality or sexual orientation. See supra, at 649.And the terms "morally straight" and "clean" are by nomeans self-defining. Different people would attribute tothose terms very different meanings. For example, somepeople may believe that engaging in homosexual conduct isnot at odds with being "morally straight" and "clean." Andothers may believe that engaging in homosexual conduct iscontrary to being "morally straight" and "clean." The BoyScouts says it falls within the latter category.The New Jersey Supreme Court analyzed the Boy Scouts'beliefs and found that the "exclusion of members solely onthe basis of their sexual orientation is inconsistent with Boy530US2 Unit: $U82 [11-08-01 06:48:31] PAGES PGT: OPIN651Cite as: 530 U. S. 640 (2000)Opinion of the CourtScouts' commitment to a diverse and `representative' membership . . . [and] contradicts Boy Scouts' overarching objective to reach `all eligible youth.' " 160 N. J., at 618, 734A. 2d, at 1226. The court concluded that the exclusion ofmembers like Dale "appears antithetical to the organization'sgoals and philosophy." Ibid. But our cases reject this sortof inquiry; it is not the role of the courts to reject a group'sexpressed values because they disagree with those values orfind them internally inconsistent. See Democratic Party ofUnited States v. Wisconsin ex rel. La Follette, 450 U. S. 107,124 (1981) ("[A]s is true of all expressions of First Amendment freedoms, the courts may not interfere on the groundthat they view a particular expression as unwise or irrational"); see also Thomas v. Review Bd. of Indiana Employment Security Div., 450 U. S. 707, 714 (1981) ("[R]eligiousbeliefs need not be acceptable, logical, consistent, or comprehensible to others in order to merit First Amendmentprotection").The Boy Scouts asserts that it "teach[es] that homosexualconduct is not morally straight," Brief for Petitioners 39, andthat it does "not want to promote homosexual conduct as alegitimate form of behavior," Reply Brief for Petitioners 5.We accept the Boy Scouts' assertion. We need not inquirefurther to determine the nature of the Boy Scouts' expression with respect to homosexuality. But because the recordbefore us contains written evidence of the Boy Scouts' viewpoint, we look to it as instructive, if only on the question ofthe sincerity of the professed beliefs.A 1978 position statement to the Boy Scouts' ExecutiveCommittee, signed by Downing B. Jenks, the President ofthe Boy Scouts, and Harvey L. Price, the Chief Scout Executive, expresses the Boy Scouts' "official position" with regardto "homosexuality and Scouting":"Q. May an individual who openly declares himself tobe a homosexual be a volunteer Scout leader?530US2 Unit: $U82 [11-08-01 06:48:31] PAGES PGT: OPIN652 BOY SCOUTS OF AMERICA v. DALEOpinion of the Court"A. No. The Boy Scouts of America is a private,membership organization and leadership therein is aprivilege and not a right. We do not believe that homo-sexuality and leadership in Scouting are appropriate.We will continue to select only those who in our judg-ment meet our standards and qualifications for leadership." App. 453-454.Thus, at least as of 1978--the year James Dale enteredScouting--the official position of the Boy Scouts was thatavowed homosexuals were not to be Scout leaders.A position statement promulgated by the Boy Scouts in1991 (after Dale's membership was revoked but before thislitigation was filed) also supports its current view:"We believe that homosexual conduct is inconsistentwith the requirement in the Scout Oath that a Scout bemorally straight and in the Scout Law that a Scout beclean in word and deed, and that homosexuals do notprovide a desirable role model for Scouts." Id., at 457.This position statement was redrafted numerous times butits core message remained consistent. For example, a 1993position statement, the most recent in the record, reads, inpart:"The Boy Scouts of America has always reflected theexpectations that Scouting families have had for theorganization. We do not believe that homosexuals pro-vide a role model consistent with these expectations.Accordingly, we do not allow for the registration ofavowed homosexuals as members or as leaders of theBSA." Id., at 461.The Boy Scouts publicly expressed its views with respectto homosexual conduct by its assertions in prior litigation.For example, throughout a California case with similar factsfiled in the early 1980's, the Boy Scouts consistently assertedthe same position with respect to homosexuality that it as-serts today. SeeCurran v. Mount Diablo Council of Boy530US2 Unit: $U82 [11-08-01 06:48:31] PAGES PGT: OPIN653Cite as: 530 U. S. 640 (2000)Opinion of the CourtScouts of America, No. C-365529 (Cal. Super. Ct., July 25,1991); 48 Cal. App. 4th 670, 29 Cal. Rptr. 2d 580 (1994); 17Cal. 4th 670, 952 P. 2d 218 (1998). We cannot doubt that theBoy Scouts sincerely holds this view.We must then determine whether Dale's presence as anassistant scoutmaster would significantly burden the BoyScouts' desire to not "promote homosexual conduct as a legitimate form of behavior." Reply Brief for Petitioners 5. Aswe give deference to an association's assertions regardingthe nature of its expression, we must also give deference toan association's view of what would impair its expression.See, e. g., La Follette, supra, at 123-124 (considering whethera Wisconsin law burdened the National Party's associationalrights and stating that "a State, or a court, may not constitutionally substitute its own judgment for that of the Party").That is not to say that an expressive association can erect ashield against antidiscrimination laws simply by assertingthat mere acceptance of a member from a particular groupwould impair its message. But here Dale, by his own admission, is one of a group of gay Scouts who have "become leaders in their community and are open and honest about theirsexual orientation." App. 11. Dale was the copresident ofa gay and lesbian organization at college and remains a gayrights activist. Dale's presence in the Boy Scouts would, atthe very least, force the organization to send a message, bothto the youth members and the world, that the Boy Scoutsaccepts homosexual conduct as a legitimate form of behavior.Hurley is illustrative on this point. There we consideredwhether the application of Massachusetts' public accommodations law to require the organizers of a private St. Patrick'sDay parade to include among the marchers an IrishAmerican gay, lesbian, and bisexual group, GLIB, violatedthe parade organizers' First Amendment rights. We notedthat the parade organizers did not wish to exclude the GLIBmembers because of their sexual orientations, but becausethey wanted to march behind a GLIB banner. We observed:530US2 Unit: $U82 [11-08-01 06:48:31] PAGES PGT: OPIN654 BOY SCOUTS OF AMERICA v. DALEOpinion of the Court"[A] contingent marching behind the organization's ban-ner would at least bear witness to the fact that someIrish are gay, lesbian, or bisexual, and the presence ofthe organized marchers would suggest their view thatpeople of their sexual orientations have as much claimto unqualified social acceptance as heterosexuals . . . .The parade's organizers may not believe these factsabout Irish sexuality to be so, or they may object tounqualified social acceptance of gays and lesbians orhave some other reason for wishing to keep GLIB's mes-sage out of the parade. But whatever the reason, itboils down to the choice of a speaker not to propound aparticular point of view, and that choice is presumed tolie beyond the government's power to control." 515U. S., at 574-575.Here, we have found that the Boy Scouts believes that homo-sexual conduct is inconsistent with the values it seeks toinstill in its youth members; it will not "promote homosex-ual conduct as a legitimate form of behavior." Reply Brieffor Petitioners 5. As the presence of GLIB in Boston'sSt. Patrick's Day parade would have interfered with the parade organizers' choice not to propound a particular point ofview, the presence of Dale as an assistant scoutmaster wouldjust as surely interfere with the Boy Scout's choice not topropound a point of view contrary to its beliefs.The New Jersey Supreme Court determined that the BoyScouts' ability to disseminate its message was not significantly affected by the forced inclusion of Dale as an assistantscoutmaster because of the following findings:"Boy Scout members do not associate for the purpose ofdisseminating the belief that homosexuality is immoral;Boy Scouts discourages its leaders from disseminatingany views on sexual issues; and Boy Scouts includessponsors and members who subscribe to different views530US2 Unit: $U82 [11-08-01 06:48:31] PAGES PGT: OPIN655Cite as: 530 U. S. 640 (2000)Opinion of the Courtin respect of homosexuality." 160 N. J., at 612, 734A. 2d, at 1223.We disagree with the New Jersey Supreme Court's conclu-sion drawn from these findings.First, associations do not have to associate for the "pur-pose" of disseminating a certain message in order to be entitled to the protections of the First Amendment. An associa-tion must merely engage in expressive activity that could beimpaired in order to be entitled to protection. For example,the purpose of the St. Patrick's Day parade in Hurley wasnot to espouse any views about sexual orientation, but weheld that the parade organizers had a right to exclude certainparticipants nonetheless.Second, even if the Boy Scouts discourages Scout leadersfrom disseminating views on sexual issues--a fact that theBoy Scouts disputes with contrary evidence--the FirstAmendment protects the Boy Scouts' method of expression.If the Boy Scouts wishes Scout leaders to avoid questions ofsexuality and teach only by example, this fact does not ne-gate the sincerity of its belief discussed above.Third, the First Amendment simply does not require thatevery member of a group agree on every issue in order forthe group's policy to be "expressive association." The BoyScouts takes an official position with respect to homosexualconduct, and that is sufficient for First Amendment pur-poses. In this same vein, Dale makes much of the claim thatthe Boy Scouts does not revoke the membership of hetero-sexual Scout leaders that openly disagree with the BoyScouts' policy on sexual orientation. But if this is true, it isirrelevant.1 The presence of an avowed homosexual and gay1 The record evidence sheds doubt on Dale's assertion. For example,the National Director of the Boy Scouts certified that "any persons whoadvocate to Scouting youth that homosexual conduct is" consistent withScouting values will not be registered as adult leaders. App. 746 (emphasis added). And the Monmouth Council Scout Executive testified that the530US2 Unit: $U82 [11-08-01 06:48:31] PAGES PGT: OPIN656 BOY SCOUTS OF AMERICA v. DALEOpinion of the Courtrights activist in an assistant scoutmaster's uniform sends adistinctly different message from the presence of a heterosexual assistant scoutmaster who is on record as disagreeingwith Boy Scouts policy. The Boy Scouts has a First Amendment right to choose to send one message but not the other.The fact that the organization does not trumpet its viewsfrom the housetops, or that it tolerates dissent within itsranks, does not mean that its views receive no First Amend-ment protection.Having determined that the Boy Scouts is an expressiveassociation and that the forced inclusion of Dale would significantly affect its expression, we inquire whether the appli-cation of New Jersey's public accommodations law to requirethat the Boy Scouts accept Dale as an assistant scoutmasterruns afoul of the Scouts' freedom of expressive association.We conclude that it does.State public accommodations laws were originally enactedto prevent discrimination in traditional places of publicaccommodation--like inns and trains. See, e. g., Hurley,supra, at 571-572 (explaining the history of Massachusetts'public accommodations law); Romer v. Evans, 517 U. S. 620,627-629 (1996) (describing the evolution of public accommodations laws). Over time, the public accommodations lawshave expanded to cover more places.2 New Jersey's statuadvocacy of the morality of homosexuality to youth members by any adultmember is grounds for revocation of the adult's membership. Id., at 761.2 Public accommodations laws have also broadened in scope to covermore groups; they have expanded beyond those groups that have beengiven heightened equal protection scrutiny under our cases. See Romer,517 U. S., at 629. Some municipal ordinances have even expanded tocover criteria such as prior criminal record, prior psychiatric treatment,military status, personal appearance, source of income, place of residence,and political ideology. See 1 Boston, Mass., Ordinance No. $ 12-9.7(1999) (ex-offender, prior psychiatric treatment, and military status); D. C.Code Ann. $ 1-2519 (1999) (personal appearance, source of income, placeof residence); Seattle, Wash., Municipal Code $ 14.08.090 (1999) (politicalideology).530US2 Unit: $U82 [11-08-01 06:48:31] PAGES PGT: OPIN657Cite as: 530 U. S. 640 (2000)Opinion of the Courttory definition of " `[a] place of public accommodation' " is ex-tremely broad. The term is said to "include, but not be limited to," a list of over 50 types of places. N. J. Stat. Ann.$ 10:5-5(l) (West Supp. 2000); see Appendix, infra, at 661-663. Many on the list are what one would expect to beplaces where the public is invited. For example, the statuteincludes as places of public accommodation taverns, restau-rants, retail shops, and public libraries. But the statute alsoincludes places that often may not carry with them open invi-tations to the public, like summer camps and roof gardens.In this case, the New Jersey Supreme Court went a stepfurther and applied its public accommodations law to a private entity without even attempting to tie the term "place"to a physical location.3 As the definition of "public accommodation" has expanded from clearly commercial entities,such as restaurants, bars, and hotels, to membership organizations such as the Boy Scouts, the potential for conflictbetween state public accommodations laws and the FirstAmendment rights of organizations has increased.We recognized in cases such as Roberts and Duarte thatStates have a compelling interest in eliminating discrimina-tion against women in public accommodations. But in eachof these cases we went on to conclude that the enforcementof these statutes would not materially interfere with theideas that the organization sought to express. In Roberts,we said "[i]ndeed, the Jaycees has failed to demonstrate . . .3 Four State Supreme Courts and one United States Court of Appealshave ruled that the Boy Scouts is not a place of public accommodation.Welsh v. Boy Scouts of America, 993 F. 2d 1267 (CA7), cert. denied, 510U. S. 1012 (1993); Curran v. Mount Diablo Council of the Boy Scouts ofAmerica, 17 Cal. 4th 670, 952 P. 2d 218 (1998); Seabourn v. CoronadoArea Council, Boy Scouts of America, 257 Kan. 178, 891 P. 2d 385 (1995);Quinnipiac Council, Boy Scouts of America, Inc. v. Comm'n on HumanRights & Opportunities, 204 Conn. 287, 528 A. 2d 352 (1987); Schwenk v.Boy Scouts of America, 275 Ore. 327, 551 P. 2d 465 (1976). No federalappellate court or state supreme court--except the New Jersey SupremeCourt in this case--has reached a contrary result.530US2 Unit: $U82 [11-08-01 06:48:31] PAGES PGT: OPIN658 BOY SCOUTS OF AMERICA v. DALEOpinion of the Courtany serious burdens on the male members' freedom ofexpressive association." 468 U. S., at 626. In Duarte, wesaid:"[I]mpediments to the exercise of one's right to chooseone's associates can violate the right of association protected by the First Amendment. In this case, however,the evidence fails to demonstrate that admitting womento Rotary Clubs will affect in any significant way theexisting members' ability to carry out their various purposes." 481 U. S., at 548 (internal quotation marks andcitations omitted).We thereupon concluded in each of these cases that the organizations' First Amendment rights were not violated by theapplication of the States' public accommodations laws.In Hurley, we said that public accommodations laws "arewell within the State's usual power to enact when a legislature has reason to believe that a given group is the target ofdiscrimination, and they do not, as a general matter, violatethe First or Fourteenth Amendments." 515 U. S., at 572.But we went on to note that in that case "the Massachusetts[public accommodations] law has been applied in a peculiarway" because "any contingent of protected individuals witha message would have the right to participate in petitioners'speech, so that the communication produced by the privateorganizers would be shaped by all those protected by the lawwho wished to join in with some expressive demonstrationof their own." Id., at 572-573. And in the associationalfreedom cases such as Roberts, Duarte, and New York StateClub Assn., after finding a compelling state interest, theCourt went on to examine whether or not the applicationof the state law would impose any "serious burden" on theorganization's rights of expressive association. So in thesecases, the associational interest in freedom of expression has530US2 Unit: $U82 [11-08-01 06:48:31] PAGES PGT: OPIN659Cite as: 530 U. S. 640 (2000)Opinion of the Courtbeen set on one side of the scale, and the State's interest onthe other.Dale contends that we should apply the intermediatestandard of review enunciated in United States v. O'Brien,391 U. S. 367 (1968), to evaluate the competing interests.There the Court enunciated a four-part test for review of agovernmental regulation that has only an incidental effecton protected speech--in that case the symbolic burning of adraft card. A law prohibiting the destruction of draft cardsonly incidentally affects the free speech rights of those whohappen to use a violation of that law as a symbol of protest.But New Jersey's public accommodations law directly andimmediately affects associational rights, in this case associational rights that enjoy First Amendment protection. Thus,O'Brien is inapplicable.In Hurley, we applied traditional First Amendment analysis to hold that the application of the Massachusetts publicaccommodations law to a parade violated the First Amendment rights of the parade organizers. Although we did notexplicitly deem the parade in Hurley an expressive association, the analysis we applied there is similar to the analysiswe apply here. We have already concluded that a state requirement that the Boy Scouts retain Dale as an assistantscoutmaster would significantly burden the organization'sright to oppose or disfavor homosexual conduct. The stateinterests embodied in New Jersey's public accommodationslaw do not justify such a severe intrusion on the Boy Scouts'rights to freedom of expressive association. That being thecase, we hold that the First Amendment prohibits the Statefrom imposing such a requirement through the application ofits public accommodations law.44 We anticipated this result in Hurley when we illustrated the reasonsfor our holding in that case by likening the parade to a private membership organization. 515 U. S., at 580. We stated: "Assuming the parade530US2 Unit: $U82 [11-08-01 06:48:31] PAGES PGT: OPIN660 BOY SCOUTS OF AMERICA v. DALEOpinion of the CourtJustice Stevens' dissent makes much of its observationthat the public perception of homosexuality in this countryhas changed. See post, at 699-700. Indeed, it appears thathomosexuality has gained greater societal acceptance. Seeibid. But this is scarcely an argument for denying FirstAmendment protection to those who refuse to accept theseviews. The First Amendment protects expression, be it ofthe popular variety or not. See,e. g., Texas v. Johnson, 491U. S. 397 (1989) (holding that Johnson's conviction for burning the American flag violates the First Amendment); Brandenburg v. Ohio, 395 U. S. 444 (1969) (per curiam) (holdingthat a Ku Klux Klan leader's conviction for advocating un-lawfulness as a means of political reform violates the FirstAmendment). And the fact that an idea may be embracedand advocated by increasing numbers of people is all themore reason to protect the First Amendment rights of thosewho wish to voice a different view.Justice Stevens' extolling of Justice Brandeis' commentsinNew State Ice Co. v. Liebmann, 285 U. S. 262, 311 (1932)(dissenting opinion); see post, at 664, 700, confuses two entirely different principles. In New State Ice, the Courtstruck down an Oklahoma regulation prohibiting the manufacture, sale, and distribution of ice without a license. Jus-tice Brandeis, a champion of state experimentation in theeconomic realm, dissented. But Justice Brandeis was nevera champion of state experimentation in the suppression offree speech. To the contrary, his First Amendment com-mentary provides compelling support for the Court's opinionin this case. In speaking of the Founders of this Nation,Justice Brandeis emphasized that they "believed that freeto be large enough and a source of benefits (apart from its expression) thatwould generally justify a mandated access provision, GLIB could nonetheless be refused admission as an expressive contingent with its ownmessage just as readily as a private club could exclude an applicant whosemanifest views were at odds with a position taken by the club's existingmembers." Id., at 580-581.530US2 Unit: $U82 [11-08-01 06:48:31] PAGES PGT: OPIN661Cite as: 530 U. S. 640 (2000)Appendix to opinion of the Courtdom to think as you will and to speak as you think are meansindispensable to the discovery and spread of political truth."Whitney v. California, 274 U. S. 357, 375 (1927) (concurringopinion). He continued:"Believing in the power of reason as applied throughpublic discussion, they eschewed silence coerced bylaw--the argument of force in its worst form. Recog-nizing the occasional tyrannies of governing majorities,they amended the Constitution so that free speech andassembly should be guaranteed." Id., at 375-376.We are not, as we must not be, guided by our views ofwhether the Boy Scouts' teachings with respect to homosexual conduct are right or wrong; public or judicial disapprovalof a tenet of an organization's expression does not justify theState's effort to compel the organization to accept memberswhere such acceptance would derogate from the organization's expressive message. "While the law is free to pro-mote all sorts of conduct in place of harmful behavior, it isnot free to interfere with speech for no better reason thanpromoting an approved message or discouraging a disfavoredone, however enlightened either purpose may strike the government." Hurley, 515 U. S., at 579.The judgment of the New Jersey Supreme Court is reversed, and the case is remanded for further proceedings notinconsistent with this opinion.