In Richards v. Wisconsin, 520 U. S. 385, 394 (1997), weheld that so-called "no-knock" entries are justified when police officers have a "reasonable suspicion" that knocking andannouncing their presence before entering would "be dangerous or futile, or . . . inhibit the effective investigation of*Briefs of amici curiae urging reversal were filed for Americans forEffective Law Enforcement, Inc., et al. by Richard M. Weintraub, Bernard J. Farber, Fred E. Inbau, Wayne W. Schmidt, and James P. Manak;and for the State of Ohio et al. by Betty D. Montgomery, Attorney Generalof Ohio, Jeffrey S. Sutton, State Solicitor, and Elise Porter, Assistant Attorney General, and by the Attorneys General for their respective jurisdictions as follows: William H. Pryor, Jr., of Alabama, Bruce M. Botelho ofAlaska, Winston Bryant of Arkansas, Daniel E. Lungren of California,M. Jane Brady of Delaware, Robert Butterworth of Florida, Margery S.Bronster of Hawaii, Alan G. Lance of Idaho, James E. Ryan of Illinois,Carla J. Stovall of Kansas, Richard P. Ieyoub of Louisiana, J. Joseph Curran, Jr., of Maryland, Frank J. Kelley of Michigan, Jeremiah W. Nixonof Missouri, Joseph P. Mazurek of Montana, Don Stenberg of Nebraska,Frankie Sue Del Papa of Nevada, Dennis C. Vacco of New York, MichaelF. Easley of North Carolina, Heidi Heitkamp of North Dakota, W. A.Drew Edmondson of Oklahoma, Jose Fuentes Agostini of Puerto Rico,Jeffrey B. Pine of Rhode Island, Charles M. Condon of South Carolina,Mark Barnett of South Dakota, Jan Graham of Utah, William H. Sorrellof Vermont, Richard Cullen of Virginia, and Christine O. Gregoire ofWashington.John Wesley Hall, Jr., and Lisa Kemler filed a brief for the NationalAssociation of Criminal Defense Lawyers as amicus curiae urgingaffirmance.523US1 Unit: $U34 [04-29-00 19:54:43] PAGES PGT: OPIN68 UNITED STATES v. RAMIREZOpinion of the Courtthe crime." In this case, we must decide whether theFourth Amendment holds officers to a higher standard thanthis when a "no-knock" entry results in the destruction ofproperty. We hold that it does not.Alan Shelby was a prisoner serving concurrent state andfederal sentences in the Oregon state prison system. OnNovember 1, 1994, the Tillamook County Sheriff 's Office tooktemporary custody of Shelby, expecting to transport him tothe Tillamook County Courthouse, where he was scheduledto testify. On the way to the courthouse, Shelby slipped hishandcuffs, knocked over a deputy sheriff, and escaped fromcustody.It was not the first time Shelby had attempted escape. In1991 he struck an officer, kicked out a jail door, assaulted awoman, stole her vehicle, and used it to ram a police vehicle.Another time he attempted escape by using a rope madefrom torn bedsheets. He was reported to have madethreats to kill witnesses and police officers, to have torturedpeople with a hammer, and to have said that he would " `notdo federal time.' " App. to Pet. for Cert. 38a. It was alsothought that Shelby had had access to large supplies ofweapons.Shortly after learning of Shelby's escape, the authoritiessent out a press release, seeking information that would leadto his recapture. On November 3, a reliable confidentialinformant told Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, and FirearmsAgent George Kim that on the previous day he had seen aperson he believed to be Shelby at respondent Hernan Ramirez's home in Boring, Oregon. Kim and the informant thendrove to an area near respondent's home, from where Kimobserved a man working outside who resembled Shelby.Based on this information, a Deputy United States Marshal sought and received a "no-knock" warrant granting permission to enter and search Ramirez's home. Around thistime, the confidential informant also told authorities thatrespondent might have a stash of guns and drugs hidden in523US1 Unit: $U34 [04-29-00 19:54:43] PAGES PGT: OPIN69Cite as: 523 U. S. 65 (1998)Opinion of the Courthis garage. In the early morning of November 5, approxi-mately 45 officers gathered to execute the warrant. The officers set up a portable loudspeaker system and began an-nouncing that they had a search warrant. Simultaneously,they broke a single window in the garage and pointed a gunthrough the opening, hoping thereby to dissuade any of theoccupants from rushing to the weapons the officers believedmight be in the garage.Respondent and his family were asleep inside the house atthe time this activity began. Awakened by the noise, re-spondent believed that they were being burglarized. Heran to his utility closet, grabbed a pistol, and fired it into theceiling of his garage. The officers fired back and shouted"police." At that point respondent realized that it was lawenforcement officers who were trying to enter his home. Heran to the living room, threw his pistol away, and threw himself onto the floor. Shortly thereafter, he, his wife, and theirchild left the house and were taken into police custody. Respondent waived his Miranda rights, and then admitted thathe had fired the weapon, that he owned both that gun andanother gun that was inside the house, and that he was aconvicted felon. Officers soon obtained another search warrant, which they used to return to the house and retrieve thetwo guns. Shelby was not found.Respondent was subsequently indicted for being a felon inpossession of firearms. 18 U. S. C. $ 922(g)(1). The DistrictCourt granted his motion to suppress evidence regarding hispossession of the weapons, ruling that the police officers hadviolated both the Fourth Amendment and 18 U. S. C. $ 3109because there were "insufficient exigent circumstances" tojustify the police officers' destruction of property in theirexecution of the warrant. App. to Pet. for Cert. 34a.The Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit affirmed. 91F. 3d 1297 (1996). Applying Circuit precedent, that courtconcluded that while a "mild exigency" is sufficient to justifya no-knock entry that can be accomplished without the de523US1 Unit: $U34 [04-29-00 19:54:43] PAGES PGT: OPIN70 UNITED STATES v. RAMIREZOpinion of the Courtstruction of property, " `more specific inferences of exigencyare necessary' " when property is destroyed. Id., at 1301.It held that this heightened standard had not been met onthe facts of this case. We granted certiorari and now reverse. 521 U. S. 1103 (1997).In two recent cases we have considered whether and towhat extent "no-knock" entries implicate the protections ofthe Fourth Amendment. InWilson v. Arkansas, 514 U. S.927 (1995), we reviewed the Arkansas Supreme Court's holding that the common-law requirement that police officersknock and announce their presence before entering playedno role in Fourth Amendment analysis. We rejected thatconclusion, and held instead that "in some circumstances anofficer's unannounced entry into a home might be unreason-able under the Fourth Amendment."Id., at 934. We werecareful to note, however, that there was no rigid rule requiring announcement in all instances, and left "to the lowercourts the task of determining the circumstances underwhich an unannounced entry is reasonable under the FourthAmendment."Id., at 934, 936.In Richards v. Wisconsin, 520 U. S. 385 (1997),1 the Wisconsin Supreme Court held that police officers executingsearch warrants in felony drug investigations were never required to knock and announce their presence. We concludedthat this blanket rule was overly broad and held instead that"[i]n order to justify a `no-knock' entry, the police must havea reasonable suspicion that knocking and announcing theirpresence, under the particular circumstances, would be dan-gerous or futile, or that it would inhibit the effective investigation of the crime by, for example, allowing the destructionof evidence." Id., at 394.Neither of these cases explicitly addressed the questionwhether the lawfulness of a no-knock entry depends onwhether property is damaged in the course of the entry. It1 It should be noted that our opinion in Richards came down after theCourt of Appeals issued its opinion in this case.523US1 Unit: $U34 [04-29-00 19:54:43] PAGES PGT: OPIN71Cite as: 523 U. S. 65 (1998)Opinion of the Courtis obvious from their holdings, however, that it does not.Under Richards, a no-knock entry is justified if police havea "reasonable suspicion" that knocking and announcingwould be dangerous, futile, or destructive to the purposesof the investigation. Whether such a "reasonable suspicion"exists depends in no way on whether police must destroyproperty in order to enter.This is not to say that the Fourth Amendment speaks notat all to the manner of executing a search warrant. Thegeneral touchstone of reasonableness which governs FourthAmendment analysis, see Pennsylvania v. Mimms, 434 U. S.106, 108-109 (1977)(per curiam), governs the method of exe-cution of the warrant. Excessive or unnecessary destruction of property in the course of a search may violate theFourth Amendment, even though the entry itself is lawfuland the fruits of the search are not subject to suppression.Applying these principles to the facts at hand, we concludethat no Fourth Amendment violation occurred. A reliableconfidential informant had notified the police that AlanShelby might be inside respondent's home, and an officer hadconfirmed this possibility. Shelby was a prison escapee witha violent past who reportedly had access to a large supply ofweapons. He had vowed that he would " `not do federaltime.' " The police certainly had a "reasonable suspicion"that knocking and announcing their presence might be dangerous to themselves or to others.2As for the manner in which the entry was accomplished,the police here broke a single window in respondent's garage.They did so because they wished to discourage Shelby, orany other occupant of the house, from rushing to the weap-ons that the informant had told them respondent might have2 It is of no consequence that Shelby was not found. "[I]n determiningthe lawfulness of entry and the existence of probable cause we may concern ourselves only with what the officers had reason to believe at thetime of their entry." Ker v. California, 374 U. S. 23, 40-41, n. 12 (1963)(opinion of Clark, J.) (emphasis in original).523US1 Unit: $U34 [04-29-00 19:54:43] PAGES PGT: OPIN72 UNITED STATES v. RAMIREZOpinion of the Courtkept there. Their conduct was clearly reasonable and weconclude that there was no Fourth Amendment violation.3Respondent also argues, however, that suppression is appropriate because the officers executing the warrant violated18 U. S. C. $ 3109. This statutory argument fares no better.Section 3109 provides:"The officer may break open any outer or inner door orwindow of a house, or any part of a house, or anythingtherein, to execute a search warrant, if, after notice ofhis authority and purpose, he is refused admittance orwhen necessary to liberate himself or a person aidinghim in the execution of the warrant."Respondent contends that the statute specifies the only circumstances under which an officer may damage property inexecuting a search warrant, and that it therefore forbids allother property-damaging entries.But by its terms $ 3109 prohibits nothing. It merely authorizes officers to damage property in certain instances.Even accepting, arguendo, that the statute implicitly forbidssome of what it does not expressly permit, it is of no help torespondent. In Miller v. United States, 357 U. S. 301, 313(1958), we noted that $ 3109's "requirement of prior notice. . . before forcing entry . . . codif[ied] a tradition embeddedin Anglo-American law." We repeated this point in Sabbathv. United States, 391 U. S. 585, 591, n. 8 (1968) (referring to$ 3109 as "codification" of the common law). In neither of3 After concluding that the Fourth Amendment had been violated in thiscase, the Ninth Circuit further concluded that the guns should be excludedfrom evidence. Because we conclude that there was no Fourth Amendment violation, we need not decide whether, for example, there was sufficient causal relationship between the breaking of the window and the discovery of the guns to warrant suppression of the evidence. Cf. Nix v.Williams, 467 U. S. 431 (1984); Wong Sun v. United States, 371 U. S. 471(1963).523US1 Unit: $U34 [04-29-00 19:54:43] PAGES PGT: OPIN73Cite as: 523 U. S. 65 (1998)Opinion of the Courtthese cases, however, did we expressly hold that $ 3109 alsocodified the exceptions to the common-law requirement ofnotice before entry. In Miller the Government made "noclaim . . . of the existence of circumstances excusing compliance" and the question was accordingly not before us. 357U. S., at 309. In Sabbath the Government did make such aclaim, but because the record did "not reveal any substantialbasis for the failure of the agents . . . to announce their authority" we did not decide the question. We did note, however, that "[e]xceptions to any possible constitutional rulerelating to announcement and entry have been recognized. . . and there is little reason why those limited exceptionsmight not also apply to $ 3109, since they existed at commonlaw, of which the statute is a codification." 391 U. S., at591, n. 8.In this case the question is squarely presented. We remove whatever doubt may remain on the subject and holdthat $ 3109 codifies the exceptions to the common-law announcement requirement. If $ 3109 codifies the common lawin this area, and the common law in turn informs the FourthAmendment, our decisions in Wilson and Richards serve asguideposts in construing the statute. In Wilson v. Arkansas, 514 U. S. 927 (1995), we concluded that the common-lawprinciple of announcement is "an element of the reasonableness inquiry under the Fourth Amendment," but noted thatthe principle "was never stated as an inflexible rule requiring announcement under all circumstances." Id., at 934. InRichards v. Wisconsin, 520 U. S. 385 (1997), we articulatedthe test used to determine whether exigent circumstancesjustify a particular no-knock entry. Id., at 394. We therefore hold that $ 3109 includes an exigent circumstances exception and that the exception's applicability in a given instance is measured by the same standard we articulated inRichards. The police met that standard here and $ 3109 wastherefore not violated.523US1 Unit: $U34 [04-29-00 19:54:43] PAGES PGT: OPIN74 UNITED STATES v. RAMIREZOpinion of the CourtWe accordingly reverse the judgment of the Court ofAppeals and remand this case for further proceedings consistent with this opinion. It is so ordered.523US1 Unit: $U35 [04-29-00 19:56:27] PAGES PGT: OPIN75OCTOBER TERM, 1997SyllabusONCALE v. SUNDOWNER OFFSHORESERVICES, INC., et al.certiorari to the united states court of appeals forthe fifth circuitNo. 96-568. Argued December 3, 1997--Decided March 4, 1998Petitioner Oncale filed a complaint against his employer, respondent Sundowner Offshore Services, Inc., claiming that sexual harassment directed against him by respondent co-workers in their workplace constituted "discriminat[ion] . . . because of . . . sex" prohibited by Title VIIof the Civil Rights Act of 1964, 42 U. S. C. $ 2000e-2(a)(1). Relying onFifth Circuit precedent, the District Court held that Oncale, a male, hadno Title VII cause of action for harassment by male co-workers. TheFifth Circuit affirmed.Held: Sex discrimination consisting of same-sex sexual harassment is actionable under Title VII. Title VII's prohibition of discrimination "because of . . . sex" protects men as well as women, Newport News Shipbuilding & Dry Dock Co. v. EEOC, 462 U. S. 669, 682, and in the relatedcontext of racial discrimination in the workplace this Court has rejectedany conclusive presumption that an employer will not discriminateagainst members of his own race, Castaneda v. Partida, 430 U. S. 482,499. There is no justification in Title VII's language or the Court'sprecedents for a categorical rule barring a claim of discrimination "because of . . . sex" merely because the plaintiff and the defendant (or theperson charged with acting on behalf of the defendant) are of the samesex. Recognizing liability for same-sex harassment will not transformTitle VII into a general civility code for the American workplace, sinceTitle VII is directed at discrimination because of sex, not merely conduct tinged with offensive sexual connotations; since the statute doesnot reach genuine but innocuous differences in the ways men and womenroutinely interact with members of the same, and the opposite, sex; andsince the objective severity of harassment should be judged from theperspective of a reasonable person in the plaintiff's position, consideringall the circumstances. Pp. 78-82.83 F. 3d 118, reversed and remanded.Scalia, J., delivered the opinion for a unanimous Court. Thomas, J.,filed a concurring opinion, post, p. 82.523US1 Unit: $U35 [04-29-00 19:56:27] PAGES PGT: OPIN76 ONCALE v. SUNDOWNER OFFSHORE SERVICES, INC.Opinion of the CourtNicholas Canaday III argued the cause for petitioner.With him on the briefs were Andre P. LaPlace and EricSchnapper.Deputy Solicitor General Kneedler argued the causefor the United States as amicus curiae urging reversal.On the brief wereActing Solicitor General Dellinger, Act-ing Assistant Attorney General Pinzler, Deputy SolicitorGeneral Waxman, Beth S. Brinkmann, C. Gregory Stewart,J. Ray Terry, Jr., Gwendolyn Young Reams, and Carolyn L.Wheeler.Harry M. Reasoner argued the cause for respondents.With him on the brief were John H. Smither, Marie R.Yeates, Thomas H. Wilson, and Samuel Issacharoff.*Justice Scalia delivered the opinion of the Court.This case presents the question whether workplace harass-ment can violate Title VII's prohibition against "discriminat[ion] . . . because of . . . sex," 42 U. S. C. $ 2000e-2(a)(1), whenthe harasser and the harassed employee are of the same sex.IThe District Court having granted summary judgment forrespondents, we must assume the facts to be as alleged bypetitioner Joseph Oncale. The precise details are irrelevant*Briefs of amici curiae urging reversal were filed for the Associationof Trial Lawyers of America by Ellen Simon Sacks and Christopher P.Thorman; for the Lambda Legal Defense and Education Fund et al. byBeatrice Dohrn, John Davidson, Ruth Harlow, Steven R. Shapiro, SaraL. Mandelbaum, and Minna J. Kotkin; for the National Employment Lawyers Association by Margaret A. Harris and Anne Golden; for the National Organization on Male Sexual Victimization, Inc., by Catharine A.MacKinnon; and for Law Professors by Nan D. Hunter.Briefs of amici curiae urging affirmance were filed for the Equal Employment Advisory Council by Robert E. Williams and Ann ElizabethReesman; and for the Texas Association of Business & Chambers of Commerce by Jeffrey C. Londa and Linda Ottinger Headley.523US1 Unit: $U35 [04-29-00 19:56:27] PAGES PGT: OPIN77Cite as: 523 U. S. 75 (1998)Opinion of the Courtto the legal point we must decide, and in the interest of bothbrevity and dignity we shall describe them only generally.In late October 1991, Oncale was working for respondentSundowner Offshore Services, Inc., on a Chevron U. S. A.,Inc., oil platform in the Gulf of Mexico. He was employedas a roustabout on an eight-man crew which included respondents John Lyons, Danny Pippen, and Brandon Johnson.Lyons, the crane operator, and Pippen, the driller, had supervisory authority, App. 41, 77, 43. On several occasions,Oncale was forcibly subjected to sex-related, humiliatingactions against him by Lyons, Pippen, and Johnson in thepresence of the rest of the crew. Pippen and Lyons alsophysically assaulted Oncale in a sexual manner, and Lyonsthreatened him with rape.Oncale's complaints to supervisory personnel produced noremedial action; in fact, the company's Safety ComplianceClerk, Valent Hohen, told Oncale that Lyons and Pippen"picked [on] him all the time too," and called him a namesuggesting homosexuality. Id., at 77. Oncale eventuallyquit--asking that his pink slip reflect that he "voluntarilyleft due to sexual harassment and verbal abuse." Id., at 79.When asked at his deposition why he left Sundowner, Oncalestated: "I felt that if I didn't leave my job, that I would beraped or forced to have sex." Id., at 71.Oncale filed a complaint against Sundowner in the UnitedStates District Court for the Eastern District of Louisiana,alleging that he was discriminated against in his employmentbecause of his sex. Relying on the Fifth Circuit's decision inGarcia v. Elf Atochem North America, 28 F. 3d 446, 451-452(1994), the District Court held that "Mr. Oncale, a male, hasno cause of action under Title VII for harassment by maleco-workers." App. 106. On appeal, a panel of the FifthCircuit concluded that Garcia was binding Circuit precedent,and affirmed. 83 F. 3d 118 (1996). We granted certiorari.520 U. S. 1263 (1997).523US1 Unit: $U35 [04-29-00 19:56:27] PAGES PGT: OPIN78 ONCALE v. SUNDOWNER OFFSHORE SERVICES, INC.Opinion of the CourtIITitle VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 provides, in rele-vant part, that "[i]t shall be an unlawful employment practicefor an employer . . . to discriminate against any individualwith respect to his compensation, terms, conditions, or privileges of employment, because of such individual's race, color,religion, sex, or national origin." 78 Stat. 255, as amended,42 U. S. C. $ 2000e-2(a)(1). We have held that this not onlycovers "terms" and "conditions" in the narrow contractualsense, but "evinces a congressional intent to strike at theentire spectrum of disparate treatment of men and womenin employment." Meritor Savings Bank, FSB v. Vinson,477 U. S. 57, 64 (1986) (citations and internal quotation marksomitted). "When the workplace is permeated with discrimi-natory intimidation, ridicule, and insult that is sufficientlysevere or pervasive to alter the conditions of the victim'semployment and create an abusive working environment,Title VII is violated." Harris v. Forklift Systems, Inc., 510U. S. 17, 21 (1993) (citations and internal quotation marksomitted).Title VII's prohibition of discrimination "because of . . .sex" protects men as well as women, Newport News Shipbuilding & Dry Dock Co. v. EEOC, 462 U. S. 669, 682 (1983),and in the related context of racial discrimination in theworkplace we have rejected any conclusive presumption thatan employer will not discriminate against members of hisown race. "Because of the many facets of human motiva-tion, it would be unwise to presume as a matter of law thathuman beings of one definable group will not discriminateagainst other members of their group."Castaneda v. Partida, 430 U. S. 482, 499 (1977). See also id., at 515-516,n. 6 (Powell, J., joined by Burger, C. J., andRehnquist, J.,dissenting). InJohnson v. Transportation Agency, SantaClara Cty., 480 U. S. 616 (1987), a male employee claimedthat his employer discriminated against him because of hissex when it preferred a female employee for promotion. Al523US1 Unit: $U35 [04-29-00 19:56:27] PAGES PGT: OPIN79Cite as: 523 U. S. 75 (1998)Opinion of the Courtthough we ultimately rejected the claim on other grounds,we did not consider it significant that the supervisor whomade that decision was also a man. See id., at 624-625. Ifour precedents leave any doubt on the question, we holdtoday that nothing in Title VII necessarily bars a claim ofdiscrimination "because of . . . sex" merely because the plain-tiff and the defendant (or the person charged with acting onbehalf of the defendant) are of the same sex.Courts have had little trouble with that principle in caseslike Johnson, where an employee claims to have been passedover for a job or promotion. But when the issue arises inthe context of a "hostile environment" sexual harassmentclaim, the state and federal courts have taken a bewilderingvariety of stances. Some, like the Fifth Circuit in this case,have held that same-sex sexual harassment claims are nevercognizable under Title VII. See also, e. g., Goluszek v. H. P.Smith, 697 F. Supp. 1452 (ND Ill. 1988). Other decisions saythat such claims are actionable only if the plaintiff can provethat the harasser is homosexual (and thus presumably motivated by sexual desire). Compare McWilliams v. FairfaxCounty Board of Supervisors, 72 F. 3d 1191 (CA4 1996), withWrightson v. Pizza Hut of America, 99 F. 3d 138 (CA4 1996).Still others suggest that workplace harassment that is sexualin content is always actionable, regardless of the harasser'ssex, sexual orientation, or motivations. See Doe v. Belleville, 119 F. 3d 563 (CA7 1997).We see no justification in the statutory language or ourprecedents for a categorical rule excluding same-sex harassment claims from the coverage of Title VII. As some courtshave observed, male-on-male sexual harassment in the workplace was assuredly not the principal evil Congress was concerned with when it enacted Title VII. But statutory prohibitions often go beyond the principal evil to cover reasonablycomparable evils, and it is ultimately the provisions of ourlaws rather than the principal concerns of our legislators bywhich we are governed. Title VII prohibits "discrimina523US1 Unit: $U35 [04-29-00 19:56:27] PAGES PGT: OPIN80 ONCALE v. SUNDOWNER OFFSHORE SERVICES, INC.Opinion of the Courtt[ion] . . . because of . . . sex" in the "terms" or "conditions"of employment. Our holding that this includes sexual harassment must extend to sexual harassment of any kind thatmeets the statutory requirements.Respondents and their amici contend that recognizing liability for same-sex harassment will transform Title VII intoa general civility code for the American workplace. Butthat risk is no greater for same-sex than for opposite-sexharassment, and is adequately met by careful attention tothe requirements of the statute. Title VII does not prohibitall verbal or physical harassment in the workplace; it is directed only at "discriminat[ion] . . . because of . . . sex."We have never held that workplace harassment, even harassment between men and women, is automatically discrimination because of sex merely because the words used have sexual content or connotations. "The critical issue, Title VII'stext indicates, is whether members of one sex are exposed todisadvantageous terms or conditions of employment to whichmembers of the other sex are not exposed." Harris, supra,at 25 (Ginsburg, J., concurring).Courts and juries have found the inference of discrimination easy to draw in most male-female sexual harassmentsituations, because the challenged conduct typically involvesexplicit or implicit proposals of sexual activity; it is reasonable to assume those proposals would not have been made tosomeone of the same sex. The same chain of inferencewould be available to a plaintiff alleging same-sex harassment, if there were credible evidence that the harasser washomosexual. But harassing conduct need not be motivatedby sexual desire to support an inference of discrimination onthe basis of sex. A trier of fact might reasonably find suchdiscrimination, for example, if a female victim is harassed insuch sex-specific and derogatory terms by another woman asto make it clear that the harasser is motivated by generalhostility to the presence of women in the workplace. Asame-sex harassment plaintiff may also, of course, offer di523US1 Unit: $U35 [04-29-00 19:56:27] PAGES PGT: OPIN81Cite as: 523 U. S. 75 (1998)Opinion of the Courtrect comparative evidence about how the alleged harassertreated members of both sexes in a mixed-sex workplace.Whatever evidentiary route the plaintiff chooses to follow,he or she must always prove that the conduct at issue wasnot merely tinged with offensive sexual connotations, but actually constituted "discrimina[tion] . . . because of . . . sex."And there is another requirement that prevents Title VIIfrom expanding into a general civility code: As we empha-sized inMeritor and Harris, the statute does not reach genuine but innocuous differences in the ways men and womenroutinely interact with members of the same sex and of theopposite sex. The prohibition of harassment on the basis ofsex requires neither asexuality nor androgyny in the workplace; it forbids only behavior so objectively offensive as toalter the "conditions" of the victim's employment. "Conductthat is not severe or pervasive enough to create an objectively hostile or abusive work environment--an environmentthat a reasonable person would find hostile or abusive--isbeyond Title VII's purview." Harris, 510 U. S., at 21, citingMeritor, 477 U. S., at 67. We have always regarded thatrequirement as crucial, and as sufficient to ensure that courtsand juries do not mistake ordinary socializing in the workplace--such as male-on-male horseplay or intersexual flirtation--for discriminatory "conditions of employment."We have emphasized, moreover, that the objective severity of harassment should be judged from the perspective ofa reasonable person in the plaintiff 's position, considering"all the circumstances." Harris, supra, at 23. In same-sex(as in all) harassment cases, that inquiry requires carefulconsideration of the social context in which particular behavior occurs and is experienced by its target. A professionalfootball player's working environment is not severely or pervasively abusive, for example, if the coach smacks him on thebuttocks as he heads onto the field--even if the same behavior would reasonably be experienced as abusive by thecoach's secretary (male or female) back at the office. The523US1 Unit: $U35 [04-29-00 19:56:27] PAGES PGT: OPIN82 ONCALE v. SUNDOWNER OFFSHORE SERVICES, INC.Thomas, J., concurringreal social impact of workplace behavior often depends on aconstellation of surrounding circumstances, expectations,and relationships which are not fully captured by a simplerecitation of the words used or the physical acts performed.Common sense, and an appropriate sensitivity to social con-text, will enable courts and juries to distinguish betweensimple teasing or roughhousing among members of the samesex, and conduct which a reasonable person in the plaintiff 'sposition would find severely hostile or abusive.IIIBecause we conclude that sex discrimination consisting ofsame-sex sexual harassment is actionable under Title VII,the judgment of the Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuitis reversed, and the case is remanded for further proceedingsconsistent with this opinion.