Customs officials seized 37 kilograms--a little more than81 pounds--of marijuana from respondent Manuel FloresMontano's gas tank at the international border. The Courtof Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, relying on an earlier decision by a divided panel of that court, United States v.Molina-Tarazon, 279 F. 3d 709 (2002), held that the FourthAmendment forbade the fuel tank search absent reasonablesuspicion. No. 02-50306, 2003 WL 22410705 (Mar. 14, 2003).We hold that the search in question did not require reason-able suspicion.Respondent, driving a 1987 Ford Taurus station wagon,attempted to enter the United States at the Otay Mesa Portof Entry in southern California. A customs inspector con-ducted an inspection of the station wagon, and requested respondent to leave the vehicle. The vehicle was then takento a secondary inspection station.*Daniel J. Popeo and Richard A. Samp filed a brief for the WashingtonLegal Foundation et al. as amici curiae urging reversal.John Wesley Hall, Jr., David M. Siegel, and Lisa B. Kemler filed abrief for the National Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers as amicuscuriae urging affirmance.541US1 Unit: $U34 [11-29-04 12:26:41] PAGES PGT: OPIN151Cite as: 541 U. S. 149 (2004)Opinion of the CourtAt the secondary station, a second customs inspector inspected the gas tank by tapping it, and noted that the tanksounded solid. Subsequently, the inspector requested a mechanic under contract with Customs to come to the borderstation to remove the tank. Within 20 to 30 minutes, themechanic arrived. He raised the car on a hydraulic lift, loosened the straps and unscrewed the bolts holding the gas tankto the undercarriage of the vehicle, and then disconnectedsome hoses and electrical connections. After the gas tankwas removed, the inspector hammered off bondo (a putty-likehardening substance that is used to seal openings) from thetop of the gas tank. The inspector opened an access plateunderneath the bondo and found 37 kilograms of marijuanabricks. The process took 15 to 25 minutes.A grand jury for the Southern District of California indicted respondent on one count of unlawfully importing marijuana, in violation of 21 U. S. C. $ 952, and one count of possession of marijuana with intent to distribute, in violation of$ 841(a)(1). Relying on Molina-Tarazon, respondent filed amotion to suppress the marijuana recovered from the gastank. In Molina-Tarazon, a divided panel of the Court ofAppeals held, inter alia, that removal of a gas tank requiresreasonable suspicion in order to be consistent with theFourth Amendment. 279 F. 3d, at 717.The Government advised the District Court that it wasnot relying on reasonable suspicion as a basis for denying respondent's suppression motion, but that it believedMolina-Tarazon was wrongly decided. The District Court,relying on Molina-Tarazon, held that reasonable suspicionwas required to justify the search and, accordingly, grantedrespondent's motion to suppress. The Court of Appeals,citing Molina-Tarazon, summarily affirmed the DistrictCourt's judgment. No. 02-50306, 2003 WL 22410705 (CA9,Mar. 14, 2003). We granted certiorari, 540 U. S. 945 (2003),and now reverse.541US1 Unit: $U34 [11-29-04 12:26:41] PAGES PGT: OPIN152 UNITED STATES v. FLORES-MONTANOOpinion of the CourtIn Molina-Tarazon, the Court of Appeals decided a casepresenting similar facts to the one at bar. It asked"whether [the removal and dismantling of the defendant'sfuel tank] is a `routine' border search for which no suspicionwhatsoever is required." 279 F. 3d, at 711. The Court ofAppeals stated that "[i]n order to conduct a search that goesbeyond the routine, an inspector must have reasonable suspicion," and the "critical factor" in determining whether asearch is "routine" is the "degree of intrusiveness."Id., at712-713.The Court of Appeals seized on language from our opinionin United States v. Montoya de Hernandez, 473 U. S. 531(1985), in which we used the word "routine" as a descriptiveterm in discussing border searches. Id., at 538 ("Routinesearches of the persons and effects of entrants are not subject to any requirement of reasonable suspicion, probablecause, or warrant"); id., at 541, n. 4 ("Because the issues arenot presented today we suggest no view on what level ofsuspicion, if any, is required for nonroutine border searchessuch as strip, body-cavity, or involuntary x-ray searches").The Court of Appeals took the term "routine," fashioned anew balancing test, and extended it to searches of vehicles.But the reasons that might support a requirement of somelevel of suspicion in the case of highly intrusive searches ofthe person--dignity and privacy interests of the personbeing searched--simply do not carry over to vehicles. Complex balancing tests to determine what is a "routine" searchof a vehicle, as opposed to a more "intrusive" search of aperson, have no place in border searches of vehicles.The Government's interest in preventing the entry ofunwanted persons and effects is at its zenith at the international border. Time and again, we have stated that"searches made at the border, pursuant to the longstandingright of the sovereign to protect itself by stopping and examining persons and property crossing into this country, arereasonable simply by virtue of the fact that they occur at the541US1 Unit: $U34 [11-29-04 12:26:41] PAGES PGT: OPIN153Cite as: 541 U. S. 149 (2004)Opinion of the Courtborder." United States v. Ramsey, 431 U. S. 606, 616 (1977).Congress, since the beginning of our Government, "hasgranted the Executive plenary authority to conduct routinesearches and seizures at the border, without probable causeor a warrant, in order to regulate the collection of duties andto prevent the introduction of contraband into this country."Montoya de Hernandez, supra, at 537 (citing Ramsey, supra,at 616-617 (citing Act of July 31, 1789, ch. 5, 1 Stat. 29)).The modern statute that authorized the search in this case,46 Stat. 747, 19 U. S. C. $ 1581(a),1 derived from a statutepassed by the First Congress, the Act of Aug. 4, 1790, ch. 35,$ 31, 1 Stat. 164, seeUnited States v. Villamonte-Marquez,462 U. S. 579, 584 (1983), and reflects the "impressive historical pedigree" of the Government's power and interest, id., at585. It is axiomatic that the United States, as sovereign,has the inherent authority to protect, and a paramount inter-est in protecting, its territorial integrity.That interest in protecting the borders is illustrated in thiscase by the evidence that smugglers frequently attempt topenetrate our borders with contraband secreted in their au-tomobiles' fuel tank. Over the past 51/2 fiscal years, therehave been 18,788 vehicle drug seizures at the southern Cali-fornia ports of entry. App. to Pet. for Cert. 12a. Of those18,788, gas tank drug seizures have accounted for 4,619 ofthe vehicle drug seizures, or approximately 25%.Ibid. Inaddition, instances of persons smuggled in and around gastank compartments are discovered at the ports of entry of1 Section 1581(a) provides:"Any officer of the customs may at any time go on board of any vesselor vehicle at any place in the United States or within the customs watersor, as he may be authorized, within a customs-enforcement area established under the Anti-Smuggling Act, or at any other authorized place,without as well as within his district, and examine the manifest and otherdocuments and papers and examine, inspect, and search the vessel or vehicle and every part thereof and any person, trunk, package, or cargo onboard, and to this end may hail and stop such vessel or vehicle, and useall necessary force to compel compliance."541US1 Unit: $U34 [11-29-04 12:26:41] PAGES PGT: OPIN154 UNITED STATES v. FLORES-MONTANOOpinion of the CourtSan Ysidro and Otay Mesa at a rate averaging 1 approxi-mately every 10 days. Id., at 16a.Respondent asserts two main arguments with respect tohis Fourth Amendment interests. First, he urges that hehas a privacy interest in his fuel tank, and that the suspicion-less disassembly of his tank is an invasion of his privacy.But on many occasions, we have noted that the expectationof privacy is less at the border than it is in the interior.Montoya de Hernandez, supra, at 538. We have long recog-nized that automobiles seeking entry into this country maybe searched. See Carroll v. United States, 267 U. S. 132,154 (1925) ("Travellers may be so stopped in crossing an international boundary because of national self protection rea-sonably requiring one entering the country to identify himself as entitled to come in, and his belongings as effectswhich may be lawfully brought in"). It is difficult to imagine how the search of a gas tank, which should be solely arepository for fuel, could be more of an invasion of privacythan the search of the automobile's passenger compartment.Second, respondent argues that the Fourth Amendment"protects property as well as privacy," Soldal v. CookCounty, 506 U. S. 56, 62 (1992), and that the disassembly andreassembly of his gas tank is a significant deprivation of hisproperty interest because it may damage the vehicle. Hedoes not, and on the record cannot, truly contend that theprocedure of removal, disassembly, and reassembly of thefuel tank in this case or any other has resulted in seriousdamage to, or destruction of, the property.2 According to2 Respondent's reliance on cases involving exploratory drilling searchesis misplaced. See United States v. Rivas, 157 F. 3d 364 (CA5 1998) (drilling into body of trailer required reasonable suspicion); United States v.Robles, 45 F. 3d 1 (CA1 1995) (drilling into machine part required reasonable suspicion); United States v. Carreon, 872 F. 2d 1436 (CA10 1989) (drilling into camper required reasonable suspicion). We have no reason atthis time to pass on the reasonableness of drilling, but simply note theobvious factual difference that this case involves the procedure of removal,disassembly, and reassembly of a fuel tank, rather than potentially de541US1 Unit: $U34 [11-29-04 12:26:41] PAGES PGT: OPIN155Cite as: 541 U. S. 149 (2004)Opinion of the Courtthe Government, for example, in fiscal year 2003, 348 gastank searches conducted along the southern border werenegative (i. e., no contraband was found), the gas tanks werereassembled, and the vehicles continued their entry into theUnited States without incident. Brief for United States 31.Respondent cites not a single accident involving the vehicle or motorist in the many thousands of gas tank disassem-blies that have occurred at the border. A gas tank searchinvolves a brief procedure that can be reversed withoutdamaging the safety or operation of the vehicle. If damageto a vehicle were to occur, the motorist might be entitledto recovery. See,e. g., 31 U. S. C. $ 3723; 19 U. S. C. $ 1630.While the interference with a motorist's possessory interestis not insignificant when the Government removes, disassem-bles, and reassembles his gas tank, it nevertheless is justifiedby the Government's paramount interest in protecting theborder.3For the reasons stated, we conclude that the Government'sauthority to conduct suspicionless inspections at the borderincludes the authority to remove, disassemble, and reassem-ble a vehicle's fuel tank. While it may be true that somestructive drilling. We again leave open the question "whether, and underwhat circumstances, a border search might be deemed `unreasonable' because of the particularly offensive manner in which it is carried out."United States v. Ramsey, 431 U. S. 606, 618, n. 13 (1977).3 Respondent also argued that he has some sort of Fourth Amendmentright not to be subject to delay at the international border and that theneed for the use of specialized labor, as well as the hour actual delay hereand the potential for even greater delay for reassembly are an invasion ofthat right. Respondent points to no cases indicating the Fourth Amendment shields entrants from inconvenience or delay at the internationalborder.The procedure in this case took about an hour (including the wait forthe mechanic). At oral argument, the Government advised us that, depending on the type of car, a search involving the disassembly and reassembly of a gas tank may take one to two hours. Tr. of Oral Arg. 10.We think it clear that delays of one to two hours at international bordersare to be expected.541US1 Unit: $U34 [11-29-04 12:26:41] PAGES PGT: OPIN156 UNITED STATES v. FLORES-MONTANOBreyer, J., concurringsearches of property are so destructive as to require a differ-ent result, this was not one of them. The judgment of theUnited States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit istherefore reversed, and the case is remanded for further proceedings consistent with this opinion. It is so ordered.Justice Breyer, concurring.I join the Court's opinion in full. I also note that Customskeeps track of the border searches its agents conduct, including the reasons for the searches. Tr. of Oral Arg. 53-54.This administrative process should help minimize concernsthat gas tank searches might be undertaken in an abusivemanner.541US1 Unit: $U35 [05-08-06 20:44:16] PAGES PGT: OPIN157OCTOBER TERM, 2003SyllabusNATIONAL ARCHIVES AND RECORDS ADMINIS-TRATIONv. FAVISH et al.certiorari to the united states court of appeals forthe ninth circuitNo. 02-954. Argued December 3, 2003--Decided March 30, 2004Skeptical about five Government investigations' conclusions that VincentFoster, Jr., deputy counsel to President Clinton, committed suicide, respondent Favish filed a Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) request for,among other things, 10 death-scene photographs of Foster's body. TheOffice of Independent Counsel (OIC) refused the request, invokingFOIA Exemption 7(C), which excuses from disclosure "records or information compiled for law enforcement purposes" if their production"could reasonably be expected to constitute an unwarranted invasionof personal privacy," 5 U. S. C. $ 552(b)(7)(C). Favish sued to compelproduction. In upholding OIC's exemption claim, the District Courtbalanced the Foster family's privacy interest against any public interestin disclosure, holding that the former could be infringed by disclosureand that Favish had not shown how disclosure would advance his investigation, especially in light of the exhaustive investigation that had already occurred. The Ninth Circuit reversed, finding that Favish neednot show knowledge of agency misfeasance to support his request, andremanded the case for the interests to be balanced consistent with itsopinion. On remand, the District Court ordered the release of five ofthe photographs. The Ninth Circuit affirmed as to the release of four.Held:1. FOIA recognizes surviving family members' right to personal privacy with respect to their close relative's death-scene images. Favish'scontention that Exemption 7(C)'s personal privacy right is confined tothe right to control information about oneself is too narrow an interpretation of Department of Justice v. Reporters Comm. for Freedom ofPress, 489 U. S. 749, which held that the personal privacy concept mustencompass an individual's control of information about himself, but hadno occasion to consider whether those whose personal data are not inthe requested materials also have a recognized privacy interest underthe exemption. It did explain, however, that Exemption 7(C)'s conceptof privacy is not a limited or cramped notion. The exemption is inmarked contrast to Exemption 6, which requires withholding of personnel and medical files only if disclosure "would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion of personal privacy." Exemption 7(C)'s comparative541US1 Unit: $U35 [05-08-06 20:44:16] PAGES PGT: OPIN158 NATIONAL ARCHIVES AND RECORDS ADMIN. v. FAVISHSyllabusbreadth--it does not include "clearly" and uses "could reasonably beexpected to constitute" instead of "would constitute"--is no draftingaccident, but is the result of specific amendments to an existing statute.Because law enforcement documents often have information about persons whose link to the official inquiry may be the result of mere happenstance, there is special reason to protect intimate personal data, towhich the public does not have a general right of access in the ordinarycourse. The modifier "personal" before "privacy" does not bolsterFavish's view that the family has no privacy interest in a decedent'spictures. Foster's relatives invoke that interest to secure their ownrefuge from a sensation-seeking culture for their own peace of mind andtranquility, not for the sake of Foster's reputation or some other interestpersonal to him. It is proper to conclude that Congress intended topermit family members to assert their own privacy rights against publicintrusions long deemed impermissible under the common law and cultural traditions. This does not mean that the family is in the sameposition as the individual who is the disclosure's subject. However, thisCourt has little difficulty in finding in case law and traditions the rightof family members to direct and control disposition of a deceased's bodyand to limit attempts to exploit pictures of the deceased's remains forpublic purposes. The well-established cultural tradition of acknowledging a family's control over the body and the deceased's death images haslong been recognized at common law. In enacting FOIA and amendingExemption 7(C) to extend its terms, Congress legislated against thisbackground and the Attorney General's consistent interpretation of theexemption. The exemption protects a statutory privacy right that goesbeyond the common law and the Constitution, see id., at 762, n. 13. Itwould be anomalous to hold in this case that the statute provides lessprotection than does the common law. The statute must also be understood in light of the consequences that would follow from Favish's position. Since FOIA withholding cannot be predicated on the requester'sidentity, violent criminals, who often make FOIA requests, would beable to obtain autopsies, photographs, and records of their deceased victims at the expense of surviving family members' personal privacy.Pp. 164-171.2. The Foster family's privacy interest outweighs the public interestin disclosure. As a general rule, citizens seeking documents subject toFOIA disclosure are not required to explain why they seek the information. However, when Exemption 7(C)'s privacy concerns are present,the requester must show that the public interest sought to be advancedis a significant one, an interest more specific than having the informationfor its own sake, and that the information is likely to advance that interest. The Court does not in this single decision attempt to define the541US1 Unit: $U35 [05-08-06 20:44:16] PAGES PGT: OPIN159Cite as: 541 U. S. 157 (2004)Syllabusreasons that will suffice, or the necessary nexus between the requestedinformation and the public interest served by disclosure, but there mustbe some stability with respect to both the specific category of privacyinterests protected and the specific category of public interests thatcould outweigh the privacy claim. Here, the Ninth Circuit correctlyruled that the family has a privacy interest protected by the statuteand recognized as significant the asserted public interest in uncoveringdeficiencies or misfeasance in the Government's investigations into Foster's death, but it erred in defining the showing Favish must make toestablish his public interest claim. By requiring no particular evidenceof some actual misfeasance or other impropriety, that court's holdingleaves Exemption 7(C) with little force or content. Under its rationale,the invasion of privacy would be extensive, since once disclosed, information belongs to the general public. Thus, where there is a privacy interest protected by Exemption 7(C) and the public interestasserted is to show that responsible officials acted negligently or otherwise improperly in performing their duties, the requester must produceevidence that would warrant a belief by a reasonable person that thealleged Government impropriety might have occurred. When the presumption of legitimacy accorded to the Government's official conduct isapplicable, clear evidence is usually required to displace it. GivenFOIA's prodisclosure purpose, however, a less stringent standard ismore faithful to the statutory scheme. Only when the FOIA requesterhas produced evidence sufficient to warrant a belief by a reasonableperson that the alleged Government impropriety might have occurredwill there be a counterweight on the FOIA scale for a court to balanceagainst the cognizable privacy interests in the requested documents.Favish has produced no evidence to put that balance into play. TheDistrict Court's first order--before it was set aside by the Ninth Circuitand superseded by the District Court's remand order--followed the correct approach. Pp. 171-175.37 Fed. Appx. 863, reversed and remanded.Kennedy, J., delivered the opinion for a unanimous Court.Patricia A. Millett argued the cause for petitioner. Withher on the briefs wereSolicitor General Olson, AssistantAttorney General Keisler, Deputy Solicitor General Kneedler, Leonard Schaitman, and Robert M. Loeb. James Hamilton argued the cause for Anthony et al., respondents underthis Court's Rule 12.6 in support of petitioner. With him onthe briefs was Robert V. Zener.541US1 Unit: $U35 [05-08-06 20:44:16] PAGES PGT: OPIN160 NATIONAL ARCHIVES AND RECORDS ADMIN. v. FAVISHOpinion of the CourtRespondent Allan J. Favish argued the cause and filed abrief pro se.*Justice Kennedy delivered the opinion of the Court.This case requires us to interpret the Freedom of Informa-tion Act (FOIA), 5 U. S. C. $ 552. FOIA does not apply ifthe requested data fall within one or more exemptions. Ex-emption 7(C) excuses from disclosure "records or informationcompiled for law enforcement purposes" if their production"could reasonably be expected to constitute an unwarrantedinvasion of personal privacy." $ 552(b)(7)(C).InDepartment of Justice v. Reporters Comm. for Free-dom of Press, 489 U. S. 749 (1989), we considered the scopeof Exemption 7(C) and held that release of the document atissue would be a prohibited invasion of the personal privacyof the person to whom the document referred. The princi-pal document involved was the criminal record, or rap sheet,of the person who himself objected to the disclosure. Here,the information pertains to an official investigation into thecircumstances surrounding an apparent suicide. The initialquestion is whether the exemption extends to the decedent'sfamily when the family objects to the release of photographsshowing the condition of the body at the scene of death. Ifwe find the decedent's family does have a personal privacyinterest recognized by the statute, we must then considerwhether that privacy claim is outweighed by the public inter-est in disclosure.IVincent Foster, Jr., deputy counsel to President Clinton,was found dead in Fort Marcy Park, located just outside*Briefs of amici curiae urging affirmance were filed for the ReportersCommittee for Freedom of the Press et al. by Deanne E. Maynard, ElaineJ. Goldenberg, Lucy A. Dalglish, Richard M. Schmidt, Jr., Bruce W. Sanford, David B. Smallman, and Alice Neff Lucan; and for the Silha Centerfor the Study of Media Ethics and Law by Jane E. Kirtley.Karen B. Tripp filed a brief for the Association of American Physicians & Surgeons, Inc., et al. as amici curiae.541US1 Unit: $U35 [05-08-06 20:44:16] PAGES PGT: OPIN161Cite as: 541 U. S. 157 (2004)Opinion of the CourtWashington, D. C. The United States Park Police con-ducted the initial investigation and took color photographs ofthe death scene, including 10 pictures of Foster's body. Theinvestigation concluded that Foster committed suicide byshooting himself with a revolver. Subsequent investiga-tions by the Federal Bureau of Investigation, committees ofthe Senate and the House of Representatives, and independent counsels Robert Fiske and Kenneth Starr reached thesame conclusion. Despite the unanimous finding of thesefive investigations, a citizen interested in the matter, AllanFavish, remained skeptical. Favish is now a respondent inthis proceeding. In an earlier proceeding, Favish was theassociate counsel for Accuracy in Media (AIM), which appliedunder FOIA for Foster's death-scene photographs. Afterthe National Park Service, which then maintained custodyof the pictures, resisted disclosure, Favish filed suit on be-half of AIM in the District Court for the District of Columbiato compel production. The District Court granted sum-mary judgment against AIM. The Court of Appeals for theDistrict of Columbia unanimously affirmed. Accuracy inMedia, Inc. v. National Park Serv., 194 F. 3d 120 (1999).Still convinced that the Government's investigations were" `grossly incomplete and untrustworthy,' " App. to Pet. forCert. 57a, Favish filed the present FOIA request in his ownname, seeking, among other things, 11 pictures, 1 showingFoster's eyeglasses and 10 depicting various parts of Foster'sbody. Like the National Park Service, the Office of Independent Counsel (OIC) refused the request under Exemption 7(C).Again, Favish sued to compel production, this time in theUnited States District Court for the Central District of California. As a preliminary matter, the District Court heldthat the decision of the Court of Appeals for the District ofColumbia did not have collateral estoppel effect on Favish'sCalifornia lawsuit brought in his personal capacity. On themerits, the court granted partial summary judgment to OIC.With the exception of the picture showing Foster's eye541US1 Unit: $U35 [05-08-06 20:44:16] PAGES PGT: OPIN162 NATIONAL ARCHIVES AND RECORDS ADMIN. v. FAVISHOpinion of the Courtglasses, the court upheld OIC's claim of exemption. Relyingon the so-calledVaughn index provided by the Government--a narrative description of the withheld photos, seeVaughn v. Rosen, 484 F. 2d 820 (CADC 1973)--the court held,first, that Foster's surviving family members enjoy personalprivacy interests that could be infringed by disclosure of thephotographs. App. to Pet. for Cert. 56a. It then found,with respect to the asserted public interest, that "[Favish]has not sufficiently explained how disclosure of these photographs will advance his investigation into Foster's death."Id., at 59a. Any purported public interest in disclosure,moreover, "is lessened because of the exhaustive investiga-tion that has already occurred regarding Foster's death."Id., at 58a. Balancing the competing interests, the courtconcluded that "the privacy interests of the Foster familymembers outweigh the public interest in disclosure." Id.,at 59a.On the first appeal to the Court of Appeals for the NinthCircuit, the majority reversed and remanded, over JudgePregerson's dissent. 217 F. 3d 1168 (2000). In the majority's view, although evidence or knowledge of misfeasance bythe investigative agency may "enhanc[e] the urgency of the[FOIA] request," "[n]othing in the statutory command conditions [disclosure] on the requesting party showing that hehas knowledge of misfeasance by the agency." Id., at 1172-1173. Furthermore, because "Favish, in fact, tenders evidence and argument which, if believed, would justify hisdoubts," the FOIA request "is in complete conformity withthe statutory purpose that the public know what its government is up to." Ibid. This was so, the Court of Appealsheld, even in the face of five previous investigations into Foster's death: "Nothing in the statutory command shields anagency from disclosing its records because other agencieshave engaged in similar investigations. . . . [I]t is a featureof famous cases that they generate controversy, suspicion,and the desire to second guess the authorities." Id., at 1173.As the majority read the statute, there is "a right to look, a541US1 Unit: $U35 [05-08-06 20:44:16] PAGES PGT: OPIN163Cite as: 541 U. S. 157 (2004)Opinion of the Courtright to speculate and argue again, a right of public scrutiny." Ibid.The Court of Appeals, however, agreed with the DistrictCourt that the exemption recognizes the Foster family members' right to personal privacy. Although the pictures contain no information about Foster's relatives, the statute'sprotection "extends to the memory of the deceased held bythose tied closely to the deceased by blood or love." Ibid.Nevertheless, the majority held that the District Court erredin balancing the relevant interests based only on the Vaughnindex. While "the [D]istrict [C]ourt has discretion to decidea FOIA case on the basis of affidavits, and affidavits are insome cases sufficient," "the agency affidavits are insufficiently detailed." 217 F. 3d, at 1174. It remanded the caseto the District Court to examine the photos in camera and,"consistent with [the Court of Appeals'] opinion," "balancethe effect of their release on the privacy of the Foster familyagainst the public benefit to be obtained by their release."Ibid.On remand, the District Court ordered release of the following five photographs:"A* The photograph identified as `3--VF's [Vincent Foster's] body looking down from top of berm' must bereleased, as the photograph is not so explicit as toovercome the public interest.. . . . ."A* The photograph entitled `5--VF's body--focusing onRt. side of shoulder/arm' is again of such a nature asto be discoverable in that it is not focused in such amanner as to unnecessarily impact the privacy interests of the family.. . . . ."A* The photograph entitled `1--Right hand showinggun & thumb in guard' is discoverable as it may beprobative of the public's right to know.. . . . .541US1 Unit: $U35 [05-08-06 20:44:16] PAGES PGT: OPIN164 NATIONAL ARCHIVES AND RECORDS ADMIN. v. FAVISHOpinion of the Court"A* The photograph entitled `4--VF's body focusing onright side and arm' is discoverable."A* The photograph entitled `5--VF's body--focus on topof head thru heavy foliage' is discoverable." App. toPet. for Cert. 45a.On the second appeal to the same panel, the majority,again over Judge Pregerson's dissent, affirmed in part. 37Fed. Appx. 863 (2002). Without providing any explanation,it upheld the release of all the pictures, "except that photo3--VF's body looking down from top of berm is to be withheld." Id., at 864.We granted OIC's petition for a writ of certiorari to resolve a conflict in the Courts of Appeals over the properinterpretation of Exemption 7(C). 538 U. S. 1012 (2003).The only documents at issue in this case are the four photographs the Court of Appeals ordered released in its 2002unpublished opinion. We reverse.The OIC terminated its operations on March 23, 2004, see28 U. S. C. $ 596(b)(2), and transferred all records--includingthe photographs that are the subject of Favish's FOIA re-quest--to the National Archives and Records Administration, see $ 594(k)(1). The National Archives and RecordsAdministration has been substituted as petitioner in the caption of this case. As all the actions relevant to our disposition of the case took place before March 23, 2004, we continueto refer to petitioner as OIC in this opinion.IIIt is common ground among the parties that the deathscene photographs in OIC's possession are records or information "compiled for law enforcement purposes" as thatphrase is used in Exemption 7(C). App. 87. This leads tothe question whether disclosure of the four photographs"could reasonably be expected to constitute an unwarrantedinvasion of personal privacy."541US1 Unit: $U35 [05-08-06 20:44:16] PAGES PGT: OPIN165Cite as: 541 U. S. 157 (2004)Opinion of the CourtFavish contends the family has no personal privacy inter-est covered by Exemption 7(C). His argument rests on theproposition that the information is only about the decedent,not his family. FOIA's right to personal privacy, in his view,means only "the right to control information about oneself."Brief for Respondent Favish 4. He quotes from our decisionin Reporters Committee, where, in holding that a person hasa privacy interest sufficient to prevent disclosure of his ownrap sheet, we said "the common law and the literal understandings of privacy encompass the individual's control of in-formation concerning his or her person." 489 U. S., at 763.This means, Favish says, that the individual who is the subject of the information is the only one with a privacy interest.We disagree. The right to personal privacy is not confined, as Favish argues, to the "right to control informationabout oneself." Brief for Respondent Favish 4. Favishmisreads the quoted sentence in Reporters Committee andadopts too narrow an interpretation of the case's holding.To say that the concept of personal privacy must "encompass" the individual's control of information about himselfdoes not mean it cannot encompass other personal privacyinterests as well. Reporters Committee had no occasion toconsider whether individuals whose personal data are notcontained in the requested materials also have a recognizedprivacy interest under Exemption 7(C).Reporters Committee explained, however, that the conceptof personal privacy under Exemption 7(C) is not some limited or "cramped notion" of that idea. 489 U. S., at 763.Records or information are not to be released under FOIAif disclosure "could reasonably be expected to constitutean unwarranted invasion of personal privacy." 5 U. S. C.$ 552(b)(7). This provision is in marked contrast to the language in Exemption 6, pertaining to "personnel and medicalfiles," where withholding is required only if disclosure"would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion of personalprivacy." $ 552(b)(6). The adverb "clearly," found in Ex541US1 Unit: $U35 [05-08-06 20:44:16] PAGES PGT: OPIN166 NATIONAL ARCHIVES AND RECORDS ADMIN. v. FAVISHOpinion of the Courtemption 6, is not used in Exemption 7(C). In addition,"whereas Exemption 6 refers to disclosures that `would constitute' an invasion of privacy, Exemption 7(C) encompassesany disclosure that `could reasonably be expected to constitute' such an invasion." Reporters Committee, 489 U. S., at756. Exemption 7(C)'s comparative breadth is no mere accident in drafting. We know Congress gave special consideration to the language in Exemption 7(C) because it was theresult of specific amendments to an existing statute. Seeid., at 756, n. 9, 777, n. 22.Law enforcement documents obtained by Government investigators often contain information about persons interviewed as witnesses or initial suspects but whose link to theofficial inquiry may be the result of mere happenstance.There is special reason, therefore, to give protection to thisintimate personal data, to which the public does not have ageneral right of access in the ordinary course. Id., at 773.In this class of cases where the subject of the documents "isa private citizen," "the privacy interest . . . is at its apex."Id., at 780.Certain amici in support of Favish rely on the modifier"personal" before the word "privacy" to bolster their viewthat the family has no privacy interest in the pictures ofthe decedent. This, too, misapprehends the family's position and the scope of protection the exemption provides.The family does not invoke Exemption 7(C) on behalf of Vincent Foster in its capacity as his next friend for fear thatthe pictures may reveal private information about Foster tothe detriment of his own posthumous reputation or someother interest personal to him. If that were the case, a different set of considerations would control. Foster's relatives instead invoke their own right and interest to personalprivacy. They seek to be shielded by the exemption to secure their own refuge from a sensation-seeking culture fortheir own peace of mind and tranquility, not for the sake ofthe deceased.541US1 Unit: $U35 [05-08-06 20:44:16] PAGES PGT: OPIN167Cite as: 541 U. S. 157 (2004)Opinion of the CourtIn a sworn declaration filed with the District Court, Fos-ter's sister, Sheila Foster Anthony, stated that the family hadbeen harassed by, and deluged with requests from, "[p]oliti-cal and commercial opportunists" who sought to profit fromFoster's suicide. App. 94. In particular, she was "horrifiedand devastated by [a] photograph [already] leaked to thepress." Ibid. "[E]very time I see it," Sheila Foster Anthony wrote, "I have nightmares and heart-pounding in-somnia as I visualize how he must have spent his last fewminutes and seconds of his life." Ibid. She opposed thedisclosure of the disputed pictures because "I fear that therelease of [additional] photographs certainly would set offanother round of intense scrutiny by the media. Undoubtedly, the photographs would be placed on the Internet forworld consumption. Once again my family would be thefocus of conceivably unsavory and distasteful media coverage." Id., at 95. "[R]eleasing any photographs," SheilaFoster Anthony continued, "would constitute a painful unwarranted invasion of my privacy, my mother's privacy, mysister's privacy, and the privacy of Lisa Foster Moody(Vince's widow), her three children, and other members ofthe Foster family." Id., at 93.As we shall explain below, we think it proper to concludefrom Congress' use of the term "personal privacy" that itintended to permit family members to assert their own privacy rights against public intrusions long deemed impermissible under the common law and in our cultural traditions.This does not mean that the family is in the same position asthe individual who is the subject of the disclosure. We havelittle difficulty, however, in finding in our case law and traditions the right of family members to direct and control disposition of the body of the deceased and to limit attempts toexploit pictures of the deceased family member's remains forpublic purposes.Burial rites or their counterparts have been respected inalmost all civilizations from time immemorial. See gener541US1 Unit: $U35 [05-08-06 20:44:16] PAGES PGT: OPIN168 NATIONAL ARCHIVES AND RECORDS ADMIN. v. FAVISHOpinion of the Courtally 26 Encyclopaedia Britannica 851 (15th ed. 1985) (notingthat "[t]he ritual burial of the dead" has been practiced "fromthe very dawn of human culture and . . . in most parts of theworld"); 5 Encyclopedia of Religion 450 (1987) ("[F]uneralrites . . . are the conscious cultural forms of one of our mostancient, universal, and unconscious impulses"). They are asign of the respect a society shows for the deceased and forthe surviving family members. The power of Sophocles'story in Antigone maintains its hold to this day because ofthe universal acceptance of the heroine's right to insist onrespect for the body of her brother. See Antigone of Sopho-cles, 8 Harvard Classics: Nine Greek Dramas 255 (C. Elioted. 1909). The outrage at seeing the bodies of Americansoldiers mutilated and dragged through the streets is but amodern instance of the same understanding of the interestsdecent people have for those whom they have lost. Familymembers have a personal stake in honoring and mourningtheir dead and objecting to unwarranted public exploitationthat, by intruding upon their own grief, tends to degrade therites and respect they seek to accord to the deceased personwho was once their own.In addition this well-established cultural tradition acknowledging a family's control over the body and death im-ages of the deceased has long been recognized at commonlaw. Indeed, this right to privacy has much deeper roots inthe common law than the rap sheets held to be protectedfrom disclosure in Reporters Committee. An early decisionby the New York Court of Appeals is typical:"It is the right of privacy of the living which it is soughtto enforce here. That right may in some cases be itselfviolated by improperly interfering with the character ormemory of a deceased relative, but it is the right of theliving, and not that of the dead, which is recognized. Aprivilege may be given the surviving relatives of a deceased person to protect his memory, but the privilegeexists for the benefit of the living, to protect their feel541US1 Unit: $U35 [05-08-06 20:44:16] PAGES PGT: OPIN169Cite as: 541 U. S. 157 (2004)Opinion of the Courtings, and to prevent a violation of their own rights inthe character and memory of the deceased." Schuylerv. Curtis, 147 N. Y. 434, 447, 42 N. E. 22, 25 (1895).See also Reid v. Pierce County, 136 Wash. 2d 195, 212, 961P. 2d 333, 342 (1998) ("[T]he immediate relatives of a decedent have a protectable privacy interest in the autopsy records of the decedent"); McCambridge v. Little Rock, 298Ark. 219, 231-232, 766 S. W. 2d 909, 915 (1989) (recognizingthe privacy interest of the murder victim's mother in crimescene photographs); Bazemore v. Savannah Hospital, 171Ga. 257, 155 S. E. 194 (1930) (per curiam) (recognizing parents' right of privacy in photographs of their deceased child'sbody); Restatement (Second) of Torts $ 652D, p. 387 (1977)(recognizing that publication of a photograph of a deceasedinfant--a hypothetical "child with two heads"--over the objection of the mother would result in an "inva[sion]" of themother's "privacy").We can assume Congress legislated against this background of law, scholarship, and history when it enactedFOIA and when it amended Exemption 7(C) to extend itsterms. Those enactments were also against the backgroundof the Attorney General's consistent interpretation of the exemption to protect "members of the family of the person towhom the information pertains," U. S. Dept. of Justice, Attorney General's Memorandum on the Public InformationSection of the Administrative Procedure Act 36 (June 1967),and to require consideration of the privacy of "relatives ordescendants" and the "possible adverse effects [from disclosure] upon [the individual] or his family," U. S. Dept. of Justice Memorandum on the 1974 Amendments to the Freedomof Information Act 9-10 (Feb. 1975), reprinted in House Committee on Government Operations and Senate Committee onthe Judiciary, Freedom of Information Act and Amendmentsof 1974 (Pub. L. 93-502), Source Book, App. 5, pp. 519-520,94th Cong., 1st Sess. (Joint Comm. Print 1975).541US1 Unit: $U35 [05-08-06 20:44:16] PAGES PGT: OPIN170 NATIONAL ARCHIVES AND RECORDS ADMIN. v. FAVISHOpinion of the CourtWe have observed that the statutory privacy right pro-tected by Exemption 7(C) goes beyond the common law andthe Constitution. See Reporters Committee, 489 U. S., at762, n. 13 (contrasting the scope of the privacy protectionunder FOIA with the analogous protection under the com-mon law and the Constitution); see alsoMarzen v. Department of Health and Human Servs., 825 F. 2d 1148, 1152 (CA71987) ("[T]he privacy interest protected under FOIA extendsbeyond the common law"). It would be anomalous to holdin the instant case that the statute provides even less protec-tion than does the common law.The statutory scheme must be understood, moreover, inlight of the consequences that would follow were we to adoptFavish's position. As a general rule, withholding information under FOIA cannot be predicated on the identity of therequester. See Reporters Committee, supra, at 771. Weare advised by the Government that child molesters, rapists,murderers, and other violent criminals often make FOIArequests for autopsies, photographs, and records of theirdeceased victims. Our holding ensures that the privacy interests of surviving family members would allow the Government to deny these gruesome requests in appropriatecases. We find it inconceivable that Congress could haveintended a definition of "personal privacy" so narrow that itwould allow convicted felons to obtain these materials without limitations at the expense of surviving family members'personal privacy.For these reasons, in agreement with the Courts of Appeals for both the District of Columbia and the Ninth Circuit,see Accuracy in Media v. National Park Serv., 194 F. 3d 120(CADC 1999); 217 F. 3d 1168 (CA9 2000), we hold that FOIArecognizes surviving family members' right to personal privacy with respect to their close relative's death-scene images. Our holding is consistent with the unanimous viewof the Courts of Appeals and other lower courts that haveaddressed the question. See, e. g., New York Times Co. v.541US1 Unit: $U35 [05-08-06 20:44:16] PAGES PGT: OPIN171Cite as: 541 U. S. 157 (2004)Opinion of the CourtNational Aeronautics and Space Admin., 782 F. Supp. 628,631, 632 (CADC 1991) (sustaining a privacy claim under thenarrower Exemption 6 with respect to an audiotape of theSpace Shuttle Challenger astronauts' last words, because"[e]xposure to the voice of a beloved family member immedi-ately prior to that family member's death . . . would causethe Challenger families pain" and inflict "a disruption [to]their peace of mind every time a portion of the tape is playedwithin their hearing"), on remand from 920 F. 2d 1002(CADC 1990);Katz v. National Archives and RecordsAdmin., 862 F. Supp. 476, 485 (DC 1994) (exempting fromFOIA disclosure autopsy X-rays and photographs of Presi-dent Kennedy on the ground that their release would cause"additional anguish" to the surviving family), aff 'd on othergrounds, 68 F. 3d 1438 (CADC 1995); Lesar v. Department ofJustice, 636 F. 2d 472, 487 (CADC 1980) (recognizing, withrespect to the assassination of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.,his survivors' privacy interests in avoiding "annoyance orharassment"). Neither the deceased's former status as apublic official, nor the fact that other pictures had been madepublic, detracts from the weighty privacy interests involved.IIIOur ruling that the personal privacy protected by Exemp-tion 7(C) extends to family members who object to the disclosure of graphic details surrounding their relative's deathdoes not end the case. Although this privacy interest iswithin the terms of the exemption, the statute directs non-disclosure only where the information "could reasonably beexpected to constitute an unwarranted invasion" of the fami-ly's personal privacy. The term "unwarranted" requires usto balance the family's privacy interest against the publicinterest in disclosure. SeeReporters Committee, 489 U. S.,at 762.FOIA is often explained as a means for citizens to know" `what their Government is up to.' "Id., at 773. This541US1 Unit: $U35 [05-08-06 20:44:16] PAGES PGT: OPIN172 NATIONAL ARCHIVES AND RECORDS ADMIN. v. FAVISHOpinion of the Courtphrase should not be dismissed as a convenient formalism.It defines a structural necessity in a real democracy. Thestatement confirms that, as a general rule, when documentsare within FOIA's disclosure provisions, citizens should notbe required to explain why they seek the information. Aperson requesting the information needs no preconceivedidea of the uses the data might serve. The information belongs to citizens to do with as they choose. Furthermore,as we have noted, the disclosure does not depend on the identity of the requester. As a general rule, if the informationis subject to disclosure, it belongs to all.When disclosure touches upon certain areas defined in theexemptions, however, the statute recognizes limitations thatcompete with the general interest in disclosure, and that, inappropriate cases, can overcome it. In the case of Exemption 7(C), the statute requires us to protect, in the properdegree, the personal privacy of citizens against the uncontrolled release of information compiled through the power ofthe State. The statutory direction that the information notbe released if the invasion of personal privacy could reasonably be expected to be unwarranted requires the courts tobalance the competing interests in privacy and disclosure.To effect this balance and to give practical meaning to theexemption, the usual rule that the citizen need not offera reason for requesting the information must be inapplicable.Where the privacy concerns addressed by Exemption 7(C)are present, the exemption requires the person requestingthe information to establish a sufficient reason for the disclosure. First, the citizen must show that the public interest sought to be advanced is a significant one, an interestmore specific than having the information for its own sake.Second, the citizen must show the information is likely toadvance that interest. Otherwise, the invasion of privacyis unwarranted.We do not in this single decision attempt to define thereasons that will suffice, or the necessary nexus between the541US1 Unit: $U35 [05-08-06 20:44:16] PAGES PGT: OPIN173Cite as: 541 U. S. 157 (2004)Opinion of the Courtrequested information and the asserted public interest thatwould be advanced by disclosure. On the other hand, theremust be some stability with respect to both the specific cate-gory of personal privacy interests protected by the statuteand the specific category of public interests that could out-weigh the privacy claim. Otherwise, courts will be left tobalance in an ad hoc manner with little or no real guidance.Id., at 776. In the case of photographic images and otherdata pertaining to an individual who died under mysteriouscircumstances, the justification most likely to satisfy Exemp-tion 7(C)'s public interest requirement is that the informationis necessary to show the investigative agency or other responsible officials acted negligently or otherwise improperlyin the performance of their duties.The Court of Appeals was correct to rule that the familyhas a privacy interest protected by the statute and to recognize as significant the asserted public interest in uncoveringdeficiencies or misfeasance in the Government's investigations into Foster's death. It erred, however, in definingthe showing Favish must make to substantiate his publicinterest claim. It stated that "[n]othing in the statutorycommand conditions [disclosure] on the requesting partyshowing that he has knowledge of misfeasance by theagency" and that "[n]othing in the statutory command shieldsan agency from disclosing its records because other agencieshave engaged in similar investigations." 217 F. 3d, at 1172-1173. The court went on to hold that, because Favish has"tender[ed] evidence and argument which, if believed, wouldjustify his doubts," the FOIA request "is in complete conformity with the statutory purpose that the public knowwhat its government is up to." Id., at 1173. This was insufficient. The Court of Appeals required no particularshowing that any evidence points with credibility to someactual misfeasance or other impropriety. The court's holding leaves Exemption 7(C) with little force or content. Byrequiring courts to engage in a state of suspended disbelief541US1 Unit: $U35 [05-08-06 20:44:16] PAGES PGT: OPIN174 NATIONAL ARCHIVES AND RECORDS ADMIN. v. FAVISHOpinion of the Courtwith regard to even the most incredible allegations, the paneltransformed Exemption 7(C) into nothing more than a ruleof pleading. The invasion of privacy under its rationalewould be extensive. It must be remembered that oncethere is disclosure, the information belongs to the generalpublic. There is no mechanism under FOIA for a protectiveorder allowing only the requester to see whether the information bears out his theory, or for proscribing its generaldissemination.We hold that, where there is a privacy interest protectedby Exemption 7(C) and the public interest being asserted isto show that responsible officials acted negligently or otherwise improperly in the performance of their duties, the requester must establish more than a bare suspicion in orderto obtain disclosure. Rather, the requester must produceevidence that would warrant a belief by a reasonable personthat the alleged Government impropriety might have occurred. In Department of State v. Ray, 502 U. S. 164 (1991),we held there is a presumption of legitimacy accorded to theGovernment's official conduct. Id., at 178-179. The presumption perhaps is less a rule of evidence than a generalworking principle. However the rule is characterized,where the presumption is applicable, clear evidence is usually required to displace it. Cf. United States v. Armstrong,517 U. S. 456, 464 (1996) (" `[I]n the absence of clear evidenceto the contrary, courts presume that [Government agents]have properly discharged their official duties' "); UnitedStates v. Chemical Foundation, Inc., 272 U. S. 1, 14-15 (1926)("The presumption of regularity supports the official acts ofpublic officers and, in the absence of clear evidence to thecontrary, courts presume that they have properly dischargedtheir official duties"). Given FOIA's prodisclosure purpose,however, the less stringent standard we adopt today is morefaithful to the statutory scheme. Only when the FOIA requester has produced evidence sufficient to satisfy thisstandard will there exist a counterweight on the FOIA scale541US1 Unit: $U35 [05-08-06 20:44:16] PAGES PGT: OPIN175Cite as: 541 U. S. 157 (2004)Opinion of the Courtfor the court to balance against the cognizable privacy inter-ests in the requested records. Allegations of governmentmisconduct are " `easy to allege and hard to disprove,' "Crawford-El v. Britton, 523 U. S. 574, 585 (1998), so courtsmust insist on a meaningful evidentiary showing. It wouldbe quite extraordinary to say we must ignore the fact thatfive different inquiries into the Foster matter reached thesame conclusion. As we have noted, the balancing exercisein some other case might require us to make a somewhatmore precise determination regarding the significance of thepublic interest and the historical importance of the eventsin question. We might need to consider the nexus requiredbetween the requested documents and the purported publicinterest served by disclosure. We need not do so here, however. Favish has not produced any evidence that wouldwarrant a belief by a reasonable person that the alleged Government impropriety might have occurred to put the balanceinto play.The Court of Appeals erred in its interpretation of Exemp-tion 7(C). The District Court's first order in March 1998--before its decision was set aside by the Court of Appeals andsuperseded by the District Court's own order on remand--followed the correct approach. The judgment of the Courtof Appeals is reversed, and the case is remanded with instructions to grant OIC's motion for summary judgment withrespect to the four photographs in dispute.