Rule 32(e) of the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedurestates that a district court may allow a defendant to withdraw his guilty plea before he is sentenced "if the defendantshows any fair and just reason." After the defendant in thiscase pleaded guilty, pursuant to a plea agreement, the Dis-trict Court accepted his plea but deferred decision onwhether to accept the plea agreement. The defendant thensought to withdraw his plea. We hold that in such circumstances a defendant may not withdraw his plea unless heshows a "fair and just reason" under Rule 32(e).A federal grand jury indicted respondent Robert Hyde oneight counts of mail fraud, wire fraud, and other fraudrelated crimes. On the morning of his trial, respondentindicated his desire to enter plea negotiations with the Government. Those negotiations produced a plea agreement*Lisa Kemler filed a brief for the National Association of CriminalDefense Lawyers as amicus curiae urging affirmance.520US3 Unit: $U57 [09-11-99 17:02:26] PAGES PGT: OPIN672 UNITED STATES v. HYDEOpinion of the Courtin which respondent agreed to plead guilty to four of thecounts. In exchange, the Government agreed to move todismiss the remaining four counts and not to bring furthercharges against respondent for other allegedly fraudulentconduct.That afternoon, the parties appeared again before the Dis-trict Court and submitted the plea agreement to the court,along with respondent's "application for permission to enter[a] plea of guilty." After placing respondent under oath, thecourt questioned him extensively to ensure that his plea wasknowing and voluntary, and that he understood the consequences of pleading guilty, including the possibility of a maximum sentence of 30 years. The court asked respondentwhat he had done, and respondent admitted committing thecrimes set out in the four counts. The court then askedthe Government to set out what it was prepared to prove,and the Government did so. The court asked respondentwhether he was pleading guilty because he was in fact guiltyof the crimes set out in the four counts. Respondent saidthat he was. Finally, the court asked respondent how hepleaded to each count, and respondent stated "guilty."The District Court concluded that respondent was pleading guilty knowingly, voluntarily, and intelligently, and thatthere was a factual basis for the plea. The court thereforestated that it was accepting respondent's guilty plea. It alsostated that it was deferring decision on whether to acceptthe plea agreement, pending completion of the presentencereport.One month later, before sentencing and the DistrictCourt's decision about whether to accept the plea agreement,respondent filed a motion to withdraw his guilty plea. Hismotion alleged that he had pleaded guilty under duress fromthe Government and that his admissions to the DistrictCourt had in fact been false. After holding an evidentiaryhearing, the court concluded that there was no evidence tosupport respondent's claim of duress, and that respondent520US3 Unit: $U57 [09-11-99 17:02:26] PAGES PGT: OPIN673Cite as: 520 U. S. 670 (1997)Opinion of the Courthad not provided a "fair and just reason" for withdrawing hisguilty plea, as required by Rule 32(e). The court thereforerefused to let respondent withdraw his guilty plea. Thecourt then accepted the plea agreement, entered judgmentagainst respondent on the first four counts, dismissed theindictment's remaining four counts on the Government's mo-tion, and sentenced respondent to a prison term of 21/2 years.The Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit reversed, hold-ing that respondent had an absolute right to withdraw hisguilty plea before the District Court accepted the plea agree-ment. 92 F. 3d 779, 781 (1996). The court reasoned as follows: First, before a district court has accepted a defendant'sguilty plea, the defendant has an absolute right to withdrawthat plea. Id., at 780 (citing United States v. Washman, 66F. 3d 210, 212-213 (CA9 1995)). Second, the guilty plea andthe plea agreement are " `inextricably bound up together,' "such that the court's deferral of the decision whether to accept the plea agreement also constitutes an automatic deferral of its decision whether to accept the guilty plea, even ifthe court explicitly states that it is accepting the guilty plea.92 F. 3d, at 780 (quoting United States v. Cordova-Perez, 65F. 3d 1552, 1556 (CA9 1995)). Combining these two propositions, the Court of Appeals held that "[i]f the court defersacceptance of the plea or of the plea agreement, the defendant may withdraw his plea for any reason or for no reason,until the time that the court does accept both the plea andthe agreement." 92 F. 3d, at 781.The Courts of Appeals for the Fourth and Seventh Circuitshave reached the opposite conclusion on this issue. UnitedStates v. Ewing, 957 F. 2d 115, 118-119 (CA4 1992); UnitedStates v. Ellison, 798 F. 2d 1102, 1106 (CA7 1986). Wegranted certiorari to resolve the conflict, 519 U. S. 1086(1997), and now reverse.To understand why we hold that Rule 32(e) governs here,we must go back to Rule 11, the principal provision in theFederal Rules of Criminal Procedure dealing with the sub520US3 Unit: $U57 [09-11-99 17:02:26] PAGES PGT: OPIN674 UNITED STATES v. HYDEOpinion of the Courtject of guilty pleas and plea agreements. The Court of Ap-peals equated acceptance of the guilty plea with acceptanceof the plea agreement, and deferral of the plea agreementwith deferral of the guilty plea. Nothing in the text of Rule11 supports these conclusions. In fact, the text shows thatthe opposite is true: Guilty pleas can be accepted while pleaagreements are deferred, and the acceptance of the two canbe separated in time.The prerequisites to accepting a guilty plea are set outin subdivisions (c) and (d) of Rule 11. Subdivision (c) says:"Before accepting a plea of guilty . . . , the court must ad-dress the defendant personally in open court and inform thedefendant of, and determine that the defendant under-stands," numerous consequences of pleading guilty. Forexample, the court must ensure the defendant understandsthe maximum possible penalty that he may face by pleadingguilty, Rule 11(c)(1), and the important constitutional rightshe is waiving, including the right to a trial, Rules 11(c)(3),(4). Subdivision (d) says: "The court shall not accept a pleaof guilty . . . without first, by addressing the defendant personally in open court, determining that the plea is volun-tary."1 The opening words of these two subdivisions areimportant: Together, they speak of steps a district courtmust take "[b]efore accepting a plea of guilty," and withoutwhich it "shall not accept a plea of guilty." Based on thislanguage, we conclude that once the court has taken thesesteps, it may, in its discretion, accept a defendant's guiltyplea. The Court of Appeals would read an additional prerequisite into this list: A district court shall not accept a pleaof guilty without first accepting the plea agreement. Butthat "prerequisite" is absent from the list set out in subdivi-sions (c) and (d), strongly suggesting that no such additionis warranted.1 See also Fed. Rule Crim. Proc. 11(f) (court should not enter judgmenton an accepted guilty plea without confirming that the plea has a factualbasis).520US3 Unit: $U57 [09-11-99 17:02:26] PAGES PGT: OPIN675Cite as: 520 U. S. 670 (1997)Opinion of the CourtSubdivision (e), which covers plea agreements, also contradicts the Court of Appeals' holding. That subdivision divides plea agreements into three types, based on what theGovernment agrees to do: In type A agreements, the Government agrees to move for dismissal of other charges; intype B, it agrees to recommend (or not oppose the defendant's request for) a particular sentence; and in type C, itagrees that the defendant should receive a specific sentence.As to type A and type C agreements, the Rule states that"the court may accept or reject the agreement, or may deferits decision as to the acceptance or rejection until there hasbeen an opportunity to consider the presentence report." 2Rule 11(e)(2). The plea agreement in this case is a type Aagreement: The Government agreed to move to dismiss fourcounts, did not agree to recommend a particular sentence,and did not agree that a specific sentence was the appropriate disposition. The District Court deferred its decisionabout whether to accept or reject the agreement.If the court had decided to reject the plea agreement, itwould have turned to subdivision (e)(4) of Rule 11. Thatsubdivision, a critical one for our purposes, provides:"If the court rejects the plea agreement, the court shall. . . advise the defendant personally . . . that the court isnot bound by the plea agreement, afford the defendantthe opportunity to then withdraw the plea, and advisethe defendant that if the defendant persists in a guiltyplea . . . the disposition of the case may be less favorableto the defendant than that contemplated by the pleaagreement." Rule 11(e)(4) (emphasis added).2 Under the Sentencing Guidelines, a district court is required to deferits decision about whether to accept a type A or type C agreement untilafter it has reviewed the presentence report, unless the court believesthat a presentence report is not required. United States SentencingCommission, Guidelines Manual $ 6B1.1(c) (Nov. 1995) (USSG).520US3 Unit: $U57 [09-11-99 17:02:26] PAGES PGT: OPIN676 UNITED STATES v. HYDEOpinion of the CourtThus, if the court rejects the agreement, the defendant can"then" withdraw his plea for any reason and does not have tocomply with Rule 32(e)'s "fair and just reason" requirement.This provision implements the commonsense notion that adefendant can no longer be bound by an agreement that thecourt has refused to sanction.Under the Court of Appeals' holding, however, the defend-ant can withdraw his plea "for any reason or for no reason"even if the district court does not reject the plea agreement,but merely defers decision on it. Thus, for the Court of Appeals, the rejection of the plea agreement has no significance:Before rejection, the defendant is free to withdraw his plea;after rejection, the same is true. But the text of Rule11(e)(4) gives the rejection of the agreement a great dealof significance. Only "then" is the defendant granted "theopportunity" to withdraw his plea. The necessary implication of this provision is that if the court has neither rejectednor accepted the agreement, the defendant is not granted"the opportunity to then withdraw" his plea. The Court ofAppeals' holding contradicts this implication, and thus stripssubdivision (e)(4) of any meaning.Not only is the Court of Appeals' holding contradicted bythe very language of the Rules, it also debases the judicialproceeding at which a defendant pleads and the court acceptshis plea. After the defendant has sworn in open court thathe actually committed the crimes, after he has stated thathe is pleading guilty because he is guilty, after the court hasfound a factual basis for the plea, and after the court hasexplicitly announced that it accepts the plea, the Court ofAppeals would allow the defendant to withdraw his guiltyplea simply on a lark. The Advisory Committee, in addingthe "fair and just reason" standard to Rule 32(e) in 1983,explained why this cannot be so:"Given the great care with which pleas are taken under[the] revised Rule 11, there is no reason to view pleas sotaken as merely `tentative,' subject to withdrawal be520US3 Unit: $U57 [09-11-99 17:02:26] PAGES PGT: OPIN677Cite as: 520 U. S. 670 (1997)Opinion of the Courtfore sentence whenever the government cannot estab-lish prejudice. `Were withdrawal automatic in everycase where the defendant decided to alter his tactics andpresent his theory of the case to the jury, the guilty pleawould become a mere gesture, a temporary and mean-ingless formality reversible at the defendant's whim.In fact, however, a guilty plea is no such trifle, but a"grave and solemn act," which is "accepted only withcare and discernment." ' " Advisory Committee's Noteson Fed. Rule Crim. Proc. 32, 18 U. S. C. App., p. 794(quoting United States v. Barker, 514 F. 2d 208, 221(CADC 1975), in turn quotingBrady v. United States,397 U. S. 742, 748 (1970)).We think the Court of Appeals' holding would degrade theotherwise serious act of pleading guilty into something akinto a move in a game of chess.The basis for the Court of Appeals' decision was its priorstatement in Cordova-Perez that "[t]he plea agreement andthe [guilty] plea are inextricably bound up together." 65F. 3d, at 1556 (internal quotation marks omitted). Thisstatement, on its own, is not necessarily incorrect. Theguilty plea and the plea agreement are "bound up together"in the sense that a rejection of the agreement simultaneouslyfrees the defendant from his commitment to plead guilty.See Rule 11(e)(4). And since the guilty plea is but one sideof the plea agreement, the plea is obviously not wholly inde-pendent of the agreement.But the Rules nowhere state that the guilty plea and theplea agreement must be treated identically. Instead, theyexplicitly envision a situation in which the defendant per-forms his side of the bargain (the guilty plea) before the Government is required to perform its side (here, the motion todismiss four counts). If the court accepts the agreementand thus the Government's promised performance, then thecontemplated agreement is complete and the defendant getsthe benefit of his bargain. But if the court rejects the Gov520US3 Unit: $U57 [09-11-99 17:02:26] PAGES PGT: OPIN678 UNITED STATES v. HYDEOpinion of the Courternment's promised performance, then the agreement is ter-minated and the defendant has the right to back out of hispromised performance (the guilty plea), just as a bindingcontractual duty may be extinguished by the nonoccurrenceof a condition subsequent. See J. Calamari & J. Perillo, Lawof Contracts $ 11-7, p. 441 (3d ed. 1987); 3A A. Corbin, Corbinon Contracts $ 628, p. 17 (1960).3If the Court of Appeals' holding were correct, it wouldalso be difficult to see what purpose Rule 32(e) would serve.Since 1983, that Rule has provided: "If a motion to withdrawa plea of guilty . . . is made before sentence is imposed, thecourt may permit the plea to be withdrawn if the defendantshows any fair and just reason." Under the Court of Appeals' holding, the "fair and just reason" standard would onlybe applicable between the time that the plea agreement isaccepted and the sentence is imposed. Since the decisionwhether to accept the plea agreement will often be deferreduntil the sentencing hearing, see Rule 11(e)(2); USSG$ 6B1.1(c), at which time the presentence report will havebeen submitted to the parties, objected to, revised, and filedwith the court, see Fed. Rule Crim. Proc. 32(b)(6), the decision whether to accept the plea agreement will often bemade at the same time that the defendant is sentenced.This leaves little, if any, time in which the "fair and just3 Respondent argues that it is unfair to bind the defendant to the termsof the plea agreement before the Government is so bound. He thereforeargues that, as a policy matter, an interpretation of the Rules that resultsin such a differential treatment should be rejected. Even if respondent were correct in arguing that the defendant is bound before the Government is bound (a point we do not decide), the fact remains that ourtask here is not to act as policymaker, deciding how to make the Rules asfair as possible, but rather to determine what the Rules actually provide.Cf. Carlisle v. United States, 517 U. S. 416, 444-445 (1996) (district courtmay not use "inherent supervisory power" to correct perceived unfairnessin application of Fed. Rule Crim. Proc. 29(a)'s 7-day time limit for filingmotions for judgment of acquittal, if use of the power would "circumventor conflict with the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure").520US3 Unit: $U57 [09-11-99 17:02:26] PAGES PGT: OPIN679Cite as: 520 U. S. 670 (1997)Opinion of the Courtreason" standard would actually apply. We see no indica-tion in the Rules to suggest that Rule 32(e) can be eviscerated in this manner, and the Court of Appeals did not pointto one.Respondent defends this cramped understanding of Rule32(e) by arguing that the "fair and just reason" standard wasmeant to apply only to "fully accepted" guilty pleas, as opposed to "conditionally accepted" pleas--i. e., pleas that areaccepted but later withdrawn under Rule 11(e)(4) if the pleaagreement is rejected. He points out that the "fair and justreason" standard was derived from dictum in our pre-Rulesopinion in Kercheval v. United States, 274 U. S. 220, 224(1927), see Advisory Committee's Notes on Rule 32, 18U. S. C. App., p. 794, and that Kercheval spoke of a guiltyplea as a final, not a conditional, act, see 274 U. S., at 223("A plea of guilty differs in purpose and effect from a mereadmission or an extra-judicial confession; it is itself a conviction. Like a verdict of a jury it is conclusive. More isnot required; the court has nothing to do but give judgmentand sentence"). He then argues that since the Rule 32(e)standard was derived from Kercheval, the Rule must alsohave incorporated the Kercheval view that a guilty plea isa final, unconditional act. Thus, since his guilty plea wasconditioned on the District Court accepting the plea agreement, the Rule simply does not apply.We reject this somewhat tortuous argument. When the"fair and just reason" standard was added in 1983, the Rulesalready provided that the district court could defer decisionon whether to accept the plea agreement, that it could thenreject the agreement, and that the defendant would then beable to withdraw his guilty plea. Guilty pleas made pursuant to plea agreements were thus already subject to this sortof condition subsequent. Yet neither the new Rule 32(e) northe Advisory Committee's Notes accompanying it attemptedto draw a distinction between "fully accepted" and "conditionally accepted" guilty pleas. Instead, the Rule simply520US3 Unit: $U57 [09-11-99 17:02:26] PAGES PGT: OPIN680 UNITED STATES v. HYDEOpinion of the Courtsays that the standard applies to motions to withdraw aguilty plea "made before sentence is imposed." Respondent's speculation that the Advisory Committee, this Court,and Congress had the Kercheval view of a guilty plea in mindwhen Rule 32(e) was amended in 1983 is thus contradictedby the Rules themselves.Respondent's only other substantial argument in defenseof the Court of Appeals' holding relies on an interpretationof the Advisory Committee's Notes to Rule 32(b)(3). ThatRule, concerning presentence reports, provides: "The reportmust not be submitted to the court or its contents disclosedto anyone unless the defendant has consented in writing, haspleaded guilty or nolo contendere, or has been found guilty."This Rule obviously does not deal at all with motions towithdraw guilty pleas, and any comments in the AdvisoryCommittee's Notes to this Rule dealing with plea withdrawalcould not alter the meaning of Rules 11 and 32(e) as we haveconstrued them.The judgment of the Court of Appeals is therefore