The issue presented in this case is whether the RichmondRedevelopment and Housing Authority's trespass policy isfacially invalid under the First Amendment's overbreadthdoctrine.IAThe Richmond Redevelopment and Housing Authority(RRHA) owns and operates a housing development for lowincome residents called Whitcomb Court. Until June 23,1997, the city of Richmond owned the streets within Whitcomb Court. The city council decided, however, to "privatize" these streets in an effort to combat rampant crime anddrug dealing in Whitcomb Court--much of it committed andconducted by nonresidents. The council enacted OrdinanceNo. 97-181-197, which provided, in part:" `$ 1. That Carmine Street, Bethel Street, AmbroseStreet, Deforrest Street, the 2100-2300 Block of SussexStreet and the 2700-2800 Block of Magnolia Street, inWhitcomb Court . . . be and are hereby closed to publicM. Bishop; for the Thomas Jefferson Center for the Protection of FreeExpression by J. Joshua Wheeler and Robert M. O'Neil; and for Watchtower Bible and Tract Society of New York, Inc., by Paul D. Polidoro andPhilip Brumley.A brief of amici curiae was filed for the State of Alabama et al. byJeremiah W. (Jay) Nixon, Attorney General of Missouri, James R. Layton, State Solicitor, Erwin O. Switzer III, and Michele L. Jackson, Assistant Attorney General of Alabama, and by the Attorneys General for theirrespective jurisdictions as follows: Gregg D. Renkes of Alaska, M. JaneBrady of Delaware, Mark J. Bennett of Hawaii, Steve Carter of Indiana,Charlie J. Crist, Jr., of Florida, Mike Moore of Mississippi, Jim Petro ofOhio, W. A. Drew Edmondson of Oklahoma, Hardy Myers of Oregon, Anabelle Rodri'guez of Puerto Rico, Lawrence E. Long of South Dakota, PaulG. Summers of Tennessee, Greg Abbott of Texas, and Mark L. Shurtleffof Utah.539US1 Unit: $U71 [07-05-05 17:03:38] PAGES PGT: OPIN116 VIRGINIA v. HICKSOpinion of the Courtuse and travel and abandoned as streets of the City ofRichmond.' " App. to Pet. for Cert. 93-94.The city then conveyed these streets by a recorded deedto the RRHA (which is a political subdivision of the Commonwealth of Virginia). This deed required the RRHA to" `give the appearance that the closed street, particularly atthe entrances, are no longer public streets and that theyare in fact private streets.' " Id., at 95. To this end, theRRHA posted red-and-white signs on each apartment build-ing--and every 100 feet along the streets--of WhitcombCourt, which state: " `NO TRESPASSING[.] PRIVATEPROPERTY[.] YOU ARE NOW ENTERING PRIVATEPROPERTY AND STREETS OWNED BY RRHA. UN-AUTHORIZED PERSONS WILL BE SUBJECT TO ARREST AND PROSECUTION. UNAUTHORIZED VEHI-CLES WILL BE TOWED AT OWNERS EXPENSE.' "Pet. for Cert. 5. The RRHA also enacted a policy authoriz-ing the Richmond police" `to serve notice, either orally or in writing, to anyperson who is found on Richmond Redevelopment andHousing Authority property when such person is not aresident, employee, or such person cannot demonstratea legitimate business or social purpose for being on thepremises. Such notice shall forbid the person from returning to the property. Finally, Richmond Redevel-opment and Housing Authority authorizes RichmondPolice Department officers to arrest any person fortrespassing after such person, having been duly notified,either stays upon or returns to Richmond Redevelop-ment and Housing Authority property.' " App. to Pet.for Cert. 98-99 (emphasis added).Persons who trespass after being notified not to return aresubject to prosecution under Va. Code Ann. $ 18.2-119 (1996):"If any person without authority of law goes upon orremains upon the lands, buildings or premises of an539US1 Unit: $U71 [07-05-05 17:03:38] PAGES PGT: OPIN117Cite as: 539 U. S. 113 (2003)Opinion of the Courtother, or any portion or area thereof, after having beenforbidden to do so, either orally or in writing, by theowner, lessee, custodian or other person lawfully incharge thereof . . . he shall be guilty of a Class 1misdemeanor."BRespondent Kevin Hicks, a nonresident of WhitcombCourt, has been convicted on two prior occasions of trespassing there and once of damaging property there. Those con-victions are not at issue in this case. While the propertydamage charge was pending, the RRHA gave Hicks writtennotice barring him from Whitcomb Court, and Hicks signedthis notice in the presence of a police officer.1 Twice afterreceiving this notice Hicks asked for permission to return;twice the Whitcomb Court housing manager said "no."That did not stop Hicks; in January 1999 he again trespassedat Whitcomb Court and was arrested and convicted under$ 18.2-119.At trial, Hicks maintained that the RRHA's policy limitingaccess to Whitcomb Court was both unconstitutionally overbroad and void for vagueness. On appeal of his conviction, athree-judge panel of the Court of Appeals of Virginia initiallyrejected Hicks' contentions, but the en banc Court of Ap-peals reversed. That court held that the streets of Whitcomb Court were a "traditional public forum," notwithstand-ing the city ordinance declaring them closed, and vacatedHicks' conviction on the ground that RRHA's policy violatedthe First Amendment. 36 Va. App. 49, 56, 548 S. E. 2d 249,253 (2001). The Virginia Supreme Court affirmed the en1 The letter stated, in part: " `This letter serves to inform you that effective immediately you are not welcome on Richmond Redevelopment andHousing Authority's Whitcomb Court or any Richmond Redevelopmentand Housing Authority property. This letter is an official notice informingyou that you are not to trespass on RRHA property. If you are seen orcaught on the premises, you will be subject to arrest by the police.' " 264Va. 48, 53, 563 S. E. 2d 674, 677 (2002).539US1 Unit: $U71 [07-05-05 17:03:38] PAGES PGT: OPIN118 VIRGINIA v. HICKSOpinion of the Courtbanc Court of Appeals, but for different reasons. Withoutdeciding whether the streets of Whitcomb Court were a public forum, the Virginia Supreme Court concluded that theRRHA policy was unconstitutionally overbroad. While acknowledging that the policy was "designed to punish activi-ties that are not protected by the First Amendment," 264Va. 48, 58, 563 S. E. 2d 674, 680 (2002), the court held that"the policy also prohibits speech and conduct that are clearlyprotected by the First Amendment," ibid. The court foundthe policy defective because it vested too much discretion inWhitcomb Court's manager to determine whether an individual's presence at Whitcomb Court is "authorized," allowingher to "prohibit speech that she finds personally distastefulor offensive even though such speech may be protected bythe First Amendment."Id., at 60, 563 S. E. 2d, at 680-681.We granted the Commonwealth's petition for certiorari.537 U. S. 1169 (2003).IIAHicks does not contend that he was engaged in constitu-tionally protected conduct when arrested; nor does he challenge the validity of the trespass statute under which he wasconvicted. Instead he claims that the RRHApolicy barringhim from Whitcomb Court is overbroad under the FirstAmendment, and cannot be applied to him--or anyone else.2The First Amendment doctrine of overbreadth is an exception to our normal rule regarding the standards for facialchallenges. SeeMembers of City Council of Los Angeles v.Taxpayers for Vincent, 466 U. S. 789, 796 (1984). The show-ing that a law punishes a "substantial" amount of protectedfree speech, "judged in relation to the statute's plainly legiti2 As noted, the Virginia Supreme Court held that invalidity of theRRHA policy entitled Hicks to vacatur of his conviction under the unquestionably valid trespass statute, which Hicks unquestionably violated. Wedo not reach the question whether federal law compels this result.539US1 Unit: $U71 [07-05-05 17:03:38] PAGES PGT: OPIN119Cite as: 539 U. S. 113 (2003)Opinion of the Courtmate sweep," Broadrick v. Oklahoma, 413 U. S. 601, 615(1973), suffices to invalidateall enforcement of that law,"until and unless a limiting construction or partial invalida-tion so narrows it as to remove the seeming threat or deterrence to constitutionally protected expression," id., at 613.See alsoVirginia v. Black, 538 U. S. 343, 367 (2003); NewYork v. Ferber, 458 U. S. 747, 769, n. 24 (1982); Dombrowskiv. Pfister, 380 U. S. 479, 491, and n. 7, 497 (1965).We have provided this expansive remedy out of concernthat the threat of enforcement of an overbroad law may deteror "chill" constitutionally protected speech--especially whenthe overbroad statute imposes criminal sanctions. SeeSchaumburg v. Citizens for a Better Environment, 444 U. S.620, 634 (1980); Bates v. State Bar of Ariz., 433 U. S. 350, 380(1977); NAACP v. Button, 371 U. S. 415, 433 (1963). Manypersons, rather than undertake the considerable burden (andsometimes risk) of vindicating their rights through case-bycase litigation, will choose simply to abstain from protectedspeech, Dombrowski, supra, at 486-487--harming not onlythemselves but society as a whole, which is deprived of anuninhibited marketplace of ideas. Overbreadth adjudication, by suspending all enforcement of an overinclusive law,reduces these social costs caused by the withholding of protected speech.As we noted in Broadrick, however, there comes a pointat which the chilling effect of an overbroad law, significantthough it may be, cannot justify prohibiting all enforcementof that law--particularly a law that reflects "legitimate stateinterests in maintaining comprehensive controls over harmful, constitutionally unprotected conduct." 413 U. S., at 615.For there are substantial social costs created by the overbreadth doctrine when it blocks application of a law to constitutionally unprotected speech, or especially to constitutionally unprotected conduct. To ensure that these costs do notswallow the social benefits of declaring a law "overbroad,"we have insisted that a law's application to protected speech539US1 Unit: $U71 [07-05-05 17:03:38] PAGES PGT: OPIN120 VIRGINIA v. HICKSOpinion of the Courtbe "substantial," not only in an absolute sense, but also rela-tive to the scope of the law's plainly legitimate applications,ibid., before applying the "strong medicine" of overbreadthinvalidation, id., at 613.BPetitioner asks this Court to impose restrictions on "theuse of overbreadth standing," limiting the availability of facial overbreadth challenges to those whose own conduct in-volved some sort of expressive activity. Brief for Petitioner13, 24-31. The United States as amicus curiae makes thesame proposal, Brief for United States asAmicus Curiae14-17, and urges that Hicks' facial challenge to the RRHAtrespass policy "should not have been entertained," id., at 10.The problem with these proposals is that we are reviewinghere the decision of a State Supreme Court; our standingrules limit only thefederal courts' jurisdiction over certainclaims. "[S]tate courts are not bound by the limitations ofa case or controversy or other federal rules of justiciabilityeven when they address issues of federal law." ASARCOInc. v. Kadish, 490 U. S. 605, 617 (1989). Whether Virginia'scourts should have entertained this overbreadth challenge isentirely a matter of state law.This Court may, however, review the Virginia SupremeCourt's holding that the RRHA policy violates the FirstAmendment. We may examine, in particular, whether theclaimed overbreadth in the RRHA policy is sufficiently "sub-stantial" to produce facial invalidity. These questions involve not standing, but "the determination of [a] FirstAmendment challenge on the merits."Secretary of State ofMd. v. Joseph H. Munson Co., 467 U. S. 947, 958-959 (1984).Because it is the Commonwealth of Virginia, not Hicks, thathas invoked the authority of the federal courts by petitioningfor a writ of certiorari, our jurisdiction to review the FirstAmendment merits question is clear under ASARCO, 490U. S., at 617-618. The Commonwealth has suffered, as aconsequence of the Virginia Supreme Court's "final judgment539US1 Unit: $U71 [07-05-05 17:03:38] PAGES PGT: OPIN121Cite as: 539 U. S. 113 (2003)Opinion of the Courtaltering tangible legal rights," id., at 619, an actual injury infact--inability to prosecute Hicks for trespass--that is sufficiently "distinct and palpable" to confer standing under Arti-cle III, Warth v. Seldin, 422 U. S. 490, 501 (1975). We accordingly proceed to that merits inquiry, leaving for anotherday the question whether our ordinary rule that a litigantmay not rest a claim to relief on the legal rights or interestsof third parties, seeValley Forge Christian College v.Americans United for Separation of Church and State, Inc.,454 U. S. 464, 474 (1982), would exclude a case such as thisfrom initiation in federal court.CThe Virginia Supreme Court found that the RRHA policyallowed Gloria S. Rogers, the manager of Whitcomb Court,to exercise "unfettered discretion" in determining who mayuse the RRHA's property. 264 Va., at 59, 563 S. E. 2d, at680. Specifically, the court faulted an "unwritten" rule thatpersons wishing to hand out flyers on the sidewalks of Whitcomb Court need to obtain Rogers' permission. Ibid. Thisunwritten portion of the RRHA policy, the court concluded,unconstitutionally allows Rogers to "prohibit speech that shefinds personally distasteful or offensive." Id., at 60, 563S. E. 2d, at 681.Hicks, of course, was not arrested for leafleting or demonstrating without permission. He violated the RRHA's written rule that persons who receive a barment notice must notreturn to RRHA property. The Virginia Supreme Court,based on its objection to the "unwritten" requirement thatdemonstrators and leafleters obtain advance permission, declared the entire RRHA trespass policy overbroad andvoid--including the written rule that those who return afterreceiving a barment notice are subject to arrest. Whetherthese provisions are severable is of course a matter of statelaw, see Leavitt v. Jane L., 518 U. S. 137, 139 (1996) (percuriam), and the Virginia Supreme Court has implicitly de539US1 Unit: $U71 [07-05-05 17:03:38] PAGES PGT: OPIN122 VIRGINIA v. HICKSOpinion of the Courtcided that they are not--that all components of the RRHAtrespass policy must stand or fall together. It could notproperly decree that they fall by reason of the overbreadthdoctrine, however, unless the trespass policy, taken as awhole, is substantially overbroad judged in relation to itsplainly legitimate sweep.3 See Broadrick, 413 U. S., at 615.The overbreadth claimant bears the burden of demonstrat-ing, "from the text of [the law] and from actual fact," thatsubstantial overbreadth exists. New York State Club Assn.,Inc. v. City of New York, 487 U. S. 1, 14 (1988).Hicks has not made such a showing with regard to theRRHA policy taken as a whole--even assuming, arguendo,the unlawfulness of the policy's "unwritten" rule that demonstrating and leafleting at Whitcomb Court require permis-sion from Gloria Rogers. Consider the "no-return" noticeserved on nonresidents who have no "legitimate business orsocial purpose" in Whitcomb Court: Hicks has failed to demonstrate that this notice would even be given to anyone en-gaged in constitutionally protected speech. Gloria Rogerstestified that leafleting and demonstrations are permitted atWhitcomb Court, so long as permission is obtained in advance. App. to Pet. for Cert. 100-102. Thus, "legitimatebusiness or social purpose" evidently includes leafleting anddemonstrating; otherwise, Rogers would lack authority topermit those activities on RRHA property. Hicks has failedto demonstrate that any First Amendment activity falls out-side the "legitimate business or social purpose[s]" that permit entry. As far as appears, until one receives a barment3 Contrary to Justice Souter's suggestion, post, at 124 (concurringopinion), the Supreme Court of Virginia did not focus solely on the "unwritten" element of the RRHA trespass policy "[i]n comparing invalidapplications against valid ones for purposes of the First Amendment overbreadth doctrine." The fact is that its opinion contains no "comparing"of valid and invalid applications whatever; the proportionality aspect ofour overbreadth doctrine is simply ignored. Since, however, the VirginiaSupreme Court struck down the entire RRHA trespass policy, the question presented here is whether the entire policy is substantially overbroad.539US1 Unit: $U71 [07-05-05 17:03:38] PAGES PGT: OPIN123Cite as: 539 U. S. 113 (2003)Opinion of the Courtnotice, entering for a First Amendment purpose is not atrespass.As for the written provision authorizing the police to ar-rest those who return to Whitcomb Court after receivinga barment notice: That certainly does not violate the FirstAmendment as applied to persons whose postnotice entry isnot for the purpose of engaging in constitutionally protectedspeech. And Hicks has not even established that it wouldviolate the First Amendment as applied to persons whosepostnotice entry is for that purpose. Even assuming thestreets of Whitcomb Court are a public forum, the noticebarment rule subjects to arrest those who reenter after trespassing and after being warned not to return--regardless ofwhether, upon their return, they seek to engage in speech.Neither the basis for the barment sanction (the prior trespass) nor its purpose (preventing future trespasses) has anything to do with the First Amendment. Punishing its violation by a person who wishes to engage in free speech nomore implicates the First Amendment than would the punishment of a person who has (pursuant to lawful regulation)been banned from a public park after vandalizing it, and whoignores the ban in order to take part in a political demonstration. Here, as there, it is Hicks' nonexpressive conduct--his entry in violation of the notice-barment rule--not hisspeech, for which he is punished as a trespasser.Most importantly, both the notice-barment rule and the"legitimate business or social purpose" rule apply to all persons who enter the streets of Whitcomb Court, not just tothose who seek to engage in expression. The rules apply tostrollers, loiterers, drug dealers, roller skaters, bird watchers, soccer players, and others not engaged in constitutionally protected conduct--a group that would seemingly faroutnumber First Amendment speakers. Even assuming invalidity of the "unwritten" rule that requires leafleters anddemonstrators to obtain advance permission from GloriaRogers, Hicks has not shown, based on the record in this539US1 Unit: $U71 [07-05-05 17:03:38] PAGES PGT: OPIN124 VIRGINIA v. HICKSSouter, J., concurringcase, that the RRHA trespass policy as a whole prohibits a"substantial" amount of protected speech in relation to itsmany legitimate applications. That is not surprising, sincethe overbreadth doctrine's concern with "chilling" protectedspeech "attenuates as the otherwise unprotected behaviorthat it forbids the State to sanction moves from `pure speech'toward conduct." Broadrick, supra, at 615. Rarely, ifever, will an overbreadth challenge succeed against a law orregulation that is not specifically addressed to speech or toconduct necessarily associated with speech (such as picketingor demonstrating). Applications of the RRHA policy thatviolate the First Amendment can still be remedied throughas-applied litigation, but the Virginia Supreme Court shouldnot have used the "strong medicine" of overbreadth to invalidate the entire RRHA trespass policy. Whether respondentmay challenge his conviction on other grounds--and whetherthose claims have been properly preserved--are issues weleave open on remand.* * *For these reasons, we reverse the judgment of the VirginiaSupreme Court and remand the case for further proceedingsnot inconsistent with this opinion. It is so ordered.Justice Souter, with whom Justice Breyer joins,concurring.I join the Court's opinion and add this afterword to flagan issue of no consequence here, but one on which a futurecase might turn. In comparing invalid applications againstvalid ones for purposes of the First Amendment overbreadthdoctrine, the Supreme Court of Virginia apparently assumedthat the appropriate focus of the analysis was the "unwritten" element of the housing authority's trespass policy, thatis, the requirement that nonresidents distributing literatureor demonstrating on the property obtain prior authorization.539US1 Unit: $U71 [07-05-05 17:03:38] PAGES PGT: OPIN125Cite as: 539 U. S. 113 (2003)Souter, J., concurring264 Va. 48, 58-60, 563 S. E. 2d 674, 680-681 (2002) (findingthat the "unwritten" portion of the policy, although designedto punish unprotected activities, allowed the housing man-ager to prohibit protected speech "that she finds personallydistasteful or offensive" and "speech that is political or reli-gious in nature"). We, on the other hand, take a broaderview of the relevant law, by looking to the potential applica-tions of the entire trespass policy, written and unwritten.Ante, at 121-124. It does not matter here, however, whichposition one takes on the appropriate "law" whose overbreadth is to be assessed, for there is no substantial over-breadth either way. Regardless of the scope of the law thatforms the denominator of the fraction here, the numerator ofpotential invalid applications is too small to result in a finding of substantial overbreadth. But in other circumstances,the scope of the law chosen for comparison with invalid applications might decide the case. It might be dispositivewhether, say, a city's speech ordinance for a public park isanalyzed alone or as one element of the combined policiesgoverning expression in public schoolyards, municipal cemeteries, and the city council chamber. Suffice it to say thattoday's decision does not address how to go about identifyingthe scope of the relevant law for purposes of overbreadthanalysis.539US1 Unit: $U72 [05-04-05 20:19:15] PAGES PGT: OPIN126 OCTOBER TERM, 2002SyllabusOVERTON, DIRECTOR, MICHIGAN DEPARTMENTOF CORRECTIONS,et al. v. BAZZETTA et al.certiorari to the united states court of appeals forthe sixth circuitNo. 02-94. Argued March 26, 2003--Decided June 16, 2003Responding to concerns about prison security problems caused by the increasing number of visitors to Michigan's prisons and about substanceabuse among inmates, the Michigan Department of Corrections (MDOC)promulgated new regulations limiting prison visitation. An inmatemay be visited by qualified clergy and attorneys on business and bypersons placed on an approved list, which may include an unlimited number of immediate family members and 10 others; minor children are notpermitted to visit unless they are the children, stepchildren, grandchildren, or siblings of the inmate; if the inmate's parental rights are terminated, the child may not visit; a child visitor must be accompanied by afamily member of the child or inmate or the child's legal guardian; former prisoners are not permitted to visit except that a former prisonerwho is an immediate family member of an inmate may visit if the wardenapproves. Prisoners who commit two substance-abuse violations mayreceive only clergy and attorneys, but may apply for reinstatement ofvisitation privileges after two years. Respondents--prisoners, theirfriends, and family members--filed a 42 U. S. C. $ 1983 action, allegingthat the regulations as they pertain to noncontact visits violate theFirst, Eighth, and Fourteenth Amendments. The District Courtagreed, and the Sixth Circuit affirmed.Held:1. The fact that the regulations bear a rational relation to legitimatepenological interests suffices to sustain them regardless of whether respondents have a constitutional right of association that has survivedincarceration. This Court accords substantial deference to the professional judgment of prison administrators, who bear a significant responsibility for defining a corrections system's legitimate goals anddetermining the most appropriate means to accomplish them. Theregulations satisfy each of four factors used to decide whether a prisonregulation affecting a constitutional right that survives incarcerationwithstands constitutional challenge. See Turner v. Safley, 482 U. S. 78,89-91. First, the regulations bear a rational relationship to a legitimate penological interest. The restrictions on children's visitation arerelated to MDOC's valid interests in maintaining internal security and539US1 Unit: $U72 [05-04-05 20:19:15] PAGES PGT: OPIN127Cite as: 539 U. S. 126 (2003)Syllabusprotecting child visitors from exposure to sexual or other misconduct orfrom accidental injury. They promote internal security, perhaps themost legitimate penological goal, by reducing the total number of visitors and by limiting disruption caused by children. It is also reasonableto ensure that the visiting child is accompanied and supervised by adultscharged with protecting the child's best interests. Prohibiting visitation by former inmates bears a self-evident connection to the State'sinterest in maintaining prison security and preventing future crime.Restricting visitation for inmates with two substance-abuse violationsserves the legitimate goal of deterring drug and alcohol use withinprison. Second, respondents have alternative means of exercising theirasserted right of association with those prohibited from visiting. Theycan send messages through those who are permitted to visit, and cancommunicate by letter and telephone. Visitation alternatives need notbe ideal; they need only be available. Third, accommodating the associational right would have a considerable impact on guards, other inmates,the allocation of prison resources, and the safety of visitors by causinga significant reallocation of the prison system's financial resources andby impairing corrections officers' ability to protect all those inside aprison's walls. Finally, respondents have suggested no alternativesthat fully accommodate the asserted right while not imposing more thana de minimis cost to the valid penological goals. Pp. 131-136.2. The visitation restriction for inmates with two substance-abuse violations is not a cruel and unusual confinement condition violating theEighth Amendment. Withdrawing visitation privileges for a limitedperiod in order to effect prison discipline is not a dramatic departurefrom accepted standards for confinement conditions. Nor does the regulation create inhumane prison conditions, deprive inmates of basic necessities or fail to protect their health or safety, or involve the inflictionof pain or injury or deliberate indifference to their risk. Pp. 136-137.286 F. 3d 311, reversed.Kennedy, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which Rehnquist,C. J., and Stevens, O'Connor, Souter, Ginsburg, and Breyer, JJ.,joined. Stevens, J., filed a concurring opinion, in which Souter, Ginsburg, and Breyer, JJ., joined, post, p. 137. Thomas, J., filed an opinionconcurring in the judgment, in which Scalia, J., joined, post, p. 138.Thomas L. Casey, Solicitor General of Michigan, arguedthe cause for petitioners. With him on the briefs wereMikeCox, Attorney General, and Leo H. Friedman, Mark Matus,and Lisa C. Ward, Assistant Attorneys General.539US1 Unit: $U72 [05-04-05 20:19:15] PAGES PGT: OPIN128 OVERTON v. BAZZETTAOpinion of the CourtJeffrey A. Lamken argued the cause for the United Statesas amicus curiae. With him on the brief were SolicitorGeneral Olson, Assistant Attorney General McCallum,Deputy Solicitor General Clement, and Robert M. Loeb.Deborah LaBelle argued the cause for respondents. Withher on the brief were Barbara R. Levine and Patricia A.Streeter.*Justice Kennedy delivered the opinion of the Court.The State of Michigan, by regulation, places certain re-strictions on visits with prison inmates. The questionbefore the Court is whether the regulations violate the sub-stantive due process mandate of the Fourteenth Amendment, or the First or Eighth Amendments as applicable tothe States through the Fourteenth Amendment.*Briefs of amici curiae urging reversal were filed for the State of Colorado et al. by Ken Salazar, Attorney General of Colorado, Alan J. Gilbert,Solicitor General, and Juliana M. Zolynas, Assistant Attorney General,and by the Attorneys General for their respective States as follows: William H. Pryor, Jr., of Alabama, Charlie Crist of Florida, Thurbert E.Baker of Georgia, Alan G. Lance of Idaho, Steve Carter of Indiana, J.Joseph Curran, Jr., of Maryland, Mike Moore of Mississippi, Jeremiah W.(Jay) Nixon of Missouri, Don Stenberg of Nebraska, Frankie Sue DelPapa of Nevada, Wayne Stenehjem of North Dakota, W. A. Drew Edmondson of Oklahoma, Hardy Myers of Oregon, D. Michael Fisher of Pennsylvania, Mark Barnett of South Dakota, Paul G. Summers of Tennessee,Greg Abbott of Texas, Mark L. Shurtleff of Utah, and Patrick J. Crankof Wyoming; and for the Criminal Justice Legal Foundation by Kent S.Scheidegger and Charles L. Hobson.Briefs of amici curiae urging affirmance were filed for the AmericanCivil Liberties Union et al. by Elizabeth Alexander, David C. Fathi, Steven R. Shapiro, Lenora M. Lapidus, Daniel L. Greenberg, John Boston,Michael J. Steinberg, and Kary L. Moss; for the National Council on Crimeand Delinquency et al. by Jill M. Wheaton; and for the Public DefenderService for the District of Columbia et al. by Paul Denenfeld and Giovanna Shay.Roderick M. Hills, Jr., filed a brief for the National Council of La Razaet al. as amici curiae.539US1 Unit: $U72 [05-04-05 20:19:15] PAGES PGT: OPIN129Cite as: 539 U. S. 126 (2003)Opinion of the CourtIThe population of Michigan's prisons increased in the early1990's. More inmates brought more visitors, straining theresources available for prison supervision and control. Inparticular, prison officials found it more difficult to maintainorder during visitation and to prevent smuggling or traffick-ing in drugs. Special problems were encountered with theincrease in visits by children, who are at risk of seeing orhearing harmful conduct during visits and must be supervised with special care in prison visitation facilities.The incidence of substance abuse in the State's prisons alsoincreased in this period. Drug and alcohol abuse by prison-ers is unlawful and a direct threat to legitimate objectivesof the corrections system, including rehabilitation, the main-tenance of basic order, and the prevention of violence in theprisons.In response to these concerns, the Michigan Departmentof Corrections (MDOC or Department) revised its prison vis-itation policies in 1995, promulgating the regulations here atissue. One aspect of the Department's approach was to limitthe visitors a prisoner is eligible to receive, in order to decrease the total number of visitors.Under MDOC's regulations, an inmate may receive visitsonly from individuals placed on an approved visitor list, ex-cept that qualified members of the clergy and attorneys onofficial business may visit without being listed. Mich.Admin. Code Rule 791.6609(2) (1999); Director's Office Mem.1995-59 (effective date Aug. 25, 1995). The list may includean unlimited number of members of the prisoner's immedi-ate family and 10 other individuals the prisoner designates,subject to some restrictions. Rule 791.6609(2). Minorsunder the age of 18 may not be placed on the list unless theyare the children, stepchildren, grandchildren, or siblings ofthe inmate. Rule 791.6609(2)(b); Mich. Comp. Laws Ann.$ 791.268a (West Supp. 2003). If an inmate's parental rights539US1 Unit: $U72 [05-04-05 20:19:15] PAGES PGT: OPIN130 OVERTON v. BAZZETTAOpinion of the Courthave been terminated, the child may not be a visitor. Rule791.6609(6)(a) (1999). A child authorized to visit must beaccompanied by an adult who is an immediate family memberof the child or of the inmate or who is the legal guardianof the child. Rule 791.6609(5); Mich. Dept. of CorrectionsProcedure OP-SLF/STF-05.03.140, p. 9 (effective date Sept.15, 1999). An inmate may not place a former prisoner onthe visitor list unless the former prisoner is a member of theinmate's immediate family and the warden has given priorapproval. Rule 791.6609(7).The Department's revised policy also sought to control thewidespread use of drugs and alcohol among prisoners. Prisoners who commit multiple substance-abuse violations arenot permitted to receive any visitors except attorneys andmembers of the clergy. Rule 791.6609(11)(d). An inmatesubject to this restriction may apply for reinstatement ofvisitation privileges after two years. Rule 791.6609(12).Reinstatement is within the warden's discretion. Ibid.Respondents are prisoners, their friends, and their familymembers. They brought this action under Rev. Stat. $ 1979,42 U. S. C. $ 1983, alleging that the restrictions upon visitation violate the First, Eighth, and Fourteenth Amendments.It was certified as a class action under Federal Rule ofCivil Procedure 23.Inmates who are classified as the highest security risks, asdetermined by the MDOC, are limited to noncontact visitation. This case does not involve a challenge to the methodfor making that determination. By contrast to contact visitation, during which inmates are allowed limited physicalcontact with their visitors in a large visitation room, inmatesrestricted to noncontact visits must communicate with theirvisitors through a glass panel, the inmate and the visitorbeing on opposite sides of a booth. In some facilities thebooths are located in or at one side of the same room usedfor contact visits. The case before us concerns the regulations as they pertain to noncontact visits.539US1 Unit: $U72 [05-04-05 20:19:15] PAGES PGT: OPIN131Cite as: 539 U. S. 126 (2003)Opinion of the CourtThe United States District Court for the Eastern Districtof Michigan agreed with the prisoners that the regulationspertaining to noncontact visits were invalid. Bazzetta v.McGinnis, 148 F. Supp. 2d 813 (2001). The Sixth Circuitaffirmed, 286 F. 3d 311 (2002), and we granted certiorari, 537U. S. 1043 (2002).IIThe Court of Appeals agreed with the District Court thatthe restrictions on noncontact visits are invalid. This waserror. We first consider the contention, accepted by theCourt of Appeals, that the regulations infringe a constitutional right of association.We have said that the Constitution protects "certain kindsof highly personal relationships," Roberts v. United StatesJaycees, 468 U. S. 609, 618, 619-620 (1984). And outsidethe prison context, there is some discussion in our cases ofa right to maintain certain familial relationships, including association among members of an immediate family andassociation between grandchildren and grandparents. SeeMoore v. East Cleveland, 431 U. S. 494 (1977) (plurality opin-ion); Meyer v. Nebraska, 262 U. S. 390 (1923).This is not an appropriate case for further elaboration ofthose matters. The very object of imprisonment is confinement. Many of the liberties and privileges enjoyed byother citizens must be surrendered by the prisoner. An inmate does not retain rights inconsistent with proper incar-ceration. SeeJones v. North Carolina Prisoners' LaborUnion, Inc., 433 U. S. 119, 125 (1977); Shaw v. Murphy, 532U. S. 223, 229 (2001). And, as our cases have established,freedom of association is among the rights least compatiblewith incarceration. See Jones, supra, at 125-126; Hewitt v.Helms, 459 U. S. 460 (1983). Some curtailment of that freedom must be expected in the prison context.We do not hold, and we do not imply, that any right tointimate association is altogether terminated by incarcera-tion or is always irrelevant to claims made by prisoners. We539US1 Unit: $U72 [05-04-05 20:19:15] PAGES PGT: OPIN132 OVERTON v. BAZZETTAOpinion of the Courtneed not attempt to explore or define the asserted right ofassociation at any length or determine the extent to whichit survives incarceration because the challenged regulationsbear a rational relation to legitimate penological interests.This suffices to sustain the regulation in question. SeeTurner v. Safley, 482 U. S. 78, 89 (1987). We have taken asimilar approach in previous cases, such as Pell v. Procunier,417 U. S. 817, 822 (1974), which we cited with approval inTurner. In Pell, we found it unnecessary to decide whetheran asserted First Amendment right survived incarceration.Prison administrators had reasonably exercised their judgment as to the appropriate means of furthering penologicalgoals, and that was the controlling rationale for our decision.We must accord substantial deference to the professionaljudgment of prison administrators, who bear a significant responsibility for defining the legitimate goals of a correctionssystem and for determining the most appropriate means toaccomplish them. See, e. g., Pell, supra, at 826-827; Helms,supra, at 467; Thornburgh v. Abbott, 490 U. S. 401, 408(1989); Jones, supra, at 126, 128; Turner, supra, at 85, 89;Block v. Rutherford, 468 U. S. 576, 588 (1984); Bell v. Wolfish,441 U. S. 520, 562 (1979). The burden, moreover, is not onthe State to prove the validity of prison regulations but onthe prisoner to disprove it. See Jones, supra, at 128; O'Lonev. Estate of Shabazz, 482 U. S. 342, 350 (1987); Shaw, supra,at 232. Respondents have failed to do so here.In Turner we held that four factors are relevant in deciding whether a prison regulation affecting a constitutionalright that survives incarceration withstands constitutionalchallenge: whether the regulation has a " `valid, rational connection' " to a legitimate governmental interest; whether alternative means are open to inmates to exercise the assertedright; what impact an accommodation of the right wouldhave on guards and inmates and prison resources; andwhether there are "ready alternatives" to the regulation.482 U. S., at 89-91.539US1 Unit: $U72 [05-04-05 20:19:15] PAGES PGT: OPIN133Cite as: 539 U. S. 126 (2003)Opinion of the CourtTurning to the restrictions on visitation by children, weconclude that the regulations bear a rational relation toMDOC's valid interests in maintaining internal security andprotecting child visitors from exposure to sexual or othermisconduct or from accidental injury. The regulations pro-mote internal security, perhaps the most legitimate of penological goals, see, e. g., Pell, supra, at 823, by reducingthe total number of visitors and by limiting the disruptioncaused by children in particular. Protecting children fromharm is also a legitimate goal, see, e. g., Block, supra, at 586-587. The logical connection between this interest and theregulations is demonstrated by trial testimony that reducingthe number of children allows guards to supervise them better to ensure their safety and to minimize the disruptionsthey cause within the visiting areas.As for the regulation requiring children to be accompaniedby a family member or legal guardian, it is reasonable toensure that the visiting child is accompanied and supervisedby those adults charged with protecting the child's bestinterests.Respondents argue that excluding minor nieces and nephews and children as to whom parental rights have been terminated bears no rational relationship to these penologicalinterests. We reject this contention, and in all events itwould not suffice to invalidate the regulations as to all noncontact visits. To reduce the number of child visitors, a linemust be drawn, and the categories set out by these regulations are reasonable. Visits are allowed between an inmateand those children closest to him or her--children, grandchildren, and siblings. The prohibition on visitation by childrenas to whom the inmate no longer has parental rights is simply a recognition by prison administrators of a status determination made in other official proceedings.MDOC's regulation prohibiting visitation by former inmates bears a self-evident connection to the State's interestin maintaining prison security and preventing future crimes.539US1 Unit: $U72 [05-04-05 20:19:15] PAGES PGT: OPIN134 OVERTON v. BAZZETTAOpinion of the CourtWe have recognized that "communication with other felonsis a potential spur to criminal behavior." Turner, supra,at 91-92.Finally, the restriction on visitation for inmates with twosubstance-abuse violations, a bar which may be removedafter two years, serves the legitimate goal of deterring theuse of drugs and alcohol within the prisons. Drug smuggling and drug use in prison are intractable problems. See,e. g., Bell, supra, at 559; Block, supra, at 586-587; Hudson v.Palmer, 468 U. S. 517, 527 (1984). Withdrawing visitationprivileges is a proper and even necessary management technique to induce compliance with the rules of inmate behavior,especially for high-security prisoners who have few otherprivileges to lose. In this regard we note that numerousother States have implemented similar restrictions on visitation privileges to control and deter substance-abuse violations. See Brief for State of Colorado et al. as AmiciCuriae 4-9.Respondents argue that the regulation bears no rationalconnection to preventing substance abuse because it hasbeen invoked in certain instances where the infractionswere, in respondents' view, minor. Even if we were inclined, though, to substitute our judgment for the conclusionsof prison officials concerning the infractions reached by theregulations, the individual cases respondents cite are not sufficient to strike down the regulations as to all noncontactvisits. Respondents also contest the 2-year bar and notethat reinstatement of visitation is not automatic even at theend of two years. We agree the restriction is severe. Andif faced with evidence that MDOC's regulation is treated asa de facto permanent ban on all visitation for certain inmates, we might reach a different conclusion in a challengeto a particular application of the regulation. Those issuesare not presented in this case, which challenges the validityof the restriction on noncontact visits in all instances.539US1 Unit: $U72 [05-04-05 20:19:15] PAGES PGT: OPIN135Cite as: 539 U. S. 126 (2003)Opinion of the CourtHaving determined that each of the challenged regulationsbears a rational relationship to a legitimate penological interest, we consider whether inmates have alternative meansof exercising the constitutional right they seek to assert.Turner, 482 U. S., at 90. Were it shown that no alternativemeans of communication existed, though it would not be conclusive, it would be some evidence that the regulations wereunreasonable. That showing, however, cannot be made.Respondents here do have alternative means of associatingwith those prohibited from visiting. As was the case in Pell,inmates can communicate with those who may not visit bysending messages through those who are allowed to visit.417 U. S., at 825. Although this option is not available toinmates barred all visitation after two violations, they andother inmates may communicate with persons outside theprison by letter and telephone. Respondents protest thatletter writing is inadequate for illiterate inmates and forcommunications with young children. They say, too, thatphone calls are brief and expensive, so that these alternatives are not sufficient. Alternatives to visitation need notbe ideal, however; they need only be available. Here, thealternatives are of sufficient utility that they give some support to the regulations, particularly in a context where visitation is limited, not completely withdrawn.Another relevant consideration is the impact that accommodation of the asserted associational right would have onguards, other inmates, the allocation of prison resources, andthe safety of visitors. See Turner, supra, at 90; Hudson,supra, at 526 (visitor safety). Accommodating respondents'demands would cause a significant reallocation of the prisonsystem's financial resources and would impair the ability ofcorrections officers to protect all who are inside a prison'swalls. When such consequences are present, we are "particularly deferential" to prison administrators' regulatory judgments. Turner, supra, at 90.539US1 Unit: $U72 [05-04-05 20:19:15] PAGES PGT: OPIN136 OVERTON v. BAZZETTAOpinion of the CourtFinally, we consider whether the presence of ready alter-natives undermines the reasonableness of the regulations.Turner does not impose a least-restrictive-alternative test,but asks instead whether the prisoner has pointed to someobvious regulatory alternative that fully accommodates theasserted right while not imposing more than a de minimiscost to the valid penological goal. 482 U. S., at 90-91. Re-spondents have not suggested alternatives meeting this highstandard for any of the regulations at issue. We disagreewith respondents' suggestion that allowing visitation bynieces and nephews or children for whom parental rightshave been terminated is an obvious alternative. Increasingthe number of child visitors in that way surely would havemore than a negligible effect on the goals served by the regulation. As to the limitation on visitation by former in-mates, respondents argue the restriction could be time limited, but we defer to MDOC's judgment that a longerrestriction better serves its interest in preventing the criminal activity that can result from these interactions. Re-spondents suggest the duration of the restriction for inmateswith substance-abuse violations could be shortened or thatit could be applied only for the most serious violations, butthese alternatives do not go so far toward accommodatingthe asserted right with so little cost to penological goals thatthey meet Turner's high standard. These considerationscannot justify the decision of the Court of Appeals to invalidate the regulation as to all noncontact visits.IIIRespondents also claim that the restriction on visitationfor inmates with two substance-abuse violations is a crueland unusual condition of confinement in violation of theEighth Amendment. The restriction undoubtedly makesthe prisoner's confinement more difficult to bear. But itdoes not, in the circumstances of this case, fall below thestandards mandated by the Eighth Amendment. Much of539US1 Unit: $U72 [05-04-05 20:19:15] PAGES PGT: OPIN137Cite as: 539 U. S. 126 (2003)Stevens, J., concurringwhat we have said already about the withdrawal of privi-leges that incarceration is expected to bring applies here aswell. Michigan, like many other States, uses withdrawal ofvisitation privileges for a limited period as a regular meansof effecting prison discipline. This is not a dramatic depar-ture from accepted standards for conditions of confinement.Cf. Sandin v. Conner, 515 U. S. 472, 485 (1995). Nor doesthe regulation create inhumane prison conditions, deprive inmates of basic necessities, or fail to protect their health orsafety. Nor does it involve the infliction of pain or injury,or deliberate indifference to the risk that it might occur.See,e. g., Estelle v. Gamble, 429 U. S. 97 (1976); Rhodes v.Chapman, 452 U. S. 337 (1981). If the withdrawal of all visitation privileges were permanent or for a much longer pe-riod, or if it were applied in an arbitrary manner to a particular inmate, the case would present different considerations.An individual claim based on indefinite withdrawal of visitation or denial of procedural safeguards, however, would notsupport the ruling of the Court of Appeals that the entireregulation is invalid. * * *The judgment of the Court of Appeals is reversed.