In this case, we decide under what circumstances a prod-uct's design is distinctive, and therefore protectible, in anaction for infringement of unregistered trade dress under$ 43(a) of the Trademark Act of 1946 (Lanham Act), 60 Stat.441, as amended, 15 U. S. C. $ 1125(a).IRespondent Samara Brothers, Inc., designs and manufac-tures children's clothing. Its primary product is a line ofspring/summer one-piece seersucker outfits decorated withapplique' s of hearts, flowers, fruits, and the like. A numberof chain stores, including JCPenney, sell this line of clothingunder contract with Samara.Petitioner Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., is one of the Nation'sbest known retailers, selling among other things children'sclothing. In 1995, Wal-Mart contracted with one of its sup-pliers, Judy-Philippine, Inc., to manufacture a line of children's outfits for sale in the 1996 spring/summer season.Wal-Mart sent Judy-Philippine photographs of a number ofgarments from Samara's line, on which Judy-Philippine's gar-ments were to be based; Judy-Philippine duly copied, with*Briefs of amici curiae urging reversal were filed for the InternationalMass Retail Association by Jeffrey S. Sutton and Robert J. Verdisco; forthe Private Label Manufacturers Association by Arthur M. Handler; andfor Scott P. Zimmerman by Charles W. Calkins.H. Bartow Farr III, Richard G. Taranto, and Stephen M. Trattner fileda brief for Ashley Furniture Industries, Inc., et al. as amici curiae urging affirmance.Briefs of amici curiae were filed for the American Intellectual PropertyLaw Association by Sheldon H. Klein, Michael A. Grow, and Louis T.Pirkey; for the International Trademark Association by Theodore H.Davis, Jr., Morton D. Goldberg, and Marie V. Driscoll; and for PaylessShoesource, Inc., by William A. Rudy and Robert Kent Sellers.529US1 Unit: $U38 [09-26-01 08:44:27] PAGES PGT: OPIN208 WAL-MART STORES, INC. v. SAMARA BROTHERS, INC.Opinion of the Courtonly minor modifications, 16 of Samara's garments, many ofwhich contained copyrighted elements. In 1996, Wal-Martbriskly sold the so-called knockoffs, generating more than$1.15 million in gross profits.In June 1996, a buyer for JCPenney called a representativeat Samara to complain that she had seen Samara garmentson sale at Wal-Mart for a lower price than JCPenney wasallowed to charge under its contract with Samara. TheSamara representative told the buyer that Samara did notsupply its clothing to Wal-Mart. Their suspicions aroused,however, Samara officials launched an investigation, whichdisclosed that Wal-Mart and several other major retailers--Kmart, Caldor, Hills, and Goody's--were selling the knockoffs of Samara's outfits produced by Judy-Philippine.After sending cease-and-desist letters, Samara broughtthis action in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York against Wal-Mart, Judy-Philippine,Kmart, Caldor, Hills, and Goody's for copyright infringementunder federal law, consumer fraud and unfair competitionunder New York law, and--most relevant for our purposes--infringement of unregistered trade dress under $ 43(a) ofthe Lanham Act, 15 U. S. C. $ 1125(a). All of the defendantsexcept Wal-Mart settled before trial.After a weeklong trial, the jury found in favor of Samaraon all of its claims. Wal-Mart then renewed a motion forjudgment as a matter of law, claiming, inter alia, that therewas insufficient evidence to support a conclusion that Samara's clothing designs could be legally protected as distinctivetrade dress for purposes of $ 43(a). The District Court denied the motion, 969 F. Supp. 895 (SDNY 1997), and awardedSamara damages, interest, costs, and fees totaling almost$1.6 million, together with injunctive relief, see App. to Pet.for Cert. 56-58. The Second Circuit affirmed the denial ofthe motion for judgment as a matter of law, 165 F. 3d 120(1998), and we granted certiorari, 528 U. S. 808 (1999).529US1 Unit: $U38 [09-26-01 08:44:27] PAGES PGT: OPIN209Cite as: 529 U. S. 205 (2000)Opinion of the CourtIIThe Lanham Act provides for the registration of trade-marks, which it defines in $ 45 to include "any word, name,symbol, or device, or any combination thereof [used or in-tended to be used] to identify and distinguish [a producer's]goods . . . from those manufactured or sold by others and toindicate the source of the goods . . . ." 15 U. S. C. $ 1127.Registration of a mark under $ 2 of the Lanham Act, 15U. S. C. $ 1052, enables the owner to sue an infringer under$ 32, 15 U. S. C. $ 1114; it also entitles the owner to a pre-sumption that its mark is valid, see $ 7(b), 15 U. S. C.$ 1057(b), and ordinarily renders the registered mark incon-testable after five years of continuous use, see $ 15, 15U. S. C. $ 1065. In addition to protecting registered marks,the Lanham Act, in $ 43(a), gives a producer a cause of actionfor the use by any person of "any word, term, name, symbol,or device, or any combination thereof . . . which . . . is likelyto cause confusion . . . as to the origin, sponsorship, or ap-proval of his or her goods . . . ." 15 U. S. C. $ 1125(a). It isthe latter provision that is at issue in this case.The breadth of the definition of marks registrable under$ 2, and of the confusion-producing elements recited as ac-tionable by $ 43(a), has been held to embrace not just wordmarks, such as "Nike," and symbol marks, such as Nike's"swoosh" symbol, but also "trade dress"--a category thatoriginally included only the packaging, or "dressing," of aproduct, but in recent years has been expanded by manyCourts of Appeals to encompass the design of a product.See,e. g., Ashley Furniture Industries, Inc. v. SangiacomoN. A., Ltd., 187 F. 3d 363 (CA4 1999) (bedroom furniture);Knitwaves, Inc. v. Lollytogs, Ltd., 71 F. 3d 996 (CA2 1995)(sweaters); Stuart Hall Co., Inc. v. Ampad Corp., 51 F. 3d 780(CA8 1995) (notebooks). These courts have assumed, oftenwithout discussion, that trade dress constitutes a "symbol"or "device" for purposes of the relevant sections, and we con-clude likewise. "Since human beings might use as a `symbol'529US1 Unit: $U38 [09-26-01 08:44:27] PAGES PGT: OPIN210 WAL-MART STORES, INC. v. SAMARA BROTHERS, INC.Opinion of the Courtor `device' almost anything at all that is capable of carryingmeaning, this language, read literally, is not restrictive."Qualitex Co. v. Jacobson Products Co., 514 U. S. 159, 162(1995). This reading of $ 2 and $ 43(a) is buttressed by arecently added subsection of $ 43(a), $ 43(a)(3), which refersspecifically to "civil action[s] for trade dress infringementunder this chapter for trade dress not registered on the principal register." 15 U. S. C. $ 1125(a)(3) (1994 ed., Supp. V).The text of $ 43(a) provides little guidance as to thecircumstances under which unregistered trade dress maybe protected. It does require that a producer show thatthe allegedly infringing feature is not "functional," see $ 43(a)(3), and is likely to cause confusion with the productfor which protection is sought, see $ 43(a)(1)(A), 15 U. S. C.$ 1125(a)(1)(A). Nothing in $ 43(a) explicitly requires a producer to show that its trade dress is distinctive, but courtshave universally imposed that requirement, since withoutdistinctiveness the trade dress would not "cause confusion. . . as to the origin, sponsorship, or approval of [the] goods,"as the section requires. Distinctiveness is, moreover, anexplicit prerequisite for registration of trade dress under$ 2, and "the general principles qualifying a mark for registration under $ 2 of the Lanham Act are for the most partapplicable in determining whether an unregistered markis entitled to protection under $ 43(a)." Two Pesos, Inc.v. Taco Cabana, Inc., 505 U. S. 763, 768 (1992) (citationsomitted).In evaluating the distinctiveness of a mark under $ 2 (andtherefore, by analogy, under $ 43(a)), courts have held that amark can be distinctive in one of two ways. First, a markis inherently distinctive if "[its] intrinsic nature serves toidentify a particular source." Ibid. In the context of wordmarks, courts have applied the now-classic test originallyformulated by Judge Friendly, in which word marks that are"arbitrary" ("Camel" cigarettes), "fanciful" ("Kodak" film), or"suggestive" ("Tide" laundry detergent) are held to be inher529US1 Unit: $U38 [09-26-01 08:44:27] PAGES PGT: OPIN211Cite as: 529 U. S. 205 (2000)Opinion of the Courtently distinctive. See Abercrombie & Fitch Co. v. HuntingWorld, Inc., 537 F. 2d 4, 10-11 (CA2 1976). Second, a markhas acquired distinctiveness, even if it is not inherently dis-tinctive, if it has developed secondary meaning, which occurswhen, "in the minds of the public, the primary significanceof a [mark] is to identify the source of the product ratherthan the product itself." Inwood Laboratories, Inc. v. IvesLaboratories, Inc., 456 U. S. 844, 851, n. 11 (1982).*The judicial differentiation between marks that are inherently distinctive and those that have developed secondarymeaning has solid foundation in the statute itself. Section 2requires that registration be granted to any trademark "bywhich the goods of the applicant may be distinguished fromthe goods of others"--subject to various limited exceptions.15 U. S. C. $ 1052. It also provides, again with limited exceptions, that "nothing in this chapter shall prevent the reg-istration of a mark used by the applicant which has becomedistinctive of the applicant's goods in commerce"--that is,which is not inherently distinctive but has become so onlythrough secondary meaning. $ 2(f), 15 U. S. C. $ 1052(f).Nothing in $ 2, however, demands the conclusion thateverycategory of mark necessarily includes some marks "by whichthe goods of the applicant may be distinguished from thegoods of others" without secondary meaning--that in everycategory some marks are inherently distinctive.Indeed, with respect to at least one category of mark--colors--we have held that no mark can ever be inherentlydistinctive. See Qualitex, supra, at 162-163. In Qualitex,*The phrase "secondary meaning" originally arose in the context ofword marks, where it served to distinguish the source-identifying meaningfrom the ordinary, or "primary," meaning of the word. "Secondary meaning" has since come to refer to the acquired, source-identifying meaningof a nonword mark as well. It is often a misnomer in that context, sincenonword marks ordinarily have no "primary" meaning. Clarity mightwell be served by using the term "acquired meaning" in both the wordmark and the nonword-mark contexts--but in this opinion we follow whathas become the conventional terminology.529US1 Unit: $U38 [09-26-01 08:44:27] PAGES PGT: OPIN212 WAL-MART STORES, INC. v. SAMARA BROTHERS, INC.Opinion of the Courtpetitioner manufactured and sold green-gold dry-cleaningpress pads. After respondent began selling pads of a similar color, petitioner brought suit under $ 43(a), then addeda claim under $ 32 after obtaining registration for thecolor of its pads. We held that a color could be protectedas a trademark, but only upon a showing of secondary meaning. Reasoning by analogy to the Abercrombie & Fitch testdeveloped for word marks, we noted that a product's color isunlike a "fanciful," "arbitrary," or "suggestive" mark, sinceit does not "almost automatically tell a customer that [it]refer[s] to a brand," 514 U. S., at 162-163, and does not"immediately . . . signal a brand or a product `source,' " id.,at 163. However, we noted that, "over time, customersmay come to treat a particular color on a product or itspackaging . . . as signifying a brand." Ibid. Because acolor, like a "descriptive" word mark, could eventually "cometo indicate a product's origin," we concluded that it could beprotected upon a showing of secondary meaning. Ibid.It seems to us that design, like color, is not inherentlydistinctive. The attribution of inherent distinctiveness tocertain categories of word marks and product packagingderives from the fact that the very purpose of attaching aparticular word to a product, or encasing it in a distinctivepackaging, is most often to identify the source of the product.Although the words and packaging can serve subsidiaryfunctions--a suggestive word mark (such as "Tide" for laundry detergent), for instance, may invoke positive connotations in the consumer's mind, and a garish form of packaging(such as Tide's squat, brightly decorated plastic bottles forits liquid laundry detergent) may attract an otherwise indifferent consumer's attention on a crowded store shelf--theirpredominant function remains source identification. Consumers are therefore predisposed to regard those symbolsas indication of the producer, which is why such symbols"almost automatically tell a customer that they refer to abrand," id., at 162-163, and "immediately . . . signal a brand529US1 Unit: $U38 [09-26-01 08:44:27] PAGES PGT: OPIN213Cite as: 529 U. S. 205 (2000)Opinion of the Courtor a product `source,' " id., at 163. And where it is not rea-sonable to assume consumer predisposition to take an affixedword or packaging as indication of source--where, for exam-ple, the affixed word is descriptive of the product ("Tasty"bread) or of a geographic origin ("Georgia" peaches)--inher-ent distinctiveness will not be found. That is why the statute generally excludes, from those word marks that can beregistered as inherently distinctive, words that are "merelydescriptive" of the goods, $ 2(e)(1), 15 U. S. C. $ 1052(e)(1), or"primarily geographically descriptive of them," see $ 2(e)(2),15 U. S. C. $ 1052(e)(2). In the case of product design, as inthe case of color, we think consumer predisposition to equatethe feature with the source does not exist. Consumers areaware of the reality that, almost invariably, even the mostunusual of product designs--such as a cocktail shaker shapedlike a penguin--is intended not to identify the source, butto render the product itself more useful or more appealing.The fact that product design almost invariably serves purposes other than source identification not only renders inherent distinctiveness problematic; it also renders application ofan inherent-distinctiveness principle more harmful to otherconsumer interests. Consumers should not be deprived ofthe benefits of competition with regard to the utilitarian andesthetic purposes that product design ordinarily serves by arule of law that facilitates plausible threats of suit againstnew entrants based upon alleged inherent distinctiveness.How easy it is to mount a plausible suit depends, of course,upon the clarity of the test for inherent distinctiveness, andwhere product design is concerned we have little confidencethat a reasonably clear test can be devised. Respondent andthe United States as amicus curiae urge us to adopt forproduct design relevant portions of the test formulated bythe Court of Customs and Patent Appeals for product packaging in Seabrook Foods, Inc. v. Bar-Well Foods, Ltd., 568F. 2d 1342 (1977). That opinion, in determining the inherentdistinctiveness of a product's packaging, considered, among529US1 Unit: $U38 [09-26-01 08:44:27] PAGES PGT: OPIN214 WAL-MART STORES, INC. v. SAMARA BROTHERS, INC.Opinion of the Courtother things, "whether it was a `common' basic shape or de-sign, whether it was unique or unusual in a particular field,[and] whether it was a mere refinement of a commonly-adopted and well-known form of ornamentation for a particular class of goods viewed by the public as a dress or orna-mentation for the goods."Id., at 1344 (footnotes omitted).Such a test would rarely provide the basis for summary disposition of an anticompetitive strike suit. Indeed, at oralargument, counsel for the United States quite understandably would not give a definitive answer as to whether thetest was met in this very case, saying only that "[t]his isa very difficult case for that purpose." Tr. of Oral Arg. 19.It is true, of course, that the person seeking to excludenew entrants would have to establish the nonfunctionality ofthe design feature, see $ 43(a)(3), 15 U. S. C. $ 1125(a)(3) (1994ed., Supp. V)--a showing that may involve consideration ofits esthetic appeal, see Qualitex, supra, at 170. Competition is deterred, however, not merely by successful suit butby the plausible threat of successful suit, and given the unlikelihood of inherently source-identifying design, the gameof allowing suit based upon alleged inherent distinctivenessseems to us not worth the candle. That is especially so sincethe producer can ordinarily obtain protection for a designthat is inherently source identifying (if any such exists), butthat does not yet have secondary meaning, by securing adesign patent or a copyright for the design--as, indeed, respondent did for certain elements of the designs in this case.The availability of these other protections greatly reducesany harm to the producer that might ensue from our conclusion that a product design cannot be protected under $ 43(a)without a showing of secondary meaning.Respondent contends that our decision in Two Pesos forecloses a conclusion that product-design trade dress can neverbe inherently distinctive. In that case, we held that thetrade dress of a chain of Mexican restaurants, which theplaintiff described as "a festive eating atmosphere having529US1 Unit: $U38 [09-26-01 08:44:27] PAGES PGT: OPIN215Cite as: 529 U. S. 205 (2000)Opinion of the Courtinterior dining and patio areas decorated with artifacts,bright colors, paintings and murals," 505 U. S., at 765 (internal quotation marks and citation omitted), could be protectedunder $ 43(a) without a showing of secondary meaning, seeid., at 776. Two Pesos unquestionably establishes the legalprinciple that trade dress can be inherently distinctive, see,e. g., id., at 773, but it does not establish that product-designtrade dress can be. Two Pesos is inapposite to our holdinghere because the trade dress at issue, the de' cor of a restaurant, seems to us not to constitute product design. It waseither product packaging--which, as we have discussed, normally is taken by the consumer to indicate origin--or elsesome tertium quid that is akin to product packaging and hasno bearing on the present case.Respondent replies that this manner of distinguishingTwo Pesos will force courts to draw difficult lines betweenproduct-design and product-packaging trade dress. Therewill indeed be some hard cases at the margin: a classic glassCoca-Cola bottle, for instance, may constitute packaging forthose consumers who drink the Coke and then discard thebottle, but may constitute the product itself for those consumers who are bottle collectors, or part of the product itselffor those consumers who buy Coke in the classic glass bottle,rather than a can, because they think it more stylish to drinkfrom the former. We believe, however, that the frequencyand the difficulty of having to distinguish between productdesign and product packaging will be much less than thefrequency and the difficulty of having to decide when a product design is inherently distinctive. To the extent there areclose cases, we believe that courts should err on the side ofcaution and classify ambiguous trade dress as product design, thereby requiring secondary meaning. The very closeness will suggest the existence of relatively small utility inadopting an inherent-distinctiveness principle, and relativelygreat consumer benefit in requiring a demonstration of secondary meaning.529US1 Unit: $U38 [09-26-01 08:44:27] PAGES PGT: OPIN216 WAL-MART STORES, INC. v. SAMARA BROTHERS, INC.Opinion of the Court* * *We hold that, in an action for infringement of unregisteredtrade dress under $ 43(a) of the Lanham Act, a product's design is distinctive, and therefore protectible, only upon ashowing of secondary meaning. The judgment of the Second Circuit is reversed, and the case is remanded for furtherproceedings consistent with this opinion.