In this case, we consider whether the ConfrontationClause of the Sixth Amendment requires that, before a trialcourt admits testimony under the "spontaneous declaration"and "medical examination" exceptions to the hearsay rule,*Briefs of amici curiae urging affirmance were filed for the State ofCalifornia et al. by Daniel E. Lungren, Attorney General of California,George Williamson, Chief Assistant Attorney General, Arnold O. Overoye, Senior Assistant Attorney General, and Karen L. Ziskind, Janet E.Neeley, and Janet G. Bangle, Deputy Attorneys General, and by the Attorneys General for their respective States as follows: Jimmy Evans of Alabama, Charles E. Cole of Alaska, Gale A. Norton of Colorado, RichardBlumenthal of Connecticut, Robert A. Butterworth of Florida, LarryEchoHawk of Idaho, Bonnie Campbell of Iowa, Robert T. Stephan of Kansas, Fred Cowan of Kentucky, Michael E. Carpenter of Maine, J. JosephCurran, Jr., of Maryland, Scott Harshbarger of Massachusetts, Frank J.Kelley of Michigan, Hubert H. Humphrey III of Minnesota, Mike Mooreof Mississippi, Marc Racicot of Montana, Frankie Sue Del Papa of Nevada, John P. Arnold of New Hampshire, Robert J. Del Tufo of New Jersey, Lee Fisher of Ohio, Ernest D. Preate, Jr., of Pennsylvania, T. TravisMedlock of South Carolina, Paul Van Dam of Utah, Jeffrey L. Amestoyof Vermont, Mary Sue Terry of Virginia, Mario J. Palumbo of West Virginia, and Joseph B. Meyer of Wyoming; for the City of New York byVictor A. Kovner, Leonard J. Koerner, and Elizabeth S. Natrella; for theNew York Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children by John P.Hale; and for the Victim Assistance Centre, Inc., et al. by David Crump.Natman Schaye filed a brief for the National Association of CriminalDefense Lawyers as amicus curiae.502us2$25H 01-22-99 08:28:07 PAGES OPINPGT349Cite as: 502 U. S. 346 (1992)Opinion of the Courtthe prosecution must either produce the declarant at trialor the trial court must find that the declarant is unavailable. The Illinois Appellate Court concluded that such pro-cedures are not constitutionally required. We agree withthat conclusion.Petitioner was convicted by a jury of aggravated criminalsexual assault, residential burglary, and unlawful restraint.Ill. Rev. Stat., ch. 38, |||| 12-14, 19-3, 10-3 (1989). Theevents giving rise to the charges related to the sexual assault of S. G., then four years old. Testimony at the trialestablished that in the early morning hours of April 16, 1988,S. G.'s babysitter, Tony DeVore, was awakened by S. G.'sscream. DeVore went to S. G.'s bedroom and witnessedpetitioner leaving the room, and petitioner then left thehouse. 6 Tr. 10-11. DeVore knew petitioner because petitioner was a friend of S. G.'s mother, Tammy Grigsby. Id.,at 27. DeVore asked S. G. what had happened. Accordingto DeVore's trial testimony, S. G. stated that petitioner hadput his hand over her mouth, choked her, threatened to whipher if she screamed and had "touch[ed] her in the wrongplaces." Asked by DeVore to point to where she had beentouched, S. G. identified the vaginal area. Id., at 12-17.Tammy Grigsby, S. G.'s mother, returned home about30 minutes later. Grigsby testified that her daughter appeared "scared" and a "little hyper." Id., at 77-78. Grigsbyproceeded to question her daughter about what had happened. At trial, Grigsby testified that S. G. repeated herclaims that petitioner had choked and threatened her.Grigsby also testified that S. G. stated that petitioner had"put his mouth on her front part." Id., at 79. Grigsby alsonoticed that S. G. had bruises and red marks on her neckthat had not been there previously. Id., at 81. Grigsbycalled the police.Officer Terry Lewis arrived a few minutes later, roughly45 minutes after S. G.'s scream had first awakened DeVore.Lewis questioned S. G. alone in the kitchen. At trial, Lewis'502us2$25H 01-22-99 08:28:07 PAGES OPINPGT350 WHITE v. ILLINOISOpinion of the Courtsummary of S. G.'s statement indicated that she had offeredessentially the same story as she had first reported to DeVore and to Grigsby, including a statement that petitionerhad "used his tongue on her in her private parts." Id., at110-112.After Lewis concluded his investigation, and approximately four hours after DeVore first heard S. G.'s scream,S. G. was taken to the hospital. She was examined first byCheryl Reents, an emergency room nurse, and then by Dr.Michael Meinzen. Each testified at trial, and their testimony indicated that, in response to questioning, S. G. againprovided an account of events that was essentially identicalto the one she had given to DeVore, Grigsby, and Lewis.S. G. never testified at petitioner's trial. The State attempted on two occasions to call her as a witness, but sheapparently experienced emotional difficulty on being broughtto the courtroom and in each instance left without testifying.App. 14. The defense made no attempt to call S. G. as awitness, and the trial court neither made, nor was asked tomake, a finding that S. G. was unavailable to testify. 6 Tr.105-106.Petiti oner objected on hearsay grounds to DeVore,Grigsby, Lewis, Reents, and Meinzen being permitted to testify regarding S. G.'s statements describing the assault.The trial court overruled each objection. With respect toDeVore, Grigsby, and Lewis the trial court concluded thatthe testimony could be permitted pursuant to an Illinoishearsay exception for spontaneous declarations.1 Petitioner's objections to Reents' and Meinzen's testimony was similarly overruled, based on both the spontaneous declarationexception and an exception for statements made in the1 The spontaneous declaration exception applies to "[a] statement relating to a startling event or condition made while the declarant was underthe stress of excitement caused by the event or condition." 198 Ill. App.3d 641, 648, 555 N. E. 2d 1241, 1246 (1990).502us2$25H 01-22-99 08:28:07 PAGES OPINPGT351Cite as: 502 U. S. 346 (1992)Opinion of the Courtcourse of securing medical treatment.2 The trial court alsodenied petitioner's motion for a mistrial based on S. G.'s"presence [and] failure to testify." App. 14.Petitioner was found guilty by a jury, and the IllinoisAppellate Court affirmed his conviction. It held that thetrial court operated within the discretion accorded it understate law in ruling that the statements offered by DeVore,Grigsby, and Lewis qualified for the spontaneous declarationexception and in ruling that the statements offered by Reents and Meinzen qualified for the medical examination exception. 198 Ill. App. 3d 641, 648-656, 555 N. E. 2d 1241,1246-1251 (1990). The court then went on to reject petitioner's Confrontation Clause 3 challenge, a challenge basedprincipally on language contained in this Court's decision inOhio v. Roberts, 448 U. S. 56 (1980). It concluded that ourlater decision in United States v. Inadi, 475 U. S. 387 (1986),foreclosed any rule requiring that, as a necessary antecedentto the introduction of hearsay testimony, the prosecutionmust either produce the declarant at trial or show that thedeclarant is unavailable. The Illinois Supreme Court denieddiscretionary review, and we granted certiorari, 500 U. S. 904(1991), limited to the constitutional question whether permitting the challenged testimony violated petitioner's SixthAmendment Confrontation Clause right.42 Illinois Rev. Stat., ch. 38, || 115-13 (1989), provides:"In a prosecution for violation of Section 12-13, 12-14, 12-15 or 12-16of the `Criminal Code of 1961', statements made by the victim to medicalpersonnel for purposes of medical diagnosis or treatment including descriptions of the cause of symptom, pain or sensations, or the inception orgeneral character of the cause or external source thereof insofar as reasonably pertinent to diagnosis or treatment shall be admitted as an exceptionto the hearsay rule."3 "In all criminal prosecutions, the accused shall enjoy the right to . . .be confronted with the witnesses against him . . . ." U. S. Const., Amdt. 6.4 We take as a given, therefore, that the testimony properly falls withinthe relevant hearsay exceptions.502us2$25H 01-22-99 08:28:07 PAGES OPINPGT352 WHITE v. ILLINOISOpinion of the CourtWe consider as a preliminary matter an argument not con-sidered below but urged by the United States asamicus curiae in support of respondent. The United States contendsthat petitioner's Confrontation Clause claim should be rejected because the Confrontation Clause's limited purpose isto prevent a particular abuse common in 16th- and 17th-century England: prosecuting a defendant through the presentation of ex parte affidavits, without the affiants ever beingproduced at trial. Because S. G.'s out-of-court statementsdo not fit this description, the United States suggests thatS. G. was not a "witness against" petitioner within the meaning of the Clause. The United States urges this position,apparently in order that we might further conclude that theConfrontation Clause generally does not apply to the introduction of out-of-court statements admitted under an accepted hearsay exception. The only situation in which theConfrontation Clause would apply to such an exception, itargues, would be those few cases where the statementsought to be admitted was in the character of an ex parteaffidavit, i. e., where the circumstances surrounding the outof-court statement's utterance suggest that the statementhas been made for the principal purpose of accusing or incriminating the defendant.Such a narrow reading of the Confrontation Clause, whichwould virtually eliminate its role in restricting the admissionof hearsay testimony, is foreclosed by our prior cases. Thediscussions in these cases, going back at least as far as Mattox v. United States, 156 U. S. 237 (1895), have includedhistorical examination of the origins of the ConfrontationClause and of the state of the law of evidence existing at thetime the Sixth Amendment was adopted and later. We havebeen careful "not to equate the Confrontation Clause's prohibitions with the general rule prohibiting the admission ofhearsay statements." Idaho v. Wright, 497 U. S. 805, 814(1990) (citations omitted). Nonetheless, we have consistently sought to "stee[r] a middle course," Roberts, supra, at502us2$25H 01-22-99 08:28:07 PAGES OPINPGT353Cite as: 502 U. S. 346 (1992)Opinion of the Court68, n. 9, that recognizes that "hearsay rules and the Confron-tation Clause are generally designed to protect similar values," California v. Green, 399 U. S. 149, 155 (1970), and"stem from the same roots," Dutton v. Evans, 400 U. S. 74,86 (1970). In Mattox itself, upon which the Government re-lies, the Court allowed the recorded testimony of a witnessat a prior trial to be admitted. But, in the Court's view, theresult was justified not because the hearsay testimony wasunlike an ex parte affidavit, but because it came within anestablished exception to the hearsay rule. We think thatthe argument presented by the Government comes too latein the day to warrant reexamination of this approach.5We therefore now turn to petitioner's principal contentionthat our prior decision inRoberts requires that his convictionbe vacated. In Roberts we considered a ConfrontationClause challenge to the introduction at trial of a transcriptcontaining testimony from a probable-cause hearing, wherethe transcript included testimony from a witness not pro-duced at trial but who had been subject to examination bydefendant's counsel at the probable-cause hearing. In thecourse of rejecting the Confrontation Clause claim in thatcase, we used language that might suggest that the Confron-tation Clause generally requires that a declarant either beproduced at trial or be found unavailable before his out-of-court statement may be admitted into evidence. However,we think such an expansive reading of the Clause is negatedby our subsequent decision in Inadi, supra.In Inadi we considered the admission of out-of-court state-ments made by a co-conspirator in the course of the conspiracy. As an initial matter, we rejected the proposition thatRoberts established a rule that "no out-of-court statementwould be admissible without a showing of unavailability."5 We note also that the position now advanced by the United States hasbeen previously considered by this Court but gained the support of only asingle Justice. See Dutton v. Evans, 400 U. S. 74, 93-100 (1970) (Harlan,J., concurring in result).502us2$25H 01-22-99 08:28:07 PAGES OPINPGT354 WHITE v. ILLINOISOpinion of the Court475 U. S., at 392. To the contrary, rather than establishing"a wholesale revision of the law of evidence" under the guiseof the Confrontation Clause, ibid., we concluded that "Rob-erts must be read consistently with the question it answered,the authority it cited, and its own facts," id., at 394. Sounderstood,Roberts stands for the proposition that unavail-ability analysis is a necessary part of the ConfrontationClause inquiry only when the challenged out-of-court state-ments were made in the course of a prior judicial proceeding. Ibid.Having clarified the scope of Roberts, the Court in Inadithen went on to reject the Confrontation Clause challengepresented there. In particular, we refused to extend theunavailability requirement established in Roberts to all out-of-court statements. Our decision rested on two factors.First, unlike former in-court testimony, co-conspirator state-ments "provide evidence of the conspiracy's context that cannot be replicated, even if the declarant testifies to the samematters in court,"Inadi, 475 U. S., at 395. Also, given adeclarant's likely change in status by the time the trial occurs, simply calling the declarant in the hope of having himrepeat his prior out-of-court statements is a poor substitutefor the full evidentiary significance that flows from state-ments made when the conspiracy is operating in full force.Ibid.Second, we observed that there is little benefit, if any,to be accomplished by imposing an "unavailability rule." 6Such a rule will not work to bar absolutely the introductionof the out-of-court statements; if the declarant either is un-available, or is available and produced for trial, the statements can be introduced. Id., at 396. Nor is an unavail-ability rule likely to produce much testimony that addsmeaningfully to the trial's truth-determining process. Ibid.6 By "unavailability rule," we mean a rule which would require as apredicate for introducing hearsay testimony either a showing of the declarant's unavailability or production at trial of the declarant.502us2$25H 01-22-99 08:28:07 PAGES OPINPGT355Cite as: 502 U. S. 346 (1992)Opinion of the CourtMany declarants will be subpoenaed by the prosecution ordefense, regardless of any Confrontation Clause requirement, while the Compulsory Process Clause 7 and evidentiaryrules permitting a defendant to treat witnesses as hostilewill aid defendants in obtaining a declarant's live testimony.Id., at 396-398. And while an unavailability rule wouldtherefore do little to improve the accuracy of factfinding, itis likely to impose substantial additional burdens on the fact-finding process. The prosecution would be required to repeatedly locate and keep continuously available each declar-ant, even when neither the prosecution nor the defense hasany interest in calling the witness to the stand. An addi-tional inquiry would be injected into the question of admissibility of evidence, to be litigated both at trial and on appeal.Id., at 398-399.These observations, although expressed in the context ofevaluating co-conspirator statements, apply with full force tothe case at hand. We note first that the evidentiary rationale for permitting hearsay testimony regarding spontaneousdeclarations and statements made in the course of receivingmedical care is that such out-of-court declarations are madein contexts that provide substantial guarantees of theirtrustworthiness.8 But those same factors that contribute to7 "In all criminal prosecutions, the accused shall enjoy the right . . . tohave compulsory process for obtaining witnesses in his favor." U. S.Const., Amdt. 6.8 Indeed, it is this factor that has led us to conclude that "firmly rooted"exceptions carry sufficient indicia of reliability to satisfy the reliabilityrequirement posed by the Confrontation Clause. See Idaho v. Wright,497 U. S. 805, 817, 820-821 (1990); Bourjaily v. United States, 483 U. S.171, 182-184 (1987). There can be no doubt that the two exceptions weconsider in this case are "firmly rooted." The exception for spontaneousdeclarations is at least two centuries old, see 6 J. Wigmore, Evidence$ 1747, p. 195 (J. Chadbourn rev. 1976), and may date to the late 17th century. See Thompson v. Trevanion, 90 Eng. Rep. 179 (K. B. 1694). It iscurrently recognized under Federal Rule of Evidence 803(2), and in nearlyfour-fifths of the States. See Brief for State of California et al. as AmiciCuriae 15-16, n. 4 (collecting state statutes and cases). The exception502us2$25H 01-22-99 08:28:07 PAGES OPINPGT356 WHITE v. ILLINOISOpinion of the Courtthe statements' reliability cannot be recaptured even by laterin-court testimony. A statement that has been offered in amoment of excitement--without the opportunity to reflect onthe consequences of one's exclamation--may justifiably carrymore weight with a trier of fact than a similar statementoffered in the relative calm of the courtroom. Similarly, astatement made in the course of procuring medical services,where the declarant knows that a false statement may causemisdiagnosis or mistreatment, carries special guarantees ofcredibility that a trier of fact may not think replicated bycourtroom testimony. They are thus materially differentfrom the statements at issue inRoberts, where the out-of-court statements sought to be introduced were themselvesmade in the course of a judicial proceeding, and where therewas consequently no threat of lost evidentiary value if theout-of-court statements were replaced with live testimony.The preference for live testimony in the case of statementslike those offered in Roberts is because of the importanceof cross-examination, "the greatest legal engine ever invented for the discovery of truth." Green, 399 U. S., at 158.Thus courts have adopted the general rule prohibiting thereceipt of hearsay evidence. But where proffered hearsayhas sufficient guarantees of reliability to come within afirmly rooted exception to the hearsay rule, the Confronta-tion Clause is satisfied.We therefore think it clear that the out-of-court state-ments admitted in this case had substantial probative value,value that could not be duplicated simply by the declarantlater testifying in court. To exclude such probative statements under the strictures of the Confrontation Clausewould be the height of wrongheadedness, given that the Confrontation Clause has as a basic purpose the promotion of thefor statements made for purposes of medical diagnosis or treatment issimilarly recognized in Federal Rule of Evidence 803(4), and is equallywidely accepted among the States. See Brief for State of California etal. as Amici Curiae 31-32, n. 13 (same).502us2$25H 01-22-99 08:28:07 PAGES OPINPGT357Cite as: 502 U. S. 346 (1992)Opinion of the Court" `integrity of the factfinding process.' " Coy v. Iowa, 487U. S. 1012, 1020 (1988) (quotingKentucky v. Stincer, 482 U. S.730, 736 (1987)). And as we have also noted, a statementthat qualifies for admission under a "firmly rooted" hearsayexception is so trustworthy that adversarial testing can beexpected to add little to its reliability. Wright, 497 U. S., at820-821. Given the evidentiary value of such statements,their reliability, and that establishing a generally applicableunavailability rule would have few practical benefits whileimposing pointless litigation costs, we see no reason to treatthe out-of-court statements in this case differently fromthose we found admissible in Inadi. A contrary rule wouldresult in exactly the kind of "wholesale revision" of the lawsof evidence that we expressly disavowed in Inadi. Wetherefore see no basis in Roberts or Inadi for excluding fromtrial, under the aegis of the Confrontation Clause, evidenceembraced within such exceptions to the hearsay rule asthose for spontaneous declarations and statements made formedical treatment.As a second line of argument, petitioner presses uponus two recent decisions involving child testimony in childsexual-assault cases, Coy v. Iowa, supra, and Maryland v.Craig, 497 U. S. 836 (1990). Both Coy and Craig requiredus to consider the constitutionality of courtroom proceduresdesigned to prevent a child witness from having to faceacross an open courtroom a defendant charged with sexuallyassaulting the child. In Coy we vacated a conviction thatresulted from a trial in which a child witness testified frombehind a screen, and in which there had been no particularized showing that such a procedure was necessary to averta risk of harm to the child. In Craig we upheld a convictionthat resulted from a trial in which a child witness testifiedvia closed circuit television after such a showing of necessity.Petitioner draws from these two cases a general rule thathearsay testimony offered by a child should be permittedonly upon a showing of necessity--i. e., in cases where neces502us2$25H 01-22-99 08:28:07 PAGES OPINPGT358 WHITE v. ILLINOISOpinion of Thomas, J.sary to protect the child's physical and psychological wellbeing.Petitioner's reliance is misplaced. Coy and Craig involvedonly the question of what in-court procedures are constitutionally required to guarantee a defendant's confrontationright once a witness is testifying. Such a question is quiteseparate from that of what requirements the ConfrontationClause imposes as a predicate for the introduction of out-ofcourt declarations. Coy and Craig did not speak to the latter question. As we recognized in Coy, the admissibility ofhearsay statements raises concerns lying at the periphery ofthose that the Confrontation Clause is designed to address,487 U. S., at 1016. There is thus no basis for importing the"necessity requirement" announced in those cases into themuch different context of out-of-court declarations admittedunder established exceptions to the hearsay rule.For the foregoing reasons, the judgment of the IllinoisAppellate Court is