Court.In conducting the 1990 United States Census, the Secretary of Commerce decided not to use a particular statisticaladjustment that had been designed to correct an undercountin the initial enumeration. The Court of Appeals for theSecond Circuit held that the Secretary's decision was subjectto heightened scrutiny because of its effect on the right ofindividual respondents to have their vote counted equally.We hold that the Secretary's decision was not subject toheightened scrutiny, and that it conformed to applicableconstitutional and statutory provisions.#Briefs of amici curiae urging reversal were filed for the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania by Thomas W. Corbett, Jr., Attorney General, andJohn G. Knorr III, Chief Deputy Attorney General; and for United StatesSenator Herb Kohl et al. by Brady C. Williamson.Briefs of amici curiae urging affirmance were filed for the City of Detroit by Linda D. Fegins; and for the Lawyers' Committee for Civil RightsUnder Law et al. by Jonathan L. Greenblatt, Paul C. Saunders, HerbertJ. Hansell, Norman Redlich, Barbara R. Arnwine, Thomas J. Henderson, Christopher A. Hansen, Steven R. Shapiro, Samuel Rabinove, ElaineR. Jones, Theodore M. Shaw, Charles Stephen Ralston, and Arthur N.Eisenberg.517us1$35H 02-23-99 16:33:32 PAGES OPINPGT5Cite as: 517 U. S. 1 (1996)Opinion of the CourtIThe Constitution requires an "actual Enumeration" of thepopulation every 10 years and vests Congress with the authority to conduct that census "in such Manner as they shallby Law direct."1 Art. I, $ 2, cl. 3. Through the Census Act,13 U. S. C. $ 1 et seq., Congress has delegated to the Secre-tary of the Department of Commerce the responsibility totake "a decennial census of [the] population . . . in such formand content as he may determine . . . ." $ 141(a). The Secretary is assisted in the performance of that responsibilityby the Bureau of the Census and its head, the Director ofthe Census. See $ 2; $ 21 ("[The] Director shall performsuch duties as may be imposed upon him by law, regulations,or orders of the Secretary").The Constitution provides that the results of the censusshall be used to apportion the Members of the House of Rep-resentatives among the States. See Art. I, $ 2, cl. 3 ("Representatives . . . shall be apportioned among the several States. . . according to their respective Numbers . . ."); Amdt. 14,$ 2 ("Representatives shall be apportioned among the severalStates according to their respective numbers, counting thewhole number of persons in each State . . ."). Because theConstitution provides that the number of Representativesapportioned to each State determines in part the allocationto each State of votes for the election of the President, thedecennial census also affects the allocation of members of theelectoral college. See Art. II, $ 1, cl. 2 ("Each State shallappoint . . . a Number of Electors, equal to the whole Num-ber of Senators and Representatives to which the State maybe entitled in the Congress . . ."). Today, census data alsohave important consequences not delineated in the Constitution: The Federal Government considers census data in1 The Census Clause provides in full: "The actual Enumeration shall bemade within three Years after the first Meeting of the Congress of theUnited States, and within every subsequent Term of ten Years, in suchManner as they shall by Law direct." Art. I, $ 2, cl. 3.517us1$35H 02-23-99 16:33:32 PAGES OPINPGT6 WISCONSIN v. CITY OF NEW YORKOpinion of the Courtdispensing funds through federal programs to the States, andthe States use the results in drawing intrastate politicaldistricts.There have been 20 decennial censuses in the history ofthe United States. Although each was designed with thegoal of accomplishing an "actual Enumeration" of the population, no census is recognized as having been wholly success-ful in achieving that goal.2 Cf. Karcher v. Daggett, 462 U. S.725, 732 (1983) (recognizing that "census data are not per-fect," and that "population counts for particular localities areoutdated long before they are completed"); Gaffney v. Cummings, 412 U. S. 735, 745 (1973) (census data "are inherentlyless than absolutely accurate"). Despite consistent effortsto improve the quality of the count, errors persist. Personswho should have been counted are not counted at all or arecounted at the wrong location; persons who should not havebeen counted (whether because they died before or wereborn after the decennial census date, because they were nota resident of the country, or because they did not exist) arecounted; and persons who should have been counted onlyonce are counted twice. It is thought that these errors haveresulted in a net "undercount" of the actual American population in every decennial census. In 1970, for instance, theCensus Bureau concluded that the census results were 2.7%lower than the actual population.3 Brief for Respondents 12.2 Indeed, even the first census did not escape criticism. Thomas Jefferson, who oversaw the conduct of that census in 1790 as Secretary of State,was confident that it had significantly undercounted the young Nation'spopulation. See C. Wright, History and Growth of the United StatesCensus 16-17 (1900).3 One might wonder how the Census Bureau is able to determinewhether there is an undercount and its size. Specifically: Against whatstandard are the census results measured? After all, if the actual population of the United States is known, then the conduct of the census wouldseem wholly redundant.For the most part, we are told, the size of the error in a particularcensus is determined by comparing the census results not with some defi517us1$35H 02-23-99 16:33:32 PAGES OPINPGT7Cite as: 517 U. S. 1 (1996)Opinion of the CourtThe undercount is not thought to be spread consistentlyacross the population: Some segments of the population are"undercounted" to a greater degree than are others, result-ing in a phenomenon termed the "differential undercount."Since at least 1940, the Census Bureau has thought that theundercount affects some racial and ethnic minority groups toa greater extent than it does whites. In 1940, for example,when the undercount for the entire population was 5.4%, theundercount for blacks was estimated at 8.4% (and the under-count for whites at 5.0%).Ibid. The problem of the differ-ential undercount has persisted even as the census has cometo provide a more numerically accurate count of the popula-tion. In the 1980 census, for example, the overall undercount was estimated at 1.2%, and the undercount of blackswas estimated at 4.9%.Ibid.The Census Bureau has recognized the undercount and thedifferential undercount as significant problems, and in thepast has devoted substantial effort toward achieving theirreduction. Most recently, in its preparations for the 1990census, the Bureau initiated an extensive inquiry into various means of overcoming the impact of the undercount andthe differential undercount. As part of this effort, the Bureau created two task forces: the Undercount Steering Com-mittee, responsible for planning undercount research and policy development; and the Undercount Research Staff (URS),which conducted research into various methods of improvingthe accuracy of the census. In addition, the Bureau con-sulted with state and local governments and various outsideexperts and organizations.Largely as a result of these efforts, the Bureau adopteda wide variety of measures designed to reduce the rate ofnite and established measure of the population, but rather with estimatesof the population developed from demographic data. See App. to Pet. forCert. in No. 94-1614, pp. 158a-168a, 366a-369a (hereinafter Pet. App.). Asimilar procedure traditionally has been used to determine the size andmakeup of the differential undercount, see infra, at 9-10.517us1$35H 02-23-99 16:33:32 PAGES OPINPGT8 WISCONSIN v. CITY OF NEW YORKOpinion of the Courterror in the 1990 enumeration, including an extensive ad-vertising campaign, a more easily completed census questionnaire, and increased use of automation, which amongother things facilitated the development of accurate mapsand geographic files for the 1990 census. Pet. App. 321a-322a.4 The Bureau also implemented a number of improvements specifically targeted at eliminating the differentialundercount; these included advertising campaigns developedby and directed at traditionally undercounted populationsand expanded questionnaire assistance operations for nonEnglish speaking residents. Ibid.In preparing for the 1990 census, the Bureau and the taskforces also looked into the possibility of using large-scalestatistical adjustment to compensate for the undercount anddifferential undercount. Although the Bureau had pre-viously considered that possibility (most recently in 1980),it always had decided instead to rely upon more traditionalmethodology and the results of the enumeration. SeeCuomo v. Baldrige, 674 F. Supp. 1089 (SDNY 1987) (notingthat Bureau rejected large-scale statistical adjustment of the1980 census). In 1985, preliminary investigations by theURS suggested that the most promising method of statisticaladjustment was the "capture-recapture" or "dual systemestimation" (DSE) approach.The particular variations of the DSE considered by theBureau are not important for purposes of this opinion, but anexample may serve to make the DSE more understandable.Imagine that one wanted to use DSE in order to determinethe number of pumpkins in a large pumpkin patch. First,one would choose a particular section of the patch as therepresentative subset to which the "recapture" phase willbe applied. Let us assume here that it is a section exactlyone-tenth the size of the entire patch that is selected. Then,4 All references to Pet. App. are to the appendix to the petition forcertiorari in No. 94-1614 unless otherwise noted.517us1$35H 02-23-99 16:33:32 PAGES OPINPGT9Cite as: 517 U. S. 1 (1996)Opinion of the Courtat the next step--the "capture" stage--one would conduct afairly quick count of the entire patch, making sure to recordboth the number of pumpkins counted in the entire patchand the number of pumpkins counted in the selected section.Let us imagine that this stage results in a count of 10,000pumpkins for the entire patch and 1,000 pumpkins for theselected section. Next, at the "recapture" stage, one wouldperform an exacting count of the number of pumpkins in theselected section. Let us assume that we now count 1,100pumpkins in that section. By comparing the results of the"capture" phase and the results of the "recapture" phase forthe selected section, it is possible to estimate that approximately 100 pumpkins actually in the patch were missed forevery 1,000 counted at the "capture" phase. Extrapolatingthis data to the count for the entire patch, one would conclude that the actual number of pumpkins in the patch is11,000.In the context of the census, the initial enumeration of theentire population (the "capture") would be followed by thepostenumeration survey (PES) (the "recapture") of certainrepresentative geographical areas. The Bureau would thencompare the results of the PES to the results of the initialenumeration for those areas targeted by the PES, in orderto determine a rate of error in those areas for the initialenumeration (i. e., the rate at which the initial enumerationundercounted people in those areas). That rate of errorwould be extrapolated to the entire population, and thuswould be used to statistically adjust the results of the initial enumeration.The URS thought that the PES also held some promisefor correcting the differential undercount. The PES wouldbe conducted through the use of a system called poststratification. Thus, each person counted through the PESwould be placed into one, and only one, of over 1,000 poststrata defined by five categories: geography; age; sex; status517us1$35H 02-23-99 16:33:32 PAGES OPINPGT10 WISCONSIN v. CITY OF NEW YORKOpinion of the Courtof housing unit (rent versus own); and race (including Hispanic versus non-Hispanic origin).5 By comparing the poststratified PES data to the results of the initial enumeration,the Bureau would be able to estimate not only an overallundercount rate, but also an undercount rate for each poststrata. Hence, the statistical adjustment of the census couldreflect differences in the undercount rate for each poststrata.Through the mid-1980's, the Bureau conducted a series offield tests and statistical studies designed to measure theutility of the PES as a tool for adjusting the census. TheDirector of the Bureau decided to adopt a PES-based adjustment, and in June 1987, he informed his superiors in the Department of Commerce of that decision. The Secretary ofCommerce disagreed with the Director's decision to adjust,however, and in October 1987, the Department of Commerceannounced that the 1990 census would not be statisticallyadjusted.In November 1988, several plaintiffs (including a numberof the respondents in this action) brought suit in the UnitedStates District Court for the Eastern District of New York,arguing that the Secretary's decision against statistical adjustment of the 1990 census was unconstitutional and contrary to federal law. The parties entered into an interimstipulation providing, inter alia, that the Secretary wouldreconsider the possibility of a statistical adjustment.In July 1991, the Secretary issued his decision not to usethe PES to adjust the 1990 census. Pet. App. 135a-415a.The Secretary began by noting that large-scale statistical5 Examples of poststrata actually used include: female blacks betweenthe ages of 20 and 29 who owned a home in either Detroit or Chicago;nonblack non-Hispanic females, aged 45-64, living in owned or rentedhousing in a nonmetropolitan area with a population of 10,000 or more inArizona, Colorado, Idaho, Montana, Nevada, New Mexico, Utah, or Wyoming; and male Asians or Pacific Islanders, aged 65 or above, renting ahome in either the Los Angeles-Long Beach area or another central city ina metropolitan area in Alaska, California, Hawaii, Oregon, or Washington.517us1$35H 02-23-99 16:33:33 PAGES OPINPGT11Cite as: 517 U. S. 1 (1996)Opinion of the Courtadjustment of the census through the PES would "abandon atwo hundred year tradition of how we actually count people."Id., at 138a. Before taking a "step of that magnitude," heheld, it was necessary to be "certain that it would make thecensus better and the distribution of the population moreaccurate." Ibid. Emphasizing that the primary purpose ofthe census was to apportion political representation amongthe States, the Secretary concluded that "the primary crite-rion for accuracy should be distributive accuracy--that is,getting most nearly correct the proportions of people in dif-ferent areas."Id., at 146a-147a.After reviewing the recommendations of his advisers andthe voluminous statistical research that had been compiled,the Secretary concluded that although numerical accuracy(at the national level) might be improved through statisticaladjustment, he could not be confident that the distributiveaccuracy of the census--particularly at the state and locallevel--would be improved by a PES-based adjustment.6Id., at 140a-141a, 200a-201a. In particular, the Secretarynoted, the adjusted figures became increasingly unreliable asone focused upon smaller and smaller political subdivisions.Id., at 142a.The Secretary stated that his decision not to adjust wasbuttressed by a concern that adjustment of the 1990 censusmight present significant problems in the future. Id., at143a. Because small changes in adjustment methodologywould have a large impact upon apportionment--an impactthat could be determined before a particular methodologywas chosen--the Secretary found that statistical adjustment6 The distinction between distributive and numerical accuracy becomesclear with an example. Imagine that the Bureau somehow were able todetermine definitely that the census had failed to count exactly 10 millionpeople nationwide. If those 10 million "persons" were added to the Nation's total population, and all 10 million were allocated to one particularState, then the numerical accuracy of the census would be improved, butthe distributive accuracy would almost certainly be significantly impaired.517us1$35H 02-23-99 16:33:33 PAGES OPINPGT12 WISCONSIN v. CITY OF NEW YORKOpinion of the Courtof the 1990 census might open the door to political tamperingin the future. The Secretary also noted that statistical adjustment might diminish the incentive for state and local political leaders to assist in the conduct of the initial enumeration. See id., at 143a-144a. In conclusion, the Secretarystated that the Bureau would continue its research into thepossibility of statistical adjustment of future censuses, andwould maintain its efforts to improve the accuracy and inclusiveness of the initial enumeration. Id., at 145a.The plaintiffs returned to court. The District Court concluded that the Secretary's decision violated neither the Constitution nor federal law. See New York v. United StatesDept. of Commerce, 822 F. Supp. 906 (EDNY 1993).Respondents appealed, arguing that the District Courthad adopted the wrong standard of review for their constitutional claim,7 and the Court of Appeals for the Second Circuitreversed by a divided vote. 34 F. 3d 1114 (1994); Pet. App.1a-40a. The majority looked to a line of precedent involving judicial review of intrastate districting decisions, see,e. g., Karcher v. Daggett, 462 U. S. 725 (1983); Wesberry v.Sanders, 376 U. S. 1 (1964), and found that a heightenedstandard of review was required here both because the Secretary's decision impacted a fundamental right, viz., theright to have one's vote counted, and because the decisionhad a disproportionate impact upon certain identifiable minority racial groups. 34 F. 3d, at 1128. The court then heldthat the plaintiffs had shown that the Secretary had failedto make a good-faith effort to achieve equal districts asnearly as possible, id., at 1130, and therefore that the defendants must bear the burden of proving that population deviations were necessary to achieve some legitimate state goal,id., at 1131. The court remanded for an inquiry intowhether the Secretary could show that the decision not to7 Respondents did not appeal the District Court's treatment of theirstatutory claims.517us1$35H 02-23-99 16:33:33 PAGES OPINPGT13Cite as: 517 U. S. 1 (1996)Opinion of the Courtadjust was essential for the achievement of a legitimategovernmental objective. Ibid.The dissenting judge stated that he would have affirmedbased upon the decision of the District Court. See ibid.He also noted that the majority's decision created a conflictwith two other decisions of the Courts of Appeals. SeeDe-troit v. Franklin, 4 F. 3d 1367 (CA6 1993), and Tucker v.United States Dept. of Commerce, 958 F. 2d 1411 (CA7 1992).Wisconsin, Oklahoma, and the United States each filed apetition for certiorari. We granted those petitions, andconsolidated them for argument. 515 U. S. 1190 (1995).We now reverse. IIIn recent years, we have twice considered constitutionalchallenges to the conduct of the census. In Department ofCommerce v. Montana, 503 U. S. 442 (1992), the State ofMontana, several state officials, and Montana's Members ofCongress brought suit against the Federal Government,challenging as unconstitutional the method used to determine the number of Representatives to which each State isentitled. A majority of a three-judge District Court lookedto the principle of equal representation for equal numbers ofpeople that was applied to intrastate districting inWesberryv.Sanders, supra, and held it applicable to congressional ap-portionment of seats among the States. Noting a significantvariance between the population of Montana's single districtand the population of the "ideal district," the court foundthat Congress' chosen method of apportionment violated theprinciple of Wesberry, and therefore voided the federal statute providing the method of apportionment.In a unanimous decision, this Court reversed. We beganby revisiting Wesberry, a case in which the Court held uncon-stitutional wide disparities in the population of congressionaldistricts drawn by the State of Georgia. Montana, supra,at 459-460. We recognized that the principle ofWesberry--" `equal representation for equal numbers of people' "--had517us1$35H 02-23-99 16:33:33 PAGES OPINPGT14 WISCONSIN v. CITY OF NEW YORKOpinion of the Courtevolved though a line of cases into a strictly enforced re-quirement that a State " `make a good-faith effort to achieveprecise mathematical equality' " among the populations ofcongressional districts. SeeMontana, supra, at 460, quoting Kirkpatrick v. Preisler, 394 U. S. 526, 530-531 (1969)(disparities between congressional districts in Missouri heldunconstitutional); see alsoKarcher v. Daggett, supra (1% disparity between population of New Jersey districts held un-constitutional). Returning to Montana's challenge to Congress' apportionment decision, we noted that the Wesberryline of cases all involved intrastate disparities in the population of voting districts that had resulted from a State'sredistricting decisions, whereas Montana had challenged interstate disparities resulting from the actions of Congress.Montana, supra, at 460.We found this difference to be significant beyond the simple fact that Congress was due more deference than theStates in this area. Wesberry required a State to make "agood-faith effort to achieve precise mathematical equality" inthe size of voting districts. Kirkpatrick, supra, at 530-531.While this standard could be applied easily to intrastate districting because there was no "theoretical incompatibility entailed in minimizing both the absolute and the relative differences" in the sizes of particular voting districts, we observedthat it was not so easily applied to interstate districting decisions where there was a direct tradeoff between absolute andrelative differences in size. Montana, supra, at 461-462.Finding that Montana demanded that we choose betweenseveral measures of inequality in order to hold the Wesberrystandard applicable to congressional apportionment decisions, we concluded that "[n]either mathematical analysis norconstitutional interpretation provide[d] a conclusive answer"upon which to base that choice. Montana, supra, at 463.We further found that the Constitution itself, by guaranteeing a minimum of one representative for each State, madeit virtually impossible in interstate apportionment to achieve517us1$35H 02-23-99 16:33:33 PAGES OPINPGT15Cite as: 517 U. S. 1 (1996)Opinion of the Courtthe standard imposed by Wesberry. Montana, supra, at463. In conclusion, we recognized the historical pedigree ofthe challenged method of apportionment, and reemphasizedthat Congress' "good-faith choice of a method of apportionment of Representatives among the several States `accordingto their respective Numbers' commands far more deferencethan a state districting decision that is capable of beingreviewed under a relatively rigid mathematical standard."Montana, supra, at 464.In Franklin v. Massachusetts, 505 U. S. 788 (1992), we re-iterated our conclusion that the Constitution vests Congresswith wide discretion over apportionment decisions and theconduct of the census. In Franklin, the State of Massachusetts and two of its registered voters sued the Federal Government, arguing that the method used by the Secretary tocount federal employees serving overseas was (among otherthings) unconstitutional. Restating the standard of reviewestablished by Montana, we examined the Secretary's decision in order to determine whether it was "consistent withthe constitutional language and the constitutional goal ofequal representation." See Franklin, supra, at 804; Montana, supra, at 459. After a review of the historical practicein the area, we found that the plaintiffs had not met theirburden of proving that a decision contrary to that made bythe Secretary would "make representation . . . more equal."Franklin, 505 U. S., at 806. Concluding that the Secretary'sdecision reflected a "judgment, consonant with, though notdictated by, the text and history of the Constitution . . . ,"we held the Secretary's decision to be well within the constitutional limits on his discretion. Ibid.In its decision in this action, the Court of Appeals foundthat a standard more strict than that established in Montanaand Franklin should apply to the Secretary's decision not tostatistically adjust the census. The court looked to equalprotection principles distilled from the same line of state redistricting cases relied upon by the plaintiffs in Montana,517us1$35H 02-23-99 16:33:33 PAGES OPINPGT16 WISCONSIN v. CITY OF NEW YORKOpinion of the Courtand found that both the nature of the right asserted by re-spondents--the right to have one's vote counted equally--and the nature of the affected classes--"certain identifiableminority groups"--required that the Secretary's decision begiven heightened scrutiny. 34 F. 3d, at 1128. The courtdrew from the District Court's decision "implicit" findings:that the census did not achieve equality of voting power asnearly as practicable; "that for most purposes and for mostof the population [the PES-based] adjustment would resultin a more accurate count than the original census; and thatthe adjustment would lessen the disproportionate undercounting of minorities." Id., at 1129.The court recognized two significant differences betweenthe intrastate districting cases and the instant action: first,that this case involves the federal rather than a state government; and second, that constitutional requirements make itimpossible to achieve precise equality in voting power nationwide. Ibid. But it found these differences nondeterminative, deciding that no deference was owed to the ExecutiveBranch on a question of law, and that the "impossibility ofachieving precise mathematical equality is no excuse for [theFederal Government] not making [the] mandated good-faitheffort." Ibid. The court found that the respondents herehad established a prima facie violation of the Wesberrystandard both by showing that the PES-based adjustmentwould increase numerical accuracy, and by virtue of the factthat "the differential undercount in the 1990 enumerationwas plainly foreseeable and foreseen." 34 F. 3d, at 1130-1131. The court held that the Secretary's decision wouldhave to be vacated as unconstitutional unless on remand hecould show that the decision not to adjust "(a) furthers agovernmental objective that is legitimate, and (b) is essentialfor the achievement of that objective." Id., at 1131.We think that the Court of Appeals erred in holding the"one person-one vote" standard of Wesberry and its progenyapplicable to the action at hand. For several reasons, the517us1$35H 02-23-99 16:33:33 PAGES OPINPGT17Cite as: 517 U. S. 1 (1996)Opinion of the Court"good-faith effort to achieve population equality" required ofa State conducting intrastate redistricting does not translateinto a requirement that the Federal Government conduct acensus that is as accurate as possible. First, we think thatthe Court of Appeals understated the significance of the twodifferences that it recognized between state redistrictingcases and the instant action. The court failed to recognizethat the Secretary's decision was made pursuant to Con-gress' direct delegation of its broad authority over the census. See Art. I, $ 2, cl. 3 (Congress may conduct the census"in such Manner as they shall by Law direct"). The courtalso undervalued the significance of the fact that the Constitution makes it impossible to achieve population equalityamong interstate districts. As we have noted before, theConstitution provides that "[t]he number of Representativesshall not exceed one for every 30,000 persons; each Stateshall have at least one Representative; and district boundaries may not cross state lines." Montana, 503 U. S., at447-448.While a court can easily determine whether a State hasmade the requisite "good-faith effort" toward populationequality through the application of a simple mathematicalformula, we see no way in which a court can apply the Wesberry standard to the Federal Government's decisions regarding the conduct of the census. The Court of Appealsfound that Wesberry required the Secretary to conduct acensus that would "achieve voting-power equality," which itunderstood to mean a census that was as accurate as possible.34 F. 3d, at 1129. But in so doing, the court implicitly foundthat the Constitution prohibited the Secretary from preferring distributive accuracy to numerical accuracy, and thatnumerical accuracy--which the court found to be improvedby a PES-based adjustment--was constitutionally preferableto distributive accuracy. See id., at 1131 ("[T]he Secretarydid not make the required effort to achieve numerical accuracy as nearly as practicable, . . . the burden thus shifted to517us1$35H 02-23-99 16:33:33 PAGES OPINPGT18 WISCONSIN v. CITY OF NEW YORKOpinion of the Courtthe Secretary to justify his decision not to adjust . . ."). Asin Montana, where we could see no constitutional basis uponwhich to choose between absolute equality and relativeequality, so here can we see no ground for preferring numerical accuracy to distributive accuracy, or for preferring grossaccuracy to some particular measure of accuracy. The Constitution itself provides no real instruction on this point, andextrapolation from our intrastate districting cases is equallyunhelpful. Quite simply, "[t]he polestar of equal represen-tation does not provide sufficient guidance to allow us todiscern a single constitutionally permissible course." Montana, supra, at 463.InMontana, we held that Congress' "apparently good-faith choice of a method of apportionment of Representativesamong the several States `according to their respective Num-bers' " was not subject to strict scrutiny under Wesberry.Montana, supra, at 464. With that conclusion in mind, itis difficult to see why or how Wesberry would apply to theFederal Government's conduct of the census--a context evenfurther removed from intrastate districting than is congressional apportionment. Congress' conduct of the census,even more than its decision concerning apportionment, "commands far more deference than a state districting decisionthat is capable of being reviewed under a relatively rigidmathematical standard." 8 Montana, supra, at 464.Rather than the standard adopted by the Court of Appeals, we think that it is the standard established by this8 Nor do we think that strict scrutiny applies here for some other reason.Strict scrutiny of a classification affecting a protected class is properlyinvoked only where a plaintiff can show intentional discrimination by theGovernment. Washington v. Davis, 426 U. S. 229, 239-245 (1976). Respondents here have not argued that the Secretary's decision not to adjustwas based upon an intent to discriminate on the basis of race. Indeed, inlight of the Government's extraordinary efforts to include traditionallyundercounted minorities in the 1990 census, see Pet. App. 78a, 321a-322a,we think that respondents here would have had a tough row to hoe hadthey set out to prove intentional discrimination by the Secretary.517us1$35H 02-23-99 16:33:33 PAGES OPINPGT19Cite as: 517 U. S. 1 (1996)Opinion of the CourtCourt in Montana and Franklin that applies to the Secre-tary's decision not to adjust. The text of the Constitutionvests Congress with virtually unlimited discretion in con-ducting the decennial "actual Enumeration,"9 see Art. I, $ 2,cl. 3, and notwithstanding the plethora of lawsuits that inevi-tably accompany each decennial census,10 there is no basisfor thinking that Congress' discretion is more limited thanthe text of the Constitution provides. See alsoBaldrige v.Shapiro, 455 U. S. 345, 361 (1982) (noting broad scope of Congress' discretion over census). Through the Census Act,Congress has delegated its broad authority over the censusto the Secretary.11 See 13 U. S. C. $ 141(a) (Secretary shalltake "a decennial census of [the] population . . . in such formand content as he may determine . . ."). Hence, so long asthe Secretary's conduct of the census is "consistent with the9 We do not decide whether the Constitution might prohibit Congressfrom conducting the type of statistical adjustment considered here. SeeBrief for Petitioner in No. 94-1614, pp. 40-42.10 See, e. g., Franklin v. Massachusetts, 505 U. S. 788, 790 (1992) ("Asone season follows another, the decennial census has again generated anumber of reapportionment controversies"); National Law Center onHomelessness and Poverty v. Brown, appeal pending, No. 94-5312(CADC) (argued Oct. 6, 1995) (challenging Census Bureau's procedures forfinding and counting homeless persons); Carey v. Klutznick, 637 F. 2d 834(CA2 1980) (seeking order directing Census Bureau to adopt certain processes for counting persons); Borough of Bethel Park v. Stans, 449 F. 2d575 (CA3 1971).11 We do not here decide the precise bounds of the authority delegatedto the Secretary through the Census Act. First, because no party herehas suggested that Congress has, in its delegation of authority over theconduct of the census to the Secretary, constrained the Secretary's authority to decide not to adjust the census, we assume here that the Secretary'sdiscretion not to adjust the census is commensurate with that of Congress.See Brief for Petitioner in No. 94-1614, p. 24, n. 19 (stating that "Congressdid not enact any . . . legislation . . . to compel . . . statistical adjustment"of the 1990 census). Second, although Oklahoma argues that Congresshas constrained the Secretary's discretion to statistically adjust the decennial census, see 13 U. S. C. $ 195, we need not decide that question in orderto resolve this action.517us1$35H 02-23-99 16:33:33 PAGES OPINPGT20 WISCONSIN v. CITY OF NEW YORKOpinion of the Courtconstitutional language and the constitutional goal of equalrepresentation,"Franklin, 505 U. S., at 804, it is within thelimits of the Constitution. In light of the Constitution'sbroad grant of authority to Congress, the Secretary's decision not to adjust need bear only a reasonable relationshipto the accomplishment of an actual enumeration of the popu-lation, keeping in mind the constitutional purpose of thecensus.In 1990, the Census Bureau made an extraordinary effortto conduct an accurate enumeration, and was successful incounting 98.4% of the population. See 58 Fed. Reg. 70(1993); Brief for Federal Parties 28. The Secretary then hadto consider whether to adjust the census using statisticaldata derived from the PES. He based his decision not toadjust the census upon three determinations. First, he heldthat in light of the constitutional purpose of the census, itsdistributive accuracy was more important than its numerical accuracy. Second, he determined that the unadjustedcensus data would be considered the most distributivelyaccurate absent a showing to the contrary. And finally,after reviewing the results of the PES in light of extensiveresearch and the recommendations of his advisers, theSecretary found that the PES-based adjustment would notimprove distributive accuracy. Each of these three determinations is well within the bounds of the Secretary's constitutional discretion.As we have already seen, supra, at 18, the Secretary's decision to focus on distributive accuracy is not inconsistentwith the Constitution. Indeed, a preference for distributiveaccuracy (even at the expense of some numerical accuracy)would seem to follow from the constitutional purpose of thecensus, viz., to determine the apportionment of the Representatives among the States. Respondents do not disputethis point. See Brief for Respondents 54 ("Distributive accuracy is an appropriate criterion for judging census accuracy because it calls attention to a concern with the uses517us1$35H 02-23-99 16:33:33 PAGES OPINPGT21Cite as: 517 U. S. 1 (1996)Opinion of the Courtto which census data are put"). Rather, they challenge theSecretary's first determination by arguing that he improperly "regarded evidence of superior numeric accuracy as `notrelevant' to the determination of distributive accuracy."Id.,at 39 (quoting Pet. App. 201a); see also Brief for Respondents51-54. In support of this argument, respondents note thatan enumeration that results in increased numerical accuracywill also result in increased distributive accuracy.We think that respondents rest too much upon the statement by the Secretary to which they refer. When quotedin full, the statement reads: "While the preponderance of theevidence leads me to believe that the total population at thenational level falls between the census counts and the adjusted figures, that conclusion is not relevant to the determination of distributive accuracy." Pet. App. 201a. In hisdecision, the Secretary found numerical accuracy (in addition to distributive accuracy) to be relevant to his decisionwhether to adjust. See id., at 157a. Even if the Secretaryhad chosen to subordinate numerical accuracy, we are notsure why the fact that distributive and numerical accuracycorrelate closely in an improved enumeration would requirethe Secretary to conclude that they correlate also for a PESbased statistical adjustment.Turning to the Secretary's second determination, we previously have noted, and respondents do not dispute, the importance of historical practice in this area. See Franklin,supra, at 803-806 (noting importance of historical experiencein conducting the census); cf. Montana, 503 U. S., at 465 ("Tothe extent that the potentially divisive and complex issuesassociated with apportionment can be narrowed by the adoption of both procedural and substantive rules that are consistently applied year after year, the public is well served. . ."). Nevertheless, respondents challenge the Secretary'ssecond determination by arguing that his understanding ofhistorical practice is flawed. According to respondents, theSecretary assumed that the census traditionally was con517us1$35H 02-23-99 16:33:33 PAGES OPINPGT22 WISCONSIN v. CITY OF NEW YORKOpinion of the Courtducted via a simple "headcount," thereby ignoring the factthat statistical adjustment had been used in both the 1970and 1980 censuses. See Brief for Respondents 4-5.We need not tarry long with this argument. The Secretary reasonably recognized that a PES-based statistical adjustment would be a significant change from the traditionalmethod of conducting the census. The statistical adjustments in 1970 and 1980 to which respondents refer were ofan entirely different type than the adjustment consideredhere, and they took place on a dramatically smaller scale.SeeCuomo v. Baldrige, 674 F. Supp., at 1107 (rejecting argument that Secretary had to conduct PES-like statisticaladjustment of 1980 census and finding that "none of [the]adjustments in 1970 were even remotely similar to the typesof wholesale adjustments presently suggested . . ."). Moreover, the PES-based adjustment would have been the firsttime in history that the States' apportionment would havebeen based upon counts in other States. See Pet. App.251a-252a. Here, the Secretary's understanding of the traditional method of conducting the census was well founded,as was his establishment of a rebuttable presumption thatthe traditional method was the most accurate.The Secretary ultimately determined that the availableevidence "tends to support the superior distributive accuracy of the actual enumeration," id., at 185a, and it is thisdetermination at which respondents direct the brunt of theirattack. Respondents contend that the Secretary's review ofthe evidence is due no deference from this Court. Theyargue that the Secretary's decision is not the sort of "highlytechnical" administrative decision that normally commandsjudicial deference, and that regardless of its technical complexity, the Secretary's review of the evidence presents aconstitutional issue that deserves no deference. Respondents contend that the Secretary's review of the evidence isof dubious validity because the Secretary is admittedly "nota statistician," id., at 139a, and because his conclusion is at517us1$35H 02-23-99 16:33:33 PAGES OPINPGT23Cite as: 517 U. S. 1 (1996)Opinion of the Courtodds with that of the Director of the Census. According torespondents, we should carefully comb the Secretary's decision in order to review his conclusions de novo.Respondents' argument fundamentally misapprehends thebasis for our deference to the Secretary's determination thatthe adjusted census results do not provide a more distribu-tively accurate count of the population. Our deferencearises not from the highly technical nature of his decision,but rather from the wide discretion bestowed by the Constitution upon Congress, and by Congress upon the Secretary.Regardless of the Secretary's statistical expertise, it is he towhom Congress has delegated its constitutional authorityover the census. For that same reason, the mere fact thatthe Secretary's decision overruled the views of some of hissubordinates is by itself of no moment in any judicial reviewof his decision.Turning finally to review the Secretary's conclusion thatthe PES-based adjustment would not improve distributiveaccuracy, we need note only that the Secretary's conclusionis supported by the reasoning of some of his advisers, andwas therefore a reasonable choice in an area where technicalexperts disagree. Cf. Tucker v. United States Dept. of Commerce, 958 F. 2d, at 1418 (Plaintiffs seeking PES-based statistical adjustment "are asking [courts] to take sides in adispute among statisticians, demographers, and census officials concerning the desirability of making a statistical adjustment to the census headcount"). The Under Secretaryof Commerce for Economic Affairs and the Administratorof the Economics and Statistics Administration both votedagainst adjustment. Pet. App. 59a, 140a. Moreover, eventhose who recommended in favor of adjustment recognizedthat their conclusion was not compelled by the evidence: TheDirector of the Census Bureau, upon whose recommendationrespondents heavily rely, stated in her report to the Secretary that "[a]djustment is an issue about which reasonablemen and women and the best statisticians and demographers517us1$35H 02-23-99 16:33:33 PAGES OPINPGT24 WISCONSIN v. CITY OF NEW YORKOpinion of the Courtcan disagree." App. 73. And one of the principal statisti-cians at the Bureau, Dr. Robert E. Fay, " `told the Secretarythat . . . reasonable statisticians could differ' " on the ques-tion of adjustment. Pet. App. 91a. Therefore, and becausewe find the Secretary's two prior determinations as well tobe entirely reasonable, we conclude that his decision not toadjust the 1990 census was "consonant with . . . the text andhistory of the Constitution."Franklin, 505 U. S., at 806.IIIThe Constitution confers upon Congress the responsibilityto conduct an "actual Enumeration" of the American publicevery 10 years, with the primary purpose of providing abasis for apportioning political representation among theStates. Here, the Secretary of Commerce, to whom Con-gress has delegated its constitutional authority over the census, determined that in light of the constitutional purpose ofthe census, an "actual Enumeration" would best be achievedwithout the PES-based statistical adjustment of the resultsof the initial enumeration. We find that conclusion entirelyreasonable. Therefore we hold that the Secretary's decisionwas well within the constitutional bounds of discretion overthe conduct of the census provided to the Federal Govern-ment. The judgment of the Court of Appeals is