In 1954, this Court held that the concept of " `separate butequal' " has no place in the field of public education.Brownv. Board of Education, 347 U. S. 483, 495 (Brown I). Thefollowing year, the Court ordered an end to segregated pub-lic education "with all deliberate speed." Brown v. Boardof Education, 349 U. S. 294, 301 (1955) (Brown II). Sincethese decisions, the Court has had many occasions to evaluate whether a public school district has met its affirmativeobligation to dismantle its priorde jure segregated systemin elementary and secondary schools. In these cases we decide what standards to apply in determining whether theState of Mississippi has met this obligation in the university context. IMississippi launched its public university system in 1848by establishing the University of Mississippi, an institutiondedicated to the higher education exclusively of white per-sons. In succeeding decades, the State erected additionalpostsecondary, single-race educational facilities. AlcornState University opened its doors in 1871 as "an agriculturalcollege for the education of Mississippi's black youth."Ayers v. Allain, 674 F. Supp. 1523, 1527 (ND Miss. 1987).Creation of four more exclusively white institutions followed:Mississippi State University (1880), Mississippi Universityfor Women (1885), University of Southern Mississippi (1912),and Delta State University (1925). The State added twomore solely black institutions in 1940 and 1950: in the formeryear, Jackson State University, which was charged withtraining "black teachers for the black public schools,"id., at1528; and in the latter year, Mississippi Valley State UniverMurphy; and for Charles E. "Buddy" Roemer III, Governor of the Stateof Louisiana, et al. by John N. Kennedy, Joseph J. Levin, Jr., Margaret E.Woodward, and W. Shelby McKenzie.Joseph A. Califano, Jr., pro se, and David S. Tatel filed a brief of amicuscuriae for Joseph A. Califano, Jr., et al.505US3113N 06-12-96 19:43:20 PAGES OPINPGT722 UNITED STATES v. FORDICEOpinion of the Courtsity, whose functions were to educate teachers primarily forrural and elementary schools and to provide vocational instruction to black students.Despite this Court's decisions in Brown I and Brown II,Mississippi's policy of de jure segregation continued. Thefirst black student was not admitted to the University of Mississippi until 1962, and then only by court order. See Meredith v. Fair, 306 F. 2d 374 (CA5), cert. denied, 371 U. S. 828,enf 'd, 313 F. 2d 532 (1962) (en banc) (per curiam). For thenext 12 years the segregated public university system in theState remained largely intact. Mississippi State University,Mississippi University for Women, University of SouthernMississippi, and Delta State University each admitted atleast one black student during these years, but the studentcomposition of these institutions was still almost completelywhite. During this period, Jackson State and MississippiValley State were exclusively black; Alcorn State had admitted five white students by 1968.In 1969, the United States Department of Health, Education and Welfare (HEW) initiated efforts to enforce Title VIof the Civil Rights Act of 1964, 42 U. S. C. $ 2000d.1 HEWrequested that the State devise a plan to disestablish the for-merlyde jure segregated university system. In June 1973,the Board of Trustees of State Institutions of Higher Learning (Board) submitted a plan of compliance, which expressedthe aims of improving educational opportunities for all Mississippi citizens by setting numerical goals on the enrollmentof other-race students at state universities, hiring other-racefaculty members, and instituting remedial programs and spe-cial recruitment efforts to achieve those goals. App. 898-900. HEW rejected this Plan as failing to comply with TitleVI because it did not go far enough in the areas of student1 This provision states: "No person in the United States shall, on theground of race, color, or national origin, be excluded from participation in,be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under anyprogram or activity receiving Federal financial assistance."505US3113N 06-12-96 19:43:20 PAGES OPINPGT723Cite as: 505 U. S. 717 (1992)Opinion of the Courtrecruitment and enrollment, faculty hiring, elimination ofunnecessary program duplication, and institutional fundingpractices to ensure that "a student's choice of institution orcampus, henceforth, will be based on other than racial criteria." Id., at 205. The Board reluctantly offered amend-ments, prefacing its reform pledge to HEW with this statement: "With deference, it is the position of the Board ofTrustees . . . that the Mississippi system of higher educationis in compliance with Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of1964."Id., at 898. At this time, the racial composition ofthe State's universities had changed only marginally fromthe levels of 1968, which were almost exclusively single race.2Though HEW refused to accept the modified Plan, the Boardadopted it anyway. 674 F. Supp., at 1530. But even thelimited effects of this Plan in disestablishing the prior dejure segregated system were substantially constricted by thestate legislature, which refused to fund it until fiscal year1978, and even then at well under half the amount sought bythe Board. App. 896-897, 1444-1445, 1448-1449.3Private petitioners initiated this lawsuit in 1975. Theycomplained that Mississippi had maintained the racially seg-regative effects of its prior dual system of postsecondary education in violation of the Fifth, Ninth, Thirteenth, andFourteenth Amendments, 42 U. S. C. $$ 1981 and 1983, andTitle VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, 42 U. S. C. $ 2000d.2 For the 1974-1975 school year, black students comprised 4.1 percent ofthe full-time undergraduate enrollments at University of Mississippi; atMississippi State University, 7.5 percent; at University of Southern Mississippi, 8.0 percent; at Delta State University, 12.6 percent; at MississippiUniversity for Women, 13.0 percent. At Jackson State, Alcorn State, andMississippi Valley State, the percentages of black students were 96.6percent, 99.9 percent, and 100 percent, respectively. Brief for UnitedStates 7.3 According to counsel for respondents, it was in this time period--themid- to late-1970's--that the State came into full "compliance with thelaw" as having taken the necessary affirmative steps to dismantle its priorde jure system. Tr. of Oral Arg. 45.505US3113N 06-12-96 19:43:20 PAGES OPINPGT724 UNITED STATES v. FORDICEOpinion of the CourtShortly thereafter, the United States filed its complaint inintervention, charging that state officials had failed to satisfytheir obligation under the Equal Protection Clause of theFourteenth Amendment and Title VI to dismantle Mississippi's dual system of higher education.After this lawsuit was filed, the parties attempted for 12years to achieve a consensual resolution of their differencesthrough voluntary dismantlement by the State of its priorseparated system. The board of trustees implemented reviews of existing curricula and program "mission" at eachinstitution. In 1981, the Board issued "Mission Statements"that identified the extant purpose of each public university.These "missions" were clustered into three categories: comprehensive, urban, and regional. "Comprehensive" universities were classified as those with the greatest existing resources and program offerings. All three such institutions(University of Mississippi, Mississippi State, and SouthernMississippi) were exclusively white under the prior de juresegregated system. The Board authorized each to continueoffering doctoral degrees and to assert leadership in certaindisciplines. Jackson State, the sole urban university, wasassigned a more limited research and degree mission, withboth functions geared toward its urban setting. It was exclusively black at its inception. The "regional" designationwas something of a misnomer, as the Board envisioned thoseinstitutions primarily in an undergraduate role, rather thana "regional" one in the geographical sense of serving just thelocalities in which they were based. Only the universitiesclassified as "regional" included institutions that, prior todesegregation, had been either exclusively white--DeltaState and Mississippi University for Women--or exclusivelyblack--Alcorn State and Mississippi Valley State.By the mid-1980's, 30 years after Brown, more than 99percent of Mississippi's white students were enrolled at University of Mississippi, Mississippi State, Southern Mississippi, Delta State, and Mississippi University for Women.505US3113N 06-12-96 19:43:20 PAGES OPINPGT725Cite as: 505 U. S. 717 (1992)Opinion of the CourtThe student bodies at these universities remained predomi-nantly white, averaging between 80 and 91 percent whitestudents. Seventy-one percent of the State's black studentsattended Jackson State, Alcorn State, and Mississippi ValleyState, where the racial composition ranged from 92 to 99 per-cent black.Ayers v. Allain, 893 F. 2d 732, 734-735 (CA51990) (panel decision).IIBy 1987, the parties concluded that they could not agreeon whether the State had taken the requisite affirmativesteps to dismantle its prior de jure segregated system.They proceeded to trial. Both sides presented voluminousevidence on a full range of educational issues spanningadmissions standards, faculty and administrative staff recruitment, program duplication, on-campus discrimination,institutional funding disparities, and satellite campuses.Petitioners argued that in various ways the State continuedto reinforce historic, race-based distinctions among the universities. Respondents argued generally that the State hadfulfilled its duty to disestablish its state-imposed segregativesystem by implementing and maintaining good-faith, non-discriminatory race-neutral policies and practices in studentadmission, faculty hiring, and operations. Moreover, theysuggested, the State had attracted significant numbers ofqualified black students to those universities composedmostly of white persons. Respondents averred that themere continued existence of racially identifiable universitieswas not unlawful given the freedom of students to choosewhich institution to attend and the varying objectives andfeatures of the State's universities.At trial's end, based on the testimony of 71 witnesses and56,700 pages of exhibits, the District Court entered extensive findings of fact. The court first offered a historicaloverview of the higher education institutions in Mississippiand the developments in the system between 1954 and thefiling of this suit in 1975. 674 F. Supp., at 1526-1530. It505US3113N 06-12-96 19:43:20 PAGES OPINPGT726 UNITED STATES v. FORDICEOpinion of the Courtthen made specific findings recounting post-1975 develop-ments, including a description at the time of trial, in thoseareas of the higher education system under attack by plain-tiffs: admission requirements and recruitment; institutionalclassification and assignment of missions; duplication of programs; facilities and finance; the land grant institutions; fac-ulty and staff; and governance.Id., at 1530-1550.The court's conclusions of law followed. As an overview,the court outlined the common ground in the action: "Wherea state has previously maintained a racially dual system ofpublic education established by law, it assumes an `affirmative duty' to reform those policies and practices which required or contributed to the separation of races." Id., at1551. Noting that courts unanimously hold that the affirmative duty to dismantle a racially dual structure in elementary and secondary schools also governs in the higher education context, the court observed that there was disagreementwhether Green v. School Bd. of New Kent County, 391 U. S.430 (1968), applied in all of its aspects to formerly dual systems of higher education, i. e., whether "some level of racialmixture at previously segregated institutions of higherlearning is not only desirable but necessary to `effectively'desegregate the system." 674 F. Supp., at 1552. Relyingon a Fifth Circuit three-judge court decision, Alabama StateTeachers Assn. (ASTA) v. Alabama Public School and College Authority, 289 F. Supp. 784 (MD Ala. 1968), our percuriam affirmance of that case, 393 U. S. 400 (1969), and itsunderstanding of our later decision in Bazemore v. Friday,478 U. S. 385 (1986), the court concluded that in the highereducation context, "the affirmative duty to desegregate doesnot contemplate either restricting choice or the achievementof any degree of racial balance." 674 F. Supp., at 1553.Thus, the court stated: "While student enrollment and faculty and staff hiring patterns are to be examined, greateremphasis should instead be placed on current state highereducation policies and practices in order to insure that such505US3113N 06-12-96 19:43:20 PAGES OPINPGT727Cite as: 505 U. S. 717 (1992)Opinion of the Courtpolicies and practices are racially neutral, developed and im-plemented in good faith, and do not substantially contributeto the continued racial identifiability of individual institu-tions." Id., at 1554.When it addressed the same aspects of the university sys-tem covered by the findings of fact in light of the foregoingstandard, the court found no violation of federal law in anyof them. "In summary, the court finds that current actionson the part of the defendants demonstrate conclusively thatthe defendants are fulfilling their affirmative duty to disestablish the former de jure segregated system of higher edu-cation."Id., at 1564.The Court of Appeals reheard the action en banc and affirmed the decision of the District Court. Ayers v. Allain,914 F. 2d 676 (CA5 1990). With a single exception, seeinfra, at 741, it did not disturb the District Court's findingsof fact or conclusions of law. The en banc majority agreedthat "Mississippi was . . . constitutionally required to elimi-nate invidious racial distinctions and dismantle its dual system." Id., at 682. That duty, the court held, had been dis-charged since "the record makes clear that Mississippi hasadopted and implemented race neutral policies for operatingits colleges and universities and that all students have realfreedom of choice to attend the college or university theywish . . . ." Id., at 678.We granted the respective writs of certiorari filed by theUnited States and the private petitioners. 499 U. S. 958(1991). IIIThe District Court, the Court of Appeals, and respondentsrecognize and acknowledge that the State of Mississippi hadthe constitutional duty to dismantle the dual school systemthat its laws once mandated. Nor is there any dispute thatthis obligation applies to its higher education system. If theState has not discharged this duty, it remains in violation ofthe Fourteenth Amendment. Brown v. Board of Education505US3113N 06-12-96 19:43:20 PAGES OPINPGT728 UNITED STATES v. FORDICEOpinion of the Courtand its progeny clearly mandate this observation. Thus, theprimary issue in these cases is whether the State has metits affirmative duty to dismantle its prior dual universitysystem.Our decisions establish that a State does not discharge itsconstitutional obligations until it eradicates policies and prac-tices traceable to its priorde jure dual system that continueto foster segregation. Thus we have consistently askedwhether existing racial identifiability is attributable to theState, see, e. g., Freeman v. Pitts, 503 U. S. 467, 496 (1992);Bazemore v. Friday, supra, at 407 (White, J., concurring);Pasadena City Bd. of Ed. v. Spangler, 427 U. S. 424, 434(1976); Gilmore v. City of Montgomery, 417 U. S. 556, 566-567 (1974); and examined a wide range of factors to determine whether the State has perpetuated its formerly de juresegregation in any facet of its institutional system. See,e. g., Board of Ed. of Oklahoma City Public Schools v.Dowell, 498 U. S. 237, 250 (1991); Swann v. CharlotteMecklenburg Bd. of Ed., 402 U. S. 1, 18 (1971); Green v.School Bd. of New Kent County, supra, at 435-438.The Court of Appeals concluded that the State had fulfilledits affirmative obligation to disestablish its prior de jure segregated system by adopting and implementing race-neutralpolicies governing its college and university system. Because students seeking higher education had "real freedom"to choose the institution of their choice, the State need do nomore. Even though neutral policies and free choice werenot enough to dismantle a dual system of primary or secondary schools, Green v. School Bd. of New Kent County, 391U. S. 430 (1968), the Court of Appeals thought that universities "differ in character fundamentally" from lower levels ofschools, 914 F. 2d, at 686, sufficiently so that our decision inBazemore v. Friday, supra, justified the conclusion that theState had dismantled its former dual system.Like the United States, we do not disagree with the Courtof Appeals' observation that a state university system is505US3113N 06-12-96 19:43:20 PAGES OPINPGT729Cite as: 505 U. S. 717 (1992)Opinion of the Courtquite different in very relevant respects from primary andsecondary schools. Unlike attendance at the lower levelschools, a student's decision to seek higher education hasbeen a matter of choice. The State historically has not assigned university students to a particular institution. Moreover, like public universities throughout the country, Missis-sippi's institutions of higher learning are not fungible--theyhave been designated to perform certain missions. Stu-dents who qualify for admission enjoy a range of choices ofwhich institution to attend. Thus, as the Court of Appealsstated, "[i]t hardly needs mention that remedies common topublic school desegregation, such as pupil assignments, busing, attendance quotas, and zoning, are unavailable whenpersons may freely choose whether to pursue an advancededucation and, when the choice is made, which of severaluniversities to attend." 914 F. 2d, at 687.We do not agree with the Court of Appeals or the DistrictCourt, however, that the adoption and implementation ofrace-neutral policies alone suffice to demonstrate that theState has completely abandoned its prior dual system. Thatcollege attendance is by choice and not by assignment doesnot mean that a race-neutral admissions policy cures the constitutional violation of a dual system. In a system basedon choice, student attendance is determined not simply byadmissions policies, but also by many other factors. Although some of these factors clearly cannot be attributed tostate policies, many can be. Thus, even after a State dismantles its segregative admissions policy, there may stillbe state action that is traceable to the State's prior de juresegregation and that continues to foster segregation. TheEqual Protection Clause is offended by "sophisticated as wellas simple-minded modes of discrimination." Lane v. Wilson, 307 U. S. 268, 275 (1939). If policies traceable to the dejure system are still in force and have discriminatory effects,those policies too must be reformed to the extent practicableand consistent with sound educational practices. Freeman,505US3113N 06-12-96 19:43:20 PAGES OPINPGT730 UNITED STATES v. FORDICEOpinion of the Courtsupra, at 494; Dowell, supra, at 250; Green, supra, at 439;Florida ex rel. Hawkins v. Board of Control of Fla., 350U. S. 413, 414 (1956) (per curiam).4 We also disagree withrespondents that the Court of Appeals and District Courtproperly relied on our decision in Bazemore v. Friday, 478U. S. 385 (1986). Bazemore neither requires nor justifies theconclusions reached by the two courts below.54 To the extent we understand private petitioners to urge us to focus onpresent discriminatory effects without addressing whether such consequences flow from policies rooted in the prior system, we reject this position. Private petitioners contend that the State must not only cease itslegally authorized discrimination, it must also "eliminate its continuingeffects insofar as practicable." Brief for Petitioners in No. 90-6588, p. 44.Though they seem to disavow as radical a remedy as student reassignmentin the university setting, id., at 66, their focus on "student enrollment,faculty and staff employment patterns, [and] black citizens' college-goingand degree-granting rates," id., at 63, would seemingly compel remediesakin to those upheld in Green v. School Bd. of New Kent County, 391 U. S.430 (1968), were we to adopt their legal standard. As will become clear,however, the inappropriateness of remedies adopted in Green by no meanssuggests that the racial identifiability of the institutions in a universitysystem is irrelevant to deciding whether a State such as Mississippi hassatisfactorily dismantled its prior de jure dual system or that the Stateneed not take additional steps to ameliorate such identifiability.5 Similarly, reliance on our per curiam affirmance in Alabama StateTeachers Assn. v. Alabama Public School and College Authority, 289F. Supp. 784 (MD Ala. 1968) (ASTA), aff'd, 393 U. S. 400 (1969) (per curiam), is misplaced. In ASTA, the state teachers association sought toenjoin construction of an extension campus of Auburn University in Montgomery, Alabama. The three-judge District Court rejected the allegationthat such a facility would perpetuate the State's dual system. It foundthat the State had educationally justifiable reasons for this new campusand that it had acted in good faith in the fields of admissions, faculty, andstaff. 289 F. Supp., at 789. The court also noted that it was "reasonableto conclude that a new institution will not be a white school or a Negroschool, but just a school." Ibid. Respondents are incorrect to supposethat ASTA validates policies traceable to the de jure system regardless ofwhether or not they are educationally justifiable or can be practicablyaltered to reduce their segregative effects.505US3113N 06-12-96 19:43:20 PAGES OPINPGT731Cite as: 505 U. S. 717 (1992)Opinion of the CourtBazemore raised the issue whether the financing and operational assistance provided by a state university's extensionservice to voluntary 4-H and Homemaker Clubs was inconsistent with the Equal Protection Clause because of the existence of numerous all-white and all-black clubs. Thoughprior to 1965 the clubs were supported on a segregated basis,the District Court had found that the policy of segregationhad been completely abandoned and that no evidence existedof any lingering discrimination in either services or membership; any racial imbalance resulted from the wholly voluntaryand unfettered choice of private individuals. Bazemore,supra, at 407 (White, J., concurring). In this context, weheld inapplicable the Green Court's judgment that a voluntary choice program was insufficient to dismantle a de juredual system in public primary and secondary schools, butonly after satisfying ourselves that the State had not fostered segregation by playing a part in the decision of whichclub an individual chose to join.Bazemore plainly does not excuse inquiry into whetherMississippi has left in place certain aspects of its prior dualsystem that perpetuate the racially segregated higher education system. If the State perpetuates policies and practicestraceable to its prior system that continue to have segregative effects--whether by influencing student enrollmentdecisions or by fostering segregation in other facets of theuniversity system--and such policies are without sound educational justification and can be practicably eliminated, theState has not satisfied its burden of proving that it has dismantled its prior system. Such policies run afoul of theEqual Protection Clause, even though the State has abolished the legal requirement that whites and blacks be educated separately and has established racially neutral policies505US3113N 06-12-96 19:43:20 PAGES OPINPGT732 UNITED STATES v. FORDICEOpinion of the Courtnot animated by a discriminatory purpose.6 Because thestandard applied by the District Court did not make theseinquiries, we hold that the Court of Appeals erred in affirm-ing the District Court's ruling that the State had broughtitself into compliance with the Equal Protection Clause inthe operation of its higher education system.7IVHad the Court of Appeals applied the correct legal stand-ard, it would have been apparent from the undisturbed fac6 Of course, if challenged policies are not rooted in the prior dual system,the question becomes whether the fact of racial separation establishes anew violation of the Fourteenth Amendment under traditional principles.Board of Ed. of Oklahoma City Public Schools v. Dowell, 498 U. S. 237,250-251 (1991); Arlington Heights v. Metropolitan Housing DevelopmentCorp., 429 U. S. 252 (1977).7 The Court of Appeals also misanalyzed the Title VI claim. The courtstated that "we are not prepared to say the defendants have failed to meetthe duties outlined in the regulations." 914 F. 2d 676, 687-688, n. 11 (CA51990). The court added that it need not "discuss the scope of Mississippi'sduty under the regulations" because "the duty outlined by the SupremeCourt in Bazemore controls in Title VI cases." Ibid. It will be recalled,however, that the relevant agency and the courts had specifically found noviolation of the regulation in Bazemore v. Friday, 478 U. S. 385, 409 (1986)(White, J., concurring). Insofar as it failed to perform the same factualinquiry and application as the courts in Bazemore had made, therefore,the Court of Appeals' reliance on Bazemore to avoid conducting a similaranalysis in these cases was inappropriate.Private petitioners reiterate in this Court their assertion that the statesystem also violates Title VI, citing a regulation to that statute whichrequires States to "take affirmative action to overcome the effects of priordiscrimination." 34 CFR $ 100.3(b)(6)(i) (1991). Our cases make clear,and the parties do not disagree, that the reach of Title VI's protectionextends no further than the Fourteenth Amendment. See Regents ofUniv. of California v. Bakke, 438 U. S. 265, 287 (1978) (opinion of Powell,J.); id., at 328 (opinion of Brennan, White, Marshall, and Blackmun, JJ.,concurring in judgment in part and dissenting in part); see also GuardiansAssn. v. Civil Service Comm'n of New York City, 463 U. S. 582, 610-611(1983) (Powell, J., concurring in judgment); id., at 612-613 (O'Connor, J.,concurring in judgment); id., at 639-643 (Stevens, J., dissenting). Wethus treat the issues in these cases as they are implicated under theConstitution.505US3113N 06-12-96 19:43:20 PAGES OPINPGT733Cite as: 505 U. S. 717 (1992)Opinion of the Courttual findings of the District Court that there are several surviving aspects of Mississippi's prior dual system which areconstitutionally suspect; for even though such policies maybe race neutral on their face, they substantially restrict aperson's choice of which institution to enter, and they contribute to the racial identifiability of the eight public universities. Mississippi must justify these policies or eliminatethem.It is important to state at the outset that we make noeffort to identify an exclusive list of unconstitutional remnants of Mississippi's prior de jure system. In highlighting,as we do below, certain remnants of the prior system thatare readily apparent from the findings of fact made by theDistrict Court and affirmed by the Court of Appeals,8 weby no means suggest that the Court of Appeals need not examine, in light of the proper standard, each of the other policies now governing the State's university system that havebeen challenged or that are challenged on remand in light ofthe standard that we articulate today. With this caveat inmind, we address four policies of the present system: admissions standards, program duplication, institutional missionassignments, and continued operation of all eight publicuniversities.We deal first with the current admissions policies of Mississippi's public universities. As the District Court found,the three flagship historically white universities in the sys8 In this sense, it is important to reiterate that we do not disturbthe findings of no discriminatory purpose in the many instances in whichthe courts below made such conclusions. The private petitioners and theUnited States, however, need not show such discriminatory intent to establish a constitutional violation for the perpetuation of policies traceableto the prior de jure segregative regime which have continuing discriminatory effects. As for present policies that do not have such historicalantecedents, a claim of violation of the Fourteenth Amendment cannotbe made out without a showing of discriminatory purpose. See supra, at732, n. 6.505US3113N 06-12-96 19:43:20 PAGES OPINPGT734 UNITED STATES v. FORDICEOpinion of the Courttem--University of Mississippi, Mississippi State University,and University of Southern Mississippi--enacted policies in1963 requiring all entrants to achieve a minimum compositescore of 15 on the test administered by the American CollegeTesting Program (ACT). 674 F. Supp., at 1531. The courtdescribed the "discriminatory taint" of this policy, id., at1557, an obvious reference to the fact that, at the time, theaverage ACT score for white students was 18 and the aver-age score for blacks was 7. 893 F. 2d, at 735. The DistrictCourt concluded, and the en banc Court of Appeals agreed,that present admissions standards derived from policies enacted in the 1970's to redress the problem of student unpreparedness. 914 F. 2d, at 679; 674 F. Supp., at 1531. Obviously, this midpassage justification for perpetuating a policyenacted originally to discriminate against black studentsdoes not make the present admissions standards any lessconstitutionally suspect.The present admissions standards are not only traceableto the de jure system and were originally adopted for a discriminatory purpose, but they also have present discriminatory effects. Every Mississippi resident under 21 seekingadmission to the university system must take the ACT test.Any applicant who scores at least 15 qualifies for automaticadmission to any of the five historically white institutionsexcept Mississippi University for Women, which requires ascore of 18 for automatic admission unless the student has a3.0 high school grade average. Those scoring less than 15but at least 13 automatically qualify to enter Jackson StateUniversity, Alcorn State University, and Mississippi ValleyState University. Without doubt, these requirements restrict the range of choices of entering students as to whichinstitution they may attend in a way that perpetuates segregation. Those scoring 13 or 14, with some exceptions, areexcluded from the five historically white universities and ifthey want a higher education must go to one of the historically black institutions or attend junior college with the hope505US3113N 06-12-96 19:43:20 PAGES OPINPGT735Cite as: 505 U. S. 717 (1992)Opinion of the Courtof transferring to a historically white institution.9 Proportionately more blacks than whites face this choice: In 1985,72 percent of Mississippi's white high school seniors achievedan ACT composite score of 15 or better, while less than 30percent of black high school seniors earned that score. App.1524-1525. It is not surprising then that Mississippi's universities remain predominantly identifiable by race.The segregative effect of this automatic entrance standardis especially striking in light of the differences in minimumautomatic entrance scores among the regional universitiesin Mississippi's system. The minimum score for automaticadmission to Mississippi University for Women is 18; it is 13for the historically black universities. Yet Mississippi University for Women is assigned the same institutional missionas two other regional universities, Alcorn State and Mississippi Valley State--that of providing quality undergraduateeducation. The effects of the policy fall disproportionatelyon black students who might wish to attend Mississippi University for Women; and though the disparate impact is notas great, the same is true of the minimum standard ACTscore of 15 at Delta State University--the other "regional"university--as compared to the historically black "regional"universities where a score of 13 suffices for automatic admission. The courts below made little, if any, effort to justifyin educational terms those particular disparities in entrancerequirements or to inquire whether it was practicable toeliminate them.9 The District Court's finding that "[v]ery few black students, if any, areactually denied admission to a Mississippi university as a first-time freshman for failure to achieve the minimal ACT score," Ayers v. Allain, 674F. Supp. 1523, 1535 (ND Miss. 1987), ignores the inherent self-selectionthat accompanies public announcement of "automatic" admissions standards. It is logical to think that some percentage of black students whofail to score 15 do not seek admission to one of the historically whiteuniversities because of this automatic admissions standard.505US3113N 06-12-96 19:43:20 PAGES OPINPGT736 UNITED STATES v. FORDICEOpinion of the CourtWe also find inadequately justified by the courts below orby the record before us the differential admissions requirements between universities with dissimilar programmaticmissions. We do not suggest that absent a discriminatorypurpose different programmatic missions accompanied bydifferent admissions standards would be constitutionally sus-pect simply because one or more schools are racially identifiable. But here the differential admissions standards areremnants of the dual system with a continuing discriminatory effect, and the mission assignments "to some degreefollow the historical racial assignments," 914 F. 2d, at 692.Moreover, the District Court did not justify the differing admissions standards based on the different mission assignments. It observed only that in the 1970's, the board oftrustees justified a minimum ACT score of 15 because toomany students with lower scores were not prepared for thehistorically white institutions and that imposing the 15 scorerequirement on admissions to the historically black institutions would decimate attendance at those universities. TheDistrict Court also stated that the mission of the regionaluniversities had the more modest function of providing quality undergraduate education. Certainly the comprehensiveuniversities are also, among other things, educating undergraduates. But we think the 15 ACT test score for automatic admission to the comprehensive universities, as compared with a score of 13 for the regionals, requires furtherjustification in terms of sound educational policy.Another constitutionally problematic aspect of the State'suse of the ACT test scores is its policy of denying automaticadmission if an applicant fails to earn the minimum ACTscore specified for the particular institution, without also resorting to the applicant's high school grades as an additionalfactor in predicting college performance. The United Statesproduced evidence that the American College Testing Program (ACTP), the administering organization of the ACT,discourages use of ACT scores as the sole admissions crite505US3113N 06-12-96 19:43:20 PAGES OPINPGT737Cite as: 505 U. S. 717 (1992)Opinion of the Courtrion on the ground that it gives an incomplete "picture" ofthe student applicant's ability to perform adequately in college. App. 1209-1210. One ACTP report presented intoevidence suggests that "it would be foolish" to substitute a3- or 4-hour test in place of a student's high school gradesas a means of predicting college performance.Id., at 193.The record also indicated that the disparity between blackand white students' high school grade averages was muchnarrower than the gap between their average ACT scores,thereby suggesting that an admissions formula which in-cluded grades would increase the number of black studentseligible for automatic admission to all of Mississippi's publicuniversities.10The United States insists that the State's refusal to con-sider information which would better predict college performance than ACT scores alone is irrational in light of mostStates' use of high school grades and other indicators alongwith standardized test scores. The District Court observedthat the board of trustees was concerned with grade inflationand the lack of comparability in grading practices and courseofferings among the State's diverse high schools. Both theDistrict Court and the Court of Appeals found this concernample justification for the failure to consider high schoolgrade performance along with ACT scores. In our view,such justification is inadequate because the ACT requirement was originally adopted for discriminatory purposes, the10 In 1985, 72 percent of white students in Mississippi scored 15 or betteron the ACT test, whereas only 30 percent of black students achieved thatmark, a difference of nearly 21/2 times. By contrast, the disparity amonggrade averages was not nearly so wide. 43.8 percent of white high schoolstudents and 30.5 percent of black students averaged at least a 3.0, and62.2 percent of whites and 49.2 percent of blacks earned at least a 2.5grade point average. App. 1524-1525. Though it failed to make specificfactfindings on this point, this evidence, which the State does not dispute,is fairly encompassed within the District Court's statement that "[b]lackstudents on the average score somewhat lower [than white students]."674 F. Supp., at 1535.505US3113N 06-12-96 19:43:20 PAGES OPINPGT738 UNITED STATES v. FORDICEOpinion of the Courtcurrent requirement is traceable to that decision and seem-ingly continues to have segregative effects, and the Statehas so far failed to show that the "ACT-only" admissionsstandard is not susceptible to elimination without erodingsound educational policy.A second aspect of the present system that necessitatesfurther inquiry is the widespread duplication of programs."Unnecessary" duplication refers, under the District Court'sdefinition, "to those instances where two or more institutionsoffer the same nonessential or noncore program. Under thisdefinition, all duplication at the bachelor's level of nonbasicliberal arts and sciences course work and all duplication atthe master's level and above are considered to be unnecessary." 674 F. Supp., at 1540. The District Court found that34.6 percent of the 29 undergraduate programs at historicallyblack institutions are "unnecessarily duplicated" by the historically white universities, and that 90 percent of the graduate programs at the historically black institutions are unnecessarily duplicated at the historically white institutions.Id., at 1541. In its conclusions of law on this point, the District Court nevertheless determined that "there is no proof "that such duplication "is directly associated with the racialidentifiability of institutions," and that "there is no proof thatthe elimination of unnecessary program duplication would bejustifiable from an educational standpoint or that its elimination would have a substantial effect on student choice." Id.,at 1561.The District Court's treatment of this issue is problematicfrom several different perspectives. First, the court appeared to impose the burden of proof on the plaintiffs to meeta legal standard the court itself acknowledged was not yetformulated. It can hardly be denied that such duplicationwas part and parcel of the prior dual system of higher education--the whole notion of "separate but equal" required duplicative programs in two sets of schools--and that the present unnecessary duplication is a continuation of that practice.505US3113N 06-12-96 19:43:20 PAGES OPINPGT739Cite as: 505 U. S. 717 (1992)Opinion of the CourtBrown and its progeny, however, established that the burdenof proof falls on theState, and not the aggrieved plaintiffs, toestablish that it has dismantled its prior de jure segregatedsystem.Brown II, 349 U. S., at 300. The court's holdingthat petitioners could not establish the constitutional defectof unnecessary duplication, therefore, improperly shifted theburden away from the State. Second, implicit in the District Court's finding of "unnecessary" duplication is the ab-sence of any educational justification and the fact that some,if not all, duplication may be practicably eliminated. In-deed, the District Court observed that such duplication "cannot be justified economically or in terms of providing qualityeducation." 674 F. Supp., at 1541. Yet by stating that"there is no proof " that elimination of unnecessary duplication would decrease institutional racial identifiability, affectstudent choice, and promote educationally sound policies, thecourt did not make clear whether it had directed the partiesto develop evidence on these points, and if so, what that evidence revealed. See id., at 1561. Finally, by treating thisissue in isolation, the court failed to consider the combinedeffects of unnecessary program duplication with other policies, such as differential admissions standards, in evaluatingwhether the State had met its duty to dismantle its prior dejure segregated system.We next address Mississippi's scheme of institutional mission classification, and whether it perpetuates the State's formerly de jure dual system. The District Court found that,throughout the period of de jure segregation, University ofMississippi, Mississippi State University, and University ofSouthern Mississippi were the flagship institutions in thestate system. They received the most funds, initiated themost advanced and specialized programs, and developed thewidest range of curricular functions. At their inception,each was restricted for the education solely of white persons.Id., at 1526-1528. The missions of Mississippi University forWomen and Delta State University, by contrast, were more505US3113N 06-12-96 19:43:20 PAGES OPINPGT740 UNITED STATES v. FORDICEOpinion of the Courtlimited than their other all-white counterparts during theperiod of legalized segregation. Mississippi University forWomen and Delta State University were each established toprovide undergraduate education solely for white studentsin the liberal arts and such other fields as music, art, education, and home economics. Id., at 1527-1528. When theywere founded, the three exclusively black universities weremore limited in their assigned academic missions than thefive all-white institutions. Alcorn State, for example, wasdesignated to serve as "an agricultural college for the educa-tion of Mississippi's black youth."Id., at 1527. JacksonState and Mississippi Valley State were established to trainblack teachers. Id., at 1528. Though the District Court'sfindings do not make this point explicit, it is reasonable toinfer that state funding and curriculum decisions throughoutthe period of de jure segregation were based on the purposesfor which these institutions were established.In 1981, the State assigned certain missions to Mississippi's public universities as they then existed. It classifiedUniversity of Mississippi, Mississippi State, and SouthernMississippi as "comprehensive" universities having the mostvaried programs and offering graduate degrees. Two of thehistorically white institutions, Delta State University andMississippi University for Women, along with two of the historically black institutions, Alcorn State University and Mississippi Valley State University, were designated as "regional" universities with more limited programs and devotedprimarily to undergraduate education. Jackson State University was classified as an "urban" university whose missionwas defined by its urban location.The institutional mission designations adopted in 1981have as their antecedents the policies enacted to perpetuateracial separation during the de jure segregated regime. TheCourt of Appeals expressly disagreed with the DistrictCourt by recognizing that the "inequalities among the institutions largely follow the mission designations, and the mis505US3113N 06-12-96 19:43:20 PAGES OPINPGT741Cite as: 505 U. S. 717 (1992)Opinion of the Courtsion designations to some degree follow the historical racialassignments." 914 F. 2d, at 692. It nevertheless upheldthis facet of the system as constitutionally acceptable basedon the existence of good-faith racially neutral policies andprocedures. That different missions are assigned to the universities surely limits to some extent an entering student'schoice as to which university to seek admittance. While thecourts below both agreed that the classification and missionassignments were made without discriminatory purpose, theCourt of Appeals found that the record "supports the plain-tiffs' argument that the mission designations had the effectof maintaining the more limited program scope at the historically black universities." Id., at 690. We do not suggestthat absent discriminatory purpose the assignment of different missions to various institutions in a State's higher education system would raise an equal protection issue where oneor more of the institutions become or remain predominantlyblack or white. But here the issue is whether the State hassufficiently dismantled its prior dual system; and when combined with the differential admission practices and unnecessary program duplication, it is likely that the mission designations interfere with student choice and tend to perpetuatethe segregated system. On remand, the court should inquire whether it would be practicable and consistent withsound educational practices to eliminate any such discriminatory effects of the State's present policy of missionassignments.Fourth, the State attempted to bring itself into compliancewith the Constitution by continuing to maintain and operateall eight higher educational institutions. The existence ofeight instead of some lesser number was undoubtedly occasioned by state laws forbidding the mingling of the races.And as the District Court recognized, continuing to maintainall eight universities in Mississippi is wasteful and irrational.The District Court pointed especially to the facts that DeltaState and Mississippi Valley State are only 35 miles apart505US3113N 06-12-96 19:43:20 PAGES OPINPGT742 UNITED STATES v. FORDICEOpinion of the Courtand that only 20 miles separate Mississippi State and Missis-sippi University for Women. 674 F. Supp., at 1563-1564. Itwas evident to the District Court that "the defendants un-dertake to fund more institutions of higher learning than arejustified by the amount of financial resources available to thestate," id., at 1564, but the court concluded that such fiscalirresponsibility was a policy choice of the legislature ratherthan a feature of a system subject to constitutional scrutiny.Unquestionably, a larger rather than a smaller number ofinstitutions from which to choose in itself makes for differentchoices, particularly when examined in the light of otherfactors present in the operation of the system, such asadmissions, program duplication, and institutional missiondesignations. Though certainly closure of one or moreinstitutions would decrease the discriminatory effects of thepresent system, see,e. g., United States v. Louisiana, 718 F.Supp. 499, 514 (ED La. 1989), based on the present recordwe are unable to say whether such action is constitutionallyrequired.11 Elimination of program duplication and revisionof admissions criteria may make institutional closure unnecessary. However, on remand this issue should be carefullyexplored by inquiring and determining whether retention ofall eight institutions itself affects student choice and perpetuates the segregated higher education system, whethermaintenance of each of the universities is educationally justifiable, and whether one or more of them can be practicablyclosed or merged with other existing institutions.Because the former de jure segregated system of publicuniversities in Mississippi impeded the free choice of pro11 It should be noted that in correspondence with the board of trusteesin 1973, an HEW official expressed the "overall objective" of the Plan tobe "that a student's choice of institution or campus, henceforth, will bebased on other than racial criteria." App. 205. The letter added thatclosure of a formerly de jure black institution "would create a presumptionthat a greater burden is being placed upon the black students and facultyin Mississippi." Id., at 206.505US3113N 06-12-96 19:43:20 PAGES OPINPGT743Cite as: 505 U. S. 717 (1992)O'Connor, J., concurringspective students, the State in dismantling that system musttake the necessary steps to ensure that this choice now istruly free. The full range of policies and practices must beexamined with this duty in mind. That an institution is predominantly white or black does not in itself make out a constitutional violation. But surely the State may not leave inplace policies rooted in its prior officially segregated systemthat serve to maintain the racial identifiability of its universi-ties if those policies can practicably be eliminated withouteroding sound educational policies.If we understand private petitioners to press us to orderthe upgrading of Jackson State, Alcorn State, and MississippiValley Statesolely so that they may be publicly financed,exclusively black enclaves by private choice, we reject thatrequest. The State provides these facilities for all its citizens and it has not met its burden under Brown to take affirmative steps to dismantle its prior de jure system when itperpetuates a separate, but "more equal" one. Whethersuch an increase in funding is necessary to achieve a fulldismantlement under the standards we have outlined, however, is a different question, and one that must be addressedon remand.Because the District Court and the Court of Appeals failedto consider the State's duties in their proper light, the casesmust be remanded. To the extent that the State has notmet its affirmative obligation to dismantle its prior dual system, it shall be adjudged in violation of the Constitution andTitle VI and remedial proceedings shall be conducted. Thedecision of the Court of Appeals is vacated, and the casesare remanded for further proceedings consistent with thisopinion.