Parts I and II, concluding that the Louisiana statute violates the DueProcess Clause because it allows an insanity acquittee to be committedto a mental institution until he is able to demonstrate that he is notdangerous to himself and others, even though he does not suffer fromany mental illness. Although Jones, supra, acknowledged that an insanity acquittee could be committed, the Court also held that, as a matter of due process, he is entitled to release when he has recovered hissanity or is no longer dangerous, id., at 368, i. e., he may be held as longas he is both mentally ill and dangerous, but no longer. Here, since theState does not contend that Foucha was mentally ill at the time of the504US1$69z 02-20-99 17:46:01 PAGES OPINPGT72 FOUCHA v. LOUISIANASyllabustrial court's hearing, the basis for holding him in a psychiatric facilityas an insanity acquittee has disappeared, and the State is no longerentitled to hold him on that basis. There are at least three difficultieswith the State's attempt to perpetuate his confinement on the basis ofhis antisocial personality. First, even if his continued confinement wereconstitutionally permissible, keeping him against his will in a mentalinstitution is improper absent a determination in civil commitment proceedings of current mental illness and dangerousness. Vitek v. Jones,445 U. S. 480, 492. Due process requires that the nature of commitmentbear some reasonable relation to the purpose for which the individual iscommitted. See, e. g., Jones v. United States, supra, at 368. Second,if he can no longer be held as an insanity acquittee in a mental hospital, he is entitled to constitutionally adequate procedures to establishthe grounds for his confinement. Jackson v. Indiana, 406 U. S. 715.Third, the substantive component of the Due Process Clause bars certain arbitrary, wrongful government actions regardless of the fairnessof the procedures used to implement them. Zinermon v. Burch, 494U. S. 113, 125. Although a State may imprison convicted criminals forthe purposes of deterrence and retribution, Louisiana has no such interest here, since Foucha was not convicted and may not be punished.Jones, 463 U. S., at 369. Moreover, although the State may confine aperson if it shows by clear and convincing evidence that he is mentallyill and dangerous, id., at 362, Louisiana has not carried that burden here.Furthermore, United States v. Salerno, 481 U. S. 739--in which thisCourt held that in certain narrow circumstances pretrial detainees whopose a danger to others or the community may be subject to limitedconfinement--does not save the state statute. Unlike the sharply focused statutory scheme at issue in Salerno, the Louisiana scheme is notcarefully limited. Pp. 75-85.White, J., announced the judgment of the Court and delivered the opinion of the Court with respect to Parts I and II, in which Blackmun,Stevens, O'Connor, and Souter, JJ., joined, and an opinion with respectto Part III, in which Blackmun, Stevens, and Souter, JJ., joined.O'Connor, J., filed an opinion concurring in part and concurring in thejudgment, post, p. 86. Kennedy, J., filed a dissenting opinion, in whichRehnquist, C. J., joined, post, p. 90. Thomas, J., filed a dissenting opinion, in which Rehnquist, C. J., and Scalia, J., joined, post, p. 102.James P. Manasseh argued the cause for petitioner. Withhim on the briefs was Martin E. Regan, Jr.504US1$69z 02-20-99 17:46:01 PAGES OPINPGT73Cite as: 504 U. S. 71 (1992)Opinion of the CourtPamela S. Moran argued the cause for respondent. Withher on the brief was Harry F. Connick.*Justice White delivered the opinion of the Court, ex-cept as to Part III.When a defendant in a criminal case pending in Louisianais found not guilty by reason of insanity, he is committed toa psychiatric hospital unless he proves that he is not danger-ous. This is so whether or not he is then insane. Aftercommitment, if the acquittee or the superintendent beginsrelease proceedings, a review panel at the hospital makes awritten report on the patient's mental condition and whetherhe can be released without danger to himself or others. Ifrelease is recommended, the court must hold a hearing todetermine dangerousness; the acquittee has the burden ofproving that he is not dangerous. If found to be dangerous,the acquittee may be returned to the mental institutionwhether or not he is then mentally ill. Petitioner contendsthat this scheme denies him due process and equal protectionbecause it allows a person acquitted by reason of insanityto be committed to a mental institution until he is able todemonstrate that he is not dangerous to himself and others,even though he does not suffer from any mental illness.IPetitioner Terry Foucha was charged by Louisiana author-ities with aggravated burglary and illegal discharge of afirearm. Two medical doctors were appointed to conduct apretrial examination of Foucha. The doctors initially reported, and the trial court initially found, that Foucha lackedmental capacity to proceed, App. 8-9, but four months laterthe trial court found Foucha competent to stand trial, id., at4-5. The doctors reported that Foucha was unable to distin*Briefs of amici curiae urging reversal were filed for the AmericanOrthopsychiatric Association et al. by James W. Ellis and Barbara E.Bergman; and for the American Psychiatric Association by Joel I. Klein.504US1$69D 02-20-99 17:46:01 PAGES OPINPGT74 FOUCHA v. LOUISIANAOpinion of the Courtguish right from wrong and was insane at the time of theoffense.1 On October 12, 1984, the trial court ruled thatFoucha was not guilty by reason of insanity, finding that he"is unable to appreciate the usual, natural and probable consequences of his acts; that he is unable to distinguish rightfrom wrong; that he is a menace to himself and others; andthat he was insane at the time of the commission of the abovecrimes and that he is presently insane."Id., at 6. He wascommitted to the East Feliciana Forensic Facility until suchtime as doctors recommend that he be released, and untilfurther order of the court. In 1988, the superintendent ofFeliciana recommended that Foucha be discharged or re-leased. A three-member panel was convened at the institution to determine Foucha's current condition and whether hecould be released or placed on probation without being adanger to others or himself. On March 21, 1988, the panelreported that there had been no evidence of mental illnesssince admission and recommended that Foucha be condition-ally discharged.2 The trial judge appointed a two-membersanity commission made up of the same two doctors who hadconducted the pretrial examination. Their written reportstated that Foucha "is presently in remission from mentalillness [but] [w]e cannot certify that he would not constitute1 Louisiana law provides: "If the circumstances indicate that because ofa mental disease or mental defect the offender was incapable of distinguishing between right and wrong with reference to the conduct in question, the offender shall be exempt from criminal responsibility." La. Rev.Stat. Ann. $ 14:14 (West 1986). Justice Kennedy disregards the factthat the State makes no claim that Foucha was criminally responsible orthat it is entitled to punish Foucha as a criminal.2 The panel unanimously recommended that petitioner be conditionallydischarged with recommendations that he (1) be placed on probation; (2)remain free from intoxicating and mind-altering substances; (3) attend asubstance abuse clinic on a regular basis; (4) submit to regular and randomurine drug screening; and (5) be actively employed or seeking employment. App. 10-11.Although the panel recited that it was charged with determining dangerousness, its report did not expressly make a finding in that regard.504US1$69D 02-20-99 17:46:01 PAGES OPINPGT75Cite as: 504 U. S. 71 (1992)Opinion of the Courta menace to himself or others if released." Id., at 12. Oneof the doctors testified at a hearing that upon commitmentFoucha probably suffered from a drug induced psychosis butthat he had recovered from that temporary condition; thathe evidenced no signs of psychosis or neurosis and was in"good shape" mentally; that he had, however, an antisocialpersonality, a condition that is not a mental disease and thatis untreatable. The doctor also testified that Foucha hadbeen involved in several altercations at Feliciana and thathe, the doctor, would not "feel comfortable in certifying that[Foucha] would not be a danger to himself or to other peo-ple."Id., at 18.After it was stipulated that the other doctor, if he werepresent, would give essentially the same testimony, the courtruled that Foucha was dangerous to himself and others andordered him returned to the mental institution. The Courtof Appeal refused supervisory writs, and the State SupremeCourt affirmed, holding that Foucha had not carried the bur-den placed upon him by statute to prove that he was notdangerous, that our decision in Jones v. United States, 463U. S. 354 (1983), did not require Foucha's release, and thatneither the Due Process Clause nor the Equal ProtectionClause was violated by the statutory provision permittingconfinement of an insanity acquittee based on dangerous-ness alone.Because the case presents an important issue and was de-cided by the court below in a manner arguably at odds withprior decisions of this Court, we granted certiorari. 499U. S. 946 (1991).IIAddington v. Texas, 441 U. S. 418 (1979), held that to com-mit an individual to a mental institution in a civil proceeding,the State is required by the Due Process Clause to prove byclear and convincing evidence the two statutory preconditions to commitment: that the person sought to be committedis mentally ill and that he requires hospitalization for his504US1$69D 02-20-99 17:46:01 PAGES OPINPGT76 FOUCHA v. LOUISIANAOpinion of the Courtown welfare and protection of others. Proof beyond a rea-sonable doubt was not required, but proof by preponderanceof the evidence fell short of satisfying due process.3When a person charged with having committed a crime isfound not guilty by reason of insanity, however, a State maycommit that person without satisfying theAddington burdenwith respect to mental illness and dangerousness. Jones v.United States, supra. Such a verdict, we observed in Jones,"establishes two facts: (i) the defendant committed an actthat constitutes a criminal offense, and (ii) he committed theact because of mental illness," id., at 363, an illness that thedefendant adequately proved in this context by a preponder-ance of the evidence. From these two facts, it could beproperly inferred that at the time of the verdict, the defend-ant was still mentally ill and dangerous and hence could becommitted.43 Justice Thomas in dissent complains that Foucha should not be released based on psychiatric opinion that he is not mentally ill becausesuch opinion is not sufficiently precise--because psychiatry is not an exactscience and psychiatrists widely disagree on what constitutes a mental illness. That may be true, but such opinion is reliable enough to permit thecourts to base civil commitments on clear and convincing medical evidencethat a person is mentally ill and dangerous and to base release decisionson qualified testimony that the person is no longer mentally ill or dangerous. It is also reliable enough for the State not to punish a personwho by a preponderance of the evidence is found to have been insane atthe time he committed a criminal act, to say nothing of not trying a personwho is at the time found incompetent to understand the proceedings.And more to the point, medical predictions of dangerousness seem to bereliable enough for Justice Thomas to permit the State to continue tohold Foucha in a mental institution, even where the psychiatrist would sayno more than that he would hesitate to certify that Foucha would not bedangerous to himself or others.4 Justice Kennedy's assertion that we overrule the holding of Jonesdescribed in the above paragraph is fanciful at best. As that paragraphplainly shows, we do not question and fully accept that insanity acquitteesmay be initially held without complying with the procedures applicable tocivil committees. As is evident from the ensuing paragraph of the text,we are also true to the further holding of Jones that both Justice Thomas504US1$69D 02-20-99 17:46:01 PAGES OPINPGT77Cite as: 504 U. S. 71 (1992)Opinion of the CourtWe held, however, that "[t]he committed acquittee is entitled to release when he has recovered his sanity or is nolonger dangerous," id., at 368; i. e., the acquittee may be heldas long as he is both mentally ill and dangerous, but nolonger. We relied on O'Connor v. Donaldson, 422 U. S. 563(1975), which held as a matter of due process that it wasunconstitutional for a State to continue to confine a harmless,mentally ill person. Even if the initial commitment was permissible, "it could not constitutionally continue after thatbasis no longer existed." Id., at 575. In the summary ofour holdings in our opinion we stated that "the Constitutionpermits the Government, on the basis of the insanity judgand Justice Kennedy reject: that the period of time during which aninsanity acquittee may be held in a mental institution is not measured bythe length of a sentence that might have been imposed had he been convicted; rather, the acquittee may be held until he is either not mentally illor not dangerous. Both Justices would permit the indefinite detention ofthe acquittee, although the State concedes that he is not mentally ill andalthough the doctors at the mental institution recommend his release, forno reason other than that a psychiatrist hesitates to certify that the acquittee would not be dangerous to himself or others.Justice Kennedy asserts that we should not entertain the propositionthat a verdict of not guilty by reason of insanity differs from a conviction.Post, at 94. Jones, however, involved a case where the accused had been"found, beyond a reasonable doubt, to have committed a criminal act."463 U. S., at 364. We did not find this sufficient to negate any differencebetween a conviction and an insanity acquittal. Rather, we observed thata person convicted of crime may of course be punished. But "[d]ifferentconsiderations underlie commitment of an insanity acquittee. As he wasnot convicted, he may not be punished." Id., at 369.Justice Kennedy observes that proof beyond reasonable doubt of thecommission of a criminal act permits a State to incarcerate and hold theoffender on any reasonable basis. There is no doubt that the States havewide discretion in determining punishment for convicted offenders, butthe Eighth Amendment ensures that discretion is not unlimited. The Justice cites no authority, but surely would have if it existed, for the proposition that a defendant convicted of a crime and sentenced to a term of yearsmay nevertheless be held indefinitely because of the likelihood that he willcommit other crimes.504US1$69D 02-20-99 17:46:01 PAGES OPINPGT78 FOUCHA v. LOUISIANAOpinion of the Courtment, to confine him to a mental institution until such timeas he has regained his sanity or is no longer a danger tohimself or society." Jones, 463 U. S., at 368, 370.5 Thecourt below was in error in characterizing the above language from Jones as merely an interpretation of the perti-nent statutory law in the District of Columbia and as havingno constitutional significance. In this case, Louisiana doesnot contend that Foucha was mentally ill at the time of thetrial court's hearing. Thus, the basis for holding Foucha ina psychiatric facility as an insanity acquittee has disappeared, and the State is no longer entitled to hold him onthat basis.O'Connor, supra, at 574-575.The State, however, seeks to perpetuate Foucha's confinement at Feliciana on the basis of his antisocial personalitywhich, as evidenced by his conduct at the facility, the courtfound rendered him a danger to himself or others. Thereare at least three difficulties with this position. First, evenif his continued confinement were constitutionally permissible, keeping Foucha against his will in a mental institutionis improper absent a determination in civil commitmentproceedings of current mental illness and dangerousness. InVitek v. Jones, 445 U. S. 480 (1980), we held that a convictedfelon serving his sentence has a liberty interest, not extinguished by his confinement as a criminal, in not being trans-ferred to a mental institution and hence classified as men5 Justice Thomas, dissenting, suggests that there was no issue of thestandards for release before us in Jones. The issue in that case, however,was whether an insanity acquittee "must be released because he has beenhospitalized for a period longer than he might have served in prison hadhe been convicted," 463 U. S., at 356; and in the course of deciding thatissue in the negative, we said that the detainee could be held until he wasno longer mentally ill or no longer dangerous, regardless of how long aprison sentence might have been. We noted in footnote 11 that Joneshad not sought a release based on nonillness or nondangerousness, but asindicated in the text, we twice announced the outside limits on the detention of insanity acquittees. The Justice would "wish" away this aspect ofJones, but that case merely reflected the essence of our prior decisions.504US1$69D 02-20-99 17:46:01 PAGES OPINPGT79Cite as: 504 U. S. 71 (1992)Opinion of the Courttally ill without appropriate procedures to prove that he wasmentally ill. "The loss of liberty produced by an involuntary commitment is more than a loss of freedom fromconfinement." Id., at 492. Due process requires that thenature of commitment bear some reasonable relation tothe purpose for which the individual is committed. Jones,supra, at 368; Jackson v. Indiana, 406 U. S. 715, 738 (1972).Here, according to the testimony given at the hearing in thetrial court, Foucha is not suffering from a mental disease orillness. If he is to be held, he should not be held as a mentally ill person. See Jones, supra, at 368; Jackson, supra,at 738. Cf. United States v. Salerno, 481 U. S. 739, 747-748(1987); Schall v. Martin, 467 U. S. 253, 270 (1984).Second, if Foucha can no longer be held as an insanity acquittee in a mental hospital, he is entitled to constitutionallyadequate procedures to establish the grounds for his confinement. Jackson v. Indiana, supra, indicates as much.There, a person under criminal charges was found incompetent to stand trial and was committed until he regained hissanity. It was later determined that nothing could be doneto cure the detainee, who was a deaf mute. The state courtsrefused to order his release. We reversed, holding that theState was entitled to hold a person for being incompetent tostand trial only long enough to determine if he could becured and become competent. If he was to be held longer,the State was required to afford the protections constitutionally required in a civil commitment proceeding. We noted,relying on Baxstrom v. Herold, 383 U. S. 107 (1966), that aconvicted criminal who allegedly was mentally ill was entitled to release at the end of his term unless the State committed him in a civil proceeding. " `[T]here is no conceivablebasis for distinguishing the commitment of a person who isnearing the end of a penal term from all other civil commitments.' " Jackson v. Indiana, supra, at 724, quoting Baxstrom, supra, at 111-112.504US1$69D 02-20-99 17:46:01 PAGES OPINPGT80 FOUCHA v. LOUISIANAOpinion of the CourtThird, "the Due Process Clause contains a substantivecomponent that bars certain arbitrary, wrongful governmentactions `regardless of the fairness of the procedures used toimplement them.' "Zinermon v. Burch, 494 U. S. 113, 125(1990). See also Salerno, supra, at 746; Daniels v. Williams, 474 U. S. 327, 331 (1986). Freedom from bodily re-straint has always been at the core of the liberty protectedby the Due Process Clause from arbitrary governmental ac-tion.Youngberg v. Romeo, 457 U. S. 307, 316 (1982). "It isclear that commitment for any purpose constitutes a signifi-cant deprivation of liberty that requires due process protection." Jones, supra, at 361 (internal quotation marks omitted). We have always been careful not to "minimize theimportance and fundamental nature" of the individual's rightto liberty. Salerno, supra, at 750.A State, pursuant to its police power, may of course imprison convicted criminals for the purposes of deterrence andretribution. But there are constitutional limitations on theconduct that a State may criminalize. See, e. g., Brandenburg v. Ohio, 395 U. S. 444 (1969); Robinson v. California,370 U. S. 660 (1962). Here, the State has no such punitiveinterest. As Foucha was not convicted, he may not be punished. Jones, supra, at 369. Here, Louisiana has by reasonof his acquittal exempted Foucha from criminal responsibility as La. Rev. Stat. Ann. $ 14:14 (West 1986) requires. Seen. 1, supra.The State may also confine a mentally ill person if it shows"by clear and convincing evidence that the individual is mentally ill and dangerous," Jones, 463 U. S., at 362. Here, theState has not carried that burden; indeed, the State does notclaim that Foucha is now mentally ill.We have also held that in certain narrow circumstancespersons who pose a danger to others or to the communitymay be subject to limited confinement and it is on thesecases, particularly United States v. Salerno, supra, that theState relies in this case.504US1$69D 02-20-99 17:46:02 PAGES OPINPGT81Cite as: 504 U. S. 71 (1992)Opinion of the CourtSalerno, unlike this case, involved pretrial detention. Weobserved inSalerno that the "government's interest in preventing crime by arrestees is both legitimate and compel-ling,"id., at 749, and that the statute involved there was aconstitutional implementation of that interest. The statutecarefully limited the circumstances under which detentioncould be sought to those involving the most serious of crimes(crimes of violence, offenses punishable by life imprisonmentor death, serious drug offenses, or certain repeat offenders),id., at 747, and was narrowly focused on a particularly acuteproblem in which the government interests are overwhelming, id., at 750. In addition to first demonstrating probablecause, the Government was required, in a "full-blown adversary hearing," to convince a neutral decisionmaker by clearand convincing evidence that no conditions of release can reasonably assure the safety of the community or any person,i. e., that the "arrestee presents an identified and articulablethreat to an individual or the community." Id., at 751. Furthermore, the duration of confinement under the Bail ReformAct of 1984 (Act) was strictly limited. The arrestee wasentitled to a prompt detention hearing and the maximumlength of pretrial detention was limited by the "stringenttime limitations of the Speedy Trial Act." Id., at 747. Ifthe arrestee were convicted, he would be confined as a criminal proved guilty; if he were acquitted, he would go free.Moreover, the Act required that detainees be housed, to theextent practicable, in a facility separate from persons awaiting or serving sentences or awaiting appeal. Id., at 747-748.Salerno does not save Louisiana's detention of insanity acquittees who are no longer mentally ill. Unlike the sharplyfocused scheme at issue in Salerno, the Louisiana scheme ofconfinement is not carefully limited. Under the state statute, Foucha is not now entitled to an adversary hearing atwhich the State must prove by clear and convincing evidencethat he is demonstrably dangerous to the community. Indeed, the State need prove nothing to justify continued de504US1$69D 02-20-99 17:46:02 PAGES OPINPGT82 FOUCHA v. LOUISIANAOpinion of the Courttention, for the statute places the burden on the detainee toprove that he is not dangerous. At the hearing which endedwith Foucha's recommittal, no doctor or any other persontestified positively that in his opinion Foucha would be a danger to the community, let alone gave the basis for such anopinion. There was only a description of Foucha's behaviorat Feliciana and his antisocial personality, along with a refusal to certify that he would not be dangerous. When di-rectly asked whether Foucha would be dangerous, Dr. Rittersaid only, "I don't think I would feel comfortable in certifyingthat he would not be a danger to himself or to other people."App. 18. This, under the Louisiana statute, was enough todefeat Foucha's interest in physical liberty. It is not enoughto defeat Foucha's liberty interest under the Constitution inbeing freed from indefinite confinement in a mental facility.Furthermore, if Foucha committed criminal acts while atFeliciana, such as assault, the State does not explain why itsinterest would not be vindicated by the ordinary criminalprocesses involving charge and conviction, the use of enhanced sentences for recidivists, and other permissible waysof dealing with patterns of criminal conduct. These are thenormal means of dealing with persistent criminal conduct.Had they been employed against Foucha when he assaultedother inmates, there is little doubt that if then sane he couldhave been convicted and incarcerated in the usual way.It was emphasized in Salerno that the detention we foundconstitutionally permissible was strictly limited in duration.481 U. S., at 747; see also Schall, 467 U. S., at 269. Here, incontrast, the State asserts that because Foucha once committed a criminal act and now has an antisocial personalitythat sometimes leads to aggressive conduct, a disorder forwhich there is no effective treatment, he may be held indefinitely. This rationale would permit the State to hold indefinitely any other insanity acquittee not mentally ill whocould be shown to have a personality disorder that may leadto criminal conduct. The same would be true of any con504US1$69D 02-20-99 17:46:02 PAGES OPINPGT83Cite as: 504 U. S. 71 (1992)Opinion of the Courtvicted criminal, even though he has completed his prisonterm. It would also be only a step away from substituting confinements for dangerousness for our present systemwhich, with only narrow exceptions and aside from permissible confinements for mental illness, incarcerates only thosewho are proved beyond reasonable doubt to have violated acriminal law."In our society liberty is the norm, and detention priorto trial or without trial is the carefully limited exception."United States v. Salerno, supra, at 755. The narrowly fo-cused pretrial detention of arrestees permitted by the BailReform Act was found to be one of those carefully limitedexceptions permitted by the Due Process Clause. We decline to take a similar view of a law like Louisiana's, whichpermits the indefinite detention of insanity acquittees whoare not mentally ill but who do not prove they would not bedangerous to others.66 Justice Thomas' dissent firmly embraces the view that the State mayindefinitely hold an insanity acquittee who is found by a court to havebeen cured of his mental illness and who is unable to prove that he wouldnot be dangerous. This would be so even though, as in this case, thecourt's finding of dangerousness is based solely on the detainee's antisocialpersonality that apparently has caused him to engage in altercations fromtime to time. Justice Thomas, however, does not challenge the holdingof our cases that a convicted criminal may not be held as a mentally illperson without following the requirements for civil commitment, whichwould not permit further detention based on dangerousness alone. Yet itis surely strange to release sane but very likely dangerous persons whohave committed a crime knowing precisely what they were doing but continue to hold indefinitely an insanity detainee who committed a criminalact at a time when, as found by a court, he did not know right from wrong.Justice Thomas' rationale for continuing to hold the insanity acquitteewould surely justify treating the convicted felon in the same way, and ifput to it, it appears that he would permit it. But as indicated in the text,this is not consistent with our present system of justice.Justice Thomas relies heavily on the American Law Institute's (ALI)Model Penal Code and Commentary. However, his reliance on the ModelCode is misplaced and his quotation from the Commentary is importantlyincomplete. Justice Thomas argues that the Louisiana statute follows504US1$69D 02-20-99 17:46:02 PAGES OPINPGT84 FOUCHA v. LOUISIANAOpinion of White, J.IIIIt should be apparent from what has been said earlier inthis opinion that the Louisiana statute also discriminates"the current provisions" of the Model Penal Code, but he fails to mentionthat $ 4.08 is "current" only in the sense that the Model Code has not beenamended since its approval in 1962, and therefore fails to incorporate orreflect substantial developments in the relevant decisional law during theintervening three decades. Thus, although this is nowhere noted in thedissent, the Explanatory Notes expressly concede that related and similarly "current" provisions of Article 4 are unconstitutional. See, e. g.,ALI, Model Penal Code $ 4.06(2), Explanatory Note (1985) (noting that$ 4.06(2), permitting indefinite commitment of a mentally incompetent defendant without the finding required for civil commitment, is unconstitutional in light of Jackson v. Indiana, 406 U. S. 715 (1972), and other decisions of this Court). Nor indeed does Justice Thomas advert to the 1985Explanatory Note to $ 4.08 itself, even though that note directly questionsthe constitutionality of the provision that he so heavily relies on; it acknowledges, as Justice Thomas does not, that "it is now questionablewhether a state may use the single criterion of dangerousness to grantdischarge if it employs a different standard for release of persons civillycommitted." Justice Thomas also recites from the Commentary regarding $ 4.08. However, the introductory passage that Justice Thomasquotes prefaces a more important passage that he omits. After explaining the rationale for the questionable provision, the Commentary states:"Constitutional doubts . . . exist about the criterion of dangerousness. Ifa person committed civilly must be released when he is no longer sufferingmental illness, it is questionable whether a person acquitted on groundsof mental disease or defect excluding responsibility can be kept in custodysolely on the ground that he continues to be dangerous." Id., $ 4.08, Comment 3, p. 260. Thus, while Justice Thomas argues that the Louisianastatute is not a relic of a bygone age, his principal support for this assertion is a 30-year-old provision of the Model Penal Code whose constitutionality has since been openly questioned by the ALI reporters themselves.Similarly unpersuasive is Justice Thomas' claim regarding the numberof States that allow confinement based on dangerousness alone. First,this assertion carries with it an obvious but unacknowledged corollary--the vast majority of States do not allow confinement based on dangerousness alone. Second, Justice Thomas' description of these state statutesalso is importantly incomplete. Even as he argues that a scheme of confinement based on dangerousness alone is not a relic of a bygone age,Justice Thomas neglects to mention that two of the statutes he relies504US1$69D 02-20-99 17:46:02 PAGES OPINPGT85Cite as: 504 U. S. 71 (1992)Opinion of White, J.against Foucha in violation of the Equal Protection Clauseof the Fourteenth Amendment.Jones established that insanity acquittees may be treated differently in some respectsfrom those persons subject to civil commitment, but Foucha,who is not now thought to be insane, can no longer be soclassified. The State nonetheless insists on holding him in-definitely because he at one time committed a criminal actand does not now prove he is not dangerous. Louisiana law,however, does not provide for similar confinement for otherclasses of persons who have committed criminal acts and whocannot later prove they would not be dangerous. Criminalswho have completed their prison terms, or are about to doso, are an obvious and large category of such persons. Manyof them will likely suffer from the same sort of personalitydisorder that Foucha exhibits. However, state law does notallow for their continuing confinement based merely on dangerousness. Instead, the State controls the behavior ofthese similarly situated citizens by relying on other means,such as punishment, deterrence, and supervised release.on have been amended, as Justice O'Connor notes. Nor does JusticeThomas acknowledge that at least two of the other statutes he lists aspermitting confinement based on dangerousness alone have been given acontrary construction by highest state courts, which have found that theinterpretation for which Justice Thomas cites them would be impermissible. See State v. Fields, 77 N. J. 282, 390 A. 2d 574 (1978); In re Lewis,403 A. 2d 1115, 1121 (Del. 1979), quoting Mills v. State, 256 A. 2d 752, 757,n. 4 (Del. 1969) ("By necessary implication, the danger referred to mustbe construed to relate to mental illness for the reason that dangerousnesswithout mental illness could not be a valid basis for indeterminate confinement in the State hospital"). See also ALI, Model Penal Code, supra,at 260 (although provisions may on their face allow for confinement basedon dangerousness alone, in virtually all actual cases the questions of dangerousness and continued mental disease are likely to be closely linked).As the widespread rejection of the standard for confinement that JusticeThomas and Justice Kennedy argue for demonstrates, States are ableto protect both the safety of the public and the rights of the accused without challenging foundational principles of American criminal justice andconstitutional law.504US1$69D 02-20-99 17:46:02 PAGES OPINPGT86 FOUCHA v. LOUISIANAOpinion of O'Connor, J.Freedom from physical restraint being a fundamental right,the State must have a particularly convincing reason, whichit has not put forward, for such discrimination against insan-ity acquittees who are no longer mentally ill.Furthermore, in civil commitment proceedings the Statemust establish the grounds of insanity and dangerousnesspermitting confinement by clear and convincing evidence.Addington, 441 U. S., at 425-433. Similarly, the State mustestablish insanity and dangerousness by clear and convincingevidence in order to confine an insane convict beyond hiscriminal sentence, when the basis for his original confinement no longer exists. See Jackson, 406 U. S., at 724; Baxstrom, 383 U. S., at 111-112. Cf. Humphrey v. Cady, 405U. S. 504, 510-511 (1972). However, the State now claimsthat it may continue to confine Foucha, who is not now considered to be mentally ill, solely because he is deemed dangerous, but without assuming the burden of proving eventhis ground for confinement by clear and convincing evidence. The court below gave no convincing reason whythe procedural safeguards against unwarranted confinementwhich are guaranteed to insane persons and those who havebeen convicted may be denied to a sane acquittee, and theState has done no better in this Court.For the foregoing reasons the judgment of the LouisianaSupreme Court is reversed.