In this case, we are asked to decide whether the jury thatsentenced petitioner, Gary Graham, to death was able to giveeffect, consistent with the Eighth and Fourteenth Amend-ments, to mitigating evidence of Graham's youth, familybackground, and positive character traits. Because thiscase comes to us on collateral review, however, we must firstdecide whether the relief that petitioner seeks would requireannouncement of a new rule of constitutional law, in contravention of the principles set forth in Teague v. Lane, 489U. S. 288 (1989). Concluding that Graham's claim is barredby Teague, we affirm. IOn the night of May 13, 1981, Graham accosted BobbyGrant Lambert in the parking lot of a Houston, Texas, grocery store and attempted to grab his wallet. When Lam-bert resisted, Graham drew a pistol and shot him to death.Five months later, a jury rejected Graham's defense of mis-taken identity and convicted him of capital murder in violation of Tex. Penal Code Ann. $ 19.03(a)(2) (1989).At the sentencing phase of Graham's trial, the Stateoffered evidence that Graham's murder of Lambert com-menced a week of violent attacks during which the 17-yearold Graham committed a string of robberies, several assaults,and one rape. Graham did not contest this evidence.Rather, in mitigation, the defense offered testimony fromGraham's stepfather and grandmother concerning his up-bringing and positive character traits. The stepfather, JoeSamby, testified that Graham, who lived and worked with hisnatural father, typically visited his mother once or twice a*Steven B. Rosenfeld and Allen Cazier filed a brief for Miguel A. Richardson as amicus curiae urging reversal.506us2$23M 08-22-96 21:21:09 PAGES OPINPGT464 GRAHAM v. COLLINSOpinion of the Courtweek and was a "real nice, respectable" person. Samby fur-ther testified that Graham would pitch in on family choresand that Graham, himself a father of two young children,would "buy . . . clothes for his children and try to givethem food."Graham's grandmother, Emma Chron, testified that Graham had lived with her off and on throughout his childhoodbecause his mother had been hospitalized periodically for a"nervous condition." Chron also stated that she had neverknown Graham to be violent or disrespectful, that he attended church regularly while growing up, and that "[h]eloved the Lord." In closing arguments to the jury, defensecounsel depicted Graham's criminal behavior as aberrationaland urged the jury to take Graham's youth into account indeciding his punishment.In accord with the capital sentencing statute then in effect,1 Graham's jury was instructed that it was to answerthree "special issues":"(1) whether the conduct of the defendant that causedthe death of the deceased was committed deliberatelyand with the reasonable expectation that the death ofthe deceased or another would result;(2) whether there is a probability that the defendantwould commit criminal acts of violence that would constitute a continuing threat to society; and(3) if raised by the evidence, whether the conduct of thedefendant in killing the deceased was unreasonable inresponse to the provocation, if any, by the deceased."Tex. Code Crim. Proc. Ann., Art. 37.071(b) (Vernon1981).The jury unanimously answered each of these questions inthe affirmative, and the court, as required by the statute,1 The Texas Legislature amended the statute in 1991. Those changesare set forth in the opinion of the Court of Appeals. 950 F. 2d 1009, 1012,n. 1 (CA5 1992) (en banc).506us2$23M 08-22-96 21:21:09 PAGES OPINPGT465Cite as: 506 U. S. 461 (1993)Opinion of the Courtsentenced Graham to death. Art. 37.071(e). The TexasCourt of Criminal Appeals affirmed Graham's conviction andsentence in an unpublished opinion.In 1987, Graham unsuccessfully sought postconviction relief in the Texas state courts. The following year, Grahampetitioned for a writ of habeas corpus in Federal DistrictCourt pursuant to 28 U. S. C. $ 2254, contending, inter alia,that his sentencing jury had been unable to give effect tohis mitigating evidence within the confines of the statutory"special issues." The District Court denied relief and theCourt of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit denied Graham's petition for a certificate of probable cause to appeal. Graham v.Lynaugh, 854 F. 2d 715 (1988). The Court of Appeals foundGraham's claim to be foreclosed by our recent decision inFranklin v. Lynaugh, 487 U. S. 164 (1988), which held that asentencing jury was fully able to consider and give effect tomitigating evidence of a defendant's clean prison disciplinaryrecord by way of answering Texas' special issues. 854 F. 2d,at 719-720.While Graham's petition for a writ of certiorari was pending here, the Court announced its decision in Penry v. Lynaugh, 492 U. S. 302 (1989), holding that evidence of a defendant's mental retardation and abused childhood could notbe given mitigating effect by a jury within the frameworkof the special issues.2 We then granted Graham's petition,vacated the judgment below, and remanded for reconsideration in light of Penry. Graham v. Lynaugh, 492 U. S. 915(1989). On remand, a divided panel of the Court of Appealsreversed the District Court and vacated Graham's death sentence. 896 F. 2d 893 (CA5 1990).2 Penry further held that its result was dictated by the Court's priordecisions in Eddings v. Oklahoma, 455 U. S. 104 (1982), and Lockett v.Ohio, 438 U. S. 586 (1978) (plurality opinion), within the sense required byTeague v. Lane, 489 U. S. 288 (1989), and thus that its rule applied to caseson collateral review. See Penry, 492 U. S., at 314-319.506us2$23M 08-22-96 21:21:09 PAGES OPINPGT466 GRAHAM v. COLLINSOpinion of the CourtOn rehearing en banc, the Court of Appeals vacated thepanel's decision and reinstated its prior mandate affirmingthe District Court. 950 F. 2d 1009 (1992). The court re-viewed our holdings on the constitutional requirement that asentencer be permitted to consider and act upon any relevantmitigating evidence put forward by a capital defendant, andthen rejected Graham's claim on the merits. The courtnoted that this Court had upheld the Texas capital sentencing statute against a facial attack in Jurek v. Texas, 428 U. S.262 (1976), after acknowledging that " `the constitutionalityof the Texas procedures turns on whether the enumeratedquestions allow consideration of particularized mitigatingfactors.' " 950 F. 2d, at 1019 (quoting Jurek, supra, at 272).Noting that the petitioner in Jurek had himself profferedmitigating evidence of his young age, employment history,and aid to his family, the Court of Appeals concluded that"[a]t the very least, Jurek must stand for the propositionthat these mitigating factors--relative youth and evidencereflecting good character traits such as steady employmentand helping others--are adequately covered by the secondspecial issue" concerning the defendant's risk of future dan-gerousness. 950 F. 2d, at 1029. "Penry cannot hold other-wise," the court observed, "and at the same time not be a`new rule' for Teague purposes." Ibid. Accordingly, thecourt ruled that the jury that sentenced Graham could giveadequate mitigating effect to his evidence of youth, unstablechildhood, and positive character traits by way of answeringthe Texas special issues.We granted certiorari, 504 U. S. 972 (1992), and now affirm.IIABecause this case is before us on Graham's petition for awrit of federal habeas corpus, "we must determine, as athreshold matter, whether granting him the relief he seekswould create a `new rule' " of constitutional law. Penry v.506us2$23M 08-22-96 21:21:09 PAGES OPINPGT467Cite as: 506 U. S. 461 (1993)Opinion of the CourtLynaugh, supra, at 313; see also Teague v. Lane, 489 U. S.,at 301 (plurality opinion). "Under Teague, new rules willnot be applied or announced in cases on collateral reviewunless they fall into one of two exceptions." Penry, supra,at 313. This restriction on our review applies to capitalcases as it does to those not involving the death penalty.492 U. S., at 314; Stringer v. Black, 503 U. S. 222 (1992);Sawyer v. Smith, 497 U. S. 227 (1990); Saffle v. Parks, 494U. S. 484 (1990); Butler v. McKellar, 494 U. S. 407 (1990).A holding constitutes a "new rule" within the meaning ofTeague if it "breaks new ground," "imposes a new obligationon the States or the Federal Government," or was not "dictated by precedent existing at the time the defendant's con-viction became final." Teague, supra, at 301 (emphasis inoriginal). While there can be no dispute that a decision an-nounces a new rule if it expressly overrules a prior decision,"it is more difficult . . . to determine whether we announce anew rule when a decision extends the reasoning of our priorcases." Saffle v. Parks, 494 U. S., at 488. Because the lead-ing purpose of federal habeas review is to "ensur[e] thatstate courts conduct criminal proceedings in accordance withthe Constitution as interpreted at the time of th[ose] proceedings," ibid., we have held that "[t]he `new rule' principle. . . validates reasonable, good-faith interpretations of existing precedents made by state courts." Butler v. McKellar,494 U. S., at 414. This principle adheres even if those goodfaith interpretations "are shown to be contrary to later deci-sions." Ibid. Thus, unless reasonable jurists hearing petitioner's claim at the time his conviction became final "wouldhave felt compelled by existing precedent" to rule in hisfavor, we are barred from doing so now. Saffle v. Parks,supra, at 488.BPetitioner's conviction and sentence became final on Sep-tember 10, 1984, when the time for filing a petition for certiorari from the judgment affirming his conviction expired.506us2$23M 08-22-96 21:21:09 PAGES OPINPGT468 GRAHAM v. COLLINSOpinion of the CourtSee Griffith v. Kentucky, 479 U. S. 314, 321, n. 6 (1987). Sur-veying the legal landscape as it then existed, we concludethat it would have been anything but clear to reasonable ju-rists in 1984 that petitioner's sentencing proceeding did notcomport with the Constitution.1In the years since Furman v. Georgia, 408 U. S. 238 (1972),the Court has identified, and struggled to harmonize, twocompeting commandments of the Eighth Amendment. Onone hand, as Furman itself emphasized, States must limitand channel the discretion of judges and juries to ensure thatdeath sentences are not meted out "wantonly" or "freakishly." Id., at 310 (Stewart, J., concurring). On the other,as we have emphasized in subsequent cases, States must confer on the sentencer sufficient discretion to take account ofthe "character and record of the individual offender and thecircumstances of the particular offense" to ensure that"death is the appropriate punishment in a specific case."Woodson v. North Carolina, 428 U. S. 280, 304-305 (1976)(plurality opinion of Stewart, Powell, andStevens, JJ.).Four years after Furman, and on the same day that Woodson was announced, the Court in Jurek v. Texas, supra,examined the very statutory scheme under which Grahamwas sentenced and concluded that it struck an appropriatebalance between these constitutional concerns. The Courtthus rejected an attack on the entire statutory scheme forimposing the death penalty and in particular an attackon the so-called "special issues." It is well to set out howthe Court arrived at its judgment. The joint opinion of Justices Stewart, Powell, and Stevens observed that whileTexas had not adopted a list of aggravating circumstancesthat would justify the imposition of the death penalty, "itsaction in narrowing the categories of murders for which adeath sentence may ever be imposed serves much the samepurpose." Id., at 270. The joint opinion went on to say506us2$23M 08-22-96 21:21:09 PAGES OPINPGT469Cite as: 506 U. S. 461 (1993)Opinion of the Courtthat because the constitutionality of a capital sentencing sys-tem also requires the sentencing authority to consider mitigating circumstances and since the Texas statute did notspeak of mitigating circumstances and instead directs onlythat the jury answer three questions, "the constitutionalityof the Texas procedures turns on whether the enumeratedquestions allow consideration of particularized mitigatingfactors."Id., at 272.The joint opinion then recognized that the Texas Court ofCriminal Appeals had held:" `In determining the likelihood that the defendantwould be a continuing threat to society, the jury couldconsider whether the defendant had a significant crimi-nal record. It could consider the range and severity ofhis prior criminal conduct. It could further look to theage of the defendant and whether or not at the time ofthe commission of the offense he was acting under du-ress or under the domination of another. It could alsoconsider whether the defendant was under an extremeform of mental or emotional pressure, something less,perhaps, than insanity, but more than the emotions ofthe average man, however inflamed, could withstand.'522 S. W. 2d, at 939-940." Id., at 272-273.Based on this assurance, the opinion characterized the Texassentencing procedure as follows:"Thus, Texas law essentially requires that one of fiveaggravating circumstances be found before a defendantcan be found guilty of capital murder, and that in consid-ering whether to impose a death sentence the jury maybe asked to consider whatever evidence of mitigatingcircumstances the defense can bring before it. It thusappears that, as in Georgia and Florida, the Texascapital-sentencing procedure guides and focuses thejury's objective consideration of the particularized cir-cumstances of the individual offense and the individual506us2$23M 08-22-96 21:21:09 PAGES OPINPGT470 GRAHAM v. COLLINSOpinion of the Courtoffender before it can impose a sentence of death." Id.,at 273-274."What is essential is that the jury have before it all pos-sible relevant information about the individual defendant whose fate it must determine. Texas law clearlyassures that all such evidence will be adduced."Id.,at 276.The joint opinion's ultimate conclusion was:"Texas' capital-sentencing procedures, like those ofGeorgia and Florida, do not violate the Eighth and Fourteenth Amendments. By narrowing its definition ofcapital murder, Texas has essentially said that theremust be at least one statutory aggravating circumstancein a first-degree murder case before a death sentencemay even be considered. By authorizing the defense tobring before the jury at the separate sentencing hearingwhatever mitigating circumstances relating to the indi-vidual defendant can be adduced, Texas has ensured thatthe sentencing jury will have adequate guidance to en-able it to perform its sentencing function. By providingprompt judicial review of the jury's decision in a courtwith statewide jurisdiction, Texas has provided a meansto promote the evenhanded, rational, and consistent im-position of death sentences under law. Because thissystem serves to assure that sentences of death will notbe `wantonly' or `freakishly' imposed, it does not violatethe Constitution. Furman v. Georgia, 408 U. S., at 310(Stewart, J., concurring)." Ibid.It is plain enough, we think, that the joint opinion couldreasonably be read as having arrived at this conclusion onlyafter being satisfied that the mitigating evidence introducedby the defendant, including his age, would be given constitutionally adequate consideration in the course of the jury'sdeliberation on the three special issues. Three other Justices concurred in the holding that the Texas procedures for506us2$23M 08-22-96 21:21:09 PAGES OPINPGT471Cite as: 506 U. S. 461 (1993)Opinion of the Courtimposing the death penalty were constitutional. Id., at 278-279 (White, J., concurring in judgment).Two years after Jurek, in another splintered decision,Lockett v. Ohio, 438 U. S. 586 (1978), the Court invalidatedan Ohio death penalty statute that prevented the sentencerfrom considering certain categories of relevant mitigatingevidence. In doing so, a plurality of the Court consistingof Chief Justice Burger and Justices Stewart, Powell, andStevens stated that the constitutional infirmities in theOhio statute could "best be understood by comparing it withthe statutes upheld inGregg, Proffitt, and Jurek." Id., at606. This the plurality proceeded to do, recounting in theprocess that the Texas statute had been held constitutionalin Jurek because it permitted the sentencer to considerwhatever mitigating circumstances the defendant couldshow. Emphasizing that "an individualized [sentencing] decision is essential in capital cases," the plurality concluded:"There is no perfect procedure for deciding in whichcases governmental authority should be used to imposedeath. But a statute that prevents the sentencer in allcapital cases from giving independent mitigating weightto aspects of the defendant's character and record andto circumstances of the offense proffered in mitigationcreates the risk that the death penalty will be imposedin spite of factors that may call for a less severe pen-alty." 438 U. S., at 605.Obviously, the plurality did not believe the Texas statutesuffered this infirmity.The plurality's rule was embraced by a majority of theCourt four years later in Eddings v. Oklahoma, 455 U. S. 104(1982). There, the Court overturned a death sentence onthe ground that the judge who entered it had felt himselfbound by state law to disregard mitigating evidence concerning the defendant's troubled youth and emotional disturbance. The Court held that, "[ j]ust as the State may not by506us2$23M 08-22-96 21:21:09 PAGES OPINPGT472 GRAHAM v. COLLINSOpinion of the Courtstatute preclude the sentencer from considering any mitigat-ing factor, neither may the sentencer refuse to consider, asa matter of law, any relevant mitigating evidence." Id., at113-114 (emphasis omitted); see also Hitchcock v. Dugger,481 U. S. 393, 394 (1987); Skipper v. South Carolina, 476 U. S.1, 4-5 (1986). TheEddings opinion rested on Lockett andmade no mention of Jurek.We cannot say that reasonable jurists considering petition-er's claim in 1984 would have felt that these cases "dictated"vacatur of petitioner's death sentence. See Teague, 489U. S., at 301. To the contrary, to most readers at least, thesecases reasonably would have been read as upholding the con-stitutionalvalidity of Texas' capital sentencing scheme withrespect to mitigating evidence and otherwise. Lockett expressly embraced the Jurek holding, and Eddings signaledno retreat from that conclusion. It seems to us that reasonable jurists in 1984 would have found that, under our cases,the Texas statute satisfied the commands of the EighthAmendment: It permitted petitioner to place before the jurywhatever mitigating evidence he could show, including hisage, while focusing the jury's attention upon what that evi-dence revealed about the defendant's capacity for deliberation and prospects for rehabilitation.We find nothing in our more recent cases, to the extentthey are relevant, that would undermine this analysis. In1988, inFranklin v. Lynaugh, 487 U. S. 164, we rejected aclaim that the Texas special issues provided an inadequatevehicle for jury consideration of evidence of a defendant'sclean prison disciplinary record. There, a plurality of theCourt observed that "[i]n resolving the second Texas SpecialIssue, the jury was surely free to weigh and evaluate petitioner's disciplinary record as it bore on his `character'--thatis, his `character' as measured by his likely future behavior."Id., at 178. Moreover, the plurality found"unavailing petitioner's reliance on this Court's state-ment in Eddings, 455 U. S., at 114, that the sentencing506us2$23M 08-22-96 21:21:09 PAGES OPINPGT473Cite as: 506 U. S. 461 (1993)Opinion of the Courtjury may not be precluded from considering `anyrelevant, mitigating evidence.' This statement leavesunanswered the question: relevant to what? WhileLockett, supra, at 604, answers this question at least inpart--making it clear that a State cannot take out of therealm of relevant sentencing considerations the questions of the defendant's `character,' `record,' or the `cir-cumstances of the offense'--Lockett does not hold thatthe State has no role in structuring or giving shape tothe jury's consideration of these mitigating factors."Id., at 179 (citations omitted).To be sure, Justice O'Connor's opinion concurring in thejudgment in Franklin expressed "doubts" about the validityof the Texas death penalty statute as that statute might beapplied in future cases. Id., at 183. The Justice agreed,however, that the special issues adequately accounted for themitigating evidence presented in that case.Ibid.This brings us to Penry v. Lynaugh, 492 U. S. 302 (1989),upon which petitioner chiefly relies. In that case, the Courtoverturned a prisoner's death sentence, finding that theTexas special issues provided no genuine opportunity for thejury to give mitigating effect to evidence of his mental retardation and abused childhood. The Court considered thesefactors to be mitigating because they diminished the defendant's ability "to control his impulses or to evaluate the conse-quences of his conduct," and therefore reduced his moral culpability. Id., at 322. The Texas special issues permittedthe jury to consider this evidence, but not necessarily in away that would benefit the defendant. Although Penry's ev-idence of mental impairment and childhood abuse indeed hadrelevance to the "future dangerousness" inquiry, its rele-vance was aggravating only. "Penry's mental retardationand history of abuse is thus a two-edged sword: it may dimin-ish his blameworthiness for his crime even as it indicatesthat there is a probability that he will be dangerous in thefuture." Id., at 324. Whatever relevance Penry's evidence506us2$23M 08-22-96 21:21:09 PAGES OPINPGT474 GRAHAM v. COLLINSOpinion of the Courtmay have had to the other two special issues was too tenuousto overcome this aggravating potential. Because it was impossible to give meaningful mitigating effect to Penry's evi-dence by way of answering the special issues, the Court concluded that Penry was constitutionally entitled to furtherinstructions "informing the jury that it could consider andgive effect to [Penry's] evidence . . . by declining to imposethe death penalty."Id., at 328.We do not read Penry as effecting a sea change in thisCourt's view of the constitutionality of the former Texasdeath penalty statute; it does not broadly suggest the invalidity of the special issues framework.3 Indeed, any suchreading of Penry would be inconsistent with the Court's conclusion in that case that it was not announcing a "new rule"within the meaning of Teague v. Lane, 489 U. S. 288 (1989).See Penry, supra, at 318-319. As we have explained in sub-sequent cases:"To the extent that Penry's claim was that the Texassystem prevented the jury from giving any mitigatingeffect to the evidence of his mental retardation andabuse in childhood, the decision that the claim did not require the creation of a new rule is not surprising. Lockett and Eddings command that the State must allow thejury to give effect to mitigating evidence in making thesentencing decision; Penry's contention was that Texasbarred the jury from so acting. Here, by contrast,3 To the contrary, the Court made clear in that case the limited natureof the question presented: "Penry does not challenge the facial validityof the Texas death penalty statute, which was upheld against an EighthAmendment challenge in Jurek v. Texas, 428 U. S. 262 (1976). Nor doeshe dispute that some types of mitigating evidence can be fully consideredby the sentencer in the absence of special jury instructions. See Franklin v. Lynaugh, 487 U. S. 164, 175 (1988) (plurality opinion); id., at 185-186(O'Connor, J., concurring in judgment). Instead, Penry argues that, onthe facts of this case, the jury was unable to fully consider and give effectto the mitigating evidence of his mental retardation and abused background in answering the three special issues." 492 U. S., at 315.506us2$23M 08-22-96 21:21:09 PAGES OPINPGT475Cite as: 506 U. S. 461 (1993)Opinion of the Courtthere is no contention that the State altogether pre-vented Parks' jury from considering, weighing, and giving effect to all of the mitigating evidence that Parksput before them; rather, Parks' contention is that theState has unconstitutionally limited the manner in whichhis mitigating evidence may be considered. As we haveconcluded above, the former contention would comeunder the rule ofLockett and Eddings; the latter doesnot." Saffle v. Parks, 494 U. S., at 491.In our view, the rule that Graham seeks is not commandedby the cases upon which Penry rested. In those cases, theconstitutional defect lay in the fact that relevant mitigatingevidence was placed beyond the effective reach of the sentencer. In Lockett, Eddings, Skipper, and Hitchcock, thesentencer was precluded from even considering certain typesof mitigating evidence. In Penry, the defendant's evidencewas placed before the sentencer but the sentencer had noreliable means of giving mitigating effect to that evidence.In this case, however, Graham's mitigating evidence was notplaced beyond the jury's effective reach. Graham indisput-ably was permitted to place all of his evidence before thejury and both of Graham's two defense lawyers vigorouslyurged the jury to answer "no" to the special issues based onthis evidence. Most important, the jury plainly could havedone so consistent with its instructions. The jury was notforbidden to accept the suggestion of Graham's lawyers thathis brief spasm of criminal activity in May 1981 was properlyviewed, in light of his youth, his background, and his charac-ter, as an aberration that was not likely to be repeated.Even if Graham's evidence, like Penry's, had significance be-yond the scope of the first special issue, it is apparent thatGraham's evidence--unlike Penry's--had mitigating rele-vance to the second special issue concerning his likely futuredangerousness. Whereas Penry's evidence compelled anaffirmative answer to that inquiry, despite its mitigatingsignificance, Graham's evidence quite readily could have506us2$23M 08-22-96 21:21:09 PAGES OPINPGT476 GRAHAM v. COLLINSOpinion of the Courtsupported a negative answer. This distinction leads us toconclude that neitherPenry nor any of its predecessors "dictates" the relief Graham seeks within the meaning requiredbyTeague. See Stringer v. Black, 503 U. S., at 238 (Souter,J., dissenting): "The result in a given case is not dictatedby precedent if it is `susceptible to debate among reasonableminds,' or, put differently, if `reasonable jurists may disagree' " (citations omitted).Moreover, we are not convinced thatPenry could be extended to cover the sorts of mitigating evidence Graham sug-gests without a wholesale abandonment ofJurek and perhaps also of Franklin v. Lynaugh. As we have noted, Jurekis reasonably read as holding that the circumstance of youthis given constitutionally adequate consideration in decidingthe special issues. We see no reason to regard the circumstances of Graham's family background and positive character traits in a different light. Graham's evidence of transient upbringing and otherwise nonviolent character moreclosely resembles Jurek's evidence of age, employment history, and familial ties than it does Penry's evidence of mentalretardation and harsh physical abuse. As the dissent inFranklin made clear, virtually any mitigating evidence iscapable of being viewed as having some bearing on the defendant's "moral culpability" apart from its relevance to theparticular concerns embodied in the Texas special issues.See Franklin, 487 U. S., at 190 (Stevens, J., dissenting). Itseems to us, however, that reading Penry as petitionerurges--and thereby holding that a defendant is entitled tospecial instructions whenever he can offer mitigating evidence that has some arguable relevance beyond the specialissues--would be to require in all cases that a fourth "specialissue" be put to the jury: " `Does any mitigating evidencebefore you, whether or not relevant to the above [three]questions, lead you to believe that the death penalty shouldnot be imposed?' " The Franklin plurality rejected precisely this contention, finding it irreconcilable with the506us2$23M 08-22-96 21:21:09 PAGES OPINPGT477Cite as: 506 U. S. 461 (1993)Opinion of the CourtCourt's holding in Jurek, see Franklin, supra, at 180, n. 10,and we affirm that conclusion today. Accepting Graham'ssubmission would unmistakably result in a new rule underTeague. See Saffle v. Parks, supra, at 488; Butler v. McKellar, 494 U. S., at 412.In sum, even ifPenry reasonably could be read to suggestthat Graham's mitigating evidence was not adequately considered under the former Texas procedures, that is not therelevant inquiry under Teague. Rather, the determinativequestion is whether reasonable jurists reading the case lawthat existed in 1984 could have concluded that Graham's sentencing was not constitutionally infirm. We cannot say thatall reasonable jurists would have deemed themselves compelled to accept Graham's claim in 1984. Nor can we say,even with the benefit of the Court's subsequent decision inPenry, that reasonable jurists would be of one mind in rulingon Graham's claim today. The ruling Graham seeks, therefore, would be a "new rule" under Teague.2Having decided that the relief Graham seeks would re-quire announcement of a new rule under Teague, we nextconsider whether that rule nonetheless would fall within oneof the two exceptions recognized inTeague to the "new rule"principle. "The first exception permits the retroactive application of a new rule if the rule places a class of privateconduct beyond the power of the State to proscribe, seeTeague, 489 U. S., at 311, or addresses a `substantive categor-ical guarante[e] accorded by the Constitution,' such as a rule`prohibiting a certain category of punishment for a class ofdefendants because of their status or offense.' "Saffle v.Parks, supra, at 494 (quoting Penry, 492 U. S., at 329, 330).Plainly, this exception has no application here because therule Graham seeks "would neither decriminalize a class ofconduct nor prohibit the imposition of capital punishment ona particular class of persons." 494 U. S., at 495.506us2$23M 08-22-96 21:21:09 PAGES OPINPGT478 GRAHAM v. COLLINSThomas, J., concurringThe second exception permits federal courts on collateralreview to announce " `watershed rules of criminal procedure'implicating the fundamental fairness and accuracy of thecriminal proceeding."Ibid. Whatever the precise scope ofthis exception, it is clearly meant to apply only to a smallcore of rules requiring "observance of `those proceduresthat . . . are "implicit in the concept of ordered liberty." ' "Teague, supra, at 311 (quoting Mackey v. United States, 401U. S. 667, 693 (1971) (Harlan, J., concurring in judgments inpart and dissenting in part) (in turn quoting Palko v. Connecticut, 302 U. S. 319, 325 (1937))); see also Butler v. McKellar, supra, at 416. As the plurality cautioned in Teague,"[b]ecause we operate from the premise that such procedureswould be so central to an accurate determination of innocence or guilt, we believe it unlikely that many such compo-nents of basic due process have yet to emerge." 489 U. S.,at 313. We do not believe that denying Graham special juryinstructions concerning his mitigating evidence of youth,family background, and positive character traits "seriouslydiminish[ed] the likelihood of obtaining an accurate determination" in his sentencing proceeding. See Butler v. McKellar, supra, at 416. Accordingly, we find the second Teagueexception to be inapplicable as well.The judgment of the Court of Appeals is therefore