On September 24, 1987, petitioner Keith Jacobson was indicted for violating a provision of the Child Protection Actof 1984 (Act), Pub. L. 98-292, 98 Stat. 204, which criminalizesthe knowing receipt through the mails of a "visual depiction[that] involves the use of a minor engaging in sexually explicit conduct . . . ." 18 U. S. C. $ 2252(a)(2)(A). Petitionerdefended on the ground that the Government entrapped himinto committing the crime through a series of communications from undercover agents that spanned the 26 monthspreceding his arrest. Petitioner was found guilty after ajury trial. The Court of Appeals affirmed his conviction,holding that the Government had carried its burden of proving beyond reasonable doubt that petitioner was predisposedto break the law and hence was not entrapped.Because the Government overstepped the line betweensetting a trap for the "unwary innocent" and the "unwarycriminal," Sherman v. United States, 356 U. S. 369, 372(1958), and as a matter of law failed to establish that petitioner was independently predisposed to commit the crimefor which he was arrested, we reverse the Court of Appeals'judgment affirming his conviction.IIn February 1984, petitioner, a 56-year-old veteranturned-farmer who supported his elderly father in Nebraska,ordered two magazines and a brochure from a Californiaadult bookstore. The magazines, entitled Bare Boys I andBare Boys II, contained photographs of nude preteen andManak filed a brief for Americans for Effective Law Enforcement, Inc.,et al. as amici curiae urging affirmance.Briefs of amici curiae were filed for the National Center for Missingand Exploited Children et al. by H. Robert Showers and Judith DrazenSchretter; and for Congressman Thomas J. Bliley, Jr., et al. by James P.Mueller, Michael J. Lockerby, and David E. Anderson.503us2$59D 11-14-95 20:12:13 PAGES OPINPGT543Cite as: 503 U. S. 540 (1992)Opinion of the Courtteenage boys. The contents of the magazines startledpetitioner, who testified that he had expected to receivephotographs of "young men 18 years or older." Tr. 425.On cross-examination, he explained his response to themagazines:"[PROSECUTOR]: [Y]ou were shocked and surprisedthat there were pictures of very young boys withoutclothes on, is that correct?"[JACOBSON]: Yes, I was."[PROSECUTOR]: Were you offended?. . . . ."[JACOBSON]: I was not offended because I thoughtthese were a nudist type publication. Many of thepictures were out in a rural or outdoor setting. Therewas--I didn't draw any sexual connotation or connectionwith that." Id., at 463.The young men depicted in the magazines were not engagedin sexual activity, and petitioner's receipt of the magazineswas legal under both federal and Nebraska law. Withinthree months, the law with respect to child pornographychanged; Congress passed the Act illegalizing the receiptthrough the mails of sexually explicit depictions of children.In the very month that the new provision became law, postalinspectors found petitioner's name on the mailing list of theCalifornia bookstore that had mailed him Bare Boys I andII. There followed over the next 21/2 years repeated effortsby two Government agencies, through five fictitious organi-zations and a bogus pen pal, to explore petitioner's willingness to break the new law by ordering sexually explicit pho-tographs of children through the mail.The Government began its efforts in January 1985 when apostal inspector sent petitioner a letter supposedly from theAmerican Hedonist Society, which in fact was a fictitious or-ganization. The letter included a membership applicationand stated the Society's doctrine: that members had the503us2$59D 11-14-95 20:12:13 PAGES OPINPGT544 JACOBSON v. UNITED STATESOpinion of the Court"right to read what we desire, the right to discuss similarinterests with those who share our philosophy, and finallythat we have the right to seek pleasure without restrictionsbeing placed on us by outdated puritan morality." Record,Government Exhibit 7. Petitioner enrolled in the organization and returned a sexual attitude questionnaire that askedhim to rank on a scale of one to four his enjoyment of varioussexual materials, with one being "really enjoy," two being"enjoy," three being "somewhat enjoy," and four being "donot enjoy." Petitioner ranked the entry "[p]re-teen sex" as atwo, but indicated that he was opposed to pedophilia.Ibid.For a time, the Government left petitioner alone. Butthen a new "prohibited mailing specialist" in the PostalService found petitioner's name in a file, Tr. 328-331, andin May 1986, petitioner received a solicitation from a secondfictitious consumer research company, "Midlands Data Research," seeking a response from those who "believe in thejoys of sex and the complete awareness of those lusty andyouthful lads and lasses of the neophite [sic] age." Record,Government Exhibit 8. The letter never explained whether"neophite" referred to minors or young adults. Petitionerresponded: "Please feel free to send me more information, Iam interested in teenage sexuality. Please keep my nameconfidential." Ibid.Petitioner then heard from yet another Government creation, "Heartland Institute for a New Tomorrow" (HINT),which proclaimed that it was "an organization founded toprotect and promote sexual freedom and freedom of choice.We believe that arbitrarily imposed legislative sanctions restricting your sexual freedom should be rescinded throughthe legislative process." Id., Defendant's Exhibit 102. Theletter also enclosed a second survey. Petitioner indicatedthat his interest in "[p]reteen sex-homosexual" material wasabove average, but not high. In response to another question, petitioner wrote: "Not only sexual expression but freedom of the press is under attack. We must be ever vigilant503us2$59D 11-14-95 20:12:13 PAGES OPINPGT545Cite as: 503 U. S. 540 (1992)Opinion of the Courtto counter attack right wing fundamentalists who are deter-mined to curtail our freedoms." Id., Government Exhibit 9.HINT replied, portraying itself as a lobbying organizationseeking to repeal "all statutes which regulate sexual activities, except those laws which deal with violent behavior, suchas rape. HINT is also lobbying to eliminate any legal definition of `the age of consent.' " Id., Defendant's Exhibit 113.These lobbying efforts were to be funded by sales from acatalog to be published in the future "offering the sale ofvarious items which we believe you will find to be both interesting and stimulating." Ibid. HINT also provided com-puter matching of group members with similar survey responses; and, although petitioner was supplied with a list ofpotential "pen pals," he did not initiate any correspondence.Nevertheless, the Government's "prohibited mailing spe-cialist" began writing to petitioner, using the pseudonym"Carl Long." The letters employed a tactic known as "mir-roring," which the inspector described as "reflect[ing] whatever the interests are of the person we are writing to." Tr.342. Petitioner responded at first, indicating that his interest was primarily in "male-male items." Record, Govern-ment Exhibit 9A. Inspector "Long" wrote back:"My interests too are primarily male-male items.Are you satisfied with the type of VCR tapes available?Personally, I like the amateur stuff better if its [sic]well produced as it can get more kinky and also seemsmore real. I think the actors enjoy it more." Id., Gov-ernment Exhibit 13.Petitioner responded:"As far as my likes are concerned, I like good lookingyoung guys (in their late teens and early 20's) doingtheir thing together." Id., Government Exhibit 14.Petitioner's letters to "Long" made no reference to childpornography. After writing two letters, petitioner discontinued the correspondence.503us2$59D 11-14-95 20:12:13 PAGES OPINPGT546 JACOBSON v. UNITED STATESOpinion of the CourtBy March 1987, 34 months had passed since the Govern-ment obtained petitioner's name from the mailing list of theCalifornia bookstore, and 26 months had passed since thePostal Service had commenced its mailings to petitioner. Although petitioner had responded to surveys and letters, theGovernment had no evidence that petitioner had ever intentionally possessed or been exposed to child pornography.The Postal Service had not checked petitioner's mail to determine whether he was receiving questionable mailingsfrom persons--other than the Government--involved in thechild pornography industry. Tr. 348.At this point, a second Government agency, the CustomsService, included petitioner in its own child pornographysting, "Operation Borderline," after receiving his name onlists submitted by the Postal Service. Id., at 71-72. Usingthe name of a fictitious Canadian company called "ProduitOutaouais," the Customs Service mailed petitioner a bro-chure advertising photographs of young boys engaging insex. Record, Government Exhibit 22. Petitioner placed anorder that was never filled.Id., Government Exhibit 24.The Postal Service also continued its efforts in the Jacobson case, writing to petitioner as the "Far Eastern TradingCompany Ltd." The letter began:"As many of you know, much hysterical nonsense hasappeared in the American media concerning `pornography' and what must be done to stop it from comingacross your borders. This brief letter does not allow usto give much comments; however, why is your govern-ment spending millions of dollars to exercise international censorship while tons of drugs, which makesyours the world's most crime ridden country are passedthrough easily." Id., Government Exhibit 1.The letter went on to say:"[W]e have devised a method of getting these to youwithout prying eyes of U. S. Customs seizing your503us2$59D 11-14-95 20:12:13 PAGES OPINPGT547Cite as: 503 U. S. 540 (1992)Opinion of the Courtmail. . . . After consultations with American solicitors,we have been advised that once we have posted our material through your system, it cannot be opened for anyinspection without authorization of a judge." Ibid.The letter invited petitioner to send for more information.It also asked petitioner to sign an affirmation that he was"not a law enforcement officer or agent of the U. S. Govern-ment acting in an undercover capacity for the purpose ofentrapping Far Eastern Trading Company, its agents or cus-tomers." Petitioner responded.Ibid. A catalog was sent,id., Government Exhibit 2, and petitioner ordered Boys WhoLove Boys, id., Government Exhibit 3, a pornographic maga-zine depicting young boys engaged in various sexual activities. Petitioner was arrested after a controlled delivery ofa photocopy of the magazine.When petitioner was asked at trial why he placed such anorder, he explained that the Government had succeeded inpiquing his curiosity:"Well, the statement was made of all the trouble and thehysteria over pornography and I wanted to see what thematerial was. It didn't describe the--I didn't know forsure what kind of sexual action they were referring toin the Canadian letter." Tr. 427-428.In petitioner's home, the Government found the Bare Boysmagazines and materials that the Government had sent tohim in the course of its protracted investigation, but no othermaterials that would indicate that petitioner collected, orwas actively interested in, child pornography.Petitioner was indicted for violating 18 U. S. C. $ 2252(a)(2)(A). The trial court instructed the jury on the petition-er's entrapment defense,1 petitioner was convicted, and a di1 The jury was instructed:"As mentioned, one of the issues in this case is whether the defendantwas entrapped. If the defendant was entrapped he must be found not503us2$59D 11-14-95 20:12:13 PAGES OPINPGT548 JACOBSON v. UNITED STATESOpinion of the Courtvided Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit, sitting enbanc, affirmed, concluding that "Jacobson was not entrappedas a matter of law." 916 F. 2d 467, 470 (1990). We grantedcertiorari. 499 U. S. 974 (1991).IIThere can be no dispute about the evils of child pornogra-phy or the difficulties that laws and law enforcement haveencountered in eliminating it. See generally Osborne v.Ohio, 495 U. S. 103, 110 (1990); New York v. Ferber, 458 U. S.747, 759-760 (1982). Likewise, there can be no dispute thatthe Government may use undercover agents to enforce thelaw. "It is well settled that the fact that officers or employees of the Government merely afford opportunities or facili-ties for the commission of the offense does not defeat theprosecution. Artifice and stratagem may be employed tocatch those engaged in criminal enterprises."Sorrells v.United States, 287 U. S. 435, 441 (1932); Sherman, 356 U. S.,at 372; United States v. Russell, 411 U. S. 423, 435-436(1973).In their zeal to enforce the law, however, Governmentagents may not originate a criminal design, implant in aninnocent person's mind the disposition to commit a criminalact, and then induce commission of the crime so that theGovernment may prosecute. Sorrells, supra, at 442; Sherman, supra, at 372. Where the Government has induced anguilty. The government has the burden of proving beyond a reasonabledoubt that the defendant was not entrapped."If the defendant before contact with law-enforcement officers or theiragents did not have any intent or disposition to commit the crime chargedand was induced or persuaded by law-enforcement officers o[r] their agentsto commit that crime, then he was entrapped. On the other hand, if thedefendant before contact with law-enforcement officers or their agents didhave an intent or disposition to commit the crime charged, then he was notentrapped even though law-enforcement officers or their agents provided afavorable opportunity to commit the crime or made committing the crimeeasier or even participated in acts essential to the crime." App. 11-12.503us2$59D 11-14-95 20:12:13 PAGES OPINPGT549Cite as: 503 U. S. 540 (1992)Opinion of the Courtindividual to break the law and the defense of entrapment isat issue, as it was in this case, the prosecution must provebeyond reasonable doubt that the defendant was disposed tocommit the criminal act prior to first being approached byGovernment agents. United States v. Whoie, 288 U. S. App.D. C. 261, 263-264, 925 F. 2d 1481, 1483-1484 (1991).2Thus, an agent deployed to stop the traffic in illegal drugsmay offer the opportunity to buy or sell drugs and, if theoffer is accepted, make an arrest on the spot or later. In2 Inducement is not at issue in this case. The Government does notdispute that it induced petitioner to commit the crime. The sole issue iswhether the Government carried its burden of proving that petitioner waspredisposed to violate the law before the Government intervened. Thedissent is mistaken in claiming that this is an innovation in entrapmentlaw and in suggesting that the Government's conduct prior to the momentof solicitation is irrelevant. See post, at 556-557. The Court rejectedthese arguments six decades ago in Sorrells v. United States, 287 U. S.435 (1932), when the Court wrote that the Government may not punish anindividual "for an alleged offense which is the product of the creative activity of its own officials" and that in such a case the Government "is inno position to object to evidence of the activities of its representatives inrelation to the accused . . . ." Id., at 451. Indeed, the proposition thatthe accused must be predisposed prior to contact with law enforcementofficers is so firmly established that the Government conceded the pointat oral argument, submitting that the evidence it developed during thecourse of its investigation was probative because it indicated petitioner'sstate of mind prior to the commencement of the Government's investigation. See Tr. of Oral Arg. 41, 49.This long-established standard in no way encroaches upon Governmentinvestigatory activities. Indeed, the Government's internal guidelines forundercover operations provide that an inducement to commit a crimeshould not be offered unless:"(a) [T]here is a reasonable indication, based on information developedthrough informants or other means, that the subject is engaging, has engaged, or is likely to engage in illegal activity of a similar type; or"(b) The opportunity for illegal activity has been structured so thatthere is reason for believing that persons drawn to the opportunity, orbrought to it, are predisposed to engage in the contemplated illegal activity." Attorney General's Guidelines on FBI Undercover Operations (Dec.31, 1980), reprinted in S. Rep. No. 97-682, p. 551 (1982).503us2$59D 11-14-95 20:12:13 PAGES OPINPGT550 JACOBSON v. UNITED STATESOpinion of the Courtsuch a typical case, or in a more elaborate "sting" operationinvolving government-sponsored fencing where the defendant is simply provided with the opportunity to commit acrime, the entrapment defense is of little use because theready commission of the criminal act amply demonstratesthe defendant's predisposition. See United States v. Sherman, 200 F. 2d 880, 882 (CA2 1952). Had the agents in thiscase simply offered petitioner the opportunity to order childpornography through the mails, and petitioner--who mustbe presumed to know the law--had promptly availed himselfof this criminal opportunity, it is unlikely that his entrapment defense would have warranted a jury instruction.Mathews v. United States, 485 U. S. 58, 66 (1988).But that is not what happened here. By the time petitioner finally placed his order, he had already been the targetof 26 months of repeated mailings and communications fromGovernment agents and fictitious organizations. Therefore,although he had become predisposed to break the law byMay 1987, it is our view that the Government did not provethat this predisposition was independent and not the productof the attention that the Government had directed at petitioner since January 1985. Sorrells, supra, at 442; Sherman, 356 U. S., at 372.The prosecution's evidence of predisposition falls into twocategories: evidence developed prior to the Postal Service'smail campaign, and that developed during the course of theinvestigation. The sole piece of preinvestigation evidence ispetitioner's 1984 order and receipt of the Bare Boys magazines. But this is scant if any proof of petitioner's predisposition to commit an illegal act, the criminal character ofwhich a defendant is presumed to know. It may indicate apredisposition to view sexually oriented photographs thatare responsive to his sexual tastes; but evidence that merelyindicates a generic inclination to act within a broad range,not all of which is criminal, is of little probative value inestablishing predisposition.503us2$59D 11-14-95 20:12:13 PAGES OPINPGT551Cite as: 503 U. S. 540 (1992)Opinion of the CourtFurthermore, petitioner was acting within the law at thetime he received these magazines. Receipt through themails of sexually explicit depictions of children for noncom-mercial use did not become illegal under federal law untilMay 1984, and Nebraska had no law that forbade petitioner'spossession of such material until 1988. Neb. Rev. Stat. $ 28-813.01 (1989). Evidence of predisposition to do what oncewas lawful is not, by itself, sufficient to show predispositionto do what is now illegal, for there is a common understanding that most people obey the law even when they disap-prove of it. This obedience may reflect a generalized respect for legality or the fear of prosecution, but for whateverreason, the law's prohibitions are matters of consequence.Hence, the fact that petitioner legally ordered and receivedthe Bare Boys magazines does little to further the Govern-ment's burden of proving that petitioner was predisposed tocommit a criminal act. This is particularly true given petitioner's unchallenged testimony that he did not know untilthey arrived that the magazines would depict minors.The prosecution's evidence gathered during the investigation also fails to carry the Government's burden. Petitioner's responses to the many communications prior to the ultimate criminal act were at most indicative of certain personalinclinations, including a predisposition to view photographsof preteen sex and a willingness to promote a given agendaby supporting lobbying organizations. Even so, petitioner'sresponses hardly support an inference that he would committhe crime of receiving child pornography through the mails.3Furthermore, a person's inclinations and "fantasies . . . are3 We do not hold, as the dissent suggests, see post, at 559-560, that theGovernment was required to prove that petitioner knowingly violated thelaw. We simply conclude that proof that petitioner engaged in legal conduct and possessed certain generalized personal inclinations is not sufficient evidence to prove beyond a reasonable doubt that he would havebeen predisposed to commit the crime charged independent of the Government's coaxing.503us2$59D 11-14-95 20:12:13 PAGES OPINPGT552 JACOBSON v. UNITED STATESOpinion of the Courthis own and beyond the reach of government . . . ." ParisAdult Theatre I v. Slaton, 413 U. S. 49, 67 (1973); Stanley v.Georgia, 394 U. S. 557, 565-566 (1969).On the other hand, the strong arguable inference is that,by waving the banner of individual rights and disparagingthe legitimacy and constitutionality of efforts to restrict theavailability of sexually explicit materials, the Governmentnot only excited petitioner's interest in sexually explicit ma-terials banned by law but also exerted substantial pressureon petitioner to obtain and read such material as part of afight against censorship and the infringement of individualrights. For instance, HINT described itself as "an organization founded to protect and promote sexual freedom andfreedom of choice" and stated that "the most appropriatemeans to accomplish [its] objectives is to promote honest dialogue among concerned individuals and to continue its lobbying efforts with State Legislators." Record, Defendant'sExhibit 113. These lobbying efforts were to be financedthrough catalog sales. Ibid. Mailings from the equallyfictitious American Hedonist Society, id., Government Exhibit 7, and the correspondence from the nonexistent CarlLong, id., Defendant's Exhibit 5, endorsed these themes.Similarly, the two solicitations in the spring of 1987 raisedthe spectre of censorship while suggesting that petitionerought to be allowed to do what he had been solicited to do.The mailing from the Customs Service referred to "theworldwide ban and intense enforcement on this type ofmaterial," observed that "what was legal and commonplaceis now an `underground' and secretive service," and emphasized that "[t]his environment forces us to take extrememeasures" to ensure delivery. Id., Government Exhibit 22.The Postal Service solicitation described the concern aboutchild pornography as "hysterical nonsense," decried "international censorship," and assured petitioner, based on consultation with "American solicitors," that an order that hadbeen posted could not be opened for inspection without au503us2$59D 11-14-95 20:12:13 PAGES OPINPGT553Cite as: 503 U. S. 540 (1992)Opinion of the Courtthorization of a judge. Id., Government Exhibit 1. It fur-ther asked petitioner to affirm that he was not a Government agent attempting to entrap the mail order companyor its customers.Ibid. In these particulars, both Government solicitations suggested that receiving this material wassomething that petitioner ought to be allowed to do.Petitioner's ready response to these solicitations cannot beenough to establish beyond reasonable doubt that he waspredisposed, prior to the Government acts intended to createpredisposition, to commit the crime of receiving child por-nography through the mails. SeeSherman, 356 U. S., at374. The evidence that petitioner was ready and willing tocommit the offense came only after the Government had devoted 21/2 years to convincing him that he had or should havethe right to engage in the very behavior proscribed by law.Rational jurors could not say beyond a reasonable doubt thatpetitioner possessed the requisite predisposition prior to theGovernment's investigation and that it existed independentof the Government's many and varied approaches to petitioner. As was explained in Sherman, where entrapmentwas found as a matter of law, "the Government [may not]pla[y] on the weaknesses of an innocent party and beguil[e]him into committing crimes which he otherwise would nothave attempted." Id., at 376.Law enforcement officials go too far when they "implantin the mind of an innocent person the disposition to committhe alleged offense and induce its commission in order thatthey may prosecute." Sorrells, 287 U. S., at 442 (emphasisadded). Like the Sorrells Court, we are "unable to concludethat it was the intention of the Congress in enacting thisstatute that its processes of detection and enforcementshould be abused by the instigation by government officialsof an act on the part of persons otherwise innocent in orderto lure them to its commission and to punish them." Id., at448. When the Government's quest for convictions leads tothe apprehension of an otherwise law-abiding citizen who, if503us2$59D 11-14-95 20:12:13 PAGES OPINPGT554 JACOBSON v. UNITED STATESO'Connor, J., dissentingleft to his own devices, likely would have never run afoul ofthe law, the courts should intervene.Because we conclude that this is such a case and that theprosecution failed, as a matter of law, to adduce evidenceto support the jury verdict that petitioner was predisposed,independent of the Government's acts and beyond a reasonable doubt, to violate the law by receiving child pornographythrough the mails, we reverse the Court of Appeals' judgment affirming the conviction of Keith Jacobson.