Respondent is a Cuban immigrant with little education andalmost no knowledge of English. In 1984, he was chargedwith murder arising from the stabbing death of a man whohad allegedly attempted to intervene in a confrontation between respondent and his girlfriend in a bar.Respondent was provided with a defense attorney and interpreter. The attorney recommended to respondent thathe plead nolo contendere to first-degree manslaughter. Ore.Rev. Stat. $ 163.118(1)(a) (1987). Respondent signed a pleaform that explained in English the rights he was waiving byentering the plea. The state court held a plea hearing, atwhich petitioner was represented by counsel and his interpreter. The judge asked the attorney and interpreter ifthey had explained to respondent the rights in the plea formand the consequences of his plea; they responded in the affirmative. The judge then explained to respondent, in English, the rights he would waive by his plea, and asked theinterpreter to translate. Respondent indicated that he understood his rights and still wished to plead nolo contendere.The judge accepted his plea.Later, respondent brought a collateral attack on the pleain a state-court proceeding. He alleged his plea had notbeen knowing and intelligent and therefore was invalid because his translator had not translated accurately and completely for him the mens rea element of manslaughter. Healso contended that he did not understand the purposes ofthe plea form or the plea hearing. He contended that he didnot know he was pleading no contest to manslaughter, butrather that he thought he was agreeing to be tried formanslaughter.H. Thornburg of North Carolina, Ernest D. Preate, Jr., of Pennsylvania,Charles W. Burson of Tennessee, and Kenneth O. Eikenberry of Washington; and for the Criminal Justice Legal Foundation by Kent S. Scheidegger.504us1$66D 04-04-96 19:48:30 PAGES OPINPGT4 KEENEY v. TAMAYO-REYESOpinion of the CourtAfter a hearing, the state court dismissed respondent's pe-tition, finding that respondent was properly served by histrial interpreter and that the interpreter correctly, fully, andaccurately translated the communications between respondent and his attorney. App. 51. The State Court of Appealsaffirmed, and the State Supreme Court denied review.Respondent then entered Federal District Court seekinga writ of habeas corpus. Respondent contended that thematerial facts concerning the translation were not ade-quately developed at the state-court hearing, implicating thefifth circumstance of Townsend v. Sain, 372 U. S. 293, 313(1963), and sought a federal evidentiary hearing on whetherhis nolo contendere plea was unconstitutional. The DistrictCourt found that the failure to develop the critical facts relevant to his federal claim was attributable to inexcusable ne-glect and that no evidentiary hearing was required. App.to Pet. for Cert. 37, 38. Respondent appealed.The Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit recognized thatthe alleged failure to translate the mens rea element of first-degree manslaughter, if proved, would be a basis for overturning respondent's plea, 926 F. 2d 1492, 1494 (1991), anddetermined that material facts had not been adequately developed in the state postconviction court, id., at 1500, appar-ently due to the negligence of postconviction counsel. Thecourt held that Townsend v. Sain, supra, at 317, and Fay v.Noia, 372 U. S. 391, 438 (1963), required an evidentiary hear-ing in the District Court unless respondent had deliberatelybypassed the orderly procedure of the state courts. Be-cause counsel's negligent failure to develop the facts did notconstitute a deliberate bypass, the Court of Appeals ruledthat respondent was entitled to an evidentiary hearing onthe question whether the mens rea element of first-degreemanslaughter was properly explained to him. 926 F. 2d, at1502.11 With respect to respondent's claim that the plea form and plea proceeding were not adequately translated, the Court of Appeals concluded thatstate postconviction proceedings afforded petitioner ample opportunity to504us1$66D 04-04-96 19:48:31 PAGES OPINPGT5Cite as: 504 U. S. 1 (1992)Opinion of the CourtWe granted certiorari to decide whether the deliberate by-pass standard is the correct standard for excusing a habeaspetitioner's failure to develop a material fact in state-courtproceedings. 502 U. S. 807 (1991). We reverse.Because the holding of Townsend v. Sain that Fay v.Noia's deliberate bypass standard is applicable in a case likethis had not been reversed, it is quite understandable thatthe Court of Appeals applied that standard in this case. How-ever, in light of more recent decisions of this Court, Townsend's holding in this respect must be overruled.2 Fay v.contest the translations, that the material facts surrounding these issueswere adequately developed, and that the state court's findings were adequately supported by the record. The Court of Appeals therefore heldthat a federal evidentiary hearing on that claim was not required. 926F. 2d, at 1502.2 Justice O'Connor asserts that Townsend v. Sain, 372 U. S. 293(1963), insofar as relevant to this case, merely reflected existing law.The claim thus seems to be that the general rule stated by the Courtin Townsend governing when an evidentiary hearing must be granted toa federal habeas corpus petitioner, as well as each of the Court's sixcriteria particularizing its general pronouncement, reflected what wasto be found in prior holdings of the Court. This is a very doubtfulclaim. Surely the Court at that time did not think this was the case,for it pointedly observed that prior cases had not settled all aspects of thehearing problem in habeas proceedings and that the lower federal courtshad reached widely divergent and irreconcilable results in dealing withhearing issues. Id., at 310, and n. 8. Hence it deemed it advisable togive further guidance to the lower courts. It also expressly stated thatthe rules it was announcing "must be considered to supersede, to theextent of any inconsistencies, the opinions in Brown v. Allen[, 344 U. S.443 (1953)]." Id., at 312. This was necessary because Brown was inconsistent with the holding of Townsend regarding habeas petitionerswho failed to adequately develop federal claims in state-court proceedings. See Brown v. Allen, 344 U. S. 443, 465 (1953) (federal courtmay deny writ without rehearing of facts "where the legality of [the]detention has been determined, on the facts presented," by the statecourt) (emphasis added); id., at 463 (writ should be refused, without more,if federal court satisfied from the record that "state process has givenfair consideration to the issues and the offered evidence") (emphasisadded). We have unequivocally acknowledged that Townsend substantially changed the availability of evidentiary hearings in federal504us1$66D 04-04-96 19:48:31 PAGES OPINPGT6 KEENEY v. TAMAYO-REYESOpinion of the CourtNoia was itself a case where the habeas petitioner had nottaken advantage of state remedies by failing to appeal--aprocedural default case. Since that time, however, thisCourt has rejected the deliberate bypass standard in stateprocedural default cases and has applied instead a standardof cause and prejudice.In Francis v. Henderson, 425 U. S. 536 (1976), we acknowl-edged a federal court's power to entertain an application forhabeas even where the claim has been procedurally waivedin state proceedings, but nonetheless examined the appropriateness of the exercise of that power and recognized, as wehad inFay, that considerations of comity and concerns forthe orderly administration of criminal justice may in somecircumstances require a federal court to forgo the exerciseof its habeas corpus power. 425 U. S., at 538-539. We heldthat a federal habeas petitioner is required to show causefor his procedural default, as well as actual prejudice.Id.,at 542.In Wainwright v. Sykes, 433 U. S. 72 (1977), we rejectedthe application ofFay's standard of "knowing waiver" or"deliberate bypass" to excuse a petitioner's failure to complywith a state contemporaneous-objection rule, stating that thestate rule deserved more respect than the Fay standard accorded it. 433 U. S., at 88. We observed that proceduralrules that contribute to error-free state trial proceedingsare thoroughly desirable. We applied a cause-and-prejudicestandard to a petitioner's failure to object at trial and limitedhabeas proceedings. See Smith v. Yeager, 393 U. S. 122, 125 (1968) (percuriam).It is not surprising, then, that none of the cases cited by Justice O'Connor remotely support Townsend's requirement for a hearing in any casewhere the "material facts were not adequately developed at the statecourt hearing" due to petitioner's own neglect. 372 U. S., at 313. Finally, it is undeniable that Fay v. Noia's deliberate bypass standard overruled prior procedural default cases, and it is no less true that Townsend'sadoption of that standard as a definition of "inexcusable neglect" madenew law.504us1$66D 04-04-96 19:48:31 PAGES OPINPGT7Cite as: 504 U. S. 1 (1992)Opinion of the CourtFay to its facts. 433 U. S., at 87-88, and n. 12. We haveconsistently reaffirmed that the "cause-and-prejudice" standard embodies the correct accommodation between the com-peting concerns implicated in a federal court's habeas power.Reed v. Ross, 468 U. S. 1, 11 (1984); Engle v. Isaac, 456 U. S.107, 129 (1982).InMcCleskey v. Zant, 499 U. S. 467 (1991), we held thatthe same standard used to excuse state procedural defaultsshould be applied in habeas corpus cases where abuse of thewrit is claimed by the government. Id., at 493. This con-clusion rested on the fact that the two doctrines are similarin purpose and design and implicate similar concerns. Id.,at 493-494. The writ strikes at finality of a state criminalconviction, a matter of particular importance in a federal system. Id., at 491, citing Murray v. Carrier, 477 U. S. 478, 487(1986). Federal habeas litigation also places a heavy burdenon scarce judicial resources, may give litigants incentives towithhold claims for manipulative purposes, and may createdisincentives to present claims when evidence is fresh. 499U. S., at 491-492. See also Reed v. Ross, supra, at 13; Wainwright, supra, at 89.Again addressing the issue of state procedural default inColeman v. Thompson, 501 U. S. 722 (1991), we describedFay as based on a conception of federal/state relationsthat undervalued the importance of state procedural rules,501 U. S., at 750, and went on to hold that the cause-andprejudice standard applicable to failure to raise a particularclaim should apply as well to failure to appeal at all. Ibid."All of the State's interests--in channeling the resolution ofclaims to the most appropriate forum, in finality, and in having an opportunity to correct its own errors--are implicatedwhether a prisoner defaults one claim or all of them." Id.,at 750. We therefore applied the cause-and-prejudice standard uniformly to state procedural defaults, eliminating the"irrational" distinction between Fay and subsequent cases.501 U. S., at 751. In light of these decisions, it is similarly504us1$66D 04-04-96 19:48:31 PAGES OPINPGT8 KEENEY v. TAMAYO-REYESOpinion of the Courtirrational to distinguish between failing to properly assert afederal claim in state court and failing in state court to properly develop such a claim, and to apply to the latter a remnant of a decision that is no longer upheld with regard tothe former.The concerns that motivated the rejection of the deliberate bypass standard in Wainwright, Coleman, and othercases are equally applicable to this case.3 As in cases ofstate procedural default, application of the cause-andprejudice standard to excuse a state prisoner's failure to develop material facts in state court will appropriately accommodate concerns of finality, comity, judicial economy, andchanneling the resolution of claims into the most appropriate forum.Applying the cause-and-prejudice standard in cases likethis will obviously contribute to the finality of convictions,for requiring a federal evidentiary hearing solely on the basisof a habeas petitioner's negligent failure to develop facts in3 Justice O'Connor puts aside our overruling of Fay v. Noia's standardin procedural default cases on the ground that in those cases the causeand-prejudice standard is just an acceptable precondition to reaching themerits of a habeas petitioner's claim, but insists that applying that standard to cases in which the petitioner defaulted on the development of aclaim is not subject to the same characterization. For the reasons statedin the text, we disagree. Moreover, Justice O'Connor's position is considerably weakened by her concession that the cause-and-prejudice standard is properly applied to a factually undeveloped claim which had beenexhausted but which is first asserted federally in a second or later habeas petition.Contrary to Justice O'Connor's view, post, at 17, we think it clear thatthe Townsend Court thought that the same standard used to deny a hearing in a procedural default case should be used to deny a hearing in casesdescribed in its fifth circumstance. It is difficult to conceive any otherreason for our borrowing the deliberate bypass standard of Fay v. Noia,particularly if, as the dissent seems to say, post, at 17, Townsend reliedon, but did not repeat, the analysis found in Fay v. Noia. Yet the dissentinsists that the rejection of Fay v. Noia's analysis in our later cases shouldhave no impact on a case such as we have before us now.504us1$66D 04-04-96 19:48:31 PAGES OPINPGT9Cite as: 504 U. S. 1 (1992)Opinion of the Courtstate-court proceedings dramatically increases the opportunities to relitigate a conviction.Similarly, encouraging the full factual development instate court of a claim that state courts committed constitutional error advances comity by allowing a coordinate jurisdiction to correct its own errors in the first instance. It reduces the "inevitable friction" that results when a federalhabeas court "overturn[s] either the factual or legal conclusions reached by the state-court system." Sumner v. Mata,449 U. S. 539, 550 (1981).Also, by ensuring that full factual development takesplace in the earlier, state-court proceedings, the cause-andprejudice standard plainly serves the interest of judicialeconomy. It is hardly a good use of scarce judicial resourcesto duplicate factfinding in federal court merely because apetitioner has negligently failed to take advantage of opportunities in state-court proceedings.Furthermore, ensuring that full factual development of aclaim takes place in state court channels the resolution of theclaim to the most appropriate forum. The state court is theappropriate forum for resolution of factual issues in the firstinstance, and creating incentives for the deferral of factfinding to later federal-court proceedings can only degrade theaccuracy and efficiency of judicial proceedings. This is fullyconsistent with, and gives meaning to, the requirement ofexhaustion. The Court has long held that state prisonersmust exhaust state remedies before obtaining federal habeasrelief. Ex parte Royall, 117 U. S. 241 (1886). The requirement that state prisoners exhaust state remedies before awrit of habeas corpus is granted by a federal court is nowincorporated in the federal habeas statute.4 28 U. S. C.4 "An application for a writ of habeas corpus . . . shall not be grantedunless it appears that the applicant has exhausted the remedies availablein the courts of the State . . . ." 28 U. S. C. $ 2254(b).504us1$66D 04-04-96 19:48:31 PAGES OPINPGT10 KEENEY v. TAMAYO-REYESOpinion of the Court$ 2254. Exhaustion means more than notice. In requiringexhaustion of a federal claim in state court, Congress surelymeant that exhaustion be serious and meaningful.The purpose of exhaustion is not to create a proceduralhurdle on the path to federal habeas court, but to channelclaims into an appropriate forum, where meritorious claimsmay be vindicated and unfounded litigation obviated beforeresort to federal court. Comity concerns dictate that therequirement of exhaustion is not satisfied by the mere state-ment of a federal claim in state court. Just as the Statemust afford the petitioner a full and fair hearing on his fed-eral claim, so must the petitioner afford the State a full andfair opportunity to address and resolve the claim on themerits. Cf. Picard v. Connor, 404 U. S. 270, 275 (1971).Finally, it is worth noting that applying the cause-and-prejudice standard in this case also advances uniformity inthe law of habeas corpus. There is no good reason to main-tain in one area of habeas law a standard that has been rejected in the area in which it was principally enunciated.And little can be said for holding a habeas petitioner to onestandard for failing to bring a claim in state court and excus-ing the petitioner under another, lower standard for failingto develop the factual basis of that claim in the same forum.A different rule could mean that a habeas petitioner wouldnot be excused for negligent failure to object to the introduc-tion of the prosecution's evidence, but nonetheless would beexcused for negligent failure to introduce any evidence of hisown to support a constitutional claim.55 It is asserted by Justice O'Connor that in adopting 28 U. S. C.$ 2254(d) Congress assumed the continuing validity of all aspects of Townsend, including the requirement of a hearing in all fifth circumstance casesabsent a deliberate bypass. For several reasons, we disagree. First, itis evident that $ 2254(d) does not codify Townsend's specifications of whena hearing is required. Townsend described categories of cases in whichevidentiary hearings would be required. Section 2254(d), however, doesnot purport to govern the question of when hearings are required; rather,it lists exceptions to the normal presumption of correctness of state-court504us1$66D 04-04-96 19:48:31 PAGES OPINPGT11Cite as: 504 U. S. 1 (1992)Opinion of the CourtRespondent Tamayo-Reyes is entitled to an evidentiaryhearing if he can show cause for his failure to develop thefacts in state-court proceedings and actual prejudice result-ing from that failure. We also adopt the narrow exceptionfindings and deals with the burden of proof where hearings are held. Thetwo issues are distinct, and the statute indicates no assumption that thepresence or absence of any of the statutory exceptions will determinewhether a hearing is held.Second, to the extent that it even considered the issue of default, Congress sensibly could have read Townsend as holding that the federalhabeas corpus standard for cases of default under Townsend's fifth circumstance and cases of procedural default should be the same. Third,$ 2254(d) does not mention or recognize any exception for inexcusable neglect, let alone reflect the specific standard of deliberate bypass. In theface of this silence, it should not be assumed that if there is to be a judicially created standard for equitable default, it must be no other than thedeliberate bypass standard borrowed by Townsend from a decision thathas since been repudiated.We agree with Justice O'Connor that under our holding a claim invoking the fifth circumstance of Townsend will be unavailing where the causeasserted is attorney error. Murray v. Carrier, 477 U. S. 478 (1986), andColeman v. Thompson, 501 U. S. 722 (1991), dictate as much. Such wasthe intended effect of those cases, but this does not make that circumstance a dead letter, for cause may be shown for reasons other than attorney error. We noted in Murray, a procedural default case, that objectivefactors external to the defense may impede counsel's efforts to comply andwent on to say: "Without attempting an exhaustive catalog of such objective impediments to compliance with a procedural rule, we note that ashowing that the factual or legal basis for a claim was not reasonablyavailable to counsel, see Reed v. Ross, 468 U. S., at 16, or that `some interference by officials,' Brown v. Allen, 344 U. S. 443, 486 (1953), made compliance impracticable, would constitute cause under this standard." 477U. S., at 488. Much of the same may be said of cases where the petitionerhas defaulted on the development of a claim.Nor, to the extent it is relevant to our decision in this case, is JusticeO'Connor's argument that many forms of cause would fall under otherTownsend circumstances persuasive. For example, the third and sixthcircumstances of Townsend speak to the denial by a court of full and fairhearing; however, a situation where facts were inadequately developedbecause of interference from officials would fall naturally into the fifthcircumstance.504us1$66D 04-04-96 19:48:31 PAGES OPINPGT12 KEENEY v. TAMAYO-REYESO'Connor, J., dissentingto the cause-and-prejudice requirement: A habeas petition-er's failure to develop a claim in state-court proceedings willbe excused and a hearing mandated if he can show that afundamental miscarriage of justice would result from failureto hold a federal evidentiary hearing. Cf. McCleskey v.Zant, 499 U. S., at 494; Murray v. Carrier, 477 U. S., at 496.The State concedes that a remand to the District Court isappropriate in order to afford respondent the opportunity tobring forward evidence establishing cause and prejudice,Brief for Petitioner 21, and we agree that respondent shouldhave that opportunity. Accordingly, the decision of theCourt of Appeals is reversed, and the cause is remanded tothe District Court for further proceedings consistent withthis opinion.