The question presented is whether a maritime workerwhose occupation is one of those enumerated in the Longshore and Harbor Workers' Compensation Act (LHWCA), 44Stat. 1424, as amended, 33 U. S. C. $ 901et seq., may yet bea "seaman" within the meaning of the Jones Act, 46 U. S. C.App. $ 688, and thus be entitled to bring suit under thatstatute.IPetitioner Southwest Marine, Inc., operates a ship repairfacility in San Diego, California. In connection with its shiprepair activities, Southwest Marine owns several floatingplatforms, including a pontoon barge, two float barges, a railbarge, a diver's barge, and a crane barge. These platformsby themselves have no power, means of steering, navigationlights, navigation aids, or living facilities. They are movedabout by tugboats, which position the platforms alongsidevessels under repair at berths or in drydock at SouthwestMarine's shipyard or at the nearby naval station. The platforms are used to move equipment, materials, supplies, andvessel components around the shipyard and on to and off of*Briefs of amici curiae urging reversal were filed for Global Marine,Inc., et al. by Forrest Booth, Winston E. Rice, and Eileen R. Madrid; andfor the Shipbuilders Council of America by John L. Wittenborn andFranklin W. Losey.John R. Hillsman filed a brief for the United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners of America as amicus curiae urging affirmance.502us1$$8Z 08-21-96 15:22:31 PAGES OPINPGT84 SOUTHWEST MARINE, INC. v. GIZONIOpinion of the Courtthe vessels under repair. Once in place, the platforms sup-port ship repairmen engaged in their work.Southwest Marine employed respondent Byron Gizoni asa rigging foreman. Gizoni worked on the floating platformsand rode them as they were towed into place. Gizoni occasionally served as a lookout and gave maneuvering signalsto the tugboat operator when the platforms were moved.He also received lines passed to the platforms by the ships'crews to secure the platforms to the vessels under repair.Gizoni suffered disabling leg and back injuries in a fall whenhis foot broke through a thin wooden sheet covering a holein the deck of a platform being used to transport a rudderfrom the shipyard to a floating drydock.Gizoni submitted a claim for, and received, medical andcompensation benefits from Southwest Marine pursuant tothe LHWCA. He later sued Southwest Marine under theJones Act in the United States District Court for the Southern District of California, alleging that he was a seaman injured as a result of his employer's negligence. Gizoni alsopleaded causes of action for unseaworthiness and for maintenance and cure. App. IV-4, IV-5. In addition to the abovefacts, Gizoni alleged in his complaint that Southwest Marine's floating platforms were "a group of vessels . . . in navigable waters," and that as a rigging foreman, he was "permanently assigned to said group of vessels." Id., at IV-3.The District Court granted Southwest Marine's motion forsummary judgment on two grounds. The District Court determined as a matter of law that Gizoni was not a Jones Actseaman, finding that Southwest Marine's floating platformswere not "vessels in navigation," and that Gizoni was onboard to perform work as a ship repairman, not to "aid innavigation." App. to Pet. for Cert. I-1, I-2. More important to our purposes here, the District Court further concluded that Gizoni was a harbor worker precluded frombringing his action by the exclusive remedy provisions of theLHWCA, 33 U. S. C. $ 905(a). App. to Pet. for Cert. I-2.502us1$$8Z 08-21-96 15:22:31 PAGES OPINPGT85Cite as: 502 U. S. 81 (1991)Opinion of the CourtThe United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuitreversed the determination that Gizoni was not a seaman asa matter of law, 909 F. 2d 385, 387 (1990), holding that ques-tions of fact existed as to seaman status, e. g., whether thefloating platforms were vessels in navigation, whether Gi-zoni's relationship to those platforms was permanent, andwhether he aided in their navigation. Id., at 388. TheNinth Circuit also reversed the District Court's determination that the exclusive remedy provisions of the LHWCAprecluded Gizoni from pursuing his Jones Act claim. Thecourt concluded that the LHWCA by its terms does notcover "a master or member of a crew of any vessel," 33U. S. C. $ 902(3)(G), that this phrase is the equivalent of "sea-man" under the Jones Act, and that the question of his seaman status should have been presented to a jury. 909 F. 2d,at 389. The Ninth Circuit thus rejected the notion that anyemployee whose work involved ship repair was necessarilyrestricted to remedy under the LHWCA, reasoning that coverage under the Jones Act or the LHWCA depended not onthe claimant's job title, but on the nature of the claimant'swork and the intent of Congress in enacting these statutes.Ibid.We granted certiorari, 498 U. S. 1119 (1991), to resolve theconflict among the Circuits on this issue.1 We now affirmthe judgment of the Ninth Circuit.1 The Ninth Circuit in this case followed a decision by the Sixth Circuit,which held that "[a] plaintiff is not limited to the remedies available underthe LHWCA unless he is unable to show that a genuine factual issue existsas to whether he was a seaman at the time of his injury." Petersen v.Chesapeake & Ohio R. Co., 784 F. 2d 732, 739 (1986). To the contrary, theFifth Circuit has previously held that "because longshoremen, shipbuilders and ship repairers are engaged in occupations enumerated in theLHWCA, they are unqualifiedly covered by that Act if they meet the Act'ssitus requirements; coverage of these workmen by the LHWCA rendersthem ineligible for consideration as seamen or members of the crew ofa vessel entitled to claim the benefits of the Jones Act." Pizzitolo v.Electro-Coal Transfer Corp., 812 F. 2d 977, 983 (1987). A later decision502us1$$8Z 08-21-96 15:22:31 PAGES OPINPGT86 SOUTHWEST MARINE, INC. v. GIZONIOpinion of the CourtIIThe Jones Act and the LHWCA each provide a remedy tothe injured maritime worker; however, each specifies differ-ent maritime workers to be within its reach. In relevantpart, the Jones Act provides that "[a]ny seaman who shallsuffer personal injury in the course of his employment may,at his election, maintain an action for damages at law, withthe right of trial by jury, and in such action all statutes ofthe United States modifying or extending the common-lawright or remedy in cases of personal injury to railway employees shall apply . . . ." 46 U. S. C. App. $ 688(a). Underthe LHWCA, the exclusiveness of liability provision in partstates that the liability of an employer "shall be exclusiveand in place of all other liability of such employer to theemployee . . . ." 33 U. S. C. $ 905(a). However, the term"employee," as defined in the LHWCA,2 does not include "aby the Fifth Circuit undercut much of the reasoning in Pizzitolo by limiting it to cases where "the evidence is insufficient to warrant a finding ofseaman's status." Legros v. Panther Services Group, Inc., 863 F. 2d 345,349 (1988). The Fifth Circuit granted rehearing en banc, but the partieslater settled and the appeal was dismissed. Legros v. Panther ServicesGroup, Inc., 874 F. 2d 953 (1989). With the opinion in Legros vacated,Pizzitolo remains the law in the Fifth Circuit, although its breadth maybe in some question.2 In full, 33 U. S. C. $ 902(3) provides:"The term `employee' means any person engaged in maritime employment, including any longshoreman or other person engaged in longshoringoperations, and any harborworker including a ship repairman, shipbuilder,and ship-breaker, but such term does not include--"(A) individuals employed exclusively to perform office clerical, secretarial, security, or data processing work;"(B) individuals employed by a club, camp, recreational operation, restaurant, museum, or retail outlet;"(C) individuals employed by a marina and who are not engaged in construction, replacement, or expansion of such marina (except for routinemaintenance);"(D) individuals who (i) are employed by suppliers, transporters, or vendors, (ii) are temporarily doing business on the premises of an employer502us1$$8Z 08-21-96 15:22:31 PAGES OPINPGT87Cite as: 502 U. S. 81 (1991)Opinion of the Courtmaster or member of a crew of any vessel." $ 902(3)(G).The District Court was therefore plainly wrong in holdingthat, as a matter of law, the LHWCA provided the exclusiveremedy for all harbor workers. That cannot be the case ifthe LHWCA and its exclusionary provision do not apply toa harbor worker who is also a "member of a crew of anyvessel," a phrase that is a "refinement" of the term "seaman"in the Jones Act. McDermott Int'l, Inc. v. Wilander, 498U. S. 337, 349 (1991).3The determination of who is a "member of a crew" is "better characterized as a mixed question of law and fact," ratherdescribed in paragraph (4), and (iii) are not engaged in work normallyperformed by employees of that employer under this chapter;"(E) aquaculture workers;"(F) individuals employed to build, repair, or dismantle any recreationalvessel under sixty-five feet in length;"(G) a master or member of a crew of any vessel; or"(H) any person engaged by a master to load or unload or repair anysmall vessel under eighteen tons net;"if individuals described in clauses (A) through (F) are subject to coverage under a State workers' compensation law."3 Southwest Marine points as well to a separate exclusiveness of liabilityprovision regarding the negligence of a vessel, 33 U. S. C. $ 905(b), andplaces great emphasis on a passage that states:"If such person was employed to provide shipbuilding, repairing, or breaking services and such person's employer was the owner, owner pro hacvice, agent, operator, or charterer of the vessel, no such action shall bepermitted, in whole or in part or directly or indirectly, against the injuredperson's employer (in any capacity, including as the vessel's owner, ownerpro hac vice, agent, operator, or charterer) or against the employees ofthe employer."This exclusivity provision applies, however, only "[i]n the event of injuryto a person covered under this chapter [the LHWCA] caused by the negligence of a vessel." $ 905(b). As we have already noted, the questionwhether Gizoni is "a person covered under this chapter" depends uponwhether he is a "seaman" under the Jones Act. Like the companion exclusivity provision of $ 905(a), $ 905(b) does not dictate sole recourse to theLHWCA unless Gizoni is found not to be "a master or member of a crewof any vessel."502us1$$8Z 08-21-96 15:22:32 PAGES OPINPGT88 SOUTHWEST MARINE, INC. v. GIZONIOpinion of the Courtthan as a pure question of fact. Id., at 356. Even so, "[t]heinquiry into seaman status is of necessity fact-specific; it willdepend on the nature of the vessel, and the employee's precise relation to it." Ibid. Our decision in Wilander jettisoned any lingering notion that a maritime worker need aidin the navigation of a vessel in order to qualify as a "seaman" under the Jones Act. "The key to seaman status isemployment-related connection to a vessel in navigation. . . .It is not necessary that a seaman aid in navigation or contribute to the transportation of the vessel, but a seaman mustbe doing the ship's work." Id., at 355. In arriving at thisconclusion, we again recognized that "the Jones Act and theLHWCA are mutually exclusive," id., at 347 (citing Swansonv. Marra Brothers, Inc., 328 U. S. 1 (1946)), for the very reason that the LHWCA specifically precludes from its provisions any employee who is "a master or member of a crew ofany vessel."Southwest Marine suggests, in line with Fifth Circuitprecedent, that this fact-intensive inquiry may always be resolved as a matter of law if the claimant's job fits within oneof the enumerated occupations defining the term "employee"covered by the LHWCA. However, this argument ignoresthe fact that some maritime workers may be Jones Act seamen performing a job specifically enumerated under theLHWCA. Indeed, Congress foresaw this possibility, and wehave previously quoted a portion of the legislative history tothe 1972 amendments to the LHWCA that states: " `[T]hebill would amend the Act to provide coverage of longshoremen, harbor workers, ship repairmen, ship builders, shipbreakers, and other employees engaged in maritime employment (excluding masters and members of the crew of avessel).' " Northeast Marine Terminal Co. v. Caputo, 432U. S. 249, 266, n. 26 (1977) (quoting S. Rep. No. 92-1125, p. 13(1972)) (emphasis added). As we observed in Wilander:"There is no indication in the Jones Act, the LHWCA, or502us1$$8Z 08-21-96 15:22:32 PAGES OPINPGT89Cite as: 502 U. S. 81 (1991)Opinion of the Courtelsewhere, that Congress has excluded from Jones Act remedies those traditional seamen who owe allegiance to a vesselat sea, but who do not aid in navigation." 498 U. S., at 354.While in some cases a ship repairman may lack the requisiteconnection to a vessel in navigation to qualify for seamanstatus, see, e. g., Sun Ship, Inc. v. Pennsylvania, 447 U. S.715 (1980) (ship repairmen working and injured on land);P. C. Pfeiffer Co. v. Ford, 444 U. S. 69, 80, and n. 12 (1979),not all ship repairmen lack the requisite connection as a matter of law.4 This is so because "[i]t is not the employee'sparticular job that is determinative, but the employee's connection to a vessel." Wilander, supra, at 354. By its termsthe LHWCA preserves the Jones Act remedy for vesselcrewmen, even if they are employed by a shipyard. A maritime worker is limited to LHWCA remedies only if no genuine issue of fact exists as to whether the worker was a seaman under the Jones Act.Southwest Marine submits several arguments in an attempt to foreclose this Jones Act suit. First, Southwest Marine contends that our decision in Wilander will conflict withdecisions holding that the LHWCA provides the exclusiveremedy for certain injured railroad workers otherwise permitted by the Federal Employers' Liability Act, 45 U. S. C.$ 51 et seq., to pursue a negligence cause of action. See, e. g.,Chesapeake & Ohio R. Co. v. Schwalb, 493 U. S. 40 (1989);Pennsylvania R. Co. v. O'Rourke, 344 U. S. 334 (1953).Such cases, however, can provide no meaningful guidance on4 Gizoni stipulates that he was a ship repairman for Southwest Marineand correctly notes that many ship repairmen are excluded from LHWCAcoverage, even though ship repairmen are expressly enumerated as a category of "harborworker" included within its coverage. See 33 U. S. C.$ 902(3)(F) (individuals employed to repair recreational vessels under 65feet in length); $ 902(3)(H) (persons engaged to repair small vessels under18 tons net). We find it significant that such clear exclusions of certainship repairmen fall on either side of the exclusion here at issue for "amaster or member of a crew of any vessel." $ 902(3)(G).502us1$$8Z 08-21-96 15:22:32 PAGES OPINPGT90 SOUTHWEST MARINE, INC. v. GIZONIOpinion of the Courtthe issue here, for the LHWCA contains no exclusion forrailroad workers comparable to that for Jones Act seamen.Next, Southwest Marine advances a "primary jurisdiction"argument suggesting that, where a maritime worker is "arguably covered" by the LHWCA, the district court shouldstay any Jones Act proceeding pending a final LHWCA "administrative agency" determination that the worker is, infact, a "master or member of a crew." We find no indicationin the LHWCA that Congress intended to preclude or staytraditional Jones Act suits in the district courts. Indeed,the LHWCA anticipates that such suits could be brought.Title 33 U. S. C. $ 913(d) tolls the time to file LHWCA claims"[w]here recovery is denied to any person, in a suit broughtat law or in admiralty to recover damages in respect of injury or death, on the ground that such person was an employee and the defendant was an employer within the meaning of this chapter and that such employer had securedcompensation to such employee under this chapter."Southwest Marine seeks to support its primary jurisdiction argument by pointing to the relation between the Federal Employees' Compensation Act (FECA), 5 U. S. C. $ 8101et seq., and the Federal Tort Claims Act (FTCA), 28 U. S. C.$ 2671 et seq. But FECA contains an "unambiguous andcomprehensive" provision barring any judicial review of theSecretary of Labor's determination of FECA coverage.Lindahl v. Office of Personnel Management, 470 U. S. 768, 780,and n. 13 (1985); see 5 U. S. C. $ 8128(b). Consequently, thecourts have no jurisdiction over FTCA claims where the Secretary determines that FECA applies. The LHWCA contains no such provision. Likewise, we reject Southwest Marine's argument that agency proceedings under the LHWCArequire the jurisdictional limitations we have found the National Labor Relations Act (NLRA), 29 U. S. C. $ 151 et seq.,to place on state and federal courts in favor of the proceedings conducted by the National Labor Relations Board.502us1$$8Z 08-21-96 15:22:32 PAGES OPINPGT91Cite as: 502 U. S. 81 (1991)Opinion of the CourtSee, e. g., Longshoremen v. Davis, 476 U. S. 380, 389-390(1986); San Diego Building Trades Council v. Garmon,359 U. S. 236, 243-245 (1959). The administrative proceedings outlined under the LHWCA in no way approach"the NLRA's `complex and interrelated federal scheme oflaw, remedy, and administration' " requiring pre-emption inthose cases. Longshoremen, supra, at 389 (quoting Garmon, supra, at 243). Neither is it "essential to the administration" of the LHWCA that resolution of the question ofcoverage be left " `in the first instance' " to agency proceedings in the Department of Labor. Longshoremen, supra, at390 (quoting Garmon, supra, at 244-245).Finally, Southwest Marine suggests that an employee's receipt of benefits under the LHWCA should preclude subsequent litigation under the Jones Act. To the contrary, however, we have ruled that where the evidence is sufficient tosend the threshold question of seaman status to the jury, itis reversible error to permit an employer to prove that theworker accepted LHWCA benefits while awaiting trial. Tipton v. Socony Mobil Oil Co., 375 U. S. 34, 37 (1963). It is bynow "universally accepted" that an employee who receivesvoluntary payments under the LHWCA without a formalaward is not barred from subsequently seeking relief underthe Jones Act. G. Gilmore & C. Black, Law of Admiralty435 (2d ed. 1975); see 4 A. Larson, Workmen's CompensationLaw $ 90.51, p. 16-507 (1989) (collecting cases); Simms v. Valley Line Co., 709 F. 2d 409, 412, and nn. 3 and 5 (CA5 1983).This is so, quite obviously, because the question of coveragehas never actually been litigated. Moreover, the LHWCAclearly does not comprehend such a preclusive effect, as itspecifically provides that any amounts paid to an employeefor the same injury, disability, or death pursuant to the JonesAct shall be credited against any liability imposed by the502us1$$8Z 08-21-96 15:22:32 PAGES OPINPGT92 SOUTHWEST MARINE, INC. v. GIZONIOpinion of the CourtLHWCA.5 33 U. S. C. $ 903(e). See Gilmore & Black, supra,at 435.IIIBecause a ship repairman may spend all of his workinghours aboard a vessel in furtherance of its mission--evenone used exclusively in ship repair work--that worker mayqualify as a Jones Act seaman. By ruling as a matter oflaw on the basis of job title or occupation alone, the Dis-trict Court foreclosed Gizoni's ability to make this showing."If reasonable persons, applying the proper legal standard,could differ as to whether the employee was a `member ofa crew,' it is a question for the jury." Wilander, 498 U. S.,at 356. The Ninth Circuit concluded that questions of factexisted regarding whether the floating platforms were ves-sels in navigation, and whether Gizoni had sufficient connection to the platforms to qualify for seaman status.6 Gizonialleges facts in support of each of these propositions--factswhich Southwest Marine disputes. Compare Brief for Re-spondent 11 with Brief for Petitioner 3. Summary judgment was inappropriate.The judgment of the Court of Appeals is