This case, commenced in a state court, involves personalinjury claims arising under state law. The case was removed to a federal court at a time when, the Court of Ap-peals concluded, complete diversity of citizenship did notexist among the parties. Promptly after the removal, theplaintiff moved to remand the case to the state court, butthe District Court denied that motion. Before trial of thecase, however, all claims involving the nondiverse defendantwere settled, and that defendant was dismissed as a partyto the action. Complete diversity thereafter existed. Thecase proceeded to trial, jury verdict, and judgment for theremoving defendant. The Court of Appeals vacated thejudgment, concluding that, absent complete diversity at thetime of removal, the District Court lacked subject-matterjurisdiction.The question presented is whether the absence of completediversity at the time of removal is fatal to federal-court adju-dication. We hold that a district court's error in failing toremand a case improperly removed is not fatal to the ensuingadjudication if federal jurisdictional requirements are met atthe time judgment is entered.IRespondent James David Lewis, a resident of Kentucky,filed this lawsuit in Kentucky state court on June 22, 1989,after sustaining injuries while operating a bulldozer. As-serting state-law claims based on defective manufacture,negligent maintenance, failure to warn, and breach of war*Patrick W. Lee filed a brief for the Product Liability Advisory Council,Inc., as amicus curiae urging reversal.519US1$$8p 06-02-99 15:06:02 PAGES OPINPGT65Cite as: 519 U. S. 61 (1996)Opinion of the Courtranty, Lewis named as defendants both the manufacturer ofthe bulldozer--petitioner Caterpillar Inc., a Delaware corporation with its principal place of business in Illinois--andthe company that serviced the bulldozer--Whayne SupplyCompany, a Kentucky corporation with its principal place ofbusiness in Kentucky.Several months later, Liberty Mutual Insurance Group,the insurance carrier for Lewis' employer, intervened in thelawsuit as a plaintiff. A Massachusetts corporation withits principal place of business in that State, Liberty Mutualasserted subrogation claims against both Caterpillar andWhayne Supply for workers' compensation benefits LibertyMutual had paid to Lewis on behalf of his employer.Lewis entered into a settlement agreement with defendantWhayne Supply less than a year after filing his complaint.Shortly after learning of this agreement, Caterpillar filed anotice of removal, on June 21, 1990, in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Kentucky. Grounding federal jurisdiction on diversity of citizenship, see 28U. S. C. $ 1332, Caterpillar satisfied with only a day to sparethe statutory requirement that a diversity-based removaltake place within one year of a lawsuit's commencement, see28 U. S. C. $ 1446(b). Caterpillar's notice of removal explained that the case was nonremovable at the lawsuit'sstart: Complete diversity was absent then because plaintiffLewis and defendant Whayne Supply shared Kentucky citizenship. App. 31. Proceeding on the understanding thatthe settlement agreement between these two Kentucky parties would result in the dismissal of Whayne Supply from thelawsuit, Caterpillar stated that the settlement rendered thecase removable. Id., at 31-32.Lewis objected to the removal and moved to remand thecase to state court. Lewis acknowledged that he had settledhis own claims against Whayne Supply. But Liberty Mutualhad not yet settled its subrogation claim against WhayneSupply, Lewis asserted. Whayne Supply's presence as a de519US1$$8p 06-02-99 15:06:02 PAGES OPINPGT66 CATERPILLAR INC. v. LEWISOpinion of the Courtfendant in the lawsuit, Lewis urged, defeated diversity ofcitizenship.Id., at 36. Without addressing this argument,the District Court denied Lewis' motion to remand on Sep-tember 24, 1990, treating as dispositive Lewis' admissionthat he had settled his own claims against Whayne Supply.Id., at 55.Discovery, begun in state court, continued in the now federal lawsuit, and the parties filed pretrial conference papersbeginning in July 1991. In June 1993, plaintiff Liberty Mutual and defendant Whayne Supply entered into a settlementof Liberty Mutual's subrogation claim, and the District Courtdismissed Whayne Supply from the lawsuit. With Caterpillar as the sole defendant adverse to Lewis,1 the case pro1 In accord with 28 U. S. C. $ 1367 and Rule 14 of the Federal Rulesof Civil Procedure, Caterpillar, after removing the case to federal court,impleaded Lewis' employer, Gene Wilson Enterprises, a Kentucky corporation, as a third-party defendant. See App. 2. Gene Wilson Enterprises, so far as the record shows, remained a named third-party defendant, adverse solely to third-party plaintiff Caterpillar, through judgment.See Brief for Respondent 5. No dispute ran between Lewis and hisemployer, and Caterpillar's third-party complaint against Gene Wilson Enterprises had no bearing on the authority of the federal court to adjudicatethe diversity claims Lewis asserted against Caterpillar. See, e. g., Wichita Railroad & Light Co. v. Public Util. Comm'n of Kan., 260 U. S. 48, 54(1922) (federal jurisdiction once acquired on the ground of complete diversity of citizenship is unaffected by the subsequent intervention "of a partywhose presence is not essential to a decision of the controversy betweenthe original parties"). As elaborated in 3 J. Moore, Moore's Federal Practice || 14.26, p. 14-116 (2d ed. 1996) (footnotes omitted): "Once federal subject matter jurisdiction is established over the underlying case between[plaintiff] and [defendant], the jurisdictional propriety of each additionalclaim is to be assessed individually. Thus, assuming that jurisdiction isbased upon diversity of citizenship between [plaintiff] and [defendant], thequestion concerning impleader is whether there is a jurisdictional basisfor the claim by [defendant] against [third-party defendant]. The fact that[plaintiff] and [third-party defendant] may be co-citizens is completely irrelevant. Unless [plaintiff] chooses to amend his complaint to assert aclaim against [third-party defendant], [plaintiff] and [third-party defend519US1$$8p 06-02-99 15:06:02 PAGES OPINPGT67Cite as: 519 U. S. 61 (1996)Opinion of the Courtceeded to a six-day jury trial in November 1993, ending in aunanimous verdict for Caterpillar. The District Court entered judgment for Caterpillar on November 23, 1993, anddenied Lewis' motion for a new trial on February 1, 1994.On appeal, the Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuitaccepted Lewis' argument that, at the time of removal,Whayne Supply remained a defendant in the case due to Lib-erty Mutual's subrogation claim against it. App. to Pet. forCert. 8a. Because the party lineup, on removal, includedKentucky plaintiff Lewis and Kentucky defendant WhayneSupply, the Court of Appeals observed that diversity wasnot complete when Caterpillar took the case from state courtto federal court. Id., at 8a-9a. Consequently, the Court ofAppeals concluded, the District Court "erred in denying[Lewis'] motion to remand this case to the state court forlack of subject matter jurisdiction." Id., at 9a. That error,according to the Court of Appeals, made it necessary to va-cate the District Court's judgment. Ibid.2Caterpillar petitioned for this Court's review. Caterpillarstressed that the nondiverse defendant, Whayne Supply, hadbeen dismissed from the lawsuit prior to trial. It was there-fore improper, Caterpillar urged, for the Court of Appeals tovacate the District Court's judgment--entered after severalyears of litigation and a six-day trial--on account of a jurisdictional defect cured, all agreed, by the time of trialand judgment. Pet. for Cert. 8. We granted certiorari,517 U. S. 1133 (1996), and now reverse.IIThe Constitution provides, in Article III, $ 2, that "[t]hejudicial Power [of the United States] shall extend . . . to Conant] are simply not adverse, and there need be no basis of jurisdictionbetween them."2 Because the Court of Appeals held the District Court lacked jurisdiction over the case, it did not reach several other issues Lewis raised onappeal. See App. to Pet. for Cert. 2a, 9a, n. 3.519US1$$8p 06-02-99 15:06:02 PAGES OPINPGT68 CATERPILLAR INC. v. LEWISOpinion of the Courttroversies . . . between Citizens of different States." Com-mencing with the Judiciary Act of 1789, ch. 20, $ 11, 1 Stat.78, Congress has constantly authorized the federal courts toexercise jurisdiction based on the diverse citizenship of parties. In Strawbridge v. Curtiss, 3 Cranch 267 (1806), thisCourt construed the original Judiciary Act's diversity provision to require complete diversity of citizenship. Id., at 267.We have adhered to that statutory interpretation ever since.See Carden v. Arkoma Associates, 494 U. S. 185, 187 (1990).The current general-diversity statute, permitting federaldistrict court jurisdiction over suits for more than $50,000"between . . . citizens of different States," 28 U. S. C.$ 1332(a), thus applies only to cases in which the citizenshipof each plaintiff is diverse from the citizenship of eachdefendant.3When a plaintiff files in state court a civil action overwhich the federal district courts would have original juris-diction based on diversity of citizenship, the defendant ordefendants may remove the action to federal court, 28U. S. C. $ 1441(a), provided that no defendant "is a citizen ofthe State in which such action is brought," $ 1441(b).4 In a3 This "complete diversity" interpretation of the general-diversity provision is a matter of statutory construction. "Article III poses no obstacleto the legislative extension of federal jurisdiction, founded on diversity, solong as any two adverse parties are not co-citizens." State Farm Fire &Casualty Co. v. Tashire, 386 U. S. 523, 531 (1967).4 In relevant part, 28 U. S. C. $ 1441 provides:"(a) Except as otherwise expressly provided by Act of Congress, anycivil action brought in a State court of which the district courts of theUnited States have original jurisdiction, may be removed by the defendantor the defendants, to the district court of the United States for the districtand division embracing the place where such action is pending. For purposes of removal under this chapter, the citizenship of defendants suedunder fictitious names shall be disregarded."(b) Any civil action of which the district courts have original jurisdiction founded on a claim or right arising under the Constitution, treatiesor laws of the United States shall be removable without regard to thecitizenship or residence of the parties. Any other such action shall beremovable only if none of the parties in interest properly joined and519US1$$8p 06-02-99 15:06:02 PAGES OPINPGT69Cite as: 519 U. S. 61 (1996)Opinion of the Courtcase not originally removable, a defendant who receives apleading or other paper indicating the postcommencementsatisfaction of federal jurisdictional requirements--for exam-ple, by reason of the dismissal of a nondiverse party--mayremove the case to federal court within 30 days of receivingsuch information. $ 1446(b). No case, however, may be removed from state to federal court based on diversity ofcitizenship "more than 1 year after commencement of theaction." Ibid.5Once a defendant has filed a notice of removal in the federal district court, a plaintiff objecting to removal "on thebasis of any defect in removal procedure" may, within 30days, file a motion asking the district court to remand thecase to state court. $ 1447(c). This 30-day limit does notapply, however, to jurisdictional defects: "If at any time be-fore final judgment it appears that the district court lackssubject matter jurisdiction, the case shall be remanded."Ibid.6served as defendants is a citizen of the State in which such action isbrought."5 In full, 28 U. S. C. $ 1446(b) provides:"The notice of removal of a civil action or proceeding shall be filedwithin thirty days after the receipt by the defendant, through service orotherwise, of a copy of the initial pleading setting forth the claim for reliefupon which such action or proceeding is based, or within thirty days afterthe service of summons upon the defendant if such initial pleading hasthen been filed in court and is not required to be served on the defendant,whichever period is shorter."If the case stated by the initial pleading is not removable, a notice ofremoval may be filed within thirty days after receipt by the defendant,through service or otherwise, of a copy of an amended pleading, motion,order or other paper from which it may first be ascertained that the caseis one which is or has become removable, except that a case may not beremoved on the basis of jurisdiction conferred by section 1332 of this titlemore than 1 year after commencement of the action."6 In relevant part, 28 U. S. C. $ 1447(c) provides:"A motion to remand the case on the basis of any defect in removalprocedure must be made within 30 days after the filing of the notice ofremoval under section 1446(a). If at any time before final judgment itappears that the district court lacks subject matter jurisdiction, the case519US1$$8p 06-02-99 15:06:02 PAGES OPINPGT70 CATERPILLAR INC. v. LEWISOpinion of the CourtIIIWe note, initially, two "givens" in this case as we haveaccepted it for review. First, the District Court, in its deci-sion denying Lewis' timely motion to remand, incorrectlytreated Whayne Supply, the nondiverse defendant, as effec-tively dropped from the case prior to removal. See App.55. Second, the Sixth Circuit correctly determined that thecomplete diversity requirement was not satisfied at the timeof removal. App. to Pet. for Cert. 8a-9a.7 We accordinglyhome in on this question: Does the District Court's initialmisjudgment still burden and run with the case, or is it overcome by the eventual dismissal of the nondiverse defendant?Petitioner Caterpillar relies heavily on our decisions inAmerican Fire & Casualty Co. v. Finn, 341 U. S. 6 (1951),andGrubbs v. General Elec. Credit Corp., 405 U. S. 699(1972), urging that these decisions "long ago settled theproposition that remand to the state court is unnecessaryeven if jurisdiction did not exist at the time of removal, solong as the district court had subject matter jurisdiction atthe time of judgment." Brief for Petitioner 8-9. Caterpillar is right that Finn and Grubbs are key cases in point andtend in Caterpillar's favor. Each suggests that the existence of subject-matter jurisdiction at time of judgment mayshield a judgment against later jurisdictional attack. Butneither decision resolves dispositively a controversy of thekind we face, for neither involved a plaintiff who movedshall be remanded. . . . The State court may thereupon proceed withsuch case."7 Caterpillar's petition for certiorari raised the question whether thesubrogation claim asserted by Liberty Mutual, and thus the citizenship ofWhayne Supply, should be disregarded for purposes of determining diversity of citizenship, in view of the settlement agreed upon between Lewisand Whayne Supply. See Pet. for Cert. i, 18-23. Our order grantingreview did not encompass that question, see 517 U. S. 1133 (1996), and weexpress no opinion on it.519US1$$8p 06-02-99 15:06:02 PAGES OPINPGT71Cite as: 519 U. S. 61 (1996)Opinion of the Courtpromptly, but unsuccessfully, to remand a case improperlyremoved from state court to federal court, and then challenged on appeal a judgment entered by the federal court.In Finn, two defendants removed a case to federal courton the basis of diversity of citizenship. 341 U. S., at 7-8.Eventually, final judgment was entered for the plaintiffagainst one of the removing defendants. Id., at 8. The losing defendant urged on appeal, and before this Court, thatthe judgment could not stand because the requisite diversityjurisdiction, it turned out, existed neither at the time ofremoval nor at the time of judgment. Agreeing with thedefendant, we held that the absence of federal jurisdictionat the time of judgment required the Court of Appeals tovacate the District Court's judgment. Id., at 17-18.8Finn's holding does not speak to the situation here, wherethe requirement of complete diversity was satisfied at thetime of judgment. But Caterpillar points to well-knowndicta in Finn more helpful to its cause. "There are cases,"the Court observed, "which uphold judgments in the districtcourts even though there was no right to removal." Id., at16.9 "In those cases," the Finn Court explained, "the federal trial court would have had original jurisdiction of the8 The Court left open in Finn the question whether, on remand to theDistrict Court, "a new judgment [could] be entered on the old verdictwithout a new trial" if the nondiverse defendant were dismissed from thecase. 341 U. S., at 18, n. 18. In the litigation's second round, the DistrictCourt allowed the plaintiff to dismiss all claims against the nondiversedefendant. See Finn v. American Fire & Casualty Co., 207 F. 2d 113,114 (CA5 1953), cert. denied, 347 U. S. 912 (1954). Thereafter, the DistrictCourt granted a new trial, on the assumption that the original judgmentcould not stand for lack of jurisdiction. See 207 F. 2d, at 114. Ultimately,the Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit set aside the judgment enteredafter the second trial and ordered the original judgment reinstated. Id.,at 117.9 The Court cited Baggs v. Martin, 179 U. S. 206 (1900), and three lowerfederal-court cases. Finn, 341 U. S., at 16, n. 14.519US1$$8p 06-02-99 15:06:02 PAGES OPINPGT72 CATERPILLAR INC. v. LEWISOpinion of the Courtcontroversy had it been brought in the federal court in theposture it had at the time of the actual trial of the cause orof the entry of the judgment." Ibid.The discussion in Finn concentrated on cases in whichcourts held removing defendants estopped from challengingfinal judgments on the basis of removal errors. See id., at17. The Finn Court did not address the situation of a plaintiff such as Lewis, who chose a state court as the forum forhis lawsuit, timely objected to removal before the DistrictCourt, and then challenged the removal on appeal from anadverse judgment.In Grubbs, a civil action filed in state court was removedto federal court on the petition of the United States, whichhad been named as a party defendant in a "cross-action" filedby the original defendant. 405 U. S., at 700-701; see 28U. S. C. $ 1444 (authorizing removal of actions broughtagainst the United States, pursuant to 28 U. S. C. $ 2410, withrespect to property on which the United States has or claimsa lien). No party objected to the removal before trial orjudgment. See Grubbs, 405 U. S., at 701. The Court of Appeals nonetheless held, on its own motion, that the "interpleader" of the United States was spurious, and that removalhad therefore been improper under 28 U. S. C. $ 1444. SeeGrubbs, 405 U. S., at 702. On this basis, the Court of Appeals concluded that the District Court's judgment should bevacated and the case remanded to state court. See ibid.This Court reversed. Id., at 700. We explained:"Longstanding decisions of this Court make clear . . .that where after removal a case is tried on the meritswithout objection and the federal court enters judgment, the issue in subsequent proceedings on appealis not whether the case was properly removed, butwhether the federal district court would have had original jurisdiction of the case had it been filed in thatcourt." Id., at 702.519US1$$8p 06-02-99 15:06:02 PAGES OPINPGT73Cite as: 519 U. S. 61 (1996)Opinion of the CourtWe concluded that, "whether or not the case was properlyremoved, the District Court did have jurisdiction of the parties at the time it entered judgment." Id., at 700. "Undersuch circumstances," we held, "the validity of the removalprocedure followed may not be raised for the first time onappeal." Ibid. (emphasis added). Grubbs instructs that anerroneous removal need not cause the destruction of a finaljudgment, if the requirements of federal subject-matter ju-risdiction are met at the time the judgment is entered.Grubbs, however, dealt with a case removed without objec-tion. The decision is not dispositive of the question whethera plaintiff, who timely objects to removal, may later successfully challenge an adverse judgment on the ground that theremoval did not comply with statutory prescriptions.Beyond question, as Lewis acknowledges, there was in thiscase complete diversity, and therefore federal subject-matterjurisdiction, at the time of trial and judgment. See Brieffor Respondent 18-19 (diversity became complete "when Liberty Mutual settled its subrogation claim with Whayne Supply and the latter was formally dismissed from the case").The case had by then become, essentially, a two-party lawsuit: Lewis, a citizen of Kentucky, was the sole plaintiff; Caterpillar, incorporated in Delaware with its principal place ofbusiness in Illinois, was the sole defendant Lewis confronted.Caterpillar maintains that this change cured the thresholdstatutory misstep, i. e., the removal of a case when diversitywas incomplete. Brief for Petitioner 7, 13.Caterpillar moves too quickly over the terrain we mustcover. The jurisdictional defect was cured, i. e., completediversity was established before the trial commenced.Therefore, the Sixth Circuit erred in resting its decision onthe absence of subject-matter jurisdiction. But a statutoryflaw--Caterpillar's failure to meet the $ 1441(a) requirementthat the case be fit for federal adjudication at the time theremoval petition is filed--remained in the unerasable historyof the case.519US1$$8p 06-02-99 15:06:02 PAGES OPINPGT74 CATERPILLAR INC. v. LEWISOpinion of the CourtAnd Lewis, by timely moving for remand, did all that wasrequired to preserve his objection to removal. An order denying a motion to remand, "standing alone," is "[o]bviously. . . not final and [immediately] appealable" as of right.Chicago, R. I. & P. R. Co. v. Stude, 346 U. S. 574, 578 (1954).Nor is a plaintiff required to seek permission to take an interlocutory appeal pursuant to 28 U. S. C. $ 1292(b) 10 in orderto avoid waiving whatever ultimate appeal right he mayhave.11 Indeed, if a party had to invoke $ 1292(b) in orderto preserve an objection to an interlocutory ruling, litigantswould be obliged to seek $ 1292(b) certifications constantly.Routine resort to $ 1292(b) requests would hardly comportwith Congress' design to reserve interlocutory review for" `exceptional' " cases while generally retaining for the federal courts a firm final judgment rule. Coopers & Lybrandv. Livesay, 437 U. S. 463, 475 (1978) (quoting Fisons, Ltd. v.United States, 458 F. 2d 1241, 1248 (CA7), cert. denied, 405U. S. 1041 (1972)).Having preserved his objection to an improper removal,Lewis urges that an "all's well that ends well" approach isinappropriate here. He maintains that ultimate satisfactionof the subject-matter jurisdiction requirement ought notswallow up antecedent statutory violations. The courseCaterpillar advocates, Lewis observes, would disfavor diligent plaintiffs who timely, but unsuccessfully, move to checkimproper removals in district court. Further, that coursewould allow improperly removing defendants to profit from10 Section 1292(b) provides for interlocutory appeals from otherwise notimmediately appealable orders, if conditions specified in the section aremet, the district court so certifies, and the court of appeals exercises itsdiscretion to take up the request for review.11 On brief, Caterpillar argued that "Lewis effectively waived his objection to removal by failing to seek an immediate appeal of the districtcourt's refusal to remand." Brief for Petitioner 13. We reject thiswaiver argument, though we recognize that it has attracted some supportin Court of Appeals opinions. See, e. g., Able v. Upjohn Co., 829 F. 2d1330, 1333-1334 (CA4 1987), cert. denied, 485 U. S. 963 (1988).519US1$$8p 06-02-99 15:06:02 PAGES OPINPGT75Cite as: 519 U. S. 61 (1996)Opinion of the Courttheir disregard of Congress' instructions, and their ability tolead district judges into error.Concretely, in this very case, Lewis emphasizes, adherenceto the rules Congress prescribed for removal would havekept the case in state court. Only by removing prematurelywas Caterpillar able to get to federal court inside the oneyear limitation set in $ 1446(b).12 Had Caterpillar waiteduntil the case was ripe for removal,i. e., until Whayne Sup-ply was dismissed as a defendant, the one-year limitationwould have barred the way,13 and plaintiff 's choice of forumwould have been preserved.14These arguments are hardly meritless, but they run upagainst an overriding consideration. Once a diversity casehas been tried in federal court, with rules of decision sup-plied by state law under the regime of Erie R. Co. v. Tompkins, 304 U. S. 64 (1938), considerations of finality, efficiency,and economy become overwhelming.Our decision in Newman-Green, Inc. v. Alfonzo-Larrain,490 U. S. 826 (1989), is instructive in this regard.Newman-Green did not involve removal, but it did involve the federal12 Congress amended $ 1446(b) in 1988 to include the one-year limitationin order to "reduc[e] the opportunity for removal after substantial progress has been made in state court." H. R. Rep. No. 100-889, p. 72 (1988).13 On appeal, Lewis raised only the absence of diversity. He did notrefer to the one-year limitation prior to his brief on the merits in thisCourt. See Tr. of Oral Arg. 17, 30-31. Under this Court's Rule 15.2, anonjurisdictional argument not raised in a respondent's brief in oppositionto a petition for a writ of certiorari "may be deemed waived." Under thefacts of this case, however, addressing the implications of $ 1446(b)'s oneyear limitation is " `predicate to an intelligent resolution' of the questionpresented." Ohio v. Robinette, ante, at 38 (quoting Vance v. Terrazas, 444U. S. 252, 258-259, n. 5 (1980)). We therefore regard the issue as one"fairly included" within the question presented. This Court's Rule 14.1.The parties addressed the issue in their briefs and at oral argument, andwe exercise our discretion to decide it.14 Lewis preferred state court to federal court based on differences heperceived in, inter alia, the state and federal jury systems and rules ofevidence. See Brief for Respondent 22-23.519US1$$8p 06-02-99 15:06:02 PAGES OPINPGT76 CATERPILLAR INC. v. LEWISOpinion of the Courtcourts' diversity jurisdiction and a party defendant whosepresence, like Whayne Supply's in this case, blocked complete diversity. Newman-Green proceeded to summaryjudgment with the jurisdictional flaw--the absence ofcomplete diversity--undetected. See id., at 828-829. TheCourt of Appeals noticed the flaw, invited the parties to ad-dress it, and, en banc, returned the case to the District Court"to determine whether it would be prudent to drop [the ju-risdiction spoiler] from the litigation."Id., at 830. We heldthat the Court of Appeals itself had authority "to dismiss adispensable nondiverse party," although we recognized that,ordinarily, district courts are better positioned to make suchjudgments. Id., at 837-838. "[R]equiring dismissal afteryears of litigation," the Court stressed in Newman-Green,"would impose unnecessary and wasteful burdens on the parties, judges, and other litigants waiting for judicial attention." Id., at 836. The same may be said of the remand tostate court Lewis seeks here. Cf. Knop v. McMahan, 872F. 2d 1132, 1139, n. 16 (CA3 1989) ("To permit a case in whichthere is complete diversity throughout trial to proceed tojudgment and then cancel the effect of that judgment andrelegate the parties to a new trial in a state court becauseof a brief lack of complete diversity at the beginning of thecase would be a waste of judicial resources.").Our view is in harmony with a main theme of the removalscheme Congress devised. Congress ordered a procedurecalling for expeditious superintendence by district courts.The lawmakers specified a short time, 30 days, for motionsto remand for defects in removal procedure, 28 U. S. C.$ 1447(c), and district court orders remanding cases to statecourts generally are "not reviewable on appeal or otherwise," $ 1447(d). Congress did not similarly exclude appellate review of refusals to remand. But an evident concernthat may explain the lack of symmetry relates to the federalcourts' subject-matter jurisdiction. Despite a federal trialcourt's threshold denial of a motion to remand, if, at the end519US1$$8p 06-02-99 15:06:02 PAGES OPINPGT77Cite as: 519 U. S. 61 (1996)Opinion of the Courtof the day and case, a jurisdictional defect remains uncured,the judgment must be vacated. See Fed. Rule Civ. Proc.12(h)(3) ("Whenever it appears by suggestion of the partiesor otherwise that the court lacks jurisdiction of the subjectmatter, the court shall dismiss the action."); Finn, 341 U. S.,at 18. In this case, however, no jurisdictional defect lin-gered through judgment in the District Court. To wipe outthe adjudication postjudgment, and return to state court acase now satisfying all federal jurisdictional requirements,would impose an exorbitant cost on our dual court system, acost incompatible with the fair and unprotracted administration of justice.Lewis ultimately argues that, if the final judgment againsthim is allowed to stand, "all of the various procedural requirements for removal will become unenforceable"; therefore, "defendants will have an enormous incentive to attemptwrongful removals." Brief for Respondent 9. In particular, Lewis suggests that defendants will remove prematurely"in the hope that some subsequent developments, such as theeventual dismissal of nondiverse defendants, will permit th[e]case to be kept in federal court." Id., at 21. We do notanticipate the dire consequences Lewis forecasts.The procedural requirements for removal remain enforceable by the federal trial court judges to whom those requirements are directly addressed. Lewis' prediction that rejection of his petition will "encourag[e] state court defendantsto remove cases improperly," id., at 19, rests on an assumption we do not indulge--that district courts generally willnot comprehend, or will balk at applying, the rules on removal Congress has prescribed. The prediction furthermore assumes defendants' readiness to gamble that anyjurisdictional defect, for example, the absence of completediversity, will first escape detection, then disappear prior tojudgment. The well-advised defendant, we are satisfied,will foresee the likely outcome of an unwarranted removal--a swift and nonreviewable remand order, see 28 U. S. C.519US1$$8p 06-02-99 15:06:02 PAGES OPINPGT78 CATERPILLAR INC. v. LEWISOpinion of the Court$$ 1447(c), (d), attended by the displeasure of a district courtwhose authority has been improperly invoked. The oddsagainst any gain from a wrongful removal, in sum, renderimprobable Lewis' projection of increased resort to themaneuver. * * *For the reasons stated, the judgment of the Court of Ap-peals is reversed, and the case is remanded for proceedingsconsistent with this opinion.