Incident to the authorization of a massive flood controlproject for the Mississippi River in 1928, Congress enactedan immunity provision which stated that "[n]o liability of anykind shall attach to or rest upon the United States for anydamage from or by floods or flood waters at any place." 45*M. Reed Hopper filed a brief for the Pacific Legal Foundation as amicus curiae urging reversal.531US2 Unit: $U23 [04-12-02 19:29:31] PAGES PGT: OPIN427Cite as: 531 U. S. 425 (2001)Opinion of the CourtStat. 535, as amended, 33 U. S. C. $ 702c. At issue in thiscase is the meaning of the words "floods or flood waters."The narrow question presented is whether those words encompass all the water that flows through a federal facilitythat was designed and is operated, at least in part, for floodcontrol purposes. The Ninth Circuit, relying upon a broaderconstruction of $ 702c than some other federal courts haveadopted, concluded that they do. We granted certiorari toresolve the conflict, 529 U. S. 1017 (2000), and now reverse.IPetitioner owns 1,000 acres of pistachio orchards in California's San Joaquin Valley. The Madera Canal, a federalfacility that has been leased to the Madera Irrigation District (MID), flows through petitioner's property. In 1996,petitioner brought this action against respondent UnitedStates and the MID alleging that their negligence in the design, construction, and maintenance of the canal had causedsubsurface flooding resulting in damage to the orchards andincreased operating costs for petitioner. Petitioner did notallege that any physical failure of the dam caused the damageto its property. The complaint sought damages under theFederal Tort Claims Act, 28 U. S. C. $ 2671 et seq., as well asinjunctive relief. Relying on the immunity granted by theFlood Control Act of 1928, 33 U. S. C. $ 702c, the UnitedStates moved for judgment on the pleadings.Accepting petitioner's submission that the Madera Canalwas used for irrigation purposes, the District Court nevertheless dismissed the complaint because the parties agreedthat the canal was a part of the Friant Division of the Central Valley Project, and that flood control was one of the purposes of that project. The District Court's decision was dictated by an earlier Ninth Circuit case, which held that if a" `project has flood control as one of its purposes, and the531US2 Unit: $U23 [04-12-02 19:29:31] PAGES PGT: OPIN428 CENTRAL GREEN CO. v. UNITED STATESOpinion of the Courtevents giving rise to the action were not wholly unrelated tothe project,' " immunity necessarily attached.1On appeal, the Ninth Circuit affirmed. It agreed withpetitioner that the Madera Canal "serves no flood controlpurpose," but nevertheless held that immunity attached"solely because it is a branch of the Central Valley Project."177 F. 3d 834, 839 (1999). As the Ninth Circuit put it, "[a]l-though the water in the Madera Canal was not held for thepurpose of flood control, because it was part of the CentralValley Project, it was`not wholly unrelated' to flood con-trol." Ibid. (emphasis added). In so holding, however, thecourt recognized that the Government would probably nothave enjoyed immunity in at least three other Circuits wherethe courts require a nexus between flood control activitiesand the harm done to the plaintiff.2 Noting the "harsh result of [the] decision," the Ninth Circuit frankly acknowl-edged that "[t]he `not wholly unrelated' test applied by thisand other circuits reads broadly an already broadly writtengrant of immunity."Ibid. As the Ninth Circuit recog-nized, under such a test, there would seem to be no "set offacts where the government is not immune from damagearising from water that at one time passed through part ofthe Central Valley or other flood control project." Ibid.IINot until more than a half century after its enactment didthis Court have occasion to interpret $ 702c. In a consolidated case arising out of two separate accidents, we held thatthe section "bars recovery where the Federal Government1 App. to Pet. for Cert. 15 (quoting Washington v. East Columbia BasinIrrigation Dist., 105 F. 3d 517, 520 (1997)).2 Citing Fryman v. United States, 901 F. 2d 79 (CA7 1990); Boyd v.United States, 881 F. 2d 895 (CA10 1989); and Hayes v. United States, 585F. 2d 701 (CA4 1978), the Ninth Circuit specifically identified the Fourth,Seventh, and Tenth Circuits as ones which likely would have reached adifferent result.531US2 Unit: $U23 [04-12-02 19:29:31] PAGES PGT: OPIN429Cite as: 531 U. S. 425 (2001)Opinion of the Courtwould otherwise be liable under the Federal Tort ClaimsAct, 28 U. S. C. $ 2671 et seq., for personal injury caused bythe Federal Government's negligent failure to warn of thedangers from the release of floodwaters from federal floodcontrol projects." United States v. James, 478 U. S. 597,599 (1986).The principal issue in the James case was whether thestatutory word "damage" encompassed not just propertydamage, but also personal injuries and death. In light ofthe legislative history, which it reviewed at some length,id.,at 606-609, 610-612, the Court concluded that the best reading of the statutory text was one which was both broaderand less literal, and which encompassed the claims at issuein the two cases before the Court.In both instances, the injuries were caused by the turbulent current generated by unwarned releases of waters froma reservoir after the Army Corps of Engineers had determined that the waters were at "flood stage." The fact thatthe injuries were caused by "flood waters" was undisputed.3In its opinion, the Court held that the language of the statutecovered the two accidents because the "injuries occurred asa result of the release of waters from reservoirs that hadreached flood stage."Id., at 604.Nevertheless, the Court's opinion in James included a passage that lends support to the Ninth Circuit's holding in thiscase. In that passage, the Court wrote:3 The first case arose out of an incident at the Millwood Dam in Arkansas, when "the level of the Reservoir was such that the United StatesCorps of Engineers designated it at `flood stage.' As part of the floodcontrol function of the Millwood facility, the Corps of Engineers began torelease water through the tainter gates. This release created a swift,strong current toward the underwater discharge." 478 U. S., at 599.The second case arose as a result of a decision by the Corps of Engineersto release waters in the reservoir of Bayou Courtableau Basin which"were at flood stage." Id., at 601. The District Court found that $ 702capplied because the " `gates were opened to prevent flooding and inundation landside of the drainage structure.' " Id., at 602 (emphasis added).531US2 Unit: $U23 [04-12-02 19:29:31] PAGES PGT: OPIN430 CENTRAL GREEN CO. v. UNITED STATESOpinion of the Court"Nor do the terms `flood' and `flood waters' create anyuncertainty in the context of accidents such as the onesat issue in these cases. The Act concerns flood controlprojects designed to carry floodwaters. It is thus clearfrom $ 702c's plain language that the terms `flood' and` flood waters' apply to all waters contained in or carried through a federal flood control project for purposesof or related to flood control, as well as to waters thatsuch projects cannot control." Id., at 605 (emphasisadded).4The sentence that we have italicized and, in particular, thephrase "related to flood control" have generated conflictingopinions among the Courts of Appeals. In an attempt tomake sense of what is admittedly confusing dicta, somecourts have focused on whether the damage relates in some,often tenuous, way to a flood control project, rather thanwhether it relates to "floods or flood waters." 5 However,4 The Court appended a footnote pointing out that the District Court ineach case had found that the waters at issue had been "released fromfederal flood control facilities to prevent flooding" and that the Court ofAppeals had upheld those findings "and assumed that `the waters in this[consolidated] case were floodwaters.' " See id., at 606, n. 7.5 See, e. g., Washington v. East Columbia Basin Irrigation Dist., 105F. 3d 517 (CA9 1997); Williams v. United States, 957 F. 2d 742 (CA101992); Dawson v. United States, 894 F. 2d 70 (CA3 1990); DeWitt Bank &Trust Co. v. United States, 878 F. 2d 246 (CA8 1989). This approach, however, can be overinclusive. As Judge Easterbrook has pointed out: "The`management of a flood control project' includes building roads to reachthe beaches and hiring staff to run the project. If the Corps of Engineersshould allow a walrus-sized pothole to swallow tourists' cars on the wayto the beach, or if a tree-trimmer's car should careen through some picnickers, these injuries would be `associated with' flood control. Theywould occur within the boundaries of the project, and but for the effort tocurtail flooding the injuries would not have happened. Yet they wouldhave nothing to do with management of flood waters, and it is hard toconceive that they are `damage from or by floods or flood waters' withinthe scope of $ 702c.' " Fryman v. United States, 901 F. 2d, at 81. More531US2 Unit: $U23 [04-12-02 19:29:31] PAGES PGT: OPIN431Cite as: 531 U. S. 425 (2001)Opinion of the Courtmore than one court has pointed out that, if read literally,the sentence sweeps so broadly as to make little sense.6Moreover, the sentence was unquestionably dictum becauseit was not essential to our disposition of any of the issuescontested in James.7 It is therefore appropriate to resort tothe text of the statute, as illuminated by our holding inJames, rather than to that isolated comment, to determinewhether the water flowing through the Madera Canal thatallegedly caused the damage to petitioner's pistachio orchards is covered by $ 702c. See Humphrey's Executor v.United States, 295 U. S. 602, 627 (1935) (dicta "may be followed if sufficiently persuasive" but are not binding). Seealso U. S. Bancorp Mortgage Co. v. Bonner Mall Partnership, 513 U. S. 18, 24 (1994).In James, we held that the phrase "floods or flood waters"is not narrowly confined to those waters that a federal project is unable to control, and that it encompasses waters thatare released for flood control purposes when reservoired waters are at flood stage. That holding, however, is vastly different from the Ninth Circuit's reading of $ 702c, under whichimmunity attaches simply because the Madera Canal is partof the Friant Division of the Central Valley Project, and floodcontrol is one of the purposes served by that project. Theto the point, such an approach is also inconsistent with the statutory language. See infra, at 434.6 "Other circuits recognize that such a sweeping grant of immunitymakes little sense in light of the text and purpose of the Act." Cantrellv. United States Dept. of Army Corps of Engineers, 89 F. 3d 268, 271 (CA61996). See also Fryman, 901 F. 2d, at 81 ("James was so broadly writtenthat it cannot be applied literally").7 In addition to concluding that the word "damage" includes personalinjury and death, the Court also rejected the previously arguable propositions that the Federal Government's subsequent waiver of sovereign immunity in the Federal Tort Claims Act had impliedly repealed $ 702c; andthat the immunity applied only to the flood control on the Mississippi Riverauthorized by the 1928 Act.531US2 Unit: $U23 [04-12-02 19:29:31] PAGES PGT: OPIN432 CENTRAL GREEN CO. v. UNITED STATESOpinion of the Courtholding in James also differs from the less attenuated andmore fact-specific position advanced by the Government,which would require us to take judicial notice of evidencethat the Friant Division of the Central Valley Project and,indeed, the Madera Canal itself can and do serve flood controlpurposes. We ultimately conclude that the judgment cannotbe upheld under either rationale, but begin with a description of the Central Valley Project and an explanation of thefactual basis for the Government's submission.IIIWe begin by observing that water can be either a liabilityor an asset. The Mississippi River flood of 1927 was unquestionably an example of the former. That flood in turn ledto the enactment of the 1928 Flood Control Act. Similar,though less extreme, floods of the Sacramento and San Joaquin Rivers in California provided an important motivationfor the authorization of the Central Valley Project. Although that project has not completely eliminated floodingon either river, it has succeeded in converting a huge liability into an immensely valuable asset. Justice Jackson described the magnitude of that transformation in his opinionfor the Court in United States v. Gerlach Live Stock Co., 339U. S. 725 (1950):"This is a gigantic undertaking to redistribute theprincipal fresh-water resources of California. CentralValley is a vast basin, stretching over 400 miles on itspolar axis and a hundred in width, in the heart of California. Bounded by the Sierra Nevada on the east andby coastal ranges on the west, it consists actually of twoseparate river valleys which merge in a single pass tothe sea at the Golden Gate. Its rich acres, counted inthe millions, are deficient in rainfall and must remaingenerally arid and unfruitful unless artificially watered.. . . . .531US2 Unit: $U23 [04-12-02 19:29:31] PAGES PGT: OPIN433Cite as: 531 U. S. 425 (2001)Opinion of the Court"To . . . make water available where it would be ofgreatest service, the State of California proposed to reengineer its natural water distribution. This projectwas taken over by the United States in 1935 and hassince been a federal enterprise. The plan, in broad out-line, is to capture and store waters of both rivers andmany of their tributaries in their highland basins, insome cases taking advantage of the resulting head forgeneration of electric energy. . . . [T]he waters of theSan Joaquin will be arrested at Friant, where theywould take leave of the mountains, and will be divertednorth and south through a system of canals and sold toirrigate more than a million acres of land, some as far as160 miles away. A cost of refreshing this great expanseof semiarid land is that, except for occasional spills, onlya dry river bed will cross the plain below the dam.Here, however, surplus waters from the north are utilized, for through a 150-mile canal Sacramento water isto be pumped to the cultivated lands formerly dependent on the San Joaquin." Id., at 728-729."The Central Valley basin development envisions, inone sense, an integrated undertaking, but also an aggregate of many subsidiary projects, each of which is offirst magnitude. It consists of thirty-eight major damsand reservoirs bordering the valley floor and scores ofsmaller ones in headwaters. It contemplates twentyeight hydropower generating stations. It includes hundreds of miles of main canals, thousands of miles of laterals and drains, electric transmission and feeder lines andsubstations, and a vast network of structures for thecontrol and use of water on two million acres of landalready irrigated, three million acres of land to be newlyirrigated, 360,000 acres in the delta needing protectionfrom intrusions of salt water, and for municipal and miscellaneous purposes including cities, towns, duck clubsand game refuges. These projects are not only widely531US2 Unit: $U23 [04-12-02 19:29:31] PAGES PGT: OPIN434 CENTRAL GREEN CO. v. UNITED STATESOpinion of the Courtseparated geographically, many of them physically inde-pendent in operation, but they are authorized in separate acts from year to year and are to be constructed atdifferent times over a considerable span of years."Id.,at 733.Justice Jackson's description of the magnitude of the CentralValley Project makes one proposition perfectly clear: to char-acterize every drop of water that flows through that immense project as "flood water" simply because flood controlis among the purposes served by the project unnecessarilydilutes the language of the statute. The text of the statutedoes not include the words "flood control project." Rather,it states that immunity attaches to "any damage from or byfloods or flood waters . . . ." Accordingly, the text of thestatute directs us to determine the scope of the immunityconferred, not by the character of the federal project or thepurposes it serves, but by the character of the waters thatcause the relevant damage and the purposes behind theirrelease.IVThe Government has asked us to take judicial notice ofcertain basic facts about the Friant Division of the CentralValley Project and about the waters flowing through thatdivision and, more particularly, through the Madera Canal.Although petitioner will have an opportunity to challengethose details on remand, we accept them for purposes ofthis opinion.The two major rivers supplying water to the Central Val-ley Project are the Sacramento in the north, and the SanJoaquin in the south. From its headwaters in the Sierra Nevada Mountains, the San Joaquin flows in a southwesterlydirection into a reservoir, known as Millerton Lake, justabove the Friant Dam. The reservoir has a storage capacityof 520,500 acre-feet of water. In dry years, the total flow inthe river does not produce that amount, but on average, the531US2 Unit: $U23 [04-12-02 19:29:31] PAGES PGT: OPIN435Cite as: 531 U. S. 425 (2001)Opinion of the Courtannual flow apparently approximates 31/2 times the reser-voir's capacity. Water is released through outlets in thedam that send it down the San Joaquin River, and alsothrough outlets that direct it into either the Madera Canalto the northwest, or the Friant-Kern Canal to the southeast.When the water level exceeds 578 feet, it flows over thedam's spillway into the San Joaquin. At that point, the rivercan accommodate a flow of 8,000 cubic feet per second without flooding. The Madera Canal can accommodate 1,200cubic feet per second, and the Friant-Kern another 4,500cubic feet per second. Thus, a total release of 13,700 cubicfeet per second in three directions would not appear to in-clude any "flood water."The Madera Canal, which is about 40 miles in length, isused primarily for irrigation purposes. Water that entersthe canal at the Friant Dam is purchased by farmers whoeither use it immediately or store it for future use. As aresult, the amount of water that enters the canal is largerthan the quantity that may flow into the Chowchilla Riverat its terminus.8 Except in years of extreme drought, theMadera Irrigation District provides contracting farmerswith "a dependable water supply" of approximately 138,000acre-feet of "Class 1 water." In addition, "if, as, and whenit can be made available," the District sells "Class 2 water"to the farmers at a price that is lower than the Class 1 pricebecause of the "uncertainty as to availability and time of occurrence." 9 Thus, again in a literal sense, it seems clearthat none of the Class 1 or Class 2 water sold by the Districtand purchased by the farmers to store or irrigate their landsincludes any "flood water."8 The Chowchilla flows in a westerly direction into the San Joaquin,which in turn flows in a northwesterly direction at that point.9 In some exceptional circumstances, irrigation contractors may be obligated to buy Class 2 water at a particular time. However, contractorsstill pay for the water, regardless of the potential inconvenience with respect to the timing or date of delivery.531US2 Unit: $U23 [04-12-02 19:29:32] PAGES PGT: OPIN436 CENTRAL GREEN CO. v. UNITED STATESOpinion of the CourtWater that is not purchased under either class simply flowsthrough the canal into the Chowchilla River. As the Government points out, that excess may include flood water.However, given the fact that the canal can accommodate aflow of 1,200 cubic feet per second, which amounts to about2,380 acre-feet per day, it is entirely possible that over thespan of a year, several times the amount of Class 1 and Class2 waters described in the papers submitted by the Government could flow through the canal without causing anythingapproaching a flood. Nevertheless, according to the Government, because the Madera Canal is available to divertwater that might otherwise produce a flood on the San Joaquin and flood control is among the purposes served by thecanal, $ 702c immunity must attach to all the water that flowsthrough the canal. Under the Government's approach, thiswould be true even if the water never approached flood stageand the terminus of the canal was parched at the end of thesummer. Admittedly, it is possible to read the "related to"portion of the dictum from James to support that result, butneither the language of the statute itself, nor the holding inJames, even arguably supports such a strange conclusion.Accordingly, we disavow that portion of James' dicta.VThis case does raise a difficult issue because the propertydamage at issue was allegedly caused by continuous or repeated flows occurring over a period of years, rather than bya single, discrete incident. It is relatively easy to determinethat a particular release of water that has reached floodstage is "flood water," as in James, or that a release directedby a power company for the commercial purpose of generat-ing electricity is not, as in Henderson v. United States, 965F. 2d 1488 (CA8 1992). It is, however, not such a simplematter when damage may have been caused over a period oftime in part by flood waters and in part by the routine useof the canal when it contained little more than a trickle. The531US2 Unit: $U23 [04-12-02 19:29:32] PAGES PGT: OPIN437Cite as: 531 U. S. 425 (2001)Opinion of the Courtfact that a serious flood did occur in the San Joaquin in 1997creates the distinct possibility that flood waters may havesurged down the Madera Canal and harmed petitioner'sproperty.For present purposes, we merely hold that it was error togrant the Government's motion for judgment on the pleadings and that it is the text of $ 702c, as informed by our hold-ing inJames, rather than the broad dictum in that opinion,that governs the scope of the United States' immunity fromliability for damage caused "by floods or flood waters." Ac-cordingly, in determining whether $ 702c immunity attaches,courts should consider the character of the waters that causethe relevant damage rather than the relation between thatdamage and a flood control project.The judgment of the Court of Appeals is reversed, andthe case is remanded for further proceedings consistent withthis opinion.