In 1981 petitioner Kraft General Foods, Inc. (Kraft), oper-ated a unitary business throughout the United States and inseveral foreign countries. Because part of its business wasconducted in Iowa, Kraft was subject to the Iowa BusinessTax on Corporations.1 At issue in this case is Iowa's inclu-sion in the tax base of the dividends that Kraft received fromsix subsidiaries, each of which was incorporated and con-ducted its business in a foreign country.2 While Iowa taxes*Briefs of amici curiae urging reversal were filed for Avon Products,Inc., et al. by Timothy B. Dyk, Edward K. Bilich, and Maryann B. Gall;for Chevron Corp. et al. by Mark L. Evans, Alan I. Horowitz, and Anthony F. Shelley; and for the Washington Legal Foundation by StephanG. Weil, Susan G. Braden, Daniel J. Popeo, and Paul D. Kamenar.Richard Ruda, Michael G. Dzialo, Martin Lobel, and James F. Flugfiled a brief for the National Conference of State Legislatures et al. asamici curiae urging affirmance.1 Iowa Code $ 422.32 et seq. (1981).2 See App. to Pet. for Cert. 29a. Kraft owned capital stock representingmore than 80% of the voting power and of the total value of the subsidiaries. Ibid.505us1$96I 07-22-96 16:30:34 PAGES OPINPGT73Cite as: 505 U. S. 71 (1992)Opinion of the Courtthe dividends that a corporation receives from its foreignsubsidiaries, Iowa does not tax dividends received from domestic subsidiaries. The question presented is whether thedisparate treatment of dividends from foreign and from domestic subsidiaries violates the Foreign Commerce Clause.3IThe Iowa statute uses the federal definition of "net income" with certain adjustments.4 For federal tax purposes,corporations are generally allowed a deduction for dividendsreceived from domestic subsidiaries.5 As the earnings ofthe domestic subsidiaries, themselves, are subject to federaltaxation, this deduction avoids a second federal tax on thoseearnings.6 The Federal Government generally does not taxthe earnings of foreign subsidiaries, and the dividends paidby foreign subsidiaries are not deductible. The parent corporation, however, does receive a credit for the foreign taxespaid on the dividends and on the underlying foreign earnings.7 Like the deduction for domestic subsidiary dividends,the foreign tax credit is intended to mitigate multiple taxation of corporate earnings.83 "The Congress shall have Power . . . To regulate Commerce with foreign Nations . . . ." U. S. Const., Art. I, $ 8.4 See Iowa Code $ 422.35 (1981).5 See 26 U. S. C. $ 243.6 See 465 N. W. 2d 664, 665 (Iowa 1991); B. Bittker & J. Eustice, FederalIncome Taxation of Corporations and Shareholders || 5.05 (5th ed. 1987).7 See 26 U. S. C. $$ 901, 902. Instead of taking the credit, the corporation may elect to deduct the foreign tax withheld on dividends from foreign subsidiaries. See $ 164. The taxpayer may not take both the creditand the deduction. See $ 275(a)(4). The credit is almost always morevaluable to the taxpayer. See 3 B. Bittker & L. Lokken, Federal Taxationof Income, Estates and Gifts || 69.14 (2d ed. 1991).8 See United States v. Goodyear Tire & Rubber Co., 493 U. S. 132, 139(1989); American Chicle Co. v. United States, 316 U. S. 450, 452 (1942);see also Bittker & Eustice, Federal Income Taxation of Corporations andShareholders || 17.11.505us1$96I 07-22-96 16:30:34 PAGES OPINPGT74 KRAFT GEN. FOODS, INC. v. IOWA DEPT. OFREVENUE AND FINANCEOpinion of the CourtIn following the federal scheme for the calculation of taxable income, Iowa allows a deduction for dividends receivedfrom domestic subsidiaries, but not for those received fromforeign subsidiaries. Iowa does not directly tax the incomeof a subsidiary unless the subsidiary, itself, does businessin Iowa.9 Thus, if a domestic subsidiary transacts businessin Iowa, its income is taxed, but if it does not do business inIowa, neither its income nor the dividends paid to its parentare taxed. In the case of the foreign subsidiary doing business abroad, Iowa does not tax the corporate income, butdoes tax the dividends paid to the parent.10 Unlike theFederal Government, Iowa does not allow a credit for taxespaid to foreign countries. See 465 N. W. 2d 664, 665 (Iowa1991).11In computing its taxable income on its 1981 Iowa return,Kraft deducted foreign subsidiary dividends, notwithstanding contrary provisions of Iowa law.12 Respondent IowaDepartment of Revenue and Finance (Iowa) assessed a defi9 Iowa is not a State that taxes an apportioned share of the entire incomeof a unitary business, without regard for formal corporate lines. See Tr.of Oral Arg. 37; cf. Container Corp. of America v. Franchise Tax Bd., 463U. S. 159, 164-169 (1983).10 At oral argument, counsel for Kraft offered the following illustration:"If an Iowa parent company had a Kentucky subsidiary, [that] did all itsbusiness in Kentucky, and another subsidiary that did all its business inGermany, Iowa would not tax the income of either of those subsidiaries.If each paid a dividend to the Iowa parent, Iowa would tax the Germandividends and would not tax the Kentucky dividends." Tr. of Oral Arg.47-48.11 If in calculating its federal tax liability, a taxpayer elects to deductforeign tax withheld on foreign subsidiary dividends, a taxpayer may alsodeduct these tax payments in calculating its Iowa taxes. Electing thededuction, then, allows the taxpayer to reduce, but not eliminate, the Iowatax on foreign subsidiary dividends. In the relevant year, Kraft electedto take the foreign tax credit, see 465 N. W. 2d, at 666, and thus could notdeduct the foreign taxes in computing its federal or Iowa taxable income,see n. 7, supra.12 See 465 N. W. 2d, at 666.505us1$96I 07-22-96 16:30:34 PAGES OPINPGT75Cite as: 505 U. S. 71 (1992)Opinion of the Courtciency. After its administrative protest was denied,13 Kraftchallenged the assessment in Iowa courts, alleging that thedisparate treatment of domestic and foreign subsidiary divi-dends violated the Commerce Clause and the Equal Protection Clause 14 of the Federal Constitution. The Iowa Su-preme Court rejected the Commerce Clause claim becausepetitioner failed to demonstrate "that Iowa businesses receive a commercial advantage over foreign commerce due toIowa's taxing scheme."Id., at 668. In considering Kraft'schallenge under the Equal Protection Clause, the court foundthat Iowa's use of the federal formula for calculation of taxable income was convenient both for the taxpayer and forthe State. Concluding that the Iowa statute was rationallyrelated to the goal of administrative efficiency, the IowaSupreme Court held that the statute did not violate equalprotection. Id., at 669. We granted certiorari. 502 U. S.1056 (1992). IIThe principal dispute between the parties concernswhether, on its face, the Iowa statute discriminates againstforeign commerce. It is indisputable that the Iowa statutetreats dividends received from foreign subsidiaries less favorably than dividends received from domestic subsidiaries.Iowa includes the former, but not the latter, in the calculation of taxable income. While admitting that the two kindsof dividends are treated differently, Iowa and itsamici advance several arguments in support of the proposition thatthis differential treatment does not constitute prohibited discrimination against foreign commerce.Amicus United States notes that a subsidiary's place ofincorporation does not necessarily correspond to the locus ofits business operations. A domestic corporation might do13 See App. to Pet. for Cert. 26a.14 "No state shall . . . deny to any person within its jurisdiction the equalprotection of the laws." U. S. Const., Amdt. 14, $ 1.505us1$96I 07-22-96 16:30:34 PAGES OPINPGT76 KRAFT GEN. FOODS, INC. v. IOWA DEPT. OFREVENUE AND FINANCEOpinion of the Courtbusiness abroad, and its dividends might reflect earningsfrom its foreign activity. Conversely, a foreign corporationmight do business in the United States, with its dividendpayments reflecting domestic business operations. On thisbasis, the United States contends that the disparate treat-ment of dividends from foreign and domestic subsidiariesdoes not translate into discrimination based on the locationor nature of business activity and is thus not prohibited bythe Commerce Clause.We recognize that the domicile of a corporation does notnecessarily establish that it is engaged in either foreign ordomestic commerce. In this case, however, it is stipulatedthat the foreign subsidiaries did, in fact, operate in foreigncommerce and, further, that the decision to do businessabroad through foreign subsidiaries is typically supported bylegitimate business reasons.15 By its nature, a unitary business is characterized by a flow of value among its compo-nents. SeeContainer Corp. of America v. Franchise TaxBd., 463 U. S. 159, 178 (1983). The flow of value betweenKraft and its foreign subsidiaries clearly constitutes foreigncommerce; this flow includes the foreign subsidiary divi-dends, which, as Iowa acknowledges, themselves constituteforeign commerce.16Moreover, through the interplay of the federal and Iowatax statutes, the applicability of the Iowa tax necessarily de-pends not only on the domicile of the subsidiary, but alsoon the location of the subsidiary's business activities. The15 The parties stipulated as follows:"Domestic Corporations typically do business in foreign countries throughcorporations organized in the country in which they are doing business fora variety of reasons. Reasons include, but are not limited to, the requirements of the local country, a better ability to limit their liability in thatcountry, the marketing advantage of being perceived by customers as alocal company, greater ease in repatriating funds, greater ease in borrowing funds locally, and ability to own property and manufacture in thatcountry." App. to Pet. for Cert. 30a-31a.16 See Tr. of Oral Arg. 24, 35.505us1$96I 07-22-96 16:30:34 PAGES OPINPGT77Cite as: 505 U. S. 71 (1992)Opinion of the CourtFederal Government generally taxes the income that a for-eign corporation earns in the United States.17 To avoid multiple taxation, the Government allows a deduction for foreignsubsidiary dividends that reflect such domestic earnings.18In adopting the federal pattern, Iowa also allows a deductionfor dividends received from a foreign subsidiary if the dividends reflect business activity in the United States. Accord-ingly, while the dividends of all domestic subsidiaries areexcluded from the Iowa tax base, the dividends of foreignsubsidiaries are excluded only to the extent they reflect domestic earnings.19 In sum, the only subsidiary dividend pay-ments taxed by Iowa are those reflecting the foreign business activity of foreign subsidiaries. We do not think thatthis discriminatory treatment can be justified on the groundthat some of the (untaxed) dividend payments from domesticsubsidiaries also reflect foreign earnings.In a related argument, Iowa and amicus United Statesassert that Kraft could conduct its foreign business throughdomestic subsidiaries instead of foreign subsidiaries or, alter-natively, could set up a domestic company to hold the stockof the foreign subsidiaries and receive the foreign dividendpayments. In either case, Kraft, itself, would receive nodividends from foreign subsidiaries and would thus avoidpaying Iowa tax on income attributable to the foreign operations. Iowa and the United States contend that these alter-natives further demonstrate that it is not foreign commerce,17 See 26 U. S. C. $ 882.18 See $ 245.19 The dissent presents the example of a subsidiary incorporated in aforeign country, but engaged in business exclusively in the United States.The dissent doubts whether a dividend payment from such a subsidiaryis properly characterized as "foreign commerce." Post, at 85. As discussed above, however, a dividend payment from such a subsidiary wouldnot be taxed by Iowa. Iowa taxes foreign subsidiary dividends only tothe extent that they reflect foreign earnings. The dissent does not dispute that this kind of dividend payment does constitute "foreign commerce." Post, at 84.505us1$96I 07-22-96 16:30:34 PAGES OPINPGT78 KRAFT GEN. FOODS, INC. v. IOWA DEPT. OFREVENUE AND FINANCEOpinion of the Courtbut, at most, a particular form of corporate organization thatis burdened.This argument is not persuasive. Whether or not the sug-gested methods of tax avoidance would be practical as abusiness matter, and whether or not they might generateadverse tax consequences in other jurisdictions, we do notthink that a State can force a taxpayer to conduct its foreignbusiness through a domestic subsidiary in order to avoid discriminatory taxation of foreign commerce. Cf. Metropolitan Life Ins. Co. v. Ward, 470 U. S. 869, 878-879 (1985). Wehave previously found that the Commerce Clause is not violated when the differential tax treatment of two categoriesof companies "results solely from differences between thenature of their businesses, not from the location of their ac-tivities."Amerada Hess Corp. v. Director, Div. of Taxation,N. J. Dept. of Treasury, 490 U. S. 66, 78 (1989).20 We find noauthority for the different proposition advanced here that atax that does discriminate against foreign commerce may beupheld if a taxpayer could avoid that discrimination bychanging the domicile of the corporations through which itconducts its business. Our cases suggest the contrary. SeeWestinghouse Electric Corp. v. Tully, 466 U. S. 388, 406(1984); Halliburton Oil Well Cementing Co. v. Reily, 373U. S. 64, 72 (1963).Repeating the argument that prevailed in the Iowa Su-preme Court, Iowa next insists that its tax system does notviolate the Commerce Clause because it does not favor localinterests. To the extent corporations do business in Iowa,an apportioned share of their entire corporate income is sub-ject to Iowa tax. In the case of a foreign subsidiary doingbusiness abroad, Iowa would tax the dividends paid to thedomestic parent, but would not tax the subsidiary's earnings.20 In Amerada Hess, we rejected the contention that a New Jersey taxviolated the Commerce Clause because it "discriminate[d] against oil producers who market their oil in favor of independent retailers who do notproduce oil." 490 U. S., at 78.505us1$96I 07-22-96 16:30:34 PAGES OPINPGT79Cite as: 505 U. S. 71 (1992)Opinion of the CourtSummarizing this analysis, Iowa asserts: "More earnings ofthe domestic subsidiary, which has income producing activities in Iowa, than earnings of the foreign subsidiary, whichhas no Iowa activities, are included in the preapportionednet income base for the unitary business as a whole." Brieffor Respondent 19. Far from favoring local commerce, Iowaargues, the tax system places additional burdens on Iowabusinesses.We agree that the statute does not treat Iowa subsidiariesmore favorably than subsidiaries located elsewhere. We arenot persuaded, however, that such favoritism is an essentialelement of a violation of the Foreign Commerce Clause. InJapan Line, Ltd. v. County of Los Angeles, 441 U. S. 434(1979), we concluded that the constitutional prohibitionagainst state taxation of foreign commerce is broader thanthe protection afforded to interstate commerce, id., at 445-446, in part because matters of concern to the entire Nationare implicated, id., at 448-451. Like the Import-ExportClause,21 the Foreign Commerce Clause recognizes that dis-criminatory treatment of foreign commerce may create problems, such as the potential for international retaliation, thatconcern the Nation as a whole. Id., at 450. So here, wethink that a State's preference for domestic commerce overforeign commerce is inconsistent with the Commerce Clauseeven if the State's own economy is not a direct beneficiary ofthe discrimination. As the absence of local benefit does noteliminate the international implications of the discrimina-tion, it cannot exempt such discrimination from CommerceClause prohibitions.Iowa andamicus United States also assert the strongerclaim that Iowa's tax system does not favor business activityin the United States generally over business activity abroad.If true, this would indeed suggest that the statute does not21 "No State shall, without the Consent of the Congress, lay any Impostsor Duties on Imports or Exports, except what may be absolutely necessaryfor executing its inspection Laws . . . ." U. S. Const., Art. I, $ 10, cl. 2.505us1$96I 07-22-96 16:30:34 PAGES OPINPGT80 KRAFT GEN. FOODS, INC. v. IOWA DEPT. OFREVENUE AND FINANCEOpinion of the Courtdiscriminate against foreign commerce. We are not convinced, however, that this description adequately characterizes the relevant features of the Iowa statute. It is truethat if a subsidiary were located in another State, its earnings would be subject to taxation by the Federal Government and by the other State (assuming that the State wasone of the great majority that impose a corporate incometax).22 This state and federal tax burden might exceed thesum of the foreign tax that a foreign subsidiary would payand the tax that Iowa collects on dividends received from aforeign subsidiary. But whatever the tax burdens imposedby the Federal Government or by other States, the fact remains that Iowa imposes a burden on foreign subsidiariesthat it does not impose on domestic subsidiaries.23 We haveno reason to doubt the assertion of the United States that"[i]n evaluating the alleged facial discrimination effected bythe Iowa tax, it is not proper to ignore the operation of other22 Corporate income is taxed by 45 States and by the District of Columbia. See 1 J. Hellerstein, State Taxation: Corporate Income and Franchise Taxes || 1.6 (1983).23 If one were to compare the aggregate tax imposed by Iowa on a unitary business which included a subsidiary doing business throughout theUnited States (including Iowa) with the aggregate tax imposed by Iowaon a unitary business which included a foreign subsidiary doing businessabroad, it would be difficult to say that Iowa discriminates against thebusiness with the foreign subsidiary. Iowa would tax an apportionedshare of the domestic subsidiary's entire earnings, but would tax only theamount of the foreign subsidiary's earnings paid as a dividend to theparent.In considering claims of discriminatory taxation under the CommerceClause, however, it is necessary to compare the taxpayers who are "mostsimilarly situated." Halliburton Oil Well Cementing Co. v. Reily, 373U. S. 64, 71 (1963). A corporation with a subsidiary doing business inIowa is not situated similarly to a corporation with a subsidiary doingbusiness abroad. In the former case, the Iowa operations of the subsidiary provide an independent basis for taxation not present in the case ofthe foreign subsidiary. A more appropriate comparison is between corporations whose subsidiaries do not do business in Iowa.505us1$96I 07-22-96 16:30:34 PAGES OPINPGT81Cite as: 505 U. S. 71 (1992)Opinion of the Courtprovisions of the same statute." Brief for United States asAmicus Curiae 14, n. 19 (emphasis added). We find no authority, however, for the principle that discrimination againstforeign commerce can be justified if the benefit to domesticsubsidiaries might happen to be offset by other taxes imposed not by Iowa, but by other States and by the FederalGovernment.Finally, Iowa insists that even if discrimination againstforeign commerce does result, the statute is valid because itis intended to promote administrative convenience ratherthan economic protectionism. Iowa contends that the adoption of the federal definition of "taxable income," whichincludes foreign subsidiary dividends, provides significantadvantages both to the taxpayers and to the taxing authorities. Taxpayers may compute their Iowa tax easily basedon their federal calculations, and the Iowa authorities mayrely on federal regulations and interpretations and may takeadvantage of federal efforts to monitor taxpayer compliance.See 465 N. W. 2d, at 669.We do not minimize the value of having state forms andauditing procedures replicate federal practice. Absent acompelling justification, however, a State may not advanceits legitimate goals by means that facially discriminateagainst foreign commerce. See Philadelphia v. New Jersey,437 U. S. 617, 626-628 (1978); Maine v. Taylor, 477 U. S. 131,148, n. 19 (1986). In this instance, Iowa could enjoy substantially the same administrative benefits by utilizing the federal definition of taxable income, while making adjustmentsthat avoid the discriminatory treatment of foreign subsidiarydividends. Many other States have adopted this approach.24It is apparent, then, that this is not a case in which theState's goals "cannot be adequately served by reasonablenondiscriminatory alternatives." New Energy Co. of Indiana v. Limbach, 486 U. S. 269, 278 (1988). Even if such24 See App. to Pet. for Cert. 74a-75a.505us1$96I 07-22-96 16:30:34 PAGES OPINPGT82 KRAFT GEN. FOODS, INC. v. IOWA DEPT. OFREVENUE AND FINANCERehnquist, C. J., dissentingadjustments would diminish the administrative benefits ofadopting federal definitions, this marginal loss in convenience would not constitute the kind of serious health andsafety concern that we have sometimes found sufficient tojustify discriminatory state legislation. Cf. Maine v. Taylor, 477 U. S., at 151; Sporhase v. Nebraska ex rel. Douglas,458 U. S. 941, 956-957 (1982).IIIIowa need not adopt the federal definition of taxable in-come. Nor, having chosen to follow the federal system inpart, must Iowa duplicate that scheme in all respects. Theadoption of the federal system in whole or in part, however,cannot shield a state tax statute from Commerce Clausescrutiny. The Iowa statute cannot withstand this scrutiny,for it facially discriminates against foreign commerce andtherefore violates the Foreign Commerce Clause.25The judgment of the Supreme Court of Iowa is reversed,and the case is remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.