This litigation began when Ohio Cellular Products Cor-poration (OCP) sued respondent Adams USA, Inc. (Adams),claiming patent infringement. The District Court eventu-ally dismissed OCP's claim and ordered OCP to pay Adams'costs and attorney fees. Adams feared that OCP might beunable to pay the fee award and therefore sought a meansto recover from petitioner Nelson, president and sole share529US2 Unit: $U49 [10-24-00 10:29:50] PAGES PGT: OPIN463Cite as: 529 U. S. 460 (2000)Opinion of the Courtholder of OCP, in his individual capacity. In pursuit of thatobjective, Adams moved under Rule 15 of the Federal Rulesof Civil Procedure to amend its pleading to add Nelson as aparty; Adams also asked the court, under Rule 59(e), toamend the fee award. The District Court granted the mo-tion in full, simultaneously making Nelson a party and subjecting him to judgment. The Court of Appeals affirmed.We hold that the District Court erred in amending thejudgment immediately upon permitting amendment of thepleading. Due process, as reflected in Rule 15 as well asRule 12, required that Nelson be given an opportunity torespond and contest his personal liability for the award afterhe was made a party and before the entry of judgmentagainst him.IOCP and its successor corporation held two patents re-lating to the method of manufacturing a foamed paddingused in athletic equipment. In 1994, OCP sued Adams forinfringement. Adams maintained that the patents had beenanticipated by prior art and were therefore invalid under35 U. S. C. $ 102(b). The District Court ruled in Adams'favor and dismissed the infringement complaint.Adams then moved for attorney fees and costs. The District Court granted the motion on the ground that Nelson,who was at all relevant times president and sole shareholderof OCP, had deceitfully withheld the prior art from theUnited States Patent and Trademark Office. This behavior,the District Court concluded, constituted inequitable conductchargeable to OCP. On January 20, 1998, the District Courtawarded Adams costs and fees in the amount of $178,888.51against OCP.Adams feared, however, that it would be unable to collectthe award. This was an altogether understandable concern;it stemmed from a letter OCP's counsel had sent Adamswarning that OCP would be liquidated if exposed to a judgment for fees more than nominal in amount. Adams there529US2 Unit: $U49 [10-24-00 10:29:50] PAGES PGT: OPIN464 NELSON v. ADAMS USA, INC.Opinion of the Courtfore moved to amend its pleading to add Nelson, personally,as a party from whom fees could be collected. In this postjudgment endeavor, Adams reasoned that Nelson was theflesh-and-blood party behind OCP, the person whose conductin withholding prior art precipitated the fee award, and aperson with funds sufficient to satisfy that award. The District Court granted the motion.Adams' motion, however, sought more than permission toamend the pleading. It sought simultaneously an amendedjudgment, subjecting Nelson to liability as soon as he wasmade a party. See Record, Doc. No. 126, p. 1 ("Defendants[i. e., Adams] hereby move the Court . . . for an order granting Defendants leave to amend their third party complaintto name Donald E. Nelson (Nelson) as a third party defendant in his individual capacity, and amending the judgment inthis action to include Nelson as an additional party againstwhom judgment is entered."). In presenting the motion,Adams offered no reason why the judgment should be altered immediately. See id., at 7-8. The motion did contendthat an amendment to the judgment was "necessary to prevent manifest injustice," id., at 8 (internal quotation marksomitted), but it did not explain why Nelson, once joined as aparty, should not be permitted to state his side of that argument. The District Court seems not to have paused overthis question, for it allowed the pleading amendment and altered the judgment at a single stroke. Record, Doc. No. 131.The memorandum explaining the District Court's decisionaddressed only the propriety of adding Nelson as a party.It did not address the propriety of altering the judgment atthe very same time. Record, Doc. No. 130, at 3-7.The Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit affirmed theamended judgment against Nelson. Ohio Cellular Prods.Corp. v. Adams USA, Inc., 175 F. 3d 1343 (1999). It was"uncommon," the appeals court acknowledged, to add a partyafter the entry of judgment. Id., at 1348. The court con529US2 Unit: $U49 [10-24-00 10:29:50] PAGES PGT: OPIN465Cite as: 529 U. S. 460 (2000)Opinion of the Courtcluded, however, that Nelson had not been prejudiced by thepostjudgment joinder. The Federal Circuit based that conclusion on Nelson's failure to show that "anything differentor additional would have been done" to stave off the judgment had Nelson been a party, in his individual capacity,from the outset of the litigation. Id., at 1351. The panel,over a vigorous dissent by Judge Newman, was apparentlysatisfied that adding Nelson as a party and simultaneouslyamending the judgment to obligate him individually met dueprocess requirements. Seeid., at 1345, 1349, n. 5.We granted certiorari, 528 U. S. 1018 (1999). In his request for this Court's review, Nelson did not dispute the por-tion of the District Court's order that granted Adams leaveto amend its pleading to add Nelson as a party against whomcosts and fees were sought. Pet. for Cert. 11. What hedoes challenge, and what is now before us, is the portion ofthe District Court's order that immediately adjudged Nelsonpersonally liable the moment he was made a party.IIAThe Federal Rules of Civil Procedure are designed to fur-ther the due process of law that the Constitution guarantees.Cf. Fed. Rule Civ. Proc. 1 (Rules "shall be construed andadministered to secure the just, speedy, and inexpensivedetermination of every action."). Rule 15 sets out the re-quirements for amended and supplemental pleadings. Onthat score, the Court of Appeals observed that as long asno undue prejudice is shown, "due process requirementsare met if the requirements of Rule 15 are met." 175 F. 3d,at 1349, n. 5. But in the instant case, the requirements ofRule 15 were not met. As Judge Newman recognized in herdissent below, due process does not countenance such swiftpassage from pleading to judgment in the pleader's favor.Seeid., at 1352.529US2 Unit: $U49 [10-24-00 10:29:50] PAGES PGT: OPIN466 NELSON v. ADAMS USA, INC.Opinion of the CourtThe propriety of allowing a pleading alteration dependsnot only on the state of affairs prior to amendment but alsoon what happens afterwards. Accordingly, Rule 15 bothconveys the circumstances under which leave to amendshall be granted and directs how the litigation will moveforward following an amendment. When a court grantsleave to amend to add an adverse party after the time forresponding to the original pleading has lapsed, the partyso added is given "10 days after service of the amendedpleading" to plead in response. Fed. Rule Civ. Proc. 15(a).This opportunity to respond, fundamental to due process,is the echo of the opportunity to respond to original plead-ings secured by Rule 12. See Fed. Rule Civ. Proc. 12(a)(1).Thus, Rule 15 assumes an amended pleading will be filed andanticipates service of that pleading on the adverse party.Nelson was never served with an amended pleading. In-deed, no such pleading was ever actually composed and filedin court. Nor, after the amendment naming him as a party,was Nelson accorded 10 days to state his defenses againstpersonal liability for costs and fees. Instead, judgment wasentered against him the moment permission to amend thepleading was granted. Appeal after judgment, in the circumstances this case presents, did not provide an adequate opportunity to defend against the imposition of liability. Cf. American Surety Co. v. Baldwin, 287 U. S. 156(1932). Adams points to nothing in the record indicatingthat Nelson affirmatively relinquished his right to respondon the merits of the case belatedly stated against him inhis individual capacity. Accordingly, the proceedings did notcomply with Rule 15, and neither did they comport with dueprocess. See, e. g., Mullane v. Central Hanover Bank &Trust Co., 339 U. S. 306, 314 (1950) (" `The fundamental requisite of due process of law is the opportunity to be heard.' ")(quoting Grannis v. Ordean, 234 U. S. 385, 394 (1914)).It is true that Nelson knew as soon as Adams moved toamend the pleading and alter the judgment that he mightultimately be subjected to personal liability. One could529US2 Unit: $U49 [10-24-00 10:29:50] PAGES PGT: OPIN467Cite as: 529 U. S. 460 (2000)Opinion of the Courtask, therefore, whether Nelson in fact had a fair chance, be-fore alteration of the judgment, to respond and be heard.Rule 15 and the due process for which it provides, how-ever, demand a more reliable and orderly course. First,as the Rule indicates, pleading in response to an amendedcomplaint is a prerogative of parties, see Fed. Rule Civ.Proc. 15(a), and Nelson was not a party prior to the Dis-trict Court's ruling on Adams' motion to amend. Second,as Rule 15 further prescribes, the clock on an added party'stime to respond does not start running until the new pleading naming that party is served, see ibid., just as the clockon an original party's time to respond does not start runninguntil the original pleading is served, see Fed. Rule Civ.Proc. 12(a)(1)(A). This is not to say that Rule 15 is itselfa constitutional requirement. Beyond doubt, however, aprospective party cannot fairly be required to answer anamended pleading not yet permitted, framed, and served.1In support of its holding that Nelson was not prejudicedwhen added as a party and subjected to judgment, theFederal Circuit relied on its prior decision in Fromson v.Citiplate, Inc., 886 F. 2d 1300 (1989). See 175 F. 3d, at 1349-1350, and n. 7. The reliance is puzzling, for the circumstances in Fromson were crucially different from thosepresented here. The plaintiff in Fromson prevailed on aninfringement claim and subsequently moved to hold theowners of the judgment-proof defendant corporation individually liable. To that extent only, Fromson resembles the1 Even when an amendment relates back to the original date of pleading under Rule 15(c), as Adams contends its amendment does, the relation back cannot, consistently with due process, deny a party all opportunity to be heard in response to the amendment. We also note in thisregard that the instant case does not fall under Rule 15(c)(3), which dealswith amendments that change the party or the name of the party againstwhom claims are asserted. That subsection applies only in cases involving "a mistake concerning the identity of the proper party." Fed.Rule Civ. Proc. 15(c)(3)(B). Respondent Adams made no such mistake.It knew of Nelson's role and existence and, until it moved to amend itspleading, chose to assert its claim for costs and fees only against OCP.529US2 Unit: $U49 [10-24-00 10:29:50] PAGES PGT: OPIN468 NELSON v. ADAMS USA, INC.Opinion of the Courtinstant case. Notably unlike Adams, however, the plaintiffin Fromson had moved before trial to add the individualowners as parties, because it suspected from the start thatthe defendant corporation might not be able to pay. TheDistrict Court denied that motion in reliance on the de-fendant corporation's false assurances that it was solvent.See 886 F. 2d, at 1301, 1304. Having been informed be-fore trial that the plaintiffs sought to sue them in theirindividual capacities, and having acted deliberately to de-rail such a suit, the owners of the defendant corporationin Fromson could hardly assert that another's mistake orchoice of whom to sue had compromised their ability todefend. Their problem, the Federal Circuit aptly observedin itsFromson opinion, was "a bed of their own making."Id., at 1304. Here, in contrast, Adams never sought tosue Nelson individually until after judgment was enteredagainst OCP. Nor is there any indication that Adams initially sought relief solely against OCP because of some falseassurance regarding OCP's solvency.To summarize, Nelson was never afforded a proper opportunity to respond to the claim against him. Instead, hewas adjudged liable the very first moment his personal liability was legally at issue. Procedure of this style has beenquestioned even in systems, real and imaginary, less concerned than ours with the right to due process.22 A well-known work offers this example:" `Herald, read the accusation!' said the King.On this the White Rabbit blew three blasts on the trumpet, and thenunrolled the parchment scroll, and read as follows:`The Queen of Hearts, she made some tarts,All on a summer day:The Knave of Hearts, he stole those tarts,And took them quite away!'`Consider your verdict,' the King said to the jury.`Not yet, not yet!' the Rabbit interrupted. `There's a great deal tocome before that!' " L. Carroll, Alice in Wonderland and Through theLooking Glass 108 (Messner 1982) (emphasis in original).529US2 Unit: $U49 [10-24-00 10:29:50] PAGES PGT: OPIN469Cite as: 529 U. S. 460 (2000)Opinion of the CourtBAdams strongly urges, however, that Nelson waivedhis objections to the swift process of the District Court.Adams first maintains that Nelson waived arguments basedon personal jurisdiction and the absence of service of processby failing to raise them promptly after being added as aparty. Brief for Respondents 32-41. Nelson's winning argument, however, is based neither on personal jurisdictionnor on service of process. It rests on his right to have timeand opportunity to respond to the claim once Adams gainedleave to sue Nelson in his individual capacity, and therebyto reach beyond OCP's corporate till into Nelson's personalpocket. Waiver of arguments based on personal jurisdictionand service of process is therefore beside the point.3In a similar vein, and this time coming closer to the dispositive issue, Adams submits that the Federal Circuit"did not address the `due process' issues now sought to bepresented, . . . because these issues were never raised byPetitioner" before that court. Id., at 47 (emphasis deleted).It is indeed the general rule that issues must be raised inlower courts in order to be preserved as potential groundsof decision in higher courts. But this principle does notdemand the incantation of particular words; rather, it requires that the lower court be fairly put on notice as to thesubstance of the issue. See, e. g., Beech Aircraft Corp. v.Rainey, 488 U. S. 153, 174-175 (1988). And the general rule3 We note that a waiver of service of process does not waive a party'sright to time in which to respond to the substance of charges that, absentthe waiver, would have been included in a served document. It wouldmake little sense to penalize a party's waiver of process, which can helpstreamline litigation, by barring such a party from stating its side ofthe case. Indeed, such waiver can sometimes extend a party's time torespond. See Fed. Rule Civ. Proc. 12(a)(1)(B) (rather than having to respond within 20 days of service, a party waiving service may respond atany time within 60 days of the request for waiver).529US2 Unit: $U49 [10-24-00 10:29:50] PAGES PGT: OPIN470 NELSON v. ADAMS USA, INC.Opinion of the Courtdoes not prevent us from declaring what due process requires in this case, for that matter was fairly before theCourt of Appeals.In response to questioning from the appellate bench,Nelson's counsel explained that the core of his client's argument was the fundamental unfairness of imposing judgmentwithout going through the process of litigation our rules ofcivil procedure prescribe.4 Both the majority and the dissent in the Federal Circuit understood that an issue beforethem concerned the process due after Adams' postjudgmentmotion. See 175 F. 3d, at 1349, n. 5 (majority opinion); id.,at 1352 (Newman, J., dissenting). Our resolution of the caseas a matter of due process therefore rests on a ground considered and passed upon by the court below.Beneath Adams' technical and ultimately unavailing arguments about waiver, its essential position in the litigation isreflected in the Federal Circuit's decision: There was sufficient identity between Nelson and OCP to bind Nelson, without further ado, to a judgment already entered against OCP.Nelson was president and sole shareholder of OCP. Seeid., at 1346. It was Nelson who withheld prior art from thePatent Office. See id., at 1349. He had actual notice thatAdams was seeking to collect a fee award from OCP, becausehe was the "effective controller" of the litigation for OCPand personally participated as a witness at the hearing onwhether OCP had engaged in inequitable conduct. See ibid.The Federal Circuit did not conclude that these factorswould have justified imposing liability on Nelson by piercing4 Nelson's counsel stated his position as follows: "[I]t's legally wrongto subject the individual, nonserved, nonsued, nonlitigated-against person to liability for that judgment. Because there are rules. The rulessay if you want a judgment against somebody, you sue them, you litigateagainst them, you get a judgment against them." Tape of Oral Arg. inNo. 98-1448 (CA Fed. Feb. 3, 1999).529US2 Unit: $U49 [10-24-00 10:29:50] PAGES PGT: OPIN471Cite as: 529 U. S. 460 (2000)Opinion of the CourtOCP's corporate veil, see id., at 1349, n. 6, and Adams, forits part, has disavowed reliance on a veil-piercing theory, seeRecord, Doc. No. 129, at 3 (stating, before the District Court,that "Adams does not request that the Court `disregard thecorporate form' "); Tape of Oral Arg. in No. 98-1448 (CA Fed.Feb. 3, 1999) (expressly stating that this case does not concern piercing the corporate veil). One-person corporationsare authorized by law and should not lightly be labeled sham.See, e. g., Gregory v. Helvering, 293 U. S. 465, 469 (1935)(finding corporation a sham not because it was owned entirely by one person, but because it had "no business orcorporate purpose"); Kirno Hill Corp. v. Holt, 618 F. 2d982, 985 (CA2 1980) (a corporation's veil may not be piercedmerely because it has only one owner). Indeed, where patents are concerned, the one-person corporation may be analtogether appropriate means to permit innovation withoutexposing inventors to possibly ruinous consequences. Thelegitimacy of OCP as a corporation, in short, is not at issuein this case.Instead, the Federal Circuit reasoned that nothing muchturned on whether the party opposing Adams' claim forcosts and fees was OCP or Nelson. "[N]o basis has beenadvanced," the panel majority concluded, "to believe anything different or additional would have been done to defend against the allegation of inequitable conduct had Nelsonindividually already been added as a party or had he been aparty from the outset." 175 F. 3d, at 1351. We neither dispute nor endorse the substance of this speculation. We sayinstead that judicial predictions about the outcome of hypothesized litigation cannot substitute for the actual opportunity to defend that due process affords every party againstwhom a claim is stated. As Judge Newman wrote in dissent: "The law, at its most fundamental, does not renderjudgment simply because a person might have been foundliable had he been charged." Id., at 1354.529US2 Unit: $U49 [10-24-00 10:29:50] PAGES PGT: OPIN472 NELSON v. ADAMS USA, INC.Opinion of the CourtOur decision surely does not insulate Nelson from liability.As counsel twice represented at oral argument, see Tr. ofOral Arg. 9, 19-20, Nelson seeks only the right to conteston the merits his personal liability for fees originally soughtand awarded solely against OCP. That right, we hold, is justwhat due process affords him.5* * *For the reasons stated, the judgment of the Court ofAppeals is reversed, and the case is remanded for furtherproceedings consistent with this opinion.