The two questions presented concern the scope of awitness' protection against compelled self-incrimination:(1) whether the Fifth Amendment privilege 1 protects a*Ellen S. Podgor and Lisa Kemler filed a brief for the National Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers as amicus curiae urging affirmance.1 "No person . . . shall be compelled in any criminal case to be a witnessagainst himself." U. S. Const., Amdt. 5.530US1 Unit: $U65 [10-22-01 17:17:50] PAGES PGT: OPIN30 UNITED STATES v. HUBBELLOpinion of the Courtwitness from being compelled to disclose the existence ofincriminating documents that the Government is unable todescribe with reasonable particularity; and (2) if the wit-ness produces such documents pursuant to a grant of immunity, whether 18 U. S. C. $ 6002 prevents the Governmentfrom using them to prepare criminal charges against him.2IThis proceeding arises out of the second prosecution ofrespondent, Webster Hubbell, commenced by the Independent Counsel appointed in August 1994 to investigatepossible violations of federal law relating to the WhitewaterDevelopment Corporation. The first prosecution was termi-nated pursuant to a plea bargain. In December 1994, respondent pleaded guilty to charges of mail fraud and taxevasion arising out of his billing practices as a member ofan Arkansas law firm from 1989 to 1992, and was sentencedto 21 months in prison. In the plea agreement, respondentpromised to provide the Independent Counsel with "full,complete, accurate, and truthful information" about mattersrelating to the Whitewater investigation.The second prosecution resulted from the IndependentCounsel's attempt to determine whether respondent had vio2 Section 6002 provides: "Whenever a witness refuses, on the basis ofhis privilege against self-incrimination, to testify or provide other information in a proceeding before or ancillary to--"(1) a court or grand jury of the United States,"(2) an agency of the United States, or"(3) either House of Congress, a joint committee of the two Houses, ora committee or a subcommittee of either House,"and the person presiding over the proceeding communicates to the witness an order issued under this title, the witness may not refuse to complywith the order on the basis of his privilege against self-incrimination; butno testimony or other information compelled under the order (or any information directly or indirectly derived from such testimony or other information) may be used against the witness in any criminal case, except aprosecution for perjury, giving a false statement, or otherwise failing tocomply with the order."530US1 Unit: $U65 [10-22-01 17:17:50] PAGES PGT: OPIN31Cite as: 530 U. S. 27 (2000)Opinion of the Courtlated that promise. In October 1996, while respondent wasincarcerated, the Independent Counsel served him with asubpoena duces tecum calling for the production of 11 catego-ries of documents before a grand jury sitting in Little Rock,Arkansas. See Appendix, infra. On November 19, he ap-peared before the grand jury and invoked his Fifth Amendment privilege against self-incrimination. In response toquestioning by the prosecutor, respondent initially refused"to state whether there are documents within my possession,custody, or control responsive to the Subpoena." App. 62.Thereafter, the prosecutor produced an order, which hadpreviously been obtained from the District Court pursuantto 18 U. S. C. $ 6003(a),3 directing him to respond to the sub-poena and granting him immunity "to the extent allowed bylaw." 4 Respondent then produced 13,120 pages of docu-ments and records and responded to a series of questionsthat established that those were all of the documents in hiscustody or control that were responsive to the commands inthe subpoena, with the exception of a few documents heclaimed were shielded by the attorney-client and attorneywork-product privileges.The contents of the documents produced by respondentprovided the Independent Counsel with the information thatled to this second prosecution. On April 30, 1998, a grandjury in the District of Columbia returned a 10-count indict-ment charging respondent with various tax-related crimesand mail and wire fraud.5 The District Court dismissed the3 Section 6003(a) authorizes a district court to issue an order requiring an "individual to give testimony or provide other information whichhe refuses to give or provide on the basis of his privilege against selfincrimination." The effect of such an order is covered by $ 6002, quotedin n. 2, supra.4 In re Grand Jury Proceedings, No. GJ-96-3 (ED Ark., Nov. 14, 1996),App. 60-61.5 Several of the counts in the indictment also named three other defendants. Those charges are not relevant because (a) they have been dismissed with prejudice, and (b) the Fifth Amendment privilege asserted530US1 Unit: $U65 [10-22-01 17:17:50] PAGES PGT: OPIN32 UNITED STATES v. HUBBELLOpinion of the Courtindictment relying, in part, on the ground that the Independ-ent Counsel's use of the subpoenaed documents violated$ 6002 because all of the evidence he would offer against re-spondent at trial derived either directly or indirectly fromthe testimonial aspects of respondent's immunized act of pro-ducing those documents.6 11 F. Supp. 2d 25, 33-37 (DC1998). Noting that the Independent Counsel had admittedthat he was not investigating tax-related issues when he issued the subpoena, and that he had " `learned about the unre-ported income and other crimes from studying the records'contents,' " the District Court characterized the subpoena as"the quintessential fishing expedition."Id., at 37.The Court of Appeals vacated the judgment and remandedfor further proceedings. 167 F. 3d 552 (CADC 1999). Themajority concluded that the District Court had incorrectlyrelied on the fact that the Independent Counsel did not haveprior knowledge of the contents of the subpoenaed documents. The question the District Court should have ad-dressed was the extent of the Government's independentknowledge of the documents' existence and authenticity, andof respondent's possession or control of them. It explained:"On remand, the district court should hold a hearing inwhich it seeks to establish the extent and detail of the[G]overnment's knowledge of Hubbell's financial affairs(or of the paperwork documenting it) on the day the subpoena issued. It is only then that the court will be ina position to assess the testimonial value of Hubbell'sresponse to the subpoena. Should the IndependentCounsel prove capable of demonstrating with reasonableby respondent would not, in any event, affect the charges against thoseother defendants.6 As an independent basis for dismissal, the District Court also concluded that the Independent Counsel had exceeded his jurisdiction underthe Ethics in Government Act of 1978, as amended by the IndependentCounsel Reauthorization Act of 1994, 28 U. S. C. $$ 591-599. That holdingwas reversed by the Court of Appeals and is not at issue here.530US1 Unit: $U65 [10-22-01 17:17:50] PAGES PGT: OPIN33Cite as: 530 U. S. 27 (2000)Opinion of the Courtparticularity a prior awareness that the exhaustive litany of documents sought in the subpoena existed andwere in Hubbell's possession, then the wide distance evidently traveled from the subpoena to the substantiveallegations contained in the indictment would be basedupon legitimate intermediate steps. To the extent thatthe information conveyed through Hubbell's compelledact of production provides the necessary linkage, however, the indictment deriving therefrom is tainted."Id., at 581.In the opinion of the dissenting judge, the majority failedto give full effect to the distinction between the contents ofthe documents and the limited testimonial significance of theact of producing them. In his view, as long as the prosecutor could make use of information contained in the documents or derived therefrom without any reference to the factthat respondent had produced them in response to a subpoena, there would be no improper use of the testimonialaspect of the immunized act of production. In other words,the constitutional privilege and the statute conferring useimmunity would only shield the witness from the use of anyinformation resulting from his subpoena response "beyondwhat the prosecutor would receive if the documents appeared in the grand jury room or in his office unsolicited andunmarked, like manna from heaven." 7 Id., at 602.On remand, the Independent Counsel acknowledged thathe could not satisfy the "reasonable particularity" standardprescribed by the Court of Appeals and entered into a conditional plea agreement with respondent. In essence, theagreement provides for the dismissal of the charges unlessthis Court's disposition of the case makes it reasonably likelythat respondent's "act [of] production immunity" would not7 Over the dissent of four judges, the Court of Appeals denied a suggestion for rehearing en banc. App. to Pet. for Cert. 142a-143a.530US1 Unit: $U65 [10-22-01 17:17:50] PAGES PGT: OPIN34 UNITED STATES v. HUBBELLOpinion of the Courtpose a significant bar to his prosecution. App. 106-107.The case is not moot, however, because the agreement alsoprovides for the entry of a guilty plea and a sentence thatwill not include incarceration if we should reverse and issuean opinion that is sufficiently favorable to the Governmentto satisfy that condition. Ibid. Despite that agreement, wegranted the Independent Counsel's petition for a writ of certiorari in order to determine the precise scope of a grantof immunity with respect to the production of documentsin response to a subpoena. 528 U. S. 926 (1999). We nowaffirm.IIIt is useful to preface our analysis of the constitutionalissue with a restatement of certain propositions that are notin dispute. The term "privilege against self-incrimination"is not an entirely accurate description of a person's constitutional protection against being "compelled in any criminalcase to be a witness against himself."The word "witness" in the constitutional text limits therelevant category of compelled incriminating communications to those that are "testimonial" in character.8 As Justice Holmes observed, there is a significant difference between the use of compulsion to extort communications froma defendant and compelling a person to engage in conduct8 "It is consistent with the history of and the policies underlying theSelf-Incrimination Clause to hold that the privilege may be asserted onlyto resist compelled explicit or implicit disclosures of incriminating information. Historically, the privilege was intended to prevent the use oflegal compulsion to extract from the accused a sworn communication offacts which would incriminate him. Such was the process of the ecclesiastical courts and the Star Chamber--the inquisitorial method of putting theaccused upon his oath and compelling him to answer questions designed touncover uncharged offenses, without evidence from another source. SeeAndresen v. Maryland, 427 U. S. 463, 470-471 (1976); 8 Wigmore $ 2250;E. Griswold, The Fifth Amendment Today 2-3 (1955)." Doe v. UnitedStates, 487 U. S. 201, 212 (1988).530US1 Unit: $U65 [10-22-01 17:17:50] PAGES PGT: OPIN35Cite as: 530 U. S. 27 (2000)Opinion of the Courtthat may be incriminating.9 Thus, even though the act mayprovide incriminating evidence, a criminal suspect may becompelled to put on a shirt,10 to provide a blood sample 11 orhandwriting exemplar,12 or to make a recording of his voice.13The act of exhibiting such physical characteristics is not thesame as a sworn communication by a witness that relateseither express or implied assertions of fact or belief. Pennsylvania v. Muniz, 496 U. S. 582, 594-598 (1990). Similarly,the fact that incriminating evidence may be the byproductof obedience to a regulatory requirement, such as filing anincome tax return,14 maintaining required records,15 or reporting an accident,16 does not clothe such required conductwith the testimonial privilege.17More relevant to this case is the settled proposition that aperson may be required to produce specific documents eventhough they contain incriminating assertions of fact or beliefbecause the creation of those documents was not "compelled"9 "A question arose as to whether a blouse belonged to the prisoner. Awitness testified that the prisoner put it on and it fitted him. It is objected that he did this under the same duress that made his statementsinadmissible, and that it should be excluded for the same reasons. Butthe prohibition of compelling a man in a criminal court to be witnessagainst himself is a prohibition of the use of physical or moral compulsionto extort communications from him, not an exclusion of his body as evidence when it may be material. The objection in principle would forbida jury to look at a prisoner and compare his features with a photographin proof." Holt v. United States, 218 U. S. 245, 252-253 (1910).10 Ibid.11 Schmerber v. California, 384 U. S. 757 (1966).12 Gilbert v. California, 388 U. S. 263 (1967).13 United States v. Wade, 388 U. S. 218 (1967).14 United States v. Sullivan, 274 U. S. 259 (1927).15 Shapiro v. United States, 335 U. S. 1 (1948).16 California v. Byers, 402 U. S. 424 (1971).17 "The Court has on several occasions recognized that the Fifth Amendment privilege may not be invoked to resist compliance with a regulatoryregime constructed to effect the State's public purposes unrelated to theenforcement of its criminal laws." Baltimore City Dept. of Social Servs.v. Bouknight, 493 U. S. 549, 556 (1990).530US1 Unit: $U65 [10-22-01 17:17:50] PAGES PGT: OPIN36 UNITED STATES v. HUBBELLOpinion of the Courtwithin the meaning of the privilege. Our decision in Fisherv. United States, 425 U. S. 391 (1976), dealt with summonsesissued by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) seeking work-ing papers used in the preparation of tax returns. Becausethe papers had been voluntarily prepared prior to the issu-ance of the summonses, they could not be "said to containcompelled testimonial evidence, either of the taxpayers orof anyone else." Accordingly, the taxpayer could not "avoidcompliance with the subpoena merely by asserting that theitem of evidence which he is required to produce containsincriminating writing, whether his own or that of someoneelse." Id., at 409-410; see also United States v. Doe, 465U. S. 605 (1984).18 It is clear, therefore, that respondentHubbell could not avoid compliance with the subpoenaserved on him merely because the demanded documents contained incriminating evidence, whether written by others orvoluntarily prepared by himself.On the other hand, we have also made it clear that the actof producing documents in response to a subpoena may havea compelled testimonial aspect. We have held that "the actof production" itself may implicitly communicate "statementsof fact." By "producing documents in compliance with asubpoena, the witness would admit that the papers existed,were in his possession or control, and were authentic."1918 "Respondent does not contend that he prepared the documents involuntarily or that the subpoena would force him to restate, repeat, or affirmthe truth of their contents. The fact that the records are in respondent'spossession is irrelevant to the determination of whether the creation ofthe records was compelled. We therefore hold that the contents of thoserecords are not privileged." United States v. Doe, 465 U. S., at 611-612(footnote omitted).19 "The issue presented in those cases was whether the act of producingsubpoenaed documents, not itself the making of a statement, might nonetheless have some protected testimonial aspects. The Court concludedthat the act of production could constitute protected testimonial communication because it might entail implicit statements of fact: by producing530US1 Unit: $U65 [10-22-01 17:17:50] PAGES PGT: OPIN37Cite as: 530 U. S. 27 (2000)Opinion of the CourtMoreover, as was true in this case, when the custodian ofdocuments responds to a subpoena, he may be compelled totake the witness stand and answer questions designed to de-termine whether he has produced everything demanded bythe subpoena.20 The answers to those questions, as well asthe act of production itself, may certainly communicate information about the existence, custody, and authenticity of thedocuments. Whether the constitutional privilege protectsthe answers to such questions, or protects the act of produc-tion itself, is a question that is distinct from the questionwhether the unprotected contents of the documents them-selves are incriminating.Finally, the phrase "in any criminal case" in the text ofthe Fifth Amendment might have been read to limit its coverage to compelled testimony that is used against the defend-ant in the trial itself. It has, however, long been settled thatits protection encompasses compelled statements that leadto the discovery of incriminating evidence even though thestatements themselves are not incriminating and are not in-troduced into evidence. Thus, a half century ago we helddocuments in compliance with a subpoena, the witness would admit thatthe papers existed, were in his possession or control, and were authentic.United States v. Doe, 465 U. S., at 613, and n. 11; Fisher, 425 U. S., at409-410; id., at 428, 432 (concurring opinions). See Braswell v. UnitedStates, [487 U. S.,] at 104; [id.,] at 122 (dissenting opinion). Thus, theCourt made clear that the Fifth Amendment privilege against selfincrimination applies to acts that imply assertions of fact.". . . An examination of the Court's application of these principles inother cases indicates the Court's recognition that, in order to be testimonial, an accused's communication must itself, explicitly or implicitly, relatea factual assertion or disclose information. Only then is a person compelled to be a `witness' against himself." Doe v. United States, 487 U. S.,at 209-210 (footnote omitted).20 See App. 62-70. Thus, for example, after respondent had been dulysworn by the grand jury foreman, the prosecutor called his attention toparagraph A of the Subpoena Rider (reproduced in the Appendix, infra, at46) and asked whether he had produced "all those documents." App. 65.530US1 Unit: $U65 [10-22-01 17:17:50] PAGES PGT: OPIN38 UNITED STATES v. HUBBELLOpinion of the Courtthat a trial judge had erroneously rejected a defendant'sclaim of privilege on the ground that his answer to the pending question would not itself constitute evidence of thecharged offense. As we explained:"The privilege afforded not only extends to answers thatwould in themselves support a conviction under a federal criminal statute but likewise embraces those whichwould furnish a link in the chain of evidence needed toprosecute the claimant for a federal crime." Hoffmanv. United States, 341 U. S. 479, 486 (1951).Compelled testimony that communicates information thatmay "lead to incriminating evidence" is privileged even ifthe information itself is not inculpatory. Doe v. UnitedStates, 487 U. S. 201, 208, n. 6 (1988). It is the Fifth Amendment's protection against the prosecutor's use of incrimi-nating information derived directly or indirectly from thecompelled testimony of the respondent that is of primaryrelevance in this case.IIIActing pursuant to 18 U. S. C. $ 6002, the District Courtentered an order compelling respondent to produce "any andall documents" described in the grand jury subpoena andgranting him "immunity to the extent allowed by law."App. 60-61. In Kastigar v. United States, 406 U. S. 441(1972), we upheld the constitutionality of $ 6002 becausethe scope of the "use and derivative-use" immunity that itprovides is coextensive with the scope of the constitutionalprivilege against self-incrimination.The protection against the derivative use of compelledtestimony distinguishes $ 6002 from the 1868 statute that hadbeen held invalid in Counselman v. Hitchcock, 142 U. S. 547(1892), because it merely provided "use" immunity, as well asfrom the more recent federal statutes that broadly provide"transactional" immunity. In Kastigar the petitioners ar-gued that, under our reasoning inCounselman, nothing less530US1 Unit: $U65 [10-22-01 17:17:50] PAGES PGT: OPIN39Cite as: 530 U. S. 27 (2000)Opinion of the Courtthan full transactional immunity from prosecution for anyoffense to which compelled testimony relates could sufficeto supplant the privilege. In rejecting that argument, westressed the importance of $ 6002's "explicit proscription" ofthe use in any criminal case of " `testimony or other informa-tion compelled under the order (or any information directlyor indirectly derived from such testimony or other information).' " 406 U. S., at 453. We particularly emphasized thecritical importance of protection against a future prosecution" `based on knowledge and sources of information obtainedfrom the compelled testimony.' "Id., at 454 (quoting Ullmann v. United States, 350 U. S. 422, 437 (1956)).21We also re jected the petitioners' argument thatderivative-use immunity under $ 6002 would not obviate therisk that the prosecutor or other law enforcement officialsmay use compelled testimony to obtain leads, names ofwitnesses, or other information not otherwise available tosupport a prosecution. That argument was predicated onthe incorrect assumption that the derivative-use prohibitionwould prove impossible to enforce. But given that the statute contains a "comprehensive safeguard" in the form of a"sweeping proscription of any use, direct or indirect, of the21 "Our holding is consistent with the conceptual basis of Counselman.The Counselman statute, as construed by the Court, was plainly deficientin its failure to prohibit the use against the immunized witness of evidencederived from his compelled testimony. The Court repeatedly emphasizedthis deficiency, noting that the statute:" `could not, and would not, prevent the use of his testimony to search outother testimony to be used in evidence against him or his property, in acriminal proceeding . . .' 142 U. S., at 564;. . . . ."and that it:" `affords no protection against that use of compelled testimony which consists in gaining therefrom a knowledge of the details of a crime, and ofsources of information which may supply other means of convicting thewitness or party.' 142 U. S., at 586." Kastigar v. United States, 406U. S., at 453-454.530US1 Unit: $U65 [10-22-01 17:17:50] PAGES PGT: OPIN40 UNITED STATES v. HUBBELLOpinion of the Courtcompelled testimony and any information derived there-from," we concluded that a person who is prosecuted formatters related to testimony he gave under a grant of immu-nity does not have the burden of proving that his testimonywas improperly used. Instead, we held that the statute im-poses an affirmative duty on the prosecution, not merely toshow that its evidence is not tainted by the prior testimony,but "to prove that the evidence it proposes to use is derivedfrom a legitimate source wholly independent of the com-pelled testimony."Id., at 460.22 Requiring the prosecutionto shoulder this burden ensures that the grant of immunityhas "le[ft] the witness and the Federal Government in sub-stantially the same position as if the witness had claimedhis privilege in the absence of a grant of immunity." Id., at458-459 (internal quotation marks and footnote omitted).The "compelled testimony" that is relevant in this case isnot to be found in the contents of the documents producedin response to the subpoena. It is, rather, the testimonyinherent in the act of producing those documents. The disagreement between the parties focuses entirely on the sig-nificance of that testimonial aspect.IVThe Government correctly emphasizes that the testimonialaspect of a response to a subpoenaduces tecum does nothing22 "A person accorded this immunity under 18 U. S. C. $ 6002, and subsequently prosecuted, is not dependent for the preservation of his rightsupon the integrity and good faith of the prosecuting authorities. Asstated in Murphy [v. Waterfront Comm'n of N. Y. Harbor, 378 U. S. 52(1964)]:" `Once a defendant demonstrates that he has testified, under a state grantof immunity, to matters related to the federal prosecution, the federalauthorities have the burden of showing that their evidence is not taintedby establishing that they had an independent, legitimate source for thedisputed evidence.' [Id.,] at 79 n. 18."This burden of proof, which we reaffirm as appropriate, is not limitedto a negation of taint; rather, it imposes on the prosecution the affirmativeduty to prove that the evidence it proposes to use is derived from a legitimate source wholly independent of the compelled testimony." Id., at 460.530US1 Unit: $U65 [10-22-01 17:17:50] PAGES PGT: OPIN41Cite as: 530 U. S. 27 (2000)Opinion of the Courtmore than establish the existence, authenticity, and custodyof items that are produced. We assume that the Government is also entirely correct in its submission that it wouldnot have to advert to respondent's act of production in orderto prove the existence, authenticity, or custody of any docu-ments that it might offer in evidence at a criminal trial; indeed, the Government disclaims any need to introduce anyof the documents produced by respondent into evidence inorder to prove the charges against him. It follows, according to the Government, that it has no intention of makingimproper "use" of respondent's compelled testimony.The question, however, is not whether the response to thesubpoena may be introduced into evidence at his criminaltrial. That would surely be a prohibited "use" of the immu-nized act of production. SeeIn re Sealed Case, 791 F. 2d179, 182 (CADC 1986) (Scalia, J.). But the fact that the Gov-ernment intends no such use of the act of production leavesopen the separate question whether it has already made "de-rivative use" of the testimonial aspect of that act in obtainingthe indictment against respondent and in preparing its casefor trial. It clearly has.It is apparent from the text of the subpoena itself thatthe prosecutor needed respondent's assistance both to identify potential sources of information and to produce thosesources. See Appendix, infra. Given the breadth of thedescription of the 11 categories of documents called for bythe subpoena, the collection and production of the materialsdemanded was tantamount to answering a series of interrogatories asking a witness to disclose the existence and locationof particular documents fitting certain broad descriptions.The assembly of literally hundreds of pages of material inresponse to a request for "any and all documents reflecting,referring, or relating to any direct or indirect sources ofmoney or other things of value received by or provided to"an individual or members of his family during a 3-year period, Appendix, infra, at 46-49, is the functional equivalentof the preparation of an answer to either a detailed written530US1 Unit: $U65 [10-22-01 17:17:50] PAGES PGT: OPIN42 UNITED STATES v. HUBBELLOpinion of the Courtinterrogatory or a series of oral questions at a discoverydeposition. Entirely apart from the contents of the 13,120pages of materials that respondent produced in this case, itis undeniable that providing a catalog of existing documentsfitting within any of the 11 broadly worded subpoena cate-gories could provide a prosecutor with a "lead to incriminating evidence," or "a link in the chain of evidence neededto prosecute."Indeed, the record makes it clear that that is what hap-pened in this case. The documents were produced before agrand jury sitting in the Eastern District of Arkansas in aidof the Independent Counsel's attempt to determine whetherrespondent had violated a commitment in his first plea agree-ment. The use of those sources of information eventuallyled to the return of an indictment by a grand jury sittingin the District of Columbia for offenses that apparently areunrelated to that plea agreement. What the District Courtcharacterized as a "fishing expedition" did produce a fish, butnot the one that the Independent Counsel expected to hook.It is abundantly clear that the testimonial aspect of respondent's act of producing subpoenaed documents was the firststep in a chain of evidence that led to this prosecution. Thedocuments did not magically appear in the prosecutor's officelike "manna from heaven." They arrived there only afterrespondent asserted his constitutional privilege, received agrant of immunity, and--under the compulsion of the District Court's order--took the mental and physical steps nec-essary to provide the prosecutor with an accurate inventoryof the many sources of potentially incriminating evidencesought by the subpoena. It was only through respondent'struthful reply to the subpoena 23 that the Government re23 See Stuntz, Self-incrimination and Excuse, 88 Colum. L. Rev. 1227,1228-1229, 1256-1259, 1277-1279 (1988) (discussing the conceptual link between truthtelling and the privilege in the document production context);Alito, Documents and the Privilege Against Self-Incrimination, 48 U. Pitt.L. Rev. 27, 47 (1986); 8 J. Wigmore, Evidence $ 2264, p. 379 (J. McNaugh530US1 Unit: $U65 [10-22-01 17:17:50] PAGES PGT: OPIN43Cite as: 530 U. S. 27 (2000)Opinion of the Courtceived the incriminating documents of which it made "sub-stantial use . . . in the investigation that led to the indictment." Brief for United States 3.For these reasons, we cannot accept the Government'ssubmission that respondent's immunity did not preclude itsderivative use of the produced documents because its "possession of the documents [was] the fruit only of a simplephysical act--the act of producing the documents."Id., at29. It was unquestionably necessary for respondent tomake extensive use of "the contents of his own mind" inidentifying the hundreds of documents responsive to therequests in the subpoena. See Curcio v. United States, 354U. S. 118, 128 (1957); Doe v. United States, 487 U. S., at 210.The assembly of those documents was like telling an in-quisitor the combination to a wall safe, not like being forcedto surrender the key to a strongbox. Id., at 210, n. 9. TheGovernment's anemic view of respondent's act of productionas a mere physical act that is principally nontestimonial incharacter and can be entirely divorced from its "implicit" testimonial aspect so as to constitute a "legitimate, wholly inde-pendent source" (as required byKastigar) for the documentsproduced simply fails to account for these realities.In sum, we have no doubt that the constitutional privi-lege against self-incrimination protects the target of a grandjury investigation from being compelled to answer ques-tions designed to elicit information about the existence ofsources of potentially incriminating evidence. That consti-tutional privilege has the same application to the testimonial aspect of a response to a subpoena seeking discovery ofthose sources. Before the District Court, the Governmentarguably conceded that respondent's act of production inthis case had a testimonial aspect that entitled him to respond to the subpoena by asserting his privilege againstself-incrimination. See 167 F. 3d, at 580 (noting Districtton rev. 1961) (describing a subpoena duces tecum as "process relying on[the witness'] moral responsibility for truthtelling").530US1 Unit: $U65 [10-22-01 17:17:50] PAGES PGT: OPIN44 UNITED STATES v. HUBBELLOpinion of the CourtCourt's finding that "Hubbell's compelled act of productionrequired him to make communications as to the existence,possession, and authenticity of the subpoenaed documents").On appeal and again before this Court, however, the Government has argued that the communicative aspect of respond-ent's act of producing ordinary business records is insufficiently "testimonial" to support a claim of privilege becausethe existence and possession of such records by any business-man is a "foregone conclusion" under our decision inFisherv. United States, 425 U. S., at 411. This argument both mis-readsFisher and ignores our subsequent decision in UnitedStates v. Doe, 465 U. S. 605 (1984).As noted in Part II,supra, Fisher involved summonsesseeking production of working papers prepared by the tax-payers' accountants that the IRS knew were in the possession of the taxpayers' attorneys. 425 U. S., at 394. Inrejecting the taxpayers' claim that these documents wereprotected by the Fifth Amendment privilege, we stated:"It is doubtful that implicitly admitting the existenceand possession of the papers rises to the level of testi-mony within the protection of the Fifth Amendment.The papers belong to the accountant, were prepared byhim, and are the kind usually prepared by an accountantworking on the tax returns of his client. Surely theGovernment is in no way relying on the `truthtelling'of thetaxpayer to prove the existence of or his accessto the documents. . . . The existence and location of thepapers are a foregone conclusion and the taxpayer addslittle or nothing to the sum total of the Government'sinformation by conceding that he in fact has the papers."Id., at 411 (emphases added).Whatever the scope of this "foregone conclusion" rationale,the facts of this case plainly fall outside of it. While inFisher the Government already knew that the documentswere in the attorneys' possession and could independently530US1 Unit: $U65 [10-22-01 17:17:50] PAGES PGT: OPIN45Cite as: 530 U. S. 27 (2000)Opinion of the Courtconfirm their existence and authenticity through the account-ants who created them, here the Government has not shownthat it had any prior knowledge of either the existence orthe whereabouts of the 13,120 pages of documents ultimatelyproduced by respondent. The Government cannot cure thisdeficiency through the overbroad argument that a businessman such as respondent will always possess general businessand tax records that fall within the broad categories de-scribed in this subpoena. TheDoe subpoenas also soughtseveral broad categories of general business records, yet weupheld the District Court's finding that the act of producingthose records would involve testimonial self-incrimination.465 U. S., at 612-614, and n. 13.Given our conclusion that respondent's act of productionhad a testimonial aspect, at least with respect to the existence and location of the documents sought by the Government's subpoena, respondent could not be compelled toproduce those documents without first receiving a grant ofimmunity under $ 6003. As we construed $ 6002 in Kastigar,such immunity is coextensive with the constitutional privilege. Kastigar requires that respondent's motion to dismissthe indictment on immunity grounds be granted unless theGovernment proves that the evidence it used in obtainingthe indictment and proposed to use at trial was derived fromlegitimate sources "wholly independent" of the testimonialaspect of respondent's immunized conduct in assembling andproducing the documents described in the subpoena. TheGovernment, however, does not claim that it could makesuch a showing. Rather, it contends that its prosecution ofrespondent must be considered proper unless someone--presumably respondent--shows that "there is some substantialrelation between the compelled testimonial communicationsimplicit in the act of production (as opposed to the act ofproduction standing alone) and some aspect of the information used in the investigation or the evidence presentedat trial." Brief for United States 9. We could not accept530US1 Unit: $U65 [10-22-01 17:17:50] PAGES PGT: OPIN46 UNITED STATES v. HUBBELLAppendix to opinion of the Courtthis submission without repudiating the basis for our con-clusion in Kastigar that the statutory guarantee of use andderivative-use immunity is as broad as the constitutionalprivilege itself. This we are not prepared to do.Accordingly, the indictment against respondent must be dis-missed. The judgment of the Court of Appeals is affirmed.