Federal Sentencing Guidelines. Pp. 230-244.(a) In addressing Washington State's determinate sentencing scheme,the Blakely Court found that Jones v. United States, 526 U. S. 227; Apprendi v. New Jersey, 530 U. S. 466; and Ring v. Arizona, 536 U. S. 584,made clear "that the `statutory maximum' for Apprendi purposes is themaximum sentence a judge may impose solely on the basis of the factsreflected in the jury verdict or admitted by the defendant." 542 U. S.,at 303. As Blakely's dissenting opinions recognized, there is no constitutionally significant distinction between the Guidelines and the Washington procedure at issue in that case. This conclusion rests on thepremise, common to both systems, that the relevant sentencing rules aremandatory and impose binding requirements on all sentencing judges.Were the Guidelines merely advisory--recommending, but not requiring, the selection of particular sentences in response to differing sets offacts--their use would not implicate the Sixth Amendment. However,that is not the case. Title 18 U. S. C. $ 3553(b) directs that a court"shall impose a sentence of the kind, and within the range" establishedby the Guidelines, subject to departures in specific, limited cases. Because they are binding on all judges, this Court has consistently heldthat the Guidelines have the force and effect of laws. Further, theavailability of a departure where the judge "finds . . . an aggravating ormitigating circumstance of a kind, or to a degree, not adequately takeninto consideration by the Sentencing Commission in formulating theguidelines that should result in a sentence different from that described," $ 3553(b)(1), does not avoid the constitutional issue. Departures are unavailable in most cases because the Commission will haveadequately taken all relevant factors into account, and no departure willbe legally permissible. In those instances, the judge is legally boundto impose a sentence within the Guidelines range. Booker's case illustrates this point. The jury found him guilty of possessing at least 50grams of crack cocaine, based on evidence that he had 92.5 grams.Under those facts, the Guidelines required a possible 210-to-262-monthsentence. To reach Booker's actual sentence--which was almost 10years longer--the judge found that he possessed an additional 566 gramsof crack. Although the jury never heard any such evidence, the judgefound it to be true by a preponderance of the evidence. Thus, as inBlakely, "the jury's verdict alone does not authorize the sentence. Thejudge acquires that authority only upon finding some additional fact."542 U. S., at 305. Finally, because there were no factors the Sentencing543US2 Unit: $U14 [03-16-07 06:51:59] PAGES PGT: OPIN222 UNITED STATES v. BOOKERSyllabusCommission failed to adequately consider, the judge was required toimpose a sentence within the higher Guidelines range. Pp. 230-237.(b) The Government's arguments for its position that Blakely's reasoning should not be applied to the Federal Sentencing Guidelines areunpersuasive. The fact that the Guidelines are promulgated by theSentencing Commission, rather than Congress, is constitutionally irrelevant. The Court has not previously considered the question, but thesame Sixth Amendment principles apply to the Sentencing Guidelines.Further, the Court's pre-Apprendi cases considering the Guidelines areinapplicable, as they did not consider the application of Apprendi to theSentencing Guidelines. Finally, separation of powers concerns are notpresent here, and were rejected in Mistretta v. United States, 488 U. S.361. In Mistretta the Court concluded that even though the Commission performed political rather than adjudicatory functions, Congress did not exceed constitutional limitations in creating the Commission. Id., at 388, 393. That conclusion remains true regardless ofwhether the facts relevant to sentencing are labeled "sentencing factors" or "elements" of crimes. Pp. 237-244.Justice Breyer delivered the opinion of the Court in part, concluding that 18 U. S. C. $ 3553(b)(1), which makes the Federal SentencingGuidelines mandatory, is incompatible with today's Sixth Amendment"jury trial" holding and therefore must be severed and excised from theSentencing Reform Act of 1984 (Act). Section 3742(e), which dependsupon the Guidelines' mandatory nature, also must be severed and excised. So modified, the Act makes the Guidelines effectively advisory, requiring a sentencing court to consider Guidelines ranges, see$ 3553(a)(4), but permitting it to tailor the sentence in light of otherstatutory concerns, see $ 3553(a). Pp. 246-268.(a) Answering the remedial question requires a determination ofwhat "Congress would have intended" in light of the Court's constitutional holding. E. g., Denver Area Ed. Telecommunications Consortium, Inc. v. FCC, 518 U. S. 727, 767. Here, the Court must decidewhich of two approaches is the more compatible with Congress' intentas embodied in the Act: (1) retaining the Act (and the Guidelines) aswritten, with today's Sixth Amendment requirement engrafted onto it;or (2) eliminating some of the Act's provisions. Evaluation of the constitutional requirement's consequences in light of the Act's language,history, and basic purposes demonstrates that the requirement is notcompatible with the Act as written and that some severance (and excision) is necessary. Congress would likely have preferred the total invalidation of the Act to an Act with the constitutional requirement engrafted onto it, but would likely have preferred the excision of the Act'smandatory language to the invalidation of the entire Act. Pp. 246-249.543US2 Unit: $U14 [03-16-07 06:51:59] PAGES PGT: OPIN223Cite as: 543 U. S. 220 (2005)Syllabus(b) Several considerations demonstrate that adding the Court's constitutional requirement onto the Act as currently written would sotransform the statutory scheme that Congress likely would not haveintended the Act as so modified to stand. First, references to "[t]hecourt" in $ 3553(a)(1)--which requires "[t]he court" when sentencing toconsider "the nature and circumstances of the offense and the historyand characteristics of the defendant"--and references to "the judge" inthe Act's history must be read in context to mean "the judge withoutthe jury," not "the judge working together with the jury." That ismade clear by $ 3661, which removes typical "jury trial" limitations on"the information" concerning the offender that the sentencing "court . . .may receive." Second, Congress' basic statutory goal of diminishingsentencing disparity depends for its success upon judicial efforts to determine, and to base punishment upon, the real conduct underlying thecrime of conviction. In looking to real conduct, federal sentencingjudges have long relied upon a probation officer's presentence report,which is often unavailable until after the trial. To engraft the Court'sconstitutional requirement onto the Act would destroy the system bypreventing a sentencing judge from relying upon a presentence reportfor relevant factual information uncovered after the trial. Third, theAct, read to include today's constitutional requirement, would create asystem far more complex than Congress could have intended, therebygreatly complicating the tasks of the prosecution, defense, judge, andjury. Fourth, plea bargaining would not significantly diminish the consequences of the Court's constitutional holding for the operation of theGuidelines, but would make matters worse, leading to sentences thatgave greater weight not to real conduct, but rather to counsel's skill,the prosecutor's policies, the caseload, and other factors that vary fromplace to place, defendant to defendant, and crime to crime. Fifth, Congress would not have enacted sentencing statutes that make it moredifficult to adjust sentences upward than to adjust them downward, yetthat is what the engrafted system would create. For all these reasons,the Act cannot remain valid in its entirety. Severance and excision arenecessary. Pp. 249-258.(c) The entire Act need not be invalidated, since most of it is perfectlyvalid. In order not to "invalidat[e] more of the statute than is necessary," Regan v. Time, Inc., 468 U. S. 641, 652, the Court must retainthose portions of the Act that are (1) constitutionally valid, ibid.,(2) capable of "functioning independently," Alaska Airlines, Inc. v.Brock, 480 U. S. 678, 684, and (3) consistent with Congress' basic objectives in enacting the statute, Regan, supra, at 653. Application of thesecriteria demonstrates that only $ 3553(b)(1), which requires sentencingcourts to impose a sentence within the applicable Guidelines range (ab543US2 Unit: $U14 [03-16-07 06:51:59] PAGES PGT: OPIN224 UNITED STATES v. BOOKERSyllabussent circumstances justifying a departure), and $ 3742(e), which providesfor de novo review on appeal of departures, must be severed and excised. With these two sections severed (and statutory cross-referencesto the two sections consequently invalidated), the rest of the Act satisfies the Court's constitutional requirement and falls outside the scope ofApprendi v. New Jersey, 530 U. S. 466. The Act still requires judges totake account of the Guidelines together with other sentencing goals, see$ 3553(a)(4); to consider the Guidelines "sentencing range establishedfor . . . the applicable category of offense committed by the applicablecategory of defendant," pertinent Sentencing Commission policy statements, and the need to avoid unwarranted sentencing disparities and torestitute victims, $$ 3553(a)(1), (3)-(7); and to impose sentences that reflect the seriousness of the offense, promote respect for the law, providejust punishment, afford adequate deterrence, protect the public, and effectively provide the defendant with needed training and medical care,$ 3553(a)(2). Moreover, despite $ 3553(b)(1)'s absence, the Act continues to provide for appeals from sentencing decisions (irrespective ofwhether the trial judge sentences within or outside the Guidelinesrange). See $$ 3742(a) and (b). Excision of $ 3742(e), which sets forthappellate review standards, does not pose a critical problem. Appropriate review standards may be inferred from related statutory language, the statute's structure, and the " `sound administration of justice.' " Pierce v. Underwood, 487 U. S. 552, 559-560. Here, thesefactors and the past two decades of appellate practice in cases involvingdepartures from the Guidelines imply a familiar and practical standardof review: review for "unreasonable[ness]." See, e. g., 18 U. S. C.$ 3742(e)(3) (1994 ed.). Finally, the Act without its mandatory provisionand related language remains consistent with Congress' intent to avoid"unwarranted sentencing disparities . . . [and] maintai[n] sufficient flexibility to permit individualized sentences when warranted," 28 U. S. C.$ 991(b)(1)(B), in that the Sentencing Commission remains in place toperform its statutory duties, see $ 994, the district courts must consultthe Guidelines and take them into account when sentencing, see 18U. S. C. $ 3553(a)(4), and the courts of appeals review sentencing decisions for unreasonableness. Thus, it is more consistent with Congress'likely intent (1) to preserve the Act's important pre-existing elementswhile severing and excising $$ 3553(b) and 3742(e) than (2) to maintainall of the Act's provisions and engraft today's constitutional requirementonto the statutory scheme. Pp. 258-265.(d) Other possible remedies--including, e. g., the parties' proposalsthat the Guidelines remain binding in cases other than those in whichthe Constitution prohibits judicial factfinding and that the Act's pro543US2 Unit: $U14 [03-16-07 06:51:59] PAGES PGT: OPIN225Cite as: 543 U. S. 220 (2005)Syllabusvisions requiring such factfinding at sentencing be excised--are rejected. Pp. 265-267.(e) On remand in respondent Booker's case, the District Court shouldimpose a sentence in accordance with today's opinions, and, if the sentence comes before the Seventh Circuit for review, that court shouldapply the review standards set forth in this Court's remedial opinion.In respondent Fanfan's case, the Government (and Fanfan should he sochoose) may seek resentencing under the system set forth in today'sopinions. As these dispositions indicate, today's Sixth Amendmentholding and the Court's remedial interpretation of the Sentencing Actmust be applied to all cases on direct review. See, e. g., Griffith v. Kentucky, 479 U. S. 314, 328. That does not mean that every sentence willgive rise to a Sixth Amendment violation or that every appeal will leadto a new sentencing hearing. That is because reviewing courts areexpected to apply ordinary prudential doctrines, determining, e. g.,whether the issue was raised below and whether it fails the "plainerror" test. It is also because, in cases not involving a Sixth Amendment violation, whether resentencing is warranted or whether it willinstead be sufficient to review a sentence for reasonableness may depend upon application of the harmless-error doctrine. Pp. 267-268.Stevens, J., delivered the opinion of the Court in part, in which Scalia,Souter, Thomas, and Ginsburg, JJ., joined. Breyer, J., delivered theopinion of the Court in part, in which Rehnquist, C. J., and O'Connor,Kennedy, and Ginsburg, JJ., joined, post, p. 244. Stevens, J., filed anopinion dissenting in part, in which Souter, J., joined, and in whichScalia, J., joined except for Part III and footnote 17, post, p. 272.Scalia, J., post, p. 303, and Thomas, J., post, p. 313, filed opinions dissenting in part. Breyer, J., filed an opinion dissenting in part, in whichRehnquist, C. J., and O'Connor and Kennedy, JJ., joined, post, p. 326.Acting Solicitor General Clement argued the cause forthe United States in both cases. With him on the brief wereAssistant Attorney General Wray, Deputy Solicitor GeneralDreeben, James A. Feldman, Dan Himmelfarb, and NinaGoodman.T. Christopher Kelly argued the cause for respondent inNo. 04-104. With him on the brief was Dean A. Strang.Rosemary Curran Scapicchio argued the cause for respondent in No. 04-105. With her on the brief were Carter G.543US2 Unit: $U14 [03-16-07 06:51:59] PAGES PGT: OPIN226 UNITED STATES v. BOOKEROpinion of the CourtPhillips, Jeffrey T. Green, Eric A. Shumsky, and MartinG. Weinberg.#Justice Stevens delivered the opinion of the Court inpart.*The question presented in each of these cases is whetheran application of the Federal Sentencing Guidelines violatedthe Sixth Amendment. In each case, the courts below heldthat binding rules set forth in the Guidelines limited the severity of the sentence that the judge could lawfully imposeon the defendant based on the facts found by the jury at histrial. In both cases the courts rejected, on the basis of ourdecision in Blakely v. Washington, 542 U. S. 296 (2004), theGovernment's recommended application of the SentencingGuidelines because the proposed sentences were based onadditional facts that the sentencing judge found by a preponderance of the evidence. We hold that both courts correctlyconcluded that the Sixth Amendment as construed in#Briefs of amici curiae urging reversal in both cases were filed for theUnited States Sentencing Commission by James K. Robinson, CharlesR. Tetzlaff, and Pamela O. Barron; and for the Honorable Orrin G. Hatchet al. by Gregory G. Garre.Briefs of amici curiae urging affirmance in both cases were filedfor Families Against Mandatory Minimums by Gregory L. Poe, Roy T.Englert, Jr., Max Huffman, and Mary Price; for the Federal PublicDefender, Northern District of Texas, by Ira R. Kirkendoll and CarlosR. Cardona; for the National Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers bySamuel J. Buffone, David O. Stewart, Thomas C. Goldstein, Amy Howe,and David M. Porter; for the National Association of Federal Defendersby Paul M. Rashkind, Carol A. Brook, Henry J. Bemporad, and FrancesH. Pratt; for the New York Council of Defense Lawyers by AlexandraA. E. Shapiro and Lewis J. Liman; for the Washington Legal Foundationet al. by Donald B. Verrilli, Jr., Elaine J. Goldenberg, Daniel J. Popeo,and Paul D. Kamenar; and for Thomas F. Liotti, by Mr. Liotti, pro se.John S. Martin, Jr., filed a brief for an Ad Hoc Group of Former FederalJudges as amici curiae in both cases.*Justice Scalia, Justice Souter, Justice Thomas, and JusticeGinsburg join this opinion.543US2 Unit: $U14 [03-16-07 06:51:59] PAGES PGT: OPIN227Cite as: 543 U. S. 220 (2005)Opinion of the CourtBlakely does apply to the Sentencing Guidelines. In a sepa-rate opinion authored byJustice Breyer, the Court con-cludes that in light of this holding, two provisions of the Sentencing Reform Act of 1984 (SRA) that have the effect ofmaking the Guidelines mandatory must be invalidated inorder to allow the statute to operate in a manner consistentwith congressional intent.IRespondent Booker was charged with possession with in-tent to distribute at least 50 grams of cocaine base (crack).Having heard evidence that he had 92.5 grams in his duf-fel bag, the jury found him guilty of violating 21 U. S. C.$ 841(a)(1). That statute prescribes a minimum sentence of10 years in prison and a maximum sentence of life for thatoffense. $ 841(b)(1)(A)(iii).Based upon Booker's criminal history and the quantity ofdrugs found by the jury, the Sentencing Guidelines requiredthe District Court Judge to select a "base" sentence of notless than 210 nor more than 262 months in prison. SeeUnited States Sentencing Commission, Guidelines Manual$$ 2D1.1(c)(4), 4A1.1 (Nov. 2003) (USSG). The judge, how-ever, held a post-trial sentencing proceeding and concludedby a preponderance of the evidence that Booker had pos-sessed an additional 566 grams of crack and that he wasguilty of obstructing justice. Those findings mandated thatthe judge select a sentence between 360 months and life imprisonment; the judge imposed a sentence at the low end ofthe range. Thus, instead of the sentence of 21 years and 10months that the judge could have imposed on the basis of thefacts proved to the jury beyond a reasonable doubt, Bookerreceived a 30-year sentence.Over the dissent of Judge Easterbrook, the Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit held that this application of theSentencing Guidelines conflicted with our holding in Apprendi v. New Jersey, 530 U. S. 466, 490 (2000), that "[o]therthan the fact of a prior conviction, any fact that increases543US2 Unit: $U14 [03-16-07 06:51:59] PAGES PGT: OPIN228 UNITED STATES v. BOOKEROpinion of the Courtthe penalty for a crime beyond the prescribed statutory maximum must be submitted to a jury, and proved beyond a reasonable doubt." 375 F. 3d 508, 510 (2004). The majorityrelied on our holding in Blakely, 542 U. S. 296, that "the`statutory maximum' for Apprendi purposes is the maximumsentence a judge may impose solely on the basis of the factsreflected in the jury verdict or admitted by the defendant."Id., at 303. The court held that the sentence violated theSixth Amendment, and remanded with instructions to theDistrict Court either to sentence respondent within the sentencing range supported by the jury's findings or to hold aseparate sentencing hearing before a jury.Respondent Fanfan was charged with conspiracy to distribute and to possess with intent to distribute at least 500grams of cocaine in violation of 21 U. S. C. $$ 846, 841(a)(1),and 841(b)(1)(B)(ii). He was convicted by the jury after itanswered "Yes" to the question "Was the amount of cocaine500 or more grams?" App. C to Pet. for Cert. in No. 04-105,p. 15a. Under the Guidelines, without additional findings offact, the maximum sentence authorized by the jury verdictwas imprisonment for 78 months.A few days after our decision in Blakely, the trial judgeconducted a sentencing hearing at which he found additionalfacts that, under the Guidelines, would have authorized asentence in the 188-to-235-month range. Specifically, hefound that respondent Fanfan was responsible for 2.5 kilograms of cocaine powder, and 261.6 grams of crack. He alsoconcluded that respondent had been an organizer, leader,manager, or supervisor in the criminal activity. Both findings were made by a preponderance of the evidence. Underthe Guidelines, these additional findings would have requiredan enhanced sentence of 15 or 16 years instead of the 5 or 6years authorized by the jury verdict alone. Relying notonly on the majority opinion in Blakely, but also on the categorical statements in the dissenting opinions and in the Solic543US2 Unit: $U14 [03-16-07 06:51:59] PAGES PGT: OPIN229Cite as: 543 U. S. 220 (2005)Opinion of the Courtitor General's brief in Blakely, see App. A to Pet. for Cert.in No. 04-105, pp. 6a-7a, the judge concluded that he couldnot follow the particular provisions of the Sentencing Guidelines "which involve drug quantity and role enhancement,"id., at 11a. Expressly refusing to make "any blanket decision about the federal guidelines," he followed the provisionsof the Guidelines that did not implicate the Sixth Amendment by imposing a sentence on respondent "based solelyupon the jury verdict in this case." Ibid.Following the denial of its motion to correct the sentencein Fanfan's case, the Government filed a notice of appeal inthe Court of Appeals for the First Circuit, and a petition inthis Court for a writ of certiorari before judgment. Becauseof the importance of the questions presented, we grantedthat petition, 542 U. S. 956 (2004), as well as a similar petitionfiled by the Government in Booker's case, ibid. In both petitions, the Government asks us to determine whether ourApprendi line of cases applies to the Sentencing Guidelines,and if so, what portions of the Guidelines remain in effect.1In this opinion, we explain why we agree with the lowercourts' answer to the first question. In a separate opinionfor the Court, Justice Breyer explains the Court's answerto the second question.1 The questions presented are:"1. Whether the Sixth Amendment is violated by the imposition of anenhanced sentence under the United States Sentencing Guidelines basedon the sentencing judge's determination of a fact (other than a prior conviction) that was not found by the jury or admitted by the defendant."2. If the answer to the first question is `yes,' the following question ispresented: whether, in a case in which the Guidelines would require thecourt to find a sentence-enhancing fact, the Sentencing Guidelines as awhole would be inapplicable, as a matter of severability analysis, such thatthe sentencing court must exercise its discretion to sentence the defendantwithin the maximum and minimum set by statute for the offense of conviction." E. g., Pet. for Cert. in No. 04-104, p. (I).543US2 Unit: $U14 [03-16-07 06:51:59] PAGES PGT: OPIN230 UNITED STATES v. BOOKEROpinion of the CourtIIIt has been settled throughout our history that the Consti-tution protects every criminal defendant "against convictionexcept upon proof beyond a reasonable doubt of every factnecessary to constitute the crime with which he is charged."In re Winship, 397 U. S. 358, 364 (1970). It is equally clearthat the "Constitution gives a criminal defendant the rightto demand that a jury find him guilty of all the elements ofthe crime with which he is charged."United States v. Gau-din, 515 U. S. 506, 511 (1995). These basic precepts, firmlyrooted in the common law, have provided the basis for recentdecisions interpreting modern criminal statutes and sentencing procedures.InJones v. United States, 526 U. S. 227, 230 (1999), weconsidered the federal carjacking statute, which providesthree different maximum sentences depending on the extentof harm to the victim: 15 years in jail if there was no seriousinjury to a victim, 25 years if there was "serious bodily in-jury," and life in prison if death resulted. 18 U. S. C. $ 2119(1988 ed., Supp. V). In spite of the fact that the statute "atfirst glance has a look to it suggesting [that the provisionsrelating to the extent of harm to the victim] are only sentenc-ing provisions," 526 U. S., at 232, we concluded that the harmto the victim was an element of the crime. That conclusionwas supported by the statutory text and structure, and wasinfluenced by our desire to avoid the constitutional issuesimplicated by a contrary holding, which would have reducedthe jury's role "to the relative importance of low-level gate-keeping."Id., at 244. Foreshadowing the result we reachtoday, we noted that our holding was consistent with a "rulerequiring jury determination of facts that raise a sentencingceiling" in state and federal sentencing guidelines systems.Id., at 251-252, n. 11.In Apprendi v. New Jersey, 530 U. S. 466 (2000), the defendant pleaded guilty to second-degree possession of afirearm for an unlawful purpose, which carried a prison term543US2 Unit: $U14 [03-16-07 06:51:59] PAGES PGT: OPIN231Cite as: 543 U. S. 220 (2005)Opinion of the Courtof 5-to-10 years. Thereafter, the trial court found that hisconduct had violated New Jersey's "hate crime" law becauseit was racially motivated, and imposed a 12-year sentence.This Court set aside the enhanced sentence. We held:"Other than the fact of a prior conviction, any fact that in-creases the penalty for a crime beyond the prescribed statutory maximum must be submitted to a jury, and provedbeyond a reasonable doubt." Id., at 490.The fact that New Jersey labeled the hate crime a "sentence enhancement" rather than a separate criminal act wasirrelevant for constitutional purposes.Id., at 478. As amatter of simple justice, it seemed obvious that the procedural safeguards designed to protect Apprendi from punishment for the possession of a firearm should apply equally tohis violation of the hate crime statute. Merely using thelabel "sentence enhancement" to describe the latter did notprovide a principled basis for treating the two crimes differently. Id., at 476.In Ring v. Arizona, 536 U. S. 584 (2002), we reaffirmedour conclusion that the characterization of critical facts isconstitutionally irrelevant. There, we held that it was impermissible for "the trial judge, sitting alone" to determinethe presence or absence of the aggravating factors requiredby Arizona law for imposition of the death penalty. Id., at588-589. "If a State makes an increase in a defendant's authorized punishment contingent on the finding of a fact, thatfact--no matter how the State labels it--must be found by ajury beyond a reasonable doubt." Id., at 602. Our opinionmade it clear that ultimately, while the procedural error inRing's case might have been harmless because the necessaryfinding was implicit in the jury's guilty verdict, id., at 609,n. 7, "the characterization of a fact or circumstance as an`element' or a `sentencing factor' is not determinative of thequestion `who decides,' judge or jury," id., at 605.In Blakely v. Washington, 542 U. S. 296 (2004), we dealtwith a determinate sentencing scheme similar to the Federal543US2 Unit: $U14 [03-16-07 06:51:59] PAGES PGT: OPIN232 UNITED STATES v. BOOKEROpinion of the CourtSentencing Guidelines. There the defendant pleaded guiltyto kidnaping, a class B felony punishable by a term of notmore than 10 years. Other provisions of Washington law,comparable to the Federal Sentencing Guidelines, mandateda "standard" sentence of 49-to-53 months, unless the judgefound aggravating facts justifying an exceptional sentence.Although the prosecutor recommended a sentence in thestandard range, the judge found that the defendant had actedwith " `deliberate cruelty' " and sentenced him to 90 months.Id., at 300.For reasons explained in Jones, Apprendi, and Ring, therequirements of the Sixth Amendment were clear. The application of Washington's sentencing scheme violated the defendant's right to have the jury find the existence of " `anyparticular fact' " that the law makes essential to his punishment. 542 U. S., at 301. That right is implicated whenevera judge seeks to impose a sentence that is not solely basedon "facts reflected in the jury verdict or admitted by thedefendant." Id., at 303 (emphasis deleted). We rejectedthe State's argument that the jury verdict was sufficient toauthorize a sentence within the general 10-year sentence forclass B felonies, noting that under Washington law, the judgewas required to find additional facts in order to impose thegreater 90-month sentence. Our precedents, we explained,make clear "that the `statutory maximum' for Apprendi purposes is the maximum sentence a judge may impose solelyon the basis of the facts reflected in the jury verdict oradmitted by the defendant." Ibid. (emphasis in original).The determination that the defendant acted with deliberatecruelty, like the determination in Apprendi that the defendant acted with racial malice, increased the sentence that thedefendant could have otherwise received. Since this factwas found by a judge using a preponderance of the evidencestandard, the sentence violated Blakely's Sixth Amendmentrights.543US2 Unit: $U14 [03-16-07 06:51:59] PAGES PGT: OPIN233Cite as: 543 U. S. 220 (2005)Opinion of the CourtAs the dissenting opinions in Blakely recognized, thereis no distinction of constitutional significance between theFederal Sentencing Guidelines and the Washington proce-dures at issue in that case. See, e. g., 542 U. S., at 325 (opinion of O'Connor, J.) ("The structure of the Federal Guide-lines likewise does not, as the Government halfheartedlysuggests, provide any grounds for distinction. . . . If any-thing, the structural differences that do exist make the Federal Guidelines more vulnerable to attack"). This conclu-sion rests on the premise, common to both systems, that therelevant sentencing rules are mandatory and impose bindingrequirements on all sentencing judges.If the Guidelines as currently written could be read asmerely advisory provisions that recommended, rather thanrequired, the selection of particular sentences in response todiffering sets of facts, their use would not implicate the SixthAmendment. We have never doubted the authority of ajudge to exercise broad discretion in imposing a sentencewithin a statutory range. See Apprendi, 530 U. S., at 481;Williams v. New York, 337 U. S. 241, 246 (1949). Indeed,everyone agrees that the constitutional issues presented bythese cases would have been avoided entirely if Congresshad omitted from the SRA the provisions that make theGuidelines binding on district judges; it is that circumstancethat makes the Court's answer to the second question pre-sented possible. For when a trial judge exercises his discretion to select a specific sentence within a defined range, thedefendant has no right to a jury determination of the factsthat the judge deems relevant.The Guidelines as written, however, are not advisory; theyare mandatory and binding on all judges.2 While subsection2 In Mistretta v. United States, 488 U. S. 361 (1989), we pointed out thatCongress chose explicitly to adopt a "mandatory-guideline system" ratherthan a system that would have been "only advisory," and that the statute"makes the Sentencing Commission's guidelines binding on the courts."Id., at 367.543US2 Unit: $U14 [03-16-07 06:51:59] PAGES PGT: OPIN234 UNITED STATES v. BOOKEROpinion of the Court(a) of $ 3553 of the sentencing statute 3 lists the SentencingGuidelines as one factor to be considered in imposing a sentence, subsection (b) directs that the court "shall impose asentence of the kind, and within the range" established bythe Guidelines, subject to departures in specific, limitedcases. (Emphasis added.) Because they are binding onjudges, we have consistently held that the Guidelines havethe force and effect of laws. See, e. g., Mistretta v. UnitedStates, 488 U. S. 361, 391 (1989); Stinson v. United States,508 U. S. 36, 42 (1993).The availability of a departure in specified circumstancesdoes not avoid the constitutional issue, just as it did not inBlakely itself. The Guidelines permit departures from theprescribed sentencing range in cases in which the judge"finds that there exists an aggravating or mitigating circumstance of a kind, or to a degree, not adequately taken intoconsideration by the Sentencing Commission in formulatingthe guidelines that should result in a sentence different fromthat described." 18 U. S. C. $ 3553(b)(1) (2000 ed., Supp. IV).At first glance, one might believe that the ability of a districtjudge to depart from the Guidelines means that she is boundonly by the statutory maximum. Were this the case, therewould be no Apprendi problem. Importantly, however, departures are not available in every case, and in fact are unavailable in most. In most cases, as a matter of law, theCommission will have adequately taken all relevant factorsinto account, and no departure will be legally permissible.In those instances, the judge is bound to impose a sentencewithin the Guidelines range. It was for this reason that werejected a similar argument in Blakely, holding that although the Washington statute allowed the judge to imposea sentence outside the sentencing range for " `substantial andcompelling reasons,' " that exception was not available forBlakely himself. 542 U. S., at 299. The sentencing judge3 18 U. S. C. $ 3553(a) (2000 ed. and Supp. IV).543US2 Unit: $U14 [03-16-07 06:51:59] PAGES PGT: OPIN235Cite as: 543 U. S. 220 (2005)Opinion of the Courtwould have been reversed had he invoked the departure sec-tion to justify the sentence.Booker's case illustrates the mandatory nature of theGuidelines. The jury convicted him of possessing at least50 grams of crack in violation of 21 U. S. C. $ 841(b)(1)(A)(iii)based on evidence that he had 92.5 grams of crack in hisduffel bag. Under these facts, the Guidelines specified anoffense level of 32, which, given the defendant's criminal his-tory category, authorized a sentence of 210-to-262 months.See USSG $ 2D1.1(c)(4). Booker's is a run-of-the-mill drugcase, and does not present any factors that were inadequately considered by the Commission. The sentencingjudge would therefore have been reversed had he not imposed a sentence within the level 32 Guidelines range.Booker's actual sentence, however, was 360 months, almost10 years longer than the Guidelines range supported by thejury verdict alone. To reach this sentence, the judge foundfacts beyond those found by the jury: namely, that Bookerpossessed 566 grams of crack in addition to the 92.5 gramsin his duffel bag. The jury never heard any evidence of theadditional drug quantity, and the judge found it true by apreponderance of the evidence. Thus, just as in Blakely,"the jury's verdict alone does not authorize the sentence.The judge acquires that authority only upon finding someadditional fact." 542 U. S., at 305. There is no relevant distinction between the sentence imposed pursuant to theWashington statutes in Blakely and the sentences imposedpursuant to the Federal Sentencing Guidelines in thesecases.In his dissent, post, at 327-329, Justice Breyer argueson historical grounds that the Guidelines scheme is constitutional across the board. He points to traditional judicial authority to increase sentences to take account of any unusualblameworthiness in the manner employed in committing acrime, an authority that the Guidelines require to be exercised consistently throughout the system. This tradition,543US2 Unit: $U14 [03-16-07 06:51:59] PAGES PGT: OPIN236 UNITED STATES v. BOOKEROpinion of the Courthowever, does not provide a sound guide to enforcement ofthe Sixth Amendment's guarantee of a jury trial in today'sworld.It is quite true that once determinate sentencing had fallenfrom favor, American judges commonly determined facts justifying a choice of a heavier sentence on account of the manner in which particular defendants acted. Apprendi, 530U. S., at 481. In 1986, however, our own cases first recognized a new trend in the legislative regulation of sentencingwhen we considered the significance of facts selected by legislatures that not only authorized, or even mandated, heaviersentences than would otherwise have been imposed, but increased the range of sentences possible for the underlyingcrime. See McMillan v. Pennsylvania, 477 U. S. 79, 87-88(1986). Provisions for such enhancements of the permissible sentencing range reflected growing and wholly justifiedlegislative concern about the proliferation and variety ofdrug crimes and their frequent identification with firearmsoffenses.The effect of the increasing emphasis on facts that enhanced sentencing ranges, however, was to increase thejudge's power and diminish that of the jury. It became thejudge, not the jury, who determined the upper limits of sentencing, and the facts determined were not required to beraised before trial or proved by more than a preponderance.As the enhancements became greater, the jury's findingof the underlying crime became less significant. And theenhancements became very serious indeed. See, e. g., Jones,526 U. S., at 230-231 ( judge's finding increased the maximumsentence from 15 to 25 years); respondent Booker's case(from 262 months to a life sentence); respondent Fanfan'scase (from 78 to 235 months); United States v. Rodriguez, 73F. 3d 161, 162-163 (CA7 1996) (Posner, C. J., dissenting fromdenial of rehearing en banc) (from approximately 54 monthsto a life sentence); United States v. Hammoud, 381 F. 3d 316,543US2 Unit: $U14 [03-16-07 06:51:59] PAGES PGT: OPIN237Cite as: 543 U. S. 220 (2005)Opinion of the Court361-362 (CA4 2004) (en banc) (Motz, J., dissenting) (actualsentence increased from 57 months to 155 years).As it thus became clear that sentencing was no longer tak-ing place in the tradition thatJustice Breyer invokes, theCourt was faced with the issue of preserving an ancientguarantee under a new set of circumstances. The new sen-tencing practice forced the Court to address the questionhow the right of jury trial could be preserved, in a meaning-ful way guaranteeing that the jury would still stand betweenthe individual and the power of the government under thenew sentencing regime. And it is the new circumstances,not a tradition or practice that the new circumstances havesuperseded, that have led us to the answer first consideredin Jones and developed in Apprendi and subsequent casesculminating with this one. It is an answer not motivated bySixth Amendment formalism, but by the need to preserveSixth Amendment substance.IIIThe Government advances three arguments in support ofits submission that we should not apply our reasoning inBlakely to the Federal Sentencing Guidelines. It contendsthat Blakely is distinguishable because the Guidelines werepromulgated by a Commission rather than the Legislature;that principles ofstare decisis require us to follow four ear-lier decisions that are arguably inconsistent with Blakely;and that the application of Blakely to the Guidelines wouldconflict with separation-of-powers principles reflected inMistretta v. United States, 488 U. S. 361 (1989). These argu-ments are unpersuasive.Commission v. Legislature:In our judgment the fact that the Guidelines were promul-gated by the Sentencing Commission, rather than Congress,lacks constitutional significance. In order to impose the de-fendants' sentences under the Guidelines, the judges in these543US2 Unit: $U14 [03-16-07 06:51:59] PAGES PGT: OPIN238 UNITED STATES v. BOOKEROpinion of the Courtcases were required to find an additional fact, such as drugquantity, just as the judge found the additional fact of serious bodily injury to the victim in Jones. As far as the de-fendants are concerned, they face significantly higher sentences--in Booker's case almost 10 years higher--becausea judge found true by a preponderance of the evidence afact that was never submitted to the jury. Regardless ofwhether Congress or a Sentencing Commission concludedthat a particular fact must be proved in order to sentence adefendant within a particular range, "[t]he Framers wouldnot have thought it too much to demand that, before depriving a man of [ten] more years of his liberty, the State shouldsuffer the modest inconvenience of submitting its accusationto `the unanimous suffrage of twelve of his equals and neighbours,' rather than a lone employee of the State." Blakely,542 U. S., at 313-314 (citation omitted).The Government correctly notes that in Apprendi we referred to " `any fact that increases the penalty for a crimebeyond the prescribed statutory maximum . . . .' " Brief forUnited States 15 (quoting Apprendi, 530 U. S., at 490 (emphasis in Brief for United States)). The simple answer, ofcourse, is that we were only considering a statute in thatcase; we expressly declined to consider the Guidelines. SeeApprendi, 530 U. S., at 497, n. 21. It was therefore appropriate to state the rule in that case in terms of a "statutorymaximum" rather than answering a question not properlybefore us.More important than the language used in our holding inApprendi are the principles we sought to vindicate. Thoseprinciples are unquestionably applicable to the Guidelines.They are not the product of recent innovations in our jurisprudence, but rather have their genesis in the ideals our constitutional tradition assimilated from the common law. SeeJones, 526 U. S., at 244-248. The Framers of the Constitution understood the threat of "judicial despotism" that couldarise from "arbitrary punishments upon arbitrary convic543US2 Unit: $U14 [03-16-07 06:51:59] PAGES PGT: OPIN239Cite as: 543 U. S. 220 (2005)Opinion of the Courttions" without the benefit of a jury in criminal cases. TheFederalist No. 83, p. 499 (C. Rossiter ed. 1961) (A. Hamilton).The Founders presumably carried this concern from Eng-land, in which the right to a jury trial had been enshrinedsince the Magna Carta. As we noted in Apprendi:"[T]he historical foundation for our recognition of theseprinciples extends down centuries into the common law.`[T]o guard against a spirit of oppression and tyrannyon the part of rulers,' and `as the great bulwark of [our]civil and political liberties,' trial by jury has been understood to require that `the truth of every accusation,whether preferred in the shape of indictment, information, or appeal, should afterwards be confirmed by theunanimous suffrage of twelve of [the defendant's] equalsand neighbours . . . .' " 530 U. S., at 477 (citationsomitted).Regardless of whether the legal basis of the accusation is ina statute or in guidelines promulgated by an independentcommission, the principles behind the jury trial right areequally applicable.Stare Decisis:The Government next argues that four recent cases preclude our application of Blakely to the Sentencing Guide-lines. We disagree. InUnited States v. Dunnigan, 507U. S. 87 (1993), we held that the provisions of the Guidelinesthat require a sentence enhancement if the judge determinesthat the defendant committed perjury do not violate theprivilege of the accused to testify on her own behalf. Therewas no contention that the enhancement was invalid becauseit resulted in a more severe sentence than the jury verdicthad authorized. Accordingly, we found this case indistinguishable from United States v. Grayson, 438 U. S. 41 (1978),a pre-Guidelines case in which we upheld a similar sentenceincrease. Applying Blakely to the Guidelines would invali543US2 Unit: $U14 [03-16-07 06:51:59] PAGES PGT: OPIN240 UNITED STATES v. BOOKEROpinion of the Courtdate a sentence that relied on such an enhancement if theresulting sentence was outside the range authorized by thejury verdict. Nevertheless, there are many situations inwhich the district judge might find that the enhancement iswarranted, yet still sentence the defendant within the rangeauthorized by the jury. See post, at 276-279 (Stevens, J.,dissenting in part). Thus, while the reach ofDunnigan maybe limited, we need not overrule it.In Witte v. United States, 515 U. S. 389 (1995), we held thatthe Double Jeopardy Clause did not bar a prosecution forconduct that had provided the basis for an enhancement ofthe defendant's sentence in a prior case. "We concluded that`consideration of information about the defendant's characterand conduct at sentencing does not result in "punishment"for any offense other than the one of which the defendantwas convicted.' Rather, the defendant is `punished only forthe fact that the present offense was carried out in a mannerthat warrants increased punishment . . . .' "United Statesv.Watts, 519 U. S. 148, 155 (1997) (per curiam) (quotingWitte, 515 U. S., at 401, 403; emphasis deleted). In Watts,relying on Witte, we held that the Double Jeopardy Clausepermitted a court to consider acquitted conduct in sentencinga defendant under the Guidelines. In neither Witte norWatts was there any contention that the sentencing enhancement had exceeded the sentence authorized by the jury ver-dict in violation of the Sixth Amendment. The issue we confront today simply was not presented.4Finally, in Edwards v. United States, 523 U. S. 511 (1998),the Court held that a jury's general verdict finding the de-fendants guilty of a conspiracy involving either cocaine orcrack supported a sentence based on their involvement with4 Watts, in particular, presented a very narrow question regarding theinteraction of the Guidelines with the Double Jeopardy Clause, and didnot even have the benefit of full briefing or oral argument. It is unsurprising that we failed to consider fully the issues presented to us in thesecases. See 519 U. S., at 171 (Kennedy, J., dissenting).543US2 Unit: $U14 [03-16-07 06:51:59] PAGES PGT: OPIN241Cite as: 543 U. S. 220 (2005)Opinion of the Courtboth drugs. Even though the indictment had charged thattheir conspiracy embraced both, they argued on appeal thatthe verdict limited the judge's sentencing authority. Werecognized that the defendants' statutory and constitutionalclaims might have had merit if it had been possible to arguethat their crack-related activities were not part of the sameconspiracy as their cocaine activities. But they failed tomake that argument, and, based on our review of the recordwhich showed "a series of interrelated drug transactions in-volving both cocaine and crack," we concluded that no suchclaim could succeed.5 Id., at 515.None of our prior cases is inconsistent with today's decision. Stare decisis does not compel us to limit Blakely'sholding.Separation of Powers:Finally, the Government and, to a lesser extent, JusticeBreyer's dissent, argue that any holding that would requireGuidelines sentencing factors to be proved to a jury beyonda reasonable doubt would effectively transform them into acode defining elements of criminal offenses. The result, according to the Government, would be an unconstitutionalgrant to the Sentencing Commission of the inherently legislative power to define criminal elements.There is no merit to this argument because the Commission's authority to identify the facts relevant to sentencing5 We added: "Instead, petitioners argue that the judge might have madedifferent factual findings if only the judge had known that the law requiredhim to assume the jury had found a cocaine-only, not a cocaine-and-crack,conspiracy. It is sufficient for present purposes, however, to point outthat petitioners did not make this particular argument in the DistrictCourt. Indeed, they seem to have raised their entire argument for thefirst time in the Court of Appeals. Thus, petitioners did not explain tothe sentencing judge how their `jury-found-only-cocaine' assumption couldhave made a difference to the judge's own findings, nor did they explainhow this assumption (given the judge's findings) should lead to greaterleniency." Edwards, 523 U. S., at 515-516.543US2 Unit: $U14 [03-16-07 06:51:59] PAGES PGT: OPIN242 UNITED STATES v. BOOKEROpinion of the Courtdecisions and to determine the impact of such facts on fed-eral sentences is precisely the same whether one labels suchfacts "sentencing factors" or "elements" of crimes. Our de-cision inMistretta, 488 U. S., at 371, upholding the validityof the delegation of that authority, is unaffected by the char-acterization of such facts, or by the procedures used to findsuch facts in particular sentencing proceedings. Indeed, werejected a similar argument in Jones:"Contrary to the dissent's suggestion, the constitutionalproposition that drives our concern in no way `call[s] intoquestion the principle that the definition of the elementsof a criminal offense is entrusted to the legislature.'The constitutional guarantees that give rise to our concern in no way restrict the ability of legislatures to iden-tify the conduct they wish to characterize as criminal orto define the facts whose proof is essential to the estab-lishment of criminal liability. The constitutional safeguards that figure in our analysis concern not the iden-tity of the elements defining criminal liability but onlythe required procedures for finding the facts that deter-mine the maximum permissible punishment; these arethe safeguards going to the formality of notice, the iden-tity of the factfinder, and the burden of proof." 526U. S., at 243, n. 6 (citation omitted).Our holding today does not call into question any aspectof our decision in Mistretta. That decision was premised onan understanding that the Commission, rather than performing adjudicatory functions, instead makes political and sub-stantive decisions. 488 U. S., at 393. We noted that thepromulgation of the Guidelines was much like other activitiesin the Judicial Branch, such as the creation of the FederalRules of Evidence, all of which are nonadjudicatory activities. Id., at 387. We also noted that "Congress may delegate to the Judicial Branch nonadjudicatory functions thatdo not trench upon the prerogatives of another Branch and543US2 Unit: $U14 [03-16-07 06:51:59] PAGES PGT: OPIN243Cite as: 543 U. S. 220 (2005)Opinion of the Courtthat are appropriate to the central mission of the Judiciary."Id., at 388. While we recognized that the Guidelines weremore substantive than the Rules of Evidence or other nonad-judicatory functions delegated to the Judicial Branch, wenonetheless concluded that such a delegation did not exceedCongress' powers.Further, a recognition that the Commission did not exer-cise judicial authority, but was more properly thought of asexercising some sort of legislative power, ibid., was essentialto our holding. If the Commission in fact performed adjudicatory functions, it would have violated Article III becausesome of the members were not Article III judges. As weexplained:"[T]he `practical consequences' of locating the Commis-sion within the Judicial Branch pose no threat of undermining the integrity of the Judicial Branch or of expand-ing the powers of the Judiciary beyond constitutionalbounds by uniting within the Branch the political orquasi-legislative power of the Commission with the judicial power of the courts. [The Commission's] powersare not united with the powers of the Judiciary in a waythat has meaning for separation-of-powers analysis.Whatever constitutional problems might arise if thepowers of the Commission were vested in a court, theCommission is not a court, does not exercise judicialpower, and is not controlled by or accountable to mem-bers of the Judicial Branch."Id., at 393.We have thus always recognized the fact that the Commis-sion is an independent agency that exercises policymakingauthority delegated to it by Congress. Nothing in our hold-ing today is inconsistent with our decision inMistretta.IVAll of the foregoing supports our conclusion that our hold-ing inBlakely applies to the Sentencing Guidelines. We543US2 Unit: $U14 [03-16-07 06:51:59] PAGES PGT: OPIN244 UNITED STATES v. BOOKEROpinion of the Courtrecognize, as we did in Jones, Apprendi, and Blakely, thatin some cases jury factfinding may impair the most expedientand efficient sentencing of defendants. But the interest infairness and reliability protected by the right to a jurytrial--a common-law right that defendants enjoyed for cen-turies and that is now enshrined in the Sixth Amendment--has always outweighed the interest in concluding trialsswiftly. Blakely, 542 U. S., at 313. As Blackstone put it:"[H]owever convenient these [new methods of trial] mayappear at first, (as doubtless all arbitrary powers, wellexecuted, are the most convenient) yet let it be againremembered, that delays, and little inconveniences inthe forms of justice, are the price that all free nationsmust pay for their liberty in more substantial matters;that these inroads upon this sacred bulwark of the nation are fundamentally opposite to the spirit of our constitution; and that, though begun in trifles, the precedent may gradually increase and spread, to the utterdisuse of juries in questions of the most momentous concerns." 4 Commentaries on the Laws of England 343-344 (1769).Accordingly, we reaffirm our holding in Apprendi: Anyfact (other than a prior conviction) which is necessary to support a sentence exceeding the maximum authorized by thefacts established by a plea of guilty or a jury verdict mustbe admitted by the defendant or proved to a jury beyond areasonable doubt.Justice Breyer delivered the opinion of the Court inpart.*The first question that the Government has presented inthese cases is the following:*The Chief Justice, Justice O'Connor, Justice Kennedy, and Justice Ginsburg join this opinion.543US2 Unit: $U14 [03-16-07 06:51:59] PAGES PGT: OPIN245Cite as: 543 U. S. 220 (2005)Opinion of the Court"Whether the Sixth Amendment is violated by the imposition of an enhanced sentence under the United StatesSentencing Guidelines based on the sentencing judge'sdetermination of a fact (other than a prior conviction)that was not found by the jury or admitted by the defendant." Pet. for Cert. in No. 04-104, p. (I).The Court, in an opinion by Justice Stevens, answers thisquestion in the affirmative. Applying its decisions in Apprendi v. New Jersey, 530 U. S. 466 (2000), and Blakely v.Washington, 542 U. S. 296 (2004), to the Federal SentencingGuidelines, the Court holds that, in the circumstances mentioned, the Sixth Amendment requires juries, not judges, tofind facts relevant to sentencing. See ante, at 226-227, 244(Stevens, J., opinion of the Court).We here turn to the second question presented, a questionthat concerns the remedy. We must decide whether or towhat extent, "as a matter of severability analysis," theGuidelines "as a whole" are "inapplicable . . . such that thesentencing court must exercise its discretion to sentence thedefendant within the maximum and minimum set by statutefor the offense of conviction." Pet. for Cert. in No. 04-104,p. (I).We answer the question of remedy by finding the provisionof the federal sentencing statute that makes the Guidelinesmandatory, 18 U. S. C. $ 3553(b)(1) (Supp. IV), incompatible with today's constitutional holding. We conclude thatthis provision must be severed and excised, as must oneother statutory section, $ 3742(e) (2000 ed. and Supp. IV),which depends upon the Guidelines' mandatory nature.So modified, the federal sentencing statute, see Sentencing Reform Act of 1984 (Sentencing Act), as amended, 18U. S. C. $ 3551 et seq., 28 U. S. C. $ 991 et seq., makes theGuidelines effectively advisory. It requires a sentencingcourt to consider Guidelines ranges, see 18 U. S. C.$ 3553(a)(4) (Supp. IV), but it permits the court to tailor the543US2 Unit: $U14 [03-16-07 06:51:59] PAGES PGT: OPIN246 UNITED STATES v. BOOKEROpinion of the Courtsentence in light of other statutory concerns as well, see$ 3553(a).IWe answer the remedial question by looking to legislativeintent. See,e. g., Minnesota v. Mille Lacs Band of Chip-pewa Indians, 526 U. S. 172, 191 (1999); Alaska Airlines, Inc.v. Brock, 480 U. S. 678, 684 (1987); Regan v. Time, Inc., 468U. S. 641, 653 (1984) (plurality opinion). We seek to determine what "Congress would have intended" in light ofthe Court's constitutional holding. Denver Area Ed. Telecommunications Consortium, Inc. v. FCC, 518 U. S. 727,767 (1996) (plurality opinion) ("Would Congress still havepassed" the valid sections "had it known" about the constitu-tional invalidity of the other portions of the statute? (internal quotation marks omitted)). In this instance, we mustdetermine which of the two following remedial approaches isthe more compatible with the Legislature's intent as embod-ied in the 1984 Sentencing Act.One approach, that of Justice Stevens' dissent, wouldretain the Sentencing Act (and the Guidelines) as written,but would engraft onto the existing system today's SixthAmendment "jury trial" requirement. The addition wouldchange the Guidelines by preventing the sentencing courtfrom increasing a sentence on the basis of a fact that the jurydid not find (or that the offender did not admit).The other approach, which we now adopt, would (throughseverance and excision of two provisions) make the Guide-lines system advisory while maintaining a strong connectionbetween the sentence imposed and the offender's real con-duct--a connection important to the increased uniformity ofsentencing that Congress intended its Guidelines system toachieve.Both approaches would significantly alter the system thatCongress designed. But today's constitutional holdingmeans that it is no longer possible to maintain the judicialfactfinding that Congress thought would underpin the man543US2 Unit: $U14 [03-16-07 06:51:59] PAGES PGT: OPIN247Cite as: 543 U. S. 220 (2005)Opinion of the Courtdatory Guidelines system that it sought to create and thatCongress wrote into the Act in 18 U. S. C. $$ 3553(a) and 3661(2000 ed. and Supp. IV). Hence we must decide whether wewould deviate less radically from Congress' intended system(1) by superimposing the constitutional requirement announced today or (2) through elimination of some provisionsof the statute.To say this is not to create a new kind of severability analysis. Post, at 291 (Stevens, J., dissenting in part).Rather, it is to recognize that sometimes severability questions (questions as to how, or whether, Congress would intend a statute to apply) can arise when a legislatively unforeseen constitutional problem requires modification of astatutory provision as applied in a significant number of instances. Compare, e. g., Welsh v. United States, 398 U. S.333, 361 (1970) (Harlan, J., concurring in result) (explainingthat when a statute is defective because of its failure to extend to some group a constitutionally required benefit, thecourt may "either declare it a nullity" or "extend" the benefit"to include those who are aggrieved by exclusion"); Hecklerv. Mathews, 465 U. S. 728, 739, n. 5 (1984) ("Although . . .ordinarily `extension, rather than nullification, is the propercourse,' the court should not, of course, `use its remedial powers to circumvent the intent of the legislature . . . ' " (quotingCalifano v. Westcott, 443 U. S. 76, 89 (1979), and id., at 94(Powell, J., concurring in part and dissenting in part))); Sloanv. Lemon, 413 U. S. 825, 834 (1973) (striking down entirePennsylvania tuition reimbursement statute because to eliminate only unconstitutional applications "would be to create aprogram quite different from the one the legislature actuallyadopted"). See also post, at 320, 323 (Thomas, J., dissentingin part) ("[S]everability questions" can "arise from unconstitutional applications" of statutes, and such a question "issquarely presented" here); Vermeule, Saving Constructions,85 Geo. L. J. 1945, 1950, n. 26 (1997).543US2 Unit: $U14 [03-16-07 06:51:59] PAGES PGT: OPIN248 UNITED STATES v. BOOKEROpinion of the CourtIn today's context--a highly complex statute, interrelatedprovisions, and a constitutional requirement that creates fundamental change--we cannot assume that Congress, if facedwith the statute's invalidity in key applications, would havepreferred to apply the statute in as many other instancesas possible. Neither can we determine likely congressionalintent mechanically. We cannot simply approach the problem grammatically, say, by looking to see whether the consti-tutional requirement and the words of the Act are linguistically compatible.Nor do simple numbers provide an answer. It is, ofcourse, true that the numbers show that the constitutionaljury trial requirement would lead to additional decisionmaking by juries in only a minority of cases. See post, at277 (Stevens, J., dissenting in part). Prosecutors and defense attorneys would still resolve the lion's share of criminalmatters through plea bargaining, and plea bargaining takesplace without a jury. See ibid. Many of the rest involveonly simple issues calling for no upward Guidelines adjustment. See post, at 275. And in at least some of the remainder, a judge may find adequate room to adjust a sentencewithin the single Guidelines range to which the jury verdictpoints, or within the overlap between that range and thenext highest. See post, at 278-279.But the constitutional jury trial requirement would nonetheless affect every case. It would affect decisions aboutwhether to go to trial. It would affect the content of pleanegotiations. It would alter the judge's role in sentencing.Thus we must determine likely intent not by counting proceedings, but by evaluating the consequences of the Court'sconstitutional requirement in light of the Act's language, itshistory, and its basic purposes.While reasonable minds can, and do, differ about the outcome, we conclude that the constitutional jury trial requirement is not compatible with the Act as written and that someseverance and excision are necessary. In Part II, infra, we543US2 Unit: $U14 [03-16-07 06:51:59] PAGES PGT: OPIN249Cite as: 543 U. S. 220 (2005)Opinion of the Courtexplain the incompatibility. In Part III, infra, we describethe necessary excision. In Part IV, infra, we explain whywe have rejected other possibilities. In essence, in what fol-lows, we explain both (1) why Congress would likely havepreferred the total invalidation of the Act to an Act with theCourt's Sixth Amendment requirement engrafted onto it,and (2) why Congress would likely have preferred the exci-sion of some of the Act, namely the Act's mandatory language, to the invalidation of the entire Act. That is to say,in light of today's holding, we compare maintaining the Actas written with jury factfinding added (the dissenters' pro-posed remedy) to the total invalidation of the statute, andconclude that Congress would have preferred the latter. Wethen compare our own remedy to the total invalidation of thestatute, and conclude that Congress would have preferredour remedy.IISeveral considerations convince us that, were the Court'sconstitutional requirement added onto the Sentencing Act ascurrently written, the requirement would so transform thescheme that Congress created that Congress likely wouldnot have intended the Act as so modified to stand. First,the statute's text states that "[t]he court" when sentencingwill consider "the nature and circumstances of the offenseand the history and characteristics of the defendant." 18U. S. C. $ 3553(a)(1) (2000 ed. and Supp. IV). In con-text, the words "the court" mean "the judge without thejury," not "the judge working together with the jury." Afurther statutory provision, by removing typical "jury trial"evidentiary limitations, makes this clear. See $ 3661 (rulingout any "limitation . . . on the information concerning the[offender's] background, character, and conduct" that the"court . . . may receive"). The Act's history confirms it.See, e. g., S. Rep. No. 98-225, p. 51 (1983) (the Guidelinessystem "will guidethe judge in making" sentencing decisions(emphasis added));id., at 52 (before sentencing, "the judge"543US2 Unit: $U14 [03-16-07 06:51:59] PAGES PGT: OPIN250 UNITED STATES v. BOOKEROpinion of the Courtmust consider "the nature and circumstances of the offense");id., at 53 ("the judge" must conduct "a comprehensive examination of the characteristics of the particular offense and theparticular offender").This provision is tied to the provision of the Act thatmakes the Guidelines mandatory, see $ 3553(b)(1) (2000 ed.,Supp. IV). They are part and parcel of a single, unifiedwhole--a whole that Congress intended to apply to all fed-eral sentencing.This provisi on makes it difficult to justify JusticeStevens' approach, for that approach requires reading thewords "the court" as if they meant "the judge working together with the jury." Unlike Justice Stevens, we do notbelieve we can interpret the statute's language to save itsconstitutionality, see post, at 286 (opinion dissenting in part),because we believe that any such reinterpretation, even iflimited to instances in which a Sixth Amendment problemarises, would be "plainly contrary to the intent of Congress."United States v. X-Citement Video, Inc., 513 U. S. 64, 78(1994). Without some such reinterpretation, however, thisprovision of the statute, along with those inextricably connected to it, are constitutionally invalid, and fall outside ofCongress' power to enact. Nor can we agree with JusticeStevens that a newly passed "identical statute" would bevalid, post, at 283 (opinion dissenting in part). Such a new,identically worded statute would be valid only if (unlike thepresent statute) we could interpret that new statute (withoutdisregarding Congress' basic intent) as being consistent withthe Court's jury factfinding requirement. Compare post, at283-284 (Stevens, J., dissenting in part). If so, the statutewould stand.Second, Congress' basic statutory goal--a system that diminishes sentencing disparity--depends for its success uponjudicial efforts to determine, and to base punishment upon,the real conduct that underlies the crime of conviction.That determination is particularly important in the federal543US2 Unit: $U14 [03-16-07 06:51:59] PAGES PGT: OPIN251Cite as: 543 U. S. 220 (2005)Opinion of the Courtsystem where crimes defined as, for example, "obstruct[ing],delay[ing], or affect[ing] commerce or the movement of anyarticle or commodity in commerce, by . . . extortion," 18U. S. C. $ 1951(a), or, say, using the mail "for the purpose ofexecuting" a "scheme or artifice to defraud," $ 1341 (2000 ed.,Supp. II), can encompass a vast range of very different kindsof underlying conduct. But it is also important even in respect to ordinary crimes, such as robbery, where an act thatmeets the statutory definition can be committed in a host ofdifferent ways. Judges have long looked to real conductwhen sentencing. Federal judges have long relied upon apresentence report, prepared by a probation officer, for infor-mation (often unavailable untilafter the trial) relevant to themanner in which the convicted offender committed the crimeof conviction.Congress expected this system to continue. That is whyit specifically inserted into the Act the provision cited above,which (recodifying prior law) says that"[n]o limitation shall be placed on the information concerning the background, character, and conduct of a per-son convicted of an offense which a court of the UnitedStates may receive and consider for the purpose of im-posing an appropriate sentence." 18 U. S. C. $ 3661.This Court's earlier opinions assumed that this systemwould continue. That is why the Court, for example, heldin United States v. Watts, 519 U. S. 148 (1997) (per curiam),that a sentencing judge could rely for sentencing purposesupon a fact that a jury had found unproved (beyond a reason-able doubt). Seeid., at 157; see also id., at 152-153 (quotingUnited States Sentencing Commission, Guidelines Manual$ 1B1.3, comment., backg'd (Nov. 1995) (USSG), which "describes in sweeping language the conduct that a sentencingcourt may consider in determining the applicable guidelinerange," and which provides that " `[c]onduct that is not formally charged or is not an element of the offense of con543US2 Unit: $U14 [03-16-07 06:51:59] PAGES PGT: OPIN252 UNITED STATES v. BOOKEROpinion of the Courtviction may enter into the determination of the applicableguideline sentencing range' ").The Sentencing Guidelines also assume that Congress in-tended this system to continue. See USSG $ 1B1.3, comment., backg'd (Nov. 2003). That is why, among otherthings, they permit a judge to reject a plea-bargained sentence if he determines, after reviewing the presentence report, that the sentence does not adequately reflect the seri-ousness of the defendant's actual conduct. See $ 6B1.2(a).To engraft the Court's constitutional requirement onto thesentencing statutes, however, would destroy the system. Itwould prevent a judge from relying upon a presentence report for factual information, relevant to sentencing, uncovered after the trial. In doing so, it would, even comparedto pre-Guidelines sentencing, weaken the tie between a sentence and an offender's real conduct. It would thereby undermine the sentencing statute's basic aim of ensuring similar sentences for those who have committed similar crimesin similar ways.Several examples help illustrate the point. ImagineSmith and Jones, each of whom violates the Hobbs Act invery different ways. See 18 U. S. C. $ 1951(a) (forbidding"obstruct[ing], delay[ing], or affect[ing] commerce or themovement of any article or commodity in commerce, by . . .extortion"). Smith threatens to injure a co-worker unlessthe co-worker advances him a few dollars from the interstatecompany's till; Jones, after similarly threatening the coworker, causes far more harm by seeking far more money,by making certain that the co-worker's family is aware ofthe threat, by arranging for deliveries of dead animals to theco-worker's home to show he is serious, and so forth. Theoffenders' behavior is very different; the known harmful consequences of their actions are different; their punishmentsboth before, and after, the Guidelines would have been different. But, under the dissenters' approach, unless prosecutors decide to charge more than the elements of the crime,543US2 Unit: $U14 [03-16-07 06:51:59] PAGES PGT: OPIN253Cite as: 543 U. S. 220 (2005)Opinion of the Courtthe judge would have to impose similar punishments. See,e. g., post, at 303-304 (Scalia, J., dissenting in part).Now imagine two former felons, Johnson and Jackson, eachof whom engages in identical criminal behavior: threateninga bank teller with a gun, securing $50,000, and injuring aninnocent bystander while fleeing the bank. Suppose prosecutors charge Johnson with one crime (say, illegal gun possession, see 18 U. S. C. $ 922(g)) and Jackson with another(say, bank robbery, see $ 2113(a)). Before the Guidelines, asingle judge faced with such similar real conduct would havebeen able (within statutory limits) to impose similar sentences upon the two similar offenders despite the differentcharges brought against them. The Guidelines themselveswould ordinarily have required judges to sentence the twooffenders similarly. But under the dissenters' system, inthese circumstances the offenders likely would receive different punishments. See, e. g., post, at 303-304 (Scalia, J., dissenting in part).Consider, too, a complex mail fraud conspiracy where aprosecutor may well be uncertain of the amount of harm andof the role each indicted individual played until after conviction--when the offenders may turn over financial records,when it becomes easier to determine who were the leadersand who the followers, when victim interviews are seen tobe worth the time. In such a case the relation between thesentence and what actually occurred is likely to be considerably more distant under a system with a jury trial requirement patched onto it than it was even prior to the SentencingAct, when judges routinely used information obtained afterthe verdict to decide upon a proper sentence.This point is critically important. Congress' basic goal inpassing the Sentencing Act was to move the sentencing system in the direction of increased uniformity. See 28 U. S. C.$ 991(b)(1)(B); see also $ 994(f). That uniformity does notconsist simply of similar sentences for those convicted of violations of the same statute--a uniformity consistent with the543US2 Unit: $U14 [03-16-07 06:51:59] PAGES PGT: OPIN254 UNITED STATES v. BOOKEROpinion of the Courtdissenters' remedial approach. It consists, more impor-tantly, of similar relationships between sentences and realconduct, relationships that Congress' sentencing statuteshelped to advance and that Justice Stevens' approachwould undermine. Compare post, at 288 (opinion dissentingin part) (conceding that the Sixth Amendment requirementwould "undoubtedly affect `real conduct' sentencing in certain cases," but minimizing the significance of that circum-stance). In significant part, it is the weakening of this realconduct/uniformity-in-sentencing relationship, and not any"[i]nexplicabl[e]" concerns for the "manner of achieving uniform sentences," post, at 304 (Scalia, J., dissenting in part),that leads us to conclude that Congress would have preferredno mandatory system to the system the dissenters envisage.Third, the sentencing statutes, read to include the Court'sSixth Amendment requirement, would create a system farmore complex than Congress could have intended. Howwould courts and counsel work with an indictment and a jurytrial that involved not just whether a defendant robbed abank but also how? Would the indictment have to allege, inaddition to the elements of robbery, whether the defendantpossessed a firearm, whether he brandished or discharged it,whether he threatened death, whether he caused bodily injury, whether any such injury was ordinary, serious, permanent or life threatening, whether he abducted or physicallyrestrained anyone, whether any victim was unusually vulnerable, how much money was taken, and whether he was anorganizer, leader, manager, or supervisor in a robbery gang?See USSG $$ 2B3.1, 3B1.1. If so, how could a defendantmount a defense against some or all such specific claimsshould he also try simultaneously to maintain that the Government's evidence failed to place him at the scene of thecrime? Would the indictment in a mail fraud case have toallege the number of victims, their vulnerability, and theamount taken from each? How could a judge expect a juryto work with the Guidelines' definitions of, say, "relevant con543US2 Unit: $U14 [03-16-07 06:51:59] PAGES PGT: OPIN255Cite as: 543 U. S. 220 (2005)Opinion of the Courtduct," which includes "all acts and omissions committed,aided, abetted, counseled, commanded, induced, procured, orwillfully caused by the defendant; and [in the case of a con-spiracy] all reasonably foreseeable acts and omissions of others in furtherance of the jointly undertaken criminal ac-tivity"? $$ 1B1.3(a)(1)(A)-(B). How would a jury measure"loss" in a securities fraud case--a matter so complex as tolead the Commission to instruct judges to make "only . . .a reasonable estimate"? $ 2B1.1, comment., n. 3(C). Howwould the court take account, for punishment purposes, of adefendant's contemptuous behavior at trial--a matter thatthe Government could not have charged in the indictment?$ 3C1.1.Fourth, plea bargaining would not significantly diminishthe consequences of the Court's constitutional holding forthe operation of the Guidelines. Compare post, at 273-274(Stevens, J., dissenting in part). Rather, plea bargainingwould make matters worse. Congress enacted the sentencing statutes in major part to achieve greater uniformity insentencing, i. e., to increase the likelihood that offenders whoengage in similar real conduct would receive similar sentences. The statutes reasonably assume that their effortsto move the trial-based sentencing process in the direction ofgreater sentencing uniformity would have a similar positiveimpact upon plea-bargained sentences, for plea bargainingtakes place in the shadow of (i. e., with an eye toward thehypothetical result of) a potential trial.That, too, is why Congress, understanding the realities ofplea bargaining, authorized the Commission to promulgatepolicy statements that would assist sentencing judges in determining whether to reject a plea agreement after readingabout the defendant's real conduct in a presentence report(and giving the offender an opportunity to challenge the report). See 28 U. S. C. $ 994(a)(2)(E); USSG $ 6B1.2(a), p. s.This system has not worked perfectly; judges have oftensimply accepted an agreed-upon account of the conduct at543US2 Unit: $U14 [03-16-07 06:51:59] PAGES PGT: OPIN256 UNITED STATES v. BOOKEROpinion of the Courtissue. But compared to pre-existing law, the statutes try tomove the system in the right direction,i. e., toward greatersentencing uniformity.The Court's constitutional jury trial requirement, however, if patched onto the present Sentencing Act, would movethe system backwards in respect both to tried and to pleabargained cases. In respect to tried cases, it would effectively deprive the judge of the ability to use post-verdict-acquired real-conduct information; it would prohibit thejudge from basing a sentence upon any conduct other thanthe conduct the prosecutor chose to charge; and it would puta defendant to a set of difficult strategic choices as to whichprosecutorial claims he would contest. The sentence thatwould emerge in a case tried under such a system wouldlikely reflect real conduct less completely, less accurately, andless often than did a pre-Guidelines, as well as a Guidelines,trial.Because plea bargaining inevitably reflects estimates ofwhat would happen at trial, plea bargaining too under sucha system would move in the wrong direction. That is to say,in a sentencing system modified by the Court's constitutionalrequirement, plea bargaining would likely lead to sentencesthat gave greater weight not to real conduct, but rather tothe skill of counsel, the policies of the prosecutor, the caseload, and other factors that vary from place to place, defendant to defendant, and crime to crime. Compared topre-Guidelines plea bargaining, plea bargaining of this kindwould necessarily move federal sentencing in the direction of diminished, not increased, uniformity in sentencing.Compare supra, at 250-252, with post, at 288 (Stevens, J.,dissenting in part). It would tend to defeat, not to further,Congress' basic statutory goal.Such a system would have particularly troubling consequences with respect to prosecutorial power. Until now,sentencing factors have come before the judge in the presentence report. But in a sentencing system with the Court's543US2 Unit: $U14 [03-16-07 06:51:59] PAGES PGT: OPIN257Cite as: 543 U. S. 220 (2005)Opinion of the Courtconstitutional requirement engrafted onto it, any factor thata prosecutor chose not to charge at the plea negotiationwould be placed beyond the reach of the judge entirely.Prosecutors would thus exercise a power the Sentencing Actvested in judges: the power to decide, based on relevant in-formation about the offense and the offender, which defendants merit heavier punishment.In respondent Booker's case, for example, the jury heardevidence that the crime had involved 92.5 grams of crackcocaine, and convicted Booker of possessing more than 50grams. But the judge, at sentencing, found that the crimehad involved an additional 566 grams, for a total of 658.5grams. A system that would require the jury, not the judge,to make the additional "566 grams" finding is a system inwhich the prosecutor, not the judge, would control the sentence. That is because it is the prosecutor who would haveto decide what drug amount to charge. He could choose tocharge 658.5 grams, or 92.5, or less. It is the prosecutorwho, through such a charging decision, would control the sentencing range. And it is different prosecutors who, in different cases--say, in two cases involving 566 grams--wouldpotentially insist upon different punishments for similar defendants who engaged in similar criminal conduct involvingsimilar amounts of unlawful drugs--say, by charging one ofthem with the full 566 grams, and the other with 10. Aslong as different prosecutors react differently, a system witha patched-on jury factfinding requirement would mean different sentences for otherwise similar conduct, whether inthe context of trials or that of plea bargaining.Fifth, Congress would not have enacted sentencing statutes that make it more difficult to adjust sentences upwardthan to adjust them downward. As several United StatesSenators have written in an amicus brief, "the Congress thatenacted the 1984 Act did not conceive of--much less establish--a sentencing guidelines system in which sentencingjudges were free to consider facts or circumstances not found543US2 Unit: $U14 [03-16-07 06:51:59] PAGES PGT: OPIN258 UNITED STATES v. BOOKEROpinion of the Courtby a jury or admitted in a plea agreement for the purpose ofadjusting a base-offense level down, but not up, within theapplicable guidelines range. Such a one-way lever would begrossly at odds with Congress's intent." Brief for Sen.Orrin G. Hatch et al. as Amici Curiae 22. Yet that is thesystem that the dissenters' remedy would create. Comparepost, at 291 (Stevens, J., dissenting in part) (concedingasymmetry but stating belief that this "is unlikely to havemore than a minimal effect").For all these reasons, Congress, had it been faced with theconstitutional jury trial requirement, likely would not havepassed the same Sentencing Act. It likely would have foundthe requirement incompatible with the Act as written.Hence the Act cannot remain valid in its entirety. Severance and excision are necessary.IIIWe now turn to the question of which portions of the sentencing statute we must sever and excise as inconsistentwith the Court's constitutional requirement. Although, aswe have explained, see Part II, supra, we believe thatCongress would have preferred the total invalidation of thestatute to the dissenters' remedial approach, we nevertheless do not believe that the entire statute must be invalidated. Compare post, at 292 (Stevens, J., dissenting inpart). Most of the statute is perfectly valid. See, e. g., 18U. S. C. $ 3551 (2000 ed. and Supp. IV) (describing authorized sentences as probation, fine, or imprisonment); $ 3552(presentence reports); $ 3554 (forfeiture); $ 3555 (notification to the victims); $ 3583 (supervised release). And wemust "refrain from invalidating more of the statute than isnecessary." Regan, 468 U. S., at 652 (plurality opinion).Indeed, we must retain those portions of the Act that are (1)constitutionally valid, id., at 652-653, (2) capable of "functioning independently," Alaska Airlines, 480 U. S., at 684,543US2 Unit: $U14 [03-16-07 06:51:59] PAGES PGT: OPIN259Cite as: 543 U. S. 220 (2005)Opinion of the Courtand (3) consistent with Congress' basic objectives in enactingthe statute,Regan, supra, at 653.Application of these criteria indicates that we must severand excise two specific statutory provisions: the provision that requires sentencing courts to impose a sentencewithin the applicable Guidelines range (in the absence ofcircumstances that justify a departure), see 18 U. S. C.$ 3553(b)(1) (2000 ed., Supp. IV), and the provision that setsforth standards of review on appeal, includingde novo review of departures from the applicable Guidelines range, see$ 3742(e) (2000 ed. and Supp. IV) (see Appendix,infra, fortext of both provisions). With these two sections excised(and statutory cross-references to the two sections consequently invalidated), the remainder of the Act satisfies theCourt's constitutional requirements.As the Court today recognizes in its first opinion in thesecases, the existence of $ 3553(b)(1) is a necessary conditionof the constitutional violation. That is to say, without thisprovision--namely, the provision that makes "the relevantsentencing rules . . . mandatory and impose[s] binding requirements on all sentencing judges"--the statute falls outside the scope of Apprendi's requirement. Ante, at 233(Stevens, J., opinion of the Court); see also ibid. ("[E]veryone agrees that the constitutional issues presented by thesecases would have been avoided entirely if Congress had omitted from the [Sentencing Reform Act] the provisions thatmake the Guidelines binding on district judges"). Cf. post,at 314-320 (Thomas, J., dissenting in part).The remainder of the Act "function[s] independently."Alaska Airlines, supra, at 684. Without the "mandatory"provision, the Act nonetheless requires judges to take account of the Guidelines together with other sentencing goals.See 18 U. S. C. $ 3553(a) (2000 ed., Supp. IV). The Act nonetheless requires judges to consider the Guidelines "sentencing range established for . . . the applicable category of offense committed by the applicable category of defendant,"543US2 Unit: $U14 [03-16-07 06:51:59] PAGES PGT: OPIN260 UNITED STATES v. BOOKEROpinion of the Court$ 3553(a)(4)(A), the pertinent Sentencing Commission policystatements, the need to avoid unwarranted sentencing disparities, and the need to provide restitution to victims,$$ 3553(a)(1), (3), (5)-(7) (2000 ed. and Supp. IV). And theAct nonetheless requires judges to impose sentences that re-flect the seriousness of the offense, promote respect for thelaw, provide just punishment, afford adequate deterrence,protect the public, and effectively provide the defendantwith needed educational or vocational training and medicalcare. $ 3553(a)(2) (2000 ed. and Supp. IV) (see Appendix,infra, for text of $ 3553(a)).Moreover, despite the absence of $ 3553(b)(1) (Supp. 2004),the Act continues to provide for appeals from sentencing decisions (irrespective of whether the trial judge sentenceswithin or outside the Guidelines range in the exercise of hisdiscretionary power under $ 3553(a)). See $ 3742(a) (2000ed.) (appeal by defendant); $ 3742(b) (appeal by Government).We concede that the excision of $ 3553(b)(1) requires the excision of a different, appeals-related section, namely, $ 3742(e)(2000 ed. and Supp. IV), which sets forth standards of reviewon appeal. That section contains critical cross-references tothe (now-excised) $ 3553(b)(1) and consequently must be severed and excised for similar reasons.Excision of $ 3742(e), however, does not pose a criticalproblem for the handling of appeals. That is because, as wehave previously held, a statute that does not explicitly setforth a standard of review may nonetheless do so implicitly.See Pierce v. Underwood, 487 U. S. 552, 558-560 (1988)(adopting a standard of review, where "neither a clear statutory prescription nor a historical tradition" existed, based onthe statutory text and structure, and on practical considerations); see also Cooter & Gell v. Hartmarx Corp., 496 U. S.384, 403-405 (1990) (same); Koon v. United States, 518 U. S.81, 99 (1996) (citing Pierce and Cooter & Gell with approval).We infer appropriate review standards from related statutory language, the structure of the statute, and the " `sound543US2 Unit: $U14 [03-16-07 06:51:59] PAGES PGT: OPIN261Cite as: 543 U. S. 220 (2005)Opinion of the Courtadministration of justice. ' " Pi erce, supra, at 559- 560.And in this instance those factors, in addition to the past twodecades of appellate practice in cases involving departures,imply a practical standard of review already familiar to appellate courts: review for "unreasonable[ness]." 18 U. S. C.$ 3742(e)(3) (1994 ed.).Until 2003, $ 3742(e) explicitly set forth that standard.See $ 3742(e)(3) (1994 ed.). In 2003, Congress modified thepre-existing text, adding ade novo standard of review fordepartures and inserting cross-references to $ 3553(b)(1).Prosecutorial Remedies and Other Tools to end the Exploitation of Children Today Act of 2003, Pub. L. 108-21,$ 401(d)(1), 117 Stat. 670. In light of today's holding, the reasons for these revisions--to make Guidelines sentencing evenmore mandatory than it had been--have ceased to be relevant. The pre-2003 text directed appellate courts to reviewsentences that reflected an applicable Guidelines range forcorrectness, but to review other sentences--those that fell"outside the applicable Guideline range"--with a view toward determining whether such a sentence"is unreasonable, having regard for . . . the factors tobe considered in imposing a sentence, as set forth inchapter 227 of this title; and . . . the reasons for theimposition of the particular sentence, as stated by thedistrict court pursuant to the provisions of section3553(c)." 18 U. S. C. $ 3742(e)(3) (1994 ed.) (emphasisadded).In other words, the text told appellate courts to determinewhether the sentence "is unreasonable" with regard to$ 3553(a). Section 3553(a) remains in effect, and sets forthnumerous factors that guide sentencing. Those factors inturn will guide appellate courts, as they have in the past, indetermining whether a sentence is unreasonable.Taking into account the factors set forth in Pierce, we readthe statute as implying this appellate review standard--a543US2 Unit: $U14 [03-16-07 06:51:59] PAGES PGT: OPIN262 UNITED STATES v. BOOKEROpinion of the Courtstandard consistent with appellate sentencing practice dur-ing the last two decades.Justice Scalia believes that onlyin "Wonderland" is it possible to infer a standard of reviewafter excising $ 3742(e). Seepost, at 309 (opinion dissentingin part). But our application of Pierce does not justify thatcharacterization.Pierce requires us to judge the appropriateness of our inference based on the statute's language andbasic purposes. We believe our inference a fair one linguis-tically, and one consistent with Congress' intent to provideappellate review. Under these circumstances, to refuse toapplyPierce and thereby retreat to a remedy that raises theproblems discussed in Part II, supra (as the dissenters woulddo), or thereby eliminate appellate review entirely, would cutthe statute loose from its moorings in congressional purpose.Nor do we share the dissenters' doubts about the practicality of a "reasonableness" standard of review. "Reasonableness" standards are not foreign to sentencing law. The Acthas long required their use in important sentencing circumstances--both on review of departures, see 18 U. S. C.$ 3742(e)(3) (1994 ed.), and on review of sentences imposedwhere there was no applicable Guideline, see $$ 3742(a)(4),(b)(4), (e)(4). Together, these cases account for about 16.7%of sentencing appeals. See United States Sentencing Commission, 2002 Sourcebook of Federal Sentencing Statistics107, n. 1, 111 (at least 711 of 5,018 sentencing appeals involved departures), 108 (at least 126 of 5,018 sentencing appeals involved the imposition of a term of imprisonment afterthe revocation of supervised release). See also, e. g., UnitedStates v. White Face, 383 F. 3d 733, 737-740 (CA8 2004);United States v. Tsosie, 376 F. 3d 1210, 1218-1219 (CA102004); United States v. Salinas, 365 F. 3d 582, 588-590 (CA72004); United States v. Cook, 291 F. 3d 1297, 1300-1302 (CA112002 (per curiam); United States v. Olabanji, 268 F. 3d 636,637-639 (CA9 2001); United States v. Ramirez-Rivera, 241F. 3d 37, 40-41 (CA1 2001). That is why we think it fair(and not, in Justice Scalia's words, a "gross exaggera543US2 Unit: $U14 [03-16-07 06:51:59] PAGES PGT: OPIN263Cite as: 543 U. S. 220 (2005)Opinion of the Courttio[n]," post, at 311 (opinion dissenting in part)) to assumejudicial familiarity with a "reasonableness" standard. Andthat is why we believe that appellate judges will prove capa-ble of facing with greater equanimity than wouldJusticeScalia what he calls the "daunting prospect," post, at 312,of applying such a standard across the board.Neither do we share Justice Scalia's belief that use of areasonableness standard "will produce a discordant sym-phony" leading to "excessive sentencing disparities," and"wreak havoc" on the judicial system, post, at 312-313 (inter-nal quotation marks omitted). The Sentencing Commissionwill continue to collect and study appellate court decisionmaking. It will continue to modify its Guidelines in light ofwhat it learns, thereby encouraging what it finds to be bettersentencing practices. It will thereby promote uniformityin the sentencing process. 28 U. S. C. $ 994 (2000 ed. andSupp. IV).Regardless, in this context, we must view fears of a "discordant symphony," "excessive disparities," and "havoc" (ifthey are not themselves "gross exaggerations") with a comparative eye. We cannot and do not claim that use of a "reasonableness" standard will provide the uniformity that Congress originally sought to secure. Nor do we doubt thatCongress wrote the language of the appellate provisions tocorrespond with the mandatory system it intended to create.Compare post, at 306-307 (Scalia, J., dissenting in part) (expressing concern regarding the presence of $ 3742(f) in lightof the absence of $ 3742(e)). But, as by now should be clear,that mandatory system is no longer an open choice. Andthe remedial question we must ask here (as we did in respectto $ 3553(b)(1)) is, which alternative adheres more closely toCongress' original objective: (1) retention of sentencing appeals, or (2) invalidation of the entire Act, including its appellate provisions? The former, by providing appellate review,would tend to iron out sentencing differences; the latterwould not. Hence we believe Congress would have pre543US2 Unit: $U14 [03-16-07 06:51:59] PAGES PGT: OPIN264 UNITED STATES v. BOOKEROpinion of the Courtferred the former to the latter--even if the former meansthat some provisions will apply differently from the wayCongress had originally expected. See post, at 306-307(Scalia, J., dissenting in part). But, as we have said, webelieve that Congress would have preferred even the latterto the system the dissenters recommend, a system that hasits own problems of practicality. See supra, at 254-256.Finally, the Act without its "mandatory" provision and re-lated language remains consistent with Congress' initial andbasic sentencing intent. Congress sought to "provide cer-tainty and fairness in meeting the purposes of sentencing,[while] avoiding unwarranted sentencing disparities . . . [and]maintaining sufficient flexibility to permit individualized sentences when warranted." 28 U. S. C. $ 991(b)(1)(B); see alsoUSSG $ 1A1.1, application note (explaining that Congresssought to achieve "honesty," "uniformity," and "proportionality" in sentencing (emphasis deleted)). The system remaining after excision, while lacking the mandatory features thatCongress enacted, retains other features that help to furtherthese objectives.As we have said, the Sentencing Commission remains inplace, writing Guidelines, collecting information about actualdistrict court sentencing decisions, undertaking research,and revising the Guidelines accordingly. See 28 U. S. C.$ 994 (2000 ed. and Supp. IV). The district courts, whilenot bound to apply the Guidelines, must consult those Guidelines and take them into account when sentencing. See 18U. S. C. A. $$ 3553(a)(4), (5) (Supp. 2004). But compare post,at 305 (Scalia, J., dissenting in part) (claiming that the sentencing judge has the same discretion "he possessed before the Act was passed"). The courts of appeals reviewsentencing decisions for unreasonableness. These featuresof the remaining system, while not the system Congressenacted, nonetheless continue to move sentencing in Congress' preferred direction, helping to avoid excessive sentencing disparities while maintaining flexibility sufficient to543US2 Unit: $U14 [03-16-07 06:51:59] PAGES PGT: OPIN265Cite as: 543 U. S. 220 (2005)Opinion of the Courtindividualize sentences where necessary. See 28 U. S. C.$ 991(b). We can find no feature of the remaining systemthat tends to hinder, rather than to further, these basic ob-jectives. Under these circumstances, why would Congressnot have preferred excision of the "mandatory" provision toa system that engrafts today's constitutional requirementonto the unchanged pre-existing statute--a system that, interms of Congress' basic objectives, is counterproductive?We do not doubt that Congress, when it wrote the Sen-tencing Act, intended to create a form of mandatory Guidelines system. See post, at 291-296 (Stevens, J., dissentingin part). But, we repeat, given today's constitutional holding, that is not a choice that remains open. Hence we haveexamined the statute in depth to determine Congress' likelyintent in light of today's holding. See, e. g., Denver AreaEd. Telecommunications Consortium, Inc., 518 U. S., at 767.And we have concluded that today's holding is fundamentallyinconsistent with the judge-based sentencing system thatCongress enacted into law. In our view, it is more consistent with Congress' likely intent in enacting the SentencingReform Act (1) to preserve important elements of that system while severing and excising two provisions ($$ 3553(b)(1)and 3742(e)) than (2) to maintain all provisions of the Act andengraft today's constitutional requirement onto that statu-tory scheme.Ours, of course, is not the last word: The ball now lies inCongress' court. The National Legislature is equipped todevise and install, long term, the sentencing system, compat-ible with the Constitution, that Congress judges best for thefederal system of justice. IVWe briefly explain why we have not fully adopted the re-medial proposals that the parties have advanced. First, theGovernment argues that "in any case in which the Constitu-tion prohibits the judicial factfinding procedures that Congress and the Commission contemplated for implementing543US2 Unit: $U14 [03-16-07 06:51:59] PAGES PGT: OPIN266 UNITED STATES v. BOOKEROpinion of the Courtthe Guidelines, the Guidelines as a whole become inapplica-ble." Brief for United States in No. 04-104, p. 44. Thusthe Guidelines "system contemplated by Congress and cre-ated by the Commission would be inapplicable in a case inwhich the Guidelines would require the sentencing court tofind a sentence-enhancing fact."Id., at 66-67. The Guidelines would remain advisory, however, for $ 3553(a) wouldremain intact. Ibid. Cf. Brief for New York Council ofDefense Lawyers asAmicus Curiae 15, n. 9 (A "decisionthat Section 3553(b) . . . is unconstitutional . . . would notnecessarily jeopardize the other reforms made by the Sentencing Reform Act, including . . . 18 U. S. C. $ 3553(a)"); seealso ibid. (recognizing that the remainder of the Act functions independently); Brief for Families Against MandatoryMinimums as Amicus Curiae 29, 30.As we understand the Government's remedial suggestion,it coincides significantly with our own. But compare post,at 282 (Stevens, J., dissenting in part) (asserting that noparty or amicus sought the remedy we adopt); post, at 309(Scalia, J., dissenting in part) (same). The Governmentwould render the Guidelines advisory in "any case in whichthe Constitution prohibits" judicial factfinding. But it apparently would leave them as binding in all other cases.We agree with the first part of the Government's suggestion. However, we do not see how it is possible to leavethe Guidelines as binding in other cases. For one thing,the Government's proposal would impose mandatoryGuidelines-type limits upon a judge's ability to reduce sentences, but it would not impose those limits upon a judge'sability to increase sentences. We do not believe that such"one-way lever[s]" are compatible with Congress' intent.Cf. Brief for Sen. Orrin G. Hatch et al. as Amici Curiae22; see also supra, at 253-254. For another, we believe thatCongress would not have authorized a mandatory system insome cases and a nonmandatory system in others, given theadministrative complexities that such a system would create.543US2 Unit: $U14 [03-16-07 06:51:59] PAGES PGT: OPIN267Cite as: 543 U. S. 220 (2005)Opinion of the CourtSuch a two-system proposal seems unlikely to further Con-gress' basic objective of promoting uniformity in sentencing.Second, the respondents in essence would take the sameapproach as wouldJustice Stevens. They believe thatthe constitutional requirement is compatible with the Sentencing Act, and they ask us to hold that the Act continuesto stand as written with the constitutional requirement engrafted onto it. We do not accept their position for the rea-sons we have already given. See Part II, supra.Respondent Fanfan argues in the alternative that weshould excise those provisions of the Sentencing Act thatrequire judicial factfinding at sentencing. That system,however, would produce problems similar to those we havediscussed in Part II, supra. We reject Fanfan's remedialsuggestion for that reason.VIn respondent Booker's case, the District Court appliedthe Guidelines as written and imposed a sentence higherthan the maximum authorized solely by the jury's verdict.The Court of Appeals heldBlakely applicable to the Guide-lines, concluded that Booker's sentence violated the SixthAmendment, vacated the judgment of the District Court,and remanded for resentencing. We affirm the judgment ofthe Court of Appeals and remand the case. On remand, theDistrict Court should impose a sentence in accordance withtoday's opinions, and, if the sentence comes before the Courtof Appeals for review, the Court of Appeals should apply thereview standards set forth in this opinion.In respondent Fanfan's case, the District Court heldBlakely applicable to the Guidelines. It then imposed a sen-tence that was authorized by the jury's verdict--a sentencelower than the sentence authorized by the Guidelines aswritten. Thus, Fanfan's sentence does not violate the SixthAmendment. Nonetheless, the Government (and the de-fendant should he so choose) may seek resentencing underthe system set forth in today's opinions. Hence we vacate543US2 Unit: $U14 [03-16-07 06:51:59] PAGES PGT: OPIN268 UNITED STATES v. BOOKERAppendix to opinion of the Courtthe judgment of the District Court and remand the case forfurther proceedings consistent with this opinion.As these dispositions indicate, we must apply today's holdings--both the Sixth Amendment holding and our remedialinterpretation of the Sentencing Act--to all cases on directreview. See Griffith v. Kentucky, 479 U. S. 314, 328 (1987)("[A] new rule for the conduct of criminal prosecutions is tobe applied retroactively to all cases . . . pending on directreview or not yet final, with no exception for cases in whichthe new rule constitutes a `clear break' with the past"). Seealso Reynoldsville Casket Co. v. Hyde, 514 U. S. 749, 752(1995) (civil case); Harper v. Virginia Dept. of Taxation, 509U. S. 86, 97 (1993) (same). That fact does not mean that webelieve that every sentence gives rise to a Sixth Amendmentviolation. Nor do we believe that every appeal will lead toa new sentencing hearing. That is because we expect reviewing courts to apply ordinary prudential doctrines, determining, for example, whether the issue was raised below andwhether it fails the "plain-error" test. It is also because, incases not involving a Sixth Amendment violation, whetherresentencing is warranted or whether it will instead be sufficient to review a sentence for reasonableness may dependupon application of the harmless-error doctrine.