In 1992, Congress amended the patent laws and expresslyabrogated the States' sovereign immunity from claims of patent infringement. Respondent College Savings then suedthe State of Florida for patent infringement, and the Courtof Appeals held that Congress had validly abrogated theState's sovereign immunity from infringement suits pursuant to its authority under $ 5 of the Fourteenth Amendment.We hold that, underCity of Boerne v. Flores, 521 U. S. 507(1997), the statute cannot be sustained as legislation enactedto enforce the guarantees of the Fourteenth Amendment'sDue Process Clause, and accordingly reverse the decision ofthe Court of Appeals. ISince 1987, respondent College Savings Bank, a New Jer-sey chartered savings bank located in Princeton, New Jersey,has marketed and sold certificates of deposit known as theCollegeSure CD, which are essentially annuity contracts forfinancing future college expenses. College Savings obtainedference of State Legislatures et al. by Richard Ruda and James I. Crowley; and for the Regents of the University of California by Charles A.Miller, Caroline M. Brown, Jason A. Levine, Gerald P. Dodson, James E.Holst, P. Martin Simpson, Jr., and Richard L. Stanley.Briefs of amici curiae urging affirmance were filed for the AmericanSociety of Composers, Authors, and Publishers et al. by Michael R. Klipper; for the Association of American Publishers, Inc., et al. by Charles S.Sims; for the Association of American Railroads by Betty Jo Christianand Shannen W. Coffin; for the Federal Circuit Bar Association by GeorgeE. Hutchinson and William M. Atkinson; for the New York IntellectualProperty Law Association by Charles P. Baker, Bruce M. Wexler, andHoward B. Barnaby; and for the Pacific Legal Foundation by Eric Grantand James S. Burling.Briefs of amici curiae were filed for the American Intellectual PropertyLaw Association by Joseph R. Re, Michael K. Friedland, and Don W.Martens; and for the Association of the Bar of the City of New York byLeon Friedman, Louis A. Craco, Jr., and James F. Parver.527US2 Unit: $U89 [05-09-01 13:05:07] PAGES PGT: OPIN631Cite as: 527 U. S. 627 (1999)Opinion of the Courta patent for its financing methodology, designed to guaranteeinvestors sufficient funds to cover the costs of tuition for colleges. Petitioner Florida Prepaid Postsecondary EducationExpense Board (Florida Prepaid) is an entity created by theState of Florida that administers similar tuition prepaymentcontracts available to Florida residents and their children.See Fla. Stat. $ 240.551(1) (Supp. 1998). College Savingsclaims that, in the course of administering its tuition prepayment program, Florida Prepaid directly and indirectlyinfringed College Savings' patent.College Savings brought an infringement action under 35U. S. C. $ 271(a) against Florida Prepaid in the United StatesDistrict Court for the District of New Jersey in November1994.1 By the time College Savings filed its suit, Congresshad already passed the Patent and Plant Variety ProtectionRemedy Clarification Act (Patent Remedy Act), 35 U. S. C.$$ 271(h), 296(a). Before this legislation, the patent lawsstated only that "whoever" without authority made, used, orsold a patented invention infringed the patent. 35 U. S. C.$ 271(a) (1988 ed.).2 Applying this Court's decision in Atas1 College Savings also filed a separate action alleging that Florida Prepaid had made false claims about its own product in violation of the Trademark Act of 1946 (Lanham Act), 15 U. S. C. $ 1125(a). The District Courtdismissed the Lanham Act suit on Eleventh Amendment grounds, theThird Circuit affirmed, and we granted College Savings' petition in thatcase on the same day we granted the petition in this case. See 525 U. S.1063 (1999). The Lanham Act suit is the subject of our opinion in CollegeSavings Bank v. Florida Prepaid Postsecondary Ed. Expense Bd., post,p. 666.2 Section 271 still provides in relevant part:"(a) Except as otherwise provided in this title, whoever without authority makes, uses, offers to sell, or sells any patented invention, within theUnited States or imports into the United States any patented inventionduring the term of the patent therefor, infringes the patent."(b) Whoever actively induces infringement of a patent shall be liableas an infringer."(c) Whoever offers to sell or sells within the United States or importsinto the United States a component of a patented machine, manufacture,527US2 Unit: $U89 [05-09-01 13:05:07] PAGES PGT: OPIN632 FLORIDA PREPAID POSTSECONDARY ED. EXPENSEBD. v. COLLEGE SAVINGS BANKOpinion of the Courtcadero State Hosp. v. Scanlon, 473 U. S. 234, 242-243 (1985),the Federal Circuit had held that the patent laws failed tocontain the requisite statement of intent to abrogate statesovereign immunity from infringement suits. See, e. g.,Chew v. California, 893 F. 2d 331 (1989). In response toChew and similar decisions, Congress enacted the PatentRemedy Act to "clarify that States, instrumentalities ofStates, and officers and employees of States acting in theirofficial capacity, are subject to suit in Federal court by anyperson for infringement of patents and plant variety protec-tions." Pub. L. 102-560, preamble, 106 Stat. 4230; see alsoH. R. Rep. No. 101-960, pt. 1, pp. 7, 33 (1990) (hereinafterH. R. Rep.); S. Rep. No. 102-280, pp. 1, 5-6 (1992) (hereinafter S. Rep.). Section 271(h) now states: "As used in thissection, the term `whoever' includes any State, any instrumentality of a State, and any officer or employee of a Stateor instrumentality of a State acting in his official capacity."Section 296(a) addresses the sovereign immunity issue evenmore specifically:"Any State, any instrumentality of a State, and any offi-cer or employee of a State or instrumentality of a Stateacting in his official capacity, shall not be immune, underthe eleventh amendment of the Constitution of theUnited States or under any other doctrine of sovereignimmunity, from suit in Federal court by any person . . .for infringement of a patent under section 271, or forany other violation under this title."Relying on these provisions, College Savings alleged thatFlorida Prepaid had willfully infringed its patent undercombination or composition, or a material or apparatus for use in practicing a patented process, constituting a material part of the invention, knowing the same to be especially made or especially adapted for use in aninfringement of such patent, and not a staple article or commodity of commerce suitable for substantial noninfringing use, shall be liable as a contributory infringer." 35 U. S. C. $ 271 (1994 ed. and Supp. III).527US2 Unit: $U89 [05-09-01 13:05:07] PAGES PGT: OPIN633Cite as: 527 U. S. 627 (1999)Opinion of the Court$ 271, as well as contributed to and induced infringement.College Savings sought declaratory and injunctive relief aswell as damages, attorney's fees, and costs.After this Court decided Seminole Tribe of Fla. v. Florida, 517 U. S. 44 (1996), Florida Prepaid moved to dismissthe action on the grounds of sovereign immunity.3 FloridaPrepaid argued that the Patent Remedy Act was an uncon-stitutional attempt by Congress to use its Article I powersto abrogate state sovereign immunity. College Savingsresponded that Congress had properly exercised its powerpursuant to $ 5 of the Fourteenth Amendment to enforcethe guarantees of the Due Process Clause in $ 1 of theAmendment. The United States intervened to defend theconstitutionality of the statute. Agreeing with College Savings, the District Court denied Florida Prepaid's motion todismiss, 948 F. Supp. 400 (N. J. 1996), and the Federal Circuitaffirmed, 148 F. 3d 1343 (1998).The Federal Circuit held that Congress had clearly expressed its intent to abrogate the States' immunity from suitin federal court for patent infringement, and that Congresshad the power under $ 5 of the Fourteenth Amendment todo so.Id., at 1347. The court reasoned that patents areproperty subject to the protections of the Due ProcessClause and that Congress' objective in enacting the PatentRemedy Act was permissible because it sought to preventStates from depriving patent owners of this property with-out due process. See id., at 1349-1350. The court rejectedFlorida Prepaid's argument that it and other States had notdeprived patent owners of their propertywithout due proc-ess, and refused to "deny Congress the authority to subjectall states to suit for patent infringement in the federalcourts, regardless of the extent of procedural due processthat may exist at any particular time." Id., at 1351. Fi3 The District Court concluded that, for purposes of immunity from suit,Florida Prepaid is an arm of the State of Florida, a conclusion the partiesdid not dispute before either the Federal Circuit or this Court.527US2 Unit: $U89 [05-09-01 13:05:07] PAGES PGT: OPIN634 FLORIDA PREPAID POSTSECONDARY ED. EXPENSEBD. v. COLLEGE SAVINGS BANKOpinion of the Courtnally, the court held that the Patent Remedy Act was a pro-portionate response to state infringement and an appropriate measure to protect patent owners' property under thisCourt's decision inCity of Boerne, 521 U. S., at 519. Thecourt concluded that significant harm results from state infringement of patents, 148 F. 3d, at 1353-1354, and "[t]hereis no sound reason to hold that Congress cannot subject astate to the same civil consequences that face a private partyinfringer,"id., at 1355. We granted certiorari, 525 U. S.1064 (1999), and now reverse.IIThe Eleventh Amendment provides:"The Judicial Power of the United States shall not beconstrued to extend to any suit in law or equity, commenced or prosecuted against one of the United Statesby Citizens of another State, or by Citizens or Subjectsof any Foreign State."As the Court recently explained in Seminole Tribe, supra,at 54:"Although the text of the Amendment would appear torestrict only the Article III diversity jurisdiction ofthe federal courts, `we have understood the EleventhAmendment to stand not so much for what it says, butfor the presupposition . . . which it confirms.' That presupposition, first observed over a century ago in Hansv. Louisiana, 134 U. S. 1 (1890), has two parts: first, thateach State is a sovereign entity in our federal system;and second, that ` "[i]t is inherent in the nature of sovereignty not to be amenable to the suit of an individualwithout its consent." ' Id., at 13 (emphasis deleted),quoting The Federalist No. 81 . . . . For over a centurywe have reaffirmed that federal jurisdiction over suitsagainst unconsenting States `was not contemplated by527US2 Unit: $U89 [05-09-01 13:05:07] PAGES PGT: OPIN635Cite as: 527 U. S. 627 (1999)Opinion of the Courtthe Constitution when establishing the judicial power ofthe United States.' Hans, supra, at 15."Here, College Savings sued the State of Florida in federalcourt, and it is undisputed that Florida has not expresslyconsented to suit. College Savings and the United Statesargue that Florida has impliedly waived its immunity underParden v. Terminal R. Co. of Ala. Docks Dept., 377 U. S.184 (1964). That argument, however, is foreclosed by ourdecision in the companion case overruling the constructivewaiver theory announced inParden. See College SavingsBank v. Florida Prepaid Postsecondary Ed. Expense Bd.,post, p. 666.College Savings and the United States nonetheless contend that Congress' enactment of the Patent Remedy Actvalidly abrogated the States' sovereign immunity. To determine the merits of this proposition, we must answertwo questions: "first, whether Congress has `unequivocallyexpresse[d] its intent to abrogate the immunity,' . . . andsecond, whether Congress has acted `pursuant to a validexercise of power.' " Seminole Tribe, supra, at 55. Weagree with the parties and the Federal Circuit that in enacting the Patent Remedy Act, Congress has made its intentionto abrogate the States' immunity " `unmistakably clear in thelanguage of the statute.' " Dellmuth v. Muth, 491 U. S. 223,228 (1989). Indeed, Congress' intent to abrogate could nothave been any clearer. See 35 U. S. C. $ 296(a) ("Any State. . . shall not be immune, under the eleventh amendment ofthe Constitution of the United States or under any otherdoctrine of sovereign immunity, from suit in Federal court. . . for infringement of a patent").Whether Congress had the power to compel States tosurrender their sovereign immunity for these purposes,however, is another matter. Congress justified the PatentRemedy Act under three sources of constitutional authority:the Patent Clause, Art. I, $ 8, cl. 8; the Interstate CommerceClause, Art. I, $ 8, cl. 3; and $ 5 of the Fourteenth Amend527US2 Unit: $U89 [05-09-01 13:05:07] PAGES PGT: OPIN636 FLORIDA PREPAID POSTSECONDARY ED. EXPENSEBD. v. COLLEGE SAVINGS BANKOpinion of the Courtment. See S. Rep., at 7-8; H. R. Rep., at 39-40.4 In Semi-nole Tribe, of course, this Court overruled the plurality opinion in Pennsylvania v. Union Gas Co., 491 U. S. 1 (1989), ouronly prior case finding congressional authority to abrogatestate sovereign immunity pursuant to an Article I power(the Commerce Clause). 517 U. S., at 72-73.SeminoleTribe makes clear that Congress may not abrogate state sovereign immunity pursuant to its Article I powers; hence thePatent Remedy Act cannot be sustained under either theCommerce Clause or the Patent Clause. Ibid. The FederalCircuit recognized this, and College Savings and the UnitedStates do not contend otherwise.Instead, College Savings and the United States argue thatthe Federal Circuit properly concluded that Congressenacted the Patent Remedy Act to secure the FourteenthAmendment's protections against deprivations of propertywithout due process of law. The Fourteenth Amendmentprovides in relevant part:"Section 1. . . . No State shall . . . deprive any per-son of life, liberty, or property, without due process oflaw. . . . . ."Section 5. The Congress shall have power to en-force, by appropriate legislation, the provisions of thisarticle."While reaffirming the view that state sovereign immunitydoes not yield to Congress' Article I powers, this Court in4 The Patent Clause provides that "Congress shall have Power . . . [t]opromote the Progress of Science and useful Arts, by securing for limitedTimes to Authors and Inventors the exclusive Right to their respectiveWritings and Discoveries." Art. I, $ 8, cl. 8. The Commerce Clause provides that "Congress shall have Power . . . [t]o regulate Commerce withforeign Nations, and among the Several States, and with the IndianTribes." Art. I, $ 8, cl. 3. The relevant portions of the FourteenthAmendment are discussed below.527US2 Unit: $U89 [05-09-01 13:05:07] PAGES PGT: OPIN637Cite as: 527 U. S. 627 (1999)Opinion of the CourtSeminole Tribe also reaffirmed its holding in Fitzpatrick v.Bitzer, 427 U. S. 445 (1976), that Congress retains the authority to abrogate state sovereign immunity pursuant to theFourteenth Amendment. Our opinion explained that inFitzpatrick, "we recognized that the Fourteenth Amendment, by expanding federal power at the expense of stateautonomy, had fundamentally altered the balance of stateand federal power struck by the Constitution." SeminoleTribe, supra, at 59. The Court further described Fitzpatrick as holding that "through the Fourteenth Amendment,federal power extended to intrude upon the province of theEleventh Amendment and therefore that $ 5 of the Four-teenth Amendment allowed Congress to abrogate the immunity from suit guaranteed by that Amendment." SeminoleTribe, supra, at 59.College Savings and the United States are correct insuggesting that "appropriate" legislation pursuant to theEnforcement Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment couldabrogate state sovereignty. Congress itself apparentlythought the Patent Remedy Act could be so justified:"[T]he bill is justified as an acceptable method of en-forcing the provisions of the fourteenth amendment.The Court in Lemelson v. Ampex Corp.[, 372 F. Supp.708 (ND Ill. 1974),] recognized that a patent is a form ofproperty, holding that a right to compensation exists forpatent infringement. Additionally, because courts havecontinually recognized patent rights as property, thefourteenth amendment prohibits a State from deprivinga person of property without due process of law."S. Rep., at 8 (footnotes omitted).We have held that "[t]he `provisions of this article,' to which$ 5 refers, include the Due Process Clause of the FourteenthAmendment." City of Boerne v. Flores, 521 U. S., at 519.But the legislation must nonetheless be "appropriate"under $ 5 as that term was construed in City of Boerne.527US2 Unit: $U89 [05-09-01 13:05:07] PAGES PGT: OPIN638 FLORIDA PREPAID POSTSECONDARY ED. EXPENSEBD. v. COLLEGE SAVINGS BANKOpinion of the CourtThere, this Court held that the Religious Freedom Restoration Act of 1993 (RFRA), 107 Stat. 1488, 42 U. S. C. $ 2000bbet seq., exceeded Congress' authority under $ 5 of the Fourteenth Amendment, insofar as RFRA was made applicableto the States. RFRA was enacted "in direct response to"this Court's decision in Employment Div., Dept. of HumanResources of Ore. v. Smith, 494 U. S. 872 (1990), which construed the Free Exercise Clause of the First Amendment tohold that "neutral, generally applicable laws may be appliedto religious practices even when not supported by a compelling governmental interest." City of Boerne, supra, at 512,514. Through RFRA, Congress reinstated the compellinggovernmental interest test eschewed by Smith by requiringthat a generally applicable law placing a "substantial burden" on the free exercise of religion must be justified by a"compelling governmental interest" and must employ the"least restrictive means" of furthering that interest. 521U. S., at 515-516.In holding that RFRA could not be justified as "appropriate" enforcement legislation under $ 5, the Court emphasized that Congress' enforcement power is "remedial"in nature. Id., at 519. We recognized that "[l]egislationwhich deters or remedies constitutional violations can fallwithin the sweep of Congress' enforcement power even if inthe process it prohibits conduct which is not itself unconstitutional and intrudes into `legislative spheres of autonomypreviously reserved to the States.' " Id., at 518 (citationomitted). We also noted, however, that " `[a]s broad as thecongressional enforcement power is, it is not unlimited,' "ibid., and held that "Congress does not enforce a constitutional right by changing what the right is. It has beengiven the power `to enforce,' not the power to determinewhat constitutes a constitutional violation," id., at 519.Canvassing the history of the Fourteenth Amendment and527US2 Unit: $U89 [05-09-01 13:05:07] PAGES PGT: OPIN639Cite as: 527 U. S. 627 (1999)Opinion of the Courtcase law examining the propriety of Congress' various votingrights measures,5 the Court explained:"While the line between measures that remedy or pre-vent unconstitutional actions and measures that make asubstantive change in the governing law is not easy todiscern, and Congress must have wide latitude in determining where it lies, the distinction exists and must beobserved. There must be a congruence and proportionality between the injury to be prevented or remediedand the means adopted to that end. Lacking such aconnection, legislation may become substantive in opera-tion and effect."Id., at 519-520.We thus held that for Congress to invoke $ 5, it must identifyconduct transgressing the Fourteenth Amendment's substantive provisions, and must tailor its legislative scheme toremedying or preventing such conduct.RFRA failed to meet this test because there was littlesupport in the record for the concerns that supposedlyanimated the law. Id., at 530-531. And, unlike the meas-ures in the voting rights cases, RFRA's provisions were"so out of proportion to a supposed remedial or preventiveobject" that RFRA could not be understood "as responsiveto, or designed to prevent, unconstitutional behavior."Id., at 532; see also id., at 534 ("Simply put, RFRA is notdesigned to identify and counteract state laws likely to beunconstitutional").Can the Patent Remedy Act be viewed as remedial or pre-ventive legislation aimed at securing the protections of theFourteenth Amendment for patent owners? Following Cityof Boerne, we must first identify the Fourteenth Amendment"evil" or "wrong" that Congress intended to remedy, guided5 See South Carolina v. Katzenbach, 383 U. S. 301 (1966); Katzenbachv. Morgan, 384 U. S. 641 (1966); Oregon v. Mitchell, 400 U. S. 112 (1970);City of Rome v. United States, 446 U. S. 156 (1980).527US2 Unit: $U89 [05-09-01 13:05:07] PAGES PGT: OPIN640 FLORIDA PREPAID POSTSECONDARY ED. EXPENSEBD. v. COLLEGE SAVINGS BANKOpinion of the Courtby the principle that the propriety of any $ 5 legislation" `must be judged with reference to the historical experience. . . it reflects.' " Id., at 525. The underlying conduct atissue here is state infringement of patents and the use ofsovereign immunity to deny patent owners compensation forthe invasion of their patent rights. See H. R. Rep., at 37-38 ("[P]atent owners are effectively denied a remedy fordamages resulting from infringement by a State or Stateentity"); S. Rep., at 6 ("[P]laintiffs in patent infringementcases against a State are foreclosed from damages, regard-less of the State conduct"). It is this conduct then--unremedied patent infringement by the States--that must give riseto the Fourteenth Amendment violation that Congresssought to redress in the Patent Remedy Act.In enacting the Patent Remedy Act, however, Congressidentified no pattern of patent infringement by the States,let alone a pattern of constitutional violations. Unlike theundisputed record of racial discrimination confronting Congress in the voting rights cases, see City of Boerne, supra, at525-527, Congress came up with little evidence of infringingconduct on the part of the States. The House Report acknowledged that "many states comply with patent law" andcould provide only two examples of patent infringement suitsagainst the States. See H. R. Rep., at 38. The Federal Circuit in its opinion identified only eight patent-infringementsuits prosecuted against the States in the 110 years between1880 and 1990. See 148 F. 3d, at 1353-1354.Testimony before the House Subcommittee in favor of thebill acknowledged that "states are willing and able to respect patent rights. The fact that there are so few reportedcases involving patent infringement claims against statesunderlies the point." Patent Remedy Clarification Act:Hearing on H. R. 3886 before the Subcommittee on Courts,Intellectual Property, and the Administration of Justice ofthe House Committee on the Judiciary, 101st Cong., 2d Sess.,56 (1990) (hereinafter House Hearings) (statement of William527US2 Unit: $U89 [05-09-01 13:05:07] PAGES PGT: OPIN641Cite as: 527 U. S. 627 (1999)Opinion of the CourtS. Thompson); id., at 32 (statement of Robert Merges)("[S]tates do occasionally find themselves in patent infringement suits"). Even the bill's sponsor conceded that "[w]e donot have any evidence of massive or widespread violation ofpatent laws by the States either with or without this Stateimmunity." Id., at 22 (statement of Rep. Kastenmeier).6The Senate Report, as well, contains no evidence that unremedied patent infringement by States had become a problemof national import. At most, Congress heard testimony thatpatent infringement by States might increase in the future,see House Hearings 22 (statement of Jeffrey Samuels); id.,at 36-37 (statement of Robert Merges); id., at 57 (statementof William Thompson), and acted to head off this speculativeharm. See H. R. Rep., at 38.College Savings argues that by infringing a patent andthen pleading immunity to an infringement suit, a State notonly infringes the patent, but deprives the patentee of property without due process of law and "takes" the propertyin the patent without paying the just compensation required6 Representative Kastenmeier made this statement in the course ofquestioning Jeffrey M. Samuels, Acting Commissioner of Patents andTrademarks, U. S. Department of Commerce. The discussion continued:"Mr. Kastenmeier. . . ."Accordingly, could one argue that this legislation may be premature.We really do not know whether it will have any affect [sic] or not."Mr. Samuels. Well, you are right, Mr. Chairman. There have notbeen many cases that have raised this issue. I guess our feeling is thatit is a step that should be taken now because the possibility exists in lightof Atascadero and in light of the Chew case that more States will getinvolved in infringing patents."I guess as a general policy statement, we believe that those engaged--those who do engage in patent infringement should be subject to all theremedies that are set forth in the Patent Act and that the rights of apatent owner should not be dependent upon the identity of the entity whois infringing, whether it be a private individual, or corporation, or State."So just as a general philosophical matter, we believe that this law needsto be passed."527US2 Unit: $U89 [05-09-01 13:05:07] PAGES PGT: OPIN642 FLORIDA PREPAID POSTSECONDARY ED. EXPENSEBD. v. COLLEGE SAVINGS BANKOpinion of the Courtby the Fifth Amendment.7 The United States declines todefend the Act as based on the Just Compensation Clause,but joins in College Savings' defense of the Act as designedto prevent a State from depriving a patentee of propertywithout due process of law. Florida Prepaid contends thatCongress may not invoke $ 5 to protect property intereststhat it has created in the first place under Article I. Patents, however, have long been considered a species ofproperty. See Brown v. Duchesne, 19 How. 183, 197 (1857)("For, by the laws of the United States, the rights of a partyunder a patent are his private property"); cf., ConsolidatedFruit-Jar Co. v. Wright, 94 U. S. 92, 96 (1877) ("A patent foran invention is as much property as a patent for land"). Assuch, they are surely included within the "property" of whichno person may be deprived by a State without due processof law. And if the Due Process Clause protects patents, weknow of no reason why Congress might not legislate againsttheir deprivation without due process under $ 5 of the Fourteenth Amendment.Though patents may be considered "property" for purposes of our analysis, the legislative record still provideslittle support for the proposition that Congress sought toremedy a Fourteenth Amendment violation in enacting thePatent Remedy Act. The Due Process Clause provides,"nor shall any State deprive any person of life, liberty, orproperty, without due process of law." U. S. Const., Amdt.14, $ 1 (emphasis added). This Court has accordingly heldthat "[i]n procedural due process claims, the deprivation by7 There is no suggestion in the language of the statute itself, or in theHouse or Senate Reports of the bill which became the statute, that Congress had in mind the Just Compensation Clause of the Fifth Amendment.Since Congress was so explicit about invoking its authority under ArticleI and its authority to prevent a State from depriving a person of propertywithout due process of law under the Fourteenth Amendment, we thinkthis omission precludes consideration of the Just Compensation Clause asa basis for the Patent Remedy Act.527US2 Unit: $U89 [05-09-01 13:05:07] PAGES PGT: OPIN643Cite as: 527 U. S. 627 (1999)Opinion of the Courtstate action of a constitutionally protected interest . . . isnot in itself unconstitutional; what is unconstitutional is thedeprivation of such an interest without due process of law."Zinermon v. Burch, 494 U. S. 113, 125 (1990) (emphasisdeleted).Thus, under the plain terms of the Clause and the clearimport of our precedent, a State's infringement of a patent,though interfering with a patent owner's right to excludeothers, does not by itself violate the Constitution. Instead,only where the State provides no remedy, or only inadequateremedies, to injured patent owners for its infringement oftheir patent could a deprivation of property without dueprocess result. See Parratt v. Taylor, 451 U. S. 527, 539-541 (1981); Hudson v. Palmer, 468 U. S. 517, 532-533 (1984);id., at 539 (O'Connor, J., concurring) ("[I]n challenging aproperty deprivation, the claimant must either avail himselfof the remedies guaranteed by state law or prove that theavailable remedies are inadequate . . . . When adequateremedies are provided and followed, no . . . deprivation ofproperty without due process can result").Congress, however, barely considered the availability ofstate remedies for patent infringement and hence whetherthe States' conduct might have amounted to a constitutionalviolation under the Fourteenth Amendment. It did hear alimited amount of testimony to the effect that the remediesavailable in some States were uncertain.88 See, e. g., House Hearings 33 (statement of Robert Merges) ("Thusa patentee . . . would apparently have to draft her cause of action asa general tort claim--or perhaps one for restitution--to come within thestatute. This might be impossible, or at least difficult under Californialaw"); id., at 43 ("[I]t is true that you may have State remedies, alternativeState remedies. . . . You could bring a deceit suit. You could try just ageneral unfair competition suit. A restitution is one that has occurred tome as a possible basis of recovery"); id., at 34 ("Another problem with thisapproach is that it assumes that such state law remedies will be availablein every state in which the patentee's product is sold. This may or maynot be true"); id., at 47 (statement of William Thompson) ("In this case527US2 Unit: $U89 [05-09-01 13:05:07] PAGES PGT: OPIN644 FLORIDA PREPAID POSTSECONDARY ED. EXPENSEBD. v. COLLEGE SAVINGS BANKOpinion of the CourtThe primary point made by these witnesses, however, wasnot that state remedies were constitutionally inadequate, butrather that they were less convenient than federal remedies,and might undermine the uniformity of patent law. See,e. g., House Hearings 43 (statement of Robert Merges)("[U]niformity again dictates that that sovereign immunityis a mistake in this field because of the variance among theState's laws"), id., at 34, 41 (Merges); id., at 58 (statement ofWilliam Thompson).9Congress itself said nothing about the existence or ade-quacy of state remedies in the statute or in the SenateReport, and made only a few fleeting references to stateremedies in the House Report, essentially repeating the testimony of the witnesses. See H. R. Rep., at 37, n. 158("[T]he availability of a State remedy is tenuous and couldvary significantly State to State"); id., at 38 ("[I]f patenteesturn to the State courts for alternative forms of relief frompatent infringement, the result will be a patchwork of Statelaws, actually undermining the goal of national uniformity inthere is no balance, since there are no--or at least there are not veryeffective patent remedies at the State level"); id., at 57 ("The court inLane [v. First Nat. Bank of Boston, 687 F. Supp. 11 (Mass. 1988),] pointedout that the appellant may be able to obtain money damages by recourseto the Massachusetts tort claims act or sue the state for deceit, conversion,or unfair competition under Massachusetts law. The court also noted aMassachusetts statute which provides that damages may be recoveredfrom the state when private property is confiscated for a public purpose.While many states may have similar statutes, the courts' surmise thatintellectual property infringement cases may be pursued in some statecourts offer us little comfort"); id., at 60 ("[I]t sounds to me like it is avery difficult area to predict what would happen. There is a rich varietyof potential causes of action, as the prior speaker [Merges] pointed out").9 It is worth mentioning that the State of Florida provides remediesto patent owners for alleged infringement on the part of the State.Aggrieved parties may pursue a legislative remedy through a claims billfor payment in full, Fla. Stat. $ 11.065 (1997), or a judicial remedy througha takings or conversion claim, see Jacobs Wind Electric Co. v. FloridaDept. of Transp., 626 So. 2d 1333 (Fla. 1993).527US2 Unit: $U89 [05-09-01 13:05:07] PAGES PGT: OPIN645Cite as: 527 U. S. 627 (1999)Opinion of the Courtour patent system"). The need for uniformity in the con-struction of patent law is undoubtedly important, but that isa factor which belongs to the Article I patent-power calculus,rather than to any determination of whether a state plea ofsovereign immunity deprives a patentee of property withoutdue process of law.We have also said that a state actor's negligent act thatcauses unintended injury to a person's property does not "de-prive" that person of property within the meaning of the DueProcess Clause. See Daniels v. Williams, 474 U. S. 327, 328(1986). Actions predicated on direct patent infringement,however, do not require any showing of intent to infringe;instead, knowledge and intent are considered only with respect to damages. See 35 U. S. C. $ 271(a) (1994 ed., Supp.III); 5 D. Chisum, Patents $ 16.02[2], p. 16-31 (rev. ed. 1998)(" `It is, of course, elementary, that an infringement may beentirely inadvertent and unintentional and without knowledge of the patent' "). Congress did not focus on instancesof intentional or reckless infringement on the part of theStates. Indeed, the evidence before Congress suggestedthat most state infringement was innocent or at worst negligent. See S. Rep., at 10 (" `It is not always clear that withall the products that [government] buy[s], that anyone is really aware of the patent status of any particular invention ordevice or product' "); H. R. Rep., at 39 ("[I]t should be veryrare for a court to find . . . willful infringement on the partof a State or State agency"). Such negligent conduct, however, does not violate the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.The legislative record thus suggests that the Patent Remedy Act does not respond to a history of "widespread andpersisting deprivation of constitutional rights" of the sortCongress has faced in enacting proper prophylactic $ 5 legislation. City of Boerne, 521 U. S., at 526. Instead, Congressappears to have enacted this legislation in response to ahandful of instances of state patent infringement that do not527US2 Unit: $U89 [05-09-01 13:05:07] PAGES PGT: OPIN646 FLORIDA PREPAID POSTSECONDARY ED. EXPENSEBD. v. COLLEGE SAVINGS BANKOpinion of the Courtnecessarily violate the Constitution. Though the lack ofsupport in the legislative record is not determinative, see id.,at 531, identifying the targeted constitutional wrong or evilis still a critical part of our $ 5 calculus because "[s]trongmeasures appropriate to address one harm may be an unwarranted response to another, lesser one," id., at 530. Here,the record at best offers scant support for Congress' conclusion that States were depriving patent owners of propertywithout due process of law by pleading sovereign immunityin federal-court patent actions.Because of this lack, the provisions of the Patent RemedyAct are "so out of proportion to a supposed remedial or preventive object that [they] cannot be understood as responsive to, or designed to prevent, unconstitutional behavior."Id., at 532. An unlimited range of state conduct wouldexpose a State to claims of direct, induced, or contributorypatent infringement, and the House Report itself cited testimony acknowledging " `it[']s difficult for us to identifya patented product or process which might not be used by astate.' " H. R. Rep., at 38.10 Despite subjecting States tothis expansive liability, Congress did nothing to limit thecoverage of the Act to cases involving arguable constitutional violations, such as where a State refuses to offer any10 The relevant testimony stated in full:"The comments regarding copyright centered on substantial use of copyrighted textbooks by state universities as well as state use of copyrightedmusic and computer software. State use of patented products is morediverse and more substantial. Patented inventions are involved in allmanner of commonly used machines, tools, instruments, chemicals, compounds, materials, and devices of all description and purpose. Furthermore, patented processes are commonplace. States and state instrumentalities own and operate hospitals, universities, prisons, and libraries.States build and maintain roads. States provide facilities and equipmentfor large numbers of employees who perform all manner of state supportedactivities. It[']s difficult for us to identify a patented product or processwhich might not be used by a state." House Hearings 55 (statement ofWilliam Thompson).527US2 Unit: $U89 [05-09-01 13:05:07] PAGES PGT: OPIN647Cite as: 527 U. S. 627 (1999)Opinion of the Courtstate-court remedy for patent owners whose patents it hadinfringed. Nor did it make any attempt to confine the reachof the Act by limiting the remedy to certain types of infringement, such as nonnegligent infringement or infringement authorized pursuant to state policy; or providing forsuits only against States with questionable remedies or ahigh incidence of infringement.Instead, Congress made all States immediately amenableto suit in federal court for all kinds of possible patent infringement and for an indefinite duration. Our opinion inCity of Boerne discussed with approval the various limitsthat Congress imposed in its voting rights measures, see521 U. S., at 532-533, and noted that where "a congressionalenactment pervasively prohibits constitutional state actionin an effort to remedy or to prevent unconstitutional stateaction, limitations of this kind tend to ensure Congress'means are proportionate to ends legitimate under $ 5," id.,at 533. The Patent Remedy Act's indiscriminate scope offends this principle, and is particularly incongruous in lightof the scant support for the predicate unconstitutional conduct that Congress intended to remedy. In sum, it simplycannot be said that "many of [the acts of infringement]affected by the congressional enactment have a significantlikelihood of being unconstitutional." Id., at 532.The historical record and the scope of coverage thereforemake it clear that the Patent Remedy Act cannot be sustained under $ 5 of the Fourteenth Amendment. The examples of States avoiding liability for patent infringement bypleading sovereign immunity in a federal-court patent actionare scarce enough, but any plausible argument that such action on the part of the State deprived patentees of propertyand left them without a remedy under state law is scarcerstill. The statute's apparent and more basic aims were toprovide a uniform remedy for patent infringement and toplace States on the same footing as private parties under527US2 Unit: $U89 [05-09-01 13:05:07] PAGES PGT: OPIN648 FLORIDA PREPAID POSTSECONDARY ED. EXPENSEBD. v. COLLEGE SAVINGS BANKStevens, J., dissentingthat regime.11 These are proper Article I concerns, but thatArticle does not give Congress the power to enact such legislation after Seminole Tribe.The judgment of the Court of Appeals is reversed, andthe case is remanded for proceedings consistent with thisopinion.