Court.This case presents the question whether a law enforcement officer's physical manipulation of a bus passenger'scarry-on luggage violated the Fourth Amendment's proscription against unreasonable searches. We hold that it did.Petitioner Steven Dewayne Bond was a passenger on aGreyhound bus that left California bound for Little Rock,Arkansas. The bus stopped, as it was required to do, at thepermanent Border Patrol checkpoint in Sierra Blanca, Texas.Border Patrol Agent Cesar Cantu boarded the bus to checkthe immigration status of its passengers. After reachingthe back of the bus, having satisfied himself that the passengers were lawfully in the United States, Agent Cantu beganwalking toward the front. Along the way, he squeezed thesoft luggage which passengers had placed in the overheadstorage space above the seats.*Briefs of amici curiae urging reversal were filed for the National Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers et al. by William J. Mertens andBarbara Bergman; and for the Pro Bono Criminal Assistance Project byDavid L. Heilberg.Stephen R. McSpadden filed a brief for the National Association ofPolice Organizations as amicus curiae urging affirmance.529US2 Unit: $U44 [09-26-01 10:00:50] PAGES PGT: OPIN336 BOND v. UNITED STATESOpinion of the CourtPetitioner was seated four or five rows from the back ofthe bus. As Agent Cantu inspected the luggage in the compartment above petitioner's seat, he squeezed a green canvasbag and noticed that it contained a "brick-like" object. Petitioner admitted that the bag was his and agreed to allowAgent Cantu to open it.1 Upon opening the bag, AgentCantu discovered a "brick" of methamphetamine. The brickhad been wrapped in duct tape until it was oval-shaped andthen rolled in a pair of pants.Petitioner was indicted for conspiracy to possess, and possession with intent to distribute, methamphetamine in violation of 84 Stat. 1260, 21 U. S. C. $ 841(a)(1). He moved tosuppress the drugs, arguing that Agent Cantu conducted anillegal search of his bag. Petitioner's motion was denied,and the District Court found him guilty on both counts andsentenced him to 57 months in prison. On appeal, he conceded that other passengers had access to his bag, but contended that Agent Cantu manipulated the bag in a way thatother passengers would not. The Court of Appeals rejectedthis argument, stating that the fact that Agent Cantu's manipulation of petitioner's bag was calculated to detect contraband is irrelevant for Fourth Amendment purposes. 167F. 3d 225, 227 (CA5 1999) (citing California v. Ciraolo, 476U. S. 207 (1986)). Thus, the Court of Appeals affirmed thedenial of the motion to suppress, holding that Agent Cantu'smanipulation of the bag was not a search within the meaningof the Fourth Amendment. 167 F. 3d, at 227. We grantedcertiorari, 528 U. S. 927 (1999), and now reverse.The Fourth Amendment provides that "[t]he right of thepeople to be secure in their persons, houses, papers, and effects, against unreasonable searches and seizures, shall notbe violated . . . ." A traveler's personal luggage is clearly an"effect" protected by the Amendment. See United States v.1 The Government has not argued here that petitioner's consent toAgent Cantu's opening the bag is a basis for admitting the evidence.529US2 Unit: $U44 [09-26-01 10:00:50] PAGES PGT: OPIN337Cite as: 529 U. S. 334 (2000)Opinion of the CourtPlace, 462 U. S. 696, 707 (1983). Indeed, it is undisputedhere that petitioner possessed a privacy interest in hisbag.But the Government asserts that by exposing his bag tothe public, petitioner lost a reasonable expectation that hisbag would not be physically manipulated. The Governmentrelies on our decisions in California v. Ciraolo, supra, andFlorida v. Riley, 488 U. S. 445 (1989), for the proposition thatmatters open to public observation are not protected by theFourth Amendment. In Ciraolo, we held that police obser-vation of a backyard from a plane flying at an altitude of1,000 feet did not violate a reasonable expectation of privacy.Similarly, in Riley, we relied on Ciraolo to hold that policeobservation of a greenhouse in a home's curtilage from a helicopter passing at an altitude of 400 feet did not violate theFourth Amendment. We reasoned that the property was"not necessarily protected from inspection that involves nophysical invasion," and determined that because any memberof the public could have lawfully observed the defendants'property by flying overhead, the defendants' expectation ofprivacy was "not reasonable and not one `that society is prepared to honor.' " See Riley, supra, at 449 (explaining andrelying on Ciraolo's reasoning).But Ciraolo and Riley are different from this case becausethey involved only visual, as opposed to tactile, observation.Physically invasive inspection is simply more intrusive thanpurely visual inspection. For example, in Terry v. Ohio, 392U. S. 1, 16-17 (1968), we stated that a "careful [tactile] exploration of the outer surfaces of a person's clothing all over hisor her body" is a "serious intrusion upon the sanctity of theperson, which may inflict great indignity and arouse strongresentment, and it is not to be undertaken lightly." Although Agent Cantu did not "frisk" petitioner's person, hedid conduct a probing tactile examination of petitioner'scarry-on luggage. Obviously, petitioner's bag was not partof his person. But travelers are particularly concerned529US2 Unit: $U44 [09-26-01 10:00:50] PAGES PGT: OPIN338 BOND v. UNITED STATESOpinion of the Courtabout their carry-on luggage; they generally use it to trans-port personal items that, for whatever reason, they prefer tokeep close at hand.Here, petitioner concedes that, by placing his bag in theoverhead compartment, he could expect that it would be ex-posed to certain kinds of touching and handling. But petitioner argues that Agent Cantu's physical manipulation ofhis luggage "far exceeded the casual contact [petitioner]could have expected from other passengers." Brief for Pe-titioner 18-19. The Government counters that it did not.Our Fourth Amendment analysis embraces two questions.First, we ask whether the individual, by his conduct, hasexhibited an actual expectation of privacy; that is, whetherhe has shown that "he [sought] to preserve [something] asprivate." Smith v. Maryland, 442 U. S. 735, 740 (1979) (internal quotation marks omitted). Here, petitioner sought topreserve privacy by using an opaque bag and placing thatbag directly above his seat. Second, we inquire whether theindividual's expectation of privacy is "one that society is prepared to recognize as reasonable." Ibid. (internal quotationmarks omitted).2 When a bus passenger places a bag in anoverhead bin, he expects that other passengers or bus employees may move it for one reason or another. Thus, a buspassenger clearly expects that his bag may be handled. Hedoes not expect that other passengers or bus employees will,2 The parties properly agree that the subjective intent of the law enforcement officer is irrelevant in determining whether that officer's actionsviolate the Fourth Amendment. Brief for Petitioner 14; Brief for UnitedStates 33-34; see Whren v. United States, 517 U. S. 806, 813 (1996) (statingthat "we have been unwilling to entertain Fourth Amendment challengesbased on the actual motivations of individual officers"); California v. Ciraolo, 476 U. S. 207, 212 (1986) (rejecting respondent's challenge to "the authority of government to observe his activity from any vantage point orplace if the viewing is motivated by a law enforcement purpose, and notthe result of a casual, accidental observation"). This principle applies tothe agent's acts in this case as well; the issue is not his state of mind, butthe objective effect of his actions.529US2 Unit: $U44 [09-26-01 10:00:50] PAGES PGT: OPIN339Cite as: 529 U. S. 334 (2000)Breyer, J., dissentingas a matter of course, feel the bag in an exploratory manner.But this is exactly what the agent did here. We thereforehold that the agent's physical manipulation of petitioner'sbag violated the Fourth Amendment.The judgment of the Court of Appeals is