The question presented in this case is whether the Firstand Fourteenth Amendments prohibit the introduction in acapital sentencing proceeding of the fact that the defendantwas a member of an organization called the Aryan Brotherhood, where the evidence has no relevance to the issuesbeing decided in the proceeding. We hold that they do.Shortly after midnight on December 1, 1986, petitionerDavid Dawson and three other inmates escaped from theDelaware Correctional Center near Smyrna, Delaware.Dawson stole a car and headed south, while the other threeinmates stole another car and drove north. Early that*Michael A. Bamberger, Stuart Altschuler, John A. Powell, Steven R.Shapiro, and Jonathan Lang filed a brief for the American Civil LibertiesUnion et al. as amici curiae urging reversal.Solicitor General Starr, Assistant Attorney General Mueller, DeputySolicitor General Bryson, and Robert A. Long, Jr., filed a brief for theUnited States as amicus curiae urging affirmance.503us1$41H 11-13-95 22:26:44 PAGES OPINPGT161Cite as: 503 U. S. 159 (1992)Opinion of the Courtmorning, Dawson burglarized a house near Kenton, Dela-ware, stealing a motorcycle jacket, several pocket watches,and containers of loose change. He then proceeded to thehome of Richard and Madeline Kisner, located about half amile from the burglary site. Mrs. Kisner was alone in thehouse, preparing to leave for work. Dawson brutally mur-dered Mrs. Kisner, stole the Kisners' car and some money,and fled further south.He reappeared later that evening at the Zoo Bar in Milford, Delaware, wearing a motorcycle jacket that was too bigfor him. While at the bar, Dawson introduced himself toPatty Dennis, and told her that his name was "Abaddon,"which he said meant "[o]ne of Satan's disciples." App. 80-81. Dawson was subsequently asked to leave the bar.Later that evening, a Delaware state police officer respondedto a call to investigate a one-car accident. The car involvedin the accident had been stolen from a location near the ZooBar and had been driven into a ditch, but the driver hadleft the scene. The police began a house-to-house search forDawson, and found him at 5:25 the next morning, on the floorof a Cadillac parked about three-tenths of a mile from theaccident site.A jury convicted Dawson of first-degree murder, possession of a deadly weapon during the commission of a felony,and various other crimes. The trial court then conducted apenalty hearing before the jury to determine whether Dawson should be sentenced to death for the first-degree murderconviction. See Del. Code Ann., Tit. 11, $ 4209 (1987). Theprosecution gave notice that it intended to introduce (1) expert testimony regarding the origin and nature of the AryanBrotherhood, as well as the fact that Dawson had the words"Aryan Brotherhood" tattooed on the back of his right hand,(2) testimony that Dawson referred to himself as "Abaddon"and had the name "Abaddon" tattooed in red letters acrosshis stomach, and (3) photographs of multiple swastika tattooson Dawson's back and a picture of a swastika he had painted503us1$41H 11-13-95 22:26:44 PAGES OPINPGT162 DAWSON v. DELAWAREOpinion of the Courton the wall of his prison cell. Dawson argued that thisevidence was inflammatory and irrelevant, and that its admission would violate his rights under the First and Four-teenth Amendments.Before the penalty phase began, the parties agreed to astipulation regarding the Aryan Brotherhood evidence. Thestipulation provided:"The Aryan Brotherhood refers to a white racist prisongang that began in the 1960's in California in response toother gangs of racial minorities. Separate gangs callingthemselves the Aryan Brotherhood now exist in manystate prisons including Delaware." App. 132.In return for Dawson's agreement to the stipulation, theprosecution agreed not to call any expert witnesses to testifyabout the Aryan Brotherhood. Although Dawson agreed tothe stipulation in order to avoid presentation of this experttestimony, it is apparent from the record and from the opinion of the Supreme Court of Delaware that he continued toassert that the admission of the stipulated facts into evidenceviolated the Constitution. 581 A. 2d 1078 (1990). At thepenalty hearing, the prosecution read the stipulation to thejury and introduced evidence that Dawson had tattooed thewords "Aryan Brotherhood" on his hand. The trial judgepermitted the prosecution to present the evidence related tothe name "Abaddon" as well, but excluded all of the swastikaevidence. In addition, the prosecution submitted proof ofDawson's lengthy criminal record. Dawson, in turn, pre-sented mitigating evidence based on the testimony of twofamily members and on the fact that he had earned good timecredits in prison for enrolling in various drug and alcoholprograms. The jury found three statutory aggravating circumstances, each making Dawson eligible for the death penalty under Delaware law; it determined (1) that the murderwas committed by an escaped prisoner, (2) that the murderwas committed during the commission of a burglary, and (3)503us1$41H 11-13-95 22:26:44 PAGES OPINPGT163Cite as: 503 U. S. 159 (1992)Opinion of the Courtthat the murder was committed for pecuniary gain. See id.,at 1102, and n. 27. The jury further concluded that the aggravating evidence outweighed the mitigating evidence, andrecommended that Dawson be sentenced to death. The trialcourt, bound by that recommendation, imposed the deathpenalty.The Supreme Court of Delaware affirmed the convictionsand the death sentence. The court rejected Dawson's claimthat the evidence concerning the Aryan Brotherhood and hisuse of the name "Abaddon" should have been excluded fromthe penalty hearing. It observed that having found at leastone statutory aggravating factor, the jury was "required tomake an individualized determination of whether Dawsonshould be executed or incarcerated for life, based upon Dawson's character, his record and the circumstances of thecrime," and that it was desirable for the jury to have as muchinformation before it as possible when making that decision.Id., at 1102-1103 (emphasis in original). The court acknowledged that the Constitution would prohibit the considerationof certain irrelevant factors during the sentencing process,but stated that " `[p]unishing a person for expressing hisviews or for associating with certain people is substantiallydifferent from allowing . . . evidence of [the defendant's] character [to be considered] where that character is a relevantinquiry.' " Id., at 1103. Because the evidence relating tothe Aryan Brotherhood and the name "Abaddon" properlyfocused the jury's attention on Dawson's character, and didnot appeal to the jury's prejudices concerning race, religion,or political affiliation, the court upheld its introduction during the penalty phase. We granted certiorari, 499 U. S. 946(1991), to consider whether the admission of this evidencewas constitutional error. We hold that its admission in thiscase was error and so reverse.We have held that the First Amendment protects an individual's right to join groups and associate with others holding similar beliefs. See Aptheker v. Secretary of State, 378503us1$41H 11-13-95 22:26:44 PAGES OPINPGT164 DAWSON v. DELAWAREOpinion of the CourtU. S. 500, 507 (1964); NAACP v. Alabama ex rel. Patterson,357 U. S. 449, 460 (1958). Because his right to associate withthe Aryan Brotherhood is constitutionally protected, Dawsonargues, admission of evidence related to that association athis penalty hearing violated his constitutional rights. Relying on our statement in Zant v. Stephens, 462 U. S. 862(1983), that an aggravating circumstance is invalid if "it authorizes a jury to draw adverse inferences from conduct thatis constitutionally protected," he contends that the Constitution forbids the consideration in sentencing of any evidenceconcerning beliefs or activities that are protected under theFirst Amendment. Id., at 885.We think this submission is, in the light of our decidedcases, too broad. These cases emphasize that "the sentencing authority has always been free to consider a wide rangeof relevant material." Payne v. Tennessee, 501 U. S. 808,820-821 (1991); United States v. Tucker, 404 U. S. 443, 446(1972) ("[A] judge may appropriately conduct an inquirybroad in scope, largely unlimited either as to the kind of information he may consider, or the source from which it maycome"); Williams v. New York, 337 U. S. 241 (1949). Wehave previously upheld the consideration, in a capital sentencing proceeding, of evidence of racial intolerance and subversive advocacy where such evidence was relevant to theissues involved. In Barclay v. Florida, 463 U. S. 939 (1983),for example, we held that a sentencing judge in a capitalcase might properly take into consideration "the elements ofracial hatred" in Barclay's crime as well as "Barclay's desireto start a race war." See id., at 949 (plurality opinion); id.,at 970, and n. 18 (Stevens, J., concurring in judgment).One year later, in United States v. Abel, 469 U. S. 45 (1984),we held that the Government could impeach a defense witness by showing that both the defendant and the witnesswere members of the Aryan Brotherhood, and that memberswere sworn to lie on behalf of each other. We held the evidence admissible to show bias, even assuming that member503us1$41H 11-13-95 22:26:44 PAGES OPINPGT165Cite as: 503 U. S. 159 (1992)Opinion of the Courtship in the organization was among the associational free-doms protected by the First Amendment. ThoughAbel didnot involve a capital sentencing proceeding, its logic is per-fectly applicable to such a proceeding. We therefore conclude that the Constitution does not erect a per se barrier tothe admission of evidence concerning one's beliefs and associ-ations at sentencing simply because those beliefs and associations are protected by the First Amendment.Although we cannot accept Dawson's broad submission, wenevertheless agree with him that, in this case, the receiptinto evidence of the stipulation regarding his membership inthe Aryan Brotherhood was constitutional error. Beforethe penalty hearing, the prosecution claimed that its expertwitness would show that the Aryan Brotherhood is a whiteracist prison gang that is associated with drugs and violentescape attempts at prisons, and that advocates the murderof fellow inmates. If credible and otherwise admissible evidence to that effect had been presented, we would have amuch different case. But, after reaching an agreement withDawson, the prosecution limited its proof regarding theAryan Brotherhood to the stipulation. The brief stipulationproved only that an Aryan Brotherhood prison gang originated in California in the 1960's, that it entertains white racist beliefs, and that a separate gang in the Delaware prisonsystem calls itself the Aryan Brotherhood. We concludethat the narrowness of the stipulation left the Aryan Brotherhood evidence totally without relevance to Dawson's sentencing proceeding.As an initial matter, the second sentence of the stipulation,when carefully parsed, says nothing about the beliefs of theAryan Brotherhood "chapter" in the Delaware prisons.Prior to trial, the prosecution acknowledged that there aredifferences among the various offshoots of the Aryan Brotherhood, stating that "there are cells or specific off-shootswithin various local jurisdictions that don't see eye to eye orshare a union, if you will." App. 33. But the juxtaposition503us1$41H 11-13-95 22:26:44 PAGES OPINPGT166 DAWSON v. DELAWAREOpinion of the Courtof the second sentence with the first sentence, which de-scribes the Aryan Brotherhood in California prisons as a"white racist prison gang," invited the jury to infer that thebeliefs of the Delaware chapter are identical to those of theCalifornia chapter.Even if the Delaware group to which Dawson allegedlybelongs is racist, those beliefs, so far as we can determine,had no relevance to the sentencing proceeding in this case.For example, the Aryan Brotherhood evidence was not tiedin any way to the murder of Dawson's victim. In Barclay,on the contrary, the evidence showed that the defendant'smembership in the Black Liberation Army, and his consequent desire to start a "racial war," were related to the murder of a white hitchhiker. See 463 U. S., at 942-944 (plurality opinion). We concluded that it was most proper for thesentencing judge to "tak[e] into account the elements of racial hatred in this murder." Id., at 949. In the presentcase, however, the murder victim was white, as is Dawson;elements of racial hatred were therefore not involved in thekilling.Because the prosecution did not prove that the AryanBrotherhood had committed any unlawful or violent acts, orhad even endorsed such acts, the Aryan Brotherhood evidence was also not relevant to help prove any aggravatingcircumstance. In many cases, for example, associational evidence might serve a legitimate purpose in showing that adefendant represents a future danger to society. A defendant's membership in an organization that endorses the killingof any identifiable group, for example, might be relevant toa jury's inquiry into whether the defendant will be dangerousin the future. Other evidence concerning a defendant's associations might be relevant in proving other aggravating circumstances. But the inference which the jury was invitedto draw in this case tended to prove nothing more than theabstract beliefs of the Delaware chapter. Delaware counters that even these abstract beliefs constitute a portion of503us1$41H 11-13-95 22:26:44 PAGES OPINPGT167Cite as: 503 U. S. 159 (1992)Opinion of the CourtDawson's "character," and thus are admissible in their ownright under Delaware law. Del. Code Ann., Tit. 11, $ 4209(d)(1987). Whatever label is given to the evidence presented,however, we conclude that Dawson's First Amendmentrights were violated by the admission of the Aryan Brotherhood evidence in this case, because the evidence proved noth-ing more than Dawson's abstract beliefs. Cf.Texas v. Johnson, 491 U. S. 397, 414 (1989) ("[T]he government may notprohibit the expression of an idea simply because societyfinds the idea itself offensive or disagreeable"). Delawaremight have avoided this problem if it had presented evidenceshowing more than mere abstract beliefs on Dawson's part,but on the present record one is left with the feeling thatthe Aryan Brotherhood evidence was employed simply because the jury would find these beliefs morally reprehensible.Because Delaware failed to do more, we cannot find the evidence was properly admitted as relevant character evidence.Nor was the Aryan Brotherhood evidence relevant torebut any mitigating evidence offered by Dawson. We haveheld that a capital defendant is entitled to introduce any relevant mitigating evidence that he proffers in support of a sentence less than death. Eddings v. Oklahoma, 455 U. S. 104,114 (1982); Lockett v. Ohio, 438 U. S. 586 (1978) (pluralityopinion). But just as the defendant has the right to introduce any sort of relevant mitigating evidence, the State isentitled to rebut that evidence with proof of its own. SeePayne v. Tennessee, 501 U. S., at 825 ("[T]he State has a legitimate interest in counteracting the mitigating evidencewhich the defendant is entitled to put in") (internal quotationmarks omitted); id., at 860 (Stevens, J., dissenting). In thiscase, Dawson's mitigating evidence consisted of testimonyabout his kindness to family members, as well as evidenceregarding good time credits he earned in prison for enrollingin various drug and alcohol programs. Delaware arguesthat because Dawson's evidence consisted of "good" character evidence, it was entitled to introduce any "bad" character503us1$41H 11-13-95 22:26:45 PAGES OPINPGT168 DAWSON v. DELAWAREOpinion of the Courtevidence in rebuttal, including that concerning the AryanBrotherhood. The principle of broad rebuttal asserted byDelaware is correct, but the argument misses the mark because, as stated above, the Aryan Brotherhood evidence presented in this case cannot be viewed as relevant "bad" character evidence in its own right.The dissent takes us to task for failing to recognize thebroader implications of membership in a prison gang, and forextending the protection of the First Amendment to evidence introduced at a sentencing hearing. The material adduced by the dissent as to the nature of prison gangs--similar to the evidence which the prosecution in this case at onetime considered adducing by expert testimony, supra, at165--would, if it had been presented to the jury, have madethis a different case. But we do not have the same confidence as the dissent does that jurors would be familiar withthe court decisions and studies upon which it relies. Regarding the reach of the First Amendment, the dissent correctlypoints out that it prevents the State from criminalizing certain conduct in the first instance. But it goes further thanthat. It prohibits a State from denying admission to the baron the grounds of previous membership in the CommunistParty, when there is no connection between that membershipand the "good moral character" required by the State topractice law. Schware v. Board of Bar Examiners of N. M.,353 U. S. 232 (1957). It prohibits the State from requiringinformation from an organization that would impinge onFirst Amendment associational rights if there is no connection between the information sought and the State's interest.Bates v. Little Rock, 361 U. S. 516 (1960); NAACP v. Alabama ex rel. Patterson, 357 U. S. 449 (1958). We think thatit similarly prevents Delaware here from employing evidenceof a defendant's abstract beliefs at a sentencing hearingwhen those beliefs have no bearing on the issue being tried.The question whether the wrongful admission of theAryan Brotherhood evidence at sentencing was harmless503us1$41H 11-13-95 22:26:45 PAGES OPINPGT169Cite as: 503 U. S. 159 (1992)Thomas, J., dissentingerror is not before us at this time, and we therefore leave itopen for consideration by the Supreme Court of Delaware onremand. See Clemons v. Mississippi, 494 U. S. 738 (1990).For the foregoing reasons, we vacate the judgment of theSupreme Court of Delaware and remand the case for furtherproceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.