Respondents and the lessee of an apartment were sittingin one of its rooms, bagging cocaine. While so engaged theywere observed by a police officer, who looked through adrawn window blind. The Supreme Court of Minnesotaheld that the officer's viewing was a search that violatedrespondents' Fourth Amendment rights. We hold that nosuch violation occurred.James Thielen, a police officer in the Twin Cities' suburbof Eagan, Minnesota, went to an apartment building to inves-tigate a tip from a confidential informant. The informantsaid that he had walked by the window of a ground-floorapartment and had seen people putting a white powder intobags. The officer looked in the same window through a gapin the closed blind and observed the bagging operation forseveral minutes. He then notified headquarters, whichbegan preparing affidavits for a search warrant while he returned to the apartment building. When two men left thebuilding in a previously identified Cadillac, the police stoppedthe car. Inside were respondents Carter and Johns. Asthe police opened the door of the car to let Johns out, theyobserved a black, zippered pouch and a handgun, later deter-mined to be loaded, on the vehicle's floor. Carter and Johnswere arrested, and a later police search of the vehicle thenext day discovered pagers, a scale, and 47 grams of cocainein plastic sandwich bags.Carla J. Stovall of Kansas, Richard P. Ieyoub of Louisiana, Scott Harshbarger of Massachusetts, Frank J. Kelley of Michigan, Joseph P. Mazurekof Montana, Don Stenberg of Nebraska, Frankie Sue Del Papa of Nevada,Peter Verniero of New Jersey, Dennis C. Vacco of New York, Heidi Heitkamp of North Dakota, W. A. Drew Edmondson of Oklahoma, Jeffrey B.Pine of Rhode Island, Charles M. Condon of South Carolina, Jan Grahamof Utah, William H. Sorrell of Vermont, and Mark L. Earley of Virginia.Tracey Maclin, Steven R. Shapiro, and Lisa B. Kemler filed a brieffor the American Civil Liberties Union et al. as amici curiae urgingaffirmance.525US1 Unit: $$U5 [10-31-00 11:29:41] PAGES PGT: OPIN86 MINNESOTA v. CARTEROpinion of the CourtAfter seizing the car, the police returned to apartment103 and arrested the occupant, Kimberly Thompson, who isnot a party to this appeal. A search of the apartment pursu-ant to a warrant revealed cocaine residue on the kitchentable and plastic baggies similar to those found in the Cadillac. Thielen identified Carter, Johns, and Thompson as thethree people he had observed placing the powder into baggies. The police later learned that while Thompson was thelessee of the apartment, Carter and Johns lived in Chicagoand had come to the apartment for the sole purpose of pack-aging the cocaine. Carter and Johns had never been to theapartment before and were only in the apartment for approximately 21/2 hours. In return for the use of the apartment,Carter and Johns had given Thompson one-eighth of anounce of the cocaine.Carter and Johns were charged with conspiracy to commita controlled substance crime in the first degree and aidingand abetting in a controlled substance crime in the first degree, in violation of Minn. Stat. $$ 152.021, subds. 1(1), 3(a),609.05 (1996). They moved to suppress all evidence obtained from the apartment and the Cadillac, as well as tosuppress several postarrest incriminating statements theyhad made. They argued that Thielen's initial observation oftheir drug packaging activities was an unreasonable searchin violation of the Fourth Amendment and that all evidenceobtained as a result of this unreasonable search was inadmissible as fruit of the poisonous tree. The Minnesota trialcourt held that since, unlike the defendant in Minnesota v.Olson, 495 U. S. 91 (1990), Carter and Johns were not overnight social guests but temporary out-of-state visitors, theywere not entitled to claim the protection of the FourthAmendment against the government intrusion into theapartment. The trial court also concluded that Thielen's observation was not a search within the meaning of the FourthAmendment. After a trial, Carter and Johns were each convicted of both offenses. The Minnesota Court of Appeals525US1 Unit: $$U5 [10-31-00 11:29:41] PAGES PGT: OPIN87Cite as: 525 U. S. 83 (1998)Opinion of the Courtheld that respondent Carter did not have "standing" to ob-ject to Thielen's actions because his claim that he was predominantly a social guest was "inconsistent with the onlyevidence concerning his stay in the apartment, which indicates that he used it for a business purpose--to packagedrugs." 545 N. W. 2d 695, 698 (1996). In a separate appeal,the Court of Appeals also affirmed Johns' conviction, withoutaddressing what it termed the "standing" issue. State v.Johns, No. C9-95-1765 (June 11, 1996), App. D-1, D-3(unpublished).A divided Minnesota Supreme Court reversed, holdingthat respondents had "standing" to claim the protection ofthe Fourth Amendment because they had " `a legitimate expectation of privacy in the invaded place.' " 569 N. W. 2d169, 174 (1997) (quoting Rakas v. Illinois, 439 U. S. 128, 143(1978)). The court noted that even though "society does notrecognize as valuable the task of bagging cocaine, we conclude that society does recognize as valuable the right ofproperty owners or leaseholders to invite persons into theprivacy of their homes to conduct a common task, be it legalor illegal activity. We, therefore, hold that [respondents]had standing to bring [their] motion to suppress the evidencegathered as a result of Thielen's observations." 569 N. W.2d, at 176; see also 569 N. W. 2d 180, 181 (1997). Based uponits conclusion that respondents had "standing" to raise theirFourth Amendment claims, the court went on to hold thatThielen's observation constituted a search of the apartmentunder the Fourth Amendment, and that the search wasunreasonable. Id., at 176-179. We granted certiorari, 523U. S. 1003 (1998), and now reverse.The Minnesota courts analyzed whether respondents hada legitimate expectation of privacy under the rubric of"standing" doctrine, an analysis that this Court expresslyrejected 20 years ago in Rakas. 439 U. S., at 139-140. Inthat case, we held that automobile passengers could not assert the protection of the Fourth Amendment against the525US1 Unit: $$U5 [10-31-00 11:29:41] PAGES PGT: OPIN88 MINNESOTA v. CARTEROpinion of the Courtseizure of incriminating evidence from a vehicle where theyowned neither the vehicle nor the evidence. Ibid. Centralto our analysis was the idea that in determining whether adefendant is able to show the violation of his (and not someone else's) Fourth Amendment rights, the "definition of thoserights is more properly placed within the purview of substantive Fourth Amendment law than within that of standing." Id., at 140. Thus, we held that in order to claim theprotection of the Fourth Amendment, a defendant must demonstrate that he personally has an expectation of privacy inthe place searched, and that his expectation is reasonable;i. e., one that has "a source outside of the Fourth Amendment, either by reference to concepts of real or personalproperty law or to understandings that are recognized andpermitted by society." Id., at 143-144, and n. 12. See alsoSmith v. Maryland, 442 U. S. 735, 740-741 (1979).The Fourth Amendment guarantees: "The right of the people to be secure in their persons, houses, papers, and effects,against unreasonable searches and seizures, shall not be violated, and no Warrants shall issue, but upon probable cause,supported by Oath or affirmation, and particularly describing the place to be searched, and the persons or things to beseized." The Amendment protects persons against unreasonable searches of "their persons [and] houses" and thusindicates that the Fourth Amendment is a personal right thatmust be invoked by an individual. See Katz v. UnitedStates, 389 U. S. 347, 351 (1967) ("[T]he Fourth Amendmentprotects people, not places"). But the extent to which theFourth Amendment protects people may depend upon wherethose people are. We have held that "capacity to claim theprotection of the Fourth Amendment depends . . . uponwhether the person who claims the protection of the Amendment has a legitimate expectation of privacy in the invadedplace." Rakas, supra, at 143. See also Rawlings v. Kentucky, 448 U. S. 98, 106 (1980).525US1 Unit: $$U5 [10-31-00 11:29:41] PAGES PGT: OPIN89Cite as: 525 U. S. 83 (1998)Opinion of the CourtThe text of the Amendment suggests that its protectionsextend only to people in "their" houses. But we have heldthat in some circumstances a person may have a legitimateexpectation of privacy in the house of someone else. InMinnesota v. Olson, 495 U. S. 91 (1990), for example, we de-cided that an overnight guest in a house had the sort of expectation of privacy that the Fourth Amendment protects.We said:"To hold that an overnight guest has a legitimate expec-tation of privacy in his host's home merely recognizesthe every day expectations of privacy that we all share.Staying overnight in another's home is a longstandingsocial custom that serves functions recognized as valu-able by society. We stay in others' homes when wetravel to a strange city for business or pleasure, whenwe visit our parents, children, or more distant relativesout of town, when we are in between jobs or homes, orwhen we house-sit for a friend. . . ."From the overnight guest's perspective, he seeksshelter in another's home precisely because it provideshim with privacy, a place where he and his possessionswill not be disturbed by anyone but his host and thosehis host allows inside. We are at our most vulnerablewhen we are asleep because we cannot monitor our ownsafety or the security of our belongings. It is for thisreason that, although we may spend all day in publicplaces, when we cannot sleep in our own home we seekout another private place to sleep, whether it be a hotelroom, or the home of a friend." Id., at 98-99.In Jones v. United States, 362 U. S. 257, 259 (1960), thedefendant seeking to exclude evidence resulting from asearch of an apartment had been given the use of the apart-ment by a friend. He had clothing in the apartment, hadslept there " `maybe a night,' " and at the time was the soleoccupant of the apartment. But while the holding ofJones--that a search of the apartment violated the defend525US1 Unit: $$U5 [10-31-00 11:29:41] PAGES PGT: OPIN90 MINNESOTA v. CARTEROpinion of the Courtant's Fourth Amendment rights--is still valid, its statementthat "anyone legitimately on the premises where a searchoccurs may challenge its legality," id., at 267, was expresslyrepudiated in Rakas v. Illinois, 439 U. S. 128 (1978). Thus,an overnight guest in a home may claim the protection ofthe Fourth Amendment, but one who is merely present withthe consent of the householder may not.Respondents here were obviously not overnight guests,but were essentially present for a business transaction andwere only in the home a matter of hours. There is no suggestion that they had a previous relationship with Thomp-son, or that there was any other purpose to their visit. Norwas there anything similar to the overnight guest relation-ship in Olson to suggest a degree of acceptance into thehousehold.* While the apartment was a dwelling place forThompson, it was for these respondents simply a place todo business.Property used for commercial purposes is treated differently for Fourth Amendment purposes from residential prop-erty. "An expectation of privacy in commercial premises,however, is different from, and indeed less than, a similarexpectation in an individual's home."New York v. Burger,482 U. S. 691, 700 (1987). And while it was a "home" inwhich respondents were present, it was not their home.Similarly, the Court has held that in some circumstances aworker can claim Fourth Amendment protection over his*Justice Ginsburg's dissent, post, at 108-109, would render the operative language in Minnesota v. Olson, 495 U. S. 91 (1990), almost entirelysuperfluous. There, we explained the justification for extending FourthAmendment protection to the overnight visitor: "Staying overnight in another's home is a longstanding social custom that serves functions recognized as valuable by society. . . . We are at our most vulnerable when weare asleep because we cannot monitor our own safety or the security ofour belongings." Id., at 98-99. If any short-term business visit by astranger entitles the visitor to share the Fourth Amendment protection ofthe leaseholder's home, the Court's explanation of its holding in Olson wasquite unnecessary.525US1 Unit: $$U5 [10-31-00 11:29:41] PAGES PGT: OPIN91Cite as: 525 U. S. 83 (1998)Scalia, J., concurringown workplace. See, e. g., O'Connor v. Ortega, 480 U. S. 709(1987). But there is no indication that respondents in thiscase had nearly as significant a connection to Thompson'sapartment as the worker in O'Connor had to his own privateoffice. See id., at 716-717.If we regard the overnight guest inMinnesota v. Olson astypifying those who may claim the protection of the FourthAmendment in the home of another, and one merely "legiti-mately on the premises" as typifying those who may not doso, the present case is obviously somewhere in between.But the purely commercial nature of the transaction engagedin here, the relatively short period of time on the premises,and the lack of any previous connection between respondentsand the householder, all lead us to conclude that respondents'situation is closer to that of one simply permitted on thepremises. We therefore hold that any search which mayhave occurred did not violate their Fourth Amendmentrights.Because we conclude that respondents had no legitimateexpectation of privacy in the apartment, we need not decidewhether the police officer's observation constituted a"search." The judgments of the Supreme Court of Minne-sota are accordingly reversed, and the cause is remanded forproceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.