Petitioner was tried on charges of violating a number offederal criminal statutes penalizing fraud. It is agreed thatthe District Court erred in refusing to submit the issue ofmateriality to the jury with respect to those charges involving tax fraud. See United States v. Gaudin, 515 U. S. 506(1995). We hold that the harmless-error rule of Chapmanv. California, 386 U. S. 18 (1967), applies to this error. Wealso hold that materiality is an element of the federal mailfraud, wire fraud, and bank fraud statutes under which peti-tioner was also charged.IIn the mid-1980's, petitioner Ellis E. Neder, Jr., an attor-ney and real estate developer in Jacksonville, Florida, engaged in a number of real estate transactions financed byfraudulently obtained bank loans. Between 1984 and 1986,Neder purchased 12 parcels of land using shell corporationsset up by his attorneys and then immediately resold the landat much higher prices to limited partnerships that he con*Briefs of amici curiae urging reversal were filed for the AmericanCouncil of Life Insurance et al. by James F. Fitzpatrick and Nancy L.Perkins; and for the National Association of Criminal Defense Lawyersby Roger W. Yoerges and Lisa Kemler.527US1 Unit: $U69 [05-01-01 18:41:51] PAGES PGT: OPIN5Cite as: 527 U. S. 1 (1999)Opinion of the Courttrolled. Using inflated appraisals, Neder secured bank loansthat typically amounted to 70% to 75% of the inflated resaleprice of the land. In so doing, he concealed from lendersthat he controlled the shell corporations, that he had purchased the land at prices substantially lower than the inflated resale prices, and that the limited partnerships hadnot made substantial down payments as represented. Inseveral cases, Neder agreed to sign affidavits falsely statingthat he had no relationship to the shell corporations and thathe was not sharing in the profits from the inflated land sales.By keeping for himself the amount by which the loan proceeds exceeded the original purchase price of the land, Nederwas able to obtain more than $7 million. He failed to reportnearly all of this money on his personal income tax returns.He eventually defaulted on the loans.Neder also engaged in a number of schemes involving landdevelopment fraud. In 1985, he obtained a $4,150,000 construction loan to build condominiums on a project known asCedar Creek. To obtain the loan, he falsely represented tothe lender that he had satisfied a condition of the loan bymaking advance sales of 20 condominium units. In fact, hehad been unable to meet the condition, so he secured additional buyers by making their down payments himself. Hethen had the down payments transferred back to him fromthe escrow accounts into which they had been placed.Neder later defaulted on the loan without repaying anyof the principal. He employed a similar scheme to obtaina second construction loan of $5,400,000, and unsuccessfullyattempted to obtain an additional loan in the same manner.Neder also obtained a consolidated $14 million land acquisition and development loan for a project known as ReddiePoint. Pursuant to the loan, Neder could request funds forwork actually performed on the project. Between September 1987 and March 1988, he submitted numerous requestsbased on false invoices, the lender approved the requests,527US1 Unit: $U69 [05-01-01 18:41:51] PAGES PGT: OPIN6 NEDER v. UNITED STATESOpinion of the Courtand he obtained almost $3 million unrelated to any workactually performed.Neder was indicted on, among other things, 9 counts ofmail fraud, in violation of 18 U. S. C. $ 1341; 9 counts of wirefraud, in violation of $ 1343; 12 counts of bank fraud, in violation of $ 1344; and 2 counts of filing a false income tax return,in violation of 26 U. S. C. $ 7206(1). The fraud countscharged Neder with devising and executing various schemesto defraud lenders in connection with the land acquisitionand development loans, totaling over $40 million. The taxcounts charged Neder with filing false statements of incomeon his tax returns. According to the Government, Nederfailed to report more than $1 million in income for 1985 andmore than $4 million in income for 1986, both amounts reflecting profits Neder obtained from the fraudulent real estate loans.In accordance with then-extant Circuit precedent and overNeder's objection, the District Court instructed the jurythat, to convict on the tax offenses, it "need not consider"the materiality of any false statements "even though thatlanguage is used in the indictment." App. 256. The question of materiality, the court instructed, "is not a questionfor the jury to decide." Ibid. The court gave a similar instruction on bank fraud, id., at 249, and subsequently found,outside the presence of the jury, that the evidence established the materiality of all the false statements at issue, id.,at 167. In instructing the jury on mail fraud and wire fraud,the District Court did not include materiality as an elementof either offense. Id., at 253-255. Neder again objectedto the instruction. The jury convicted Neder of the fraudand tax offenses, and he was sentenced to 147 months' imprisonment, 5 years' supervised release, and $25 million inrestitution.The Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit affirmed theconviction. 136 F. 3d 1459 (1998). It held that the DistrictCourt erred under our intervening decision in United States527US1 Unit: $U69 [05-01-01 18:41:51] PAGES PGT: OPIN7Cite as: 527 U. S. 1 (1999)Opinion of the Courtv. Gaudin, 515 U. S. 506 (1995), in failing to submit the materiality element of the tax offense to the jury. It concluded,however, that the error was subject to harmless-error analysis and, further, that the error was harmless because "materiality was not in dispute," 136 F. 3d, at 1465, and thus theerror " `did not contribute to the verdict obtained,' " ibid.(quoting Yates v. Evatt, 500 U. S. 391, 403 (1991)). TheCourt of Appeals also held that materiality is not an elementof the mail fraud, wire fraud, and bank fraud statutes, andthus the District Court did not err in failing to submit thequestion of materiality to the jury.We granted certiorari, 525 U. S. 928 (1998), to resolve aconflict in the Courts of Appeals on two questions: (1)whether, and under what circumstances, the omission of anelement from the judge's charge to the jury can be harmlesserror, and (2) whether materiality is an element of the federal mail fraud, wire fraud, and bank fraud statutes.IIRule 52(a) of the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure,which governs direct appeals from judgments of convictionin the federal system, provides that "[a]ny error, defect, irregularity or variance which does not affect substantialrights shall be disregarded." Although this Rule by itsterms applies to all errors where a proper objection is madeat trial, we have recognized a limited class of fundamentalconstitutional errors that "defy analysis by `harmless error'standards." Arizona v. Fulminante, 499 U. S. 279, 309(1991); see Chapman v. California, 386 U. S., at 23. Errorsof this type are so intrinsically harmful as to require automatic reversal (i. e., "affect substantial rights") without regard to their effect on the outcome. For all other constitutional errors, reviewing courts must apply Rule 52(a)'sharmless-error analysis and must "disregar[d]" errors thatare harmless "beyond a reasonable doubt." Id., at 24.527US1 Unit: $U69 [05-01-01 18:41:51] PAGES PGT: OPIN8 NEDER v. UNITED STATESOpinion of the CourtIn this case the Government does not dispute that the Dis-trict Court erred under Gaudin in deciding the materialityelement of a $ 7206(1) offense itself, rather than submittingthe issue to the jury. See Brief for United States 10, andn. 1. We must decide whether the error here is subject toharmless-error analysis and, if so, whether the error washarmless. AWe have recognized that "most constitutional errors canbe harmless."Fulminante, supra, at 306. "[I]f the de-fendant had counsel and was tried by an impartial adjudicator, there is a strong presumption that any other [con-stitutional] errors that may have occurred are subject toharmless-error analysis." Rose v. Clark, 478 U. S. 570, 579(1986). Indeed, we have found an error to be "structural,"and thus subject to automatic reversal, only in a "very lim-ited class of cases."Johnson v. United States, 520 U. S. 461,468 (1997) (citing Gideon v. Wainwright, 372 U. S. 335 (1963)(complete denial of counsel); Tumey v. Ohio, 273 U. S. 510(1927) (biased trial judge); Vasquez v. Hillery, 474 U. S. 254(1986) (racial discrimination in selection of grand jury);McKaskle v. Wiggins, 465 U. S. 168 (1984) (denial of selfrepresentation at trial); Waller v. Georgia, 467 U. S. 39 (1984)(denial of public trial);Sullivan v. Louisiana, 508 U. S. 275(1993) (defective reasonable-doubt instruction)).The error at issue here--a jury instruction that omitsan element of the offense--differs markedly from the constitutional violations we have found to defy harmless-errorreview. Those cases, we have explained, contain a "defectaffecting the framework within which the trial proceeds,rather than simply an error in the trial process itself."Ful-minante, supra, at 310. Such errors "infect the entire trialprocess," Brecht v. Abrahamson, 507 U. S. 619, 630 (1993),and "necessarily render a trial fundamentally unfair," Rose,478 U. S., at 577. Put another way, these errors deprive de-fendants of "basic protections" without which "a criminal527US1 Unit: $U69 [05-01-01 18:41:51] PAGES PGT: OPIN9Cite as: 527 U. S. 1 (1999)Opinion of the Courttrial cannot reliably serve its function as a vehicle for de-termination of guilt or innocence . . . and no criminalpunishment may be regarded as fundamentally fair." Id.,at 577-578.Unlike such defects as the complete deprivation of counselor trial before a biased judge, an instruction that omits anelement of the offense does notnecessarily render a criminal trial fundamentally unfair or an unreliable vehicle for de-termining guilt or innocence. Our decision inJohnson v.United States, supra, is instructive. Johnson was a perjuryprosecution in which, as here, the element of materiality wasdecided by the judge rather than submitted to the jury. Thedefendant failed to object at trial, and we thus reviewed herclaim for "plain error." Although reserving the questionwhether the omission of an element ipso facto " `affect[s] substantial rights,' " 520 U. S., at 468-469, we concluded thatthe error did not warrant correction in light of the " `overwhelming' " and "uncontroverted" evidence supporting materiality, id., at 470. Based on this evidence, we explained,the error did not " `seriously affec[t] the fairness, integrityor public reputation of judicial proceedings.' " Id., at 469(quoting United States v. Olano, 507 U. S. 725, 736 (1993)).That conclusion cuts against the argument that the omission of an element will always render a trial unfair. In fact,as this case shows, quite the opposite is true: Neder wastried before an impartial judge, under the correct standardof proof and with the assistance of counsel; a fairly selected,impartial jury was instructed to consider all of the evidenceand argument in respect to Neder's defense against the taxcharges. Of course, the court erroneously failed to chargethe jury on the element of materiality, but that error did notrender Neder's trial "fundamentally unfair," as that term isused in our cases.We have often applied harmless-error analysis to casesinvolving improper instructions on a single element ofthe offense. See, e. g., Yates v. Evatt, 500 U. S. 391 (1991)527US1 Unit: $U69 [05-01-01 18:41:51] PAGES PGT: OPIN10 NEDER v. UNITED STATESOpinion of the Court(mandatory rebuttable presumption); Carella v. California,491 U. S. 263 (1989)(per curiam) (mandatory conclusivepresumption); Pope v. Illinois, 481 U. S. 497 (1987) (mis-statement of element);Rose, supra (mandatory rebuttablepresumption). In other cases, we have recognized thatimproperly omitting an element from the jury can "easily beanalogized to improperly instructing the jury on an elementof the offense, an error which is subject to harmless-erroranalysis."Johnson, supra, at 469 (citations omitted); seealso California v. Roy, 519 U. S. 2, 5 (1996) (per curiam)("The specific error at issue here--an error in the instructionthat defined the crime--is . . . as easily characterized as a`misdescription of an element' of the crime, as it is characterized as an error of `omission' "). In both cases--misdescriptions and omissions--the erroneous instruction precludes thejury from making a finding on the actual element of the offense. The same, we think, can be said of conclusive presumptions, which direct the jury to presume an ultimate element of the offense based on proof of certain predicate facts(e. g., "You must presume malice if you find an intentionalkilling"). Like an omission, a conclusive presumption detersthe jury from considering any evidence other than that related to the predicate facts (e. g., an intentional killing) and"directly foreclose[s] independent jury consideration ofwhether the facts proved established certain elements of theoffens[e]" (e. g., malice). Carella, 491 U. S., at 266; see id.,at 270 (Scalia, J., concurring in judgment).The conclusion that the omission of an element is subjectto harmless-error analysis is consistent with the holding (ifnot the entire reasoning) of Sullivan v. Louisiana, the caseupon which Neder principally relies. In Sullivan, the trialcourt gave the jury a defective "reasonable doubt" instruction in violation of the defendant's Fifth and Sixth Amendment rights to have the charged offense proved beyonda reasonable doubt. See Cage v. Louisiana, 498 U. S. 39(1990) (per curiam). Applying our traditional mode of anal527US1 Unit: $U69 [05-01-01 18:41:51] PAGES PGT: OPIN11Cite as: 527 U. S. 1 (1999)Opinion of the Courtysis, the Court concluded that the error was not subject toharmless-error analysis because it "vitiatesall the jury'sfindings," 508 U. S., at 281, and produces "consequences thatare necessarily unquantifiable and indeterminate,"id., at282. By contrast, the jury-instruction error here did not"vitiat[e] all the jury's findings." Id., at 281; see id., at 284(Rehnquist, C. J., concurring). It did, of course, preventthe jury from making a finding on the element of materiality.Neder argues thatSullivan's alternative reasoning precludes the application of harmless error here. Under thatreasoning, harmless-error analysis cannot be applied to aconstitutional error that precludes the jury from rendering a verdict of guilty-beyond-a-reasonable-doubt because"the entire premise of Chapman review is simply absent."Id., at 280. In the absence of an actual verdict of guiltybeyond-a-reasonable-doubt, the Court explained: "[T]hequestion whether the same verdict of guilty-beyond-areasonable-doubt would have been rendered absent the constitutional error is utterly meaningless. There is no object,so to speak, upon which the harmless-error scrutiny can operate." Ibid.; see Carella, supra, at 268-269 (Scalia, J.,concurring in judgment). Neder argues that this analysisapplies with equal force where the constitutional error, ashere, prevents the jury from rendering a "complete verdict"on every element of the offense. As in Sullivan, Nederargues, the basis for harmless-error review " `is simply absent.' " Brief for Petitioner 7.Although this strand of the reasoning in Sullivan doesprovide support for Neder's position, it cannot be squaredwith our harmless-error cases. In Pope, for example, thetrial court erroneously instructed the jury that it could findthe defendant guilty in an obscenity prosecution if it foundthat the allegedly obscene material lacked serious valueunder "community standards," rather than the correct "reasonable person" standard required by the First Amendment.481 U. S., at 499-501. Because the jury was not properly527US1 Unit: $U69 [05-01-01 18:41:51] PAGES PGT: OPIN12 NEDER v. UNITED STATESOpinion of the Courtinstructed, and consequently did not render a finding, on theactual element of the offense, the defendant's trial did notresult in a "complete verdict" any more than in this case.Yet we held there that harmless-error analysis was appropriate. Id., at 502-503.Similarly, in Carella, the jury was instructed to presumethat the defendant "embezzled [a] vehicle" and "[i]nten[ded]to commit theft" if the jury found that the defendant failedto return a rental car within a certain number of days afterthe expiration of the rental period. 491 U. S., at 264 (internal quotation marks omitted). Again, the jury's finding ofguilt cannot be seen as a "complete verdict" because the conclusive presumption "directly foreclosed independent juryconsideration of whether the facts proved established certainelements of the offenses." Id., at 266. As in Pope, however, we held that the unconstitutional conclusive presumption was "subject to the harmless-error rule." 491 U. S., at266.And in Roy, a federal habeas case involving a state-courtmurder conviction, the trial court erroneously failed to instruct the jury that it could convict the defendant as anaider and abettor only if it found that the defendant hadthe "intent or purpose" of aiding the confederate's crime.519 U. S., at 3 (internal quotation marks and emphasis omitted). Despite that omission, we held that "[t]he case beforeus is a case for application of the `harmless error' standard."Id., at 5.The Government argues, correctly we think, that the absence of a "complete verdict" on every element of the offenseestablishes no more than that an improper instruction on anelement of the offense violates the Sixth Amendment's jurytrial guarantee. The issue here, however, is not whether ajury instruction that omits an element of the offense waserror (a point that is uncontested, see supra, at 8), butwhether the error is subject to harmless-error analysis. We527US1 Unit: $U69 [05-01-01 18:41:51] PAGES PGT: OPIN13Cite as: 527 U. S. 1 (1999)Opinion of the Courtthink our decisions in Pope, Carella, and Roy dictate theanswer to that question.Forced to accept that this Court has applied harmless-error review in cases where the jury did not render a"complete verdict" on every element of the offense, Nederattempts to reconcile our cases by offering an approachgleaned from a plurality opinion inConnecticut v. Johnson,460 U. S. 73 (1983), an opinion concurring in the judgment inCarella, supra, and language in Sullivan, supra. Underthis restrictive approach, an instructional omission, mis-description, or conclusive presumption can be subject toharmless-error analysis only in three "rare situations": (1)where the defendant is acquitted of the offense on which thejury was improperly instructed (and, despite the defendant'sargument that the instruction affected another count, the improper instruction had no bearing on it); (2) where the defendant admitted the element on which the jury was improperly instructed; and (3) where other facts necessarily foundby the jury are the "functional equivalent" of the omitted,misdescribed, or presumed element. See Sullivan, supra,at 281; Carella, supra, at 270-271 (Scalia, J., concurring injudgment); Johnson, supra, at 87 (plurality opinion). Nederunderstandably contends that Pope, Carella, and Roy fallwithin this last exception, which explains why the Courtin those cases held that the instructional error could beharmless.We believe this approach is mistaken for more than onereason. As an initial matter, we are by no means certainthat the cases just mentioned meet the "functional equivalence" test as Neder at times articulates it. See Brief forPetitioner 29 ("[A]ppellate courts [cannot be] given even theslightest latitude to review the record to `fill the gaps' in ajury verdict, as `minor' as those gaps may seem"). In Pope,for example, there was necessarily a "gap" between what thejury did find (that the allegedly obscene material lackedvalue under "community standards") and what it was re527US1 Unit: $U69 [05-01-01 18:41:51] PAGES PGT: OPIN14 NEDER v. UNITED STATESOpinion of the Courtquired to find to convict (that the material lacked valueunder a national "reasonable person" standard). Petitioner's submission would have mandated reversal for a new trialin that case, because a juror in Rockford, Illinois, who foundthat the material lacked value under community standards,would not necessarily have found that it did so under pre-sumably broader and more tolerant national standards. Butsince we held that harmless-error analysis was appropriateinPope, that case not only does not support petitioner's approach, but rejects it.Petiti oner 's submission a lso i mports into the i nitialstructural-error determination (i. e., whether an error isstructural) a case-by-case approach that is more consistentwith our traditional harmless-error inquiry (i. e., whether anerror is harmless). Under our cases, a constitutional erroris either structural or it is not. Thus, even if we were inclined to follow a broader "functional equivalence" test (e. g.,where other facts found by the jury are "so closely related"to the omitted element "that no rational jury could find thosefacts without also finding" the omitted element, Sullivan,508 U. S., at 281 (internal quotation marks omitted)), such atest would be inconsistent with our traditional categoricalapproach to structural errors.We also note that the present case arose in the legal equivalent of a laboratory test tube. The trial court, followingexisting law, ruled that the question of materiality was forthe court, not the jury. It therefore refused a charge on thequestion of materiality. But future cases are not likely tobe so clear cut. In Roy, we said that the error in questioncould be "as easily characterized as a `misdescription of anelement' of the crime, as it is characterized as an error of`omission.' " 519 U. S., at 5. As petitioner concedes, hissubmission would thus call into question the far more common subcategory of misdescriptions. And it would requirea reviewing court in each case to determine just how seriousa "misdescription" it was.527US1 Unit: $U69 [05-01-01 18:41:51] PAGES PGT: OPIN15Cite as: 527 U. S. 1 (1999)Opinion of the CourtDifficult as such issues would be when dealing with theample volume defining federal crimes, they would be measurably compounded by the necessity for federal courts, review-ing state convictions under 28 U. S. C. $ 2254, to ascertainthe elements of the offense as defined in the laws of 50 differ-ent States.It would not be illogical to extend the reasoning of Sullivan from a defective "reasonable doubt" instruction to a fail-ure to instruct on an element of the crime. But, as indicatedin the foregoing discussion, the matter is not res nova underour case law. And if the life of the law has not been logicbut experience, see O. Holmes, The Common Law 1 (1881),we are entitled to stand back and see what would be accomplished by such an extension in this case. The omitted ele-ment was materiality. Petitioner underreported $5 millionon his tax returns, and did not contest the element of materi-ality at trial. Petitioner does not suggest that he would introduce any evidence bearing upon the issue of materialityif so allowed. Reversal without any consideration of the effect of the error upon the verdict would send the case backfor retrial--a retrial not focused at all on the issue of materiality, but on contested issues on which the jury was properlyinstructed. We do not think the Sixth Amendment requiresus to veer away from settled precedent to reach such aresult.BHaving concluded that the omission of an element is anerror that is subject to harmless-error analysis, the questionremains whether Neder's conviction can stand because theerror was harmless. InChapman v. California, 386 U. S.18 (1967), we set forth the test for determining whether aconstitutional error is harmless. That test, we said, iswhether it appears "beyond a reasonable doubt that theerror complained of did not contribute to the verdict ob-tained."Id., at 24; see Delaware v. Van Arsdall, 475 U. S.673, 681 (1986) ("[A]n otherwise valid conviction should not527US1 Unit: $U69 [05-01-01 18:41:51] PAGES PGT: OPIN16 NEDER v. UNITED STATESOpinion of the Courtbe set aside if the reviewing court may confidently say, onthe whole record, that the constitutional error was harmlessbeyond a reasonable doubt").To obtain a conviction on the tax offense at issue, the Government must prove that the defendant filed a tax return"which he does not believe to be true and correct as to everymaterial matter." 26 U. S. C. $ 7206(1). In general, a falsestatement is material if it has "a natural tendency to influ-ence, or [is] capable of influencing, the decision of the decisionmaking body to which it was addressed." United Statesv.Gaudin, 515 U. S., at 509 (quoting Kungys v. United States,485 U. S. 759, 770 (1988) (internal quotation marks omitted)).In a prosecution under $ 7206(1), several courts have determined that "any failure to report income is material."United States v. Holland, 880 F. 2d 1091, 1096 (CA9 1989);see 136 F. 3d, at 1465 (collecting cases). Under either ofthese formulations, no jury could reasonably find that Neder's failure to report substantial amounts of income on histax returns was not "a material matter." 1At trial, the Government introduced evidence that Nederfailed to report over $5 million in income from the loanshe obtained. The failure to report such substantial incomeincontrovertibly establishes that Neder's false statementswere material to a determination of his income tax liability.The evidence supporting materiality was so overwhelming,in fact, that Neder did not argue to the jury--and does notargue here--that his false statements of income could befound immaterial. Instead, he defended against the taxcharges by arguing that the loan proceeds were not income1 Justice Stevens says that the failure to charge the jury on materiality is harmless error in this case because the jury verdict "necessarilyincluded a finding on that issue." Post, at 26 (opinion concurring in partand concurring in judgment). While the evidence of materiality is overwhelming, it is incorrect to say that the jury made such a finding; thecourt explicitly directed the jury not to consider the materiality of anyfalse statements.527US1 Unit: $U69 [05-01-01 18:41:51] PAGES PGT: OPIN17Cite as: 527 U. S. 1 (1999)Opinion of the Courtbecause he intended to repay the loans, and that he reason-ably believed, based on the advice of his accountant and lawyer, that he need not report the proceeds as income. App.208-211, 235 (closing argument). In this situation, where areviewing court concludes beyond a reasonable doubt thatthe omitted element was uncontested and supported by overwhelming evidence, such that the jury verdict would havebeen the same absent the error, the erroneous instruction isproperly found to be harmless. We think it beyond cavilhere that the error "did not contribute to the verdict obtained." Chapman, supra, at 24.Neder disputes our conclusion that the error in this casewas harmless. Relying on language in our Sullivan andYates decisions, he argues that a finding of harmless errormay be made only upon a determination that the jury restedits verdict on evidence that its instructions allowed it to consider. See Sullivan, 508 U. S., at 279; Yates, 500 U. S., at404. To rely on overwhelming record evidence of guilt thejury did not actually consider, he contends, would be to dis-pense with trial by jury and allow judges to direct a guiltyverdict on an element of the offense.2But at bottom this is simply another form of the argumentthat a failure to instruct on any element of the crime is notsubject to harmless-error analysis. Yates involved constitutionally infirm presumptions on an issue that was the cruxof the case--the defendant's intent. But in the case of anomitted element, as the present one, the jury's instructionspreclude any consideration of evidence relevant to the omit2 Justice Scalia, in his opinion concurring in part and dissenting inpart, also suggests that if a failure to charge on an uncontested elementof the offense may be harmless error, the next step will be to allow adirected verdict against a defendant in a criminal case contrary to Rosev. Clark, 478 U. S. 570, 578 (1986). Happily, our course of constitutionaladjudication has not been characterized by this "in for a penny, in for apound" approach. We have no hesitation reaffirming Rose at the sametime that we subject the narrow class of cases like the present one toharmless-error review.527US1 Unit: $U69 [05-01-01 18:41:51] PAGES PGT: OPIN18 NEDER v. UNITED STATESOpinion of the Courtted element, and thus there could be no harmless-error anal-ysis. Since we have previously concluded that harmlesserror analysis is appropriate in such a case, we must look toother cases decided underChapman for the proper modeof analysis.The erroneous admission of evidence in violation of theFifth Amendment's guarantee against self-incrimination, seeArizona v. Fulminante, 499 U. S. 279 (1991), and the errone-ous exclusion of evidence in violation of the right to confrontwitnesses guaranteed by the Sixth Amendment, see Delaware v. Van Arsdall, 475 U. S. 673 (1986), are both subjectto harmless-error analysis under our cases. Such errors,no less than the failure to instruct on an element in violation of the right to a jury trial, infringe upon the jury's factfinding role and affect the jury's deliberative process in waysthat are, strictly speaking, not readily calculable. We think,therefore, that the harmless-error inquiry must be essentially the same: Is it clear beyond a reasonable doubt that arational jury would have found the defendant guilty absentthe error? To set a barrier so high that it could never besurmounted would justify the very criticism that spawnedthe harmless-error doctrine in the first place: "Reversal forerror, regardless of its effect on the judgment, encourageslitigants to abuse the judicial process and bestirs the publicto ridicule it." R. Traynor, The Riddle of Harmless Error50 (1970).We believe that where an omitted element is supported byuncontroverted evidence, this approach reaches an appropriate balance between "society's interest in punishing theguilty [and] the method by which decisions of guilt are to bemade." Connecticut v. Johnson, 460 U. S., at 86 (pluralityopinion). The harmless-error doctrine, we have said, "recognizes the principle that the central purpose of a criminaltrial is to decide the factual question of the defendant's guiltor innocence, . . . and promotes public respect for the criminalprocess by focusing on the underlying fairness of the trial."527US1 Unit: $U69 [05-01-01 18:41:51] PAGES PGT: OPIN19Cite as: 527 U. S. 1 (1999)Opinion of the CourtVan Arsdall, supra, at 681. At the same time, we haverecognized that trial by jury in serious criminal cases "wasdesigned `to guard against a spirit of oppression and tyrannyon the part of rulers,' and `was from very early times insistedon by our ancestors in the parent country, as the great bulwark of their civil and political liberties.' " Gaudin, 515U. S., at 510-511 (quoting 2 J. Story, Commentaries on theConstitution of the United States 540-541 (4th ed. 1873)).In a case such as this one, where a defendant did not, andapparently could not, bring forth facts contesting the omittedelement, answering the question whether the jury verdictwould have been the same absent the error does not fundamentally undermine the purposes of the jury trial guarantee.Of course, safeguarding the jury guarantee will often require that a reviewing court conduct a thorough examinationof the record. If, at the end of that examination, the courtcannot conclude beyond a reasonable doubt that the jury verdict would have been the same absent the error--for example, where the defendant contested the omitted element andraised evidence sufficient to support a contrary finding--itshould not find the error harmless.A reviewing court making this harmless-error inquirydoes not, as Justice Traynor put it, "become in effect a second jury to determine whether the defendant is guilty."Traynor, supra, at 21. Rather a court, in typical appellatecourt fashion, asks whether the record contains evidencethat could rationally lead to a contrary finding with respectto the omitted element. If the answer to that question is"no," holding the error harmless does not "reflec[t] a denigration of the constitutional rights involved." Rose, 478 U. S.,at 577. On the contrary, it "serve[s] a very useful purposeinsofar as [it] block[s] setting aside convictions for small errors or defects that have little, if any, likelihood of havingchanged the result of the trial." Chapman, 386 U. S., at 22.We thus hold that the District Court's failure to submit the527US1 Unit: $U69 [05-01-01 18:41:51] PAGES PGT: OPIN20 NEDER v. UNITED STATESOpinion of the Courtelement of materiality to the jury with respect to the taxcharges was harmless error.IIIWe also granted certiorari in this case to decide whethermateriality is an element of a "scheme or artifice to defraud"under the federal mail fraud (18 U. S. C. $ 1341), wire fraud($ 1343), and bank fraud ($ 1344) statutes. The Court of Appeals concluded that the failure to submit materiality to thejury was not error because the fraud statutes do not requirethat a "scheme to defraud" employ material falsehoods.We disagree.Under the framework set forth in United States v. Wells,519 U. S. 482 (1997), we first look to the text of the statutesat issue to discern whether they require a showing of materi-ality. In this case, we need not dwell long on the text because, as the parties agree, none of the fraud statutes definesthe phrase "scheme or artifice to defraud," or even mentionsmateriality. Although the mail fraud and wire fraud stat-utes contain different jurisdictional elements ($ 1341 requiresuse of the mails while $ 1343 requires use of interstate wirefacilities), they both prohibit, in pertinent part, "any schemeor artifice to defraud" or to obtain money or property "bymeans of false or fraudulent pretenses, representations, orpromises." 3 The bank fraud statute, which was modeled on3 Section 1341 provides in pertinent part:"Whoever, having devised or intending to devise any scheme or artificeto defraud, or for obtaining money or property by means of false or fraudulent pretenses, representations, or promises, . . . for the purpose of executing such scheme or artifice or attempting so to do, places in any post officeor authorized depository for mail matter, any matter or thing whatever tobe sent or delivered by the Postal Service, or deposits or causes to bedeposited any matter or thing whatever to be sent or delivered by anyprivate or commercial interstate carrier, or takes or receives therefrom,any such matter or thing, or knowingly causes to be delivered by mail orsuch carrier according to the direction thereon, or at the place at which itis directed to be delivered by the person to whom it is addressed, any such527US1 Unit: $U69 [05-01-01 18:41:51] PAGES PGT: OPIN21Cite as: 527 U. S. 1 (1999)Opinion of the Courtthe mail and wire fraud statutes, similarly prohibits any"scheme or artifice to defraud a financial institution" or toobtain any property of a financial institution "by false orfraudulent pretenses, representations, or promises."4 Thus,based solely on a "natural reading of the full text," id., at 490,materiality would not be an element of the fraud statutes.That does not end our inquiry, however, because in inter-preting statutory language there is a necessary second step.It is a well-established rule of construction that " `[w]hereCongress uses terms that have accumulated settled meaningunder . . . the common law, a court must infer, unless thestatute otherwise dictates, that Congress means to incorporate the established meaning of these terms.' " NationwideMut. Ins. Co. v. Darden, 503 U. S. 318, 322 (1992) (quotingCommunity for Creative Non-Violence v. Reid, 490 U. S.matter or thing, shall be fined under this title or imprisoned not more thanfive years, or both. If the violation affects a financial institution, suchperson shall be fined not more than $1,000,000 or imprisoned not morethan 30 years, or both."Section 1343 provides:"Whoever, having devised or intending to devise any scheme or artificeto defraud, or for obtaining money or property by means of false or fraudulent pretenses, representations, or promises, transmits or causes to betransmitted by means of wire, radio, or television communication in interstate or foreign commerce, any writings, signs, signals, pictures, or soundsfor the purpose of executing such scheme or artifice, shall be fined underthis title or imprisoned not more than five years, or both. If the violationaffects a financial institution, such person shall be fined not more than$1,000,000 or imprisoned not more than 30 years, or both."4 Section 1344 provides:"Whoever knowingly executes, or attempts to execute, a scheme orartifice--"(1) to defraud a financial institution; or"(2) to obtain any of the moneys, funds, credits, assets, securities, orother property owned by, or under the custody or control of, a financialinstitution, by means of false or fraudulent pretenses, representations, orpromises;"shall be fined not more than $1,000,000 or imprisoned not more than 30years, or both."527US1 Unit: $U69 [05-01-01 18:41:51] PAGES PGT: OPIN22 NEDER v. UNITED STATESOpinion of the Court730, 739 (1989)); see Standard Oil Co. of N. J. v. UnitedStates, 221 U. S. 1, 59 (1911) ("[W]here words are employedin a statute which had at the time a well-known meaning atcommon law or in the law of this country, they are presumedto have been used in that sense"). Neder contends that "de-fraud" is just such a term, and that Congress implicitly incorporated its common-law meaning, including its requirementof materiality,5 into the statutes at issue.The Government does not dispute that both at the time ofthe mail fraud statute's original enactment in 1872, and laterwhen Congress enacted the wire fraud and bank fraud statutes, actionable "fraud" had a well-settled meaning at com-mon law. Nor does it dispute that the well-settled meaningof "fraud" required a misrepresentation or concealment ofmaterial fact. Indeed, as the sources we are aware ofdemonstrate, the common law could not have conceived of"fraud" without proof of materiality. See BMW of NorthAmerica, Inc. v. Gore, 517 U. S. 559, 579 (1996) ("[A]ctionablefraud requires a material misrepresentation or omission"(citing Restatement (Second) of Torts $ 538 (1977); W. Keeton, D. Dobbs, R. Keeton, & D. Owen, Prosser and Keetonon Law of Torts $ 108 (5th ed. 1984)));Smith v. Richards, 13Pet. 26, 39 (1839) (in an action "to set aside a contract forfraud" a "misrepresentation must be of something material"); see also 1 J. Story, Commentaries on Equity Jurisprudence $ 195 (10th ed. 1870) ("In the first place, the misrepre-sentation must be of something material, constituting aninducement or motive to the act or omission of the other5 The Restatement instructs that a matter is material if:"(a) a reasonable man would attach importance to its existence or nonexistence in determining his choice of action in the transaction in question; or"(b) the maker of the representation knows or has reason to know that itsrecipient regards or is likely to regard the matter as important in determining his choice of action, although a reasonable man would not so regardit." Restatement (Second) of Torts $ 538 (1977).527US1 Unit: $U69 [05-01-01 18:41:51] PAGES PGT: OPIN23Cite as: 527 U. S. 1 (1999)Opinion of the Courtparty"). Thus, under the rule that Congress intends to in-corporate the well-settled meaning of the common-law termsit uses, we cannot infer from the absence of an express refer-ence to materiality that Congress intended to drop that element from the fraud statutes.6 On the contrary, we mustpresume that Congress intended to incorporate materiality" `unless the statute otherwise dictates.' " Nationwide Mut.Ins., supra, at 322.7The Government attempts to rebut this presumption byarguing that the term "defraud" would bear its common-lawmeaning only if the fraud statutes "indicated that Congresshad codified the crime of false pretenses or one of thecommon-law torts sounding in fraud." Brief for UnitedStates 37. Instead, the Government argues, Congress chose6 We concluded as much in Field v. Mans, 516 U. S. 59, 69 (1995):" `[F]alse pretenses, a false representation, or actual frau[d]' carry theacquired meaning of terms of art. They are common-law terms, and . . .they imply elements that the common law has defined them to include. . . .Congress could have enumerated their elements, but Congress's contrarydrafting choice did not deprive them of a significance richer than the barestatement of their terms."7 The Government argues that because Congress has provided expressmateriality requirements in other statutes prohibiting fraudulent conduct, the absence of such an express reference in the fraud statutes atissue " `speaks volumes.' " Brief for United States 35 (citing 21 U. S. C.$ 843(a)(4)(A)) (prohibiting the furnishing of "false or fraudulent materialinformation" in documents required under federal drug laws); 26 U. S. C.$ 6700(a)(2)(A) (criminalizing the making of a statement regarding investment tax benefits that an individual "knows or has reason to kno[w] is falseor fraudulent as to any material matter"). These later enacted statutes,however, differ from the fraud statutes here in that they prohibit both"false" and "fraudulent" statements or information. Because the term"false statement" does not imply a materiality requirement, United Statesv. Wells, 519 U. S. 482, 491 (1997), the word "material" limits the statutes'scope to material falsehoods. Moreover, these statutes cannot rebut thepresumption that Congress intended to incorporate the common-lawmeaning of the term "fraud" in the mail fraud, wire fraud, and bank fraudstatutes. That rebuttal can only come from the text or structure of thefraud statutes themselves. See Nationwide Mut. Ins., 503 U. S., at 322.527US1 Unit: $U69 [05-01-01 18:41:51] PAGES PGT: OPIN24 NEDER v. UNITED STATESOpinion of the Courtto unmoor the mail fraud statute from its common-law ana-logs by punishing, not the completed fraud, but rather anyperson "having devised or intending to devise any schemeor artifice to defraud." Read in this light, the Governmentcontends, there is no basis to infer that Congress intendedto limit criminal liability to conduct that would constitute"fraud" at common law, and in particular, tomaterial misrepresentations or omissions. Rather, criminal liabilitywould exist so long as the defendantintended to deceive thevictim, even if the particular means chosen turn out to beimmaterial,i. e., incapable of influencing the intended victim.See n. 3, supra.The Government relies heavily on Durland v. UnitedStates, 161 U. S. 306 (1896), our first decision construing themail fraud statute, to support its argument that the fraudstatutes sweep more broadly than common-law fraud. ButDurland was different from this case. There, the defendant, who had used the mails to sell bonds he did not intendto honor, argued that he could not be held criminally liablebecause his conduct did not fall within the scope of thecommon-law crime of "false pretenses." We rejected theargument that "the statute reaches only such cases as, atcommon law, would come within the definition of `falsepretenses,' in order to make out which there must be amisrepresentation as to some existing fact and not a merepromise as to the future." Id., at 312. Instead, we construed the statute to "includ[e] everything designed to defraud by representations as to the past or present, or suggestions and promises as to the future." Id., at 313. AlthoughDurland held that the mail fraud statute reaches conductthat would not have constituted "false pretenses" at commonlaw, it did not hold, as the Government argues, that the statute encompasses more than common-law fraud.In one sense, the Government is correct that the fraudstatutes did not incorporate all the elements of common-lawfraud. The common-law requirements of "justifiable reli527US1 Unit: $U69 [05-01-01 18:41:51] PAGES PGT: OPIN25Cite as: 527 U. S. 1 (1999)Opinion of Stevens, J.ance" and "damages," for example, plainly have no place inthe federal fraud statutes. See, e. g., United States v. Stewart, 872 F. 2d 957, 960 (CA10 1989) ("[Under the mail fraudstatute,] the government does not have to prove actual reliance upon the defendant's misrepresentations"); UnitedStates v. Rowe, 56 F. 2d 747, 749 (CA2) (L. Hand, J.) ("Civillyof course the [mail fraud statute] would fail without proof ofdamage, but that has no application to criminal liability"),cert. denied, 286 U. S. 554 (1932). By prohibiting the"scheme to defraud," rather than the completed fraud, theelements of reliance and damage would clearly be inconsistent with the statutes Congress enacted. But while the lan-guage of the fraud statutes is incompatible with these requirements, the Government has failed to show that thislanguage is inconsistent with a materiality requirement.Accordingly, we hold that materiality of falsehood is anelement of the federal mail fraud, wire fraud, and bank fraudstatutes. Consistent with our normal practice where thecourt below has not yet passed on the harmlessness of anyerror, see Carella, 491 U. S., at 266-267, we remand this caseto the Court of Appeals for it to consider in the first instancewhether the jury-instruction error was harmless.IVThe judgment of the Court of Appeals respecting the taxfraud counts is affirmed. The judgment of the Court ofAppeals on the remaining counts is reversed, and the caseis remanded for further proceedings consistent with thisopinion.