Petitioner murdered and robbed Roger Sarfaty in 1985.In 1986, he murdered and robbed Lloyd Thompson. Petitioner was tried separately for each murder. The Thompsontrial occurred first, and an Oklahoma jury found petitionerguilty and sentenced him to death. Petitioner was thentried for the Sarfaty murder. A different Oklahoma juryfound him guilty and sentenced him to death. During thesentencing phase of the Sarfaty trial, the State introduced acopy of the judgment and sentence petitioner received forthe Thompson murder. Petitioner contends that the admission of evidence regarding his prior death sentence under-mined the Sarfaty jury's sense of responsibility for determining the appropriateness of the death penalty, in violation ofthe Eighth and Fourteenth Amendments. We disagree andhold that the admission of this evidence did not amount toconstitutional error.In Oklahoma, capital trials are bifurcated into guilt andsentencing phases. Okla. Stat., Tit. 21, $ 701.10 (1981). The*A brief of amici curiae urging affirmance was filed for the State ofOhio et al. by Lee Fisher, Attorney General of Ohio, Richard A. Cordray,State Solicitor, Simon B. Karas, Deputy Chief Counsel, and Cordelia A.Glenn and Mary L. Hollern, Assistant Attorneys General, and by theAttorneys General for their respective States as follows: Winston Bryantof Arkansas, Richard Blumenthal of Connecticut, Charles M. Oberly IIIof Delaware, Pamela Carter of Indiana, Mike Moore of Mississippi, JosephP. Mazurek of Montana, Don Stenberg of Nebraska, Ernest D. Preate, Jr.,of Pennsylvania, T. Travis Medlock of South Carolina, and Stephen D.Rosenthal of Virginia.512us1$66H 01-08-98 12:19:25 PAGES OPINPGT4 ROMANO v. OKLAHOMAOpinion of the Courtsentencing jury may not impose a death sentence unless itunanimously finds the existence of at least one statutory aggravating circumstance beyond a reasonable doubt, and thatany aggravating circumstances outweigh any mitigatingcircumstances. $ 701.12. At the sentencing phase of theSarfaty trial, the State sought to prove four aggravating circumstances, two of which are relevant to our decision: (1)that petitioner had been previously convicted of a violentfelony; and (2) that petitioner would constitute a continuingthreat to society.1In attempting to establish these two aggravating cir-cumstances, the State introduced evidence relating to theThompson murder. The State presented testimony byThompson's neighbor concerning her observations the day ofthe murder, Thompson's autopsy report, and photographsand fingerprints showing that the defendant in the Thompson case was in fact petitioner. The State also introduced acopy of the judgment and sentence from the Thompson murder conviction. That document revealed that petitioner hadbeen convicted of first-degree murder and had been sentenced to death. App. 5-6. It also showed, and the trialcourt told the jury, that petitioner planned on appealing fromthe judgment and sentence. Id., at 7. Petitioner's counselobjected to the admission of the document. He argued that,regardless of the admissibility of the evidence of petitioner'sconviction, the death sentence petitioner received was notproper for the jury to consider. The trial court overruledthe objection and admitted the evidence. Petitioner laterpresented evidence in mitigation.Before closing arguments, the trial court instructed thejury. It identified the four aggravating circumstances theState sought to establish and told the jury that "[i]n determining which sentence you may impose in this case, you may1 The other two aggravating circumstances were that the murder wasespecially heinous, atrocious, and cruel, and that it was committed to avoidlawful arrest or prosecution.512us1$66H 01-08-98 12:19:25 PAGES OPINPGT5Cite as: 512 U. S. 1 (1994)Opinion of the Courtconsider only those [four] circumstances." Id., at 9. Thecourt then identified the 17 mitigating circumstances offeredby petitioner. The jury was instructed that it could notimpose the death penalty unless it unanimously found thatone or more aggravating circumstances existed beyond a rea-sonable doubt and that any such circumstances outweighedany mitigating circumstances. Id., at 8-12. In closing, thecourt admonished the jury:"You are the determiner of the facts. The impor-tance and worth of the evidence is for you to decide."I have made rulings during the second part of thistrial. In ruling, I have not in any way suggested toyou, nor intimidated [sic] in any way, what you shoulddecide. I do not express any opinion whether or notaggravating circumstances or mitigating circumstancesdid or did not exist, nor do I suggest to you in any waythe punishment to be imposed by you."You must not use any kind of chance in reaching averdict, but you must rest it on the belief of each of youwho agrees with it." Id., at 13.The jury found that all four aggravating circumstances ex-isted and that they outweighed the mitigating circumstances.It accordingly imposed a death sentence. Petitioner ap-pealed. While his appeal in this case was pending, the Oklahoma Court of Criminal Appeals overturned petitioner'sconviction for the Thompson murder. SeeRomano v. Okla-homa, 827 P. 2d 1335 (1992) (Romano I). The OklahomaCourt of Criminal Appeals held that petitioner's trial shouldhave been severed from that of his codefendant; it thereforereversed and remanded for a new trial.2In his appeal in this case, petitioner argued, inter alia,that the trial court erred by admitting evidence of his convic-tion and sentence for the Thompson murder. He asserted2 On retrial for the Thompson murder, petitioner was again convictedand again sentenced to death. Brief for Petitioner 31, n. 11.512us1$66H 01-08-98 12:19:25 PAGES OPINPGT6 ROMANO v. OKLAHOMAOpinion of the Courtthat it was improper to admit the conviction because it wasnot final at the time of admission, and it had since been overturned. He also contended that the evidence of his deathsentence in the Thompson case impermissibly reduced theSarfaty sentencing jury's sense of responsibility for its decision, in violation of Caldwell v. Mississippi, 472 U. S. 320(1985).The Oklahoma Court of Criminal Appeals affirmed. 847P. 2d 368, 390 (1993)(Romano II). The Oklahoma courtconcluded that the evidence regarding petitioner's priordeath sentence was irrelevant. Because the jury was properly instructed in this case, however, it could not be said"that the jury in any way shifted the responsibility for theirdecision or considered their decision any less significant thanthey would otherwise." Ibid. The Court of Criminal Appeals further held that the admission of the evidence "didnot so infect the sentencing determination with unfairnessas to make the determination to impose the death penalty adenial of due process." Id., at 391.Petitioner sought our review, and we granted certiorari,limited to the following question: "Does admission of evidence that a capital defendant already has been sentenced todeath in another case impermissibly undermine the sentencing jury's sense of responsibility for determining the appropriateness of the defendant's death, in violation of the Eighthand Fourteenth Amendments?" 510 U. S. 943 (1993). Wenow affirm.It is helpful to begin by placing petitioner's challengewithin the larger context of our Eighth Amendment deathpenalty jurisprudence. We have held that the EighthAmendment's concern that the death penalty be both appropriate and not randomly imposed requires the States toperform two somewhat contradictory tasks in order to impose the death penalty.First, States must properly establish a threshold belowwhich the penalty cannot be imposed. McCleskey v. Kemp,512us1$66H 01-08-98 12:19:25 PAGES OPINPGT7Cite as: 512 U. S. 1 (1994)Opinion of the Court481 U. S. 279, 305 (1987). To ensure that this threshold ismet, the "State must establish rational criteria that narrowthe decisionmaker's judgment as to whether the circum-stances of a particular defendant's case meet the threshold."Ibid. As we stated in Lowenfield v. Phelps, 484 U. S. 231(1988), "[t]o pass constitutional muster, a capital sentencingscheme must `genuinely narrow the class of persons eligiblefor the death penalty and must reasonably justify the imposi-tion of a more severe sentence on the defendant compared toothers found guilty of murder.' " Id., at 244 (quoting Zantv.Stephens, 462 U. S. 862, 877 (1983)). In this respect, aState's sentencing procedure must suitably direct and limitthe decisionmaker's discretion " `so as to minimize the risk ofwholly arbitrary and capricious action.' " Id., at 874 (quoting Gregg v. Georgia, 428 U. S. 153, 189 (1976)). Petitionerdoes not allege that Oklahoma's sentencing scheme fails toadequately perform the requisite narrowing.Second, States must ensure that "capital sentencing decisions rest on [an] individualized inquiry," under which the"character and record of the individual offender and the circumstances of the particular offense" are considered. McCleskey, supra, at 303 (internal quotation marks omitted);see also Clemons v. Mississippi, 494 U. S. 738, 748 (1990).To this end, "States cannot limit the sentencer's consideration of any relevant circumstance that could cause it todecline to impose the penalty. In this respect, the Statecannot channel the sentencer's discretion, but must allow itto consider any relevant information offered by the defendant." McCleskey, supra, at 306.Within these constitutional limits, "the States enjoy theirtraditional latitude to prescribe the method by which thosewho commit murder shall be punished." Blystone v. Pennsylvania, 494 U. S. 299, 309 (1990). This latitude extends toevidentiary rules at sentencing proceedings. See, e. g.,Gregg, supra, at 203-204 (approving "the wide scope ofevidence and argument allowed at presentence hearings"512us1$66H 01-08-98 12:19:25 PAGES OPINPGT8 ROMANO v. OKLAHOMAOpinion of the Courtin Georgia). As we observed in California v. Ramos, 463U. S. 992, 999 (1983):"In ensuring that the death penalty is not meted outarbitrarily or capriciously, the Court's principal concernhas been more with the procedure by which the Stateimposes the death sentence than with the substantivefactors the State lays before the jury as a basis forimposing death, once it has been determined that thedefendant falls within the category of persons eligiblefor the death penalty."See also id., at 1008 ("Once the jury finds that the defendantfalls within the legislatively defined category of persons eligible for the death penalty . . . the jury then is free to con-sider a myriad of factors to determine whether death is theappropriate punishment").We have also held, in Caldwell v. Mississippi, that the jurymust not be misled regarding the role it plays in the sentencing decision. See 472 U. S., at 336 (plurality opinion); id., at341-342 (O'Connor, J., concurring in part and concurring injudgment). The prosecutor in Caldwell, in remarks which"were quite focused, unambiguous, and strong," misled thejury to believe that the responsibility for sentencing thedefendant lay elsewhere.Id., at 340. The trial judge "notonly failed to correct the prosecutor's remarks, but in factopenly agreed with them." Id., at 339.The plurality concluded that the prosecutor's remarks,along with the trial judge's affirmation, impermissibly "mini-mize[d] the jury's sense of responsibility for determining theappropriateness of death." Id., at 341. Such a diminution,the plurality felt, precluded the jury from properly performing its responsibility to make an individualized determination of the appropriateness of the death penalty. Id., at 330-331. Justice O'Connor, in her opinion concurring in partand concurring in the judgment, identified more narrowlythe infirmity in the prosecutor's remarks: "In my view, the512us1$66H 01-08-98 12:19:25 PAGES OPINPGT9Cite as: 512 U. S. 1 (1994)Opinion of the Courtprosecutor's remarks were impermissible because they wereinaccurate and misleading in a manner that diminished thejury's sense of responsibility." Id., at 342.AsJustice O'Connor supplied the fifth vote in Caldwell,and concurred on grounds narrower than those put forth bythe plurality, her position is controlling. See Marks v.United States, 430 U. S. 188, 193 (1977); Gregg, supra, at 169,n. 15. Accordingly, we have since read Caldwell as "rele-vant only to certain types of comment--those that misleadthe jury as to its role in the sentencing process in a way thatallows the jury to feel less responsible than it should for thesentencing decision." Darden v. Wainwright, 477 U. S. 168,184, n. 15 (1986). Thus, "[t]o establish aCaldwell violation,a defendant necessarily must show that the remarks to thejury improperly described the role assigned to the jury bylocal law." Dugger v. Adams, 489 U. S. 401, 407 (1989); seealso Sawyer v. Smith, 497 U. S. 227, 233 (1990).Petitioner argues that Caldwell controls this case. Hecontends that the evidence of his prior death sentence imper-missibly undermined the sentencing jury's sense of responsibility, in violation of the principle established in Caldwell.We disagree. The infirmity identified inCaldwell is simplyabsent in this case: Here, the jury was not affirmatively misled regarding its role in the sentencing process. The evi-dence at issue was neither false at the time it was admitted,nor did it even pertain to the jury's role in the sentencingprocess. The trial court's instructions, moreover, emphasized the importance of the jury's role. As the Court ofCriminal Appeals observed:"The jury was instructed that it had the responsibilityfor determining whether the death penalty should beimposed. . . . It was never conveyed or intimated in anyway, by the court or the attorneys, that the jury couldshift its responsibility in sentencing or that its role inany way had been minimized."Romano II, 847 P. 2d,at 390.512us1$66H 01-08-98 12:19:25 PAGES OPINPGT10 ROMANO v. OKLAHOMAOpinion of the CourtWe do not believe that the admission of evidence regardingpetitioner's prior death sentence affirmatively misled thejury regarding its role in the sentencing process so as todiminish its sense of responsibility. The admission of thisevidence, therefore, did not contravene the principle established in Caldwell.That this case is different fromCaldwell only resolves partof petitioner's challenge. In addition to raising a "Caldwell"claim, petitioner presents a more general contention: He argues that because the evidence of his prior death sentencewas inaccurate and irrelevant, the jury's consideration of itrendered his sentencing proceeding so unreliable that theproceeding violated the Eighth Amendment. See Lockett v.Ohio, 438 U. S. 586, 604 (1978) (plurality opinion); Woodsonv. North Carolina, 428 U. S. 280, 305 (1976). The Oklahomacourt agreed that the "evidence of the imposition of thedeath penalty by another jury is not relevant in determiningthe appropriateness of the death sentence for the instantoffense." Romano II, supra, at 391. That the evidencemay have been irrelevant as a matter of state law, however,does not render its admission federal constitutional error.See Estelle v. McGuire, 502 U. S. 62, 67 (1991).Some of the cases upon which petitioner relies for support,to be sure, do hold that the Constitution bars the introduction of certain evidence at sentencing proceedings. Butthese cases are plainly inapposite. Petitioner cites, for example, Dawson v. Delaware, 503 U. S. 159 (1992). There weheld that the trial court erred by admitting evidence, atDawson's capital sentencing proceeding, regarding Dawson'smembership in a white racist prison gang known as theAryan Brotherhood. See id., at 162-163. It was constitutional error, however, only because the admission violated"Dawson's First Amendment rights." Id., at 167. Dawsonthus involved application of the principle first enunciated inZant: An aggravating circumstance is invalid if "it authorizes a jury to draw adverse inferences from conduct that is512us1$66H 01-08-98 12:19:25 PAGES OPINPGT11Cite as: 512 U. S. 1 (1994)Opinion of the Courtconstitutionally protected." 462 U. S., at 885. Petitionerdoes not argue that the admission of evidence regarding hisprior death sentence allowed the jury to consider, in aggra-vation, constitutionally protected conduct. Accordingly, ourdecisions in Dawson and Zant do not support petitioner'scontention.Petitioner also citesJohnson v. Mississippi, 486 U. S. 578(1988), but it, too, is inapposite. There we reversed the im-position of Johnson's death sentence because the only evidence supporting an aggravating factor turned out to be in-valid, and because the Mississippi Supreme Court refused toreweigh the remaining, untainted aggravating circumstancesagainst the mitigating circumstances. Id., at 586, 590, n. 8.Similarly, in this case the only evidence supporting the "priorviolent felony" aggravating circumstance was the judgmentfrom petitioner's conviction for the Thompson murder. Thatevidence, like the evidence in Johnson, was rendered invalidby the reversal of petitioner's conviction on appeal.Here, however, the Oklahoma Court of Criminal Appealsstruck the "prior violent felony" aggravator, reweighed thethree untainted aggravating circumstances against the mitigating circumstances, and still concluded that the death penalty was warranted. See Romano II, supra, at 389, 393-394. The Court of Criminal Appeals' approach is perfectlyconsistent with our precedents, including Johnson, where weremanded without limiting the Mississippi Supreme Court'sauthority to reweigh the remaining aggravating circumstances against the mitigating circumstances. See 486 U. S.,at 590; id., at 591 (White, J., concurring); see also Clemons,494 U. S., at 744-750. Contrary to petitioner's assertion,Johnson does not stand for the proposition that the mereadmission of irrelevant and prejudicial evidence requires theoverturning of a death sentence.Petitioner's argument, pared down, seems to be a requestthat we fashion general evidentiary rules, under the guise ofinterpreting the Eighth Amendment, which would govern512us1$66H 01-08-98 12:19:25 PAGES OPINPGT12 ROMANO v. OKLAHOMAOpinion of the Courtthe admissibility of evidence at capital sentencing proceed-ings. We have not done so in the past, however, and we willnot do so today. The Eighth Amendment does not establisha federal code of evidence to supersede state evidentiaryrules in capital sentencing proceedings. Cf. Payne v. Tennessee, 501 U. S. 808, 824-825 (1991); Blystone, 494 U. S., at309.Petitioner finally argues that the introduction of the evi-dence in question violated the Due Process Clause of theFourteenth Amendment. It is settled that this Clause ap-plies to the sentencing phase of capital trials. See,e. g.,Payne, supra, at 825; Clemons, supra, at 746 ("[C]apital sentencing proceedings must of course satisfy the dictates of theDue Process Clause").We believe the proper analytical framework in which toconsider this claim is found in Donnelly v. DeChristoforo,416 U. S. 637, 643 (1974). There we addressed a claim thatremarks made by the prosecutor during his closing argumentwere so prejudicial as to violate the defendant's due processrights. We noted that the case was not one in which theState had denied a defendant the benefit of a specific constitutional right, such as the right to counsel, or in which theremarks so prejudiced a specific right as to amount to a denial of that right. Id., at 643. Accordingly, we sought todetermine whether the prosecutor's remark "so infected thetrial with unfairness as to make the resulting conviction adenial of due process." Ibid. We concluded, after an "examination of the entire proceedings," that the remarks didnot amount to a denial of constitutional due process. Ibid.The relevant question in this case, therefore, is whetherthe admission of evidence regarding petitioner's prior deathsentence so infected the sentencing proceeding with unfairness as to render the jury's imposition of the death penaltya denial of due process. See Sawyer, 497 U. S., at 244 (observing that "[t]he Caldwell rule was . . . added to [Donnelly's] existing guarantee of due process protection against512us1$66H 01-08-98 12:19:25 PAGES OPINPGT13Cite as: 512 U. S. 1 (1994)Opinion of the Courtfundamental unfairness"); see also Darden, 477 U. S., at 178-181 (in analyzing allegedly improper comments made byprosecutor during closing argument of guilt-innocence stageof capital trial, "[t]he relevant question is whether the prosecutors' comments `so infected the trial with unfairness as tomake the resulting conviction a denial of due process' " (quot-ingDonnelly, supra, at 643)). Under this standard of review, we agree with the Oklahoma Court of Criminal Ap-peals that the admission of this evidence did not deprivepetitioner of a fair sentencing proceeding.The evidence that petitioner received a death sentence formurdering Thompson was deemed irrelevant by the Oklahoma Court of Criminal Appeals. See Romano II, 847 P.2d, at 391. However, if the jurors followed the trial court'sinstructions, which we presume they did, see Richardson v.Marsh, 481 U. S. 200, 206-207, 211 (1987), this evidenceshould have had little--if any--effect on their deliberations.Those instructions clearly and properly described the jurors'paramount role in determining petitioner's sentence, andthey also explicitly limited the jurors' consideration of aggravating factors to the four which the State sought to prove.Regardless of the evidence as to petitioner's death sentencein the Thompson case, the jury had sufficient evidence tojustify its conclusion that these four aggravating circumstances existed. Although one of the aggravating circumstances proved invalid when petitioner's conviction for theThompson murder was overturned on appeal, the other threeremained untainted and still outweighed the mitigating circumstances. See Romano II, supra, at 389, 393-394. Inshort, the instructions did not offer the jurors any means bywhich to give effect to the evidence of petitioner's sentencein the Thompson murder, and the other relevant evidencepresented by the State was sufficient to justify the imposition of the death sentence in this case.Even assuming that the jury disregarded the trial court'sinstructions and allowed the evidence of petitioner's prior512us1$66H 01-08-98 12:19:25 PAGES OPINPGT14 ROMANO v. OKLAHOMAO'Connor, J., concurringdeath sentence to influence its decision, it is impossible toknow how this evidence might have affected the jury. Itseems equally plausible that the evidence could have madethe jurors more inclined to impose a death sentence, or itcould have made them less inclined to do so. Either conclusion necessarily rests upon one's intuition. To hold on thebasis of this record that the admission of evidence relatingto petitioner's sentence in the Thompson case rendered peti-tioner's sentencing proceeding for the Sarfaty murder fundamentally unfair would thus be an exercise in speculation,rather than reasoned judgment.The judgment of the Oklahoma Court of Criminal Ap-peals is