Petitioners challenge the constitutionality of an injunctionentered by a Florida state court which prohibits antiabortionprotesters from demonstrating in certain places and in vari-ous ways outside of a health clinic that performs abortions.We hold that the establishment of a 36-foot buffer zone on apublic street from which demonstrators are excluded passesmuster under the First Amendment, but that several otherprovisions of the injunction do not.IRespondents operate abortion clinics throughout centralFlorida. Petitioners and other groups and individuals areald B. Curington and Gypsy Bailey, Assistant Attorneys General, EleniM. Constantine, and Richard Cordray, and by the Attorneys General fortheir respective States as follows: Grant Woods of Arizona, Gale A. Norton of Colorado, Richard Blumenthal of Connecticut, Robert A. Marks ofHawaii, Roland W. Burris of Illinois, Pamela Carter of Indiana, MichaelE. Carpenter of Maine, J. Joseph Curran, Jr., of Maryland, Scott Harshbarger of Massachusetts, Hubert H. Humphrey III of Minnesota, JosephP. Mazurek of Montana, Deborah T. Poritz of New Jersey, Frankie SueDel Papa of Nevada, Tom Udall of New Mexico, G. Oliver Koppell of NewYork, Michael F. Easley of North Carolina, Lee Fisher of Ohio, TheodoreE. Kulongoski of Oregon, Jeffrey B. Pine of Rhode Island, Charles W.Burson of Tennessee, Dan Morales of Texas, Jeffrey L. Amestoy of Vermont, Darrell V. McGraw, Jr., of West Virginia, and James E. Doyle ofWisconsin; for the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists etal. by Carter G. Phillips, Joseph R. Guerra, Ann E. Allen, and Paul M.Smith; for the Center for Reproductive Law & Policy et al. by Lenora M.Lapidus; for the National Abortion Federation et al. by Elaine Metlin,Lynn I. Miller, Roger K. Evans, and Eve W. Paul; for the NOW LegalDefense and Education Fund et al. by Martha F. Davis, Deborah A. Ellis,Sally F. Goldfarb, and Burt Neuborne; and for People for the AmericanWay et al. by Joseph N. Onek, Richard McMillan, Jr., Elliot M. Mincberg,Lawrence S. Ottinger, Steven M. Freeman, Marc D. Stern, Lois C. Waldman, Richard F. Wolfson, Ronald Lindsay, Elaine R. Jones, Theodore M.Shaw, and Charles Stephen Ralston.Laurence Gold and Walter Kamiat filed a brief for the American Federation of Labor and Congress of Industrial Organizations as amicus curiae.512us3$91H 12-28-97 17:25:10 PAGES OPINPGT758 MADSEN v. WOMEN'S HEALTH CENTER, INC.Opinion of the Courtengaged in activities near the site of one such clinic in Melbourne, Florida. They picketed and demonstrated wherethe public street gives access to the clinic. In September1992, a Florida state court permanently enjoined petitionersfrom blocking or interfering with public access to the clinic,and from physically abusing persons entering or leaving theclinic. Six months later, respondents sought to broaden theinjunction, complaining that access to the clinic was still impeded by petitioners' activities and that such activities hadalso discouraged some potential patients from entering theclinic, and had deleterious physical effects on others. Thetrial court thereupon issued a broader injunction, which ischallenged here.The court found that, despite the initial injunction, protesters continued to impede access to the clinic by congregating on the paved portion of the street--Dixie Way--leadingup to the clinic, and by marching in front of the clinic's driveways. It found that as vehicles heading toward the clinicslowed to allow the protesters to move out of the way, "sidewalk counselors" would approach and attempt to give thevehicle's occupants antiabortion literature. The number ofpeople congregating varied from a handful to 400, and thenoise varied from singing and chanting to the use of loudspeakers and bullhorns.The protests, the court found, took their toll on the clinic'spatients. A clinic doctor testified that, as a result of havingto run such a gauntlet to enter the clinic, the patients "manifested a higher level of anxiety and hypertension causingthose patients to need a higher level of sedation to undergothe surgical procedures, thereby increasing the risk associated with such procedures." App. 54. The noise producedby the protesters could be heard within the clinic, causingstress in the patients both during surgical procedures andwhile recuperating in the recovery rooms. And those patients who turned away because of the crowd to return at a512us3$91H 12-28-97 17:25:10 PAGES OPINPGT759Cite as: 512 U. S. 753 (1994)Opinion of the Courtlater date, the doctor testified, increased their health risksby reason of the delay.Doctors and clinic workers, in turn, were not immune evenin their homes. Petitioners picketed in front of clinic employees' residences; shouted at passersby; rang the doorbellsof neighbors and provided literature identifying the particular clinic employee as a "baby killer." Occasionally, the pro-testers would confront minor children of clinic employeeswho were home alone.This and similar testimony led the state court to concludethat its original injunction had proved insufficient "to pro-tect the health, safety and rights of women in Brevard andSeminole County, Florida and surrounding counties seekingaccess to [medical and counseling] services." Id., at 5. Thestate court therefore amended its prior order, enjoining abroader array of activities. The amended injunction prohibits petitioners 1 from engaging in the following acts:"(1) At all times on all days, from entering the prem-ises and property of the Aware Woman Center forChoice [the Melbourne clinic] . . . ."(2) At all times on all days, from blocking, impeding,inhibiting, or in any other manner obstructing or inter-fering with access to, ingress into and egress from anybuilding or parking lot of the Clinic."(3) At all times on all days, from congregating, picketing, patrolling, demonstrating or entering that portionof public right-of-way or private property within [36]feet of the property line of the Clinic . . . . An exceptionto the 36 foot buffer zone is the area immediately adjacent to the Clinic on the east . . . . The [petitioners] . . .must remain at least [5] feet from the Clinic's east line.1 In addition to petitioners, the state court's order was directed at"Operation Rescue, Operation Rescue America, Operation Goliath, theirofficers, agents, members, employees and servants, and . . . Bruce Cadle,Pat Mahoney, Randall Terry, . . . and all persons acting in concert or participation with them, or on their behalf." App. 56.512us3$91H 12-28-97 17:25:10 PAGES OPINPGT760 MADSEN v. WOMEN'S HEALTH CENTER, INC.Opinion of the CourtAnother exception to the 36 foot buffer zone relates tothe record title owners of the property to the north andwest of the Clinic. The prohibition against entry intothe 36 foot buffer zones does not apply to such personsand their invitees. The other prohibitions containedherein do apply, if such owners and their invitees areacting in concert with the [petitioners]. . . ."(4) During the hours of 7:30 a.m. through noon, onMondays through Saturdays, during surgical proceduresand recovery periods, from singing, chanting, whistling,shouting, yelling, use of bullhorns, auto horns, sound amplification equipment or other sounds or images observable to or within earshot of the patients inside the Clinic."(5) At all times on all days, in an area within [300]feet of the Clinic, from physically approaching any person seeking the services of the Clinic unless such personindicates a desire to communicate by approaching or byinquiring of the [petitioners]. . . ."(6) At all times on all days, from approaching, congregating, picketing, patrolling, demonstrating or usingbullhorns or other sound amplification equipment within[300] feet of the residence of any of the [respondents']employees, staff, owners or agents, or blocking or attempting to block, barricade, or in any other manner,temporarily or otherwise, obstruct the entrances, exitsor driveways of the residences of any of the [respondents'] employees, staff, owners or agents. The [petitioners] and those acting in concert with them are prohibited from inhibiting or impeding or attempting toimpede, temporarily or otherwise, the free ingress oregress of persons to any street that provides the soleaccess to the street on which those residences arelocated."(7) At all times on all days, from physically abusing,grabbing, intimidating, harassing, touching, pushing,shoving, crowding or assaulting persons entering or512us3$91H 12-28-97 17:25:10 PAGES OPINPGT761Cite as: 512 U. S. 753 (1994)Opinion of the Courtleaving, working at or using services at the [respond-ents'] Clinic or trying to gain access to, or leave, any ofthe homes of owners, staff or patients of the Clinic . . . ."(8) At all times on all days, from harassing, intimidating or physically abusing, assaulting or threateningany present or former doctor, health care professional,or other staff member, employee or volunteer who as-sists in providing services at the [respondents'] Clinic."(9) At all times on all days, from encouraging, in-citing, or securing other persons to commit any of theprohibited acts listed herein." Operation Rescue v.Women's Health Center, Inc., 626 So. 2d 664, 679-680(Fla. 1993).The Florida Supreme Court upheld the constitutionality ofthe trial court's amended injunction. 626 So. 2d 664. Thatcourt recognized that the forum at issue, which consists ofpublic streets, sidewalks, and rights-of-way, is a traditionalpublic forum. Id., at 671, citing Frisby v. Schultz, 487 U. S.474, 480 (1988). It then determined that the restrictions arecontent neutral, and it accordingly refused to apply theheightened scrutiny dictated byPerry Ed. Assn. v. PerryLocal Educators' Assn., 460 U. S. 37, 45 (1983) (To enforce acontent-based exclusion the State must show that its regula-tion is necessary to serve a compelling state interest andthat it is narrowly drawn to achieve that end). Instead, thecourt analyzed the injunction to determine whether the restrictions are "narrowly tailored to serve a significant gov-ernment interest, and leave open ample alternative channelsof communication." Ibid. It concluded that they were.Shortly before the Florida Supreme Court's opinion wasannounced, the United States Court of Appeals for the Elev-enth Circuit heard a separate challenge to the same injunction. The Court of Appeals struck down the injunction,characterizing the dispute as a clash "between an actual prohibition of speech and a potential hinderance to the free ex-ercise of abortion rights." Cheffer v. McGregor, 6 F. 3d 705,512us3$91H 12-28-97 17:25:10 PAGES OPINPGT762 MADSEN v. WOMEN'S HEALTH CENTER, INC.Opinion of the Court711 (1993). It stated that the asserted interests in publicsafety and order were already protected by other applicablelaws and that these interests could be protected adequatelywithout infringing upon the First Amendment rights ofothers. Ibid. The Court of Appeals found the injunctionto be content based and neither necessary to serve a compelling state interest nor narrowly drawn to achieve that end.Ibid., citing Carey v. Brown, 447 U. S. 455, 461-462 (1980).We granted certiorari, 510 U. S. 1084 (1994), to resolve theconflict between the Florida Supreme Court and the Courtof Appeals over the constitutionality of the state court'sinjunction. IIWe begin by addressing petitioners' contention that thestate court's order, because it is an injunction that restrictsonly the speech of antiabortion protesters, is necessarily con-tent or viewpoint based. Accordingly, they argue, weshould examine the entire injunction under the stricteststandard of scrutiny. SeePerry Ed. Assn., supra, at 45.We disagree. To accept petitioners' claim would be to classify virtually every injunction as content or viewpoint based.An injunction, by its very nature, applies only to a particulargroup (or individuals) and regulates the activities, and per-haps the speech, of that group. It does so, however, becauseof the group's past actions in the context of a specific disputebetween real parties. The parties seeking the injunction assert a violation of their rights; the court hearing the actionis charged with fashioning a remedy for a specific deprivation, not with the drafting of a statute addressed to the gen-eral public.The fact that the injunction in the present case did notprohibit activities of those demonstrating in favor of abortionis justly attributable to the lack of any similar demonstra-tions by those in favor of abortion, and of any consequentrequest that their demonstrations be regulated by injunc-tion. There is no suggestion in this record that Florida law512us3$91H 12-28-97 17:25:10 PAGES OPINPGT763Cite as: 512 U. S. 753 (1994)Opinion of the Courtwould not equally restrain similar conduct directed at a tar-get having nothing to do with abortion; none of the restrictions imposed by the court were directed at the contents ofpetitioner's message.Our principal inquiry in determining content neutrality iswhether the government has adopted a regulation of speech"without reference to the content of the regulated speech."Ward v. Rock Against Racism, 491 U. S. 781, 791 (1989) (in-ternal quotation marks omitted) (upholding noise regulations); R. A. V. v. St. Paul, 505 U. S. 377, 386 (1992) ("Thegovernment may not regulate [speech] based on hostility--or favoritism--towards the underlying message expressed");see also Arkansas Writers' Project, Inc. v. Ragland, 481U. S. 221, 230 (1987);Regan v. Time, Inc., 468 U. S. 641, 648-649 (1984); Metromedia, Inc. v. San Diego, 453 U. S. 490,514-515 (1981) (plurality opinion);Carey v. Brown, supra, at466-468. We thus look to the government's purpose as thethreshold consideration. Here, the state court imposed restrictions on petitioners incidental to their antiabortion mes-sage because they repeatedly violated the court's originalorder. That petitioners all share the same viewpoint regarding abortion does not in itself demonstrate that someinvidious content- or viewpoint-based purpose motivated theissuance of the order. It suggests only that those in thegroupwhose conduct violated the court's order happen toshare the same opinion regarding abortions being performedat the clinic. In short, the fact that the injunction coveredpeople with a particular viewpoint does not itself render theinjunction content or viewpoint based. SeeBoos v. Barry,485 U. S. 312 (1988).2 Accordingly, the injunction issued in2 We also decline to adopt the prior restraint analysis urged by petitioners. Prior restraints do often take the form of injunctions. See, e. g.,New York Times Co. v. United States, 403 U. S. 713 (1971) (refusing toenjoin publications of the "Pentagon Papers"); Vance v. Universal Amusement Co., 445 U. S. 308 (1980) (per curiam) (holding that Texas publicnuisance statute which authorized state judges, on the basis of a showing512us3$91H 12-28-97 17:25:10 PAGES OPINPGT764 MADSEN v. WOMEN'S HEALTH CENTER, INC.Opinion of the Courtthis case does not demand the level of heightened scrutinyset forth in Perry Ed. Assn., 460 U. S., at 45. And we proceed to discuss the standard which does govern.IIIIf this were a content-neutral, generally applicable statute,instead of an injunctive order, its constitutionality would beassessed under the standard set forth in Ward v. RockAgainst Racism, supra, at 791, and similar cases. Giventhat the forum around the clinic is a traditional public forum,see Frisby v. Schultz, 487 U. S., at 480, we would determinewhether the time, place, and manner regulations were "nar-rowly tailored to serve a significant governmental interest."Ward, supra, at 791. See also Perry Ed. Assn., supra, at 45.There are obvious differences, however, between an injunction and a generally applicable ordinance. Ordinancesrepresent a legislative choice regarding the promotion ofparticular societal interests. Injunctions, by contrast, areremedies imposed for violations (or threatened violations) ofa legislative or judicial decree. See United States v. W. T.Grant Co., 345 U. S. 629, 632-633 (1953). Injunctions alsocarry greater risks of censorship and discriminatory application than do general ordinances. "[T]here is no more effec-tive practical guaranty against arbitrary and unreasonablegovernment than to require that the principles of law whichofficials would impose upon a minority must be imposed generally." Railway Express Agency, Inc. v. New York, 336that a theater had exhibited obscene films in the past, to enjoin its futureexhibition of films not yet found to be obscene was unconstitutional asauthorizing an invalid prior restraint). Not all injunctions that may incidentally affect expression, however, are "prior restraints" in the sensethat that term was used in New York Times Co., supra, or Vance, supra.Here petitioners are not prevented from expressing their message in anyone of several different ways; they are simply prohibited from expressingit within the 36-foot buffer zone. Moreover, the injunction was issued notbecause of the content of petitioners' expression, as was the case in NewYork Times Co. and Vance, but because of their prior unlawful conduct.512us3$91H 12-28-97 17:25:11 PAGES OPINPGT765Cite as: 512 U. S. 753 (1994)Opinion of the CourtU. S. 106, 112-113 (1949). Injunctions, of course, have someadvantages over generally applicable statutes in that theycan be tailored by a trial judge to afford more precise reliefthan a statute where a violation of the law has already occurred. United States v. Paradise, 480 U. S. 149 (1987).We believe that these differences require a somewhatmore stringent application of general First Amendmentprinciples in this context.3 In past cases evaluating injunctions restricting speech, see, e. g., NAACP v. ClaiborneHardware Co., 458 U. S. 886 (1982), Milk Wagon Drivers v.Meadowmoor Dairies, Inc., 312 U. S. 287 (1941), we haverelied upon such general principles while also seeking toensure that the injunction was no broader than necessaryto achieve its desired goals. See Carroll v. President andComm'rs of Princess Anne, 393 U. S. 175 (1968); ClaiborneHardware, supra, at 912, n. 47. Our close attention to thefit between the objectives of an injunction and the restric-tions it imposes on speech is consistent with the general rule,quite apart from First Amendment considerations, "that in-junctive relief should be no more burdensome to the defendant than necessary to provide complete relief to the plain-tiffs."Califano v. Yamasaki, 442 U. S. 682, 702 (1979). Seealso Dayton Bd. of Ed. v. Brinkman, 433 U. S. 406, 418-420(1977). Accordingly, when evaluating a content-neutral in-junction, we think that our standard time, place, and manneranalysis is not sufficiently rigorous. We must ask insteadwhether the challenged provisions of the injunction burdenno more speech than necessary to serve a significant govern-ment interest. See,e. g., Claiborne Hardware, supra, at 916(when sanctionable "conduct occurs in the context of constitutionally protected activity . . . `precision of regulation' is3 Under general equity principles, an injunction issues only if there is ashowing that the defendant has violated, or imminently will violate, someprovision of statutory or common law, and that there is a "cognizable danger of recurrent violation." United States v. W. T. Grant Co., 345 U. S.629, 633 (1953).512us3$91H 12-28-97 17:25:11 PAGES OPINPGT766 MADSEN v. WOMEN'S HEALTH CENTER, INC.Opinion of the Courtdemanded") (quoting NAACP v. Button, 371 U. S. 415, 438(1963)); 458 U. S., at 916, n. 52 (citingCarroll, supra, andKeyishian v. Board of Regents of Univ. of State of N. Y., 385U. S. 589, 604 (1967));Carroll, supra, at 183-184.Both Justice Stevens and Justice Scalia disagreewith the standard we announce, for policy reasons. Seepost, at 778 (Stevens, J.); post, at 792-794 (Scalia, J.).Justice Stevens believes that "injunctive relief should bejudged by a more lenient standard than legislation," becauseinjunctions are imposed on individuals or groups who haveengaged in illegal activity.Post, at 778. Justice Scalia,by contrast, believes that content-neutral injunctions are "atleast as deserving of strict scrutiny as a statutory, contentbased restriction." Post, at 792. Justice Scalia bases hisbelief on the danger that injunctions, even though they mightnot "attack content as content," may be used to suppressparticular ideas; that individual judges should not be trustedto impose injunctions in this context; and that an injunctionis procedurally more difficult to challenge than a statute.Post, at 793-794. We believe that consideration of all of thedifferences and similarities between statutes and injunctionssupports, as a matter of policy, the standard we apply here.Justice Scalia further contends that precedent compelsthe application of strict scrutiny in this case. Under thatstandard, we ask whether a restriction is " `necessary toserve a compelling state interest and [is] narrowly drawn toachieve that end.' " Post, at 790 (quoting Perry Ed. Assn.,supra, at 45). Justice Scalia fails to cite a single case,and we are aware of none, in which we have applied thisstandard to a content-neutral injunction. He cites a numberof cases in which we have struck down, with little or no elaboration, prior restraints on free expression. See post, at 798(citing cases). As we have explained, however, we do notbelieve that this injunction constitutes a prior restraint, andwe therefore believe that the "heavy presumption" againstits constitutionality does not obtain here. See n. 2, supra.512us3$91H 12-28-97 17:25:11 PAGES OPINPGT767Cite as: 512 U. S. 753 (1994)Opinion of the CourtJustice Scalia also relies on Claiborne Hardware andCarroll for support of his contention that our precedent requires the application of strict scrutiny in this context. InClaiborne Hardware, we stated simply that "precision ofregulation" is demanded. 458 U. S., at 916 (internal quotation marks omitted). Justice Scalia reads this case to require "surgical precision" of regulation, post, at 798, but thatwas not the adjective chosen by the author of the Court'sopinion, Justice Stevens. We think a standard requiringthat an injunction "burden no more speech than necessary"exemplifies "precision of regulation." 4As for Carroll, Justice Scalia believes that the "standard" adopted in that case "is strict scrutiny," which "doesnot remotely resemble the Court's new proposal." Post, at799. Comparison of the language used in Carroll and thewording of the standard we adopt, however, belies JusticeScalia's exaggerated contention. Carroll, for example,requires that an injunction be "couched in the narrowestterms that will accomplish the pin-pointed objective" of theinjunction. 393 U. S., at 183. We require that the injunction "burden no more speech than necessary" to accomplishits objective. We fail to see a difference between the twostandards.The Florida Supreme Court concluded that numeroussignificant government interests are protected by the injunction. It noted that the State has a strong interest inprotecting a woman's freedom to seek lawful medical orcounseling services in connection with her pregnancy. See4 In stating that "precision of regulation" is required in Claiborne Hardware, moreover, we cited both to Carroll v. President and Comm'rs ofPrincess Anne, 393 U. S. 175 (1968), a case involving an injunction, and toKeyishian v. Board of Regents of Univ. of State of N. Y., 385 U. S. 589(1967), a case involving a state statute and regulations. If our precedentdemanded the different treatment of statutes and injunctions, as JusticeScalia claims, it is difficult to explain our reliance on Keyishian inClaiborne.512us3$91H 12-28-97 17:25:11 PAGES OPINPGT768 MADSEN v. WOMEN'S HEALTH CENTER, INC.Opinion of the CourtRoe v. Wade, 410 U. S. 113 (1973); In re T. W., 551 So. 2d 1186,1193 (Fla. 1989). The State also has a strong interest inensuring the public safety and order, in promoting the freeflow of traffic on public streets and sidewalks, and in protecting the property rights of all its citizens. 626 So. 2d, at 672.In addition, the court believed that the State's strong interest in residential privacy, acknowledged in Frisby v. Schultz,487 U. S. 474 (1988), applied by analogy to medical privacy.626 So. 2d, at 672. The court observed that while targetedpicketing of the home threatens the psychological well-beingof the "captive" resident, targeted picketing of a hospital orclinic threatens not only the psychological, but also the physical, well-being of the patient held "captive" by medical cir-cumstance. Id., at 673. We agree with the Supreme Courtof Florida that the combination of these governmental inter-ests is quite sufficient to justify an appropriately tailored injunction to protect them. We now examine each contestedprovision of the injunction to see if it burdens more speechthan necessary to accomplish its goal.5A1We begin with the 36-foot buffer zone. The state courtprohibited petitioners from "congregating, picketing, patrolling, demonstrating or entering" any portion of the publicright-of-way or private property within 36 feet of the property line of the clinic as a way of ensuring access to the clinic.This speech-free buffer zone requires that petitioners move5 Petitioners do not challenge the first two provisions of the state court's1993 order. Brief for Petitioners 9. The provisions composed what hadbeen the state court's 1992 permanent injunction and they chiefly addressed blocking, impeding, and inhibiting access to the clinic and its parking lot. Nor do petitioners challenge the restrictions in paragraphs 7, 8,and 9, which prohibit them from harassing and physically abusing clinicdoctors, staff, and patients trying to gain access to the clinic or theirhomes.512us3$91H 12-28-97 17:25:11 PAGES OPINPGT769Cite as: 512 U. S. 753 (1994)Opinion of the Courtto the other side of Dixie Way and away from the drivewayof the clinic, where the state court found that they repeatedly had interfered with the free access of patients and staff.App. to Pet. for Cert. B-2, B-3. SeeCameron v. Johnson,390 U. S. 611 (1968) (upholding statute that prohibited picketing that obstructed or unreasonably interfered with ingressor egress to or from public buildings, including courthouses,and with traffic on the adjacent street sidewalks). Thebuffer zone also applies to private property to the north andwest of the clinic property. We examine each portion of thebuffer zone separately.We have noted a distinction between the type of focusedpicketing banned from the buffer zone and the type of generally disseminated communication that cannot be completelybanned in public places, such as handbilling and solicitation.See Frisby, supra, at 486 ("The type of focused picketingprohibited by [the state court injunction] is fundamentallydifferent from more generally directed means of communication that may not be completely banned in [public places]").Here the picketing is directed primarily at patients and staffof the clinic.The 36-foot buffer zone protecting the entrances to theclinic and the parking lot is a means of protecting unfetteredingress to and egress from the clinic, and ensuring that petitioners do not block traffic on Dixie Way. The state courtseems to have had few other options to protect access giventhe narrow confines around the clinic. As the Florida Supreme Court noted, Dixie Way is only 21 feet wide in thearea of the clinic. App. 260, 305. The state court was convinced that allowing petitioners to remain on the clinic'ssidewalk and driveway was not a viable option in view of thefailure of the first injunction to protect access. And allowing the petitioners to stand in the middle of Dixie Way wouldobviously block vehicular traffic.The need for a complete buffer zone near the clinic entrances and driveway may be debatable, but some deference512us3$91H 12-28-97 17:25:11 PAGES OPINPGT770 MADSEN v. WOMEN'S HEALTH CENTER, INC.Opinion of the Courtmust be given to the state court's familiarity with the factsand the background of the dispute between the parties evenunder our heightened review. Milk Wagon Drivers, 312U. S., at 294. Moreover, one of petitioners' witnesses duringthe evidentiary hearing before the state court conceded thatthe buffer zone was narrow enough to place petitioners at adistance of no greater than 10 to 12 feet from cars approaching and leaving the clinic. App. 486. Protesters standingacross the narrow street from the clinic can still be seen andheard from the clinic parking lots. Id., at 260, 305. We alsobear in mind the fact that the state court originally issued amuch narrower injunction, providing no buffer zone, and thatthis order did not succeed in protecting access to the clinic.The failure of the first order to accomplish its purpose maybe taken into consideration in evaluating the constitutionality of the broader order. National Soc. of Professional Engineers v. United States, 435 U. S. 679, 697-698 (1978). Onbalance, we hold that the 36-foot buffer zone around the clinicentrances and driveway burdens no more speech than necessary to accomplish the governmental interest at stake.Justice Scalia's dissent argues that a videotape madeof demonstrations at the clinic represents "what one mustpresume to be the worst of the activity justifying the injunction." Post, at 785-786. This seems to us a gratuitous assumption. The videotape was indeed introduced by respondents, presumably because they thought it supportedtheir request for the second injunction. But witnesses alsotestified as to relevant facts in a 3-day evidentiary hearing,and the state court was therefore not limited to JusticeScalia's rendition of what he saw on the videotape to makeits findings in support of the second injunction. Indeed,petitioners themselves studiously refrained from challengingthe factual basis for the injunction both in the state courtsand here. Before the Florida Supreme Court, petitionersstated that "the Amended Permanent Injunction containsfundamental error on its face. The sole question presented512us3$91H 12-28-97 17:25:11 PAGES OPINPGT771Cite as: 512 U. S. 753 (1994)Opinion of the Courtby this appeal is a question of law, and for purposes of thisappeal [petitioners] are assuming, arguendo, that a factualbasis exists to grant injunctive relief." Appellants' Motionin Response to Appellees' Motion to Require Full Transcriptand Record of Proceedings in No. 93-00969 (Dist. Ct. App.Fla.), p. 2. Petitioners argued against including the factualrecord as an appendix in the Florida Supreme Court, andnever certified a full record. We must therefore judge thiscase on the assumption that the evidence and testimony presented to the state court supported its findings that the presence of protesters standing, marching, and demonstratingnear the clinic's entrance interfered with ingress to andegress from the clinic despite the issuance of the earlierinjunction.2The inclusion of private property on the back and side ofthe clinic in the 36-foot buffer zone raises different concerns.The accepted purpose of the buffer zone is to protect accessto the clinic and to facilitate the orderly flow of traffic onDixie Way. Patients and staff wishing to reach the clinic donot have to cross the private property abutting the clinicproperty on the north and west, and nothing in the recordindicates that petitioners' activities on the private propertyhave obstructed access to the clinic. Nor was evidence presented that protestors located on the private propertyblocked vehicular traffic on Dixie Way. Absent evidencethat petitioners standing on the private property have obstructed access to the clinic, blocked vehicular traffic, or otherwise unlawfully interfered with the clinic's operation, thisportion of the buffer zone fails to serve the significant government interests relied on by the Florida Supreme Court.We hold that on the record before us the 36-foot buffer zoneas applied to the private property to the north and west ofthe clinic burdens more speech than necessary to protectaccess to the clinic.512us3$91H 12-28-97 17:25:11 PAGES OPINPGT772 MADSEN v. WOMEN'S HEALTH CENTER, INC.Opinion of the CourtBIn response to high noise levels outside the clinic, the statecourt restrained the petitioners from "singing, chanting,whistling, shouting, yelling, use of bullhorns, auto horns,sound amplification equipment or other sounds or images observable to or within earshot of the patients inside the[c]linic" during the hours of 7:30 a.m. through noon on Mondays through Saturdays. We must, of course, take accountof the place to which the regulations apply in determiningwhether these restrictions burden more speech than neces-sary. We have upheld similar noise restrictions in the past,and as we noted in upholding a local noise ordinance aroundpublic schools, "the nature of a place, `the pattern of its normal activities, dictate the kinds of regulations . . . that arereasonable.' "Grayned v. City of Rockford, 408 U. S. 104,116 (1972). Noise control is particularly important aroundhospitals and medical facilities during surgery and recoveryperiods, and in evaluating another injunction involving amedical facility, we stated:" `Hospitals, after all, are not factories or mines or as-sembly plants. They are hospitals, where human ailments are treated, where patients and relatives alikeoften are under emotional strain and worry, wherepleasing and comforting patients are principal facets ofthe day's activity, and where the patient and his family. . . need a restful, uncluttered, relaxing, and helpful at-mosphere.' " NLRB v. Baptist Hospital, Inc., 442 U. S.773, 783-784, n. 12 (1979), quoting Beth Israel Hospitalv. NLRB, 437 U. S. 483, 509 (1978) (Blackmun, J., con-curring in judgment).We hold that the limited noise restrictions imposed by thestate court order burden no more speech than necessary toensure the health and well-being of the patients at the clinic.The First Amendment does not demand that patients at amedical facility undertake Herculean efforts to escape the512us3$91H 12-28-97 17:25:11 PAGES OPINPGT773Cite as: 512 U. S. 753 (1994)Opinion of the Courtcacophony of political protests. "If overamplified loudspeak-ers assault the citizenry, government may turn them down."Grayned, supra, at 116. That is what the state court didhere, and we hold that its action was proper.CThe same, however, cannot be said for the "images observ-able" provision of the state court's order. Clearly, threatsto patients or their families, however communicated, are pro-scribable under the First Amendment. But rather than prohibiting the display of signs that could be interpreted asthreats or veiled threats, the state court issued a blanket banon all "images observable." This broad prohibition on all"images observable" burdens more speech than necessary toachieve the purpose of limiting threats to clinic patients ortheir families. Similarly, if the blanket ban on "images observable" was intended to reduce the level of anxiety andhypertension suffered by the patients inside the clinic, itwould still fail. The only plausible reason a patient wouldbe bothered by "images observable" inside the clinic wouldbe if the patient found the expression contained in such im-ages disagreeable. But it is much easier for the clinic to pullits curtains than for a patient to stop up her ears, and nomore is required to avoid seeing placards through the windows of the clinic. This provision of the injunction violatesthe First Amendment.DThe state court ordered that petitioners refrain from phys-ically approaching any person seeking services of the clinic"unless such person indicates a desire to communicate" inan area within 300 feet of the clinic. The state court wasattempting to prevent clinic patients and staff from being"stalked" or "shadowed" by the petitioners as they approached the clinic. See International Soc. for KrishnaConsciousness, Inc. v. Lee, 505 U. S. 672, 684 (1992) ("[F]ace-to-face solicitation presents risks of duress that are an appro512us3$91H 12-28-97 17:25:11 PAGES OPINPGT774 MADSEN v. WOMEN'S HEALTH CENTER, INC.Opinion of the Courtpriate target of regulation. The skillful, and unprincipled,solicitor can target the most vulnerable, including those accompanying children or those suffering physical impairmentand who cannot easily avoid the solicitation").But it is difficult, indeed, to justify a prohibition on alluninvited approaches of persons seeking the services of theclinic, regardless of how peaceful the contact may be, withoutburdening more speech than necessary to prevent intimidation and to ensure access to the clinic. Absent evidence thatthe protesters' speech is independently proscribable (i. e.,"fighting words" or threats), or is so infused with violence asto be indistinguishable from a threat of physical harm, seeMilk Wagon Drivers, 312 U. S., at 292-293, this provisioncannot stand. "As a general matter, we have indicated thatin public debate our own citizens must tolerate insulting, andeven outrageous, speech in order to provide adequate breathing space to the freedoms protected by the First Amend-ment." Boos v. Barry, 485 U. S., at 322 (internal quotationmarks omitted). The "consent" requirement alone invali-dates this provision; it burdens more speech than is necessary to prevent intimidation and to ensure access to theclinic.6EThe final substantive regulation challenged by petitionersrelates to a prohibition against picketing, demonstrating, orusing sound amplification equipment within 300 feet of theresidences of clinic staff. The prohibition also covers imped-ing access to streets that provide the sole access to streetson which those residences are located. The same analysisapplies to the use of sound amplification equipment here asthat discussed above: the government may simply demandthat petitioners turn down the volume if the protests overwhelm the neighborhood. Grayned, 408 U. S., at 116.6 We need not decide whether the "images observable" and "noapproach" provisions are content based.512us3$91H 12-28-97 17:25:11 PAGES OPINPGT775Cite as: 512 U. S. 753 (1994)Opinion of the CourtAs for the picketing, our prior decision upholding a lawbanning targeted residential picketing remarked on theunique nature of the home, as " `the last citadel of the tired,the weary, and the sick.' " Frisby, 487 U. S., at 484. Westated that " `[t]he State's interest in protecting the well-being, tranquility, and privacy of the home is certainly of thehighest order in a free and civilized society.' " Ibid.But the 300-foot zone around the residences in this case ismuch larger than the zone provided for in the ordinancewhich we approved inFrisby. The ordinance at issue theremade it " `unlawful for any person to engage in picketing before or about the residence or dwelling of any individual.' "Id., at 477. The prohibition was limited to "focused picket-ing taking place solely in front of a particular residence."Id., at 483. By contrast, the 300-foot zone would ban "[g]en-eral marching through residential neighborhoods, or evenwalking a route in front of an entire block of houses." Ibid.The record before us does not contain sufficient justificationfor this broad a ban on picketing; it appears that a limitationon the time, duration of picketing, and number of picketsoutside a smaller zone could have accomplished the desiredresult.IVPetitioners also challenge the state court's order as beingvague and overbroad. They object to the portion of the injunction making it applicable to those acting "in concert"with the named parties. But petitioners themselves arenamed parties in the order, and they therefore lack standingto challenge a portion of the order applying to persons whoare not parties. Nor is that phrase subject, at the behest ofpetitioners, to a challenge for "overbreadth"; the phrase itself does not prohibit any conduct, but is simply directed atunnamed parties who might later be found to be acting "inconcert" with the named parties. As such, the case is gov-erned by our holding inRegal Knitwear Co. v. NLRB, 324U. S. 9, 14 (1945). There a party subject to an injunction512us3$91H 12-28-97 17:25:11 PAGES OPINPGT776 MADSEN v. WOMEN'S HEALTH CENTER, INC.Souter, J., concurringargued that the order was invalid because of a provision thatit applied to "successors and assigns" of the enjoined party.Noting that the party pressing the claim was not a successoror assign, we characterized the matter as "an abstract controversy over the use of these words." Id., at 15.Petitioners also contend that the "in concert" provision ofthe injunction impermissibly limits their freedom of associa-tion guaranteed by the First Amendment. See,e. g., Citi-zens Against Rent Control/Coalition For Fair Housing v.Berkeley, 454 U. S. 290 (1981). But petitioners are not en-joined from associating with others or from joining withthem to express a particular viewpoint. The freedom of as-sociation protected by the First Amendment does not extendto joining with others for the purpose of depriving third par-ties of their lawful rights.VIn sum, we uphold the noise restrictions and the 36-footbuffer zone around the clinic entrances and driveway becausethey burden no more speech than necessary to eliminate theunlawful conduct targeted by the state court's injunction.We strike down as unconstitutional the 36-foot buffer zoneas applied to the private property to the north and west ofthe clinic, the "images observable" provision, the 300-footno-approach zone around the clinic, and the 300-foot bufferzone around the residences, because these provisions sweepmore broadly than necessary to accomplish the permissiblegoals of the injunction. Accordingly, the judgment of theFlorida Supreme Court isAffirmed in part and reversed in part.Justice Souter, concurring.I join the Court's opinion and write separately only to clar-ify two matters in the record. First, the trial judge madereasonably clear that the issue of who was acting "in concert"with the named defendants was a matter to be taken up in512us3$91m 12-28-97 17:25:11 PAGES OPINPGT777Cite as: 512 U. S. 753 (1994)Opinion of Stevens, J.individual cases, and not to be decided on the basis of pro-testers' viewpoints. See Tr. 40, 43, 93, 115, 119-120 (Apr.12, 1993, Hearing). Second, petitioners themselves acknowl-edge that the governmental interests in protection of publicsafety and order, of the free flow of traffic, and of propertyrights are reflected in Florida law. See Brief for Petitioners17, and n. 7 (citing,e. g., Fla. Stat. $$ 870.041-870.047 (1991)(public peace); $ 316.2045 (obstruction of public streets, high-ways, and roads)).Justice Stevens, concurring in part and dissenting inpart.The certiorari petition presented three questions, corresponding to petitioners' three major challenges to the trialcourt's injunction.1 The Court correctly and unequivocallyrejects petitioners' argument that the injunction is a"content-based restriction on free speech,"ante, at 762-764,as well as their challenge to the injunction on the basis thatit applies to persons acting "in concert" with them, ante, at775-776. I therefore join Parts II and IV of the Court'sopinion, which properly dispose of the first and third questions presented. I part company with the Court, however,on its treatment of the second question presented, includingits enunciation of the applicable standard of review.1 "QUESTIONS PRESENTED FOR REVIEW"1. Whether a state court injunction placing a thirty-six-foot buffer zonearound an abortion clinic which prohibits peaceful pro-life speech in a traditional public forum is an unconstitutional content-based restriction onfree speech and association."2. Whether a state court injunction creating a consent requirementbefore speech is permitted within a three-hundred-foot buffer zone aroundan abortion clinic and residential areas is a reasonable time, place, andmanner restriction or an unconstitutional prior restraint on free speech."3. Whether a state court injunction prohibiting named demonstratorsand those acting `in concert' from expressing peaceful speech within several designated buffer zones violates the First Amendment's protection offreedom of speech and association." Pet. for Cert. i.512us3$91i 12-28-97 17:25:11 PAGES OPINPGT778 MADSEN v. WOMEN'S HEALTH CENTER, INC.Opinion of Stevens, J.II agree with the Court that a different standard governsFirst Amendment challenges to generally applicable legislation than the standard that measures such challenges to judi-cial remedies for proven wrongdoing. Seeante, at 764-765.Unlike the Court, however, I believe that injunctive reliefshould be judged by a more lenient standard than legislation.As the Court notes, legislation is imposed on an entire community, ibid., regardless of individual culpability. By con-trast, injunctions apply solely to an individual or a limitedgroup of individuals who, by engaging in illegal conduct,have been judicially deprived of some liberty--the normalconsequence of illegal activity.2 Given this distinction, astatute prohibiting demonstrations within 36 feet of an abortion clinic would probably violate the First Amendment, butan injunction directed at a limited group of persons who haveengaged in unlawful conduct in a similar zone might wellbe constitutional.The standard governing injunctions has two obvious di-mensions. On the one hand, the injunction should be nomore burdensome than necessary to provide complete relief,Califano v. Yamasaki, 442 U. S. 682, 702 (1979). In a FirstAmendment context, as in any other, the propriety of theremedy depends almost entirely on the character of the violation and the likelihood of its recurrence. For this reason,standards fashioned to determine the constitutionality ofstatutes should not be used to evaluate injunctions.On the other hand, even when an injunction impinges onconstitutional rights, more than "a simple proscription2 Contrary to Justice Scalia's assumption, see post, at 794, n. 1, thedeprivation of liberty caused by an injunction is not a form of punishment.Moreover, there is nothing unusual about injunctive relief that includessome restriction on speech as a remedy for prior misconduct. NationalSoc. of Professional Engineers v. United States, 435 U. S. 679, 697-698(1978).512us3$91i 12-28-97 17:25:11 PAGES OPINPGT779Cite as: 512 U. S. 753 (1994)Opinion of Stevens, J.against the precise conduct previously pursued" may be re-quired; the remedy must include appropriate restraints on"future activities both to avoid a recurrence of the violationand to eliminate its consequences." National Soc. of Professional Engineers v. United States, 435 U. S. 679, 697-698(1978). Moreover, "[t]he judicial remedy for a proven violation of law will often include commands that the law doesnot impose on the community at large."Teachers v. Hud-son, 475 U. S. 292, 309-310, n. 22 (1986). As such, repeatedviolations may justify sanctions that might be invalid ifapplied to a first offender or if enacted by the legislature.See United States v. Paradise, 480 U. S. 149 (1987).In this case, the trial judge heard three days of testimonyand found that petitioners not only had engaged in tortiousconduct, but also had repeatedly violated an earlier injunction. The injunction is thus twice removed from a legisla-tive proscription applicable to the general public and shouldbe judged by a standard that gives appropriate deference tothe judge's unique familiarity with the facts.IIThe second question presented by the certiorari petitionasks whether the "consent requirement before speech is permitted" within a 300-foot buffer zone around the clinic uncon-stitutionally infringes on free speech.3 Petitioners contendthat these restrictions create a "no speech" zone in whichthey cannot speak unless the listener indicates a positive3 See n. 1, supra. This question also encompasses the separate butrelated question whether the 300-foot buffer zone in residential areas is areasonable time, place, and manner restriction, but incorrectly refers tothat zone as containing a consent requirement. For the reasons stated inPart III-E of the Court's opinion, which I join, I agree that the findingsdo not justify such a broad ban on picketing. I also agree with the Court'srejection of petitioners' prior restraint challenge to the 300-foot zones.See ante, at 763, n. 2.512us3$91i 12-28-97 17:25:11 PAGES OPINPGT780 MADSEN v. WOMEN'S HEALTH CENTER, INC.Opinion of Stevens, J.interest in their speech. And, in Part III-D of its opinion,the Court seems to suggest that, even in a more narrowlydefined zone, such a consent requirement is constitutionallyimpermissible.Ante, at 773-774. Petitioners' argumentand the Court's conclusion, however, are based on a misreading of || (5) of the injunction.4That paragraph does not purport to prohibit speech; it prohibits a species of conduct. Specifically, it prohibits petitioners "from physically approaching any person seeking theservices of the Clinic unless such person indicates a desire tocommunicate by approaching or by inquiring" of petitioners.App. 59. The meaning of the term "physically approaching"is explained by the detailed prohibition that applies whenthe patient refuses to converse with, or accept delivery ofliterature from, petitioners. Absent such consent, the petitioners "shall not accompany such person, encircle, surround,harass, threaten or physically or verbally abuse those individuals who choose not to communicate with them." Ibid.As long as petitioners do not physically approach patients inthis manner, they remain free not only to communicate withthe public but also to offer verbal or written advice on anindividual basis to the clinic's patients through their "sidewalk counseling."4 The full text of || (5) reads as follows:"At all times on all days, in an area within three-hundred (300) feet ofthe Clinic, from physically approaching any person seeking the services ofthe Clinic unless such person indicates a desire to communicate by approaching or by inquiring of the [petitioners]. In the event of such invitation, the [petitioners] may engage in communications consisting of conversation of a non-threatening nature and by the delivery of literature withinthe three-hundred (300) foot area but in no event within the 36 foot bufferzone. Should any individual decline such communication, otherwiseknown as `sidewalk counseling', that person shall have the absolute rightto leave or walk away and the [petitioners] shall not accompany such person, encircle, surround, harass, threaten or physically or verbally abusethose individuals who choose not to communicate with them." App. 59.512us3$91i 12-28-97 17:25:11 PAGES OPINPGT781Cite as: 512 U. S. 753 (1994)Opinion of Stevens, J.Petitioners' "counseling" of the clinic's patients is a formof expression analogous to labor picketing. It is a mixtureof conduct and communication. "In the labor context, it isthe conduct element rather than the particular idea beingexpressed that often provides the most persuasive deterrentto third persons about to enter a business establishment."NLRB v. Retail Store Employees, 447 U. S. 607, 619 (1980)(Stevens, J., concurring in part and concurring in result).As with picketing, the principal reason why handbills containing the same message are so much less effective than"counseling" is that "the former depend entirely on the persuasive force of the idea." Ibid. Just as it protects picketing, the First Amendment protects the speaker's right tooffer "sidewalk counseling" to all passers-by. That protection, however, does not encompass attempts to abuse an unreceptive or captive audience, at least under the circumstances of this case. One may register a public protest byplacing a vulgar message on his jacket and, in so doing, expose unwilling viewers, Cohen v. California, 403 U. S. 15,21-22 (1971). Nevertheless, that does not mean that he hasan unqualified constitutional right to follow and harass anunwilling listener, especially one on her way to receive medical services. Cf. Grayned v. City of Rockford, 408 U. S. 104,116 (1972).The "physically approaching" prohibition entered by thetrial court is no broader than the protection necessary toprovide relief for the violations it found. The trial judgeentered this portion of the injunction only after concludingthat the injunction was necessary to protect the clinic's patients and staff from "uninvited contacts, shadowing andstalking" by petitioners. App. 56. The protection is especially appropriate for the clinic patients given that the trialjudge found that petitioners' prior conduct caused higher levels of "anxiety and hypertension" in the patients, increasingthe risks associated with the procedures that the patients512us3$91i 12-28-97 17:25:11 PAGES OPINPGT782 MADSEN v. WOMEN'S HEALTH CENTER, INC.Opinion of Stevens, J.seek.5 Whatever the proper limits on a court's power torestrict a speaker's ability to physically approach or followan unwilling listener, surely the First Amendment does notprevent a trial court from imposing such a restriction giventhe unchallenged findings in this case.The Florida Supreme Court correctly concluded:"While the First Amendment confers on each citizen apowerful right to express oneself, it gives the picketerno boon to jeopardize the health, safety, and rights ofothers. No citizen has a right to insert a foot in thehospital or clinic door and insist on being heard--whilepurposefully blocking the door to those in genuine needof medical services. No picketer can force speech intothe captive ear of the unwilling and disabled."Operation Rescue v. Women's Health Center, Inc., 626 So. 2d664, 675 (1993).I thus conclude that, under the circumstances of this case,the prohibition against "physically approaching" in the 300-foot zone around the clinic withstands petitioners' FirstAmendment challenge. I therefore dissent from Part III-D.IIIBecause I have joined Parts I, II, III-E, and IV of theCourt's opinion and have dissented as to Part III-D afterconcluding that the 300-foot zone around the clinic is a rea-sonable time, place, and manner restriction, no further discussion is necessary. See n. 1, supra. The Court, however,proceeds to address challenges to the injunction that, al5 Specifically, in its findings of fact, the trial court noted that:"This physician also testified that he witnessed the demonstrators runningalong side of and in front of patients' vehicles, pushing pamphlets in carwindows to persons who had not indicated any interest in such literature.As a result of patients having to run such a gauntlet, the patients manifested a higher level of anxiety and hypertension causing those patientsto need a higher level of sedation to undergo the surgical procedures,thereby increasing the risk associated with such procedures." Id., at 54.512us3$91i 12-28-97 17:25:11 PAGES OPINPGT783Cite as: 512 U. S. 753 (1994)Opinion of Stevens, J.though arguably raised by petitioners' briefs, are not prop-erly before the Court.After correctly rejecting the content-based challenge tothe 36-foot buffer zone raised by the first question in thecertiorari petition, the Court nevertheless decides to modifythe portion of that zone that it believes does not protectingress to the clinic. Petitioners, however, presented onlya content-based challenge to the 36-foot zone; they did notpresent a time, place, and manner challenge. See n. 1,supra. They challenged only the 300-foot zones on thisground. Ibid. The scope of the 36-foot zone is thus notproperly before us.6 Izumi Seimitsu Kogyo KabushikiKaisha v. U. S. Phillips Corp., 510 U. S. 27 (1993) (percuriam).76 Indeed, it is unclear whether these challenges were presented to theFlorida Supreme Court. In their appeal to that court, petitioners did noteven file the transcript of the evidentiary hearings, contending that the"sole question presented by this appeal is a question of law." See Appellants' Motion in Response to Appellees' Motion to Require Full Transcriptand Record of Proceedings in No. 93-00969 (Dist. Ct. App. Fla.), p. 2.Because petitioners argued that the entire decree was invalid as a matterof law, without making any contention that particular provisions shouldbe modified, it appears there was no argument in that court about the sizeor the shape of the buffer zones.Even if the question were properly presented here, I fully agree withthe Florida Supreme Court's refusal to quibble over a few feet one way orthe other when the parties have not directed their arguments at a narrowfactual issue of this kind. Operation Rescue v. Women's Health Center,Inc., 626 So. 2d 664, 673 (1993). Moreover, respect for the highest courtof the State strongly counsels against this sort of error correction in thisCourt.7 Even assuming that a time, place, and manner challenge to the 36-footzone is fairly included within the first question presented, petitioners' briefchallenges the entire 36-foot zone as overbroad and seeks to have it invalidated in its entirety. Nowhere in their briefs do they argue that the portion of the zone on the north and west sides of the clinic should be struckdown in the event the Court upholds the restrictions on the front and east.As such, we do not have the benefit of respondents' arguments why thoseportions, if considered severally from the other portions of the zone, shouldbe upheld. Moreover, the existence in the record of facts found by the512us3$91i 12-28-97 17:25:11 PAGES OPINPGT784 MADSEN v. WOMEN'S HEALTH CENTER, INC.Opinion of Scalia, J.The same is true of the noise restrictions and the "imagesobservable" provision of || (4).8 That paragraph does notrefer to the 36-foot or the 300-foot buffer zones, nor does itrelate to the constitutionality of the "in concert" provision.As such, although I am inclined to agree with the Court'sresolution respecting the noise and images restrictions, I believe the Court should refrain from deciding their constitu-tionality because they are not challenged by the questionson which certiorari was granted.IVFor the reasons stated, I concur in Parts I, II, III-E, andIV of the Court's opinion, and respectfully dissent from theremaining portions.Justice Scalia, with whom Justice Kennedy andJustice Thomas join, concurring in the judgment in partand dissenting in part.The judgment in today's case has an appearance of mod-eration and Solomonic wisdom, upholding as it does sometrial court respecting petitioners' conduct--independent of petitioners' obstruction of ingress and egress--that support the entire 36-foot zonemakes the Court's micromanagement of the injunction particularly inappropriate. See, e. g., App. 53 ("The clinic has fences on its west and northside, and persons would occasionally place a ladder on the outside of thefence and position themselves at an elevation above the fence and attemptto communicate by shouting at persons (staff and patients) entering theclinic"); id., at 54 ("[T]he doctor was followed as he left the clinic by aperson associated with the [petitioners] who communicated his anger tothe doctor by pretending to shoot him from the adjoining vehicle"); id.,at 54-55 (noting that "a physician similarly employed was killed by anantiabortionist at a clinic in North Florida").8 Paragraph (4) provides in full:"During the hours of 7:30 a.m. through noon, on Mondays through Saturdays, during surgical procedures and recovery periods, from singing,chanting, whistling, shouting, yelling, use of bullhorns, auto horns, soundamplification equipment or other sounds or images observable to or withinearshot of the patients inside the Clinic." Id., at 59.512us3$91k 12-28-97 17:25:11 PAGES OPINPGT785Cite as: 512 U. S. 753 (1994)Opinion of Scalia, J.portions of the injunction while disallowing others. Thatappearance is deceptive. The entire injunction in this casedeparts so far from the established course of our jurispru-dence that in any other context it would have been regardedas a candidate for summary reversal.But the context here is abortion. A long time ago, in dissent from another abortion-related case, Justice O'Connor,joined by thenJustice Rehnquist, wrote:"This Court's abortion decisions have already workeda major distortion in the Court's constitutional jurisprudence. Today's decision goes further, and makes itpainfully clear that no legal rule or doctrine is safe fromad hoc nullification by this Court when an occasion forits application arises in a case involving state regulationof abortion. The permissible scope of abortion regula-tion is not the only constitutional issue on which thisCourt is divided, but--except when it comes to abor-tion--the Court has generally refused to let such disagreements, however longstanding or deeply felt, pre-vent it from evenhandedly applying uncontroversiallegal doctrines to cases that come before it." Thornburgh v. American College of Obstetricians and Gyne-cologists, 476 U. S. 747, 814 (1986) (citations omitted).Today the ad hoc nullification machine claims its latest,greatest, and most surprising victim: the First Amendment.Because I believe that the judicial creation of a 36-footzone in which only a particular group, which had broken nolaw, cannot exercise its rights of speech, assembly, and asso-ciation, and the judicial enactment of a noise prohibition, applicable to that group and that group alone, are profoundly atodds with our First Amendment precedents and traditions, Idissent. IThe record of this case contains a videotape, with runningcaption of time and date, displaying what one must presume512us3$91k 12-28-97 17:25:11 PAGES OPINPGT786 MADSEN v. WOMEN'S HEALTH CENTER, INC.Opinion of Scalia, J.to be the worst of the activity justifying the injunction issued by Judge McGregor and partially approved today bythis Court. The tape was shot by employees of, or volunteers at, the Aware Woman Clinic on three Saturdays in February and March 1993; the camera location, for the first andthird segments, appears to have been an upper floor of theclinic. The tape was edited down (from approximately 6 to8 hours of footage to 1/2 hour) by Ruth Arick, a managementconsultant employed by the clinic and by the Feminist Majority Foundation. App. 527, 529, 533.Anyone seriously interested in what this case was aboutmust view that tape. And anyone doing so who is familiarwith run-of-the-mine labor picketing, not to mention someother social protests, will be aghast at what it shows we havetoday permitted an individual judge to do. I will do my bestto describe it.On Saturday, March 6, 1993, a group of antiabortion protesters is gathered in front of the clinic, arrayed from east(camera-left) to west (camera-right) on the clinic side of DixieWay, a small, nonartery street. Men, women, and childrenare also visible across the street, on the south side of DixieWay; some hold signs and appear to be protesters, othersmay be just interested onlookers.On the clinic side of the street, two groups confront eachother across the line marking the south border of the clinicproperty--although they are so close together it is often impossible to tell them apart. On the clinic property (and withtheir backs to the camera) are a line of clinic and abortionrights supporters, stretching the length of the property.Opposite them, and on the public right-of-way betweenthe clinic property and Dixie Way itself, is a group of abortion opponents, some standing in place, others walking apicket line in an elongated oval pattern running the lengthof the property's south border. Melbourne police officersare visible at various times walking about in front of the512us3$91k 12-28-97 17:25:11 PAGES OPINPGT787Cite as: 512 U. S. 753 (1994)Opinion of Scalia, J.clinic, and individuals can be seen crossing Dixie Way atvarious times.Clinic supporters are more or less steadily chanting thefollowing slogans: "Our right, our right, our right, to decide";"Right to life is a lie, you don't care if women die." Thenabortion opponents can be heard to sing: "Jesus loves thelittle children, all the children of the world, red and yellow,black and white, they are precious in His sight, Jesus lovesthe little children of the world." Clinic supporters respondwith: Q: "What do we want?" A: "Choice." Q: "When dowe want it?" A: "Now." ("Louder!") And that call andresponse is repeated. Later in the tape, clinic supporterschant "1-2-3-4, we won't take it anymore; 5-6-7-8, Separatethe Church and State." On placards held by picketers andby stationary protesters on both sides of the line, the following slogans are visible: "Abortionists lie to women.""Choose Life: Abortion Kills." "N.O.W. Violence." "TheGod of Israel is Pro-life." "RU 486 Now." "She Is a Child,Not a Choice." "Abortion Kills Children." "Keep AbortionLegal." "Abortion: God Calls It Murder." Some abortionopponents wear T-shirts bearing the phrase "Choose Life."As the abortion opponents walk the picket line, they traverse portions of the public right-of-way that are crossed bypaved driveways, on each side of the clinic, connecting theclinic's parking lot to the street. At one point an automobilemoves west on Dixie Way and slows to turn into the westernmost driveway. There is a 3-to-4-second delay as thepicketers, and then the clinic supporters, part to allow thecar to enter. The camera cuts to a shot of another, parkedcar with a potato jammed onto the tailpipe. There is nofootage of any person putting the potato on to the tailpipe.Later, at a point when the crowd appears to be larger andthe picketers more numerous, a red car is delayed approximately 10 seconds as the picketers (and clinic supporters)move out of the driveway. Police are visible helping to clear512us3$91k 12-28-97 17:25:11 PAGES OPINPGT788 MADSEN v. WOMEN'S HEALTH CENTER, INC.Opinion of Scalia, J.a path for the vehicle to enter. As the car waits, two per-sons appearing to bear leaflets approach, respectively, thedriver and front passenger doors. They appear to elicit noresponse from the car's occupants and the car passes safelyonto clinic property. Later, a blue minivan enters the driveway and is also subject to the same delay. Still later a jeep-type vehicle leaves the clinic property and slows downslightly where the driveway crosses the public right-of-way.At no time is there any apparent effort to prevent entry orexit, or even to delay it, except for the time needed for thepicketers to get out of the way. There is no sitting down,packing en masse, linking of hands, or any other effort toblockade the clinic property.The persons standing but not walking the picket line include a woman with a child in a stroller and a man shouting the Book of Daniel's account of Meshach, Shadrach, andAbednego. A woman on a stepladder holds up a sign inthe direction of the clinic; a clinic supporter counters witha larger sign held up between the other and the clinic. Abrief shot reveals an older man in a baseball cap--head,shoulders, and chest visible above the clinic fence--who appears to be reading silently from a small book. A man onclinic property holds a boom box out in the direction of theabortion opponents. As the crowd grows it appears at various points to have spilled over into the north-side, westbound lane of Dixie Way.At one point, Randall Terry arrives and the press convergeupon him, apparently in Dixie Way itself. A sign is heldnear his head reading "Randall Terry Sucks." Terry appears to be speaking to the press and at one point tearspages from a notebook of some kind. Through all of this,abortion opponents and abortion-rights supporters appear tobe inches from one another on each side of the south borderof the property. They exchange words, but at no time isthere any violence or even any discernible jostling or physical contact between these political opponents.512us3$91k 12-28-97 17:25:11 PAGES OPINPGT789Cite as: 512 U. S. 753 (1994)Opinion of Scalia, J.The scene shifts to early afternoon of the same day. Mostof the press and most of the abortion opponents appear tohave departed. The camera focuses on a woman who facesthe clinic and, hands cupped over her mouth, shouts the following: "Be not deceived; God is not mocked. . . . Ed Windle,God's judgment is on you, and if you don't repent, He willstrike you dead. The baby's blood flowed over your hands,Ed Windle. . . . You will burn in hell, Ed Windle, if you don'trepent. There were arms and legs pulled off today. . . . Aninnocent little child, a little boy, a little girl, is being de-stroyed right now." Cheering is audible from the clinicgrounds. A second person shouts "You are responsible forthe deaths of children. . . . You are a murderer. Shame onyou." From the clinic grounds someone shouts "Why don'tyou go join the wacko in Waco?" The first woman says "Youare applauding the death of your children. We will beeverywhere. . . . There will be no peace and no rest for thewicked. . . . I pray that you will give them dreams and nightmares, God."The second segment of the videotape displays a group ofapproximately 40 to 50 persons walking along the side of amajor highway. It is Saturday, March 13, 1993, at 9:56 a.m.The demonstrators walk in an oval pattern, carrying no signsor other visible indicators of their purpose. According toRuth Arick, this second portion was filmed in front of thecondominium where clinic owner Ed Windle lived.A third segment begins. The date-time register indicatesthat it is the morning of Saturday, February 20, 1993. Ateenage girl faces the clinic and exclaims: "Please don't letthem kill me, Mommy. Help me, Daddy, please." Clinicsupporters chant, "We won't go back." A second woman,the one who spoke at greatest length in the first segment,calls, "If you [inaudible], help her through it." Off camera,a group sings "Roe, Roe, Roe v. Wade, we will never quit,Freedom of choice is the law of the land, better get used toit." The woman from the first segment appears to address512us3$91k 12-28-97 17:25:11 PAGES OPINPGT790 MADSEN v. WOMEN'S HEALTH CENTER, INC.Opinion of Scalia, J.specific persons on clinic property: "Do you ever wonderwhat your baby would have looked like? Do you wonderhow old it would have been? Because I did the same thing. . . ." Then a police officer is visible writing someone acitation. The videotape ends with a shot of an automobilemoving eastbound on Dixie Way. As it slows to a stop atthe intersection of U. S. 1, two leafletters approach the carand then pull back as it passes on.The videotape and the rest of the record, including thetrial court's findings, show that a great many forms of expression and conduct occurred in the vicinity of the clinic.These include singing, chanting, praying, shouting, the playing of music both from the clinic and from handheld boomboxes, speeches, peaceful picketing, communication of familiar political messages, handbilling, persuasive speech directed at opposing groups on the issue of abortion, efforts topersuade individuals not to have abortions, personal testimony, interviews with the press, and media efforts to reporton the protest. What the videotape, the rest of the record,and the trial court's findings do not contain is any suggestionof violence near the clinic, nor do they establish any attemptto prevent entry or exit.IIAUnder this Court's jurisprudence, there is no question thatthis public sidewalk area is a "public forum," where citizensgenerally have a First Amendment right to speak. UnitedStates v. Grace, 461 U. S. 171, 177 (1983). The parties to thiscase invited the Court to employ one or the other of the twowell-established standards applied to restrictions upon thisFirst Amendment right. Petitioners claimed the benefit ofso-called "strict scrutiny," the standard applied to contentbased restrictions: The restriction must be "necessary toserve a compelling state interest and . . . narrowly drawn toachieve that end." Perry Ed. Assn. v. Perry Local Educa512us3$91k 12-28-97 17:25:11 PAGES OPINPGT791Cite as: 512 U. S. 753 (1994)Opinion of Scalia, J.tors' Assn., 460 U. S. 37, 45 (1983). Respondents, on theother hand, contended for what has come to be known as"intermediate scrutiny" (midway between the "strict scru-tiny" demanded for content-based regulation of speech andthe "rational basis" standard that is applied--under theEqual Protection Clause--to government regulation of non-speech activities). See,e. g., Turner Broadcasting System,Inc. v. FCC, ante, at 642. That standard, applicable to so-called "time, place, and manner regulations" of speech, provides that the regulations are permissible so long as they"are content-neutral, are narrowly tailored to serve a significant government interest, and leave open ample alternative channels of communication." Perry, supra, at 45. TheCourt adopts neither of these, but creates, brand new forthis abortion-related case, an additional standard that is(supposedly) "somewhat more stringent," ante, at 765, thanintermediate scrutiny, yet not as "rigorous," ibid., as strictscrutiny. The Court does not give this new standard aname, but perhaps we could call it intermediate-intermediatescrutiny. The difference between it and intermediate scrutiny (which the Court acknowledges is inappropriate for injunctive restrictions on speech) is frankly too subtle for meto describe, so I must simply recite it: Whereas intermediatescrutiny requires that the restriction be "narrowly tailoredto serve a significant government interest," the new standard requires that the restriction "burden no more speechthan necessary to serve a significant government interest."Ibid.I shall discuss the Court's mode of applying this supposedly new standard presently, but first I must remark uponthe peculiar manner in which the standard was devised.The Court begins, in Part II of the opinion, by consideringpetitioners' contention that, since the restriction is contentbased, strict scrutiny should govern. It rejects the premise,and hence rejects the conclusion. It then proceeds, in PartIII, to examination of respondents' contention that plain old512us3$91k 12-28-97 17:25:11 PAGES OPINPGT792 MADSEN v. WOMEN'S HEALTH CENTER, INC.Opinion of Scalia, J.intermediate scrutiny should apply. It says no to that, too,because of the distinctive characteristics of injunctions thatit discusses, ante, at 764-765, and hence decides to supple-ment intermediate scrutiny with intermediate-intermediatescrutiny. But this neatly staged progression overlooks anobvious option. The real question in this case is notwhether intermediate scrutiny, which the Court assumes tobe some kind of default standard, should be supplementedbecause of the distinctive characteristics of injunctions; butrather whether those distinctive characteristics are not, forreasons of both policy and precedent, fully as good a reasonas "content basis" for demanding strict scrutiny. That possibility is simply not considered. Instead, the Court beginsPart III with the following optical illusion: "If this were acontent-neutral, generally applicable statute, instead of aninjunctive order, its constitutionality would be assessedunder the [intermediate scrutiny] standard," ante, at 764--and then proceeds to discuss whether petitioners can sustainthe burden of departing from that presumed disposition.But this is not a statute, and it is an injunctive order. TheCourt might just as logically (or illogically) have begun PartIII: "If this were a content-based injunction, rather than anon-content-based injunction, its constitutionality would beassessed under the strict scrutiny standard"--and have thenproceeded to discuss whether respondents can sustain theburden of departing from that presumed disposition. Thequestion should be approached, it seems to me, without anysuch artificial loading of the dice. And the central elementof the answer is that a restriction upon speech imposed byinjunction (whether nominally content based or nominallycontent neutral) is at least as deserving of strict scrutiny asa statutory, content-based restriction.That is so for several reasons: The danger of content-basedstatutory restrictions upon speech is that they may be designed and used precisely to suppress the ideas in questionrather than to achieve any other proper governmental aim.512us3$91k 12-28-97 17:25:11 PAGES OPINPGT793Cite as: 512 U. S. 753 (1994)Opinion of Scalia, J.But that same danger exists with injunctions. Although aspeech-restricting injunction may not attack content as content (in the present case, as I shall discuss, even that is nottrue), it lends itself just as readily to the targeted suppression of particular ideas. When a judge, on the motion of anemployer, enjoins picketing at the site of a labor dispute,he enjoins (and he knows he is enjoining) the expression ofpro-union views. Such targeting of one or the other side ofan ideological dispute cannot readily be achieved in speechrestricting general legislation except by making content thebasis of the restriction; it is achieved in speech-restrictinginjunctions almost invariably. The proceedings before ushere illustrate well enough what I mean. The injunctionwas sought against a single-issue advocacy group by personsand organizations with a business or social interest in suppressing that group's point of view.The second reason speech-restricting injunctions are atleast as deserving of strict scrutiny is obvious enough: Theyare the product of individual judges rather than of legislatures--and often of judges who have been chagrined by priordisobedience of their orders. The right to free speechshould not lightly be placed within the control of a singleman or woman. And the third reason is that the injunctionis a much more powerful weapon than a statute, and soshould be subjected to greater safeguards. Normally, wheninjunctions are enforced through contempt proceedings, onlythe defense of factual innocence is available. The collateralbar rule of Walker v. Birmingham, 388 U. S. 307 (1967), eliminates the defense that the injunction itself was unconstitutional. Accord, Dade County Classroom Teachers' Assn. v.Rubin, 238 So. 2d 284, 288 (Fla. 1970). Thus, persons subject to a speech-restricting injunction who have not themoney or not the time to lodge an immediate appeal face aHobson's choice: They must remain silent, since if they speaktheir First Amendment rights are no defense in subsequent512us3$91k 12-28-97 17:25:11 PAGES OPINPGT794 MADSEN v. WOMEN'S HEALTH CENTER, INC.Opinion of Scalia, J.contempt proceedings. This is good reason to require thestrictest standard for issuance of such orders.1The Court seeks to minimize the similarity betweenspeech-restricting injunctions and content-based statutoryproscriptions by observing that the fact that "petitioners allshare the same viewpoint regarding abortion does not in itself demonstrate that some invidious content- or viewpointbased purpose motivated the issuance of the order," butrather "suggests only that those in the group whose conductviolated the court's order happen to share the same opinionregarding abortions," ante, at 763. But the Court errs inthinking that the vice of content-based statutes is that theynecessarily have the invidious purpose of suppressing particular ideas. "[O]ur cases have consistently held that `[i]llicitlegislative intent is not the sine qua non of a violation of theFirst Amendment.' " Simon & Schuster, Inc. v. Members ofN. Y. State Crime Victims Bd., 502 U. S. 105, 117 (1991)(quoting Minneapolis Star & Tribune Co. v. MinnesotaComm'r of Revenue, 460 U. S. 575, 592 (1983)). The vice ofcontent-based legislation--what renders it deserving of thehigh standard of strict scrutiny--is not that it is always usedfor invidious, thought-control purposes, but that it lends itself to use for those purposes. And, because of the unavoid1 Justice Stevens believes that speech-restricting injunctions "shouldbe judged by a more lenient standard than legislation" because "injunctions apply solely to [those] who, by engaging in illegal conduct, have beenjudicially deprived of some liberty." Ante, at 778. Punishing unlawfulaction by judicial abridgment of First Amendment rights is an interestingconcept; perhaps Eighth Amendment rights could be next. I know of noauthority for the proposition that restriction of speech, rather than finesor imprisonment, should be the sanction for misconduct. The supposedprior violation of a judicial order was the only thing that rendered petitioners subject to a personally tailored restriction on speech in the firstplace--not in order to punish them, but to protect the public order. Tosay that their prior violation not only subjects them to being singled outin this fashion, but also loosens the standards for protecting the publicorder through speech restrictions, is double counting.512us3$91k 12-28-97 17:25:11 PAGES OPINPGT795Cite as: 512 U. S. 753 (1994)Opinion of Scalia, J.able "targeting" discussed above, precisely the same is trueof the speech-restricting injunction.Finally, though I believe speech-restricting injunctions aredangerous enough to warrant strict scrutiny even when theyare not technically content based, I think the injunction inthe present case was content based (indeed, viewpoint based)to boot. The Court claims that it was directed, not at thosewhospoke certain things (antiabortion sentiments), but atthose who did certain things (violated the earlier injunction).If that were true, then the injunction's residual coverage of"all persons acting in concert or participation with [thenamed individuals and organizations], or on their behalf,"would not include those who merely entertained the samebeliefs and wished to express the same views as the nameddefendants. But the construction given to the injunction bythe issuing judge, which is entitled to great weight, cf. Forsyth County v. Nationalist Movement, 505 U. S. 123, 132-133(1992); NLRB v. Donnelly Garment Co., 330 U. S. 219, 227(1947), is to the contrary: All those who wish to express thesame views as the named defendants are deemed to be "acting in concert or participation." Following issuance of theamended injunction, a number of persons were arrested forwalking within the 36-foot speech-free zone. At an April 12,1993, hearing before the trial judge who issued the injunction, the following exchanges occurred:Mr. Lacy: "I was wondering how we can--why we werearrested and confined as being in concert with these people that we don't know, when other people weren't, thatwere in that same buffer zone, and it was kind of selective as to who was picked and who was arrested andwho was obtained for the same buffer zone in the samepublic injunction."The Court: "Mr. Lacy, I understand that those on theother side of the issue [abortion-rights supporters] werealso in the area. If you are referring to them, the In-junction did not pertain to those on the other side of the512us3$91k 12-28-97 17:25:11 PAGES OPINPGT796 MADSEN v. WOMEN'S HEALTH CENTER, INC.Opinion of Scalia, J.issue, because the word in concert with means in con-cert with those who had taken a certain position in respect to the clinic, adverse to the clinic. If you are say-ing that is the selective basis that the pro-choice werenot arrested when pro-life was arrested, that's the basisof that selection. . . ." Tr. 104-105 (Appearance Hear-ings Held Before Judge McGregor, Eighteenth JudicialCircuit, Seminole County, Florida (emphasis added)).And:John Doe No. 16: "This was the first time that I was inthis area myself and I had not attempted to block anentrance to a clinic in that town or anywhere else in theState of Florida in the last year or ever."I also understand that the reason why I was arrestedwas because I acted in concert with those who weredemonstrating pro-life. I guess the question that I'masking is were the beliefs in ideologies of the people thatwere present, were those taken into consideration whenwe were arrested?. . . . .". . . When you issued the Injunction did you determine that it would only apply to--that it would applyonly to people that were demonstrating that werepro-life?"The Court: "In effect, yes." Id., at 113-116 (emphasisadded).And finally:John Doe No. 31: ". . . How did the police determine thatI was acting in concert with some organization that wasnamed on this injunction? I again am a person whohaven't seen this injunction. So how did the police determine that I was acting in concert?"The Court: "They observed your activities and deter-mined in their minds whether or not what you were512us3$91k 12-28-97 17:25:11 PAGES OPINPGT797Cite as: 512 U. S. 753 (1994)Opinion of Scalia, J.doing was in concert with the--I gather the pro-lifeposition of the other, of the named Defendants." Id.,at 148 (emphasis added).These colloquies leave no doubt that the revised injunctionhere is tailored to restrain persons distinguished, not by proscribable conduct, but by proscribable views.2BI have discussed, in the prior subsection, the policy rea-sons for giving speech-restricting injunctions, even contentneutral ones, strict scrutiny. There are reasons of prece-dent as well, which are essentially ignored by the Court.To begin with, an injunction against speech is the veryprototype of the greatest threat to First Amendment values,the prior restraint. As The Chief Justice wrote for theCourt last Term: "The term prior restraint is used `to describe administrative and judicial orders forbidding certaincommunications when issued in advance of the time that suchcommunications are to occur.' . . . [P]ermanent injunctions,i. e.,--court orders that actually forbid speech activities--areclassic examples of prior restraints." Alexander v. UnitedStates, 509 U. S. 544, 550 (1993) (quoting M. Nimmer, Nimmer on Freedom of Speech $ 4.03, p. 4-14 (1984) (emphasisadded in Alexander)).3 See also 509 U. S., at 572 ("[T]he2 Justice Souter seeks to contradict this, saying that "the trial judgemade reasonably clear that the issue of who was acting `in concert' withthe named defendants was . . . not to be decided on the basis of protesters'viewpoints. See Tr. 40, 43, 93, 115, 119-120 (Apr. 12, 1993, Hearing)."Ante, at 776-777. The only way to respond to this scattershot assertionis to refer the reader to the cited pages, plus one more (page 116) whichclarifies what might have been ambiguous on page 115. These pages arereproduced verbatim in the Appendix to this opinion. As the reader willobserve, they do not remotely support Justice Souter's assertion thatthe injunction does not distinguish on the basis of viewpoint.3 This statement should be compared with today's opinion, which says,ante, at 763, n. 2, that injunctions are not prior restraints (or at least notthe nasty kind) if they only restrain speech in a certain area, or if the512us3$91k 12-28-97 17:25:11 PAGES OPINPGT798 MADSEN v. WOMEN'S HEALTH CENTER, INC.Opinion of Scalia, J.[prior restraint] doctrine . . . encompasses injunctive systemswhich threaten or bar future speech based on some past infraction") (Kennedy, J., dissenting). We have said thata "prior restraint on expression comes to this Court witha `heavy presumption' against its constitutional validity,"Organization for a Better Austin v. Keefe, 402 U. S. 415,419 (1971) (quoting Carroll v. President and Comm'rs ofPrincess Anne, 393 U. S. 175, 181 (1968)), and have repeat-edly struck down speech-restricting injunctions. See, e. g.,Youngdahl v. Rainfair, Inc., 355 U. S. 131 (1957); Keefe,supra; New York Times Co. v. United States, 403 U. S. 713(1971); Nebraska Press Assn. v. Stuart, 427 U. S. 539 (1976);National Socialist Party of America v. Skokie, 432 U. S. 43(1977); Vance v. Universal Amusement Co., 445 U. S. 308(1980) (statute authorizing injunctions); CBS Inc. v. Davis,510 U. S. 1315 (1994) (Blackmun, J., in chambers) (settingaside state-court preliminary injunction against a scheduledbroadcast).At oral argument neither respondents nor the SolicitorGeneral, appearing as amicus for respondents, could identifya single speech-injunction case applying mere intermediatescrutiny (which differs little if at all from the Court'sintermediate-intermediate scrutiny). We have, in ourspeech-injunction cases, affirmed both requirements thatcharacterize strict scrutiny: compelling public need and surgical precision of restraint. Even when (unlike in the pres-ent case) the First Amendment activity is intermixed withviolent conduct, " `precision of regulation' is demanded."NAACP v. Claiborne Hardware Co., 458 U. S. 886, 916 (1982)(quoting NAACP v. Button, 371 U. S. 415, 438 (1963)). InMilk Wagon Drivers v. Meadowmoor Dairies, Inc., 312 U. S.287 (1941), we upheld an injunction prohibiting peaceful picketing, but only because the picketing had been accompaniedby 50 instances of window smashing, bombings, stenchbasis for their issuance is not content but prior unlawful conduct. Thisdistinction has no antecedent in our cases.512us3$91k 12-28-97 17:25:11 PAGES OPINPGT799Cite as: 512 U. S. 753 (1994)Opinion of Scalia, J.bombings, destruction of trucks, beatings of drivers, arson,and armed violence. We noted that the "picketing . . . wasset in a background of violence," id., at 294, which was "nei-ther episodic nor isolated,"id., at 295, and we allowed theban on picketing "to prevent future coercion," id., at 296, aspart of a state court's power "to deal with coercion due toextensive violence,"id., at 299. We expressly distinguishedthe case from those in which there was no "[e]ntanglementwith violence."Id., at 297. In Youngdahl v. Rainfair, Inc.,supra, we refused to allow a blanket ban on picketing when,even though there had been scattered violence, it could notbe shown that "a pattern of violence was established whichwould inevitably reappear in the event picketing were laterresumed." Id., at 139.The utter lack of support for the Court's test in our jurisprudence is demonstrated by the two cases the opinion reliesupon. For the proposition that a speech restriction is validwhen it "burden[s] no more speech than necessary to accomplish a significant government interest," the Court citesNAACP v. Claiborne Hardware Co., supra, and Carroll v.President and Comm'rs of Princess Anne, supra, at 184.But as I shall demonstrate in some detail below, Claiborneapplied a much more stringent test; and the very text ofCarroll contradicts the Court. In the passage cited, Carrollsays this: "An order issued in the area of First Amendmentrights must be couched in the narrowest terms that will accomplish the pin-pointed objective permitted by constitutional mandate and the essential needs of the public order."393 U. S., at 183. That, of course, is strict scrutiny; and itdoes not remotely resemble the Court's new proposal, forwhich it is cited as precedential support. "Significant government interest[s]" (referred to in the Court's test) are general, innumerable, and omnipresent--at least one of themwill be implicated by any activity set in a public forum."Essential needs of the public order," on the other hand, arefactors of exceptional application. And that an injunction512us3$91k 12-28-97 17:25:11 PAGES OPINPGT800 MADSEN v. WOMEN'S HEALTH CENTER, INC.Opinion of Scalia, J."burden no more than necessary" is not nearly as demandingas the requirement that it be couched in the "narrowestterms that will accomplish [a] pin-pointed objective." Thatthe Court should cite this case as its principal authority isan admission that what it announces rests upon no precedentat all.IIIAI turn now from the Court's selection of a constitutionaltest to its actual application of that test to the facts of thepresent case. Before doing that, however, it will be helpful--in order to demonstrate how far the Court has departedfrom past practice--to consider how we proceeded in a relatively recent case that did not involve the disfavored class ofabortion protesters.NAACP v. Claiborne Hardware Co.,458 U. S. 886 (1982), involved, like this case, protest demon-strations against private citizens mingling political speechwith (what I will assume for the time being existed here)significant illegal behavior.4Writing for the Court,Justice Stevens summarized theevents giving rise to theClaiborne litigation (id., at 898-906): A local chapter of the NAACP, rebuffed by public offi-cials of Port Gibson and Claiborne County in its request forredress of various forms of racial discrimination, began aboycott of local businesses. During the boycott, a youngblack man was shot and killed in an encounter with PortGibson police and "sporadic acts of violence ensued." Id., at902. The following day, boycott leader Charles Evers told agroup that boycott violators would be disciplined by theirown people and warned that the sheriff "could not sleep withboycott violators at night." Ibid. He stated at a second4 Claiborne Hardware involved both monetary damages and an injunction, but that is of no consequence for purposes of the point I am makinghere: that we have been careful to insulate all elements of speech notinfected with illegality.512us3$91k 12-28-97 17:25:11 PAGES OPINPGT801Cite as: 512 U. S. 753 (1994)Opinion of Scalia, J.gathering that " `[i]f we catch any of you going in any of themracist stores, we're gonna break your damn neck.' " Ibid.In connection with the boycott, there were marches and pick-eting (often by small children). "Store watchers" wereposted outside boycotted stores to identify those who traded,and their names were read aloud at meetings of the Claiborne County NAACP and published in a mimeographedpaper. The chancellor found that those persons werebranded traitors, called demeaning names, and socially ostra-cized. Some had shots fired at their houses, a brick wasthrown through a windshield, and a garden damaged. Otherevidence showed that persons refusing to observe the boycott were beaten, robbed, and publicly humiliated (byspanking).The merchants brought suit against two groups involved inorganizing the boycott and numerous individuals. The trialcourt found tort violations, violations of a state statute pro-hibiting secondary boycotts, and state antitrust violations.It issued a broad permanent injunction against the boycott-ers, enjoining them from stationing "store watchers" at theplaintiffs' business premises; from persuading any person towithhold patronage; from using demeaning and obscene language to or about any person because of his patronage; frompicketing or patrolling the premises of any of the respondents; and from using violence against any person or inflictingdamage upon any real or personal property.Id., at 893.The Mississippi Supreme Court upheld the assessment of liability and the injunction, but solely on the tort theory, sayingthat " `[i]f any of these factors--force, violence, or threats--is present, then the boycott is illegal regardless of whether itis primary, secondary, economical, political, social or other.' "Id., at 895.The legal analysis of this Court proceeded along thefollowing lines:"[T]he boycott . . . took many forms. [It] waslaunched at a meeting of the local branch of the NAACP.512us3$91k 12-28-97 17:25:11 PAGES OPINPGT802 MADSEN v. WOMEN'S HEALTH CENTER, INC.Opinion of Scalia, J.[It was] attended by several hundred persons. Its ac-knowledged purpose was to secure compliance . . . witha lengthy list of demands for racial equality and racialjustice. The boycott was supported by speeches andnonviolent picketing. Participants repeatedly encour-aged others to join its cause."Each of these elements of the boycott is a form ofspeech or conduct that is ordinarily entitled to protection under the First and Fourteenth Amendments. . . .`[T]he practice of persons sharing common views banding together to achieve a common end is deeply embed-ded in the American political process.' We recognizethat `by collective effort individuals can make theirviews known, when, individually, their voices would befaint or lost.' " Id., at 907-908 (quoting CitizensAgainst Rent Control/Coalition for Fair Housing v.Berkeley, 454 U. S. 290, 294 (1981)).We went on to say that "[t]he right to associate does not loseall constitutional protection merely because some membersof the group may have participated in conduct or advocateddoctrine that itself is not protected," 458 U. S., at 908, andheld that the nonviolent elements of the protesters' activitieswere entitled to the protection of the First Amendment,id.,at 915.Because we recognized that the boycott involved elementsof protected First Amendment speech and other elementsnot so protected, we took upon ourselves a highly particu-larized burden of review, recognizing a "special obligationon this Court to examine critically the basis on which lia-bility was imposed."Ibid. "The First Amendment," wenoted, "does not protect violence," but when conduct sanctionable by tort liability "occurs in the context of constitu-tionally protected activity . . . `precision of regulation' is demanded." Id., at 916 (quoting NAACP v. Button, 371 U. S.,at 438). Then, criticizing the Mississippi Supreme Court for"broadly assert[ing]--without differentiation--that [i]ntimi512us3$91k 12-28-97 17:25:11 PAGES OPINPGT803Cite as: 512 U. S. 753 (1994)Opinion of Scalia, J.dation, threats, social ostracism, vilification, and traductionwere devices used by the defendants to effectuate the boycott," 458 U. S., at 921 (internal quotation marks omitted),we carefully examined the record for factual support of thefindings of liability. While affirming that a "judgment tai-lored to the consequences of [individuals'] unlawful conductmay be sustained," we said that "mere association with [a]group--absent a specific intent to further an unlawful aimembraced by that group--is an insufficient predicate for lia-bility."Id., at 925-926. We said in conclusion that anycharacterization of a political protest movement as a violentconspiracy "must be supported by findings that adequatelydisclose the evidentiary basis for concluding that specific parties agreed to use unlawful means, that carefully identify theimpact of such unlawful conduct, and that recognize the importance of avoiding the imposition of punishment for consti-tutionally protected activity."Id., at 933-934. Becausethis careful procedure had not been followed by the Mississippi courts, we set aside the entire judgment, including theinjunction.Id., at 924, n. 67, 934.BI turn now to the Court's performance in the present case.I am content to evaluate it under the lax (intermediateintermediate scrutiny) standard that the Court has adopted,because even by that distorted light it is inadequate.The first step under the Court's standard would be, oneshould think, to identify the "significant government interest" that justifies the portions of the injunction it upheld,namely, the enjoining of speech in the 36-foot zone, and themaking (during certain times) of " `sounds . . . within earshotof the patients inside the [c]linic.' " Ante, at 772. At onepoint in its opinion, the Court identifies a number of govern-ment interests: the "interest in protecting a woman's freedom to seek lawful medical or counseling services," the "in-terest in ensuring the public safety and order, in promoting512us3$91k 12-28-97 17:25:11 PAGES OPINPGT804 MADSEN v. WOMEN'S HEALTH CENTER, INC.Opinion of Scalia, J.the free flow of traffic on public streets and sidewalks, andin protecting the property rights of all its citizens," the "interest in . . . medical privacy," and the interest in "the psy-chological [and] physical well-being of the patient held `captive' by medical circumstance." Ante, at 767, 768. TheCourt says,ante, at 768, that "these governmental interests[are] quite sufficient to justify an appropriately tailored injunction to protect them." Unless, however, the Court hasdestroyed even more First Amendment law than I fear, thislast statement must be read in conjunction with the Court'searlier acknowledgment that "[u]nder general equity principles, an injunction issues only if there is a showing that thedefendant has violated, or imminently will violate, some provision of statutory or common law, and that there is a `cogni-zable danger of recurrent violation.' "Ante, at 765, n. 3(quoting United States v. W. T. Grant Co., 345 U. S. 629, 633(1953)). It is too much to believe, even of today's opinion,that it approves issuance of an injunction against speech "topromote the free flow of traffic" even when there has beenfound no violation, or threatened violation, of a law relat-ing to that interest.Assuming then that the "significant interests" the Courtmentioned must in fact be significant enough to be protectedby state law (a concept that includes a prior court order),which law has been, or is about to be, violated, the questionarises: What state law is involved here? The only one evenmentioned is the original September 30, 1992, injunction,5which had been issued (quite rightly, in my judgment) in re5 Justice Souter points out that "petitioners themselves acknowledgethat the governmental interests in protection of public safety and order,of the free flow of traffic, and of property rights are reflected in Floridalaw. See Brief for Petitioners 17, and n. 7 (citing [various Florida statutes])." Ante, at 777. This is true but quite irrelevant. As the preceding sentence of text shows, we are concerned here not with state laws ingeneral, but with state laws that these respondents had been found tohave violated. There is no finding of violation of any of these cited Florida statutes.512us3$91k 12-28-97 17:25:12 PAGES OPINPGT805Cite as: 512 U. S. 753 (1994)Opinion of Scalia, J.sponse to threats by the originally named parties (includingpetitioners here) that they would " `[p]hysically close downabortion mills,' " "bloc[k] access to clinics," "ignore the law ofthe State," and "shut down a clinic." Permanent InjunctionFindings of Fact |||| 2, 5, 7, 8, App. 6-7. That original in-junction prohibited petitioners from:"1) trespassing on, sitting in, blocking, impeding orobstructing ingress into or egress from any facility atwhich abortions are performed in Brevard and SeminoleCounty Florida;"2) physically abusing persons entering, leaving, work-ing or using any services of any facility at which abortions are performed in Brevard and Seminole County,Florida; and"3) attempting or directing others to take any of theactions described in Paragraphs 1 and 2 above."Id.,at 9.According to the Court, the state court imposed the laterinjunction's "restrictions on petitioner[s'] . . . antiabortionmessage because they repeatedly violated the court's origi-nal order."Ante, at 763. Surprisingly, the Court acceptsthis reason as valid, without asking whether the court's findings of fact support it--whether, that is, the acts of whichpetitioners stood convicted were violations of the originalinjunction.The Court simply takes this on faith--even though violation of the original injunction is an essential part of the rea-soning whereby it approves portions of the amended injunction, even though petitioners denied any violation of theoriginal injunction, even though the utter lack of properbasis for the other challenged portions of the injunctionhardly inspires confidence that the lower courts knew whatthey were doing, and even though close examination of thefactual basis for essential conclusions is the usual practice inFirst Amendment cases, see Claiborne Hardware, 458 U. S.,512us3$91k 12-28-97 17:25:12 PAGES OPINPGT806 MADSEN v. WOMEN'S HEALTH CENTER, INC.Opinion of Scalia, J.at 915-916, n. 50; Edwards v. South Carolina, 372 U. S. 229,235 (1963); Fiske v. Kansas, 274 U. S. 380, 385-386 (1927);see also Bose Corp. v. Consumers Union of United States,Inc., 466 U. S. 485, 517 (1984) (Rehnquist, J., dissenting).Let us proceed, then, to the inquiry the Court neglected. Inthe amended permanent injunction the trial court found that"despite the injunction of September 30, 1992, there hasbeen interference with ingress to the petitioners' facility. . . . [in] the form of persons on the paved portions ofDixie Way, some standing without any obvious relationship to others; some moving about, again without anyobvious relationship to others; some holding signs, somenot; some approaching, apparently trying to communi-cate with the occupants of motor vehicles moving on thepaved surface; some marching in a circular picket linethat traversed the entrance driveways to the two parking lots of the petitioners and the short section of side-walk joining the two parking lots and then entering thepaved portion of the north lane of Dixie Way and return-ing in the opposite direction. . . . Other persons wouldbe standing, kneeling and sitting on the unpaved shoul-ders of the public right-of-way. As vehicular traffic approached the area it would, in response to the conges-tion, slow down. If the destination of such traffic waseither of the two parking lots of the petitioners, suchtraffic slowed even more, sometimes having to momentarily hesitate or stop until persons in the drivewaymoved out of the way." Amended Permanent Injunction || A."As traffic slowed on Dixie Way and began its turninto the clinic's driveway, the vehicle would be ap-proached by persons designated by the respondents assidewalk counselors attempting to get the attention ofthe vehicles' occupants to give them anti-abortion literature and to urge them not to use the clinic's services.Such so-called sidewalk counselors were assisted in ac512us3$91k 12-28-97 17:25:12 PAGES OPINPGT807Cite as: 512 U. S. 753 (1994)Opinion of Scalia, J.complishing their approach to the vehicle by the hesita-tion or momentary stopping caused by the time neededfor the picket line to open up before the vehicle couldenter the parking lot." Id., || E."The . . . staff physician testified that on one occasionwhile he was attempting to enter the parking lot of theclinic, he had to stop his vehicle and remained stoppedwhile respondent, Cadle, and otherstook their time toget out of the way . . . . This physician also testifiedthat he witnessed the demonstrators running along sideof and in front of patients' vehicles, pushing pamphletsin car windows to persons who had not indicated anyinterest in such literature. . . ."Id., || I (emphasisadded).On the basis of these findings Judge McGregor concludedthat "the actions of the respondents and those in concertwith them in the street and driveway approaches to the clinicof the plaintiffs continue to impede and obstruct both staffand patients from entering the clinic. The paved surfacesof the public right-of-way must be kept open for the free flowof traffic." Id., Conclusions, || A.6These are the only findings and conclusions of the courtthat could conceivably be considered to relate to a violationof the original injunction. They all concern behavior by theprotesters causing traffic on the street in front of the abor-tion clinic to slow down, and causing vehicles crossing the6 In my subsequent discussion, I shall give the Florida trial court thebenefit of the doubt, and assume that the phrase "continue to impede andobstruct" expresses the conclusion that petitioners had violated those provisions of the original injunction which prohibited "impeding or obstructing." It is not entirely clear, however, that the Florida court was in factasserting a violation of the original injunction. As far as the recordshows, it assessed no penalty for any such violation; and "impedingand obstructing" can embrace many different things, not all of which (asI shall discuss presently) come within the meaning of the originalinjunction.512us3$91k 12-28-97 17:25:12 PAGES OPINPGT808 MADSEN v. WOMEN'S HEALTH CENTER, INC.Opinion of Scalia, J.pedestrian right-of-way, between the street and the clinic'sparking lot, to slow down or even, occasionally, to stop momentarily while pedestrians got out of the way. As far asappears from the court's findings, all of these results wereproduced, not by anyone intentionally seeking to block oncoming traffic, but as the incidental effect of persons engagedin the activities of walking a picket line and leafletting onpublic property in front of the clinic. There is no factualfinding that petitioners engaged inany intentional or purposeful obstruction.Now let us compare these activities with the earlier injunction, violation of which is the asserted justification forthe speech-free zone. Walking the return leg of the picketline on the paved portion of Dixie Way (instead of on thesidewalk), and congregating on the unpaved portion of thatstreet, may, for all we know, violate some municipal ordinance (though that was not alleged, and the municipal policeevidently did not seek to prevent it); but it assuredly did notviolate the earlier injunction, which made no mention of sucha prohibition. Causing the traffic along Dixie Way to slowdown "in response to the congestion" is also irrelevant; theinjunction said nothing about slowing down traffic on publicrights-of-way. It prohibited the doing (or urging) of onlythree things: (1) "physically abusing persons entering, leaving, working or using any services" of the abortion clinic(there is no allegation of that); (2) "trespassing on [or] sittingin" the abortion clinic (there is no allegation of that); and(3) "blocking, impeding or obstructing ingress into or egressfrom" the abortion clinic.Only the last of these has any conceivable application here,and it seems to me that it must reasonably be read to referto intentionally blocking, impeding, or obstructing, and notto such temporary obstruction as may be the normal andincidental consequence of other protest activity. That is obvious, first of all, from the context in which the original injunction was issued--as a response to petitioners' threatened512us3$91k 12-28-97 17:25:12 PAGES OPINPGT809Cite as: 512 U. S. 753 (1994)Opinion of Scalia, J.actions of trespass and blockade, i. e., the physical shuttingdown of the local clinics. Secondly, if that narrow meaningof intentional blockade, impediment, or obstruction was notintended, and if it covered everything up to and including theincidental and "momentary" stopping of entering vehicles bypersons leafletting and picketing, the original injunctionwould have failed the axiomatic requirement that its termsbe drawn with precision. See, e. g., Milk Wagon Drivers,312 U. S., at 296; 1 D. Dobbs, Law of Remedies $ 2.8(7), p. 219(2d ed. 1993); 7 J. Moore, J. Lucas, & K. Sinclair, Moore'sFederal Practice || 65.11 (2d ed. 1994); cf. Fed. Rule Civ. Proc.65(d) ("Every order granting an injunction . . . shall be specific in terms [and] shall describe in reasonable detail . . .the act or acts sought to be restrained"). And finally, if theoriginal injunction did not have that narrow meaning itwould assuredly have been unconstitutional, since it wouldhave prevented speech-related activities that were, insofaras this record shows, neither criminally or civilly unlawfulnor inextricably intertwined with unlawful conduct. SeeMilk Wagon Drivers, supra, at 292, 297; Carroll, 393 U. S.,at 183-184.If the original injunction is read as it must be, there isnothing in the trial court's findings to suggest that it wasviolated. The Court today speaks of "the failure of the firstinjunction to protect access." Ante, at 769. But the first injunction did not broadly "protect access." It forbade particular acts that impeded access, to wit, intentionally "blocking,impeding or obstructing." The trial court's findings identifynone of these acts, but only a mild interference with accessthat is the incidental by-product of leafletting and picketing.There was no sitting down, no linking of arms, no packingen masse in the driveway; the most that can be alleged (andthe trial court did not even make this a finding) is that onone occasion protesters "took their time to get out of theway." If that is enough to support this one-man proscription of free speech, the First Amendment is in grave peril.512us3$91k 12-28-97 17:25:12 PAGES OPINPGT810 MADSEN v. WOMEN'S HEALTH CENTER, INC.Opinion of Scalia, J.I almost forgot to address the facts showing prior violationof law (including judicial order) with respect to the otherportion of the injunction the Court upholds: the no-noise-within-earshot-of-patients provision. That is perhaps because, amazingly, neither the Florida courts nor this Courtmakes the slightest attempt to link that provision to priorviolations of law. The relevant portion of the Court's opinion, Part II-B, simply reasons that hospital patients shouldnot have to be bothered with noise, from political protests oranything else (which is certainly true), and that thereforethe noise restrictions could be imposedby injunction (whichis certainly false). Since such a law is reasonable, in otherwords, it can be enacted by a single man to bind only a singleclass of social protesters. The pro-abortion demonstratorswho were often making (if respondents' videotape is accurate) more noise than the petitioners, can continue to shouttheir chants at their opponents exiled across the street totheir hearts' content. The Court says that "[w]e have upheld similar noise restrictions in the past," ante, at 772, citing Grayned v. City of Rockford, 408 U. S. 104 (1972). ButGrayned involved an ordinance, and not an injunction; itapplied to everyone. The only other authority the Court invokes is NLRB v. Baptist Hospital, Inc., 442 U. S. 773 (1979),which it describes as "evaluating another injunction involving a medical facility," ante, at 772, but which evaluated nosuch thing. Baptist Hospital, like Grayned, involved a restriction of general application, adopted by the hospital itself--and the case in any event dealt not with whether thegovernment had violated the First Amendment by restricting noise, but with whether the hospital had violated theNational Labor Relations Act by restricting solicitation (including solicitation of union membership).Perhaps there is a local ordinance in Melbourne, Florida,prohibiting loud noise in the vicinity of hospitals and abortion clinics. Or perhaps even a Florida common-law prohibition applies, rendering such noisemaking tortious. But the512us3$91k 12-28-97 17:25:12 PAGES OPINPGT811Cite as: 512 U. S. 753 (1994)Opinion of Scalia, J.record in this case shows (and, alas, the Court's opinion todaydemands) neither indication of the existence of any such lawnor a finding that it had been violated. The fact that sucha law would be reasonable is enough, according to the Court,to justify a single judge in imposing it upon these protestersalone. The First Amendment (and even the common law ofinjunctions, see the Court's own footnote 3) reels in disbelief.The Court does not even attempt a response to the pointI have made in this section, insofar as the injunction againstnoise is concerned. That portion of its opinion, ante, at 772-773, does not even allege any violation of the prior injunctionto support this judge-crafted abridgment of speech. Withrespect to the 36-foot speech-free zone, the Court attemptsa response, which displays either a misunderstanding of thepoint I have made or an effort to recast it into an answerableone. My point does not rely, as the Court's response suggests, ante, at 770, upon my earlier description of the video-tape. That was set forth just for context, to show thereader what suppression of normal and peaceful social pro-test is afoot here. Nor is it relevant to my point that "petitioners themselves studiously refrained from challenging thefactual basis for the injunction,"ibid. I accept the facts asthe Florida court found them; I deny that those facts supportits conclusion (set forth as such in a separate portion of itsopinion, as quoted above) that the original injunction hadbeen violated. The Court concludes its response as follows:"We must therefore judge this case on the assumptionthat the evidence and testimony presented to the statecourt supported its findings that the presence of protesters standing, marching, and demonstrating near the clinic's entrance interfered with ingress to and egress fromthe clinic despite the issuance of the earlier injunction."Ante, at 771.But a finding that they "interfered with ingress and egress. . . despite the . . . earlier injunction" is not enough. The512us3$91k 12-28-97 17:25:12 PAGES OPINPGT812 MADSEN v. WOMEN'S HEALTH CENTER, INC.Opinion of Scalia, J.earlier injunction did not, and could not, prohibit all "inter-ference"--for example, the minor interference incidentallyproduced by lawful picketing and leafletting. What theCourt needs, and cannot come up with, is a finding that thepetitioners interfered in a manner prohibited by the earlierinjunction. A conclusion that they "block[ed], imped[ed] orobstruct[ed] ingress . . . or egress" (the terminology of theoriginal injunction) within the only fair, and indeed the onlypermissible, meaning of that phrase cannot be supported bythe facts found.To sum up: The interests assertedly protected by the supplementary injunction did not include any interest whose im-pairment was a violation of Florida law or of a Florida courtinjunction. Unless the Court intends today to overturnlong-settled jurisprudence, that means that the interests cannot possibly qualify as "significant interests" under theCourt's new standard.CFinally, I turn to the Court's application of the second partof its test: whether the provisions of the injunction "burdenno more speech than necessary" to serve the significant in-terest protected.This test seems to me amply and obviously satisfied withregard to the noise restriction that the Court approves: It isonly such noise as would reach the patients in the abortionclinic that is forbidden--and not even at all times, but onlyduring certain fixed hours and "during surgical proceduresand recovery periods." (The latter limitation may raisevagueness and notice problems, but that does not concern ushere. Moreover, as I have noted earlier, the noise restriction is invalid on other grounds.) With regard to the 36-footspeech-free zone, however, it seems to me just as obviousthat the test which the Court sets for itself has not been met.Assuming a "significant state interest" of the sort cognizable for injunction purposes (i. e., one protected by a law thathas been or is threatened to be violated) in both (1) keeping512us3$91k 12-28-97 17:25:12 PAGES OPINPGT813Cite as: 512 U. S. 753 (1994)Opinion of Scalia, J.pedestrians off the paved portion of Dixie Way, and (2) enabling cars to cross the public sidewalk at the clinic's driveways without having to slow down or come to even a "momentary" stop, there are surely a number of ways to protectthose interests short of banishing the entire protest demonstration from the 36-foot zone. For starters, the Court couldhave (for the first time) ordered the demonstrators to stayout of the street (the original injunction did not remotelyrequire that). It could have limited the number of demonstrators permitted on the clinic side of Dixie Way. And itcould have forbidden the pickets to walk on the driveways.The Court's only response to these options is that "[t]he statecourt was convinced that [they would not work] in view ofthe failure of the first injunction to protect access." Ante,at 769. But must we accept that conclusion as valid--whenthe original injunction contained no command (or at the veryleast no clear command) that had been disobeyed, and contained nothing even related to staying out of the street? Ifthe "burden no more speech than necessary" requirementcan be avoided by merely opining that (for some reason) nolesser restriction than this one will be obeyed, it is not muchof a requirement at all.But I need not engage in such precise analysis, since theCourt itself admits that the requirement is not to be takenseriously. "The need for a complete buffer zone," it says,"may be debatable, but some deference must be given to thestate court's familiarity with the facts and the background ofthe dispute between the parties even under our heightenedreview." Ante, at 769-770 (emphasis added). In application, in other words, the "burden no more speech than isnecessary" test has become an "arguably burden no morespeech than is necessary" test. This renders the Court'sintermediate-intermediate scrutiny not only no more stringent than plain old intermediate scrutiny, but considerablyless stringent.512us3$91k 12-28-97 17:25:12 PAGES OPINPGT814 MADSEN v. WOMEN'S HEALTH CENTER, INC.Opinion of Scalia, J.Another disturbing part of the Court's analysis is its reli-ance upon the fact that "witnesses . . . conceded that thebuffer zone was narrow enough to place petitioners at a dis-tance of no greater than 10 to 12 feet from cars approachingand leaving the clinic," and that "[p]rotesters standing acrossthe narrow street from the clinic can still be seen and heardfrom the clinic parking lots." Ante, at 770. This consid-eration of whether the injunction leaves open effective, alternative channels of communication is classic, time-place-and-manner-regulation, "intermediate scrutiny" review,see Ward v. Rock Against Racism, 491 U. S. 781, 791 (1989).And in that context it is reasonable. But since in this casea general regulation establishing time, place, and manner re-strictions for all citizens is not at issue, these petitionershave a right, not merely to demonstrate and protest at somereasonably effective place, but to demonstrate and protestwhere they want to and where all other Floridians can,namely, right there on the public sidewalk in front of theclinic. "[O]ne is not to have the exercise of his liberty ofexpression in appropriate places abridged on the plea that itmay be exercised in some other place." Schneider v. State(Town of Irvington), 308 U. S. 147, 163 (1939). "Whetherpetitioner might have used some other [forum] . . . is of noconsequence. . . . Even if [another] forum had been available,that fact alone would not justify an otherwise impermissibleprior restraint." Southeastern Promotions, Ltd. v. Conrad,420 U. S. 546, 556 (1975).* * *In his dissent in Korematsu v. United States, 323 U. S. 214(1944), the case in which this Court permitted the wartimemilitary internment of Japanese-Americans, Justice Jacksonwrote the following:"A military order, however unconstitutional, is not aptto last longer than the military emergency. . . . But oncea judicial opinion . . . rationalizes the Constitution to512us3$91k 12-28-97 17:25:12 PAGES OPINPGT815Cite as: 512 U. S. 753 (1994)Appendix to opinion of Scalia, J.show that the Constitution sanctions such an order, theCourt for all time has validated the principle of racialdiscrimination in criminal procedure and of transplant-ing American citizens. The principle then lies aboutlike a loaded weapon ready for the hand of any authoritythat can bring forward a plausible claim of an urgentneed." Id., at 246.What was true of a misguided military order is true of amisguided trial-court injunction. And the Court has left apowerful loaded weapon lying about today.What we have decided seems to be, and will be reportedby the media as, an abortion case. But it will go down inthe lawbooks, it will be cited, as a free-speech injunctioncase--and the damage its novel principles produce will beconsiderable. The proposition that injunctions againstspeech are subject to a standard indistinguishable from (un-less perhaps more lenient in its application than) the "intermediate scrutiny" standard we have used for "time, place,and manner" legislative restrictions; the notion that injunctions against speech need not be closely tied to any violationof law, but may simply implement sound social policy; andthe practice of accepting trial-court conclusions permittinginjunctions without considering whether those conclusionsare supported by any findings of fact--these latest by-products of our abortion jurisprudence ought to give allfriends of liberty great concern.For these reasons, I dissent from that portion of the judgment upholding parts of the injunction.APPENDIX TO OPINION OF JUSTICE SCALIAPortions of April 12, 1993, Appearance Hearings Held Be-fore Judge McGregor, Eighteenth Judicial Circuit, SeminoleCounty, Florida:Page 40:JANE DOE NO. 6: "Yes, sir. When I heard this injunction, everything in there, as an American--"512us3$91k 12-28-97 17:25:12 PAGES OPINPGT816 MADSEN v. WOMEN'S HEALTH CENTER, INC.Appendix to opinion of Scalia, J.THE COURT: "I'm Sorry. I'm not the judge trying it.Those are matters that perhaps you'll want to present attrial."JANE DOE NO. 6: "I do have a question, too. I'm confused as to why the people who were blockading the clinicwho had pro-choice signs were not arrested along with me.They--it appeared to me they were violating the same injunction I was, you know--"THE COURT: "The Injunction is directed only againstcertain named Defendants, certain named organizations andthose acting in concert with them. Presumably, as you say,the other side would not have been acting in concert withthe named Defendants."JANE DOE NO. 6: "But I was in concert with nobody. Iwas just an American citizen, defending the right to assemble and to demonstrate."THE COURT: "Again, perhaps, that would be a matter ofdefense that you would present at the time of trial."JANE DOE NO. 6: "So the Injunction only . . . ."Page 43:JANE DOE NO. 6: "But I was not in concert withanybody."THE COURT: "Again, I say that at the time of your trial,perhaps, that would be a defensive matter. Although, I'mtold by the Melbourne Police Department that everyone wasput on notice that the thirty-six-foot area was a restrictedarea and when--if you presumably had notice of that andchose to enter, then, you chose to violate the Court's Injunction. That's why you were arrested."JANE DOE NO. 6: "I don't mean this disrespectfully, butdoes not the constitutional freedom to be on public sidewalkand to--"THE COURT: "There is nothing in the constitution thatsays that anyone is entitled to walk on any sidewalk."512us3$91k 12-28-97 17:25:12 PAGES OPINPGT817Cite as: 512 U. S. 753 (1994)Appendix to opinion of Scalia, J.JANE DOE NO. 6: "But I have the right to demonstrate,the right to assembly, the right to religion and its practiceand I was praying on the sidewalk. I don't understand--"THE COURT: "And that will not be denied you, but it issubject to regulation. The Court provided the south shoul-der of Dixie Way as an area for that to be done."Page 93:MR. QUINTERO: "And who are these Defendants? Ihave no idea."THE COURT: "They're set out in the Injunction."MR. QUINTERO: "Because I'm not working in conjunction with anybody. I don't know anything. I don't belongto any group that is doing absolutely anything like this. Iam just a normal Christian that went to pray on thesidewalk."THE COURT: "Again, those may be defensive matters.I'm saying that you should bring them up first with yourlawyer and then at the time of trial."MR. QUINTERO: "Okay, I would like to formally requestto have this injunction so I can look at it while I'm incarcerated and that I can make arrangements to talk to counselabout it."THE COURT: "Your lawyer knows how to obtain a copy.Copies are available at, again, the branch courthouses in Mel-bourne and Melbourne City Hall. Copies are available atthe Clerk's Office here in Seminole County."MR. QUINTERO: "At this time I do not have a lawyerand I see it very difficult for me to go to the MelbourneCourthouse being incarcerated."Page 115-116:[JOHN DOE NO. 16]: ". . . do with the determination inthe Injunctive Order or in the arrest?"THE COURT: "You know, I wasn't there. I don't know.All I know is that the officer used his perceptions, his eyes,his ears, took note of the activities that were going on and512us3$91k 12-28-97 17:25:12 PAGES OPINPGT818 MADSEN v. WOMEN'S HEALTH CENTER, INC.Appendix to opinion of Scalia, J.for reasons, you know, he believed that you were in concertwith those that had been enjoined and the Injunctive Orderis expanded to include those so that you were subject thento the Injunction."JOHN DOE NO. 16: "When you issued the InjunctiveCourt Order did you include what someone might believeabout abortion or about their right to assemble there, or let'sjust say about abortion as a basis for arrest?"THE COURT: "I considered all of the evidence beforeme."JOHN DOE NO. 16: "And would one of those things be,would one of the reasons that I was arrested be because Iopposed abortion in that clinic?"THE COURT: "No."JOHN DOE NO. 16: "Okay. If I was to stand here, if Iwas to testify that I did not oppose abortion would that makeany difference in my arrest?"THE COURT: "You can't be unarrested. You have beenarrested."JOHN DOE NO. 16: "What about being charged withviolating the Court Order?"THE COURT: "It will be up to the prosecutor, the StateAttorney, to make a charge decision. And sometimes lawyers in representing clients will go to a prosecutor in advance of his charge decision and ask that he, you know, consider additional matters that might cause him to not makesuch a charge decision. Those are matters lawyers bestknow how to do."JOHN DOE NO. 16: "When you issued the Injunction didyou determine that it would only apply to--that it wouldapply only to people that were demonstrating that werepro-life?"THE COURT: "In effect, yes."JOHN DOE NO. 16: "Okay, thank you."THE COURT: "Any other questions?"JOHN DOE NO. 16: "No."512us3$91k 12-28-97 17:25:12 PAGES OPINPGT819Cite as: 512 U. S. 753 (1994)Appendix to opinion of Scalia, J.THE COURT: "Thank you. Did we give him a courtdate?"John Doe Number Eighteen."JOHN DOE NO. 18: "Were there any numbers . . . ."Pages 119-120:MR. MACLEAN: "Yes, please, Your Honor."THE COURT: "Okay. Court will then direct pre-trialrelease officer to interview and provide the results of theinterview to Judge Eaton after 1:00 o'clock today and he willconsider that release. Do you wish to be considered forcourt-appointed counsel?"MR. MACLEAN: "No thank you."THE COURT: "Do you have any questions?"MR. MACLEAN: "Yes, please. Would you extend yourgracious offer to reduce the bond for myself also?"THE COURT: "Surely. Reduce bond to a hundreddollars."THE CLERK: "Total?"THE COURT: "Hmm?"THE CLERK: "Total?"THE COURT: "No. I can't deal with the--"THE CLERK: "Eleven hundred?"THE COURT: "Eleven hundred, yes."MR. MACLEAN: "Respectfully, sir, where on my arrestreport does it allege that I was acting in concert withanyone?"THE COURT: "It is embodied in the phrase violation ofthe Injunctive Court Order. But again, this is an arrestreport. It is not a formal charge. Presumably within theformal charge there will be that reference, sir."MR. MACLEAN: "I'm finished with questions, sir, butmay I make a statement which I promise you I won't--"THE COURT: "I can't deal with the statement. In otherwords, I've got a lot of people to see and the statement maybe defensive in nature and it is a matter that should bebrought to the trial of the matter."512us3$91k 12-28-97 17:25:12 PAGES OPINPGT820 MADSEN v. WOMEN'S HEALTH CENTER, INC.Appendix to opinion of Scalia, J.MR. MACLEAN: "I only wish to thank the MelbournePolice Department and the Sharpes Correctional facility andthe people here in Seminole for their gracious and profes-sional treatment of us."THE COURT: "Thank you in their behalf."MR. MACLEAN: "Okay, sir."THE COURT: "John Doe Number Eighteen. This is outof order now."THE CLERK: "Yes, sir."THE COURT: "You've been designated as John DoeNumber Eighteen. Do you wish to maintain that designa-tion for these proceedings?"512us3$92z 12-28-97 17:27:47 PAGES OPINPGT821OCTOBER TERM, 1993SyllabusINTERNATIONAL UNION, UNITED MINEWORKERS OF AMERICA,et al.v. BAGWELLet al.certiorari to the supreme court of virginiaNo. 92-1625. Argued November 29, 1993--Decided June 30, 1994A month after enjoining petitioners (collectively, the union) from conducting unlawful strike-related activities against certain mining companies,a Virginia trial court held a contempt hearing, fined the union for itsdisobedience, and announced that the union would be fined for any future breach of the injunction. In subsequent contempt hearings, thecourt levied against the union over $64 million in what it termed coercive, civil fines, ordering most of the money to be paid to the Commonwealth and the counties affected by the unlawful activities. After thestrike was settled, the court refused to vacate the fines owed to theCommonwealth and counties, concluding that they were payable in effect to the public. Ultimately, it appointed respondent Bagwell to actas Special Commissioner to collect the unpaid fines. The VirginiaCourt of Appeals reversed and ordered that the fines be vacated. TheVirginia Supreme Court, reversing in its turn, rejected petitioners' contention that the fines were criminal and could not be imposed absent acriminal trial.Held: The serious contempt fines imposed here were criminal and constitutionally could be imposed only through a jury trial. Pp. 826-839.(a) A criminal contempt fine is punitive and can be imposed onlythrough criminal proceedings, including the right to jury trial. A contempt fine is considered civil and remedial if it either coerces a defendant into compliance with a court order or compensates the complainantfor losses sustained. United States v. Mine Workers, 330 U. S. 258, 303-304. Where a fine is not compensatory, it is civil only if the contemnorhas an opportunity to purge, such as with per diem fines and fixed,suspended fines. Pp. 826-830.(b) Most contempt sanctions share punitive and coercive characteristics, and the fundamental question underlying the distinction betweencivil and criminal contempts is what process is due for the imposition ofany particular contempt sanction. Direct contempts can be penalizedsummarily in light of the court's substantial interest in maintainingorder and because the need for extensive factfinding and the likelihoodof an erroneous deprivation are reduced. Greater procedural protections are afforded for sanctions of indirect contempts. Certain indirect512us3$92z 12-28-97 17:27:47 PAGES OPINPGT822 MINE WORKERS v. BAGWELLSyllabuscontempts are particularly appropriate for imposition through civil proceedings, including contempts impeding the court's ability to adjudicatethe proceedings before it and those contempts involving discrete, readilyascertainable acts. For contempts of more complex injunctions, however, criminal procedures may be required. Pp. 830-834.(c) The mere fact that the contempt fines here were announced inadvance did not render them civil. Criminal laws generally providenotice of the sanction to be imposed, and the union's ability to avoid thecontempt fines was indistinguishable from the ability of any citizen toavoid a criminal sanction. Other considerations confirm that the fineschallenged here are criminal. Neither the parties nor the Commonwealth's courts have suggested that the fines are compensatory. Theunion's sanctionable conduct did not occur in the court's presence orotherwise implicate the core of the judicial contempt power, wherelesser protections may be appropriate. Nor did the union's contumacyinvolve simple, affirmative acts, where the sanctions' force is primarilycoercive and elaborate factfinding is not required. Instead the courtlevied fines for widespread, ongoing, out-of-court violations of a complexinjunction, effectively policing the union's compliance with an entirecode of conduct the court itself imposed. The contumacy lasted manymonths and spanned several counties, and the fines assessed were serious. Under these circumstances, disinterested factfinding and evenhanded adjudication were essential, and the union was entitled to acriminal jury trial. Pp. 834-838.244 Va. 463, 423 S. E. 2d 349, reversed.Blackmun, J., delivered the opinion for a unanimous Court with respectto Parts I, II-A, II-C, and III, and the opinion of the Court with respectto Part II-B, in which Stevens, O'Connor, Scalia, Kennedy, Souter,and Thomas, JJ., joined. Scalia, J., filed a concurring opinion, post,p. 839. Ginsburg, J., filed an opinion concurring in part and concurringin the judgment, in which Rehnquist, C. J., joined, post, p. 844.Laurence Gold argued the cause for petitioners. Withhim on the briefs were Robert H. Stropp, Jr., Walter Kamiat,Andrew P. Miller, Virginia A. Seitz, and David L. Shapiro.John G. Roberts, Jr., argued the cause for respondents.With him on the briefs were William B. Poff, Clinton S.Morse, Frank K. Friedman, and David G. Leitch.Deputy Solicitor General Bender argued the cause for theUnited States urging affirmance. With him on the brief512us3$92z 12-28-97 17:27:47 PAGES OPINPGT823Cite as: 512 U. S. 821 (1994)Opinion of the Courtwere Solicitor General Days, Assistant Attorney GeneralHunger, Deputy Solicitor General Kneedler, and Miguel A.Estrada.*Justice Blackmun delivered the opinion of the Court.We are called upon once again to consider the distinctionbetween civil and criminal contempt. Specifically, we address whether contempt fines levied against a union for vio-lations of a labor injunction are coercive civil fines, or arecriminal fines that constitutionally could be imposed onlythrough a jury trial. We conclude that the fines are criminaland, accordingly, we reverse the judgment of the SupremeCourt of Virginia.IPetitioners, the International Union, United Mine Workersof America, and United Mine Workers of America, District28 (collectively, the union), engaged in a protracted labor dispute with the Clinchfield Coal Company and Sea "B" MiningCompany (collectively, the companies) over alleged unfairlabor practices. In April 1989, the companies filed suit inthe Circuit Court of Russell County, Virginia, to enjointhe union from conducting unlawful strike-related activities. The trial court entered an injunction which, as lateramended, prohibited the union and its members from, amongother things, obstructing ingress and egress to companyfacilities, throwing objects at and physically threateningcompany employees, placing tire-damaging "jackrocks" onroads used by company vehicles, and picketing with morethan a specified number of people at designated sites. Thecourt additionally ordered the union to take all steps necessary to ensure compliance with the injunction, to place su*Bertram R. Gelfand and Jeffrey C. Dannenberg filed a brief for theAllied Educational Foundation as amicus curiae urging reversal.Michael E. Avakian filed a brief for the Center on National LaborPolicy, Inc., as amicus curiae urging affirmance.512us3$92f 12-28-97 17:27:47 PAGES OPINPGT824 MINE WORKERS v. BAGWELLOpinion of the Courtpervisors at picket sites, and to report all violations to thecourt. App. to Pet. for Cert. 114a-116a.On May 18, 1989, the trial court held a contempt hearingand found that petitioners had committed 72 violations of theinjunction. After fining the union $642,000 for its disobedi-ence,1 the court announced that it would fine the union$100,000 for any future violent breach of the injunction and$20,000 for any future nonviolent infraction, "such as exceeding picket numbers, [or] blocking entrances or exits." Id.,at 111a. The court early stated that its purpose was to "impos[e] prospective civil fines[,] the payment of which wouldonly be required if it were shown the defendants disobeyedthe Court's orders." Id., at 40a.In seven subsequent contempt hearings held between Juneand December 1989, the court found the union in contemptfor more than 400 separate violations of the injunction, manyof them violent. Based on the court's stated "intention thatthese fines are civil and coercive," id., at 104a, each contempthearing was conducted as a civil proceeding before the trialjudge, in which the parties conducted discovery, introducedevidence, and called and cross-examined witnesses. Thetrial court required that contumacious acts be proved beyonda reasonable doubt, but did not afford the union a right tojury trial.As a result of these contempt proceedings, the court leviedover $64 million in fines against the union, approximately$12 million of which was ordered payable to the companies.Because the union objected to payment of any fines to thecompanies and in light of the law enforcement burdens posedby the strike, the court ordered that the remaining roughly$52 million in fines be paid to the Commonwealth of Virginiaand Russell and Dickenson Counties, "the two counties mostheavily affected by the unlawful activity." Id., at 44a-45a.1 A portion of these fines was suspended conditioned on the union's future compliance. The court later vacated these fines, concluding that theywere " `criminal in nature.' " App. to Pet. for Cert. 4a, n. 2.512us3$92f 12-28-97 17:27:47 PAGES OPINPGT825Cite as: 512 U. S. 821 (1994)Opinion of the CourtWhile appeals from the contempt orders were pending, theunion and the companies settled the underlying labor dispute, agreed to vacate the contempt fines, and jointly movedto dismiss the case. A special mediator representing theSecretary of Labor, App. 48-49, and the governments ofRussell and Dickenson Counties, id., at 48 and 54, supportedthe parties' motion to vacate the outstanding fines. Thetrial court granted the motion to dismiss, dissolved the in-junction, and vacated the $12 million in fines payable to thecompanies. After reiterating its belief that the remaining$52 million owed to the counties and the Commonwealthwere coercive, civil fines, the trial court refused to vacatethese fines, concluding they were "payable in effect to thepublic." App. to Pet. for Cert. 47a.The companies withdrew as parties in light of the settlement and declined to seek further enforcement of the outstanding contempt fines. Because the Commonwealth Attorneys of Russell and Dickenson Counties also had asked tobe disqualified from the case, the court appointed respondentJohn L. Bagwell to act as Special Commissioner to collectthe unpaid contempt fines on behalf of the counties and theCommonwealth. Id., at 48a.The Court of Appeals of Virginia reversed and orderedthat the contempt fines be vacated pursuant to the settlement agreement. Assuming for the purposes of argumentthat the fines were civil, the court concluded that "civil contempt fines imposed during or as a part of a civil proceedingbetween private parties are settled when the underlying litigation is settled by the parties and the court is without discretion to refuse to vacate such fines." Mine Workers v.Clinchfield Coal Co., 12 Va. App. 123, 133, 402 S. E. 2d 899,905 (1991).On consolidated appeals, the Supreme Court of Virginiareversed. The court held that whether coercive, civil contempt sanctions could be settled by private parties was aquestion of state law, and that Virginia public policy disfa512us3$92f 12-28-97 17:27:47 PAGES OPINPGT826 MINE WORKERS v. BAGWELLOpinion of the Courtvored such a rule, "if the dignity of the law and public re-spect for the judiciary are to be maintained." 244 Va. 463,478, 423 S. E. 2d 349, 358 (1992). The court also rejectedpetitioners' contention that the outstanding fines were criminal and could not be imposed absent a criminal trial. Be-cause the trial court's prospective fine schedule was intendedto coerce compliance with the injunction and the union couldavoid the fines through obedience, the court reasoned, thefines were civil and coercive and properly imposed in civilproceedings:"When a court orders a defendant to perform an affirm-ative act and provides that the defendant shall be fineda fixed amount for each day he refuses to comply, thedefendant has control of his destiny. The same is truewith respect to the court's orders in the present case.A prospective fine schedule was established solely forthe purpose of coercing the Union to refrain from engag-ing in certain conduct. Consequently, the Union controlled its own fate." Id., at 477, 423 S. E. 2d, at 357.This Court granted certiorari. 508 U. S. 949 (1993).IIA"Criminal contempt is a crime in the ordinary sense,"Bloom v. Illinois, 391 U. S. 194, 201 (1968), and "criminalpenalties may not be imposed on someone who has not beenafforded the protections that the Constitution requires ofsuch criminal proceedings," Hicks v. Feiock, 485 U. S. 624,632 (1988). See In re Bradley, 318 U. S. 50 (1943) (doublejeopardy); Cooke v. United States, 267 U. S. 517, 537 (1925)(rights to notice of charges, assistance of counsel, summaryprocess, and to present a defense);Gompers v. BucksStove & Range Co., 221 U. S. 418, 444 (1911) (privilegeagainst self-incrimination, right to proof beyond a reasonabledoubt). For "serious" criminal contempts involving impris512us3$92f 12-28-97 17:27:47 PAGES OPINPGT827Cite as: 512 U. S. 821 (1994)Opinion of the Courtonment of more than six months, these protections includethe right to jury trial. Bloom, 391 U. S., at 199; see alsoTaylor v. Hayes, 418 U. S. 488, 495 (1974). In contrast, civilcontempt sanctions, or those penalties designed to compelfuture compliance with a court order, are considered to becoercive and avoidable through obedience, and thus may beimposed in an ordinary civil proceeding upon notice and anopportunity to be heard. Neither a jury trial nor proof beyond a reasonable doubt is required.2Although the procedural contours of the two forms of contempt are well established, the distinguishing characteristicsof civil versus criminal contempts are somewhat less clear.3In the leading early case addressing this issue in the contextof imprisonment, Gompers v. Bucks Stove & Range Co., 221U. S., at 441, the Court emphasized that whether a contemptis civil or criminal turns on the "character and purpose" ofthe sanction involved. Thus, a contempt sanction is considered civil if it "is remedial, and for the benefit of the com2 We address only the procedures required for adjudication of indirectcontempts, i. e., those occurring out of court. Direct contempts that occurin the court's presence may be immediately adjudged and sanctioned summarily, see, e. g., Ex parte Terry, 128 U. S. 289 (1888), and, except for serious criminal contempts in which a jury trial is required, Bloom v. Illinois,391 U. S. 194, 209-210 (1968), the traditional distinction between civil andcriminal contempt proceedings does not pertain, cf. United States v. Wilson, 421 U. S. 309, 316 (1975).3 Numerous scholars have criticized as unworkable the traditional distinction between civil and criminal contempt. See, e. g., Dudley, GettingBeyond the Civil/Criminal Distinction: A New Approach to the Regulationof Indirect Contempts, 79 Va. L. Rev. 1025, 1033 (1993) (describing thedistinction between civil and criminal contempt as "conceptually unclearand exceedingly difficult to apply"); Martineau, Contempt of Court: Eliminating the Confusion between Civil and Criminal Contempt, 50 U. Cin. L.Rev. 677 (1981) ("Few legal concepts have bedeviled courts, judges, lawyers and legal commentators more than contempt of court"); Moskovitz,Contempt of Injunctions, Civil and Criminal, 43 Colum. L. Rev. 780 (1943);R. Goldfarb, The Contempt Power 58 (1963) (describing "the tangle ofprocedure and practice" resulting from this "unsatisfactory fiction").512us3$92f 12-28-97 17:27:47 PAGES OPINPGT828 MINE WORKERS v. BAGWELLOpinion of the Courtplainant. But if it is for criminal contempt the sentence ispunitive, to vindicate the authority of the court."Ibid.As Gompers recognized, however, the stated purposes ofa contempt sanction alone cannot be determinative.Id., at443. "[W]hen a court imposes fines and punishments on acontemnor, it is not only vindicating its legal authority toenter the initial court order, but it also is seeking to giveeffect to the law's purpose of modifying the contemnor'sbehavior to conform to the terms required in the order."Hicks, 485 U. S., at 635. Most contempt sanctions, like mostcriminal punishments, to some extent punish a prior offenseas well as coerce an offender's future obedience. The HicksCourt accordingly held that conclusions about the civil orcriminal nature of a contempt sanction are properly drawn,not from "the subjective intent of a State's laws and itscourts," ibid., but "from an examination of the character ofthe relief itself," id., at 636.The paradigmatic coercive, civil contempt sanction, as setforth in Gompers, involves confining a contemnor indefinitelyuntil he complies with an affirmative command such as anorder "to pay alimony, or to surrender property ordered tobe turned over to a receiver, or to make a conveyance." 221U. S., at 442; see also McCrone v. United States, 307 U. S. 61,64 (1939) (failure to testify). Imprisonment for a fixed termsimilarly is coercive when the contemnor is given the optionof earlier release if he complies. Shillitani v. United States,384 U. S. 364, 370, n. 6 (1966) (upholding as civil "a determinate [2-year] sentence which includes a purge clause"). Inthese circumstances, the contemnor is able to purge the contempt and obtain his release by committing an affirmativeact, and thus " `carries the keys of his prison in his ownpocket.' " Gompers, 221 U. S., at 442, quoting In re Nevitt,117 F. 448, 451 (CA8 1902).By contrast, a fixed sentence of imprisonment is punitiveand criminal if it is imposed retrospectively for a "completedact of disobedience," Gompers, 221 U. S., at 443, such that512us3$92f 12-28-97 17:27:47 PAGES OPINPGT829Cite as: 512 U. S. 821 (1994)Opinion of the Courtthe contemnor cannot avoid or abbreviate the confinementthrough later compliance. Thus, theGompers Court concluded that a 12-month sentence imposed on Samuel Gom-pers for violating an antiboycott injunction was criminal.When a contempt involves the prior conduct of an isolated,prohibited act, the resulting sanction has no coercive effect."[T]he defendant is furnished no key, and he cannot shortenthe term by promising not to repeat the offense." Id., at442.This dichotomy between coercive and punitive imprison-ment has been extended to the fine context. A contemptfine accordingly is considered civil and remedial if it either"coerce[s] the defendant into compliance with the court'sorder, [or] . . . compensate[s] the complainant for losses sustained." United States v. Mine Workers, 330 U. S. 258, 303-304 (1947). Where a fine is not compensatory, it is civil onlyif the contemnor is afforded an opportunity to purge. SeePenfield Co. of Cal. v. SEC, 330 U. S. 585, 590 (1947). Thus,a "flat, unconditional fine" totaling even as little as $50 announced after a finding of contempt is criminal if the contemnor has no subsequent opportunity to reduce or avoid thefine through compliance. Id., at 588.A close analogy to coercive imprisonment is a per diemfine imposed for each day a contemnor fails to comply withan affirmative court order. Like civil imprisonment, suchfines exert a constant coercive pressure, and once the juralcommand is obeyed, the future, indefinite, daily fines arepurged. Less comfortable is the analogy between coerciveimprisonment and suspended, determinate fines. In thisCourt's sole prior decision squarely addressing the judicialpower to impose coercive civil contempt fines, Mine Workers,supra, it held that fixed fines also may be considered purgable and civil when imposed and suspended pending futurecompliance. See also Penfield, 330 U. S., at 590 ("One whois fined, unless by a day certain he [complies,] has it in hispower to avoid any penalty"); but see Hicks, 485 U. S., at 639,512us3$92f 12-28-97 17:27:47 PAGES OPINPGT830 MINE WORKERS v. BAGWELLOpinion of the Courtand n. 11 (suspended or probationary sentence is criminal).Mine Workers involved a $3,500,000 fine imposed against theunion for nationwide post-World War II strike activities.Finding that the determinate fine was both criminal and excessive, the Court reduced the sanction to a flat criminal fineof $700,000. The Court then imposed and suspended the remaining $2,800,000 as a coercive civil fine, conditioned on theunion's ability to purge the fine through full, timely compliance with the trial court's order.4 The Court concluded, inlight of this purge clause, that the civil fine operated as "acoercive imposition upon the defendant union to compel obe-dience with the court's outstanding order." 330 U. S., at307.This Court has not revisited the issue of coercive civilcontempt fines addressed in Mine Workers. Since thatdecision, the Court has erected substantial procedural protections in other areas of contempt law, such as criminalcontempts, e. g., Bloom v. Illinois, 391 U. S. 194 (1968), andsummary contempts, e. g., Taylor v. Hayes, 418 U. S. 488(1974); Codispoti v. Pennsylvania, 418 U. S. 506, 513 (1974);Johnson v. Mississippi, 403 U. S. 212 (1971); In re Oliver,333 U. S. 257, 275 (1948). Lower federal courts and statecourts such as the trial court here nevertheless have reliedonMine Workers to authorize a relatively unlimited judicialpower to impose noncompensatory civil contempt fines.BUnderlying the somewhat elusive distinction between civiland criminal contempt fines, and the ultimate question posed4 Although the size of the fine was substantial, the conduct required ofthe union to purge the suspended fine was relatively discrete. Accordingto the Court, purgation consisted of (1) withdrawal of the union's noticeterminating the Krug-Lewis labor agreement; (2) notifying the unionmembers of this withdrawal; and (3) withdrawing and notifying the unionmembers of the withdrawal of any other notice questioning the ongoingeffectiveness of the Krug-Lewis agreement. United States v. Mine Workers, 330 U. S. 258, 305 (1947).512us3$92f 12-28-97 17:27:47 PAGES OPINPGT831Cite as: 512 U. S. 821 (1994)Opinion of the Courtin this case, is what procedural protections are due beforeany particular contempt penalty may be imposed. Becausecivil contempt sanctions are viewed as nonpunitive andavoidable, fewer procedural protections for such sanctionshave been required. To the extent that such contempts takeon a punitive character, however, and are not justified byother considerations central to the contempt power, criminalprocedural protections may be in order.The traditional justification for the relative breadth of thecontempt power has been necessity: Courts independentlymust be vested with "power to impose silence, respect, anddecorum, in their presence, and submission to their lawfulmandates, and . . . to preserve themselves and their officersfrom the approach and insults of pollution." Anderson v.Dunn, 6 Wheat. 204, 227 (1821). Courts thus have embraced an inherent contempt authority, see Gompers, 221U. S., at 450; Ex parte Robinson, 19 Wall. 505, 510 (1874), asa power "necessary to the exercise of all others," UnitedStates v. Hudson, 7 Cranch 32, 34 (1812).But the contempt power also uniquely is " `liable toabuse.' " Bloom, 391 U. S., at 202, quoting Ex parte Terry,128 U. S. 289, 313 (1888). Unlike most areas of law, where alegislature defines both the sanctionable conduct and thepenalty to be imposed, civil contempt proceedings leave theoffended judge solely responsible for identifying, prosecuting, adjudicating, and sanctioning the contumacious conduct.Contumacy "often strikes at the most vulnerable and humanqualities of a judge's temperament," Bloom, 391 U. S., at 202,and its fusion of legislative, executive, and judicial powers"summons forth . . . the prospect of `the most tyrannical licentiousness,' " Young v. United States ex rel. Vuitton et FilsS. A., 481 U. S. 787, 822 (1987) (Scalia, J., concurring in judgment), quoting Anderson, 6 Wheat., at 228. Accordingly, "in[criminal] contempt cases an even more compelling argumentcan be made [than in ordinary criminal cases] for providing512us3$92f 12-28-97 17:27:47 PAGES OPINPGT832 MINE WORKERS v. BAGWELLOpinion of the Courta right to jury trial as a protection against the arbitraryexercise of official power."Bloom, 391 U. S., at 202.Our jurisprudence in the contempt area has attempted tobalance the competing concerns of necessity and potentialarbitrariness by allowing a relatively unencumbered contempt power when its exercise is most essential, and requir-ing progressively greater procedural protections when otherconsiderations come into play. The necessity justificationfor the contempt authority is at its pinnacle, of course, wherecontumacious conduct threatens a court's immediate abilityto conduct its proceedings, such as where a witness refusesto testify, or a party disrupts the court. See Young, 481U. S., at 820-821 (Scalia, J., concurring in judgment) (thejudicial contempt power is a "power of self-defense," limitedto sanctioning "those who interfere with the orderly conductof [court] business or disobey orders necessary to the conductof that business"). Thus, petty, direct contempts in thepresence of the court traditionally have been subject to summary adjudication, "to maintain order in the courtroom andthe integrity of the trial process in the face of an `actualobstruction of justice.' " Codispoti v. Pennsylvania, 418U. S., at 513, quoting In re McConnell, 370 U. S. 230, 236(1962); cf. United States v. Wilson, 421 U. S. 309, 315-316(1975); Harris v. United States, 382 U. S. 162, 164 (1965). Inlight of the court's substantial interest in rapidly coercingcompliance and restoring order, and because the contempt'soccurrence before the court reduces the need for extensivefactfinding and the likelihood of an erroneous deprivation,summary proceedings have been tolerated.Summary adjudication becomes less justifiable once acourt leaves the realm of immediately sanctioned, petty direct contempts. If a court delays punishing a direct contempt until the completion of trial, for example, due processrequires that the contemnor's rights to notice and a hearingbe respected. Taylor v. Hayes, 418 U. S. 488 (1974). There"it is much more difficult to argue that action without notice512us3$92f 12-28-97 17:27:47 PAGES OPINPGT833Cite as: 512 U. S. 821 (1994)Opinion of the Courtor hearing of any kind is necessary to preserve order andenable [the court] to proceed with its business,"id., at 498,particularly "in view of the heightened potential for abuseposed by the contempt power,"id., at 500; see also Harris v.United States, 382 U. S., at 164-165. Direct contempts alsocannot be punished with serious criminal penalties absentthe full protections of a criminal jury trial.Bloom, 391U. S., at 210.Still further procedural protections are afforded for contempts occurring out of court, where the considerations jus-tifying expedited procedures do not pertain. Summary adjudication of indirect contempts is prohibited, e. g., Cooke v.United States, 267 U. S. 517, 534 (1925), and criminal contempt sanctions are entitled to full criminal process, e. g.,Hicks, 485 U. S., at 632. Certain indirect contempts nevertheless are appropriate for imposition through civil proceedings. Contempts such as failure to comply with documentdiscovery, for example, while occurring outside the court'spresence, impede the court's ability to adjudicate the proceedings before it and thus touch upon the core justificationfor the contempt power. Courts traditionally have broadauthority through means other than contempt--such as bystriking pleadings, assessing costs, excluding evidence, andentering default judgment--to penalize a party's failure tocomply with the rules of conduct governing the litigationprocess. See, e. g., Fed. Rules Civ. Proc. 11, 37. Such judicial sanctions never have been considered criminal, and theimposition of civil, coercive fines to police the litigation process appears consistent with this authority. Similarly, indirect contempts involving discrete, readily ascertainable acts,such as turning over a key or payment of a judgment, properly may be adjudicated through civil proceedings since theneed for extensive, impartial factfinding is less pressing.For a discrete category of indirect contempts, however,civil procedural protections may be insufficient. Contemptsinvolving out-of-court disobedience to complex injunctions512us3$92f 12-28-97 17:27:47 PAGES OPINPGT834 MINE WORKERS v. BAGWELLOpinion of the Courtoften require elaborate and reliable factfinding. Cf. Greenv. United States, 356 U. S. 165, 217, n. 33 (1958) (Black,J., dissenting) ("Alleged contempts committed beyond thecourt's presence where the judge has no personal knowledgeof the material facts are especially suited for trial by jury.A hearing must be held, witnesses must be called, and evidence taken in any event. And often . . . crucial facts arein close dispute" (citation omitted)). Such contempts do notobstruct the court's ability to adjudicate the proceedings be-fore it, and the risk of erroneous deprivation from the lackof a neutral factfinder may be substantial. Id., at 214-215.Under these circumstances, criminal procedural protectionssuch as the rights to counsel and proof beyond a reasonabledoubt are both necessary and appropriate to protect the dueprocess rights of parties and prevent the arbitrary exerciseof judicial power.CIn the instant case, neither any party nor any court of theCommonwealth has suggested that the challenged fines arecompensatory. At no point did the trial court attempt tocalibrate the fines to damages caused by the union's contumacious activities or indicate that the fines were "to compen-sate the complainant for losses sustained."Mine Workers,330 U. S., at 303-304. The nonparty governments, in turn,never requested any compensation or presented any evi-dence regarding their injuries, never moved to intervene inthe suit, and never actively defended the fines imposed.The issue before us accordingly is limited to whether thesefines, despite their noncompensatory character, are coercivecivil or criminal sanctions.The parties propose two independent tests for determin-ing whether the fines are civil or criminal. Petitionersargue that because the injunction primarily prohibited cer-tain conduct rather than mandated affirmative acts, the sanctions are criminal. Respondents in turn urge that becausethe trial court established a prospective fine schedule that512us3$92f 12-28-97 17:27:47 PAGES OPINPGT835Cite as: 512 U. S. 821 (1994)Opinion of the Courtthe union could avoid through compliance, the fines are civilin character.Neither theory satisfactorily identifies those contemptfines that are criminal and thus must be imposed through thecriminal process. Petitioners correctly note that Gomperssuggests a possible dichotomy "between refusing to do anact commanded,--remedied by imprisonment until the partyperforms the required act; and doing an act forbidden,--pun-ished by imprisonment for a definite term." 221 U. S., at443. The distinction between mandatory and prohibitoryorders is easily applied in the classic contempt scenario,where contempt sanctions are used to enforce orders compelling or forbidding a single, discrete act. In such cases, orders commanding an affirmative act simply designate thoseactions that are capable of being coerced.But the distinction between coercion of affirmative actsand punishment of prohibited conduct is difficult to applywhen conduct that can recur is involved, or when an injunction contains both mandatory and prohibitory provisions.Moreover, in borderline cases injunctive provisions containing essentially the same command can be phrased either inmandatory or prohibitory terms. Under a literal applicationof petitioners' theory, an injunction ordering the union: "Donot strike," would appear to be prohibitory and criminal,while an injunction ordering the union: "Continue working,"would be mandatory and civil. See Tr. of Oral Arg. 8-9;Dobbs, Contempt of Court: A Survey, 56 Cornell L. Rev. 183,239 (1971). In enforcing the present injunction, the trialcourt imposed fines without regard to the mandatory or prohibitory nature of the clause violated. Accordingly, eventhough a parsing of the injunction's various provisions mightsupport the classification of contempts such as rock throwingand placing tire-damaging "jackrocks" on roads as criminaland the refusal to place supervisors at picket sites as civil,the parties have not asked us to review the order in thatmanner. In a case like this involving an injunction that pre512us3$92f 12-28-97 17:27:47 PAGES OPINPGT836 MINE WORKERS v. BAGWELLOpinion of the Courtscribes a detailed code of conduct, it is more appropriate toidentify the character of the entire decree. Cf.Hicks, 485U. S., at 638, n. 10 (internal quotation marks omitted) (Whereboth civil and criminal relief is imposed "the criminal featureof the order is dominant and fixes its character for purposesof review").Despite respondents' urging, we also are not persuadedthat dispositive significance should be accorded to the factthat the trial court prospectively announced the sanctions itwould impose. Had the trial court simply levied the finesafter finding the union guilty of contempt, the resulting"determinate and unconditional" fines would be considered"solely and exclusively punitive." Id., at 632-633 (internalquotation marks omitted); see also Penfield Co. of Cal. v.SEC, 330 U. S. 585 (1947). Respondents nevertheless contend that the trial court's announcement of a prospective fineschedule allowed the union to "avoid paying the fine[s] simply by performing the . . . act required by the court's order,"Hicks, 485 U. S., at 632, and thus transformed these finesinto coercive, civil ones. Respondents maintain here, as theVirginia Supreme Court held below, that the trial court couldhave imposed a daily civil fine to coerce the union into compliance, and that a prospective fine schedule is indistinguishable from such a sanction.Respondents' argument highlights the difficulties encountered in parsing coercive civil and criminal contempt fines.The fines imposed here concededly are difficult to distinguisheither from determinate, punitive fines or from initially suspended, civil fines. Ultimately, however, the fact that thetrial court announced the fines before the contumacy, ratherthan after the fact, does not in itself justify respondents' conclusion that the fines are civil or meaningfully distinguishthese penalties from the ordinary criminal law. Due processtraditionally requires that criminal laws provide prior noticeboth of the conduct to be prohibited and of the sanction tobe imposed. The trial court here simply announced the pen512us3$92f 12-28-97 17:27:47 PAGES OPINPGT837Cite as: 512 U. S. 821 (1994)Opinion of the Courtalty--determinate fines of $20,000 or $100,000 per viola-tion--that would be imposed for future contempts. Theunion's ability to avoid the contempt fines was indistinguish-able from the ability of any ordinary citizen to avoid a criminal sanction by conforming his behavior to the law. Thefines are not coercive day fines, or even suspended fines, butare more closely analogous to fixed, determinate, retrospec-tive criminal fines which petitioners had no opportunity topurge once imposed. We therefore decline to conclude thatthe mere fact that the sanctions were announced in advancerendered them coercive and civil as a matter of constitu-tional law.Other considerations convince us that the fines challengedhere are criminal. The union's sanctionable conduct did notoccur in the court's presence or otherwise implicate thecourt's ability to maintain order and adjudicate the proceedings before it. Nor did the union's contumacy involve sim-ple, affirmative acts, such as the paradigmatic civil contempts examined in Gompers. Instead, the Virginia trialcourt levied contempt fines for widespread, ongoing, out-ofcourt violations of a complex injunction. In so doing, thecourt effectively policed petitioners' compliance with an entire code of conduct that the court itself had imposed. Theunion's contumacy lasted many months and spanned a substantial portion of the State. The fines assessed were seri-ous, totaling over $52 million.5 Under such circumstances,5 "[P]etty contempt like other petty criminal offenses may be tried without a jury," Taylor v. Hayes, 418 U. S. 488, 495 (1974), and the impositiononly of serious criminal contempt fines triggers the right to jury trial.Bloom, 391 U. S., at 210. The Court to date has not specified what magnitude of contempt fine may constitute a serious criminal sanction, althoughit has held that a fine of $10,000 imposed on a union was insufficient totrigger the Sixth Amendment right to jury trial. See Muniz v. Hoffman,422 U. S. 454, 477 (1975); see also 18 U. S. C. $ 1(3) (1982 ed., Supp. V)(defining petty offenses as crimes "the penalty for which . . . does notexceed imprisonment for a period of six months or a fine of not more than$5,000 for an individual and $10,000 for a person other than an individual,512us3$92f 12-28-97 17:27:47 PAGES OPINPGT838 MINE WORKERS v. BAGWELLOpinion of the Courtdisinterested factfinding and evenhanded adjudication wereessential, and petitioners were entitled to a criminal jurytrial.In reaching this conclusion, we recognize that this Courtgenerally has deferred to a legislature's determinationwhether a sanction is civil or criminal, see,e. g., UnitedStates v. Ward, 448 U. S. 242, 248 (1980); Helvering v. Mitchell, 303 U. S. 391 (1938), and that "[w]hen a State's proceed-ings are involved, state law provides strong guidance aboutwhether or not the State is exercising its authority `in a non-punitive, noncriminal manner.' " Hicks, 485 U. S., at 631,quoting Allen v. Illinois, 478 U. S. 364, 368 (1986). We donot deviate from either tradition today. Where a singlejudge, rather than a legislature, declares a particular sanc-tion to be civil or criminal, such deference is less appropriate.Cf. Madsen v. Women's Health Center, Inc., ante, p. 753.Moreover, this Court has recognized that even for state proceedings, the label affixed to a contempt ultimately "will notbe allowed to defeat the applicable protections of federal constitutional law." Hicks v. Feiock, 485 U. S., at 631. We con-clude that the serious contempt fines imposed here werecriminal and constitutionally could not be imposed absent ajury trial.IIIOur decision concededly imposes some procedural burdenson courts' ability to sanction widespread, indirect contemptsof complex injunctions through noncompensatory fines. Ourholding, however, leaves unaltered the longstanding authority of judges to adjudicate direct contempts summarily, andto enter broad compensatory awards for all contemptsthrough civil proceedings. See, e. g., Sheet Metal Workersv. EEOC, 478 U. S. 421 (1986). Because the right to trial byor both") (repealed 1984). We need not answer today the difficult question where the line between petty and serious contempt fines should bedrawn, since a $52 million fine unquestionably is a serious contemptsanction.512us3$92f 12-28-97 17:27:47 PAGES OPINPGT839Cite as: 512 U. S. 821 (1994)Scalia, J., concurringjury applies only to serious criminal sanctions, courts stillmay impose noncompensatory, petty fines for contempts suchas the present ones without conducting a jury trial. We alsodo not disturb a court's ability to levy, albeit through thecriminal contempt process, serious fines like those in thiscase.Ultimately, whatever slight burden our holding may impose on the judicial contempt power cannot be controlling.The Court recognized more than a quarter century ago:"We cannot say that the need to further respect forjudges and courts is entitled to more consideration thanthe interest of the individual not be subjected to seriouscriminal punishment without the benefit of all the procedural protections worked out carefully over the yearsand deemed fundamental to our system of justice. Genuine respect, which alone can lend true dignity to ourjudicial establishment, will be engendered, not by thefear of unlimited authority, but by the firm administration of the law through those institutionalized proce-dures which have been worked out over the centuries."Bloom, 391 U. S., at 208.Where, as here, "a serious contempt is at issue, considera-tions of efficiency must give way to the more fundamentalinterest of ensuring the even-handed exercise of judicialpower." Id., at 209.The judgment of the Supreme Court of Virginia isreversed.