In New York v. Belton, 453 U. S. 454 (1981), we held thatwhen a police officer has made a lawful custodial arrest of anoccupant of an automobile, the Fourth Amendment allowsthe officer to search the passenger compartment of thatvehicle as a contemporaneous incident of arrest. We havegranted certiorari twice before to determine whetherBelton's rule is limited to situations where the officer makescontact with the occupant while the occupant is inside thevehicle, or whether it applies as well when the officer firstmakes contact with the arrestee after the latter has steppedout of his vehicle. We did not reach the merits in eitherof those two cases. Arizona v. Gant, 540 U. S. 963 (2003)(vacating and remanding for reconsideration in light ofStatev. Dean, 206 Ariz. 158, 76 P. 3d 429 (2003) (en banc)); Floridav.Thomas, 532 U. S. 774 (2001) (dismissing for lack of jurisdiction). We now reach that question and conclude that Belton governs even when an officer does not make contact untilthe person arrested has left the vehicle.Officer Deion Nichols of the Norfolk, Virginia, Police Department, who was in uniform but driving an unmarked police car, first noticed petitioner Marcus Thornton when petitioner slowed down so as to avoid driving next to him.Nichols suspected that petitioner knew he was a police officer and for some reason did not want to pull next to him.His suspicions aroused, Nichols pulled off onto a side streetof Florida, Mark J. Bennett of Hawaii, Lisa Madigan of Illinois, SteveCarter of Indiana, Phill Kline of Kansas, J. Joseph Curran, Jr., of Maryland, Michael A. Cox of Michigan, Jeremiah W. (Jay) Nixon of Missouri,Mike McGrath of Montana, Wayne Stenehjem of North Dakota, W. A.Drew Edmondson of Oklahoma, Hardy Myers of Oregon, Henry D. McMaster of South Carolina, Greg Abbott of Texas, Mark L. Shurtleff ofUtah, William H. Sorrell of Vermont, Jerry W. Kilgore of Virginia, andPatrick J. Crank of Wyoming.Shashank S. Upadhye, pro se, filed a brief as amicus curiae.541US2 Unit: $U51 [05-10-06 14:41:36] PAGES PGT: OPIN618 THORNTON v. UNITED STATESOpinion of the Courtand petitioner passed him. After petitioner passed him,Nichols ran a check on petitioner's license tags, which revealed that the tags had been issued to a 1982 Chevy two-door and not to a Lincoln Town Car, the model of car petitioner was driving. Before Nichols had an opportunity topull him over, petitioner drove into a parking lot, parked,and got out of the vehicle. Nichols saw petitioner leave hisvehicle as he pulled in behind him. He parked the patrolcar, accosted petitioner, and asked him for his driver's license. He also told him that his license tags did not matchthe vehicle that he was driving.Petitioner appeared nervous. He began rambling andlicking his lips; he was sweating. Concerned for his safety,Nichols asked petitioner if he had any narcotics or weaponson him or in his vehicle. Petitioner said no. Nichols thenasked petitioner if he could pat him down, to which petitioner agreed. Nichols felt a bulge in petitioner's left frontpocket and again asked him if he had any illegal narcotics onhim. This time petitioner stated that he did, and he reachedinto his pocket and pulled out two individual bags, one containing three bags of marijuana and the other containing alarge amount of crack cocaine. Nichols handcuffed petitioner, informed him that he was under arrest, and placedhim in the back seat of the patrol car. He then searchedpetitioner's vehicle and found a BryCo 9-millimeter handgununder the driver's seat.A grand jury charged petitioner with possession with intent to distribute cocaine base, 84 Stat. 1260, 21 U. S. C.$ 841(a)(1), possession of a firearm after having been previously convicted of a crime punishable by a term of imprisonment exceeding one year, 18 U. S. C. $ 922(g)(1), and possession of a firearm in furtherance of a drug traffickingcrime, $ 924(c)(1). Petitioner sought to suppress, inter alia,the firearm as the fruit of an unconstitutional search. Aftera hearing, the District Court denied petitioner's motion tosuppress, holding that the automobile search was valid under541US2 Unit: $U51 [05-10-06 14:41:36] PAGES PGT: OPIN619Cite as: 541 U. S. 615 (2004)Opinion of the CourtNew York v. Belton, supra, and alternatively that Nicholscould have conducted an inventory search of the automobile.A jury convicted petitioner on all three counts; he was sen-tenced to 180 months' imprisonment and 8 years of supervised release.Petitioner appealed, challenging only the District Court'sdenial of the suppression motion. He argued that Beltonwas limited to situations where the officer initiated contactwith an arrestee while he was still an occupant of the car.The United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuitaffirmed. 325 F. 3d 189 (2003). It held that "the historicalrationales for the search incident to arrest doctrine--`theneed to disarm the suspect in order to take him into custody'and `the need to preserve evidence for later use at trial,' "id., at 195 (quoting Knowles v. Iowa, 525 U. S. 113, 116(1998)), did not requireBelton to be limited solely to situa-tions in which suspects were still in their vehicles when approached by the police. Noting that petitioner concededthat he was in "close proximity, both temporally and spatially," to his vehicle, the court concluded that the car waswithin petitioner's immediate control, and thus Nichols'search was reasonable under Belton.1 325 F. 3d, at 196.We granted certiorari, 540 U. S. 980 (2003), and now affirm.In Belton, an officer overtook a speeding vehicle on theNew York Thruway and ordered its driver to pull over. 453U. S., at 455. Suspecting that the occupants possessed mari-juana, the officer directed them to get out of the car andarrested them for unlawful possession. Id., at 454-455. Hesearched them and then searched the passenger compartment of the car. Id., at 455. We considered the constitu-tionally permissible scope of a search in these circumstancesand sought to lay down a workable rule governing thatsituation.1 The Court of Appeals did not reach the District Court's alternativeholding that Nichols could have conducted a lawful inventory search. 325F. 3d, at 196.541US2 Unit: $U51 [05-10-06 14:41:36] PAGES PGT: OPIN620 THORNTON v. UNITED STATESOpinion of the CourtWe first referred to Chimel v. California, 395 U. S. 752(1969), a case where the arrestee was arrested in his home,and we had described the scope of a search incident to alawful arrest as the person of the arrestee and the area immediately surrounding him. 453 U. S., at 457 (citing Chimel,supra, at 763). This rule was justified by the need to remove any weapon the arrestee might seek to use to resistarrest or to escape, and the need to prevent the concealmentor destruction of evidence. 453 U. S., at 457. Although easily stated, the Chimel principle had proved difficult to applyin specific cases. We pointed out that in United States v.Robinson, 414 U. S. 218 (1973), a case dealing with the scopeof the search of the arrestee's person, we had rejected a suggestion that " `there must be litigated in each case the issueof whether or not there was present one of the reasons supporting the authority' " to conduct such a search. 453 U. S.,at 459 (quoting Robinson, supra, at 235). Similarly, because"courts ha[d] found no workable definition of `the area withinthe immediate control of the arrestee' when that area arguably include[d] the interior of an automobile and the arrestee[wa]s its recent occupant," 453 U. S., at 460, we sought to setforth a clear rule for police officers and citizens alike. Wetherefore held that "when a policeman has made a lawfulcustodial arrest of the occupant of an automobile, he may, asa contemporaneous incident of that arrest, search the passenger compartment of that automobile." Ibid. (footnoteomitted).In so holding, we placed no reliance on the fact that theofficer in Belton ordered the occupants out of the vehicle, orinitiated contact with them while they remained within it.Nor do we find such a factor persuasive in distinguishing thecurrent situation, as it bears no logical relationship to Belton's rationale. There is simply no basis to conclude thatthe span of the area generally within the arrestee's immediate control is determined by whether the arrestee exited the541US2 Unit: $U51 [05-10-06 14:41:36] PAGES PGT: OPIN621Cite as: 541 U. S. 615 (2004)Opinion of the Courtvehicle at the officer's direction, or whether the officer initiated contact with him while he remained in the car. Werecognized as much, albeit in dicta, in Michigan v. Long, 463U. S. 1032 (1983), where officers observed a speeding carswerve into a ditch. The driver exited and the officers methim at the rear of his car. Although there was no indicationthat the officers initiated contact with the driver while hewas still in the vehicle, we observed that "[i]t is clear . . .that if the officers had arrested [respondent] . . . they couldhave searched the passenger compartment under New Yorkv. Belton." Id., at 1035-1036, and n. 1.In all relevant aspects, the arrest of a suspect who is nextto a vehicle presents identical concerns regarding officersafety and the destruction of evidence as the arrest of onewho is inside the vehicle. An officer may search a suspect'svehicle under Belton only if the suspect is arrested. SeeKnowles, supra, at 117-118. A custodial arrest is fluid and"[t]he danger to the police officer flows from the fact of thearrest, and its attendant proximity, stress, and uncertainty,"Robinson, supra, at 234-235, and n. 5 (emphasis added).See Washington v. Chrisman, 455 U. S. 1, 7 (1982) ("Everyarrest must be presumed to present a risk of danger to thearresting officer"). The stress is no less merely because thearrestee exited his car before the officer initiated contact,nor is an arrestee less likely to attempt to lunge for a weaponor to destroy evidence if he is outside of, but still in controlof, the vehicle. In either case, the officer faces a highly volatile situation. It would make little sense to apply two different rules to what is, at bottom, the same situation.In some circumstances it may be safer and more effectivefor officers to conceal their presence from a suspect until hehas left his vehicle. Certainly that is a judgment officersshould be free to make. But under the strictures of petitioner's proposed "contact initiation" rule, officers who do sowould be unable to search the car's passenger compartment541US2 Unit: $U51 [05-10-06 14:41:36] PAGES PGT: OPIN622 THORNTON v. UNITED STATESOpinion of the Courtin the event of a custodial arrest, potentially compromisingtheir safety and placing incriminating evidence at risk of concealment or destruction. The Fourth Amendment does notrequire such a gamble.Petitioner argues, however, that Belton will fail to providea "bright-line" rule if it applies to more than vehicle "occupants." Brief for Petitioner 29-34. But Belton allows police to search the passenger compartment of a vehicle incident to a lawful custodial arrest of both "occupant[s]" and"recent occupant[s]." 453 U. S., at 460. Indeed, the respondent in Belton was not inside the car at the time of thearrest and search; he was standing on the highway. In anyevent, while an arrestee's status as a "recent occupant" mayturn on his temporal or spatial relationship to the car at thetime of the arrest and search,2 it certainly does not turn onwhether he was inside or outside the car at the moment thatthe officer first initiated contact with him.To be sure, not all contraband in the passenger compartment is likely to be readily accessible to a "recent occupant."It is unlikely in this case that petitioner could have reachedunder the driver's seat for his gun once he was outside of hisautomobile. But the firearm and the passenger compartment in general were no more inaccessible than were thecontraband and the passenger compartment in Belton. The2 Petitioner argues that if we reject his proposed "contact initiation"rule, we should limit the scope of Belton to "recent occupant[s]" who arewithin "reaching distance" of the car. Brief for Petitioner 35-36. Wedecline to address petitioner's argument, however, as it is outside thequestion on which we granted certiorari, see this Court's Rule 14.1(a), andwas not addressed by the Court of Appeals, see Peralta v. Heights Medical Center, Inc., 485 U. S. 80, 86 (1988). We note that it is unlikely thatpetitioner would even meet his own standard as he apparently concededin the Court of Appeals that he was in "close proximity, both temporallyand spatially," to his vehicle when he was approached by Nichols. 325F. 3d 189, 196 (CA4 2003).541US2 Unit: $U51 [05-10-06 14:41:36] PAGES PGT: OPIN623Cite as: 541 U. S. 615 (2004)Opinion of the Courtneed for a clear rule, readily understood by police officersand not depending on differing estimates of what items wereor were not within reach of an arrestee at any particularmoment, justifies the sort of generalization which Beltonenunciated.3 Once an officer determines that there is probable cause to make an arrest, it is reasonable to allow officersto ensure their safety and to preserve evidence by searchingthe entire passenger compartment.Rather than clarifying the constitutional limits of a Beltonsearch, petitioner's "contact initiation" rule would obfuscatethem. Under petitioner's proposed rule, an officer approaching a suspect who has just alighted from his vehiclewould have to determine whether he actually confronted orsignaled confrontation with the suspect while he remainedin the car, or whether the suspect exited his vehicle unawareof, and for reasons unrelated to, the officer's presence. Thisdetermination would be inherently subjective and highly factspecific, and would require precisely the sort of ad hoc determinations on the part of officers in the field and reviewingcourts that Belton sought to avoid. Id., at 459-460. Experience has shown that such a rule is impracticable, and werefuse to adopt it. So long as an arrestee is the sort of "re3 Justice Stevens contends that Belton's bright-line rule "is notneeded for cases in which the arrestee is first accosted when he is a pedestrian, because Chimel [v. California, 395 U. S. 752 (1969),] itself providesall the guidance that is necessary." Post, at 636 (dissenting opinion).Under Justice Stevens' approach, however, even if the car itself waswithin the arrestee's reaching distance under Chimel, police officers andcourts would still have to determine whether a particular object withinthe passenger compartment was also within an arrestee's reaching distance under Chimel. This is exactly the type of unworkable and factspecific inquiry that Belton rejected by holding that the entire passengercompartment may be searched when " `the area within the immediate control of the arrestee' . . . arguably includes the interior of an automobileand the arrestee is its recent occupant." 453 U. S., at 460.541US2 Unit: $U51 [05-10-06 14:41:36] PAGES PGT: OPIN624 THORNTON v. UNITED STATESO'Connor, J., concurring in partcent occupant" of a vehicle such as petitioner was here, offi-cers may search that vehicle incident to the arrest.4The judgment of the Court of Appeals is affirmed.