In 1979, the United States brought a quiet title action (theAdams litigation) in the Southern District of Mississippiagainst respondents and nearly 200 other defendants. Onthe eve of trial, the Government and respondents enteredinto a settlement whereby title to the disputed land wasquieted in favor of the United States in return for a paymentof $208,175.87. Judgment was entered based on this settlement agreement. In 1994, some 12 years after that judg-ment, respondents sued in the District Court to set aside thesettlement agreement and obtain a damages award for thedisputed land. Their claims for relief were based on the524US1 Unit: $U73 [09-06-00 17:32:49] PAGES PGT: OPIN40 UNITED STATES v. BEGGERLYOpinion of the Courtcourt's ancillary jurisdiction, relating back to the Adamslitigation, and on the Quiet Title Act (QTA). 28 U. S. C.$ 2409a. We hold that respondents were not entitled torelief on either of these grounds.The land in dispute between the United States and respondents is located on Horn Island. Situated in the Gulfof Mexico approximately 13 miles southwest of Pascagoula,Horn Island is currently within the State of Mississippi. Itwas, at various times during the late 18th and early 19thcenturies, controlled by France, Britain, and Spain. It ispart of the territory that came under the control of theUnited States as a result of the Louisiana Purchase of 1803.In 1950, Clark Beggerly, respondents' predecessor-ininterest, purchased color of title to two tracts of land on HornIsland at a tax sale in Jackson County. Beggerly paid $51.20for one 626-acre tract. He and a friend also purchased asecond tract for $31.25. Beggerly retained 103 acres upon alater division of this second tract.In 1971, Congress enacted legislation authorizing the Department of the Interior to create the Gulf Islands NationalSeashore, a federal park on lands that include Horn Island.16 U. S. C. $ 459h. The legislation authorized the Secretaryof the Interior to acquire privately owned lands within theproposed park's boundaries. $ 459h-1. The National ParkService (NPS) began negotiating with respondents to purchase the land. Before any deal could be completed, however, the NPS learned that the United States Governmenthad never patented the property. Believing that this meantthat respondents could not have had clear title, the NPSbacked out of the proposed deal.During discovery in the Adams litigation, respondentssought proof of their title to the land. Government officialssearched public land records and told respondents that theyhad found nothing proving that any part of Horn Island hadever been granted to a private landowner. Even after thesettlement in the Adams litigation, however, respondents524US1 Unit: $U73 [09-06-00 17:32:49] PAGES PGT: OPIN41Cite as: 524 U. S. 38 (1998)Opinion of the Courtcontinued to search for evidence of a land patent that sup-ported their claim of title. In 1991 they hired a genealogicalrecord specialist to conduct research in the National Ar-chives in Washington. The specialist found materials that,according to her, showed that on August 1, 1781, Bernardode Galvez, then the Governor General of Spanish Louisiana,granted Horn Island to Catarina Boudreau. If the land hadbeen granted to a private party prior to 1803, title presum-ably could not have passed to the United States as a resultof the Louisiana Purchase. Respondents believed that theBoudreau grant proved that their claim to the disputed landwas superior to that of the United States.Armed with this new information, respondents filed a complaint in the District Court on June 1, 1994. They asked thecourt to set aside the 1982 settlement agreement and awardthem damages of "not less than $14,500 per acre" of the disputed land. App. 26. The District Court concluded that itwas without jurisdiction to hear respondents' suit and dismissed the complaint.The Court of Appeals reversed. It concluded that therewere two jurisdictional bases for the suit. First, the suitsatisfied the elements of an "independent action," as theterm is used in Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 60(b). According to the Court of Appeals, those elements are:"(1) a judgment which ought not, in equity and goodconscience, to be enforced; (2) a good defense to the alleged cause of action on which the judgment is founded;(3) fraud, accident, or mistake which prevented the de-fendant in the judgment from obtaining the benefit ofhis defense; (4) the absence of fault or negligence on thepart of the defendant; and (5) the absence of any adequate remedy at law." 114 F. 3d 484, 487 (CA5 1997).In its view, the settlement agreement could therefore be setaside. Second, the Court of Appeals concluded that the QTAconferred jurisdiction. The QTA includes a 12-year statute524US1 Unit: $U73 [09-06-00 17:32:49] PAGES PGT: OPIN42 UNITED STATES v. BEGGERLYOpinion of the Courtof limitations, which begins to run from the date the plaintiffknows or should have known about the claim of the UnitedStates. 28 U. S. C. $ 2409a(g). The Court of Appeals notedthat respondents knew about the Government's claim formore than 12 years before it filed this suit, but concludedthat the 12-year statute was subject to equitable tolling andshould be tolled in this case.Satisfied as to its jurisdiction, the Court of Appeals thenaddressed the merits. Relying on the Boudreau grant, thecourt concluded that the "United States has no legitimateclaim to the land [and that] the validity of the Beggerlys'title is a legal certainty." 114 F. 3d, at 489. It thereforevacated the settlement agreement and remanded the case tothe District Court with instructions that it enter judgmentquieting title in favor of respondents. One judge dissented.We granted certiorari, 522 U. S. 1038 (1998), and now reverse.The Government's primary contention is that the Courtof Appeals erred in concluding that it had jurisdiction overrespondents' 1994 suit. It first attacks the lower court'sconclusion that jurisdiction was established because thesuit was an "independent action" within the meaning of Rule60(b). The Government argues that an "independent action" must be supported by an independent source of jurisdiction, and, in the case of a suit against the United States,an independent waiver of sovereign immunity. Whereas theDistrict Court had jurisdiction over the original Adams litigation because the United States was the plaintiff, 28 U. S. C.$ 1345, there was no statutory basis for the Beggerlys' 1994action, and the District Court was therefore correct to havedismissed it.We think the Government's position is inconsistent withthe history and language of Rule 60(b). Prior to the 1937adoption of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, the availability of relief from a judgment or order turned on whetherthe court was still in the same "term" in which the challenged judgment was entered. If it was, the judge "had ple524US1 Unit: $U73 [09-06-00 17:32:49] PAGES PGT: OPIN43Cite as: 524 U. S. 38 (1998)Opinion of the Courtnary power . . . to modify his judgment for error of fact orlaw or even revoke it altogether." Zimmern v. UnitedStates, 298 U. S. 167, 169-170 (1936). If the term had ex-pired, resort had to be made to a handful of writs, the precisecontours of which were "shrouded in ancient lore and mys-tery." Advisory Committee's Notes on 1946 Amdt. to Fed.Rule Civ. Proc. 60, 28 U. S. C. App., p. 787. The new FederalRules of Civil Procedure did away with the notion that thecontinuation or expiration of a term of court had any affecton a court's power. Fed. Rule Civ. Proc. 6(c), rescinded 1966.New Rule 60(b) 1 sought to establish a new system to gov-ern requests to reopen judgments. The original Rule 60(b)provided:"(b) Mistake; Inadvertence; Surprise; Excusable Ne-glect. On motion the court, upon such terms as arejust, may relieve a party or his legal representative froma judgment, order, or proceeding taken against himthrough his mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excus-able neglect. The motion shall be made within a reasonable time, but in no case exceeding six months aftersuch judgment, order, or proceeding was taken. A motion under this subdivision does not affect the finality ofa judgment or suspend its operation. This rule doesnot limit the power of a court (1) to entertain an actionto relieve a party from a judgment, order, or proceeding,or (2) to set aside within one year, as provided in Section57 of the Judicial Code, U. S. C., Title 28, $ 118, a judgment obtained against a defendant not actually person-ally notified." Fed. Rule Civ. Proc. 60(b) (1940).In the years following the adoption of the Rules, however,courts differed over whether the new Rule 60(b) providedthe exclusive means for obtaining postjudgment relief, orwhether the writs that had been used prior to the adoption of1 Rule 60(a) dealt then, as it deals now, with relief from clerical mistakesin judgments.524US1 Unit: $U73 [09-06-00 17:32:49] PAGES PGT: OPIN44 UNITED STATES v. BEGGERLYOpinion of the Courtthe Federal Rules still survived. This problem, along withseveral others, was addressed in the 1946 amendment toRule 60(b). The 1946 amendment revised the Rule to readsubstantially as it reads now:"(b) Mistakes; Inadvertence; Excusable Neglect; NewlyDiscovered Evidence; Fraud, Etc. On motion and uponsuch terms as are just, the court may relieve a party ora party's legal representative from a final judgment,order, or proceeding for the following reasons: (1) mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect; (2)newly discovered evidence which by due diligence couldnot have been discovered in time to move for a new trialunder Rule 59(b); (3) fraud (whether heretofore denominated intrinsic or extrinsic), misrepresentation, or othermisconduct of an adverse party; (4) the judgment is void;(5) the judgment has been satisfied, released, or discharged, or a prior judgment upon which it is based hasbeen reversed or otherwise vacated, or it is no longerequitable that the judgment should have prospective application; or (6) any other reason justifying relief fromthe operation of the judgment. The motion shall bemade within a reasonable time, and for reasons (1), (2),and (3) not more than one year after the judgment,order, or proceeding was entered or taken. A motionunder this subdivision (b) does not affect the finality ofa judgment or suspend its operation. This rule doesnot limit the power of a court to entertain an independent action to relieve a party from a judgment, order, orproceeding, or to grant relief to a defendant not actuallypersonally notified as provided in Title 28, U. S. C.,$ 1655, or to set aside a judgment for fraud upon thecourt. Writs of coram nobis, coram vobis, audita querela, and bills of review and bills in the nature of a billof review, are abolished, and the procedure for obtainingany relief from a judgment shall be by motion as pre524US1 Unit: $U73 [09-06-00 17:32:49] PAGES PGT: OPIN45Cite as: 524 U. S. 38 (1998)Opinion of the Courtscribed in these rules or by an independent action."Fed. Rule Civ. Proc. 60(b).The new Rule thus made clear that nearly all of the oldforms of obtaining relief from a judgment, i. e., coram nobis,coram vobis, audita querela, bills of review, and bills in thenature of review, had been abolished. The revision madeequally clear, however, that one of the old forms, i. e., the"independent action,"2 still survived. The Advisory Committee notes confirmed this, indicating that "[i]f the right tomake a motion is lost by the expiration of the time limitsfixed in these rules, the only other procedural remedy is bya new or independent action to set aside a judgment uponthose principles which have heretofore been applied in suchan action." Advisory Committee's Notes,supra, at 787.The "independent action" sounded in equity. While itsprecise contours are somewhat unclear, it appears to havebeen more broadly available than the more narrow writs thatthe 1946 amendment abolished. One case that exemplifiesthe category isPacific R. Co. of Mo. v. Missouri Pacific R.Co., 111 U. S. 505 (1884).3In Pacific the underlying suit had resulted in a court de-cree foreclosing a mortgage on railroad property and ordering its sale. This Court enforced the decree and shortlythereafter the railroad company whose property had beenforeclosed filed a bill to impeach for fraud the foreclosuredecree that had just been affirmed. The bill alleged thatthe plaintiffs in the underlying suit had conspired with theattorney and directors of the plaintiff in the subsequent suitto ensure that the property would be forfeited. The plain-tiff in the subsequent suit was a Missouri corporation, and it2 This form of action was also referred to as an "original action."3 The authorities that the Advisory Committee cited in its notes accompanying the 1946 amendment to the Rule list Pacific as an example of thiscause of action. Moore & Rogers, Federal Relief from Civil Judgments,55 Yale L. J. 623, 656 (1946); 3 J. Moore & J. Friedman, Moore's FederalPractice 3257, n. 12 (1938).524US1 Unit: $U73 [09-06-00 17:32:49] PAGES PGT: OPIN46 UNITED STATES v. BEGGERLYOpinion of the Courtnamed several other Missouri citizens as defendants in itsbill seeking relief from the prior judgment.When the matter reached this Court, we rejected the con-tention that the federal courts had no jurisdiction over thebill because the plaintiff and several of the defendants werefrom the same State. We first noted that there was no ques-tion as to the court's jurisdiction over the underlying suit,and then said:"On the question of jurisdiction the [subsequent] suitmay be regarded as ancillary to the [prior] suit, so thatthe relief asked may be granted by the court whichmade the decree in that suit, without regard to the citi-zenship of the present parties . . . . The bill, thoughan original bill in the chancery sense of the word, is acontinuation of the former suit, on the question of thejurisdiction of the Circuit Court." Id., at 522.Even though there was no diversity, the Court relied on theunderlying suit as the basis for jurisdiction and allowed theindependent action to proceed. The Government is therefore wrong to suggest that an independent action brought inthe same court as the original lawsuit requires an independent basis for jurisdiction.This is not to say, however, that the requirements for ameritorious independent action have been met here. If relief may be obtained through an independent action in a casesuch as this, where the most that may be charged againstthe Government is a failure to furnish relevant informationthat would at best form the basis for a Rule 60(b)(3) motion,the strict 1-year time limit on such motions would be set atnaught. Independent actions must, if Rule 60(b) is to beinterpreted as a coherent whole, be reserved for those casesof "injustices which, in certain instances, are deemed sufficiently gross to demand a departure" from rigid adherenceto the doctrine of res judicata. Hazel-Atlas Glass Co. v.Hartford-Empire Co., 322 U. S. 238, 244 (1944).524US1 Unit: $U73 [09-06-00 17:32:49] PAGES PGT: OPIN47Cite as: 524 U. S. 38 (1998)Opinion of the CourtSuch a case was Marshall v. Holmes, 141 U. S. 589 (1891),in which the plaintiff alleged that judgment had been takenagainst her in the underlying action as a result of a forgeddocument. The Court said:"According to the averments of the original petition forinjunction . . . the judgments in question would not havebeen rendered against Mrs. Marshall but for the use inevidence of the letter alleged to be forged. The caseevidently intended to be presented by the petition is onewhere, without negligence, laches or other fault uponthe part of petitioner, [respondent] has fraudulently ob-tained judgments which he seeks, against conscience, toenforce by execution." Id., at 596.The sense of these expressions is that, under the Rule, anindependent action should be available only to prevent agrave miscarriage of justice. In this case, it should be obvi-ous that respondents' allegations do not nearly approach thisdemanding standard. Respondents allege only that theUnited States failed to "thoroughly search its records andmake full disclosure to the Court" regarding the Boudreaugrant. App. 23. Whether such a claim might succeedunder Rule 60(b)(3), we need not now decide; it surely wouldwork no "grave miscarriage of justice," and perhaps no miscarriage of justice at all, to allow the judgment to stand.We therefore hold that the Court of Appeals erred in concluding that this was a sufficient basis to justify the reopen-ing of the judgment in theAdams litigation.4The Court of Appeals did not, however, merely reopen theAdams litigation. It also directed the District Court toquiet title to the property in respondents' favor. The Courtof Appeals believed that the QTA, 28 U. S. C. $ 2409a, pro-vided jurisdiction to do this. The QTA permits "plaintiffs4 We therefore need not address the additional requirement that evidence of the Boudreau grant would have changed the outcome of the original action. See, e. g., Pickford v. Talbott, 225 U. S. 651, 657 (1912).524US1 Unit: $U73 [09-06-00 17:32:49] PAGES PGT: OPIN48 UNITED STATES v. BEGGERLYOpinion of the Courtto name [the United States] as a party defendant in civil actions to adjudicate title disputes involving real property inwhich the United States claims an interest." Block v. NorthDakota ex rel. Board of Univ. and School Lands, 461 U. S.273, 275-276 (1983). The QTA includes an express 12-yearstatute of limitations, which begins to run from the dateupon which the plaintiff 's cause of action accrued. Anaction under the QTA "shall be deemed to have accruedon the date the plaintiff or his predecessor in interest knewor should have known of the claim of the United States."$ 2409a(g).The Court of Appeals acknowledged that the Beggerlyshad known about the Government's claim to the land sinceat least 1979, more than 12 years before they filed this actionin 1994. It concluded that the suit was not barred, however,because the QTA's statute of limitations was subject to equitable tolling, and that, "in light of the diligence displayedby the [respondents] in seeking the truth and pursuing theirrights," equity demanded that the statute be tolled in thiscase. 114 F. 3d, at 489. In our view, the Court of Appealswas wrong in deciding that equitable tolling is available in aQTA suit.Equitable tolling is not permissible where it is inconsistentwith the text of the relevant statute. United States v.Brockamp, 519 U. S. 347 (1997). Here, the QTA, by providing that the statute of limitations will not begin to run untilthe plaintiff "knew or should have known of the claim of theUnited States," has already effectively allowed for equitabletolling. See Irwin v. Department of Veterans Affairs, 498U. S. 89, 96 (1990) ("We have allowed equitable tolling in situations where the claimant has actively pursued his judicialremedies by filing a defective pleading during the statutoryperiod, or where the complainant has been induced or trickedby his adversary's misconduct into allowing the filing deadline to pass"). Given this fact, and the unusually generous524US1 Unit: $U73 [09-06-00 17:32:49] PAGES PGT: OPIN49Cite as: 524 U. S. 38 (1998)Stevens, J., concurringnature of the QTA's limitations time period, extension of thestatutory period by additional equitable tolling would be unwarranted. This is particularly true given that the QTAdeals with ownership of land. It is of special importancethat landowners know with certainty what their rights are,and the period during which those rights may be subject tochallenge. Equitable tolling of the already generous statuteof limitations incorporated in the QTA would throw a cloudof uncertainty over these rights, and we hold that it is incompatible with the Act.The judgment of the Court of Appeals is therefore reversed, and the case is remanded for further proceedingsconsistent with this opinion.