A jury convicted United States District Judge RobertAguilar of one count of illegally disclosing a wiretap in violation of 18 U. S. C. $ 2232(c), and of one count of endeavoringto obstruct the due administration of justice in violation of$ 1503. A panel of the Court of Appeals for the Ninth Cir-cuit affirmed the conviction under $ 2232(c) but reversed theconviction under $ 1503. After rehearing en banc, the Courtof Appeals reversed both convictions. We granted certiorari to resolve a conflict among the Federal Circuits overwhether $ 1503 punishes false statements made to potentialgrand jury witnesses, and to answer the important questionwhether disclosure of a wiretap after its authorization expires violates $ 2232(c). 513 U. S. 1013 (1994).Many facts remain disputed by the parties. Both partiesappear to agree, however, that a motion for postconvictionrelief filed by one Michael Rudy Tham represents the starting point from which events bearing on this case unfolded.Tham was an officer of the International Brotherhood ofTeamsters, and was convicted of embezzling funds from thelocal affiliate of that organization. In July 1987, he filed amotion under 28 U. S. C. $ 2255 to have his conviction setaside. The motion was assigned to Judge Stanley Weigel.Tham, seeking to enhance the odds that his petition would begranted, asked Edward Solomon and Abraham Chalupowitz,a.k.a. Abe Chapman, to assist him by capitalizing on theirrespective acquaintances with another judge in the NorthernDistrict of California, respondent Aguilar. Respondentknew Chapman as a distant relation by marriage and knewSolomon from law school. Solomon and Chapman met with*Gerald B. Lefcourt filed a brief for the National Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers as amicus curiae urging affirmance.515us2$85h 08-25-98 19:27:51 PAGES OPINPGT596 UNITED STATES v. AGUILAROpinion of the Courtrespondent to discuss Tham's case, as a result of which respondent spoke with Judge Weigel about the matter.Independent of the embezzlement conviction, the FederalBureau of Investigation (FBI) identified Tham as a suspectin an investigation of labor racketeering. On April 20, 1987,the FBI applied for authorization to install a wiretap onTham's business phones. Chapman appeared on the application as a potential interceptee. Chief District Judge RobertPeckham authorized the wiretap. The 30-day wiretap expired by law on May 20, 1987, 18 U. S. C. $ 2518(5), but ChiefJudge Peckham maintained the secrecy of the wiretap under$ 2518(8)(d) after a showing of good cause. During thecourse of the racketeering investigation, the FBI learned ofthe meetings between Chapman and respondent. The FBIinformed Chief Judge Peckham, who, concerned with appearances of impropriety, advised respondent in August 1987that Chapman might be connected with criminal elementsbecause Chapman's name had appeared on a wiretapauthorization.Five months after respondent learned that Chapman hadbeen named in a wiretap authorization, he noticed a manobserving his home during a visit by Chapman. He alertedhis nephew to this fact and conveyed the message (with anintent that his nephew relay the information to Chapman)that Chapman's phone was being wiretapped. Respondentapparently believed, in error, both that Chapman's phoneswere tapped in connection with the initial application andthat the initial authorization was still in effect. Chief JudgePeckham had in fact authorized another wiretap on Tham'sphones effective from October 1987 through the period inwhich respondent made the disclosure, but there is no suggestion in the record that the latter had any specific knowledge of this reauthorization.At this point, respondent's involvement in the two separate Tham matters converged. Two months after the disclo515us2$85h 08-25-98 19:27:51 PAGES OPINPGT597Cite as: 515 U. S. 593 (1995)Opinion of the Courtsure to his nephew, a grand jury began to investigate analleged conspiracy to influence the outcome of Tham's habeascase. Two FBI agents questioned respondent. During theinterview, respondent lied about his participation in theTham case and his knowledge of the wiretap. The grandjury returned an indictment; a jury convicted Aguilar of onecount of disclosing a wiretap, 18 U. S. C. $ 2232(c), and onecount of endeavoring to obstruct the due administration ofjustice, $ 1503. A panel of the Court of Appeals for theNinth Circuit affirmed the $ 2232(c) conviction but reversedthe $ 1503 conviction.On rehearing en banc, the Court of Appeals reversed bothconvictions for the reason that the conduct in each instancewas not covered by the statutory language. 21 F. 3d 1475(1994). The court concluded that $ 2232(c) requires the disclosure of a pending wiretap application or an authorizationthat had not expired because the purpose of the statute wasto thwart interference with the " `possible interception' " ofthe wiretap of which the defendant had knowledge. Id., at1480. Finding the interception in this case impossible oncethe authorization had expired, it held respondent's disclosurewas not covered by the plain language of the statute. TheCourt of Appeals also found that respondent had not interfered with a pending judicial proceeding under $ 1503. Itfirst noted that the grand jury had not authorized or directedthe FBI investigation. It then held that merely utteringfalse statements does not " `corruptly influence' " within themeaning of the statute. Id., at 1485-1486. It drew thisconclusion, in part, from 1988 amendments to $ 1512, whichadded a prohibition on corrupt persuasion of witnesses.The court read the corrupt persuasion prohibited by $ 1512to require an active attempt to persuade a witness to tell afalse story, and used the language in $ 1512 as a guide tointerpret the omnibus clause of $ 1503 narrowly.515us2$85h 08-25-98 19:27:51 PAGES OPINPGT598 UNITED STATES v. AGUILAROpinion of the CourtISection 1503 provides:"Whoever corruptly, or by threats or force, or by anythreatening letter or communication, endeavors to influence, intimidate, or impede any grand or petit juror,or officer in or of any court of the United States, or officer who may be serving at any examination or otherproceeding before any United States commissioner orother committing magistrate, in the discharge of hisduty, or injures any such grand or petit juror in his person or property on account of any verdict or indictmentassented to by him, or on account of his being or havingbeen such juror, or injures any such officer, commis-sioner, or other committing magistrate in his person orproperty on account of the performance of his officialduties, orcorruptly or by threats or force, or by anythreatening letter or communication, influences, obstructs, or impedes, or endeavors to influence, obstruct,or impede, the due administration of justice, shall befined not more than $5,000 or imprisoned not morethan five years, or both." 18 U. S. C. $ 1503 (emphasisadded).The statute is structured as follows: first it proscribes per-sons from endeavoring to influence, intimidate, or impedegrand or petit jurors or court officers in the discharge oftheir duties; it then prohibits injuring grand or petit jurorsin their person or property because of any verdict or indict-ment rendered by them; it then prohibits injury of any courtofficer, commissioner, or similar officer on account of the per-formance of his official duties; finally, the "Omnibus Clause"serves as a catchall, prohibiting persons from endeavoring toinfluence, obstruct, or impede the due administration of justice. The latter clause, it can be seen, is far more general inscope than the earlier clauses of the statute. Respondent515us2$85h 08-25-98 19:27:51 PAGES OPINPGT599Cite as: 515 U. S. 593 (1995)Opinion of the Courtwas charged with a violation of the Omnibus Clause, to wit:with "corruptly endeavor[ing] to influence, obstruct, and impede the . . . grand jury investigation." App. 106.The first case from this Court construing the predecessorstatute to $ 1503 was Pettibone v. United States, 148 U. S.197 (1893). There we held that "a person is not sufficientlycharged with obstructing or impeding the due administrationof justice in a court unless it appears that he knew or hadnotice that justice was being administered in such court."Id., at 206. The Court reasoned that a person lackingknowledge of a pending proceeding necessarily lacked theevil intent to obstruct. Id., at 207. Recent decisions ofCourts of Appeals have likewise tended to place metes andbounds on the very broad language of the catchall provision.The action taken by the accused must be with an intent toinfluence judicial or grand jury proceedings; it is not enoughthat there be an intent to influence some ancillary proceeding, such as an investigation independent of the court's orgrand jury's authority. United States v. Brown, 688 F. 2d596, 598 (CA9 1982) (citing cases). Some courts havephrased this showing as a "nexus" requirement--that the actmust have a relationship in time, causation, or logic with thejudicial proceedings. United States v. Wood, 6 F. 3d 692, 696(CA10 1993); United States v. Walasek, 527 F. 2d 676, 679,and n. 12 (CA3 1975). In other words, the endeavor musthave the " `natural and probable effect' " of interfering withthe due administration of justice. Wood, supra, at 695;United States v. Thomas, 916 F. 2d 647, 651 (CA11 1990);Walasek, supra, at 679. This is not to say that the defendant's actions need be successful; an "endeavor" suffices.United States v. Russell, 255 U. S. 138, 143 (1921). But asin Pettibone, if the defendant lacks knowledge that his actions are likely to affect the judicial proceeding, he lacks therequisite intent to obstruct.515us2$85h 08-25-98 19:27:51 PAGES OPINPGT600 UNITED STATES v. AGUILAROpinion of the CourtAlthough respondent urges various broader grounds foraffirmance,1 we find it unnecessary to address them becausewe think the "nexus" requirement developed in the decisionsof the Courts of Appeals is a correct construction of $ 1503.We have traditionally exercised restraint in assessing thereach of a federal criminal statute, both out of deference tothe prerogatives of Congress, Dowling v. United States, 473U. S. 207 (1985), and out of concern that "a fair warningshould be given to the world in language that the commonworld will understand, of what the law intends to do if acertain line is passed," McBoyle v. United States, 283 U. S.25, 27 (1931). We do not believe that uttering false statements to an investigating agent--and that seems to be allthat was proved here--who might or might not testify beforea grand jury is sufficient to make out a violation of the catch-all provision of $ 1503.The Government did not show here that the agents actedas an arm of the grand jury, or indeed that the grand juryhad even summoned the testimony of these particular agents.The Government argues that respondent "understood thathis false statements would be provided to the grand jury"and that he made the statements with the intent to thwartthe grand jury investigation and not just the FBI investiga-tion. Brief for United States 18. The Government supports its argument with a citation to the transcript of therecorded conversation between Aguilar and the FBI agentat the point where Aguilar asks whether he is a target of agrand jury investigation. The agent responded to the question by stating:"[T]here is a Grand Jury meeting. Convening I guessthat's the correct word. Um some evidence will beheard I'm . . . I'm sure on this issue." App. 86.1 Respondent argues that the term "corruptly" is vague and overbroadas applied to the type of conduct at issue in this case and that Congressnarrowed the scope of the Omnibus Clause when it expressly punished hisconduct in 18 U. S. C. $ 1512.515us2$85h 08-25-98 19:27:51 PAGES OPINPGT601Cite as: 515 U. S. 593 (1995)Opinion of the CourtBecause respondent knew of the pending proceeding, theGovernment therefore contends that Aguilar's statementsare analogous to those made directly to the grand jury itself,in the form of false testimony or false documents.2We think the transcript citation relied upon by the Gov-ernment would not enable a rational trier of fact to concludethat respondent knew that his false statement would be pro-vided to the grand jury, and that the evidence goes no further than showing that respondent testified falsely to an in-vestigating agent. Such conduct, we believe, falls on theother side of the statutory line from that of one who deliversfalse documents or testimony to the grand jury itself. Conduct of the latter sort all but assures that the grand jury willconsider the material in its deliberations. But what use willbe made of false testimony given to an investigating agentwho has not been subpoenaed or otherwise directed to appear before the grand jury is far more speculative. Wethink it cannot be said to have the "natural and probableeffect" of interfering with the due administration of justice.Justice Scalia criticizes our treatment of the statutorylanguage for reading the word "endeavor" out of it, inasmuchas it excludes defendants who have an evil purpose but usemeans that would "only unnaturally and improbably be successful." Post, at 612. This criticism is unwarranted. Ourreading of the statute gives the term "endeavor" a usefulfunction to fulfill: It makes conduct punishable where thedefendant acts with an intent to obstruct justice, and in amanner that is likely to obstruct justice, but is foiled in some2 See, e. g., United States v. Mullins, 22 F. 3d 1365, 1367-1368 (CA6 1994)(altered records and instructed co-worker to alter records subject to subpoena duces tecum); United States v. Williams, 874 F. 2d 968, 976-982(CA5 1989) (uttered false testimony to grand jury); United States v. McComb, 744 F. 2d 555, 559 (CA7 1984) (created false meeting minutes andvoluntarily delivered them to grand jury); United States v. Faudman, 640F. 2d 20, 23 (CA6 1981) (falsified records, some of which had been soughtby subpoena duces tecum); United States v. Walasek, 527 F. 2d 676, 679-680 (CA3 1975) (falsified documents requested by subpoena duces tecum).515us2$85h 08-25-98 19:27:51 PAGES OPINPGT602 UNITED STATES v. AGUILAROpinion of the Courtway. Were a defendant with the requisite intent to lie to asubpoenaed witness who is ultimately not called to testify,or who testifies but does not transmit the defendant's versionof the story, the defendant has endeavored to obstruct, buthas not actually obstructed, justice. Under our approach, ajury could find such defendant guilty.Justice Scalia also apparently believes that any act,done with the intent to "obstruct . . . the due administrationof justice," is sufficient to impose criminal liability. Underthe dissent's theory, a man could be found guilty under $ 1503if he knew of a pending investigation and lied to his wifeabout his whereabouts at the time of the crime, thinking thatan FBI agent might decide to interview her and that shemight in turn be influenced in her statement to the agent byher husband's false account of his whereabouts. The intentto obstruct justice is indeed present, but the man's culpability is a good deal less clear from the statute than we usuallyrequire in order to impose criminal liability.IISection 2232(c) prohibits the disclosure of information thata wiretap has been sought or authorized. The statute reads:"Whoever, having knowledge that a Federal investiga-tive or law enforcement officer has been authorized orhas applied for authorization under chapter 119 to inter-cept a wire, oral, or electronic communication, in orderto obstruct, impede, or prevent such interception, givesnotice or attempts to give notice of the possible interception to any person shall be fined under this title orimprisoned not more than five years, or both." 18U. S. C. $ 2232(c).This section is much more precisely targeted than is thecatchall provision of $ 1503 discussed above. The first clausedefines the element of knowledge required for the act to becriminal: knowledge that an officer has been authorized or515us2$85h 08-25-98 19:27:51 PAGES OPINPGT603Cite as: 515 U. S. 593 (1995)Opinion of the Courthas sought authorization to intercept a communication. Thesecond clause defines the required intent with which the actbe done: "in order to obstruct, impede, or prevent such inter-ception." The third clause defines the punishable act: "givesnotice or attempts to give notice of the possible interception." Respondent persuaded the Court of Appeals to holdthat the wiretap application or authorization must be pending or in esse at the time of the disclosure, but we do notbelieve any such requirement is to be found in the statutory language.Respondent here urges the reasoning accepted by theCourt of Appeals. "[T]he purpose of the statute is to prevent interference with `possible interception.' " 21 F. 3d, at1480. Once a wiretap has expired or been denied, the NinthCircuit reasoned, there is no " `possible interception' " todisclose or attempt to disclose. Ibid. The narrow purposeof the statute is further evidenced by the statute's intentrequirement, which limits punishable disclosures to thoseundertaken with the intent to interfere with " `such interception' " of which the defendant "has knowledge." Ibid.Under the circumstances, the disclosure of an expired wiretap not only fails to violate the terms of the statute, it failsto implicate any interest protected by $ 2232(c). Brief forRespondent 38.But this argument, we think, fails in the face of the statutory language itself. The term "such interception" is partof the intent requirement in the second clause; the defendantmust intend to obstruct the interception made pursuant tothe application or authorization of which he has the knowledge required by the first clause. The phrase "possible interception" is found in the third clause, which describes theact which offends the statute. A defendant intending to disclose the existence of a pending application would ordinarilyhave no way of knowing whether the application or authorization had resulted in an interception, and that is doubtlesswhy the third clause uses the term "possible" interception.515us2$85h 08-25-98 19:27:51 PAGES OPINPGT604 UNITED STATES v. AGUILAROpinion of the CourtIt was not intended to limit the offense to cases where theinterception based upon the application or authorization wasfactually possible, but to recognize the fact that at the timethe prohibited notice was given it very likely could not beknown whether or not there would be an interception.The Court of Appeals thought its result justified by itsview that the aim of the statute was to prevent interferencewith "possible" interceptions, and that if an interception wasnot possible because the wiretap was no longer in place atthe time of the disclosure, that interest was not threatened.But the statute is aimed at something more than the inter-ference with interceptions; it is aimed at disclosure of wiretap orders or applications which may lead to interceptions.The offense is complete at the time the notice is given, whenit often cannot be known whether any interception willtake place.Justice Stevens argues that $ 2232(c) criminalizes disclo-sures of pending applications without a need to rely on theword " `possible.' " Post, at 608. That is not so. The refer-ence to pending applications occurs only in the clause specifying the knowledge element. The actus reus element mustbe independently satisfied. Without the word "possible,"the statute would only prohibit giving notice of "the inter-ception": It would not reach the giving of notice of an application which has not yet resulted in an authorization or anauthorization which has not yet resulted in an interception.That Congress could have accomplished the same result byphrasing the statute differently--for instance, by repeating" `such interception' " in the third clause, ibid.--does notundercut the fact that the word "possible" is necessary in thestatute as written to criminalize such behavior.33 Justice Stevens also argues that our reading of the statute wouldachieve no temporal limitation on liability and could result in the "absurd"prosecution of a discloser 10 years after the wiretap expired. Post, at608-609. Although we reserve the question for a case that presents it,we note that the wiretapping scheme as a whole suggests that a plausible515us2$85h 08-25-98 19:27:51 PAGES OPINPGT605Cite as: 515 U. S. 593 (1995)Opinion of the CourtAcceptance of respondent's position would open the doorto additional claims of "impossibility" other than the fact thatthe application or order was not pending at the time of thedisclosure. Some sort of mechanical failure, or the departure of the person whose conversation was to be interceptedfrom the place at which the reception was authorized, aretwo which come to mind. In Osborn v. United States, 385U. S. 323, 333 (1966), we expressed reservations about the"continuing validity [of] the doctrine of `impossibility,' withall its subtleties," in the law of criminal attempt, and wewould require much more than the statutory language beforeus to believe that Congress intended to engraft it onto thelanguage of $ 2232(c).Finally, respondent urges us to read the statute to excludedisclosures of expired wiretaps because of concern that abroader construction would run counter to the First Amendment. We see no necessity for such a restrictive construc-tion of the statute. It is true that the Government may notgenerally restrict individuals from disclosing informationthat lawfully comes into their hands in the absence of a"state interest of the highest order." Smith v. Daily MailPublishing Co., 443 U. S. 97, 103 (1979). But the statutehere in question does not impose such a restriction generally,but only upon those who disclose wiretap information "inorder to obstruct, impede, or prevent" the interception.Nor was the respondent simply a member of the generaltemporal limit on liability for disclosure would be the point at which theauthorizing judge notifies the interceptee and related parties of the existence of an application or authorization pursuant to 18 U. S. C. $ 2518(8)(d).Such notification must occur "within a reasonable time" after denial of theapplication or termination of a wiretap, and may be postponed only upona showing of "good cause." $ 2518(8)(d). The parties did not brief thisissue, and we need not decide it on these facts because respondent disclosed his knowledge of the wiretap application before Chief Judge Peckham notified the parties in May 1989. That notification issued two yearsafter the FBI first applied for authorization and one year after the lastauthorized wiretap expired.515us2$85h 08-25-98 19:27:51 PAGES OPINPGT606 UNITED STATES v. AGUILAROpinion of Stevens, J.public who happened to lawfully acquire possession of infor-mation about the wiretap; he was a Federal District CourtJudge who learned of a confidential wiretap application fromthe judge who had authorized the interception, and whowished to preserve the integrity of the court. Governmentofficials in sensitive confidential positions may have specialduties of nondisclosure. See Fed. Rule Crim. Proc. 6(e) (prohibiting the disclosure of grand jury information). Like-wise, protective orders may be imposed in connection withinformation acquired through civil discovery without violat-ing the First Amendment.Seattle Times Co. v. Rhinehart,467 U. S. 20, 31 (1984). As to one who voluntarily assumeda duty of confidentiality, governmental restrictions on disclosure are not subject to the same stringent standards thatwould apply to efforts to impose restrictions on unwillingmembers of the public. SeeSnepp v. United States, 444U. S. 507 (1980) (per curiam). In this case, Chief JudgePeckham postponed the notification of parties named in theapplication in order to maintain the secrecy of the wiretap.See 18 U. S. C. $ 2518(1)(d). We think the Government'sinterest is quite sufficient to justify the construction of thestatute as written, without any artificial narrowing becauseof First Amendment concerns.Respondent raised below a challenge to the jury instructions, but the Court of Appeals found it unnecessary to decide. We affirm the decision of the Court of Appeals withrespect to respondent's conviction under $ 1503 and reversewith respect to respondent's conviction under $ 2232(c). Weremand for proceedings consistent with this decision.