A California court sentenced respondent Mark JamesKnights to summary probation for a drug offense. The probation order included the following condition: that Knightswould "[s]ubmit his . . . person, property, place of residence, vehicle, personal effects, to search at anytime, withor without a search warrant, warrant of arrest or reasonablecause by any probation officer or law enforcement officer."Knights signed the probation order, which stated immediately above his signature that "I HAVE RECEIVEDA COPY, READ AND UNDERSTAND THE ABOVETERMS AND CONDITIONS OF PROBATION ANDAGREE TO ABIDE BY SAME." App. 49. In this case,we decide whether a search pursuant to this probation condition, and supported by reasonable suspicion, satisfied theFourth Amendment.Three days after Knights was placed on probation, a Pacific Gas & Electric (PG&E) power transformer and adjacentPacific Bell telecommunications vault near the Napa CountyAirport were pried open and set on fire, causing an estimated$1.5 million in damage. Brass padlocks had been removedand a gasoline accelerant had been used to ignite the fire.This incident was the latest in more than 30 recent acts ofvandalism against PG&E facilities in Napa County. Suspicion for these acts had long focused on Knights and hisfriend, Steven Simoneau. The incidents began after PG&Esistant Attorneys General, and Laurence K. Sullivan, Supervising DeputyAttorney General; for the Criminal Justice Legal Foundation by Kent S.Scheidegger and Charles L. Hobson; and for the Center for CommunityInterest by Andrew N. Vollmer and Steven Rosen.Briefs of amici curiae urging affirmance were filed for the CaliforniaPublic Defenders Association et al. by Kenneth I. Clayman; for the National Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers by John Wesley Hall, Jr.,and Lisa B. Kemler; and for the Rutherford Institute by James JosephLynch, Jr., John W. Whitehead, and Steven H. Aden.534US1 Unit: $$U7 [04-10-03 15:11:56] PAGES PGT: OPIN115Cite as: 534 U. S. 112 (2001)Opinion of the Courthad filed a theft-of-services complaint against Knights anddiscontinued his electrical service for failure to pay his bill.Detective Todd Hancock of the Napa County Sheriff 's De-partment had noticed that the acts of vandalism coincidedwith Knights' court appearance dates concerning the theftof PG&E services. And just a week before the arson, asheriff 's deputy had stopped Knights and Simoneau near aPG&E gas line and observed pipes and gasoline in Simoneau's pickup truck.After the PG&E arson, a sheriff 's deputy drove byKnights' residence, where he saw Simoneau's truck parkedin front. The deputy felt the hood of the truck. It waswarm. Detective Hancock decided to set up surveillanceof Knights' apartment. At about 3:10 the next morning,Simoneau exited the apartment carrying three cylindricalitems. Detective Hancock believed the items were pipebombs. Simoneau walked across the street to the bank ofthe Napa River, and Hancock heard three splashes. Simoneau returned without the cylinders and drove away in histruck. Simoneau then stopped in a driveway, parked, andleft the area. Detective Hancock entered the driveway andobserved a number of suspicious objects in the truck: a Molotov cocktail and explosive materials, a gasoline can, and twobrass padlocks that fit the description of those removed fromthe PG&E transformer vault.After viewing the objects in Simoneau's truck, DetectiveHancock decided to conduct a search of Knights' apart-ment. Detective Hancock was aware of the search conditionin Knights' probation order and thus believed that a warrantwas not necessary.1 The search revealed a detonation cord,ammunition, liquid chemicals, instruction manuals on chem-istry and electrical circuitry, bolt cutters, telephone poleclimbing spurs, drug paraphernalia, and a brass padlockstamped "PG&E."1 Hancock had seen a copy of the probation order when he was checkingKnights' file in the Sheriff's Department office.534US1 Unit: $$U7 [04-10-03 15:11:56] PAGES PGT: OPIN116 UNITED STATES v. KNIGHTSOpinion of the CourtKnights was arrested, and a federal grand jury subsequently indicted him for conspiracy to commit arson, forpossession of an unregistered destructive device, and forbeing a felon in possession of ammunition. Knights movedto suppress the evidence obtained during the search of hisapartment. The District Court held that Detective Hancockhad "reasonable suspicion" to believe that Knights was involved with incendiary materials. App. to Pet. for Cert.30a. The District Court nonetheless granted the motion tosuppress on the ground that the search was for "investigatory" rather than "probationary" purposes. The Court ofAppeals for the Ninth Circuit affirmed. 219 F. 3d 1138(2000). The Court of Appeals relied on its earlier decisionsholding that the search condition in Knights' probation order"must be seen as limited to probation searches, and muststop short of investigation searches." Id., at 1142-1143 (citing United States v. Ooley, 116 F. 3d 370, 371 (CA9 1997)).The Supreme Court of California has rejected this distinction and upheld searches pursuant to the California probation condition "whether the purpose of the search is tomonitor the probationer or to serve some other law enforcement purpose." People v. Woods, 21 Cal. 4th 668, 681, 981P. 2d 1019, 1027 (1999), cert. denied, 529 U. S. 1023 (2000).We granted certiorari, 532 U. S. 1018 (2001), to assess theconstitutionality of searches made pursuant to this commonCalifornia probation condition.Certainly nothing in the condition of probation suggeststhat it was confined to searches bearing upon probationarystatus and nothing more. The search condition providesthat Knights will submit to a search "by any probation officeror law enforcement officer" and does not mention anythingabout purpose. App. 49. The question then is whether theFourth Amendment limits searches pursuant to this probation condition to those with a "probationary" purpose.534US1 Unit: $$U7 [04-10-03 15:11:56] PAGES PGT: OPIN117Cite as: 534 U. S. 112 (2001)Opinion of the CourtKnights argues that this limitation follows from our decision in Griffin v. Wisconsin, 483 U. S. 868 (1987). Brief forRespondent 14. In Griffin, we upheld a search of a probationer conducted pursuant to a Wisconsin regulation permitting "any probation officer to search a probationer'shome without a warrant as long as his supervisor approvesand as long as there are `reasonable grounds' to believe thepresence of contraband," 483 U. S., at 870-871. The Wisconsin regulation that authorized the search was not an express condition of Griffin's probation; in fact, the regulationwas not even promulgated at the time of Griffin's sentence.2The regulation applied to all Wisconsin probationers, withno need for a judge to make an individualized determination that the probationer's conviction justified the need forwarrantless searches. We held that a State's operation ofits probation system presented a "special need" for the"exercise of supervision to assure that [probation] restrictions are in fact observed." Id., at 875. That special needfor supervision justified the Wisconsin regulation and thesearch pursuant to the regulation was thus reasonable. Id.,at 875-880.In Knights' view, apparently shared by the Court of Appeals, a warrantless search of a probationer satisfies theFourth Amendment only if it is just like the search at issuein Griffin--i. e., a "special needs" search conducted by a probation officer monitoring whether the probationer is complying with probation restrictions. This dubious logic--thatan opinion upholding the constitutionality of a particularsearch implicitly holds unconstitutional any search that isnot like it--runs contrary to Griffin's express statement thatits "special needs" holding made it "unnecessary to considerwhether" warrantless searches of probationers were other2 Griffin was placed on probation in September 1980, 483 U. S., at 870,and the regulation was not promulgated until December 1981, id., at 871.534US1 Unit: $$U7 [04-10-03 15:11:56] PAGES PGT: OPIN118 UNITED STATES v. KNIGHTSOpinion of the Courtwise reasonable within the meaning of the Fourth Amend-ment.3 Id., at 878, 880.We now consider that question in assessing the constitu-tionality of the search of Knights' apartment. The Government, advocating the approach of the Supreme Court ofCalifornia, see Woods, supra, contends that the search satisfied the Fourth Amendment under the "consent" rationaleof cases such asZap v. United States, 328 U. S. 624 (1946),and Schneckloth v. Bustamonte, 412 U. S. 218 (1973). In theGovernment's view, Knights' acceptance of the search condi-tion was voluntary because he had the option of rejectingprobation and going to prison instead, which the Governmentargues is analogous to the voluntary decision defendantsoften make to waive their right to a trial and accept a pleabargain.4We need not decide whether Knights' acceptance of thesearch condition constituted consent in the Schnecklothsense of a complete waiver of his Fourth Amendment rights,however, because we conclude that the search of Knights wasreasonable under our general Fourth Amendment approachof "examining the totality of the circumstances,"Ohio v.Robinette, 519 U. S. 33, 39 (1996), with the probation searchcondition being a salient circumstance.The touchstone of the Fourth Amendment is reasonableness, and the reasonableness of a search is determined "by3 The Wisconsin Supreme Court had held in Griffin that "probationdiminishes a probationer's reasonable expectation of privacy--so that aprobation officer may, consistent with the Fourth Amendment, search aprobationer's home without a warrant, and with only `reasonable grounds'(not probable cause) to believe that contraband is present." Id., at 872.4 The Government sees our unconstitutional conditions doctrine as alimitation on what a probationer may validly consent to in a probationorder. The Government argues that the search condition is not an unconstitutional condition because waiver of Fourth Amendment rights "directlyfurthers the State's interest in the effective administration of its probationsystem." Brief for United States 22.534US1 Unit: $$U7 [04-10-03 15:11:56] PAGES PGT: OPIN119Cite as: 534 U. S. 112 (2001)Opinion of the Courtassessing, on the one hand, the degree to which it intrudesupon an individual's privacy and, on the other, the degree towhich it is needed for the promotion of legitimate governmental interests." Wyoming v. Houghton, 526 U. S. 295,300 (1999). Knights' status as a probationer subject to asearch condition informs both sides of that balance. "Probation, like incarceration, is `a form of criminal sanction imposed by a court upon an offender after verdict, finding, orplea of guilty.' " Griffin, supra, at 874 (quoting G. Killinger,H. Kerper, & P. Cromwell, Probation and Parole in the Criminal Justice System 14 (1976)). Probation is "one point . . .on a continuum of possible punishments ranging from solitary confinement in a maximum-security facility to a fewhours of mandatory community service." 483 U. S., at 874.Inherent in the very nature of probation is that probationers "do not enjoy `the absolute liberty to which every citizenis entitled.' " Ibid. (quoting Morrissey v. Brewer, 408 U. S.471, 480 (1972)). Just as other punishments for criminal convictions curtail an offender's freedoms, a court granting probation may impose reasonable conditions that deprive theoffender of some freedoms enjoyed by law-abiding citizens.The judge who sentenced Knights to probation determined that it was necessary to condition the probation onKnights' acceptance of the search provision. It was reasonable to conclude that the search condition would further thetwo primary goals of probation--rehabilitation and protecting society from future criminal violations.5 The probationorder clearly expressed the search condition and Knightswas unambiguously informed of it. The probation condition5 Under California law, a probation condition is invalid if it (1) has norelationship to the crime of which defendant was convicted; (2) relates toconduct which in itself is not criminal; and (3) requires or forbids conductwhich is not reasonably related to future criminality. People v. Lent, 15Cal. 3d 481, 485-486, 541 P. 2d 545, 548 (1975).534US1 Unit: $$U7 [04-10-03 15:11:56] PAGES PGT: OPIN120 UNITED STATES v. KNIGHTSOpinion of the Courtthus significantly diminished Knights' reasonable expectation of privacy.6In assessing the governmental interest side of the balance,it must be remembered that "the very assumption of theinstitution of probation" is that the probationer "is morelikely than the ordinary citizen to violate the law." Griffin,483 U. S., at 880. The recidivism rate of probationers issignificantly higher than the general crime rate. See U. S.Dept. of Justice, Office of Justice Programs, Bureau of JusticeStatistics, Recidivism of Felons on Probation, 1986-89, pp. 1,6 (Feb. 1992) (reporting that 43% of 79,000 felons placed onprobation in 17 States were rearrested for a felony withinthree years while still on probation); U. S. Dept. of Justice,Office of Justice Programs, Bureau of Justice Statistics, Probation and Parole Violators in State Prison, 1991, p. 3 (Aug.1995) (stating that in 1991, 23% of state prisoners were probation violators). And probationers have even more of anincentive to conceal their criminal activities and quickly dispose of incriminating evidence than the ordinary criminalbecause probationers are aware that they may be subjectto supervision and face revocation of probation, and possible incarceration, in proceedings in which the trial rightsof a jury and proof beyond a reasonable doubt, among otherthings, do not apply, see Minnesota v. Murphy, 465 U. S. 420,435, n. 7 (1984) ("[T]here is no right to a jury trial beforeprobation may be revoked"); 18 U. S. C. $ 3583(e).The State has a dual concern with a probationer. On theone hand is the hope that he will successfully complete pro6 We do not decide whether the probation condition so diminished, orcompletely eliminated, Knights' reasonable expectation of privacy (or constituted consent, see supra, at 118) that a search by a law enforcementofficer without any individualized suspicion would have satisfied the reasonableness requirement of the Fourth Amendment. The terms of theprobation condition permit such a search, but we need not address theconstitutionality of a suspicionless search because the search in this casewas supported by reasonable suspicion.534US1 Unit: $$U7 [04-10-03 15:11:56] PAGES PGT: OPIN121Cite as: 534 U. S. 112 (2001)Opinion of the Courtbation and be integrated back into the community. On theother is the concern, quite justified, that he will be morelikely to engage in criminal conduct than an ordinary mem-ber of the community. The view of the Court of Appealsin this case would require the State to shut its eyes to thelatter concern and concentrate only on the former. But wehold that the Fourth Amendment does not put the State tosuch a choice. Its interest in apprehending violators of thecriminal law, thereby protecting potential victims of criminalenterprise, may therefore justifiably focus on probationers ina way that it does not on the ordinary citizen.We hold that the balance of these considerations requiresno more than reasonable suspicion to conduct a search of thisprobationer's house. The degree of individualized suspicionrequired of a search is a determination of when there is asufficiently high probability that criminal conduct is occurring to make the intrusion on the individual's privacyinterest reasonable. See United States v. Cortez, 449 U. S.411, 418 (1981) (individualized suspicion deals "with probabilities"). Although the Fourth Amendment ordinarily requires the degree of probability embodied in the term "probable cause," a lesser degree satisfies the Constitution whenthe balance of governmental and private interests makessuch a standard reasonable. See, e. g., Terry v. Ohio, 392U. S. 1 (1968); United States v. Brignoni-Ponce, 422 U. S.873 (1975). Those interests warrant a lesser than probablecause standard here. When an officer has reasonable suspicion that a probationer subject to a search condition isengaged in criminal activity, there is enough likelihoodthat criminal conduct is occurring that an intrusion on theprobationer's significantly diminished privacy interests isreasonable.The same circumstances that lead us to conclude thatreasonable suspicion is constitutionally sufficient also render a warrant requirement unnecessary. See Illinois v.McArthur, 531 U. S. 326, 330 (2001) (noting that general534US1 Unit: $$U7 [04-10-03 15:11:56] PAGES PGT: OPIN122 UNITED STATES v. KNIGHTSSouter, J., concurringor individual circumstances, including "diminished expecta-tions of privacy," may justify an exception to the warrantrequirement).Because our holding rests on ordinary Fourth Amendmentanalysis that considers all the circumstances of a search,there is no basis for examining official purpose. With thelimited exception of some special needs and administrativesearch cases, see Indianapolis v. Edmond, 531 U. S. 32, 45(2000), "we have been unwilling to entertain Fourth Amendment challenges based on the actual motivations of indi-vidual officers."Whren v. United States, 517 U. S. 806, 813(1996).The District Court found, and Knights concedes, that thesearch in this case was supported by reasonable suspicion.We therefore hold that the warrantless search of Knights,supported by reasonable suspicion and authorized by a condition of probation, was reasonable within the meaning of theFourth Amendment. The judgment of the Court of Appealsis reversed, and the cause is remanded for further proceedings consistent with this opinion.