Respondent Ralph Arvizu was stopped by a border patrolagent while driving on an unpaved road in a remote areaof southeastern Arizona. A search of his vehicle turned upmore than 100 pounds of marijuana. The District Court forthe District of Arizona denied respondent's motion to sup-press, but the Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit reversed. In the course of its opinion, it categorized certainfactors relied upon by the District Court as simply out ofbounds in deciding whether there was "reasonable suspicion"for the stop. We hold that the Court of Appeals' methodology was contrary to our prior decisions and that it reachedthe wrong result in this case.On an afternoon in January 1998, Agent Clinton Stoddardwas working at a border patrol checkpoint along U. S. Highway 191 approximately 30 miles north of Douglas, Arizona.App. 22, 24. See Appendix,infra (containing a map of thearea noting the location of the checkpoint and other pointsimportant to this case). Douglas has a population of about13,000 and is situated on the United States-Mexico borderin the southeastern part of the State. Only two highwayslead north from Douglas. See App. 157. Highway 191leads north to Interstate 10, which passes through Tucsonand Phoenix. State Highway 80 heads northeast throughless populated areas toward New Mexico, skirting south andeast of the portion of the Coronado National Forest that liesapproximately 20 miles northeast of Douglas.1The checkpoint is located at the intersection of 191 andRucker Canyon Road, an unpaved east-west road that con-nects 191 and the Coronado National Forest. When thecheckpoint is operational, border patrol agents stop the traf1 Coronado National Forest consists of 12 widely scattered sections ofland covering 1,780,000 acres in southeastern Arizona and southwesternNew Mexico. The section of the forest near Douglas includes the Chiricahua, Dragoon, and Peloncillo Mountain Ranges.534US2 Unit: $U15 [04-10-03 16:18:08] PAGES PGT: OPIN269Cite as: 534 U. S. 266 (2002)Opinion of the Courtfic on 191 as part of a coordinated effort to stem the flow ofillegal immigration and smuggling across the internationalborder. See id., at 20-21. Agents use roving patrols toapprehend smugglers trying to circumvent the checkpointby taking the backroads, including those roads through thesparsely populated area between Douglas and the nationalforest. Id., at 21-22, 26, 80. Magnetic sensors, or "intrusion devices," facilitate agents' efforts in patrolling theseareas. Seeid., at 25. Directionally sensitive, the sensorssignal the passage of traffic that would be consistent withsmuggling activities.Ibid.; Tr. of Oral Arg. 23-24.Sensors are located along the only other northbound roadfrom Douglas besides Highways 191 and 80: Leslie CanyonRoad. Leslie Canyon Road runs roughly parallel to 191,about halfway between 191 and the border of the CoronadoNational Forest, and ends when it intersects Rucker CanyonRoad. It is unpaved beyond the 10-mile stretch leadingout of Douglas and is very rarely traveled except for useby local ranchers and forest service personnel. App. 26.Smugglers commonly try to avoid the 191 checkpoint byheading west on Rucker Canyon Road from Leslie CanyonRoad and thence to Kuykendall Cutoff Road, a primitive dirtroad that leads north approximately 12 miles east of 191.Id., at 29-30. From there, they can gain access to Tucsonand Phoenix. Id., at 30.Around 2:15 p.m., Stoddard received a report via Douglasradio that a Leslie Canyon Road sensor had been triggered.Id., at 24. This was significant to Stoddard for two reasons.First, it suggested to him that a vehicle might be tryingto circumvent the checkpoint. Id., at 27. Second, thetiming coincided with the point when agents begin headingback to the checkpoint for a shift change, which leaves thearea unpatrolled. Id., at 26, 47. Stoddard knew that aliensmugglers did extensive scouting and seemed to be mostactive when agents were en route back to the checkpoint.Another border patrol agent told Stoddard that the same534US2 Unit: $U15 [04-10-03 16:18:08] PAGES PGT: OPIN270 UNITED STATES v. ARVIZUOpinion of the Courtsensor had gone off several weeks before and that he hadapprehended a minivan using the same route and witnessedthe occupants throwing bundles of marijuana out the door.Id., at 27.Stoddard drove eastbound on Rucker Canyon Road toinvestigate. As he did so, he received another radio reportof sensor activity. Id., at 29. It indicated that the vehiclethat had triggered the first sensor was heading westboundon Rucker Canyon Road. He continued east, passing Kuykendall Cutoff Road. He saw the dust trail of an approaching vehicle about a half mile away. Id., at 31. Stoddardhad not seen any other vehicles and, based on the timing,believed that this was the one that had tripped the sensors.Id., at 31-32. He pulled off to the side of the road at a slightslant so he could get a good look at the oncoming vehicle asit passed by. Id., at 32.It was a minivan, a type of automobile that Stoddard knewsmugglers used. Id., at 33. As it approached, it sloweddramatically, from about 50-55 to 25-30 miles per hour. Id.,at 32, 57. He saw five occupants inside. An adult man wasdriving, an adult woman sat in the front passenger seat, andthree children were in the back. Id., at 33-34. The driverappeared stiff and his posture very rigid. He did not lookat Stoddard and seemed to be trying to pretend that Stoddard was not there. Id., at 33. Stoddard thought this suspicious because in his experience on patrol most persons lookover and see what is going on, and in that area most driversgive border patrol agents a friendly wave. Id., at 59. Stoddard noticed that the knees of the two children sitting in thevery back seat were unusually high, as if their feet werepropped up on some cargo on the floor. Id., at 34.At that point, Stoddard decided to get a closer look, so hebegan to follow the vehicle as it continued westbound onRucker Canyon Road toward Kuykendall Cutoff Road. Id.,at 34-35. Shortly thereafter, all of the children, though534US2 Unit: $U15 [04-10-03 16:18:08] PAGES PGT: OPIN271Cite as: 534 U. S. 266 (2002)Opinion of the Courtstill facing forward, put their hands up at the same time andbegan to wave at Stoddard in an abnormal pattern. Id., at35, 61. It looked to Stoddard as if the children were beinginstructed. Their odd waving continued on and off for aboutfour to five minutes. Id., at 35, 73.Several hundred feet before the Kuykendall Cutoff Roadintersection, the driver signaled that he would turn. Id.,at 36. At one point, the driver turned the signal off, butjust as he approached the intersection he put it back on andabruptly turned north onto Kuykendall. The turn was significant to Stoddard because it was made at the last placethat would have allowed the minivan to avoid the checkpoint.Id., at 37. Also, Kuykendall, though passable by a sedan orvan, is rougher than either Rucker Canyon or Leslie CanyonRoads, and the normal traffic is four-wheel-drive vehicles.Id., at 36, 63-64. Stoddard did not recognize the minivanas part of the local traffic agents encounter on patrol, id.,at 37, and he did not think it likely that the minivan wasgoing to or coming from a picnic outing. He was not awareof any picnic grounds on Turkey Creek, which could bereached by following Kuykendall Cutoff all the way up. Id.,at 54. He knew of picnic grounds and a Boy Scout campeast of the intersection of Rucker Canyon and Leslie CanyonRoads, id., at 31, 53, 54, but the minivan had turned west atthat intersection. And he had never seen anyone picnickingor sightseeing near where the first sensor went off. Id., at53, 75.Stoddard radioed for a registration check and learnedthat the minivan was registered to an address in Douglasthat was four blocks north of the border in an area notoriousfor alien and narcotics smuggling. Id., at 37-38, 66-67.After receiving the information, Stoddard decided to make avehicle stop. Id., at 38. He approached the driver andlearned that his name was Ralph Arvizu. Stoddard askedif respondent would mind if he looked inside and searched534US2 Unit: $U15 [04-10-03 16:18:08] PAGES PGT: OPIN272 UNITED STATES v. ARVIZUOpinion of the Courtthe vehicle. Id., at 43. Respondent agreed, and Stoddarddiscovered marijuana in a black duffel bag under the feet ofthe two children in the back seat. Id., at 45-46. Anotherbag containing marijuana was behind the rear seat. Id.,at 46. In all, the van contained 128.85 pounds of marijuana,worth an estimated $99,080. Brief for United States 8.Respondent was charged with possession with intent todistribute marijuana in violation of 21 U. S. C. $ 841(a)(1)(1994 ed.). He moved to suppress the marijuana, arguingamong other things that Stoddard did not have reasonablesuspicion to stop the vehicle as required by the FourthAmendment. After holding a hearing where Stoddard andrespondent testified, the District Court for the Districtof Arizona ruled otherwise. App. to Pet. for Cert. 21a. Itpointed to a number of the facts described above and notedparticularly that any recreational areas north of Rucker Canyon would have been accessible from Douglas via 191 andanother paved road, making it unnecessary to take a 40-to50-mile trip on dirt roads. Id., at 22a.The Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit reversed. 232F. 3d 1241 (2000). In its view, fact-specific weighing of circumstances or other multifactor tests introduced "a troubling degree of uncertainty and unpredictability" into theFourth Amendment analysis. Id., at 1248 (internal quotation marks omitted). It therefore "attempt[ed] . . . todescribe and clearly delimit the extent to which certain factors may be considered by law enforcement officers in making stops such as the stop involv[ing]" respondent. Ibid.After characterizing the District Court's analysis as relying on a list of 10 factors, the Court of Appeals proceededto examine each in turn. It held that seven of the factors,including respondent's slowing down, his failure to acknowledge Stoddard, the raised position of the children's knees,and their odd waving carried little or no weight in thereasonable-suspicion calculus. The remaining factors--the534US2 Unit: $U15 [04-10-03 16:18:08] PAGES PGT: OPIN273Cite as: 534 U. S. 266 (2002)Opinion of the Courtroad's use by smugglers, the temporal proximity betweenrespondent's trip and the agents' shift change, and the useof minivans by smugglers--were not enough to render thestop permissible. Id., at 1251. We granted certiorari toreview the decision of the Court of Appeals because ofits importance to the enforcement of federal drug and immigration laws. 532 U. S. 1065 (2001).The Fourth Amendment prohibits "unreasonable searchesand seizures" by the Government, and its protections extendto brief investigatory stops of persons or vehicles thatfall short of traditional arrest. Terry v. Ohio, 392 U. S.1, 9 (1968); United States v. Cortez, 449 U. S. 411, 417 (1981).Because the "balance between the public interest and theindividual's right to personal security," United States v.Brignoni-Ponce, 422 U. S. 873, 878 (1975), tilts in favor of astandard less than probable cause in such cases, the FourthAmendment is satisfied if the officer's action is supported byreasonable suspicion to believe that criminal activity " `maybe afoot,' " United States v. Sokolow, 490 U. S. 1, 7 (1989)(quoting Terry, supra, at 30). See also Cortez, 449 U. S., at417 ("An investigatory stop must be justified by some objective manifestation that the person stopped is, or is about tobe, engaged in criminal activity").When discussing how reviewing courts should makereasonable-suspicion determinations, we have said repeatedly that they must look at the "totality of the circumstances" of each case to see whether the detaining officer hasa "particularized and objective basis" for suspecting legalwrongdoing. See, e. g., id., at 417-418. This process allowsofficers to draw on their own experience and specializedtraining to make inferences from and deductions about thecumulative information available to them that "might wellelude an untrained person." Id., at 418. See also Ornelasv. United States, 517 U. S. 690, 699 (1996) (reviewing courtmust give "due weight" to factual inferences drawn by resi534US2 Unit: $U15 [04-10-03 16:18:08] PAGES PGT: OPIN274 UNITED STATES v. ARVIZUOpinion of the Courtdent judges and local law enforcement officers). Althoughan officer's reliance on a mere " `hunch' " is insufficient tojustify a stop, Terry, supra, at 27, the likelihood of criminal activity need not rise to the level required for probablecause, and it falls considerably short of satisfying a preponderance of the evidence standard, Sokolow, supra, at 7.Our cases have recognized that the concept of reasonablesuspicion is somewhat abstract. Ornelas, supra, at 696(principle of reasonable suspicion is not a " `finely-tunedstandar[d]' "); Cortez, supra, at 417 (the cause "sufficient toauthorize police to stop a person" is an "elusive concept").But we have deliberately avoided reducing it to " `a neat setof legal rules,' " Ornelas, supra, at 695-696 (quoting Illinoisv. Gates, 462 U. S. 213, 232 (1983)). In Sokolow, for example,we rejected a holding by the Court of Appeals that distinguished between evidence of ongoing criminal behavior andprobabilistic evidence because it "create[d] unnecessary difficulty in dealing with one of the relatively simple conceptsembodied in the Fourth Amendment." 490 U. S., at 7-8.We think that the approach taken by the Court of Appealshere departs sharply from the teachings of these cases. Thecourt's evaluation and rejection of seven of the listed factorsin isolation from each other does not take into account the"totality of the circumstances," as our cases have understoodthat phrase. The court appeared to believe that each observation by Stoddard that was by itself readily susceptible toan innocent explanation was entitled to "no weight." See232 F. 3d, at 1249-1251. Terry, however, precludes this sortof divide-and-conquer analysis. The officer in Terry observed the petitioner and his companions repeatedly walkback and forth, look into a store window, and confer with oneanother. Although each of the series of acts was "perhapsinnocent in itself," we held that, taken together, they "warranted further investigation." 392 U. S., at 22. See alsoSokolow, supra, at 9 (holding that factors which by them534US2 Unit: $U15 [04-10-03 16:18:08] PAGES PGT: OPIN275Cite as: 534 U. S. 266 (2002)Opinion of the Courtselves were "quite consistent with innocent travel" collec-tively amounted to reasonable suspicion).The Court of Appeals' view that it was necessary to"clearly delimit" an officer's consideration of certain factors to reduce "troubling . . . uncertainty," 232 F. 3d, at1248, also runs counter to our cases and underestimatesthe usefulness of the reasonable-suspicion standard in guiding officers in the field. In Ornelas v. United States, weheld that the standard for appellate review of reasonablesuspicion determinations should be de novo, rather than for"abuse of discretion." 517 U. S., at 691. There, we reasoned that de novo review would prevent the affirmanceof opposite decisions on identical facts from different judicial districts in the same circuit, which would have been possible under the latter standard, and would allow appellatecourts to clarify the legal principles. Id., at 697. Otherbenefits of the approach, we said, were its tendency to unifyprecedent and greater capacity to provide law enforcementofficers with the tools to reach correct determinations beforehand: Even if in many instances the factual "mosaic"analyzed for a reasonable-suspicion determination wouldpreclude one case from squarely controlling another, "twodecisions when viewed together may usefully add to thebody of law on the subject." Id., at 697-698.But the Court of Appeals' approach would go considerablybeyond the reasoning of Ornelas and seriously undercut the"totality of the circumstances" principle which governs theexistence vel non of "reasonable suspicion." Take, for example, the court's positions that respondent's decelerationcould not be considered because "slowing down after spotting a law enforcement vehicle is an entirely normal responsethat is in no way indicative of criminal activity" and thathis failure to acknowledge Stoddard's presence provided nosupport because there were "no `special circumstances' rendering `innocent avoidance . . . improbable.' " 232 F. 3d,at 1248-1249. We think it quite reasonable that a driver's534US2 Unit: $U15 [04-10-03 16:18:08] PAGES PGT: OPIN276 UNITED STATES v. ARVIZUOpinion of the Courtslowing down, stiffening of posture, and failure to acknowl-edge a sighted law enforcement officer might well be unremarkable in one instance (such as a busy San Franciscohighway) while quite unusual in another (such as a remoteportion of rural southeastern Arizona). Stoddard was en-titled to make an assessment of the situation in light of hisspecialized training and familiarity with the customs of thearea's inhabitants. SeeOrnelas, supra, at 699. To the ex-tent that a totality of the circumstances approach may render appellate review less circumscribed by precedent thanotherwise, it is the nature of the totality rule.In another instance, the Court of Appeals chose to dismissentirely the children's waving on grounds that odd conductby children was all too common to be probative in a particu-lar case. See 232 F. 3d, at 1249 ("If every odd act engagedin by one's children . . . could contribute to a finding of rea-sonable suspicion, the vast majority of American parentsmight be stopped regularly within a block of their homes").Yet this case did not involve simply any odd act by children.At the suppression hearing, Stoddard testified about the chil-dren's waving several times, and the record suggests thathe physically demonstrated it as well.2 The District CourtJudge, who saw and heard Stoddard, then characterized thewaving as "methodical," "mechanical," "abnormal," and "cer-tainly . . . a fact that is odd and would lead a reasonableofficer to wonder why they are doing this." App. to Pet. forCert. 25a. Though the issue of this case does not turn onthe children's idiosyncratic actions, the Court of Appealsshould not have casually rejected this factor in light of theDistrict Court's superior access to the evidence and thewell-recognized inability of reviewing courts to reconstructwhat happened in the courtroom.2 At one point during the hearing, Stoddard testified that "[the children'swaving] wasn't in a normal pattern. It looked like they were instructedto do so. They kind of stuck their hands up and began waving to me likethis." App. 35.534US2 Unit: $U15 [04-10-03 16:18:08] PAGES PGT: OPIN277Cite as: 534 U. S. 266 (2002)Opinion of the CourtHaving considered the totality of the circumstances andgiven due weight to the factual inferences drawn by the lawenforcement officer and District Court Judge, we hold thatStoddard had reasonable suspicion to believe that respondent was engaged in illegal activity. It was reasonable forStoddard to infer from his observations, his registrationcheck, and his experience as a border patrol agent that respondent had set out from Douglas along a little-traveledroute used by smugglers to avoid the 191 checkpoint. Stoddard's knowledge further supported a commonsense infer-ence that respondent intended to pass through the area at atime when officers would be leaving their backroads patrolsto change shifts. The likelihood that respondent and hisfamily were on a picnic outing was diminished by the factthat the minivan had turned away from the known recreational areas accessible to the east on Rucker Canyon Road.Corroborating this inference was the fact that recreationalareas farther to the north would have been easier to reachby taking 191, as opposed to the 40-to-50-mile trip on unpaved and primitive roads. The children's elevated kneessuggested the existence of concealed cargo in the passengercompartment. Finally, for the reasons we have given, Stoddard's assessment of respondent's reactions upon seeing himand the children's mechanical-like waving, which continuedfor a full four to five minutes, were entitled to some weight.Respondent argues that we must rule in his favor becausethe facts suggested a family in a minivan on a holiday outing.A determination that reasonable suspicion exists, however,need not rule out the possibility of innocent conduct. SeeIllinois v. Wardlow, 528 U. S. 119, 125 (2000) (that flight frompolice is not necessarily indicative of ongoing criminal activity does not establish Fourth Amendment violation). Undoubtedly, each of these factors alone is susceptible of innocent explanation, and some factors are more probativethan others. Taken together, we believe they sufficed toform a particularized and objective basis for Stoddard's534US2 Unit: $U15 [04-10-03 16:18:08] PAGES PGT: OPIN278 UNITED STATES v. ARVIZUScalia, J., concurringstopping the vehicle, making the stop reasonable within themeaning of the Fourth Amendment.The judgment of the Court of Appeals is therefore re-versed, and the case is remanded for further proceedingsconsistent with this opinion. It is so ordered.[Appendix to opinion of the Court follows this page.]Justice Scalia, concurring.I join the opinion of the Court, because I believe it accordswith our opinion inOrnelas v. United States, 517 U. S. 690,699 (1996), requiring de novo review which nonetheless gives"due weight to inferences drawn from [the] facts by residentjudges . . . ." As I said in my dissent inOrnelas, however,I do not see how deferring to the District Court's factualinferences (as opposed to its findings of fact) is compatiblewith de novo review. Id., at 705.The Court today says that "due weight" should have beengiven to the District Court's determinations that the children's waving was " `methodical,' `mechanical,' `abnormal,'and `certainly . . . a fact that is odd and would lead a reasonable officer to wonder why they are doing this.' " Ante,at 276. "Methodical," "mechanical," and perhaps even "abnormal" and "odd," are findings of fact that deserve respect.But the inference that this "would lead a reasonable officerto wonder why they are doing this," amounts to the conclu-sion that their action was suspicious, which I would havethought (if de novo review is the standard) is the prerogativeof the Court of Appeals. So we have here a peculiar sort ofde novo review.I may add that, even holding the Ninth Circuit to no morethan the traditional methodology of de novo review, its judg-ment here would have to be reversed.checkpointsensorsLESLIEONRDCANYONRDKUYKENDALL191191RUCKERCUTOFF19180181534US2 Unit: $U16 [04-10-03 16:20:27] PAGES PGT: OPIN279OCTOBER TERM, 2001SyllabusEQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY COMMISSIONv. WAFFLE HOUSE, INC.certiorari to the united states court of appeals forthe fourth circuitNo. 99-1823. Argued October 10, 2001--Decided January 15, 2002Respondent's employees must each sign an agreement requiring employment disputes to be settled by binding arbitration. After Eric Bakersuffered a seizure and was fired by respondent, he filed a timely discrimination charge with the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission(EEOC) alleging that his discharge violated Title I of the Americanswith Disabilities Act of 1990 (ADA). The EEOC subsequently filed thisenforcement suit, to which Baker is not a party, alleging that respondent's employment practices, including Baker's discharge "because of hisdisability," violated the ADA and that the violation was intentional anddone with malice or reckless indifference. The complaint requested injunctive relief to "eradicate the effects of [respondent's] past and presentunlawful employment practices"; specific relief designed to make Bakerwhole, including backpay, reinstatement, and compensatory damages;and punitive damages for malicious and reckless conduct. Respondentpetitioned under the Federal Arbitration Act (FAA) to stay the EEOC'ssuit and compel arbitration, or to dismiss the action, but the DistrictCourt denied relief. The Fourth Circuit concluded that the arbitrationagreement between Baker and respondent did not foreclose the enforcement action because the EEOC was not a party to the contract, but hadindependent statutory authority to bring suit in any federal districtcourt where venue was proper. Nevertheless, the court held that theEEOC was limited to injunctive relief and precluded from seekingvictim-specific relief because the FAA policy favoring enforcement ofprivate arbitration agreements outweighs the EEOC's right to proceedin federal court when it seeks primarily to vindicate private, rather thanpublic, interests.Held: An agreement between an employer and an employee to arbitrateemployment-related disputes does not bar the EEOC from pursuingvictim-specific judicial relief, such as backpay, reinstatement, and damages, in an ADA enforcement action. Pp. 285-298.(a) The ADA directs the EEOC to exercise the same enforcementpowers, remedies, and procedures that are set forth in Title VII of theCivil Rights Act of 1964 when enforcing the ADA's prohibitions againstemployment discrimination on the basis of disability. Following the534US2 Unit: $U16 [04-10-03 16:20:27] PAGES PGT: OPIN280 EEOC v. WAFFLE HOUSE, INC.Syllabus1991 amendments to Title VII, the EEOC has authority to bring suit toenjoin an employer from engaging in unlawful employment practices,and to pursue reinstatement, backpay, and compensatory or punitivedamages, in both Title VII and ADA actions. Thus, these statutes unambiguously authorize the EEOC to obtain the relief that it seeks hereif it can prove its case against respondent. Neither the statutes northis Court's cases suggest that the existence of an arbitration agreementbetween private parties materially changes the EEOC's statutory function or the remedies otherwise available. Pp. 285-288.(b) Despite the FAA policy favoring arbitration agreements, nothingin the FAA authorizes a court to compel arbitration of any issues, or byany parties, that are not already covered in the agreement. The FAAdoes not mention enforcement by public agencies; it ensures the enforceability of private agreements to arbitrate, but otherwise does not purport to place any restriction on a nonparty's choice of a judicial forum.Pp. 288-289.(c) The Fourth Circuit based its decision on its evaluation of the "competing policies" implemented by the ADA and the FAA, rather than onany language in either the statutes or the arbitration agreement between Baker and respondent. If the EEOC could prosecute its claimonly with Baker's consent, or if its prayer for relief could be dictated byBaker, the lower court's analysis might be persuasive. But once acharge is filed, the exact opposite is true under the ADA, which clearlymakes the EEOC the master of its own case, conferring on it the authority to evaluate the strength of the public interest at stake and to determine whether public resources should be committed to the recovery ofvictim-specific relief. Moreover, the Court of Appeals' attempt to balance policy goals against the arbitration agreement's clear language isinconsistent with this Court's cases holding that the FAA does not require parties to arbitrate when they have not agreed to do so. E. g.,Volt Information Sciences, Inc. v. Board of Trustees of Leland Stanford Junior Univ., 489 U. S. 468, 478. Because the EEOC is not a partyto the contract and has not agreed to arbitrate its claims, the FAA'sproarbitration policy goals do not require the agency to relinquish itsstatutory authority to pursue victim-specific relief, regardless of theforum that the employer and employee have chosen to resolve theirdisputes. Pp. 290-296.(d) Although an employee's conduct may effectively limit the reliefthe EEOC can obtain in court if, for example, the employee fails tomitigate damages or accepts a monetary settlement, see, e. g., FordMotor Co. v. EEOC, 458 U. S. 219, 231-232, Baker has not sought arbitration, nor is there any indication that he has entered into settlementnegotiations with respondent. The fact that ordinary principles of res534US2 Unit: $U16 [04-10-03 16:20:27] PAGES PGT: OPIN281Cite as: 534 U. S. 279 (2002)Syllabusjudicata, mootness, or mitigation may apply to EEOC claims does notmean the EEOC's claim is merely derivative. This Court has recognized several situations in which the EEOC does not stand in the employee's shoes, see, e. g., Occidental Life Ins. Co. of Cal. v. EEOC, 432U. S. 355, 368, and, in this context, the statute specifically grants theEEOC exclusive authority over the choice of forum and the prayer forrelief once a charge has been filed. Pp. 296-298.193 F. 3d 805, reversed and remanded.Stevens, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which O'Connor,Kennedy, Souter, Ginsburg, and Breyer, JJ., joined. Thomas, J.,filed a dissenting opinion, in which Rehnquist, C. J., and Scalia, J.,joined, post, p. 298.Paul D. Clement argued the cause for petitioner. Withhim on the briefs were Solicitor General Olson, ActingSolicitor General Underwood, Acting Assistant AttorneyGeneral Yeomans, James A. Feldman, Gwendolyn YoungReams, Philip B. Sklover, Lorraine C. Davis, and RobertJ. Gregory.David L. Gordon argued the cause for respondent. Withhim on the brief were D. Gregory Valenza, Stephen F.Fisher, and Thomas C. Goldstein.**Briefs of amici curiae urging reversal were filed for the State ofMissouri et al. by Jeremiah W. (Jay) Nixon, Attorney General of Missouri,James R. Layton, State Solicitor, and Alana M. Barragan-Scott, DeputySolicitor, and by the Attorneys General for their respective jurisdictionsas follows: Bruce M. Botelho of Alaska, Janet Napolitano of Arizona,Mark Pryor of Arkansas, Bill Lockyer of California, Ken Salazar of Colorado, Robert A. Butterworth of Florida, Earl I. Anzai of Hawaii, JamesE. Ryan of Illinois, Steve Carter of Indiana, Thomas J. Miller of Iowa,Carla J. Stovall of Kansas, Richard P. Ieyoub of Louisiana, J. JosephCurran, Jr., of Maryland, Thomas F. Reilly of Massachusetts, Mike Hatchof Minnesota, Mike McGrath of Montana, Don Stenberg of Nebraska,Frankie Sue Del Papa of Nevada, John J. Farmer, Jr., of New Jersey,Patricia A. Madrid of New Mexico, Eliot Spitzer of New York, Betty D.Montgomery of Ohio, Sheldon Whitehouse of Rhode Island, Mark Barnettof South Dakota, Mark Shurtleff of Utah, William H. Sorrell of Vermont,Darrell V. McGraw, Jr., of West Virginia, and Herbert D. Soll of theNorthern Mariana Islands; for the Maryland Commission on Human Relations et al. by Lee D. Hoshall and Elizabeth Colette; for AARP by Thomas534US2 Unit: $U16 [04-10-03 16:20:27] PAGES PGT: OPIN282 EEOC v. WAFFLE HOUSE, INC.Opinion of the CourtJustice Stevens delivered the opinion of the Court.The question presented is whether an agreement betweenan employer and an employee to arbitrate employmentrelated disputes bars the Equal Employment OpportunityCommission (EEOC) from pursuing victim-specific judicialrelief, such as backpay, reinstatement, and damages, in anenforcement action alleging that the employer has violatedTitle I of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (ADA),104 Stat. 328, 42 U. S. C. $ 12101et seq. (1994 ed. andSupp. V).IIn his application for employment with respondent, EricBaker agreed that "any dispute or claim" concerning his employment would be "settled by binding arbitration." 1 As aW. Osborne, Laurie A. McCann, and Melvin Radowitz; for the AmericanFederation of Labor and Congress of Industrial Organizations by Jonathan P. Hiatt, James B. Coppess, and Laurence Gold; for the Lawyers'Committee for Civil Rights Under Law et al. by Paul W. Mollica, JohnPayton, Norman Redlich, Barbara R. Arnwine, Thomas J. Henderson,Karen K. Narasaki, Vincent A. Eng, Judith L. Lichtman, Martha F.Davis, Yolanda S. Wu, Marcia D. Greenberger, and Judith Appelbaum;for the National Employment Lawyers Association et al. by MichaelRubin, Scott A. Kronland, Cliff Palefsky, Steven R. Shapiro, Lenora M.Lapidus, F. Paul Bland, Jr., Arthur H. Bryant, and Paula A. Brantner;and for the National Whistleblower Center by Stephen M. Kohn, MichaelD. John, and David K. Colapinto.Briefs of amici curiae urging affirmance were filed for Associated Industries of Massachusetts et al. by Michael E. Malamut; for the Councilfor Employment Law Equity by Walter Dellinger, Samuel Estreicher, andMark A. de Bernardo; and for the Equal Employment Advisory Councilby Ann Elizabeth Reesman and Rae T. Vann.1 The agreement states:"The parties agree that any dispute or claim concerning Applicant's employment with Waffle House, Inc., or any subsidiary or Franchisee of Waffle House, Inc., or the terms, conditions or benefits of such employment,including whether such dispute or claim is arbitrable, will be settled bybinding arbitration. The arbitration proceedings shall be conductedunder the Commercial Arbitration Rules of the American ArbitrationAssociation in effect at the time a demand for arbitration is made. A534US2 Unit: $U16 [04-10-03 16:20:27] PAGES PGT: OPIN283Cite as: 534 U. S. 279 (2002)Opinion of the Courtcondition of employment, all prospective Waffle House em-ployees are required to sign an application containing a similar mandatory arbitration agreement. See App. 56. Bakerbegan working as a grill operator at one of respondent's restaurants on August 10, 1994. Sixteen days later he suffereda seizure at work and soon thereafter was discharged.Id.,at 43-44. Baker did not initiate arbitration proceedings, norhas he in the seven years since his termination, but he didfile a timely charge of discrimination with the EEOC alleging that his discharge violated the ADA.After an investigation and an unsuccessful attempt to conciliate, the EEOC filed an enforcement action against re-spondent in the Federal District Court for the District ofSouth Carolina,2 pursuant to $ 107(a) of the ADA, 42 U. S. C.$ 12117(a) (1994 ed.), and $ 102 of the Civil Rights Act of1991, as added, 105 Stat. 1072, 42 U. S. C. $ 1981a (1994 ed.).Baker is not a party to the case. The EEOC's complaintalleged that respondent engaged in employment practicesthat violated the ADA, including its discharge of Baker "because of his disability," and that its violation was intentional,and "done with malice or with reckless indifference to [his]federally protected rights." The complaint requested thecourt to grant injunctive relief to "eradicate the effects of[respondent's] past and present unlawful employment pracdecision and award of the arbitrator made under the said rules shall beexclusive, final and binding on both parties, their heirs, executors, administrators, successors and assigns. The costs and expenses of the arbitrationshall be borne evenly by the parties." App. 59.2 Because no evidence of the employment practices alleged in the complaint has yet been presented, we of course express no opinion on themerits of the EEOC's case. We note, on the one hand, that the statehuman rights commission also investigated Baker's claim and found nobasis for suit. On the other hand, the EEOC chooses to file suit in response to only a small number of the many charges received each year,see n. 7, infra. In keeping with normal appellate practice in cases arisingat the pleading stage, we assume, arguendo, that the EEOC's case ismeritorious.534US2 Unit: $U16 [04-10-03 16:20:27] PAGES PGT: OPIN284 EEOC v. WAFFLE HOUSE, INC.Opinion of the Courttices," to order specific relief designed to make Baker whole,including backpay, reinstatement, and compensatory damages, and to award punitive damages for malicious and reck-less conduct. App. 38-40.Respondent filed a petition under the Federal ArbitrationAct (FAA), 9 U. S. C. $ 1 et seq., to stay the EEOC's suitand compel arbitration, or to dismiss the action. Based ona factual determination that Baker's actual employment contract had not included the arbitration provision, the DistrictCourt denied the motion. The Court of Appeals granted aninterlocutory appeal and held that a valid, enforceable arbi-tration agreement between Baker and respondent did exist.193 F. 3d 805, 808 (CA4 1999). The court then proceeded toconsider "what effect, if any, the binding arbitration agreement between Baker and Waffle House has on the EEOC,which filed this action in its own name both in the publicinterest and on behalf of Baker." Id., at 809. After review-ing the relevant statutes and the language of the contract,the court concluded that the agreement did not foreclose theenforcement action because the EEOC was not a party tothe contract, and it has independent statutory authority tobring suit in any federal district court where venue is proper.Id., at 809-812. Nevertheless, the court held that theEEOC was precluded from seeking victim-specific relief incourt because the policy goals expressed in the FAA re-quired giving some effect to Baker's arbitration agreement.The majority explained:"When the EEOC seeks `make-whole' relief for a charg-ing party, the federal policy favoring enforcement ofprivate arbitration agreements outweighs the EEOC'sright to proceed in federal court because in that circumstance, the EEOC's public interest is minimal, as theEEOC seeks primarily to vindicate private, rather thanpublic, interests. On the other hand, when the EEOCis pursuing large-scale injunctive relief, the balance tipsin favor of EEOC enforcement efforts in federal court534US2 Unit: $U16 [04-10-03 16:20:27] PAGES PGT: OPIN285Cite as: 534 U. S. 279 (2002)Opinion of the Courtbecause the public interest dominates the EEOC's ac-tion." Id., at 812.3Therefore, according to the Court of Appeals, when an em-ployee has signed a mandatory arbitration agreement, theEEOC's remedies in an enforcement action are limited toinjunctive relief.Several Courts of Appeals have considered this issue andreached conflicting conclusions. Compare EEOC v. Frank'sNursery & Crafts, Inc., 177 F. 3d 448 (CA6 1999) (employee'sagreement to arbitrate does not affect the EEOC's independent statutory authority to pursue an enforcement action forinjunctive relief, backpay, and damages in federal court),with EEOC v. Kidder, Peabody & Co., 156 F. 3d 298 (CA21998) (allowing the EEOC to pursue injunctive relief in federal court, but precluding monetary relief); Merrill Lynch,Pierce, Fenner & Smith, Inc. v. Nixon, 210 F. 3d 814 (CA8),cert. denied, 531 U. S. 958 (2000) (same). We granted theEEOC's petition for certiorari to resolve this conflict, 532U. S. 941 (2001), and now reverse.IICongress has directed the EEOC to exercise the same en-forcement powers, remedies, and procedures that are setforth in Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 when it isenforcing the ADA's prohibitions against employment discrimination on the basis of disability. 42 U. S. C. $ 12117(a)(1994 ed.).4 Accordingly, the provisions of Title VII defining3 One member of the panel dissented because he agreed with the DistrictCourt that, as a matter of fact, the arbitration clause was not included inBaker's actual contract of employment. 193 F. 3d, at 813.4 Section 12117(a) provides:"The powers, remedies, and procedures set forth in sections 2000e-4,2000e-5, 2000e-6, 2000e-8, and 2000e-9 of this title shall be the powers,remedies, and procedures this subchapter provides to the Commission, tothe Attorney General, or to any person alleging discrimination on the basisof disability in violation of any provision of this chapter, or regulationspromulgated under section 12116 of this title, concerning employment."534US2 Unit: $U16 [04-10-03 16:20:27] PAGES PGT: OPIN286 EEOC v. WAFFLE HOUSE, INC.Opinion of the Courtthe EEOC's authority provide the starting point for ouranalysis.When Title VII was enacted in 1964, it authorized privateactions by individual employees and public actions by theAttorney General in cases involving a "pattern or practice"of discrimination. 42 U. S. C. $ 2000e-6(a) (1994 ed.). TheEEOC, however, merely had the authority to investigateand, if possible, to conciliate charges of discrimination. SeeGeneral Telephone Co. of Northwest v. EEOC, 446 U. S. 318,325 (1980). In 1972, Congress amended Title VII to authorize the EEOC to bring its own enforcement actions; indeed,we have observed that the 1972 amendments created a sys-tem in which the EEOC was intended "to bear the primaryburden of litigation," id., at 326. Those amendments author-ize the courts to enjoin employers from engaging in unlawfulemployment practices, and to order appropriate affirmativeaction, which may include reinstatement, with or withoutbackpay.5 Moreover, the amendments specify the judicialdistricts in which such actions may be brought.6 They donot mention arbitration proceedings.5 "(g) Injunctions; appropriate affirmative action; equitable relief; accrual of back pay; reduction of back pay; limitations on judicial orders"(1) If the court finds that the respondent has intentionally engaged inor is intentionally engaging in an unlawful employment practice chargedin the complaint, the court may enjoin the respondent from engaging insuch unlawful employment practice, and order such affirmative action asmay be appropriate, which may include, but is not limited to, reinstatement or hiring of employees, with or without back pay (payable by theemployer, employment agency, or labor organization, as the case may be,responsible for the unlawful employment practice), or any other equitablerelief as the court deems appropriate. Back pay liability shall not accruefrom a date more than two years prior to the filing of a charge with theCommission. Interim earnings or amounts earnable with reasonablediligence by the person or persons discriminated against shall operateto reduce the back pay otherwise allowable." 42 U. S. C. $ 2000e-5(g)(1)(1994 ed.).6 Section 2000e-5(f)(3) provides:"Each United States district court and each United States court of aplace subject to the jurisdiction of the United States shall have jurisdiction534US2 Unit: $U16 [04-10-03 16:20:27] PAGES PGT: OPIN287Cite as: 534 U. S. 279 (2002)Opinion of the CourtIn 1991, Congress again amended Title VII to allowthe recovery of compensatory and punitive damages by a"complaining party." 42 U. S. C. $ 1981a(a)(1) (1994 ed.).The term includes both private plaintiffs and the EEOC,$ 1981a(d)(1)(A), and the amendments apply to ADA claimsas well, $$ 1981a(a)(2), (d)(1)(B). As a complaining party, theEEOC may bring suit to enjoin an employer from engag-ing in unlawful employment practices, and to pursue reinstatement, backpay, and compensatory or punitive damages.Thus, these statutes unambiguously authorize the EEOC toobtain the relief that it seeks in its complaint if it can proveits case against respondent.Prior to the 1991 amendments, we recognized the differ-ence between the EEOC's enforcement role and an individual employee's private cause of action in Occidental Life Ins.Co. of Cal. v. EEOC, 432 U. S. 355 (1977), and General Tele-phone Co. of Northwest v. EEOC, 446 U. S. 318 (1980). Occidental presented the question whether EEOC enforcementactions are subject to the same statutes of limitations thatgovern individuals' claims. After engaging in an unsuc-cessful conciliation process, the EEOC filed suit in FederalDistrict Court, on behalf of a female employee, allegingsex discrimination. The court granted the defendant's motion for summary judgment on the ground that the EEOC'sclaim was time barred; the EEOC filed suit after California's 1-year statute of limitations had run. We reversedbecause "under the procedural structure created by the 1972of actions brought under this subchapter. Such an action may be broughtin any judicial district in the State in which the unlawful employmentpractice is alleged to have been committed, in the judicial district in whichthe employment records relevant to such practice are maintained and administered, or in the judicial district in which the aggrieved person wouldhave worked but for the alleged unlawful employment practice, but if therespondent is not found within any such district, such an action may bebrought within the judicial district in which the respondent has his principal office. For purposes of sections 1404 and 1406 of title 28, the judicialdistrict in which the respondent has his principal office shall in all casesbe considered a district in which the action might have been brought."534US2 Unit: $U16 [04-10-03 16:20:27] PAGES PGT: OPIN288 EEOC v. WAFFLE HOUSE, INC.Opinion of the Courtamendments, the EEOC does not function simply as a vehi-cle for conducting litigation on behalf of private parties," 432U. S., at 368. To hold otherwise would have undermined theagency's independent statutory responsibility to investigateand conciliate claims by subjecting the EEOC to inconsistentlimitations periods.In General Telephone, the EEOC sought to bring a dis-crimination claim on behalf of all female employees at General Telephone's facilities in four States, without being certi-fied as the class representative under Federal Rule of CivilProcedure 23. 446 U. S., at 321-322. Relying on the plainlanguage of Title VII and the legislative intent behind the1972 amendments, we held that the EEOC was not requiredto comply with Rule 23 because it "need look no further than$ 706 for its authority to bring suit in its own name for thepurpose, among others, of securing relief for a group of aggrieved individuals." Id., at 324. In light of the provisionsgranting the EEOC exclusive jurisdiction over the claim for180 days after the employee files a charge, we concluded that"the EEOC is not merely a proxy for the victims of discrimination and that [its] enforcement suits should not be con-sidered representative actions subject to Rule 23." Id., at326.Against the backdrop of our decisions in Occidental andGeneral Telephone, Congress expanded the remedies avail-able in EEOC enforcement actions in 1991 to include compensatory and punitive damages. There is no language inthe statutes or in either of these cases suggesting that theexistence of an arbitration agreement between private par-ties materially changes the EEOC's statutory function or theremedies that are otherwise available.IIIThe FAA was enacted in 1925, 43 Stat. 883, and then re-enacted and codified in 1947 as Title 9 of the United StatesCode. It has not been amended since the enactment of Title534US2 Unit: $U16 [04-10-03 16:20:27] PAGES PGT: OPIN289Cite as: 534 U. S. 279 (2002)Opinion of the CourtVII in 1964. As we have explained, its "purpose was to re-verse the longstanding judicial hostility to arbitration agreements that had existed at English common law and had beenadopted by American courts, and to place arbitration agreements upon the same footing as other contracts." Gilmer v.Interstate/Johnson Lane Corp., 500 U. S. 20, 24 (1991). TheFAA broadly provides that a written provision in "a contractevidencing a transaction involving commerce to settle byarbitration a controversy thereafter arising out of suchcontract . . . shall be valid, irrevocable, and enforceable, saveupon such grounds as exist at law or in equity for the revocation of any contract." 9 U. S. C. $ 2. Employment contracts, except for those covering workers engaged in transportation, are covered by the FAA. Circuit City Stores,Inc. v. Adams, 532 U. S. 105 (2001).The FAA provides for stays of proceedings in federal district courts when an issue in the proceeding is referable toarbitration, and for orders compelling arbitration when oneparty has failed or refused to comply with an arbitrationagreement. See 9 U. S. C. $$ 3 and 4. We have read theseprovisions to "manifest a `liberal federal policy favoring arbitration agreements.' " Gilmer, 500 U. S., at 25 (quotingMoses H. Cone Memorial Hospital v. Mercury Constr. Corp.,460 U. S. 1, 24 (1983)). Absent some ambiguity in the agreement, however, it is the language of the contract that definesthe scope of disputes subject to arbitration. See Mastrobuono v. Shearson Lehman Hutton, Inc., 514 U. S. 52, 57(1995) ("[T]he FAA's proarbitration policy does not operatewithout regard to the wishes of the contracting parties").For nothing in the statute authorizes a court to compel arbitration of any issues, or by any parties, that are not alreadycovered in the agreement. The FAA does not mention enforcement by public agencies; it ensures the enforceabilityof private agreements to arbitrate, but otherwise does notpurport to place any restriction on a nonparty's choice of ajudicial forum.534US2 Unit: $U16 [04-10-03 16:20:27] PAGES PGT: OPIN290 EEOC v. WAFFLE HOUSE, INC.Opinion of the CourtIVThe Court of Appeals based its decision on its evaluationof the "competing policies" implemented by the ADA and theFAA, rather than on any language in the text of either thestatutes or the arbitration agreement between Baker andrespondent. 193 F. 3d, at 812. It recognized that theEEOC never agreed to arbitrate its statutory claim,id., at811 ("We must also recognize that in this case the EEOC isnot a party to any arbitration agreement"), and that theEEOC has "independent statutory authority" to vindicatethe public interest, but opined that permitting the EEOC toprosecute Baker's claim in court "would significantly trample" the strong federal policy favoring arbitration becauseBaker had agreed to submit his claim to arbitration.Id., at812. To effectuate this policy, the court distinguished between injunctive and victim-specific relief, and held that theEEOC is barred from obtaining the latter because any publicinterest served when the EEOC pursues "make whole" reliefis outweighed by the policy goals favoring arbitration. Onlywhen the EEOC seeks broad injunctive relief, in the Courtof Appeals' view, does the public interest overcome the goalsunderpinning the FAA.77 This framework assumes the federal policy favoring arbitration will beundermined unless the EEOC's remedies are limited. The court failed toconsider, however, that some of the benefits of arbitration are alreadybuilt into the EEOC's statutory duties. Unlike individual employees,the EEOC cannot pursue a claim in court without first engaging in a conciliation process. 42 U. S. C. $ 2000e-5(b) (1994 ed.). Thus, before theEEOC ever filed suit in this case, it attempted to reach a settlementwith respondent.The court also neglected to take into account that the EEOC files suitin a small fraction of the charges employees file. For example, in fiscalyear 2000, the EEOC received 79,896 charges of employment discrimination. Although the EEOC found reasonable cause in 8,248 charges, itonly filed 291 lawsuits. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission,Enforcement Statistics and Litigation (as visited Nov. 18, 2001), http://www.eeoc.gov/stats/enforcement.html. In contrast, 21,032 employmentdiscrimination lawsuits were filed in 2000. See Administrative Office,534US2 Unit: $U16 [04-10-03 16:20:27] PAGES PGT: OPIN291Cite as: 534 U. S. 279 (2002)Opinion of the CourtIf it were true that the EEOC could prosecute its claimonly with Baker's consent, or if its prayer for relief could bedictated by Baker, the court's analysis might be persuasive.But once a charge is filed, the exact opposite is true underthe statute--the EEOC is in command of the process. TheEEOC has exclusive jurisdiction over the claim for 180 days.During that time, the employee must obtain a right-to-sueletter from the agency before prosecuting the claim. If,however, the EEOC files suit on its own, the employee hasno independent cause of action, although the employee mayintervene in the EEOC's suit. 42 U. S. C. $ 2000e-5(f)(1)(1994 ed.). In fact, the EEOC takes the position that it maypursue a claim on the employee's behalf even after the employee has disavowed any desire to seek relief. Brief forPetitioner 20. The statute clearly makes the EEOC themaster of its own case and confers on the agency the author-ity to evaluate the strength of the public interest at stake.Absent textual support for a contrary view, it is the public agency's province--not that of the court--to determineJudicial Business of the United States Courts 2000, Table C-2A (Sept. 30,2000). These numbers suggest that the EEOC files fewer than two percent of all antidiscrimination claims in federal court. Indeed, even amongthe cases where it finds reasonable cause, the EEOC files suit in fewerthan five percent of those cases. Surely permitting the EEOC access tovictim-specific relief in cases where the employee has agreed to bindingarbitration, but has not yet brought a claim in arbitration, will have anegligible effect on the federal policy favoring arbitration.Justice Thomas notes that our interpretation of Title VII and the FAA"should not depend on how many cases the EEOC chooses to prosecute inany particular year." See post, at 314, n. 14 (dissenting opinion). Andyet, the dissent predicts our holding will "reduce that arbitration agreement to all but a nullity," post, at 309, "discourag[e] the use of arbitrationagreements," post, at 310, and "discourage employers from entering intosettlement agreements," post, at 312. These claims are highly implausible given the EEOC's litigation practice over the past 20 years. Whenspeculating about the impact this decision might have on the behavior ofemployees and employers, we think it is worth recognizing that the EEOCfiles suit in less than one percent of the charges filed each year.534US2 Unit: $U16 [04-10-03 16:20:27] PAGES PGT: OPIN292 EEOC v. WAFFLE HOUSE, INC.Opinion of the Courtwhether public resources should be committed to the recov-ery of victim-specific relief. And if the agency makes thatdetermination, the statutory text unambiguously authorizesit to proceed in a judicial forum.Respondent and the dissent contend that Title VII sup-ports the Court of Appeals' bar against victim-specific relief,because the statute limits the EEOC's recovery to "appropriate" relief as determined by a court. See Brief for Re-spondent 19, and n. 8;post, at 301-303 (Thomas, J., dissenting). They rely on $ 706(g)(1), which provides that, after afinding of liability, "the court may enjoin the respondentfrom engaging in such unlawful employment practice, andorder such affirmative action as may be appropriate, whichmay include, but is not limited to, reinstatement or hiring ofemployees, with or without back pay . . . or any other equitable relief as the court deems appropriate." 42 U. S. C.$ 2000e-5(g)(1) (1994 ed.) (emphasis added). They claim thisprovision limits the remedies available and directs courts,not the EEOC, to determine what relief is appropriate.The proposed reading is flawed for two reasons. First,under the plain language of the statute the term "appropriate" refers to only a subcategory of claims for equitablerelief, not damages. The provision authorizing compensatory and punitive damages is in a separate section of thestatute, $ 1981a(a)(1), and is not limited by this language.The dissent responds by pointing to the phrase "may recover" in $ 1981a(a)(1), and arguing that this too providesauthority for prohibiting victim-specific relief. See post, at303, n. 7. But this contention only highlights the seconderror in the proposed reading. If "appropriate" and "mayrecover" can be read to support respondent's position, thenany discretionary language would constitute authorizationfor judge-made, per se rules. This is not the natural readingof the text. These terms obviously refer to the trial judge'sdiscretion in a particular case to order reinstatement andaward damages in an amount warranted by the facts of that534US2 Unit: $U16 [04-10-03 16:20:27] PAGES PGT: OPIN293Cite as: 534 U. S. 279 (2002)Opinion of the Courtcase. They do not permit a court to announce a categoricalrule precluding an expressly authorized form of relief as inappropriate in all cases in which the employee has signed anarbitration agreement.8The Court of Appeals wisely did not adopt respondent'sreading of $ 706(g). Instead, it simply sought to balance thepolicy goals of the FAA against the clear language of TitleVII and the agreement. While this may be a more coherentapproach, it is inconsistent with our recent arbitration cases.The FAA directs courts to place arbitration agreements onequal footing with other contracts, but it "does not requireparties to arbitrate when they have not agreed to do so."Volt Information Sciences, Inc. v. Board of Trustees of Leland Stanford Junior Univ., 489 U. S. 468, 478 (1989).9 See8 Justice Thomas implicitly recognizes this distinction by qualifyinghis description of the courts' role as determining appropriate relief "in anygiven case," or "in a particular case." See post, at 301, 303. But theCourt of Appeals' holding was not so limited. 193 F. 3d 805, 812 (CA41999) (holding that the EEOC "may not pursue relief in court . . . specificto individuals who have waived their right to a judicial forum").9 In Volt, the parties to a construction contract agreed to arbitrate alldisputes relating to the contract and specified that California law wouldapply. When one party sought to compel arbitration, the other invoked aCalifornia statute that authorizes a court to stay arbitration pending resolution of related litigation with third parties not bound by the agreementwhen inconsistent rulings are possible. We concluded that the FAA didnot pre-empt the California statute because "the FAA does not confer aright to compel arbitration of any dispute at any time; it confers only theright to obtain an order directing that `arbitration proceed in the mannerprovided for in [the parties'] agreement.' " 489 U. S., at 474-475 (quoting9 U. S. C. $ 4). Similarly, the FAA enables respondent to compel Baker toarbitrate his claim, but it does not expand the range of claims subject toarbitration beyond what is provided for in the agreement.Our decision in Mastrobuono v. Shearson Lehman Hutton, Inc., 514U. S. 52 (1995), is not inconsistent with this position. In Mastrobuono,we reiterated that clear contractual language governs our interpretationof arbitration agreements, but because the choice-of-law provision in thatcase was ambiguous, we read the agreement to favor arbitration underthe FAA rules. Id., at 62. While we distinguished Volt on the ground534US2 Unit: $U16 [04-10-03 16:20:27] PAGES PGT: OPIN294 EEOC v. WAFFLE HOUSE, INC.Opinion of the Courtalso Prima Paint Corp. v. Flood & Conklin Mfg. Co., 388U. S. 395, 404, n. 12 (1967) ("[T]he purpose of Congress in1925 was to make arbitration agreements as enforceable asother contracts, but not more so"). Because the FAA is "atbottom a policy guaranteeing the enforcement of private con-tractual arrangements," Mitsubishi Motors Corp. v. SolerChrysler-Plymouth, Inc., 473 U. S. 614, 625 (1985), we lookfirst to whether the parties agreed to arbitrate a dispute,not to general policy goals, to determine the scope of theagreement.Id., at 626. While ambiguities in the languageof the agreement should be resolved in favor of arbitration,Volt, 489 U. S., at 476, we do not override the clear intent ofthe parties, or reach a result inconsistent with the plain textof the contract, simply because the policy favoring arbitra-tion is implicated. "Arbitration under the [FAA] is a matterof consent, not coercion." Id., at 479. Here there is no am-biguity. No one asserts that the EEOC is a party to thecontract, or that it agreed to arbitrate its claims. It goeswithout saying that a contract cannot bind a nonparty. Accordingly, the proarbitration policy goals of the FAA do notrequire the agency to relinquish its statutory authority if ithas not agreed to do so.Even if the policy goals underlying the FAA did necessi-tate some limit on the EEOC's statutory authority, the linedrawn by the Court of Appeals between injunctive andvictim-specific relief creates an uncomfortable fit with itsavowed purpose of preserving the EEOC's public functionwhile favoring arbitration. For that purpose, the categoryof victim-specific relief is both overinclusive and under-inclusive. For example, it is overinclusive because whilethat we were reviewing a federal court's construction of the contract, 514U. S., at 60, n. 4, regardless of the standard of review, in this case theCourt of Appeals recognized that the EEOC was not bound by the agreement. When that much is clear, Volt and Mastrobuono both direct courtsto respect the terms of the agreement without regard to the federal policyfavoring arbitration.534US2 Unit: $U16 [04-10-03 16:20:27] PAGES PGT: OPIN295Cite as: 534 U. S. 279 (2002)Opinion of the Courtpunitive damages benefit the individual employee, they alsoserve an obvious public function in deterring future violations. See Newport v. Fact Concerts, Inc., 453 U. S. 247,266-270 (1981) ("Punitive damages by definition are not intended to compensate the injured party, but rather to punishthe tortfeasor . . . , and to deter him and others from similar extreme conduct"); Restatement (Second) of Torts $ 908(1977). Punitive damages may often have a greater impacton the behavior of other employers than the threat of aninjunction, yet the EEOC is precluded from seeking thisform of relief under the Court of Appeals' compromisescheme. And, it is underinclusive because injunctive relief,although seemingly not "victim-specific," can be seen asmore closely tied to the employees' injury than to any publicinterest. See Occidental, 432 U. S., at 383 (Rehnquist, J.,dissenting) ("While injunctive relief may appear more `broadbased,' it nonetheless is redress for individuals").The compromise solution reached by the Court of Appealsturns what is effectively a forum selection clause into awaiver of a nonparty's statutory remedies. But if the federal policy favoring arbitration trumps the plain language ofTitle VII and the contract, the EEOC should be barred frompursuing any claim outside the arbitral forum. If not, thenthe statutory language is clear; the EEOC has the authorityto pursue victim-specific relief regardless of the forum thatthe employer and employee have chosen to resolve their disputes.10 Rather than attempt to split the difference, we are10 We have held that federal statutory claims may be the subject of arbitration agreements that are enforceable pursuant to the FAA because theagreement only determines the choice of forum. "In these cases we recognized that `[b]y agreeing to arbitrate a statutory claim, a party does notforgo the substantive rights afforded by the statute; it only submits totheir resolution in an arbitral, rather than a judicial, forum.' [MitsubishiMotors Corp. v. Soler Chrysler-Plymouth, Inc., 473 U. S. 614, 628 (1985)]."Gilmer v. Interstate/Johnson Lane Corp., 500 U. S. 20, 26 (1991). To theextent the Court of Appeals construed an employee's agreement to submithis claims to an arbitral forum as a waiver of the substantive statutory534US2 Unit: $U16 [04-10-03 16:20:27] PAGES PGT: OPIN296 EEOC v. WAFFLE HOUSE, INC.Opinion of the Courtpersuaded that, pursuant to Title VII and the ADA, when-ever the EEOC chooses from among the many charges filedeach year to bring an enforcement action in a particular case,the agency may be seeking to vindicate a public interest, notsimply provide make-whole relief for the employee, evenwhen it pursues entirely victim-specific relief. To hold otherwise would undermine the detailed enforcement schemecreated by Congress simply to give greater effect to anagreement between private parties that does not even con-template the EEOC's statutory function.11VIt is true, as respondent and its amici have argued, thatBaker's conduct may have the effect of limiting the reliefthat the EEOC may obtain in court. If, for example, he hadfailed to mitigate his damages, or had accepted a monetarysettlement, any recovery by the EEOC would be limited ac-cordingly. See,e. g., Ford Motor Co. v. EEOC, 458 U. S. 219,231-232 (1982) (Title VII claimant "forfeits his right to backprerogative of the EEOC to enforce those claims for whatever relief andin whatever forum the EEOC sees fit, the court obscured this crucial distinction and ran afoul of our precedent.11 If injunctive relief were the only remedy available, an employee whosigned an arbitration agreement would have little incentive to file a chargewith the EEOC. As a greater percentage of the work force becomes subject to arbitration agreements as a condition of employment, see VoluntaryArbitration in Worker Disputes Endorsed by 2 Groups, Wall Street Journal, June 20, 1997, p. B2 (reporting that the American Arbitration Association estimates "more than 3.5 million employees are covered" by arbitration agreements designating it to administer arbitration proceedings),the pool of charges from which the EEOC can choose cases that best vindicate the public interest would likely get smaller and become distorted.We have generally been reluctant to approve rules that may jeopardizethe EEOC's ability to investigate and select cases from a broad sample ofclaims. Cf. EEOC v. Shell Oil Co., 466 U. S. 54, 69 (1984) ("[I]t is crucialthat the Commission's ability to investigate charges of systemic discrimination not be impaired"); Occidental Life Ins. Co. of Cal. v. EEOC, 432U. S. 355, 368 (1977).534US2 Unit: $U16 [04-10-03 16:20:27] PAGES PGT: OPIN297Cite as: 534 U. S. 279 (2002)Opinion of the Courtpay if he refuses a job substantially equivalent to the one hewas denied");EEOC v. Goodyear Aerospace Corp., 813 F. 2d1539, 1542 (CA9 1987) (employee's settlement "rendered herpersonal claims moot");EEOC v. U. S. Steel Corp., 921 F. 2d489, 495 (CA3 1990) (individuals who litigated their ownclaims were precluded by res judicata from obtaining individual relief in a subsequent EEOC action based on the sameclaims). As we have noted, it "goes without saying that thecourts can and should preclude double recovery by an individual." General Telephone, 446 U. S., at 333.But no question concerning the validity of his claim or thecharacter of the relief that could be appropriately awardedin either a judicial or an arbitral forum is presented bythis record. Baker has not sought arbitration of his claim,nor is there any indication that he has entered into settlement negotiations with respondent. It is an open questionwhether a settlement or arbitration judgment would affectthe validity of the EEOC's claim or the character of reliefthe EEOC may seek. The only issue before this Court iswhether the fact that Baker has signed a mandatory arbitration agreement limits the remedies available to the EEOC.The text of the relevant statutes provides a clear answer tothat question. They do not authorize the courts to balancethe competing policies of the ADA and the FAA or tosecond-guess the agency's judgment concerning which of theremedies authorized by law that it shall seek in any givencase.Moreover, it simply does not follow from the cases holdingthat the employee's conduct may affect the EEOC's recoverythat the EEOC's claim is merely derivative. We have recognized several situations in which the EEOC does not standin the employee's shoes. See Occidental, 432 U. S., at 368(EEOC does not have to comply with state statutes of limitations); General Telephone, 446 U. S., at 326 (EEOC does nothave to satisfy Rule 23 requirements); Gilmer, 500 U. S., at32 (EEOC is not precluded from seeking classwide and equi534US2 Unit: $U16 [04-10-03 16:20:27] PAGES PGT: OPIN298 EEOC v. WAFFLE HOUSE, INC.Thomas, J., dissentingtable relief in court on behalf of an employee who signedan arbitration agreement). And, in this context, the statutespecifically grants the EEOC exclusive authority over thechoice of forum and the prayer for relief once a charge hasbeen filed. The fact that ordinary principles of res judicata,mootness, or mitigation may apply to EEOC claims does notcontradict these decisions, nor does it render the EEOC aproxy for the employee.The judgment of the Court of Appeals is reversed, andthe case is remanded for further proceedings consistent withthis opinion. It is so ordered.Justice Thomas, with whom The Chief Justice andJustice Scalia join, dissenting.The Court holds today that the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC or Commission) may obtainvictim-specific remedies in court on behalf of an employeewho had agreed to arbitrate discrimination claims againsthis employer. This decision conflicts with both the FederalArbitration Act (FAA), 9 U. S. C. $ 1 et seq., and the basicprinciple that the EEOC must take a victim of discrimination as it finds him. Absent explicit statutory authorizationto the contrary, I cannot agree that the EEOC may do onbehalf of an employee that which an employee has agreednot to do for himself. Accordingly, I would affirm the judgment of the Court of Appeals.IBefore starting work as a grill operator for respondentWaffle House, Inc., Eric Scott Baker filled out and signed anemployment application. This application included an arbitration clause providing that "any dispute or claim concerning Applicant's employment with Waffle House, Inc., or anysubsidiary or Franchisee of Waffle House, Inc., or the terms,534US2 Unit: $U16 [04-10-03 16:20:27] PAGES PGT: OPIN299Cite as: 534 U. S. 279 (2002)Thomas, J., dissentingconditions or benefits of such employment . . . will be settledby binding arbitration." App. 59.The Court does not dispute that the arbitration agreementbetween Waffle House and Baker falls comfortably withinthe scope of the FAA, see Circuit City Stores, Inc. v. Adams,532 U. S. 105 (2001), which provides that "[a] written provision in . . . a contract evidencing a transaction involving com-merce to settle by arbitration a controversy thereafter arising out of such contract or transaction . . . shall be valid,irrevocable, and enforceable." 9 U. S. C. $ 2. Neither doesthe Court contest that claims arising under federal employ-ment discrimination laws, such as Baker's claim that WaffleHouse discharged him in violation of the Americans withDisabilities Act of 1990 (ADA), 42 U. S. C. $ 12101et seq.(1994 ed. and Supp. V), may be subject to compulsory arbitration. See Gilmer v. Interstate/Johnson Lane Corp., 500U. S. 20, 23 (1991) (holding that a claim arising under theAge Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967 (ADEA), 29U. S. C. $ 621et seq. (1994 ed.), may be subject to compulsoryarbitration).1 The Court therefore does not dispute that1 Admittedly, this case involves a claim under the ADA while Gilmeraddressed compulsory arbitration in the context of the ADEA. Nevertheless, I see no reason why an employee should not be required to abideby an agreement to arbitrate an ADA claim. In assessing whether Congress has precluded the enforcement of an arbitration agreement with respect to a particular statutory claim, this Court has held that a partyshould be held to an arbitration agreement "unless Congress itself hasevinced an intention to preclude a waiver of judicial remedies for thestatutory rights at issue." Mitsubishi Motors Corp. v. Soler ChryslerPlymouth, Inc., 473 U. S. 614, 628 (1985). Here, the text of the ADA doesnot suggest that Congress intended for ADA claims to fall outside thepurview of the FAA. Indeed, the ADA expressly encourages the use ofarbitration and other forms of alternative dispute resolution, rather thanlitigation, to resolve claims under the statute: "Where appropriate and tothe extent authorized by law, the use of alternative means of dispute resolution, including settlement negotiations, conciliation, facilitation, mediation, factfinding, minitrials, and arbitration, is encouraged to resolve disputes arising under this [Act]." 42 U. S. C. $ 12212 (1994 ed.).534US2 Unit: $U16 [04-10-03 16:20:27] PAGES PGT: OPIN300 EEOC v. WAFFLE HOUSE, INC.Thomas, J., dissentingBaker, by signing an arbitration agreement, waived his abil-ity either to bring an ADA claim against Waffle House incourt or, consequently, to obtain relief for himself in thatforum.The EEOC, in its complaint, sought to obtain the victim-specific relief for Baker that he could not seek for himself,asking a court to make Baker whole by providing reinstate-ment with backpay and compensatory damages and to payBaker punitive damages.2 App. 39-40. In its responses tointerrogatories and directives to produce filed the same dayas its complaint, the EEOC stated unambiguously: "Allamounts recovered from Defendant Employer in this litigation will be received directly by Mr. Baker based on hischarge of discrimination against Defendant Employer."Id.,at 52. The EEOC also admitted that it was "bring[ing] thisaction on behalf of Eric Scott Baker." 3 Id., at 51.By allowing the EEOC to obtain victim-specific remediesfor Baker, the Court therefore concludes that the EEOC maydo "on behalf of . . . Baker" that which he cannot do forhimself. The Court's conclusion rests upon the followingpremise advanced by the EEOC: An arbitration agreementbetween an employer and an employee may not limit theremedies that the Commission may obtain in court because2 The EEOC, in its prayer for relief, also requested that the court enjoinWaffle House from engaging in any discriminatory employment practiceand asked the court to order Waffle House to institute policies, practices,and programs which would provide equal employment opportunities forqualified individuals with disabilities, and which would eradicate the effectof its past and present unlawful employment practices. App. 39. TheCourt of Appeals concluded that Baker's arbitration agreement did notpreclude the EEOC from seeking such broad-based relief, and WaffleHouse has not appealed that ruling. See 193 F. 3d 805, 813, n. 3 (CA41999).3 Although the EEOC's complaint alleged that Waffle House engaged in"unlawful employment practices," in violation of $ 102(a) of the ADA, 42U. S. C. $ 12112(a) (1994 ed.), it mentioned no instances of discriminatoryconduct on the part of Waffle House other than its discharge of Baker.App. 38 (emphasis added).534US2 Unit: $U16 [04-10-03 16:20:27] PAGES PGT: OPIN301Cite as: 534 U. S. 279 (2002)Thomas, J., dissentingTitle VII "grants the EEOC the right to obtain all statutoryremedies in any action it brings."4 Brief for Petitioner 17.The EEOC contends that "the statute in clear terms author-izes [it] to obtain all of the listed forms of relief," referringto those types of relief set forth in 42 U. S. C. $ 2000e-5(g)(1)(1994 ed.) (including injunctive relief and reinstatement withbackpay) as well as the forms of relief listed in $ 1981a(a)(1)(compensatory and punitive damages). Brief for Petitioner17-18. Endorsing the EEOC's position, the Court concludesthat "these statutes unambiguously authorize the EEOC toobtain the relief that it seeks in its complaint if it can proveits case against respondent."Ante, at 287.The Court's position, however, is inconsistent with therelevant statutory provision. For while the EEOC hasthe statutory right to bring suit, see $ 2000e-5(f)(1), it hasno statutory entitlement to obtain a particular remedy.Rather, the plain language of $ 2000e-5(g)(1) makes clearthat it is a court's role to decide whether to "enjoin therespondent . . . , and order such affirmative actionas may beappropriate, which may include, but is not limited to, reinstatement or hiring of employees, with or without backpay . . . or any other equitable reliefas the court deemsappropriate." (Emphasis added.) Whether a particularremedy is "appropriate" in any given case is a question fora court and not for the EEOC.5 See Albemarle Paper Co.4 Title I of the ADA expressly incorporates "[t]he powers, remedies, andprocedures set forth in [Title VII]." 42 U. S. C. $ 12117(a). That includesthe procedures applicable to enforcement actions as well as the equitablerelief available under $ 2000e-5(g).5 The EEOC also points out that Title VII gives the EEOC, and not anindividual victim of discrimination, the choice of forum when the EEOCfiles an enforcement action. See $ 2000e-5(f)(3). Since the statute givesthe victim no say in the matter, the EEOC argues that an employee, bysigning an arbitration agreement, should not be able to effectively negateex ante the EEOC's statutory authority to choose the forum in which itbrings suit. Brief for Petitioner 21-23. The Court, wisely, does not relyheavily on this argument since nothing in the Court of Appeals' decision534US2 Unit: $U16 [04-10-03 16:20:27] PAGES PGT: OPIN302 EEOC v. WAFFLE HOUSE, INC.Thomas, J., dissentingv. Moody, 422 U. S. 405, 415-416 (1975) ("The [Title VII]scheme implicitly recognizes that there may be cases callingfor one remedy but not another, and . . . these choices are,of course, left in the first instance to the district courts");Selgas v. American Airlines, Inc., 104 F. 3d 9, 13, n. 2 (CA11997) ("It is clear that in a Title VII case, it is the courtwhich has discretion to fashion relief comprised of the equi-table remedies it sees as appropriate, and not the parties which may determine which equitable remedies areavailable").Had Congress wished to give the EEOC the authority todetermine whether a particular remedy is appropriate under$ 2000e-5, it clearly knew how to draft language to thateffect. See $ 2000e-16(b) (providing that the EEOC shallhave the authority to enforce $ 2000e-16(a)'s prohibition ofemployment discrimination within federal agencies "throughappropriate remedies, including reinstatement or hiring ofemployees with or without back pay, as will effectuate thepolicies of this section"). But Congress specifically declinedto grant the EEOC such authority when it empowered theCommission to bring lawsuits against private employers.Both the original House version and the original Senateversion of the Equal Employment Opportunity Act of 1972would have granted the EEOC powers similar to those possessed by the National Labor Relations Board to adjudicatea complaint and implement a remedy. See H. R. 1746, 92dCong., 1st Sess., $ 706(h) (1971), and S. 2515, 92d Cong., 1stSess., $ 4(h) (1971), reprinted in Legislative History of theEqual Employment Opportunity Act of 1972, pp. 7-8, 164-165. These bills were amended, however, once they reachedthe floor of both Houses of Congress to replace such "cease-and-desist" authority with the power only to prosecute anprevents the EEOC from choosing to file suit in any appropriate judicialdistrict set forth in $ 2000e-5(f)(3). Rather, the Court of Appeals' holdingonly limits the remedies that the EEOC may obtain when it decides toinstitute a judicial action. See 193 F. 3d, at 806-807.534US2 Unit: $U16 [04-10-03 16:20:27] PAGES PGT: OPIN303Cite as: 534 U. S. 279 (2002)Thomas, J., dissentingaction in court. See 117 Cong. Rec. 32088-32111 (1971); 118Cong. Rec. 3965-3979 (1972).The statutory scheme enacted by Congress thus entitlesneither the EEOC nor an employee, upon filing a lawsuit, toobtain a particular remedy by establishing that an employerdiscriminated in violation of the law.6 In both cases, 42U. S. C. $ 2000e-5(g)(1) governs, and that provision unambig-uously requires acourt to determine what relief is "appro-priate" in a particular case.7IIBecause Congress has not given the EEOC the authorityto usurp the traditional role of courts to determine what constitutes "appropriate" relief in a given case, it is necessaryto examine whether it would be "appropriate" to allow theEEOC to obtain victim-specific relief for Baker here, not-withstanding the fact that Baker, by signing an arbitration6 The Court, in fact, implicitly admits as much. Contradicting its earlierassertion that the "statutes unambiguously authorize the EEOC to obtainthe relief that it seeks in its complaint if it can prove its case againstrespondent," ante, at 287 (emphasis added), the Court later concludes thatthe statutory scheme gives the trial judge "discretion in a particular caseto order reinstatement and award damages in an amount warranted bythe facts of that case." Ante, at 292-293.7 Similarly, the EEOC's authority to obtain legal remedies is also nogreater than that of an employee acting on his own behalf. Title 42U. S. C. $ 1981a(a)(2), which was enacted as part of the Civil Rights Act of1991, Pub. L. 102-166, 105 Stat. 1072, provides that the EEOC or anemployee "may recover compensatory and punitive damages" in additionto the forms of relief authorized by $ 2000e-5(g)(1). (Emphasis added.)Nothing in $ 1981a(a), however, alters the fundamental proposition that itis for the judiciary to determine what relief (of all the relief that plaintiffs"may recover" under the statute) the particular plaintiff before the courtis entitled to. The statutory language does not purport to grant theEEOC or an employee the absolute right to obtain damages in every caseof proven discrimination, despite the operation of such legal doctrines astime bar, accord and satisfaction, or (as in this case) binding agreementto arbitrate.534US2 Unit: $U16 [04-10-03 16:20:27] PAGES PGT: OPIN304 EEOC v. WAFFLE HOUSE, INC.Thomas, J., dissentingagreement, has waived his ability to seek such relief on hisown behalf in a judicial forum. For two reasons, I concludeit is not "appropriate" to allow the EEOC to do on behalf ofBaker that which Baker is precluded from doing for himself.ATo begin with, when the EEOC litigates to obtain reliefon behalf of a particular employee, the Commission musttake that individual as it finds him. Whether the EEOC oran employee files a particular lawsuit, the employee is theultimate beneficiary of victim-specific relief. The relevanceof the employee's circumstances therefore does not changesimply because the EEOC, rather than the employee himself,is litigating the case, and a court must consider these circumstances in fashioning an "appropriate" remedy.8As a result, the EEOC's ability to obtain relief is oftenlimited by the actions of an employee on whose behalf theCommission may wish to bring a lawsuit. If an employeesigns an agreement to waive or settle discrimination claimsagainst an employer, for example, the EEOC may not recover victim-specific relief on that employee's behalf. See,e. g., EEOC v. Cosmair, Inc., 821 F. 2d 1085, 1091 (CA5 1987);EEOC v. Goodyear Aerospace Corp., 813 F. 2d 1539, 1543(CA9 1987); see also EEOC: Guidance on Waivers Under theADA and Other Civil Rights Laws, EEOC Compliance Man-ual (BNA) N:2345, N:2347 (Apr. 10, 1997) (hereinafter EEOCCompliance Manual) (recognizing that a valid waiver or set8 I agree with the Court that, in order to determine whether a particularremedy is "appropriate," it is necessary to examine the specific facts ofthe case at hand. See ante, at 292-293. For this reason, the statutoryscheme does not permit us to announce a categorical rule barring lowercourts from ever awarding a form of relief expressly authorized by thestatute. When the same set of facts arises in different cases, however,such cases should be adjudicated in a consistent manner. Therefore, thisCourt surely may specify particular circumstances under which it wouldbe inappropriate for trial courts to award certain types of relief, such asvictim-specific remedies.534US2 Unit: $U16 [04-10-03 16:20:27] PAGES PGT: OPIN305Cite as: 534 U. S. 279 (2002)Thomas, J., dissentingtlement agreement precludes the EEOC from recoveringvictim-specific relief for an employee). In addition, an employee who fails to mitigate his damages limits his ability toobtain relief, whether he files his own lawsuit or the EEOCfiles an action on his behalf. See Ford Motor Co. v. EEOC,458 U. S. 219, 231-232 (1982). An employee's unilateral attempt to pursue his own discrimination claim may also limitthe EEOC's ability to obtain victim-specific relief for thatemployee. If a court rejects the merits of a claim in a private lawsuit brought by an employee, for example, res judicata bars the EEOC from recovering victim-specific relief onbehalf of that employee in a later action. See, e. g., EEOCv. Harris Chernin, Inc., 10 F. 3d 1286, 1291 (CA7 1993).In all of the aforementioned situations, the same generalprinciple applies: To the extent that the EEOC is seekingvictim-specific relief in court for a particular employee, it isable to obtain no more relief for that employee than the employee could recover for himself by bringing his own lawsuit.The EEOC, therefore, should not be able to obtain victimspecific relief for Baker in court through its own lawsuit herewhen Baker waived his right to seek relief for himself in ajudicial forum by signing an arbitration agreement.The Court concludes that the EEOC's claim is not "merelyderivative" of an employee's claim and argues that "[w]e haverecognized several situations in which the EEOC does notstand in the employee's shoes." Ante, at 297. The Court'sopinion, however, attacks a straw man because this case doesnot turn on whether the EEOC's "claim" is wholly derivativeof an employee's "claim." Like the Court of Appeals below,I do not question the EEOC's ability to seek declaratory andbroad-based injunctive relief in a case where a particular employee, such as Baker, would not be able to pursue such reliefin court. Rather, the dispute here turns on whether theEEOC's ability to obtain victim-specific relief is dependentupon the victim's ability to obtain such relief for himself.534US2 Unit: $U16 [04-10-03 16:20:27] PAGES PGT: OPIN306 EEOC v. WAFFLE HOUSE, INC.Thomas, J., dissentingThe Court claims that three cases support its argumentthat the EEOC's claim is not "merely derivative" of anemployee's claim. See Gilmer v. Interstate/Johnson LaneCorp., 500 U. S., at 24; General Telephone Co. of Northwestv. EEOC, 446 U. S. 318, 325 (1980); Occidental Life Ins. Co.of Cal. v. EEOC, 432 U. S. 355, 368 (1977). Once the actualnature of the dispute is properly understood, however, it isapparent that these cases do not support the Court's position, for none of them suggests that the EEOC should beallowed to recover victim-specific relief on behalf of an employee who has waived his ability to obtain such relief forhimself in court by signing a valid arbitration agreement.In Gilmer, for example, this Court addressed whether arbitration procedures are inadequate in discrimination casesbecause they do not allow for "broad equitable relief andclass actions." 500 U. S., at 32. Rejecting this argument,the Court noted that valid arbitration agreements "will notpreclude the EEOC from bringing actions seeking class-wideand equitable relief." Ibid. Conspicuously absent from theCourt's opinion, however, was any suggestion that the EEOCcould obtain victim-specific relief on behalf of an employeewho had signed a valid arbitration agreement. Cf. ibid.Similarly, in General Telephone, this Court held only thatlawsuits filed by the EEOC should not be considered representative actions under Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 23.In reaching this conclusion, the Court noted that "the EEOCis not merely a proxy for the victims of discrimination." 446U. S., at 326. To be sure, I agree that to the extent theEEOC seeks broad-based declaratory and equitable relief incourt, the Commission undoubtedly acts both as a representative of a specific employee and to "vindicate the publicinterest in preventing employment discrimination." Ibid.But neither this dual function nor anything in General Telephone detracts from the proposition that when the EEOCseeks to secure victim-specific relief in court, it may obtain534US2 Unit: $U16 [04-10-03 16:20:27] PAGES PGT: OPIN307Cite as: 534 U. S. 279 (2002)Thomas, J., dissentingno more relief for an individual than the individual couldobtain for himself.Even the EEOC recognizes the dual nature of its role.9See EEOC Compliance Manual N:2346 (citing General Telephone, supra, at 326). In its compliance manual, the EEOCstates that "every charge filed with the EEOC carries twopotential claims for relief: the charging party's claim forindividual relief, and the EEOC's claim to `vindicate thepublic interest in preventing employment discrimination.' "EEOC Compliance Manual N:2346. It is for this reason that"a private agreement can eliminate an individual's right topersonal recovery, [but] it cannot interfere with EEOC'sright to enforce . . . the ADA . . . by seeking relief that willbenefit the public and any victims of an employer's unlawfulpractices who have not validly waived their claims." Id.,at N:2347.10In the final case cited by the Court, Occidental Life Ins.Co. v. EEOC, this Court held that state statutes of limita9 The EEOC has consistently recognized that the Commission represents individual employees when it files an action in court. In this case,for instance, the EEOC stated in its answers to interrogatories that itbrought this action "on behalf of Eric Scott Baker." See Part I, supra.Moreover, the EEOC has maintained in numerous cases that its attorneyshave an attorney-client relationship with charging parties and their communications with charging parties are therefore privileged. See, e. g.,EEOC v. Johnson & Higgins Inc., 78 FEP Cases 1127 (SDNY 1998);EEOC v. McDonnell Douglas Corp., 948 F. Supp. 54 (ED Mo. 1996).10 This Court has recognized that victim-specific remedies also serve thepublic goals of antidiscrimination statutes. See, e. g., McKennon v. Nashville Banner Publishing Co., 513 U. S. 352, 357-358 (1995). Nevertheless,when the EEOC is seeking such remedies, it is only serving the publicinterest to the extent that an employee seeking the same relief for himselfthrough litigation or arbitration would also be serving the public interest.It is when the EEOC is seeking broader relief that its unique role invindicating the public interest comes to the fore. The Commission's motivation to secure such relief is likely to be greater than that of an individualemployee, who may be primarily concerned with securing relief only forhimself.534US2 Unit: $U16 [04-10-03 16:20:27] PAGES PGT: OPIN308 EEOC v. WAFFLE HOUSE, INC.Thomas, J., dissentingtions do not apply to lawsuits brought by the EEOC, because"[u]nlike the typical litigant against whom a statute of limitations might appropriately run, the EEOC is required by lawto refrain from commencing a civil action until it has discharged its administrative duties." 432 U. S., at 368. TheCourt also noted that the 1-year statute of limitations atissue in that case "could under some circumstances directlyconflict with the timetable for administrative action expressly established in the 1972 Act." Id., at 368-369. Pre-cluding the EEOC from seeking victim-specific remedies incourt on behalf of an employee who has signed an arbitrationagreement, however, would in no way impede the Commission from discharging its administrative duties nor would itdirectly conflict with any provision of the statute. In fact,such a result is entirely consistent with the federal policyunderlying the Court's decision inOccidental: that employ-ment discrimination claims should be resolved quickly andout of court. See id., at 368.BNot only would it be "inappropriate" for a court to allowthe EEOC to obtain victim-specific relief on behalf of Baker,to do so in this case would contravene the "liberal federalpolicy favoring arbitration agreements" embodied in theFAA. See Moses H. Cone Memorial Hospital v. MercuryConstr. Corp., 460 U. S. 1, 24 (1983).Under the terms of the FAA, Waffle House's arbitrationagreement with Baker is valid and enforceable. See Part I,supra. The Court reasons, however, that the FAA is notimplicated in this case because the EEOC was not a partyto the arbitration agreement and "[i]t goes without sayingthat a contract cannot bind a nonparty." Ante, at 294. TheCourt's analysis entirely misses the point. The relevantquestion here is not whether the EEOC should be bound byBaker's agreement to arbitrate. Rather, it is whether acourt should give effect to the arbitration agreement be534US2 Unit: $U16 [04-10-03 16:20:27] PAGES PGT: OPIN309Cite as: 534 U. S. 279 (2002)Thomas, J., dissentingtween Waffle House and Baker or whether it should insteadallow the EEOC to reduce that arbitration agreement to allbut a nullity. I believe that the FAA compels the formercourse.11By allowing the EEOC to pursue victim-specific relief onbehalf of Baker under these circumstances, the Court eviscerates Baker's arbitration agreement with Waffle House andliberates Baker from the consequences of his agreement.Waffle House gains nothing and, if anything, will be worseoff in cases where the EEOC brings an enforcement actionshould it continue to utilize arbitration agreements in thefuture. This is because it will face the prospect of defendingitself in two different forums against two different partiesseeking precisely the same relief. It could face the EEOCin court and the employee in an arbitral forum.The Court does not decide here whether an arbitral judgment would "affect the validity of the EEOC's claim or thecharacter of relief the EEOC may seek" in court.12 Ante,at 297. Given the reasoning in the Court's opinion, however,the proverbial handwriting is on the wall. If the EEOC indeed is "the master of its own case," ante, at 291, I do not seehow an employee's independent decision to pursue arbitralproceedings could affect the validity of the "EEOC's claim"11 The Court also reasons that "the FAA enables respondent to compelBaker to arbitrate his claim, but it does not expand the range of claimssubject to arbitration beyond what is provided for in the agreement."Ante, at 293, n. 9. The Court does not explain, however, how the EEOC'sADA claim on Baker's behalf differs in any meaningful respect fromthe ADA claim that Baker would have been compelled to submit toarbitration.12 In the vast majority of cases, an individual employee's arbitral proceeding will be resolved before a parallel court action brought by theEEOC. See Maltby, Private Justice: Employment Arbitration and CivilRights, 30 Colum. Human Rights L. Rev. 29, 55 (1998) (reporting that inarbitration the average employment discrimination case is resolved inunder nine months while the average employment discrimination case filedin federal district court is not resolved for almost two years).534US2 Unit: $U16 [04-10-03 16:20:27] PAGES PGT: OPIN310 EEOC v. WAFFLE HOUSE, INC.Thomas, J., dissentingin court. Should this Court in a later case determine thatan unfavorable arbitral judgment against an employee precludes the EEOC from seeking similar relief for that employee in court, then the Court's jurisprudence will stand forthe following proposition: The EEOC may seek relief for anemployee who has signed an arbitration agreement unlessthat employee decides that he would rather abide by hisagreement and arbitrate his claim. Reconciling such a result with the FAA, however, would seem to be an impossibletask and would make a mockery of the rationale underlyingthe Court's holding here: that the EEOC is "the master ofits own case." Ante, at 291.Assuming that the Court means what it says, an arbitraljudgment will not preclude the EEOC's claim for victimspecific relief from going forward, and courts will have toadjust damages awards to avoid double recovery. See ante,at 297. If an employee, for instance, is able to recover$20,000 through arbitration and a court later concludes in anaction brought by the EEOC that the employee is actuallyentitled to $100,000 in damages, one assumes that a courtwould only award the EEOC an additional $80,000 to give tothe employee. Suppose, however, that the situation is reversed: An arbitrator awards an employee $100,000, but acourt later determines that the employee is only entitled to$20,000 in damages. Will the court be required to order theemployee to return $80,000 to his employer? I seriouslydoubt it.The Court's decision thus places those employers utilizingarbitration agreements at a serious disadvantage. Theiremployees will be allowed two bites at the apple--one inarbitration and one in litigation conducted by the EEOC--and will be able to benefit from the more favorable of thetwo rulings. This result, however, discourages the use ofarbitration agreements and is thus completely inconsistentwith the policies underlying the FAA.534US2 Unit: $U16 [04-10-03 16:20:27] PAGES PGT: OPIN311Cite as: 534 U. S. 279 (2002)Thomas, J., dissentingCWhile the Court explicitly decides today only "whether thefact that Baker has signed a mandatory arbitration agreement limits the remedies available to the EEOC," ibid., itsopinion sets this Court on a path that has no logical or principled stopping point. For example, if "[t]he statute clearlymakes the EEOC the master of its own case,"ante, at 291,and the filing of a charge puts the Commission "in commandof the process," ibid., then it is likely after this decision thatan employee's decision to enter into a settlement agreementwith his employer no longer will preclude the EEOC fromobtaining relief for that employee in court.While the Court suggests that ordinary principles of moot-ness "may apply to EEOC claims,"ante, at 298, this observa-tion, given the reasoning in the Court's opinion, seemslargely beside the point. It should go without saying thatmootness principles apply to EEOC claims. For instance, ifthe EEOC settles claims with an employer, the Commissionobviously cannot continue to pursue those same claims incourt. An employee's settlement agreement with an em-ployer, however, does not "moot" an action brought by theEEOC nor does it preclude the EEOC from seeking broad-based relief. Rather, a settlement may only limit theEEOC's ability to obtain victim-specific relief for the em-ployee signing the settlement agreement. See,e. g., Good-year Aerospace Corp., 813 F. 2d, at 1541-1544.The real question addressed by the Court's decision todayis whether an employee can enter into an agreement with anemployer that limits the relief the EEOC may seek in courton that employee's behalf. And if, in the Court's view, anemployee cannot compromise the EEOC's ability to obtainparticular remedies by signing an arbitration agreement,then I do not see how an employee may be permitted to dothe exact same thing by signing a settlement agreement.See Scherk v. Alberto-Culver Co., 417 U. S. 506, 511 (1974)534US2 Unit: $U16 [04-10-03 16:20:27] PAGES PGT: OPIN312 EEOC v. WAFFLE HOUSE, INC.Thomas, J., dissenting(noting that one purpose of the FAA is to place arbitrationagreements " `upon the same footing as other contracts' "(citation omitted)). The Court's reasoning, for example,forecloses the argument that it would be inappropriate under42 U. S. C. $ 2000e-5(g)(1) for a court to award victim-specificrelief in any case where an employee had already settled hisclaim. If the statutory provision, according to the Court,does not "permit a court to announce a categorical rule precluding an expressly authorized form of relief as inap-propriate in all cases in which the employee has signed anarbitration agreement," then it surely does not "constituteauthorization for [a] judge-made,per se rul[e]" barring theEEOC from obtaining victim-specific remedies on behalf ofan employee who has signed a valid settlement agreement.Ante, at 292, 293.Unfortunately, it is therefore likely that under the logicof the Court's opinion the EEOC now will be able to seekvictim-specific relief in court on behalf of employees whohave already settled their claims. Such a result, however,would contradict this Court's suggestion in Gilmer that em-ployment discrimination disputes "can be settled . . . withoutany EEOC involvement." 500 U. S., at 28. More impor-tantly, it would discourage employers from entering into settlement agreements and thus frustrate Congress' desire toexpedite relief for victims of discrimination, seeFord MotorCo. v. EEOC, 458 U. S., at 221; Occidental Life, 432 U. S., at364-365, and to resolve employment discrimination disputesout of court. See 42 U. S. C. $ 12212 (encouraging alternative means of dispute resolution, including settlement negoti-ations, to avoid litigation under the ADA).IIIRather than allowing the EEOC to undermine a valid andenforceable arbitration agreement between an employer andan employee in the manner sanctioned by the Court today,I would choose a different path. As this Court has stated,534US2 Unit: $U16 [04-10-03 16:20:27] PAGES PGT: OPIN313Cite as: 534 U. S. 279 (2002)Thomas, J., dissentingcourts are "not at liberty to pick and choose among congres-sional enactments, and when two statutes are capable of coexistence, it is the duty of the courts, absent a clearly ex-pressed congressional intention to the contrary, to regardeach as effective." Pittsburgh & Lake Erie R. Co. v. Railway Labor Executives' Assn., 491 U. S. 490, 510 (1989). Inthis case, I think that the EEOC's statutory authority toenforce the ADA can be easily reconciled with the FAA.Congress has not indicated that the ADA's enforcementscheme should be interpreted in a manner that underminesthe FAA. Rather, in two separate places, Congress has specifically encouraged the use of arbitration to resolve disputesunder the ADA. First, in the ADA itself, Congress stated:"Where appropriate and to the extent authorized by law,the use of alternative means of dispute resolution, including settlement negotiations, conciliation, facilitation, media-tion, factfinding, minitrials, andarbitration, is encouragedto resolve disputes arising under this chapter." 42 U. S. C.$ 12212 (emphasis added). Second, Congress used virtuallyidentical language to encourage the use of arbitration toresolve disputes under the ADA in the Civil Rights Act of1991. See Pub. L. 102-166, $ 118, 105 Stat. 1081.13The EEOC contends that these provisions do not applyto this dispute because the Commission has not signed anarbitration agreement with Waffle House and the provisionsencourage arbitration "only when the parties have consentedto arbitration." Reply Brief for Petitioner 17. Remarkably, the EEOC at the same time questions whether it evenhas the statutory authority to take this step. See Brief13 This provision states: "Where appropriate and to the extent authorized by law, the use of alternative means of dispute resolution, includingsettlement negotiations, conciliation, facilitation, mediation, factfinding,minitrials, and arbitration, is encouraged to resolve disputes arising underthe Acts or provisions of Federal law amended by this title." Among "theActs or provisions of Federal law" amended by the Civil Rights Act of1991 was the ADA. See Pub. L. 102-166, $ 118, 105 Stat. 1081.534US2 Unit: $U16 [04-10-03 16:20:27] PAGES PGT: OPIN314 EEOC v. WAFFLE HOUSE, INC.Thomas, J., dissentingfor Petitioner 22, n. 7. As a result, the EEOC's view seemsto be that Congress has encouraged the use of arbitrationto resolve disputes under the ADA only in situations wherethe EEOC does not wish to bring an enforcement action incourt. This limiting principle, however, is nowhere to befound in $ 12212. The use of arbitration to resolve all disputes under the ADA is clearly "authorized by law." SeePart I, supra. Consequently, I see no indication that Con-gress intended to grant the EEOC authority to enforce theADA in a manner that undermines valid and enforceablearbitration agreements.14In the last 20 years, this Court has expanded the reachand scope of the FAA, holding, for instance, that the statuteapplies even to state-law claims in state court and pre-emptsall contrary state statutes. SeeAllied-Bruce Terminix Cos.v. Dobson, 513 U. S. 265 (1995); Southland Corp. v. Keating,465 U. S. 1 (1984). I have not always agreed with thisCourt's jurisprudence in this area, see, e. g., Allied-Bruce,supra, at 285-297 (Thomas, J., dissenting), but it seems tome that what's good for the goose is good for the gander.The Court should not impose the FAA upon States in theabsence of any indication that Congress intended such a result, see Southland, supra, at 25-30 (O'Connor, J., dissenting), yet refuse to interpret a federal statute in a manner14 I do not see the relevance of the Court's suggestion that its decisionwill only "have a negligible effect on the federal policy favoring arbitration" because the EEOC brings relatively few lawsuits. Ante, at 291, n. 7.In my view, either the EEOC has been authorized by statute to underminevalid and enforceable arbitration agreements, such as the one at issue inthis case, or one should read the Commission's enforcement authority andthe FAA in a harmonious manner. This Court's jurisprudence and theproper interpretation of the relevant statutes should not depend on howmany cases the EEOC chooses to prosecute in any particular year.I simply see no statutory basis for the Court's implication that the EEOChas the authority to undermine valid and enforceable arbitration agreements so long as the Commission only opts to interfere with a relativelylimited number of agreements.534US2 Unit: $U16 [04-10-03 16:20:27] PAGES PGT: OPIN315Cite as: 534 U. S. 279 (2002)Thomas, J., dissentingcompatible with the FAA, especially when Congress has ex-pressly encouraged that claims under that federal statute beresolved through arbitration.Given the utter lack of statutory support for the Court'sholding, I can only conclude that its decision today is rootedin some notion that employment discrimination claims shouldbe treated differently from other claims in the context ofarbitration. I had thought, however, that this Court had decisively repudiated that principle in Gilmer. See 500 U. S.,at 27-28 (holding that arbitration agreements can be enforced without contravening the "important social policies"furthered by the ADEA).For all of these reasons, I respectfully dissent.534US2 Unit: $U17 [04-10-03 16:23:28] PAGES PGT: OPIN316 OCTOBER TERM, 2001SyllabusTHOMAS et al. v. CHICAGO PARK DISTRICTcertiorari to the united states court of appeals forthe seventh circuitNo. 00-1249. Argued December 3, 2001--Decided January 15, 2002Respondent Chicago Park District adopted an ordinance requiring individuals to obtain a permit before conducting large-scale events in publicparks. The ordinance provides that the Park District may deny a permit on any of 13 specified grounds, must process applications within28 days, and must explain its reasons for a denial. An unsuccessfulapplicant may appeal, first, to the Park District's general superintendentand then to state court. Petitioners, dissatisfied that the Park Districthas denied some, though not all, of their applications for permits to holdrallies advocating the legalization of marijuana, filed a 42 U. S. C. $ 1983suit, alleging, inter alia, that the ordinance is unconstitutional on itsface. The District Court granted the Park District summary judgment,and the Seventh Circuit affirmed.Held:1. A content-neutral permit scheme regulating uses (including speechuses) of a public forum need not contain the procedural safeguards described in Freedman v. Maryland, 380 U. S. 51. Freedman is inapposite because, unlike the motion picture censorship scheme in thatcase, the Park District's ordinance is not subject-matter censorship butcontent-neutral time, place, and manner regulation of the use of a public forum. None of the grounds for denying a permit has anything todo with the content of speech. Indeed, the ordinance is not directedat communicative activity as such, but to all activity in a public park.And its object is not to exclude particular communication, but to coordinate multiple uses of limited space; assure preservation of park facilities;prevent dangerous, unlawful, or impermissible uses; and assure financialaccountability for damage caused by an event. Pp. 320-323.2. A content-neutral time, place, and manner regulation can be applied in such a manner as to stifle free expression. It thus must contain adequate standards to guide an official's decision and render thatdecision subject to effective judicial review. See Niemotko v. Maryland, 340 U. S. 268, 271. The Park District's ordinance meets this test.That the ordinance describes grounds on which the Park District "may"deny a permit does not mean that it allows the Park District to waiverequirements for some favored speakers. Such a waiver would be unconstitutional, but this abuse must be dealt with if and when a pattern534US2 Unit: $U17 [04-10-03 16:23:28] PAGES PGT: OPIN317Cite as: 534 U. S. 316 (2002)Opinion of the Courtof unlawful favoritism appears, rather than by insisting upon a rigid,no-waiver application of the permit requirements. Pp. 323-325.3. Because the Park District's ordinance is not subject to Freedman's procedural requirements, this Court does not reach the questionwhether the requirement of prompt judicial review means a promptjudicial determination or the prompt commencement of judicial proceedings. Pp. 325-326.227 F. 3d 921, affirmed.Scalia, J., delivered the opinion for a unanimous Court.Richard L. Wilson argued the cause for petitioners. Withhim on the briefs wereWayne B. Giampietro and MichaelJ. Merrick.David A. Strauss argued the cause for respondent. Withhim on the brief wasSteven A. Weiss.James A. Feldman argued the cause for the United Statesas amicus curiae urging affirmance. With him on the briefwere Solicitor General Olson, Acting Assistant AttorneyGeneral Schiffer, Deputy Solicitor General Kneedler, Steph-anie R. Marcus, William G. Myers III, and Randolph J.Myers.*Justice Scalia delivered the opinion of the Court.This case presents the question whether a municipal parkordinance requiring individuals to obtain a permit beforeconducting large-scale events must, consistent with the FirstAmendment, contain the procedural safeguards described inFreedman v. Maryland, 380 U. S. 51 (1965).*Bonnie I. Robin-Vergeer and Alan B. Morrison filed a brief for PublicCitizen, Inc., as amicus curiae urging reversal.Briefs of amici curiae urging affirmance were filed for the City of NewYork by Michael D. Hess, Corporation Counsel, Leonard J. Koerner, andElizabeth I. Freedman; for the International City-County ManagementAssociation et al. by Richard Ruda and Charles A. Rothfeld; for the International Municipal Lawyers Association by Henry W. Underhill, Jr.; andfor Morality in Media, Inc., et al. by Robin S. Whitehead and Bruce A.Taylor.534US2 Unit: $U17 [04-10-03 16:23:28] PAGES PGT: OPIN318 THOMAS v. CHICAGO PARK DIST.Opinion of the CourtIRespondent, the Chicago Park District (Park District),is responsible for operating public parks and other publicproperty in Chicago. See Ill. Comp. Stat., ch. 70, $ 1505/7.01(2001). Pursuant to its authority to "establish by ordinanceall needful rules and regulations for the government and pro-tection of parks . . . and other property under its jurisdiction," $ 1505/7.02, the Park District adopted an ordinancethat requires a person to obtain a permit in order to "conducta public assembly, parade, picnic, or other event involvingmore than fifty individuals," or engage in an activity suchas "creat[ing] or emit[ting] any Amplified Sound." ChicagoPark Dist. Code, ch. VII, $$ C.3.a(1), C.3.a(6). The ordinanceprovides that "[a]pplications for permits shall be processedin order of receipt," $ C.5.a, and the Park District must decide whether to grant or deny an application within 14 daysunless, by written notice to the applicant, it extends theperiod an additional 14 days, $ C.5.c. Applications can bedenied on any of 13 specified grounds. $ C.5.e.1 If the Park1 Section C.5.e of the ordinance provides in relevant part:"To the extent permitted by law, the Park District may deny an application for permit if the applicant or the person on whose behalf theapplication for permit was made has on prior occasions made materialmisrepresentations regarding the nature or scope of an event or activitypreviously permitted or has violated the terms of prior permits issued toor on behalf of the applicant. The Park District may also deny an application for permit on any of the following grounds:"(1) the application for permit (including any required attachmentsand submissions) is not fully completed and executed;"(2) the applicant has not tendered the required application fee withthe application or has not tendered the required user fee, indemnification agreement, insurance certificate, or security depositwithin the times prescribed by the General Superintendent;"(3) the application for permit contains a material falsehood ormisrepresentation;"(4) the applicant is legally incompetent to contract or to sue andbe sued;"(5) the applicant or the person on whose behalf the application forpermit was made has on prior occasions damaged Park District534US2 Unit: $U17 [04-10-03 16:23:28] PAGES PGT: OPIN319Cite as: 534 U. S. 316 (2002)Opinion of the CourtDistrict denies an application, it must clearly set forth inwriting the grounds for denial and, where feasible, must propose measures to cure defects in the application. $$ C.5.d,C.5.e. When the basis for denial is prior receipt of a competing application for the same time and place, the Park Dis-trict must suggest alternative times or places. $ C.5.e. Anunsuccessful applicant has seven days to file a written appealto the General Superintendent of the Park District, whomust act on the appeal within seven days. $ C.6.a. If theGeneral Superintendent affirms a permit denial, the applicant may seek judicial review in state court by common-lawcertiorari. SeeNorton v. Nicholson, 187 Ill. App. 3d 1046,1057-1058, 543 N. E. 2d 1053, 1059 (1989).Petitioners have applied to the Park District on severaloccasions for permits to hold rallies advocating the legalproperty and has not paid in full for such damage, or has otheroutstanding and unpaid debts to the Park District;"(6) a fully executed prior application for permit for the same timeand place has been received, and a permit has been or will begranted to a prior applicant authorizing uses or activities whichdo not reasonably permit multiple occupancy of the particularpark or part hereof;"(7) the use or activity intended by the applicant would conflict withpreviously planned programs organized and conducted by thePark District and previously scheduled for the same time andplace;"(8) the proposed use or activity is prohibited by or inconsistent withthe classifications and uses of the park or part thereof designated pursuant to this chapter, Section C.1., above;"(9) the use or activity intended by the applicant would present anunreasonable danger to the health or safety of the applicant, orother users of the park, of Park District Employees or of thepublic;"(10) the applicant has not complied or cannot comply with applicablelicensure requirements, ordinances or regulations of the ParkDistrict concerning the sale or offering for sale of any goods orservices;"(11) the use or activity intended by the applicant is prohibited bylaw, by this Code and ordinances of the Park District, or by theregulations of the General Superintendent . . . ."534US2 Unit: $U17 [04-10-03 16:23:28] PAGES PGT: OPIN320 THOMAS v. CHICAGO PARK DIST.Opinion of the Courtization of marijuana. The Park District has granted somepermits and denied others. Not satisfied, petitioners filedan action pursuant to 42 U. S. C. $ 1983 in the United StatesDistrict Court for the Northern District of Illinois, alleging, inter alia, that the Park District's ordinance is unconstitutional on its face. The District Court granted summary judgment in favor of the Park District, and the UnitedStates Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit affirmed.227 F. 3d 921 (2000). We granted certiorari. 532 U. S. 1051(2001).IIThe First Amendment's guarantee of "the freedom ofspeech, or of the press" prohibits a wide assortment of government restraints upon expression, but the core abuseagainst which it was directed was the scheme of licensinglaws implemented by the monarch and Parliament to contain the "evils" of the printing press in 16th- and 17-centuryEngland. The Printing Act of 1662 had "prescribed whatcould be printed, who could print, and who could sell."Mayton, Toward a Theory of First Amendment Process: Injunctions of Speech, Subsequent Punishment, and the Costsof the Prior Restraint Doctrine, 67 Cornell L. Rev. 245, 248(1982). It punished the publication of any book or pamphletwithout a license and required that all works be submittedfor approval to a government official, who wielded broadauthority to suppress works that he found to be " `heretical,seditious, schismatical, or offensive.' " F. Siebert, Freedomof the Press in England, 1476-1776, p. 240 (1952). The English licensing system expired at the end of the 17th century,but the memory of its abuses was still vivid enough in colonial times that Blackstone warned against the "restrictivepower" of such a "licenser"--an administrative official whoenjoyed unconfined authority to pass judgment on the content of speech. 4 W. Blackstone, Commentaries on the Lawsof England 152 (1769).534US2 Unit: $U17 [04-10-03 16:23:28] PAGES PGT: OPIN321Cite as: 534 U. S. 316 (2002)Opinion of the CourtIn Freedman v. Maryland, 380 U. S. 51 (1965), we con-fronted a state law that enacted a strikingly similar systemof prior restraint for motion pictures. It required thatevery motion picture film be submitted to a Board of Censorsbefore the film was shown anywhere in the State. Theboard enjoyed authority to reject films that it considered" `obscene' " or that " `tend[ed], in the judgment of the Board,to debase or corrupt morals or incite to crimes,' " character-istics defined by the statute in broad terms.Id., at 52, n. 2.The statute punished the exhibition of a film not submittedto the board for advance approval, even where the film wouldhave received a license had it been properly submitted. Itwas no defense that the content of the film was protected bythe First Amendment.We recognized in Freedman that a scheme conditioningexpression on a licensing body's prior approval of content"presents peculiar dangers to constitutionally protectedspeech." Id., at 57. "[T]he censor's business is to censor,"ibid., and a licensing body likely will overestimate the dangers of controversial speech when determining, without regard to the film's actual effect on an audience, whetherspeech is likely " `to incite' " or to " `corrupt [the] morals,' "id., at 52-53, n. 2. Cf. Southeastern Promotions, Ltd. v.Conrad, 420 U. S. 546, 561, and n. 11 (1975). In response tothese grave "dangers of a censorship system," Freedman,supra, at 58, we held that a film licensing process must contain certain procedural safeguards in order to avoid constituting an invalid prior restraint: "(1) any restraint priorto judicial review can be imposed only for a specified briefperiod during which the status quo must be maintained;(2) expeditious judicial review of that decision must be available; and (3) the censor must bear the burden of going tocourt to suppress the speech and must bear the burden ofproof once in court." FW/PBS, Inc. v. Dallas, 493 U. S. 215,227 (1990) (principal opinion of O'Connor, J., joined by Stevens and Kennedy, JJ.) (citing Freedman, supra, at 58-60).534US2 Unit: $U17 [04-10-03 16:23:28] PAGES PGT: OPIN322 THOMAS v. CHICAGO PARK DIST.Opinion of the CourtPetitioners contend that the Park District, like the Boardof Censors in Freedman, must initiate litigation every timeit denies a permit and that the ordinance must specify adeadline for judicial review of a challenge to a permit denial.We reject those contentions. Freedman is inapposite be-cause the licensing scheme at issue here is not subjectmatter censorship but content-neutral time, place, andmanner regulation of the use of a public forum. The ParkDistrict's ordinance does not authorize a licensor to passjudgment on the content of speech: None of the grounds fordenying a permit has anything to do with what a speakermight say. Indeed, the ordinance (unlike the classic censorship scheme) is not even directed to communicative activityas such, but rather toall activity conducted in a public park.The picnicker and soccer player, no less than the politicalactivist or parade marshal, must apply for a permit if the50-person limit is to be exceeded. And the object of thepermit system (as plainly indicated by the permissiblegrounds for permit denial) is not to exclude communicationof a particular content, but to coordinate multiple uses oflimited space, to assure preservation of the park facilities,to prevent uses that are dangerous, unlawful, or impermis-sible under the Park District's rules, and to assure financial accountability for damage caused by the event. As theCourt of Appeals well put it: "[T]o allow unregulated accessto all comers could easily reduce rather than enlarge thepark's utility as a forum for speech." 227 F. 3d, at 924.We have never required that a content-neutral permitscheme regulating speech in a public forum adhere to theprocedural requirements set forth in Freedman.2 "A licens-ing standard which gives an official authority to censor thecontent of a speech differs toto coelo from one limited byits terms, or by nondiscriminatory practice, to considerations2 FW/PBS, Inc. v. Dallas, 493 U. S. 215, 224 (1990), which applied two ofthe Freedman requirements, involved a licensing scheme that "target[ed]businesses purveying sexually explicit speech."534US2 Unit: $U17 [04-10-03 16:23:28] PAGES PGT: OPIN323Cite as: 534 U. S. 316 (2002)Opinion of the Courtof public safety and the like." Niemotko v. Maryland, 340U. S. 268, 282 (1951) (Frankfurter, J., concurring in result)."[T]he [permit] required is not the kind of prepublicationlicense deemed a denial of liberty since the time of JohnMilton but a ministerial, police routine for adjusting therights of citizens so that the opportunity for effective freedom of speech may be preserved." Poulos v. New Hampshire, 345 U. S. 395, 403 (1953). Regulations of the use of apublic forum that ensure the safety and convenience of thepeople are not "inconsistent with civil liberties but . . . [are]one of the means of safeguarding the good order upon which[civil liberties] ultimately depend." Cox v. New Hampshire,312 U. S. 569, 574 (1941). Such a traditional exercise of authority does not raise the censorship concerns that promptedus to impose the extraordinary procedural safeguards on thefilm licensing process in Freedman.IIIOf course even content-neutral time, place, and mannerrestrictions can be applied in such a manner as to stifle freeexpression. Where the licensing official enjoys unduly broaddiscretion in determining whether to grant or deny a permit,there is a risk that he will favor or disfavor speech based onits content. See Forsyth County v. Nationalist Movement,505 U. S. 123, 131 (1992). We have thus required that a time,place, and manner regulation contain adequate standards toguide the official's decision and render it subject to effectivejudicial review. See Niemotko, supra, at 271. Petitionerscontend that the Park District's ordinance fails this test.33 Petitioners do not argue that the Park District's ordinance fails tosatisfy other requirements of our time, place, and manner jurisprudence,under which the permit scheme "must not be based on the content of themessage, must be narrowly tailored to serve a significant governmentalinterest, and must leave open ample alternatives for communication."Forsyth County v. Nationalist Movement, 505 U. S. 123, 130 (1992); seealso Clark v. Community for Creative Non-Violence, 468 U. S. 288, 293(1984).534US2 Unit: $U17 [04-10-03 16:23:28] PAGES PGT: OPIN324 THOMAS v. CHICAGO PARK DIST.Opinion of the CourtWe think not. As we have described, the Park Districtmay deny a permit only for one or more of the reasons setforth in the ordinance. See n. 1, supra. It may deny, forexample, when the application is incomplete or contains amaterial falsehood or misrepresentation; when the appli-cant has damaged Park District property on prior occasionsand has not paid for the damage; when a permit has beengranted to an earlier applicant for the same time and place;when the intended use would present an unreasonable danger to the health or safety of park users or Park Districtemployees; or when the applicant has violated the terms of aprior permit. See Chicago Park Dist. Code, ch. VII, $ C.5.e.Moreover, the Park District must process applications within28 days, $ C.5.c, and must clearly explain its reasons for anydenial, $ C.5.e. These grounds are reasonably specific andobjective, and do not leave the decision "to the whim of theadministrator." Forsyth County, 505 U. S., at 133. Theyprovide " `narrowly drawn, reasonable and definite standards' " to guide the licensor's determination, ibid. (quotingNiemotko, supra, at 271). And they are enforceable on review--first by appeal to the General Superintendent of thePark District, see Chicago Park Dist. Code, ch. VII, $ C.6.a,and then by writ of common-law certiorari in the Illinoiscourts, see Norton v. Nicholson, 187 Ill. App. 3d 1046, 543N. E. 2d 1053 (1989), which provides essentially the sametype of review as that provided by the Illinois administrative procedure act, see Nowicki v. Evanston Fair HousingReview Bd., 62 Ill. 2d 11, 14, 338 N. E. 2d 186, 188 (1975).Petitioners contend that the criteria set forth in the ordinance are insufficiently precise because they are describedas grounds on which the Park District "may" deny a permit, rather than grounds on which it must do so. This, theycontend, allows the Park District to waive the permit requirements for some favored speakers, while insisting uponthem for others. That is certainly not the intent of the ordinance, which the Park District has reasonably interpreted534US2 Unit: $U17 [04-10-03 16:23:28] PAGES PGT: OPIN325Cite as: 534 U. S. 316 (2002)Opinion of the Courtto permit overlooking only those inadequacies that, underthe circumstances, do no harm to the policies furthered bythe application requirements. See Tr. of Oral Arg. 31-32.Granting waivers to favored speakers (or, more precisely,denying them to disfavored speakers) would of course beunconstitutional, but we think that this abuse must bedealt with if and when a pattern of unlawful favoritism ap-pears, rather than by insisting upon a degree of rigidity thatis found in few legal arrangements. On petitioners' theory,every obscenity law, or every law placing limits upon politicalexpenditures, contains a constitutional flaw, since it merelypermits, but does not require, prosecution. The prophylaxisachieved by insisting upon a rigid, no-waiver application ofthe ordinance requirements would be far outweighed, wethink, by the accompanying senseless prohibition of speech(and of other activity in the park) by organizations that failto meet the technical requirements of the ordinance but forone reason or another pose no risk of the evils that thoserequirements are designed to avoid. On balance, we thinkthe permissive nature of the ordinance furthers, rather thanconstricts, free speech.* * *Because the Park District's ordinance is not subject toFreedman's procedural requirements, we do not reach oneof the questions on which we granted certiorari, and onwhich the Courts of Appeals are divided: whether the re-quirement of prompt judicial review means a prompt judicialdetermination or the prompt commencement of judicial pro-ceedings. Compare Nightclubs, Inc. v. Paducah, 202 F. 3d884, 892-893 (CA6 2000); Baby Tam & Co. v. Las Vegas, 154F. 3d 1097, 1101 (CA9 1998); 11126 Baltimore Blvd., Inc. v.Prince George's County, 58 F. 3d 988, 998-1001 (CA4 1995)(en banc), with Boss Capital, Inc. v. Casselberry, 187 F. 3d1251, 1255-1257 (CA11 1999); TK's Video, Inc. v. DentonCounty, 24 F. 3d 705, 709 (CA5 1994); Graff v. Chicago, 9534US2 Unit: $U17 [04-10-03 16:23:28] PAGES PGT: OPIN326 THOMAS v. CHICAGO PARK DIST.Opinion of the CourtF. 3d 1309, 1324-1325 (CA7 1993) (en banc); Jews for Jesus,Inc. v. Massachusetts Bay Transp. Authority, 984 F. 2d 1319,1327 (CA1 1993). For the foregoing reasons, we affirm thejudgment of the Court of Appeals.