This case presents the question whether the Constitutionis violated when a trial judge directs a capital jury's attention to a specific paragraph of a constitutionally sufficientinstruction in response to a question regarding the properconsideration of mitigating circumstances. We hold that itis not and that habeas relief is barred by 28 U. S. C. $ 2254(d)(1994 ed., Supp. III).Petitioner Lonnie Weeks, Jr., was riding from Washington,D. C., to Richmond, Virginia, as a passenger in a car drivenby his uncle, Lewis Dukes. Petitioner had stolen the vehiclein a home burglary earlier in the month. The two spedpast the marked car of Virginia State Trooper Jose Cavazos,who was monitoring traffic. Trooper Cavazos activatedhis emergency lights and took chase. After passing othervehicles on the highway shoulder, Dukes stopped on anexit ramp. Trooper Cavazos approached the driver's sideof the stolen vehicle on foot. Upon the trooper's request,Dukes alighted and stood near the rear of the car. TrooperCavazos, still standing near the driver's side, asked peti-tioner to step out as well. As Weeks stepped out on thepassenger's side, he carried a 9-millimeter semiautomaticpistol loaded with hollow-point bullets. Petitioner proceeded to fire six bullets at the trooper, two of which en-tered his body near the right and left shoulder straps of hisprotective vest, and four of which entered his forearms andleft wrist. Trooper Cavazos died within minutes.Petitioner was arrested the next morning. During rou-tine questioning about his physical and mental state by clas*Kent S. Scheidegger filed a brief for the Criminal Justice Legal Foundation as amicus curiae urging affirmance.528US2 Unit: $U19 [06-14-01 20:17:10] PAGES PGT: OPIN228 WEEKS v. ANGELONEOpinion of the Courtsification officers, petitioner confessed, indicating that he wasconsidering suicide because he shot the trooper. Petitioneralso voluntarily wrote a letter to a jail officer admitting thekilling and expressing remorse.Petitioner was tried in the Circuit Court for Prince Wil-liam County, Virginia, in October 1993. After the jury hadfound him guilty of capital murder, a 2-day penalty phasefollowed. In this proceeding the prosecution sought toprove two aggravating circumstances: that Weeks "wouldcommit criminal acts of violence that would constitute acontinuing serious threat to society" and that his conductwas "outrageously or wantonly vile, horrible or inhuman, inthat it involved depravity of mind or aggravated battery."App. 192. During the penalty phase, the defense presented10 witnesses, including petitioner, in mitigation.The jury retired at 10:40 a.m. on the second day to begindeliberations. At around noon, the judge informed counselthat the jury had asked the following question:"Does the sentence of life imprisonment in the State ofVirginia have the possibility of parole, and if so, underwhat conditions must be met to receive parole?" App.to Pet. for Cert. 90.The judge responded to the jury's question as follows:"You should impose such punishment as you feel is justunder the evidence, and within the instructions of theCourt. You are not to concern yourselves with whatmay happen afterwards."Ibid.The prosecution agreed with the judge's response and defense counsel objected. At 12:40 p.m., court reconvenedand the judge told the jurors that there would be a 1-hourluncheon recess and that they could go to lunch or continuedeliberations, as a juror had apparently informed the bailiffthat they might be interested in working through lunch. At12:45 p.m., the jury retired from the courtroom. At 3:15528US2 Unit: $U19 [06-14-01 20:17:10] PAGES PGT: OPIN229Cite as: 528 U. S. 225 (2000)Opinion of the Courtp.m., the judge informed counsel that he had received thefollowing written question from the jury:"If we believe that Lonnie Weeks, Jr. is guilty of at least1 of the alternatives, then is it our duty as a jury to issuethe death penalty? Or must we decide (even though heis guilty of one of the alternatives) whether or not toissue the death penalty, or one of the life sentences?What is the Rule? Please clarify?"Id., at 91 (emphasis in original).The judge wrote the following response: "See second paragraph of Instruction #2 (Beginning with `If you findfrom . . .')."Ibid. The judge explained to counsel his answer to the jury's question:"In instruction number 2 that was given to them, in thesecond paragraph, it reads, `If you find from the evidencethat the Commonwealth has proved, beyond a reasonable doubt, either of the two alternatives, and as to thatalternative, you are unanimous, then you may fix thepunishment of the defendant at death, or if you believefrom all the evidence that the death penalty is not justified, then you shall fix the punishment of the defendantat imprisonment for life, or imprisonment for life with afine not to exceed $100,000.'"I don't believe I can answer the question any clearerthan the instruction, so what I have done is referredthem to the second paragraph of instruction number 2,and I told them beginning with, `if you find from,' etcetera, et cetera, for them to reread that paragraph." 1App. 222-223.1 Instruction No. 2, in its entirety, read:"You have convicted the defendant of an offense which may be punishedby death. You must decide whether the defendant shall be sentenced todeath or to imprisonment for life or to imprisonment for life and a fine ofa specific amount, but not more than $100,000.00. Before the penalty can528US2 Unit: $U19 [06-14-01 20:17:10] PAGES PGT: OPIN230 WEEKS v. ANGELONEOpinion of the CourtThe prosecution stated that the judge's solution was ap-propriate. Defense counsel disagreed, and stated:"Your Honor, we would ask that Your Honor instruct thejury that even if they find one or both of the mitigatingfactors--I'm sorry, the factors that have been provedbeyond a reasonable doubt, that they still may impose alife sentence, or a life sentence plus a fine." Id., at 223.Defense counsel asked that his objection be noted.More than two hours later, the jury returned. The clerkread its verdict:"[W]e the jury, on the issue joined, having found thedefendant Lonnie Weeks, Jr., guilty of capital murder,and having unanimously found that his conduct in com-mitting the offense is outrageously or wantonly vile, horrible or inhumane, in that it involved depravity of mindand or aggravated battery, and having considered theevidence in mitigation of the offense, unanimously fixbe fixed at death, the Commonwealth must prove beyond a reasonabledoubt at least one of the following two alternatives:"1. That, after consideration of his history and background, there is aprobability that he would commit criminal acts of violence that would constitute a continuing serious threat to society; or"2. That his conduct in committing the offense was outrageously orwantonly vile, horrible or inhuman, in that it involved depravity of mindor aggravated battery to the victim beyond the minimum necessary toaccomplish the act of murder."If you find from the evidence that the Commonwealth has proved beyond a reasonable doubt either of the two alternatives, and as to thatalternative you are unanimous, then you may fix the punishment of thedefendant at death or if you believe from all the evidence that the deathpenalty is not justified, then you shall fix the punishment of the defendantat life imprisonment or imprisonment for live [sic] and a fine of a specificamount, but not more than $100,000.00."If the Commonwealth has failed to prove beyond a reasonable doubt atleast one of the alternatives, then you shall fix the punishment of thedefendant at life imprisonment or imprisonment for live [sic] and a fineof a specific amount, but not more than $100,000.00." App. 192-193.528US2 Unit: $U19 [06-14-01 20:17:10] PAGES PGT: OPIN231Cite as: 528 U. S. 225 (2000)Opinion of the Courthis punishment at death . . . ." Id., at 225 (emphasisadded).The jurors were polled and all responded affirmatively thatthe foregoing was their verdict in the case.Petitioner presented 47 assignments of error in his directappeal to the Virginia Supreme Court, and the assignmentof error respecting the judge's answering the jury's questionabout mitigating circumstances was number 44. The Virginia Supreme Court affirmed petitioner's conviction andsentence, holding that the claims petitioner advances herelack merit. Weeks v. Virginia, 248 Va. 460, 465-466, 476-477, 450 S. E. 2d 379, 383, 390 (1994), cert. denied, 516 U. S.829 (1995). The Virginia Supreme Court dismissed petition-er's state habeas petition as jurisdictionally barred on timeliness grounds. The District Court denied petitioner's re-quest for federal habeas relief, and the Court of Appeals forthe Fourth Circuit denied a certificate of appealability anddismissed his petition. 176 F. 3d 249 (1999). We grantedcertiorari, 527 U. S. 1060 (1999), and now affirm.Petitioner relies heavily on our decisions inBollenbach v.United States, 326 U. S. 607 (1946), and Eddings v. Oklahoma, 455 U. S. 104 (1982). Bollenbach involved a supple-mental instruction by the trial court following an inquiryfrom the jury--in that respect it is like the present case--but the instruction given by the trial court inBollenbachwas palpably erroneous. 326 U. S., at 611. In this respectit is quite unlike the present case. Eddings arose out of abench trial in a capital case, and this Court reversed a sentence of death because the trial judge had refused to considermitigating evidence: "[I]t was as if the trial judge had instructed a jury to disregard the mitigating evidence Eddingsproffered on his behalf." 455 U. S., at 114.Here the trial judge gave no such instruction. On thecontrary, he gave the instruction that we upheld in Buchanan v. Angelone, 522 U. S. 269 (1998), as being sufficientto allow the jury to consider mitigating evidence. And in528US2 Unit: $U19 [06-14-01 20:17:10] PAGES PGT: OPIN232 WEEKS v. ANGELONEOpinion of the Courtaddition, he gave a specific instruction on mitigating evidence--an instruction that was not given in Buchanan--inwhich he told the jury that "[y]ou must consider a mitigatingcircumstance if you find there is evidence to support it." 2Even the dissenters in Buchanan said that the ambiguitythat they found in the instruction there given would havebeen cleared up by "some mention of mitigating evidenceanywhere in the instructions." Id., at 283.In Buchanan, we considered whether the Eighth Amendment required that a capital jury be instructed on particular mitigating factors. Buchanan's jury was given preciselythe same Virginia pattern capital instruction that was givento Weeks' jury. See id., at 272, and n. 1. We noted thatour cases have established that the sentencer may not beprecluded from considering, and may not refuse to consider,any constitutionally relevant mitigating evidence, and thatthe State may structure the jury's consideration of mitigation so long as it does not preclude the jury from givingeffect to it. Id., at 276. We further noted that the "standard for determining whether jury instructions satisfy theseprinciples was `whether there is a reasonable likelihood thatthe jury has applied the challenged instruction in a way thatprevents the consideration of constitutionally relevant evi2 That instruction was titled "EVIDENCE IN MITIGATION" andstated in full:"Mitigation evidence is not evidence offered as an excuse for the crimeof which you have found defendant guilty. Rather, it is any evidencewhich in fairness may serve as a basis for a sentence less than death. Thelaw requires your consideration of more than the bare facts of the crime."Mitigating circumstances may include, but not be limited to, any factsrelating to defendant's age, character, education, environment, life andbackground, or any aspect of the crime itself which might be consideredextenuating or tend to reduce his moral culpability or make him less deserving of the extreme punishment of death."You must consider a mitigating circumstance if you find there is evidence to support it. The weight which you accord a particular mitigatingcircumstance is a matter of your judgment." Id., at 195.528US2 Unit: $U19 [06-14-01 20:17:10] PAGES PGT: OPIN233Cite as: 528 U. S. 225 (2000)Opinion of the Courtdence.' " Ibid. (quoting Boyde v. California, 494 U. S. 370,380 (1990)). But we stated that we have never held that theState must structure in a particular way the manner inwhich juries consider mitigating evidence. 522 U. S., at 276.We concluded that the Virginia pattern jury instruction atissue there, and again at issue here, did not violate thoseprinciples:"The instruction did not foreclose the jury's consider-ation of any mitigating evidence. By directing the juryto base its decision on `all the evidence,' the instruc-tion afforded jurors an opportunity to consider mitigating evidence. The instruction informed the jurors thatif they found the aggravating factor proved beyond areasonable doubt then they `may fix' the penalty atdeath, but directed that if they believed that all the evidence justified a lesser sentence then they `shall' imposea life sentence. The jury was thus allowed to impose alife sentence even if it found the aggravating factorproved." Id., at 277.But, as noted above, the jury in this case also received anexplicit direction to consider mitigating evidence--an instruction that was not given to the jury in Buchanan.Thus, so far as the adequacy of the jury instructions isconcerned, their sufficiency here follows a fortiori fromBuchanan.33 Justice Stevens attempts to distinguish the instruction given herefrom that given in Buchanan v. Angelone, 522 U. S., at 272, n. 1, on thebasis that the first paragraph of the "Weeks instructions contain[s] alonger description" of the aggravating circumstances. Post, at 239 (dissenting opinion). The first paragraph is longer here because the prosecution in Buchanan sought to prove only one aggravating circumstance.See 522 U. S., at 271. The mere addition of the description of anotheraggravating circumstance in the first paragraph, however, does not at allaffect the second clause of the second paragraph of the instruction--theclause that Justice Stevens finds "ambiguous." Post, at 241.More importantly, Justice Stevens, after stating that his "point isbest made by quoting the instruction itself," post, at 239, fails to quote528US2 Unit: $U19 [06-14-01 20:17:10] PAGES PGT: OPIN234 WEEKS v. ANGELONEOpinion of the CourtGiven that petitioner's jury was adequately instructed,and given that the trial judge responded to the jury's question by directing its attention to the precise paragraph ofthe constitutionally adequate instruction that answers itsinquiry, the question becomes whether the Constitution requires anything more. We hold that it does not.A jury is presumed to follow its instructions. Richardsonv. Marsh, 481 U. S. 200, 211 (1987). Similarly, a jury is presumed to understand a judge's answer to its question. See,e. g., Armstrong v. Toler, 11 Wheat. 258, 279 (1826) (opinionof Marshall, C. J.). Weeks' jury did not inform the courtthat after reading the relevant paragraph of the instruction,it still did not understand its role. See ibid. ("Had the jurydesired further information, they might, and probably would,have signified their desire to the court. The utmost willingness was manifested to gratify them, and it may fairly bepresumed that they had nothing further to ask"). To presume otherwise would require reversal every time a juryinquires about a matter of constitutional significance, regardless of the judge's answer.Here the presumption gains additional support fromseveral empirical factors. First and foremost, each of thejurors affirmed in open court the verdict which included afinding that they had "considered the evidence in mitigathe third paragraph of the instruction, post, at 239-240. That paragraphexpressly applies when the jury finds that the prosecution failed to proveeither aggravating circumstance. Specifically, it instructs that if the juryfinds no aggravating circumstances, then it must impose a life sentence.See n. 1, supra. The third paragraph stands in contrast to the secondparagraph, which expressly applies when the jury finds that the prosecution proved one or both of the aggravating circumstances. The secondparagraph offers the jury the option of imposing whichever sentence--death or life imprisonment--it feels is justified in that situation. The existence of the third paragraph makes the function of the second paragrapheven clearer.528US2 Unit: $U19 [06-14-01 20:17:10] PAGES PGT: OPIN235Cite as: 528 U. S. 225 (2000)Opinion of the Courttion of the offense." 4 App. 225. It is also significant, wethink, that the jurors deliberated for more than two hoursafter receiving the judge's answer to their question. Over41/2 hours after the jury retired to begin deliberations, thejury asked the question at issue. Again, the question was:"If we believe that Lonnie Weeks, Jr. is guilty of atleast 1 of the alternatives, then is it our duty as a juryto issue the death penalty? Or must we decide (eventhough he is guilty of one of the alternatives) whetheror not to issue the death penalty, or one of the life sen-tences? What is the Rule? Please clarify?" App. toPet. for Cert. 91 (emphasis in original).The question indicates that at the time it was asked, the juryhad determined that the prosecution had proved one of thetwo aggravating factors beyond a reasonable doubt. Morethan two hours passed between the judge directing the jury'sattention to the appropriate paragraph of the instructionthat answered its question and the jury returning its verdict.We cannot, of course, know for certain what transpired dur-ing those two hours. But the most likely explanation is thatthe jury was doing exactly what it was instructed to do: thatis, weighing the mitigating circumstances against the aggravating circumstance that it found to be proved beyond a rea-sonable doubt. If, after the judge's response to its question,the jury thought that it was required to give the death pen-alty upon finding of an aggravating circumstance, it is unlikely that the jury would have consumed two more hours indeliberation. This particular jury demonstrated that it was4 Justice Stevens' arguments concerning the lack of a jury verdictform stating that the jury finds one or both aggravating circumstancesand sentences the petitioner to life imprisonment miss the mark. The lifesentence verdict forms do not suggest that a prerequisite for their use isthat the jury found no aggravating circumstances. See post, at 246, n. 8.In any event, the claim here is that the trial judge's response to the jury'squestion was constitutionally insufficient, not that the jury verdict formswere unconstitutionally ambiguous.528US2 Unit: $U19 [06-14-01 20:17:10] PAGES PGT: OPIN236 WEEKS v. ANGELONEOpinion of the Courtnot too shy to ask questions, suggesting that it would haveasked another if it felt the judge's response unsatisfactory.Finally, defense counsel specifically explained to the juryduring closing argument that it could find both aggravatingfactors proven and still not sentence Weeks to death. Thus,once the jury received the judge's response to its question,it had not only the text of the instruction we approved inBuchanan, but also the additional instruction on mitigation,see n. 2,supra, and its own recollection of defense counsel'sclosing argument for guidance. At best, petitioner has dem-onstrated only that there exists a slightpossibility that thejury considered itself precluded from considering mitigatingevidence. Such a demonstration is insufficient to prove aconstitutional violation under Boyde, which requires theshowing of a reasonablelikelihood that the jury felt so restrained.5 See 494 U. S., at 380.It also appears that petitioner's attorneys did not viewthe judge's answer to the jury's question as a serious flawin the trial at that time. Petitioner's attorney made an oral5 Justice Stevens states that the record establishes a "virtual certainty" that the jury did not understand that it could find an aggravating circumstance and still impose a life sentence. Post, at 238. Inview of the different conclusion reached not only by this Court, but by theVirginia trial judge, seven justices of the Supreme Court of Virginia, afederal habeas District Judge, and three judges of the Court of Appealsfor the Fourth Circuit, this statement can only be described as extravagant hyperbole.The dissent also interprets the evidence of the jurors being in tears atthe time of the verdict as resulting from having performed what theythought to be their "duty under the law" despite their "strong desire" toimpose the life sentence. Post, at 249. It is difficult enough to speculatewith confidence about the deliberations of jurors in a case such as this,and still more difficult to speculate about their emotions at the time theyrender a verdict. But if we were to join in this speculation, it is everybit as plausible--if not more so--to think that the reason that jurors werein tears was because they had just been through an exhausting, soulsearching process that led to a conclusion that petitioner, despite the mitigating evidence he presented, still deserved the death sentence.528US2 Unit: $U19 [06-14-01 20:17:10] PAGES PGT: OPIN237Cite as: 528 U. S. 225 (2000)Stevens, J., dissentingmotion to set aside the sentence after the verdict of deathwas received, and did not even mention this incident in hismotion. And the low priority and space which his counselassigned to the point on his appeal to the Supreme Court ofVirginia suggests that the present emphasis has some of theearmarks of an afterthought.Because petitioner seeks a federal writ of habeas corpusfrom a state sentence, we must determine whether 28U. S. C. $ 2254(d) (1994 ed., Supp. III) precludes such relief.The Court of Appeals below held that it did. 176 F. 3d, at261. We agree. Section 2254(d) prohibits federal habeasrelief on any claim "adjudicated on the merits in State courtproceedings," unless that adjudication resulted in a decisionthat was "contrary to, or involved an unreasonable application of, clearly established Federal law, as determined by theSupreme Court of the United States." 28 U. S. C. $$ 2254(d)and (1) (1994 ed., Supp. III). For the reasons stated above,it followsa fortiori that the adjudication of the SupremeCourt of Virginia affirming petitioner's conviction and sentence neither was "contrary to," nor involved an "unreason-able application of," any of our decisions.The judgment of the Court of Appeals is