We granted certiorari to decide whether a federal districtcourt may impose sanctions pursuant to Rule 11 of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure in a case in which the districtcourt is later determined to be without subject-matter jurisdiction. 501 U. S. 1216 (1991). We conclude that in the cir-cumstances presented here it may do so.Petitioner Willy sued respondent Coastal Corporation(Coastal or respondent) in Texas state court, raising a variety of claims relating to Coastal's decision to terminate hisemployment as "in-house" counsel. Petitioner alleged thathe had been fired due to his refusal to participate in respond-ent's violation of various federal and state environmentallaws. Respondent removed the case to Federal DistrictCourt, claiming original federal-question jurisdiction under28 U. S. C. $$ 1331, 1441. Petitioner objected to the removal,claiming that his case did not "arise under" federal law, see$ 1331, but the District Court disagreed and concluded that ithad subject-matter jurisdiction. The District Court subsequently granted respondent's motion to dismiss for failure to503us1$39z 11-13-95 21:56:12 PAGES OPINPGT133Cite as: 503 U. S. 131 (1992)Opinion of the Courtstate a claim, Fed. Rule Civ. Proc. 12(b)(6), and dismissedpetitioner's pendent state claims.At the same time, the District Court granted respondent'smotion for Rule 11 sanctions, awarding attorney's fees of$22,625 against Willy and his attorney, Young, jointly andseverally. The District Court found that the filings made byplaintiff 's counsel "create[d] a blur of absolute confusion."App. to Pet. for Cert. A-7. These included a 1,200-page,unindexed, unnumbered pile of materials that the DistrictCourt determined "to be a conscious and wanton affront tothe judicial process, this Court, and opposing counsel" thatwas "irresponsible at a minimum and at worst intentionallyharassing." Ibid. Petitioner's sanctionable behavior alsoincluded careless pleading, such as reliance on a nonexistentFederal Rule of Evidence. Ibid. None of the sanctionableconduct was related to petitioner's initial effort to convincethe District Court that it was w ithout subject-matterjurisdiction.On appeal, the Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit concluded that the District Court had lacked subject-matterjurisdiction because the complaint raised no claims arisingunder federal law. 855 F. 2d 1160 (1988). It therefore reversed the District Court order dismissing the claims andinstructed that the case be remanded to state court. Thecourt also upheld the District Court's decision to award Rule11 sanctions, although it remanded the case to the DistrictCourt to determine the amount. On remand the DistrictCourt recomputed the Rule 11 sanctions and imposed sanctions in the amount of $19,307, the amount of attorney's feesthat respondent had incurred in responding to petitioner'ssanctionable conduct. The Court of Appeals affirmed. 915F. 2d 965 (CA5 1990).On this second appeal, the Court of Appeals rejected petitioner's contention that, in the absence of subject-matter jurisdiction, the District Court was constitutionally without503us1$39z 11-13-95 21:56:12 PAGES OPINPGT134 WILLY v. COASTAL CORP.Opinion of the Courtauthority to impose Rule 11 sanctions. It concluded thatthe authority to impose Rule 11 sanctions rested in the "inherent powers" of the federal courts--those powers " `necessary to the exercise of all others.' " Id., at 966 (quotingRoadway Express, Inc. v. Piper, 447 U. S. 752, 764 (1980)).The court concluded that the exercise of Rule 11 powers wasan example of such inherent powers. It principally reliedon our recent decision in Cooter & Gell v. Hartmarx Corp.,496 U. S. 384 (1990), in which we upheld a Rule 11 sanctionimposed for filing a frivolous complaint even though the sanction order was entered after the plaintiff voluntarily dismissed its suit.Before this Court, petitioner advances two claims. Thefirst is that Congress, in acquiescing in the adoption of theFederal Rules of Civil Procedure, did not "authoriz[e] recovery of fees or costs against parties who prevail on jurisdictional grounds." Brief for Petitioner 18. Petitioner findsin both the Rules Enabling Act and the Rules the "implicitpremise . . . that rules of practice and procedure are notnecessary for disputes beyond the judicial power conferredby Article III." Id., at 28. Phrased this way, the petitioner's contention is correct, but it does not dispose of this case.The Rules Enabling Act, 28 U. S. C. $ 2072, authorizes theCourt to "prescribe general rules of practice and procedureand rules of evidence for cases in the United States districtcourts . . . ." Those rules may not "abridge, enlarge or modify any substantive right." In response, we have adoptedthe Federal Rules of Civil Procedure. Rule 1 governs theirscope. It provides that "[t]hese rules govern the procedurein the United States district courts in all suits of a civilnature . . . ." Rule 81(c) specifically provides that the Rules"apply to civil actions removed to the United States districtcourts from the state courts and govern procedure after removal." This expansive language contains no express ex503us1$39z 11-13-95 21:56:12 PAGES OPINPGT135Cite as: 503 U. S. 131 (1992)Opinion of the Courtceptions and indicates a clear intent to have the Rules, in-cluding Rule 11, apply to all district court civil proceedings.1But in Sibbach v. Wilson & Co., 312 U. S. 1 (1941), we ob-served that federal courts, in adopting rules, were not freeto extend or restrict the jurisdiction conferred by a statute.Id., at 10. Such a caveat applies a fortiori to any effort toextend by rule the judicial power of the United States described in Article III of the Constitution. The Rules, then,must be deemed to apply only if their application will notimpermissibly expand the judicial authority conferred by Ar-ticle III. We must therefore examine petitioner's second,and related contention, that the District Court action in thiscase lies outside the range of action constitutionally permitted to an Article III court.Petitioner begins by pointing out that Article III limitsthe subject-matter jurisdiction of the federal courts to cer-tain "cases or controversies." Brief for Petitioner 11. Hethen contends that the District Court's exercise of judicialpower to grant Rule 11 sanctions must have been an unconstitutional act because, in the absence of subject-matter ju1 Rule 11 requires that every paper filed with the District Court besigned by an attorney or by the party. The signature constitutes a certificate by the signer that"to the best of the signer's knowledge, information, and belief formed afterreasonable inquiry it is well grounded in fact and is warranted by existinglaw or a good faith argument for the extension, modification, or reversalof existing law, and that it is not interposed for any improper purpose,such as to harass or to cause unnecessary delay or needless increase in thecost of litigation."A pleading determined to be in contravention of the Rule subjects boththe signer and the party he represents to "an appropriate sanction, whichmay include an order to pay to the other party or parties the amount ofthe reasonable expenses incurred because of the filing of the pleading,motion, or other paper, including a reasonable attorney's fee." Ibid. Wetake as given that the District Court correctly determined that petitioner's filings were insufficiently well grounded to satisfy the Rule, the payment of attorney's fees was a reasonable sanction in response, and theimposition of joint and several liability was appropriate.503us1$39z 11-13-95 21:56:12 PAGES OPINPGT136 WILLY v. COASTAL CORP.Opinion of the Courtrisdiction, the district court lacks "a substantive source ofjudicial power, beyond that conferred by Article III." Id.,at 18. Thus, according to petitioner, even had Congress attempted to grant the courts authority to impose sanctions ina case such as this, the grant would run afoul of Article III.In making this claim, petitioner acknowledges that thereare some circumstances in which federal courts may imposeattorney's fees or costs, even where the court eventuallyproves to be without subject-matter jurisdiction.2 He contends, however, that such instances are limited to a narrowlyprescribed category of cases and do not include the situationin which sanctions are imposed against a party who has successfully contested jurisdiction.We think petitioner's contentions flawed in several respects. Article I, $ 8, cl. 9, authorizes Congress to establishthe lower federal courts. From almost the founding days ofthis country, it has been firmly established that Congress,acting pursuant to its authority to make all laws "necessaryand proper" 3 to their establishment, also may enact lawsregulating the conduct of those courts and the meansby which their judgments are enforced. See Wayman v.Southard, 10 Wheat. 1, 21-22 (1825); Hanna v. Plumer, 380U. S. 460, 473 (1965) (describing "long-recognized power ofCongress to prescribe housekeeping rules for federalcourts"). Indeed, in acknowledging the many circumstancesin which sanctions can be imposed, several of which have astatutory basis, petitioner effectively concedes both Congress' general power to regulate the courts and its specific2 See Brief for Petitioner 18, n. 14, acknowledging 28 U. S. C. $ 1919 (authorizing "payment of just costs" in any action or suit dismissed for lackof jurisdiction) and 28 U. S. C. $ 1447(c) (authorizing attorney's fees andcosts for wrongful removal). See also Brief for Petitioner 22-27, admitting federal-court authority to exercise "inherent powers" to sanctionthrough attorney's fees and costs or criminal contempt those who obstructa court's effort to determine its jurisdiction.3 Art. I, $ 8, cl. 18.503us1$39z 11-13-95 21:56:12 PAGES OPINPGT137Cite as: 503 U. S. 131 (1992)Opinion of the Courtpower to authorize the imposition of sanctions. See n. 2,supra.This leaves only petitioner's contention that Rule 11 sanc-tions must be aborted because at a time after the sanctionable conduct occurred, it was determined by the Court ofAppeals that the District Court lacked subject-matter juris-diction. A final determination of lack of subject-matter jurisdiction of a case in a federal court, of course, precludesfurther adjudication of it. But such a determination doesnot automatically wipe out all proceedings had in the districtcourt at a time when the district court operated under themisapprehension that it had jurisdiction. In Chicot CountyDrainage Dist. v. Baxter State Bank, 308 U. S. 371 (1940),we held that a judgment rendered in a case in which it wasultimately concluded that the District Court was withoutjurisdiction was nonetheless res judicata on collateral attackmade by one of the parties. See also Stoll v. Gottlieb, 305U. S. 165 (1938). In Stoll, we observed that the practicalconcern with providing an end to litigation justifies a rulepreventing collateral attack on subject-matter jurisdiction.Id., at 172.In United States v. Mine Workers, 330 U. S. 258 (1947), weupheld a criminal contempt citation even on the assumptionthat the District Court issuing the citation was withoutjurisdiction over the underlying action. In that case, thequestion was raised on direct review and not collateral attack. We think the same concern expressed in these cases--the maintenance of orderly procedure, even in the wake of ajurisdiction ruling later found to be mistaken--justifies theconclusion that the sanction ordered here need not be upset.The District Court order which the petitioner seeks toupset is one that is collateral to the merits. We recentlyhad occasion to examine Rule 11's scope and purpose in greatdetail in Cooter & Gell v. Hartmarx Corp., 496 U. S. 384(1990). The challenge in that case was to an order imposingRule 11 sanctions for filing a frivolous complaint, entered503us1$39z 11-13-95 21:56:12 PAGES OPINPGT138 WILLY v. COASTAL CORP.Opinion of the Courtafter the plaintiff had voluntarily dismissed his action. Inthe course of our discussion we noted that "[i]t is well established that a federal court may consider collateral issuesafter an action is no longer pending. . . . [An] imposition of aRule 11 sanction is not a judgment on the merits of an action.Rather, it requires the determination of a collateral issue:whether the attorney has abused the judicial process, and, ifso, what sanction would be appropriate." Id., at 395-396.Such an order implicates no constitutional concern becauseit "does not signify a district court's assessment of the legalmerits of the complaint."Id., at 396. It therefore does notraise the issue of a district court adjudicating the merits ofa "case or controversy" over which it lacks jurisdiction.Petitioner places great weight on our decision in UnitedStates Catholic Conference v. Abortion Rights Mobilization,Inc., 487 U. S. 72 (1988), a case involving a civil contemptorder entered by the District Court. The contemnors, twononparty witnesses, refused to comply with a District Courtdocument subpoena. The District Court found them in civilcontempt and ordered them to pay a fine of $50,000 per day.The contemnors, as was their right, immediately appealedthe contempt order, challenging the District Court's subjectmatter jurisdiction. We held that the Court of Appeals wasobligated to consider the jurisdictional challenge in full,rather than simply contenting itself with an inquiry intowhether the District Court colorably had jurisdiction. Wefurther concluded that if the District Court was found to belacking subject-matter jurisdiction, that the contempt orderwould also fall. Focusing on this second part of our decision, petitioner cites Catholic Conference as establishing theproposition that a sanction must fall if imposed when jurisdiction is in fact absent.4Catholic Conference does not stand for such a broad assertion. A civil contempt order has much different purposes4 Petitioner does acknowledge certain limited exceptions, see n. 2, supra.503us1$39z 11-13-95 21:56:12 PAGES OPINPGT139Cite as: 503 U. S. 131 (1992)Opinion of the Courtthan a Rule 11 sanction. Civil contempt is designed to forcethe contemnor to comply with an order of the court, id., at79; Rule 11 is designed to punish a party who has alreadyviolated the court's rules. Cooter & Gell, supra, at 396.Given that civil contempt is designed to coerce compliancewith the court's decree, it is logical that the order itselfshould fall with a showing that the court was without author-ity to enter the decree. Accord,United States v. MineWorkers, supra.The interest in having rules of procedure obeyed, by con-trast, does not disappear upon a subsequent determinationthat the court was without subject-matter jurisdiction.Courts do make mistakes; in cases such asCatholic Confer-ence it may be possible immediately to seek relief in an appellate tribunal. But where such an immediate appeal is notauthorized, there is no constitutional infirmity under ArticleIII in requiring those practicing before the courts to conductthemselves in compliance with the applicable proceduralrules in the interim, and to allow the courts to impose Rule11 sanctions in the event of their failure to do so.5For the foregoing reasons, the judgment of the Court ofAppeals is