This case presents the issue whether, under $ 167 of theInternal Revenue Code, 26 U. S. C. $ 167, the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) may treat as nondepreciable an intangibleasset proved to have an ascertainable value and a limiteduseful life, the duration of which can be ascertained withreasonable accuracy, solely because the IRS considers theasset to be goodwill as a matter of law.1*Briefs of amici curiae urging reversal were filed for Black & DeckerCorp. et al. by Mark I. Levy, Arthur I. Gould, Roger J. Jones, and AndrewL. Frey; for Charles Schwab Corp. by Glenn A. Smith, Robert C. Alexander, and Teresa A. Maloney; for Donrey, Inc., by Lester G. Fant III, DanielM. Davidson, Rex E. Lee, and Carter G. Phillips; for the IndependentInsurance Agents of America et al. by Kenneth J. Kies; for Magazine Publishers of America, Inc., by James L. Malone III and George W.Benson; for the New England Fuel Institute et al. by Gary J. Klein,Bernhardt K. Wruble, and John S. Moot; for the Tax Executives Institute,Inc., by Timothy J. McCormally and Mary L. Fahey; and for WorrellEnterprises, Inc., by Malcolm L. Stein and Stanley E. Preiser.Briefs of amici curiae were filed for the American Bankers Associationby John J. Gill III, Michael F. Crotty, Joanne Ames, Philip C. Cook,Terence J. Greene, and Timothy J. Peaden; for the American Business Press by Robert A. Saltzstein, Stephen M. Feldman, and David R.Straus; for Colorado National Bankshares, Inc., et al. by James E. Byeand Richard G. Wilkins; for Coopers & Lybrand by David L. McLean; forthe Investment Counsel Association of America, Inc., by Kenneth W. Gideon; for the Newspaper Association of America by George L. Middleton,Jr., and Corrine M. Yu; for Philip Morris Companies Inc. by JeromeB. Libin and Padric K. J. O'Brien; and for Frederic W. Hickman et al.,pro se.1 Section 167 states:"(a) General rule"There shall be allowed as a depreciation deduction a reasonable allowance for the exhaustion, wear and tear (including a reasonable allowancefor obsolescence)--"(1) of property used in the trade or business, or507us2$54M 11-15-96 19:23:18 PAGES OPINPGT549Cite as: 507 U. S. 546 (1993)Opinion of the CourtIPetitioner Newark Morning Ledger Co., a New Jersey cor-poration, is a newspaper publisher. It is the successor toThe Herald Company with which it merged in 1987. Elevenyears earlier, in 1976, Herald had purchased substantiallyall the outstanding shares of Booth Newspapers, Inc., thepublisher of daily and Sunday newspapers in eight Michigancommunities.2 Herald and Booth merged on May 31, 1977,and Herald continued to publish the eight papers under theirold names. Tax code provisions in effect in 1977 requiredthat Herald allocate its adjusted income tax basis in theBooth shares among the assets acquired in proportion totheir respective fair market values at the time of the merger.See 26 U. S. C. $$ 332 and 334(b)(2) (1976 ed.).3Prior to the merger, Herald's adjusted basis in the Boothshares was approximately $328 million. Herald allocated$234 million of this to various financial assets (cash, securities, accounts and notes receivable, the shares of its whollyowned subsidiary that published Parade Magazine, etc.) andtangible assets (land, buildings, inventories, production"(2) of property held for the production of income."Treasury Regulations $ 1.167(a)-(3) interprets $ 167(a) and states:"If an intangible asset is known from experience or other factors to beof use in the business or in the production of income for only a limitedperiod, the length of which can be estimated with reasonable accuracy,such an intangible asset may be the subject of a depreciation allowance.Examples are patents and copyrights. An intangible asset, the useful lifeof which is not limited, is not subject to the allowance for depreciation.No allowance will be permitted merely because, in the unsupported opinion of the taxpayer, the intangible asset has a limited useful life. Nodeduction for depreciation is allowable with respect to goodwill." 26CFR $ 1.167(a)-3 (1992).2 The eight Michigan papers were The Ann Arbor News, The Bay CityTimes, The Flint Journal, The Grand Rapids Press, The Jackson CitizenPatriot, Kalamazoo Gazette, The Muskegon Chronicle, and The SaginawNews.3 Section 334(b)(2) was repealed in 1982 and replaced by the somewhatdifferent provisions of the present $ 338 of the Code.507us2$54M 11-15-96 19:23:18 PAGES OPINPGT550 NEWARK MORNING LEDGER CO. v. UNITED STATESOpinion of the Courtequipment, computer hardware, etc.). Herald also allocated$67.8 million to an intangible asset denominated "paid subscribers." 4 This consisted of 460,000 identified subscribersto the eight Booth newspapers as of May 31, 1977, the dateof merger. These subscribers were customers each of whomhad requested that the paper be delivered regularly to aspecified address in return for payment of the subscriptionprice. The $67.8 million figure was petitioner's estimate offuture profits to be derived from these at-will subscribers,all or most of whom were expected to continue to subscribeafter the Herald acquisition. The number of "paid subscribers" was apparently an important factor in Herald's decisionto purchase Booth and in its determination of the appropriate purchase price for the Booth shares. See Brief forPetitioner 4-5. After these allocations, the approximately$26.2 million remaining was allocated to going-concern valueand goodwill.On its federal income tax returns for the calendar years1977-1980, inclusive, Herald claimed depreciation deductionson a straight-line basis for the $67.8 million allocated to "paidsubscribers." The IRS disallowed these deductions on theground that the concept of "paid subscribers" was indistinguishable from goodwill and, therefore, was nondepreciableunder the applicable regulations. Herald paid the resultingadditional taxes. After the 1987 merger, petitioner filedtimely claims for refund. The IRS took no action on theclaims, and, upon the expiration of the prescribed 6-monthperiod, see 26 U. S. C. $ 6532(a)(1), petitioner brought suit in4 According to petitioner, the term " `paid subscribers' is intended to reflect the fact that the customers in question paid for their newspapers,rather than receiving them for free, and that they subscribed to the newspaper, requesting regular delivery, rather than purchasing it on a singlecopy basis." Brief for Petitioner 4, n. 5. The term does not connote subscription payments in advance; indeed, the customer relationship was terminable at will.507us2$54M 11-15-96 19:23:18 PAGES OPINPGT551Cite as: 507 U. S. 546 (1993)Opinion of the Courtthe District of New Jersey to recover taxes and interest thatit claimed had been assessed and collected erroneously.The case was tried to the court. Petitioner presented fi-nancial and statistical experts who testified that, using generally accepted statistical techniques, they were able to estimate how long the average at-will subscriber of each Boothnewspaper as of May 31, 1977, would continue to subscribe.The estimates ranged from 14.7 years for a daily subscriberto The Ann Arbor News to 23.4 years for a subscriber to theSunday edition of The Bay City Times. This was so despitethe fact that the total number of subscribers remainedalmost constant during the tax years in question. The experts based their estimates on actuarial factors such asdeath, relocation, changing tastes, and competition fromother media. The experts also testified that the value of"paid subscribers" was appropriately calculated using the"income approach." Under this, petitioner's experts firstcalculated the present value of the gross-revenue streamthat would be generated by these subscriptions over theirestimated useful lives. From that amount they subtractedprojected costs of collecting the subscription revenue. Petitioner contended that the resulting estimated net-revenuestream--calculated as $67,773,000 by one of its experts--wasa reasonable estimate of the value of "paid subscribers."The Government did not contest petitioner's expert evidence at all. In fact, it stipulated to the estimates of theuseful life of "paid subscribers" for each newspaper. Also,on valuation, the Government presented little or no evidencechallenging petitioner's calculations. Instead, it arguedthat the only value attributable to the asset in question wasthe cost of generating 460,000 new subscribers through asubscription drive. Under this "cost approach," the Government estimated the value of the asset to be approximately$3 million.The Government's principal argument throughout the litigation has been that "paid subscribers" represents an asset507us2$54M 11-15-96 19:23:18 PAGES OPINPGT552 NEWARK MORNING LEDGER CO. v. UNITED STATESOpinion of the Courtindistinguishable from the goodwill of the Booth newspapers.According to the Government, the future stream of revenueexpected to be generated by the 460,000 "paid subscribers"represented the very essence of the goodwill value of thenewspapers. It argued that because goodwill is nondepreciable, the value of "paid subscribers" cannot be depreciatedbut must be added to basis so that, when the business isdisposed of, the cost of the asset will be deducted from theproceeds in computing capital gain or loss.The District Court (Judge H. Lee Sarokin) ruled in peti-tioner's favor. 734 F. Supp. 176 (NJ 1990). It found asa fact that the "paid subscribers" asset was not self-regenerating--it had a limited useful life the duration ofwhich could be calculated with reasonable accuracy. Id., at180. The court further found that the value of "paid sub-scribers" was properly calculated using the "income approach" and that the asset itself was separate and distinctfrom goodwill. "[O]ne must distinguish between a galaxy ofcustomers who may or may not return, whose frequency isunknown, and whose quantity and future purchases cannotbe predicted, against subscribers who can be predicted topurchase the same item, for the same price on a daily basis."Id., at 176-177.The Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit reversed. 945F. 2d 555 (1991). It concluded that the District Court haderred in defining goodwill as that which remains after allassets with determinable useful lives and ascertainablevalues have been accounted for. Id., at 568. The court concluded that goodwill has a substantive meaning--the expectancy that " `old customers will resort to the old place' ofbusiness," id., at 567--and that "paid subscribers" is the essence of goodwill. Even though the "paid subscribers" assetmay have a limited useful life that can be ascertained withreasonable accuracy, the court held that its value is not separate and distinct from goodwill. Id., at 568.The Court of Appeals denied petitioner's suggestion forrehearing in banc, with two judges dissenting. See App. to507us2$54M 11-15-96 19:23:18 PAGES OPINPGT553Cite as: 507 U. S. 546 (1993)Opinion of the CourtPet. for Cert. 52a. In order to resolve an issue of substantial importance under the Internal Revenue Code and to settle a perceived conflict,5 we granted certiorari, 503 U. S. 970(1992).IISection 167(a) of the Code allows as a deduction for depreciation a reasonable allowance for the exhaustion and wearand tear, including obsolescence, of property used in a tradeor business or of property held for the production of income.See n. 1, supra. This Court has held that "the primary purpose" of an annual depreciation deduction is "to further theintegrity of periodic income statements by making a meaningful allocation of the cost entailed in the use (excludingmaintenance expense) of the asset to the periods to which itcontributes." Massey Motors, Inc. v. United States, 364U. S. 92, 104 (1960). The depreciation deduction has been apart of the federal tax system at least since 1909, when Congress recognized that a corporation should calculate its annual net income by deducting from gross income "all lossesactually sustained within the year and not compensated byinsurance or otherwise, including a reasonable allowance fordepreciation of property, if any." Tariff of 1909, $ 38 Second,36 Stat. 113. Nothing in the text of the 1909 statute orin the implementing Treasury Decision precluded a depreciation allowance for intangible property.6 This changed in5 Compare the Third Circuit's ruling in the present case with Donrey,Inc. v. United States, 809 F. 2d 534 (CA8 1987). See also Citizens &Southern Corp. v. Commissioner, 91 T. C. 463 (1988), aff'd, 919 F. 2d 1492(CA11 1990).6 According to the Treasury Department, the depreciation deduction"should be the estimated amount of the loss, accrued during the year towhich the return relates, in the value of the property in respect of whichsuch deduction is claimed that arises from exhaustion, wear and tear, orobsolescence out of the uses to which the property is put . . . . Thisestimate should be formed upon the assumed life of the property, its costvalue, and its use." Treas. Regs. 31, Art. 4, p. 11 (1909).507us2$54M 11-15-96 19:23:18 PAGES OPINPGT554 NEWARK MORNING LEDGER CO. v. UNITED STATESOpinion of the Court1914 with the promulgation of Treas. Regs. 33 (1914) issuedunder the 1913 Income Tax Law.7The Revenue Act of 1918, $ 234(a)(7), authorized a "reasonable allowance for the exhaustion, wear and tear of propertyused in the trade or business, including a reasonable allowance for obsolescence." 40 Stat. 1078 (1919). TreasuryRegs. 45 (1919), promulgated under the 1918 Act, explicitlyrecognized that intangible assets "may be the subject of adepreciation allowance." Art. 163. Thereafter, the regulations governing the depreciation of intangible assets haveremained essentially unchanged. The current version is setforth in n. 1, supra.Since 1927, the IRS consistently has taken the positionthat "goodwill" is nondepreciable.8 One court has said specifically: "Indeed, this proposition is so well settled that theonly question litigated in recent years regarding this area ofthe law is whether a particular asset is `goodwill.' " Hous7 Treasury Regs. 33 provided explicitly that the depreciation deductionshould be "estimated on the cost of the physical property with respect towhich such deduction is claimed, which loss results from wear and teardue to the use to which the property is put" (emphasis added). Art. 159.Furthermore, "[a]ssets of any character whatever which are not affectedby use, wear and tear (except patents, copyrights, etc.) are not subject tothe depreciation allowance authorized by this act." Art. 162.8 Between 1919 and 1927, the IRS recognized that the goodwill of distillers and dealers might be depreciable as a result of the passage of theEighteenth Amendment prohibiting the manufacture, sale, or transportation of intoxicating liquors. See T. B. R. 44, 1 Cum. Bull. 133 (1919). Butin 1926, the Eighth Circuit, in Red Wing Malting Co. v. Willcuts, 15 F. 2d626, cert. denied, 273 U. S. 763 (1927), ruled that, under the plain languageof the Revenue Act of 1918, goodwill could not be depreciated, for thedepreciation provision "limits the allowance for obsolescence to such property as is susceptible to exhaustion, wear, and tear by use in the business,and good will is not such property." 15 F. 2d, at 633. Following RedWing Malting, the Treasury Department amended its regulations to provide: "No deduction for depreciation, including obsolescence, is allowablein respect of good will." T. D. 4055, VI-2 Cum. Bull. 63 (1927). That hasbeen the position of the IRS ever since.507us2$54M 11-15-96 19:23:18 PAGES OPINPGT555Cite as: 507 U. S. 546 (1993)Opinion of the Courtton Chronicle Publishing Co. v. United States, 481 F. 2d1240, 1247 (CA5 1973), cert. denied, 414 U. S. 1129 (1974).IIIA"Goodwill" is not defined in the Code or in any TreasuryDepartment Regulations. There have been attempts, however, to devise workable definitions of the term. In Metropolitan Bank v. St. Louis Dispatch Co., 149 U. S. 436 (1893),for example, this Court considered whether a newspaper'sgoodwill survived after it was purchased and ceased publish-ing under its old name. It ruled that the goodwill did notsurvive, relying on Justice Story's notable description of"goodwill" as" `the advantage or benefit, which is acquired by an es-tablishment, beyond the mere value of the capital, stock,funds, or property employed therein, in consequence ofthe general public patronage and encouragement whichit receives from constant or habitual customers, on ac-count of its local position, or common celebrity, or reputation for skill or affluence, or punctuality, or from otheraccidental circumstances or necessity, or even fromancient partialities or prejudices.' " Id., at 446, quotingJ. Story, Partnerships $ 99 (1841).In Des Moines Gas Co. v. Des Moines, 238 U. S. 153 (1915),the Court described goodwill as "that element of value whichinheres in the fixed and favorable consideration of custom-ers, arising from an established and well-known and wellconducted business." Id., at 165. See also Los AngelesGas & Electric Corp. v. Railroad Comm'n of California, 289U. S. 287, 313 (1933) (distinguishing "going concern" from"good will" when fixing rates for public utilities).Although the definition of goodwill has taken differentforms over the years, the shorthand description of goodwillas "the expectancy of continued patronage," Boe v. Commis507us2$54M 11-15-96 19:23:18 PAGES OPINPGT556 NEWARK MORNING LEDGER CO. v. UNITED STATESOpinion of the Courtsioner, 307 F. 2d 339, 343 (CA9 1962), provides a useful labelwith which to identify the total of all the imponderable qualities that attract customers to the business. See HoustonChronicle Publishing Co. v. United States, 481 F. 2d, at 1248,n. 5. This definition, however, is of little assistance to ataxpayer trying to evaluate which of its intangible assetsis subject to a depreciation allowance. The value of everyintangible asset is related, to a greater or lesser degree, tothe expectation that customers will continue their patronage.9 But since 1918, at least some intangible assets havebeen depreciable. Because intangible assets do not exhaustor waste away in the same manner as tangible assets, taxpayers must establish that public taste or other socioeconomic forces will cause the intangible asset to be retiredfrom service, and they must estimate a reasonable date bywhich this event will occur. See B. Bittker & M. McMahon,Federal Income Taxation of Individuals ||12.4, p. 12-10(1988). Intangibles such as patents and copyrights are depreciable over their "legal lives," which are specified by statute. Covenants not to compete, leaseholds, and life estates,for example, are depreciable over their useful lives that areexpressly limited by contract.9 We emphasize that while the "expectancy of continued patronage" is aserviceable description of what we generally mean when we describe anintangible asset that has no useful life and no ascertainable value, thisshibboleth tells us nothing about whether the asset in question is depreciable. The dissent concedes that "the law concerning the depreciation ofintangible assets related to goodwill has developed on a case-by-casebasis," post, at 576, n. 4, yet, inexplicably, it suggests that "[s]uch mattersare not at issue in this case, however, because the asset that Ledger seeksto depreciate is indistinguishable from goodwill," ibid. As we demonstrate below, an intangible asset with an ascertainable value and a limiteduseful life, the duration of which can be ascertained with reasonable accuracy, is depreciable under $ 167 of the Code. The fact that it may also bedescribed as the "expectancy of continued patronage" is entirely besidethe point.507us2$54M 11-15-96 19:23:18 PAGES OPINPGT557Cite as: 507 U. S. 546 (1993)Opinion of the CourtThe category of intangibles that has given the IRS andthe courts difficulty is that group of assets sometimes denominated "customer-based intangibles." This group includescustomer lists, insurance expirations, subscriber lists, bankdeposits, cleaning-service accounts, drugstore-prescriptionfiles, and any other identifiable asset the value of which obviously depends on the continued and voluntary patronage ofcustomers. The question has been whether these intangibles can be depreciated notwithstanding their relationship to"the expectancy of continued patronage."BWhen considering whether a particular customer-based in-tangible asset may be depreciated, courts often have turnedto a "mass asset" or "indivisible asset" rule. The rule pro-vides that certain kinds of intangible assets are properlygrouped and considered as a single entity; even though theindividual components of the asset may expire or terminateover time, they are replaced by new components, therebycausing only minimal fluctuations and no measurable loss inthe value of the whole. The following is the usually ac-cepted description of a mass asset:"[A] purchased terminable-at-will type of customer listis an indivisible business property with an indefinite,nondepreciable life, indistinguishable from--and theprincipal element of--goodwill, whose ultimate valuelies in the expectancy of continued patronage throughpublic acceptance. It is subject to temporary attritionas well as expansion through departure of some custom-ers, acquisition of others, and increase or decrease in therequirements of individual customers. A normal turn-over of customers represents merely the ebb and flow ofa continuing property status in this species, and does notwithin ordinary limits give rise to the right to deductfor tax purposes the loss of individual customers. Thewhole is equal to the sum of its fluctuating parts at any507us2$54M 11-15-96 19:23:18 PAGES OPINPGT558 NEWARK MORNING LEDGER CO. v. UNITED STATESOpinion of the Courtgiven time, but each individual part enjoys no separatecapital standing independent of the whole, for its disappearance affects but does not interrupt or destroythe continued existence of the whole." Golden StateTowel & Linen Service, Ltd. v. United States, 179 Ct.Cl. 300, 310, 373 F. 2d 938, 944 (1967).The mass-asset rule prohibits the depreciation of certaincustomer-based intangibles because they constitute selfregenerating assets that may change but never waste. Al-though there may have been some doubt prior to 1973 as towhether the mass-asset rule required that any asset relatedto the expectancy of continued patronage always be treatedas nondepreciable goodwill as a matter of law, that doubt wasput to rest by the Fifth Circuit in theHouston Chroniclecase. The court there considered whether subscription lists,acquired as part of the taxpayer's purchase of The HoustonPress, were depreciable. The taxpayer had no intention ofcontinuing publication of the purchased paper, so there wasno question of the lists' being self-regenerating; they hadvalue only to the extent that they furnished names and ad-dresses of prospective subscribers to the taxpayer's newspaper. After reviewing the history of the mass-asset rule, thecourt concluded that there was noper se rule that an intangi-ble asset is nondepreciable whenever it is related to goodwill. On the contrary, the rule does not prevent taking adepreciation allowance "if the taxpayer properly carries hisdual burden of proving that the intangible asset involved (1)has an ascertainable value separate and distinct from goodwill, and (2) has a limited useful life, the duration of whichcan be ascertained with reasonable accuracy."HoustonChronicle, 481 F. 2d, at 1250.Following the decision in Houston Chronicle, the IRS issued a new ruling, modifying prior rulings "to remove anyimplication that customer and subscription lists, location contracts, insurance expirations, etc., are, as a matter of law,indistinguishable from goodwill possessing no determinable507us2$54M 11-15-96 19:23:19 PAGES OPINPGT559Cite as: 507 U. S. 546 (1993)Opinion of the Courtuseful life." Rev. Rul. 74-456, 1974-2 Cum. Bull. 65, 66.The IRS continued to claim that customer-based intangiblesgenerally are in the nature of goodwill, representing "thecustomer structure of a business, their value lasting until anindeterminate time in the future." Nonetheless, it acknowl-edged that, "in an unusual case," the taxpayer may provethat the "asset or a portion thereof does not possess the char-acteristics of goodwill, is susceptible of valuation, and is ofuse to the taxpayer in its trade or business for only a limitedperiod of time."Ibid. Under these circumstances, the IRSrecognized the possibility that the customer-based intangibleasset could be depreciated over its useful life.Despite the suggestion by the Court of Appeals in thiscase that the mass-asset rule is "now outdated," 945 F. 2d,at 561, it continues to guide the decisions of the Tax Courtwith respect to certain intangible assets. In Ithaca Industries, Inc. v. Commissioner, 97 T. C. 253 (1991), for example,the Tax Court recently considered whether a taxpayer coulddepreciate the value allocated to the trained work force of apurchased going concern over the length of time each employee remained with the purchasing company. The courtacknowledged that "whether the assembled work force is anintangible asset with an ascertainable value and a limiteduseful life separate from goodwill or going-concern value isa question of fact." Id., at 263-264. After reviewing therecord, it concluded that the mass-asset rule applied to prohibit the depreciation of the cost of acquiring the assembledwork force:"Although the assembled work force is used to produceincome, this record fails to show that its value diminishes as a result of the passing of time or through use.As an employee terminated his or her employment, another would be hired and trained to take his or her place.While the assembled work force might be subject totemporary attrition as well as expansion through depar-ture of some employees and the hiring of others, it507us2$54M 11-15-96 19:23:19 PAGES OPINPGT560 NEWARK MORNING LEDGER CO. v. UNITED STATESOpinion of the Courtwould not be depleted due to the passage of time or asa result of use. The turnover rate of employees represents merely the ebb and flow of a continuing work force.An employee's leaving does not interrupt or destroy thecontinued existence of the whole." Id., at 267.As a factual matter, the Tax Court found that the taxpayerhired a new worker only so it could replace a worker "whoresigned, retired, or was fired." Id., at 268. The courtfound that the "assembled work force" was a nondiminishingasset; new employees were trained in order to keep the "as-sembled work force" unchanged, and the cost of the trainingwas a deductible expense. Id., at 271.IVSince 1973, when Houston Chronicle clarified that theavailability of the depreciation allowance was primarily aquestion of fact, taxpayers have sought to depreciate a widevariety of customer-based intangibles. The courts thathave found these assets depreciable have based their conclu-sions on carefully developed factual records. InRichard S.Miller & Sons, Inc. v. United States, 210 Ct. Cl. 431, 537F. 2d 446 (1976), for example, the court considered whethera taxpayer was entitled to a depreciation deduction for 1,383insurance expirations that it had purchased from another insurer.10 The court concluded that the taxpayer had carriedits heavy burden of proving that the expirations had an ascertainable value separate and distinct from goodwill andhad a limited useful life, the duration of which could be ascertained with reasonable accuracy. The court acknowledged10 An "expiration" is a copy of the face of an insurance policy made whenthe policy is issued. It shows the name of the insured, the type of insurance, the premium, the covered property, and the expiration date. "Itsprincipal value in the insurance business is its indication of the most advantageous time to solicit a renewal." Richard S. Miller & Sons, Inc. v.United States, 210 Ct. Cl., at 436, 537 F. 2d, at 450.507us2$54M 11-15-96 19:23:19 PAGES OPINPGT561Cite as: 507 U. S. 546 (1993)Opinion of the Courtthat the insurance expirations constituted a "mass asset" theuseful life of which had to be "determined from facts relativeto the whole, and not from experience with any particularpolicy or account involved."Id., at 443, 537 F. 2d, at 454.The court also noted, however, that the mass-asset rule doesnot prevent a depreciation deduction "where the expirationsas a single asset can be valued separately and the requisiteshowing made that the useful life of the information con-tained in the intangible asset as a whole is of limited duration." Id., at 439, 537 F. 2d, at 452. All the policies werescheduled to expire within three years, but their continuingvalue lay in their being renewable. Based on statistics gath-ered over a 5-year period, the taxpayer was able to estimatethat the mass asset had a useful life of not more than 10years from the date of purchase. Any renewals after thattime would be attributable to the skill, integrity, and reputation of the taxpayer rather than to the value of the originalexpirations. "The package of expirations demonstrably wasa wasting asset." Id., at 444, 537 F. 2d, at 455. The courtruled that the taxpayer could depreciate the cost of the collection of insurance expirations over the useful life of themass asset.In Citizens & Southern Corp. v. Commissioner, 91 T. C.463 (1988), aff 'd, 919 F. 2d 1492 (CA11 1990), the taxpayerargued that it was entitled to depreciate the bank-depositbase acquired in the purchase of nine separate banks.11 Thetaxpayer sought to depreciate the present value of the income it expected to derive from the use of the balances ofdeposit accounts existing at the time of the bank purchases.11 The term "deposit base" describes "the intangible asset that arises ina purchase transaction representing the present value of the future streamof income to be derived from employing the purchased core deposits of abank." Citizens & Southern Corp. v. Commissioner, 91 T. C., at 465.The value of the deposit base rests upon the "ascertainable probabilitythat inertia will cause depositors to leave their funds on deposit for predictable periods of time." Id., at 500.507us2$54M 11-15-96 19:23:19 PAGES OPINPGT562 NEWARK MORNING LEDGER CO. v. UNITED STATESOpinion of the CourtThe Commissioner argued that the value of the core depositswas inextricably related to the value of the overall customerrelationship, that is, to goodwill. The Commissioner alsoargued that the deposit base consisted of purchased,terminable-at-will customer relationships that are equivalentto goodwill as a matter of law. The Tax Court rejected theCommissioner's position, concluding that the taxpayer haddemonstrated with sufficient evidence that the economicvalue attributable to the opportunity to invest the coredeposits could be (and, indeed, was) valued and that thefact that new accounts were opened as old accounts closeddid not make the original purchased deposit base selfregenerating. 91 T. C., at 499.The court also concluded that, based on "lifing studies"estimating the percentage of accounts that would close overa given period of time, the taxpayer established that the deposit base had a limited useful life, the duration of whichcould be ascertained with reasonable accuracy. The taxpayer had established the value of the intangible asset usingthe cost-savings method, entitling it to depreciate that portion of the purchase price attributable to the present valueof the difference between the ongoing costs associated withmaintaining the core deposits and the cost of the market alternative for funding its loans and other investments. Id.,at 510.The Tax Court reached the same result in Colorado National Bankshares, Inc. v. Commissioner, 60 TCM 771(1990), || 90,495 P-H Memo TC, aff 'd, 984 F. 2d 383 (CA101993). The Tax Court concluded that"the value of the deposit base does not depend upon avague hope that customers will patronize the bank forsome unspecified length of time in the future. Thevalue of the deposit base rests upon the ascertainableprobability that inertia will cause depositors to leavetheir funds on deposit for predictable periods of time."507us2$54M 11-15-96 19:23:19 PAGES OPINPGT563Cite as: 507 U. S. 546 (1993)Opinion of the CourtCo l orado Na tional Bankshares, 60 TCM, at 789,|| 90,495 P-H Memo TC, at 2,396.The court specifically found that the deposit accounts couldbe identified; that they had limited lives that could be estimated with reasonable accuracy; and that they could bevalued with a fair degree of accuracy. They were also notself-regenerating. "It is these characteristics which sepa-rate them from general goodwill and permits separate valuation." Ibid. See also IT&S of Iowa, Inc. v. Commissioner,97 T. C. 496, 509 (1991);Northern Natural Gas Co. v. O'Mal-ley, 277 F. 2d 128, 139 (CA8 1960) (concurring opinion).The Eighth Circuit has considered a factual situationnearly identical to the case now before us. In Donrey, Inc.v. United States, 809 F. 2d 534 (1987), the taxpayer soughtto depreciate the subscription list of a newspaper it had purchased as a going concern. The taxpayer asserted that thesubscription list was not simply a list of customers but"a machine to generate advertising revenue." Id., at 536.There was expert testimony that the value of the subscription list was "the present value of the difference in advertis-ing revenues generated by the subscription list as comparedto the revenues of an equivalent paper without a subscriptionlist."Ibid. A jury found that the list had a limited usefullife, the duration of which could be ascertained with reasonable accuracy; that the useful life was 23 years; and that ithad an ascertainable value of $559,406 separate and distinctfrom goodwill. The District Court denied a motion for judg-ment notwithstanding the verdict after concluding that, although reasonable minds could have differed as to the cor-rect result, there was evidence from which the jury couldproperly find for the taxpayer. The Court of Appeals im-plicitly rejected the Government's argument that the subscription list was necessarily inseparable from the value ofgoodwill when it deferred to the jury's finding that the subscription list was depreciable because it had a determinableuseful life and an ascertainable value.507us2$54M 11-15-96 19:23:19 PAGES OPINPGT564 NEWARK MORNING LEDGER CO. v. UNITED STATESOpinion of the CourtVAAlthough acknowledging the "analytic force" of cases suchas those discussed above, the Court of Appeals in the presentcase characterized them as "no more than a minority strandamid the phalanx of cases" that have adopted the Government's position on the meaning of goodwill. 945 F. 2d, at565.12 "In any case, consistent with the prevailing case law,we believe that the [IRS] is correct in asserting that, fortax purposes, there are some intangible assets which,notwithstanding that they have wasting lives that can beestimated with reasonable accuracy and ascertainable values, are nonetheless goodwill and nondepreciable." Id., at568. The Court of Appeals concluded further that in "thecontext of the sale of a going concern, it is simply often toodifficult for the taxpayer and the court to separate the valueof the listqua list from the goodwill value of the customerrelationships/structure." Ibid. We agree with that generalobservation. It is often too difficult for taxpayers to separate depreciable intangible assets from goodwill. But sometimes they manage to do it. And whether or not they havebeen successful in any particular case is a question of fact.The Government concedes: "The premise of the regulatory prohibition against the depreciation of goodwill is that,like stock in a corporation, a work of art, or raw land, good12 At least one commentator has taken issue with the Court of Appeals'characterization of the recent cases as nothing but a "minority strand."See Avi-Yonah, Newark Morning Ledger: A Threat to the Amortizabilityof Acquired Intangibles, 55 Tax Notes 981, 984 (1992) (of the 14 cases citedby the Third Circuit that were decided after Houston Chronicle in 1973,the IRS has prevailed in only 6 of them; "hardly an `overwhelming weightof authority' in the IRS' favor, especially given that two of the IRS victories, but none of the taxpayers,' were only at the district court level").Regardless of whether the cases discussed in Part IV, supra, are characterized as a "minority strand" or as a "modern trend," we find their reasoning and approach persuasive.507us2$54M 11-15-96 19:23:19 PAGES OPINPGT565Cite as: 507 U. S. 546 (1993)Opinion of the Courtwill has no determinate useful life of specific duration."Brief for United States 13. See also Richard S. Miller &Sons, Inc. v. United States, 210 Ct. Cl., at 437, 537 F. 2d, at450 ("Goodwill is a concept that embraces many intangibleelements and is presumed to have a useful life of indefiniteduration"). The entire justification for refusing to permitthe depreciation of goodwill evaporates, however, when thetaxpayer demonstrates that the asset in question wastesover an ascertainable period of time. It is more faithful tothe purposes of the Code to allow the depreciation deductionunder these circumstances, for "the Code endeavors to matchexpenses with the revenues of the taxable period to whichthey are properly attributable, thereby resulting in a moreaccurate calculation of net income for tax purposes,"INDOPCO, Inc. v. Commissioner, 503 U. S. 79, 84 (1992).13In the case that first established the principle that goodwill was not depreciable, the Eighth Circuit recognized thatthe reason for treating goodwill differently was simple anddirect: " `As good will does not suffer wear and tear, does notbecome obsolescent, is not used up in the operation of thebusiness, depreciation, as such, cannot be charged againstit.' " Red Wing Malting Co. v. Willcuts, 15 F. 2d 626, 633(1926), cert. denied, 273 U. S. 763 (1927). See also 5 J. Mer13 The dissent suggests that we are usurping the proper role of Congressby seeking to "modify the per se ban on depreciating goodwill," post, at582, n. 10. But we are doing nothing of the kind. We simply have determined that, in light of the factual record in this case, the "paid subscribers"asset is depreciable. The dissent's mistake is to assume that because the"paid subscribers" asset looks and smells like the "expectancy of continuedpatronage," it is, ipso facto, nondepreciable. In our view, however,whether or not an asset is depreciable is not a question to be settled bydefinition. "Goodwill" remains nondepreciable under applicable regulations, and we do not purport to change that fact. In interpreting thoseregulations, however, we have concluded that because the "paid subscribers" is an asset found to have a limited useful life and an ascertainablevalue which may be determined with reasonable accuracy, it is depreciable.By definition, therefore, it is not "goodwill."507us2$54M 11-15-96 19:23:19 PAGES OPINPGT566 NEWARK MORNING LEDGER CO. v. UNITED STATESOpinion of the Courttens, Law of Federal Income Taxation $ 23A.01, p. 7 (1990)("Goodwill is not amortizable intangible property because itsuseful life cannot be ascertained with reasonable accuracy"(emphasis added)). It must follow that if a taxpayer canprove with reasonable accuracy that an asset used in thetrade or business or held for the production of income has avalue that wastes over an ascertainable period of time, thatasset is depreciable under $ 167, regardless of the fact thatits value is related to the expectancy of continued patronage.The significant question for purposes of depreciation is notwhether the asset falls "within the core of the concept ofgoodwill," Brief for United States 19, but whether the assetis capable of being valued and whether that value diminishesover time. In a different context, the IRS itself succinctlyarticulated the relevant principle: "Whether or not an intangible asset, or a tangible asset, is depreciable for Federalincome tax purposes depends upon the determination thatthe asset is actually exhausting, and that such exhaustion issusceptible of measurement." Rev. Rul. 68-483, 1968-2Cum. Bull. 91-92.BAlthough we now hold that a taxpayer able to prove thata particular asset can be valued and that it has a limiteduseful life may depreciate its value over its useful life regardless of how much the asset appears to reflect the expectancy of continued patronage, we do not mean to imply thatthe taxpayer's burden of proof is insignificant. On the contrary, that burden often will prove too great to bear. See,e. g., Brief for Coopers & Lybrand as Amicus Curiae 11("For example, customer relationships arising from newsstand sales cannot be specifically identified. In [our] experience, customers were identified but their purchases were toosporadic and unpredictable to reasonably ascertain either the507us2$54M 11-15-96 19:23:19 PAGES OPINPGT567Cite as: 507 U. S. 546 (1993)Opinion of the Courtduration of the relationships or the value of the relationships(based on their net income stream)" (emphasis in original)).Petitioner's burden in this case was made significantlylighter by virtue of the Government's litigation strategy:"[B]ecause of the stipulation reached by the parties,Morning Ledger need not prove either the specific useful lives of the paid subscribers of the Booth newspapersas of May 31, 1977, or that Dr. Glasser [its statisticalexpert] has correctly estimated those lives. In light ofthe stipulation, [the Government's] argument with regard to Dr. Glasser's estimation of the specific usefullives of the Booth subscribers is wholly irrelevant. Instead, Dr. Glasser's testimony establishes that qualifiedexperts could estimate with reasonable accuracy the remaining useful lives of the paid subscribers of the Boothnewspapers as of May 31, 1977." 734 F. Supp., at 181.Petitioner also proved to the satisfaction of the DistrictCourt that the "paid subscribers" asset was not selfregenerating, thereby distinguishing it for purposes ofapplying the mass-asset rule:"[T]here is no automatic replacement for a subscriberwho terminates his or her subscription. Although thetotal number of subscribers may have or has remainedrelatively constant, the individual subscribers will notand have not remained the same, and those that may orhave discontinued their subscriptions can be or havebeen replaced only through the substantial efforts of theBooth newspapers." Id., at 180.The 460,000 "paid subscribers" constituted a finite set of subscriptions, existing on a particular date--May 31, 1977. Theasset was not composed of constantly fluctuating components; rather, it consisted of identifiable subscriptions each507us2$54M 11-15-96 19:23:19 PAGES OPINPGT568 NEWARK MORNING LEDGER CO. v. UNITED STATESOpinion of the Courtof which had a limited useful life that could be estimatedwith reasonable accuracy according to generally acceptedstatistical principles. Petitioner proved as a matter of factthat the value of the "paid subscribers" diminished over anascertainable period of time.14CPetitioner estimated the fair market value of the "paidsubscribers" at approximately $67.8 million. This figurewas found by computing the present value of the after-taxsubscription revenues to be derived from the "paid subscribers," less the cost of collecting those revenues, and addingthe present value of the tax savings resulting from the depreciation of the "paid subscribers." As the District Courtexplained, the taxpayer's experts "utilized this method because they each independently concluded that this methodbest determined the additional value of the Booth newspapers attributable to the existence of the paid subscribers asof May 31, 1977, and, thus, the fair market value of thosesubscribers." Id., at 183. The Government presented noevidence challenging the accuracy of this methodology. It14 The dissent spends a substantial amount of time worrying about thesufficiency of petitioner's evidence. See post, at 576-582. The problemwith petitioner's expert, according to the dissent, is that he predicted onlyhow long a subscriber is likely to subscribe, and this "tells us nothingabout how long date-of-sale subscriber habit or inertia will remain a causeof predicted subscriber faithfulness." Post, at 581. The dissent concludes that "Ledger's expert on his own terms has not even claimed tomake the showing of definite duration necessary to depreciate an assetunder $ 167(a)." Post, at 582. We have little doubt that had the Government presented credible evidence challenging the relevance of this testimony, the District Court would have had a more difficult time decidingthis case. As it happened, however, petitioner's evidence of the usefullife of the "paid subscribers" was the only evidence the District Court hadbefore it. The dissent skillfully demonstrates certain vulnerabilities inpetitioner's proof, but the Government chose, rather, to rest its entire caseon a legal argument that we now reject. This case was lost at trial.507us2$54M 11-15-96 19:23:19 PAGES OPINPGT569Cite as: 507 U. S. 546 (1993)Opinion of the Courttook the view that the only value attributable to the "paidsubscribers" was equivalent to the cost of generating a similar list of new subscribers, and it estimated that cost to beapproximately $3 million. The Court of Appeals agreedwith the Government that this "cost approach" was the onlyappropriate method for valuing the list of subscribers. "Thefact is that, when employed in the context of the sale of anongoing concern, the income approach to valuing a list ofcustomers inherently includes much or all of the value of theexpectancy that those customers will continue their patronage--i. e., the goodwill of the acquired concern." 945 F. 2d,at 568.Both the Government and the Court of Appeals mischarac-terized the asset at issue as a mere list of names andaddresses. The uncontroverted evidence presented at trialrevealed that the "paid subscribers" had substantial valueover and above that of a mere list of customers. App. 67(Price Waterhouse's Fair Market Value Study of Paid Newspaper Subscribers to Booth Newspapers as of May 31, 1977);id., at 108-111 (testimony of Roger J. Grabowski, Principaland National Director, Price Waterhouse Valuation Services). These subscribers were "seasoned"; they had sub-scribed to the paper for lengthy periods of time and represented a reliable and measurable source of revenue. Incontrast to new subscribers, who have no subscription history and who might not last beyond the expiration of somepromotional incentive, the "paid subscribers" at issue hereprovided a regular and predictable source of income over anestimable period of time. The cost of generating a list ofnew subscribers is irrelevant, for it represents the value ofan entirely different asset. We agree with the DistrictCourt when it concluded:"Although it was possible to estimate the direct costof soliciting additional subscribers to the Booth newspapers, those subscribers if obtained were not and wouldnot have been comparable, in terms of life characteris507us2$54M 11-15-96 19:23:19 PAGES OPINPGT570 NEWARK MORNING LEDGER CO. v. UNITED STATESOpinion of the Courttics or value, to the paid subscribers of the Booth news-papers as of May 31, 1977. . . . The cost of generatingsuch marginal subscribers would not reflect the fairmarket value of the existing subscribers of the Boothnewspapers as of May 31, 1977." 734 F. Supp., at 181.Because it continued to insist that petitioner had used thewrong valuation methodology, the Government failed to offerany evidence to challenge the accuracy of petitioner's application of the "income approach." The District Court foundthat the aggregate fair market value of the "paid subscribers" of the Booth newspapers as of May 31, 1977--i. e., "theprice at which the asset would change hands between a hypo-thetical willing buyer and willing seller, neither being underany compulsion to buy or sell, both parties having rea-sonable knowledge of relevant facts,"id., at 185--was$67,773,000, with a corresponding adjusted income tax basisof $71,201,395. Petitioner was entitled to depreciate this adjusted basis using a straight-line method over the stipulateduseful lives.VIPetitioner has borne successfully its substantial burden ofproving that "paid subscribers" constitutes an intangibleasset with an ascertainable value and a limited useful life,the duration of which can be ascertained with reasonable accuracy. It has proved that the asset is not self-regeneratingbut rather wastes as the finite number of component subscriptions are canceled over a reasonably predictable periodof time. The relationship this asset may have to the expectancy of continued patronage is irrelevant, for it satisfies allthe necessary conditions to qualify for the depreciation allowance under $ 167 of the Code.The judgment of the Court of Appeals is reversed, andthe case is remanded for further proceedings consistent withthis opinion.