The Prison Litigation Reform Act of 1995 amended 42U. S. C. $ 1997e(a), which now requires a prisoner to exhaust*Briefs of amici curiae urging reversal were filed for the AmericanCivil Liberties Union et al. by David C. Fathi, Elizabeth Alexander, Margaret Winter, Daniel L. Greenberg, John Boston, and Alphonse A. Gerhardstein; for the Association of the Bar of the City of New York byMichael B. Mushlin and William J. Rold; and for the Brennan Center forJustice et al. by Robert J. Lukens, Richard P. Weishaupt, and JonathanM. Stein.A brief of amici curiae urging affirmance was filed for the State ofOhio et al. by Betty D. Montgomery, Attorney General of Ohio, StephenP. Carney, Associate Solicitor, and Todd R. Marti, Assistant AttorneyGeneral, and by the Attorneys General for their respective jurisdictionsas follows: Bill Pryor of Alabama, Bruce M. Botelho of Alaska, Janet Napolitano of Arizona, Mark Pryor of Arkansas, Bill Lockyer of California,Ken Salazar of Colorado, Richard Blumenthal of Connecticut, M. JaneBrady of Delaware, Robert R. Rigsby of the District of Columbia, RobertA. Butterworth of Florida, Thurbert E. Baker of Georgia, John F. Tarantino of Guam, Earl I. Anzai of Hawaii, Alan Lance of Idaho, James E.Ryan of Illinois, Karen Freeman-Wilson of Indiana, Thomas J. Miller ofIowa, Carla J. Stovall of Kansas, Albert B. Chandler III of Kentucky,Richard P. Ieyoub of Louisiana, G. Steven Rowe of Maine, J. Joseph Curran, Jr., of Maryland, Thomas F. Reilly of Massachusetts, Jennifer M.Granholm of Michigan, Mike Hatch of Minnesota, Mike Moore of Mississippi, Jeremiah W. (Jay) Nixon of Missouri, Mike McGrath of Montana,Don Stenberg of Nebraska, Frankie Sue Del Papa of Nevada, Philip T.McLaughlin of New Hampshire, John J. Farmer, Jr., of New Jersey, Patricia A. Madrid of New Mexico, Eliot Spitzer of New York, Roy Cooperof North Carolina, Wayne Stenehjem of North Dakota, W. A. Drew Edmondson of Oklahoma, Hardy Myers of Oregon, Sheldon Whitehouse ofRhode Island, Charles M. Condon of South Carolina, Mark Barnett ofSouth Dakota, Paul G. Summers of Tennessee, John Cornyn of Texas,Mark L. Shurtleff of Utah, William H. Sorrell of Vermont, Mark L.Earley of Virginia, Iver A. Stridiron of the Virgin Islands, Christine O.Gregoire of Washington, and Gay Woodhouse of Wyoming.532US3 Unit: $U59 [09-06-02 18:48:45] PAGES PGT: OPIN734 BOOTH v. CHURNEROpinion of the Court"such administrative remedies as are available" before suingover prison conditions. The question is whether an inmateseeking only money damages must complete a prison admin-istrative process that could provide some sort of relief on thecomplaint stated, but no money. We hold that he must.IPetitioner, Timothy Booth, was an inmate at the StateCorrectional Institution at Smithfield, Pennsylvania, whenhe began this action under Rev. Stat. $ 1979, 42 U. S. C.$ 1983, in the United States District Court for the MiddleDistrict of Pennsylvania. He claimed that respondent cor-rections officers at Smithfield violated his Eighth Amendment right to be free from cruel and unusual punishmentby assaulting him, bruising his wrists in tightening andtwisting handcuffs placed upon him, throwing cleaning mate-rial in his face, and denying him medical attention to treatensuing injuries. Booth sought various forms of injunctiverelief, including transfer to another prison, as well as severalhundred thousand dollars in money damages.The Pennsylvania Department of Corrections provided anadministrative grievance system at the time. It called for awritten charge within 15 days of an event prompting an inmate's complaint, which was referred to a grievance officerfor investigation and resolution. If any action taken or recommended was unsatisfactory to the inmate, he could appealto an intermediate reviewing authority, with the possibilityof a further and final appeal to a central review committee.App. 46-50. While the grievance system addressed complaints of the abuse and excessive force Booth alleged, it hadno provision for recovery of money damages.1Before resorting to federal court, Booth filed an admin-istrative grievance charging at least some of the acts of1 The Commonwealth has since modified its grievance scheme to permitawards of money. App. 60.532US3 Unit: $U59 [09-06-02 18:48:45] PAGES PGT: OPIN735Cite as: 532 U. S. 731 (2001)Opinion of the Courtabuse he later alleged in his action. Id., at 10-14. He didnot, however, go beyond the first step, and never soughtintermediate or final administrative review after the prisonauthority denied relief.Booth's failure to avail himself of the later stages of theadministrative process led the District Court to dismissthe complaint without prejudice for failure to exhaust "administrative remedies . . . available" within the meaningof 42 U. S. C. $ 1997e(a) (1994 ed., Supp. V). See App. to Pet.for Cert. 38a. The Court of Appeals for the Third Circuitaffirmed, 206 F. 3d 289 (2000), rejecting Booth's argumentthat the statutory exhaustion requirement is inapposite tohis case simply because the Commonwealth's administrativeprocess could not award him the monetary relief he sought(money then being the only relief still requested, sinceBooth's transfer to another institution had mooted his claimsfor injunctive orders).2 Although the Third Circuit acknowledged that several other Courts of Appeals had heldthe exhaustion requirement subject to exception when theinternal grievance procedure could not provide an inmateplaintiff with the purely monetary relief requested in his fed-eral action, see,e. g., Whitley v. Hunt, 158 F. 3d 882 (CA51998); Lunsford v. Jumao-As, 155 F. 3d 1178 (CA9 1998);Garrett v. Hawk, 127 F. 3d 1263 (CA10 1997), the court foundno such exception in the statute, 206 F. 3d, at 299-300; ac-cord,Freeman v. Francis, 196 F. 3d 641 (CA6 1999); Alexander v. Hawk, 159 F. 3d 1321 (CA11 1998). We granted certiorari to address this conflict among the Circuits, 531 U. S.956 (2000), and we now affirm.2 There is some uncertainty, probably stemming in part from the ambiguity of Booth's pro se filings in District Court, as to whether all ofBooth's claims for relief other than money damages became moot when hewas transferred. See Brief for Petitioner 12, n. 7; Brief for United Statesas Amicus Curiae 10, n. 2. We assume for present purposes that onlyBooth's claims for money damages remain.532US3 Unit: $U59 [09-06-02 18:48:45] PAGES PGT: OPIN736 BOOTH v. CHURNEROpinion of the CourtIIIn the aftermath of the Prison Litigation Reform Act of1995,3 42 U. S. C. $ 1997e(a) (1994 ed., Supp. V) provides that"[n]o action shall be brought with respect to prisonconditions under section 1983 of this title, or any otherFederal law, by a prisoner confined in any jail, prison,or other correctional facility until such administrativeremedies as are available are exhausted."The meaning of the phrase "administrative remedies . . .available" is the crux of the case, and up to a point theparties approach it with agreement. Neither of them de-nies that some redress for a wrong is presupposed by thestatute's requirement of an "available" "remed[y]"; neitherargues that exhaustion is required where the relevant administrative procedure lacks authority to provide any reliefor to take any action whatsoever in response to a complaint.4The dispute here, then, comes down to whether or not a re-medial scheme is "available" where, as in Pennsylvania, theadministrative process has authority to take some action inresponse to a complaint, but not the remedial action an inmate demands to the exclusion of all other forms of redress.In seeking the congressional intent, the parties urge us togive weight to practical considerations, among others, andat first glance Booth's position holds some intuitive appeal.Although requiring an inmate to exhaust prison grievanceprocedures will probably obviate some litigation when theadministrative tribunal can award at least some of the reliefsought, Booth argues that when the prison's process simplycannot satisfy the inmate's sole demand, the odds of keeping3 110 Stat. 1321, as renumbered and amended.4 Without the possibility of some relief, the administrative officers wouldpresumably have no authority to act on the subject of the complaint, leaving the inmate with nothing to exhaust. The parties do not dispute thatthe state grievance system at issue in this case has authority to take someresponsive action with respect to the type of allegations Booth raises.532US3 Unit: $U59 [09-06-02 18:48:45] PAGES PGT: OPIN737Cite as: 532 U. S. 731 (2001)Opinion of the Courtthe matter out of court are slim. See Reply Brief for Peti-tioner 16. The prisoner would be clearly burdened, whilethe government would obtain little or no value in return.The respondents, however, also have something to say.They argue that requiring exhaustion in these circumstanceswould produce administrative results that would satisfy atleast some inmates who start out asking for nothing butmoney, since the very fact of being heard and prompting ad-ministrative change can mollify passions even when nothingends up in the pocket. And one may suppose that the ad-ministrative process itself would filter out some frivolousclaims and foster better-prepared litigation once a disputedid move to the courtroom, even absent formal factfinding.Although we have not accorded much weight to these possibilities in the past, see McCarthy v. Madigan, 503 U. S.140, 155-156 (1992), Congress, as we explain below, may wellhave thought we were shortsighted. See infra, at 739-741.In any event, the practical arguments for exhaustion at leastsuffice to refute Booth's claim that no policy considerationsjustify respondents' position. The upshot is that pragmatism is inconclusive.Each of the parties also says that the plain meaning ofthe words "remedies" and "available" in the phrase "suchadministrative remedies . . . available" is controlling. Butas it turns out both of them quote some of the same dictionary definitions of "available" "remedies," and neither comesup with anything conclusive. Booth says the term "remedy"means a procedure that provides redress for wrong or enforcement of a right, and "available" means having sufficientpower to achieve an end sought. See Brief for Petitioner15-16 (citing Webster's Third New International Dictionary150, 1920 (1993) (defining "remedy" as "the legal means torecover a right or to prevent or obtain redress for a wrong "and "available" as "having sufficient power or force toachieve an end," "capable of use for the accomplishmentof a purpose," and that which "is accessible or may be ob532US3 Unit: $U59 [09-06-02 18:48:45] PAGES PGT: OPIN738 BOOTH v. CHURNEROpinion of the Courttained")). So far so good, but Booth then claims to be ableto infer with particularity that when a prisoner demandsmoney damages as the sole means to compensate his injuries,a grievance system without that relief offers no "available""remed[y]." The general definitions, however, just do notentail such a specific conclusion.It strikes us that the same definitions get the respondent corrections officers and their amicus the United Statescloser to firm ground for their assertion that the phrase"such administrative remedies as are available" naturallyrequires a prisoner to exhaust the grievance proceduresoffered, whether or not the possible responses cover thespecific relief the prisoner demands. See Brief for Respondents 21. The United States tracks Booth in citing Webster'sThird New International Dictionary to define "remedy" as"the legal means to recover a right or to prevent or obtainredress for a wrong" and "available" as "capable of use forthe accomplishment of a purpose." Webster's Third NewInternational Dictionary, supra, at 150, 1920. But this exercise in isolated definition is ultimately inconclusive, for,depending on where one looks, "remedy" can mean eitherspecific relief obtainable at the end of a process of seekingredress, or the process itself, the procedural avenue leadingto some relief. See Black's Law Dictionary 1296 (7th ed.1999) (defining "remedy" alternatively as "[t]he means ofenforcing a right or preventing or redressing a wrong," oras "remedial action. . . . Cf. relief ").We find clearer pointers toward the congressional objective in two considerations, the first being the broader statutory context in which "available" "remedies" are mentioned.The entire modifying clause in which the words occur isthis: "until such administrative remedies as are availableare exhausted." The "available" "remed[y]" must be "exhausted" before a complaint under $ 1983 may be entertained. While the modifier "available" requires the possibility of some relief for the action complained of (as the532US3 Unit: $U59 [09-06-02 18:48:45] PAGES PGT: OPIN739Cite as: 532 U. S. 731 (2001)Opinion of the Courtparties agree), the word "exhausted" has a decidedly proce-dural emphasis. It makes sense only in referring to the procedural means, not the particular relief ordered. It would,for example, be very strange usage to say that a prisonermust "exhaust" an administrative order reassigning an abu-sive guard before a prisoner could go to court and ask forsomething else; or to say (in States that award money damages administratively) that a prisoner must "exhaust" hisdamages award before going to court for more. How wouldhe "exhaust" a transfer of personnel? Would he have tospend the money to "exhaust" the monetary relief givenhim? It makes no sense to demand that someone exhaust"such administrative [redress]" as is available; one "exhausts" processes, not forms of relief, and the statute provides that one must.A second consideration, statutory history, confirms thesuggestion that Congress meant to require procedural exhaustion regardless of the fit between a prisoner's prayerfor relief and the administrative remedies possible. Before$ 1997e(a) was amended by the Act of 1995, a court haddiscretion (though no obligation) to require a state inmateto exhaust "such . . . remedies as are available," but onlyif those remedies were "plain, speedy, and effective." 42U. S. C. $ 1997e(a) (1994 ed.). That scheme, however, is nowa thing of the past, for the amendments eliminated boththe discretion to dispense with administrative exhaustionand the condition that the remedy be "plain, speedy, andeffective" before exhaustion could be required.The significance of deleting that condition is apparentin light of our decision two years earlier in McCarthy v.Madigan, supra. In McCarthy, a federal inmate, much likeBooth, sought only money damages against federal prisonofficials, and the Bureau of Prison's administrative procedureoffered no such relief. Although $ 1997e(a) did not at thattime apply to suits brought against federal officials, the government argued that the Court should create an analogous532US3 Unit: $U59 [09-06-02 18:48:45] PAGES PGT: OPIN740 BOOTH v. CHURNEROpinion of the Courtexhaustion requirement for Bivens actions. See Bivens v.Six Unknown Fed. Narcotics Agents, 403 U. S. 388 (1971).It proposed $ 1997e(a) as a model, on the assumption that theprovision required exhaustion by those seeking nothing butmoney damages even when money was unavailable at theadministrative level. We understood the effect of $ 1997e(a)to be quite different, however. See 503 U. S., at 149-151.In holding that exhaustion was not required, we reasoned inpart from the language of $ 1997e(a) that required an "effec-tive" administrative remedy as a precondition to exhaustion.Id., at 150. When a prisoner sought only money damages,we indicated, only a procedure able to provide money damages would be "effective" within the meaning of the statute.Ibid. ("[I]n contrast to the absence of any provision forthe award of money damages under the Bureau's generalgrievance procedure, the statute conditions exhaustion onthe existence of `effective administrative remedies' "); seealso id., at 156 (Rehnquist, C. J., joined by Scalia andThomas, JJ., concurring in judgment) ("[I]n cases . . . whereprisoners seek monetary relief, the Bureau's administrativeremedy furnishes no effective remedy").When Congress replaced the text of the statute as construed in McCarthy with the exhaustion requirement atissue today, it presumably understood that under McCarthythe term "effective" in the former $ 1997e(a) eliminatedthe possibility of requiring exhaustion of administrativeremedies when an inmate sought only monetary relief andthe administrative process offered none. It has to be significant that Congress removed the very term we had pre-viously emphasized in reaching the result Booth now seeks,and the fair inference to be drawn is that Congress meantto preclude theMcCarthy result.5 Congress's imposition5 This inference is, to say the least, also consistent with Congress's elimination of the requirement that administrative procedures must satisfycertain "minimum acceptable standards" of fairness and effectivenessbefore inmates can be required to exhaust them, and the elimination of532US3 Unit: $U59 [09-06-02 18:48:45] PAGES PGT: OPIN741Cite as: 532 U. S. 731 (2001)Opinion of the Courtof an obviously broader exhaustion requirement makes ithighly implausible that it meant to give prisoners a stronginducement to skip the administrative process simply bylimiting prayers for relief to money damages not offeredthrough administrative grievance mechanisms.Thus, we think that Congress has mandated exhaustion clearly enough, regardless of the relief offered throughadministrative procedures.6 Cf. McCarthy, 503 U. S., at 144("Where Congress specifically mandates, exhaustion is re-quired"). We accordingly affirm the judgment of the ThirdCircuit.