There are two issues in this case: whether the jurisdictionof the Federal Trade Commission extends to the CaliforniaDental Association (CDA), a nonprofit professional association, and whether a "quick look" sufficed to justify findingthat certain advertising restrictions adopted by the CDA violated the antitrust laws. We hold that the Commission'sjurisdiction under the Federal Trade Commission Act (FTCAct) extends to an association that, like the CDA, providessubstantial economic benefit to its for-profit members, butthat where, as here, any anticompetitive effects of given restraints are far from intuitively obvious, the rule of reasondemands a more thorough enquiry into the consequences ofthose restraints than the Court of Appeals performed.IThe CDA is a voluntary nonprofit association of local dental societies to which some 19,000 dentists belong, includingabout three-quarters of those practicing in the State. In reCalifornia Dental Assn., 121 F. T. C. 190, 196-197 (1996).The CDA is exempt from federal income tax under 26U. S. C. $ 501(c)(6), covering "[b]usiness leagues, chambersof California, Richard Blumenthal of Connecticut, M. Jane Brady of Delaware, Robert A. Butterworth of Florida, Alan G. Lance of Idaho, ThomasJ. Miller of Iowa, J. Joseph Curran, Jr., of Maryland, Frank J. Kelley ofMichigan, Hubert H. Humphrey III of Minnesota, Mike Moore of Mississippi, Frankie Sue Del Papa of Nevada, Philip T. McLaughlin of NewHampshire, Michael F. Easley of North Carolina, W. A. Drew Edmondsonof Oklahoma, Hardy Myers of Oregon, D. Michael Fisher of Pennsylvania,Jose' A. Fuentes-Agostini of Puerto Rico, Jeffrey B. Pine of Rhode Island,John Knox Walkup of Tennessee, Jan Graham of Utah, William H. Sorrell of Vermont, Christine O. Gregoire of Washington, Darrell V. McGraw,Jr., of West Virginia, and James E. Doyle of Wisconsin.James S. Turner and Betsy E. Lehrfeld filed a brief for the ConsumerDental Choice Project of the National Institute for Science, Law andPublic Policy, Inc., as amicus curiae.526US3 Unit: $U62 [12-11-00 21:59:58] PAGES PGT: OPIN760 CALIFORNIA DENTAL ASSN. v. FTCOpinion of the Courtof commerce, real-estate boards, [and] boards of trade," although it has for-profit subsidiaries that give its membersadvantageous access to various sorts of insurance, includingliability coverage, and to financing for their real estate,equipment, cars, and patients' bills. The CDA lobbies andlitigates in its members' interests, and conducts marketingand public relations campaigns for their benefit. 128 F. 3d720, 723 (CA9 1997).The dentists who belong to the CDA through these associations agree to abide by a Code of Ethics (Code) includingthe following $ 10:"Although any dentist may advertise, no dentist shalladvertise or solicit patients in any form of communication in a manner that is false or misleading in anymaterial respect. In order to properly serve the public,dentists should represent themselves in a manner thatcontributes to the esteem of the public. Dentists shouldnot misrepresent their training and competence in anyway that would be false or misleading in any materialrespect." App. 33.The CDA has issued a number of advisory opinions interpreting this section,1 and through separate advertising1 The advisory opinions, which substantially mirror parts of the California Business and Professions Code, see Cal. Bus. & Prof. Code Ann. $$ 651,1680 (West 1999), include the following propositions:"A statement or claim is false or misleading in any material respectwhen it:"a. contains a misrepresentation of fact;"b. is likely to mislead or deceive because in context it makes only apartial disclosure of relevant facts;"c. is intended or is likely to create false or unjustified expectations offavorable results and/or costs;"d. relates to fees for specific types of services without fully and specifically disclosing all variables and other relevant factors;526US3 Unit: $U62 [12-11-00 21:59:58] PAGES PGT: OPIN761Cite as: 526 U. S. 756 (1999)Opinion of the Courtguidelines intended to help members comply with the Codeand with state law the CDA has advised its dentists of disclosures they must make under state law when engaging indiscount advertising.2Responsibility for enforcing the Code rests in the first instance with the local dental societies, to which applicants forCDA membership must submit copies of their own advertisements and those of their employers or referral services toassure compliance with the Code. The local societies alsoactively seek information about potential Code violationsby applicants or CDA members. Applicants who refuse towithdraw or revise objectionable advertisements may be denied membership; and members who, after a hearing, remain"e. contains other representations or implications that in reasonableprobability will cause an ordinarily prudent person to misunderstand orbe deceived."Any communication or advertisement which refers to the cost of dentalservices shall be exact, without omissions, and shall make each serviceclearly identifiable, without the use of such phrases as `as low as,' `and up,'`lowest prices,' or words or phrases of similar import."Any advertisement which refers to the cost of dental services and useswords of comparison or relativity--for example, `low fees'--must be basedon verifiable data substantiating the comparison or statement of relativity.The burden shall be on the dentist who advertises in such terms to establish the accuracy of the comparison or statement of relativity.""Advertising claims as to the quality of services are not susceptible tomeasurement or verification; accordingly, such claims are likely to be falseor misleading in any material respect." 128 F. 3d 720, 723-724 (CA9 1997)(some internal quotation marks omitted).2 The disclosures include:"1. The dollar amount of the nondiscounted fee for the service[.]"2. Either the dollar amount of the discount fee or the percentage ofthe discount for the specific service[.]"3. The length of time that the discount will be offered[.]"4. Verifiable fees[.]"5. [The identity of] [s]pecific groups who qualify for the discount or anyother terms and conditions or restrictions for qualifying for the discount."Id., at 724.526US3 Unit: $U62 [12-11-00 21:59:58] PAGES PGT: OPIN762 CALIFORNIA DENTAL ASSN. v. FTCOpinion of the Courtsimilarly recalcitrant are subject to censure, suspension, orexpulsion from the CDA. 128 F. 3d, at 724.The Commission brought a complaint against the CDA, al-leging that it applied its guidelines so as to restrict truthful,nondeceptive advertising, and so violated $ 5 of the FTC Act,38 Stat. 717, 15 U. S. C. $ 45.3 The complaint alleged thatthe CDA had unreasonably restricted two types of advertis-ing: price advertising, particularly discounted fees, and advertising relating to the quality of dental services. Com-plaint || 7. An Administrative Law Judge (ALJ) held theCommission to have jurisdiction over the CDA, which, theALJ noted, had itself "stated that a selection of its programsand services has a potential value to members of between$22,739 and $65,127," 121 F. T. C., at 207. He found that,although there had been no proof that the CDA exertedmarket power, no such proof was required to establish anantitrust violation under In re Mass. Bd. of Registration inOptometry, 110 F. T. C. 549 (1988), since the CDA hadunreasonably prevented members and potential membersfrom using truthful, nondeceptive advertising, all to the detriment of both dentists and consumers of dental services.He accordingly found a violation of $ 5 of the FTC Act. 121F. T. C., at 272-273.The Commission adopted the factual findings of the ALJexcept for his conclusion that the CDA lacked market power,with which the Commission disagreed. The Commissiontreated the CDA's restrictions on discount advertising as illegal per se. 128 F. 3d, at 725. In the alternative, the Com-mission held the price advertising (as well as the nonprice)restrictions to be violations of the Sherman and FTC Acts3 The FTC Act's prohibition of unfair competition and deceptive acts orpractices, 15 U. S. C. $ 45(a)(1), overlaps the scope of $ 1 of the ShermanAct, 15 U. S. C. $ 1, aimed at prohibiting restraint of trade, FTC v. IndianaFederation of Dentists, 476 U. S. 447, 454-455 (1986), and the Commissionrelied upon Sherman Act law in adjudicating this case, In re CaliforniaDental Assn., 121 F. T. C. 190, 292, n. 5 (1996).526US3 Unit: $U62 [12-11-00 21:59:58] PAGES PGT: OPIN763Cite as: 526 U. S. 756 (1999)Opinion of the Courtunder an abbreviated rule-of-reason analysis. One Commis-sioner concurred separately, arguing that the Commissionshould have applied the Mass. Bd. standard, not the per seanalysis, to the limitations on price advertising. AnotherCommissioner dissented, finding the evidence insufficient toshow either that the restrictions had an anticompetitive ef-fect under the rule of reason, or that the CDA had marketpower. 128 F. 3d, at 725.The Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit affirmed, sustaining the Commission's assertion of jurisdiction over theCDA and its ultimate conclusion on the merits.Id., at 730.The court thought it error for the Commission to have ap-pliedper se analysis to the price advertising restrictions,finding analysis under the rule of reason required for all therestrictions. But the Court of Appeals went on to explainthat the Commission had properly"applied an abbreviated, or `quick look,' rule of reasonanalysis designed for restraints that are not per se unlawful but are sufficiently anticompetitive on their facethat they do not require a full-blown rule of reasoninquiry. See [National Collegiate Athletic Assn. v.Board of Regents of Univ. of Okla., 468 U. S. 85, 109-110, and n. 39 (1984)] (`The essential point is that therule of reason can sometimes be applied in the twinklingof an eye.' [Ibid. (citing P. Areeda, The "Rule of Rea-son" in Antitrust Analysis: General Issues 37-38 (Federal Judicial Center, June 1981) (parenthetical omitted)).] It allows the condemnation of a `naked restraint'on price or output without an `elaborate industry analysis.' Id., at 109." Id., at 727.The Court of Appeals thought truncated rule-of-reasonanalysis to be in order for several reasons. As for the restrictions on discount advertising, they "amounted in practice to a fairly `naked' restraint on price competition itself,"ibid. The CDA's procompetitive justification, that the re526US3 Unit: $U62 [12-11-00 21:59:58] PAGES PGT: OPIN764 CALIFORNIA DENTAL ASSN. v. FTCOpinion of the Courtstrictions encouraged disclosure and prevented false andmisleading advertising, carried little weight because "it issimply infeasible to disclose all of the information that is re-quired," id., at 728, and "the record provides no evidencethat the rule has in fact led to increased disclosure and trans-parency of dental pricing,"ibid. As to nonprice advertisingrestrictions, the court said that"[t]hese restrictions are in effect a form of output limita-tion, as they restrict the supply of information aboutindividual dentists' services. See Areeda & Hoven-kamp, Antitrust Law || 1505 at 693-94 (Supp. 1997). . . .The restrictions may also affect output more directly, asquality and comfort advertising may induce some customers to obtain nonemergency care when they mightnot otherwise do so. . . . Under these circumstances,we think that the restriction is a sufficiently naked re-straint on output to justify quick look analysis."Ibid.The Court of Appeals went on to hold that the Commis-sion's findings with respect to the CDA's agreement and intent to restrain trade, as well as on the effect of the restric-tions and the existence of market power, were all supportedby substantial evidence. Id., at 728-730. In dissent, JudgeReal took the position that the Commission's jurisdiction didnot cover the CDA as a nonprofit professional associationengaging in no commercial operations.Id., at 730. Buteven assuming jurisdiction, he argued, full-bore rule-ofreason analysis was called for, since the disclosure require-ments were not naked restraints and neither fixed prices norbanned nondeceptive advertising. Id., at 730-731.We granted certiorari to resolve conflicts among theCircuits on the Commission's jurisdiction over a nonprofitprofessional association4 and the occasions for abbreviated4 Compare In re American Medical Assn., 94 F. T. C. 701, 983-984, aff 'd,638 F. 2d 443 (CA2 1980), aff'd by an equally divided Court, 455 U. S. 676(1982) (per curiam), and FTC v. National Comm'n on Egg Nutrition, 517526US3 Unit: $U62 [12-11-00 21:59:58] PAGES PGT: OPIN765Cite as: 526 U. S. 756 (1999)Opinion of the Courtrule-of-reason analysis.5 524 U. S. 980 (1998). We now va-cate the judgment of the Court of Appeals and remand.IIThe FTC Act gives the Commission authority over "per-sons, partnerships, or corporations," 15 U. S. C. $ 45(a)(2),and defines "corporation" to include "any company . . . orassociation, incorporated or unincorporated, without sharesof capital or capital stock or certificates of interest, exceptpartnerships, which is organized to carry on business for itsown profit or that of its members," $ 44. Although the Cir-cuits have not agreed on the precise extent of this definition,see n. 4, supra, the Commission has long held that some cir-cumstances give it jurisdiction over an entity that seeks noprofit for itself. While the Commission has claimed to havejurisdiction over a nonprofit entity if a substantial part of itstotal activities provides pecuniary benefits to its members,see In re American Medical Assn., 94 F. T. C. 701, 983-984(1980), respondent now advances the slightly different for-mulation that the Commission has jurisdiction "over anticompetitive practices by nonprofit associations whose activi-ties provid[e] substantial economic benefits to their for-profitmembers' businesses." Brief for Respondent 20.Respondent urges deference to this interpretation of theCommission's jurisdiction as reasonable. Id., at 25-26 (cit-ingChevron U. S. A. Inc. v. Natural Resources DefenseCouncil, Inc., 467 U. S. 837 (1984), Mississippi Power &Light Co. v. Mississippi ex rel. Moore, 487 U. S. 354, 380-382F. 2d 485, 487-488 (CA7 1975), with Community Blood Bank v. FTC, 405F. 2d 1011, 1017 (CA8 1969).5 Cf. Bogan v. Hodgkins, 166 F. 3d 509, 514, and n. 6 (CA2 1999); UnitedStates v. Brown University, 5 F. 3d 658, 669 (CA3 1993); Chicago Professional Sports Limited Partnership v. National Basketball Assn., 961F. 2d 667, 674-676 (CA7 1992); Law v. National Collegiate Athletic Assn.,134 F. 3d 1010, 1020 (CA10 1998); U. S. Healthcare, Inc. v. Healthsource,Inc., 986 F. 2d 589, 594-595 (CA1 1993).526US3 Unit: $U62 [12-11-00 21:59:58] PAGES PGT: OPIN766 CALIFORNIA DENTAL ASSN. v. FTCOpinion of the Court(1988) (Scalia, J., concurring) (Chevron deference applies toagency's interpretation of its own statutory jurisdiction)).But we have no occasion to review the call for deferencehere, the interpretation urged in respondent's brief beingclearly the better reading of the statute under ordinary principles of construction.The FTC Act is at pains to include not only an entity "organized to carry on business for its own profit," 15 U. S. C.$ 44, but also one that carries on business for the profit "ofits members," ibid. While such a supportive organizationmay be devoted to helping its members in ways beyond immediate enhancement of profit, no one here has claimed thatsuch an entity must devote itself single-mindedly to theprofit of others. It could, indeed, hardly be supposed thatCongress intended such a restricted notion of covered supporting organizations, with the opportunity this would bringwith it for avoiding jurisdiction where the purposes of theFTC Act would obviously call for asserting it.Just as the FTC Act does not require that a supportingorganization must devote itself entirely to its members'profits, neither does the Act say anything about how muchof the entity's activities must go to raising the members' bottom lines. There is accordingly no apparent reason to letthe statute's application turn on meeting some threshold percentage of activity for this purpose, or even satisfying asofter formulation calling for a substantial part of the nonprofit entity's total activities to be aimed at its members'pecuniary benefit. To be sure, proximate relation to lucremust appear; the FTC Act does not cover all membershiporganizations of profit-making corporations without more,and an organization devoted solely to professional educationmay lie outside the FTC Act's jurisdictional reach, eventhough the quality of professional services ultimately affectsthe profits of those who deliver them.There is no line drawing exercise in this case, however,where the CDA's contributions to the profits of its individual526US3 Unit: $U62 [12-11-00 21:59:58] PAGES PGT: OPIN767Cite as: 526 U. S. 756 (1999)Opinion of the Courtmembers are proximate and apparent. Through for-profitsubsidiaries, the CDA provides advantageous insurance andpreferential financing arrangements for its members, and itengages in lobbying, litigation, marketing, and public relations for the benefit of its members' interests. This conge-ries of activities confers far more thande minimis or merelypresumed economic benefits on CDA members; the economicbenefits conferred upon the CDA's profit-seeking profession-als plainly fall within the object of enhancing its members'"profit," 6 which the FTC Act makes the jurisdictional touch6 This conclusion is consistent with holdings by a number of Courts ofAppeals. In FTC v. National Comm'n on Egg Nutrition, the Court ofAppeals held that a nonprofit association "organized for the profit of theegg industry," 517 F. 2d, at 488, fell within the Commission's jurisdiction.In American Medical Assn. v. FTC, 638 F. 2d 443 (CA2 1980), the Courtof Appeals held that the "business aspects," id., at 448, of the AMA's activities brought it within the Commission's reach. These cases are consistent with our conclusion that an entity organized to carry on activities thatwill confer greater than de minimis or presumed economic benefits onprofit-seeking members certainly falls within the Commission's jurisdiction. In Community Blood Bank v. FTC, the Court of Appeals addressedthe question whether the Commission had jurisdiction over a blood bankand an association of hospitals. It held that "the question of the jurisdiction over the corporations or other associations involved should be determined on an ad hoc basis," 405 F. 2d, at 1018, and that the Commission'sjurisdiction extended to "any legal entity without shares of capital whichengages in business for profit within the traditional meaning of that language," ibid. (emphasis deleted). The Court of Appeals also said that"[a]ccording to a generally accepted definition `profit' means gain frombusiness or investment over and above expenditures, or gain made onbusiness or investment where both receipts or payments are taken intoaccount," id., at 1017, although in the same breath it noted that the term's"meaning must be derived from the context in which it is used," id., at1016. Our decision here is fully consistent with Community Blood Bank,because the CDA contributes to the profits of at least some of its members,even on a restrictive definition of profit as gain above expenditures. (Itshould go without saying that the FTC Act does not require for Commission jurisdiction that members of an entity turn a profit on their membership, but only that the entity be organized to carry on business for members' profit.) Nonetheless, we do not, and indeed, on the facts here, could526US3 Unit: $U62 [12-11-00 21:59:58] PAGES PGT: OPIN768 CALIFORNIA DENTAL ASSN. v. FTCOpinion of the Courtstone. There is no difficulty in concluding that the Commission has jurisdiction over the CDA.The logic and purpose of the FTC Act comport with thisresult. The FTC Act directs the Commission to "prevent"the broad set of entities under its jurisdiction "from usingunfair methods of competition in or affecting commerce andunfair or deceptive acts or practices in or affecting commerce." 15 U. S. C. $ 45(a)(2). Nonprofit entities organizedon behalf of for-profit members have the same capacity andderivatively, at least, the same incentives as for-profit organizations to engage in unfair methods of competition or unfairand deceptive acts. It may even be possible that a nonprofitentity up to no good would have certain advantages, not onlyover a for-profit member but over a for-profit membershiporganization as well; it would enjoy the screen of superficialdisinterest while devoting itself to serving the interests ofits members without concern for doing more than breakingeven.Nor, contrary to petitioner's argument, is the legislativehistory inconsistent with this interpretation of the Commission's jurisdiction. Although the versions of the FTC Actfirst passed by the House and the Senate defined "corporation" to refer only to incorporated, joint stock, and sharecapital companies organized to carry on business for profit,see H. R. Conf. Rep. No. 1142, 63d Cong., 2d Sess., 11, 14(1914), the Conference Committee subsequently revised thedefinition to its present form, an alteration that indicates annot, decide today whether the Commission has jurisdiction over nonprofitorganizations that do not confer profit on for-profit members but do, forexample, show annual income surpluses, engage in significant commerce,or compete in relevant markets with for-profit players. We therefore donot foreclose the possibility that various paradigms of profit might fallwithin the ambit of the FTC Act. Nor do we decide whether a purposeof contributing to profit only in a presumed sense, as by enhancing professional educational efforts, would implicate the Commission's jurisdiction.526US3 Unit: $U62 [12-11-00 21:59:58] PAGES PGT: OPIN769Cite as: 526 U. S. 756 (1999)Opinion of the Courtintention to include nonprofit entities.7 And the legislativehistory, like the text of the FTC Act, is devoid of any hint atan exemption for professional associations as such.We therefore conclude that the Commission had jurisdiction to pursue the claim here, and turn to the questionwhether the Court of Appeals devoted sufficient analysis tosustain the claim that the advertising restrictions promul-gated by the CDA violated the FTC Act.IIIThe Court of Appeals treated as distinct questions the suf-ficiency of the analysis of anticompetitive effects and thesubstantiality of the evidence supporting the Commission'sconclusions. Because we decide that the Court of Appealserred when it held as a matter of law that quick-look analysiswas appropriate (with the consequence that the Commission's abbreviated analysis and conclusion were sustainable),we do not reach the question of the substantiality of the evidence supporting the Commission's conclusion.8In National Collegiate Athletic Assn. v. Board of Regentsof Univ. of Okla., 468 U. S. 85 (1984), we held that a "nakedrestraint on price and output requires some competitive jus7 A letter from Bureau of Corporations Commissioner Joseph E. Daviesto Senator Francis G. Newlands, the bill's sponsor and a member of theConference Committee, written August 8, 1914, before the ConferenceCommittee revisions, included a memorandum dated August 7, 1914, thatexpressed concern that the versions of the bill passed by the House andthe Senate would not extend jurisdiction to purportedly nonprofit organizations, which might "furnish convenient vehicles for common understandings looking to the limitation of output and the fixing of prices contraryto law." Trade Commission Bill: Letter from the Commissioner of Corporations to the Chairman of the Senate Comm. on Interstate Commerce,Transmitting Certain Suggestions Relative to the Bill (H. R. 15613) toCreate a Federal Trade Commission, 63d Cong., 2d Sess., 3 (1914).8 We leave to the Court of Appeals the question whether on remand itcan effectively assess the Commission's decision for substantial evidenceon the record, or whether it must remand to the Commission for a moreextensive rule-of-reason analysis on the basis of an enhanced record.526US3 Unit: $U62 [12-11-00 21:59:58] PAGES PGT: OPIN770 CALIFORNIA DENTAL ASSN. v. FTCOpinion of the Courttification even in the absence of a detailed market analysis."Id., at 110. Elsewhere, we held that "no elaborate industryanalysis is required to demonstrate the anticompetitive char-acter of " horizontal agreements among competitors to refuseto discuss prices, National Soc. of Professional Engineersv. United States, 435 U. S. 679, 692 (1978), or to withholda particular desired service,FTC v. Indiana Federation ofDentists, 476 U. S. 447, 459 (1986) (quoting National Soc. ofProfessional Engineers, supra, at 692). In each of thesecases, which have formed the basis for what has come to becalled abbreviated or "quick-look" analysis under the ruleof reason, an observer with even a rudimentary understanding of economics could conclude that the arrangements inquestion would have an anticompetitive effect on customersand markets. In National Collegiate Athletic Assn., theleague's television plan expressly limited output (the numberof games that could be televised) and fixed a minimum price.468 U. S., at 99-100. In National Soc. of Professional Engineers, the restraint was "an absolute ban on competitive bidding." 435 U. S., at 692. In Indiana Federation of Dentists, the restraint was "a horizontal agreement among theparticipating dentists to withhold from their customers aparticular service that they desire." 476 U. S., at 459. Asin such cases, quick-look analysis carries the day when thegreat likelihood of anticompetitive effects can easily be ascertained. See Law v. National Collegiate Athletic Assn.,134 F. 3d 1010, 1020 (CA10 1998) (explaining that quick-lookanalysis applies "where a practice has obvious anticompetitive effects"); Chicago Professional Sports Limited Partnership v. National Basketball Assn., 961 F. 2d 667, 674-676(CA7 1992) (finding quick-look analysis adequate after assessing and rejecting logic of proffered procompetitive justifications); cf. United States v. Brown University, 5 F. 3d 658,677-678 (CA3 1993) (finding full rule-of-reason analysis required where universities sought to provide financial aid toneedy students and noting by way of contrast that the agree526US3 Unit: $U62 [12-11-00 21:59:58] PAGES PGT: OPIN771Cite as: 526 U. S. 756 (1999)Opinion of the Courtments in National Soc. of Professional Engineers and Indi-ana Federation of Dentists "embodied a strong economicself-interest of the parties to them").The case before us, however, fails to present a situation inwhich the likelihood of anticompetitive effects is comparablyobvious. Even onJustice Breyer's view that bars ontruthful and verifiable price and quality advertising areprima facie anticompetitive, see post, at 784-785 (opinionconcurring in part and dissenting in part), and place theburden of procompetitive justification on those who agree toadopt them, the very issue at the threshold of this case iswhether professional price and quality advertising is suffi-ciently verifiable in theory and in fact to fall within sucha general rule. Ultimately our disagreement with JusticeBreyer turns on our different responses to this issue.Whereas he accepts, as the Ninth Circuit seems to havedone, that the restrictions here were like restrictions on ad-vertisement of price and quality generally, see, e. g., post, at785, 787, 790, it seems to us that the CDA's advertising re-strictions might plausibly be thought to have a net procompetitive effect, or possibly no effect at all on competition.The restrictions on both discount and nondiscount advertising are, at least on their face, designed to avoid false or de-ceptive advertising9 in a market characterized by strikingdisparities between the information available to the profes-sional and the patient.10 Cf. Carr & Mathewson, The Eco9 That false or misleading advertising has an anticompetitive effect, asthat term is customarily used, has been long established. Cf. FTC v. Algoma Lumber Co., 291 U. S. 67, 79-80 (1934) (finding a false advertisementto be unfair competition).10 "The fact that a restraint operates upon a profession as distinguishedfrom a business is, of course, relevant in determining whether that particular restraint violates the Sherman Act. It would be unrealistic to viewthe practice of professions as interchangeable with other business activities, and automatically to apply to the professions antitrust concepts whichoriginated in other areas. The public service aspect, and other featuresof the professions, may require that a particular practice, which could526US3 Unit: $U62 [12-11-00 21:59:58] PAGES PGT: OPIN772 CALIFORNIA DENTAL ASSN. v. FTCOpinion of the Courtnomics of Law Firms: A Study in the Legal Organization ofthe Firm, 33 J. Law & Econ. 307, 309 (1990) (explaining that ina market for complex professional services, "inherent asym-metry of knowledge about the product" arises because "professionals supplying the good are knowledgeable [whereas]consumers demanding the good are uninformed"); Akerlof,The Market for "Lemons": Quality Uncertainty and the Mar-ket Mechanism, 84 Q. J. Econ. 488 (1970) (pointing out qualityproblems in market characterized by asymmetrical infor-mation). In a market for professional services, in which advertising is relatively rare and the comparability of servicepackages not easily established, the difficulty for customersor potential competitors to get and verify information aboutthe price and availability of services magnifies the dangers tocompetition associated with misleading advertising. Whatis more, the quality of professional services tends to resisteither calibration or monitoring by individual patients or cli-ents, partly because of the specialized knowledge required toevaluate the services, and partly because of the difficulty indetermining whether, and the degree to which, an outcomeis attributable to the quality of services (like a poor job oftooth filling) or to something else (like a very tough walnut).See Leland, Quacks, Lemons, and Licensing: A Theory ofMinimum Quality Standards, 87 J. Pol. Econ. 1328, 1330 (1979);1 B. Furrow, T. Greaney, S. Johnson, T. Jost, & R. Schwartz,Health Law $ 3-1, p. 86 (1995) (describing the common viewthat "the lay public is incapable of adequately evaluating thequality of medical services"). Patients' attachments to particular professionals, the rationality of which is difficult toassess, complicate the picture even further. Cf. Evans, Professionals and the Production Function: Can CompetitionPolicy Improve Efficiency in the Licensed Professions?, inOccupational Licensure and Regulation 235-236 (S. Rottenproperly be viewed as a violation of the Sherman Act in another context,be treated differently." Goldfarb v. Virginia State Bar, 421 U. S. 773,788-789, n. 17 (1975).526US3 Unit: $U62 [12-11-00 21:59:58] PAGES PGT: OPIN773Cite as: 526 U. S. 756 (1999)Opinion of the Courtberg ed. 1980) (describing long-term relationship betweenprofessional and client not as "a series of spot contracts" butrather as "a long-term agreement, often implicit, to deal witheach other in a set of future unspecified or incompletely specified circumstances according to certain rules," and addingthat "[i]t is not clear how or if these [implicit contracts] canbe reconciled with the promotion of effective price competition in individual spot markets for particular services").The existence of such significant challenges to informed decisionmaking by the customer for professional services imme-diately suggests that advertising restrictions arguably protecting patients from misleading or irrelevant advertisingcall for more than cursory treatment as obviously comparable to classic horizontal agreements to limit output or pricecompetition.The explanation proffered by the Court of Appeals forthe likely anticompetitive effect of the CDA's restrictions ondiscount advertising began with the unexceptionable statements that "price advertising is fundamental to price competition," 128 F. 3d, at 727, and that "[r]estrictions on the ability to advertise prices normally make it more difficult forconsumers to find a lower price and for dentists to competeon the basis of price," ibid. (citing Bates v. State Bar of Ariz.,433 U. S. 350, 364 (1977); Morales v. Trans World Airlines,Inc., 504 U. S. 374, 388 (1992)). The court then acknowledged that, according to the CDA, the restrictions nonetheless furthered the "legitimate, indeed procompetitive, goalof preventing false and misleading price advertising." 128F. 3d, at 728. The Court of Appeals might, at this juncture,have recognized that the restrictions at issue here are veryfar from a total ban on price or discount advertising, andmight have considered the possibility that the particular restrictions on professional advertising could have different effects from those "normally" found in the commercial world,even to the point of promoting competition by reducing theoccurrence of unverifiable and misleading across-the-board526US3 Unit: $U62 [12-11-00 21:59:58] PAGES PGT: OPIN774 CALIFORNIA DENTAL ASSN. v. FTCOpinion of the Courtdiscount advertising.11 Instead, the Court of Appeals confined itself to the brief assertion that the "CDA's disclosurerequirements appear to prohibit across-the-board discountsbecause it is simply infeasible to disclose all of the information that is required," ibid., followed by the observation that"the record provides no evidence that the rule has in fact ledto increased disclosure and transparency of dental pricing,"ibid.But these observations brush over the professional context and describe no anticompetitive effects. Assuming thatthe record in fact supports the conclusion that the CDA disclosure rules essentially bar advertisement of across-theboard discounts, it does not obviously follow that such a banwould have a net anticompetitive effect here. Whether advertisements that announced discounts for, say, first-timecustomers, would be less effective at conveying informationrelevant to competition if they listed the original and discounted prices for checkups, X-rays, and fillings, than theywould be if they simply specified a percentage discountacross the board, seems to us a question susceptible to empirical but not a priori analysis. In a suspicious world, thediscipline of specific example may well be a necessary condition of plausibility for professional claims that for all practical purposes defy comparison shopping. It is also possiblein principle that, even if across-the-board discount advertisements were more effective in drawing customers in the shortrun, the recurrence of some measure of intentional or accidental misstatement due to the breadth of their claims might11 Justice Breyer claims that "the Court of Appeals did consider therelevant differences." Post, at 790. But the language he cites says nothing more than that per se analysis is inappropriate here and that "somecaution" was appropriate where restrictions purported to restrict falseadvertising, see 128 F. 3d, at 726-727. Caution was of course appropriate,but this statement by the Court of Appeals does not constitute a consideration of the possible differences between these and other advertisingrestrictions.526US3 Unit: $U62 [12-11-00 21:59:58] PAGES PGT: OPIN775Cite as: 526 U. S. 756 (1999)Opinion of the Courtleak out over time to make potential patients skeptical ofany such across-the-board advertising, so undercutting themethod's effectiveness. Cf. Akerlof, 84 Q. J. Econ., at 495(explaining that "dishonest dealings tend to drive honestdealings out of the market"). It might be, too, that across-the-board discount advertisements would continue to attractbusiness indefinitely, but might work precisely because theywere misleading customers, and thus just because their effect would be anticompetitive, not procompetitive. Put an-other way, the CDA's rule appears to reflect the predictionthat any costs to competition associated with the eliminationof across-the-board advertising will be outweighed by gainsto consumer information (and hence competition) created bydiscount advertising that is exact, accurate, and more easilyverifiable (at least by regulators). As a matter of economicsthis view may or may not be correct, but it is not implausible,and neither a court nor the Commission may initially dismissit as presumptively wrong.12In theory, it is true, the Court of Appeals neither ruledout the plausibility of some procompetitive support for theCDA's requirements nor foreclosed the utility of an eviden-tiary discussion on the point. The court indirectly acknowledged the plausibility of procompetitive justifications for the12 Justice Breyer suggests that our analysis is "of limited relevance,"post, at 791, because "[t]he basic question is whether this . . . theoreticallyredeeming virtue in fact offsets the restrictions' anticompetitive effects inthis case," ibid. He thinks that the Commission and the Court of Appeals"adequately answered that question," ibid., but the absence of any empirical evidence on this point indicates that the question was not answered,merely avoided by implicit burden shifting of the kind accepted by Justice Breyer. The point is that before a theoretical claim of anticompetitive effects can justify shifting to a defendant the burden to show empirical evidence of procompetitive effects, as quick-look analysis in effectrequires, there must be some indication that the court making the decisionhas properly identified the theoretical basis for the anticompetitive effectsand considered whether the effects actually are anticompetitive. Where,as here, the circumstances of the restriction are somewhat complex, assumption alone will not do.526US3 Unit: $U62 [12-11-00 21:59:59] PAGES PGT: OPIN776 CALIFORNIA DENTAL ASSN. v. FTCOpinion of the CourtCDA's position when it stated that "the record provides noevidence that the rule has in fact led to increased disclosureand transparency of dental pricing," 128 F. 3d, at 728. Butbecause petitioner alone would have had the incentive to introduce such evidence, the statement sounds as though theCourt of Appeals may have thought it was justified withoutfurther analysis to shift a burden to the CDA to adduce hardevidence of the procompetitive nature of its policy; thecourt's adversion to empirical evidence at the moment ofthis implicit burden shifting underscores the leniency of itsenquiry into evidence of the restrictions' anticompetitiveeffects.The Court of Appeals was comparably tolerant in accepting the sufficiency of abbreviated rule-of-reason analysis asto the nonprice advertising restrictions. The court beganwith the argument that "[t]hese restrictions are in effect aform of output limitation, as they restrict the supply of information about individual dentists' services." Ibid. (citing P.Areeda & H. Hovenkamp, Antitrust Law || 1505, pp. 693-694(1997 Supp.)). Although this sentence does indeed appearas cited, it is puzzling, given that the relevant output forantitrust purposes here is presumably not information or advertising, but dental services themselves. The question isnot whether the universe of possible advertisements hasbeen limited (as assuredly it has), but whether the limitationon advertisements obviously tends to limit the total deliveryof dental services. The court came closest to addressingthis latter question when it went on to assert that limitingadvertisements regarding quality and safety "prevents dentists from fully describing the package of services theyoffer," 128 F. 3d, at 728, adding that "[t]he restrictions mayalso affect output more directly, as quality and comfort advertising may induce some customers to obtain nonemergency care when they might not otherwise do so," ibid.This suggestion about output is also puzzling. If quality advertising actually induces some patients to obtain more care526US3 Unit: $U62 [12-11-00 21:59:59] PAGES PGT: OPIN777Cite as: 526 U. S. 756 (1999)Opinion of the Courtthan they would in its absence, then restricting such adver-tising would reduce the demand for dental services, not thesupply; and it is of course the producers' supply of a good inrelation to demand that is normally relevant in determiningwhether a producer-imposed output limitation has the anti-competitive effect of artificially raising prices,13 see GeneralLeaseways, Inc. v. National Truck Leasing Assn., 744 F. 2d588, 594-595 (CA7 1984) ("An agreement on output alsoequates to a price-fixing agreement. If firms raise price, themarket's demand for their product will fall, so the amountsupplied will fall too--in other words, output will be re-stricted. If instead the firms restrict output directly, pricewill as mentioned rise in order to limit demand to the re-duced supply. Thus, with exceptions not relevant here, raising price, reducing output, and dividing markets have thesame anticompetitive effects").Although the Court of Appeals acknowledged the CDA'sview that "claims about quality are inherently unverifiableand therefore misleading," 128 F. 3d, at 728, it respondedthat this concern "does not justify banning all quality claimswithout regard to whether they are, in fact, false or mislead-ing,"ibid. As a result, the court said, "the restriction is asufficiently naked restraint on output to justify quick lookanalysis." Ibid. The court assumed, in these words, thatsome dental quality claims may escape justifiable censure,because they are both verifiable and true. But its implicit13 Justice Breyer wonders if we "mea[n] this statement as an argument against the anticompetitive tendencies that flow from an agreementnot to advertise service quality." Post, at 791. But as the preceding sentence shows, we intend simply to question the logic of the Court of Appeals's suggestion that the restrictions are anticompetitive because theysomehow "affect output," 128 F. 3d, at 728, presumably with the intent toraise prices by limiting supply while demand remains constant. We donot mean to deny that an agreement not to advertise service quality mighthave anticompetitive effects. We merely mean that, absent further analysis of the kind Justice Breyer undertakes, it is not possible to conclude that the net effect of this particular restriction is anticompetitive.526US3 Unit: $U62 [12-11-00 21:59:59] PAGES PGT: OPIN778 CALIFORNIA DENTAL ASSN. v. FTCOpinion of the Courtassumption fails to explain why it gave no weight to thecountervailing, and at least equally plausible, suggestion thatrestricting difficult-to-verify claims about quality or patientcomfort would have a procompetitive effect by preventingmisleading or false claims that distort the market. It is, indeed, entirely possible to understand the CDA's restrictionson unverifiable quality and comfort advertising as nothingmore than a procompetitive ban on puffery, cf. Bates, 433U. S., at 366 (claims relating to the quality of legal services"probably are not susceptible of precise measurement orverification and, under some circumstances, might well bedeceptive or misleading to the public, or even false"); id.,at 383-384 ("[A]dvertising claims as to the quality of services . . . are not susceptible of measurement or verification; accordingly, such claims may be so likely to be misleading as to warrant restriction"), notwithstanding JusticeBreyer's citation (to a Commission discussion that neverfaces the issue of the unverifiability of professional qualityclaims, raised in Bates), post, at 785.14The point is not that the CDA's restrictions necessarilyhave the procompetitive effect claimed by the CDA; it is possible that banning quality claims might have no effect at allon competitiveness if, for example, many dentists made verymuch the same sort of claims. And it is also of course possible that the restrictions might in the final analysis be anticompetitive. The point, rather, is that the plausibility ofcompeting claims about the effects of the professional advertising restrictions rules out the indulgently abbreviatedreview to which the Commission's order was treated. Theobvious anticompetitive effect that triggers abbreviatedanalysis has not been shown.14 The Commission said only that " `mere puffing' deceives no one andhas never been subject to regulation." 121 F. T. C., at 318. The questionhere, of course, is not whether puffery may be subject to governmentalregulation, but whether a professional organization may ban it.526US3 Unit: $U62 [12-11-00 21:59:59] PAGES PGT: OPIN779Cite as: 526 U. S. 756 (1999)Opinion of the CourtIn light of our focus on the adequacy of the Court of Ap-peals's analysis,Justice Breyer's thorough-going, de novoantitrust analysis contains much to impress on its own meritsbut little to demonstrate the sufficiency of the Court of Appeals's review. The obligation to give a more deliberate lookthan a quick one does not arise at the door of this Court andshould not be satisfied here in the first instance. Had theCourt of Appeals engaged in a painstaking discussion in aleague withJustice Breyer's (compare his 14 pages withthe Ninth Circuit's 8), and had it confronted the comparabil-ity of these restrictions to bars on clearly verifiable advertising, its reasoning might have sufficed to justify its conclusion.Certainly Justice Breyer's treatment of the antitrust issues here is no "quick look." Lingering is more like it, andindeed Justice Breyer, not surprisingly, stops short of endorsing the Court of Appeals's discussion as adequate to thetask at hand.Saying here that the Court of Appeals's conclusion at leastrequired a more extended examination of the possible factualunderpinnings than it received is not, of course, necessarilyto call for the fullest market analysis. Although we havesaid that a challenge to a "naked restraint on price and output" need not be supported by "a detailed market analysis"in order to "requir[e] some competitive justification," National Collegiate Athletic Assn., 468 U. S., at 110, it does notfollow that every case attacking a less obviously anticompetitive restraint (like this one) is a candidate for plenary marketexamination. The truth is that our categories of analysis ofanticompetitive effect are less fixed than terms like "per se,""quick look," and "rule of reason" tend to make them appear.We have recognized, for example, that "there is often nobright line separating per se from Rule of Reason analysis,"since "considerable inquiry into market conditions" may berequired before the application of any so-called "per se" condemnation is justified. Id., at 104, n. 26. "[W]hether theultimate finding is the product of a presumption or actual526US3 Unit: $U62 [12-11-00 21:59:59] PAGES PGT: OPIN780 CALIFORNIA DENTAL ASSN. v. FTCOpinion of the Courtmarket analysis, the essential inquiry remains the same--whether or not the challenged restraint enhances competition." Id., at 104. Indeed, the scholar who enriched anti-trust law with the metaphor of "the twinkling of an eye" forthe most condensed rule-of-reason analysis himself cautionedagainst the risk of misleading even in speaking of a "spectrum" of adequate reasonableness analysis for passing uponantitrust claims: "There is always something of a slidingscale in appraising reasonableness, but the sliding scale for-mula deceptively suggests greater precision than we canhope for. . . . Nevertheless, the quality of proof requiredshould vary with the circumstances." P. Areeda, AntitrustLaw || 1507, p. 402 (1986).15 At the same time, ProfessorAreeda also emphasized the necessity, particularly great inthe quasi-common law realm of antitrust, that courts explainthe logic of their conclusions. "By exposing their reasoning,judges . . . are subjected to others' critical analyses, whichin turn can lead to better understanding for the future."Id., || 1500, at 364. As the circumstances here demonstrate,there is generally no categorical line to be drawn between15 Other commentators have expressed similar views. See, e. g., Kolasky, Counterpoint: The Department of Justice's "Stepwise" ApproachImposes Too Heavy a Burden on Parties to Horizontal Agreements, Antitrust 41, 43 (spring 1998) ("[I]n applying the rule of reason, the courts, aswith any balancing test, use a sliding scale to determine how much proofto require"); Piraino, Making Sense of the Rule of Reason: A New Standard for Section 1 of the Sherman Act, 47 Vand. L. Rev. 1753, 1771 (1994)("[C]ourts will have to undertake varying degrees of inquiry dependingupon the type of restraint at issue. The legality of certain restraints willbe easy to determine because their competitive effects are obvious.Other restrictions will require a more detailed analysis because their competitive impact is more ambiguous"). But see Klein, A "Stepwise" Approach for Analyzing Horizontal Agreements Will Provide a Much NeededStructure for Antitrust Review, Antitrust 41, 42 (spring 1990) (examination of procompetitive justifications "is by no means a full scrutiny of theproffered efficiency justification. It is, rather, a hard look at the justification to determine if it meets the defendant's burden of coming forwardwith--but not establishing--a valid efficiency justification").526US3 Unit: $U62 [12-11-00 21:59:59] PAGES PGT: OPIN781Cite as: 526 U. S. 756 (1999)Opinion of Breyer, J.restraints that give rise to an intuitively obvious inferenceof anticompetitive effect and those that call for more detailedtreatment. What is required, rather, is an enquiry meet forthe case, looking to the circumstances, details, and logic of arestraint. The object is to see whether the experience ofthe market has been so clear, or necessarily will be, that aconfident conclusion about the principal tendency of a restriction will follow from a quick (or at least quicker) look, inplace of a more sedulous one. And of course what we seemay vary over time, if rule-of-reason analyses in case aftercase reach identical conclusions. For now, at least, a lessquick look was required for the initial assessment of thetendency of these professional advertising restrictions. Because the Court of Appeals did not scrutinize the assumptionof relative anticompetitive tendencies, we vacate the judgment and remand the case for a fuller consideration of theissue. It is so ordered.Justice Breyer, with whom Justice Stevens, JusticeKennedy, and Justice Ginsburg join, concurring in partand dissenting in part.I agree with the Court that the Federal Trade Commission(FTC or Commission) has jurisdiction over petitioner, andI join Parts I and II of its opinion. I also agree that ina "rule of reason" antitrust case "the quality of proof required should vary with the circumstances," that "[w]hat isrequired . . . is an enquiry meet for the case," and that theobject is a "confident conclusion about the principal tendencyof a restriction." Ante, at 780 and this page (internal quotation marks omitted). But I do not agree that the Court hasproperly applied those unobjectionable principles here. Inmy view, a traditional application of the rule of reason tothe facts as found by the Commission requires affirming theCommission--just as the Court of Appeals did below.526US3 Unit: $U62 [12-11-00 21:59:59] PAGES PGT: OPIN782 CALIFORNIA DENTAL ASSN. v. FTCOpinion of Breyer, J.IThe Commission's conclusion is lawful if its "factual findings," insofar as they are supported by "substantial evidence," "make out a violation of Sherman Act $ 1." FTCv. Indiana Federation of Dentists, 476 U. S. 447, 454-455(1986). To determine whether that is so, I would not simplyask whether the restraints at issue are anticompetitive overall. Rather, like the Court of Appeals (and the Commission), I would break that question down into four classical,subsidiary antitrust questions: (1) What is the specific restraint at issue? (2) What are its likely anticompetitive effects? (3) Are there offsetting procompetitive justifications? (4) Do the parties have sufficient market power tomake a difference?AThe most important question is the first: What are thespecific restraints at issue? See, e. g., National CollegiateAthletic Assn. v. Board of Regents of Univ. of Okla., 468U. S. 85, 98-100 (1984) (NCAA); Broadcast Music, Inc. v.Columbia Broadcasting System, Inc., 441 U. S. 1, 21-23(1979). Those restraints do not include merely the agreement to which the California Dental Association's (DentalAssociation or Association) ethical rule literally refers,namely, a promise to refrain from advertising that is " `falseor misleading in any material respect.' " Ante, at 760 (quoting California Dental Code of Ethics $ 10 (1993), App. 33).Instead, the Commission found a set of restraints arisingout of the way the Dental Association implemented thisinnocent-sounding ethical rule in practice, through advisory opinions, guidelines, enforcement policies, and review ofmembership applications. In re California Dental Assn.,121 F. T. C. 190 (1996). As implemented, the ethical rulereached beyond its nominal target, to prevent truthful andnondeceptive advertising. In particular, the Commissiondetermined that the rule, in practice:526US3 Unit: $U62 [12-11-00 21:59:59] PAGES PGT: OPIN783Cite as: 526 U. S. 756 (1999)Opinion of Breyer, J.(1) "precluded advertising that characterized a dentist'sfees as being low, reasonable, or affordable,"id., at 301;(2) "precluded advertising . . . of across the board dis-counts,"ibid.; and(3) "prohibit[ed] all quality claims," id., at 308.Whether the Dental Association's basic rule as implemented actually restrained the truthful and nondeceptive ad-vertising of low prices, across-the-board discounts, and quality service are questions of fact. The Administrative LawJudge (ALJ) and the Commission may have found thosequestions difficult ones. But both the ALJ and the Commission ultimately found against the Dental Association inrespect to these facts. And the question for us--whetherthose agency findings are supported by substantial evidence,see Indiana Federation, supra, at 454-455--is not difficult.The Court of Appeals referred explicitly to some of theevidence that it found adequate to support the Commission'sconclusions. It pointed out, for example, that the DentalAssociation's "advisory opinions and guidelines indicatethat . . . descriptions of prices as `reasonable' or `low' do notcomply" with the Association's rule; that in "numerous cases"the Association "advised members of objections to specialoffers, senior citizen discounts, and new patient discounts,apparently without regard to their truth"; and that one advisory opinion "expressly states that claims as to the qualityof services are inherently likely to be false or misleading,"all "without any particular consideration of whether" suchstatements were "true or false." 128 F. 3d 720, 729 (CA91997).The Commission itself had before it far more evidence. Itreferred to instances in which the Association, without regard for the truthfulness of the statements at issue, recommended denial of membership to dentists wishing to advertise, for example, "reasonable fees quoted in advance,""major savings," or "making teeth cleaning . . . inexpensive."526US3 Unit: $U62 [12-11-00 21:59:59] PAGES PGT: OPIN784 CALIFORNIA DENTAL ASSN. v. FTCOpinion of Breyer, J.121 F. T. C., at 301. It referred to testimony that "across-the-board discount advertising in literal compliance with therequirements `would probably take two pages in the tele-phone book' and `[n]obody is going to really advertise in thatfashion.' " Id., at 302. And it pointed to many instances inwhich the Dental Association suppressed such advertisingclaims as "we guarantee all dental work for 1 year," "latestin cosmetic dentistry," and "gentle dentistry in a caring environment." Id., at 308-310.I need not review the evidence further, for this Court hassaid that "substantial evidence" is a matter for the courts ofappeals, and that it "will intervene only in what ought to bethe rare instance when the standard appears to have beenmisapprehended or grossly misapplied." Universal CameraCorp. v. NLRB, 340 U. S. 474, 490-491 (1951). I have saidenough to make clear that this is not a case warranting ourintervention. Consequently, we must decide only the basiclegal question whether the three restraints described aboveunreasonably restrict competition.BDo each of the three restrictions mentioned have "the po-tential for genuine adverse effects on competition"?Indiana Federation, 476 U. S., at 460; 7 P. Areeda, Antitrust Law|| 1503a, pp. 372-377 (1986) (hereinafter Areeda). I shouldhave thought that the anticompetitive tendencies of the threerestrictions were obvious. An agreement not to advertisethat a fee is reasonable, that service is inexpensive, or thata customer will receive a discount makes it more difficult fora dentist to inform customers that he charges a lower price.If the customer does not know about a lower price, he willfind it more difficult to buy lower price service. That fact,in turn, makes it less likely that a dentist will obtain morecustomers by offering lower prices. And that likelihoodmeans that dentists will prove less likely to offer lowerprices. But why should I have to spell out the obvious? To526US3 Unit: $U62 [12-11-00 21:59:59] PAGES PGT: OPIN785Cite as: 526 U. S. 756 (1999)Opinion of Breyer, J.restrain truthful advertising about lower prices is likely torestrict competition in respect to price--"the central nervous system of the economy." United States v. SoconyVacuum Oil Co., 310 U. S. 150, 226, n. 59 (1940); cf., e. g.,Bates v. State Bar of Ariz., 433 U. S. 350, 364 (1977) (priceadvertising plays an "indispensable role in the allocation ofresources in a free enterprise system");Virginia Bd. ofPharmacy v. Virginia Citizens Consumer Council, Inc., 425U. S. 748, 765 (1976). The Commission thought this fact sufficient to hold (in the alternative) that the price advertisingrestrictions were unlawfulper se. See 121 F. T. C., at 307;cf. Socony-Vacuum, supra, at 222-228 (finding agreementamong competitors to buy "spot-market oil" unlawful per sebecause of its tendency to restrict price competition). Forpresent purposes, I need not decide whether the Commissionwas right in applying a per se rule. I need only assume arule of reason applies, and note the serious anticompetitivetendencies of the price advertising restraints.The restrictions on the advertising of service quality alsohave serious anticompetitive tendencies. This is not a caseof "mere puffing," as the FTC recognized. See 121 F. T. C.,at 317-318; cf. ante, at 778. The days of my youth, when thebillboards near Emeryville, California, home of AAA baseball's Oakland Oaks, displayed the name of "Painless" Parker,Dentist, are long gone--along with the Oakland Oaks. Butsome parents may still want to know that a particular dentistmakes a point of "gentle care." Others may want to knowabout 1-year dental work guarantees. To restrict that kindof service quality advertisement is to restrict competitionover the quality of service itself, for, unless consumers know,they may not purchase, and dentists may not compete to supply that which will make little difference to the demand fortheir services. That, at any rate, is the theory of the Sherman Act. And it is rather late in the day for anyone to denythe significant anticompetitive tendencies of an agreementthat restricts competition in any legitimate respect, see, e. g.,526US3 Unit: $U62 [12-11-00 21:59:59] PAGES PGT: OPIN786 CALIFORNIA DENTAL ASSN. v. FTCOpinion of Breyer, J.Paramount Famous Lasky Corp. v. United States, 282 U. S.30, 43 (1930); United States v. First Nat. Pictures, Inc., 282U. S. 44, 54-55 (1930), let alone one that inhibits customersfrom learning about the quality of a dentist's service.Nor did the Commission rely solely on the unobjectionableproposition that a restriction on the ability of dentists to advertise on quality is likely to limit their incentive to competeon quality. Rather, the Commission pointed to recordevidence affirmatively establishing that quality-based com-petition is important to dental consumers in California. 121F. T. C., at 309-311. Unsurprisingly, these consumerschoose dental services based at least in part on "informationabout the type and quality of service." Id., at 249. Simi-larly, as the Commission noted, the ALJ credited testimonyto the effect that "advertising the comfort of services will`absolutely' bring in more patients," and, conversely, that restraining the ability to advertise based on quality would de-crease the number of patients that a dentist could attract.Id., at 310. Finally, the Commission looked to the testimonyof dentists who themselves had suffered adverse effects ontheir business when forced by petitioner to discontinue ad-vertising quality of care. Seeid., at 310-311.The FTC found that the price advertising restrictionsamounted to a "naked attempt to eliminate price competi-tion." Id., at 300. It found that the service quality advertising restrictions "deprive consumers of information theyvalue and of healthy competition for their patronage."Id.,at 311. It added that the "anticompetitive nature of theserestrictions" was "plain." Ibid. The Court of Appealsagreed. I do not believe it possible to deny the anticompetitive tendencies I have mentioned.CWe must also ask whether, despite their anticompetitivetendencies, these restrictions might be justified by other procompetitive tendencies or redeeming virtues. See 7 Areeda,526US3 Unit: $U62 [12-11-00 21:59:59] PAGES PGT: OPIN787Cite as: 526 U. S. 756 (1999)Opinion of Breyer, J.|| 1504, at 377-383. This is a closer question--at least in the-ory. The Dental Association argues that the three relevantrestrictions are inextricably tied to a legitimate Associationeffort to restrict false or misleading advertising. The Association, the argument goes, had to prevent dentists from engaging in the kind of truthful, nondeceptive advertising thatit banned in order effectively to stop dentists from makingunverifiable claims about price or service quality, whichclaims would mislead the consumer.The problem with this or any similar argument is an em-pirical one. Notwithstanding its theoretical plausibility, therecord does not bear out such a claim. The Commission,which is expert in the area of false and misleading advertising, was uncertain whether petitioner had even made theclaim. It characterized petitioner's efficiencies argument asrooted in the (unproved) factual assertion that its ethical rule"challenges only advertising that is false or misleading."121 F. T. C., at 316 (emphasis added). Regardless, the Courtof Appeals wrote, in respect to the price restrictions, that"the record provides no evidence that the rule has in fact ledto increased disclosure and transparency of dental pricing."128 F. 3d, at 728. With respect to quality advertising, theCommission stressed that the Association "offered no convincing argument, let alone evidence, that consumers of dental services have been, or are likely to be, harmed by thebroad categories of advertising it restricts." 121 F. T. C., at319. Nor did the Court of Appeals think that the Association's unsubstantiated contention that "claims about qualityare inherently unverifiable and therefore misleading" could"justify banning all quality claims without regard to whetherthey are, in fact, false or misleading." 128 F. 3d, at 728.With one exception, my own review of the record revealsno significant evidentiary support for the proposition thatthe Association's members must agree to ban truthful priceand quality advertising in order to stop untruthful claims.The one exception is the obvious fact that one can stop un526US3 Unit: $U62 [12-11-00 21:59:59] PAGES PGT: OPIN788 CALIFORNIA DENTAL ASSN. v. FTCOpinion of Breyer, J.truthful advertising if one prohibits all advertising. Butsince the Association made virtually no effort to sift the falsefrom the true, see 121 F. T. C., at 316-317, that fact does notmake out a valid antitrust defense. See NCAA, 468 U. S.,at 119; 7 Areeda, || 1505, at 383-384.In the usual Sherman Act $ 1 case, the defendant bears theburden of establishing a procompetitive justification. SeeNational Soc. of Professional Engineers v. United States,435 U. S. 679, 695 (1978); 7 Areeda, || 1507b, at 397; 11 H.Hovenkamp, Antitrust Law || 1914c, pp. 313-315 (1998); seealso Law v. National Collegiate Athletic Assn., 134 F. 3d1010, 1019 (CA10), cert. denied, 525 U. S. 822 (1998); UnitedStates v. Brown Univ., 5 F. 3d 658, 669 (CA3 1993); CapitalImaging Associates v. Mohawk Valley Medical Associates,Inc., 996 F. 2d 537, 543 (CA2), cert. denied, 510 U. S. 947(1993); Kreuzer v. American Academy of Periodontology,735 F. 2d 1479, 1492-1495 (CADC 1984). And the Court ofAppeals was correct when it concluded that no such justification had been established here.DI shall assume that the Commission must prove one addi-tional circumstance, namely, that the Association's restraintswould likely have made a real difference in the marketplace.See 7 Areeda, || 1503, at 376-377. The Commission, disagreeing with the ALJ on this single point, found that theAssociation did possess enough market power to make adifference. In at least one region of California, the mid-peninsula, its members accounted for more than 90% of themarketplace; on average they accounted for 75%. See 121F. T. C., at 314. In addition, entry by new dentists intothe marketplace is fairly difficult. Dental education is ex-pensive (leaving graduates of dental school with $50,000-$100,000 of debt), as is opening a new dentistry office (whichcosts $75,000-$100,000).Id., at 315-316. And Dental Asso-ciation members believe membership in the Association is526US3 Unit: $U62 [12-11-00 21:59:59] PAGES PGT: OPIN789Cite as: 526 U. S. 756 (1999)Opinion of Breyer, J.important and valuable and recognized as such by the public.Id., at 312-313, 315-316.These facts, in the Court of Appeals' view, were sufficientto show "enough market power to harm competition through[the Association's] standard setting in the area of advertis-ing." 128 F. 3d, at 730. And that conclusion is correct.Restrictions on advertising price discounts in Palo Alto maymake a difference because potential patients may not respond readily to discount advertising by the handful (10%)of dentists who are not members of the Association. Andthat fact, in turn, means that the remaining 90% will proveless likely to engage in price competition. Facts such asthese have previously led this Court to find market power--unless the defendant has overcome the showing with strongcontrary evidence. See, e. g., Indiana Federation, 476 U. S.,at 456-457; cf. United States v. Loew's Inc., 371 U. S. 38,45 (1962); Brown Shoe Co. v. United States, 370 U. S. 294,341-344 (1962); accord, United States v. Aluminum Co. ofAmerica, 148 F. 2d 416, 424 (CA2 1945). I can find no reasonfor departing from that precedent here.IIIn the Court's view, the legal analysis conducted by theCourt of Appeals was insufficient, and the Court remandsthe case for a more thorough application of the rule of reason.But in what way did the Court of Appeals fail? I find theCourt's answers to this question unsatisfactory--when onedivides the overall Sherman Act question into its traditionalcomponent parts and adheres to traditional judicial practicefor allocating the burdens of persuasion in an antitrust case.Did the Court of Appeals misconceive the anticompetitivetendencies of the restrictions? After all, the object of therule of reason is to separate those restraints that "may sup-press or even destroy competition" from those that "merelyregulat[e] and perhaps thereby promot[e] competition."Board of Trade of Chicago v. United States, 246 U. S. 231,526US3 Unit: $U62 [12-11-00 21:59:59] PAGES PGT: OPIN790 CALIFORNIA DENTAL ASSN. v. FTCOpinion of Breyer, J.238 (1918). The majority says that the Association's "advertising restrictions might plausibly be thought to have a netprocompetitive effect, or possibly no effect at all on competition." Ante, at 771. It adds that"advertising restrictions arguably protecting patientsfrom misleading or irrelevant advertising call for morethan cursory treatment as obviously comparable to classic horizontal agreements to limit output or price competition." Ante, at 773.And it criticizes the Court of Appeals for failing to recognizethat "the restrictions at issue here are very far from a totalban on price or discount advertising" and that "the particular restrictions on professional advertising could have different effects from those `normally' found in the commercialworld, even to the point of promoting competition . . . ."Ibid.The problem with these statements is that the Court ofAppeals did consider the relevant differences. It rejectedthe legal "treatment" customarily applied "to classic horizontal agreements to limit output or price competition"--i. e.,the FTC's (alternative) per se approach. See 128 F. 3d, at726-727. It did so because the Association's "policies do not,on their face, ban truthful nondeceptive ads"; instead, they"have been enforced in a way that restricts truthful advertising," id., at 727. It added that "[t]he value of restrictingfalse advertising . . . counsels some caution in attacking rulesthat purport to do so but merely sweep too broadly." Ibid.Did the Court of Appeals misunderstand the nature of ananticompetitive effect? The Court says:"If quality advertising actually induces some patients toobtain more care than they would in its absence, thenrestricting such advertising would reduce the demandfor dental services, not the supply; and . . . the producers' supply . . . is normally relevant in determining526US3 Unit: $U62 [12-11-00 21:59:59] PAGES PGT: OPIN791Cite as: 526 U. S. 756 (1999)Opinion of Breyer, J.whether a . . . limitation has the anticompetitive effectof artificially raising prices." Ante, at 776-777.But if the Court means this statement as an argumentagainst the anticompetitive tendencies that flow from anagreement not to advertise service quality, I believe it is themajority, and not the Court of Appeals, that is mistaken.An agreement not to advertise, say, "gentle care" is anticom-petitive because it imposes an artificial barrier against eachdentist's independent decision to advertise gentle care.That barrier, in turn, tends to inhibit those dentists whowant to supply gentle care from getting together with thosecustomers who want to buy gentle care. See P. Areeda &H. Hovenkamp, Antitrust Law || 1505*, p. 404 (Supp. 1998).There is adequate reason to believe that tendency present inthis case. See supra, at 786.Did the Court of Appeals inadequately consider possibleprocompetitive justifications? The Court seems to think so,for it says:"[T]he [Association's] rule appears to reflect the predic-tion that any costs to competition associated with theelimination of across-the-board advertising will be out-weighed by gains to consumer information (and hencecompetition) created by discount advertising that isexact, accurate, and more easily verifiable (at least byregulators)." Ante, at 775.That may or may not be an accurate assessment of the Asso-ciation's motives in adopting its rule, but it is of limited relevance. Cf. Board of Trade of Chicago, supra, at 238. Thebasic question is whether this, or some other, theoreticallyredeeming virtue in fact offsets the restrictions' anticom-petitive effects in this case. Both court and Commissionadequately answered that question.The Commission found that the defendant did not makethe necessary showing that a redeeming virtue existed inpractice. See 121 F. T. C., at 319-320. The Court of Ap526US3 Unit: $U62 [12-11-00 21:59:59] PAGES PGT: OPIN792 CALIFORNIA DENTAL ASSN. v. FTCOpinion of Breyer, J.peals, asking whether the rules, as enforced, "augment[ed]competition and increase[d] market efficiency," found theCommission's conclusion supported by substantial evidence.128 F. 3d, at 728. That is why the court said that "therecord provides no evidence that the rule has in fact led toincreased disclosure and transparency of dental pricing"--which is to say that the record provides no evidence that theeffects, though anticompetitive, are nonetheless redeemed orjustified.Ibid.The majority correctly points out that "petitioner alonewould have had the incentive to introduce such evidence" ofprocompetitive justification. Ante, at 776. (Indeed, that isone of the reasons defendants normally bear the burden ofpersuasion about redeeming virtues. See supra, at 788.)But despite this incentive, petitioner's brief in this Courtoffers nothing concrete to counter the Commission's conclusion that the record does not support the claim of justification. Petitioner's failure to produce such evidence itself"explain[s] why [the lower court] gave no weight to the . . .suggestion that restricting difficult-to-verify claims aboutquality or patient comfort would have a procompetitive effect by preventing misleading or false claims that distort themarket." Ante, at 778.With respect to the restraint on advertising across-theboard discounts, the majority summarizes its concerns as follows: "Assuming that the record in fact supports the conclusion that the [Association's] disclosure rules essentially baradvertisement of [such] discounts, it does not obviously follow that such a ban would have a net anticompetitive effecthere." Ante, at 774. I accept, rather than assume, thepremise: The FTC found that the disclosure rules did baradvertisement of across-the-board discounts, and that findingis supported by substantial evidence. See supra, at 783-784. And I accept as literally true the conclusion that theCourt says follows from that premise, namely, that "net anticompetitive effects" do not "obviously" follow from that526US3 Unit: $U62 [12-11-00 21:59:59] PAGES PGT: OPIN793Cite as: 526 U. S. 756 (1999)Opinion of Breyer, J.premise. But obviousness is not the point. With respectto any of the three restraints found by the Commission,whether "net anticompetitive effects" follow is a matter ofhow the Commission, and, here, the Court of Appeals, haveanswered the questions I laid out at the beginning. Seesupra, at 782. Has the Commission shown that the restric-tion has anticompetitive tendencies? It has. Has the Association nonetheless shown offsetting virtues? It has not.Has the Commission shown market power sufficient for itto believe that the restrictions will likely make a real worlddifference? It has.The upshot, in my view, is that the Court of Appeals,applying ordinary antitrust principles, reached an unexceptional conclusion. It is the same legal conclusion that thisCourt itself reached in Indiana Federation--a much closercase than this one. There the Court found that an agreement by dentists not to submit dental X rays to insurersviolated the rule of reason. The anticompetitive tendencyof that agreement was to reduce competition among dentistsin respect to their willingness to submit X rays to insurers,see 476 U. S., at 456--a matter in respect to which consumersare relatively indifferent, as compared to advertising of pricediscounts and service quality, the matters at issue here.The redeeming virtue in Indiana Federation was the allegedundesirability of having insurers consider a range of matterswhen deciding whether treatment was justified--a virtue noless plausible, and no less proved, than the virtue offeredhere. See id., at 462-464. The "power" of the dentists toenforce their agreement was no greater than that at issuehere (control of 75% to 90% of the relevant markets). Seeid., at 460. It is difficult to see how the two cases can bereconciled.* * *I would note that the form of analysis I have followed isnot rigid; it admits of some variation according to the circumstances. The important point, however, is that its allocation526US3 Unit: $U62 [12-11-00 21:59:59] PAGES PGT: OPIN794 CALIFORNIA DENTAL ASSN. v. FTCOpinion of Breyer, J.of the burdens of persuasion reflects a gradual evolutionwithin the courts over a period of many years. That evolution represents an effort carefully to blend the procompeti-tive objectives of the law of antitrust with administrativenecessity. It represents a considerable advance, both fromthe days when the Commission had to present and/or refuteevery possible fact and theory, and from antitrust theoriesso abbreviated as to prevent proper analysis. The formerprevented cases from ever reaching a conclusion, cf. Bok,Section 7 of the Clayton Act and the Merging of Law andEconomics, 74 Harv. L. Rev. 226, 266 (1960), and the lattercalled forth the criticism that the "Government alwayswins," United States v. Von's Grocery Co., 384 U. S. 270, 301(1966) (Stewart, J., dissenting). I hope that this case doesnot represent an abandonment of that basic, and important,form of analysis.For these reasons, I respectfully dissent from Part III ofthe Court's opinion.526US3 Unit: $U63 [12-11-00 22:03:47] PAGES PGT: OPIN795OCTOBER TERM, 1998SyllabusCLEVELAND v. POLICY MANAGEMENT SYSTEMSCORP.et al.certiorari to the united states court of appeals forthe fifth circuitNo. 97-1008. Argued February 24, 1999--Decided May 24, 1999After suffering a stroke and losing her job, petitioner Cleveland soughtand obtained Social Security Disability Insurance (SSDI) benefits,claiming that she was unable to work due to her disability. The weekbefore her SSDI award, she filed suit under the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (ADA), contending that her former employer, respondent Policy Management Systems Corporation, had discriminated againsther on account of her disability. In granting Policy Management Systems summary judgment, the District Court concluded that Cleveland'sclaim that she was totally disabled for SSDI purposes estopped her fromproving an essential element of her ADA claim, namely, that she could"perform the essential functions" of her job, at least with "reasonable . . .accommodation," 42 U. S. C. $ 12111(8). The Fifth Circuit affirmed,holding that the application for, or receipt of, SSDI benefits creates arebuttable presumption that a recipient is estopped from pursuing anADA claim and that Cleveland failed to rebut the presumption.Held:1. Pursuit, and receipt, of SSDI benefits does not automatically estopa recipient from pursuing an ADA claim or erect a strong presumption against the recipient's ADA success. However, to survive a summary judgment motion, an ADA plaintiff cannot ignore her SSDI contention that she was too disabled to work, but must explain why thatcontention is consistent with her ADA claim that she can perform theessential functions of her job, at least with reasonable accommodation.Pp. 801-807.(a) Despite the appearance of conflict between the SSDI program(which provides benefits to a person with a disability so severe that sheis unable to do her previous work or any other kind of substantial gainful work) and the ADA (which prohibits covered employers from discriminating against a disabled person who can perform the essentialfunctions of her job, including those who can do so only with reasonableaccommodation), the two claims do not inherently conflict to the pointwhere courts should apply a special negative presumption such as theone applied below. There are many situations in which an SSDI claimand an ADA claim can comfortably exist side by side. For example,526US3 Unit: $U63 [12-11-00 22:03:47] PAGES PGT: OPIN796 CLEVELAND v. POLICY MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS CORP.Syllabussince the Social Security Administration (SSA) does not take into account the possibility of "reasonable accommodation" in determiningSSDI eligibility, an ADA plaintiff's claim that she can perform her jobwith reasonable accommodation may well prove consistent with an SSDIclaim that she could not perform her own job (or other jobs) without it.An individual might qualify for SSDI under SSA's administrative rulesand yet, due to special individual circumstances, be capable of performing the essential functions of her job. Or her condition might havechanged over time, so that a statement about her disability made at thetime of her application for SSDI benefits does not reflect her capacitiesat the time of the relevant employment decision. Thus, this Courtwould not apply a special legal presumption permitting someone whohas applied for, or received, SSDI benefits to bring an ADA suit only insome limited and highly unusual set of circumstances. Pp. 801-805.(b) Nonetheless, in some cases an earlier SSDI claim may turn outgenuinely to conflict with an ADA claim. Summary judgment for adefendant is appropriate when a plaintiff fails to make a sufficient showing to establish the existence of an essential element on which she hasthe burden of proof at trial. Celotex Corp. v. Catrett, 477 U. S. 317,322. An ADA plaintiff's sworn assertion in an application for disabilitybenefits that she is unable to work appears to negate the essential element of her ADA claim that she can perform the essential functionsof her job, and a court should require an explanation of this apparentinconsistency. To defeat summary judgment, that explanation must besufficient to warrant a reasonable juror's concluding that, assuming thetruth of, or the plaintiff's good-faith belief in, the earlier statement, theplaintiff could nonetheless perform the essential functions of her job,with or without reasonable accommodation. Pp. 805-807.2. Here, the parties should have the opportunity in the trial court topresent, or to contest, Cleveland's explanations for the discrepancy between her SSDI statements and her ADA claim, which include that theSSDI statements that she was totally disabled were made in a forumthat does not consider the effect that reasonable workplace accommodation would have on her ability to work and that those statements werereliable at the time they were made. P. 807.120 F. 3d 513, vacated and remanded.Breyer, J., delivered the opinion for a unanimous Court.John E. Wall, Jr., argued the cause for petitioner. Withhim on the brief was Laura Eardley Calhoun.526US3 Unit: $U63 [12-11-00 22:03:47] PAGES PGT: OPIN797Cite as: 526 U. S. 795 (1999)Opinion of the CourtMatthew D. Roberts argued the cause for the UnitedStates et al. asamici curiae urging reversal. With himon the brief were Solicitor General Waxman, Acting Assistant Attorney General Lee, Deputy Solicitor GeneralUnderwood, Arthur J. Fried, C. Gregory Stewart, PhilipB. Sklover, Lorraine C. Davis, and Robert J. Gregory.Stephen G. Morrison argued the cause for respondents.With him on the brief were C. Adair Bledsoe, Jr., David N.Kitner, and Kimberly S. Moore.*Justice Breyer delivered the opinion of the Court.The Social Security Disability Insurance (SSDI) programprovides benefits to a person with a disability so severe thatshe is "unable to do [her] previous work" and "cannot . . .engage in any other kind of substantial gainful work whichexists in the national economy." $ 223(a) of the Social Security Act, as set forth in 42 U. S. C. $ 423(d)(2)(A). This caseasks whether the law erects a special presumption thatwould significantly inhibit an SSDI recipient from simultane-ously pursuing an action for disability discrimination underthe Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (ADA), claimingthat "with . . . reasonable accommodation" she could "perform the essential functions" of her job. $ 101, 104 Stat. 331,42 U. S. C. $ 12111(8).We believe that, in context, these two seemingly divergentstatutory contentions are often consistent, each with theother. Thus pursuit, and receipt, of SSDI benefits does notautomatically estop the recipient from pursuing an ADAclaim. Nor does the law erect a strong presumption against*Briefs of amici curiae urging reversal were filed for the Aids PolicyCenter for Children, Youth, and Families et al. by Catherine A. Hanssensand Beatrice Dohrn; and for the National Employment Lawyers Association et al. by Alan B. Epstein and Paula A. Brantner.Briefs of amici curiae urging affirmance were filed for the Associationof American Railroads by Daniel Saphire; and for the Equal EmploymentAdvisory Council by Ann Elizabeth Reesman.526US3 Unit: $U63 [12-11-00 22:03:47] PAGES PGT: OPIN798 CLEVELAND v. POLICY MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS CORP.Opinion of the Courtthe recipient's success under the ADA. Nonetheless, anADA plaintiff cannot simply ignore her SSDI contention thatshe was too disabled to work. To survive a defendant's mo-tion for summary judgment, she must explain why that SSDIcontention is consistent with her ADA claim that she could"perform the essential functions" of her previous job, at leastwith "reasonable accommodation."IAfter suffering a disabling stroke and losing her job, Car-olyn Cleveland sought and obtained SSDI benefits from theSocial Security Administration (SSA). She has also broughtthis ADA suit in which she claims that her former employer,Policy Management Systems Corporation, discriminatedagainst her on account of her disability. The two claimsdeveloped in the following way:August 1993: Cleveland began work at Policy Man-agement Systems. Her job required her to performbackground checks on prospective employees of PolicyManagement System's clients.January 7, 1994: Cleveland suffered a stroke, whichdamaged her concentration, memory, and languageskills.January 28, 1994: Cleveland filed an SSDI application inwhich she stated that she was "disabled" and "unable towork." App. 21.April 11, 1994: Cleveland's condition having improved,she returned to work with Policy Management Systems.She reported that fact to the SSA two weeks later.July 11, 1994: Noting that Cleveland had returned towork, the SSA denied her SSDI application.July 15, 1994: Policy Management Systems firedCleveland.September 14, 1994: Cleveland asked the SSA to recon-sider its July 11th SSDI denial. In doing so, she said:526US3 Unit: $U63 [12-11-00 22:03:47] PAGES PGT: OPIN799Cite as: 526 U. S. 795 (1999)Opinion of the Court"I was terminated [by Policy Management Systems] dueto my condition and I have not been able to work since.I continue to be disabled." Id., at 46. She later addedthat she had "attempted to return to work in mid April,"that she had "worked for three months," and that Policy Management Systems terminated her because she"could no longer do the job" in light of her "condition."Id., at 47.November 1994: The SSA denied Cleveland's request forreconsideration. Cleveland sought an SSA hearing, reiterating that "I am unable to work due to my disability," and presenting new evidence about the extent ofher injuries. Id., at 79.September 29, 1995: The SSA awarded Cleveland SSDIbenefits retroactive to the day of her stroke, January7, 1994.On September 22, 1995, the week before her SSDI award,Cleveland brought this ADA lawsuit. She contended thatPolicy Management Systems had "terminat[ed]" her employment without reasonably "accommodat[ing] her disability."Id., at 7. She alleged that she requested, but was denied,accommodations such as training and additional time to complete her work. Id., at 96. And she submitted a supportingaffidavit from her treating physician. Id., at 101. The District Court did not evaluate her reasonable accommodationclaim on the merits, but granted summary judgment to thedefendant because, in that court's view, Cleveland, by applying for and receiving SSDI benefits, had conceded that shewas totally disabled. And that fact, the court concluded,now estopped Cleveland from proving an essential element ofher ADA claim, namely, that she could "perform the essentialfunctions" of her job, at least with "reasonable accommodation." 42 U. S. C. $ 12111(8).526US3 Unit: $U63 [12-11-00 22:03:47] PAGES PGT: OPIN800 CLEVELAND v. POLICY MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS CORP.Opinion of the CourtThe Fifth Circuit affirmed the District Court's grant ofsummary judg ment. 120 F. 3d 513 (1997). The courtwrote:"[T]he application for or the receipt of social securitydisability benefits creates arebuttable presumption thatthe claimant or recipient of such benefits is judiciallyestopped from asserting that he is a `qualified individualwith a disability.' "Id., at 518.The Circuit Court noted that it was "at least theoreticallyconceivable that under some limited and highly unusual setof circumstances the two claims would not necessarily bemutually exclusive."Id., at 517. But it concluded that,because"Cleveland consistently represented to the SSA that shewas totally disabled, she has failed to raise a genuineissue of material fact rebutting the presumption that sheis judicially estopped from now asserting that for thetime in question she was nevertheless a `qualified indi-vidual with a disability' for purposes of her ADA claim."Id., at 518-519.We granted certiorari in light of disagreement among theCircuits about the legal effect upon an ADA suit of the application for, or receipt of, disability benefits. Compare, e. g.,Rascon v. U S West Communications, Inc., 143 F. 3d 1324,1332 (CA10 1998) (application for, and receipt of, SSDI benefits is relevant to, but does not estop plaintiff from bringing,an ADA claim);Griffith v. Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., 135 F. 3d376, 382 (CA6 1998) (same), cert. pending, No. 97-1991;Swanks v. Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Author-ity, 116 F. 3d 582, 586 (CADC 1997) (same), with McNemarv. Disney Store, Inc., 91 F. 3d 610, 618-620 (CA3 1996)(applying judicial estoppel to bar plaintiff who applied fordisability benefits from bringing suit under the ADA), cert.denied, 519 U. S. 1115 (1997), andKennedy v. Applause, Inc.,90 F. 3d 1477, 1481-1482 (CA9 1996) (declining to apply judi526US3 Unit: $U63 [12-11-00 22:03:47] PAGES PGT: OPIN801Cite as: 526 U. S. 795 (1999)Opinion of the Courtcial estoppel but holding that claimant who declared totaldisability in a benefits application failed to raise a genuineissue of material fact as to whether she was a qualified indi-vidual with a disability).IIThe Social Security Act and the ADA both help individualswith disabilities, but in different ways. The Social SecurityAct provides monetary benefits to every insured individualwho "is under a disability." 42 U. S. C. $ 423(a)(1). The Actdefines "disability" as an"inability to engage in any substantial gainful activityby reason of any . . . physical or mental impairmentwhich can be expected to result in death or which haslasted or can be expected to last for a continuous periodof not less than 12 months." $ 423(d)(1)(A).The individual's impairment, as we have said, supra, at 797,must be"of such severity that [she] is not only unable to do [her]previous work but cannot, considering [her] age, education, and work experience, engage in any other kind ofsubstantial gainful work which exists in the nationaleconomy . . . ." $ 423(d)(2)(A).The ADA seeks to eliminate unwarranted discriminationagainst disabled individuals in order both to guarantee thoseindividuals equal opportunity and to provide the Nation withthe benefit of their consequently increased productivity.See, e. g., 42 U. S. C. $$ 12101(a)(8), (9). The ADA prohibitscovered employers from discriminating "against a qualifiedindividual with a disability because of the disability of suchindividual." $ 12112(a). The ADA defines a "qualified individual with a disability" as a disabled person "who . . . canperform the essential functions" of her job, including thosewho can do so only "with . . . reasonable accommodation."$ 12111(8).526US3 Unit: $U63 [12-11-00 22:03:47] PAGES PGT: OPIN802 CLEVELAND v. POLICY MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS CORP.Opinion of the CourtWe here consider but one of the many ways in which thesetwo statutes might interact. This case doesnot involve, forexample, the interaction of either of the statutes before uswith other statutes, such as the Federal Employers' LiabilityAct, 45 U. S. C. $ 51 et seq. Nor does it involve directly conflicting statements about purely factual matters, such as"The light was red/green," or "I can/cannot raise my armabove my head." An SSA representation of total disabilitydiffers from a purely factual statement in that it oftenimplies a context-related legal conclusion, namely, "I amdisabled for purposes of the Social Security Act." And ourconsideration of this latter kind of statement consequentlyleaves the law related to the former, purely factual, kind ofconflict where we found it.The case before us concerns an ADA plaintiff who bothapplied for, and received, SSDI benefits. It requires us toreview a Court of Appeals decision upholding the grant ofsummary judgment on the ground that an ADA plaintiff 's"represent[ation] to the SSA that she was totally disabled"created a "rebuttable presumption" sufficient to "judiciallyesto[p]" her later representation that, "for the time in question," with reasonable accommodation, she could perform theessential functions of her job. 120 F. 3d, at 518-519. TheCourt of Appeals thought, in essence, that claims under bothActs would incorporate two directly conflicting propositions,namely, "I am too disabled to work" and "I am not too disabled to work." And in an effort to prevent two claims thatwould embody that kind of factual conflict, the court used aspecial judicial presumption, which it believed would ordinarily prevent a plaintiff like Cleveland from successfullyasserting an ADA claim.In our view, however, despite the appearance of conflictthat arises from the language of the two statutes, the twoclaims do not inherently conflict to the point where courtsshould apply a special negative presumption like the one applied by the Court of Appeals here. That is because there526US3 Unit: $U63 [12-11-00 22:03:47] PAGES PGT: OPIN803Cite as: 526 U. S. 795 (1999)Opinion of the Courtare too many situations in which an SSDI claim and an ADAclaim can comfortably exist side by side.For one thing, as we have noted, the ADA defines a"qualified individual" to include a disabled person "who. . . can perform the essential functions" of her job "withreasonable accommodation." Reasonable accommodationsmay include:"job restructuring, part-time or modified work schedules, reassignment to a vacant position, acquisition ormodification of equipment or devices, appropriate adjustment or modifications of examinations, training materials or policies, the provision of qualified readers orinterpreters, and other similar accommodations." 42U. S. C. $ 12111(9)(B).By way of contrast, when the SSA determines whether anindividual is disabled for SSDI purposes, it does not take thepossibility of "reasonable accommodation" into account, norneed an applicant refer to the possibility of reasonable ac-commodation when she applies for SSDI. See Memorandumfrom Daniel L. Skoler, Associate Comm'r for Hearings andAppeals, SSA, to Administrative Appeals Judges, reprintedin 2 Social Security Practice Guide, App. $ 15C[9], pp. 15-401to 15-402 (1998). The omission reflects the facts that theSSA receives more than 2.5 million claims for disability benefits each year; its administrative resources are limited; thematter of "reasonable accommodation" may turn on highlydisputed workplace-specific matters; and an SSA misjudg-ment about that detailed, and often fact-specific matterwould deprive a seriously disabled person of the critical financial support the statute seeks to provide. See Brief forUnited States et al. as Amici Curiae 10-11, and n. 2, 13.The result is that an ADA suit claiming that the plaintiff canperform her job with reasonable accommodation may wellprove consistent with an SSDI claim that the plaintiff couldnot perform her own job (or other jobs) without it.526US3 Unit: $U63 [12-11-00 22:03:47] PAGES PGT: OPIN804 CLEVELAND v. POLICY MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS CORP.Opinion of the CourtFor another thing, in order to process the large number ofSSDI claims, the SSA administers SSDI with the help of afive-step procedure that embodies a set of presumptionsabout disabilities, job availability, and their interrelation.The SSA asks:Step One: Are you presently working? (If so, you areineligible.) See 20 CFR $ 404.1520(b) (1998).Step Two: Do you have a "severe impairment," i. e.,one that "significantly limits" your ability to do basicwork activities? (If not, you are ineligible.) See$ 404.1520(c).Step Three: Does your impairment "mee[t] or equa[l]"an impairment on a specific (and fairly lengthy) SSAlist? (If so, you are eligible without more.) See$$ 404.1520(d), 404.1525, 404.1526.Step Four: If your impairment does not meet or equal alisted impairment, can you perform your "past relevantwork?" (If so, you are ineligible.) See $ 404.1520(e).Step Five: If your impairment does not meet or equal alisted impairment and you cannot perform your "pastrelevant work," then can you perform other jobs thatexist in significant numbers in the national economy?(If not, you are eligible.) See $$ 404.1520(f ), 404.1560(c).The presumptions embodied in these questions--particularlythose necessary to produce Step Three's list, which, the Government tells us, accounts for approximately 60 percent ofall awards, see Tr. of Oral Arg. 20--grow out of the needto administer a large benefits system efficiently. But theyinevitably simplify, eliminating consideration of many differences potentially relevant to an individual's ability to perform a particular job. Hence, an individual might qualifyfor SSDI under the SSA's administrative rules and yet, dueto special individual circumstances, remain capable of "perform[ing] the essential functions" of her job.526US3 Unit: $U63 [12-11-00 22:03:47] PAGES PGT: OPIN805Cite as: 526 U. S. 795 (1999)Opinion of the CourtFurther, the SSA sometimes grants SSDI benefits to indi-viduals who not only can work, but are working. For example, to facilitate a disabled person's reentry into the workforce, the SSA authorizes a 9-month trial-work period duringwhich SSDI recipients may receive full benefits. See 42U. S. C. $$ 422(c), 423(e)(1); 20 CFR $ 404.1592 (1998). Seealso $ 404.1592a (benefits available for an additional 15-monthperiod depending upon earnings). Improvement in a totallydisabled person's physical condition, while permitting thatperson to work, will not necessarily or immediately lead theSSA to terminate SSDI benefits. And the nature of an individual's disability may change over time, so that a statementabout that disability at the time of an individual's applicationfor SSDI benefits may not reflect an individual's capacitiesat the time of the relevant employment decision.Finally, if an individual has merely applied for, but has notbeen awarded, SSDI benefits, any inconsistency in the theoryof the claims is of the sort normally tolerated by our legalsystem. Our ordinary Rules recognize that a person maynot be sure in advance upon which legal theory she will succeed, and so permit parties to "set forth two or more statements of a claim or defense alternately or hypothetically,"and to "state as many separate claims or defenses as theparty has regardless of consistency." Fed. Rule Civ. Proc.8(e)(2). We do not see why the law in respect to the assertion of SSDI and ADA claims should differ. (And, as wesaid, we leave the law in respect to purely factual contradictions where we found it.)In light of these examples, we would not apply a speciallegal presumption permitting someone who has applied for,or received, SSDI benefits to bring an ADA suit only in"some limited and highly unusual set of circumstances."120 F. 3d, at 517.Nonetheless, in some cases an earlier SSDI claim may turnout genuinely to conflict with an ADA claim. Summaryjudgment for a defendant is appropriate when the plaintiff526US3 Unit: $U63 [12-11-00 22:03:47] PAGES PGT: OPIN806 CLEVELAND v. POLICY MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS CORP.Opinion of the Court"fails to make a showing sufficient to establish the existenceof an element essential to [her] case, and on which [she] willbear the burden of proof at trial." Celotex Corp. v. Catrett,477 U. S. 317, 322 (1986). An ADA plaintiff bears the burden of proving that she is a "qualified individual with a disability"--that is, a person "who, with or without reasonableaccommodation, can perform the essential functions" of herjob. 42 U. S. C. $ 12111(8). And a plaintiff 's sworn asser-tion in an application for disability benefits that she is, forexample, "unable to work" will appear to negate an essentialelement of her ADA case--at least if she does not offer asufficient explanation. For that reason, we hold that anADA plaintiff cannot simply ignore the apparent contradiction that arises out of the earlier SSDI total disability claim.Rather, she must proffer a sufficient explanation.The lower courts, in somewhat comparable circumstances,have found a similar need for explanation. They have heldwith virtual unanimity that a party cannot create a genuineissue of fact sufficient to survive summary judgment simplyby contradicting his or her own previous sworn statement(by, say, filing a later affidavit that flatly contradicts thatparty's earlier sworn deposition) without explaining the contradiction or attempting to resolve the disparity. See, e. g.,Colantuoni v. Alfred Calcagni & Sons, Inc., 44 F. 3d 1, 5(CA1 1994); Rule v. Brine, Inc., 85 F. 3d 1002, 1011 (CA21996); Hackman v. Valley Fair, 932 F. 2d 239, 241 (CA3 1991);Barwick v. Celotex Corp., 736 F. 2d 946, 960 (CA4 1984); Albertson v. T. J. Stevenson & Co., 749 F. 2d 223, 228 (CA51984); Davidson & Jones Development Co. v. Elmore Development Co., 921 F. 2d 1343, 1352 (CA6 1991); Slowiak v. LandO'Lakes, Inc., 987 F. 2d 1293, 1297 (CA7 1993); CamfieldTires, Inc. v. Michelin Tire Corp., 719 F. 2d 1361, 1365-1366(CA8 1983); Kennedy v. Allied Mutual Ins. Co., 952 F. 2d262, 266 (CA9 1991); Franks v. Nimmo, 796 F. 2d 1230, 1237(CA10 1986); Tippens v. Celotex Corp., 805 F. 2d 949, 953-954(CA11 1986); Pyramid Securities Ltd. v. IB Resolution, Inc.,526US3 Unit: $U63 [12-11-00 22:03:47] PAGES PGT: OPIN807Cite as: 526 U. S. 795 (1999)Opinion of the Court924 F. 2d 1114, 1123 (CADC), cert. denied, 502 U. S. 822(1991); Sinskey v. Pharmacia Opthalmics, Inc., 982 F. 2d494, 498 (CA Fed. 1992), cert. denied, 508 U. S. 912 (1993).Although these cases for the most part involve purely factualcontradictions (as to which we do not necessarily endorsethese cases, but leave the law as we found it), we believethat a similar insistence upon explanation is warranted here,where the conflict involves a legal conclusion. When facedwith a plaintiff 's previous sworn statement asserting "totaldisability" or the like, the court should require an explanation of any apparent inconsistency with the necessary ele-ments of an ADA claim. To defeat summary judgment, thatexplanation must be sufficient to warrant a reasonable ju-ror's concluding that, assuming the truth of, or the plaintiff 'sgood-faith belief in, the earlier statement, the plaintiff couldnonetheless "perform the essential functions" of her job, withor without "reasonable accommodation."IIIIn her brief in this Court, Cleveland explains the discrep-ancy between her SSDI statements that she was "totally disabled" and her ADA claim that she could "perform the essen-tial functions" of her job. The first statements, she says,"were made in a forum which does not consider the effectthat reasonable workplace accommodations would have onthe ability to work." Brief for Petitioner 43. Moreover,she claims the SSDI statements were "accurate statements"if examined "in the time period in which they were made."Ibid. The parties should have the opportunity in the trialcourt to present, or to contest, these explanations, in swornform where appropriate. Accordingly, we vacate the judg-ment of the Court of Appeals and remand the case for further proceedings consistent with this opinion.