The Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974(ERISA), as amended by the Consolidated Omnibus BudgetReconciliation Act of 1985 (COBRA), authorizes a qualifiedbeneficiary of an employer's group health plan to obtain continued coverage under the plan when he might otherwiselose that benefit for certain reasons, such as the terminationof employment. The issue in this case is whether 29 U. S. C.$ 1162(2)(D)(i) allows an employer to deny COBRA continua-tion coverage to a qualified beneficiary who is covered underanother group health plan at the time he makes his COBRAelection. We hold that it does not.IOn July 16, 1993, respondent Moore Medical Corporationfired James Geissal, who was suffering from cancer. Whileemployed, Geissal was covered under Moore's group healthplan as well as the health plan provided by his wife's employer, Trans World Airlines (TWA), through Aetna Life Insurance Company.According to Geissal, soon after he lost his job, Moore toldhim that he had a right under COBRA to elect to continuecoverage under Moore's plan. Geissal so elected, and madethe necessary premium payments for six months. On January 27, 1994, however, Moore informed Geissal it had beenmistaken: he was not actually entitled to COBRA benefits*Gill Deford, Mary Ellen Signorille, Melvin Radowitz, Daniel Feinberg, and Ronald G. Dean filed a brief for the American Association ofRetired Persons et al. as amici curiae urging reversal.Ray M. Aragon, Barbara J. Bacon, and Jeffrey Gabardi filed a brief forthe Health Insurance Association of America as amicus curiae urgingaffirmance.524us1$75M 02-18-99 19:35:21 PAGES OPINPGT77Cite as: 524 U. S. 74 (1998)Opinion of the Courtbecause on the date of his election he was already coveredby another group health plan, through his wife's employer.Geissal then brought this suit against Moore, the GroupBenefit Plan of Moore Medical Group, Herbert Walker (anadministrator of the plan), and Sedgwick Lowndes (anotheradministrator) (collectively, Moore).1 Geissal charged Moorewith violating COBRA by renouncing an obligation to provide continuing health benefits coverage (Count I); he further claimed that Moore was estopped to deny him continuation coverage because it had misled him to think that hewas entitled to COBRA coverage (Count II), that Moore'smisrepresentation amounted to a waiver of any right to assert a reading of the plan provisions that would deprive himof continuation coverage (Count III), and, finally, that Walkerhad violated COBRA by failing to provide him with certainplan documents (Count IV).After limited discovery, Geissal moved for partial summary judgment on Counts I and II of the complaint. Heargued that Moore's reliance upon 29 U. S. C. $ 1162(2)(D)(i)as authority to deny him COBRA continuation coverage wasmisplaced. Although that subsection provides that an employer may cancel COBRA continuation coverage as of "[t]hedate on which the qualified beneficiary first becomes, afterthe date of the election . . . covered under any other grouphealth plan (as an employee or otherwise)," Geissal was firstcovered under the TWA plan before he elected COBRAcontinuation coverage, not after. In any event, Geissalmaintained, Moore was estopped to deny him health benefits,because he had detrimentally relied upon its assurances thathe was entitled to them. While the summary judgmentmotion was pending, Geissal died of cancer, and petitionerBonnie Geissal, his wife and personal representative of hisestate, replaced him as plaintiff.1 On November 8, 1994, the District Court granted the plaintiff's motionto dismiss Lowndes without prejudice.524us1$75M 02-18-99 19:35:21 PAGES OPINPGT78 GEISSAL v. MOORE MEDICAL CORP.Opinion of the CourtThe Magistrate Judge hearing the case 2 first rejectedMoore's arguments that Geissal lacked standing and thatAetna was a necessary party under Federal Rule of CivilProcedure 19(a). The Magistrate concluded that even ifMoore was correct that Geissal had no claim for compensatory damages because Aetna paid all of the medical bills,Geissal could seek statutory damages under 29 U. S. C.$ 1132(a)(1).3 The Magistrate held that Aetna was not anecessary party to the suit, since complete relief could begranted between Moore and Geissal without joining Aetna,a verdict in Geissal's favor would not subject Moore to therisk of inconsistent or double obligations, and Aetna's joinderwas not necessary to determine primacy as between thetwo plans.The Magistrate denied summary judgment for Geissal,however, and instead sua sponte granted partial summaryjudgment on Counts I and II in favor of Moore, concludingthat an employee with coverage under another group health2 Pursuant to 28 U. S. C. $ 636(c), the parties agreed to have a magistratejudge conduct all proceedings in this case.3 This subsection provides that a beneficiary may seek relief under 29U. S. C. $ 1132(c), which provides that a plan administrator who fails tocomply with a beneficiary's request for plan information within 30 days ofthe request is personally liable to that beneficiary in the amount of up to$100 a day from the date of the failure.Before us, Moore suggests that Geissal lacks standing to maintain thissuit. They assert that Aetna has paid all of the medical bills, and thatthe only apparent difference between the Aetna and Moore policies was a$350 difference in their respective deductibles, a difference far exceededby the premiums Geissal would owe for COBRA coverage if successful.Despite Moore's assertions to the contrary, however, nothing in the recordindicates one way or another whether Aetna has fully reimbursed Geissalfor James Geissal's medical bills. Geissal's counsel represented at oralargument that at a minimum there are unpaid medical bills incurred on atrip to the Greek Islands. Quite apart from this, we cannot tell from therecord whether Geissal may be entitled to recover from Moore even ifsometime later Aetna would have a claim against Geissal to recover theinsurance costs that it paid.524us1$75M 02-18-99 19:35:21 PAGES OPINPGT79Cite as: 524 U. S. 74 (1998)Opinion of the Courtplan as of the date he elects COBRA continuation coverageis ineligible for COBRA coverage under $ 1162(2)(D)(i), andthat James Geissal presented insufficient evidence of detri-mental reliance on Moore's representation that he was entitled to benefits under COBRA. The Magistrate also foundthat there was no significant difference between the termsof coverage under Aetna's plan and Moore's; they differedonly in the amount of their respective deductibles, and therewas no evidence that Aetna's plan excluded or limited cover-age for James Geissal's condition.The Magistrate then granted Geissal's unopposed motionunder Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 54(b) for the entry offinal judgment on Counts I and II, and so enabled Geissalto seek immediate review of the Magistrate's decision. TheCourt of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit affirmed, 114 F. 3d1458 (1997), and we granted certiorari, 522 U. S. 1086 (1998),to resolve a conflict among the Circuits on whether an em-ployer may deny COBRA continuation coverage under itshealth plan to an otherwise eligible beneficiary coveredunder another group health plan at the time he elects cover-age under COBRA.4IIAThe Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of1985, Pub. L. 99-272, 100 Stat. 82, 222-237, amended the Em-ployee Retirement Income Security Act, among other stat4 Compare Lutheran Hosp., Inc. v. Business Men's Assurance Co., 51F. 3d 1308 (CA7 1995) (an employer may not cease providing COBRA continuation coverage under its plan merely because its former employee haspre-existing coverage under another group health plan), and Oakley v.City of Longmont, 890 F. 2d 1128 (CA10 1989) (same), cert. denied, 494U. S. 1082 (1990), with National Cos. Health Benefit Plan v. St. Joseph'sHosp., Inc., 929 F. 2d 1558 (CA11 1991) (an employer may suspend theCOBRA continuation coverage of a former employee who had pre-existingcoverage under another group health plan), and Brock v. Primedica, Inc.,904 F. 2d 295 (CA5 1990) (same).524us1$75M 02-18-99 19:35:21 PAGES OPINPGT80 GEISSAL v. MOORE MEDICAL CORP.Opinion of the Courtutes. The amendments to ERISA require an employer 5who sponsors a group health plan to give the plan's "qualifiedbeneficiaries" the opportunity to elect "continuation cover-age" under the plan when the beneficiaries might otherwiselose coverage upon the occurrence of certain "qualifyingevents," including the death of the covered employee, thetermination of the covered employee's employment (exceptin cases of gross misconduct), and divorce or legal separationfrom the covered employee. 29 U. S. C. $ 1163. Thus, a"qualified beneficiary" entitled to make a COBRA electionmay be a "covered employee" (someone covered by the em-ployer's plan because of his own employment), or a coveredemployee's spouse or dependent child who was covered bythe plan prior to the occurrence of the "qualifying event."$ 1167(3).COBRA demands that the continuation coverage offeredto qualified beneficiaries be identical to what the plan pro-vides to plan beneficiaries who have not suffered a qualifyingevent. $ 1162(1). The statute requires plans to advise ben-eficiaries of their rights under COBRA both at the commencement of coverage and within 14 days of learning of aqualifying event,6 $ 1166(a), after which qualified beneficiaries have 60 days to elect continuation coverage, $ 1165(1). Ifa qualified beneficiary makes a COBRA election, continuation coverage dates from the qualifying event, and when theevent is termination or reduced hours, the maximum periodof coverage is generally 18 months; in other cases, it is gener-ally 36. $ 1162(2)(A). The beneficiary who makes the election must pay for what he gets, however, up to 102 percentof the "applicable premium" for the first 18 months of continuation coverage, and up to 150 percent thereafter. $ 1162(3).5 Employers with fewer than 20 employees are exempt from COBRA'srequirements. 29 U. S. C. $ 1161(b).6 Under $ 1166(a)(2), an employer has a duty to report most qualifyingevents, including the termination of employment, to its group health planadministrator within 30 days of the qualifying event.524us1$75M 02-18-99 19:35:22 PAGES OPINPGT81Cite as: 524 U. S. 74 (1998)Opinion of the CourtThe "applicable premium" is usually the cost to the plan ofproviding continuation coverage, regardless of who usuallypays for the insurance benefit. $ 1164. Benefits may ceaseif the qualified beneficiary fails to pay the premiums,$ 1162(2)(C), and an employer may terminate it for certainother reasons, such as discontinuance of the group healthplan entirely, $ 1162(2)(B). COBRA coverage may alsocease on"[t]he date on which the qualified beneficiary first be-comes, after the date of the election--"(i) covered under any other group health plan (asan employee or otherwise), which does not contain anyexclusion or limitation with respect to any preexistingcondition of such beneficiary, or"(ii) entitled to benefits under title XVIII of theSocial Security Act." $ 1162(2)(D).77 When originally enacted, $ 1162(2)(D)(i) provided that coverage couldcease when a qualified beneficiary "first becomes, after the date of theelection . . . a covered employee under any other group health plan," anda separate provision, $ 1162(E), provided that in the case of an individualwho was a qualified beneficiary as the result of being a spouse of a coveredemployee, coverage could cease on "the date on which the beneficiary remarries and becomes covered under a group health plan." COBRA, Pub.L. 99-272, 100 Stat. 228. Congress later struck $ 1162(E) and amendedsubsection (i) to provide that coverage could cease when a qualified beneficiary "first becomes, after the date of the election . . . covered under anyother group health plan (as an employee or otherwise)." Tax Reform Actof 1986, Pub. L. 99-514, 100 Stat. 2938-2939. Congress again amendedsubsection (i) in 1989, when it added the qualification, "which does notcontain any exclusion or limitation with respect to any preexisting condition of such beneficiary." Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1989,Pub. L. 101-239, 103 Stat. 2297, 2432. The Health Insurance Portabilityand Accountability Act of 1996, Pub. L. 104-191, 110 Stat. 2087-2088,amended $ 1162(2)(D)(i) yet again by inserting before ", or": "(other thansuch an exclusion or limitation which does not apply to (or is satisfied by)such beneficiary by reason of chapter 100 of the Internal Revenue Code of1986, part 7 of subtitle B of title I of the Employee Retirement IncomeSecurity Act of 1974, or title XXVII of this Act)." The 1996 amendmentwas not in effect at the time this case arose.524us1$75M 02-18-99 19:35:22 PAGES OPINPGT82 GEISSAL v. MOORE MEDICAL CORP.Opinion of the CourtBMoore, like the Magistrate, believes that James Geissal'scoverage under the TWA plan defeats the claim for COBRAcoverage after his election to receive it. As Moore reads$ 1162(2)(D)(i), it is not relevant when a qualified beneficiaryfirst obtains other health insurance coverage; instead, Mooresubmits, all that matters is whether, at any time after thedate of election, the beneficiary is covered by another grouphealth plan. In any event, Moore claims, James Geissal firstbecame covered under the TWA plan only after his COBRAelection, because it was only at that moment that his TWAcoverage became primary.Moore's reading, however, will not square with the text.Section 1162(2)(D)(i) does not provide that the employeris excused if the beneficiary "is" covered or "remains" covered on or after the date of the election. Nothing in$ 1162(2)(D)(i) says anything about the hierarchy of policyobligations, or otherwise suggests that it might matterwhether the coverage of another group health plan is primary. So far as this case is concerned, what is crucial isthat $ 1162(2)(D)(i) does not speak in terms of "coverage"that might exist or continue; it speaks in terms of an event,the event of "becom[ing] covered." This event is significantonly if it occurs, and "first" occurs, at a time "after the dateof the election." It is undisputed that both before and afterJames Geissal elected COBRA continuation coverage he wascontinuously a beneficiary of TWA's group health plan. Because he was thus covered before he made his COBRA elec-tion, and so did not "first become" covered under the TWAplan after the date of election, Moore could not cut off hisCOBRA coverage under the plain meaning of $ 1162(2)(D)(i).Moore argues, to the contrary, that there is a reasonablesense in which a beneficiary does "first becom[e]" coveredunder a pre-existing plan "after the date of the election,"even when prior coverage can be said to persist after theelection date: the first moment of coverage on the day follow524us1$75M 02-18-99 19:35:22 PAGES OPINPGT83Cite as: 524 U. S. 74 (1998)Opinion of the Courting the election is the moment of first being covered afterthe date of the election. See National Cos. Health BenefitPlan v. St. Joseph's Hosp., Inc., 929 F. 2d 1558, 1570 (CA111991) ("[I]t is immaterial when the employee acquires othergroup health coverage; the only relevant question is when,after the election date, does that other coverage take effect.In the case of an employee covered by preexisting grouphealth coverage, . . . the first time after the election datethat the employee becomes covered by a group health planother than the employer's plan is the moment after the election date"). But that reading ignores the condition that thebeneficiary must "first becom[e]" covered after election, robbing the modifier "first" of any consequence, thereby equat-ing "first becomes . . . covered" with "remains covered." Ittransforms the novelty of becoming covered for the first timeinto the continuity of remaining covered over time.Moore argues, further, that even if our reading of the stat-ute is more faithful to its plain language, Congress could nothave meant to give a qualified beneficiary something morethan the right to preserve the status quo as of the date ofthe qualifying event.8 Moore points out that if the phrase"first becomes covered . . . after" the date of election doesnot apply to any coverage predating election, then the bene-ficiary is quite free to claim continuation coverage even ifhe has obtained entirely new group coverage between thequalifying event and the election; in that case, on our reading, COBRA would not be preserving the circumstances asof the date of the qualifying event.8 Moore also argues that Congress could not have intended to renderCOBRA eligible those individuals with pre-existing coverage under another health plan at the time of election, because such individuals who infact elect COBRA coverage are typically high risk. As a result, Moorecontends, covering them under COBRA tends to increase an employer'soverall cost of providing a group health plan, and may cause some employers to cease offering a group health plan entirely. This may or may notbe true. If substantiated, the argument would be considered in construing the scope of a vague provision; $ 1162(2)(D)(i), however, is not vague.524us1$75M 02-18-99 19:35:22 PAGES OPINPGT84 GEISSAL v. MOORE MEDICAL CORP.Opinion of the CourtThat the plain reading does not confine COBRA strictly toguardianship of the status quo is, of course, perfectly true,though it is much less certain whether this fact should countagainst the plain reading (even assuming that the obvious reading would be vulnerable to such an objection, seeArdestani v. INS, 502 U. S. 129, 135 (1991)). The statuteis neither cast expressly in terms of the status quo, nor doesit speak to the status quo on the date of the qualifying eventexcept with reference to the coverage subject to election.Nor does a beneficiary's decision to take advantage of another group policy not previously in effect carry any indiciaof the sort of windfall Congress presumably would havedisapproved. Since the beneficiary has to pay for whateverCOBRA coverage he obtains, there is no reason to assumethat he will make an election for coverage he does not need,whether he is covered by another policy in place beforethe qualifying event or one obtained after it but before hiselection.Still, it is true that if during the interim between the qualifying event and election a beneficiary gets a new job, say,with health coverage (having no exclusion or limitation forhis condition), he will have the benefit of COBRA, whereashe will not have it if his new job and coverage come after theelection date. Do we classify this as an anomaly or merely anecessary consequence of the need to draw a line somewhere? For the sake of argument we might call it an anomaly, but that would only balance it against the anomaly ofMoore's own position, which defies not only normal languageusage but the expectations of common sense: since an election to continue coverage is retroactive to the date of thequalifying event, under Moore's reading of $ 1162(2)(D)(i) anelection that is ineffective to bring about continuation coverage for the roughly 18 (or 36) month statutory period wouldnonetheless have the surprising effect of providing continuation coverage for the period of weeks, or even days, between524us1$75M 02-18-99 19:35:22 PAGES OPINPGT85Cite as: 524 U. S. 74 (1998)Opinion of the Courtthe event and the election. One wonders why Congresswould have wanted to create such a strange scheme. Thus,assuming that our reading of $ 1162(2)(D)(i) produces ananomaly, so does Moore's.But this is not all, for the anomalous consequences ofMoore's position are not exhausted without a look at the interpretative morass to which it has led in practice. To support its thesis that Congress meant individuals situated likeJames Geissal to be ineligible for COBRA benefits, Moorepoints to a statement in the House Reports on the originalCOBRA bill, that "[t]he Committee [on Ways and Means] isconcerned with reports of the growing number of Americanswithout any health insurance coverage and the decreasingwillingness of our Nation's hospitals to provide care to thosewho cannot afford to pay." H. R. Rep. No. 99-241, pt. 1,p. 44 (1985); see 114 F. 3d, at 1463 (quoting House Report).Of course, if this concern (expressed in one House CommitteeReport) were thought to be a legitimate limit on the meaningof the statute as enacted, there would be no COBRA coverage for any beneficiary who had "any health insurance" onthe date of election, or obtained "any" thereafter. But neither Moore nor any court rejecting the plain reading hasgone quite so far. Instead, that draconian alternative hasbeen averted by a nontextual compromise.The compromise apparently alludes to the proviso that$ 1162(2)(D)(i) applies so as to authorize termination ofCOBRA coverage only if the coverage provided by the othergroup health plan "does not contain any exclusion or limitation with respect to any preexisting condition of such beneficiary." Moore urges us to hold, as some Courts of Appealshave done, that although Congress generally intended todeny COBRA coverage to individuals with other group insurance on the election date, there will still be COBRA eligibility in such cases if there is a "significant gap" between thecoverage offered by the employer's plan and that offered by524us1$75M 02-18-99 19:35:22 PAGES OPINPGT86 GEISSAL v. MOORE MEDICAL CORP.Opinion of the Courtthe beneficiary's other group health plan.9 See 114 F. 3d, at1464-1465; accord, National Cos. Health Benefit Plan v. St.Joseph's Hosp., Inc., 929 F. 2d, at 1571; Brock v. Primedica,Inc., 904 F. 2d 295, 297 (CA5 1990). When there is such agap, some courts have explained, it cannot be said that theemployee is truly "covered" by his pre-existing insurancecoverage. See 114 F. 3d, at 1463; National Cos. Health Benefit Plan v. St. Joseph's Hosp., Inc., supra, at 1571.This "significant gap" approach to $ 1162(2)(D)(i) is plaguedwith difficulties, however, beginning with the sheer absenceof any statutory support for it. Section 1162(2)(D)(i) makesno mention of what to do when a person's other coverage isgenerally inadequate or inferior; instead, it provides merelythat coverage under a later acquired group health plan willnot terminate COBRA rights when that plan limits or ex-cludes coverage for a pre-existing condition of the beneficiary. The proviso applies not when there is a "gap" or dif-ference between the respective coverages of the two policies,but when the later acquired group coverage excludes or lim-its coverage specific to the beneficiary's pre-existing condition. It is this "gap" between different coverage provisionsof the non-COBRA plan, not a gap between the coverageprovisions of the COBRA plan and the non-COBRA plan,that Congress was legislating about.But even leaving textual inadequacy aside, there is furthertrouble under the "significant gap" approach. Needless tosay, when the proviso (as written) arguably does apply, itsapplicability is easy to determine. Once the beneficiary'spre-existing condition is identified, a court need only lookamong the terms of the later policy for an exclusion or limita9 The lower courts have disagreed about whether this "significant gap"interpretation should be made by evaluating the actual expenses an employee incurs as a result of COBRA cancellation, or by comparing thepolicies' provisions in light of the information available to the employer onthe day of the COBRA election. See 114 F. 3d, at 1464-1465 (comparingapproaches).524us1$75M 02-18-99 19:35:22 PAGES OPINPGT87Cite as: 524 U. S. 74 (1998)Opinion of the Courttion peculiar to that condition. If either is found, COBRAcontinuation coverage is left undisturbed; if neither is found,the consequence of obtaining this later insurance is auto-matic. Applying the significant gap rule, on the other hand,requires a very different kind of determination, essentiallyone of social policy. Once a gap is found, the court mustthen make a judgment about the adequacy of medical insur-ance under the later group policy, for this is the essence ofany decision about whether the gap between the two regimesof coverage is "significant" enough. This is a powerful pointagainst the gap interpretation for two reasons. First, therequired judgment is so far unsuitable for courts that wewould expect a clear mandate before inferring that Congressmeant to foist it on the judiciary.10 What is even morestrange, however, is that Congress would have meant to in-ject the courts into the policy arena, evaluating the adequacyof non-COBRA coverage that happened to be in place priorto the COBRA election, while at the same time intending tolimit the judicial intrusion, and leave the beneficiary to theunmediated legal consequences of the terms of the nonCOBRA coverage that happened to become effective afterthe election. One just cannot credibly attribute such oddityto congressional intent.In sum, there is no justification for disparaging the clarityof $ 1162(2)(D)(i). The judgment of the Court of Appeals isvacated, and the case is remanded for further proceedingsconsistent with this opinion.