After his first trial in 1984 ended in a hung jury, petitionerCurtis Lee Kyles was tried again, convicted of first-degreemurder, and sentenced to death. On habeas review, we fol-low the established rule that the state's obligation underBrady v. Maryland, 373 U. S. 83 (1963), to disclose evidencefavorable to the defense, turns on the cumulative effect of allsuch evidence suppressed by the government, and we holdthat the prosecutor remains responsible for gauging that effect regardless of any failure by the police to bring favorableevidence to the prosecutor's attention. Because the net effect of the evidence withheld by the State in this case raises514us2$48m 05-27-98 17:22:45 PAGES OPINPGT422 KYLES v. WHITLEYOpinion of the Courta reasonable probability that its disclosure would haveproduced a different result, Kyles is entitled to a new trial.IFollowing the mistrial when the jury was unable to reacha verdict, Kyles's subsequent conviction and sentence ofdeath were affirmed on direct appeal. State v. Kyles, 513So. 2d 265 (La. 1987), cert. denied, 486 U. S. 1027 (1988). Onstate collateral review, the trial court denied relief, but theSupreme Court of Louisiana remanded for an evidentiaryhearing on Kyles's claims of newly discovered evidence.During this state-court proceeding, the defense was first ableto present certain evidence, favorable to Kyles, that theState had failed to disclose before or during trial. The statetrial court nevertheless denied relief, and the State SupremeCourt denied Kyles's application for discretionary review.State ex rel. Kyles v. Butler, 566 So. 2d 386 (La. 1990).Kyles then filed a petition for habeas corpus in the UnitedStates District Court for the Eastern District of Louisiana,which denied the petition. The Court of Appeals for theFifth Circuit affirmed by a divided vote. 5 F. 3d 806 (1993).As we explain,infra, at 440-441, there is reason to questionwhether the Court of Appeals evaluated the significance ofundisclosed evidence under the correct standard. Because"[o]ur duty to search for constitutional error with painstaking care is never more exacting than it is in a capital case,"Burger v. Kemp, 483 U. S. 776, 785 (1987),1 we granted certio-rari, 511 U. S. 1051 (1994), and now reverse.1 The dissent suggests that Burger is not authority for error correctionin capital cases, at least when two previous reviewing courts have foundno error. Post, at 457. We explain, infra, at 440-441, that this is not acase of simple error correction. As for the significance of prior review,Burger cautions that this Court should not "substitute speculation" for the"considered opinions" of two lower courts. 483 U. S., at 785. No onecould disagree that "speculative" claims do not carry much weight againstcareful evidentiary review by two prior courts. There is nothing speculative, however, about Kyles's Brady claim.514us2$48m 05-27-98 17:22:45 PAGES OPINPGT423Cite as: 514 U. S. 419 (1995)Opinion of the CourtIIAThe record indicates that, at about 2:20 p.m. on Thurs-day, September 20, 1984, 60-year-old Dolores Dye left theSchwegmann Brothers' store (Schwegmann's) on Old Gen-tilly Road in New Orleans after doing some food shopping.As she put her grocery bags into the trunk of her red FordLTD, a man accosted her and after a short struggle drewa revolver, fired into her left temple, and killed her. Thegunman took Dye's keys and drove away in the LTD.New Orleans police took statements from six eyewit-nesses,2 who offered various descriptions of the gunman.They agreed that he was a black man, and four of them saidthat he had braided hair. The witnesses differed significantly, however, in their descriptions of height, age, weight,build, and hair length. Two reported seeing a man of 17 or18, while another described the gunman as looking as old as28. One witness described him as 5'4" or 5'5", medium build,140-150 pounds; another described the man as slim and closeto six feet. One witness said he had a mustache; none of theothers spoke of any facial hair at all. One witness said themurderer had shoulder-length hair; another described thehair as "short."Since the police believed the killer might have driven hisown car to Schwegmann's and left it there when he drove offin Dye's LTD, they recorded the license numbers of the carsremaining in the parking lots around the store at 9:15 p.m. onthe evening of the murder. Matching these numbers withregistration records produced the names and addresses ofthe owners of the cars, with a notation of any owner's police2 The record reveals that statements were taken from Edward Williamsand Lionel Plick, both waiting for a bus nearby; Isaac Smallwood, WillieJones, and Henry Williams, all working in the Schwegmann's parking lotat the time of the murder; and Robert Territo, driving a truck waiting ata nearby traffic light at the moment of the shooting, who gave a statementto police on Friday, the day after the murder.514us2$48m 05-27-98 17:22:45 PAGES OPINPGT424 KYLES v. WHITLEYOpinion of the Courtrecord. Despite this list and the eyewitness descriptions,the police had no lead to the gunman until the Saturday evening after the shooting.At 5:30 p.m., on September 22, a man identifying himselfas James Joseph called the police and reported that on theday of the murder he had bought a red Thunderbird from afriend named Curtis, whom he later identified as petitioner,Curtis Kyles. He said that he had subsequently read aboutDye's murder in the newspapers and feared that the car hepurchased was the victim's. He agreed to meet with thepolice.A few hours later, the informant met New Orleans Detective John Miller, who was wired with a hidden body micro-phone, through which the ensuing conversation was recorded. See App. 221-257 (transcript). The informant nowsaid his name was Joseph Banks and that he was calledBeanie. His actual name was Joseph Wallace.3His story, as well as his name, had changed since hisearlier call. In place of his original account of buying aThunderbird from Kyles on Thursday, Beanie told Millerthat he had not seen Kyles at all on Thursday, id., at 249-250, and had bought a red LTD the previous day, Friday,id.,at 221-222, 225. Beanie led Miller to the parking lot of anearby bar, where he had left the red LTD, later identifiedas Dye's.Beanie told Miller that he lived with Kyles's brother-in-law(later identified as Johnny Burns),4 whom Beanie repeatedlycalled his "partner."Id., at 221. Beanie described Kylesas slim, about 6-feet tall, 24 or 25 years old, with a "bush"hairstyle. Id., at 226, 252. When asked if Kyles ever wore3 Because the informant had so many aliases, we will follow the convention of the court below and refer to him throughout this opinion as Beanie.4 Johnny Burns is the brother of a woman known as Pinky Burns. Anumber of trial witnesses referred to the relationship between Kyles andPinky Burns as a common-law marriage (Louisiana's civil law notwithstanding). Kyles is the father of several of Pinky Burns's children.514us2$48m 05-27-98 17:22:45 PAGES OPINPGT425Cite as: 514 U. S. 419 (1995)Opinion of the Courthis hair in plaits, Beanie said that he did but that he "had abush" when Beanie bought the car. Id., at 249.During the conversation, Beanie repeatedly expressed con-cern that he might himself be a suspect in the murder. Heexplained that he had been seen driving Dye's car on Fridayevening in the French Quarter, admitted that he had changedits license plates, and worried that he "could have beencharged" with the murder on the basis of his possession ofthe LTD. Id., at 231, 246, 250. He asked if he would be putin jail.Id., at 235, 246. Miller acknowledged that Beanie'spossession of the car would have looked suspicious, id., at247, but reassured him that he "didn't do anything wrong,"id., at 235.Beanie seemed eager to cast suspicion on Kyles, who allegedly made his living by "robbing people," and had tried tokill Beanie at some prior time. Id., at 228, 245, 251. Beaniesaid that Kyles regularly carried two pistols, a .38 and a .32,and that if the police could "set him up good," they could"get that same gun" used to kill Dye. Id., at 228-229.Beanie rode with Miller and Miller's supervisor, Sgt. JamesEaton, in an unmarked squad car to Desire Street, where hepointed out the building containing Kyles's apartment.Id.,at 244-246.Beanie told the officers that after he bought the car, he andhis "partner" (Burns) drove Kyles to Schwegmann's about 9p.m. on Friday evening to pick up Kyles's car, described asan orange four-door Ford.5 Id., at 221, 223, 231-232, 242.When asked where Kyles's car had been parked, Beanie re-plied that it had been "[o]n the same side [of the lot] wherethe woman was killed at." Id., at 231. The officers laterdrove Beanie to Schwegmann's, where he indicated the spacewhere he claimed Kyles's car had been parked. Beanie wenton to say that when he and Burns had brought Kyles to pick5 According to photographs later introduced at trial, Kyles's car wasactually a Mercury and, according to trial testimony, a two-door model.Tr. 210 (Dec. 7, 1984).514us2$48m 05-27-98 17:22:45 PAGES OPINPGT426 KYLES v. WHITLEYOpinion of the Courtup the car, Kyles had gone to some nearby bushes to retrievea brown purse,id., at 253-255, which Kyles subsequently hidin a wardrobe at his apartment. Beanie said that Kyles had"a lot of groceries" in Schwegmann's bags and a new baby'spotty "in the car." Id., at 254-255. Beanie told Eaton thatKyles's garbage would go out the next day and that if Kyleswas "smart" he would "put [the purse] in [the] garbage."Id., at 257. Beanie made it clear that he expected some re-ward for his help, saying at one point that he was not "doingall of this for nothing." Id., at 246. The police repeatedlyassured Beanie that he would not lose the $400 he paid forthe car. Id., at 243, 246.After the visit to Schwegmann's, Eaton and Miller tookBeanie to a police station where Miller interviewed himagain on the record, which was transcribed and signed byBeanie, using his alias "Joseph Banks." See id., at 214-220.This statement, Beanie's third (the telephone call being thefirst, then the recorded conversation), repeats some of theessentials of the second one: that Beanie had purchased a redFord LTD from Kyles for $400 on Friday evening; that Kyleshad his hair "combed out" at the time of the sale; and thatKyles carried a .32 and a .38 with him "all the time."Portions of the third statement, however, embellished orcontradicted Beanie's preceding story and were even internally inconsistent. Beanie reported that after the sale, heand Kyles unloaded Schwegmann's grocery bags from thetrunk and back seat of the LTD and placed them in Kyles'sown car. Beanie said that Kyles took a brown purse fromthe front seat of the LTD and that they then drove in separate cars to Kyles's apartment, where they unloaded the groceries. Id., at 216-217. Beanie also claimed that, a fewhours later, he and his "partner" Burns went with Kyles toSchwegmann's, where they recovered Kyles's car and a "bigbrown pocket book" from "next to a building." Id., at 218.Beanie did not explain how Kyles could have picked up hiscar and recovered the purse at Schwegmann's, after Beanie514us2$48m 05-27-98 17:22:45 PAGES OPINPGT427Cite as: 514 U. S. 419 (1995)Opinion of the Courthad seen Kyles with both just a few hours earlier. The po-lice neither noted the inconsistencies nor questioned Beanieabout them.Although the police did not thereafter put Kyles undersurveillance, Tr. 94 (Dec. 6, 1984), they learned about eventsat his apartment from Beanie, who went there twice on Sun-day. According to a fourth statement by Beanie, this onegiven to the chief prosecutor in November (between the firstand second trials), he first went to the apartment about 2p.m., after a telephone conversation with a police officer whoasked whether Kyles had the gun that was used to kill Dye.Beanie stayed in Kyles's apartment until about 5 p.m., whenhe left to call Detective John Miller. Then he returnedabout 7 p.m. and stayed until about 9:30 p.m., when he leftto meet Miller, who also asked about the gun. According tothis fourth statement, Beanie "rode around" with Miller until3 a.m. on Monday, September 24. Sometime during thosesame early morning hours, detectives were sent at Sgt. Eaton's behest to pick up the rubbish outside Kyles's building.As Sgt. Eaton wrote in an interoffice memorandum, he had"reason to believe the victims [sic] personal papers and theSchwegmann's bags will be in the trash." Record, Defendant's Exh. 17.At 10:40 a.m., Kyles was arrested as he left the apartment,which was then searched under a warrant. Behind thekitchen stove, the police found a .32-caliber revolver containing five live rounds and one spent cartridge. Ballistics testslater showed that this pistol was used to murder Dye. In awardrobe in a hallway leading to the kitchen, the officersfound a homemade shoulder holster that fit the murderweapon. In a bedroom dresser drawer, they discovered twoboxes of ammunition, one containing several .32-caliberrounds of the same brand as those found in the pistol. Backin the kitchen, various cans of cat and dog food, some of themof the brands Dye typically purchased, were found inSchwegmann's sacks. No other groceries were identified as514us2$48m 05-27-98 17:22:45 PAGES OPINPGT428 KYLES v. WHITLEYOpinion of the Courtpossibly being Dye's, and no potty was found. Later thatafternoon at the police station, police opened the rubbishbags and found the victim's purse, identification, and otherpersonal belongings wrapped in a Schwegmann's sack.The gun, the LTD, the purse, and the cans of pet food weredusted for fingerprints. The gun had been wiped clean.Several prints were found on the purse and on the LTD, butnone was identified as Kyles's. Dye's prints were not foundon any of the cans of pet food. Kyles's prints were found,however, on a small piece of paper taken from the frontpassenger-side floorboard of the LTD. The crime laboratoryrecorded the paper as a Schwegmann's sales slip, but withoutnoting what had been printed on it, which was obliterated inthe chemical process of lifting the fingerprints. A secondSchwegmann's receipt was found in the trunk of the LTD,but Kyles's prints were not found on it. Beanie's fingerprints were not compared to any of the fingerprints found.Tr. 97 (Dec. 6, 1984).The lead detective on the case, John Dillman, put togethera photo lineup that included a photograph of Kyles (but notof Beanie) and showed the array to five of the six eyewit-nesses who had given statements. Three of them picked thephotograph of Kyles; the other two could not confidentlyidentify Kyles as Dye's assailant.BKyles was indicted for first-degree murder. Before trial,his counsel filed a lengthy motion for disclosure by the Stateof any exculpatory or impeachment evidence. The prosecu-tion responded that there was "no exculpatory evidence ofany nature," despite the government's knowledge of the fol-lowing evidentiary items: (1) the six contemporaneous eyewitness statements taken by police following the murder; (2)records of Beanie's initial call to the police; (3) the tape recording of the Saturday conversation between Beanie andofficers Eaton and Miller; (4) the typed and signed statement514us2$48m 05-27-98 17:22:45 PAGES OPINPGT429Cite as: 514 U. S. 419 (1995)Opinion of the Courtgiven by Beanie on Sunday morning; (5) the computer print-out of license numbers of cars parked at Schwegmann's onthe night of the murder, which did not list the number ofKyles's car; (6) the internal police memorandum calling forthe seizure of the rubbish after Beanie had suggested thatthe purse might be found there; and (7) evidence linkingBeanie to other crimes at Schwegmann's and to the unrelatedmurder of one Patricia Leidenheimer, committed in Januarybefore the Dye murder.At the first trial, in November, the heart of the State'scase was eyewitness testimony from four people who wereat the scene of the crime (three of whom had previouslypicked Kyles from the photo lineup). Kyles maintained hisinnocence, offered supporting witnesses, and supplied analibi that he had been picking up his children from school atthe time of the murder. The theory of the defense was thatKyles had been framed by Beanie, who had planted evidencein Kyles's apartment and his rubbish for the purposes ofshifting suspicion away from himself, removing an impediment to romance with Pinky Burns, and obtaining rewardmoney. Beanie did not testify as a witness for either thedefense or the prosecution.Because the State withheld evidence, its case was muchstronger, and the defense case much weaker, than the fullfacts would have suggested. Even so, after four hours ofdeliberation, the jury became deadlocked on the issue ofguilt, and a mistrial was declared.After the mistrial, the chief trial prosecutor, Cliff Strider,interviewed Beanie. See App. 258-262 (notes of interview).Strider's notes show that Beanie again changed importantelements of his story. He said that he went with Kyles toretrieve Kyles's car from the Schwegmann's lot on Thursday,the day of the murder, at some time between 5 and 7:30 p.m.,not on Friday, at 9 p.m., as he had said in his second andthird statements. (Indeed, in his second statement, Beaniesaid that he had not seen Kyles at all on Thursday. Id., at514us2$48m 05-27-98 17:22:46 PAGES OPINPGT430 KYLES v. WHITLEYOpinion of the Court249-250.) He also said, for the first time, that when theyhad picked up the car they were accompanied not only byJohnny Burns but also by Kevin Black, who had testified forthe defense at the first trial. Beanie now claimed that aftergetting Kyles's car they went to Black's house, retrieved anumber of bags of groceries, a child's potty, and a brownpurse, all of which they took to Kyles's apartment. Beaniealso stated that on the Sunday after the murder he had beenat Kyles's apartment two separate times. Notwithstandingthe many inconsistencies and variations among Beanie'sstatements, neither Strider's notes nor any of the other notesand transcripts were given to the defense.In December 1984, Kyles was tried a second time. Again,the heart of the State's case was the testimony of four eyewitnesses who positively identified Kyles in front of the jury.The prosecution also offered a blown-up photograph taken atthe crime scene soon after the murder, on the basis of whichthe prosecutors argued that a seemingly two-toned car in thebackground of the photograph was Kyles's. They repeatedly suggested during cross-examination of defense witnesses that Kyles had left his own car at Schwegmann's onthe day of the murder and had retrieved it later, a theory forwhich they offered no evidence beyond the blown-up photograph. Once again, Beanie did not testify.As in the first trial, the defense contended that the eyewitnesses were mistaken. Kyles's counsel called severalindividuals, including Kevin Black, who testified to seeingBeanie, with his hair in plaits, driving a red car similar tothe victim's about an hour after the killing. Tr. 209 (Dec. 7,1984). Another witness testified that Beanie, with his hairin braids, had tried to sell him the car on Thursday evening,shortly after the murder. Id., at 234-235. Another witnesstestified that Beanie, with his hair in a "Jheri curl," had attempted to sell him the car on Friday. Id., at 249-251. Onewitness, Beanie's "partner," Burns, testified that he had seenBeanie on Sunday at Kyles's apartment, stooping down near514us2$48m 05-27-98 17:22:46 PAGES OPINPGT431Cite as: 514 U. S. 419 (1995)Opinion of the Courtthe stove where the gun was eventually found, and the de-fense presented testimony that Beanie was romantically interested in Pinky Burns. To explain the pet food found inKyles's apartment, there was testimony that Kyles's familykept a dog and cat and often fed stray animals in theneighborhood.Finally, Kyles again took the stand. Denying any involve-ment in the shooting, he explained his fingerprints on thecash register receipt found in Dye's car by saying thatBeanie had picked him up in a red car on Friday, September21, and had taken him to Schwegmann's, where he purchasedtransmission fluid and a pack of cigarettes. He suggestedthat the receipt may have fallen from the bag when he re-moved the cigarettes.On rebuttal, the prosecutor had Beanie brought into thecourtroom. All of the testifying eyewitnesses, after viewing Beanie standing next to Kyles, reaffirmed their previousidentifications of Kyles as the murderer. Kyles was convicted of first-degree murder and sentenced to death.Beanie received a total of $1,600 in reward money. See Tr.of Hearing on Post-Conviction Relief 19-20 (Feb. 24, 1989);id., at 114 (Feb. 20, 1989).Following direct appeal, it was revealed in the course ofstate collateral review that the State had failed to discloseevidence favorable to the defense. After exhausting stateremedies, Kyles sought relief on federal habeas, claiming,among other things, that the evidence withheld was materialto his defense and that his conviction was thus obtained inviolation ofBrady. Although the United States DistrictCourt denied relief and the Fifth Circuit affirmed,6 Judge6 Pending appeal, Kyles filed a motion under Federal Rules of Civil Procedure 60(b)(2) and (6) to reopen the District Court judgment. In thatmotion, he charged that one of the eyewitnesses who testified against himat trial committed perjury. In the witness's accompanying affidavit, Darlene Kersh (formerly Cahill), the only such witness who had not givena contemporaneous statement, swears that she told the prosecutors and514us2$48m 05-27-98 17:22:46 PAGES OPINPGT432 KYLES v. WHITLEYOpinion of the CourtKing dissented, writing that "[f]or the first time in my four-teen years on this court . . . I have serious reservations aboutwhether the State has sentenced to death the right man." 5F. 3d, at 820.IIIThe prosecution's affirmative duty to disclose evidence fa-vorable to a defendant can trace its origins to early 20thcentury strictures against misrepresentation and is of coursemost prominently associated with this Court's decision inBrady v. Maryland, 373 U. S. 83 (1963). See id., at 86 (rely-ing on Mooney v. Holohan, 294 U. S. 103, 112 (1935), andPyle v. Kansas, 317 U. S. 213, 215-216 (1942)). Brady held"that the suppression by the prosecution of evidence favorable to an accused upon request violates due process wherethe evidence is material either to guilt or to punishment,irrespective of the good faith or bad faith of the prosecution."373 U. S., at 87; seeMoore v. Illinois, 408 U. S. 786, 794-795detectives she did not have an opportunity to view the assailant's face andcould not identify him. Nevertheless, Kersh identified Kyles untruthfully, she says, after being "told by some people . . . [who] I think . . . weredistrict attorneys and police, that the murderer would be the guy seatedat the table with the attorney and that that was the one I should identifyas the murderer. One of the people there was at the D. A.'s table at thetrial. To the best of my knowledge there was only one black man sittingat the counsel table and I pointed him out as the one I had seen shoot thelady." Kersh claims to have agreed to the State's wishes only after thepolice and district attorneys assured her that "all the other evidencepointed to [Kyles] as the killer." Affidavit of Darlene Kersh 5, 7.The District Court denied the motion as an abuse of the writ, althoughits order was vacated by the Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit withinstructions to deny the motion on the ground that a petitioner may notuse a Rule 60(b) motion to raise constitutional claims not included in theoriginal habeas petition. That ruling is not before us. After denial ofhis Rule 60(b) motion, Kyles again sought state collateral review on thebasis of Kersh's affidavit. The Supreme Court of Louisiana granted discretionary review and ordered the trial court to conduct an evidentiaryhearing; all state proceedings are currently stayed pending our review ofKyles's federal habeas petition.514us2$48m 05-27-98 17:22:46 PAGES OPINPGT433Cite as: 514 U. S. 419 (1995)Opinion of the Court(1972). In United States v. Agurs, 427 U. S. 97 (1976), however, it became clear that a defendant's failure to requestfavorable evidence did not leave the Government free of allobligation. There, the Court distinguished three situationsin which a Brady claim might arise: first, where previouslyundisclosed evidence revealed that the prosecution introduced trial testimony that it knew or should have known wasperjured, 427 U. S., at 103-104; 7 second, where the Government failed to accede to a defense request for disclosure ofsome specific kind of exculpatory evidence, id., at 104-107;and third, where the Government failed to volunteer exculpatory evidence never requested, or requested only in ageneral way. The Court found a duty on the part of theGovernment even in this last situation, though only whensuppression of the evidence would be "of sufficient significance to result in the denial of the defendant's right to a fairtrial." Id., at 108.In the third prominent case on the way to current Bradylaw, United States v. Bagley, 473 U. S. 667 (1985), the Courtdisavowed any difference between exculpatory and impeachment evidence for Brady purposes, and it abandoned the distinction between the second and third Agurs circumstances,i. e., the "specific-request" and "general- or no-request" situations. Bagley held that regardless of request, favorable evidence is material, and constitutional error results from itssuppression by the government, "if there is a reasonableprobability that, had the evidence been disclosed to the defense, the result of the proceeding would have been differ7 The Court noted that "a conviction obtained by the knowing use ofperjured testimony is fundamentally unfair, and must be set aside if thereis any reasonable likelihood that the false testimony could have affectedthe judgment of the jury." Agurs, 427 U. S., at 103 (footnote omitted).As the ruling pertaining to Kersh's affidavit is not before us, we do notconsider the question whether Kyles's conviction was obtained by theknowing use of perjured testimony and our decision today does not address any claim under the first Agurs category. See n. 6, supra.514us2$48m 05-27-98 17:22:46 PAGES OPINPGT434 KYLES v. WHITLEYOpinion of the Courtent." 473 U. S., at 682 (opinion of Blackmun, J.); id., at 685(White, J., concurring in part and concurring in judgment).Four aspects of materiality under Bagley bear emphasis.Although the constitutional duty is triggered by the potential impact of favorable but undisclosed evidence, a showing of materiality does not require demonstration by a pre-ponderance that disclosure of the suppressed evidencewould have resulted ultimately in the defendant's acquittal(whether based on the presence of reasonable doubt or acceptance of an explanation for the crime that does not incul-pate the defendant).Id., at 682 (opinion of Blackmun, J.)(adopting formulation announced in Strickland v. Washington, 466 U. S. 668, 694 (1984)); Bagley, supra, at 685 (White,J., concurring in part and concurring in judgment) (same);see 473 U. S., at 680 (opinion of Blackmun, J.) (Agurs "rejecteda standard that would require the defendant to demonstratethat the evidence if disclosed probably would have resultedin acquittal"); cf. Strickland, supra, at 693 ("[W]e believethat a defendant need not show that counsel's deficient conduct more likely than not altered the outcome in the case");Nix v. Whiteside, 475 U. S. 157, 175 (1986) ("[A] defendantneed not establish that the attorney's deficient performancemore likely than not altered the outcome in order to establishprejudice under Strickland"). Bagley's touchstone of materiality is a "reasonable probability" of a different result, andthe adjective is important. The question is not whether thedefendant would more likely than not have received a different verdict with the evidence, but whether in its absence hereceived a fair trial, understood as a trial resulting in a verdict worthy of confidence. A "reasonable probability" of adifferent result is accordingly shown when the government'sevidentiary suppression "undermines confidence in the outcome of the trial." Bagley, 473 U. S., at 678.The second aspect of Bagley materiality bearing emphasishere is that it is not a sufficiency of evidence test. A defendant need not demonstrate that after discounting the incul514us2$48m 05-27-98 17:22:46 PAGES OPINPGT435Cite as: 514 U. S. 419 (1995)Opinion of the Courtpatory evidence in light of the undisclosed evidence, therewould not have been enough left to convict. The possibilityof an acquittal on a criminal charge does not imply an insuf-ficient evidentiary basis to convict. One does not show aBrady violation by demonstrating that some of the inculpa-tory evidence should have been excluded, but by showingthat the favorable evidence could reasonably be taken to putthe whole case in such a different light as to undermine confidence in the verdict.8Third, we note that, contrary to the assumption made bythe Court of Appeals, 5 F. 3d, at 818, once a reviewing courtapplyingBagley has found constitutional error there is noneed for further harmless-error review. Assuming, arguendo, that a harmless-error enquiry were to apply, a Bagleyerror could not be treated as harmless, since "a reasonableprobability that, had the evidence been disclosed to the defense, the result of the proceeding would have been differ-ent," 473 U. S., at 682 (opinion of Blackmun, J.);id., at 685(White, J., concurring in part and concurring in judgment),necessarily entails the conclusion that the suppression musthave had " `substantial and injurious effect or influence indetermining the jury's verdict,' "Brecht v. Abrahamson, 507U. S. 619, 623 (1993), quoting Kotteakos v. United States, 328U. S. 750, 776 (1946). This is amply confirmed by the devel-opment of the respective governing standards. Although8 This rule is clear, and none of the Brady cases has ever suggested thatsufficiency of evidence (or insufficiency) is the touchstone. And yet thedissent appears to assume that Kyles must lose because there would stillhave been adequate evidence to convict even if the favorable evidence hadbeen disclosed. See post, at 463 (possibility that Beanie planted evidence"is perfectly consistent" with Kyles's guilt), ibid. ("[T]he jury could wellhave believed [portions of the defense theory] and yet have condemnedpetitioner because it could not believe that all four of the eyewitnesseswere similarly mistaken"), post, at 468 (the Brady evidence would haveleft two prosecution witnesses "totally untouched"), 469 (Brady evidence"can be logically separated from the incriminating evidence that wouldhave remained unaffected").514us2$48m 05-27-98 17:22:46 PAGES OPINPGT436 KYLES v. WHITLEYOpinion of the CourtChapman v. California, 386 U. S. 18, 24 (1967), held that aconviction tainted by constitutional error must be set asideunless the error complained of "was harmless beyond a rea-sonable doubt," we held in Brecht that the standard of harmlessness generally to be applied in habeas cases is the Kotteakos formulation (previously applicable only in reviewingnonconstitutional errors on direct appeal), Brecht, supra, at622-623. Under Kotteakos a conviction may be set asideonly if the error "had substantial and injurious effect orinfluence in determining the jury's verdict." Kotteakos,supra, at 776. Agurs, however, had previously rejectedKotteakos as the standard governing constitutional disclo-sure claims, reasoning that "the constitutional standard ofmateriality must impose a higher burden on the defendant."Agurs, 427 U. S., at 112. Agurs thus opted for its formula-tion of materiality, later adopted as the test for prejudice inStrickland, only after expressly noting that this standardwould recognize reversible constitutional error only whenthe harm to the defendant was greater than the harm suffi-cient for reversal underKotteakos. In sum, once there hasbeen Bagley error as claimed in this case, it cannot subsequently be found harmless under Brecht.9The fourth and final aspect of Bagley materiality to bestressed here is its definition in terms of suppressed evidenceconsidered collectively, not item by item.10 As JusticeBlackmun emphasized in the portion of his opinion writtenfor the Court, the Constitution is not violated every time the9 See also Hill v. Lockhart, 28 F. 3d 832, 839 (CA8 1994) ("[I]t is unnecessary to add a separate layer of harmless-error analysis to an evaluation ofwhether a petitioner in a habeas case has presented a constitutionallysignificant claim for ineffective assistance of counsel").10 The dissent accuses us of overlooking this point and of assuming thatthe favorable significance of a given item of undisclosed evidence is enoughto demonstrate a Brady violation. We evaluate the tendency and force ofthe undisclosed evidence item by item; there is no other way. We evaluate its cumulative effect for purposes of materiality separately and at theend of the discussion, at Part IV-D, infra.514us2$48m 05-27-98 17:22:46 PAGES OPINPGT437Cite as: 514 U. S. 419 (1995)Opinion of the Courtgovernment fails or chooses not to disclose evidence thatmight prove helpful to the defense. 473 U. S., at 675, andn. 7. We have never held that the Constitution demands anopen file policy (however such a policy might work out inpractice), and the rule in Bagley (and, hence, in Brady) requires less of the prosecution than the ABA Standards forCriminal Justice, which call generally for prosecutorial disclosures of any evidence tending to exculpate or mitigate.See ABA Standards for Criminal Justice, Prosecution Function and Defense Function 3-3.11(a) (3d ed. 1993) ("A prose-cutor should not intentionally fail to make timely disclosureto the defense, at the earliest feasible opportunity, of theexistence of all evidence or information which tends to negate the guilt of the accused or mitigate the offense chargedor which would tend to reduce the punishment of the accused"); ABA Model Rule of Professional Conduct 3.8(d)(1984) ("The prosecutor in a criminal case shall . . . maketimely disclosure to the defense of all evidence or information known to the prosecutor that tends to negate the guiltof the accused or mitigates the offense").While the definition of Bagley materiality in terms of thecumulative effect of suppression must accordingly be seen asleaving the government with a degree of discretion, it mustalso be understood as imposing a corresponding burden. Onthe one side, showing that the prosecution knew of an itemof favorable evidence unknown to the defense does notamount to a Brady violation, without more. But the prosecution, which alone can know what is undisclosed, must beassigned the consequent responsibility to gauge the likelynet effect of all such evidence and make disclosure when thepoint of "reasonable probability" is reached. This in turnmeans that the individual prosecutor has a duty to learn ofany favorable evidence known to the others acting on thegovernment's behalf in the case, including the police. Butwhether the prosecutor succeeds or fails in meeting this obligation (whether, that is, a failure to disclose is in good faith514us2$48m 05-27-98 17:22:46 PAGES OPINPGT438 KYLES v. WHITLEYOpinion of the Courtor bad faith, see Brady, 373 U. S., at 87), the prosecution'sresponsibility for failing to disclose known, favorable evidence rising to a material level of importance is inescapable.The State of Louisiana would prefer an even more lenientrule. It pleads that some of the favorable evidence in issuehere was not disclosed even to the prosecutor until aftertrial, Brief for Respondent 25, 27, 30, 31, and it suggestedbelow that it should not be held accountable under Bagleyand Brady for evidence known only to police investigatorsand not to the prosecutor.11 To accommodate the State inthis manner would, however, amount to a serious change ofcourse from the Brady line of cases. In the State's favorit may be said that no one doubts that police investigatorssometimes fail to inform a prosecutor of all they know. Butneither is there any serious doubt that "procedures and regulations can be established to carry [the prosecutor's] burdenand to insure communication of all relevant information oneach case to every lawyer who deals with it." Giglio v.United States, 405 U. S. 150, 154 (1972). Since, then, theprosecutor has the means to discharge the government'sBrady responsibility if he will, any argument for excusing aprosecutor from disclosing what he does not happen to knowabout boils down to a plea to substitute the police for theprosecutor, and even for the courts themselves, as the finalarbiters of the government's obligation to ensure fair trials.Short of doing that, we were asked at oral argument toraise the threshold of materiality because the Bagley standard "makes it difficult . . . to know" from the "perspective [ofthe prosecutor at] trial . . . exactly what might become important later on." Tr. of Oral Arg. 33. The State asks for "acertain amount of leeway in making a judgment call" as tothe disclosure of any given piece of evidence. Ibid.11 The State's counsel retreated from this suggestion at oral argument,conceding that the State is "held to a disclosure standard based on whatall State officers at the time knew." Tr. of Oral Arg. 40.514us2$48m 05-27-98 17:22:46 PAGES OPINPGT439Cite as: 514 U. S. 419 (1995)Opinion of the CourtUncertainty about the degree of further "leeway" thatmight satisfy the State's request for a "certain amount" of itis the least of the reasons to deny the request. At bottom,what the State fails to recognize is that, with or withoutmore leeway, the prosecution cannot be subject to any disclosure obligation without at some point having the responsibil-ity to determine when it must act. Indeed, even if due process were thought to be violated by every failure to disclosean item of exculpatory or impeachment evidence (leavingharmless error as the government's only fallback), the prose-cutor would still be forced to make judgment calls aboutwhat would count as favorable evidence, owing to the veryfact that the character of a piece of evidence as favorablewill often turn on the context of the existing or potentialevidentiary record. Since the prosecutor would have to exercise some judgment even if the State were subject to thismost stringent disclosure obligation, it is hard to find meritin the State's complaint over the responsibility for judgmentunder the existing system, which does not tax the prosecutorwith error for any failure to disclose, absent a further showing of materiality. Unless, indeed, the adversary system ofprosecution is to descend to a gladiatorial level unmitigatedby any prosecutorial obligation for the sake of truth, thegovernment simply cannot avoid responsibility for knowingwhen the suppression of evidence has come to portend suchan effect on a trial's outcome as to destroy confidence in itsresult.This means, naturally, that a prosecutor anxious abouttacking too close to the wind will disclose a favorable pieceof evidence. See Agurs, 427 U. S., at 108 ("[T]he prudentprosecutor will resolve doubtful questions in favor of disclosure"). This is as it should be. Such disclosure will serveto justify trust in the prosecutor as "the representative . . .of a sovereignty . . . whose interest . . . in a criminal prosecution is not that it shall win a case, but that justice shallbe done." Berger v. United States, 295 U. S. 78, 88 (1935).514us2$48m 05-27-98 17:22:46 PAGES OPINPGT440 KYLES v. WHITLEYOpinion of the CourtAnd it will tend to preserve the criminal trial, as distinctfrom the prosecutor's private deliberations, as the chosenforum for ascertaining the truth about criminal accusations.SeeRose v. Clark, 478 U. S. 570, 577-578 (1986); Estes v.Texas, 381 U. S. 532, 540 (1965); United States v. Leon, 468U. S. 897, 900-901 (1984) (recognizing general goal of estab-lishing "procedures under which criminal defendants are `acquitted or convicted on the basis of all the evidence whichexposes the truth' " (quotingAlderman v. United States, 394U. S. 165, 175 (1969)). The prudence of the careful prosecu-tor should not therefore be discouraged.There is room to debate whether the two judges in themajority in the Court of Appeals made an assessment of thecumulative effect of the evidence. Although the majority'sBrady discussion concludes with the statement that thecourt was not persuaded of the reasonable probability thatKyles would have obtained a favorable verdict if the juryhad been "exposed to any or all of the undisclosed materials,"5 F. 3d, at 817, the opinion also contains repeated referencesdismissing particular items of evidence as immaterial and sosuggesting that cumulative materiality was not the touchstone. See, e. g., id., at 812 ("We do not agree that thisstatement made the transcript material and so mandateddisclosure . . . . Beanie's statement . . . is itself not decisive"), 814 ("The nondisclosure of this much of the transcriptwas insignificant"), 815 ("Kyles has not shown on this basisthat the three statements were material"), 815 ("In light ofthe entire record . . . we cannot conclude that [police reportsrelating to discovery of the purse in the trash] would, in reasonable probability, have moved the jury to embrace the theory it otherwise discounted"), 816 ("We are not persuadedthat these notes [relating to discovery of the gun] were material"), 816 ("[W]e are not persuaded that [the printout of thelicense plate numbers] would, in reasonable probability, haveinduced reasonable doubt where the jury did not find it. . . .the rebuttal of the photograph would have made no differ514us2$48m 05-27-98 17:22:46 PAGES OPINPGT441Cite as: 514 U. S. 419 (1995)Opinion of the Courtence"). The result reached by the Fifth Circuit majority iscompatible with a series of independent materiality evaluations, rather than the cumulative evaluation required byBagley, as the ensuing discussion will show.IVIn this case, disclosure of the suppressed evidence to com-petent counsel would have made a different result reasonably probable. AAs the District Court put it, "the essence of the State'scase" was the testimony of eyewitnesses, who identifiedKyles as Dye's killer. 5 F. 3d, at 853 (Appendix A). Disclo-sure of their statements would have resulted in a markedlyweaker case for the prosecution and a markedly strongerone for the defense. To begin with, the value of two ofthose witnesses would have been substantially reduced ordestroyed.The State rated Henry Williams as its best witness, whotestified that he had seen the struggle and the actual shooting by Kyles. The jury would have found it helpful to probethis conclusion in the light of Williams's contemporaneousstatement, in which he told the police that the assailant was"a black male, about 19 or 20 years old, about 5'4" or 5'5", 140to 150 pounds, medium build" and that "his hair looked likeit was platted." App. 197. If cross-examined on this description, Williams would have had trouble explaining howhe could have described Kyles, 6-feet tall and thin, as a manmore than half a foot shorter with a medium build.12 Indeed, since Beanie was 22 years old, 5'5" tall, and 159 pounds,12 The record makes numerous references to Kyles being approximatelysix feet tall and slender; photographs in the record tend to confirm thesedescriptions. The description of Beanie in the text comes from his policefile. Record photographs of Beanie also depict a man possessing a medium build.514us2$48m 05-27-98 17:22:46 PAGES OPINPGT442 KYLES v. WHITLEYOpinion of the Courtthe defense would have had a compelling argument thatWilliams's description pointed to Beanie but not to Kyles.13The trial testimony of a second eyewitness, Isaac Smallwood, was equally damning to Kyles. He testified thatKyles was the assailant, and that he saw him struggle withDye. He said he saw Kyles take a ".32, a small black gun"out of his right pocket, shoot Dye in the head, and drive offin her LTD. When the prosecutor asked him whether heactually saw Kyles shoot Dye, Smallwood answered "Yeah."Tr. 41-48 (Dec. 6, 1984).Smallwood's statement taken at the parking lot, however,was vastly different. Immediately after the crime, Small13 The defense could have further underscored the possibility thatBeanie was Dye's killer through cross-examination of the police on theirfailure to direct any investigation against Beanie. If the police had disclosed Beanie's statements, they would have been forced to admit thattheir informant Beanie described Kyles as generally wearing his hair in a"bush" style (and so wearing it when he sold the car to Beanie), whereasBeanie wore his in plaits. There was a considerable amount of suchBrady evidence on which the defense could have attacked the investigation as shoddy. The police failed to disclose that Beanie had chargespending against him for a theft at the same Schwegmann's store and wasa primary suspect in the January 1984 murder of Patricia Leidenheimer,who, like Dye, was an older woman shot once in the head during an armedrobbery. (Even though Beanie was a primary suspect in the Leidenheimer murder as early as September, he was not interviewed by thepolice about it until after Kyles's second trial in December. Beanie confessed his involvement in the murder, but was never charged in connectionwith it.) These were additional reasons for Beanie to ingratiate himselfwith the police and for the police to treat him with a suspicion they did notshow. Indeed, notwithstanding Justice Scalia's suggestion that Beaniewould have been "stupid" to inject himself into the investigation, post, at461, the Brady evidence would have revealed at least two motives forBeanie to come forward: he was interested in reward money and he wasworried that he was already a suspect in Dye's murder (indeed, he hadbeen seen driving the victim's car, which had been the subject of newspaper and television reports). See supra, at 425-426. For a discussion offurther Brady evidence to attack the investigation, see especially PartIV-B, infra.514us2$48m 05-27-98 17:22:46 PAGES OPINPGT443Cite as: 514 U. S. 419 (1995)Opinion of the Courtwood claimed that he had not seen the actual murder andhad not seen the assailant outside the vehicle. "I heard alound [sic] pop," he said. "When I looked around I saw alady laying on the ground, and there was a red car comingtoward me." App. 189. Smallwood said that he got a lookat the culprit, a black teenage male with a mustache andshoulder-length braided hair, as the victim's red Thunderbirdpassed where he was standing. When a police investigatorspecifically asked him whether he had seen the assailantoutside the car, Smallwood answered that he had not; thegunman "was already in the car and coming toward me."Id., at 188-190.A jury would reasonably have been troubled by the adjustments to Smallwood's original story by the time of the second trial. The struggle and shooting, which earlier he hadnot seen, he was able to describe with such detailed clarityas to identify the murder weapon as a small black .32-caliberpistol, which, of course, was the type of weapon used. Hisdescription of the victim's car had gone from a "Thunderbird" to an "LTD"; and he saw fit to say nothing about theassailant's shoulder-length hair and moustache, details notedby no other eyewitness. These developments would havefueled a withering cross-examination, destroying confidencein Smallwood's story and raising a substantial implicationthat the prosecutor had coached him to give it.1414 The implication of coaching would have been complemented by thefact that Smallwood's testimony at the second trial was much more preciseand incriminating than his testimony at the first, which produced a hungjury. At the first trial, Smallwood testified that he looked around onlyafter he heard something go off, that Dye was already on the ground, andthat he "watched the guy get in the car." Tr. 50-51 (Nov. 26, 1984).When asked to describe the killer, Smallwood stated that he "just got aglance of him from the side" and "couldn't even get a look in the face."Id., at 52, 54.The State contends that this change actually cuts in its favor underBrady, since it provided Kyles's defense with grounds for impeachment514us2$48m 05-27-98 17:22:46 PAGES OPINPGT444 KYLES v. WHITLEYOpinion of the CourtSince the evolution over time of a given eyewitness's de-scription can be fatal to its reliability, cf. Manson v. Brathwaite, 432 U. S. 98, 114 (1977) (reliability depends in part onthe accuracy of prior description); Neil v. Biggers, 409 U. S.188, 199 (1972) (reliability of identification following imper-missibly suggestive lineup depends in part on accuracy ofwitness's prior description), the Smallwood and Williamsidentifications would have been severely undermined by useof their suppressed statements. The likely damage is bestunderstood by taking the word of the prosecutor, who contended during closing arguments that Smallwood and Wil-liams were the State's two best witnesses. See Tr. of Closing Arg. 49 (Dec. 7, 1984) (After discussing Territo's andKersh's testimony: "Isaac Smallwood, have you ever seen abetter witness[?] . . . What's better than that is HenryWilliams. . . . Henry Williams was the closest of them allwithout any need to disclose Smallwood's statement. Brief for Respondent 17-18. This is true, but not true enough; inconsistencies between thetwo bodies of trial testimony provided opportunities for chipping awayon cross-examination but not for the assault that was warranted. WhileSmallwood's testimony at the first trial was similar to his contemporaneous account in some respects (for example, he said he looked around onlyafter he heard the gunshot and that Dye was already on the ground), itdiffered in one of the most important: Smallwood's version at the first trialalready included his observation of the gunman outside the car. Defensecounsel was not, therefore, clearly put on notice that Smallwood's capacityto identify the killer's body type was open to serious attack; even less washe informed that Smallwood had answered "no" when asked if he had seenthe killer outside the car. If Smallwood had in fact seen the gunman onlyafter the assailant had entered Dye's car, as he said in his original statement, it would have been difficult if not impossible for him to notice twokey characteristics distinguishing Kyles from Beanie, their heights andbuilds. Moreover, in the first trial, Smallwood specifically stated that thekiller's hair was "kind of like short . . . knotted up on his head." Tr. 60(Nov. 26, 1984). This description was not inconsistent with his testimonyat the second trial but directly contradicted his statement at the scene ofthe murder that the killer had shoulder-length hair. The dissent says thatSmallwood's testimony would have been "barely affected" by the expectedimpeachment, post, at 468; that would have been a brave jury argument.514us2$48m 05-27-98 17:22:46 PAGES OPINPGT445Cite as: 514 U. S. 419 (1995)Opinion of the Courtright here"). Nor, of course, would the harm to the State'scase on identity have been confined to their testimony alone.The fact that neither Williams nor Smallwood could haveprovided a consistent eyewitness description pointing toKyles would have undercut the prosecution all the more be-cause the remaining eyewitnesses called to testify (Territoand Kersh) had their best views of the gunman only as hefled the scene with his body partly concealed in Dye's car.And even aside from such important details, the effectiveimpeachment of one eyewitness can call for a new trial eventhough the attack does not extend directly to others, as wehave said before. SeeAgurs, 427 U. S., at 112-113, n. 21.BDamage to the prosecution's case would not have been con-fined to evidence of the eyewitnesses, for Beanie's variousstatements would have raised opportunities to attack notonly the probative value of crucial physical evidence and thecircumstances in which it was found, but the thoroughnessand even the good faith of the investigation, as well. By theState's own admission, Beanie was essential to its investiga-tion and, indeed, "made the case" against Kyles. Tr. of Closing Arg. 13 (Dec. 7, 1984). Contrary to what one might hopefor from such a source, however, Beanie's statements to thepolice were replete with inconsistencies and would have al-lowed the jury to infer that Beanie was anxious to see Kylesarrested for Dye's murder. Their disclosure would have re-vealed a remarkably uncritical attitude on the part of thepolice.If the defense had called Beanie as an adverse witness, hecould not have said anything of any significance withoutbeing trapped by his inconsistencies. A short recapitulationof some of them will make the point. In Beanie's initialmeeting with the police, and in his signed statement, he saidhe bought Dye's LTD and helped Kyles retrieve his car fromthe Schwegmann's lot on Friday. In his first call to the po514us2$48m 05-27-98 17:22:46 PAGES OPINPGT446 KYLES v. WHITLEYOpinion of the Courtlice, he said he bought the LTD on Thursday, and in his conversation with the prosecutor between trials it was again onThursday that he said he helped Kyles retrieve Kyles's car.Although none of the first three versions of this story mentioned Kevin Black as taking part in the retrieval of the carand transfer of groceries, after Black implicated Beanie byhis testimony for the defense at the first trial, Beaniechanged his story to include Black as a participant. InBeanie's several accounts, Dye's purse first shows up variously next to a building, in some bushes, in Kyles's car, andat Black's house.Even if Kyles's lawyer had followed the more conservativecourse of leaving Beanie off the stand, though, the defensecould have examined the police to good effect on their knowledge of Beanie's statements and so have attacked the reliability of the investigation in failing even to consider Beanie'spossible guilt and in tolerating (if not countenancing) seriouspossibilities that incriminating evidence had been planted.See, e. g., Bowen v. Maynard, 799 F. 2d 593, 613 (CA10 1986)("A common trial tactic of defense lawyers is to discreditthe caliber of the investigation or the decision to charge thedefendant, and we may consider such use in assessing a possible Brady violation"); Lindsey v. King, 769 F. 2d 1034, 1042(CA5 1985) (awarding new trial of prisoner convicted in Louisiana state court because withheld Brady evidence "carriedwithin it the potential . . . for the . . . discrediting . . . of thepolice methods employed in assembling the case").1515 The dissent, post, at 464, suggests that for jurors to count the sloppiness of the investigation against the probative force of the State's evidencewould have been irrational, but of course it would have been no such thing.When, for example, the probative force of evidence depends on the circumstances in which it was obtained and those circumstances raise a possibility of fraud, indications of conscientious police work will enhance probativeforce and slovenly work will diminish it. See discussion of purse and gun,infra, at 447-449.514us2$48m 05-27-98 17:22:46 PAGES OPINPGT447Cite as: 514 U. S. 419 (1995)Opinion of the CourtBy demonstrating the detectives' knowledge of Beanie'saffirmatively self-incriminating statements, the defensecould have laid the foundation for a vigorous argument thatthe police had been guilty of negligence. In his initial meeting with police, Beanie admitted twice that he changed thelicense plates on the LTD. This admission enhanced thesuspiciousness of his possession of the car; the defense couldhave argued persuasively that he was no bona fide purchaser.And when combined with his police record, evidence of priorcriminal activity near Schwegmann's, and his status as a sus-pect in another murder, his devious behavior gave reason tobelieve that he had done more than buy a stolen car. Therewas further self-incrimination in Beanie's statement thatKyles's car was parked in the same part of the Schwegmann'slot where Dye was killed. Beanie's apparent awareness ofthe specific location of the murder could have been based, asthe State contends, on television or newspaper reports, butperhaps it was not. Cf. App. 215 (Beanie saying that heknew about the murder because his brother-in-law had seenit "on T. V. and in the paper" and had told Beanie). Sincethe police admittedly never treated Beanie as a suspect, thedefense could thus have used his statements to throw thereliability of the investigation into doubt and to sully thecredibility of Detective Dillman, who testified that Beaniewas never a suspect, Tr. 103-105, 107 (Dec. 6, 1984), and thathe had "no knowledge" that Beanie had changed the licenseplate, id., at 95.The admitted failure of the police to pursue these pointerstoward Beanie's possible guilt could only have magnified theeffect on the jury of explaining how the purse and the gunhappened to be recovered. In Beanie's original recordedstatement, he told the police that "[Kyles's] garbage goes outtomorrow," and that "if he's smart he'll put [the purse] in[the] garbage." App. 257. These statements, along withthe internal memorandum stating that the police had "reasonto believe" Dye's personal effects and Schwegmann's bags514us2$48m 05-27-98 17:22:46 PAGES OPINPGT448 KYLES v. WHITLEYOpinion of the Courtwould be in the garbage, would have supported the defense'stheory that Beanie was no mere observer, but was determining the investigation's direction and success. The potentialfor damage from using Beanie's statement to undermine theostensible integrity of the investigation is only confirmed bythe prosecutor's admission at one of Kyles's postconvictionhearings, that he did not recall a single instance before thiscase when police had searched and seized garbage on thestreet in front of a residence, Tr. of Hearing on Post-Conviction Relief 113 (Feb. 20, 1989), and by Detective JohnMiller's admission at the same hearing that he thought atthe time that it "was a possibility" that Beanie had plantedthe incriminating evidence in the garbage, Tr. of Hearing onPost-Conviction Relief 51 (Feb. 24, 1989). If a police officerthought so, a juror would have, too.16To the same effect would have been an enquiry based onBeanie's apparently revealing remark to police that "if youcan set [Kyles] up good, you can get that same gun."17 App.228-229. While the jury might have understood that Beaniemeant simply that if the police investigated Kyles, theywould probably find the murder weapon, the jury could alsohave taken Beanie to have been making the more sinister16 The dissent, rightly, does not contend that Beanie would have had ahard time planting the purse in Kyles's garbage. See post, at 471(arguing that it would have been difficult for Beanie to plant the gun andhomemade holster). All that would have been needed was for Beanie toput the purse into a trash bag out on the curb. See Tr. 97, 101 (Dec. 6,1984) (testimony of Detective Dillman; garbage bags were seized from "acommon garbage area" on the street in "the early morning hours whenthere wouldn't be anyone on the street").17 The dissent, post, at 461-462, argues that it would have been stupidfor Beanie to have tantalized the police with the prospect of finding thegun one day before he may have planted it. It is odd that the dissentthinks the Brady reassessment requires the assumption that Beanie wasshrewd and sophisticated: the suppressed evidence indicates that within aperiod of a few hours after he first called police Beanie gave three different accounts of Kyles's recovery of the purse (and gave yet another abouta month later).514us2$48m 05-27-98 17:22:46 PAGES OPINPGT449Cite as: 514 U. S. 419 (1995)Opinion of the Courtsuggestion that the police "set up" Kyles, and the defensecould have argued that the police accepted the invitation.The prosecutor's notes of his interview with Beanie wouldhave shown that police officers were asking Beanie thewhereabouts of the gun all day Sunday, the very day whenhe was twice at Kyles's apartment and was allegedly seenby Johnny Burns lurking near the stove, where the gun waslater found.18 Beanie's same statement, indeed, could havebeen used to cap an attack on the integrity of the investiga-tion and on the reliability of Detective Dillman, who testifiedon cross-examination that he did not know if Beanie had beenat Kyles's apartment on Sunday. Tr. 93, 101 (Dec. 6, 1984).1918 The dissent would rule out any suspicion because Beanie was said tohave worn a "tank-top" shirt during his visits to the apartment, post, at471; we suppose that a small handgun could have been carried in a man'strousers, just as a witness for the State claimed the killer had carried it,Tr. 52 (Dec. 6, 1984) (Williams). Similarly, the record photograph of thehomemade holster indicates that the jury could have found it to be constructed of insubstantial leather or cloth, duct tape, and string, concealablein a pocket.19 In evaluating the weight of all these evidentiary items, it bears mention that they would not have functioned as mere isolated bits of good luckfor Kyles. Their combined force in attacking the process by which thepolice gathered evidence and assembled the case would have complemented, and have been complemented by, the testimony actually offeredby Kyles's friends and family to show that Beanie had framed Kyles. Exposure to Beanie's own words, even through cross-examination of the police officers, would have made the defense's case more plausible and reduced its vulnerability to credibility attack. Johnny Burns, for example,was subjected to sharp cross-examination after testifying that he had seenBeanie change the license plate on the LTD, that he walked in on Beaniestooping near the stove in Kyles's kitchen, that he had seen Beanie withhandguns of various calibers, including a .32, and that he was testifyingfor the defense even though Beanie was his "best friend." Tr. 260, 262-263, 279, 280 (Dec. 7, 1984). On each of these points, Burns's testimonywould have been consistent with the withheld evidence: that Beanie hadspoken of Burns to the police as his "partner," had admitted to changingthe LTD's license plate, had attended Sunday dinner at Kyles's apartment,and had a history of violent crime, rendering his use of guns more likely.With this information, the defense could have challenged the prosecution's514us2$48m 05-27-98 17:22:46 PAGES OPINPGT450 KYLES v. WHITLEYOpinion of the CourtCNext to be considered is the prosecution's list of the carsin the Schwegmann's parking lot at mid-evening after themurder. While its suppression does not rank with the failure to disclose the other evidence discussed here, it wouldhave had some value as exculpation and impeachment, andit counts accordingly in determining whether Bagley's stand-ard of materiality is satisfied. On the police's assumption,argued to the jury, that the killer drove to the lot and lefthis car there during the heat of the investigation, the listwithout Kyles's registration would obviously have helpedKyles and would have had some value in countering an argument by the prosecution that a grainy enlargement of a photograph of the crime scene showed Kyles's car in the background. The list would also have shown that the policeeither knew that it was inconsistent with their informant'ssecond and third statements (in which Beanie described retrieving Kyles's car after the time the list was compiled) ornever even bothered to check the informant's story againstknown fact. Either way, the defense would have had further support for arguing that the police were irresponsible inrelying on Beanie to tip them off to the location of evidencedamaging to Kyles.The State argues that the list was neither impeachmentnor exculpatory evidence because Kyles could have movedhis car before the list was created and because the list doesgood faith on at least some of the points of cross-examination mentionedand could have elicited police testimony to blunt the effect of the attackon Burns.Justice Scalia suggests that we should "gauge" Burns's credibilityby observing that the state judge presiding over Kyles's postconvictionproceeding did not find Burns's testimony in that proceeding to be convincing, and by noting that Burns has since been convicted for killing Beanie.Post, at 471-472. Of course neither observation could possibly have affected the jury's appraisal of Burns's credibility at the time of Kyles'strials.514us2$48m 05-27-98 17:22:46 PAGES OPINPGT451Cite as: 514 U. S. 419 (1995)Opinion of the Courtnot purport to be a comprehensive listing of all the cars inthe Schwegmann's lot. Such argument, however, confusesthe weight of the evidence with its favorable tendency, andeven if accepted would work against the State, not for it. Ifthe police had testified that the list was incomplete, theywould simply have underscored the unreliability of the investigation and complemented the defense's attack on the failureto treat Beanie as a suspect and his statements with a presumption of fallibility. But however the evidence wouldhave been used, it would have had some weight and its tendency would have been favorable to Kyles.DIn assessing the significance of the evidence withheld, onemust of course bear in mind that not every item of the State'scase would have been directly undercut if the Brady evi-dence had been disclosed. It is significant, however, thatthe physical evidence remaining unscathed would, by theState's own admission, hardly have amounted to overwhelming proof that Kyles was the murderer. See Tr. of Oral Arg.56 ("The heart of the State's case was eye-witness identification"); see also Tr. of Hearing on Post-Conviction Relief 117(Feb. 20, 1989) (testimony of chief prosecutor Strider) ("Thecrux of the case was the four eye-witnesses"). Ammunitionand a holster were found in Kyles's apartment, but if thejury had suspected the gun had been planted the significanceof these items might have been left in doubt. The fact thatpet food was found in Kyles's apartment was consistent withthe testimony of several defense witnesses that Kyles owneda dog and that his children fed stray cats. The brands ofpet food found were only two of the brands that Dye typically bought, and these two were common, whereas the onespecialty brand that was found in Dye's apartment after hermurder, Tr. 180 (Dec. 7, 1984), was not found in Kyles's apart-ment,id., at 188. Although Kyles was wrong in describingthe cat food as being on sale the day he said he bought it, he514us2$48m 05-27-98 17:22:46 PAGES OPINPGT452 KYLES v. WHITLEYOpinion of the Courtwas right in describing the way it was priced at Schweg-mann's market, where he commonly shopped.20Similarly undispositive is the small Schwegmann's receipton the front passenger floorboard of the LTD, the only physical evidence that bore a fingerprint identified as Kyles's.Kyles explained that Beanie had driven him to Schwegmann's on Friday to buy cigarettes and transmission fluid,and he theorized that the slip must have fallen out of thebag when he removed the cigarettes. This explanation isconsistent with the location of the slip when found and withits small size. The State cannot very well argue that thefingerprint ties Kyles to the killing without also explaininghow the 2-inch-long register slip could have been the receiptfor a week's worth of groceries, which Dye had gone toSchwegmann's to purchase. Id., at 181-182.2120 Kyles testified that he believed the pet food to have been on sale because "they had a little sign there that said three for such and such, twofor such and such at a cheaper price. It wasn't even over a dollar." Tr.341 (Dec. 7, 1984). When asked about the sign, Kyles said it "wasn'tbig. . . [i]t was a little bitty piece of slip . . . on the shelf." Id., at 342.Subsequently, the prices were revealed as in fact being "[t]hree for 89[cents]" and "two for 77 [cents]," id., at 343, which comported exactly withKyles's earlier description. The director of advertising at Schwegmann'stestified that the items purchased by Kyles had not been on sale, but alsoexplained that the multiple pricing was thought to make the products"more attractive" to the customer. Id., at 396. The advertising directorstated that store policy was to not have signs on the shelves, but he alsoadmitted that salespeople sometimes disregarded the policy and put signsup anyway, and that he could not say for sure whether there were signsup on the day Kyles said he bought the pet food. Id., at 398-399. Thedissent suggests, post, at 473, that Kyles must have been so "very poor"as to be unable to purchase the pet food. The total cost of the 15 cans ofpet food found in Kyles's apartment would have been $5.67. See Tr. 188,395 (Dec. 7, 1984). Rather than being "damning," post, at 472, the petfood evidence was thus equivocal and, in any event, was not the crux ofthe prosecution's case, as the State has conceded. See supra, at 451 andthis page.21 The State's counsel admitted at oral argument that its case dependedon the facially implausible notion that Dye had not made her typicalweekly grocery purchases on the day of the murder (if she had, the receipt514us2$48m 05-27-98 17:22:46 PAGES OPINPGT453Cite as: 514 U. S. 419 (1995)Opinion of the CourtThe inconclusiveness of the physical evidence does not, tobe sure, prove Kyles's innocence, and the jury might havefound the eyewitness testimony of Territo and Kersh suffi-cient to convict, even though less damning to Kyles than thatof Smallwood and Williams.22 But the question is notwhether the State would have had a case to go to the jury ifit had disclosed the favorable evidence, but whether we canbe confident that the jury's verdict would have been thesame. Confidence that it would have been cannot survive arecap of the suppressed evidence and its significance for theprosecution. The jury would have been entitled to find(a) that the investigation was limited by the police's un-critical readiness to accept the story and suggestions ofan informant whose accounts were inconsistent to thepoint, for example, of including four different versionsof the discovery of the victim's purse, and whose ownbehavior was enough to raise suspicions of guilt;(b) that the lead police detective who testified waseither less than wholly candid or less than fullyinformed;(c) that the informant's behavior raised suspicions thathe had planted both the murder weapon and the victim'spurse in the places they were found;(d) that one of the four eyewitnesses crucial to theState's case had given a description that did not matchthe defendant and better described the informant;(e) that another eyewitness had been coached, since hehad first stated that he had not seen the killer outsidethe getaway car, or the killing itself, whereas at trial hewould have been longer), but that she had indeed made her typical weeklypurchases of pet food (hence the presence of the pet food in Kyles's apartment, which the State claimed were Dye's). Tr. of Oral Arg. 53-54.22 See supra, at 445. On remand, of course, the State's case will beweaker still, since the prosecution is unlikely to rely on Kersh, who nowswears that she committed perjury at the two trials when she identifiedKyles as the murderer. See n. 6, supra.514us2$48m 05-27-98 17:22:46 PAGES OPINPGT454 KYLES v. WHITLEYStevens, J., concurringclaimed to have seen the shooting, described the murderweapon exactly, and omitted portions of his initial description that would have been troublesome for the case;(f) that there was no consistency to eyewitness descrip-tions of the killer's height, build, age, facial hair, orhair length.Since all of these possible findings were precluded by theprosecution's failure to disclose the evidence that would havesupported them, "fairness" cannot be stretched to the pointof calling this a fair trial. Perhaps, confidence that the verdict would have been the same could survive the evidenceimpeaching even two eyewitnesses if the discoveries of gunand purse were above suspicion. Perhaps those suspiciouscircumstances would not defeat confidence in the verdict ifthe eyewitnesses had generally agreed on a description andwere free of impeachment. But confidence that the verdictwould have been unaffected cannot survive when suppressedevidence would have entitled a jury to find that the eyewitnesses were not consistent in describing the killer, that twoout of the four eyewitnesses testifying were unreliable, thatthe most damning physical evidence was subject to suspicion,that the investigation that produced it was insufficientlyprobing, and that the principal police witness was insuffi-ciently informed or candid. This is not the "massive" caseenvisioned by the dissent, post, at 475; it is a significantlyweaker case than the one heard by the first jury, which couldnot even reach a verdict.The judgment of the Court of Appeals is reversed, andthe case is remanded for further proceedings consistent withthis opinion.