Since 1945, a decree of this Court has rationed the NorthPlatte River among users in Wyoming, Nebraska, and Colorado. By petition in 1986, Nebraska again brought the mat-ter before us, and we appointed a Special Master to conductthe appropriate proceedings. In his Third Interim Reporton Motions to Amend Pleadings (Sept. 9, 1994) (hereinafterThird Interim Report), the Master has made recommenda-tions for rulings on requests for leave to amend filed by Nebraska and Wyoming. We now have before us the parties'exceptions to the Master's report, each of which we overrule.IThe North Platte River is a nonnavigable stream rising innorthern Colorado and flowing through Wyoming into Nebraska, where it joins with the South Platte to form thePlatte River. In 1934, Nebraska invoked our original jurisdiction under the Constitution, Art. III, $ 2, cl. 2, by suingWyoming for an equitable apportionment of the NorthPlatte. The United States had leave to intervene, Coloradowas impleaded as a defendant, and the ensuing litigation cul*Briefs of amici curiae were filed for the Basin Electric Power Cooperative by Edward Weinberg, Richmond F. Allan, Michael J. Hinman, andClaire Olson; and for the Platte River Trust by Abbe David Lowell.515us1$63M 08-11-98 16:46:59 PAGES OPINPGT5Cite as: 515 U. S. 1 (1995)Opinion of the Courtminated in the decision and decree in Nebraska v. Wyoming,325 U. S. 589 (1945)(Nebraska I).We concluded that the doctrine of prior appropriationshould serve as the general "guiding principle" in our allocation of the North Platte's flows, id., at 618, but resistedan inflexible application of that doctrine in rendering fourprincipal rulings.Ibid. First, we enjoined Colorado andWyoming from diverting or storing water above prescribedamounts, meant to reflect existing uses, on the river's upperreaches. Id., at 621-625, 665-666. Second, we set priori-ties among Wyoming canals that divert water for the use ofNebraska irrigators and federal reservoirs, also in Wyoming,that store water for Wyoming and Nebraska irrigation districts. Id., at 625-637, 666-667. Third, we apportioned thenatural irrigation-season flows in a stretch of river thatproved to be the principal focus of the litigation (the "pivotalreach" of 41 miles between the Guernsey Dam in Wyomingand the Tri-State Dam in Nebraska), allocating 75 percent ofthose flows to Nebraska and 25 percent to Wyoming. Id.,at 637-654, 667-669. Finally, we held that any party couldapply for amendment of the decree or for further relief.Id., at 671 (Decree Paragraph XIII). With the parties' stipulation, the decree has since been modified once, to accountfor the construction of the Glendo Dam and Reservoir.Nebraska v. Wyoming, 345 U. S. 981 (1953).Nebraska returned to this Court in 1986 seeking additional relief under the decree, alleging that Wyoming wasthreatening its equitable apportionment, primarily by planning water projects on tributaries that have historicallyadded significant flows to the pivotal reach. We grantedNebraska leave to file its petition, 479 U. S. 1051 (1987), andallowed Wyoming to file a counterclaim, 481 U. S. 1011 (1987).Soon thereafter, Wyoming made a global motion for summary judgment, which the Master in his First Interim Report recommended be denied. See First Interim Report ofSpecial Master, O. T. 1988, No. 108 Orig. After engaging515us1$63M 08-11-98 16:46:59 PAGES OPINPGT6 NEBRASKA v. WYOMINGOpinion of the Courtin discovery, Nebraska, Wyoming, Colorado, and the UnitedStates all filed further summary judgment motions. In hisSecond Interim Report, the Master recommended that wegrant the motions of the United States and Nebraska in part,but that we otherwise deny summary relief. See Second Interim Report of Special Master on Motions for SummaryJudgment and Renewed Motions for Intervention, O. T. 1991,No. 108 Orig. We overruled the parties' exceptions. Nebraska v. Wyoming, 507 U. S. 584 (1993) (Nebraska II).Nebraska and Wyoming then sought leave to amend theirpleadings, and we referred those requests to the Master.The Amended Petition that Nebraska seeks to file containsfour counts. Count I alleges that Wyoming is depleting thenatural flows of the North Platte and asks for an injunctionagainst constructing storage capacity on the river's tributaries and "permitting unlimited depletion of groundwater thatis hydrologically connected to the North Platte River andits tributaries." App. to Third Interim Report D-2 to D-7.Count II alleges that the United States is operating theGlendo Reservoir in violation of the decree and seeks anorder holding the United States to the decree. Id., at D-7to D-8. Count III alleges that Wyoming water projects andgroundwater development threaten to deplete the LaramieRiver's contributions to the North Platte, and asks the Courtto "specify that the inflows of the Laramie River belowWheatland are a component of the equitable apportionmentof the natural flows in the [pivotal] reach, 75% to Nebraskaand 25% to Wyoming, and [to] enjoin the State of Wyomingfrom depleting Nebraska's equitable share of the LaramieRiver's contribution to the North Platte River . . . ." Id., atD-8 to D-12. Count IV seeks an equitable apportionmentof the North Platte's nonirrigation season flows. Id., atD-12 to D-16. The Master recommended that we allow Nebraska to substitute the first three counts of its AmendedPetition for its current petition, but that we deny leave tofile Count IV. Neither Nebraska nor the United States has515us1$63M 08-11-98 16:46:59 PAGES OPINPGT7Cite as: 515 U. S. 1 (1995)Opinion of the Courtexcepted to the Master's recommendation, whereas Wyo-ming has filed three exceptions, set out in detail below.Wyoming proposes to amend its pleading with four coun-terclaims and five cross-claims. The First Counterclaim andCross-Claim allege that Nebraska and the United Stateshave failed to recognize beneficial use limitations on diver-sions by Nebraska canals, and that Nebraska (with the acquiescence of the United States) has violated the equitable ap-portionment by demanding natural flow and storage waterfrom sources above Tri-State Dam and diverting them foruse below Tri-State Dam. App. to Third Interim ReportE-3 to E-6, E-8 to E-10. Wyoming's Second and ThirdCounterclaims and Cross-Claims seek enforcement or modification of Paragraph XVII of the decree, which deals withthe operation of the Glendo Reservoir and is also the subjectof Count II of Nebraska's Amended Petition. Id., at E-6 toE-7, E-10 to E-11. By its Fourth Counterclaim and FifthCross-Claim, Wyoming asks the Court to modify the decreeto leave the determination of carriage (or transportation)losses to state officials under state law. Id., at E-7 to E-8,E-12. Finally, Wyoming's Fourth Cross-Claim alleges thatthe United States has failed to operate its storage reservoirsin accordance with federal and state law and its own storagewater contracts, thus upsetting the very basis of the decree'sequitable apportionment. Id., at E-11 to E-12.The Master recommended that we allow Wyoming to substitute its Second through Fourth Counterclaims and its Second through Fifth Cross-Claims for its current pleadings, butthat we deny leave to file Wyoming's First Counterclaim andCross-Claim insofar as they seek to impose a beneficial uselimitation on Nebraska's diversions of natural flow. TheUnited States and Nebraska except to the recommendationto allow Wyoming to file its Fourth Cross-Claim. Wyomingexcepts to the Master's recommended disposition of its FirstCounterclaim and Cross-Claim. In all, then, Wyoming hasfiled four exceptions to the Master's recommendations and515us1$63M 08-11-98 16:46:59 PAGES OPINPGT8 NEBRASKA v. WYOMINGOpinion of the Courtthe United States and Nebraska a single (and largely over-lapping) exception each.IIWe have found that the solicitude for liberal amendmentof pleadings animating the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure,Rule 15(a); Foman v. Davis, 371 U. S. 178, 182 (1962), doesnot suit cases within this Court's original jurisdiction.Ohiov. Kentucky, 410 U. S. 641, 644 (1973); cf. this Court's Rule17.2. The need for a less complaisant standard follows fromour traditional reluctance to exercise original jurisdictionin any but the most serious of circumstances, even where,as in cases between two or more States, our jurisdiction isexclusive. Mississippi v. Louisiana, 506 U. S. 73, 77 (1992)(" `The model case for invocation of this Court's original jurisdiction is a dispute between States of such seriousnessthat it would amount tocasus belli if the States were fullysovereign,' " quotingTexas v. New Mexico, 462 U. S. 554, 571,n. 18 (1983)); New York v. New Jersey, 256 U. S. 296, 309(1921) ("Before this court can be moved to exercise its ex-traordinary power under the Constitution to control the conduct of one State at the suit of another, the threatened inva-sion of rights must be of serious magnitude and it must beestablished by clear and convincing evidence"). Our re-quirement that leave be obtained before a complaint may befiled in an original action, see this Court's Rule 17.3, servesan important gatekeeping function, and proposed pleadingamendments must be scrutinized closely in the first instanceto see whether they would take the litigation beyond whatwe reasonably anticipated when we granted leave to file theinitial pleadings. SeeOhio v. Kentucky, supra, at 644.Accordingly, an understanding of the scope of this litigation as envisioned under the initial pleadings is the criticalfirst step in our consideration of the motions to amend. Wehave, in fact, already discussed the breadth of the currentlitigation at some length in reviewing the Special Master'sFirst and Second Interim Reports, Nebraska II, 507 U. S.,515us1$63M 08-11-98 16:46:59 PAGES OPINPGT9Cite as: 515 U. S. 1 (1995)Opinion of the Courtat 590-593, where we concluded that this litigation is notrestricted "solely to enforcement of rights determined in theprior proceedings," id., at 592. To the contrary, we observed that in Paragraph XIII of the decree, we had retainedjurisdiction "to modify the decree to answer unresolvedquestions and to accommodate `change[s] in conditions'--aphrase sufficiently broad to encompass not only changes inwater supply, . . . but also new development that threatens aparty's interests." Id., at 591, citing Nebraska I, 325 U. S.,at 620. The parties may therefore not only seek to enforcerights established by the decree, but may also ask for "areweighing of equities and an injunction declaring newrights and responsibilities . . . ." 507 U. S., at 593. Wemade it clear, however, that while "Paragraph XIII perhapseases a [party's] burden of establishing, as an initial matter,that a claim [for modification] is `of that character and dignitywhich makes the controversy a justiciable one under ouroriginal jurisdiction,' " ibid., quoting Nebraska I, supra, at610, the "[party] still must make a showing of substantialinjury to be entitled to relief," 507 U. S., at 593.We think the Master appreciated these conclusions aboutthe scope of this litigation when he assessed the proposedamendments to pleadings to see whether they sought enforcement of the decree or plausibly alleged a change in conditions sufficient to justify its modification. See Third Interim Report 33-36. The parties, of course, do not whollyagree with us, as they indicate by their exceptions, to whichwe turn.IIIAWyoming's First Amended Counterclaim alleges that "Nebraska has circumvented and violated the equitable apportionment by demanding natural flow water for diversion byirrigation canals at and above Tri-State Dam in excess of thebeneficial use requirements of the Nebraska lands entitled to515us1$63M 08-11-98 16:46:59 PAGES OPINPGT10 NEBRASKA v. WYOMINGOpinion of the Courtwater from those canals under the Decree . . . ." App. toThird Interim Report E-4. Wyoming's First AmendedCross-Claim alleges that the United States "has circum-vented and violated the equitable apportionment, and continues to do so, by operating the federal reservoirs to delivernatural flow water for diversion by Nebraska irrigation ca-nals at and above Tri-State Dam in excess of the beneficialuse requirements of the lands entitled to water from thosecanals under the Decree . . . ."Id., at E-8. The Masterrecommended that we deny leave to inject these claims intothe litigation, concluding that Wyoming's object is to transform the 1945 apportionment from a proportionate sharingof the natural flows in the pivotal reach to a scheme basedon the beneficial use requirements of the pivotal reach irrigators. Third Interim Report 55-64. Wyoming excepts tothe recommendation, claiming that its amendments do nomore than elaborate on the suggestion made in the counterclaim that we allowed it to file in 1987, that Nebraska irrigators are wasting water diverted in the pivotal reach. Butthere is more to the amendments than that, and we agreewith the Master that Wyoming in reality is calling for a fundamental modification of the settled apportionment schemeestablished in 1945, without alleging a change in conditionsthat would arguably justify so bold a step.In Nebraska II we rejected any notion that our 1945 decision and decree "impose absolute ceilings on diversions bycanals taking in the pivotal reach." 507 U. S., at 602. Wefound that although the irrigation requirements of the landsserved by the canals were calculated in the prior proceedings, those calculations were used to "determin[e] the appropriate apportionment of the pivotal reach, not to imposea cap on the canals' total diversions, either individually orcumulatively." Ibid. This was clearly indicated, we observed, by the fact that "Paragraph V of the decree, whichsets forth the apportionment, makes no mention of diversionceilings and expressly states that Nebraska is free to allocate515us1$63M 08-11-98 16:46:59 PAGES OPINPGT11Cite as: 515 U. S. 1 (1995)Opinion of the Courtits share among its canals as it sees fit." Id., at 603, citingNebraska I, supra, at 667.These conclusions about our 1945 decision and decree ex-pose the true nature of Wyoming's amended claims. Simplyput, Wyoming seeks to replace a simple apportionmentscheme with one in which Nebraska's share would be cappedat the volume of probable beneficial use, presumably to Wyo-ming's advantage. Wyoming thus seeks nothing less thanrelitigation of the "main controversy" of the 1945 litigation,the equitable apportionment of irrigation-season flows in theNorth Platte's pivotal reach. See 325 U. S., at 637-638.Under any circumstance, we would be profoundly reluctantto revisit such a central question supposedly resolved 50years ago, and there can be no temptation to do so here, inthe absence of any allegation of a change in conditions thatmight warrant reexamining the decree's apportionmentscheme. Wyoming's first exception is overruled.1BCounts I and III of Nebraska's Amended Petition wouldhave us modify the decree to enjoin proposed developmentsby Wyoming on the North Platte's tributaries, see App. toThird Interim Report D-4 to D-6, D-9 to D-11, on the the1 The Master explicitly noted that his recommendation should not beunderstood as foreclosing Wyoming from litigating discrete matters captured within its First Amended Counterclaim and the First AmendedCross-Claim that do not involve relitigation of the 1945 decision but rathergo to the enforcement of the decree. Third Amended Report 63. Specifically, these matters include Wyoming's claim that Nebraska has circumvented the decree by calling for upstream flows for the use of irrigatorsdiverting water below the Tri-State Dam; Wyoming's claim of waste bypivotal reach irrigators offered as a defense to Nebraska's objections toWyoming uses upstream; and Wyoming's claim that Nebraska canal callsand natural flow diversions by the United States contravene prioritiesestablished in Paragraph IV of the decree. Id., at 63-64. Neither theUnited States nor Nebraska has objected to the Master's recommendationin this respect.515us1$63M 08-11-98 16:46:59 PAGES OPINPGT12 NEBRASKA v. WYOMINGOpinion of the Courtory that these will deplete the tributaries' contributions tothe mainstem, and hence upset "the equitable balance of theNorth Platte River established in the Decree," id., at D-5,D-10. Wyoming's second exception takes issue with theMaster's stated intention to consider a broad array of downstream interests in passing on Nebraska's claims, and to hearevidence of injury not only to downstream irrigators, butalso to wildlife and wildlife habitat. Third Interim Report14, 17, 19, 26.Consideration of this evidence, Wyoming argues, wouldrun counter to our denial of two earlier motions to amendfiled by Nebraska: its 1988 motion, 485 U. S. 931, by which itexpressly sought modification of the decree to make Wyoming and Colorado share the burden of providing instreamflows necessary to preserve critical wildlife habitat, and its1991 motion, see 507 U. S. 1049 (1993), in which it sought anapportionment of nonirrigation-season flows. Wyoming alsosuggests that allegations of injury to wildlife are as yetpurely speculative and would be best left to other forums.Wyoming's arguments are not persuasive. To assign anaffirmative obligation to protect wildlife is one thing; to consider all downstream effects of upstream development whenassessing threats to equitable apportionment is quite another. As we have discussed above, Nebraska II makes itclear that modification of the decree (as by enjoining developments on tributaries) will follow only upon a "balancing ofequities," 507 U. S., at 592, and that Nebraska will have tomake a showing of "substantial injury" before we will grantit such relief, id., at 593. There is no warrant for placingentire categories of evidence beyond Nebraska's reach whenit attempts to satisfy this burden, which is far frominsignificant.Nor does our resistance to Nebraska's efforts to bringabout broad new apportionments (as of nonirrigation-seasonflows) alter this conclusion. Here, Nebraska seeks only tohave us enjoin discrete Wyoming developments. If Ne515us1$63M 08-11-98 16:46:59 PAGES OPINPGT13Cite as: 515 U. S. 1 (1995)Opinion of the Courtbraska is to have a fair opportunity to present its case forour doing so, we do not understand how we can preclude itfrom setting forth that evidence of environmental injury, orconsign it to producing that evidence in some other forum,since this is the only Court in which Nebraska can challengethe Wyoming projects. And as for Wyoming's argumentthat any proof of environmental injury that Nebraska willpresent will be highly speculative, the point is urged prematurely. Purely speculative harms will not, of course, carryNebraska's burden of showing substantial injury, but at thisstage we certainly have no basis for judging Nebraska'sproof, and no justification for denying Nebraska the chanceto prove what it can. CWyoming's third exception is to the Master's recommen-dation to allow Nebraska to proceed with its challenge toWyoming's actions on Horse Creek, a tributary that flowsinto the North Platte below the Tri-State Dam. In Count Iof its Amended Petition, Nebraska alleges that Wyoming is"presently violating and threatens to violate" Nebraska's equitable apportionment "by depleting the natural flows of theNorth Platte River by such projects as . . . reregulating reservoirs and canal linings in the . . . Horse Creek ConservancyDistrict." App. to Third Interim Report D-5. Nebraskaasks for an injunction against Wyoming's depletions of thecreek.Wyoming argues that the claim is simply not germane tothis case, since Horse Creek feeds into the North Plattebelow the apportioned reach, the downstream boundary ofwhich is the Tri-State Dam. It is clear, however, that theterritorial scope of the case extends downstream of the piv-otal reach. In the 1945 decision and decree, we held againstapportioning that stretch of river between the Tri-StateDam and Bridgeport, Nebraska, not because it fell outsidethe geographic confines of the case, but because its neededwater was "adequately supplied from return flows and other515us1$63M 08-11-98 16:46:59 PAGES OPINPGT14 NEBRASKA v. WYOMINGOpinion of the Courtlocal sources." Nebraska I, 325 U. S., at 654-655. In soconcluding, we had evidence that return flows from HorseCreek provided an average annual contribution of 21,900acre-feet of water to the North Platte during the irrigationseason. Third Interim Report 42.Now Nebraska alleges that Wyoming's actions threatenserious depletion of these return flows, with consequent in-jury to its interests in the region below the Tri-State Dam.These allegations describe a change in conditions sufficient,if proven, to warrant the injunctive relief sought, andNebraska is accordingly entitled to proceed with its claim.Wyoming's third exception is overruled.DIn Counts I and III of its Amended Petition, Nebraskaalleges that increased groundwater pumping within Wyoming threatens substantial depletion of the natural flow ofthe river. This allegation is obviously one of a change inconditions posing a threat of significant injury, and Wyomingconcedes that "groundwater pumping in Wyoming can anddoes in fact deplete surface water flows in the North PlatteRiver," Third Interim Report 38. In excepting nevertheless to the Master's recommendation that we allow the claimto go forward, Wyoming raises Nebraska's failure to regulategroundwater pumping within its own borders, which is saidto preclude Nebraska as a matter of equity from seeking limitations on pumping within Wyoming.We fail to see how the mere fact of unregulated pumpingwithin Nebraska can serve to bar Nebraska's claim. Ne-braska is the downstream State and claims that Wyoming'spumping hurts it; Wyoming is upstream and has yet to makea showing that Nebraska's pumping hurts it or anyone else.If Wyoming ultimately makes such a showing, it could wellaffect the relief to which Nebraska is entitled, but that is aquestion for trial, and does not stop Nebraska from amend-ing its claims at this stage.515us1$63M 08-11-98 16:46:59 PAGES OPINPGT15Cite as: 515 U. S. 1 (1995)Opinion of the CourtWyoming's reliance on two of this Court's prior originalcases is, at best, premature. Both cases were decided aftertrial, see Kansas v. Colorado, 206 U. S. 46, 49, 105 (1907);Missouri v. Illinois, 200 U. S. 496, 518 (1906), and while bothrecognize that relief on the merits may turn on the equities,206 U. S., at 104-105, 113-114; 200 U. S., at 522, the application of that principle to Nebraska's claim is not, as we havejust stated, obvious at this point. We accordingly accept theMaster's recommendation, Third Interim Report 41, andoverrule Wyoming's fourth exception.IVWyoming's Fourth Amended Cross-Claim seeks declara-tory and injunctive relief and is aimed against the UnitedStates alone, alleging that federal management of reser-voirs has contravened state and federal law as well as contracts governing water supply to individual users. Wyo-ming claims that "the United States has allocated storagewater in a manner which (a) upsets the equitable balance onwhich the apportionment of natural flow was based, (b) results in the allocation of natural flow contrary to the provi-sions of the Decree . . . , (c) promotes inefficiency and wasteof water contrary to federal and state law, (d) violates thecontract rights of the North Platte Project Irrigation Districts and violates the provisions of the Warren Act, 43U. S. C. $ 523, . . . and (e) exceeds the limitations in thecontracts under the Warren Act." App. to Third InterimReport E-11 to E-12. Wyoming alleges that this mismanagement has made "water shortages . . . more frequen[t] and. . . more severe, thereby causing injury to Wyoming andits water users." Id., at E-12.The United States and Nebraska except to allowing Wyoming's cross-claim to proceed, for two reasons. They argue,first, that the decree expressly refrained from apportioningstorage water, as distinct from natural flow, with the conse-quence that the violations alleged are not cognizable in an515us1$63M 08-11-98 16:46:59 PAGES OPINPGT16 NEBRASKA v. WYOMINGOpinion of the Courtaction brought under the decree. Second, they maintainthat any claim turning on the United States's failure to comply with individual contracts for the release of storage waterought to be relegated to an action brought by individual contract holders in a federal district court and that, indeed, justsuch an action is currently pending in Goshen IrrigationDistrict v. United States, No. C89-0161-J (D. Wyo., filedJune 23, 1989).The Master addressed both objections. As to the first, hesaid that "even though the decree did not apportion storagewater, it was framed based in part on assumptions aboutstorage water rights and deliveries," and that therefore"Wyoming should have the opportunity to go forward withher claims that the United States has violated the law andcontracts rights and that such violations have the effect ofundermining Wyoming's apportionment." Third InterimReport 70. The Master found the second point "unpersuasive" because "neither Wyoming nor Nebraska [is a party] tothe [Goshen] case [brought by the individual contractors],and the federal district court, therefore, does not have jurisdiction to consider whether any violations that may beproven on the part of the United States will have the effectof undermining the 1945 apportionment decree." Id., at 71.We agree with the Master on both counts.The availability of storage water and its distribution understorage contracts was a predicate to the original apportionment decree. Our 1945 opinion expressly recognized thesignificance of storage water to the lands irrigated by thepivotal reach, noting that over the prior decade storagewater was on average over half of the total supply and thatover 90 percent of the irrigated lands had storage rights aswell as rights to natural flow. Nebraska I, 325 U. S., at 605.We pointed out that Nebraska appropriators in the pivotalreach had "greater storage water rights" than Wyoming appropriators, id., at 645, a fact that helped "tip the scales in515us1$63M 08-11-98 16:46:59 PAGES OPINPGT17Cite as: 515 U. S. 1 (1995)Opinion of the Courtfavor of the flat percentage system," as against a schemeeven more favorable to Nebraska, ibid.In rejecting Wyoming's original proposal, which was tocombine water from storage and natural flow and apportionboth by volume among the different users, id., at 621, weanticipated that the storage supply would "be left for distribution in accordance with the contracts which govern it," id.,at 631. In doing so, we were clearly aware of the beneficialuse limitations that govern federal contracts for storagewater. Contracts between the United States and individualwater users on the North Platte, we pointed out, had beenmade and were maintained in compliance with $ 8 of the Reclamation Act of 1902, 32 Stat. 388, 43 U. S. C. $$ 372, 383,which provided that " `the right to the use of water acquiredunder the provisions of this Act shall be appurtenant to theland irrigated, and beneficial use shall be the basis, the measure, and the limit of the right.' " 325 U. S., at 613. In addition, contracts had been made under the Warren Act, 36 Stat.925, 43 U. S. C. $$ 523-525, which granted the Secretary ofthe Interior the further power to contract for the storageand delivery of water available in excess of the requirementsof any given project managed under the Reclamation Act.See Nebraska I, supra, at 631, 639-640.Under this system, access to water from storage facilitieswas only possible by a contract for its use, Nebraska I, 325U. S., at 640, and apportionment of storage water would havedisrupted that system. "If storage water is not segregated,storage water contractors in times of shortage of the totalsupply will be deprived of the use of a part of the storagesupply for which they pay . . . [and] those who have not contracted for the storage supply will receive at the expense ofthose who have contracted for it a substantial increment tothe natural flow supply which, as we have seen, has beeninsufficient to go around." Ibid. Hence, we refrained fromapportioning stored water and went no further than capping515us1$63M 08-11-98 16:46:59 PAGES OPINPGT18 NEBRASKA v. WYOMINGOpinion of the Courtthe total amount of storage in certain dams to protect senior,downstream rights to natural flow. Id., at 630. But although our refusal in 1945 to apportion storage water wasdriven by a respect for the statutory and contractual regimein place at the time, we surely did not dismiss storage wateras immaterial to the proper allocation of the natural flow inthe pivotal reach. And while our decree expressly protected those with rights to storage water, it did so on thecondition that storage water would continue to be distributed "in accordance with . . . lawful contracts . . . ." Id., at669. This is the very condition that Wyoming now seeksto vindicate.Wyoming argues that the United States no longer abidesby the governing law in administering the storage water contracts. First, it contends that the Government pays no heedto federal law's beneficial use limitations on the dispositionof storage water but rather "releas[es] storage water on demand to the canals in the pivotal reach without regard tohow the water is used." Brief for Wyoming in Response toExceptions of Nebraska and United States to Third InterimReport 6 (emphasis deleted) (hereinafter Response Brief).This liberality allegedly harms Wyoming contractees whosestorage supply is wasted, as well as junior Wyoming appropriators who are subject to the senior call of the UnitedStates to refill the reservoirs and are consequently deprivedof the natural flow they would otherwise receive.Second, Wyoming claims that federal policy in droughtyears encourages contract users to exploit this failure of theGovernment to police consumption. It points out that inyears of insufficient supply, the United States has calculatedeach water district's average use of storage water in prioryears, and then allocated to each district a certain percentage of that average, according to what the overall supplywill bear. The United States has then further reduced theallotment of each individual canal within a district by the515us1$63M 08-11-98 16:46:59 PAGES OPINPGT19Cite as: 515 U. S. 1 (1995)Opinion of the Courtamount of natural flow delivered to the canal, with the resultthat in dry years water is distributed under "purely a mass[i. e., fixed volume] allocation that sets a cap on the totaldiversion of each individual canal."Id., at 8. Wyomingthus contends not only that under this system "in a dry yearlike 1989 the [United States's] allocation effectively replacesthe Court decreed 75/25 apportionment,"id., at 9, but thatthe departure from the norm is needlessly great because thesystem "encourages individual canals to divert as muchwater as possible during `non-allocation' years in order tomaximize their average diversions which will be the measureof their entitlement in a subsequent dry year allocation,"id., at 8, n. 6.If Wyoming were arguing merely that any administrationof storage water that takes account of fluctuations in the nat-ural flow received by a contractee violates the decree, wewould reject its claim, for we recognized in 1945 that theoutstanding Warren Act contracts contained "agree[ments]to deliver water which will, with all the water to which theland is entitled by appropriation or otherwise, aggregate astated amount." 325 U. S., at 631. Indeed, we set forth anexample of just such a contract in our opinion.Id., at 631,n. 17. In asserting, however, that a predicate to the 1945decree was that the United States adhered to beneficial uselimitations in administering storage water contracts, that itno longer does so, and that this change has caused or permit-ted significant injury to Wyoming interests, Wyoming hassaid enough to state a serious claim that ought to be allowedto go forward.22 The dissent would disallow Wyoming's cross-claim on the grounds thatWyoming seeks neither to modify the decree (because it asks only for aninjunction requiring the United States to adhere to its contracts and tothe federal and state law governing storage water) nor to enforce it (sincethe decree presently contains no such mandate). This leaves Wyominghanging. It cannot sue under the decree because a mandate of compliance515us1$63M 08-11-98 16:46:59 PAGES OPINPGT20 NEBRASKA v. WYOMINGOpinion of the CourtAlthough the claim may well require consideration of individual contracts and compliance with the Reclamation andWarren Acts, it does not follow (as Nebraska and the UnitedStates argue) that Wyoming is asserting the private contractors' rights proper, or (as the United States contends) thatWyoming brings suit " `in reality for the benefit of particularindividuals,' " Brief for United States in Support of Exception 25, quoting Oklahoma ex rel. Johnson v. Cook, 304 U. S.387, 393-394 (1938). Wyoming argues only that the cumulative effect of the United States's failure to adhere to the lawgoverning the contracts undermines the operation of the decree, see Response Brief 14-21, and thereby states a claimarising under the decree itself, one by which it seeks to vindicate its " `quasi-sovereign' interests which are `independent of and behind the titles of its citizens, in all the earthand air within its domain,' " Oklahoma ex rel. Johnson v.Cook, supra, at 393, quoting Georgia v. Tennessee CopperCo., 206 U. S. 230, 237 (1907).It is of no moment that some of the contracts could bemade (or are) the subject of litigation between individualcontract holders and the United States in federal districtcourt. Wyoming is not a party to any such litigation and, asis not included in it, yet it cannot seek modification of the decree to includesuch a mandate, apparently because such relief is not sufficiently drastic.Post, at 24-26.It seems very clear to us, however, that Wyoming is seeking a modification of the decree in order to enforce its predicate. As the dissent concedes, our 1945 decision could conceivably afford a "basis for ordering theUnited States to comply with applicable riparian law and with its storagecontracts . . . ." Post, at 25-26. The dissent then rightly points out thatsuch a position would be weak because the decree did not expressly mandate the compliance with lawful contracts and governing law that we anticipated in 1945. Ibid. Wyoming's Fourth Cross-Claim, however, nowseeks just such a mandate by modifying the decree to require the UnitedStates to comply with its own contracts and with the federal and state lawgoverning storage water.515us1$63M 08-11-98 16:46:59 PAGES OPINPGT21Cite as: 515 U. S. 1 (1995)Opinion of the Courtcounsel for the United States acknowledged at oral argument, it is uncertain whether the State would qualify forintervention in the ongoing Goshen litigation under FederalRule of Civil Procedure 24. See Tr. of Oral Arg. 46. Whilethe uncertainty of intervention is beside the point on thedissent's view, which "see[s] no reason . . . why Wyomingcould not institute its own action against the United Statesin [district court]," post, at 27, the dissent nowhere explainshow Wyoming would have standing to bring an action understorage water contracts to which it is not a party. As wehave just said, Wyoming's claim derives not from rightsunder individual contracts but from the decree, and thedecree can be modified only by this Court. Putting aside,then, whether another forum might offer relief that, as apractical matter, would mitigate the alleged ill effects of theNational Government's contract administration, this is theproper forum for the State's claim, and it makes sense toentertain the claim in the course of adjudicating the broadercontroversy among Wyoming, Nebraska, and the UnitedStates. Cf. United States v. Nevada, 412 U. S. 534, 537(1973) (per curiam) (denying motion for leave to file bill ofcomplaint in part because "[t]here is now no controversybetween the two States with respect to the . . . [r]iver [inquestion]").Nor do we fear the specter, raised by the United States, ofintervention by many individual storage contractors in thisproceeding. Ordinarily, in a suit by one State against another subject to the original jurisdiction of this Court, eachState "must be deemed to represent all its citizens." Kentucky v. Indiana, 281 U. S. 163, 173 (1930). A State is presumed to speak in the best interests of those citizens, andrequests to intervene by individual contractees may betreated under the general rule that an individual's motionfor leave to intervene in this Court will be denied absent a"showing [of] some compelling interest in his own right,515us1$63M 08-11-98 16:47:00 PAGES OPINPGT22 NEBRASKA v. WYOMINGOpinion of the Courtapart from his interest in a class with all other citizens andcreatures of the state, which interest is not properly represented by the state." New Jersey v. New York, 345 U. S.369, 373 (1953); cf. Fed. Rule Civ. Proc. 24(a)(2). We havesaid on many occasions that water disputes among Statesmay be resolved by compact or decree without the participation of individual claimants, who nonetheless are bound bythe result reached through representation by their respective States. Nebraska I, 325 U. S., at 627, citing Hinderlider v. La Plata River & Cherry Creek Ditch Co., 304 U. S.92, 106-108 (1938); see also Wyoming v. Colorado, 286 U. S.494, 508-509 (1932). As we view the litigation at the current time, it is unlikely to present occasion for individualstorage contract holders to show that their proprietary interests are not adequately represented by their State.Two caveats are nonetheless in order, despite our allowance of Wyoming's cross-claim. Nebraska argues that Wyoming is using its cross-claim as a back door to achieving themass allocation of natural flows sought in its First Counterclaim and Cross-Claim. This argument will be difficult toassess without further development of the merits, and wecan only emphasize at this point that in allowing Wyoming'sFourth Cross-Claim to go forward, we are not, of course, inany way sanctioning the very modification of the decree thatwe have just ruled out in this proceeding. Second, the parties should not take our allowance of the Fourth Cross-Claimas an opportunity to enquire into every detail of the UnitedStates's administration of storage water contracts. TheUnited States's contractual compliance is not, of itself, anappropriate subject of the Special Master's attention, whichis properly confined to the effects of contract administrationon the operation of the decree. Contractual compliance, assuch, is the subject of the Goshen litigation, which we presume will move forward independently of this originalaction.515us1$63M 08-11-98 16:47:00 PAGES OPINPGT23Cite as: 515 U. S. 1 (1995)Opinion of Thomas, J.VFor these reasons, the exceptions to the Special Master'sThird Interim Report are overruled.