Subject to certain limitations, 18 U. S. C. $ 922(g)(1) pro-hibits possession of a firearm by anyone with a prior felonyconviction, which the Government can prove by introducinga record of judgment or similar evidence identifying the previous offense. Fearing prejudice if the jury learns the na-ture of the earlier crime, defendants sometimes seek to avoidsuch an informative disclosure by offering to concede the factof the prior conviction. The issue here is whether a districtcourt abuses its discretion if it spurns such an offer and ad-mits the full record of a prior judgment, when the name ornature of the prior offense raises the risk of a verdict taintedby improper considerations, and when the purpose of the evidence is solely to prove the element of prior conviction.1 Wehold that it does.IIn 1993, petitioner, Old Chief, was arrested after a fracasinvolving at least one gunshot. The ensuing federal chargesincluded not only assault with a dangerous weapon and usinga firearm in relation to a crime of violence but violation of18 U. S. C. $ 922(g)(1). This statute makes it unlawful foranyone "who has been convicted in any court of, a crime punishable by imprisonment for a term exceeding one year" to"possess in or affecting commerce, any firearm . . . ." "[A]*Tova Indritz and Barbara Bergman filed a brief for the National Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers as amicus curiae.1 The standard of review applicable to the evidentiary rulings of thedistrict court is abuse of discretion. United States v. Abel, 469 U. S. 45,54-55 (1984).519US1$13M 06-02-99 18:45:27 PAGES OPINPGT175Cite as: 519 U. S. 172 (1997)Opinion of the Courtcrime punishable by imprisonment for a term exceeding oneyear" is defined to exclude "any Federal or State offensespertaining to antitrust violations, unfair trade practices, re-straints of trade, or other similar offenses relating to theregulation of business practices" and "any State offenseclassified by the laws of the State as a misdemeanor and punishable by a term of imprisonment of two years or less."$ 921(a)(20).The earlier crime charged in the indictment against OldChief was assault causing serious bodily injury. Beforetrial, he moved for an order requiring the Government "torefrain from mentioning--by reading the Indictment, duringjury selection, in opening statement, or closing argument--and to refrain from offering into evidence or soliciting anytestimony from any witness regarding the prior criminalconvictions of the Defendant, except to state that the Defendant has been convicted of a crime punishable by imprison-ment exceeding one (1) year." App. 6. He said that revealing the name and nature of his prior assault conviction wouldunfairly tax the jury's capacity to hold the Government toits burden of proof beyond a reasonable doubt on currentcharges of assault, possession, and violence with a firearm,and he offered to "solve the problem here by stipulating,agreeing and requesting the Court to instruct the jury thathe has been convicted of a crime punishable by imprisonmentexceeding one (1) yea[r]."Id., at 7. He argued that theoffer to stipulate to the fact of the prior conviction renderedevidence of the name and nature of the offense inadmissibleunder Rule 403 of the Federal Rules of Evidence, the dangerbeing that unfair prejudice from that evidence would sub-stantially outweigh its probative value. He also proposedthis jury instruction:"The phrase `crime punishable by imprisonment for aterm exceeding one year' generally means a crime whichis a felony. The phrase does not include any state of-fense classified by the laws of that state as a misde519US1$13M 06-02-99 18:45:27 PAGES OPINPGT176 OLD CHIEF v. UNITED STATESOpinion of the Courtmeanor and punishable by a term of imprisonment oftwo years or less and certain crimes concerning the regulation of business practices."[I] hereby instruct you that Defendant JOHNNYLYNN OLD CHIEF has been convicted of a crimepunishable by imprisonment for a term exceeding oneyear." Id., at 11.22 Proposals for instructing the jury in this case proved to be perilous.We will not discuss Old Chief's proposed instruction beyond saying that,even on his own legal theory, revision would have been required to dispelambiguity. The jury could not have said whether the instruction that OldChief had been convicted of a crime punishable by imprisonment for morethan one year meant that, as a matter of law, his conviction fell within thedefinition of "crime punishable by imprisonment for a term exceeding oneyear," or was instead merely a statement of fact, in which case the jurorscould not have determined whether the predicate offense was within oneof the statute's categorical exceptions, a "state . . . misdemeanor . . . punishable by a term . . . of two years or less" or a "business" crime. TheDistrict Court did not, however, deny Old Chief's motion because of theartless instruction he proposed, but because of the general rule, to bediscussed below, that permits the Government to choose its own evidence.While Old Chief's proposed instruction was defective even under thelaw as he viewed it, the instruction actually given was erroneous even onthe Government's view of the law. The District Court charged, "You havealso heard evidence that the defendant has previously been convicted of afelony. You may consider that evidence only as it may affect the defendant's believability as a witness. You may not consider a prior convictionas evidence of guilt of the crime for which the defendant is now on trial."App. 31. This instruction invited confusion. First, of course, if the juryhad applied it literally there would have been an acquittal for the wrongreason: Old Chief was on trial for, among other offenses, being a felon inpossession, and if the jury had not considered the evidence of prior conviction it could not have found that he was a felon. Second, the remainderof the instruction referred to an issue that was not in the case. While itis true that prior-offense evidence may in a proper case be admissible forimpeachment, even if for no other purpose, Fed. Rule Evid. 609, petitionerdid not testify at trial; there was no justification for admitting the evidencefor impeachment purposes and consequently no basis for the DistrictCourt's suggestion that the jurors could consider the prior conviction asimpeachment evidence. The fault for this error lies at least as much withOld Chief as with the District Court, since Old Chief apparently sought519US1$13M 06-02-99 18:45:27 PAGES OPINPGT177Cite as: 519 U. S. 172 (1997)Opinion of the CourtThe Assistant United States Attorney refused to join in astipulation, insisting on his right to prove his case his ownway, and the District Court agreed, ruling orally that, "If hedoesn't want to stipulate, he doesn't have to." Id., at 15-16.At trial, over renewed objection, the Government introducedthe order of judgment and commitment for Old Chief 's priorconviction. This document disclosed that on December 18,1988, he "did knowingly and unlawfully assault Rory DeanFenner, said assault resulting in serious bodily injury," forwhich Old Chief was sentenced to five years' imprisonment.Id., at 18-19. The jury found Old Chief guilty on all counts,and he appealed.The Ninth Circuit addressed the point with brevity:"Regardless of the defendant's offer to stipulate, thegovernment is entitled to prove a prior felony offensethrough introduction of probative evidence. See UnitedStates v. Breitkreutz, 8 F. 3d 688, 690 (9th Cir. 1993)(citing United States v. Gilman, 684 F. 2d 616, 622 (9thCir. 1982)). Under Ninth Circuit law, a stipulation isnot proof, and, thus, it has no place in the FRE 403balancing process. Breitkreutz, 8 F. 3d at 691-92.. . . . ."Thus, we hold that the district court did not abuseits discretion by allowing the prosecution to introduceevidence of Old Chief 's prior conviction to prove thatelement of the unlawful possession charge." No. 94-30277, 1995 WL 325745, *1 (CA9, May 31, 1995) (unpub-lished), App. 50-51, judgt. order reported at 56 F. 3d 75(1995).We granted Old Chief 's petition for writ of certiorari, 516U. S. 1110 (1996), because the Courts of Appeals have dividedsharply in their treatment of defendants' efforts to excludeevidence of the names and natures of prior offenses in caseslike this. Compare, e. g., United States v. Burkhart, 545some such instruction and withdrew the request only after the court hadcharged the jury.519US1$13M 06-02-99 18:45:27 PAGES OPINPGT178 OLD CHIEF v. UNITED STATESOpinion of the CourtF. 2d 14, 15 (CA6 1976); United States v. Smith, 520 F. 2d544, 548 (CA8 1975), cert. denied, 429 U. S. 925 (1976); andUnited States v. Breitkreutz, 8 F. 3d 688, 690-692 (CA9 1993)(each recognizing a right on the part of the Government torefuse an offered stipulation and proceed with its own evidence of the prior offense), with United States v. Tavares, 21F. 3d 1, 3-5 (CA1 1994) (en banc);United States v. Poore, 594F. 2d 39, 40-43 (CA4 1979); United States v. Wacker, 72 F. 3d1453, 1472-1473 (CA10 1995); andUnited States v. Jones, 67F. 3d 320, 322-325 (CADC 1995) (each holding that the de-fendant's offer to stipulate to or to admit to the prior conviction triggers an obligation of the district court to eliminatethe name and nature of the underlying offense from the caseby one means or another). We now reverse the judgmentof the Ninth Circuit. IIAAs a threshold matter, there is Old Chief 's erroneous argu-ment that the name of his prior offense as contained in therecord of conviction is irrelevant to the prior-conviction element, and for that reason inadmissible under Rule 402 ofthe Federal Rules of Evidence.3 Rule 401 defines relevantevidence as having "any tendency to make the existence ofany fact that is of consequence to the determination of theaction more probable or less probable than it would be without the evidence." Fed. Rule Evid. 401. To be sure, thefact that Old Chief 's prior conviction was for assault resulting in serious bodily injury rather than, say, for theft wasnot itself an ultimate fact, as if the statute had specificallyrequired proof of injurious assault. But its demonstration3 "All relevant evidence is admissible, except as otherwise provided bythe Constitution of the United States, by Act of Congress, by these rules,or by other rules prescribed by the Supreme Court pursuant to statutoryauthority. Evidence which is not relevant is not admissible." Fed. RuleEvid. 402.519US1$13M 06-02-99 18:45:27 PAGES OPINPGT179Cite as: 519 U. S. 172 (1997)Opinion of the Courtwas a step on one evidentiary route to the ultimate fact,since it served to place Old Chief within a particular subclassof offenders for whom firearms possession is outlawed by$ 922(g)(1). A documentary record of the conviction for thatnamed offense was thus relevant evidence in making OldChief 's $ 922(g)(1) status more probable than it would havebeen without the evidence.Nor was its evidentiary relevance under Rule 401 affectedby the availability of alternative proofs of the element towhich it went, such as an admission by Old Chief that he hadbeen convicted of a crime "punishable by imprisonment for aterm exceeding one year" within the meaning of the statute.The 1972 Advisory Committee Notes to Rule 401 make thispoint directly:"The fact to which the evidence is directed need notbe in dispute. While situations will arise which call forthe exclusion of evidence offered to prove a point conceded by the opponent, the ruling should be made on thebasis of such considerations as waste of time and undueprejudice (see Rule 403), rather than under any generalrequirement that evidence is admissible only if directedto matters in dispute." Advisory Committee's Notes onFed. Rule Evid. 401, 28 U. S. C. App., p. 859.If, then, relevant evidence is inadmissible in the presence ofother evidence related to it, its exclusion must rest not onthe ground that the other evidence has rendered it "irrelevant," but on its character as unfairly prejudicial, cumulativeor the like, its relevance notwithstanding.44 Viewing evidence of the name of the prior offense as relevant, there isno reason to dwell on the Government's argument that relevance is to bedetermined with respect to the entire item offered in evidence (here, theentire record of conviction) and not with reference to distinguishable subunits of that object (here, the name of the offense and the sentence received). We see no impediment in general to a district court's determination, after objection, that some sections of a document are relevant within519US1$13M 06-02-99 18:45:27 PAGES OPINPGT180 OLD CHIEF v. UNITED STATESOpinion of the CourtBThe principal issue is the scope of a trial judge's discretionunder Rule 403, which authorizes exclusion of relevant evidence when its "probative value is substantially outweighedby the danger of unfair prejudice, confusion of the issues, ormisleading the jury, or by considerations of undue delay,waste of time, or needless presentation of cumulative evidence." Fed. Rule Evid. 403. Old Chief relies on the dan-ger of unfair prejudice.51The term "unfair prejudice," as to a criminal defendant,speaks to the capacity of some concededly relevant evidenceto lure the factfinder into declaring guilt on a ground differ-ent from proof specific to the offense charged. See generally 1 J. Weinstein, M. Berger, & J. McLaughlin, Weinstein'sEvidence || 403[03] (1996) (discussing the meaning of "unfairprejudice" under Rule 403). So, the Committee Notes toRule 403 explain, " `Unfair prejudice' within its contextmeans an undue tendency to suggest decision on an improperbasis, commonly, though not necessarily, an emotional one."Advisory Committee's Notes on Fed. Rule Evid. 403, 28U. S. C. App., p. 860.Such improper grounds certainly include the one that OldChief points to here: generalizing a defendant's earlier badact into bad character and taking that as raising the oddsthat he did the later bad act now charged (or, worse, as callthe meaning of Rule 401, and others irrelevant and inadmissible underRule 402.5 Petitioner also suggests that we might find a prosecutor's refusal toaccept an adequate stipulation and jury instruction in the narrow contextpresented by this case to be prosecutorial misconduct. The argument isthat, since a prosecutor is charged with the pursuit of just convictions, notvictory by fair means or foul, any ethical prosecutor must agree to stipulate in the situation here. But any ethical obligation will depend on theconstruction of Rule 403, and we have no reason to anticipate related ethical lapses once the meaning of the Rule is settled.519US1$13M 06-02-99 18:45:27 PAGES OPINPGT181Cite as: 519 U. S. 172 (1997)Opinion of the Courting for preventive conviction even if he should happen to beinnocent momentarily). As then-Judge Breyer put it, "Although . . . `propensity evidence' is relevant, the risk that ajury will convict for crimes other than those charged--orthat, uncertain of guilt, it will convict anyway because a badperson deserves punishment--creates a prejudicial effectthat outweighs ordinary relevance."United States v. Moccia, 681 F. 2d 61, 63 (CA1 1982). Justice Jackson describedhow the law has handled this risk:"Courts that follow the common-law tradition almostunanimously have come to disallow resort by the prosecution to any kind of evidence of a defendant's evil char-acter to establish a probability of his guilt. Not thatthe law invests the defendant with a presumption ofgood character,Greer v. United States, 245 U. S. 559, butit simply closes the whole matter of character, disposi-tion and reputation on the prosecution's case-in-chief.The state may not show defendant's prior trouble withthe law, specific criminal acts, or ill name among hisneighbors, even though such facts might logically be persuasive that he is by propensity a probable perpetratorof the crime. The inquiry is not rejected because character is irrelevant; on the contrary, it is said to weightoo much with the jury and to so overpersuade them asto prejudge one with a bad general record and deny hima fair opportunity to defend against a particular charge.The overriding policy of excluding such evidence, despite its admitted probative value, is the practical expe-rience that its disallowance tends to prevent confusionof issues, unfair surprise and undue prejudice." Michelson v. United States, 335 U. S. 469, 475-476 (1948)(footnotes omitted).Rule of Evidence 404(b) reflects this common-law traditionby addressing propensity reasoning directly: "Evidence ofother crimes, wrongs, or acts is not admissible to prove the519US1$13M 06-02-99 18:45:27 PAGES OPINPGT182 OLD CHIEF v. UNITED STATESOpinion of the Courtcharacter of a person in order to show action in conformitytherewith." Fed. Rule Evid. 404(b). There is, accordingly,no question that propensity would be an "improper basis"for conviction and that evidence of a prior conviction is subject to analysis under Rule 403 for relative probative valueand for prejudicial risk of misuse as propensity evidence.Cf. 1 J. Strong, McCormick on Evidence 780 (4th ed. 1992)(hereinafter McCormick) (Rule 403 prejudice may occur, forexample, when "evidence of convictions for prior, unrelatedcrimes may lead a juror to think that since the defendantalready has a criminal record, an erroneous conviction wouldnot be quite as serious as would otherwise be the case").As for the analytical method to be used in Rule 403 balancing, two basic possibilities present themselves. An item ofevidence might be viewed as an island, with estimates of itsown probative value and unfairly prejudicial risk the solereference points in deciding whether the danger substantially outweighs the value and whether the evidence oughtto be excluded. Or the question of admissibility might beseen as inviting further comparisons to take account of thefull evidentiary context of the case as the court understandsit when the ruling must be made.6 This second approachwould start out like the first but be ready to go further. Onobjection, the court would decide whether a particular itemof evidence raised a danger of unfair prejudice. If it did, thejudge would go on to evaluate the degrees of probative valueand unfair prejudice not only for the item in question but forany actually available substitutes as well. If an alternative6 It is important that a reviewing court evaluate the trial court's decisionfrom its perspective when it had to rule and not indulge in review byhindsight. See, for example, United States v. O'Shea, 724 F. 2d 1514, 1517(CA11 1984), where the appellate court approved the trial court's pretrialrefusal to impose a stipulation on the Government and exclude the Government's corresponding evidence of past convictions because the trialcourt had found at that stage that the evidence would quite likely come inanyway on other grounds.519US1$13M 06-02-99 18:45:27 PAGES OPINPGT183Cite as: 519 U. S. 172 (1997)Opinion of the Courtwere found to have substantially the same or greater proba-tive value but a lower danger of unfair prejudice, sound judicial discretion would discount the value of the item first of-fered and exclude it if its discounted probative value weresubstantially outweighed by unfairly prejudicial risk. Aswe will explain later on, the judge would have to make thesecalculations with an appreciation of the offering party's needfor evidentiary richness and narrative integrity in presentinga case, and the mere fact that two pieces of evidence mightgo to the same point would not, of course, necessarily meanthat only one of them might come in. It would only meanthat a judge applying Rule 403 could reasonably apply somediscount to the probative value of an item of evidence whenfaced with less risky alternative proof going to the samepoint. Even under this second approach, as we explainbelow, a defendant's Rule 403 objection offering to concede apoint generally cannot prevail over the Government's choiceto offer evidence showing guilt and all the circumstances surrounding the offense. See infra, at 186-189.7The first understanding of the Rule is open to a very telling objection. That reading would leave the party offeringevidence with the option to structure a trial in whatever waywould produce the maximum unfair prejudice consistentwith relevance. He could choose the available alternativecarrying the greatest threat of improper influence, despitethe availability of less prejudicial but equally probative evidence. The worst he would have to fear would be a rulingsustaining a Rule 403 objection, and if that occurred, hecould simply fall back to offering substitute evidence. Thiswould be a strange rule. It would be very odd for the law7 While our discussion has been general because of the general wordingof Rule 403, our holding is limited to cases involving proof of felon status.On appellate review of a Rule 403 decision, a defendant must establishabuse of discretion, a standard that is not satisfied by a mere showing ofsome alternative means of proof that the prosecution in its broad discretion chose not to rely upon.519US1$13M 06-02-99 18:45:27 PAGES OPINPGT184 OLD CHIEF v. UNITED STATESOpinion of the Courtof evidence to recognize the danger of unfair prejudice onlyto confer such a degree of autonomy on the party subject totemptation, and the Rules of Evidence are not so odd.Rather, a reading of the companions to Rule 403, and ofthe commentaries that went with them to Congress, makesit clear that what counts as the Rule 403 "probative value"of an item of evidence, as distinct from its Rule 401 "relevance," may be calculated by comparing evidentiary alterna-tives. The Committee Notes to Rule 401 explicitly say thata party's concession is pertinent to the court's discretion toexclude evidence on the point conceded. Such a concession,according to the Notes, will sometimes "call for the exclusionof evidence offered to prove [the] point conceded by the opponent . . . ." Advisory Committee's Notes on Fed. Rule Evid.401, 28 U. S. C. App., p. 859. As already mentioned, theNotes make it clear that such rulings should be made not onthe basis of Rule 401 relevance but on "such considerationsas waste of time and undue prejudice (see Rule 403) . . . ."Ibid. The Notes to Rule 403 then take up the point by stating that when a court considers "whether to exclude ongrounds of unfair prejudice," the "availability of other meansof proof may . . . be an appropriate factor." Advisory Committee's Notes on Fed. Rule Evid. 403, 28 U. S. C. App.,p. 860. The point gets a reprise in the Notes to Rule 404(b),dealing with admissibility when a given evidentiary item hasthe dual nature of legitimate evidence of an element and illegitimate evidence of character: "No mechanical solution isoffered. The determination must be made whether the danger of undue prejudice outweighs the probative value of theevidence in view of the availability of other means of proofand other facts appropriate for making decision of this kindunder 403." Advisory Committee's Notes on Fed. RuleEvid. 404, 28 U. S. C. App., p. 861. Thus the notes leave noquestion that when Rule 403 confers discretion by providingthat evidence "may" be excluded, the discretionary judgmentmay be informed not only by assessing an evidentiary item's519US1$13M 06-02-99 18:45:27 PAGES OPINPGT185Cite as: 519 U. S. 172 (1997)Opinion of the Courttwin tendencies, but by placing the result of that assessmentalongside similar assessments of evidentiary alternatives.See 1 McCormick 782, and n. 41 (suggesting that Rule 403's"probative value" signifies the "marginal probative value" ofthe evidence relative to the other evidence in the case); 22C. Wright & K. Graham, Federal Practice and Procedure$ 5250, pp. 546-547 (1978) ("The probative worth of any par-ticular bit of evidence is obviously affected by the scarcityor abundance of other evidence on the same point").2In dealing with the specific problem raised by $ 922(g)(1)and its prior-conviction element, there can be no questionthat evidence of the name or nature of the prior offense gen-erally carries a risk of unfair prejudice to the defendant.That risk will vary from case to case, for the reasons alreadygiven, but will be substantial whenever the official recordoffered by the Government would be arresting enough tolure a juror into a sequence of bad character reasoning.Where a prior conviction was for a gun crime or one similarto other charges in a pending case the risk of unfair prejudicewould be especially obvious, and Old Chief sensibly worriedthat the prejudicial effect of his prior assault conviction, significant enough with respect to the current gun chargesalone, would take on added weight from the related assaultcharge against him.88 It is true that a prior offense may be so far removed in time or naturefrom the current gun charge and any others brought with it that its potential to prejudice the defendant unfairly will be minimal. Some prior offenses, in fact, may even have some potential to prejudice the Government's case unfairly. Thus an extremely old conviction for a relativelyminor felony that nevertheless qualifies under the statute might strikemany jurors as a foolish basis for convicting an otherwise upstandingmember of the community of otherwise legal gun possession. Since theGovernment could not, of course, compel the defendant to admit formallythe existence of the prior conviction, the Government would have to bearthe risk of jury nullification, a fact that might properly drive the Government's charging decision.519US1$13M 06-02-99 18:45:27 PAGES OPINPGT186 OLD CHIEF v. UNITED STATESOpinion of the CourtThe District Court was also presented with alternative,relevant, admissible evidence of the prior conviction by OldChief 's offer to stipulate, evidence necessarily subject to theDistrict Court's consideration on the motion to exclude therecord offered by the Government. Although Old Chief 'sformal offer to stipulate was, strictly, to enter a formalagreement with the Government to be given to the jury,even without the Government's acceptance his proposalamounted to an offer to admit that the prior-conviction ele-ment was satisfied, and a defendant's admission is, of course,good evidence. See Fed. Rule Evid. 801(d)(2)(A).Old Chief 's proffered admission would, in fact, have beennot merely relevant but seemingly conclusive evidence ofthe element. The statutory language in which the priorconviction requirement is couched shows no congressionalconcern with the specific name or nature of the prior offensebeyond what is necessary to place it within the broad cate-gory of qualifying felonies, and Old Chief clearly meant toadmit that his felony did qualify, by stipulating "that theGovernment has proven one of the essential elements of theoffense." App. 7. As a consequence, although the name ofthe prior offense may have been technically relevant, it addressed no detail in the definition of the prior-conviction ele-ment that would not have been covered by the stipulation oradmission. Logic, then, seems to side with Old Chief.3There is, however, one more question to be considered be-fore deciding whether Old Chief 's offer was to supply evidentiary value at least equivalent to what the Government's ownevidence carried. In arguing that the stipulation or admission would not have carried equivalent value, the Govern-ment invokes the familiar, standard rule that the prosecutionis entitled to prove its case by evidence of its own choice, or,more exactly, that a criminal defendant may not stipulate oradmit his way out of the full evidentiary force of the case as519US1$13M 06-02-99 18:45:27 PAGES OPINPGT187Cite as: 519 U. S. 172 (1997)Opinion of the Courtthe Government chooses to present it. The authority usu-ally cited for this rule isParr v. United States, 255 F. 2d 86(CA5), cert. denied, 358 U. S. 824 (1958), in which the FifthCircuit explained that the "reason for the rule is to permit aparty `to present to the jury a picture of the events reliedupon. To substitute for such a picture a naked admissionmight have the effect to rob the evidence of much of its fairand legitimate weight.' " 255 F. 2d, at 88 (quoting Dunningv.Maine Central R. Co., 91 Me. 87, 39 A. 352, 356 (1897)).This is unquestionably true as a general matter. The "fairand legitimate weight" of conventional evidence showing individual thoughts and acts amounting to a crime reflects thefact that making a case with testimony and tangible thingsnot only satisfies the formal definition of an offense, but tellsa colorful story with descriptive richness. Unlike an abstract premise, whose force depends on going precisely to aparticular step in a course of reasoning, a piece of evidencemay address any number of separate elements, striking hardjust because it shows so much at once; the account of a shooting that establishes capacity and causation may tell just asmuch about the triggerman's motive and intent. Evidencethus has force beyond any linear scheme of reasoning, and asits pieces come together a narrative gains momentum, withpower not only to support conclusions but to sustain the willingness of jurors to draw the inferences, whatever they maybe, necessary to reach an honest verdict. This persuasivepower of the concrete and particular is often essential to thecapacity of jurors to satisfy the obligations that the lawplaces on them. Jury duty is usually unsought and sometimes resisted, and it may be as difficult for one juror suddenly to face the findings that can send another human beingto prison, as it is for another to hold out conscientiously foracquittal. When a juror's duty does seem hard, the evidentiary account of what a defendant has thought and done canaccomplish what no set of abstract statements ever could,not just to prove a fact but to establish its human signifi519US1$13M 06-02-99 18:45:27 PAGES OPINPGT188 OLD CHIEF v. UNITED STATESOpinion of the Courtcance, and so to implicate the law's moral underpinnings anda juror's obligation to sit in judgment. Thus, the prosecution may fairly seek to place its evidence before the jurors,as much to tell a story of guiltiness as to support an inferenceof guilt, to convince the jurors that a guilty verdict would bemorally reasonable as much as to point to the discrete elements of a defendant's legal fault. Cf. United States v. Gilliam, 994 F. 2d 97, 100-102 (CA2), cert. denied, 510 U. S.927 (1993).But there is something even more to the prosecution's in-terest in resisting efforts to replace the evidence of its choicewith admissions and stipulations, for beyond the power ofconventional evidence to support allegations and give life tothe moral underpinnings of law's claims, there lies the needfor evidence in all its particularity to satisfy the jurors' expectations about what proper proof should be. Some suchdemands they bring with them to the courthouse, assuming,for example, that a charge of using a firearm to commit anoffense will be proven by introducing a gun in evidence. Aprosecutor who fails to produce one, or some good reason forhis failure, has something to be concerned about. "If [ jurors'] expectations are not satisfied, triers of fact may penal-ize the party who disappoints them by drawing a negativeinference against that party." Saltzburg, A Special Aspectof Relevance: Countering Negative Inferences Associatedwith the Absence of Evidence, 66 Calif. L. Rev. 1011, 1019(1978) (footnotes omitted).9 Expectations may also arise in9 Cf. Green, "The Whole Truth?": How Rules of Evidence Make LawyersDeceitful, 25 Loyola (LA) L. Rev. 699, 703 (1992) ("[E]videntiary rules . . .predicated in large measure on the law's distrust of juries [can] have theunintended, and perhaps ironic, result of encouraging the jury's distrustof lawyers. The rules do so by fostering the perception that lawyers aredeliberately withholding evidence" (footnote omitted)). The fact thatjuries have expectations as to what evidence ought to be presented by aparty, and may well hold the absence of that evidence against the party,is also recognized in the case law of the Fifth Amendment, which explicitly519US1$13M 06-02-99 18:45:27 PAGES OPINPGT189Cite as: 519 U. S. 172 (1997)Opinion of the Courtjurors' minds simply from the experience of a trial itself.The use of witnesses to describe a train of events naturallyrelated can raise the prospect of learning about every ingredient of that natural sequence the same way. If suddenlythe prosecution presents some occurrence in the series differently, as by announcing a stipulation or admission, the effect may be like saying, "never mind what's behind the door,"and jurors may well wonder what they are being kept fromknowing. A party seemingly responsible for cloaking something has reason for apprehension, and the prosecution withits burden of proof may prudently demur at a defense request to interrupt the flow of evidence telling the story inthe usual way.In sum, the accepted rule that the prosecution is entitledto prove its case free from any defendant's option to stipulatethe evidence away rests on good sense. A syllogism is nota story, and a naked proposition in a courtroom may be nomatch for the robust evidence that would be used to proveit. People who hear a story interrupted by gaps of abstraction may be puzzled at the missing chapters, and jurorsasked to rest a momentous decision on the story's truth canfeel put upon at being asked to take responsibility knowingthat more could be said than they have heard. A convincingtale can be told with economy, but when economy becomes abreak in the natural sequence of narrative evidence, an assurance that the missing link is really there is never morethan second best.supposes that, despite the venerable history of the privilege against selfincrimination, jurors may not recall that someone accused of crime neednot explain the evidence or avow innocence beyond making his plea. See,e. g., Lakeside v. Oregon, 435 U. S. 333, 340, and n. 10 (1978). The assumption that jurors may have contrary expectations and be moved to drawadverse inferences against the party who disappoints them undergirds therule that a defendant can demand an instruction forbidding the jury todraw such an inference.519US1$13M 06-02-99 18:45:27 PAGES OPINPGT190 OLD CHIEF v. UNITED STATESOpinion of the Court4This recognition that the prosecution with its burden ofpersuasion needs evidentiary depth to tell a continuous storyhas, however, virtually no application when the point at issueis a defendant's legal status, dependent on some judgmentrendered wholly independently of the concrete events oflater criminal behavior charged against him. As in thiscase, the choice of evidence for such an element is usuallynot between eventful narrative and abstract proposition, butbetween propositions of slightly varying abstraction, eithera record saying that conviction for some crime occurred at acertain time or a statement admitting the same thing with-out naming the particular offense. The issue of substitutingone statement for the other normally arises only when therecord of conviction would not be admissible for any purposebeyond proving status, so that excluding it would not de-prive the prosecution of evidence with multiple utility; if,indeed, there were a justification for receiving evidence ofthe nature of prior acts on some issue other than status (i. e.,to prove "motive, opportunity, intent, preparation, plan,knowledge, identity, or absence of mistake or accident," Fed.Rule Evid. 404(b)), Rule 404(b) guarantees the opportunityto seek its admission. Nor can it be argued that the eventsbehind the prior conviction are proper nourishment for thejurors' sense of obligation to vindicate the public interest.The issue is not whether concrete details of the prior crimeshould come to the jurors' attention but whether the name orgeneral character of that crime is to be disclosed. Congress,however, has made it plain that distinctions among genericfelonies do not count for this purpose; the fact of the qualifying conviction is alone what matters under the statute. "Adefendant falls within the category simply by virtue of pastconviction for any [qualifying] crime ranging from possessionof short lobsters, see 16 U. S. C. $ 3372, to the most aggravated murder." Tavares, 21 F. 3d, at 4. The most the juryneeds to know is that the conviction admitted by the defend519US1$13M 06-02-99 18:45:27 PAGES OPINPGT191Cite as: 519 U. S. 172 (1997)Opinion of the Courtant falls within the class of crimes that Congress thoughtshould bar a convict from possessing a gun, and this pointmay be made readily in a defendant's admission and under-scored in the court's jury instructions. Finally, the most obvious reason that the general presumption that the prosecu-tion may choose its evidence is so remote from applicationhere is that proof of the defendant's status goes to an elemententirely outside the natural sequence of what the defendantis charged with thinking and doing to commit the currentoffense. Proving status without telling exactly why thatstatus was imposed leaves no gap in the story of a defend-ant's subsequent criminality, and its demonstration by stipulation or admission neither displaces a chapter from a con-tinuous sequence of conventional evidence nor comes acrossas an officious substitution, to confuse or offend or provokereproach.Given these peculiarities of the element of felony-convictstatus and of admissions and the like when used to proveit, there is no cognizable difference between the evidentiarysignificance of an admission and of the legitimately probativecomponent of the official record the prosecution would preferto place in evidence. For purposes of the Rule 403 weighingof the probative against the prejudicial, the functions of thecompeting evidence are distinguishable only by the risk inherent in the one and wholly absent from the other. In thiscase, as in any other in which the prior conviction is for anoffense likely to support conviction on some improperground, the only reasonable conclusion was that the risk ofunfair prejudice did substantially outweigh the discountedprobative value of the record of conviction, and it was anabuse of discretion to admit the record when an admissionwas available.10 What we have said shows why this will be10 There may be yet other means of proof besides a formal admission onthe record that, with a proper objection, will obligate a district court toexclude evidence of the name of the offense. A redacted record of conviction is the one most frequently mentioned. Any alternative will, of519US1$13M 06-02-99 18:45:27 PAGES OPINPGT192 OLD CHIEF v. UNITED STATESO'Connor, J., dissentingthe general rule when proof of convict status is at issue, justas the prosecutor's choice will generally survive a Rule 403analysis when a defendant seeks to force the substitution ofan admission for evidence creating a coherent narrative ofhis thoughts and actions in perpetrating the offense forwhich he is being tried.The judgment is reversed, and the case is remanded to theNinth Circuit for further proceedings consistent with thisopinion.11 It is so ordered.Justice O'Connor, with whom The Chief Justice,Justice Scalia, and Justice Thomas join, dissenting.The Court today announces a rule that misapplies FederalRule of Evidence 403 and upsets, without explanation,longstanding precedent regarding criminal prosecutions. Ido not agree that the Government's introduction of evidence that reveals the name and basic nature of a defendant'sprior felony conviction in a prosecution brought under 18U. S. C. $ 922(g)(1) "unfairly" prejudices the defendant withinthe meaning of Rule 403. Nor do I agree with the Court'snewly minted rule that a defendant charged with violatingcourse, require some jury instruction to explain it (just as it will requiresome discretion when the indictment is read). A redacted judgment inthis case, for example, would presumably have revealed to the jury thatOld Chief was previously convicted in federal court and sentenced to morethan a year's imprisonment, but it would not have shown whether hisprevious conviction was for one of the business offenses that do not count,under $ 921(a)(20). Hence, an instruction, with the defendant's consent,would be necessary to make clear that the redacted judgment was enoughto satisfy the status element remaining in the case. The Governmentmight, indeed, propose such a redacted judgment for the trial court toweigh against a defendant's offer to admit, as indeed the Governmentmight do even if the defendant's admission had been received intoevidence.11 In remanding, we imply no opinion on the possibility of harmless error,an issue not passed upon below.519US1$13J 06-02-99 18:45:27 PAGES OPINPGT193Cite as: 519 U. S. 172 (1997)O'Connor, J., dissenting$ 922(g)(1) can force the Government to accept his concessionto the prior conviction element of that offense, thereby precluding the Government from offering evidence on this point.I therefore dissent.IRule 403 provides that a district court may exclude rele-vant evidence if, among other things, "its probative value issubstantially outweighed by the danger of unfair prejudice."Certainly, Rule 403 does not permit the court to exclude theGovernment's evidence simply because it may hurt the de-fendant. As a threshold matter, evidence is excludable onlyif it is "unfairly" prejudicial, in that it has "an undue tend-ency to suggest decision on an improper basis." AdvisoryCommittee's Note on Fed. Rule Evid. 403, 28 U. S. C. App.,p. 860; see, e. g., United States v. Munoz, 36 F. 3d 1229, 1233(CA1 1994) ("The damage done to the defense is not a basisfor exclusion; the question under Rule 403 is `one of "unfair"prejudice--not of prejudice alone' ") (citations omitted), cert.deniedsub nom. Martinez v. United States, 513 U. S. 1179(1995); Dollar v. Long Mfg., N. C., Inc., 561 F. 2d 613, 618(CA5 1977) (" `[U]nfair prejudice' as used in Rule 403 is notto be equated with testimony simply adverse to the opposingparty. Virtually all evidence is prejudicial or it isn't mate-rial. The prejudice must be `unfair' "), cert. denied, 435U. S. 996 (1978). The evidence tendered by the Governmentin this case--the order reflecting petitioner's prior conviction and sentence for assault resulting in serious bodily injury, in violation of 18 U. S. C. $ 1153 and 18 U. S. C. $ 113(f)(1988 ed.)--directly proved a necessary element of the$ 922(g)(1) offense, that is, that petitioner had committed acrime covered by $ 921(a)(20). Perhaps petitioner's case wasdamaged when the jury discovered that he previously hadcommitted a felony and heard the name of his crime. ButI cannot agree with the Court that it wasunfairly prejudicial for the Government to establish an essential element519US1$13J 06-02-99 18:45:27 PAGES OPINPGT194 OLD CHIEF v. UNITED STATESO'Connor, J., dissentingof its case against petitioner with direct proof of his priorconviction.The structure of $ 922(g)(1) itself shows that Congress en-visioned jurors' learning the name and basic nature of thedefendant's prior offense. Congress enacted $ 922(g)(1) toprohibit the possession of a firearm by any person convictedof "a crime punishable by imprisonment for a term exceedingone year." Section 922(g)(1) does not merely prohibit thepossession of firearms by "felons," nor does it apply to allprior felony convictions. Rather, the statute excludes from$ 922(g)(1)'s coverage certain business crimes and state misdemeanors punishable by imprisonment of two years or less.$ 921(a)(20). Within the meaning of $ 922(g)(1), then, "acrime" is not an abstract or metaphysical concept. Rather,the Government must prove that the defendant committed aparticular crime. In short, under $ 922(g)(1), a defendant'sprior felony conviction connotes not only that he is a priorfelon, but also that he has engaged in specific past criminalconduct.Even more fundamentally, in our system of justice, a person is not simply convicted of "a crime" or "a felony."Rather, he is found guilty of a specified offense, almost always because he violated a specific statutory prohibition.For example, in the words of the order that the Governmentoffered to prove petitioner's prior conviction in this case,petitioner "did knowingly and unlawfully assault Rory DeanFenner, said assault resulting in serious bodily injury, inviolation of Title 18 U. S. C. $$ 1153 and 113(f )." App. 18.That a variety of crimes would have satisfied the prior conviction element of the $ 922(g)(1) offense does not detractfrom the fact that petitioner committed a specific offense.The name and basic nature of petitioner's crime are inseparable from the fact of his earlier conviction and were thereforeadmissible to prove petitioner's guilt.The principle is illustrated by the evidence that was admitted at petitioner's trial to prove the other element of the519US1$13J 06-02-99 18:45:27 PAGES OPINPGT195Cite as: 519 U. S. 172 (1997)O'Connor, J., dissenting$ 922(g)(1) offense--possession of a "firearm." The Gov-ernment submitted evidence showing that petitioner possessed a 9-mm. semiautomatic pistol. Although petitioner'spossession of any number of weapons would have satisfiedthe requirements of $ 922(g)(1), obviously the Governmentwas entitled to prove with specific evidence that petitionerpossessed the weapon he did. In the same vein, considera murder case. Surely the Government can submit proofestablishing the victim's identity, even though, strictlyspeaking, the jury has no "need" to know the victim's name,and even though the victim might be a particularly wellloved public figure. The same logic should govern proof ofthe prior conviction element of the $ 922(g)(1) offense. Thatis, the Government ought to be able to prove, with specificevidence, that petitioner committed a crime that came within$ 922(g)(1)'s coverage.The Court never explains precisely why it constitutes "un-fair" prejudice for the Government to directly prove an essential element of the $ 922(g)(1) offense with evidence thatreveals the name or basic nature of the defendant's priorconviction. It simply notes that such evidence may lead ajury to conclude that the defendant has a propensity to commit crime, thereby raising the odds that the jury would findthat he committed the crime with which he is currentlycharged. With a nod to the part of Rule 404(b) that says"[e]vidence of other crimes, wrongs, or acts is not admissibleto prove the character of a person in order to show action inconformity therewith," the Court writes:"There is, accordingly, no question that propensitywould be an `improper basis' for conviction and that evidence of a prior conviction is subject to analysis underRule 403 for relative probative value and for prejudicialrisk of misuse as propensity evidence." Ante, at 182.A few pages later, it leaps to the conclusion that there canbe "no question that evidence of the name or nature of the519US1$13J 06-02-99 18:45:27 PAGES OPINPGT196 OLD CHIEF v. UNITED STATESO'Connor, J., dissentingprior offense generally carries a risk of unfair prejudice tothe defendant."Ante, at 185.Yes, to be sure, Rule 404(b) provides that "[e]vidence ofother crimes, wrongs, or acts is not admissible to prove thecharacter of a person in order to show action in conformitytherewith." But Rule 404(b) does not end there. It ex-pressly contemplates the admission of evidence of priorcrimes for other purposes, "such as proof of motive, opportu-nity, intent, preparation, plan, knowledge, identity, or absence of mistake or accident." The list is plainly not exhaus-tive, and where, as here, a prior conviction is an element ofthe charged offense, neither Rule 404(b) nor Rule 403 canbar its admission. The reason is simple: In a prosecutionbrought under $ 922(g)(1), the Government does not submitevidence of a past crime to prove the defendant's bad character or to "show action in conformity therewith." It tendersthe evidence as direct proof of a necessary element of theoffense with which it has charged the defendant. To say, asthe Court does, that it "unfairly" prejudices the defendantfor the Government to establish its $ 922(g)(1) case with evidence showing that, in fact, the defendant did commit a prioroffense misreads the Rules of Evidence and defies commonsense.Any incremental harm resulting from proving the name orbasic nature of the prior felony can be properly mitigatedby limiting jury instructions. Federal Rule of Evidence 105provides that when evidence is admissible for one purpose,but not another, "the court, upon request, shall restrict theevidence to its proper scope and instruct the jury accordingly." Indeed, on petitioner's own motion in this case, theDistrict Court instructed the jury that it was not to " `consider a prior conviction as evidence of guilt of the crime forwhich the defendant is now on trial.' " Brief for UnitedStates 32. The jury is presumed to have followed this cautionary instruction, see Shannon v. United States, 512 U. S.573, 585 (1994), and the instruction offset whatever prejudice519US1$13J 06-02-99 18:45:27 PAGES OPINPGT197Cite as: 519 U. S. 172 (1997)O'Connor, J., dissentingmight have arisen from the introduction of petitioner'sprior conviction.IIThe Court also holds that, if a defendant charged withviolating $ 922(g)(1) concedes his prior felony conviction, adistrict court abuses its discretion if it admits evidenceof the defendant's prior crime that raises the risk of a verdict "tainted by improper considerations." See ante, at 174.Left unexplained is what, exactly, it was about the orderintroduced by the Government at trial that might cause ajury to decide the case improperly. The order offered intoevidence (which the Court nowhere in its opinion sets out)stated, in relevant part:"And the defendant having been convicted on his plea ofguilty of the offense charged in Count II of the indictment in the above-entitled cause, to-wit: That on orabout the 18th day of December 1988, at Browning, inthe State and District of Montana, and on and within theexterior boundaries of the Blackfeet Indian Reservation,being Indian country, JOHNNY LYNN OLD CHIEF, anIndian person, did knowingly and unlawfully assaultRory Dean Fenner, said assault resulting in seriousbodily injury, in violation of Title 18 U. S. C. $$ 1153 and113(f )." App. 18.The order went on to say that petitioner was sentenced fora term of 60 months' imprisonment, to be followed by twoyears of supervised release.Why, precisely, does the Court think that this item of evidence raises the risk of a verdict "tainted by improper con-siderations"? Is it because the jury might learn that petitioner assaulted someone and caused serious bodily injury?If this is what the Court means, would evidence that petitioner had committed some other felony be admissible, andif so, what sort of crime might that be? Or does the Courtobject to the order because it gave a few specifics about the519US1$13J 06-02-99 18:45:27 PAGES OPINPGT198 OLD CHIEF v. UNITED STATESO'Connor, J., dissentingassault, such as the date, the location, and the victim's name?Or perhaps the Court finds that introducing the order risksa verdict "tainted by improper considerations" simply be-cause the $ 922(g)(1) charge was joined with counts chargingpetitioner with using a firearm in relation to a crime of violence, in violation of 18 U. S. C. $ 924(c), and with committingan assault with a dangerous weapon, in violation of 18U. S. C. $ 1153 and 18 U. S. C. $ 113(c) (1988 ed.)? Under theCourt's nebulous standard for admission of prior felony evidence in a $ 922(g)(1) prosecution, these are open questions.More troubling still is the Court's retreat from the fundamental principle that in a criminal prosecution the Government may prove its case as it sees fit. The Court reasonsthat, in general, a defendant may not stipulate away an element of a charged offense because, in the usual case, "theprosecution with its burden of persuasion needs evidentiarydepth to tell a continuous story." Ante, at 190. The rulehas, however, "virtually no application when the point atissue is a defendant's legal status, dependent on some judgment rendered wholly independently of the concrete eventsof later criminal behavior charged against him." Ibid.Thus, concludes the Court, there is no real difference between the "evidentiary significance" of a defendant's concession and that of the Government's proof of the prior felonywith the order of conviction. Ante, at 191. Since the Government's method of proof was more prejudicial than petitioner's admission, it follows that the District Court shouldnot have admitted the order reflecting his conviction whenpetitioner had conceded that element of the offense. Ibid.On its own terms, the argument does not hold together.A jury is as likely to be puzzled by the "missing chapter"resulting from a defendant's stipulation to his prior felonyconviction as it would be by the defendant's conceding anyother element of the crime. The jury may wonder why ithas not been told the name of the crime, or it may questionwhy the defendant's firearm possession was illegal, given the519US1$13J 06-02-99 18:45:27 PAGES OPINPGT199Cite as: 519 U. S. 172 (1997)O'Connor, J., dissentingtradition of lawful gun ownership in this country, see Staplesv.United States, 511 U. S. 600, 610-612 (1994). " `Doubtas to the criminality of [the defendant's] conduct may influ-ence the jury when it considers the possession element.' "United States v. Barker, 1 F. 3d 957, 960 (1993) (quotingUnited States v. Collamore, 868 F. 2d 24, 28 (CA1 1989)),modified, 20 F. 3d 365 (CA9 1994).Second, the Court misapprehends why "it has never beenseriously suggested that [a defendant] can . . . compel theGovernment to try the case by stipulation." Singer v.United States, 380 U. S. 24, 35 (1965). It may well be thatthe prosecution needs "evidentiary depth to tell a continuousstory" in order to prove its case in a way a jury will accept.Ante, at 190. But that is by no means the only or the mostimportant reason that a defendant may not oblige the Government to accept his concession to an element of thecharged offense. The Constitution requires a criminal conviction to rest upon a jury determination that the defendantis guilty of every element of the crime of which he is chargedbeyond a reasonable doubt. United States v. Gaudin, 515U. S. 506, 510 (1995) (citing Sullivan v. Louisiana, 508 U. S.275, 277 (1993)); see also Court of Ulster Cty. v. Allen, 442U. S. 140, 156 (1979) ("[I]n criminal cases, the ultimate testof any device's constitutional validity in a given case remainsconstant: the device must not undermine the factfinder's responsibility at trial, based on evidence adduced by the State,to find the ultimate facts beyond a reasonable doubt"). "Asimple plea of not guilty, Fed. Rule Crim. Proc. 11, puts theprosecution to its proof as to all elements of the crimecharged . . . ." Mathews v. United States, 485 U. S. 58, 64-65(1988). Further, a defendant's tactical decision not to contest an essential element of the crime does not remove theprosecution's burden to prove that element. Estelle v. McGuire, 502 U. S. 62, 69 (1991). At trial, a defendant maythus choose to contest the Government's proof on every element; or he may concede some elements and contest others;519US1$13J 06-02-99 18:45:27 PAGES OPINPGT200 OLD CHIEF v. UNITED STATESO'Connor, J., dissentingor he may do nothing at all. Whatever his choice, the Gov-ernment still carries the burden of proof beyond a reasonabledoubt on each element.It follows from these principles that a defendant's stipulation to an element of an offense does not remove that elementfrom the jury's consideration. The usual instruction regard-ing stipulations in a criminal case reflects as much: "Whenthe attorneys on both sides stipulate or agree as to the exist-ence of a fact, you may accept the stipulation as evidence andregard that fact as proved. You are not required to do so,however, since you are the sole judge of the facts." 1 E.Devitt, C. Blackmar, M. Wolff, & K. O'Malley, Federal JuryPractice and Instructions $ 12.03, p. 333 (4th ed. 1992). Obviously, we are not dealing with a stipulation here. A stipulation is an agreement, and no agreement was reached between petitioner and the Government in this case. Does theCourt think a different rule applies when the defendant attempts to stipulate, over the Government's objection, to anelement of the charged offense? If so, that runs counter tothe Constitution: The Government must prove every elementof the offense charged beyond a reasonable doubt, In reWinship, 397 U. S. 358, 361 (1970), and the defendant's strategic decision to "agree" that the Government need not provean element cannot relieve the Government of its burden, seeEstelle, supra, at 69-70. Because the Government bears theburden of proof on every element of a charged offense, itmust be accorded substantial leeway to submit evidence ofits choosing to prove its case.Also overlooked by the Court is the fact that, in "conceding" that he has a prior felony conviction, a defendant maybe trying to take the issue from the jury altogether by effectively entering a partial plea of guilty, something we havenever before endorsed. Federal Rule of Criminal Procedure23(a) does not permit a defendant to waive a jury trial unlessthe Government consents, and we have upheld the provisionas constitutional. Singer, supra, at 37. "The Constitution519US1$13J 06-02-99 18:45:27 PAGES OPINPGT201Cite as: 519 U. S. 172 (1997)O'Connor, J., dissentingrecognizes an adversary system as the proper method of de-termining guilt, and the Government, as a litigant, has a legitimate interest in seeing that cases in which it believes aconviction is warranted are tried before the tribunal whichthe Constitution regards as most likely to produce a fair re-sult." 380 U. S., at 36. A defendant who concedes the priorconviction element of the $ 922(g)(1) offense may be effec-tively trying to waive his right to a jury trial on that element. Unless the Government agrees to this waiver, it runsafoul of Rule 23(a) andSinger.IIIThe Court manufactures a new rule that, in a $ 922(g)(1)case, a defendant can force the Government to accept hisadmission to the prior felony conviction element of the of-fense, thereby precluding the Government from offering evidence to directly prove a necessary element of its case. Icannot agree that it "unfairly" prejudices a defendant for theGovernment to prove his prior conviction with evidence thatreveals the name or basic nature of his past crime. Like itor not, Congress chose to make a defendant's prior criminalconviction one of the two elements of the $ 922(g)(1) offense.Moreover, crimes have names; a defendant is not convictedof some indeterminate, unspecified "crime." Nor do I thinkthat Federal Rule of Evidence 403 can be read to obviate thewell accepted principle, grounded in both the Constitutionand in our precedent, that the Government may not be forcedto accept a defendant's concession to an element of a chargedoffense as proof of that element. I respectfully dissent.519us2$14Z 04-15-98 09:03:01 PAGES OPINPGT202 OCTOBER TERM, 1996SyllabusWALTERS v. METROPOLITAN EDUCATIONALENTERPRISES, INC.,et al.certiorari to the united states court of appeals forthe seventh circuitNo. 95-259. Argued November 6, 1996--Decided January 14, 1997*In 1990, petitioner Walters was fired by respondent Metropolitan Educational Enterprises, Inc., soon after she filed an employment discrimination charge against it under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964.Petitioner Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) suedMetropolitan, alleging that the firing violated Title VII's antiretaliationprovision. After Walters intervened, Metropolitan filed a motion todismiss for lack of subject-matter jurisdiction, claiming that it was notan "employer" covered by Title VII because, at the time of the allegedretaliation, it was not "a person . . . who has fifteen or more employeesfor each working day in each of twenty or more calendar weeks in thecurrent or preceding calendar year." 42 U. S. C. $ 2000e(b). The parties have stipulated that Metropolitan failed to satisfy the 15-employeethreshold in 1989; that, during most of 1990, it had between 15 and 17employees on its payroll on each working day; and that, during 1990,there were only nine weeks in which it was actually compensating 15 ormore employees on each working day. The District Court dismissedthe case, relying on Circuit precedent to the effect that employees maybe counted for $ 2000e(b) purposes only on days on which they actuallyperformed work or were being compensated despite their absence. TheSeventh Circuit affirmed.Held: The ultimate touchstone under $ 2000e(b) is whether an employer has employment relationships with 15 or more individuals foreach working day in 20 or more weeks during the year in question.Pp. 205-212.(a) The "payroll method"--which looks to whether the employer hasan employment relationship with the employee on the day in question,as is most readily demonstrated by the individual's appearance on theemployer's payroll--represents the fair reading of the statutory language. That method embodies the ordinary, contemporary, commonmeaning of "has [an] employe[e]." While the phrase "for each working*Together with No. 95-779, Equal Employment Opportunity Commission v. Metropolitan Educational Enterprises, Inc., et al., also on certiorari to the same court.519us2$14Z 04-15-98 09:03:01 PAGES OPINPGT203Cite as: 519 U. S. 202 (1997)Syllabusday" suggests the possibility of a test based on whether an employee isactually at work on a given day, such a test would be impossible toadminister and reflects an improbable reading of the statute. Themethod advocated by Metropolitan, which focuses on whether an employer is compensating the employee on the day in question, is not aplausible reading of the statutory criterion of whether the employer"has" the employee. Pp. 206-208.(b) The payroll approach does not render superfluous the statutoryqualification "for each working day." Without this phrase, one wouldnot be sure whether to count part-week employees toward the statutoryminimum. Nor is it dispositive that the payroll method produces somestrange consequences with regard to Title VII's coverage, since Metropolitan's approach produces unique peculiarities of its own. The latterapproach would also turn the coverage determination into an incrediblycomplex and expensive factual inquiry, whereas, under the payrollmethod, all one needs to know about a given employee for a given yearis whether he started or ended employment during that year and, if so,when. He is counted as an employee for each working day after arrivaland before departure. Pp. 208-211.(c) Under the payroll method, Metropolitan was an "employer" forpurposes of petitioners' retaliatory-discharge claim. Pp. 211-212.60 F. 3d 1225, reversed and remanded.Scalia, J., delivered the opinion for a unanimous Court.Constantine John Gekas argued the cause for petitionerin No. 95-259. With him on the briefs wasAdrianne S.Harvitt. Deputy Solicitor General Waxman argued thecause for petitioner in No. 95-779. On the briefs were Solic-itor General Days, Acting Solicitor General Dellinger, Assistant Attorney General Patrick, Deputy Solicitor GeneralBender, Beth S. Brinkmann, C. Gregory Stewart, Gwen-dolyn Young Reams, Carolyn L. Wheeler, and C. GregoryStewart.Patrick J. Falahee, Jr., argued the cause and filed a brieffor respondents in both cases.##Briefs of amici curiae urging reversal were filed for the AmericanFederation of Labor and Congress of Industrial Organizations by Jonathan P. Hiatt, Marsha S. Berzon, Virginia A. Seitz, and Laurence Gold;for the Lawyers' Committee for Civil Rights Under Law by Lawrence J.519us2$14K 04-15-98 09:03:01 PAGES OPINPGT204 WALTERS v. METROPOLITAN ED. ENTERPRISES, INC.Opinion of the CourtJustice Scalia delivered the opinion of the Court.Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 applies to anyemployer who "has fifteen or more employees for each working day in each of twenty or more calendar weeks in thecurrent or preceding calendar year." 78 Stat. 253, asamended, 42 U. S. C. $ 2000e(b). These cases present thequestion whether an employer "has" an employee on anyworking day on which the employer maintains an employ-ment relationship with the employee, or only on workingdays on which the employee is actually receiving compen-sation from the employer.IPetitioner Darlene Walters was employed by respondentMetropolitan Educational Enterprises, Inc., a retail distributor of encyclopedias, dictionaries, and other educationalmaterials. In 1990, she filed a charge with the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC), claiming thatMetropolitan had discriminated against her on account of hersex in failing to promote her to the position of credit man-ager. Soon after that, Metropolitan fired her.On April 7, 1993, petitioner EEOC filed suit against Metro-politan and its owner, respondent Leonard Bieber (hereinafter collectively Metropolitan), alleging that the firingconstituted unlawful retaliation. Walters intervened in thesuit. Metropolitan filed a motion to dismiss for lack ofsubject-matter jurisdiction, claiming that the company didnot pass the 15-employee threshold for coverage underTitle VII.Latto, Herbert J. Hansell, Paul C. Saunders, Norman Redlich, BarbaraR. Arnwine, Thomas J. Henderson, Richard T. Seymour, and Teresa A.Ferrante; and for the Women's Legal Defense Fund et al. by Judith L.Lichtman, Donna R. Lenhoff, and Helen L. Norton.Donald J. McNeil and Mona C. Zeiberg filed a brief for the IllinoisState Chamber of Commerce et al. as amici curiae urging affirmance.Sharon L. Browne filed a brief for the Pacific Legal Foundation et al. asamici curiae.519us2$14K 04-15-98 09:03:01 PAGES OPINPGT205Cite as: 519 U. S. 202 (1997)Opinion of the CourtThe District Court granted Metropolitan's motion to dis-miss, 864 F. Supp. 71 (ND Ill. 1994), relying on Zimmermanv. North American Signal Co., 704 F. 2d 347, 354 (CA7 1983),which affirmed a District Court's decision to count employeestoward the 15-employee threshold only on days on whichthey actually performed work or were being compensateddespite their absence. On appeal from the District Court'sjudgment, the Court of Appeals reaffirmedZimmerman.60 F. 3d 1225 (CA7 1995). We granted certiorari. 516 U. S.1171 (1996). IIPetitioners' suit rests on Title VII's antiretaliation provi-sion, 42 U. S. C. $ 2000e-3(a), which makes it unlawful for anemployer to discriminate against any of its employees forfiling complaints of discrimination. Metropolitan was subject to Title VII, however, only if, at the time of the allegedretaliation, it met the statutory definition of "employer," towit: "a person engaged in an industry affecting commercewho has fifteen or more employees for each working day ineach of twenty or more calendar weeks in the current orpreceding calendar year." $ 2000e(b).Metropolitan's "working days" are Monday through Fri-day, and the "current" and "preceding" calendar years forpurposes of the retaliatory-discharge claim are 1990 and1989. The parties have stipulated that Metropolitan failedto satisfy the 15-employee threshold in 1989. During mostof 1990, Metropolitan had between 15 and 17 employees onits payroll on each working day; but in only nine weeks ofthe year was it actually compensating 15 or more employeeson each working day (including paid leave as compensation).The difference resulted from the fact that Metropolitan hadtwo part-time hourly employees who ordinarily skipped oneworking day each week.**Walters (but not the EEOC) alleged that, in addition to violating TitleVII's antiretaliation provision, Metropolitan also violated the basic antidiscrimination provision, 42 U. S. C. $ 2000e-2(a), by failing to promote her to519us2$14K 04-15-98 09:03:01 PAGES OPINPGT206 WALTERS v. METROPOLITAN ED. ENTERPRISES, INC.Opinion of the CourtAThe parties agree that, on any particular day, all of theindividuals with whom an employer has an employment relationship are "employees" of that employer. See 42 U. S. C.$ 2000e(f ) (defining "employee" to mean "an individual employed by an employer"). Thus, individuals who are notreceiving compensation from their employer on the day inquestion nonetheless qualify as "employees" on that day forpurposes of $ 2000e(b)'s definition of "employer." Respondents contend, however, and the Seventh Circuit held here,that an employer "has" an employee for a particular workingday within the meaning of $ 2000e(b) only when he is actuallycompensating the individual on that day. This position hasalso been adopted by the Eighth Circuit. See EEOC v. Gar-den & Associates, Ltd., 956 F. 2d 842, 843 (1992).Petitioners contend that the test for when an employer"has" an employee is no different from the test for whenan individual is an employee: whether the employer has anemployment relationship with the individual on the day inquestion. This test is generally called the "payroll method,"since the employment relationship is most readily demonstrated by the individual's appearance on the employer's pay-roll. The payroll method was approved in dictum by theFifth Circuit in Dumas v. Mount Vernon, 612 F. 2d 974, 979,n. 7 (1980), and was adopted by the First Circuit in Thurberv. Jack Reilly's, Inc., 717 F. 2d 633, 634-635 (1983), cert. de-nied, 466 U. S. 904 (1984); see also Vera-Lozano v. International Broadcasting, 50 F. 3d 67, 69-70 (CA1 1995) (recredit manager in September 1989. In granting Metropolitan's motion todismiss, the District Court stated that the relevant years for determiningMetropolitan's status as an employer were 1989 and 1990. 864 F. Supp.71, 72 (ND Ill. 1994). For purposes of Walters' discrimination claim,however, the relevant years were 1988 and 1989. Because Walters didnot mention this issue in her petition for certiorari or her brief on themerits, we treat any objection to the District Court's disposition of thematter as waived.519us2$14K 04-15-98 09:03:01 PAGES OPINPGT207Cite as: 519 U. S. 202 (1997)Opinion of the Courtaffirming Thurber). The payroll method has also beenadopted by the EEOC under the Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967, which defines "employer" in preciselythe way Title VII does. See 29 U. S. C. $ 630(b); Equal Employment Opportunity Commission Notice No. N-915-052,Policy Guidance: Whether Part-Time Employees Are Em-ployees (Apr. 1990), reprinted in App. to Pet. for Cert. 30a-40a (hereinafter EEOC Policy Guidance). The Departmentof Labor has likewise adopted the payroll method under theFamily and Medical Leave Act of 1993, which defines "em-ployer" as a person who "employs 50 or more employees foreach working day during each of 20 or more calendar workweeks in the current or preceding calendar year." See 29U. S. C. $ 2611(4)(A)(i); 29 CFR $$ 825.105(b)-(d) (1996). Inits administration of Title VII, the EEOC has expressed apreference for the payroll method, see EEOC Policy Guidance, but it lacks rulemaking authority over the issue, see 42U. S. C. $ 2000e-12(a); EEOC v. Arabian American Oil Co.,499 U. S. 244, 257 (1991).We think that the payroll method represents the fair reading of the statutory language, which sets as the criterion thenumber of employees that the employer "has" for each working day. In the absence of an indication to the contrary,words in a statute are assumed to bear their "ordinary, contemporary, common meaning." Pioneer Investment Services Co. v. Brunswick Associates Ltd. Partnership, 507 U. S.380, 388 (1993) (internal quotation marks and citation omitted). In common parlance, an employer "has" an employeeif he maintains an employment relationship with that individual. See 1 The New Shorter Oxford English Dictionary1198 (1993) (def. 2: defining "have" to mean to "[p]ossess in acertain relationship"); American Heritage Dictionary 828 (3ded. 1992) (def. 2: defining "have" to mean "to occupy a particular relation to"; giving as an example "had a great manydisciples"); Webster's New International Dictionary 1145 (2ded. 1950) (def. 2: defining "have" to mean "[t]o possess, as519us2$14K 04-15-98 09:03:01 PAGES OPINPGT208 WALTERS v. METROPOLITAN ED. ENTERPRISES, INC.Opinion of the Courtsomething which appertains to, is connected with, or affects,one"; giving as an example "to have an ungrateful son").Metropolitan contends that if one were asked how manyemployees he had for a given working day, he would giveas the answer the number of employees who were actuallyperforming work on that day. That is possibly so. Language is a subtle enough thing that the phrase "have an em-ployeefor a given working day" (as opposed to "have anemployee on a given day") may be thought to convey theidea that the employee must actually be working on the dayin question. But no one before us urges that interpretationof the language, which would count even salaried employeesonly on days that they are actually working. Such a disposition is so improbable and so impossible to administer (fewemployers keep daily attendance records of all their salariedemployees) that Congress should be thought to have pre-scribed it only if the language could bear no other meaning.Metropolitan's own proposed test does not focus on the ques-tion, "How many employees did you have at work on a particular working day?" but rather the question, "How manyemployees were you compensating on that day?" Thatquestion, unlike the other one, simply cannot be derived fromany possible reading of the text.BThe Court of Appeals rejected the straightforward mean-ing of "has fifteen or more employees" in $ 2000e(b) becauseof a different supposed consequence of the added statu-tory qualification "for each working day." In its view, if onlythe employment relationship were the intended focus, thestatute would simply have required the employer to "ha[ve]fifteen or more employees . . . in each of twenty or morecalendar weeks," without the further refinement "for eachworking day" of each of those weeks. This point would havesome force (though it would still not produce the Court ofAppeals' focus on the number of employees being compen519us2$14K 04-15-98 09:03:02 PAGES OPINPGT209Cite as: 519 U. S. 202 (1997)Opinion of the Courtsated on a particular day) if indeed the ordinary meaning of"has fifteen or more employees" rendered "for each workingday" superfluous. Statutes must be interpreted, if possible,to give each word some operative effect.United States v.Menasche, 348 U. S. 528, 538-539 (1955). But we do notagree that giving "has fifteen or more employees" its ordi-nary meaning renders "for each working day" superfluous.Without that qualification, it would be unclear whether anemployee who departed in the middle of a calendar weekwould count toward the 15-employee minimum for that week;with the qualification, it is clear that he does not. Similarly,the adjective "working" within the phrase "for each workingday" eliminates any ambiguity about whether employeeswho depart after the end of the workweek, but before theend of the calendar week, count toward the 15-employee minimum for that week.The Court of Appeals thought that the mere exclusion ofpart-week employees was an improbable purpose of thephrase. "[I]nstances where employees begin work onWednesdays or depart on Thursdays," it said, "are unlikelyto occur with sufficient frequency to merit inclusion in a federal anti-discrimination statute." 60 F. 3d, at 1228. But itis not a matter of carving out special treatment for this (supposedly minuscule) class--as would be the case if, withoutthe phrase "for each working day," part-week employeeswould unquestionably be counted toward the statutory minimum. Without the phrase one would not be sure whetherto count them or not, and in at least some cases the matterwould have to be litigated. (Does a company have 15 employees "in" a week where, on all except the last workday, ithas only 14? "In" a week where it hires a new employee onSaturday, a nonworkday, to begin on the next Monday? "In"a week where, in mid-week, one of 14 employees quits and isreplaced by a different 14th employee?) We are decidedlyof the view that the "mere" elimination of evident ambiguityis ample--indeed, admirable--justification for the inclusion519us2$14K 04-15-98 09:03:02 PAGES OPINPGT210 WALTERS v. METROPOLITAN ED. ENTERPRISES, INC.Opinion of the Courtof a statutory phrase; and that purpose alone is enough to"merit" enactment of the phrase at issue here. Moreover,the phenomenon of midweek commencement and terminationof employment seems to us not as rare as the Court of Appeals believed. For many businesses payday, and hencehiring- and firing-day, is the end of the month rather thanthe end of the week. Metropolitan itself experienced 10midweek arrivals or departures from its roughly 15-employee work force during 1990. Brief for Petitioner inNo. 95-259, pp. 10-11.Metropolitan points out that the interpretation we adoptproduces some strange consequences with regard to the coverage of Title VII. For example, an employee who worksirregular hours, perhaps only a few days a month, will becounted toward the 15-employee minimum for every week inthe month. Metropolitan's approach reduces this problem(though it does not eliminate it entirely): The employee willbe counted so long as he works one hour each day of theworkweek. On the other hand, Metropolitan's approach produces unique peculiarities of its own: A company that has 15employees working for it on each day of a 5-day workweekis covered, but if it decides to add Saturday to its workweekwith only one less than its full complement of employees, itwill become exempt from coverage (despite being in fact a"larger" business). Unsalaried employees who work thesame number of hours per week are counted or not counted,depending on how their hours are scheduled. A half-timeworker who works only mornings is counted; a half-timeworker who works alternate days is not. The fact is thatneither interpretation of the coverage provision can cause itto be an entirely accurate measure of the size of a business.In any event, Metropolitan ought to be reluctant to appealto practical consequences as the basis for deciding the question before us. The approach it suggests would turn thecoverage determination into an incredibly complex and expensive factual inquiry. Applying it in the present cases re519us2$14K 04-15-98 09:03:02 PAGES OPINPGT211Cite as: 519 U. S. 202 (1997)Opinion of the Courtquired the parties to spend 10 months poring over Metropoli-tan's payroll registers, timecards, work diaries, and othertimekeeping records to determine, for each working day of a2-year period, how many employees were at work, how manywere being paid on salaries, how many were on paid holidayleave, how many were on paid vacation leave, and how manywere on paid sick leave. For an employer with 15 employeesand a 5-day workweek, the number of daily working historiesfor the 2-year period is 7,800. The problems with Metropoli-tan's compensation-based approach are magnified when employees are "compensated" on days off in ways less clear cutthan holiday, vacation, or sick leave. If, for example, employees accumulate seniority rights or entitlements to holi-day bonuses on their unpaid days off, it would be necessaryto determine (or litigate) whether they are "receiving com-pensation" on those days for purposes of the coverage determination. Under the interpretation we adopt, by contrast,all one needs to know about a given employee for a givenyear is whether the employee started or ended employmentduring that year and, if so, when. He is counted as anemployee for each working day after arrival and beforedeparture.IIIAs we have described, in determining the existence of anemployment relationship, petitioners look first and primarilyto whether the individual in question appears on the employ-er's payroll. Metropolitan did not challenge this aspect ofpetitioners' approach; its objection was the more basic onethat existence of an employment relationship was not thecriterion. For their part, petitioners emphasize that whatis ultimately critical under their method is the existence ofan employment relationship, not appearance on the payroll;an individual who appears on the payroll but is not an "employee" under traditional principles of agency law, see, e. g.,Nationwide Mut. Ins. Co. v. Darden, 503 U. S. 318, 323-324(1992), would not count toward the 15-employee minimum.519us2$14K 04-15-98 09:03:02 PAGES OPINPGT212 WALTERS v. METROPOLITAN ED. ENTERPRISES, INC.Opinion of the CourtWe agree with petitioners that the ultimate touchstoneunder $ 2000e(b) is whether an employer has employment relationships with 15 or more individuals for each working dayin 20 or more weeks during the year in question.The parties' stipulation concerning the number of weeksin 1990 during which Metropolitan satisfied the 15-employeethreshold using the payroll approach does not correspondprecisely to the counting method petitioners have advocatedhere. The stipulation was arrived at by counting the num-ber of employees on the payroll in each week of 1990, withoutregard to whether these employees were employed on eachworking day of the week. However, subtracting the nineweeks in which Metropolitan experienced midweek employ-ment changes in 1990 from the 47 weeks of that year inwhich, according to the parties' stipulation, Metropolitan hademployment relationships with 15 or more employees, leaves38 weeks in which Metropolitan satisfied the 15-employeethreshold under the interpretation we adopt. Therefore,Metropolitan was an "employer" within the meaning of$ 2000e(b) for purposes of petitioners' retaliatory-dischargeclaim. * * *The judgment of the Court of Appeals is reversed, and thecases are remanded for further proceedings consistent withthis opinion.