The question in this case is whether treatment decisionsmade by a health maintenance organization, acting throughits physician employees, are fiduciary acts within the mean-ing of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974(ERISA), 88 Stat. 832, as amended, 29 U. S. C. $ 1001 et seq.(1994 ed. and Supp. III). We hold that they are not.*Briefs of amici curiae urging reversal were filed for the AmericanAssociation of Health Plans et al. by Stephanie W. Kanwit, Daly D. E.Temchine, Kirsten M. Pullin, Jeffrey Gabardi, Louis Saccoccio, StephenA. Bokat, Robin S. Conrad, and Sussan Mahallati Kysela; and for theWashington Legal Foundation by Lonie A. Hassel, William F. Hanrahan,Daniel J. Popeo, and Richard A. Samp.Briefs of amici curiae urging affirmance were filed for the State ofIllinois et al. by James E. Ryan, Attorney General of Illinois, Joel D. Bertocchi, Solicitor General, Jacqueline Zydeck, Assistant Attorney General,and Dan Schweitzer, and by the Attorneys General for their respectiveStates as follows: Bill Lockyer of California, M. Jane Brady of Delaware,Robert A. Butterworth of Florida, Thomas J. Miller of Iowa, Tom Reillyof Massachusetts, Mike Moore of Mississippi, Jeremiah W. (Jay) Nixonof Missouri, Joseph P. Mazurek of Montana, Frankie Sue Del Papa ofNevada, John J. Farmer, Jr., of New Jersey, Michael F. Easley of NorthCarolina, Betty D. Montgomery of Ohio, W. A. Drew Edmondson of Oklahoma, Mike Fisher of Pennsylvania, Sheldon Whitehouse of Rhode Island,Paul G. Summers of Tennessee, and John Cornyn of Texas; for the American College of Legal Medicine et al. by Miles J. Zaremski; for Health Carefor All et al. by Wendy E. Parmet, S. Stephen Rosenfeld, and Clare D.McGorrian; for Health Law, Policy, and Ethics Scholars by Louis R.Cohen, Ruth E. Kent, and Carol J. Banta; and for the Ehlmann Plaintiffsby George Parker Young.Briefs of amici curiae were filed for the American Medical Associationby Gary W. Howell, Thomas Campbell, Michael L. Ile, Anne M. Murphy,and Leonard A. Nelson; and for the AARP et al. by Mary Ellen Signorille, Sarah Lenz Lock, Melvin Radowitz, Paula Brantner, Jeffrey Lewis,and Vicki Gottlich.530US1 Unit: $U71 [11-21-01 13:53:30] PAGES PGT: OPIN215Cite as: 530 U. S. 211 (2000)Opinion of the CourtIPetitioners, Carle Clinic Association, P. C., Health AllianceMedical Plans, Inc., and Carle Health Insurance ManagementCo., Inc. (collectively Carle), function as a health mainte-nance organization (HMO) organized for profit. Its ownersare physicians providing prepaid medical services to partici-pants whose employers contract with Carle to provide suchcoverage. Respondent, Cynthia Herdrich, was covered byCarle through her husband's employer, State Farm Insurance Company.The events in question began when a Carle physician, petitioner Lori Pegram,1 examined Herdrich, who was experi-encing pain in the midline area of her groin. Six days later,Dr. Pegram discovered a six by eight centimeter inflamedmass in Herdrich's abdomen. Despite the noticeable inflammation, Dr. Pegram did not order an ultrasound diagnos-tic procedure at a local hospital, but decided that Herdrichwould have to wait eight more days for an ultrasound, to beperformed at a facility staffed by Carle more than 50 milesaway. Before the eight days were over, Herdrich's appendixruptured, causing peritonitis. See 154 F. 3d 362, 365, n. 1(CA7 1998).Herdrich sued Pegram and Carle in state court for medicalmalpractice, and she later added two counts charging state-law fraud. Carle and Pegram responded that ERISA preempted the new counts, and removed the case to federalcourt,2 where they then sought summary judgment on the1 Although Lori Pegram, a physician owner of Carle, is listed as a petitioner, it is unclear to us that she retains a direct interest in the outcomeof this case.2 Herdrich does not contest the propriety of removal before us, and wetake no position on whether or not the case was properly removed. Aswe will explain, Herdrich's amended complaint alleged ERISA violations,over which the federal courts have jurisdiction, and we therefore havejurisdiction regardless of the correctness of the removal. See Grubbs v.General Elec. Credit Corp., 405 U. S. 699 (1972); Mackay v. Uinta Development Co., 229 U. S. 173 (1913).530US1 Unit: $U71 [11-21-01 13:53:30] PAGES PGT: OPIN216 PEGRAM v. HERDRICHOpinion of the Courtstate-law fraud counts. The District Court granted theirmotion as to the second fraud count but granted Herdrichleave to amend the one remaining. This she did by allegingthat provision of medical services under the terms of theCarle HMO organization, rewarding its physician owners forlimiting medical care, entailed an inherent or anticipatorybreach of an ERISA fiduciary duty, since these terms createdan incentive to make decisions in the physicians' self-interest,rather than the exclusive interests of plan participants.33 The specific allegations were these:"11. Defendants are fiduciaries with respect to the Plan and under 29[U. S. C. $ ]1109(a) are obligated to discharge their duties with respect tothe Plan solely in the interest of the participants and beneficiaries and"a. for the exclusive purpose of:"i. providing benefits to participants and their beneficiaries; and"ii. defraying reasonable expenses of administering the Plan;"b. with the care, skill, prudence, and diligence under the circumstancesthen prevailing that a prudent man acting in a like capacity and familiarwith such matters would use in the conduct of an enterprise of a likecharacter and like aims."12. In breach of that duty:"a. CARLE owner/physicians are the officers and directors of HAMPand CHIMCO and receive a year-end distribution, based in large partupon, supplemental medical expense payments made to CARLE byHAMP and CHIMCO;"b. Both HAMP and CHIMCO are directed and controlled by CARLEowner/physicians and seek to fund their supplemental medical expensepayments to CARLE:"i. by contracting with CARLE owner/physicians to provide the medical services contemplated in the Plan and then having those contractedowner/physicians:"(1) minimize the use of diagnostic tests;"(2) minimize the use of facilities not owned by CARLE; and"(3) minimize the use of emergency and non-emergency consultationand/or referrals to non-contracted physicians."ii. by administering disputed and non-routine health insurance claimsand determining:"(1) which claims are covered under the Plan and to what extent;"(2) what the applicable standard of care is;"(3) whether a course of treatment is experimental;530US1 Unit: $U71 [11-21-01 13:53:30] PAGES PGT: OPIN217Cite as: 530 U. S. 211 (2000)Opinion of the CourtHerdrich sought relief under 29 U. S. C. $ 1109(a), whichprovides that"[a]ny person who is a fiduciary with respect to a planwho breaches any of the responsibilities, obligations, orduties imposed upon fiduciaries by this subchapter shallbe personally liable to make good to such plan any lossesto the plan resulting from each such breach, and to re-store to such plan any profits of such fiduciary whichhave been made through use of assets of the plan by thefiduciary, and shall be subject to such other equitableor remedial relief as the court may deem appropriate,including removal of such fiduciary."When Carle moved to dismiss the ERISA count for failureto state a claim upon which relief could be granted, the District Court granted the motion, accepting the MagistrateJudge's determination that Carle was not "involved [in theseevents] as" an ERISA fiduciary. App. to Pet. for Cert. 63a.The original malpractice counts were then tried to a jury,and Herdrich prevailed on both, receiving $35,000 in compen-sation for her injury. 154 F. 3d, at 367. She then appealedthe dismissal of the ERISA claim to the Court of Appealsfor the Seventh Circuit, which reversed. The court heldthat Carle was acting as a fiduciary when its physicians madethe challenged decisions and that Herdrich's allegations weresufficient to state a claim:"Our decision does not stand for the proposition that theexistence of incentives automatically gives rise to abreach of fiduciary duty. Rather, we hold that incen-tives canrise to the level of a breach where, as pleadedhere, the fiduciary trust between plan participants andplan fiduciaries no longer exists (i. e., where physiciansdelay providing necessary treatment to, or withhold ad"(4) whether a course of treatment is reasonable and customary; and"(5) whether a medical condition is an emergency." App. to Pet. forCert. 85a-86a.530US1 Unit: $U71 [11-21-01 13:53:30] PAGES PGT: OPIN218 PEGRAM v. HERDRICHOpinion of the Courtministering proper care to, plan beneficiaries for the solepurpose of increasing their bonuses)." Id., at 373.We granted certiorari, 527 U. S. 1068 (1999), and nowreverse the Court of Appeals.IIWhether Carle is a fiduciary when it acts through its phy-sician owners as pleaded in the ERISA count depends onsome background of fact and law about HMOs, medical bene-fit plans, fiduciary obligation, and the meaning of Herdrich'sallegations. ATraditionally, medical care in the United States has beenprovided on a "fee-for-service" basis. A physician chargesso much for a general physical exam, a vaccination, a tonsil-lectomy, and so on. The physician bills the patient for services provided or, if there is insurance and the doctor is will-ing, submits the bill for the patient's care to the insurer, forpayment subject to the terms of the insurance agreement.Cf. R. Rosenblatt, S. Law, & S. Rosenbaum, Law and theAmerican Health Care System 543-544 (1997) (hereinafterRosenblatt) (citing Weiner & de Lissovoy, Razing a Tower ofBabel: A Taxonomy for Managed Care and Health InsurancePlans, 18 J. Health Politics, Policy & Law 75, 76-78 (Summer1993)). In a fee-for-service system, a physician's financialincentive is to provide more care, not less, so long as payment is forthcoming. The check on this incentive is a phy-sician's obligation to exercise reasonable medical skill andjudgment in the patient's interest.Beginning in the late 1960's, insurers and others developednew models for health-care delivery, including HMOs. Cf.Rosenblatt 546. The defining feature of an HMO is receiptof a fixed fee for each patient enrolled under the terms of acontract to provide specified health care if needed. TheHMO thus assumes the financial risk of providing the bene530US1 Unit: $U71 [11-21-01 13:53:30] PAGES PGT: OPIN219Cite as: 530 U. S. 211 (2000)Opinion of the Courtfits promised: if a participant never gets sick, the HMO keepsthe money regardless, and if a participant becomes expensively ill, the HMO is responsible for the treatment agreedupon even if its cost exceeds the participant's premiums.Like other risk-bearing organizations, HMOs take steps tocontrol costs. At the least, HMOs, like traditional insurers,will in some fashion make coverage determinations, scrutinizing requested services against the contractual provisionsto make sure that a request for care falls within the scope ofcovered circumstances (pregnancy, for example), or that agiven treatment falls within the scope of the care promised(surgery, for instance). They customarily issue generalguidelines for their physicians about appropriate levels ofcare. See id., at 568-570. And they commonly require utilization review (in which specific treatment decisions are reviewed by a decisionmaker other than the treating physician)and approval in advance (precertification) for many types ofcare, keyed to standards of medical necessity or the reasonableness of the proposed treatment. See Andresen, Is Utilization Review the Practice of Medicine?, Implications forManaged Care Administrators, 19 J. Legal Med. 431, 432(Sept. 1998). These cost-controlling measures are commonlycomplemented by specific financial incentives to physicians,rewarding them for decreasing utilization of health-careservices, and penalizing them for what may be found tobe excessive treatment, see Rosenblatt 563-565; Iglehart,Health Policy Report: The American Health Care System--Managed Care, 327 New England J. Med. 742, 742-747 (1992).Hence, in an HMO system, a physician's financial interestlies in providing less care, not more. The check on this influence (like that on the converse, fee-for-service incentive) isthe professional obligation to provide covered services witha reasonable degree of skill and judgment in the patient'sinterest. See Brief for American Medical Association asAmicus Curiae 17-21.530US1 Unit: $U71 [11-21-01 13:53:30] PAGES PGT: OPIN220 PEGRAM v. HERDRICHOpinion of the CourtThe adequacy of professional obligation to counter finan-cial self-interest has been challenged no matter what theform of medical organization. HMOs became popular be-cause fee-for-service physicians were thought to be providing unnecessary or useless services; today, many doctors andother observers argue that HMOs often ignore the individualneeds of a patient in order to improve the HMOs' bottomlines. See,e. g., 154 F. 3d, at 375-378 (citing various criticsof HMOs).4 In this case, for instance, one could argue thatPegram's decision to wait before getting an ultrasound forHerdrich, and her insistence that the ultrasound be done ata distant facility owned by Carle, reflected an interest inlimiting the HMO's expenses, which blinded her to the needfor immediate diagnosis and treatment.BHerdrich focuses on the Carle scheme's provision for a"year-end distribution," n. 3,supra, to the HMO's physicianowners. She argues that this particular incentive device ofannually paying physician owners the profit resulting fromtheir own decisions rationing care can distinguish Carle's organization from HMOs generally, so that reviewing Carle'sdecisions under a fiduciary standard as pleaded in Herdrich'scomplaint would not open the door to like claims about otherHMO structures. While the Court of Appeals agreed, wethink otherwise, under the law as now written.Although it is true that the relationship between sparingmedical treatment and physician reward is not a subtle oneunder the Carle scheme, no HMO organization could survivewithout some incentive connecting physician reward withtreatment rationing. The essence of an HMO is that salaries and profits are limited by the HMO's fixed membershipfees. See Orentlicher, Paying Physicians More To Do Less:Financial Incentives to Limit Care, 30 U. Rich. L. Rev. 155,4 There are, of course, contrary perspectives, and we endorse neitherside of the debate today.530US1 Unit: $U71 [11-21-01 13:53:30] PAGES PGT: OPIN221Cite as: 530 U. S. 211 (2000)Opinion of the Court174 (1996). This is not to suggest that the Carle provisionsare as socially desirable as some other HMO organizationalschemes; they may not be. See, e. g., Grumbach, Osmond,Vranigan, Jaffe, & Bindman, Primary Care Physicians' Experience of Financial Incentives in Managed-Care Systems, 339New England J. Med. 1516 (1998) (arguing that HMOs thatreward quality of care and patient satisfaction would be preferable to HMOs that reward only physician productivity).But whatever the HMO, there must be rationing and inducement to ration.Since inducement to ration care goes to the very point ofany HMO scheme, and rationing necessarily raises somerisks while reducing others (ruptured appendixes are morelikely; unnecessary appendectomies are less so), any legalprinciple purporting to draw a line between good and badHMOs would embody, in effect, a judgment about sociallyacceptable medical risk. A valid conclusion of this sortwould, however, necessarily turn on facts to which courtswould probably not have ready access: correlations betweenmalpractice rates and various HMO models, similar correlations involving fee-for-service models, and so on. And, ofcourse, assuming such material could be obtained by courtsin litigation like this, any standard defining the unacceptablyrisky HMO structure (and consequent vulnerability to claimslike Herdrich's) would depend on a judgment about the appropriate level of expenditure for health care in light of theassociated malpractice risk. But such complicated factfinding and such a debatable social judgment are not wisely required of courts unless for some reason resort cannot be hadto the legislative process, with its preferable forum for comprehensive investigations and judgments of social value, suchas optimum treatment levels and health-care expenditure.Cf. Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. v. FCC, 512 U. S. 622,665-666 (1994) (plurality opinion) ("Congress is far better equipped than the judiciary to `amass and evaluate thevast amounts of data' bearing upon an issue as complex530US1 Unit: $U71 [11-21-01 13:53:30] PAGES PGT: OPIN222 PEGRAM v. HERDRICHOpinion of the Courtand dynamic as that presented here" (quoting Walters v. Na-tional Assn. of Radiation Survivors, 473 U. S. 305, 331, n. 12(1985))); Patsy v. Board of Regents of Fla., 457 U. S. 496, 513(1982) ("[T]he relevant policy considerations do not invariably point in one direction, and there is vehement disagree-ment over the validity of the assumptions underlying manyof them. The very difficulty of these policy considerations,and Congress' superior institutional competence to pursuethis debate, suggest that legislative not judicial solutions arepreferable" (footnote omitted)).We think, then, that courts are not in a position to derivea sound legal principle to differentiate an HMO like Carlefrom other HMOs.5 For that reason, we proceed on the as-sumption that the decisions listed in Herdrich's complaintcannot be subject to a claim that they violate fiduciary stand-ards unless all such decisions by all HMOs acting throughtheir owner or employee physicians are to be judged by thesame standards and subject to the same claims.CWe turn now from the structure of HMOs to the require-ments of ERISA. A fiduciary within the meaning of ERISAmust be someone acting in the capacity of manager, admin-istrator, or financial adviser to a "plan," see 29 U. S. C.$$ 1002(21)(A)(i)-(iii), and Herdrich's ERISA count accord-ingly charged Carle with a breach of fiduciary duty in discharging its obligations under State Farm's medical plan.App. to Pet. for Cert. 85a-86a. ERISA's definition of an employee welfare benefit plan is ultimately circular: "any plan,fund, or program . . . to the extent that such plan, fund, orprogram was established . . . for the purpose of providing . . .through the purchase of insurance or otherwise . . . medical,5 They are certainly not capable of making that distinction on a motionto dismiss; if we accepted the Court of Appeals's reasoning, complaintsagainst any flavor of HMO would have to proceed at least to the summaryjudgment stage.530US1 Unit: $U71 [11-21-01 13:53:30] PAGES PGT: OPIN223Cite as: 530 U. S. 211 (2000)Opinion of the Courtsurgical, or hospital care or benefits." $ 1002(1)(A). One isthus left to the common understanding of the word "plan" asreferring to a scheme decided upon in advance, see Webster'sNew International Dictionary 1879 (2d ed. 1957); Jacobson &Pomfret, Form, Function, and Managed Care Torts: Achiev-ing Fairness and Equity in ERISA Jurisprudence, 35 Houston L. Rev. 985, 1050 (1998). Here the scheme comprises aset of rules that define the rights of a beneficiary and providefor their enforcement. Rules governing collection of premi-ums, definition of benefits, submission of claims, and resolution of disagreements over entitlement to services are thesorts of provisions that constitute a plan. SeeHansen v.Continental Ins. Co., 940 F. 2d 971, 977 (CA5 1991). Thus,when employers contract with an HMO to provide benefitsto employees subject to ERISA, the provisions of documentsthat set up the HMO are not, as such, an ERISA plan; butthe agreement between an HMO and an employer who paysthe premiums may, as here, provide elements of a plan bysetting out rules under which beneficiaries will be entitledto care. DAs just noted, fiduciary obligations can apply to managing,advising, and administering an ERISA plan, the fiduciaryfunction addressed by Herdrich's ERISA count being the ex-ercise of "discretionary authority or discretionary responsibility in the administration of [an ERISA] plan," 29 U. S. C.$ 1002(21)(A)(iii). And as we have already suggested, although Carle is not an ERISA fiduciary merely because itadministers or exercises discretionary authority over its ownHMO business, it may still be a fiduciary if it administersthe plan.In general terms, fiduciary responsibility under ERISA issimply stated. The statute provides that fiduciaries shalldischarge their duties with respect to a plan "solely in theinterest of the participants and beneficiaries," $ 1104(a)(1),that is, "for the exclusive purpose of (i) providing benefits to530US1 Unit: $U71 [11-21-01 13:53:30] PAGES PGT: OPIN224 PEGRAM v. HERDRICHOpinion of the Courtparticipants and their beneficiaries; and (ii) defraying reason-able expenses of administering the plan," $ 1104(a)(1)(A).6These responsibilities imposed by ERISA have the familiarring of their source in the common law of trusts. See Central States, Southeast & Southwest Areas Pension Fund v.Central Transport, Inc., 472 U. S. 559, 570 (1985) ("[R]atherthan explicitly enumerating all of the powers and duties oftrustees and other fiduciaries, Congress invoked the commonlaw of trusts to define the general scope of their authorityand responsibility"). Thus, the common law (understoodas including what were once the distinct rules of equity)charges fiduciaries with a duty of loyalty to guarantee beneficiaries' interests: "The most fundamental duty owed by thetrustee to the beneficiaries of the trust is the duty ofloyalty. . . . It is the duty of a trustee to administer the trustsolely in the interest of the beneficiaries." 2A A. Scott &W. Fratcher, Trusts $ 170, p. 311 (4th ed. 1987) (hereinafterScott); see also G. Bogert & G. Bogert, Law of Trusts andTrustees $ 543 (rev. 2d ed. 1980) ("Perhaps the most funda-mental duty of a trustee is that he must display throughoutthe administration of the trust complete loyalty to the inter-ests of the beneficiary and must exclude all selfish interestand all consideration of the interests of third persons"); Central States, supra, at 570-571; Meinhard v. Salmon, 249 N. Y.458, 464, 164 N. E. 545, 546 (1928) (Cardozo, J.) ("Many6 In addition, fiduciaries must discharge their duties"(B) with the care, skill, prudence, and diligence under the circumstances then prevailing that a prudent man acting in a like capacity andfamiliar with such matters would use in the conduct of an enterprise of alike character and with like aims;"(C) by diversifying the investments of the plan so as to minimize therisk of large losses, unless under the circumstances it is clearly prudentnot to do so; and"(D) in accordance with the documents and instruments governing theplan insofar as such documents and instruments are consistent with theprovisions of this subchapter and subchapter III of this chapter." 29U. S. C. $ 1104(a)(1).530US1 Unit: $U71 [11-21-01 13:53:30] PAGES PGT: OPIN225Cite as: 530 U. S. 211 (2000)Opinion of the Courtforms of conduct permissible in a workaday world for thoseacting at arm's length, are forbidden to those bound by fiduciary ties. A trustee is held to something stricter than themorals of the market place. Not honesty alone, but thepunctilio of an honor the most sensitive, is then the standardof behavior").Beyond the threshold statement of responsibility, however,the analogy between ERISA fiduciary and common lawtrustee becomes problematic. This is so because the trusteeat common law characteristically wears only his fiduciary hatwhen he takes action to affect a beneficiary, whereas thetrustee under ERISA may wear different hats.Speaking of the traditional trustee, Professor Scott's treatise admonishes that the trustee "is not permitted to placehimself in a position where it would be for his own benefitto violate his duty to the beneficiaries." 2A Scott $ 170, at311. Under ERISA, however, a fiduciary may have financialinterests adverse to beneficiaries. Employers, for example,can be ERISA fiduciaries and still take actions to the disadvantage of employee beneficiaries, when they act as employers (e. g., firing a beneficiary for reasons unrelated to theERISA plan), or even as plan sponsors (e. g., modifying theterms of a plan as allowed by ERISA to provide less generous benefits). Nor is there any apparent reason in theERISA provisions to conclude, as Herdrich argues, that thistension is permissible only for the employer or plan sponsor, to the exclusion of persons who provide services to anERISA plan.ERISA does require, however, that the fiduciary with twohats wear only one at a time, and wear the fiduciary hatwhen making fiduciary decisions. See Hughes Aircraft Co.v. Jacobson, 525 U. S. 432, 443-444 (1999); Varity Corp. v.Howe, 516 U. S. 489, 497 (1996). Thus, the statute does notdescribe fiduciaries simply as administrators of the plan, ormanagers or advisers. Instead it defines an administrator, for example, as a fiduciary only "to the extent" that he530US1 Unit: $U71 [11-21-01 13:53:30] PAGES PGT: OPIN226 PEGRAM v. HERDRICHOpinion of the Courtacts in such a capacity in relation to a plan. 29 U. S. C.$ 1002(21)(A). In every case charging breach of ERISA fiduciary duty, then, the threshold question is not whether theactions of some person employed to provide services undera plan adversely affected a plan beneficiary's interest, butwhether that person was acting as a fiduciary (that is, wasperforming a fiduciary function) when taking the action sub-ject to complaint.EThe allegations of Herdrich's ERISA count that identifythe claimed fiduciary breach are difficult to understand. Inthis count, Herdrich does not point to a particular act by anyCarle physician owner as a breach. She does not complainabout Pegram's actions, and at oral argument her counselconfirmed that the ERISA count could have been brought,and would have been no different, if Herdrich had never hada sick day in her life. Tr. of Oral Arg. 53-54.What she does claim is that Carle, acting through its phy-sician owners, breached its duty to act solely in the interestof beneficiaries by making decisions affecting medical treat-ment while influenced by the terms of the Carle HMOscheme, under which the physician owners ultimately profitfrom their own choices to minimize the medical services provided. She emphasizes the threat to fiduciary responsibilityin the Carle scheme's feature of a year-end distribution tothe physicians of profit derived from the spread between sub-scription income and expenses of care and administration.App. to Pet. for Cert. 86a.The specific payout detail of the plan was, of course, a feature that the employer as plan sponsor was free to adoptwithout breach of any fiduciary duty under ERISA, sincean employer's decisions about the content of a plan are notthemselves fiduciary acts.Lockheed Corp. v. Spink, 517U. S. 882, 887 (1996) ("Nothing in ERISA requires employersto establish employee benefit plans. Nor does ERISA man-date what kind of benefits employers must provide if they530US1 Unit: $U71 [11-21-01 13:53:30] PAGES PGT: OPIN227Cite as: 530 U. S. 211 (2000)Opinion of the Courtchoose to have such a plan").7 Likewise it is clear that therewas no violation of ERISA when the incorporators of theCarle HMO provided for the year-end payout. The HMO isnot the ERISA plan, and the incorporation of the HMO preceded its contract with the State Farm plan. See 29 U. S. C.$ 1109(b) (no fiduciary liability for acts preceding fiduciarystatus).The nub of the claim, then, is that when State Farm contracted with Carle, Carle became a fiduciary under the plan,acting through its physicians. At once, Carle as fiduciaryadministrator was subject to such influence from the year-end payout provision that its fiduciary capacity was necessarily compromised, and its readiness to act amounted to antici-patory breach of fiduciary obligation.FThe pleadings must also be parsed very carefully to under-stand what acts by physician owners acting on Carle's behalfare alleged to be fiduciary in nature.8 It will help to keep7 It does not follow that those who administer a particular plan designmay not have difficulty in following fiduciary standards if the design isawkward enough. A plan might lawfully provide for a bonus for administrators who denied benefits to every 10th beneficiary, but it would be difficult for an administrator who received the bonus to defend against theclaim that he had not been solely attentive to the beneficiaries' interestsin carrying out his administrative duties. The important point is thatHerdrich is not suing the employer, State Farm, and her claim cannot beanalyzed as if she were.8 Herdrich argues that Carle is judicially estopped from denying its fiduciary status as to the relevant decisions, because it sought and sucessfully defended removal of Herdrich's state action to the Federal DistrictCourt on the ground that it was a fiduciary with respect to Herdrich'sfraud claims. Judicial estoppel generally prevents a party from prevailing in one phase of a case on an argument and then relying on a contradictory argument to prevail in another phase. See Rissetto v. Plumbers &Steamfitters Local 343, 94 F. 3d 597, 605 (CA9 1996). The fraud claims inHerdrich's initial complaint, however, could be read to allege breach of afiduciary obligation to disclose physician incentives to limit care, whereas530US1 Unit: $U71 [11-21-01 13:53:30] PAGES PGT: OPIN228 PEGRAM v. HERDRICHOpinion of the Courttwo sorts of arguably administrative acts in mind. Cf.Dukes v. U. S. Healthcare, Inc., 57 F. 3d 350, 361 (CA3 1995)(discussing dual medical/administrative roles of HMOs).What we will call pure "eligibility decisions" turn on theplan's coverage of a particular condition or medical procedurefor its treatment. "Treatment decisions," by contrast, arechoices about how to go about diagnosing and treating a pa-tient's condition: given a patient's constellation of symptoms,what is the appropriate medical response?These decisions are often practically inextricable from oneanother, as amici on both sides agree. See Brief for Wash-ington Legal Foundation asAmicus Curiae 12; Brief forHealth Law, Policy, and Ethics Scholars as Amici Curiae 10.This is so not merely because, under a scheme like Carle's,treatment and eligibility decisions are made by the same person, the treating physician. It is so because a great manyand possibly most coverage questions are not simple yesor-no questions, like whether appendicitis is a covered condi-tion (when there is no dispute that a patient has appendicitis), or whether acupuncture is a covered procedure for painrelief (when the claim of pain is unchallenged). The morecommon coverage question is a when-and-how question. Alher amended complaint alleges an obligation to avoid such incentives. Although we are not presented with the issue here, it could be argued thatCarle is a fiduciary insofar as it has discretionary authority to administerthe plan, and so it is obligated to disclose characteristics of the plan andof those who provide services to the plan, if that information affects beneficiaries' material interests. See, e. g., Glaziers and Glassworkers UnionLocal No. 252 Annuity Fund v. Newbridge Securities, Inc., 93 F. 3d 1171,1179-1181 (CA3 1996) (discussing the disclosure obligations of an ERISAfiduciary); cf. Varity Corp. v. Howe, 516 U. S. 489, 505 (1996) (holding thatERISA fiduciaries may have duties to disclose information about planprospects that they have no duty, or even power, to change).But failure to disclose is no longer the allegation of the amended complaint. Because fiduciary duty to disclose is not necessarily coextensivewith fiduciary responsibility for the subject matter of the disclosure, Carleis not estopped from contesting its fiduciary status with respect to theallegations of the amended complaint.530US1 Unit: $U71 [11-21-01 13:53:30] PAGES PGT: OPIN229Cite as: 530 U. S. 211 (2000)Opinion of the Courtthough coverage for many conditions will be clear and vari-ous treatment options will be indisputably compensable, physicians still must decide what to do in particular cases. Theissue may be, say, whether one treatment option is so superior to another under the circumstances, and needed sopromptly, that a decision to proceed with it would meet themedical necessity requirement that conditions the HMO's ob-ligation to provide or pay for that particular procedure atthat time in that case. The Government in its brief alludesto a similar example when it discusses an HMO's refusalto pay for emergency care on the ground that the situationgiving rise to the need for care was not an emergency, Brieffor United States asAmicus Curiae 20-21.9 In practicalterms, these eligibility decisions cannot be untangled fromphysicians' judgments about reasonable medical treatment,and in the case before us, Dr. Pegram's decision was one ofthat sort. She decided (wrongly, as it turned out) that Herdrich's condition did not warrant immediate action; the consequence of that medical determination was that Carle wouldnot cover immediate care, whereas it would have done so ifDr. Pegram had made the proper diagnosis and judgmentto treat. The eligibility decision and the treatment decisionwere inextricably mixed, as they are in countless medicaladministrative decisions every day.The kinds of decisions mentioned in Herdrich's ERISAcount and claimed to be fiduciary in character are just suchmixed eligibility and treatment decisions: physicians' conclu-sions about when to use diagnostic tests; about seeking consultations and making referrals to physicians and facilitiesother than Carle's; about proper standards of care, the ex9 ERISA makes separate provision for suits to receive particular benefits. See 29 U. S. C. $ 1132(a)(1)(B). We have no occasion to discuss thestandards governing such a claim by a patient who, as in the example intext, was denied reimbursement for emergency care. Nor have we reasonto discuss the interaction of such a claim with state-law causes of action,see infra, at 235-237.530US1 Unit: $U71 [11-21-01 13:53:30] PAGES PGT: OPIN230 PEGRAM v. HERDRICHOpinion of the Courtperimental character of a proposed course of treatment, thereasonableness of a certain treatment, and the emergencycharacter of a medical condition.We do not read the ERISA count, however, as allegingfiduciary breach with reference to a different variety of administrative decisions, those we have called pure eligibilitydeterminations, such as whether a plan covers an undisputedcase of appendicitis. Nor do we read it as claiming breachby reference to discrete administrative decisions separatefrom medical judgments; say, rejecting a claim for no otherreason than the HMO's financial condition. The closest Herdrich's ERISA count comes to stating a claim for a pure,unmixed eligibility decision is her general allegation thatCarle determines "which claims are covered under the Planand to what extent," App. to Pet. for Cert. 86a. But thisvague statement, difficult to interpret in isolation, is givencontent by the other elements of the complaint, all of whichrefer to decisions thoroughly mixed with medical judgment.Cf. 5A C. Wright & A. Miller, Federal Practice and Procedure $ 1357, pp. 320-321 (1990) (noting that, where specificallegations clarify the meaning of broader allegations, theymay be used to interpret the complaint as a whole). Anylingering uncertainty about what Herdrich has in mind isdispelled by her brief, which explains that this allegation,like the others, targets medical necessity determinations.Brief for Respondent 19; see also id., at 3.1010 Though this case involves a motion to dismiss under Federal Rule ofCivil Procedure 12(b)(6), and the complaint should therefore be construedgenerously, we may use Herdrich's brief to clarify allegations in her complaint whose meaning is unclear. See C. Wright & A. Miller, FederalPractice and Procedure $ 1364, pp. 480-481 (1990); Southern Cross Overseas Agencies, Inc. v. Wah Kwong Shipping Group Ltd., 181 F. 3d 410,428, n. 8 (CA3 1999); Alicke v. MCI Communications Corp., 111 F. 3d909, 911 (CADC 1997); Early v. Bankers Life & Cas. Co., 959 F. 2d 75, 79(CA7 1992).530US1 Unit: $U71 [11-21-01 13:53:30] PAGES PGT: OPIN231Cite as: 530 U. S. 211 (2000)Opinion of the CourtIIIABased on our understanding of the matters just discussed,we think Congress did not intend Carle or any other HMOto be treated as a fiduciary to the extent that it makes mixedeligibility decisions acting through its physicians. We beginwith doubt that Congress would ever have thought of amixed eligibility decision as fiduciary in nature. At commonlaw, fiduciary duties characteristically attach to decisionsabout managing assets and distributing property to beneficiaries. See Bogert & Bogert, Law of Trusts and Trustees$$ 551, 741-747, 751-775, 781-799; 2A Scott $$ 176, 181; 3 id.,$$ 188-193; 3A id., $ 232. Trustees buy, sell, and lease investment property, lend and borrow, and do other things toconserve and nurture assets. They pay out income, choosebeneficiaries, and distribute remainders at termination.Thus, the common law trustee's most defining concern historically has been the payment of money in the interest of thebeneficiary.Mixed eligibility decisions by an HMO acting through itsphysicians have, however, only a limited resemblance to theusual business of traditional trustees. To be sure, the physicians (like regular trustees) draw on resources held for others and make decisions to distribute them in accordance withentitlements expressed in a written instrument (embodyingthe terms of an ERISA plan). It is also true that the objects of many traditional private and public trusts are ultimately the same as the ERISA plans that contract withHMOs. Private trusts provide medical care to the poor;thousands of independent hospitals are privately held andpublicly accountable trusts, and charitable foundations makegrants to stimulate the provision of health services. Butbeyond this point the resemblance rapidly wanes. Traditional trustees administer a medical trust by paying out530US1 Unit: $U71 [11-21-01 13:53:30] PAGES PGT: OPIN232 PEGRAM v. HERDRICHOpinion of the Courtmoney to buy medical care, whereas physicians makingmixed eligibility decisions consume the money as well. Private trustees do not make treatment judgments, whereastreatment judgments are what physicians reaching mixeddecisions do make, by definition. Indeed, the physiciansthrough whom HMOs act make just the sorts of decisionsmade by licensed medical practitioners millions of timesevery day, in every possible medical setting: HMOs, fee-forservice proprietorships, public and private hospitals, mili-tary field hospitals, and so on. The settings bear no moreresemblance to trust departments than a decision to operateturns on the factors controlling the amount of a quarterlyincome distribution. Thus, it is at least questionablewhether Congress would have had mixed eligibility decisionsin mind when it provided that decisions administering a planwere fiduciary in nature. Indeed, when Congress took upthe subject of fiduciary responsibility under ERISA, it con-centrated on fiduciaries' financial decisions, focusing on pension plans, the difficulty many retirees faced in getting thepayments they expected, and the financial mismanagementthat had too often deprived employees of their benefits.See, e. g., S. Rep. No. 93-127, p. 5 (1973); S. Rep. No. 93-383,p. 17 (1973); id., at 95. Its focus was far from the subject ofHerdrich's claim.Our doubt that Congress intended the category of fidu-ciary administrative functions to encompass the mixed determinations at issue here hardens into conviction when we con-sider the consequences that would follow from Herdrich'scontrary view. BFirst, we need to ask how this fiduciary standard wouldaffect HMOs if it applied as Herdrich claims it should beapplied, not directed against any particular mixed decisionthat injured a patient, but against HMOs that make mixeddecisions in the course of providing medical care for profit.Recovery would be warranted simply upon showing that the530US1 Unit: $U71 [11-21-01 13:53:30] PAGES PGT: OPIN233Cite as: 530 U. S. 211 (2000)Opinion of the Courtprofit incentive to ration care would generally affect mixeddecisions, in derogation of the fiduciary standard to act solelyin the interest of the patient without possibility of conflict.Although Herdrich is vague about the mechanics of relief,the one point that seems clear is that she seeks the returnof profit from the pockets of the Carle HMO's owners, withthe money to be given to the plan for the benefit of the par-ticipants. See 29 U. S. C. $ 1109(a) (return of all profits is anappropriate ERISA remedy). Since the provision for profitis what makes the HMO a proprietary organization, her remedy in effect would be nothing less than elimination of thefor-profit HMO. Her remedy might entail even more thanthat, although we are in no position to tell whether and towhat extent nonprofit HMO schemes would ultimately survive the recognition of Herdrich's theory.11 It is enough torecognize that the Judiciary has no warrant to precipitatethe upheaval that would follow a refusal to dismiss Her-drich's ERISA claim. The fact is that for over 27 years theCongress of the United States has promoted the formationof HMO practices. The Health Maintenance OrganizationAct of 1973, 87 Stat. 914, 42 U. S. C. $ 300e et seq., allowedthe formation of HMOs that assume financial risks for theprovision of health-care services, and Congress has amendedthe Act several times, most recently in 1996. See 110 Stat.1976, 42 U. S. C. $ 300e (1994 ed., Supp. III). If Congresswishes to restrict its approval of HMO practice to certain11 Herdrich's theory might well portend the end of nonprofit HMOs aswell, since those HMOs can set doctors' salaries. A claim against a nonprofit HMO could easily allege that salaries were excessively high becausethey were funded by limiting care, and some nonprofits actually use incentive schemes similar to that challenged here, see Pulvers v. Kaiser Foundation Health Plan, 99 Cal. App. 3d 560, 565, 160 Cal. Rptr. 392, 393-394(1979) (rejecting claim against nonprofit HMO based on physician incentives). See Brody, Agents Without Principals: The Economic Convergence of the Nonprofit and For-Profit Organizational Forms, 40N. Y. L. S. L. Rev. 457, 493, and n. 152 (1996) (discussing ways in whichnonprofit health providers may reward physician employees).530US1 Unit: $U71 [11-21-01 13:53:30] PAGES PGT: OPIN234 PEGRAM v. HERDRICHOpinion of the Courtpreferred forms, it may choose to do so. But the FederalJudiciary would be acting contrary to the congressional policy of allowing HMO organizations if it were to entertainan ERISA fiduciary claim portending wholesale attacks onexisting HMOs solely because of their structure, untetheredto claims of concrete harm.CThe Court of Appeals did not purport to entertain quitethe broadside attack that Herdrich's ERISA claim thus entails, see 154 F. 3d, at 373, and the second possible consequence of applying the fiduciary standard that requires ourattention would flow from the difficulty of extending it toparticular mixed decisions that on Herdrich's theory are fiduciary in nature.The fiduciary is, of course, obliged to act exclusively in theinterest of the beneficiary, but this translates into no rulereadily applicable to HMO decisions or those of any othervariety of medical practice. While the incentive of the HMOphysician is to give treatment sparingly, imposing a fiduciaryobligation upon him would not lead to a simple default rule,say, that whenever it is reasonably possible to disagree abouttreatment options, the physician should treat aggressively.After all, HMOs came into being because some groups ofphysicians consistently provided more aggressive treatmentthan others in similar circumstances, with results not perceived as justified by the marginal expense and risk associated with intervention; excessive surgery is not in the patient's best interest, whether provided by fee-for-servicesurgeons or HMO surgeons subject to a default rule urgingthem to operate. Nor would it be possible to translate fiduciary duty into a standard that would allow recovery froman HMO whenever a mixed decision influenced by the HMO'sfinancial incentive resulted in a bad outcome for the patient.It would be so easy to allege, and to find, an economic influence when sparing care did not lead to a well patient, that530US1 Unit: $U71 [11-21-01 13:53:30] PAGES PGT: OPIN235Cite as: 530 U. S. 211 (2000)Opinion of the Courtany such standard in practice would allow a factfinder toconvert an HMO into a guarantor of recovery.These difficulties may have led the Court of Appeals totry to confine the fiduciary breach to cases where "the solepurpose" of delaying or withholding treatment was to in-crease the physician's financial reward,ibid. But this attempt to confine mixed decision claims to their most egregious examples entails erroneous corruption of fiduciaryobligation and would simply lead to further difficulties thatwe think fatal. While a mixed decision made solely to bene-fit the HMO or its physician would violate a fiduciary duty,the fiduciary standard condemns far more than that, in itsrequirement of "an eye single" toward beneficiaries' interests, Donovan v. Bierwirth, 680 F. 2d 263, 271 (CA2 1982).But whether under the Court of Appeals's rule or a straightstandard of undivided loyalty, the defense of any HMO wouldbe that its physician did not act out of financial interest butfor good medical reasons, the plausibility of which would require reference to standards of reasonable and customarymedical practice in like circumstances. That, of course, isthe traditional standard of the common law. See W. Keeton,D. Dobbs, R. Keeton, & D. Owens, Prosser and Keeton onLaw of Torts $ 32, pp. 188-189 (5th ed. 1984). Thus, for allpractical purposes, every claim of fiduciary breach by anHMO physician making a mixed decision would boil downto a malpractice claim, and the fiduciary standard would benothing but the malpractice standard traditionally applied inactions against physicians.What would be the value to the plan participant of havingthis kind of ERISA fiduciary action? It would simply applythe law already available in state courts and federal diversityactions today, and the formulaic addition of an allegation offinancial incentive would do nothing but bring the sameclaim into a federal court under federal-question jurisdiction.It is true that in States that do not allow malpractice actionsagainst HMOs the fiduciary claim would offer a plaintiff a530US1 Unit: $U71 [11-21-01 13:53:30] PAGES PGT: OPIN236 PEGRAM v. HERDRICHOpinion of the Courtfurther defendant to be sued for direct liability, and in somecases the HMO might have a deeper pocket than the physician. But we have seen enough to know that ERISA wasnot enacted out of concern that physicians were too poor tobe sued, or in order to federalize malpractice litigation in thename of fiduciary duty for any other reason. It is difficult,in fact, to find any advantage to participants across theboard, except that allowing them to bring malpractice ac-tions in the guise of federal fiduciary breach claims againstHMOs would make them eligible for awards of attorney'sfees if they won. See 29 U. S. C. $ 1132(g)(1). But, again,we can be fairly sure that Congress did not create fiduciaryobligations out of concern that state plaintiffs were not suingoften enough, or were paying too much in legal fees.The mischief of Herdrich's position would, indeed, go further than mere replication of state malpractice actions withHMO defendants. For not only would an HMO be liable asa fiduciary in the first instance for its own breach of fiduciaryduty committed through the acts of its physician employee,but the physician employee would also be subject to liabilityas a fiduciary on the same basic analysis that would chargethe HMO. The physician who made the mixed administrative decision would be exercising authority in theway described by ERISA and would therefore be deemedto be a fiduciary. See 29 CFR $$ 2509.75-5, Question D-1;2509.75-8, Question D-3 (1993) (stating that an individualwho exercises authority on behalf of an ERISA fiduciary ininterpreting and administering a plan will be deemed a fiduciary). Hence the physician, too, would be subject to suitin federal court applying an ERISA standard of reasonablemedical skill. This result, in turn, would raise a puzzlingissue of preemption. On its face, federal fiduciary law applying a malpractice standard would seem to be a prescriptionfor preemption of state malpractice law, since the newERISA cause of action would cover the subject of a state-lawmalpractice claim. See 29 U. S. C. $ 1144 (preempting state530US1 Unit: $U71 [11-21-01 13:53:30] PAGES PGT: OPIN237Cite as: 530 U. S. 211 (2000)Opinion of the Courtlaws that "relate to [an] employee benefit plan"). To be sure,New York State Conference of Blue Cross & Blue ShieldPlans v. Travelers Ins. Co., 514 U. S. 645, 654-655 (1995),throws some cold water on the preemption theory; there, weheld that, in the field of health care, a subject of traditionalstate regulation, there is no ERISA preemption withoutclear manifestation of congressional purpose. But in thatcase the convergence of state and federal law was not soclear as in the situation we are positing; the state-law stand-ard had not been subsumed by the standard to be appliedunder ERISA. We could struggle with this problem, butfirst it is well to ask, again, what would be gained by openingthe federal courthouse doors for a fiduciary malpracticeclaim, save for possibly random fortuities such as more favorable scheduling, or the ancillary opportunity to seek attor-ney's fees. And again, we know that Congress had no suchhaphazard boons in prospect when it defined the ERISAfiduciary, nor such a risk to the efficiency of federal courtsas a new fiduciary malpractice jurisdiction would pose inwelcoming such unheard-of fiduciary litigation.IVWe hold that mixed eligibility decisions by HMO physi-cians are not fiduciary decisions under ERISA. Herdrich'sERISA count fails to state an ERISA claim, and the judg-ment of the Court of Appeals is reversed.