Part III, concluding that enquiry under the ACCA to determinewhether a guilty plea to burglary under a nongeneric statute necessarilyadmitted elements of the generic offense is limited to the terms of thecharging document, to the terms of a plea agreement or transcript ofcolloquy between judge and defendant in which the defendant confirmedthe factual basis for the plea, or to some comparable judicial record ofthis information. Guilty pleas may establish ACCA predicate offenses,and Taylor's reasoning controls the identification of generic convictionsfollowing pleas, as well as convictions on verdicts, in States with nonge544US1 Unit: $U27 [11-07-07 19:15:40] PAGES PGT: OPIN14 SHEPARD v. UNITED STATESSyllabusneric offenses. The ACCA nowhere provides that convictions in triedand pleaded cases should be regarded differently, and nothing in Taylor's rationale limits it to prior jury convictions. This Court, then, mustfind the right analogs for applying Taylor to pleaded cases. The TaylorCourt drew a pragmatic conclusion about the best way to identify generic convictions in jury cases. In cases tried without a jury, the closestanalogs to jury instructions would be a bench-trial judge's formal rulingof law and finding of fact; in pleaded cases, they would be the statementof factual basis for the charge shown by a transcript of plea colloquy orby written plea agreement presented to the court, or by a record ofcomparable findings of fact adopted by the defendant upon entering theplea. A later court could generally tell from such material whether theprior plea had "necessarily" rested on the fact identifying the burglaryas generic. Taylor, supra, at 602. The Government's arguments for awider evidentiary cast that includes documents submitted to lowercourts even prior to charges amount to a call to ease away from Taylor'sconclusion that respect for congressional intent and avoidance of collateral trials require confining generic conviction evidence to the convicting court's records approaching the certainty of the record of convictionin a generic crime State. That was the heart of the Taylor decision,and there is no justification for upsetting that precedent where theCourt is dealing with statutory interpretation and where Congress hasnot, in the nearly 15 years since Taylor, taken any action to modify thestatute. Pp. 19-23, 26.Justice Souter, joined by Justice Stevens, Justice Scalia, andJustice Ginsburg, concluded in Part III that the rule in the Jones v.United States, 526 U. S. 227, 243, n. 6, and Apprendi v. New Jersey, 530U. S. 466, 490, line of cases--that any fact other than a prior convictionsufficient to raise the limit of the possible federal sentence must befound by a jury, absent a waiver by the defendant--is also relevant toACCA sentencing. In a nongeneric State, the fact necessary to show ageneric crime is not established by the record of conviction as it wouldbe in a generic State when a judicial finding of a disputed prior conviction is made on the authority of Almendarez-Torres v. United States,523 U. S. 224. Instead, the sentencing judge considering the ACCA enhancement would (on the Government's view) make a disputed findingof fact about what the defendant and state judge must have understoodas the prior plea's factual basis, and the dispute raises the concern underlying Jones and Apprendi: the Sixth and Fourteenth Amendmentsguarantee a jury's standing between a defendant and the power of theState, and they guarantee a jury's finding of any disputed fact essentialto increase a potential sentence's ceiling. The disputed fact here is toofar removed from the conclusive significance of a prior judicial record,544US1 Unit: $U27 [11-07-07 19:15:40] PAGES PGT: OPIN15Cite as: 544 U. S. 13 (2005)Opinion of the Courtand too much like the findings subject to Jones and Apprendi, to saythat Almendarez-Torres clearly authorizes a judge to resolve the dispute. The rule of reading statutes to avoid serious risks of unconstitutionality therefore counsels the Court to limit the scope of judicial factfinding on the disputed generic character of a prior plea. Pp. 24-26.Justice Thomas agreed that the Court should not broaden the scopeof the evidence judges may consider under Taylor v. United States, 495U. S. 575, because it would give rise to constitutional error, not constitutional doubt. Both Almendarez-Torres v. United States, 523 U. S. 224,and Taylor, which permit judicial factfinding that concerns prior convictions, have been eroded by this Court's subsequent Sixth Amendmentjurisprudence. Pp. 26-28.Souter, J., delivered an opinion, which was for the Court except as toPart III. Stevens, Scalia, and Ginsburg, JJ., joined that opinion infull, and Thomas, J., joined except as to Part III. Thomas, J., filed anopinion concurring in part and concurring in the judgment, post, p. 26.O'Connor, J., filed a dissenting opinion, in which Kennedy and Breyer,JJ., joined, post, p. 28. Rehnquist, C. J., took no part in the decision ofthe case.Linda J. Thompson, by appointment of the Court, 543U. S. 806, argued the cause for petitioner. With her on thebriefs were John M. Thompson and Jeffrey T. Green.John P. Elwood argued the cause for the United States.With him on the brief were Acting Solicitor General Clem-ent, Assistant Attorney General Wray, and Deputy SolicitorGeneral Dreeben.*Justice Souter delivered the opinion of the Court, ex-cept as to Part III.Title 18 U. S. C. $ 924(e) (2000 ed. and Supp. II), popularlyknown as the Armed Career Criminal Act (ACCA), mandates a minimum 15-year prison sentence for anyone possess-ing a firearm after three prior convictions for serious drugoffenses or violent felonies. The Act makes burglary a vio*Gregory L. Poe, Roy T. Englert, Jr., Max Huffman, and Pamela Harris filed a brief for the National Association of Criminal Defense Lawyersas amicus curiae urging reversal.544US1 Unit: $U27 [11-07-07 19:15:40] PAGES PGT: OPIN16 SHEPARD v. UNITED STATESOpinion of the Courtlent felony only if committed in a building or enclosed space("generic burglary"), not in a boat or motor vehicle. In Taylor v. United States, 495 U. S. 575 (1990), we held that a courtsentencing under the ACCA could look to statutory elements, charging documents, and jury instructions to deter-mine whether an earlier conviction after trial was for genericburglary. The question here is whether a sentencing courtcan look to police reports or complaint applications to deter-mine whether an earlier guilty plea necessarily admitted,and supported a conviction for, generic burglary. We holdthat it may not, and that a later court determining the character of an admitted burglary is generally limited to exam-ining the statutory definition, charging document, writtenplea agreement, transcript of plea colloquy, and any explicitfactual finding by the trial judge to which the defendantassented. IPetitioner Reg inald Shepard was indicted under 18U. S. C. $ 922(g)(1), barring felons from possessing a firearm,and pleaded guilty. At sentencing the Government claimedthat Shepard's prior convictions raised his sentencing rangefrom between 30 and 37 months (under the United StatesSentencing Guidelines) to the 15-year minimum required by$ 924(e), pointing to four prior convictions entered uponShepard's pleas of guilty under one of Massachusetts's twoburglary statutes.1 Whereas the Government said that eachconviction represented a predicate ACCA offense of genericburglary, the District Court ruled thatTaylor barred counting any of the prior convictions as predicates for the manda-tory minimum. 125 F. Supp. 2d 562, 569 (Mass. 2000).In Taylor we read the listing of "burglary" as a predicate"violent felony" (in the ACCA) to refer to what we called1 The Government initially cited a fifth prior burglary conviction, butafter failing to obtain adequate documentation about this conviction theGovernment focused on the other four.544US1 Unit: $U27 [11-07-07 19:15:40] PAGES PGT: OPIN17Cite as: 544 U. S. 13 (2005)Opinion of the Court"generic burglary," an "unlawful or unprivileged entry into,or remaining in, a building or structure, with intent to commit a crime." 495 U. S., at 599. Because statutes in someStates (like Massachusetts) define burglary more broadly, asby extending it to entries into boats and cars, we had toconsider how a later court sentencing under the ACCA mighttell whether a prior burglary conviction was for the genericoffense.2 We held that the ACCA generally prohibits thelater court from delving into particular facts disclosed by therecord of conviction, thus leaving the court normally to "lookonly to the fact of conviction and the statutory definition ofthe prior offense."Id., at 602. We recognized an exceptionto this "categorical approach" only for "a narrow range ofcases where a jury [in a State with a broader definition ofburglary] was actually required to find all the elements of "the generic offense. Ibid. We held the exception applica-ble "if the indictment or information and jury instructionsshow that the defendant was charged only with a burglaryof a building, and that the jury necessarily had to find anentry of a building to convict . . . ." Ibid. Only then mighta conviction under a "nongeneric" burglary statute qualifyas an ACCA predicate.In this case, the offenses charged in state complaints werebroader than generic burglary, and there were of course nojury instructions that might have narrowed the charges tothe generic limit. The Government nonetheless urged theDistrict Court to examine reports submitted by the policewith applications for issuance of the complaints, as a way oftelling whether Shepard's guilty pleas went to generic burglaries notwithstanding the broader descriptions of the of-fenses in the complaints, descriptions that tracked the moreexpansive definition in Massachusetts law. The court con-cluded that Taylor forbade this, and that investigationwithin the Taylor limits failed to show that Shepard had2 Although Taylor involved prior burglaries, as this case does, our holding in Taylor covered other predicate ACCA offenses. 495 U. S., at 600.544US1 Unit: $U27 [11-07-07 19:15:40] PAGES PGT: OPIN18 SHEPARD v. UNITED STATESOpinion of the Courtthree generic burglary convictions. The court accordinglyrefused to consider the 15-year mandatory minimum, thoughit did sentence Shepard somewhat above the standard levelunder the Sentencing Guidelines, on the ground that hiscriminal history category under the Guidelines did not dojustice to his ample criminal record.On appeal the First Circuit, following its earlier decisionin United States v. Harris, 964 F. 2d 1234 (1992), vacatedthe sentence and ruled that complaint applications and policereports may count as "sufficiently reliable evidence for deter-mining whether a defendant's plea of guilty constitutes anadmission to a generically violent crime," 231 F. 3d 56, 67(2000). As to each of Shepard's prior convictions, the courtremanded the case for the District Court to determinewhether there was "sufficiently reliable evidence that thegovernment and the defendant shared the belief that the defendant was pleading guilty to a generically violent crime."Id., at 70.The District Court again declined to impose the 15-yearmandatory minimum, even though the Government supplemented its earlier submission with police reports or complaint applications on two additional burglary convictions.The District Judge noted that the only account of what occurred at each of the prior plea hearings came from an affidavit submitted by Shepard, who stated "that none of thedetails in th[e police] reports w[as] ever mentioned at hispleas," that "the reports themselves were never read by thejudge to him during the plea colloquy," and that at no time"was he ever asked if the information contained in the . . .[r]eports w[as] true." 181 F. Supp. 2d 14, 19 (Mass. 2002).Shepard further swore that "with respect to each report:[he] did not admit the truth of the information contained inthe . . . [r]eport as part of [his] plea and [had] never admittedin court the facts alleged in the report . . . ." Id., at 19-20(internal quotation marks omitted). Based on this, the District Court found that the Government had failed to carry544US1 Unit: $U27 [11-07-07 19:15:40] PAGES PGT: OPIN19Cite as: 544 U. S. 13 (2005)Opinion of the Courtits burden to demonstrate that Shepard had pleaded to threegeneric burglaries.The Court of Appeals again vacated the sentence. Afterobserving that Shepard had never "seriously disputed" thathe did in fact break into the buildings described in the policereports or complaint applications, 348 F. 3d 308, 311 (CA12003), the court rejected the District Court's conclusionthat the Government had not shown the requisite predicateoffenses for the 15-year minimum sentence, id., at 314.The case was remanded with instructions to impose thatsentence.We granted certiorari, 542 U. S. 918 (2004), to address divergent decisions in the Courts of Appeals applying Taylorwhen prior convictions stem from guilty pleas, not jury verdicts. We now reverse. IIWe agree with the First Circuit (and every other Court ofAppeals to speak on the matter) that guilty pleas may establish ACCA predicate offenses and that Taylor's reasoningcontrols the identification of generic convictions followingpleas, as well as convictions on verdicts, in States with non-generic offenses. See 348 F. 3d, at 312, n. 4 (citing cases).Shepard wisely refrains from challenging this position, forthe ACCA nowhere provides that convictions in tried andpleaded cases are to be regarded differently. It drops nohint that Congress contemplated different standards forestablishing the fact of prior convictions, turning on thebasis of trial or plea. Nothing to that effect is suggested,after all, by the language imposing the categorical approach,which refers to predicate offenses in terms not of priorconduct but of prior "convictions" and the "element[s]"of crimes. Taylor, supra, at 600-601 (citing 18 U. S. C.$ 924(e)). Nor does the ACCA's legislative history reveal alesser congressional preference for a categorical, as distinctfrom fact-specific, approach to recognizing ACCA predicatesin cases resolved by plea.Taylor, supra, at 601. And544US1 Unit: $U27 [11-07-07 19:15:40] PAGES PGT: OPIN20 SHEPARD v. UNITED STATESOpinion of the Courtcertainly, "the practical difficulties and potential unfairnessof a factual approach are daunting," ibid., no less in pleadedthan in litigated cases. Finally, nothing in Taylor's ration-ale limits it to prior jury convictions; our discussion of thepractical difficulties inherent in looking into underlying cir-cumstances spoke specifically of "cases where the defendantpleaded guilty, [in which] there often is no record of the un-derlying facts."Ibid. Our job, then, is to find the rightanalogs for applying the Taylor rule to pleaded cases.The Taylor Court drew a pragmatic conclusion about thebest way to identify generic convictions in jury cases, whilerespecting Congress's adoption of a categorical criterion thatavoids subsequent evidentiary enquiries into the factualbasis for the earlier conviction. The Court held that genericburglary could be identified only by referring to chargingdocuments filed in the court of conviction, or to recorded ju-dicial acts of that court limiting convictions to the genericcategory, as in giving instruction to the jury.The Court did not, however, purport to limit adequate judicial record evidence strictly to charges and instructions,id., at 602 (discussing the use of these documents as an "ex-ample"), since a conviction might follow trial to a judge aloneor a plea of guilty. In cases tried without a jury, the closestanalogs to jury instructions would be a bench-trial judge'sformal rulings of law and findings of fact, and in pleadedcases they would be the statement of factual basis for thecharge, Fed. Rule Crim. Proc. 11(a)(3), shown by a transcriptof plea colloquy or by written plea agreement presented tothe court, or by a record of comparable findings of factadopted by the defendant upon entering the plea.3 With3 Several Courts of Appeals have taken a similar view, approving theuse of some or all of these documents. United States v. Bonat, 106 F. 3d1472, 1476-1477 (CA9 1997); United States v. Maness, 23 F. 3d 1006, 1009-1010 (CA6 1994); United States v. Smith, 10 F. 3d 724, 733-734 (CA10 1993)(per curiam) (construing United States Sentencing Commission, Guidelines Manual $ 4B1.2 (Nov. 1990)).544US1 Unit: $U27 [11-07-07 19:15:40] PAGES PGT: OPIN21Cite as: 544 U. S. 13 (2005)Opinion of the Courtsuch material in a pleaded case, a later court could generallytell whether the plea had "necessarily" rested on the factidentifying the burglary as generic, Taylor, supra, at 602,just as the details of instructions could support that conclusion in the jury case, or the details of a generically limitedcharging document would do in any sort of case.The Government argues for a wider evidentiary cast, however, going beyond conclusive records made or used in adju-dicating guilt and looking to documents submitted to lowercourts even prior to charges. It argues for considering apolice report submitted to a local court as grounds for issuinga complaint under a nongeneric statute; if that report allegesfacts that would satisfy the elements of a generic statute,the report should suffice to show that a later plea and conviction were for a predicate offense under the ACCA. Therewould be no reason for concern about unavailable witnessesor stale memories, the Government points out, and such limited enquiry would be consistent with Taylor because "[t]heunderlying purpose [would be] the same as in examining thecharging paper and jury instructions (which the Court endorsed in Taylor): to determine the nature of the offense ofwhich petitioner was convicted, rather than to determinewhat he actually did." Brief for United States 22-23. TheGovernment stresses three points.First, it says that the more accommodating view of evidence competent to prove that the plea was to a generic offense will yield reliable conclusions. Although the recordsof Shepard's pleas with their notations that he "[a]dmit[ted]suff[icient] facts" do not necessarily show that he admittedentering buildings or structures, as would be true under ageneric burglary statute or charge, the police reports sufficeto show that the record of admitting sufficient facts "can onlyhave plausibly rested on petitioner's entry of a building."Id., at 25.Second, the Government pulls a little closer to Taylor'sdemand for certainty when identifying a generic offense by544US1 Unit: $U27 [11-07-07 19:15:40] PAGES PGT: OPIN22 SHEPARD v. UNITED STATESOpinion of the Courtemphasizing that the records of the prior convictions usedin this case are in each instance free from any inconsistent,competing evidence on the pivotal issue of fact separatinggeneric from nongeneric burglary. "[T]here is nothing inthe record to indicate that petitioner had pleaded guiltybased on entering a ship or vehicle on any of the occasionsat issue." Brief for United States 16.Finally, the Government supports its call for a more inclusive standard of competent evidence by invoking the virtueof a nationwide application of a federal statute unaffected byidiosyncrasies of recordkeeping in any particular State. Abar on review of documents like police reports and complaintapplications would often make the ACCA sentencing enhancement "hinge on the happenstance of state courtrecord-keeping practices and the vagaries of state prosecutors' charging practices." Brief in Opposition 13 (internalquotation marks omitted).On each point, however, the Government's position raisesan uncomfortable implication: every one of its argumentscould have been pressed in favor of an enquiry beyond whatTaylor allows when a jury conviction follows nongeneric instructions, and each is therefore as much a menace to Tayloras a justification for an expansive approach to showingwhether a guilty plea admitted the generic crime. If thetranscript of a jury trial showed testimony about a buildingbreak, one could say that the jury's verdict rested on a finding to that effect. If the trial record showed no evidence offelonious entrance to anything but a building or structure,the odds that the offense actually committed was genericburglary would be a turf accountant's dream. And, again, ifit were significant that vagaries of abbreviated plea recordscould limit the application of the ACCA, the significancewould be no less when the disputed, predicate conviction followed a jury trial and the stenographic notes of the chargehad been thrown away.544US1 Unit: $U27 [11-07-07 19:15:40] PAGES PGT: OPIN23Cite as: 544 U. S. 13 (2005)Opinion of the CourtThe Government's position thus amounts to a call to easeaway from the Taylor conclusion, that respect for congressional intent and avoidance of collateral trials require thatevidence of generic conviction be confined to records of theconvicting court approaching the certainty of the record ofconviction in a generic crime State. But that limitation wasthe heart of the decision, and we cannot have Taylor and theGovernment's position both.There is not, however, any sufficient justification for upsetting precedent here. We are, after all, dealing with an issueof statutory interpretation, see,e. g., Taylor, 495 U. S., at602, and the claim to adhere to case law is generally powerfulonce a decision has settled statutory meaning, seePattersonv. McLean Credit Union, 491 U. S. 164, 172-173 (1989) ("Con-siderations ofstare decisis have special force in the area ofstatutory interpretation, for here, unlike in the context ofconstitutional interpretation, the legislative power is implicated, and Congress remains free to alter what we havedone"). In this instance, time has enhanced even the usualprecedential force, nearly 15 years having passed since Taylor came down, without any action by Congress to modifythe statute as subject to our understanding that it allowedonly a restricted look beyond the record of conviction undera nongeneric statute.44 Like the Government, the dissent would allow district courts to examine a wider range of documents than we approve today, and its proposalis no more consistent with Taylor than the Government's. Taylor is clearthat any enquiry beyond statute and charging document must be narrowlyrestricted to implement the object of the statute and avoid evidentiarydisputes. In the case before it, the Court drew the line after allowingcourts to review documents showing "that the jury necessarily had to findan entry of a building to convict." 495 U. S., at 602; see also ibid. (permitting a sentencing court to look beyond the state statute "in a narrow rangeof cases where a jury was actually required to find all the elements ofgeneric burglary"). As we say in the text, there are certainly jury trialswith record documents like those at issue here, never introduced at trial544US1 Unit: $U27 [11-07-07 19:15:40] PAGES PGT: OPIN24 SHEPARD v. UNITED STATESOpinion of Souter, J.IIIDevelopments in the law since Taylor, and since the FirstCircuit's decision in Harris, provide a further reason to adhere to the demanding requirement that any sentence underthe ACCA rest on a showing that a prior conviction "necessarily" involved (and a prior plea necessarily admitted) factsequating to generic burglary. The Taylor Court, indeed,was prescient in its discussion of problems that would followfrom allowing a broader evidentiary enquiry. "If the sentencing court were to conclude, from its own review of therecord, that the defendant [who was convicted under a nongeneric burglary statute] actually committed a generic burglary, could the defendant challenge this conclusion asabridging his right to a jury trial?" 495 U. S., at 601. TheCourt thus anticipated the very rule later imposed for thesake of preserving the Sixth Amendment right, that any factother than a prior conviction sufficient to raise the limit ofthe possible federal sentence must be found by a jury, in theabsence of any waiver of rights by the defendant. Jones v.United States, 526 U. S. 227, 243, n. 6 (1999); see also Apprendi v. New Jersey, 530 U. S. 466, 490 (2000).The Government dismisses the relevance of the JonesApprendi implementation of the jury right here by describbut "uncontradicted," post, at 31 (opinion of O'Connor, J.), and "internallyconsistent," ibid., with the evidence that came in. The dissent would presumably permit examination of such documents, but Taylor assuredlydoes not.The only way to reconcile the dissent's approach with Taylor is to saythat in Taylor the prior convictions followed jury verdicts while in thiscase each prior conviction grew out of a guilty plea. See post, at 36 ("Taylor itself set no rule for guilty pleas"). But Taylor has no suggestion thatits reasoning would not apply in plea cases, and its discussion of the practical difficulties specifically referred to prior guilty pleas. 495 U. S., at 601.Moreover, as we have noted, see supra, at 19, and as the dissent nowheredisputes, the ACCA provides no support for such a distinction. We decline to create a distinction that Congress evidently had no desire to draw,that Taylor did not envision, and that we would be hard pressed to explain.544US1 Unit: $U27 [11-07-07 19:15:40] PAGES PGT: OPIN25Cite as: 544 U. S. 13 (2005)Opinion of Souter, J.ing the determination necessary to apply the ACCA as "in-volv[ing] only an assessment of what the state court itselfalready has been `required to find' in order to find the de-fendant guilty." Brief for United States 38 (quotingTaylor,supra, at 602). But it is not that simple. The problem isthat "what the state court . . . has been `required to find' " isdebatable. In a nongeneric State, the fact necessary toshow a generic crime is not established by the record of con-viction as it would be in a generic State when a judicial finding of a disputed prior conviction is made on the authorityofAlmendarez-Torres v. United States, 523 U. S. 224 (1998).The state statute requires no finding of generic burglary, andwithout a charging document that narrows the charge to generic limits, the only certainty of a generic finding lies injury instructions, or bench-trial findings and rulings, or (in apleaded case) in the defendant's own admissions or acceptedfindings of fact confirming the factual basis for a valid plea.In this particular pleaded case, the record is silent on thegeneric element, there being no plea agreement or recordedcolloquy in which Shepard admitted the generic fact.Instead, the sentencing judge considering the ACCA enhancement would (on the Government's view) make a disputed finding of fact about what the defendant and statejudge must have understood as the factual basis of the priorplea, and the dispute raises the concern underlying Jonesand Apprendi: the Sixth and Fourteenth Amendments guarantee a jury standing between a defendant and the power ofthe State, and they guarantee a jury's finding of any disputedfact essential to increase the ceiling of a potential sentence.While the disputed fact here can be described as a fact abouta prior conviction, it is too far removed from the conclusive significance of a prior judicial record, and too much likethe findings subject to Jones and Apprendi, to say thatAlmendarez-Torres clearly authorizes a judge to resolve thedispute. The rule of reading statutes to avoid serious risksof unconstitutionality, see Jones, supra, at 239, therefore544US1 Unit: $U27 [11-07-07 19:15:40] PAGES PGT: OPIN26 SHEPARD v. UNITED STATESOpinion of Thomas, J.counsels us to limit the scope of judicial factfinding on thedisputed generic character of a prior plea, just as Taylorconstrained judicial findings about the generic implication ofa jury's verdict.5IVWe hold that enquiry under the ACCA to determinewhether a plea of guilty to burglary defined by a nongenericstatute necessarily admitted elements of the generic offenseis limited to the terms of the charging document, the termsof a plea agreement or transcript of colloquy between judgeand defendant in which the factual basis for the plea wasconfirmed by the defendant, or to some comparable judicialrecord of this information.The judgment of the Court of Appeals is reversed, and thecase is remanded for further proceedings.