Petitioner Bernadine Suitum owns land near the Nevadashore of Lake Tahoe. Respondent Tahoe Regional PlanningAgency, which regulates land use in the region, determinedthat Suitum's property is ineligible for development but entitled to receive certain allegedly valuable "Transferable De-velopment Rights" (TDR's). Suitum has brought an actionfor compensation under Rev. Stat. $ 1979, 42 U. S. C. $ 1983,claiming that the agency's determinations amounted to a regulatory taking of her property. While the pleadings raiseissues about the significance of the TDR's both to the claimthat a taking has occurred and to the constitutional require-ment of just compensation, we have no occasion to decide,and we do not decide, whether or not these TDR's may beconsidered in deciding the issue whether there has been ataking in this case, as opposed to the issue whether just com-pensation has been afforded for such a taking. The solequestion here is whether the claim is ripe for adjudication,General for their respective States as follows: Margery S. Bronster ofHawaii, Jeffrey L. Amestoy of Vermont, J. Joseph Curran, Jr., of Maryland, and Joseph P. Mazurek of Montana; for the State of New Jersey byPeter Verniero, Attorney General, Mary C. Jacobson, Assistant AttorneyGeneral, and Rachel J. Horowitz, Deputy Attorney General; for the Stateof New York by Dennis C. Vacco, Attorney General, Barbara G. Billett,Solicitor General, Peter H. Schiff, Deputy Solicitor General, and John J.Sipos and Lisa M. Burianek, Assistant Attorneys General; for the City ofNew York by Paul A. Crotty, Leonard J. Koerner, Stephen J. McGrath,and Cheryl Payer; for the League to Save Lake Tahoe by E. ClementShute, Jr., and Christy H. Taylor; for the National League of Cities et al.by Richard Ruda; and for the National Trust for Historic Preservation inthe United States et al. by Jerold S. Kayden, Louise H. Renne, R. JeffreyLyman, and Elizabeth S. Merritt.Briefs of amici curiae were filed for the American Planning Associationby Brian W. Blaesser and H. Bissell Carey III; for the Columbia RiverGorge Commission by Lawrence Watters; for the National Association ofHome Builders et al. by John J. Delaney, Lawrence R. Liebesman, MaryV. DiCrescenzo, and Nick Cammarota; and for Dr. James Nicholas et al.by John D. Echeverria.520US3 Unit: $U59 [09-11-99 19:13:40] PAGES PGT: OPIN729Cite as: 520 U. S. 725 (1997)Opinion of the Courteven though Suitum has not attempted to sell the develop-ment rights she has or is eligible to receive. We hold thatit is. IIn 1969, Congress approved the Tahoe Regional PlanningCompact between the States of California and Nevada, creating respondent as an interstate agency to regulate develop-ment in the Lake Tahoe basin. SeeLake Country Estates,Inc. v. Tahoe Regional Planning Agency, 440 U. S. 391, 394(1979). After the 1969 compact had proven inadequate forprotection of the lake and its environment, the States proposed and Congress approved an amendment in 1980, requir-ing the agency to adopt a plan barring any developmentexceeding such specific "environmental threshold carryingcapacities" as the agency might find appropriate. Pub. L.96-551, Arts. I(b), V(b), V(g), 94 Stat. 3234, 3239-3241.1In 1987, the agency adopted a new Regional Plan providing for an "Individual Parcel Evaluation System" (IPES) torate the suitability of vacant residential parcels for buildingand other modification. Tahoe Regional Planning AgencyCode of Ordinances, ch. 37 (TRPA Code). Whereas anyproperty must attain a minimum IPES score to qualify forconstruction,id., $ 37.8.E; App. 145, an undeveloped parcelin certain areas carrying runoff into the watershed (knownas "Stream Environment Zones" (SEZ's)) receives an IPESscore of zero, TRPA Code $ 37.4.A(3). With limited exceptions not relevant here, the agency permits no "additionalland coverage or other permanent land disturbance" on sucha parcel. Id., $ 20.4.1 The 1980 compact defines "[e]nvironmental threshold carrying capacity" as "an environmental standard necessary to maintain a significantscenic, recreational, educational, scientific or natural value of the regionor to maintain public health and safety within the region. Such standardsshall include but not be limited to standards for air quality, water quality,soil conservation, vegetation preservation and noise." Art. II(i), 94Stat. 3235.520US3 Unit: $U59 [09-11-99 19:13:40] PAGES PGT: OPIN730 SUITUM v. TAHOE REGIONAL PLANNING AGENCYOpinion of the CourtAlthough the agency's 1987 plan does not provide for thevariances and exceptions of conventional land-use schemes,it addresses the potential sharpness of its restrictions bygranting property owners TDR's that may be sold to ownersof parcels eligible for construction, id., $$ 20.3.C, 34.0 to 34.3.There are three kinds of residential TDR's. An ownerneeds both a "Residential Development Right" and a "Resi-dential Allocation" to place a residential unit on a buildableparcel, id., $$ 21.6.C, 33.2.A; the latter permits constructionto begin in a specific calendar year, but expires at year's end,id., $ 33.2.B(3)(b). An owner must also have "Land Cover-age Rights" for each square foot of impermeable cover placedupon land. App. 145; see also TRPA Code, ch. 20. All own-ers of vacant residential parcels that existed at the effectivedate of the 1987 plan (July 1, 1987), including SEZ parcels,automatically receive one Residential Development Right,id., $ 21.6.A; owners of SEZ property may obtain and trans-fer bonus points equivalent to three additional ResidentialDevelopment Rights, id., $$ 35.2.C, 35.2.D. SEZ propertyowners also receive Land Coverage Rights authorizing coverage of an area equal to 1% of the surface area of theirland.Id., $$ 20.3.A, 37.11. Finally, SEZ owners, like otherproperty owners, may apply for a Residential Allocation,awarded by local jurisdictions in random drawings eachyear.2 Id., $ 33.2.B; App. 98-99. All three kinds of TDR'smay be transferred for the benefit of any eligible propertyin the Lake Tahoe region, subject to approval by the agencybased on the eligibility of the receiving parcel for develop-ment. TRPA Code $$ 20.3.C, 34.1 to 34.3.In 1972, Suitum and her late husband bought an undevel-oped lot in Washoe County, Nevada, within the agency'sjurisdiction, and 17 years later, after adoption of the 19872 Counsel for the agency at oral argument represented that "at thispoint" there are "fewer applicants than there are allocations" in WashoeCounty, where petitioner's land is located, and there is thus a "100 percentchance of winning the [drawing]." Tr. of Oral Arg. 39-40.520US3 Unit: $U59 [09-11-99 19:13:40] PAGES PGT: OPIN731Cite as: 520 U. S. 725 (1997)Opinion of the CourtRegional Plan, Suitum obtained a Residential Allocationthrough Washoe County's annual drawing. When she thenapplied to the agency for permission to construct a house onher lot, the agency determined that her property was locatedwithin a SEZ, assigned it an IPES score of zero, and deniedpermission to build. Suitum appealed the denial to theagency's governing board, which itself denied relief.After the agency turned down the request for a buildingpermit, Suitum made no effort to transfer any of the TDR'sthat were hers under the 1987 plan, and there is no disputethat she still has the one Residential Development Right thatowners of undeveloped lots automatically received, plus theLand Coverage Rights for 183 square feet that she got asthe owner of 18,300 square feet of SEZ land. It is also common ground that Suitum has the right to receive three"bonus" Residential Development Rights. Although Suitumhas questioned the certainty that she would obtain a newResidential Allocation if she sought one, the agency hasrepresented to this Court that she undoubtably would, seen. 2,supra.Instead, Suitum brought this 42 U. S. C. $ 1983 action alleging that in denying her the right to construct a house onher lot, the agency's restrictions deprived her of "all reasonable and economically viable use" of her property, and soamounted to a taking of her property without just compensation in violation of the Fifth and Fourteenth Amendments.3App. 15, 16. The agency responded by objecting, amongother things, that Suitum's takings claim was not ripe due toher "failure to obtain a final decision by TRPA as to theamount of development . . . that may be allowed by" theagency. Id., at 10. On cross-motions for summary judgment, the District Court ordered supplemental briefing on3 Suitum's complaint may have also raised substantive due process andequal protection claims, see App. 16, 153, but her petition for a writ ofcertiorari did not address those issues and they are not considered here.See n. 6, infra.520US3 Unit: $U59 [09-11-99 19:13:40] PAGES PGT: OPIN732 SUITUM v. TAHOE REGIONAL PLANNING AGENCYOpinion of the Courtthe nature of Suitum's TDR's, including "what [TDR's] canbe transferred in [Suitum's] case and the procedures, prerequisites and value of such transfer as applicable in this case."Id., at 89. The agency introduced an affidavit from a realestate appraiser, whose opinion was that the ResidentialDevelopment Right that Suitum already has, and the threemore to which she is entitled, have a market value between$1,500 and $2,500 each; that her Land Coverage Rights canbe sold for $6 to $12 per square foot ($1,098-$2,196 total);and that her lot devoid of all TDR's would sell for $7,125to $16,750.Id., at 131-132. The appraiser also said that ifSuitum were to obtain a Residential Allocation and sell itwith a Development Right, together they would bring between $30,000 and $35,000. Ibid. As if in spite of the figures supplied by its own affidavit, however, the agency main-tained that the "actual benefits of the [TDR] program for[Suitum] . . . can only be known if she pursues an appropriate[transfer] application," with the result that Suitum's claimwas not ripe for adjudication. Id., at 91. For her part,Suitum insisted that trying to transfer her TDR's would bean " `idle and futile act' " because the TDR program is a"sham," 4 and she supplied the affidavit of one of the agency'sformer employees whose view was that "there is little to novalue to [Suitum's TDR's] at the present time as . . . either[there is] no market for them or the procedure for transferring one particular right would restrict the opportunity totransfer a remaining right." Id., at 135.5The District Court decided that Suitum's claim was notripe for consideration because "[a]s things now stand, there4 See Suitum's Response to Defendant's Memorandum Concerning itsTransfer of Development Program 1-2.5 The District Court disregarded this affidavit, however, because "[t]here[was] no showing that [Suitum's affiant] is an expert . . . as to the valuationof development rights" sufficient to satisfy Federal Rule of Civil Procedure56(e). No. CV-N-91-040-ECR (D. Nev., Mar. 30, 1994), App. to Pet. forCert. C-2, n. 1.520US3 Unit: $U59 [09-11-99 19:13:40] PAGES PGT: OPIN733Cite as: 520 U. S. 725 (1997)Opinion of the Courtis no final decision as to how [Suitum] will be allowedto use her property." No. CV-N-91-040-ECR (D. Nev.,Mar. 30, 1994), App. to Pet. for Cert. C-3. Although thecourt found that "there is significant value in the transfer of[Suitum's TDR's], . . . until [specific] values attributable tothe transfer program are known, the court cannot realistically assess whether and to what extent [the agency's] regu-lations have frustrated [Suitum's] reasonable expectations."Id., at C-3 to C-4.The Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit affirmed thisripeness ruling for the like reason that "[w]ithout an applica-tion for the transfer of development rights" there would beno way to "know the regulations' full economic impact orthe degree of their interference with [Suitum's] reasonableinvestment-backed expectations," and without action on atransfer application there would be no " `final decision from[the agency] regarding the application of the regulation[s] tothe property at issue.' "6 80 F. 3d 359, 362-363 (1996). Wegranted certiorari to consider the ripeness of Suitum's tak-ings claim, 519 U. S. 926 (1996), and now reverse.IIThe only issue presented is whether Suitum's claim of aregulatory taking of her land in violation of the Fifth andFourteenth Amendments is ready for judicial review underprudential ripeness principles.7 There are two independent6 The court held that "[t]hese ripeness requirements," while developedin the regulatory taking context, "are equally applicable to the due processand equal protection claims." 80 F. 3d, at 362, n. 1. We address only theripeness requirements for Suitum's takings claim, however, and expressno opinion on the ripeness of her other claims.7 "We have noted that ripeness doctrine is drawn both from Article IIIlimitations on judicial power and from prudential reasons for refusing toexercise jurisdiction." Reno v. Catholic Social Services, Inc., 509 U. S.43, 57, n. 18 (1993). The agency does not question that Suitum properlypresents a genuine "case or controversy" sufficient to satisfy Article III,but maintains only that Suitum's action fails to satisfy our prudential ripeness requirements.520US3 Unit: $U59 [09-11-99 19:13:40] PAGES PGT: OPIN734 SUITUM v. TAHOE REGIONAL PLANNING AGENCYOpinion of the Courtprudential hurdles to a regulatory takings claim broughtagainst a state entity in federal court. Williamson CountyRegional Planning Comm'n v. Hamilton Bank of JohnsonCity, 473 U. S. 172 (1985), explained that a plaintiff mustdemonstrate that she has both received a "final decision re-garding the application of the [challenged] regulations to theproperty at issue" from "the government entity chargedwith implementing the regulations,"id., at 186, and sought"compensation through the procedures the State has provided for doing so," id., at 194. The first requirement fol-lows from the principle that only a regulation that "goes toofar," Pennsylvania Coal Co. v. Mahon, 260 U. S. 393, 415(1922), results in a taking under the Fifth Amendment, see,e. g., MacDonald, Sommer & Frates v. Yolo County, 477U. S. 340, 348 (1986) ("A court cannot determine whether aregulation has gone `too far' unless it knows how far theregulation goes"); see also Lucas v. South Carolina CoastalCouncil, 505 U. S. 1003, 1014-1019 (1992) (regulation " `goestoo far' " and results in a taking "at leas[t] in the extraordi-nary circumstance whenno productive or economically beneficial use of land is permitted"). The second hurdle stemsfrom the Fifth Amendment's proviso that only takings with-out "just compensation" infringe that Amendment; "if aState provides an adequate procedure for seeking just com-pensation, the property owner cannot claim a violation of theJust Compensation Clause until it has used the procedureand been denied just compensation,"Williamson County,supra, at 195. Because only the "final decision" prong ofWilliamson was addressed below and briefed before thisCourt, we confine our discussion here to that issue.88 We therefore do not decide whether Williamson County's "state procedures" requirement has been satisfied in this case. Ordinarily, a plaintiffmust seek compensation through state inverse condemnation proceedingsbefore initiating a takings suit in federal court, unless the State does notprovide adequate remedies for obtaining compensation. See WilliamsonCounty, 473 U. S., at 194-196. Suitum's counsel stated at oral argument520US3 Unit: $U59 [09-11-99 19:13:40] PAGES PGT: OPIN735Cite as: 520 U. S. 725 (1997)Opinion of the CourtAIn holding Suitum's claim to be unripe, the Ninth Circuitagreed with the agency's argument that Suitum had failedto obtain a final and authoritative decision from the agencysufficient to satisfy the first prong ofWilliamson County,supra. Although it is unclear whether the agency still urgesprecisely that position before this Court, see, e. g., Brief forRespondent 21 (conceding that "[w]e know the full extent ofthe regulation's impact in restricting petitioner's develop-ment of her own land"), we think it important to emphasizethat the rationale adopted in the decision under review isunsupported by our precedents.Agins v. City of Tiburon, 447 U. S. 255 (1980), is the firstcase in which this Court employed a notion of ripeness indeclining to reach the merits of an as-applied regulatory tak-ings claim.9 In Agins, the landowners who challenged zonthat "the position of the Tahoe Regional Planning Agency is that they donot . . . have provisions for paying just compensation," Tr. of Oral Arg. 4,thus suggesting that the agency is not subject to inverse condemnationproceedings, and the agency's counsel did not disagree. Suitum's positiontherefore appears to be that the sole remedy against the agency for ataking without just compensation is a $ 1983 suit for damages, such as shehas brought here. Cf. Tahoe-Sierra Preservation Council, Inc. v. TahoeRegional Planning Agency, 911 F. 2d 1331, 1341-1342 (CA9 1990). Weleave this matter to the Court of Appeals on remand.9 Two years earlier, in Penn Central Transp. Co. v. New York City, 438U. S. 104 (1978), we reached the merits of Penn Central's claim that theNew York City Landmarks Preservation Commission's denial of permission to construct an office building on top of Grand Central Terminal wasa taking, despite our observation that"it simply cannot be maintained, on this record, that appellants have beenprohibited from occupying any portion of the airspace above the Terminal.While the [City's] actions in denying applications to construct an officebuilding in excess of 50 stories above the Terminal may indicate that itwill refuse to issue a certificate of appropriateness for any comparablysized structure, . . . [t]he [City has] emphasized that whether any construction would be allowed depended upon whether the proposed addition`would harmonize in scale, material, and character with [the Termi520US3 Unit: $U59 [09-11-99 19:13:40] PAGES PGT: OPIN736 SUITUM v. TAHOE REGIONAL PLANNING AGENCYOpinion of the Courting ordinances restricting the number of houses they couldbuild on their property sued without seeking approval forany particular development on their land. We held that theonly issue justiciable at that point was whether mere enactment of the statute amounted to a taking.10 Id., at 260.Without employing the term "ripeness," the Court explainedthat because the owners "ha[d] not submitted a plan for development of their property as the [challenged] ordinancespermit[ted], there [was] as yet no concrete controversy regarding the application of the specific zoning provisions."Ibid.The following Term, Hodel v. Virginia Surface Mining &Reclamation Assn., Inc., 452 U. S. 264 (1981), toughened ournascent ripeness requirement. There, coal producers andlandowners challenged the enactment of the Surface MiningControl and Reclamation Act of 1977, 30 U. S. C. $ 1201 etseq., as a taking of their property. As in Agins, we concluded that an as-applied challenge was unripe, reasoningthat "[t]here is no indication in the record that appelleesha[d] availed themselves of the opportunities provided by theAct to obtain administrative relief by requesting . . . a variance from the [applicable provisions of the Act]," 452 U. S.,at 297.11 Hodel thus held that where the regulatory regimenal].' Since appellants have not sought approval for the construction ofa smaller structure, we do not know that appellants will be denied anyuse of any portion of the airspace above the Terminal." Id., at 136-137(citation omitted).10 Such "facial" challenges to regulation are generally ripe the momentthe challenged regulation or ordinance is passed, but face an "uphill battle," Keystone Bituminous Coal Assn. v. DeBenedictis, 480 U. S. 470, 495(1987), since it is difficult to demonstrate that " `mere enactment' " of apiece of legislation "deprived [the owner] of economically viable use of [his]property." Hodel v. Virginia Surface Mining & Reclamation Assn., Inc.,452 U. S. 264, 297 (1981). Suitum does not purport to challenge theagency's regulations on their face.11 As in Agins, we found the Hodel plaintiffs' "facial" takings challengeto be ripe, but ruled it out on the merits. 452 U. S., at 295-297.520US3 Unit: $U59 [09-11-99 19:13:40] PAGES PGT: OPIN737Cite as: 520 U. S. 725 (1997)Opinion of the Courtoffers the possibility of a variance from its facial require-ments, a landowner must go beyond submitting a plan fordevelopment and actually seek such a variance to ripen hisclaim.Williamson County Regional Planning Comm'n v. Hamilton Bank of Johnson City, 473 U. S. 172 (1985), confirmedHodel's holding. In Williamson County, a developer's planto build a residential complex was rejected by the local plan-ning commission as inconsistent with zoning ordinances andsubdivision regulations in eight different respects. ThisCourt acknowledged that "[r]espondent ha[d] submitted aplan for developing its property, and thus ha[d] passed beyond the Agins threshold," 473 U. S., at 187, but nonethelessheld the takings challenge unripe, reasoning that "among thefactors of particular significance in the [takings] inquiry arethe economic impact of the challenged action and the extentto which it interferes with reasonable investment-backed expectations," id., at 191, "factors [that] simply cannot be evaluated until the administrative agency has arrived at a final,definitive position regarding how it will apply the regulations at issue to the particular land in question," ibid. Thus,a developer must at least "resort to the procedure for obtaining variances . . . [and obtain] a conclusive determination bythe Commission whether it would allow" the proposed development, id., at 193, in order to ripen its takings claim.MacDonald, Sommer & Frates v. Yolo County, 477 U. S.340 (1986), reaffirmed Williamson County's requirement ofa final agency position. In MacDonald, a developer purchased property and presented a tentative subdivision planto the local planning commission. After the commissiontreated the proposal as inconsistent with the zoning regulations in several respects, the developer immediately filedsuit. Without even relying on the character of the dry runin the submission of a merely tentative plan, we emphasizedthat in the course of litigation two state courts had givenopinions that development of the property was possible520US3 Unit: $U59 [09-11-99 19:13:40] PAGES PGT: OPIN738 SUITUM v. TAHOE REGIONAL PLANNING AGENCYOpinion of the Courtunder the regulations in question, flatly contrary to the developer's conclusory allegation that the regulations requiredhim to provide a greenbelt as a public gratuity. See 477U. S., at 345-347. Hence, we held the claim unripe underthe rationale of Williamson County: " `the effect [of] theCommission's application of the zoning ordinance . . . on thevalue of respondent's property . . . cannot be measured untila final decision is made as to how the regulations will beapplied to [the developer's] property.' " MacDonald, supra,at 349 (quoting Williamson County, supra, at 199-200).Leaving aside the question of how definitive a local zoningdecision must be to satisfy Williamson County's demand forfinality,12 two points about the requirement are clear: it applies to decisions about how a takings plaintiff 's own landmay be used, and it responds to the high degree of discretioncharacteristically possessed by land-use boards in softeningthe strictures of the general regulations they administer.As the Court said in MacDonald, "local agencies chargedwith administering regulations governing property development are singularly flexible institutions; what they take withthe one hand they may give back with the other." 477 U. S.,at 350. When such flexibility or discretion may be broughtto bear on the permissible use of property as singular as a12 MacDonald suggested that the Williamson County "final decision"requirement might sometimes require multiple proposals or variance applications before a landowner's case will be considered ripe. We wrote,for example, that "[r]ejection of exceedingly grandiose development plansdoes not logically imply that less ambitious plans will receive similarlyunfavorable reviews." 477 U. S., at 353, n. 9; compare WilliamsonCounty, 473 U. S., at 191 (applicant must obtain final definitive position onhow regulations will be applied to the land in question), with id., at 193(applicant must obtain conclusive determination whether specific proposeddevelopment will be permitted). Amici the Mayhews et al. urge us toestablish a rule that a takings plaintiff need only make a single proposaland a single request for a variance to ensure the ripeness of his claim.Brief for Mayhews et al. as Amici Curiae 22. That issue is not presentedin this case.520US3 Unit: $U59 [09-11-99 19:13:40] PAGES PGT: OPIN739Cite as: 520 U. S. 725 (1997)Opinion of the Courtparcel of land, a sound judgment about what use will be al-lowed simply cannot be made by asking whether a parcel'scharacteristics or a proposal's details facially conform to theterms of the general use regulations.The demand for finality is satisfied by Suitum's claim, how-ever, there being no question here about how the "regulations at issue [apply] to the particular land in question."Williamson County, supra, at 191. It is undisputed thatthe agency "has finally determined that petitioner's land liesentirely within an SEZ," Brief for Respondent 21, and that itmay therefore permit "[n]o additional land coverage or otherpermanent land disturbance" on the parcel, TRPA Code$ 20.4. Because the agency has no discretion to exerciseover Suitum's right to use her land, no occasion exists forapplyingWilliamson County's requirement that a land-owner take steps to obtain a final decision about the use thatwill be permitted on a particular parcel. The parties, ofcourse, contest the relevance of the TDR's to the issue ofwhether a taking has occurred, but resolution of that legalissue will require no further agency action of the sort demanded by Williamson County.BThe agency nonetheless argued below, and the lowercourts agreed, see supra, at 732-733, that there remains a"final decision" for the agency to make: action on a possibleapplication by Suitum to transfer the TDR's to which she isindisputably entitled. This is not, however, the type of"final decision" required by our Williamson County precedents. Those precedents addressed the virtual impossibilityof determining what development will be permitted on a particular lot of land when its use is subject to the decision of aregulatory body invested with great discretion, which it hasnot yet even been asked to exercise. No such question ispresented here. The parties agree on the particular TDR'sto which Suitum is entitled, and no discretionary decision520US3 Unit: $U59 [09-11-99 19:13:40] PAGES PGT: OPIN740 SUITUM v. TAHOE REGIONAL PLANNING AGENCYOpinion of the Courtmust be made by any agency official for her to obtain them orto offer them for sale. The only decision left to the agency isapproval of a particular transfer of TDR's to make certainthat a given potential buyer may lawfully use them. Butwhether a particular sale of TDR's may be completed is quitedifferent from whether TDR's are salable; so long as the particular buyer is not the only person who can lawfully buy,the rights would not be rendered unsalable even if theagency were to make a discretionary decision to kill a partic-ular sale. And the class of buyers is not even arguably solimited here, where there is no question so far as the law isconcerned that TDR's may be bought and used for the benefitof all sorts of land parcels and lots.CThe agency's argument that Suitum's case is not ripe be-cause no " `values attributable to [Suitum's TDR's] areknown,' " Brief for Respondent 23 (quoting No. CV-N-91-040-ECR (D. Nev., Mar. 30, 1994), App. to Pet. for Cert. C-4,is just a variation on the preceding position, and fares nobetter. First, as to Suitum's rights to receive TDR's thatshe may later sell, we have already noted that little or nouncertainty remains. Although the value of a ResidentialDevelopment Right may well be greater if it is offered to-gether with a Residential Allocation, and although Suitummust still enter the lottery for the latter, there is no discre-tionary decision to be made in determining whether she willget one; in fact, the probability of her getting one is "100percent" according to the agency, see Tr. of Oral Arg. 40,since there are fewer applications than available allocations,seeid., at 39-40. But even if that were not the case, as itprobably will not always be, it would be unreasonable to require Suitum to enter the drawing in order to ripen her suit.The agency does not, and surely could not, maintain thatif the odds of success in the allocation lottery were low,520US3 Unit: $U59 [09-11-99 19:13:40] PAGES PGT: OPIN741Cite as: 520 U. S. 725 (1997)Opinion of the CourtSuitum's takings claim could be kept at bay from year toyear until she actually won the drawing; such a rule wouldallow any local authority to stultify the Fifth Amendment'sguarantee. Rather, in such circumstances, the value attributable to the allocation Suitum might or might not receive inthe drawing would simply be discounted to reflect the mathematical likelihood of her obtaining one.Second, as to Suitum's right to transfer her TDR's, theonly contingency apart from private market demand turnson the right of the agency to deny approval for a specifictransfer on grounds that the buyer's use of the TDR's wouldviolate the terms of the scheme or other local land-use regulation, and the right of a local regulatory body to denytransfer approval for the latter reason. See TRPA Code$$ 20.3.C, 34.2, 34.3. But even if these potential bars basedon a buyer's intended use of TDR's should turn out to involvethe same degree of discretion assumed in the WilliamsonCounty ripeness requirement, that discretion still would notrender the value of the TDR's nearly as unknowable as thechances of particular development being permitted on a particular parcel in the absence of a zoning board decision thatcould quite lawfully be either yes or no. While a particularsale is subject to approval, salability is not, and the agency'sown position assumes that there are many potential, lawfulbuyers for Suitum's TDR's, whose receipt of those rightswould unquestionably be approved.The valuation of Suitum's TDR's is therefore simply anissue of fact about possible market prices, and one on whichthe District Court had considerable evidence before it, seesupra, at 731-732.13 Of course, as the agency appears to besaying, see, e. g., Brief for Respondent 22-23, the very bestevidence of the value of Suitum's TDR's might be their actual13 Moreover, the court may, of course, request additional briefing on thissubject if necessary, and a trial could be held if the issue cannot be decidedon summary judgment.520US3 Unit: $U59 [09-11-99 19:13:40] PAGES PGT: OPIN742 SUITUM v. TAHOE REGIONAL PLANNING AGENCYOpinion of the Courtselling price (assuming, of course, that the sale were madein good faith and at arm's length). But similar determinations of market value are routinely made in judicial proceed-ings without the benefit of a market transaction in the subject property. See, e. g., United States v. 819.98 Acres ofLand, More or Less, Located in Wasatch and Summit Coun-ties, 78 F. 3d 1468, 1469-1470 (CA10 1996) (upholding valuation of condemned land based on expert testimony relatingto comparable sales and discounted cash flow); United Statesv. L. E. Cooke Co., 991 F. 2d 336, 338-339 (CA6 1993) (samewith respect to valuation of mineral rights leases); see also5 J. Sackman, Nichols' Law of Eminent Domain $ 23-01,p. 23-6 (rev. 3d ed. 1997) ("[I]t is well established that thevalue of . . . land taken or injured by the exercise of thepower of eminent domain may be shown by opinion evidence"); see generally 4 id., $ 12.02 (discussing establishmentof market value of condemned land). While it is true thatmarket value may be hard to calculate without a regulartrade in TDR's, if Suitum is ready to proceed in spite of thisdifficulty, ripeness doctrine does not block her. In fact, thereason for the agency's objection is probably a concern thatwithout much market experience in sales of TDR's, theirmarket values will get low estimates. But this is simply oneof the risks of regulatory pioneering, and the pioneer here isthe agency, not Suitum.IIIFinally, the agency argues (for the first time, before thisCourt) that Suitum's claim is unripe under the "fitness forreview" requirement of Abbott Laboratories v. Gardner, 387U. S. 136 (1967).Abbott Laboratories arose on a petitionunder the Administrative Procedure Act (APA), 5 U. S. C.$$ 701-704 (1964 ed., Supp. II), by a group of drug manufac-turers seeking review of a labeling regulation promulgatedby the Commissioner of Food and Drugs (FDA) but not yetthe subject of any enforcement action against the manufacturers. The petitioners claimed that the FDA lacked statu520US3 Unit: $U59 [09-11-99 19:13:40] PAGES PGT: OPIN743Cite as: 520 U. S. 725 (1997)Opinion of the Courttory authority to impose the new labeling requirement; theFDA countered that the claim was not ripe for judicial review for want of any proceedings to enforce the regulation.The Court dealt with ripeness under a two-pronged test:"Without undertaking to survey the intricacies of theripeness doctrine it is fair to say that its basic rationaleis to prevent the courts, through avoidance of prematureadjudication, from entangling themselves in abstractdisagreements over administrative policies, and also toprotect the agencies from judicial interference untilan administrative decision has been formalized andits effects felt in a concrete way by the challengingparties. The problem is best seen in a twofold aspect,requiring us to evaluate both the fitness of the issuesfor judicial decision and the hardship to the parties ofwithholding court consideration." 387 U. S., at 148-149(footnote omitted).Under the "fitness for review" prong, we first noted that theFDA's adoption of the labeling regulation was "final agencyaction" within the meaning of $ 10 of the APA, 5 U. S. C.$ 704, and then rejected the Government's argument that review must await enforcement. 387 U. S., at 149-152. Wereasoned that "the impact of the regulations upon the petitioners is sufficiently direct and immediate as to render theissue appropriate for judicial review at this stage" becausepromulgation of the regulations "puts petitioners in a dilemma": "Either they must comply with the [labeling] re-quirement and incur the costs of changing over their promotional material and labeling or they must follow their presentcourse and risk prosecution." Id., at 152 (internal quotationmarks omitted). Similarly, the immediate impact of the regulation on the manufacturers satisfied the "hardship" prong:"Where the legal issue presented is fit for judicial resolution,and where a regulation requires an immediate and significantchange in the plaintiffs' conduct of their affairs with serious520US3 Unit: $U59 [09-11-99 19:13:40] PAGES PGT: OPIN744 SUITUM v. TAHOE REGIONAL PLANNING AGENCYOpinion of the Courtpenalties attached to noncompliance," hardship has beendemonstrated and "access to the courts . . . must be permitted." Id., at 153.Abbott Laboratories is not on point. The drug companiesin that case were challenging the validity of a regulationas beyond the scope of the FDA's authority. Whatever thearguable merit of the FDA's position on ripeness may havebeen, it rested on the fact that the manufacturers could haveprecipitated their challenge (if they had wanted) by violatingthe regulation and defending any subsequent prosecution byplacing the regulation's validity in question. Suitum is ina different position from the manufacturers. She does notchallenge the validity of the agency's regulations; her litigat-ing position assumes that the agency may validly bar herland development just as all agree it has actually done, andher only challenge to the TDR's raises a question about theirvalue, not about the lawfulness of issuing them. Suitumseeks not to be free of the regulations but to be paid fortheir consequences, and even if for some odd reason she haddecided to bring things to a head by building without a permit, a $ 1983 action for money would not be a defense toan equity proceeding to enjoin development. Indeed, to theextent that Abbott Laboratories is in any sense instructivein the disposition of the case before us, it cuts directlyagainst the agency: Suitum is just as definitively barred fromtaking any affirmative step to develop her land as the drugcompanies were bound to take affirmative steps to changetheir labels. The only discretionary step left to an agency ineither situation is enforcement, not determining applicability.* * *Because we find that Suitum has received a "final decision"consistent withWilliamson County's ripeness requirement,we vacate the judgment of the Court of Appeals and remandfor further proceedings consistent with this opinion.