The Trademark Remedy Clarification Act (TRCA), 106Stat. 3567, subjects the States to suits brought under $ 43(a)*Martin H. Redish and Jerome Gilson filed a brief for the InternationalTrademark Association as amicus curiae urging reversal.Briefs of amici curiae urging affirmance were filed for the State of Ohioet al. by Betty D. Montgomery, Attorney General of Ohio, Edward B.Foley, State Solicitor, and Elise W. Porter, Assistant Solicitor, and by theAttorneys General for their respective States as follows: Bill Pryor ofAlabama, Bruce M. Botelho of Alaska, Mark Pryor of Arkansas, Bill Lockyer of California, Ken Salazar of Colorado, M. Jane Brady of Delaware,Margery S. Bronster of Hawaii, James E. Ryan of Illinois, J. Joseph Curran, Jr., of Maryland, Jennifer Granholm of Michigan, Mike Moore ofMississippi, Jeremiah W. (Jay) Nixon of Missouri, Don Stenberg of Nebraska, Frankie Sue Del Papa of Nevada, Philip T. McLaughlin of NewHampshire, Patricia A. Madrid of New Mexico, Eliot Spitzer of NewYork, W. A. Drew Edmondson of Oklahoma, D. Michael Fisher of Pennsylvania, Sheldon Whitehouse of Rhode Island, Mark Barnett of SouthDakota, Paul G. Summers of Tennessee, Jan Graham of Utah, MarkL. Earley of Virginia, Christine O. Gregoire of Washington, Darrell V.McGraw, Jr., of West Virginia, and Gay Woodhouse of Wyoming; and forthe National Conference of State Legislatures et al. by Richard Rudaand James I. Crowley.Charles A. Miller, Caroline M. Brown, Gerald P. Dodson, James E.Holst, P. Martin Simpson, Jr., and Richard L. Stanley filed a brief for theRegents of the University of California as amicus curiae.527US2 Unit: $U90 [05-09-01 13:06:09] PAGES PGT: OPIN669Cite as: 527 U. S. 666 (1999)Opinion of the Courtof the Trademark Act of 1946 (Lanham Act) for false andmisleading advertising, 60 Stat. 441, 15 U. S. C. $ 1125(a).The question presented in this case is whether that provisionis effective to permit suit against a State for its allegedmisrepresentation of its own product--either because theTRCA effects a constitutionally permissible abrogation ofstate sovereign immunity, or because the TRCA operates asan invitation to waiver of such immunity which is automatically accepted by a State's engaging in the activities regu-lated by the Lanham Act.IIn Chisholm v. Georgia, 2 Dall. 419 (1793), we assertedjurisdiction over an action in assumpsit brought by a SouthCarolina citizen against the State of Georgia. In so doing,we reasoned that Georgia's sovereign immunity was qualifiedby the general jurisdictional provisions of Article III, and,most specifically, by the provision extending the federal judicial power to controversies "between a State and Citizens ofanother State." U. S. Const., Art. III, $ 2, cl. 1. The "shockof surprise" created by this decision, Principality of Monacov.Mississippi, 292 U. S. 313, 325 (1934), prompted the imme-diate adoption of the Eleventh Amendment, which provides:"The Judicial power of the United States shall not beconstrued to extend to any suit in law or equity, commenced or prosecuted against one of the United Statesby Citizens of another State, or by Citizens or Subjectsof any Foreign State."Though its precise terms bar only federal jurisdiction oversuits brought against one State by citizens of another Stateor foreign state, we have long recognized that the EleventhAmendment accomplished much more: It repudiated thecentral premise of Chisholm that the jurisdictional heads ofArticle III superseded the sovereign immunity that theStates possessed before entering the Union. This has beenour understanding of the Amendment since the landmark527US2 Unit: $U90 [05-09-01 13:06:09] PAGES PGT: OPIN670 COLLEGE SAVINGS BANK v. FLORIDA PREPAIDPOSTSECONDARY ED. EXPENSE BD.Opinion of the Courtcase of Hans v. Louisiana, 134 U. S. 1 (1890). See also Exparte New York, 256 U. S. 490, 497-498 (1921); Principalityof Monaco, supra, at 320-328, Pennhurst State School andHospital v. Halderman, 465 U. S. 89, 97-98 (1984); SeminoleTribe of Fla. v. Florida, 517 U. S. 44, 54, 66-68 (1996).While this immunity from suit is not absolute, we haverecognized only two circumstances in which an individualmay sue a State. First, Congress may authorize such a suitin the exercise of its power to enforce the FourteenthAmendment--an Amendment enacted after the EleventhAmendment and specifically designed to alter the federal-state balance.Fitzpatrick v. Bitzer, 427 U. S. 445 (1976).Second, a State may waive its sovereign immunity by consenting to suit. Clark v. Barnard, 108 U. S. 436, 447-448(1883). This case turns on whether either of these two circumstances is present. IISection 43(a) of the Lanham Act, 15 U. S. C. $ 1125(a),enacted in 1946, created a private right of action against"[a]ny person" who uses false descriptions or makes falserepresentations in commerce. The TRCA amends $ 43(a) bydefining "any person" to include "any State, instrumentalityof a State or employee of a State or instrumentality of aState acting in his or her official capacity." $ 3(c), 106 Stat.3568. The TRCA further amends the Lanham Act to provide that such state entities "shall not be immune, under theeleventh amendment of the Constitution of the United Statesor under any other doctrine of sovereign immunity, from suitin Federal court by any person, including any governmentalor nongovernmental entity for any violation under this Act,"and that remedies shall be available against such state entities "to the same extent as such remedies are available . . .in a suit against" a nonstate entity. $ 3(b) (codified in 15U. S. C. $ 1122).Petitioner College Savings Bank is a New Jersey chartered bank located in Princeton, New Jersey. Since 1987,527US2 Unit: $U90 [05-09-01 13:06:09] PAGES PGT: OPIN671Cite as: 527 U. S. 666 (1999)Opinion of the Courtit has marketed and sold CollegeSure certificates of depositdesigned to finance the costs of college education. CollegeSavings holds a patent upon the methodology of administering its CollegeSure certificates. Respondent FloridaPrepaid Postsecondary Education Expense Board (FloridaPrepaid) is an arm of the State of Florida. Since 1988, ithas administered a tuition prepayment program designed toprovide individuals with sufficient funds to cover future college expenses. College Savings brought a patent infringement action against Florida Prepaid in United StatesDistrict Court in New Jersey. That action is the subjectof today's decision in Florida Prepaid Postsecondary Ed.Expense Bd. v. College Savings Bank, ante, p. 627. In addition, and in the same court, College Savings filed the instantaction alleging that Florida Prepaid violated $ 43(a) of theLanham Act by making misstatements about its own tuitionsavings plans in its brochures and annual reports.Florida Prepaid moved to dismiss this action on theground that it was barred by sovereign immunity. It argued that Congress had not abrogated sovereign immunityin this case because the TRCA was enacted pursuant to Congress's powers under Article I of the Constitution and, underour decisions in Seminole Tribe, supra, and Fitzpatrick,supra, Congress can abrogate state sovereign immunity onlywhen it legislates to enforce the Fourteenth Amendment.The United States intervened to defend the constitutionalityof the TRCA. Both it and College Savings argued that,under the doctrine of constructive waiver articulated in Parden v. Terminal R. Co. of Ala. Docks Dept., 377 U. S. 184(1964), Florida Prepaid had waived its immunity from Lanham Act suits by engaging in the interstate marketing andadministration of its program after the TRCA made clearthat such activity would subject Florida Prepaid to suit.College Savings also argued that Congress's purported abrogation of Florida Prepaid's sovereign immunity in the TRCA527US2 Unit: $U90 [05-09-01 13:06:09] PAGES PGT: OPIN672 COLLEGE SAVINGS BANK v. FLORIDA PREPAIDPOSTSECONDARY ED. EXPENSE BD.Opinion of the Courtwas effective, since it was enacted not merely pursuant toArticle I but also to enforce the Due Process Clause of theFourteenth Amendment. The District Court rejected bothof these arguments and granted Florida Prepaid's motionto dismiss. 948 F. Supp. 400 (N. J. 1996). The Court ofAppeals affirmed. 131 F. 3d 353 (CA3 1997). We grantedcertiorari. 525 U. S. 1063 (1999).IIIWe turn first to the contention that Florida's sovereignimmunity was validly abrogated. Our decision three Termsago in Seminole Tribe, supra, held that the power "to regu-late Commerce" conferred by Article I of the Constitutiongives Congress no authority to abrogate state sovereign im-munity. As authority for the abrogation in the present case,petitioner relies upon $ 5 of the Fourteenth Amendment,which we held inFitzpatrick v. Bitzer, supra, and reaffirmedin Seminole Tribe, see 517 U. S., at 72-73, could be used forthat purpose.Section 1 of the Fourteenth Amendment provides that noState shall "deprive any person of . . . property . . . withoutdue process of law." Section 5 provides that "[t]he Congressshall have power to enforce, by appropriate legislation, theprovisions of this article." We made clear inCity of Boernev. Flores, 521 U. S. 507, 516-529 (1997), that the term"enforce" is to be taken seriously--that the object of valid$ 5 legislation must be the carefully delimited remediationor prevention of constitutional violations. Petitioner claimsthat, with respect to $ 43(a) of the Lanham Act, Congressenacted the TRCA to remedy and prevent state deprivationswithout due process of two species of "property" rights: (1)a right to be free from a business competitor's false advertis-ing about its own product, and (2) a more generalized rightto be secure in one's business interests. Neither of thesequalifies as a property right protected by the Due ProcessClause.527US2 Unit: $U90 [05-09-01 13:06:09] PAGES PGT: OPIN673Cite as: 527 U. S. 666 (1999)Opinion of the CourtAs to the first: The hallmark of a protected property inter-est is the right to exclude others. That is "one of the mostessential sticks in the bundle of rights that are commonlycharacterized as property."Kaiser Aetna v. United States,444 U. S. 164, 176 (1979). That is why the right that we allpossess to use the public lands is not the "property" right ofanyone--hence the sardonic maxim, explaining what economists call the "tragedy of the commons," 1 res publica, resnullius. The Lanham Act may well contain provisions thatprotect constitutionally cognizable property interests--nota-bly, its provisions dealing with infringement of trademarks,which are the "property" of the owner because he can ex-clude others from using them. See,e. g., K mart Corp. v.Cartier, Inc., 485 U. S. 176, 185-186 (1988) ("Trademark law,like contract law, confers private rights, which are themselves rights of exclusion. It grants the trademark owner abundle of such rights"). The Lanham Act's false-advertisingprovisions, however, bear no relationship to any right to exclude; and Florida Prepaid's alleged misrepresentations concerning its own products intruded upon no interest overwhich petitioner had exclusive dominion.Unsurprisingly, petitioner points to no decision of thisCourt (or of any other court, for that matter) recognizing aproperty right in freedom from a competitor's false advertising about its own products. The closest petitioner comes isdicta in International News Service v. Associated Press, 248U. S. 215, 236 (1918), where the Court found equity jurisdiction over an unfair-competition claim because "[t]he rule thata court of equity concerns itself only in the protection ofproperty rights treats any civil right of a pecuniary natureas a property right." But to say that a court of equity"treats any civil right of a pecuniary nature as a propertyright" is not to say that all civil rights of a pecuniary natureare property rights. In fact, when one reads the full pas1 See Hardin, The Tragedy of the Commons, 162 Science 1243 (1968).527US2 Unit: $U90 [05-09-01 13:06:09] PAGES PGT: OPIN674 COLLEGE SAVINGS BANK v. FLORIDA PREPAIDPOSTSECONDARY ED. EXPENSE BD.Opinion of the Courtsage from which this statement is taken it is clear that theCourt was saying just the opposite, namely, that equity willtreat civil rights of a pecuniary nature as property rightseven though they are properly not such:"In order to sustain the jurisdiction of equity over thecontroversy, we need not affirm any general and absolute property in the news as such. The rule that a courtof equity concerns itself only in the protection of property rights treats any civil right of a pecuniary natureas a property right . . . ; and the right to acquire property by honest labor or the conduct of a lawful businessis as much entitled to protection as the right to guardproperty already acquired. . . . It is this right that furnishes the basis of the jurisdiction in the ordinary caseof unfair competition."Id., at 236-237.We may also note that the unfair competition at issue inInternational News Service amounted to nothing short oftheft of proprietary information, something in which a powerto "exclude others" could be said to exist. Seeid., at 233.Petitioner argues that the common-law tort of unfair com-petition "by definition" protects property interests, Brief forPetitioner 15, and thus the TRCA "by definition" is designedto remedy and prevent deprivations of such interests in thefalse-advertising context. Even as a logical matter, thatdoes not follow, since not everything which protects propertyinterests is designed to remedy or preventdeprivations ofthose property interests. A municipal ordinance prohibitingbillboards in residential areas protects the property interestsof homeowners, although erecting billboards would ordinarily not deprive them of property. To sweep within theFourteenth Amendment the elusive property interests thatare "by definition" protected by unfair-competition lawwould violate our frequent admonition that the Due ProcessClause is not merely a "font of tort law." Paul v. Davis, 424U. S. 693, 701 (1976).527US2 Unit: $U90 [05-09-01 13:06:09] PAGES PGT: OPIN675Cite as: 527 U. S. 666 (1999)Opinion of the CourtPetitioner's second assertion of a property interest restsupon an argument similar to the one just discussed, and suffers from the same flaw. Petitioner argues that businessesare "property" within the meaning of the Due ProcessClause, and that Congress legislates under $ 5 when it passesa law that prevents state interference with business (whichfalse advertising does). Brief for Petitioner 19-20. Theassets of a business (including its good will) unquestionablyare property, and any state taking of those assets is unques-tionably a "deprivation" under the Fourteenth Amendment.But business in the sense of the activity of doing business,orthe activity of making a profit is not property in the ordi-nary sense--and it is onlythat, and not any business asset,which is impinged upon by a competitor's false advertising.Finding that there is no deprivation of property at issuehere, we need not pursue the follow-on question that City ofBoerne would otherwise require us to resolve: whether theprophylactic measure taken under purported authority of $ 5(viz., prohibition of States' sovereign-immunity claims, whichare not in themselves violations of the Fourteenth Amendment) was genuinely necessary to prevent violation of theFourteenth Amendment. We turn next to the questionwhether Florida's sovereign immunity, though not abro-gated, was voluntarily waived.IVWe have long recognized that a State's sovereign immu-nity is "a personal privilege which it may waive at pleasure."Clark v. Barnard, 108 U. S., at 447. The decision to waivethat immunity, however, "is altogether voluntary on the partof the sovereignty." Beers v. Arkansas, 20 How. 527, 529(1858). Accordingly, our "test for determining whether aState has waived its immunity from federal-court jurisdic-tion is a stringent one." Atascadero State Hospital v. Scanlon, 473 U. S. 234, 241 (1985). Generally, we will find awaiver either if the State voluntarily invokes our jurisdic527US2 Unit: $U90 [05-09-01 13:06:09] PAGES PGT: OPIN676 COLLEGE SAVINGS BANK v. FLORIDA PREPAIDPOSTSECONDARY ED. EXPENSE BD.Opinion of the Courttion, Gunter v. Atlantic Coast Line R. Co., 200 U. S. 273, 284(1906), or else if the State makes a "clear declaration" that itintends to submit itself to our jurisdiction, Great NorthernLife Ins. Co. v. Read, 322 U. S. 47, 54 (1944). See also Pennhurst State School and Hospital v. Halderman, 465 U. S.,at 99 (State's consent to suit must be "unequivocally ex-pressed"). Thus, a State does not consent to suit in federalcourt merely by consenting to suit in the courts of its owncreation.Smith v. Reeves, 178 U. S. 436, 441-445 (1900).Nor does it consent to suit in federal court merely by statingits intention to "sue and be sued,"Florida Dept. of Healthand Rehabilitative Servs. v. Florida Nursing Home Assn.,450 U. S. 147, 149-150 (1981) (per curiam), or even by authorizing suits against it " `in any court of competent jurisdiction,' " Kennecott Copper Corp. v. State Tax Comm'n, 327U. S. 573, 577-579 (1946). We have even held that a Statemay, absent any contractual commitment to the contrary,alter the conditions of its waiver and apply those changes toa pending suit. Beers v. Arkansas, supra.There is no suggestion here that respondent Florida Prepaid expressly consented to being sued in federal court.Nor is this a case in which the State has affirmatively invoked our jurisdiction. Rather, petitioner College Savingsand the United States both maintain that Florida Prepaidhas "impliedly" or "constructively" waived its immunity fromLanham Act suit. They do so on the authority of Parden v.Terminal R. Co. of Ala. Docks Dept., 377 U. S. 184 (1964)--an elliptical opinion that stands at the nadir of our waiver(and, for that matter, sovereign-immunity) jurisprudence.In Parden, we permitted employees of a railroad owned andoperated by Alabama to bring an action under the FederalEmployers' Liability Act (FELA) against their employer.Despite the absence of any provision in the statute specifically referring to the States, we held that the Act authorizedsuits against the States by virtue of its general provisionsubjecting to suit "[e]very common carrier by railroad . . .527US2 Unit: $U90 [05-09-01 13:06:09] PAGES PGT: OPIN677Cite as: 527 U. S. 666 (1999)Opinion of the Courtengaging in commerce between . . . the several States," 45U. S. C. $ 51 (1940 ed.). We further held that Alabama hadwaived its immunity from FELA suit even though Alabamalaw expressly disavowed any such waiver:"By enacting the [FELA] . . . Congress conditioned theright to operate a railroad in interstate commerce uponamenability to suit in federal court as provided by theAct; by thereafter operating a railroad in interstatecommerce, Alabama must be taken to have accepted thatcondition and thus to have consented to suit." 377U. S., at 192.The four dissenting Justices in Parden refused to infer awaiver because Congress had not "expressly declared" thataState operating in commerce would be subject to liability,but they went on to acknowledge--in a concession that,strictly speaking, was not necessary to their analysis--thatCongress possessed the power to effect such a waiver of theState's constitutionally protected immunity so long as it didso with clarity.Id., at 198-200 (opinion of White, J.).Only nine years later, in Employees of Dept. of PublicHealth and Welfare of Mo. v. Department of Public Healthand Welfare of Mo., 411 U. S. 279 (1973), we began to retreatfromParden. That case held--in an opinion written by oneof the Parden dissenters over the solitary dissent of Parden'sauthor--that the State of Missouri was immune from a suitbrought under the Fair Labor Standards Act by employeesof its state health facilities. Although the statute specifi-cally covered the state hospitals in question, see 29 U. S. C.$ 203(d) (1964 ed.), and such coverage was unquestionably enforceable in federal court by the United States, 411 U. S., at285-286, we did not think that the statute expressed withclarity Congress's intention to supersede the States' immunity from suits brought by individuals. We "put to one side"the Parden case, which we characterized as involving "dramatic circumstances" and "a rather isolated state activity,"527US2 Unit: $U90 [05-09-01 13:06:09] PAGES PGT: OPIN678 COLLEGE SAVINGS BANK v. FLORIDA PREPAIDPOSTSECONDARY ED. EXPENSE BD.Opinion of the Court411 U. S., at 285, unlike the provision of the Fair LaborStandards Act in question that applied to a broad classof state employees. We also distinguished the railroad inParden on the ground that it was "operated for profit" "inthe area where private persons and corporations normallyran the enterprise." 411 U. S., at 284. Justice Marshall,joined by Justice Stewart, went even further, concluding thatalthough, in their view, Congresshad clearly purportedto subject the States to suits by individuals in federal courts,it lacked the constitutional authority to do so. Id., at 287,289-290 (opinion concurring in result).The next year, we observed (in dictum) that there is"no place" for the doctrine of constructive waiver in oursovereign-immunity jurisprudence, and we emphasizedthat we would "find waiver only where stated by the mostexpress language or by such overwhelming implicationsfrom the text as [will] leave no room for any other reasonableconstruction."Edelman v. Jordan, 415 U. S. 651, 673 (1974)(internal quotation marks omitted). Several Terms later,inWelch v. Texas Dept. of Highways and Public Transp.,483 U. S. 468 (1987), although we expressly avoided addressing the constitutionality of Congress's conditioning a State'sengaging in Commerce Clause activity upon the State'swaiver of sovereign immunity, we said there was "no doubtthatParden's discussion of congressional intent to negateEleventh Amendment immunity is no longer good law," andoverruledParden "to the extent [it] is inconsistent with therequirement that an abrogation of Eleventh Amendment im-munity by Congress must be expressed in unmistakablyclear language," 483 U. S., at 478, and n. 8.22 In response to this string of cases criticizing or narrowing the holdingof Parden, Justice Breyer holds up three post-Parden cases as decisionsthat "support[ed]" Parden, post, at 696, or at least "carefully avoided calling [it] into question," post, at 698. His perception of "support" in Atascadero State Hospital v. Scanlon, 473 U. S. 234 (1985), rests upon nothingmore substantial than the fact that the case "suggest[ed] that a waiver527US2 Unit: $U90 [05-09-01 13:06:09] PAGES PGT: OPIN679Cite as: 527 U. S. 666 (1999)Opinion of the CourtCollege Savings and the United States concede, as theysurely must, that these intervening decisions have seriouslylimited the holding of Parden. They maintain, however,that Employees and Welch are distinguishable, and that acore principle of Parden remains good law. A Parden-stylewaiver of immunity, they say, is still possible after Employees and Welch so long as the following two conditions aresatisfied: First, Congress must provide unambiguously thatthe State will be subject to suit if it engages in certain specified conduct governed by federal regulation. Second, theState must voluntarily elect to engage in the federally regulated conduct that subjects it to suit. In this latter regard,their argument goes, a State is never deemed to have constructively waived its sovereign immunity by engaging inactivities that it cannot realistically choose to abandon, suchmay be found in a State's acceptance of a federal grant." Post, at 696.But we make the same suggestion today, while utterly rejecting Parden.As we explain elsewhere in detail, see infra, at 686-687, conditionsattached to a State's receipt of federal funds are simply not analogous toParden-style conditions attached to a State's decision to engage in otherwise lawful commercial activity. Justice Breyer's second case, Welch,overruled Parden in part, as we discuss above, and we think it quite impossible to believe that the following statement in the opinion did not"questio[n] the holding of Parden that the Court today discards," post, at698: "We assume, without deciding or intimating a view of the question,that the authority of Congress to subject unconsenting States to suit infederal court is not confined to $ 5 of the Fourteenth Amendment." 483U. S., at 475. Calling what a prior case has flatly decided a "question" inneed of "deciding," and (lest there be any doubt on the point) making itclear that we "intimat[e] no view" as to whether the answer given by thatprior case was correct, surely was handwriting on the wall which even aninept cryptologist would recognize as spelling out the caption of today'sopinion. As for Seminole Tribe of Fla. v. Florida, 517 U. S. 44 (1996), weexplain elsewhere, see infra, at 682-684, how that case was logically andpractically inconsistent with Parden, even though it did not expresslyoverrule it. Justice Breyer realizes this well enough, or else his callfor an overruling of that case, which occupies almost half of his dissent,see post, at 699-705, would be supremely irrelevant to the matter before us.527US2 Unit: $U90 [05-09-01 13:06:09] PAGES PGT: OPIN680 COLLEGE SAVINGS BANK v. FLORIDA PREPAIDPOSTSECONDARY ED. EXPENSE BD.Opinion of the Courtas the operation of a police force; but constructive waiver isappropriate where a State runs an enterprise for profit, operates in a field traditionally occupied by private persons orcorporations, engages in activities sufficiently removed from"core [state] functions," Reply Brief for United States 3, orotherwise acts as a "market participant" in interstate com-merce, cf.White v. Massachusetts Council of Constr. Employers, Inc., 460 U. S. 204, 206-208 (1983). On this theory,Florida Prepaid constructively waived its immunity fromsuit by engaging in the voluntary and nonessential activityof selling and advertising a for-profit educational investmentvehicle in interstate commerce after being put on notice bythe clear language of the TRCA that it would be subject toLanham Act liability for doing so.We think that the constructive-waiver experiment of Parden was ill conceived, and see no merit in attempting tosalvage any remnant of it. As we explain below in detail,Parden broke sharply with prior cases, and is fundamentallyincompatible with later ones. We have never applied theholding of Parden to another statute, and in fact havenarrowed the case in every subsequent opinion in which ithas been under consideration. In short, Parden stands asan anomaly in the jurisprudence of sovereign immunity, andindeed in the jurisprudence of constitutional law. Today, wedrop the other shoe: Whatever may remain of our decisionin Parden is expressly overruled.To begin with, we cannot square Parden with our casesrequiring that a State's express waiver of sovereign immunity be unequivocal. See, e. g., Great Northern Life Ins. Co.v. Read, 322 U. S. 47 (1944). The whole point of requiring a"clear declaration" by the State of its waiver is to be certainthat the State in fact consents to suit. But there is littlereason to assume actual consent based upon the State's merepresence in a field subject to congressional regulation.There is a fundamental difference between a State's expressing unequivocally that it waives its immunity and Congress's527US2 Unit: $U90 [05-09-01 13:06:09] PAGES PGT: OPIN681Cite as: 527 U. S. 666 (1999)Opinion of the Courtexpressing unequivocally its intention that if the State takescertain action it shall be deemed to have waived that immunity. In the latter situation, the most that can be said withcertainty is that the State has been put on notice that Congress intends to subject it to suits brought by individuals.That is very far from concluding thatthe State made an "alto-gether voluntary" decision to waive its immunity. Beers, 20How., at 529.3Indeed, Parden-style waivers are simply unheard of in thecontext of other constitutionally protected privileges. Aswe said in Edelman, "[c]onstructive consent is not a doctrinecommonly associated with the surrender of constitutionalrights." 415 U. S., at 673. For example, imagine if Congress amended the securities laws to provide with unmistak-able clarity that anyone committing fraud in connection with3 In an attempt to cast doubt on our characterization of Parden as agroundbreaking case, Justice Breyer points to three earlier decisionswhich allegedly demonstrate that Parden worked no major change.These cases, however, have only the most tenuous relation to Parden'sactual holding--as one might suspect from the dissent's soft-pedaled description of them as "roughly comparable" and involving (in quotationmarks) " `waivers.' " Post, at 696. The first two, United States v. California, 297 U. S. 175 (1936), and California v. Taylor, 353 U. S. 553 (1957),involved neither state immunity from suit nor waiver, but the entirelydifferent question whether substantive provisions of Commerce Clauselegislation applied to the States. The former concerned a suit broughtagainst a State by the United States (a situation in which state sovereignimmunity does not exist, see United States v. Texas, 143 U. S. 621 (1892)),and the latter expressly acknowledged that "the Eleventh Amendment"was "not before us," 353 U. S., at 568, n. 16. The last case, Gardner v.New Jersey, 329 U. S. 565 (1947), which held that a bankruptcy court canentertain a trustee's objections to a claim filed by a State, stands for theunremarkable proposition that a State waives its sovereign immunity byvoluntarily invoking the jurisdiction of the federal courts. See supra, at675-676. In sum, none of these cases laid any foundation for Parden--whose author was quite correct in acknowledging that it "presented aquestion of first impression," Employees of Dept. of Public Health andWelfare of Mo. v. Department of Public Health and Welfare of Mo., 411U. S. 279, 299 (1973) (Brennan, J., dissenting).527US2 Unit: $U90 [05-09-01 13:06:09] PAGES PGT: OPIN682 COLLEGE SAVINGS BANK v. FLORIDA PREPAIDPOSTSECONDARY ED. EXPENSE BD.Opinion of the Courtthe buying or selling of securities in interstate commercewould not be entitled to a jury in any federal criminal prosecution of such fraud. Would persons engaging in securitiesfraud after the adoption of such an amendment be deemed tohave "constructively waived" their constitutionally protectedrights to trial by jury in criminal cases? After all, the trading of securities is not so vital an activity that any one person's decision to trade cannot be regarded as a voluntarychoice. The answer, of course, is no. The classic description of an effective waiver of a constitutional right is the"intentional relinquishment or abandonment of a knownright or privilege." Johnson v. Zerbst, 304 U. S. 458, 464(1938). "[C]ourts indulge every reasonable presumptionagainst waiver " of fundamental constituti onal rights.Aetna Ins. Co. v. Kennedy ex rel. Bogash, 301 U. S. 389, 393(1937). See also Ohio Bell Telephone Co. v. Public Util.Comm'n of Ohio, 301 U. S. 292, 307 (1937) (we "do not presume acquiescence in the loss of fundamental rights").State sovereign immunity, no less than the right to trial byjury in criminal cases, is constitutionally protected. GreatNorthern, supra, at 51; Pennhurst, 465 U. S., at 98. Andin the context of federal sovereign immunity--obviously theclosest analogy to the present case--it is well establishedthat waivers are not implied. See, e. g., United States v.King, 395 U. S. 1, 4 (1969) (describing the "settled propositio[n]" that the United States' waiver of sovereign immunity"cannot be implied but must be unequivocally expressed").We see no reason why the rule should be different withrespect to state sovereign immunity.Given how anomalous it is to speak of the "constructivewaiver" of a constitutionally protected privilege, it is notsurprising that the very cornerstone of the Parden opinionwas the notion that state sovereign immunity is not constitutionally grounded. Parden's discussion of waiver beganwith the observation:527US2 Unit: $U90 [05-09-01 13:06:09] PAGES PGT: OPIN683Cite as: 527 U. S. 666 (1999)Opinion of the Court"By empowering Congress to regulate commerce . . .the States necessarily surrendered any portion of theirsovereignty that would stand in the way of such regula-tion. Since imposition of the FELA right of actionupon interstate railroads is within the congressionalregulatory power, it must follow that application of theAct to such a railroad cannot be precluded by sovereignimmunity." 377 U. S., at 192.See also id., at 193-194, n. 11. Our more recent decisioninSeminole Tribe expressly repudiates that proposition, andin formally overruling Parden we do no more than makeexplicit what that case implied.Recognizing a congressional power to exact constructivewaivers of sovereign immunity through the exercise of Arti-cle I powers would also, as a practical matter, permit Congress to circumvent the antiabrogation holding of SeminoleTribe. Forced waiver and abrogation are not even differentsides of the same coin--they are the same side of the samecoin. "All congressional creations of private rights of actionattach recovery to the defendant's commission of some act,or possession of some status, in a field where Congress hasauthority to regulate conduct. Thus, all federal prescriptions are, insofar as their prospective application is con-cerned, in a sense conditional, and--to the extent that theobjects of the prescriptions consciously engage in the activ-ity or hold the status that produces liability--can be redescribed as invitations to `waiver.' " Pennsylvania v. UnionGas Co., 491 U. S. 1, 43 (1989) (Scalia, J., dissenting). Seealso Fitzpatrick, 427 U. S., at 451-452 (referring to congressional intent to "abrogate" state sovereign immunity as a"necessary predicate" forParden-style waiver). There islittle more than a verbal distinction between saying thatCongress can make Florida liable to private parties for falseor misleading advertising in interstate commerce of its prepaid tuition program, and saying the same thing but adding527US2 Unit: $U90 [05-09-01 13:06:09] PAGES PGT: OPIN684 COLLEGE SAVINGS BANK v. FLORIDA PREPAIDPOSTSECONDARY ED. EXPENSE BD.Opinion of the Courtat the end "if Florida chooses to engage in such advertising."As further evidence that constructive waiver is little morethan abrogation under another name, consider the revealingfacts of this case: The statutory provision relied upon todemonstrate that Florida constructively waived its sovereign immunity is the very same provision that purported toabrogate it.Nor do we think that the constitutionally grounded principle of state sovereign immunity is any less robust where, ashere, the asserted basis for constructive waiver is conductthat the State realistically could choose to abandon, that isundertaken for profit, that is traditionally performed by private citizens and corporations, and that otherwise resemblesthe behavior of "market participants." Permitting abrogation or constructive waiver of the constitutional right onlywhen these conditions exist would of course limit the evil--but it is hard to say that that limitation has any moresupport in text or tradition than, say, limiting abrogation orconstructive waiver to the last Friday of the month. Sincesovereign immunity itself was not traditionally limited bythese factors, and since they have no bearing upon the voluntariness of the waiver, there is no principled reason why theyshould enter into our waiver analysis. When we held inSeminole Tribe that sovereign immunity barred an actionbrought under the Indian Gaming Regulatory Act againstthe State of Florida for its alleged failure to negotiate a gambling compact with the Seminole Tribe of Indians, we did notpause to consider whether Florida's decision not to negotiatewas somehow involuntary. Nor did we pause to considerwhether running a tugboat towing service at "fair and reasonable rates" was for profit, was traditionally performed byprivate citizens and corporations, and otherwise resembledthe behavior of "market participants" when we held, in Exparte New York, 256 U. S. 490 (1921), that sovereign immunity foreclosed an admiralty action against the State of New527US2 Unit: $U90 [05-09-01 13:06:09] PAGES PGT: OPIN685Cite as: 527 U. S. 666 (1999)Opinion of the CourtYork for damages caused by the State's engaging in suchactivity. Hans itself involved an action against Louisianato recover coupons on a bond--the issuance of which surelyrendered Louisiana a participant in the financial markets.The "market participant" cases from our dormantCommerce Clause jurisprudence, relied upon by the UnitedStates, are inapposite. See, e. g., White v. MassachusettsCouncil of Constr. Employers, Inc., 460 U. S. 204 (1983);Reeves, Inc. v. Stake, 447 U. S. 429 (1980); and Hughes v.Alexandria Scrap Corp., 426 U. S. 794 (1976). Those caseshold that, where a State acts as a participant in the privatemarket, it may prefer the goods or services of its own citizens, even though it could not do so while acting as a marketregulator. Since "state proprietary activities may be, andoften are, burdened with the same restrictions imposed onprivate market participants," "[e]venhandedness suggeststhat, when acting as proprietors, States should similarlyshare existing freedoms from federal constraints, includingthe inherent limits of the [dormant] Commerce Clause."White, supra, at 207-208, n. 3. The "market participant"exception to judicially created dormant Commerce Clauserestrictions makes sense because the evil addressed by thoserestrictions--the prospect that States will use custom duties,exclusionary trade regulations, and other exercises ofgovernmental power (as opposed to the expenditure of stateresources) to favor their own citizens, see Hughes, supra,at 808--is entirely absent where the States are buying andselling in the market. In contrast, a suit by an individual against an unconsenting State is the very evil at whichthe Eleventh Amendment is directed--and it exists whetheror not the State is acting for profit, in a traditionally"private" enterprise, and as a "market participant." In thesovereign-immunity context, moreover, "[e]venhandness"between individuals and States is not to be expected: "[T]heconstitutional role of the States sets them apart from other527US2 Unit: $U90 [05-09-01 13:06:09] PAGES PGT: OPIN686 COLLEGE SAVINGS BANK v. FLORIDA PREPAIDPOSTSECONDARY ED. EXPENSE BD.Opinion of the Courtemployers and defendants." Welch, 483 U. S., at 477.Cf. Atascadero, 473 U. S., at 246.4The United States points to two other contexts in whichit asserts we have permitted Congress, in the exercise ofits Article I powers, to extract "constructive waivers" ofstate sovereign immunity. InPetty v. Tennessee-MissouriBridge Comm'n, 359 U. S. 275 (1959), we held that a bistatecommission which had been created pursuant to an interstatecompact (and which we assumed partook of state sovereignimmunity) had consented to suit by reason of a suability pro-vision attached to the congressional approval of the compact.And we have held in such cases as South Dakota v. Dole, 483U. S. 203 (1987), that Congress may, in the exercise of itsspending power, condition its grant of funds to the Statesupon their taking certain actions that Congress could notrequire them to take, and that acceptance of the funds entailsan agreement to the actions. These cases seem to us fundamentally different from the present one. Under the Com-pact Clause, U. S. Const., Art. I, $ 10, cl. 3, Statescannotform an interstate compact without first obtaining the express consent of Congress; the granting of such consent is agratuity. So also, Congress has no obligation to use itsSpending Clause power to disburse funds to the States; such4 As for the suggestion of Justice Breyer that we limit state sovereignimmunity to noncommercial state activities because Congress has so limited foreign sovereign immunity, in accord with the "modern trend," seepost, at 699 (dissenting opinion) (citing the Foreign Sovereign ImmunitiesAct of 1976 (FSIA), 28 U. S. C. $ 1605(a)(2)), see also Justice Stevens'sdissent, post, at 692: This proposal ignores the fact that state sovereignimmunity, unlike foreign sovereign immunity, is a constitutional doctrinethat is meant to be both immutable by Congress and resistant to trends.The text of the Eleventh Amendment, of course, makes no distinction between commercial and noncommercial state activities--and so if we wereto combine Justice Breyer's literalistic interpretation of that Amendment with his affection for FSIA, we would have a "commercial activities"exception for all suits against States except those commenced in federalcourt by citizens of another State, a disposition that hardly "makes sense,"post, at 699.527US2 Unit: $U90 [05-09-01 13:06:09] PAGES PGT: OPIN687Cite as: 527 U. S. 666 (1999)Opinion of the Courtfunds are gifts. In the present case, however, what Con-gress threatens if the State refuses to agree to its conditionis not the denial of a gift or gratuity, but a sanction: exclusionof the State from otherwise permissible activity.JusticeBreyer's dissent acknowledges the intuitive difference be-tween the two, but asserts that it disappears when the giftthat is threatened to be withheld is substantial enough.Post, at 697. Perhaps so, which is why, in cases involvingconditions attached to federal funding, we have acknowledged that "the financial inducement offered by Congressmight be so coercive as to pass the point at which `pressureturns into compulsion.' " Dole, supra, at 211, quoting Steward Machine Co. v. Davis, 301 U. S. 548, 590 (1937). In anyevent, we think where the constitutionally guaranteed protection of the States' sovereign immunity is involved, thepoint of coercion is automatically passed--and the voluntariness of waiver destroyed--when what is attached to the re-fusal to waive is the exclusion of the State from otherwiselawful activity. VThe principal thrust of Justice Breyer's dissent is anattack upon the very legitimacy of state sovereign immunityitself. In this regard, Justice Breyer and the other dis-senters proclaim that they are "notyet ready," post, at 699(emphasis added), to adhere to the still-warm precedent ofSeminole Tribe and to the 110-year-old decision in Hansthat supports it.5 Accordingly, Justice Breyer reiterates5 Justice Breyer purports to "accept this Court's pre-Seminole Tribesovereign immunity decisions," post, at 699 (dissenting opinion), but bythat he could not mean Hans, but rather only the distorted view of Hansthat prevailed briefly between Parden and Seminole Tribe. Parden wasthe first case to suggest that the sovereign immunity announced in Hanswas so fragile a flower that it could be abrogated under Article I--a suggestion contrary to the reality that Hans itself involved a congressionalconferral of jurisdiction enacted under Article I. See Pennsylvania v.Union Gas, 491 U. S. 1, 36-37 (1989) (Scalia, J., dissenting). Moreover,that conferral of jurisdiction was combined, in Hans, with a substantive527US2 Unit: $U90 [05-09-01 13:06:09] PAGES PGT: OPIN688 COLLEGE SAVINGS BANK v. FLORIDA PREPAIDPOSTSECONDARY ED. EXPENSE BD.Opinion of the Court(but only in outline form, thankfully) the now-fashionablerevisionist accounts of the Eleventh Amendment set forthin other opinions in a degree of repetitive detail that hasdespoiled our northern woods. Compare post, at 700-701,with Atascadero, supra, at 258-302 (Brennan, J., dissenting);Welch, supra, at 504-516 (Brennan, J., dissenting); SeminoleTribe, 517 U. S., at 76-99 (Stevens, J., dissenting); id., at100-185 (Souter, J., dissenting). But see Alden v. Maine,post, at 760-808 (Souter, J., dissenting). The argumentsrecited in these sources have been soundly refuted, and theposition for which they have been marshaled has been re-jected by constitutional tradition and precedent as clear andconclusive, and almost as venerable, as that which consignsdebate over whether Marbury v. Madison, 1 Cranch 137(1803), was wrongly decided to forums more otherworldlythan ours. See Union Gas, 491 U. S., at 33-34, 35-42(Scalia, J., dissenting); Seminole Tribe, supra, at 54-73;Alden, post, at 712-730. On this score, we think nothingfurther need be said except two minor observations peculiarto this case.claim under the Contracts Clause of the Constitution itself, which onewould think to have greater, rather than lesser, abrogative force than asubstantive statute enacted pursuant to the Commerce Clause. JusticeBreyer would apparently interpose that the statute in Hans did not expressly " `purpor[t] to pierce state immunity,' " post, at 700, quoting Seminole Tribe, 517 U. S., at 119 (Souter, J., dissenting)--but the opinion inHans did not allude to that refinement, nor did Parden think it made anydifference. The so-called "clear statement rule" was not even adumbrated until nine years after Parden, in Employees, 411 U. S., at 284-285.It is difficult to square Justice Breyer's reliance upon the distinctionthat the present case involves a federal question (and is therefore notexplicitly covered by the Eleventh Amendment), see post, at 700-701, withits professed fidelity to Hans, the whole point of which was that the sovereign immunity reflected in (rather than created by) the Eleventh Amendment transcends the narrow text of the Amendment itself. Or to put itdifferently, the "pre-Seminole Tribe sovereign immunity decisions" towhich Justice Breyer pledges allegiance appear to include Chisholm v.Georgia, 2 Dall. 419 (1793). But see U. S. Const., Amdt. 11.527US2 Unit: $U90 [05-09-01 13:06:09] PAGES PGT: OPIN689Cite as: 527 U. S. 666 (1999)Opinion of the CourtFirst, Justice Breyer and the other dissenters haveadopted a decidedly perverse theory ofstare decisis. Whilefinding themselves entirely unconstrained by a venerableprecedent such asHans, embedded within our legal systemfor over a century, see, e. g., Welch, 483 U. S., at 494, n. 27;Union Gas, supra, at 34-35 (Scalia, J., dissenting), at thesame time they cling desperately to an anomalous andseverely undermined decision (Parden) from the 1960's.Surely this approach tostare decisis is exactly backwards--unless, of course, one wishes to use it as a weapon ratherthan a guide, in which case any old approach will do. Second, while we stress that the following observation has nobearing upon our resolution of this case, we find it puzzlingthat Justice Breyer would choose this occasion to criticizeour sovereign-immunity jurisprudence as being ungroundedin constitutional text, since the present lawsuit that he wouldallow to go forward--having apparently been commencedagainst a State (Florida) by a citizen of another State (College Savings Bank of New Jersey), 948 F. Supp., at 401-402--seems to fall foursquare within the literal text of the Eleventh Amendment: "The Judicial power of the United Statesshall not be construed to extend to any suit in law or equity,commenced or prosecuted against one of the United Statesby Citizens of another State . . . ." U. S. Const., Amdt. 11(emphasis added). See Seminole Tribe, supra, at 82, n. 8(Stevens, J., dissenting).As for the more diffuse treatment of the subject of federalism contained in the last portion of Justice Breyer's opinion: It is alarming to learn that so many Members of thisCourt subscribe to a theory of federalism that rejects "thedetails of any particular federalist doctrine"--which it sayscan and should "change to reflect the Nation's changingneeds"--and that puts forward as the only "unchanging goal"of federalism worth mentioning "the protection of liberty,"which it believes is most directly achieved by "promotingthe sharing among citizens of governmental decisionmaking527US2 Unit: $U90 [05-09-01 13:06:09] PAGES PGT: OPIN690 COLLEGE SAVINGS BANK v. FLORIDA PREPAIDPOSTSECONDARY ED. EXPENSE BD.Opinion of the Courtauthority," which in turn demands (we finally come to thepoint) "necessary legislative flexibility" for the people's representatives in Congress. Post, at 702-703. The proposi-tion that "the protection of liberty" is most directly achievedby "promoting the sharing among citizens of governmentaldecisionmaking authority" might well have dropped fromthe lips of Robespierre, but surely not from those of Madison, Jefferson, or Hamilton, whose north star was that gov-ernmental power, even--indeed, especially--governmentalpower wielded by the people, had to be dispersed and countered. And to say that the degree of dispersal to the States,and hence the degree of check by the States, is to be governed by Congress's need for "legislative flexibility" is todeny federalism utterly. (Justice Breyer's opinion comesclose to admitting this when the only example of a "federalism" constraint that it can bear to acknowledge as beingappropriate for judicial recognition is the invalidation of aState's law under--of all things, given the passion for textthat characterizes some parts of his opinion--the "dormantCommerce Clause," post, at 703.) Legislative flexibility onthe part of Congress will be the touchstone of federalismwhen the capacity to support combustion becomes the acidtest of a fire extinguisher. Congressional flexibility is desirable, of course--but only within the bounds of federal powerestablished by the Constitution. Beyond those bounds (thetheory of our Constitution goes), it is a menace. Our opiniontoday has sought to discern what the bounds are; JusticeBreyer's dissent denies them any permanent place.Finally, we must comment upon Justice Breyer'scomparison of our decision today with the discreditedsubstantive-due-process case of Lochner v. New York, 198U. S. 45 (1905). It resembles Lochner, of course, in the respect that it rejects a novel assertion of governmental powerwhich the legislature believed to be justified. But if thatalone were enough to qualify as a mini-Lochner, the list ofmini-Lochners would be endless. Most of our judgments in527US2 Unit: $U90 [05-09-01 13:06:09] PAGES PGT: OPIN691Cite as: 527 U. S. 666 (1999)Stevens, J., dissentingvalidating state and federal laws fit that description. Wehad always thought that the distinctive feature of Lochner,nicely captured in Justice Holmes's dissenting remark about"Mr. Herbert Spencer's Social Statics," id., at 75, was that itsought to impose a particular economic philosophy upon theConstitution. And we think that feature aptly characterizes, not our opinion, but Justice Breyer's dissent, whichbelieves that States should not enjoy the normal constitutional protections of sovereign immunity when they step outof their proper economic role to engage in (we are sure Mr.Herbert Spencer would be shocked) "ordinary commercialventures,"post, at 694. What ever happened to the needfor "legislative flexibility"?* * *Concluding, for the foregoing reasons, that the sovereignimmunity of the State of Florida was neither validly abrogated by the Trademark Remedy Clarification Act, norvoluntarily waived by the State's activities in interstatecommerce, we hold that the federal courts are without juris-diction to entertain this suit against an arm of the State ofFlorida. The judgment of the Third Circuit dismissing theaction is affirmed.