Between January and April 1990, petitioner committed sixbank robberies on six different dates in the Houston, Texas,area. In each robbery, he used a gun. Petitioner was convicted of six counts of bank robbery, 18 U. S. C. $$ 2113(a)and (d), six counts of carrying and using a firearm duringand in relation to a crime of violence, $ 924(c), and one countof being a felon in possession of firearms, $ 922(g). Title 18U. S. C. $ 924(c)(1) (1988 ed., Supp. III) provides:"Whoever, during and in relation to any crime of violence . . . uses or carries a firearm, shall, in addition tothe punishment provided for such crime of violence . . . ,be sentenced to imprisonment for five years . . . . Inthe case of his second or subsequent conviction underthis subsection, such person shall be sentenced to imprisonment for twenty years . . . ."508us1$72K 02-14-97 20:00:03 PAGES OPINPGT131Cite as: 508 U. S. 129 (1993)Opinion of the CourtThe United States District Court for the Southern Districtof Texas sentenced petitioner to 5 years' imprisonment onthe first $ 924(c)(1) count and to 20 years on each of the otherfive $ 924(c)(1) counts, the terms to run consecutively. TheUnited States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit affirmedthe convictions and sentence. 954 F. 2d 262 (1992). Wegranted certiorari on the question whether petitioner's second through sixth convictions under $ 924(c)(1) in this singleproceeding arose "[i]n the case of his second or subsequentconviction" within the meaning of $ 924(c)(1). 506 U. S. 814(1992).Petitioner contends that the language of $ 924(c)(1) is facially ambiguous, and should therefore be construed in hisfavor pursuant to the rule of lenity. His principal argumentin this regard is that the word "conviction" can, according tothe dictionary, have two meanings, "either the return of ajury verdict of guilt or the entry of a final judgment on thatverdict," Brief for Petitioner 4; and that the phrase "secondor subsequent conviction" could therefore "mean `an additional finding of guilt rendered at any time' " (which wouldinclude petitioner's convictions on the second through sixthcounts in the single proceeding here) or " `a judgment of conviction entered at a later time,' " (which would not includethose convictions, since the District Court entered only asingle judgment on all of the counts), id., at 7.It is certainly correct that the word "conviction" can meaneither the finding of guilt or the entry of a final judgment onthat finding. The word has many other meanings as well,including "[a]ct of convincing of error, or of compelling theadmission of a truth"; "[s]tate of being convinced; esp., stateof being convicted of sin, or by one's conscience"; "[a] strongpersuasion or belief; as, to live up to one's convictions; anintensity of thorough conviction." Webster's New International Dictionary 584 (2d ed. 1950). But of course susceptibility of all of these meanings does not render the word "conviction," whenever it is used, ambiguous; all but one of the508us1$72K 02-14-97 20:00:03 PAGES OPINPGT132 DEAL v. UNITED STATESOpinion of the Courtmeanings is ordinarily eliminated by context. There is notthe slightest doubt, for example, that $ 924(c)(1), which dealswith punishment in this world rather than the next, does notuse "conviction" to mean the state of being convicted of sin.Petitioner's contention overlooks, we think, this fundamentalprinciple of statutory construction (and, indeed, of languageitself) that the meaning of a word cannot be determined inisolation, but must be drawn from the context in which it isused. SeeKing v. St. Vincent's Hospital, 502 U. S. 215, 221(1991); Davis v. Michigan Dept. of Treasury, 489 U. S. 803,809 (1989);United States v. Morton, 467 U. S. 822, 828 (1984).In the context of $ 924(c)(1), we think it unambiguous that"conviction" refers to the finding of guilt by a judge or jurythat necessarily precedes the entry of a final judgment ofconviction. A judgment of conviction includes both the adjudication of guilt and the sentence. See Fed. Rule Crim.Proc. 32(b)(1) ("A judgment of conviction shall set forth theplea, the verdict or findings, and the adjudication and sentence" (emphasis added)); see also Black's Law Dictionary843 (6th ed. 1990) (quoting Rule 32(b)(1) in defining "judgment of conviction"). Thus, if "conviction" in $ 924(c)(1)meant "judgment of conviction," the provision would be incoherent, prescribing that a sentence which has already beenimposed (the defendant's second or subsequent "conviction")shall be 5 or 20 years longer than it was.Petitioner contends that this absurd result is avoided bythe "[i]n the case of " language at the beginning of the provision. He maintains that a case is the "case of [a defendant's]second or subsequent" entry of judgment of conviction evenbefore the court has entered that judgment of conviction andeven before the court has imposed the sentence that is theprerequisite to the entry of judgment of conviction. Wethink not. If "conviction" meant "entry of judgment of conviction," a "case" would surely not be the "case of his secondor subsequent conviction" until that judgment of convictionwas entered, by which time a lower sentence than that which508us1$72K 02-14-97 20:00:03 PAGES OPINPGT133Cite as: 508 U. S. 129 (1993)Opinion of the Court$ 924(c)(1) requires would already have been imposed. Andmore fundamentally still, petitioner's contention displaysonce again the regrettable penchant for construing words inisolation. The word "case" can assuredly refer to a legalproceeding, and if the phrase "in the case of " is followed bya name, such as "Marbury v. Madison," that is the apparentmeaning. When followed by an act or event, however, "inthe case of " normally means "in the event of "--and we thinkthat is its meaning here.The sentence of $ 924(c)(1) that immediately follows theone at issue here confirms our reading of the term "conviction." That sentence provides: "Notwithstanding anyother provision of law, the court shall not place on probationor suspend the sentence of any person convicted of a violation of this subsection." That provision, like the one beforeus in this case, is obviously meant to control the terms ofa sentence yet to be imposed. But if we give the term"convicted" a meaning similar to what petitioner contendsis meant by "conviction"--as connoting, that is, the entry ofjudgment, which includes sentence--we once again confronta situation in which the prescription of the terms of a sentence cannot be effective until it is too late, i. e., until afterthe sentence has already been pronounced.1We are also confirmed in our conclusion by the recognitionthat petitioner's reading would give a prosecutor unreviewable discretion either to impose or to waive the enhancedsentencing provisions of $ 924(c)(1) by opting to charge andtry the defendant either in separate prosecutions or undera multicount indictment. Although the present prosecution1 Petitioner also argues that the terms "second" and "subsequent" admitof at least two meanings--next in time and next in order or succession.That ambiguity is worth pursuing if "conviction" means "judgment," sincea judgment entered once-in-time can (as here) include multiple counts.The point becomes irrelevant, however, when "conviction" means (as wehold) a finding of guilt. Unlike a judgment on several counts, findings ofguilt on several counts are necessarily arrived at successively in time.508us1$72K 02-14-97 20:00:03 PAGES OPINPGT134 DEAL v. UNITED STATESOpinion of the Courtwould not have permitted enhanced sentencing, if the samecharges had been divided into six separate prosecutions forthe six separate bank robberies, enhanced sentencing wouldclearly have been required. We are not disposed to give thestatute a meaning that produces such strange consequences.2The dissent contends that $ 924(c)(1) must be read to impose the enhanced sentence only for an offense committedafter a previous sentence has become final. Though this interpretation was not mentioned in petitioner's briefs, andwas put forward only as a fallback position in petitioner'soral argument, see Tr. of Oral Arg. 4, the dissent thinks itso "obvious," post, at 142, that our rejection of it constitutesa triumph of "textualism" over "common sense," post, at 146,and the result of "an elaborate exercise in sentence parsing,"ibid. We note, to begin with, that most of the textual distinctions made in this opinion--all of them up to this point--respond to the elaborate principal argument of petitionerthat "conviction" means "entry of judgment." It takes notmuch "sentence parsing" to reject the quite different argument of the dissent that the terms "subsequent offense" and"second or subsequent conviction" mean exactly the samething, so that "second conviction" means "first offense afteran earlier conviction."No one can disagree with the dissent's assertion that "Congress sometimes uses slightly different language to conveythe same message," post, at 137--but when it does so it uses"slightly different language" that means the same thing."Member of the House" instead of "Representative," for2 The dissent contends that even under our reading of the statute,"prosecutors will continue to enjoy considerable discretion in deciding howmany $ 924(c) offenses to charge in relation to a criminal transaction orseries of transactions." Post, at 145. That discretion, however, pertainsto the prosecutor's universally available and unvoidable power to chargeor not to charge an offense. Petitioner's reading would confer the extraordinary new power to determine the punishment for a charged offenseby simply modifying the manner of charging.508us1$72K 02-14-97 20:00:03 PAGES OPINPGT135Cite as: 508 U. S. 129 (1993)Opinion of the Courtexample. Or "criminal offense" instead of "crime." But tosay that "subsequent offense" means the same thing as "second or subsequent conviction" requires a degree of verbalknow-nothingism that would render government by legislation quite impossible. Under the terminology "second orsubsequent conviction," in the context at issue here, it is en-tirely clear (without any "sentence parsing") that a defendant convicted of a crime committed in 1992, who has pre-viously been convicted of a crime committed in 1993, wouldreceive the enhanced sentence.The dissent quotes extensively fromGonzalez v. UnitedStates, 224 F. 2d 431 (CA1 1955). See post, at 138-139. Butfar from supporting the "text-insensitive" approach favoredby the dissent, that case acknowledges that "[i]n construingsubsequent offender statutes . . . the decisions of the courtshave varied depending upon the particular statute involved."224 F. 2d, at 434. It says, as the dissent points out, thatfederal courts have "uniformly" held it to be the rule that asecond offense can occur only after conviction for the first.Ibid. But those holdings were not arrived at in disregardof the statutory text. To the contrary, as Gonzalez goes onto explain:" `It cannot legally be known that an offense has beencommitted until there has been a conviction. A secondoffense, as used in the criminal statutes, is one that hasbeen committed after conviction for a first offense.' "Ibid. (quoting Holst v. Owens, 24 F. 2d 100, 101 (CA51928)).The present statute, however, does not use the term "offense," so it cannot possibly be said that it requires a criminal act after the first conviction. What it requires is a conviction after the first conviction. There is utterly noambiguity in that, and hence no occasion to invoke the ruleof lenity. (The erroneous lower-court decisions cited by thedissent, see post, at 142-144, do not alter this assessment;508us1$72K 02-14-97 20:00:03 PAGES OPINPGT136 DEAL v. UNITED STATESOpinion of the Courtjudges cannot cause a clear text to become ambiguous byignoring it.)In the end, nothing but personal intuition supports the dis-sent's contention that the statute is directed at those who" `failed to learn their lessons from the initial punishment,' "post, at 146 (quoting United States v. Neal, 976 F. 2d 601, 603(CA9 1992) (Fletcher, J., dissenting)). Like most intuitions,it finds Congress to have intended what the intuitor thinksCongress ought to intend.3 And like most intuitions, it isnot very precise. "[F]ailed to learn their lessons from theinitial punishment" would seem to suggest that the servingof the punishment, rather than the mere pronouncement ofit, is necessary before the repeat criminal will be deemedan inadequate student--a position that certainly appeals to"common sense," if not to text. Elsewhere, however, thedissent says that the lesson is taught once "an earlier convic-tion has become final,"post, at 142--so that the felon whoescapes during a trial that results in a conviction becomeseligible for enhanced punishment for his later crimes, thoughhe has seemingly been taught no lesson except that the lawis easy to beat. But no matter. Once text is abandoned,one intuition will serve as well as the other. We choose tofollow the language of the statute, which gives no indicationthat punishment of those who fail to learn the "lesson" ofprior conviction or of prior punishment is the sole purposeof $ 924(c)(1), to the exclusion of other penal goals such astaking repeat offenders off the streets for especially long pe-riods, or simply visiting society's retribution upon repeat offenders more severely. We do not agree with the dissent'ssuggestion that these goals defy "common sense." It seemsto us eminently sensible to punish the second murder, for3 The dissent quotes approvingly the ungarnished policy view that" `punishing first offenders [i. e., repeat offenders who have not yet beenconvicted of an earlier offense] with twenty-five-year sentences does notdeter crime as much as it ruins lives.' " Post, at 146, n. 10 (quoting UnitedStates v. Jones, 965 F. 2d 1507, 1521 (CA8 1992)).508us1$72K 02-14-97 20:00:03 PAGES OPINPGT137Cite as: 508 U. S. 129 (1993)Stevens, J., dissentingexample, with life in prison rather than a term of years--whether or not conviction of the first murder (or completionof the sentence for the first murder) has yet occurred.Finally, we need not tarry over petitioner's contention thatthe rule of lenity is called for because his 105-year sentence"is so glaringly unjust that the Court cannot but questionwhether Congress intended such an application of thephrase, `in the case of his second or subsequent conviction.' "Brief for Petitioner 24. Even under the dissent's reading of$ 924(c)(1), some criminals whose only offenses consist of sixarmed bank robberies would receive a total sentence of 105years in prison. We see no reason why it is "glaringly unjust" that petitioner be treated similarly here, simply be-cause he managed to evade detection, prosecution, and conviction for the first five offenses and was ultimately tried forall six in a single proceeding.The judgment of the Court of Appeals is affirmed.