This case arises out of a "detainer," which is a request filedby a criminal justice agency with the institution in which aprisoner is incarcerated, asking that the prisoner be held forthe agency, or that the agency be advised when the prisoner's release is imminent. Indiana and Michigan, along with46 other States, the District of Columbia, and the UnitedStates, are parties to the Interstate Agreement on Detainers(IAD). See Ind. Code $ 35-33-10-4 (1988); Mich. Comp.Laws $ 780.601 (1979); Pub. L. 91-538, 84 Stat. 1397-1403, 18U. S. C. App. $ 2; 11 U. L. A. 213-214 (Supp. 1992) (listing507US1$30K 11-18-96 17:30:38 PAGES OPINPGT45Cite as: 507 U. S. 43 (1993)Opinion of the Courtjurisdictions). Two provisions of that interstate agreementgive rise to the present suit: Article III and Article V(c),which are set forth in the margin.11 Title 18 U. S. C. App. $ 2 contains the full text of the IAD, and werefer to its provisions by their original article numbers, as set forth there.Article III of the IAD provides in relevant part as follows:"(a) Whenever a person has entered upon a term of imprisonment in apenal or correctional institution of a party State, and whenever during thecontinuance of the term of imprisonment there is pending in any otherparty State any untried indictment, information, or complaint on the basisof which a detainer has been lodged against the prisoner, he shall bebrought to trial within one hundred and eighty days after he shall havecaused to be delivered to the prosecuting officer and the appropriate courtof the prosecuting officer's jurisdiction written notice of the place of hisimprisonment and his request for a final disposition to be made of theindictment, information, or complaint: Provided, That, for good causeshown in open court, the prisoner or his counsel being present, the courthaving jurisdiction of the matter may grant any necessary or reasonablecontinuance. The request of the prisoner shall be accompanied by a certificate of the appropriate official having custody of the prisoner, statingthe term of commitment under which the prisoner is being held, the timealready served, the time remaining to be served on the sentence, theamount of good time earned, the time of parole eligibility of the prisoner,and any decision of the State parole agency relating to the prisoner."(b) The written notice and request for final disposition referred to inparagraph (a) hereof shall be given or sent by the prisoner to the warden,commissioner of corrections, or other official having custody of him, whoshall promptly forward it together with the certificate to the appropriateprosecuting official and court by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested."(c) The warden, commissioner of corrections, or other official havingcustody of the prisoner shall promptly inform him of the source and contents of any detainer lodged against him and shall also inform him of hisright to make a request for final disposition of the indictment, information,or complaint on which the detainer is based."Article V(c) of the IAD provides, in relevant part:"[I]n the event that an action on the indictment, information, or complaint on the basis of which the detainer has been lodged is not broughtto trial within the period provided in article III . . . hereof, the appropriatecourt of the jurisdiction where the indictment, information, or complaint507US1$30K 11-18-96 17:30:38 PAGES OPINPGT46 FEX v. MICHIGANOpinion of the CourtOn February 29, 1988, petitioner was charged in JacksonCounty, Michigan, with armed robbery, possession of a firearm during a felony, and assault with intent to murder. Atthe time, he was held in connection with unrelated offensesat the Westville Correctional Center in Westville, Indiana.The Jackson County Prosecuting Attorney therefore lodgeda detainer against him. On September 7, 1988, the Indianacorrectional authorities informed petitioner of the detainer,and he gave them his request for final disposition of theMichigan charges. On September 22, the prison authoritiesmailed petitioner's request; and on September 26, 1988, theJackson County Prosecuting Attorney and the JacksonCounty Circuit Court received it. Petitioner's trial on theMichigan charges began on March 22, 1989, 177 days afterhis request was delivered to the Michigan officials and 196days after petitioner gave his request to the Indiana prisonauthorities. 439 Mich. 117, 118, 479 N. W. 2d 625 (1992)(per curiam).Prior to trial, petitioner moved for dismissal with prejudice pursuant to Article V(c) of the IAD, on the ground thathis trial would not begin until after the 180-day time limitset forth in Article III(a). The trial court denied the motion, reasoning that the 180-day time period did not commence until the Michigan prosecutor's office received petitioner's request. App. 36. Petitioner was convicted on allcharges except assault with intent to murder, but his conviction was set aside by the Michigan Court of Appeals, whichheld that "the commencement of the 180-day statutory period was triggered by [petitioner's] request for final disposition to the [Indiana] prison officials." Id., at 39. TheSupreme Court of Michigan summarily reversed. 439 Mich.117, 479 N. W. 2d 625 (1992) (per curiam). We granted certiorari. 504 U. S. 908 (1992).has been pending shall enter an order dismissing the same with prejudice,and any detainer based thereon shall cease to be of any force or effect."507US1$30K 11-18-96 17:30:38 PAGES OPINPGT47Cite as: 507 U. S. 43 (1993)Opinion of the CourtThe outcome of the present case turns upon the meaningof the phrase, in Article III(a), "within one hundred andeighty days after he shall have caused to be delivered." Theissue, specifically, is whether, within the factual context before us, that phrase refers to (1) the time at which petitionertransmitted his notice and request (hereinafter simply "request") to the Indiana correctional authorities; or rather(2) the time at which the Michigan prosecutor and court(hereinafter simply "prosecutor") received that request.Respondent argues that no one can have "caused something to be delivered" unless delivery in fact occurs. Thatis self-evidently true,2 and so we must reject petitioner's contention that a prisoner's transmittal of an IAD request to2 Not, however, to the dissent: "The fact that the rule for marking thestart of the 180-day period is written in a fashion that contemplates actualdelivery . . . does not mean that it cannot apply if the request is neverdelivered." Post, at 55. Of course it vastly understates the matter tosay that the provision is "written in a fashion that contemplates actualdelivery," as one might say Hamlet was written in a fashion that contemplates 16th-century dress. Causation of delivery is the very condition ofthis provision's operation--and the dissent says it does not matter whetherdelivery is caused.The dissent asserts that "the logical way to express the idea that receiptmust be perfected before the provision applies would be to start the clock180 days `after he has caused the request to have been delivered.' " Post,at 53. But that reformulation changes the meaning in two respects thathave nothing to do with whether receipt must be perfected: First, by usingthe perfect indicative ("after he has caused") rather than the future perfect ("after he shall have caused"), it omits the notion that the "causing"is to occur not merely before the statutory deadline, but in the future;second, by using the perfect infinitive ("to have been delivered") ratherthan the present ("to be delivered"), it adds the utterly fascinating notionthat the receipt is to occur before the causing of receipt. The omission offuturity and the addition of a requirement of antecedence are the onlydifferences between saying, for example, "after he shall have found thehostages to be well treated" and "after he has found the hostages to havebeen well treated." In both cases good treatment must be established,just as under both the statutory text and the dissent's reformulation delivery must be established.507US1$30K 11-18-96 17:30:38 PAGES OPINPGT48 FEX v. MICHIGANOpinion of the Courtthe prison authorities commences the 180-day period even ifthe request gets lost in the mail and is never delivered tothe "receiving" State (i. e., the State lodging the detainer,see Article II(c)). That still leaves open the textual possibility, however, that, once delivery has been made, the 180 daysmust be computed, not from the date of delivery but fromthe date of transmittal to the prison authorities. That is theonly possibility the balance of our discussion will consider;and for convenience we shall refer to it as petitioner'sinterpretation.Respondent places great reliance upon the provision's useof the future perfect tense ("shall have caused to be delivered"). It seems to us, however, that the future perfectwould be an appropriate tense for both interpretations:The prisoner's transmittal of his request to the warden (ifthat is the triggering event), or the prosecutor's receipt ofthe request (if that is the triggering event), is to be completed ("perfected") at some date in the future (viewed fromthe time of the IAD's adoption) before some other date inthe future that is under discussion (expiration of the 180days). We think it must be acknowledged that the languagewill literally bear either interpretation--i. e., that the crucialpoint is the prisoner's transmittal of his request, or that it isthe prosecutor's receipt of the request. One can almost beinduced to accept one interpretation or the other on the basisof which words are emphasized: "shall have caused to be delivered" versus "shall have caused to be delivered." 33 The dissent contends that the phrase "he shall have caused" puts thefocus "on the prisoner's act, and that act is complete when he transmitshis request to the warden." Ibid. It is not evident to us that the act of"causing to be delivered" is complete before delivery. Nor can we agreethat, unless it has the purpose of starting the clock running upon transmittal to the warden, the phrase "he shall have caused" is "superfluous."Ibid. It sets the stage for the succeeding paragraph, making it clear tothe reader that the notice at issue is a notice which (as paragraph (b) willclarify) the prisoner is charged with providing.507US1$30K 11-18-96 17:30:38 PAGES OPINPGT49Cite as: 507 U. S. 43 (1993)Opinion of the CourtThough the text alone is indeterminate, we think resolu-tion of the ambiguity is readily to be found in what might becalled the sense of the matter, and in the import of relatedprovisions. As to the former: Petitioner would have us believe that the choice of "triggers" for the 180-day time periodlies between, on the one hand, the date the request is re-ceived by the prosecutor and, on the other hand, the date therequest is delivered to the warden of the prison. In fact,however, while the former option is clearly identified by thetextual term "delivered," there is no textual identification ofa clear alternative at the other end. If one seeks to determine the moment at which a prisoner "caused" the later delivery of a properly completed request, nothing in law orlogic suggests that it must be when he placed the request inthe hands of the warden. Perhaps it was when he gave therequest to a fellow inmate to deliver to the warden--or evenwhen he mailed it to the warden (Article III(b) provides thatthe request "shall be given or sent by the prisoner to thewarden" (emphasis added)). It seems unlikely that a legislature would select, for the starting point of a statute of limitations, a concept so indeterminate as "caused." It makesmore sense to think that, as respondent contends, delivery isthe key concept, and that paragraph (a) includes the notionof causality (rather than referring simply to "delivery" bythe prisoner) merely to be more precise, anticipating therequirement of paragraph (b) that delivery be made by thewarden upon the prisoner's initiation.Another commonsense indication pointing to the same conclusion is to be found in what might be termed (in currentpolitical jargon) the "worst-case scenarios" under the two interpretations of the IAD. Under respondent's interpretation, it is possible that a warden, through negligence or evenmalice, can delay forwarding of the request and thus postpone the starting of the 180-day clock. At worst, the prisoner (if he has not checked about the matter for half a year)will not learn about the delay until several hundred days507US1$30K 11-18-96 17:30:38 PAGES OPINPGT50 FEX v. MICHIGANOpinion of the Courthave elapsed with no trial. The result is that he will spendseveral hundred additional days under detainer (which entails certain disabilities, such as disqualification from certainrehabilitative programs, see United States v. Mauro, 436U. S. 340, 359 (1978)), and will have his trial delayed severalhundred days.4 That result is bad, given the intent of theIAD. It is, however, no worse than what regularly occurredbefore the IAD was adopted, and in any event cannot beentirely avoided by embracing petitioner's view that trans-mittal to the warden is the measuring event. As we havesaid, the IAD unquestionably requires delivery, and onlyafter that has occurred can one entertain the possibility ofcounting the 180 days from the transmittal to the warden.Thus, the careless or malicious warden, under petitioner'sinterpretation, may be unable to delay commencement of the180-day period, but canprevent it entirely, by simply failingto forward the request. More importantly, however, theworst-case scenario under petitioner's interpretation produces results that are significantly worse: If, through negli-gence of the warden, a prisoner's IAD request is deliveredto the prosecutor more than 180 days after it was transmitted to the warden, the prosecution will be precluded beforethe prosecutor even knows it has been requested. It is possible, though by no means certain, that this consequencecould be avoided by the receiving state court's invocation of4 There is no substance to the dissent's assertion that one of the "reason[s] for the IAD's creation" was to prevent the inmate from being "deprived of an opportunity to obtain a sentence to run concurrently with thesentence being served at the time the detainer is filed." Post, at 56, 57(citations and internal quotation marks omitted). Since the IAD does notrequire detainers to be filed, giving a prisoner the opportunity to achieveconcurrent sentencing on outstanding offenses is obviously an accidentalconsequence of the scheme rather than its objective. Moreover, we areunaware of any studies showing that judges willing to impose concurrentsentences are not willing (in the same circumstances) to credit out-of-statetime. If they are (as they logically should be), the opportunity of obtaining a concurrent sentence would ordinarily have zero value.507US1$30K 11-18-96 17:30:38 PAGES OPINPGT51Cite as: 507 U. S. 43 (1993)Opinion of the Courtthe "good-cause continuance" clause of Article III(a) 5--butit seems to us implausible that such a plainly undesirableresult was meant to be avoided only by resort to the (largelydiscretionary) application of that provision. It is more reasonable to think that the receiving State's prosecutors are inno risk of losing their case until they have been informed ofthe request for trial.Indications in the text of Article III confirm, in our view,that the receiving State's receipt of the request starts theclock. The most significant is the provision of Article III(b)requiring the warden to forward the prisoner's request andaccompanying documents "by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested." The IAD thus provides for documentary evidence of the date on which the request is delivered to the officials of the receiving State, but requires norecord of the date on which it is transmitted to the warden(assuming that is to be considered the act of "causing").That would be peculiar if the latter rather than the formerwere the critical date. Another textual clue, we think, isthe IAD's apparent indifference as to the manner of transmittal to the warden: Article III(b) says only that the request "shall be given or sent by the prisoner to the warden"(emphasis added). A strange nonchalance, if the giving orsending (either one) is to start the 180 days. Petitioneravoids this difficulty by simply positing that it is the warden's receipt, no matter what the manner of giving or sending, that starts the clock--but there is simply no textual5 Some courts have held that a continuance must be requested andgranted before the 180-day period has expired. See, e. g., Dennett v.State, 19 Md. App. 376, 381, 311 A. 2d 437, 440 (1973) (citing Hoss v. State,266 Md. 136, 143, 292 A. 2d 48, 51 (1972)); Commonwealth v. Fisher, 451Pa. 102, 106, 301 A. 2d 605, 607 (1973); State v. Patterson, 273 S. C. 361,363, 256 S. E. 2d 417, 418 (1979). But see, e. g., State v. Lippolis, 107 N. J.Super. 137, 147, 257 A. 2d 705, 711 (App. Div. 1969), rev'd, 55 N. J. 354, 262A. 2d 203 (1970) (per curiam) (reversing on reasoning of dissent in Appellate Division). We express no view on this point.507US1$30K 11-18-96 17:30:38 PAGES OPINPGT52 FEX v. MICHIGANBlackmun, J., dissentingbasis for that; surely the "causing" which petitioner consid-ers central occurs upon the giving or sending.Petitioner makes the policy argument that "[f]airness re-quires the burden of compliance with the requirements of theIAD to be placed entirely on the law enforcement officialsinvolved, since the prisoner has little ability to enforce com-pliance," Brief for Petitioner 8, and that any other approachwould "frustrate the higher purpose" of the IAD, leaving"neither a legal nor a practical limit on the length of timeprison authorities could delay forwarding a [request]," id., at20. These arguments, however, assume the availability of areading that would give effect to a request that is never de-liveredat all. (Otherwise, it remains within the power ofthe warden to frustrate the IAD by simply not forwarding.)As we have observed, the textual requirement "shall havecaused to be delivered" is simply not susceptible of such areading. Petitioner's "fairness" and "higher purpose" arguments are, in other words, more appropriately addressed tothe legislatures of the contracting States, which adopted theIAD's text.Our discussion has addressed only the second question presented in the petition for writ of certiorari; we have concluded that our grant as to the first question was improvident, and do not reach the issue it presents. We hold thatthe 180-day time period in Article III(a) of the IAD does notcommence until the prisoner's request for final disposition ofthe charges against him has actually been delivered to thecourt and prosecuting officer of the jurisdiction that lodgedthe detainer against him. The judgment of the SupremeCourt of Michigan is affirmed.