The Plant Variety Protection Act of 1970, 7 U. S. C. $ 2321et seq., protects owners of novel seed varieties against unauthorized sales of their seed for replanting purposes. An exemption, however, allows farmers to make some sales of protected variety seed to other farmers. This case raises thequestion whether there is a limit to the quantity of protectedseed that a farmer can sell under this exemption.IIn 1970, Congress passed the Plant Variety Protection Act(PVPA), 84 Stat. 1542, 7 U. S. C. $ 2321 et seq., in order toprovide developers of novel plant varieties with "adequateencouragement for research, and for marketing when appropriate, to yield for the public the benefits of new varieties,"$ 2581. The PVPA extends patent-like protection to novelvarieties of sexually reproduced plants (that is, plants grownfrom seed) which parallels the protection afforded asexuallyreproduced plant varieties (that is, varieties reproduced bypropagation or grafting) under Chapter 15 of the Patent Act.See 35 U. S. C. $$ 161-164.The developer of a novel variety obtains PVPA coverageby acquiring a certificate of protection from the Plant Variety Protection Office. See 7 U. S. C. $$ 2421, 2422, 2481-2483. This confers on the owner the exclusive right for 18years to "exclude others from selling the variety, or offeringit for sale, or reproducing it, or importing it, or exporting it,or using it in producing (as distinguished from developing) ahybrid or different variety therefrom." $ 2483.Petitioner, Asgrow Seed Company, is the holder of PVPAcertificates protecting two novel varieties of soybean seed,which it calls A1937 and A2234. Respondents, Dennis andBecky Winterboer, are Iowa farmers whose farm spans 800acres of Clay County, in the northwest corner of the513us1$14K 03-28-98 15:18:22 PAGES OPINPGT182 ASGROW SEED CO. v. WINTERBOEROpinion of the CourtState. The Winterboers have incorporated under the name"D-Double-U Corporation" and do business under the name"DeeBee's Feed and Seed." In addition to growing cropsfor sale as food and livestock feed, since 1987 the Winterboers have derived a sizable portion of their income from"brown-bag" sales of their crops to other farmers to use asseed. A brown-bag sale occurs when a farmer purchasesseed from a seed company, such as Asgrow, plants the seedin his own fields, harvests the crop, cleans it, and then sellsthe reproduced seed to other farmers (usually in nondescriptbrown bags) for them to plant as crop seed on their ownfarms. During 1990, the Winterboers planted 265 acres ofA1937 and A2234, and sold the entire salable crop, 10,529bushels, to others for use as seed--enough to plant 10,000acres. The average sale price was $8.70 per bushel, compared with a then-current price of $16.20 to $16.80 per bushelto obtain varieties A1937 and A2234 directly from Asgrow.Concerned that the Winterboers were making a businessout of selling its protected seed, Asgrow sent a local farmer,Robert Ness, to the Winterboer farm to make a purchase.Mr. Winterboer informed Ness that he could sell him soybean seed that was "just like" Asgrow varieties A1937 andA2234. Ness purchased 20 bags of each; a plant biologistfor Asgrow tested the seeds and determined that they wereindeed A1937 and A2234.Asgrow brought suit against the Winterboers in the Federal District Court for the Northern District of Iowa, seeking damages and a permanent injunction against sale of seedharvested from crops grown from A1937 and A2234. Thecomplaint alleged infringement under 7 U. S. C. $ 2541(1), forselling or offering to sell Asgrow's protected soybean varieties; under $ 2541(3), for sexually multiplying Asgrow's novelvarieties as a step in marketing those varieties for growingpurposes; and under $ 2541(6), for dispensing the novel varie513us1$14K 03-28-98 15:18:22 PAGES OPINPGT183Cite as: 513 U. S. 179 (1995)Opinion of the Courtties to others in a form that could be propagated withoutproviding notice that the seeds were of a protected variety.1The Winterboers did not deny that Asgrow held valid cer-tificates of protection covering A1937 and A2234, and thatthey had sold seed produced from those varieties for othersto use as seed. Their defense, at least to the $$ 2541(1) and1 At the time the infringement action was filed, $ 2541 provided in full:"Except as otherwise provided in this subchapter, it shall be an infringement of the rights of the owner of a novel variety to perform withoutauthority, any of the following acts in the United States, or in commercewhich can be regulated by Congress or affecting such commerce, prior toexpiration of the right to plant variety protection but after either the issueof the certificate or the distribution of a novel plant variety with the noticeunder section 2567 of this title:"(1) sell the novel variety, or offer it or expose it for sale, deliver it,ship it, consign it, exchange it, or solicit an offer to buy it, or any othertransfer of title or possession of it;"(2) import the novel variety into, or export it from, the United States;"(3) sexually multiply the novel variety as a step in marketing (forgrowing purposes) the variety; or"(4) use the novel variety in producing (as distinguished from developing) a hybrid or different variety therefrom; or"(5) use seed which had been marked "Unauthorized Propagation Prohibited" or "Unauthorized Seed Multiplication Prohibited" or progenythereof to propagate the novel variety; or"(6) dispense the novel variety to another, in a form which can be propagated, without notice as to being a protected variety under which it wasreceived; or"(7) perform any of the foregoing acts even in instances in which thenovel variety is multiplied other than sexually, except in pursuance of avalid United States plant patent; or"(8) instigate or actively induce performance of any of the foregoingacts."In October 1992, Congress amended $ 2541, designating the prior textas subsection (a) and adding a subsection (b), the provisions of which arenot relevant here. Curiously, however, the references in $ 2543 to theinfringement provisions of $ 2541 were not amended to reflect this change.For clarity's sake, therefore, we will continue to refer to the infringementprovisions under their prior designations, e. g., $$ 2541(1)-(8), rather thantheir current designations, e. g., $$ 2541(a)(1)-(8).513us1$14K 03-28-98 15:18:22 PAGES OPINPGT184 ASGROW SEED CO. v. WINTERBOEROpinion of the Court(3) charges, rested upon the contention that their sales fellwithin the statutory exemption from infringement liabilityfound in 7 U. S. C. $ 2543. That section, entitled "Right tosave seed; crop exemption," reads in relevant part asfollows:"Except to the extent that such action may constitutean infringement under subsections (3) and (4) of section2541 of this title, it shall not infringe any right hereun-der for a person to save seed produced by him from seedobtained, or descended from seed obtained, by authorityof the owner of the variety for seeding purposes and usesuch saved seed in the production of a crop for use onhis farm, or for sale as provided in this section: Provided, That without regard to the provisions of section2541(3) of this title it shall not infringe any right hereunder for a person, whose primary farming occupation isthe growing of crops for sale for other than reproductivepurposes, to sell such saved seed to other persons soengaged, for reproductive purposes, provided such saleis in compliance with such State laws governing the saleof seed as may be applicable. A bona fide sale for otherthan reproductive purposes, made in channels usualfor such other purposes, of seed produced on a farmeither from seed obtained by authority of the ownerfor seeding purposes or from seed produced by descenton such farm from seed obtained by authority of theowner for seeding purposes shall not constitute aninfringement. . . ." 22 Congress has recently amended this section by striking from the firstsentence the words " `section: Provided, That' and all that follows throughthe period and inserting `section.' " Plant Variety Protection Act Amendments of 1994, Pub. L. 103-349, 108 Stat. 3136, 3142. That amendmenthas the effect of eliminating the exemption from infringement liability forfarmers who sell PVPA-protected seed to other farmers for reproductivepurposes. That action, however, has no bearing on the resolution of the513us1$14K 03-28-98 15:18:22 PAGES OPINPGT185Cite as: 513 U. S. 179 (1995)Opinion of the CourtThe Winterboers argued that this language gave them theright to sell an unlimited amount of seed produced from aprotected variety, subject only to the conditions that bothbuyer and seller be farmers "whose primary farming occupation is the growing of crops for sale for other than reproduc-tive purposes," and that all sales comply with state law. Asgrow maintained that the exemption allows a farmer to saveand resell to other farmers only the amount of seed the sellerwould need to replant his own fields--a limitation that theWinterboers' sales greatly exceeded. The District Courtagreed with Asgrow and granted summary judgment in itsfavor. 795 F. Supp. 915 (1991).The United States Court of Appeals for the FederalCircuit reversed. 982 F. 2d 486 (1992). Although "recogniz[ing] that, without meaningful limitations, the crop ex-emption [of $ 2543] could undercut much of the PVPA's incentives," id., at 491, the Court of Appeals saw nothing in $ 2543that would limit the sale of protected seed (for reproductivepurposes) to the amount necessary to plant the seller's ownacreage. Rather, as the Court of Appeals read the statute,$ 2543 permits a farmer to sell up to half of every crop heproduces from PVPA-protected seed to another farmer foruse as seed, so long as he sells the other 50 percent of thecrop grown from that specific variety for nonreproductivepurposes, e. g., for food or feed. The Federal Circuit deniedAsgrow's petition for rehearing and suggestion for rehearingen banc by a vote of six judges to five. 989 F. 2d 478 (1993).We granted certiorari. 511 U. S. 1029 (1994).IIIt may be well to acknowledge at the outset that it is quiteimpossible to make complete sense of the provision at issuepresent case, since the amendments affect only those certificates issuedafter April 4, 1995, that were not pending on or before that date. See id.,$$ 14(a), 15, 108 Stat. 3144, 3145.513us1$14K 03-28-98 15:18:22 PAGES OPINPGT186 ASGROW SEED CO. v. WINTERBOEROpinion of the Courthere. One need go no further than the very first words ofits title to establish that. Section 2543 does not, as that titleclaims and the ensuing text says, reserve any "[r]ight to saveseed"--since nothing elsewhere in the Act remotely prohibits the saving of seed. Nor, under any possible analysis, isthe proviso in the first sentence of $ 2543 ("Provided, That")really a proviso.With this advance warning that not all mysteries will besolved, we enter the verbal maze of $ 2543. The entrance,we discover, is actually an exit, since the provision beginsby excepting certain activities from its operation: "Except tothe extent that such action may constitute an infringementunder subsections (3) and (4) of section 2541 of this title, itshall not infringe any right hereunder for a person to saveseed produced by him . . . and use such saved seed in theproduction of a crop for use on his farm, or for sale as provided in this section . . . ." (Emphasis added.) Thus, afarmer does not qualify for the exemption from infringementliability if he has"(3) sexually multipl[ied] the novel variety as a step inmarketing (for growing purposes) the variety; or(4) use[d] the novel variety in producing (as distin-guished from developing) a hybrid or different varietytherefrom." 7 U. S. C. $$ 2541(3)-(4).In 1990, the Winterboers planted 265 acres of Asgrow pro-tected variety seed and collected a harvest of 12,037 bushelsof soybeans. The parties do not dispute that this act ofplanting and harvesting constituted "sexual multiplication"of the novel varieties. See 7 U. S. C. $ 2401(f) (defining "sexually reproduced" seed to include "any production of a vari-ety by seed"). The Winterboers sold almost all of thesebeans for use as seed (i. e., "for growing purposes"), withoutAsgrow's consent. The central question in this case, then,is whether the Winterboers' planting and harvesting wereconducted "as a step in marketing" Asgrow's protected seed513us1$14K 03-28-98 15:18:22 PAGES OPINPGT187Cite as: 513 U. S. 179 (1995)Opinion of the Courtvarieties for growing purposes. If they were, the Winter-boers were not eligible for the $ 2543 exemption, and the District Court was right to grant summary judgment to Asgrow.The PVPA does not define "marketing." When termsused in a statute are undefined, we give them their ordinarymeaning. FDIC v. Meyer, 510 U. S. 471, 476 (1994). TheFederal Circuit believed that the word "marketing" requires"extensive or coordinated selling activities, such as advertis-ing, using an intervening sales representative, or similar extended merchandising or retail activities." 982 F. 2d, at 492.We disagree. Marketing ordinarily refers to the act of holding forth property for sale, together with the activities preparatory thereto (in the present case, cleaning, drying, bagging, and pricing the seeds). The word does not requirethat the promotional or merchandising activities connectedwith the selling be extensive. One can market apples bysimply displaying them on a cart with a price tag; or marketa stock by simply listing it on a stock exchange; or market ahouse (we would normally say "place it on the market") bysimply setting a "for sale" sign on the front lawn. Indeed,some dictionaries give as one meaning of "market" simply"to sell." See, e. g., Oxford Universal Dictionary 1208 (3ded. 1955); Webster's New International Dictionary 1504 (2ded. 1950). Of course, effective selling often involves extensive promotional activities, and when they occur they are allpart of the "marketing." But even when the holding forthfor sale relies upon no more than word-of-mouth advertising,a marketing of goods is in process. Moreover, even if theword "marketing" could, in one of its meanings, demand extensive promotion, we see no reason why the law at issuehere would intend that meaning. That would have the effect of preserving PVPA protection for less valuable plantvarieties, but eliminating it for varieties so desirable thatthey can be marketed by word of mouth; as well as the effectof requiring courts to ponder the difficult question of howmuch promotion is necessary to constitute marketing. We513us1$14K 03-28-98 15:18:22 PAGES OPINPGT188 ASGROW SEED CO. v. WINTERBOEROpinion of the Courtthink that when the statute refers to sexually multiplying avariety "as a step in marketing," it means growing seed ofthe variety for the purpose of putting the crop up for sale.3Under the exception set out in the first clause of $ 2543, then,a farmer is not eligible for the $ 2543 exemption if he plantsand saves seeds for the purpose of selling the seeds that theyproduce for replanting.Section 2543 next provides that, so long as a person is notviolating either $$ 2541(3) or (4),"it shall not infringe any right hereunder for a personto save seed produced by him from seed obtained, ordescended from seed obtained, by authority of the ownerof the variety for seeding purposes and use such savedseed in the production of a crop for use on his farm, orfor sale as provided in this section . . . ." (Emphasisadded.)Farmers generally grow crops to sell. A harvested soybeancrop is typically removed from the farmer's premises in shortorder and taken to a grain elevator or processor. Some-times, however, in the case of a plant such as the soybean, inwhich the crop is the seed, the farmer will have a portion ofhis crop cleaned and stored as seed for replanting his fieldsnext season. We think it clear that this seed saved for re-planting is what the provision under discussion means by3 The dissent asserts that the Federal Circuit's more demanding interpretation of "marketing" is supported by the ancient doctrine disfavoringrestraints on alienation of property, see post, at 194-195. The wellspringof that doctrine, of course, is concern for property rights, and in the context of the PVPA it is the dissent's interpretation, rather than ours, whichbelittles that concern. The whole purpose of the statute is to create avaluable property in the product of botanical research by giving the developer the right to "exclude others from selling the variety, or offering itfor sale, or reproducing it, or importing it, or exporting it," etc. 7 U. S. C.$ 2483. Applying the rule disfavoring restraints on alienation to interpretation of the PVPA is rather like applying the rule disfavoring restraintsupon freedom of contract to interpretation of the Sherman Act.513us1$14K 03-28-98 15:18:23 PAGES OPINPGT189Cite as: 513 U. S. 179 (1995)Opinion of the Court"saved seed"--not merely regular uncleaned crop that isstored for later market sale or use as fodder.There are two ways to read the provision, depending uponwhich words the phrase "for sale as provided in this section"is taken to modify. It can be read "production of a crop . . .for sale as provided in this section"; or alternatively "usesuch saved seed . . . for sale as provided in this section."The parallelism created by the phrase "for use on his farm"followed immediately by "orfor sale as provided in this section" suggests the former reading. But the placement of thecomma, separating "use [of] such saved seed in the production of a crop for use on his farm," from "or for sale," favorsthe latter reading. So does the fact that the alternativereading requires the reader to skip the lengthy "Provided,That" clause in order to find out what sales are "provided[for] in this section"--despite the parallelism between "provided" and "Provided," and despite the presence of a colon,which ordinarily indicates specification of what has preceded.It is surely easier to think that at least some of the sales"provided for" are those that are "Provided" after the colon.(It is, of course, not unusual, however deplorable it may be,for "Provided, That" to be used as prologue to an additionrather than an exception. See Springer v. Philippine Islands, 277 U. S. 189, 206 (1928); 1A N. Singer, Sutherland onStatutory Construction $ 20.22 (5th ed. 1992).)We think the latter reading is also to be preferred becauseit lends greater meaning to all the provisions. Under theformer reading ("production of a crop . . . for sale as providedin this section"), the only later text that could be referred tois the provision for "bona fide sale[s] for other than reproductive purposes" set out in the second sentence of $ 2543--theso-called "crop exemption." (The proviso could not be referred to, since it does not provide for sale of crops grownfrom saved seed, but only for sale of saved seed itself.) Butif the "or for sale" provision has such a limited referent, theopening clause's ("Except to the extent that . . .") reservation513us1$14K 03-28-98 15:18:23 PAGES OPINPGT190 ASGROW SEED CO. v. WINTERBOEROpinion of the Courtof $ 2541(3) infringement liability (i. e., liability for growingas a step in marketing for reproductive purposes) would bedevoid of content, since the provision to which it is attachedwould permit no sales for reproductive purposes. Underthe latter reading, by contrast, the farmer may not "use [his]saved seed . . . for sale" as the proviso allowsif the seedwas intentionally grown for the purpose of such sale--i. e.,"sexually multipl[ied] . . . as a step in marketing (for growingpurposes) the variety."4 A second respect in which our favored reading gives greater meaning to the provision is this:The other reading ("crop . . . for sale as provided in thissection") causes the "permission" given in the opening sen-tence to extend only to sales for nonreproductive purposesof the crops grown from saved seed, as opposed to sales ofthe saved seed itself. But no separate permission wouldhave been required for this, since it is already containedwithin the crop exemption itself; it serves only as areminderthat crop from saved seed can be sold under that exemption--a peculiarly incomplete reminder, since the saved seeditself can also be sold under that exemption.To summarize: By reason of its proviso the first sentence of$ 2543 allows seed that has been preserved for reproductivepurposes ("saved seed") to be sold for such purposes. Thestructure of the sentence is such, however, that this authorization does not extend to saved seed that was grown for thevery purpose of sale ("marketing") for replanting--becausein that case, $ 2541(3) would be violated, and the above4 This reading also gives meaning to the proviso's statement that "without regard to the provisions of section 2541(3) . . . it shall not infringe anyright hereunder" for a person to engage in certain sales of saved seedfor reproductive purposes (emphasis added). This serves to eliminate thetechnical argument that a production of seed that was originally in compliance with $ 2541(3) (because it was not done as a step in marketing forreproductive purposes) could retroactively be rendered unlawful by thelater sale permitted in the proviso, because such sale causes the earlierproduction to have been "a step in the marketing" for reproductivepurposes.513us1$14K 03-28-98 15:18:23 PAGES OPINPGT191Cite as: 513 U. S. 179 (1995)Opinion of the Courtdiscussed exception to the exemption would apply. As apractical matter, since $ 2541(1) prohibits all unauthorizedtransfer of title to, or possession of, the protected variety,this means that the only seed that can be sold under theproviso is seed that has been saved by the farmer to replanthis own acreage.5 (We think that limitation is also apparentfrom the text of the crop exemption, which permits a farmcrop from saved seeds to be sold--for nonreproductive purposes--only if those saved seeds were "produced by descenton such farm." (Emphasis added.) It is in our view theproviso in $ 2543, and not the crop exemption, that authorizesthe permitted buyers of saved seeds to sell the crops theyproduce.) Thus, if a farmer saves seeds to replant his acreage, but for some reason changes his plans, he may insteadsell those seeds for replanting under the terms set forth inthe proviso (or of course sell them for nonreproductive pur-poses under the crop exemption).It remains to discuss one final feature of the proviso au-thorizing limited sales for reproductive purposes. The proviso allows sales of saved seed for replanting purposes onlybetween persons "whose primary farming occupation is thegrowing of crops for sale for other than reproductive pur-poses." The Federal Circuit, which rejected the proposition5 For crops such as soybeans, in which the seed and the harvest are oneand the same, this will mean enough seeds for one year's crop on thatacreage. Since the germination rate of a batch of seed declines over time,the soybean farmer will get the year-after-next's seeds from next year'sharvest. That is not so for some vegetable crops, in which the seed is notthe harvest, and a portion of the crop must be permitted to overripen ("goto seed") in order to obtain seeds. One of the amici in the Court of Appeals asserted (and the parties before us did not dispute) that it is thepractice of vegetable farmers to "grow" seeds only every four or fiveyears, and to "brown bag" enough seed for four or five future crops. Avegetable farmer who sets aside protected seed with subsequent replantings in mind, but who later abandons his plan (because he has sold hisfarm, for example), would under our analysis be able to sell all his savedseed, even though it would plant (in a single year) four or five times hiscurrent acreage.513us1$14K 03-28-98 15:18:23 PAGES OPINPGT192 ASGROW SEED CO. v. WINTERBOEROpinion of the Courtthat the only seed sellable under the exemption is seed savedfor the farmer's own replanting, sought to achieve some limitation upon the quantity of seed that can be sold for repro-ductive purposes by adopting a "crop-by-crop" approach tothe "primary farming occupation" requirement of the pro-viso. "[B]uyers or sellers of brown bag seed qualify for thecrop exemption," it concluded, "only if they produce a largercrop from a protected seed for consumption (or other nonreproductive purposes) than for sale as seed." 982 F. 2d, at490. That is to say, the brown-bag seller can sell no morethan half of his protected crop for seed. The words of thestatute, however, stand in the way of this creative (if somewhat insubstantial) limitation. To ask what is a farmer's"primary farming occupation" is to ask what constitutes thebulk of his total farming business. Selling crops for otherthan reproductive purposes must constitute the preponderance of the farmer's business, not just the preponderance ofhis business in the protected seed. There is simply no wayto derive from this text the narrower focus that the FederalCircuit applied. Thus, if the quantity of seed that can besold is not limited as we have described--by reference to theoriginal purpose for which the seed is saved--then it isbarely limited at all (i. e., limited only by the volume orworth of the selling farmer's total crop sales for other thanreproductive purposes). This seems to us a most unlikelyresult.* * *We hold that a farmer who meets the requirements setforth in the proviso to $ 2543 may sell for reproductive purposes only such seed as he has saved for the purpose of re-planting his own acreage. While the meaning of the text isby no means clear, this is in our view the only reading thatcomports with the statutory purpose of affording "adequateencouragement for research, and for marketing when appro-priate, to yield for the public the benefits of new varieties."7 U. S. C. $ 2581. Because we find the sales here were un513us1$14K 03-28-98 15:18:23 PAGES OPINPGT193Cite as: 513 U. S. 179 (1995)Stevens, J., dissentinglawful, we do not reach the second question on which wegranted certiorari--whether sales authorized under $ 2543remain subject to the notice requirement of $ 2541(6).The judgment of the Court of Appeals for the FederalCircuit is