The question in this case is whether appellate courts in thefederal system should vacate civil judgments of subordinatecourts in cases that are settled after appeal is filed or certio-rari sought.IIn 1984 and 1985, Northtown Investments built the BonnerMall in Bonner County, Idaho, with financing from a bank inthat State. In 1986, respondent Bonner Mall Partnership(Bonner) acquired the mall, while petitioner U. S. BancorpMortgage Co. (Bancorp) acquired the loan and mortgagefrom the Idaho bank. In 1990, Bonner defaulted on its realestate taxes and Bancorp scheduled a foreclosure sale.The day before the sale, Bonner filed a petition underChapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U. S. C. $ 1101 et seq.,*Briefs of amici curiae were filed for Izumi Seimitsu Kogyo KabushikiKaisha et al. by Herbert H. Mintz, Robert D. Litowitz, Jean Burke Fordis,David S. Forman, and William L. Androlia; and for Trial Lawyers forPublic Justice, P. C., by Jill E. Fisch, Arthur H. Bryant, and Leslie A.Brueckner.513us1$$4K 03-28-98 15:54:16 PAGES OPINPGT20 U. S. BANCORP MORTGAGE CO. v. BONNERMALL PARTNERSHIPOpinion of the Courtin the United States Bankruptcy Court for the District ofIdaho. It filed a reorganization plan that depended on the"new value exception" to the absolute priority rule.1 Ban-corp moved to suspend the automatic stay of its foreclosureimposed by 11 U. S. C. $ 362(a), arguing that Bonner's planwas unconfirmable as a matter of law for a number of reasons, including unavailability of the new value exception.The Bankruptcy Court eventually granted the motion, concluding that the new value exception had not survived enact-ment of the Bankruptcy Code. The court stayed its orderpending an appeal by Bonner. The United States DistrictCourt for the District of Idaho reversed,In re Bonner MallPartnership, 142 B. R. 911 (1992); Bancorp took an appeal inturn, but the Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit affirmed, In re Bonner Mall Partnership, 2 F. 3d 899 (1993).Bancorp then petitioned for a writ of certiorari. Afterwe granted the petition, 510 U. S. 1039 (1994), and receivedbriefing on the merits, Bancorp and Bonner stipulated to aconsensual plan of reorganization, which received the ap-proval of the Bankruptcy Court. The parties agreed thatconfirmation of the plan constituted a settlement that mootedthe case. Bancorp, however, also requested that we exercise our power under 28 U. S. C. $ 2106 to vacate the judg-ment of the Court of Appeals. Bonner opposed the motion.We set the vacatur question for briefing and argument. 511U. S. 1002-1003 (1994).IIRespondent questions our power to entertain petitioner'smotion to vacate, suggesting that the limitations on the judi1 As described by the Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, the newvalue exception "allows the shareholders of a corporation in bankruptcyto obtain an interest in the reorganized debtor in exchange for new capitalcontributions over the objections of a class of creditors that has not received full payment on its claims." In re Bonner Mall Partnership, 2F. 3d 899, 901 (1993). We express no view on the existence of such anexception under the Bankruptcy Code.513us1$$4K 03-28-98 15:54:16 PAGES OPINPGT21Cite as: 513 U. S. 18 (1994)Opinion of the Courtcial power conferred by Article III, see U. S. Const., Art. III,$ 1, "may, at least in some cases,prohibit an act of vacaturwhen no live dispute exists due to a settlement that has ren-dered a case moot." Brief for Respondent 21 (emphasis inoriginal).The statute that supplies the power of vacatur provides:"The Supreme Court or any other court of appellatejurisdiction may affirm, modify, vacate, set aside or reverse any judgment, decree, or order of a court lawfullybrought before it for review, and may remand the causeand direct the entry of such appropriate judgment, decree, or order, or require such further proceedings tobe had as may be just under the circumstances." 28U. S. C. $ 2106.Of course, no statute could authorize a federal court to decidethe merits of a legal question not posed in an Article III caseor controversy. For that purpose, a case must exist at allthe stages of appellate review. Preiser v. Newkirk, 422 U. S.395, 401 (1975);Mills v. Green, 159 U. S. 651, 653 (1895). Butreason and authority refute the quite different notion that afederal appellate court may not take any action with regardto a piece of litigation once it has been determined that therequirements of Article III no longer are (or indeed neverwere) met. That proposition is contradicted whenever anappellate court holds that a district court lacked Article IIIjurisdiction in the first instance, vacates the decision, andremands with directions to dismiss. In cases that becomemoot while awaiting review, respondent's logic would holdthe Court powerless to award costs, e. g., Heitmuller v.Stokes, 256 U. S. 359, 362-363 (1921), or even to enter anorder of dismissal.Article III does not prescribe such paralysis. "If a judgment has become moot [while awaiting review], this Courtmay not consider its merits, but may make such dispositionof the whole case as justice may require." Walling v. James513us1$$4K 03-28-98 15:54:16 PAGES OPINPGT22 U. S. BANCORP MORTGAGE CO. v. BONNERMALL PARTNERSHIPOpinion of the CourtV. Reuter, Inc., 321 U. S. 671, 677 (1944). As with other mat-ters of judicial administration and practice "reasonably ancillary to the primary, dispute-deciding function" of the federalcourts, Chandler v. Judicial Council of Tenth Circuit, 398U. S. 74, 111 (1970) (Harlan, J., concurring in denial of writ),Congress may authorize us to enter orders necessary andappropriate to the final disposition of a suit that is before usfor review. SeeMistretta v. United States, 488 U. S. 361,389-390 (1989); see also id., at 417 (Scalia, J., dissenting).IIIThe leading case on vacatur is United States v. Munsing-wear, Inc., 340 U. S. 36 (1950), in which the United Statessought injunctive and monetary relief for violation of a pricecontrol regulation. The damages claim was held in abeyance pending a decision on the injunction. The DistrictCourt held that the respondent's prices complied with theregulations and dismissed the complaint. While the UnitedStates' appeal was pending, the commodity at issue was decontrolled; at the respondent's request, the case was dis-missed as moot, a disposition in which the United States acquiesced. The respondent then obtained dismissal of thedamages action on the ground of res judicata, and we tookthe case to review that ruling. The United States protestedthe unfairness of according preclusive effect to a decisionthat it had tried to appeal but could not. We saw no suchunfairness, reasoning that the United States should haveasked the Court of Appeals to vacate the District Court'sdecision before the appeal was dismissed. We stated that"[t]he established practice of the Court in dealing with a civilcase from a court in the federal system which has becomemoot while on its way here or pending our decision on themerits is to reverse or vacate the judgment below and remand with a direction to dismiss." Id., at 39. We explainedthat vacatur "clears the path for future relitigation of theissues between the parties and eliminates a judgment, re513us1$$4K 03-28-98 15:54:16 PAGES OPINPGT23Cite as: 513 U. S. 18 (1994)Opinion of the Courtview of which was prevented through happenstance." Id.,at 40. Finding that the United States had "slept on itsrights," id., at 41, we affirmed.The parties in the present case agree that vacatur must bedecreed for those judgments whose review is, in the words ofMunsingwear, " `prevented through happenstance' "--that isto say, where a controversy presented for review has "become moot due to circumstances unattributable to any of theparties."Karcher v. May, 484 U. S. 72, 82, 83 (1987). Theyalso agree that vacatur must be granted where mootness re-sults from the unilateral action of the party who prevailed inthe lower court. The contested question is whether courtsshould vacate where mootness results from a settlement.The centerpiece of petitioner's argument is that the Munsingwear procedure has already been held to apply in suchcases. Munsingwear's description of the "established practice" (the argument runs) drew no distinctions between categories of moot cases; opinions in later cases granting vacaturhave reiterated the breadth of the rule, see, e. g., Great Western Sugar Co. v. Nelson, 442 U. S. 92, 93 (1979) (per curiam);and at least some of those cases specifically involved mootness by reason of settlement, see, e. g., Lake Coal Co. v. Roberts & Schaeffer Co., 474 U. S. 120 (1985) (per curiam).But Munsingwear, and the post-Munsingwear practice,cannot bear the weight of the present case. To begin with,the portion of Justice Douglas' opinion in Munsingwear describing the "established practice" for vacatur was dictum;all that was needful for the decision was (at most) the proposition that vacatur should have been sought, not that it necessarily would have been granted. Moreover, as Munsingwear itself acknowledged, see 340 U. S., at 40, n. 2, the"established practice" (in addition to being unconsidered)was not entirely uniform, at least three cases having beendismissed for mootness without vacatur within the fourTerms preceding Munsingwear. See, e. g., Schenley Distilling Corp. v. Anderson, 333 U. S. 878 (1948) (per curiam).513us1$$4K 03-28-98 15:54:16 PAGES OPINPGT24 U. S. BANCORP MORTGAGE CO. v. BONNERMALL PARTNERSHIPOpinion of the CourtNor has the post-Munsingwear practice been as uniform aspetitioner claims. See, e. g., Allen & Co. v. Pacific DunlopHoldings, Inc., 510 U. S. 1160 (1994); Minnesota NewspaperAssn., Inc. v. Postmaster General, 488 U. S. 998 (1989);St. Luke's Federation of Nurses and Health Professionalsv.Presbyterian/St. Lukes Medical Center, 459 U. S. 1025(1982).2 Of course all of those decisions, both granting vacatur and denying it, were per curiam, with the single excep-tion of Karcher v. May, supra, in which we declined to vacate. This seems to us a prime occasion for invoking ourcustomary refusal to be bound by dicta,e. g., McCray v. Illinois, 386 U. S. 300, 312, n. 11 (1967), and our customary skep-ticism towardper curiam dispositions that lack the reasonedconsideration of a full opinion, see Edelman v. Jordan, 415U. S. 651, 670-671 (1974). Today we examine vacatur oncemore in the light shed by adversary presentation.The principles that have always been implicit in our treat-ment of moot cases counsel against extendingMunsingwearto settlement. From the beginning we have disposed ofmoot cases in the manner " `most consonant to justice' . . . inview of the nature and character of the conditions whichhave caused the case to become moot."United States v.Hamburg-Amerikanische Packetfahrt-Actien Gesellschaft,239 U. S. 466, 477-478 (1916) (quoting South Spring HillGold Mining Co. v. Amador Medean Gold Mining Co., 145U. S. 300, 302 (1892)). The principal condition to which wehave looked is whether the party seeking relief from thejudgment below caused the mootness by voluntary action.SeeHamburg-Amerikanische, supra, at 478 (remanding amoot case for dismissal because "the ends of justice exact2 The Solicitor General, who has filed an amicus brief in support of petitioner, would apparently distinguish these unvacated cases on the groundthat the dismissal was pursuant to this Court's Rule 46.1 (or its predecessor), which provides for dismissal when "all parties . . . agre[e]." But suchan exception to vacatur for mootness is not mentioned in Munsingwear;nor, we may add, do we see any reason of policy to commend it.513us1$$4K 03-28-98 15:54:16 PAGES OPINPGT25Cite as: 513 U. S. 18 (1994)Opinion of the Courtthat the judgment below should not be permitted to standwhen without any fault of the [petitioner] there is no powerto review it upon the merits"); Heitmuller v. Stokes, 256U. S., at 362 (remanding for dismissal because "without faultof the plaintiff in error, the defendant in error, after the pro-ceedings below, . . . caus[ed] the case to become moot").The reference to "happenstance" in Munsingwear mustbe understood as an allusion to this equitable tradition ofvacatur. A party who seeks review of the merits of an ad-verse ruling, but is frustrated by the vagaries of circumstance, ought not in fairness be forced to acquiesce in thejudgment.3 See Hamburg-Amerikanische, supra, at 477-478. The same is true when mootness results from unilat-eral action of the party who prevailed below. SeeWalling,321 U. S., at 675; Heitmuller, supra, at 362. Where mootness results from settlement, however, the losing party hasvoluntarily forfeited his legal remedy by the ordinary processes of appeal or certiorari, thereby surrendering his claimto the equitable remedy of vacatur. The judgment is notunreviewable, but simply unreviewed by his own choice.The denial of vacatur is merely one application of the principle that "[a] suitor's conduct in relation to the matter athand may disentitle him to the relief he seeks."Sanders v.United States, 373 U. S. 1, 17 (1963) (citing Fay v. Noia, 372U. S. 391, 438 (1963)).In these respects the case stands no differently than itwould if jurisdiction were lacking because the losing partyfailed to appeal at all. In Karcher v. May, supra, two state3 We thus stand by Munsingwear's dictum that mootness by happenstance provides sufficient reason to vacate. Whether that principle wascorrectly applied to the circumstances of that case is another matter. Thesuit for injunctive relief in Munsingwear became moot on appeal becausethe regulations sought to be enforced by the United States were annulledby Executive Order. See Fleming v. Munsingwear, Inc., 162 F. 2d 125,127 (CA8 1947). We express no view on Munsingwear's implicit conclusion that repeal of administrative regulations cannot fairly be attributedto the Executive Branch when it litigates in the name of the United States.513us1$$4K 03-28-98 15:54:16 PAGES OPINPGT26 U. S. BANCORP MORTGAGE CO. v. BONNERMALL PARTNERSHIPOpinion of the Courtlegislators, acting in their capacities as presiding officers ofthe legislature, appealed from a federal judgment that invalidated a state statute on constitutional grounds. After thejurisdictional statement was filed the legislators lost theirposts, and their successors in office withdrew the appeal.Holding that we lacked jurisdiction for want of a proper ap-pellant, we dismissed. The legislators then argued that thejudgments should be vacated under Munsingwear. But wedenied the request, noting that "[t]his controversy did notbecome moot due to circumstances unattributable to any ofthe parties. The controversy ended when the losing party--the [State] Legislature--declined to pursue its appeal. Accordingly, the Munsingwear procedure is inapplicable to thiscase." Karcher, 484 U. S., at 83. So, too, here.It is true, of course, that respondent agreed to the settlement that caused the mootness. Petitioner argues that vacatur is therefore fair to respondent, and seeks to distinguishour prior cases on that ground. But that misconceives theemphasis on fault in our decisions. That the parties arejointly responsible for settling may in some sense put themon even footing, but petitioner's case needs more than that.Respondent won below. It is petitioner's burden, as theparty seeking relief from the status quo of the appellatejudgment, to demonstrate not merely equivalent responsibility for the mootness, but equitable entitlement to the extraordinary remedy of vacatur. Petitioner's voluntary forfeiture of review constitutes a failure of equity that makesthe burden decisive, whatever respondent's share in themooting of the case might have been.As always when federal courts contemplate equitable relief, our holding must also take account of the public interest."Judicial precedents are presumptively correct and valuableto the legal community as a whole. They are not merely theproperty of private litigants and should stand unless a courtconcludes that the public interest would be served by a vacatur." Izumi Seimitsu Kogyo Kabushiki Kaisha v. U. S.513us1$$4K 03-28-98 15:54:16 PAGES OPINPGT27Cite as: 513 U. S. 18 (1994)Opinion of the CourtPhilips Corp., 510 U. S. 27, 40 (1993) (Stevens, J., dissent-ing). Congress has prescribed a primary route, by appealas of right and certiorari, through which parties may seekrelief from the legal consequences of judicial judgments. Toallow a party who steps off the statutory path to employ thesecondary remedy of vacatur as a refined form of collateralattack on the judgment would--quite apart from any considerations of fairness to the parties--disturb the orderly oper-ation of the federal judicial system.Munsingwear establishes that the public interest is best served by grantingrelief when the demands of "orderly procedure," 340 U. S.,at 41, cannot be honored; we think conversely that the publicinterest requires those demands to be honored when theycan.Petitioner advances two arguments meant to justify vacatur on systemic grounds. The first is that appellate judgments in cases that we have consented to review by writ ofcertiorari are reversed more often than they are affirmed,are therefore suspect, and should be vacated as a sort ofprophylactic against legal error. It seems to us inappropriate, however, to vacate mooted cases, in which we have noconstitutional power to decide the merits, on the basis ofassumptions about the merits. Second, petitioner suggeststhat "[v]acating a moot decision, and thereby leaving an issue. . . temporarily unresolved in a Circuit, can facilitate theultimate resolution of the issue by encouraging its continuedexamination and debate." Brief for Petitioner 33. We havefound, however, that debate among the courts of appeals sufficiently illuminates the questions that come before us forreview. The value of additional intracircuit debate seems tous far outweighed by the benefits that flow to litigants andthe public from the resolution of legal questions.A final policy justification urged by petitioner is the facilitation of settlement, with the resulting economies for thefederal courts. But while the availability of vacatur mayfacilitate settlement after the judgment under review has513us1$$4K 03-28-98 15:54:16 PAGES OPINPGT28 U. S. BANCORP MORTGAGE CO. v. BONNERMALL PARTNERSHIPOpinion of the Courtbeen rendered and certiorari granted (or appeal filed), it maydeter settlement at an earlier stage. Some litigants, atleast, may think it worthwhile to roll the dice rather thansettle in the district court, or in the court of appeals, if, butonly if, an unfavorable outcome can be washed away by asettlement-related vacatur. And the judicial economiesachieved by settlement at the district-court level are ordinarily much more extensive than those achieved by settle-ment on appeal. We find it quite impossible to assess theeffect of our holding, either way, upon the frequency or sys-temic value of settlement.Although the case before us involves only a motion to vacate, by reason of settlement, the judgment of a court ofappeals (with, of course, the consequential vacation of theunderlying judgment of the district court), it is appropriateto discuss the relevance of our holding to motions at thecourt-of-appeals level for vacatur of district-court judgments.Some opinions have suggested that vacatur motions at thatlevel should be more freely granted, since district-court judgments are subject to review as of right. See, e. g., Manufacturers Hanover Trust Co. v. Yanakas, 11 F. 3d 381, 384 (CA21993). Obviously, this factor does not affect the primarybasis for our denying vacatur. Whether the appellatecourt's seizure of the case is the consequence of an appellant'sright or of a petitioner's good luck has no bearing upon thelack of equity of a litigant who has voluntarily abandonedreview. If the point of the proposed distinction is thatdistrict-court judgments, being subject to review as of right,are more likely to be overturned and hence presumptivelyless valid: We again assert the inappropriateness of disposingof cases, whose merits are beyond judicial power to consider,on the basis of judicial estimates regarding their merits.Moreover, as petitioner's own argument described two paragraphs above points out, the reversal rate for cases in whichthis Court grants certiorari (a precondition for our vacatur)is over 50%--more than double the reversal rate for appeals513us1$$4K 03-28-98 15:54:16 PAGES OPINPGT29Cite as: 513 U. S. 18 (1994)Opinion of the Courtto the courts of appeals. See Fisch, Rewriting History: ThePropriety of Eradicating Prior Decisional Law Through Settlement and Vacatur, 76 Cornell L. Rev. 589, 595, n. 25 (1991)(citing studies).We hold that mootness by reason of settlement does notjustify vacatur of a judgment under review. This is not tosay that vacatur can never be granted when mootness isproduced in that fashion. As we have described, the determination is an equitable one, and exceptional circumstancesmay conceivably counsel in favor of such a course. It shouldbe clear from our discussion, however, that those exceptionalcircumstances do not include the mere fact that the settlement agreement provides for vacatur--which neither dimin-ishes the voluntariness of the abandonment of review noralters any of the policy considerations we have discussed.Of course even in the absence of, or before considering theexistence of, extraordinary circumstances, a court of appealspresented with a request for vacatur of a district-court judgment may remand the case with instructions that the districtcourt consider the request, which it may do pursuant to Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 60(b).* * *Petitioner's motion to vacate the judgment of the Courtof Appeals for the Ninth Circuit is denied. The case isdismissed as moot. See this Court's Rule 46.