Talmudic sages believed that judges who accepted bribeswould be punished by eventually losing all knowledge of thedivine law. The Federal Government, dealing with manypublic officials who are not judges, and with at least somejudges for whom this sanction holds no terror, has con-structed a framework of human laws and regulations defining various sorts of impermissible gifts, and punish-ing those who give or receive them with administrativesanctions, fines, and incarceration. One element of thatframework is 18 U. S. C. $ 201(c)(1)(A), the "illegal gratuity statute," which prohibits giving "anything of value" toa present, past, or future public official "for or because ofany official act performed or to be performed by such publicofficial." In this case, we consider whether conviction underthe illegal gratuity statute requires any showing beyond thefact that a gratuity was given because of the recipient's official position. IRespondent is a trade association that engaged in market-ing and lobbying activities on behalf of its member cooperatives, which were owned by approximately 5,000 individual*Briefs of amici curiae urging affirmance were filed for the AmericanLeague of Lobbyists by Samuel J. Buffone and Thomas M. Susman; andfor the National Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers by Carter G.Phillips, Thomas C. Green, Mark D. Hopson, and Lisa B. Kemler.Solicitor General Waxman, Assistant Attorney General Robinson,Deputy Solicitor General Dreeben, and Malcolm L. Stewart filed a brieffor the United States Department of Justice as amicus curiae.526US2 Unit: $U49 [12-11-00 18:47:15] PAGES PGT: OPIN401Cite as: 526 U. S. 398 (1999)Opinion of the Courtgrowers of raisins, figs, walnuts, prunes, and hazelnuts.Petitioner United States is represented by IndependentCounsel Donald Smaltz, who, as a consequence of his in-vestigation of former Secretary of Agriculture Michael Espy,charged respondent with, inter alia, making illegal gifts toEspy in violation of $ 201(c)(1)(A). That statute provides,in relevant part, that anyone who"otherwise than as provided by law for the proper discharge of official duty . . . directly or indirectly gives,offers, or promises anything of value to any public official, former public official, or person selected to be a public official, for or because of any official act performed orto be performed by such public official, former publicofficial, or person selected to be a public official . . . shallbe fined under this title or imprisoned for not more thantwo years, or both."Count One of the indictment charged Sun-Diamond withgiving Espy approximately $5,900 in illegal gratuities:tickets to the 1993 U. S. Open Tennis Tournament (worth$2,295), luggage ($2,427), meals ($665), and a framed printand crystal bowl ($524). The indictment alluded to twomatters in which respondent had an interest in favorabletreatment from the Secretary at the time it bestowed thegratuities. First, respondent's member cooperatives participated in the Market Promotion Plan (MPP), a grantprogram administered by the Department of Agricultureto promote the sale of U. S. farm commodities in foreigncountries. The cooperatives belonged to trade organizations, such as the California Prune Board and the RaisinAdministrative Committee, which submitted overseas marketing plans for their respective commodities. If their planswere approved by the Secretary of Agriculture, the tradeorganizations received funds to be used in defraying theforeign marketing expenses of their constituents. Each ofrespondent's member cooperatives was the largest mem526US2 Unit: $U49 [12-11-00 18:47:15] PAGES PGT: OPIN402 UNITED STATES v. SUN-DIAMOND GROWERS OF CAL.Opinion of the Courtber of its respective trade organization, and each receivedsignificant MPP funding. Respondent was understandablyconcerned, then, when Congress in 1993 instructed the Sec-retary to promulgate regulations giving small-sized entities preference in obtaining MPP funds. Omnibus BudgetReconciliation Act of 1993, Pub. L. 103-66, $ 1302(b)(2)(A),107 Stat. 330-331. If the Secretary did not deem respond-ent's member cooperatives to be small-sized entities, therewas a good chance they would no longer receive MPP grants.Thus, respondent had an interest in persuading the Secretary to adopt a regulatory definition of "small-sized entity"that would include its member cooperatives.Second, respondent had an interest in the Federal Gov-ernment's regulation of methyl bromide, a low-cost pesticideused by many individual growers in respondent's member co-operatives. In 1992, the Environmental Protection Agencyannounced plans to promulgate a rule to phase out the useof methyl bromide in the United States. The indictmentalleged that respondent sought the Department of Agri-culture's assistance in persuading the EPA to abandon itsproposed rule altogether, or at least to mitigate its impact.In the latter event, respondent wanted the Department tofund research efforts to develop reliable alternatives tomethyl bromide.Although describing these two matters before the Sec-retary in which respondent had an interest, the indictmentdid not allege a specific connection between either of them--or between any other action of the Secretary--and the gratuities conferred. The District Court denied respondent'smotion to dismiss Count One because of this omission. 941F. Supp. 1262 (DC 1996). The court stated:"[T]o sustain a charge under the gratuity statute, itis not necessary for the indictment to allege a directnexus between the value conferred to Secretary Espyby Sun-Diamond and an official act performed or to beperformed by Secretary Espy. It is sufficient for the526US2 Unit: $U49 [12-11-00 18:47:15] PAGES PGT: OPIN403Cite as: 526 U. S. 398 (1999)Opinion of the Courtindictment to allege that Sun-Diamond provided thingsof value to Secretary Espy because of his position."Id., at 1265.At trial, the District Court instructed the jury along thesesame lines. It read $ 201(c)(1)(A) to the jury twice (alongwith the definition of "official act" from $ 201(a)(3)), but thenplaced an expansive gloss on that statutory language, saying,among other things, that "[i]t is sufficient if Sun-Diamondprovided Espy with unauthorized compensation simply because he held public office," and that "[t]he government neednot prove that the alleged gratuity was linked to a specificor identifiable official act or any act at all." App. to Pet. forCert. 85a, 87a. The jury convicted respondent on, interalia, Count One (the only subject of this appeal), and theDistrict Court sentenced respondent on this count to pay afine of $400,000.*The Court of Appeals reversed the conviction on CountOne and remanded for a new trial, stating:"Given that the `for or because of any official act' lan-guage in $ 201(c)(1)(A) means what it says, the jury instructions invited the jury to convict on materially lessevidence than the statute demands--evidence of giftsdriven simply by Espy's official position." 138 F. 3d961, 968 (CADC 1998).In rejecting respondent's attack on the indictment, how-ever, the court stated that the Government need not showthat a gratuity was given "for or because of " any particularact or acts: "That an official has an abundance of relevantmatters on his plate should not insulate him or his bene-factors from the gratuity statute--as long as the jury is re*Respondent was also sentenced to serve five years' probation on thisand the other counts of which it stood convicted. Insofar as that elementof the sentence was concerned, the Court of Appeals remanded for resentencing because the probation included impermissible reporting requirements. 138 F. 3d 961, 977 (CADC 1998). That issue is not before us.526US2 Unit: $U49 [12-11-00 18:47:15] PAGES PGT: OPIN404 UNITED STATES v. SUN-DIAMOND GROWERS OF CAL.Opinion of the Courtquired to find the requisite intent to reward past favorableacts or to make future ones more likely." Id., at 969.We granted certiorari. 525 U. S. 961 (1998).IIInitially, it will be helpful to place $ 201(c)(1)(A) withinthe context of the statutory scheme. Subsection (a) of $ 201sets forth definitions applicable to the section--including adefinition of "official act," $ 201(a)(3). Subsections (b) and (c)then set forth, respectively, two separate crimes--or twopairs of crimes, if one counts the giving and receiving ofunlawful gifts as separate crimes--with two different setsof elements and authorized punishments. The first crime,described in $ 201(b)(1) as to the giver, and $ 201(b)(2) as tothe recipient, is bribery, which requires a showing that something of value was corruptly given, offered, or promised toa public official (as to the giver) or corruptly demanded,sought, received, accepted, or agreed to be received or ac-cepted by a public official (as to the recipient) with intent,inter alia, "to influence any official act" (giver) or in returnfor "being influenced in the performance of any official act"(recipient). The second crime, defined in $ 201(c)(1)(A) asto the giver, and in $ 201(c)(1)(B) as to the recipient, is illegalgratuity, which requires a showing that something of valuewas given, offered, or promised to a public official (as to thegiver), or demanded, sought, received, accepted, or agreedto be received or accepted by a public official (as to the recipient), "for or because of any official act performed or tobe performed by such public official."The distinguishing feature of each crime is its intent ele-ment. Bribery requires intent "to influence" an official actor "to be influenced" in an official act, while illegal gratu-ity requires only that the gratuity be given or accepted"for or because of " an official act. In other words, for brib-ery there must be aquid pro quo--a specific intent to giveor receive something of value in exchange for an official526US2 Unit: $U49 [12-11-00 18:47:15] PAGES PGT: OPIN405Cite as: 526 U. S. 398 (1999)Opinion of the Courtact. An illegal gratuity, on the other hand, may constitutemerely a reward for some future act that the public officialwill take (and may already have determined to take), or fora past act that he has already taken. The punishments prescribed for the two offenses reflect their relative seriousness:Bribery may be punished by up to 15 years' imprisonment,a fine of $250,000 ($500,000 for organizations) or triple thevalue of the bribe, whichever is greater, and disqualificationfrom holding government office. See 18 U. S. C. $$ 201(b)and 3571. Violation of the illegal gratuity statute, on theother hand, may be punished by up to two years' imprisonment and a fine of $250,000 ($500,000 for organizations).See $$ 201(c) and 3571.The District Court's instructions in this case, in differentiating between a bribe and an illegal gratuity, correctlynoted that only a bribe requires proof of a quid pro quo.The point in controversy here is that the instructions wenton to suggest that $ 201(c)(1)(A), unlike the bribery statute,did not require any connection between respondent's intentand a specific official act. It would be satisfied, according tothe instructions, merely by a showing that respondent gaveSecretary Espy a gratuity because of his official position--perhaps, for example, to build a reservoir of goodwill thatmight ultimately affect one or more of a multitude of unspecified acts, now and in the future. The United States,represented by the Independent Counsel, and the SolicitorGeneral as amicus curiae, contend that this instruction wascorrect. The Independent Counsel asserts that "section201(c)(1)(A) reaches any effort to buy favor or generalizedgoodwill from an official who either has been, is, or may atsome unknown, unspecified later time, be in a position to actfavorably to the giver's interests." Brief for United States22 (emphasis added). The Solicitor General contends that$ 201(c)(1)(A) requires only a showing that a "gift was motivated, at least in part, by the recipient's capacity to exercisegovernmental power or influence in the donor's favor" with526US2 Unit: $U49 [12-11-00 18:47:15] PAGES PGT: OPIN406 UNITED STATES v. SUN-DIAMOND GROWERS OF CAL.Opinion of the Courtout necessarily showing that it was connected to a particu-lar official act. Brief for United States Dept. of Justice asAmicus Curiae 17 (emphasis added).In our view, this interpretation does not fit comfortablywith the statutory text, which prohibits only gratuitiesgiven or received "for or because of any official act per-formed or to be performed" (emphasis added). It seems tous that this means "for or because of some particular officialact of whatever identity"--just as the question "Do you likeany composer?" normally means "Do you like some partic-ular composer?" It is linguistically possible, of course, forthe phrase to mean "for or because of official acts in general, without specification as to which one"--just as thequestion "Do you like any composer?" could mean "Do youlike all composers, no matter what their names or music?"But the former seems to us the more natural meaning, especially given the complex structure of the provision beforeus here. Why go through the trouble of requiring that thegift be made "for or because of any official act performedor to be performed by such public official," and then defining"official act" (in $ 201(a)(3)) to mean "any decision or actionon any question, matter, cause, suit, proceeding or controversy, which may at any time be pending, or which may bylaw be brought before any public official, in such official'sofficial capacity," when, if the Government's interpretationwere correct, it would have sufficed to say "for or becauseof such official's ability to favor the donor in executing thefunctions of his office"? The insistence upon an "officialact," carefully defined, seems pregnant with the requirementthat some particular official act be identified and proved.Besides thinking that this is the more natural meaning of$ 201(c)(1)(A), we are inclined to believe it correct becauseof the peculiar results that the Government's alternativereading would produce. It would criminalize, for example,token gifts to the President based on his official positionand not linked to any identifiable act--such as the replica526US2 Unit: $U49 [12-11-00 18:47:15] PAGES PGT: OPIN407Cite as: 526 U. S. 398 (1999)Opinion of the Courtjerseys given by championship sports teams each year dur-ing ceremonial White House visits, see,e. g., Gibson, Mastersof the Game, Lexington Herald-Leader, Nov. 10, 1998, p. A1.Similarly, it would criminalize a high school principal's giftof a school baseball cap to the Secretary of Education, byreason of his office, on the occasion of the latter's visit to theschool. That these examples are not fanciful is demonstrated by the fact that counsel for the United States main-tained at oral argument that a group of farmers would violate $ 201(c)(1)(A) by providing a complimentary lunch forthe Secretary of Agriculture in conjunction with his speechto the farmers concerning various matters of USDA policy--so long as the Secretary had before him, or had in prospect,matters affecting the farmers. Tr. of Oral Arg. 26-27. Ofcourse the Secretary of Agriculture always has before himor in prospect matters that affect farmers, just as the President always has before him or in prospect matters that affectcollege and professional sports, and the Secretary of Education matters that affect high schools.It might be said in reply to this that the more narrowinterpretation of the statute can also produce some peculiar results. In fact, in the above-given examples, the giftscould easily be regarded as having been conferred, not onlybecause of the official's position as President or Secretary,but also (and perhaps principally) "for or because of " theofficial acts of receiving the sports teams at the White House,visiting the high school, and speaking to the farmers aboutUSDA policy, respectively. The answer to this objectionis that those actions--while they are assuredly "official acts"in some sense--are not "official acts" within the meaningof the statute, which, as we have noted, defines "official act"to mean "any decision or action on any question, matter,cause, suit, proceeding or controversy, which may at anytime be pending, or which may by law be brought beforeany public official, in such official's official capacity, or insuch official's place of trust or profit." 18 U. S. C. $ 201(a)(3).526US2 Unit: $U49 [12-11-00 18:47:15] PAGES PGT: OPIN408 UNITED STATES v. SUN-DIAMOND GROWERS OF CAL.Opinion of the CourtThus, when the violation is linked to a particular "officialact," it is possible to eliminate the absurditiesthrough thedefinition of that term. When, however, no particular "of-ficial act" need be identified, and the giving of gifts by reason of the recipient's mere tenure in office constitutes a violation, nothing but the Government's discretion prevents theforegoing examples from being prosecuted.The Government insists that its interpretation is theonly one that gives effect to all of the statutory language.Specifically, it claims that the "official position" constructionis the only way to give effect to $ 201(c)(1)(A)'s forwardlooking prohibition on gratuities to persons who have beenselected to be public officials but have not yet taken office.Because, it contends, such individuals would not know ofspecific matters that would come before them, the onlyway to give this provision effect is to interpret "official act"to mean "official position." But we have no trouble envisioning the application of $ 201(c)(1)(A) to a selectee for federal office under the more narrow interpretation. If, for instance, a large computer company that has planned to mergewith another large computer company makes a gift to a person who has been chosen to be Assistant Attorney Generalfor the Antitrust Division of the Department of Justice andwho has publicly indicated his approval of the merger, itwould be quite possible for a jury to find that the gift wasmade "for or because of " the person's anticipated decision,once he is in office, not to challenge the merger. The uncertainty of future action seems to us, in principle, no more animpediment to prosecution of a selectee with respect to somefuture official act than it is to prosecution of an officeholderwith respect to some future official act.Our refusal to read $ 201(c)(1)(A) as a prohibition of giftsgiven by reason of the donee's office is supported by the factthat when Congress has wanted to adopt such a broadly prophylactic criminal prohibition upon gift giving, it has doneso in a more precise and more administrable fashion. For526US2 Unit: $U49 [12-11-00 18:47:15] PAGES PGT: OPIN409Cite as: 526 U. S. 398 (1999)Opinion of the Courtexample, another provision of Chapter 11 of Title 18, thechapter entitled "Bribery, Graft, and Conflicts of Interest,"criminalizes the giving or receiving of any "supplementa-tion" of an Executive official's salary, without regard to thepurpose of the payment. See 18 U. S. C. $ 209(a). Otherprovisions of the same chapter make it a crime for a bankemployee to give a bank examiner, and for a bank examinerto receive from a bank employee, "any loan or gratuity,"again without regard to the purpose for which it is given.See $$ 212-213. A provision of the Labor Management Re-lations Act makes it a felony for an employer to give to aunion representative, and for a union representative to receive from an employer, anything of value. 29 U. S. C. $ 186(1994 ed. and Supp. III). With clearly framed and easilyadministrable provisions such as these on the books imposing gift-giving and gift-receiving prohibitions specificallybased upon the holding of office, it seems to us most implausible that Congress intended the language of the gratuitystatute--"for or because of any official act performed or tobe performed"--to pertain to the office rather than (as thelanguage more naturally suggests) to particular official acts.Finally, a narrow, rather than a sweeping, prohibition ismore compatible with the fact that $ 201(c)(1)(A) is merelyone strand of an intricate web of regulations, both administrative and criminal, governing the acceptance of gifts andother self-enriching actions by public officials. For example,the provisions following $ 201 in Chapter 11 of Title 18 makeit a crime to give any compensation to a federal employee,or for the employee to receive compensation, in consideration of his representational assistance to anyone involved ina proceeding in which the United States has a direct andsubstantial interest, $ 203; for a federal employee to act as"agent or attorney" for anyone prosecuting a claim againstthe United States, $ 205(a)(1); for a federal employee to actas "agent or attorney" for anyone appearing before virtuallyany Government tribunal in connection with a matter in526US2 Unit: $U49 [12-11-00 18:47:15] PAGES PGT: OPIN410 UNITED STATES v. SUN-DIAMOND GROWERS OF CAL.Opinion of the Courtwhich the United States has a direct and substantial interest,$ 205(a)(2); for various types of federal employees to engagein various activities after completion of their federal service,$ 207; for an Executive employee to participate in any decision or proceeding relating to a matter in which he has afinancial interest, $ 208; for an employee of the ExecutiveBranch or an independent agency to receive "any contribution to or supplementation of salary . . . from any sourceother than the Government of the United States," $ 209; andfor a federal employee to accept a gift in connection with the"compromise, adjustment, or cancellation of any farm indebtedness," $ 217. A provision of the Internal Revenue Codemakes it criminal for a federal employee to accept a gift forthe "compromise, adjustment, or settlement of any chargeor complaint" for violation of the revenue laws. 26 U. S. C.$ 7214(a)(9).And the criminal statutes are merely the tip of the regulatory iceberg. In 5 U. S. C. $ 7353, which announces broadlythat no "employee of the executive, legislative, or judicialbranch shall solicit or accept anything of value from aperson . . . whose interests may be substantially affectedby the performance or nonperformance of the individual'sofficial duties," $ 7353(a)(2), Congress has authorized the promulgation of ethical rules for each branch of the FederalGovernment, $ 7353(b)(1). Pursuant to that provision, eachbranch of Government regulates its employees' acceptanceof gratuities in some fashion. See, e. g., 5 CFR $ 2635.202et seq. (1999) (Executive employees); Rule XXXV of theStanding Rules of the Senate, Senate Manual, S. Doc.No. 104-1 (rev. July 18, 1995) (Senators and Senate Employees); Rule XXVI of the Rules of the House of Representatives, 106th Cong. (rev. Jan. 7, 1999) (Representativesand House employees); 1 Research Papers of the NationalCommission on Judicial Discipline & Removal, Code ofConduct for U. S. Judges, Canon 5(C)(4), pp. 925-927 (1993)(federal judges).526US2 Unit: $U49 [12-11-00 18:47:15] PAGES PGT: OPIN411Cite as: 526 U. S. 398 (1999)Opinion of the CourtAll of the regulations, and some of the statutes, describedabove contain exceptions for various kinds of gratuitiesgiven by various donors for various purposes. Many ofthose exceptions would be snares for the unwary, giventhat there are no exceptions to the broad prohibition thatthe Government claims is imposed by $ 201(c)(1). In this re-gard it is interesting to consider the provisions of 5 CFR$ 2635.202 (1999), issued by the Office of Government Ethics(OGE) and binding on all employees of the Executive Branchand independent agencies. The first subsection of that pro-vision, entitled "General prohibitions," makes unlawful approximately (if not precisely) what the Government asserts$ 201(c)(1)(B) makes unlawful: acceptance of a gift "[f]roma prohibited source" (defined to include any person who"[h]as interests that may be substantially affected by per-formance or nonperformance of the employee's official duties," 5 CFR $ 2635.203(d)(4) (1999)) or "[g]iven because ofthe employee's official position," $ 2635.202(a)(2). The second subsection, entitled "Relationship to illegal gratuitiesstatute," then provides:"Unless accepted in violation of paragraph (c)(1) of thissection [banning acceptance of a gift `in return forbeing influenced in the performance of an official act'],a gift accepted under the standards set forth in this subpart shall not constitute an illegal gratuity otherwiseprohibited by 18 U. S. C. $ 201(c)(1)(B)." $ 2635.202(b)(emphasis added).We are unaware of any law empowering OGE to decriminalize acts prohibited by Title 18 of the United States Code.Yet it is clear that many gifts "accepted under the standardsset forth in [the relevant] subpart" will violate 18 U. S. C.$ 201(c)(1)(B) if the interpretation that the Governmenturges upon us is accepted. The subpart includes, for example--as $ 201(c)(1)(B) does not--exceptions for gifts of$20 or less, aggregating no more than $50 from a single526US2 Unit: $U49 [12-11-00 18:47:15] PAGES PGT: OPIN412 UNITED STATES v. SUN-DIAMOND GROWERS OF CAL.Opinion of the Courtsource in a calendar year, see 5 CFR $ 2635.204(a) (1999), andfor certain public-service or achievement awards and honorary degrees, see $ 2635.204(d). We are frankly not surethat even our more narrow interpretation of 18 U. S. C.$ 201(c)(1)(B) will cause OGE's assurance of nonviolation ifthe regulation is complied with to be entirely accurate; butthe misdirection, if any, will be infinitely less.More important for present purposes, however, this regulation, and the numerous other regulations and statuteslittering this field, demonstrate that this is an area whereprecisely targeted prohibitions are commonplace, and wheremore general prohibitions have been qualified by numerousexceptions. Given that reality, a statute in this field thatcan linguistically be interpreted to be either a meat axe or ascalpel should reasonably be taken to be the latter. Absenta text that clearly requires it, we ought not expand this onepiece of the regulatory puzzle so dramatically as to makemany other pieces misfits. As discussed earlier, not onlydoes the text here not require that result; its more naturalreading forbids it.IIIAs an alternative means of preserving the jury's verdict on Count One, the Government contends that the District Court's mistaken instruction concerning the scope of$ 201(c)(1)(A) constituted harmless error. As described earlier, the District Court twice read the text of $$ 201(c)(1)(A)and 201(a)(3), but it then incorrectly explained the meaningof that statutory language by essentially substituting theterm "official position" for "official act." More specifically,the court instructed the jury as follows:"The essence of the crime is the official's position [as]the receiver of the payment not whether the officialagrees to do anything in particular, that is, not whetherthe official agrees to do any particular official act in return. Therefore . . . to prove that a gratuity offense526US2 Unit: $U49 [12-11-00 18:47:15] PAGES PGT: OPIN413Cite as: 526 U. S. 398 (1999)Opinion of the Courthas been committed, it is not necessary to show thatthe payment is intended for a particular matter thenpending before the official. It is sufficient if the moti-vating factor for the payment is just to keep the officialhappy or to create a better relationship in general withthe official.. . . . ."It is sufficient if Sun-Diamond provided Espy with un-authorized compensation simply because he held publicoffice.. . . . ."In order for you to convict Sun-Diamond of violatingthe gratuity statute, you must find beyond a reasonabledoubt that Sun-Diamond gave the gifts to Mr. Espy foror because of Mr. Espy's official government position andnot solely for reasons of friendship or social purpose.. . . . ."With respect to official acts, the government has toprove that Sun-Diamond Growers of California gaveknowingly and willingly Secretary Espy things of valuewhile it had issues before the United States Departmentof Agriculture.. . . . ."Now, the government must prove that the gratuity wasknowingly and willingly given for or because of an official act performed or to be performed by the Secretaryof Agriculture, Michael Espy. That means that the government must prove that Sun-Diamond Growers of Cali-fornia . . . knowingly and willingly gave the gratuities,at least in part, because of the Secretary's position inappreciation of Sun-Diamond Growers of California'srelationship with him as a public official or in anticipa-tion of the continuation of its relationship with him as apublic official. The government need not prove that thealleged gratuity was linked to a specific or identifiable526US2 Unit: $U49 [12-11-00 18:47:15] PAGES PGT: OPIN414 UNITED STATES v. SUN-DIAMOND GROWERS OF CAL.Opinion of the Courtofficial act or any act at all." App. to Pet. for Cert. 84a-86a, 87a-88a.The Government contends that the jury's verdict renderedpursuant to these instructions necessarily included a findingthat respondent's gratuities were given and received "for orbecause of " an official act or acts. Upon closer examination,however, this argument is revealed to be nothing more thana restatement of the same flawed premise that permeatedthe instructions themselves and that we have just rejected:"By returning a guilty verdict, the jury necessarily rejectedrespondent's theory of defense and found beyond a reason-able doubt that the gifts were motivated by the fact that theSecretary of Agriculture exercised regulatory authority overrespondent's business." Brief for United States 44. TheCourt of Appeals tersely rejected this claim of harmlesserror, 138 F. 3d, at 968, and we do the same.* * *We hold that, in order to establish a violation of 18 U. S. C.$ 201(c)(1)(A), the Government must prove a link betweena thing of value conferred upon a public official and a spe-cific "official act" for or because of which it was given. Weaffirm the judgment of the Court of Appeals, which re-manded the case to the District Court for a new trial onCount One. Our decision today casts doubt upon the lowercourts' resolution of respondent's challenge to the sufficiencyof the indictment on Count One--an issue on which certiorariwas neither sought nor granted. We leave it to the DistrictCourt to determine whether that issue should be reopenedon remand.