This case presents the question whether police officers vio-late the Fourth Amendment when they search a passenger'spersonal belongings inside an automobile that they haveprobable cause to believe contains contraband.IIn the early morning hours of July 23, 1995, a WyomingHighway Patrol officer stopped an automobile for speedingand driving with a faulty brake light. There were three*Briefs of amici curiae urging reversal were filed for the State of Kentucky et al. by Albert B. Chandler III, Attorney General of Kentucky,Matthew Nelson, Assistant Attorney General, Dan Schweitzer, and JohnM. Bailey, Chief State's Attorney of Connecticut, and by the AttorneysGeneral for their respective jurisdictions as follows: Bill Pryor of Alabama, Grant Woods of Arizona, Winston Bryant of Arkansas, Daniel E.Lungren of California, M. Jane Brady of Delaware, Thurbert E. Baker ofGeorgia, Gus F. Diaz of Guam, Margery S. Bronster of Hawaii, Alan G.Lance of Idaho, Thomas J. Miller of Iowa, Richard P. Ieyoub of Louisiana,Andrew Ketterer of Maine, J. Joseph Curran, Jr., of Maryland, Frank J.Kelley of Michigan, Hubert H. Humphrey III of Minnesota, Mike Mooreof Mississippi, Jeremiah W. (Jay) Nixon of Missouri, Joseph P. Mazurekof Montana, Don Stenberg of Nebraska, Frankie Sue Del Papa of Nevada,Peter Verniero of New Jersey, Dennis C. Vacco of New York, MichaelF. Easley of North Carolina, Heidi Heitkamp of North Dakota, Betty D.Montgomery of Ohio, W. A. Drew Edmondson of Oklahoma, Charles M.Condon of South Carolina, Mark Barnett of South Dakota, and JanGraham of Utah; for the Criminal Justice Legal Foundation by Kent S.Scheidegger and Charles L. Hobson; and for the National Association ofPolice Organizations by Stephen R. McSpadden.Briefs of amici curiae urging affirmance were filed for the Legal AidSociety of New York City et al. by M. Sue Wycoff; for the National Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers by Paul Mogin and Lisa B. Kemler; and for the Rutherford Institute by Steven H. Aden and John W.Whitehead.526US2 Unit: $U44 [12-11-00 17:59:45] PAGES PGT: OPIN298 WYOMING v. HOUGHTONOpinion of the Courtpassengers in the front seat of the car: David Young (thedriver), his girlfriend, and respondent. While questioningYoung, the officer noticed a hypodermic syringe in Young'sshirt pocket. He left the occupants under the supervisionof two backup officers as he went to get gloves from his patrol car. Upon his return, he instructed Young to step outof the car and place the syringe on the hood. The officerthen asked Young why he had a syringe; with refreshingcandor, Young replied that he used it to take drugs.At this point, the backup officers ordered the two femalepassengers out of the car and asked them for identification.Respondent falsely identified herself as "Sandra James" andstated that she did not have any identification. Meanwhile,in light of Young's admission, the officer searched the passenger compartment of the car for contraband. On the backseat, he found a purse, which respondent claimed as hers.He removed from the purse a wallet containing respondent's driver's license, identifying her properly as Sandra K.Houghton. When the officer asked her why she had liedabout her name, she replied: "In case things went bad."Continuing his search of the purse, the officer found abrown pouch and a black wallet-type container. Respondentdenied that the former was hers, and claimed ignorance ofhow it came to be there; it was found to contain drug paraphernalia and a syringe with 60 ccs of methamphetamine.Respondent admitted ownership of the black container,which was also found to contain drug paraphernalia, anda syringe (which respondent acknowledged was hers) with10 ccs of methamphetamine--an amount insufficient to support the felony conviction at issue in this case. The officeralso found fresh needle-track marks on respondent's arms.He placed her under arrest.The State of Wyoming charged respondent with felonypossession of methamphetamine in a liquid amount greaterthan three-tenths of a gram. See Wyo. Stat. Ann. $ 35-7-1031(c)(iii) (Supp. 1996). After a hearing, the trial court de526US2 Unit: $U44 [12-11-00 17:59:45] PAGES PGT: OPIN299Cite as: 526 U. S. 295 (1999)Opinion of the Courtnied her motion to suppress all evidence obtained from thepurse as the fruit of a violation of the Fourth and FourteenthAmendments. The court held that the officer had probablecause to search the car for contraband, and, by extension,any containers therein that could hold such contraband. Ajury convicted respondent as charged.The Wyoming Supreme Court, by divided vote, reversedthe conviction and announced the following rule:"Generally, once probable cause is established to searcha vehicle, an officer is entitled to search all containerstherein which may contain the object of the search.However, if the officer knows or should know that a container is the personal effect of a passenger who is notsuspected of criminal activity, then the container is outside the scope of the search unless someone had the op-portunity to conceal the contraband within the personaleffect to avoid detection." 956 P. 2d 363, 372 (1998).The court held that the search of respondent's purse violatedthe Fourth and Fourteenth Amendments because the officer"knew or should have known that the purse did not belongto the driver, but to one of the passengers," and because"there was no probable cause to search the passengers' per-sonal effects and no reason to believe that contraband hadbeen placed within the purse." Ibid. We granted certio-rari, 524 U. S. 983 (1998).IIThe Fourth Amendment protects "[t]he right of the peopleto be secure in their persons, houses, papers, and effects,against unreasonable searches and seizures." In determin-ing whether a particular governmental action violates thisprovision, we inquire first whether the action was regardedas an unlawful search or seizure under the common law whenthe Amendment was framed. See Wilson v. Arkansas, 514U. S. 927, 931 (1995);California v. Hodari D., 499 U. S. 621,624 (1991). Where that inquiry yields no answer, we must526US2 Unit: $U44 [12-11-00 17:59:45] PAGES PGT: OPIN300 WYOMING v. HOUGHTONOpinion of the Courtevaluate the search or seizure under traditional standards ofreasonableness by assessing, on the one hand, the degree towhich it intrudes upon an individual's privacy and, on theother, the degree to which it is needed for the promotionof legitimate governmental interests. See, e. g., VernoniaSchool Dist. 47J v. Acton, 515 U. S. 646, 652-653 (1995).It is uncontested in the present case that the police officershad probable cause to believe there were illegal drugs in thecar. Carroll v. United States, 267 U. S. 132 (1925), similarlyinvolved the warrantless search of a car that law enforce-ment officials had probable cause to believe contained contraband--in that case, bootleg liquor. The Court concludedthat the Framers would have regarded such a search as reasonable in light of legislation enacted by Congress from 1789through 1799--as well as subsequent legislation from thefounding era and beyond--that empowered customs officialsto search any ship or vessel without a warrant if they hadprobable cause to believe that it contained goods subject toa duty.Id., at 150-153. See also United States v. Ross,456 U. S. 798, 806 (1982);Boyd v. United States, 116 U. S.616, 623-624 (1886). Thus, the Court held that "contrabandgoods concealed and illegally transported in an automobile orother vehicle may be searched for without a warrant" whereprobable cause exists. Carroll, supra, at 153.We have furthermore read the historical evidence to showthat the Framers would have regarded as reasonable (ifthere was probable cause) the warrantless search of containers within an automobile. In Ross, supra, we upheld as rea-sonable the warrantless search of a paper bag and leatherpouch found in the trunk of the defendant's car by officerswho had probable cause to believe that the trunk containeddrugs. Justice Stevens, writing for the Court, observed:"It is noteworthy that the early legislation on whichthe Court relied in Carroll concerned the enforcementof laws imposing duties on imported merchandise. . . .Presumably such merchandise was shipped then in con526US2 Unit: $U44 [12-11-00 17:59:45] PAGES PGT: OPIN301Cite as: 526 U. S. 295 (1999)Opinion of the Courttainers of various kinds, just as it is today. Since Con-gress had authorized warrantless searches of vessels andbeasts for imported merchandise, it is inconceivable thatit intended a customs officer to obtain a warrant forevery package discovered during the search; certainlyCongress intended customs officers to open shippingcontainers when necessary and not merely to examinethe exterior of cartons or boxes in which smuggledgoods might be concealed. During virtually the entirehistory of our country--whether contraband was transported in a horse-drawn carriage, a 1921 roadster, or amodern automobile--it has been assumed that a lawfulsearch of a vehicle would include a search of any con-tainer that might conceal the object of the search." Id.,at 820, n. 26.Ross summarized its holding as follows: "If probable causejustifies the search of a lawfully stopped vehicle, it justifiesthe search of every part of the vehicle and its contents thatmay conceal the object of the search."Id., at 825 (emphasisadded). And our later cases describing Ross have characterized it as applying broadly to all containers within a car,without qualification as to ownership. See, e. g., Californiav. Acevedo, 500 U. S. 565, 572 (1991) ("[T]his Court in Rosstook the critical step of saying that closed containers in carscould be searched without a warrant because of their pres-ence within the automobile");United States v. Johns, 469U. S. 478, 479-480 (1985) (Ross "held that if police officershave probable cause to search a lawfully stopped vehicle,they may conduct a warrantless search of any containersfound inside that may conceal the object of the search").To be sure, there was no passenger inRoss, and it was notclaimed that the package in the trunk belonged to anyoneother than the driver. Even so, if the rule of law that Rossannounced were limited to contents belonging to the driver,or contents other than those belonging to passengers, onewould have expected that substantial limitation to be ex526US2 Unit: $U44 [12-11-00 17:59:45] PAGES PGT: OPIN302 WYOMING v. HOUGHTONOpinion of the Courtpressed. And, more importantly, one would have expectedthat limitation to be apparent in the historical evidence thatformed the basis for Ross's holding. In fact, however, noth-ing in the statutesRoss relied upon, or in the practice underthose statutes, would except from authorized warrantlesssearch packages belonging to passengers on the suspect ship,horse-drawn carriage, or automobile.Finally, we must observe that the analytical principle un-derlying the rule announced inRoss is fully consistent--asrespondent's proposal is not--with the balance of our FourthAmendment jurisprudence.Ross concluded from the historical evidence that the permissible scope of a warrantlesscar search "is defined by the object of the search and theplaces in which there is probable cause to believe that it maybe found." 456 U. S., at 824. The same principle is reflected in an earlier case involving the constitutionality of asearch warrant directed at premises belonging to one who isnot suspected of any crime: "The critical element in a reasonable search is not that the owner of the property is suspectedof crime but that there is reasonable cause to believe thatthe specific `things' to be searched for and seized are locatedon the property to which entry is sought." Zurcher v. Stanford Daily, 436 U. S. 547, 556 (1978). This statement wasillustrated by citation and description of Carroll, 267 U. S.,at 158-159, 167. 436 U. S., at 556-557.In sum, neither Ross itself nor the historical evidence itrelied upon admits of a distinction among packages or containers based on ownership. When there is probable causeto search for contraband in a car, it is reasonable for policeofficers--like customs officials in the founding era--to examine packages and containers without a showing of individualized probable cause for each one. A passenger's personalbelongings, just like the driver's belongings or containersattached to the car like a glove compartment, are "in" thecar, and the officer has probable cause to search for contraband in the car.526US2 Unit: $U44 [12-11-00 17:59:45] PAGES PGT: OPIN303Cite as: 526 U. S. 295 (1999)Opinion of the CourtEven if the historical evidence, as described by Ross, werethought to be equivocal, we would find that the balancing ofthe relative interests weighs decidedly in favor of allowingsearches of a passenger's belongings. Passengers, no lessthan drivers, possess a reduced expectation of privacy withregard to the property that they transport in cars, which"trave[l] public thoroughfares," Cardwell v. Lewis, 417 U. S.583, 590 (1974), "seldom serv[e] as . . . the repository of personal effects," ibid., are subjected to police stop and exami-nation to enforce "pervasive" governmental controls "[a]s aneveryday occurrence," South Dakota v. Opperman, 428 U. S.364, 368 (1976), and, finally, are exposed to traffic accidentsthat may render all their contents open to public scrutiny.In this regard--the degree of intrusiveness upon personalprivacy and indeed even personal dignity--the two cases theWyoming Supreme Court found dispositive differ substantially from the package search at issue here. United Statesv.Di Re, 332 U. S. 581 (1948), held that probable cause tosearch a car did not justify a body search of a passenger.AndYbarra v. Illinois, 444 U. S. 85 (1979), held that a searchwarrant for a tavern and its bartender did not permit bodysearches of all the bar's patrons. These cases turned on theunique, significantly heightened protection afforded againstsearches of one's person. "Even a limited search of theouter clothing . . . constitutes a severe, though brief, intrusion upon cherished personal security, and it must surely bean annoying, frightening, and perhaps humiliating experience." Terry v. Ohio, 392 U. S. 1, 24-25 (1968). Such trau-matic consequences are not to be expected when the policeexamine an item of personal property found in a car.11 The dissent begins its analysis, post, at 309-310 (opinion of Stevens,J.), with an assertion that this case is governed by our decision in UnitedStates v. Di Re, 332 U. S. 581 (1948), which held, as the dissent describes it,that the automobile exception to the warrant requirement did not justify"searches of the passenger's pockets and the space between his shirt andunderwear," post, at 309. It attributes that holding to "the settled dis526US2 Unit: $U44 [12-11-00 17:59:45] PAGES PGT: OPIN304 WYOMING v. HOUGHTONOpinion of the CourtWhereas the passenger's privacy expectations are, as wehave described, considerably diminished, the governmentalinterests at stake are substantial. Effective law enforce-ment would be appreciably impaired without the ability tosearch a passenger's personal belongings when there is reason to believe contraband or evidence of criminal wrongdoingis hidden in the car. As in all car-search cases, the "readymobility" of an automobile creates a risk that the evidenceor contraband will be permanently lost while a warrant isobtained. California v. Carney, 471 U. S. 386, 390 (1985).In addition, a car passenger--unlike the unwitting tavernpatron in Ybarra--will often be engaged in a common en-terprise with the driver, and have the same interest intinction between drivers and passengers," rather than to a distinction between search of the person and search of property, which the dissentclaims is "newly minted" by today's opinion--a "new rule that is based ona distinction between property contained in clothing worn by a passengerand property contained in a passenger's briefcase or purse." Post, at309, 309-310.In its peroration, however, the dissent quotes extensively from JusticeJackson's opinion in Di Re, which makes it very clear that it is preciselythis distinction between search of the person and search of property thatthe case relied upon:"The Government says it would not contend that, armed with a searchwarrant for a residence only, it could search all persons found in it. Butan occupant of a house could be used to conceal this contraband on hisperson quite as readily as can an occupant of a car." 332 U. S., at 587(quoted post, at 312).Does the dissent really believe that Justice Jackson was saying that ahouse search could not inspect property belonging to persons found in thehouse--say a large standing safe or violin case belonging to the owner'svisiting godfather? Of course that is not what Justice Jackson meant atall. He was referring precisely to that "distinction between property contained in clothing worn by a passenger and property contained in a passenger's briefcase or purse" that the dissent disparages, post, at 309. Thisdistinction between searches of the person and searches of property isassuredly not "newly minted," see post, at 310. And if the dissent thinks"pockets" and "clothing" do not count as part of the person, it must believethat the only searches of the person are strip searches.526US2 Unit: $U44 [12-11-00 17:59:45] PAGES PGT: OPIN305Cite as: 526 U. S. 295 (1999)Opinion of the Courtconcealing the fruits or the evidence of their wrongdoing.Cf. Maryland v. Wilson, 519 U. S. 408, 413-414 (1997). Acriminal might be able to hide contraband in a passenger'sbelongings as readily as in other containers in the car, see,e. g., Rawlings v. Kentucky, 448 U. S. 98, 102 (1980)--perhapseven surreptitiously, without the passenger's knowledge orpermission. (This last possibility provided the basis forrespondent's defense at trial; she testified that most of theseized contraband must have been placed in her purse byher traveling companions at one or another of various times,including the time she was "half asleep" in the car.)To be sure, these factors favoring a search will not alwaysbe present, but the balancing of interests must be conductedwith an eye to the generality of cases. To require that theinvestigating officer have positive reason to believe that thepassenger and driver were engaged in a common enterprise,or positive reason to believe that the driver had time andoccasion to conceal the item in the passenger's belongings,surreptitiously or with friendly permission, is to impose requirements so seldom met that a "passenger's property" rulewould dramatically reduce the ability to find and seize contraband and evidence of crime. Of course these requirements would not attach (under the Wyoming SupremeCourt's rule) until the police officer knows or has reason toknow that the container belongs to a passenger. But once a"passenger's property" exception to car searches becamewidely known, one would expect passenger-confederates toclaim everything as their own. And one would anticipate abog of litigation--in the form of both civil lawsuits and motions to suppress in criminal trials--involving such questionsas whether the officer should have believed a passenger'sclaim of ownership, whether he should have inferred ownership from various objective factors, whether he had probablecause to believe that the passenger was a confederate, or tobelieve that the driver might have introduced the contraband526US2 Unit: $U44 [12-11-00 17:59:45] PAGES PGT: OPIN306 WYOMING v. HOUGHTONOpinion of the Courtinto the package with or without the passenger's knowledge.2When balancing the competing interests, our determinationsof "reasonableness" under the Fourth Amendment must takeaccount of these practical realities. We think they militatein favor of the needs of law enforcement, and against apersonal-privacy interest that is ordinarily weak.Finally, if we were to invent an exception from the histori-cal practice thatRoss accurately described and summarized,it is perplexing why that exception should protect only property belonging to a passenger, rather than (what seems muchmore logical) property belonging to anyone other than thedriver. Surely Houghton's privacy would have been invadedto the same degree whether she was present or absent whenher purse was searched. And surely her presence in the carwith the driver provided more, rather than less, reason tobelieve that the two were in league. It may ordinarily beeasier to identify the property as belonging to someone otherthan the driver when the purported owner is present to iden-tify it--but in the many cases (likeRoss itself) where thecar is seized, that identification may occur later, at the sta2 The dissent is "confident in a police officer's ability to apply a rulerequiring a warrant or individualized probable cause to search belongingsthat are . . . obviously owned by and in the custody of a passenger," post,at 311. If this is the dissent's strange criterion for warrant protection("obviously owned by and in the custody of") its preceding paean to theimportance of preserving passengers' privacy rings a little hollow on rehearing. Should it not be enough if the passenger says he owns the briefcase, and the officer has no concrete reason to believe otherwise? Orwould the dissent consider that an example of "obvious" ownership? Onreflection, it seems not at all obvious precisely what constitutes obviousness--and so even the dissent's on-the-cheap protection of passengers' privacy interest in their property turns out to be unclear, and henceunadministrable. But maybe the dissent does not mean to propose anobviously-owned-by-and-in-the-custody-of test after all, since a few sentences later it endorses, simpliciter, "a rule requiring a warrant or individualized probable cause to search passenger belongings," post, at 312.For the reasons described in text, that will not work.526US2 Unit: $U44 [12-11-00 17:59:45] PAGES PGT: OPIN307Cite as: 526 U. S. 295 (1999)Breyer, J., concurringtion house; and even at the site of the stop one can readilyimagine a package clearly marked with the owner's nameand phone number, by which the officer can confirm the driv-er's denial of ownership. The sensible rule (and the one supported by history and case law) is that such a package maybe searched, whether or not its owner is present as a passenger or otherwise, because it may contain the contraband thatthe officer has reason to believe is in the car.* * *We hold that police officers with probable cause to searcha car may inspect passengers' belongings found in the carthat are capable of concealing the object of the search. Thejudgment of the Wyoming Supreme Court is reversed.