Section 402(b)(3) of the Employee Retirement IncomeSecurity Act of 1974 (ERISA), 88 Stat. 875, 29 U. S. C.$ 1102(b)(3), requires that every employee benefit plan pro-vide "a procedure for amending such plan, and for identifyingthe persons who have authority to amend the plan." Thiscase presents the question whether the standard provisionin many employer-provided benefit plans stating that "TheCompany reserves the right at any time to amend the plan"sets forth an amendment procedure that satisfies $ 402(b)(3).We hold that it does.IFor many years, petitioner Curtiss-Wright voluntarilymaintained a postretirement health plan for employees whohad worked at certain Curtiss-Wright facilities; respondentsare retirees who had worked at one such facility in WoodRidge, New Jersey. The specific terms of the plan, the Dis-trict Court determined, could be principally found in twoplan documents: the plan constitution and the Summary PlanDescription (SPD), both of which primarily covered activeemployee health benefits.In early 1983, presumably due to the rising cost of healthcare, a revised SPD was issued with the following newprovision: "TERMINATION OF HEALTH CARE BENEFITS . . . . Coverage under this Plan will cease for retireesand their dependents upon the termination of businessoperations of the facility from which they retired." App.49. The two main authors of the new SPD provision,Curtiss-Wright's director of benefits and its labor counsel,D. Mollen; and for the National Union Fire Insurance Co. of Pittsburgh,Pa., by Robert N. Eccles.Briefs of amici curiae urging affirmance were filed for the AmericanAssociation of Retired Persons by Steven S. Zaleznick and Mary EllenSignorille; and for the National Association of Securities and CommercialLaw Attorneys by Jonathan W. Cuneo, Kevin P. Roddy, Steve W. Berman,Bryan L. Clobes, and Henry H. Rossbacher.514us1$33J 05-29-98 14:51:51 PAGES OPINPGT76 CURTISS-WRIGHT CORP. v. SCHOONEJONGENOpinion of the Courttestified that they did not think the provision effected a"change" in the plan, but rather merely clarified it.Id.,at 70-71, 79. Probably for this reason, the record is lessthan clear as to which Curtiss-Wright officers or committeeshad authority to make plan amendments on behalf of thecompany and whether such officers or committees approvedor ratified the new SPD provision. In any event, laterthat year, Curtiss-Wright announced that the Wood-Ridgefacility would close. Shortly thereafter, an executive vicepresident wrote respondents a series of letters informingthem that their post-retirement health benefits were beingterminated.Respondents brought suit in federal court over the termination of their benefits, and many years of litigation ensued.The District Court ultimately rejected most of respondents'claims, including their contention that Curtiss-Wright hadbound itself contractually to provide health benefits to themfor life. The District Court agreed, however, that the newSPD provision effected a significant change in the plan'sterms and thus constituted an "amendment" to the plan; thatthe plan documents nowhere contained a valid amendmentprocedure, as required by $ 402(b)(3); and that the properremedy for the $ 402(b)(3) violation was to declare the newSPD provision void ab initio. The court eventually ordered Curtiss-Wright to pay respondents $2,681,086 in backbenefits.On appeal, Curtiss-Wright primarily argued that the plandocuments did contain an amendment procedure, namely, thestandard reservation clause contained in the plan constitution and in a few secondary plan documents. The clausestates: "The Company reserves the right at any time andfrom time to time to modify or amend, in whole or in part,any or all of the provisions of the Plan." App. 37; see also2 RIA Pension Coordinator || 13,181, p. 13,276R-124 (1994)(reproducing IRS' prototype employee benefits plan, whichcontains similar language). In Curtiss-Wright's view, this514us1$33J 05-29-98 14:51:51 PAGES OPINPGT77Cite as: 514 U. S. 73 (1995)Opinion of the Courtclause sets forth an amendment procedure as required by thestatute. It says, in effect, that the plan is to be amendedby"[t]he Company."The Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit rejected thisargument, as well as all other arguments before it, and affirmed the District Court's remedy. See 18 F. 3d 1034(1994). It explained: "A primary purpose of $ 402(b)(3) is toensure that all interested parties [including beneficiaries]will know how a plan may be altered and who may makesuch alterations. Only if they know this information willthey be able to determine with certainty at any given timeexactly what the plan provides." Id., at 1038. And thecourt suggested that $ 402(b)(3) cannot serve that purposeunless it is read to require that every amendment procedurespecify precisely "what individuals or bodies within the Company c[an] promulgate an effective amendment." Id., at1039. In the court's view, then, a reservation clause thatsays that the plan may be amended "by the Company," without more, is too vague. In so holding, the court distinguished a case, Huber v. Casablanca Industries, Inc., 916F. 2d 85 (1990), in which it had upheld a reservation clausethat said, in effect, that the plan may be amended "by theTrustees." "By the trustees," the court reasoned, had avery particular meaning in Huber; it meant "by resolutio[n]at a regularly constituted board [of trustees] meeting inaccordance with the established process of the trustees."18 F. 3d, at 1039 (citation omitted).In a footnote, the court related the concurring views ofJudge Roth. Id., at 1039, n. 3. According to the court,Judge Roth thought that the notion of an amendment"by the Company" should be read in light of traditional corporate law principles, which is to say amendment "by theboard of directors or whomever of the company has theauthority to take such action." Ibid. And read in thismore specific way, "by the Company" indicates a validamendment procedure that satisfies $ 402(b)(3). She con514us1$33J 05-29-98 14:51:51 PAGES OPINPGT78 CURTISS-WRIGHT CORP. v. SCHOONEJONGENOpinion of the Courtcurred rather than dissented, however, because, in thecourt's words, "neither [Curtiss-Wright's] board nor anyother person or entity within [Curtiss-Wright] with thepower to act on behalf of `the Company' ratified [the newSPD provision]." Ibid.Curtiss-Wright petitioned for certiorari on the questionswhether a plan provision stating that "[t]he Company" re-serves the right to amend the plan states a valid amendmentprocedure under $ 402(b)(3) and, if not, whether the properremedy is to declare this or any other amendment voidab initio. We granted certiorari on both. 512 U. S. 1288(1994).IIIn interpreting $ 402(b)(3), we are mindful that ERISAdoes not create any substantive entitlement to employerprovided health benefits or any other kind of welfare bene-fits. Employers or other plan sponsors are generally freeunder ERISA, for any reason at any time, to adopt, modify,or terminate welfare plans. SeeAdams v. Avondale Indus-tries, Inc., 905 F. 2d 943, 947 (CA6 1990) ("[A] company doesnot act in a fiduciary capacity when deciding to amend orterminate a welfare benefits plan"). Nor does ERISA establish any minimum participation, vesting, or funding re-quirements for welfare plans as it does for pension plans.See Shaw v. Delta Air Lines, Inc., 463 U. S. 85, 90-91 (1983).Accordingly, that Curtiss-Wright amended its plan to deprive respondents of health benefits is not a cognizable com-plaint under ERISA; the only cognizable claim is that thecompany did not do so in a permissible manner.AThe text of $ 402(b)(3) actually requires two things: a "pro-cedure for amending [the] plan"and "[a procedure] for identi-fying the persons who have authority to amend the plan."With respect to the second requirement, the general "Defi-nitions" section of ERISA makes quite clear that the term514us1$33J 05-29-98 14:51:51 PAGES OPINPGT79Cite as: 514 U. S. 73 (1995)Opinion of the Court"person," wherever it appears in the statute, includes compa-nies. See 29 U. S. C. $ 1002(9) ("The term `person' means anindividual, partnership, joint venture, corporation, mutualcompany, joint-stock company, trust, estate, unincorporatedorganization, association, or employee organization"). TheCurtiss-Wright reservation clause thus appears to satisfy thestatute's identification requirement by naming "[t]he Company" as "the perso[n]" with amendment authority.The text of $ 402(b)(3) speaks, somewhat awkwardly, of requiring a procedure for identifying the persons with amend-ment authority, rather than requiring identification of thosepersons outright. Be that as it may, a plan that simply identifies the persons outright necessarily indicates a procedurefor identifying the persons as well. With respect to theCurtiss-Wright plan, for example, to identify "[t]he Company" as the person with amendment authority is to say, ineffect, that the procedure for identifying the person withamendment authority is to look always to "[t]he Company."Such an identification procedure is more substantial thanmight first appear. To say that one must look always to"[t]he Company" is to say that one must look only to "[t]heCompany" and not to any other person--that is, not to anyunion, not to any third-party trustee, and not to any of theother kinds of outside parties that, in many other plans, exercise amendment authority.The more difficult question in this case is whether theCurtiss-Wright reservation clause contains a "procedure foramending [the] plan." To recall, the reservation clause saysin effect that the plan may be amended "by the Company."Curtiss-Wright is correct, we think, that this states anamendment procedure and one that, like the identificationprocedure, is more substantial than might first appear. Itsays the plan may be amended by a unilateral company decision to amend, and only by such a decision--and not, for example, by the unilateral decision of a third-party trustee orupon the approval of the union. Moreover, to the extent514us1$33J 05-29-98 14:51:51 PAGES OPINPGT80 CURTISS-WRIGHT CORP. v. SCHOONEJONGENOpinion of the Courtthat this procedure is the barest of procedures, that is be-cause the Curtiss-Wright plan is the simplest of plans: a voluntarily maintained single-employer health plan that is ad-ministered by the employer and funded by the employer.More complicated plans, such as multiemployer plans,may have more complicated amendment procedures, and$ 402(b)(3) was designed to cover them as well.In any event, the literal terms of $ 402(b)(3) are ultimatelyindifferent to the level of detail in an amendment procedure,or in an identification procedure for that matter. The pro-vision requires only that therebe an amendment procedure,which here there is. A "procedure," as that term iscommonly understood, is a "particular way" of doing something, Webster's Third New International Dictionary 1807(1976), or "a manner of proceeding," Random House Dictionary of the English Language 1542 (2d ed. 1987). Certainly a plan that says it may be amended only by a unilateralcompany decision adequately sets forth "a particular way"of making an amendment. Adequately, that is, with onerefinement.In order for an amendment procedure that says the planmay be amended by "[t]he Company" to make any sense,there must be some way of determining what it means for"[t]he Company" to make a decision to amend or, in the language of trust law, to "sufficiently manifest [its] intention" toamend. Restatement (Second) of Trusts $ 331, Comment c(1957). After all, only natural persons are capable of making decisions. As Judge Roth suggested, however, principles of corporate law provide a ready-made set of rules fordetermining, in whatever context, who has authority to makedecisions on behalf of a company. Consider, for example, anordinary sales contract between "Company X" and a thirdparty. We would not think of regarding the contract asmeaningless, and thus unenforceable, simply because it doesnot specify on its face exactly who within "Company X" hasthe power to enter into such an agreement or carry out its514us1$33J 05-29-98 14:51:51 PAGES OPINPGT81Cite as: 514 U. S. 73 (1995)Opinion of the Courtterms. Rather, we would look to corporate law principlesto give "Company X" content. See 2 W. Fletcher, Cyclopedia of Law of Private Corporations $ 466, p. 505 (rev. ed.1990) ("[A] corporation is bound by contracts entered into byits officers and agents acting on behalf of the corporation andfor its benefit, provided they act within the scope of theirexpress or implied powers"). So too here.In the end, perhaps the strongest argument for a textualreading of $ 402(b)(3) is that to read it to require specificationof individuals or bodies within a company would lead to improbable results. That is, it might lead to the invalidationof myriad amendment procedures that no one would thinkviolate $ 402(b)(3), especially those in multiemployer plans--which, as we said, $ 402(b)(3) covers as well. For example,imagine a multiemployer plan that says "This Plan may beamended at any time by written agreement of two-thirds ofthe participating Companies, subject to the approval of theplan Trustees." This would seem to be a fairly robustamendment procedure, and we can imagine numerous vari-ants of it. Yet, because our hypothetical procedure does notspecify who within any of "the participating Companies" hasauthority to enter into such an amendment agreement (letalone what counts as the "approval of the plan Trustees"),respondents would say it is insufficiently specific to passmuster under $ 402(b)(3). Congress could not have intendedsuch a result.BCurtiss-Wright's reservation clause thus satisfies the plaintext of both requirements in $ 402(b)(3). Respondents nonetheless argue that, in drafting $ 402(b)(3), Congress intendedamendment procedures to convey enough detail to serve beneficiaries' interest in knowing the terms of their plans. Or-dinarily, we would be reluctant to indulge an argument basedon legislative purpose where the text alone yields a clearanswer, but we do so here because it is the argument theCourt of Appeals found persuasive.514us1$33J 05-29-98 14:51:51 PAGES OPINPGT82 CURTISS-WRIGHT CORP. v. SCHOONEJONGENOpinion of the CourtSection 402(b)(3)'s primary purpose is obviously functional:to ensure that every planhas a workable amendment procedure. This is clear from not only the face of the provisionbut also its placement in $ 402(b), which lays out the requisitefunctional features of ERISA plans. 29 U. S. C. $ 1102(b)(every ERISA plan shall have, in addition to an amendmentprocedure, "a procedure for establishing and carrying out afunding policy and method," "[a] procedure under the planfor the allocation of responsibilities for the operation and administration of the plan," and "[a] basis on which paymentsare made to and from the plan").Requiring every plan to have a coherent amendment procedure serves several laudable goals. First, for a plan not tohave such a procedure would risk rendering the plan foreverunamendable under standard trust law principles. SeeRestatement (Second) of Trusts, supra, $ 331(2). Second,such a requirement increases the likelihood that proposedplan amendments, which are fairly serious events, are recognized as such and given the special consideration they deserve. Finally, having an amendment procedure enablesplan administrators, the people who manage the plan on aday-to-day level, to have a mechanism for sorting out, fromamong the occasional corporate communications that passthrough their offices and that conflict with the existing planterms, the bona fide amendments from those that are not.In fact, plan administrators may have a statutory responsibility to do this sorting out. See 29 U. S. C. $ 1104(a)(1)(D)(plan administrators have a duty to run the plan "in accordance with the documents and instruments governing the planinsofar as such documents and instruments are consistentwith the provisions of [the statute]," which would include theamendment procedure provision). That Congress may havehad plan administrators in mind is suggested by the factthat $ 402(b)(3), and $ 402(b) more generally, is located inthe "fiduciary responsibility" section of ERISA. See 29U. S. C. $$ 1101-1114.514us1$33J 05-29-98 14:51:51 PAGES OPINPGT83Cite as: 514 U. S. 73 (1995)Opinion of the CourtRespondents argue that $ 402(b)(3) was intended not onlyto ensure that every plan has an amendment procedure, butalso to guarantee that the procedure conveys enough detailto enable beneficiaries to learn their rights and obligationsunder the plan at any time. Respondents are no doubt rightthat one of ERISA's central goals is to enable plan benefici-aries to learn their rights and obligations at any time. ButERISA already has an elaborate scheme in place for en-abling beneficiaries to learn their rights and obligations atany time, a scheme that is built around reliance on the faceof written plan documents.The basis of that scheme is another of ERISA's core functional requirements, that "[e]very employee benefit planshall be established and maintained pursuant to a writteninstrument." 29 U. S. C. $ 1102(a)(1) (emphasis added). Inthe words of the key congressional report, "[a] written planis to be required in order that every employee may, on examining the plan documents, determine exactly what his rightsand obligations are under the plan." H. R. Rep. No. 93-1280, p. 297 (1974) (emphasis added). ERISA gives effect tothis "written plan documents" scheme through a comprehensive set of "reporting and disclosure" requirements, see 29U. S. C. $$ 1021-1031, of which $ 402(b)(3) is not part. Oneprovision, for example, requires that plan administratorsperiodically furnish beneficiaries with a Summary PlanDescription, see 29 U. S. C. $ 1024(b)(1), the purpose being tocommunicate to beneficiaries the essential information aboutthe plan. Not surprisingly, the information that every SPDmust contain includes the "name and address" of plan administrators and other plan fiduciaries, but not the names andaddresses of those individuals with amendment authority.$ 1022(b). The same provision also requires that plan administrators furnish beneficiaries with summaries of newamendments no later than 210 days after the end of the planyear in which the amendment is adopted. See $ 1024(b)(1).Under ERISA, both Summary Plan Descriptions and plan514us1$33J 05-29-98 14:51:51 PAGES OPINPGT84 CURTISS-WRIGHT CORP. v. SCHOONEJONGENOpinion of the Courtamendment summaries "shall be written in a manner calcu-lated to be understood by the average plan participant."$ 1022(a)(1).More important, independent of any information automatically distributed to beneficiaries, ERISA requires that everyplan administrator make available for inspection in the ad-ministrator's "principal office" and other designated locationsa set of all currently operative, governing plan documents,see $ 1024(b)(2), which necessarily includes any new, bonafide amendments. See also $ 1024(b)(4) (requiring plan ad-ministrators, upon written request, to furnish beneficiarieswith copies of governing plan documents for a reasonablecopying charge). As indicated earlier, plan administratorsappear to have a statutory responsibility actually to run theplan in accordance with the currently operative, governingplan documents and thus an independent incentive for obtaining new amendments as quickly as possible and for weeding out defective ones.This may not be a foolproof informational scheme, although it is quite thorough. Either way, it is the schemethat Congress devised. And we do not think Congress intended it to be supplemented by a faraway provision in another part of the statute, least of all in a way that would leadto improbable results, supra, at 81.In concluding that Curtiss-Wright's reservation clausesets forth a valid amendment procedure, we do not mean toimply that there is anything wrong with plan beneficiariestrying to prove that unfavorable plan amendments werenot properly adopted and are thus invalid. This is exactlywhat respondents are trying to do here, and nothing inERISA is designed to obstruct such efforts. But nothingin ERISA is designed to facilitate such efforts either. Tobe sure, some companies that have plans with the standardreservation clause may want to provide greater specificationto their amendment procedures precisely to avoid such costlylitigation. Or they may want to retain the flexibility that514us1$33J 05-29-98 14:51:51 PAGES OPINPGT85Cite as: 514 U. S. 73 (1995)Opinion of the Courtdesignating "[t]he Company" (read in light of corporate law)provides them. But either way, this is simply a species of alarger dilemma companies face whenever they must desig-nate who, on behalf of the company, may take legally bindingactions that third parties may later have an interest inchallenging as unauthorized. Cf. R. Clark, Corporate Law$ 3.3.2 (1986). It is not a dilemma ERISA addresses.ERISA, rather, follows standard trust law principles indictating only that whatever level of specificity a companyultimately chooses, in an amendment procedure or elsewhere, it is bound to that level.IIIHaving determined that the Curtiss-Wright plan satisfies$ 402(b)(3), we do not reach the question of the proper remedy for a $ 402(b)(3) violation. On remand, the Court of Ap-peals will have to decide the question that has always beenat the heart of this case: whether Curtiss-Wright's validamendment procedure--amendment "by the Company"--was complied with in this case. The answer will depend ona fact-intensive inquiry, under applicable corporate law principles, into what persons or committees within Curtiss-Wright possessed plan amendment authority, either by express delegation or impliedly, and whether those persons orcommittees actually approved the new plan provision contained in the revised SPD. See 2 W. Fletcher, Cyclopedia ofthe Law of Private Corporations $ 444, pp. 397-398 (1990)(authority may be by express delegation or it "may be in-ferred from circumstances or implied from the acquiescenceof the corporation or its agents in a general course of busi-ness"). If the new plan provision is found not to have beenproperly authorized when issued, the question would thenarise whether any subsequent actions, such as the executivevice president's letters informing respondents of the termi-nation, served to ratify the provisionex post. See id.,$ 437.10, at 386.514us1$33J 05-29-98 14:51:51 PAGES OPINPGT86 CURTISS-WRIGHT CORP. v. SCHOONEJONGENOpinion of the CourtThe judgment of the Court of Appeals is reversed, andthe case is remanded for further proceedings consistent withthis opinion. It is so ordered.514us1$34z 05-27-98 14:27:39 PAGES OPINPGT87OCTOBER TERM, 1994SyllabusSHALALA, SECRETARY OF HEALTH AND HUMANSERVICESv. GUERNSEY MEMORIAL HOSPITALcertiorari to the united states court of appeals forthe sixth circuitNo. 93-1251. Argued October 31, 1994--Decided March 6, 1995After the refinancing of its bonded debt resulted in a "defeasance" lossfor accounting purposes, respondent health care provider (hereinafterHospital) determined that it was entitled to Medicare reimbursementfor part of that loss. Although the Hospital contended that it shouldreceive its full reimbursement in the year of the refinancing, the fiscalintermediary agreed with petitioner Secretary of Health and HumanServices that the loss had to be amortized over the life of the Hospital'sold bonds in accord with an informal Medicare reimbursement guideline,PRM $ 233. The District Court ultimately sustained the Secretary'sposition, but the Court of Appeals reversed. Interpreting the Secretary's Medicare regulations, 42 CFR pt. 413, to require reimbursementaccording to generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), the lattercourt concluded that, because PRM $ 233 departed from GAAP, it effected a substantive change in the regulations and was void by reasonof the Secretary's failure to issue it in accordance with the notice-andcomment provisions of the Administrative Procedure Act (APA).Held:1. The Secretary is not required to adhere to GAAP in making provider reimbursement determinations. Pp. 91-97.(a) The Medicare regulations do not require reimbursement according to GAAP. The Secretary's position that 42 CFR $ 413.20(a)--whichspecifies, inter alia, that "[t]he principles of cost reimbursement requirethat providers maintain sufficient financial records . . . for proper determination of costs," and that "[s]tandardized definitions, accounting, statistics, and reporting practices that are widely accepted in the hospitaland related fields are followed"--ensures the existence of adequate provider records but does not dictate the Secretary's own reimbursementdeterminations is supported by the regulation's text and the overallstructure of the regulations and is therefore entitled to deference as areasonable regulatory interpretation. Moreover, $ 413.24--which requires that a provider's cost data be based on the accrual basis of accounting--does not mandate reimbursement according to GAAP, sinceGAAP is not the only form of accrual accounting. In fact, PRM $ 233reflects a different accrual method. Pp. 92-95.514us1$34z 05-27-98 14:27:39 PAGES OPINPGT88 SHALALA v. GUERNSEY MEMORIAL HOSPITALSyllabus(b) The Secretary's reading of her regulations is consistent withthe Medicare statute, which does not require adherence to GAAP, butmerely instructs that, in establishing methods for determining reimbursable costs, she should "consider, among other things, the principlesgenerally applied by national organizations or established prepaymentorganizations (which have developed such principles) . . . ," 42 U. S. C.$ 1395x(v)(1)(A). Nor is there any basis for suggesting that the Secretary has a statutory duty to promulgate regulations that address everyconceivable question in the process of determining equitable reimbursement. To the extent that $ 1395x(v)(1)(A)'s broad delegation of authority to her imposes a rulemaking obligation, it is one she has withoutdoubt discharged by issuing comprehensive and intricate regulationsthat address a wide range of reimbursement questions and by relyingupon an elaborate adjudicative structure to resolve particular detailsnot specifically addressed by regulation. The APA does not requirethat all the specific applications of a rule evolve by further, more preciserules rather than by adjudication, and the Secretary's mode of determining benefits by both rulemaking and adjudication is a proper exercise ofher statutory mandate. Pp. 95-97.2. The Secretary's failure to follow the APA notice-and-commentprovisions in issuing PRM $ 233 does not invalidate that guideline. Itwas proper for the Secretary to issue a guideline or interpretive rulein determining that defeasance losses should be amortized. PRM $ 233is the Secretary's means of implementing the statute's mandate thatthe Medicare program bear neither more nor less than its fair share ofreimbursement costs, 42 U. S. C. $ 1395x(v)(1)(A)(i), and the regulatoryrequirement that only the actual cost of services rendered to beneficiaries during a given year be reimbursed, 42 CFR $ 413.9. As such,PRM $ 233 is a prototypical example of an interpretive rule issued byan agency to advise the public of its construction of the statutes andrules it administers. Interpretive rules do not require notice andcomment, although they also do not have the force and effect of lawand are not accorded that weight in the adjudicatory process. APArulemaking would be required if PRM $ 233 adopted a new position inconsistent with any of the Secretary's existing regulations. However,because the Secretary's regulations do not bind her to make Medicarereimbursements in accordance with GAAP, her determination in PRM$ 233 to depart from GAAP by requiring bond defeasance losses to beamortized does not amount to a substantive change to the regulations.Pp. 97-100.3. An examination of the nature and objectives of GAAP illustratesthe unlikelihood that the Secretary would choose to impose upon herselfthe duty to go through the time-consuming rulemaking process when514us1$34z 05-27-98 14:27:39 PAGES OPINPGT89Cite as: 514 U. S. 87 (1995)Opinion of the Courtever she disagreed with any anouncements or changes in GAAP andwished to depart from them. Pp. 100-102.(a) GAAP does not necessarily reflect economic reality, and its conservative orientation in guiding judgments and estimates ill servesMedicare reimbursement and its mandate to avoid cross-subsidization.Pp. 100-101.(b) GAAP is not a lucid or encyclopedic set of pre-existing rules.It encompasses the conventions, rules, and procedures that define accepted accounting practice at a particular point in time, and changesover time. Even at any one point, GAAP consists of multiple sources,any number of which might present conflicting treatments of a particular accounting question. Pp. 101-102.996 F. 2d 830, reversed.Kennedy, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which Rehnquist,C. J., and Stevens, Ginsburg, and Breyer, JJ., joined. O'Connor, J.,filed a dissenting opinion, in which Scalia, Souter, and Thomas, JJ.,joined, post, p. 102.Kent L. Jones argued the cause for petitioner. With himon the briefs wereSolicitor General Days, Assistant Attor-ney General Hunger, Deputy Solicitor General Kneedler,Anthony J. Steinmeyer, and John P. Schnitker.Scott W. Taebel argued the cause for respondent. Withhim on the brief was Diane M. Signoracci.*Justice Kennedy delivered the opinion of the Court.In this case a health care provider challenges a Medicarereimbursement determination by the Secretary of Healthand Human Services. What begins as a rather conventionalaccounting problem raises significant questions respectingthe interpretation of the Secretary's regulations and herauthority to resolve certain reimbursement issues by adju*Briefs of amici curiae urging affirmance were filed for the AmericanHospital Association et al. by Robert A. Klein and Charles W. Bailey; forthe hospitals participating in St. John Hospital v. Shalala by William G.Christopher, Chris Rossman, and Kenneth R. Marcus; and for the MotherFrances Hospital et al. by Dan M. Peterson.514us1$34L 05-27-98 14:27:39 PAGES OPINPGT90 SHALALA v. GUERNSEY MEMORIAL HOSPITALOpinion of the Courtdication and interpretive rules, rather than by regulationsthat address all accounting questions in precise detail.The particular dispute concerns whether the Medicareregulations require reimbursement according to generallyaccepted accounting principles (GAAP), and whether the re-imbursement guideline the Secretary relied upon is invalidbecause she did not follow the notice-and-comment provi-sions of the Administrative Procedure Act (APA) in issuingit. We hold that the Secretary's regulations do not requirereimbursement according to GAAP and that her guideline isa valid interpretive rule. IRespondent Guernsey Memorial Hospital (hereinafterHospital) issued bonds in 1972 and 1982 to fund capital improvements. In 1985, the Hospital refinanced its bondeddebt by issuing new bonds. Although the refinancing willresult in an estimated $12 million saving in debt servicecosts, the transaction did result in an accounting loss, sometimes referred to as an advance refunding or defeasance loss,of $672,581. The Hospital determined that it was entitled toMedicare reimbursement for about $314,000 of the loss. Thetotal allowable amount of the loss is not in issue, but its timing is. The Hospital contends it is entitled to full reimburse-ment in one year, the year of the refinancing; the Secretarycontends the loss must be amortized over the life of the oldbonds.The Secretary's position is in accord with an informalMedicare reimbursement guideline. See U. S. Dept. ofHealth and Human Services, Medicare Provider Reimburse-ment Manual $ 233 (Mar. 1993) (PRM). PRM $ 233 does notpurport to be a regulation and has not been adopted pursu-ant to the notice-and-comment procedures of the Administrative Procedure Act. The fiscal intermediary relied on $ 233and determined that the loss had to be amortized. The Provider Reimbursement Review Board disagreed, see App. toPet. for Cert. 54a, but the Administrator of the Health Care514us1$34L 05-27-98 14:27:39 PAGES OPINPGT91Cite as: 514 U. S. 87 (1995)Opinion of the CourtFinancing Administration reversed the Board's decision, seeid., at 40a. In the District Court the Secretary's positionwas sustained, see Guernsey Memorial Hospital v. Sulli-van, 796 F. Supp. 283 (SD Ohio 1992), but the Court of Appeals reversed, see Guernsey Memorial Hospital v. Secretary of Health and Human Services, 996 F. 2d 830 (CA61993). In agreement with the Hospital, the court interpreted the Secretary's own regulations to contain a "flatstatement that generally accepted accounting principles `arefollowed' " in determining Medicare reimbursements. Id., at833 (quoting 42 CFR $ 413.20(a)). Although it was willing toaccept the argument that PRM $ 233's treatment of advancerefunding losses "squares with economic reality," 996 F. 2d,at 834, the Court of Appeals concluded that, because PRM$ 233 departed from GAAP, it "effects a substantive changein the regulations [and is] void by reason of the agency's fail-ure to comply with the Administrative Procedure Act inadopting it." Id., at 832. Once the court ruled that GAAPcontrolled the timing of the accrual, it followed that the Hospital, not the Secretary, was correct and that the entire lossshould be recognized in the year of refinancing.We granted certiorari, 511 U. S. 1016 (1994), and nowreverse.IIUnder the Medicare reimbursement scheme at issue here,participating hospitals furnish services to program beneficiaries and are reimbursed by the Secretary through fiscalintermediaries. See 42 U. S. C. $$ 1395g and 1395h (1988and Supp. V). Hospitals are reimbursed for "reasonablecosts," defined by the statute as "the cost actually incurred,excluding therefrom any part of incurred cost found to beunnecessary in the efficient delivery of needed health services." $ 1395x(v)(1)(A). The Medicare Act, 79 Stat. 290, asamended, 42 U. S. C. $ 1395 et seq., authorizes the Secretaryto promulgate regulations "establishing the method or meth-ods to be used" for determining reasonable costs, directing514us1$34L 05-27-98 14:27:39 PAGES OPINPGT92 SHALALA v. GUERNSEY MEMORIAL HOSPITALOpinion of the Courther in the process to "consider, among other things, theprinciples generally applied by national organizations or established prepayment organizations (which have developedsuch principles) in computing" reimbursement amounts.$ 1395x(v)(1)(A).The Secretary has promulgated, and updated on an annualbasis, regulations establishing the methods for determiningreasonable cost reimbursement. SeeGood Samaritan Hos-pital v. Shalala, 508 U. S. 402, 404-407 (1993). The relevantprovisions can be found within 42 CFR pt. 413 (1994). Re-spondent contends that two of these regulations, $$ 413.20(a)and 413.24, mandate reimbursement according to GAAP, andthe Secretary counters that neither does.ASection 413.20(a) provides as follows:"The principles of cost reimbursement require thatproviders maintain sufficient financial records and statistical data for proper determination of costs payableunder the program. Standardized definitions, accounting, statistics, and reporting practices that are widelyaccepted in the hospital and related fields are followed.Changes in these practices and systems will not be re-quired in order to determine costs payable under theprinciples of reimbursement. Essentially the methodsof determining costs payable under Medicare involvemaking use of data available from the institution's basisaccounts, as usually maintained, to arrive at equitableand proper payment for services to beneficiaries."Assuming, arguendo, that the "[s]tandardized definitions,accounting, statistics, and reporting practices" referred to bythe regulation refer to GAAP, that nevertheless is just thebeginning, not the end, of the inquiry. The decisive questionstill remains: Who is it that "follow[s]" GAAP, and for whatpurposes? The Secretary's view is that $ 413.20(a) ensures514us1$34L 05-27-98 14:27:39 PAGES OPINPGT93Cite as: 514 U. S. 87 (1995)Opinion of the Courtthe existence of adequate provider records but does not dic-tate her own reimbursement determinations. We are persuaded that the Secretary's reading is correct.Section 413.20(a) sets forth its directives in an orderedprogression. The first sentence directs that providers mustmaintain records that are sufficient for proper determinationof costs. It does not say the records are conclusive of theentire reimbursement process. The second sentence makesit clear to providers that standardized accounting practicesare followed. The third sentence reassures providers thatchanges in their recordkeeping practices and systems are notrequired in order to determine what costs the provider canrecover when principles of reimbursement are applied to theprovider's raw cost data. That sentence makes a distinctionbetween recordkeeping practices and systems on one handand principles of reimbursement on the other. The last sentence confirms the distinction, for it contemplates that a provider's basic financial information is organized according toGAAP as a beginning point from which the Secretary "arrive[s] at equitable and proper payment for services." Thisis far different from saying that GAAP is by definition anequitable and proper measure of reimbursement.The essential distinction between recordkeeping requirements and reimbursement principles is confirmed by theorganization of the regulations in 42 CFR pt. 413 (1994). Subpart A sets forth introductory principles. Subpart B, containing the regulation here in question, is entitled "Accounting Records and Reports." The logical conclusion is thatthe provisions in subpart B concern recordkeeping requirements rather than reimbursement, and closer inspection reveals this to be the case. Section 413.20 is the first sectionin subpart B, and is entitled "Financial data and reports."In addition to $ 413.20(a), the other paragraphs in $ 413.20govern the "[f]requency of cost reports," "[r]ecordkeepingrequirements for new providers," "[c]ontinuing provider recordkeeping requirements," and "[s]uspension of program514us1$34L 05-27-98 14:27:39 PAGES OPINPGT94 SHALALA v. GUERNSEY MEMORIAL HOSPITALOpinion of the Courtpayments to a provider . . . [who] does not maintain . . .adequate records." Not until the following subparts arecost reimbursement matters considered. Subpart C is enti-tled "Limits on Cost Reimbursement," subpart D "Apportionment [of Allowable Costs]," subpart E "Payments to Providers," and subparts F through H address reimbursementof particular cost categories. The logical sequence of a regulation or a part of it can be significant in interpreting itsmeaning.It is true, as the Court of Appeals said, that $ 413.20(a)"does not exist in a vacuum" but rather is a part of theoverall Medicare reimbursement scheme. 996 F. 2d, at835. But it does not follow from the fact that a provider'scost accounting is the first step toward reimbursement thatit is the only step. It is hardly surprising that the reimbursement process begins with certain recordkeepingrequirements.The regulations' description of the fiscal intermediary'srole underscores this interpretation. The regulations directthe intermediary to consult and assist providers in interpreting and applying the principles of Medicare reimbursementto generate claims for reimbursable costs, $ 413.20(b), suggesting that a provider's own determination of its claims involves more than handing over its existing cost reports.The regulations permit initial acceptance of reimbursablecost claims, unless there are obvious errors or inconsistencies, in order to expedite payment. $ 413.64(f)(2). When asubsequent, more thorough audit follows, it may establishthat adjustments are necessary. Ibid.; see also $$ 421.100(a),(c). This sequence as well is consistent with the Secretary'sview that a provider's cost accounting systems are only thefirst step in the ultimate determination of reimbursablecosts.The Secretary's position that $ 413.20(a) does not bind herto reimburse according to GAAP is supported by the regulation's text and the overall structure of the regulations. It514us1$34L 05-27-98 14:27:39 PAGES OPINPGT95Cite as: 514 U. S. 87 (1995)Opinion of the Courtis a reasonable regulatory interpretation, and we must deferto it. Thomas Jefferson Univ. v. Shalala, 512 U. S. 504, 512(1994); see also Martin v. Occupational Safety and HealthReview Comm'n, 499 U. S. 144, 151 (1991) ("Because applyingan agency's regulation to complex or changing circumstancescalls upon the agency's unique expertise and policymakingprerogatives, we presume that the power authoritatively tointerpret its own regulations is a component of the agency'sdelegated lawmaking powers"); Lyng v. Payne, 476 U. S. 926,939 (1986) ("agency's construction of its own regulations isentitled to substantial deference").Respondent argues that, even if $ 413.20(a) does not mandate reimbursement according to GAAP, $ 413.24 does.This contention need not detain us long. Section 413.24 requires that a provider's cost data be based on the accrualbasis of accounting, under which "revenue is reported in theperiod when it is earned, regardless of when it is collected,and expenses are reported in the period in which they areincurred, regardless of when they are paid." $ 413.24(b)(2).But GAAP is not the only form of accrual accounting; in fact,both the GAAP approach and PRM $ 233 reflect differentmethods of accrual accounting. See Accounting PrinciplesBoard (APB) Opinion No. 26, |||| 5-8, reprinted at App. 64-66(describing alternative accrual methods of recognizing advance refunding losses, including the one adopted in PRM$ 233). Section 413.24 does not, simply by its accrual accounting requirement, bind the Secretary to make reim-bursements according to GAAP.BThe Secretary's reading of her regulations is consistentwith the Medicare statute. Rather than requiring adherence to GAAP, the statute merely instructs the Secretary, inestablishing the methods for determining reimbursablecosts, to "consider, among other things, the principles gener-ally applied by national organizations or established prepay514us1$34L 05-27-98 14:27:39 PAGES OPINPGT96 SHALALA v. GUERNSEY MEMORIAL HOSPITALOpinion of the Courtment organizations (which have developed such principles) incomputing the amount of payment . . . to providers of services." 42 U. S. C. $ 1395x(v)(1)(A).Nor is there any basis for suggesting that the Secretaryhas a statutory duty to promulgate regulations that, eitherby default rule or by specification, address every conceivablequestion in the process of determining equitable reimbursement. To the extent the Medicare statute's broad delega-tion of authority imposes a rulemaking obligation, seeibid.,it is one the Secretary has without doubt discharged. SeeGood Samaritan Hospital v. Shalala, 508 U. S., at 418, andn. 13, 419, n. 15. The Secretary has issued regulations toaddress a wide range of reimbursement questions. Theregulations are comprehensive and intricate in detail, addressing matters such as limits on cost reimbursement,apportioning costs to Medicare services, and the specifictreatment of numerous particular costs. As of 1994, theseregulations consumed some 640 pages of the Code of Federal Regulations.As to particular reimbursement details not addressedby her regulations, the Secretary relies upon an elaborateadjudicative structure which includes the right to reviewby the Provider Reimbursement Review Board, and, insome instances, the Secretary, as well as judicial review infederal district court of final agency action. 42 U. S. C.$ 1395oo(f)(1); see Bethesda Hospital Assn. v. Bowen, 485U. S. 399, 400-401 (1988). That her regulations do not resolve the specific timing question before us in a conclusiveway, or "could use a more exact mode of calculating," doesnot, of course, render them invalid, for the "methods for theestimation of reasonable costs" required by the statute onlyneed be "generalizations [that] necessarily will fail to yieldexact numbers." Good Samaritan, supra, at 418. TheAPA does not require that all the specific applications of arule evolve by further, more precise rules rather than byadjudication. See NLRB v. Bell Aerospace Co., 416 U. S. 267514us1$34L 05-27-98 14:27:39 PAGES OPINPGT97Cite as: 514 U. S. 87 (1995)Opinion of the Court(1974); SEC v. Chenery Corp., 332 U. S. 194 (1947). The Sec-retary's mode of determining benefits by both rulemakingand adjudication is, in our view, a proper exercise of her stat-utory mandate.IIIWe also believe it was proper for the Secretary to issue aguideline or interpretive rule in determining that defeasancelosses should be amortized. PRM $ 233 is the means to en-sure that capital-related costs allowable under the regulations are reimbursed in a manner consistent with the stat-ute's mandate that the program bear neither more nor lessthan its fair share of costs. 42 U. S. C. $ 1395x(v)(1)(A)(i)("[T]he necessary costs of efficiently delivering covered services to individuals covered by [Medicare] will not be borneby individuals not so covered, and the costs with respect toindividuals not so covered will not be borne by [Medicare]").The Secretary has promulgated regulations authorizing reimbursement of capital-related costs such as respondent'sthat are "appropriate and helpful in . . . maintaining theoperation of patient care facilities," 42 CFR $ 413.9(b)(2)(1994); see generally $$ 413.130-413.157, including "[n]ecessary and proper interest" and other costs associated withcapital indebtedness, $ 413.153(a)(1); see also $$ 413.130(a)(7)and (g). The only question unaddressed by the otherwisecomprehensive regulations on this particular subject iswhether the loss should be recognized at once or spread overa period of years. It is at this step that PRM $ 233 directsamortization.Although one-time recognition in the initial year might bethe better approach where the question is how best to por-tray a loss so that investors can appreciate in full a company's financial position, see APB Opinion 26, |||| 4-5, re-printed at App. 64, the Secretary has determined in PRM$ 233 that amortization is appropriate to ensure that Medi-care only reimburse its fair share. The Secretary must calculate how much of a provider's total allowable costs are514us1$34L 05-27-98 14:27:40 PAGES OPINPGT98 SHALALA v. GUERNSEY MEMORIAL HOSPITALOpinion of the Courtattributable to Medicare services, see 42 CFR $$ 413.5(a),413.9(a), and (c)(3) (1994), which entails calculating what proportion of the provider's services were delivered to Medicarepatients, $$ 413.50 and 413.53. This ratio is referred to asthe provider's "Medicare utilization." App. to Pet. for Cert.49a. In allocating a provider's total allowable costs to Medi-care, the Secretary must guard against various contingencies. The percentage of a hospital's patients covered byMedicare may change from year to year; or the provider maydrop from the Medicare program altogether. Either willcause the hospital's Medicare utilization to fluctuate. Giventhe undoubted fact that Medicare utilization will not be anannual constant, the Secretary must strive to assure thatcosts associated with patient services provided over time bespread, to avoid distortions in reimbursement. As the provider's yearly Medicare utilization becomes ascertainable,the Secretary is able to allocate costs with accuracy and theprogram can bear its proportionate share. Proper reimbursement requires proper timing. Should the Secretaryreimburse in one year costs in fact attributable to a span ofyears, the reimbursement will be determined by the provider's Medicare utilization for that one year, not for later years.This leads to distortion. If the provider's utilization ratechanges or if the provider drops from the program altogetherthe Secretary will have reimbursed up front an amount otherthan that attributable to Medicare services. The resultwould be cross-subsidization, id., at 50a, which the Act forbids. 42 U. S. C. $ 1395x(v)(1)(A)(i).That PRM $ 233 implements the statutory ban on crosssubsidization in a reasonable way is illustrated by the Administrator's application of $ 233 to the facts of this case.The Administrator found that respondent's loss "did not relate exclusively to patient care services rendered in the yearof the loss . . . . [but were] more closely related to [patientcare services in] the years over which the original bond termextended." App. to Pet. for Cert. 49a. Because the loss514us1$34L 05-27-98 14:27:40 PAGES OPINPGT99Cite as: 514 U. S. 87 (1995)Opinion of the Courtwas associated with patient services over a period of time,the Administrator concluded that amortization was requiredto avoid the statutory ban on cross-subsidization:"The statutory prohibition against cross-subsidization[citing the provision codified at 42 U. S. C. $ 1395x(v)(1)(A)], requires that costs recognized in one year, butattributable to health services rendered over a numberof years, be amortized and reimbursed during thoseyears when Medicare beneficiaries use those services."Id., at 50a (footnote omitted)."By amortizing the loss to match it to Medicare utilization over the years to which it relates, the program isprotected from any drop in Medicare utilization, and theprovider is likewise assured that it will be adequatelyreimbursed if Medicare utilization increases. Further,the program is protected from making a payment attributable to future years and then having the provider dropout of the Program before services are rendered toMedicare beneficiaries in those future years." Id., at49a (footnote omitted).As an application of the statutory ban on crosssubsidization and the regulatory requirement that only theactual cost of services rendered to beneficiaries during agiven year be reimbursed, 42 U. S. C. $ 1395x(v)(1)(A)(i); 42CFR $ 413.9 (1994), PRM $ 233 is a prototypical example ofan interpretive rule " `issued by an agency to advise the public of the agency's construction of the statutes and ruleswhich it administers.' " Chrysler Corp. v. Brown, 441 U. S.281, 302, n. 31 (1979) (quoting Attorney General's Manual onthe Administrative Procedure Act 30, n. 3 (1947)). Interpretive rules do not require notice and comment, although, asthe Secretary recognizes, see Foreword to PRM, they alsodo not have the force and effect of law and are not accordedthat weight in the adjudicatory process, ibid.514us1$34L 05-27-98 14:27:40 PAGES OPINPGT100 SHALALA v. GUERNSEY MEMORIAL HOSPITALOpinion of the CourtWe can agree that APA rulemaking would still be requiredif PRM $ 233 adopted a new position inconsistent with anyof the Secretary's existing regulations. As set forth in PartII, however, her regulations do not require reimbursementaccording to GAAP. PRM $ 233 does not, as the Court ofAppeals concluded it does, "effec[t] a substantive change inthe regulations." 996 F. 2d, at 832.IVThere is much irony in the suggestion, made in support ofthe Hospital's interpretation of the statute and regulations,that the Secretary has bound herself to delegate the determi-nation of any matter not specifically addressed by the regulations to the conventions of financial accounting that compriseGAAP. The Secretary in effect would be imposing uponherself a duty to go through the time-consuming rulemakingprocess whenever she disagrees with any announcements orchanges in GAAP and wishes to depart from them. Examin-ing the nature and objectives of GAAP illustrates the unlikelihood that the Secretary would choose that course.Contrary to the Secretary's mandate to match reimbursement with Medicare services, which requires her to deter-mine with some certainty just when and on whose accountcosts are incurred, GAAP "do[es] not necessarily paralleleconomic reality." R. Kay & D. Searfoss, Handbook of Accounting and Auditing, ch. 5, p. 7 (2d ed. 1989). Financialaccounting is not a science. It addresses many questions asto which the answers are uncertain and is a "process [that]involves continuous judgments and estimates." Id., ch. 5, at7-8. In guiding these judgments and estimates, "financialaccounting has as its foundation the principle of conservatism, with its corollary that `possible errors in measurement[should] be in the direction of understatement rather thanoverstatement of net income and net assets.' " Thor PowerTool Co. v. Commissioner, 439 U. S. 522, 542 (1979) (citationomitted). This orientation may be consistent with the ob514us1$34L 05-27-98 14:27:40 PAGES OPINPGT101Cite as: 514 U. S. 87 (1995)Opinion of the Courtjective of informing investors, but it ill serves the needs ofMedicare reimbursement and its mandate to avoid crosssubsidization. Cf. id., at 543 ("[T]he accountant's conserva-tism cannot bind the Commissioner [of the IRS] in his effortsto collect taxes").GAAP is not the lucid or encyclopedic set of pre-existingrules that the dissent might perceive it to be. Far from asingle-source accounting rulebook, GAAP "encompasses theconventions, rules, and procedures that define accepted accounting practice at a particular point in time." Kay &Searfoss, ch. 5, at 7 (1994 Update). GAAP changes and,even at any one point, is often indeterminate. "[T]he determination that a particular accounting principle is generallyaccepted may be difficult because no single source existsfor all principles." Ibid. There are 19 different GAAPsources, any number of which might present conflictingtreatments of a particular accounting question. Id., ch. 5, at6-7. When such conflicts arise, the accountant is directedto consult an elaborate hierarchy of GAAP sources to determine which treatment to follow. Ibid. We think it is arather extraordinary proposition that the Secretary hasconsigned herself to this process in addressing the timingof Medicare reimbursement.The framework followed in this case is a sensible structurefor the complex Medicare reimbursement process. The Secretary has promulgated regulations setting forth the basicprinciples and methods of reimbursement, and has issued interpretive rules such as PRM $ 233 that advise providershow she will apply the Medicare statute and regulations inadjudicating particular reimbursement claims. Because theSecretary's regulations do not bind her to make Medicarereimbursements in accordance with GAAP, her determination in PRM $ 233 to depart from GAAP by requiring bonddefeasance losses to be amortized does not amount to a substantive change to the regulations. It is a valid interpretiverule, and it was reasonable for the Secretary to follow that514us1$34L 05-27-98 14:27:40 PAGES OPINPGT102 SHALALA v. GUERNSEY MEMORIAL HOSPITALO'Connor, J., dissentingpolicy here to deny respondent's claim for full reimburse-ment of its defeasance loss in 1985.The judgment of the Court of Appeals is reversed.