This case requires us to decide whether the use of race asa factor in student admissions by the University of MichiganLaw School (Law School) is unlawful.Daniel Woodring; for the Cato Institute by Robert A. Levy, TimothyLynch, James L. Swanson, and Samuel Estreicher; for the Center forEqual Opportunity et al. by Roger Clegg and C. Mark Pickrell; for theCenter for Individual Freedom by Renee L. Giachino; for the Center forNew Black Leadership by Clint Bolick, William H. Mellor, and RichardD. Komer; for the Center for the Advancement of Capitalism by DavidReed Burton; for the Claremont Institute Center for Constitutional Jurisprudence by Edwin Meese III; for the Michigan Association of Scholarsby William F. Mohrman; for the National Association of Scholars by William H. Allen, Oscar M. Garibaldi, and Keith A. Noreika; for the PacificLegal Foundation by John H. Findley; for Law Professor Larry Alexanderet al. by Erik S. Jaffe; and for the Reason Foundation by Martin S.Kaufman.Briefs of amici curiae urging affirmance were filed for the State ofMaryland et al. by J. Joseph Curran, Jr., Attorney General of Maryland,Andrew H. Baida, Solicitor General, Mark J. Davis and William F. Brockman, Assistant Attorneys General, Eliot Spitzer, Attorney General ofNew York, Caitlin J. Halligan, Solicitor General, Michelle Aronowitz,Deputy Solicitor General, and Julie Mathy Sheridan and Sachin S. Pandya, Assistant Solicitors General, and by the Attorneys General for theirrespective jurisdictions as follows: Terry Goddard of Arizona, Bill Lockyerof California, Ken Salazar of Colorado, Richard Blumenthal of Connecticut, Lisa Madigan of Illinois, Thomas J. Miller of Iowa, G. Steven Roweof Maine, Thomas F. Reilly of Massachusetts, Mike Hatch of Minnesota,Mike McGrath of Montana, Patricia A. Madrid of New Mexico, RoyCooper of North Carolina, W. A. Drew Edmondson of Oklahoma, HardyMyers of Oregon, Patrick Lynch of Rhode Island, William H. Sorrell ofVermont, Iver A. Stridiron of the Virgin Islands, Christine O. Gregoireof Washington, Darrell V. McGraw, Jr., of West Virginia, and Peggy A.Lautenschlager of Wisconsin; for the State of New Jersey by David Samson, Attorney General, Jeffrey Burstein, Assistant Attorney General, andDonna Arons and Anne Marie Kelly, Deputy Attorneys General; for NewYork City Council Speaker A. Gifford Miller et al. by Jack Greenberg andSaul B. Shapiro; for the City of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, et al. by Victor A. Bolden and Nelson A. Diaz; for the American Bar Association byPaul M. Dodyk and Rowan D. Wilson; for the American Educational Re539US1 Unit: $U77 [07-05-05 18:42:29] PAGES PGT: OPLG312 GRUTTER v. BOLLINGEROpinion of the CourtIAThe Law School ranks among the Nation's top law schools.It receives more than 3,500 applications each year for a classsearch Association et al. by Angelo N. Ancheta; for the American JewishCommittee et al. by Stewart D. Aaron, Thomas M. Jancik, Jeffrey P. Sinensky, Kara H. Stein, and Richard T. Foltin; for the American LawDeans Association by Samuel Issacharoff; for the American PsychologicalAssociation by Paul R. Friedman,William F. Sheehan, and Nathalie F. P.Gilfoyle; for the American Sociological Association et al. by Bill LannLee and Deborah J. Merritt; for Amherst College et al. by Charles S. Sims;for the Arizona State University College of Law by Ralph S. Spritzer andPaul Bender; for the Association of American Law Schools by Pamela S.Karlan; for the Association of American Medical Colleges et al. by RobertA. Burgoyne and Joseph A. Keyes, Jr.; for the Bay Mills Indian Community et al. by Vanya S. Hogen; for the Clinical Legal Education Associationby Timothy A. Nelsen, Frances P. Kao, and Eric J. Gorman; for ColumbiaUniversity et al. by Floyd Abrams and Susan Buckley; for the GraduateManagement Admission Council et al. by Stephen M. McNabb; for theHarvard Black Law Students Association et al. by George W. Jones, Jr.,William J. Jefferson, Theodore V. Wells, Jr., and David W. Brown; forHarvard University et al. by Laurence H. Tribe, Jonathan S. Massey,Beverly Ledbetter, Robert B. Donin, and Wendy S. White; for the HispanicNational Bar Association et al. by Gilbert Paul Carrasco; for HowardUniversity by Janell M. Byrd; for Indiana University by James Fitzpatrick, Lauren K. Robel, and Jeffrey Evans Stake; for the King County BarAssociation by John Warner Widell, John H. Chun, and Melissa O'Loughlin White; for the Law School Admission Council by Walter Dellinger,Pamela Harris, and Jonathan D. Hacker; for the Lawyers' Committee forCivil Rights Under Law et al. by John S. Skilton, David E. Jones, Barbara R. Arnwine, Thomas J. Henderson, Dennis C. Hayes, Marcia D.Greenberger, and Judith L. Lichtman; for the Leadership Conference onCivil Rights et al. by Robert N. Weiner and William L. Taylor; for theMexican American Legal Defense and Educational Fund et al. by AntoniaHernandez; for the Michigan Black Law Alumni Society by Christopher J.Wright, Timothy J. Simeone, and Kathleen McCree Lewis; for the NAACPLegal Defense and Educational Fund, Inc., et al. by Theodore M. Shaw,Norman J. Chachkin, Robert H. Stroup, Elise C. Boddie, and ChristopherA. Hansen; for the National Center for Fair & Open Testing by John T.Affeldt and Mark Savage; for the National Coalition of Blacks for Reparations in America et al. by Kevin Outterson; for the National Education539US1 Unit: $U77 [07-05-05 18:42:29] PAGES PGT: OPLG313Cite as: 539 U. S. 306 (2003)Opinion of the Courtof around 350 students. Seeking to "admit a group of students who individually and collectively are among the mostcapable," the Law School looks for individuals with "subAssociation et al. by Robert H. Chanin, John M. West, Elliot Mincberg,Larry P. Weinberg, and John C. Dempsey; for the National Urban Leagueet al. by William A. Norris and Michael C. Small; for the New AmericaAlliance by Thomas R. Julin and D. Patricia Wallace; for the New MexicoHispanic Bar Association et al. by Edward Benavidez; for the NOW LegalDefense and Educational Fund et al. by Wendy R. Weiser and Martha F.Davis; for the School of Law of the University of North Carolina by JohnCharles Boger, Julius L. Chambers, and Charles E. Daye; for the Societyof American Law Teachers by Michael Selmi and Gabriel J. Chin; for theUCLA School of Law Students of Color by Sonia Mercado; for the UnitedNegro College Fund et al. by Drew S. Days III and Beth S. Brinkmann;for the University of Michigan Asian Pacific American Law Students Association et al. by Jerome S. Hirsch; for the University of Pittsburgh et al.by David C. Frederick and Sean A. Lev; for Judith Areen et al. by NealKatyal and Kumiki Gibson; for Lieutenant General Julius W. Becton, Jr.,et al. by Virginia A. Seitz, Joseph R. Reeder, Robert P. Charrow, andKevin E. Stern; for Hillary Browne et al. by Gregory Alan Berry; forSenator Thomas A. Daschle et al. by David T. Goldberg and Penny Shane;for the Hayden Family by Roy C. Howell; for Glenn C. Loury by JeffreyF. Liss and James J. Halpert; and for 13,922 Current Law Students atAccredited American Law Schools by Julie R. O'Sullivan and Peter J.Rubin.Briefs of amici curiae were filed for Michigan Governor Jennifer M.Granholm by John D. Pirich and Mark A. Goldsmith; for Members andFormer Members of the Pennsylvania General Assembly et al. by MarkB. Cohen and Eric S. Fillman; for the American Council on Educationet al. by Martin Michaelson, Alexander E. Dreier, and Sheldon E. Steinbach; for the American Federation of Labor and Congress of IndustrialOrganizations by Harold Craig Becker, David J. Strom, Jonathan P.Hiatt, and Daniel W. Sherrick; for the Anti-Defamation League by Martin E. Karlinsky and Steven M. Freeman; for the Asian American LegalFoundation by Daniel C. Girard and Gordon M. Fauth, Jr.; for BanksBroadcasting, Inc., by Elizabeth G. Taylor; for the Black Women LawyersAssociation of Greater Chicago, Inc., by Sharon E. Jones; for the BostonBar Association et al. by Thomas E. Dwyer, Jr., and Joseph L. Kociubes;for the Carnegie Mellon University et al. by W. Thomas McGough, Jr.,Kathy M. Banke, Gary L. Kaplan, and Edward N. Stoner II; for the Coalition for Economic Equity et al. by Eva J. Paterson and Eric K. Yamamoto;539US1 Unit: $U77 [07-05-05 18:42:29] PAGES PGT: OPLG314 GRUTTER v. BOLLINGEROpinion of the Courtstantial promise for success in law school" and "a strong likelihood of succeeding in the practice of law and contributing indiverse ways to the well-being of others." App. 110. Morebroadly, the Law School seeks "a mix of students with varying backgrounds and experiences who will respect and learnfrom each other." Ibid. In 1992, the dean of the LawSchool charged a faculty committee with crafting a writtenadmissions policy to implement these goals. In particular,the Law School sought to ensure that its efforts to achievestudent body diversity complied with this Court's most recent ruling on the use of race in university admissions. SeeRegents of Univ. of Cal. v. Bakke, 438 U. S. 265 (1978).for the Committee of Concerned Black Graduates of ABA Accredited LawSchools et al. by Mary Mack Adu; for the Criminal Justice Legal Foundation by Kent S. Scheidegger; for the Equal Employment Advisory Councilby Jeffrey A. Norris and Ann Elizabeth Reesman; for Exxon Mobil Corp.by Richard R. Brann; for General Motors Corp. by Kenneth S. Geller,Eileen Penner, and Thomas A. Gottschalk; for Human Rights Advocateset al. by Constance de la Vega; for the Massachusetts Institute of Technology et al. by Donald B. Ayer, Elizabeth Rees, Debra L. Zumwalt, andStacey J. Mobley; for the Massachusetts School of Law by Lawrence R.Velvel; for the National Asian Pacific American Legal Consortium et al.by Mark A. Packman, Karen K. Narasaki, Vincent A. Eng, and Trang Q.Tran; for the National School Boards Association et al. by Julie Underwood and Naomi Gittins; for the New York State Black and Puerto RicanLegislative Caucus by Victor Goode; for Veterans of the Southern CivilRights Movement et al. by Mitchell Zimmerman; for 3M et al. by DavidW. DeBruin, Deanne E. Maynard, Daniel Mach, Russell W. Porter, Jr.,Charles R. Wall, Martin J. Barrington, Deval L. Patrick, William J.O'Brien, Gary P. Van Graafeiland, Kathryn A. Oberly, Randall E. Mehrberg, Donald M. Remy, Ben W. Heineman, Jr., Brackett B. Denniston III,Elpidio Villarreal, Wayne A. Budd, J. Richard Smith, Stewart S. Hudnut,John A. Shutkin, Theodore L. Banks, Kenneth C. Frazier, David R. Andrews, Jeffrey B. Kinder, Teresa M. Holland, Charles W. Gerdts III, JohnL. Sander, Mark P. Klein, and Stephen P. Sawyer; for Ward Connerly byManuel S. Klausner and Patrick J. Manshardt; for Representative JohnConyers, Jr., et al. by Paul J. Lawrence and Anthony R. Miles; and forRepresentative Richard A. Gephardt et al. by Andrew L. Sandler andMary L. Smith.539US1 Unit: $U77 [07-05-05 18:42:29] PAGES PGT: OPLG315Cite as: 539 U. S. 306 (2003)Opinion of the CourtUpon the unanimous adoption of the committee's report bythe Law School faculty, it became the Law School's officialadmissions policy.The hallmark of that policy is its focus on academic abilitycoupled with a flexible assessment of applicants' talents, ex-periences, and potential "to contribute to the learning ofthose around them." App. 111. The policy requires admissions officials to evaluate each applicant based on all the in-formation available in the file, including a personal statement, letters of recommendation, and an essay describing theways in which the applicant will contribute to the life anddiversity of the Law School. Id., at 83-84, 114-121. In reviewing an applicant's file, admissions officials must considerthe applicant's undergraduate grade point average (GPA)and Law School Admission Test (LSAT) score because theyare important (if imperfect) predictors of academic successin law school. Id., at 112. The policy stresses that "no applicant should be admitted unless we expect that applicantto do well enough to graduate with no serious academic problems." Id., at 111.The policy makes clear, however, that even the highestpossible score does not guarantee admission to the LawSchool. Id., at 113. Nor does a low score automatically disqualify an applicant. Ibid. Rather, the policy requires admissions officials to look beyond grades and test scores toother criteria that are important to the Law School's educational objectives. Id., at 114. So-called " `soft' variables"such as "the enthusiasm of recommenders, the quality ofthe undergraduate institution, the quality of the applicant'sessay, and the areas and difficulty of undergraduate courseselection" are all brought to bear in assessing an "applicant'slikely contributions to the intellectual and social life of theinstitution." Ibid.The policy aspires to "achieve that diversity which has thepotential to enrich everyone's education and thus make a lawschool class stronger than the sum of its parts." Id., at 118.539US1 Unit: $U77 [07-05-05 18:42:29] PAGES PGT: OPLG316 GRUTTER v. BOLLINGEROpinion of the CourtThe policy does not restrict the types of diversity contri-butions eligible for "substantial weight" in the admissionsprocess, but instead recognizes "many possible bases for di-versity admissions." Id., at 118, 120. The policy does, however, reaffirm the Law School's longstanding commitmentto "one particular type of diversity," that is, "racial and ethnic diversity with special reference to the inclusion of stu-dents from groups which have been historically discriminated against, like African-Americans, Hispanics and NativeAmericans, who without this commitment might not be represented in our student body in meaningful numbers." Id.,at 120. By enrolling a " `critical mass' of [underrepresented]minority students," the Law School seeks to "ensur[e] theirability to make unique contributions to the character of theLaw School." Id., at 120-121.The policy does not define diversity "solely in terms ofracial and ethnic status." Id., at 121. Nor is the policy "in-sensitive to the competition among all students for admissionto the [L]aw [S]chool." Ibid. Rather, the policy seeks toguide admissions officers in "producing classes both diverseand academically outstanding, classes made up of studentswho promise to continue the tradition of outstanding contribution by Michigan Graduates to the legal profession."Ibid.BPetitioner Barbara Grutter is a white Michigan residentwho applied to the Law School in 1996 with a 3.8 GPA and161 LSAT score. The Law School initially placed petitioneron a waiting list, but subsequently rejected her application.In December 1997, petitioner filed suit in the United StatesDistrict Court for the Eastern District of Michigan againstthe Law School, the Regents of the University of Michigan,Lee Bollinger (Dean of the Law School from 1987 to 1994,and President of the University of Michigan from 1996 to2002), Jeffrey Lehman (Dean of the Law School), and DennisShields (Director of Admissions at the Law School from 1991539US1 Unit: $U77 [07-05-05 18:42:29] PAGES PGT: OPLG317Cite as: 539 U. S. 306 (2003)Opinion of the Courtuntil 1998). Petitioner alleged that respondents discrimi-nated against her on the basis of race in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment; Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964,78 Stat. 252, 42 U. S. C. $ 2000d; and Rev. Stat. $ 1977, asamended, 42 U. S. C. $ 1981.Petitioner further alleged that her application was rejected because the Law School uses race as a "predominant"factor, giving applicants who belong to certain minoritygroups "a significantly greater chance of admission thanstudents with similar credentials from disfavored racialgroups." App. 33-34. Petitioner also alleged that respondents "had no compelling interest to justify their use of race inthe admissions process." Id., at 34. Petitioner requestedcompensatory and punitive damages, an order requiring theLaw School to offer her admission, and an injunction prohibiting the Law School from continuing to discriminate on thebasis of race. Id., at 36. Petitioner clearly has standing tobring this lawsuit. Northeastern Fla. Chapter, AssociatedGen. Contractors of America v. Jacksonville, 508 U. S. 656,666 (1993).The District Court granted petitioner's motion for classcertification and for bifurcation of the trial into liability anddamages phases. The class was defined as " `all persons who(A) applied for and were not granted admission to the University of Michigan Law School for the academic years since(and including) 1995 until the time that judgment is enteredherein; and (B) were members of those racial or ethnicgroups, including Caucasian, that Defendants treated less favorably in considering their applications for admission to theLaw School.' " App. to Pet. for Cert. 191a-192a.The District Court heard oral argument on the parties'cross-motions for summary judgment on December 22, 2000.Taking the motions under advisement, the District Court indicated that it would decide as a matter of law whether theLaw School's asserted interest in obtaining the educationalbenefits that flow from a diverse student body was compel539US1 Unit: $U77 [07-05-05 18:42:29] PAGES PGT: OPLG318 GRUTTER v. BOLLINGEROpinion of the Courtling. The District Court also indicated that it would con-duct a bench trial on the extent to which race was a factorin the Law School's admissions decisions, and whether theLaw School's consideration of race in admissions decisionsconstituted a race-based double standard.During the 15-day bench trial, the parties introduced extensive evidence concerning the Law School's use of race inthe admissions process. Dennis Shields, Director of Admis-sions when petitioner applied to the Law School, testifiedthat he did not direct his staff to admit a particular percent-age or number of minority students, but rather to consideran applicant's race along with all other factors. Id., at 206a.Shields testified that at the height of the admissions season,he would frequently consult the so-called "daily reports" thatkept track of the racial and ethnic composition of the class(along with other information such as residency status andgender). Id., at 207a. This was done, Shields testified, toensure that a critical mass of underrepresented minority students would be reached so as to realize the educational benefits of a diverse student body. Ibid. Shields stressed, however, that he did not seek to admit any particular number orpercentage of underrepresented minority students. Ibid.Erica Munzel, who succeeded Shields as Director of Admissions, testified that " `critical mass' " means " `meaningfulnumbers' " or " `meaningful representation,' " which she understood to mean a number that encourages underrepresented minority students to participate in the classroom andnot feel isolated. Id., at 208a-209a. Munzel stated there isno number, percentage, or range of numbers or percentagesthat constitute critical mass. Id., at 209a. Munzel also asserted that she must consider the race of applicants becausea critical mass of underrepresented minority students couldnot be enrolled if admissions decisions were based primarilyon undergraduate GPAs and LSAT scores. Ibid.The current Dean of the Law School, Jeffrey Lehman, alsotestified. Like the other Law School witnesses, Lehman did539US1 Unit: $U77 [07-05-05 18:42:29] PAGES PGT: OPLG319Cite as: 539 U. S. 306 (2003)Opinion of the Courtnot quantify critical mass in terms of numbers or percent-ages.Id., at 211a. He indicated that critical mass meansnumbers such that underrepresented minority students donot feel isolated or like spokespersons for their race.Ibid.When asked about the extent to which race is considered inadmissions, Lehman testified that it varies from one applicant to another. Ibid. In some cases, according to Lehman's testimony, an applicant's race may play no role, whilein others it may be a " `determinative' " factor.Ibid.The District Court heard extensive testimony from Pro-fessor Richard Lempert, who chaired the faculty committeethat drafted the 1992 policy. Lempert emphasized that theLaw School seeks students with diverse interests and backgrounds to enhance classroom discussion and the educationalexperience both inside and outside the classroom. Id., at213a. When asked about the policy's " `commitment to racialand ethnic diversity with special reference to the inclusionof students from groups which have been historically discriminated against,' " Lempert explained that this languagedid not purport to remedy past discrimination, but rather toinclude students who may bring to the Law School a perspective different from that of members of groups which havenot been the victims of such discrimination. Ibid. Lempert acknowledged that other groups, such as Asians andJews, have experienced discrimination, but explained theywere not mentioned in the policy because individuals whoare members of those groups were already being admittedto the Law School in significant numbers. Ibid.Kent Syverud was the final witness to testify about theLaw School's use of race in admissions decisions. Syverudwas a professor at the Law School when the 1992 admissionspolicy was adopted and is now Dean of Vanderbilt LawSchool. In addition to his testimony at trial, Syverudsubmitted several expert reports on the educational benefitsof diversity. Syverud's testimony indicated that when acritical mass of underrepresented minority students is pres539US1 Unit: $U77 [07-05-05 18:42:29] PAGES PGT: OPLG320 GRUTTER v. BOLLINGEROpinion of the Courtent, racial stereotypes lose their force because nonminoritystudents learn there is no " `minority viewpoint' " but rathera variety of viewpoints among minority students. Id., at215a.In an attempt to quantify the extent to which the LawSchool actually considers race in making admissions decisions, the parties introduced voluminous evidence at trial.Relying on data obtained from the Law School, petitioner'sexpert, Dr. Kinley Larntz, generated and analyzed "admissions grids" for the years in question (1995-2000). Thesegrids show the number of applicants and the number of admittees for all combinations of GPAs and LSAT scores.Dr. Larntz made " `cell-by-cell' " comparisons between applicants of different races to determine whether a statisticallysignificant relationship existed between race and admissionrates. He concluded that membership in certain minoritygroups " `is an extremely strong factor in the decision foracceptance,' " and that applicants from these minority groups" `are given an extremely large allowance for admission' " ascompared to applicants who are members of nonfavoredgroups. Id., at 218a-220a. Dr. Larntz conceded, however,that race is not the predominant factor in the Law School'sadmissions calculus. 12 Tr. 11-13 (Feb. 10, 2001).Dr. Stephen Raudenbush, the Law School's expert, focusedon the predicted effect of eliminating race as a factor in theLaw School's admission process. In Dr. Raudenbush's view,a race-blind admissions system would have a " `very dramatic,' " negative effect on underrepresented minority admissions. App. to Pet. for Cert. 223a. He testified that in2000, 35 percent of underrepresented minority applicantswere admitted. Ibid. Dr. Raudenbush predicted that ifrace were not considered, only 10 percent of those applicantswould have been admitted. Ibid. Under this scenario, underrepresented minority students would have constituted 4percent of the entering class in 2000 instead of the actualfigure of 14.5 percent. Ibid.539US1 Unit: $U77 [07-05-05 18:42:29] PAGES PGT: OPLG321Cite as: 539 U. S. 306 (2003)Opinion of the CourtIn the end, the District Court concluded that the LawSchool's use of race as a factor in admissions decisions wasunlawful. Applying strict scrutiny, the District Court de-termined that the Law School's asserted interest in assembling a diverse student body was not compelling because"the attainment of a racially diverse class . . . was not recognized as such by Bakke and it is not a remedy for past discrimination." Id., at 246a. The District Court went on tohold that even if diversity were compelling, the Law Schoolhad not narrowly tailored its use of race to further that inter-est. The District Court granted petitioner's request for declaratory relief and enjoined the Law School from using raceas a factor in its admissions decisions. The Court of Appeals entered a stay of the injunction pending appeal.Sitting en banc, the Court of Appeals reversed the DistrictCourt's judgment and vacated the injunction. The Court ofAppeals first held that Justice Powell's opinion in Bakke wasbinding precedent establishing diversity as a compellingstate interest. According to the Court of Appeals, JusticePowell's opinion with respect to diversity constituted thecontrolling rationale for the judgment of this Court underthe analysis set forth in Marks v. United States, 430 U. S.188 (1977). The Court of Appeals also held that the LawSchool's use of race was narrowly tailored because race wasmerely a "potential `plus' factor" and because the LawSchool's program was "virtually identical" to the Harvardadmissions program described approvingly by Justice Powelland appended to his Bakke opinion. 288 F. 3d 732, 746, 749(CA6 2002).Four dissenting judges would have held the Law School'suse of race unconstitutional. Three of the dissenters, rejecting the majority's Marks analysis, examined the LawSchool's interest in student body diversity on the merits andconcluded it was not compelling. The fourth dissenter, writing separately, found it unnecessary to decide whether diversity was a compelling interest because, like the other dissent539US1 Unit: $U77 [07-05-05 18:42:29] PAGES PGT: OPLG322 GRUTTER v. BOLLINGEROpinion of the Courters, he believed that the Law School's use of race was notnarrowly tailored to further that interest.We granted certiorari, 537 U. S. 1043 (2002), to resolve thedisagreement among the Courts of Appeals on a questionof national importance: Whether diversity is a compellinginterest that can justify the narrowly tailored use of racein selecting applicants for admission to public universities.CompareHopwood v. Texas, 78 F. 3d 932 (CA5 1996) (Hop-wood I) (holding that diversity is not a compelling state interest), with Smith v. University of Wash. Law School, 233F. 3d 1188 (CA9 2000) (holding that it is).IIAWe last addressed the use of race in public higher edu-cation over 25 years ago. In the landmarkBakke case, wereviewed a racial set-aside program that reserved 16 outof 100 seats in a medical school class for members of cer-tain minority groups. 438 U. S. 265 (1978). The decisionproduced six separate opinions, none of which commanded amajority of the Court. Four Justices would have upheld theprogram against all attack on the ground that the govern-ment can use race to "remedy disadvantages cast on minorities by past racial prejudice." Id., at 325 ( joint opinion ofBrennan, White, Marshall, and Blackmun, JJ., concurringin judgment in part and dissenting in part). Four otherJustices avoided the constitutional question altogether andstruck down the program on statutory grounds. Id., at 408(opinion ofStevens, J., joined by Burger, C. J., and StewartandRehnquist, JJ., concurring in judgment in part and dis-senting in part). Justice Powell provided a fifth vote notonly for invalidating the set-aside program, but also for re-versing the state court's injunction against any use of racewhatsoever. The only holding for the Court in Bakke wasthat a "State has a substantial interest that legitimately maybe served by a properly devised admissions program involv539US1 Unit: $U77 [07-05-05 18:42:29] PAGES PGT: OPLG323Cite as: 539 U. S. 306 (2003)Opinion of the Courting the competitive consideration of race and ethnic origin."Id., at 320. Thus, we reversed that part of the lower court'sjudgment that enjoined the university "from any consider-ation of the race of any applicant."Ibid.Since this Court's splintered decision in Bakke, JusticePowell's opinion announcing the judgment of the Court hasserved as the touchstone for constitutional analysis of raceconscious admissions policies. Public and private universi-ties across the Nation have modeled their own admissionsprograms on Justice Powell's views on permissible race-conscious policies. See,e. g., Brief for Judith Areen et al. asAmici Curiae 12-13 (law school admissions programs employ "methods designed from and based on Justice Powell'sopinion in Bakke"); Brief for Amherst College et al. as AmiciCuriae 27 ("After Bakke, each of the amici (and undoubtedlyother selective colleges and universities as well) reviewedtheir admissions procedures in light of Justice Powell's opinion . . . and set sail accordingly"). We therefore discuss Justice Powell's opinion in some detail.Justice Powell began by stating that "[t]he guarantee ofequal protection cannot mean one thing when applied to oneindividual and something else when applied to a person ofanother color. If both are not accorded the same protection,then it is not equal." Bakke, 438 U. S., at 289-290. In Justice Powell's view, when governmental decisions "touch uponan individual's race or ethnic background, he is entitled to ajudicial determination that the burden he is asked to bear onthat basis is precisely tailored to serve a compelling governmental interest." Id., at 299. Under this exacting standard, only one of the interests asserted by the university survived Justice Powell's scrutiny.First, Justice Powell rejected an interest in " `reducing thehistoric deficit of traditionally disfavored minorities in medical schools and in the medical profession' " as an unlawfulinterest in racial balancing. Id., at 306-307. Second, Justice Powell rejected an interest in remedying societal dis539US1 Unit: $U77 [07-05-05 18:42:29] PAGES PGT: OPLG324 GRUTTER v. BOLLINGEROpinion of the Courtcrimination because such measures would risk placing unnecessary burdens on innocent third parties "who bear noresponsibility for whatever harm the beneficiaries of the special admissions program are thought to have suffered." Id.,at 310. Third, Justice Powell rejected an interest in "increasing the number of physicians who will practice in communities currently underserved," concluding that even ifsuch an interest could be compelling in some circumstancesthe program under review was not "geared to promote thatgoal." Id., at 306, 310.Justice Powell approved the university's use of race to further only one interest: "the attainment of a diverse studentbody." Id., at 311. With the important proviso that "constitutional limitations protecting individual rights may notbe disregarded," Justice Powell grounded his analysis in theacademic freedom that "long has been viewed as a specialconcern of the First Amendment." Id., at 312, 314. JusticePowell emphasized that nothing less than the " `nation's future depends upon leaders trained through wide exposure'to the ideas and mores of students as diverse as this Nationof many peoples." Id., at 313 (quoting Keyishian v. Boardof Regents of Univ. of State of N. Y., 385 U. S. 589, 603(1967)). In seeking the "right to select those students whowill contribute the most to the `robust exchange of ideas,' "a university seeks "to achieve a goal that is of paramountimportance in the fulfillment of its mission." 438 U. S., at313. Both "tradition and experience lend support to theview that the contribution of diversity is substantial." Ibid.Justice Powell was, however, careful to emphasize that inhis view race "is only one element in a range of factorsa university properly may consider in attaining the goal ofa heterogeneous student body." Id., at 314. For JusticePowell, "[i]t is not an interest in simple ethnic diversity, inwhich a specified percentage of the student body is in effectguaranteed to be members of selected ethnic groups," that539US1 Unit: $U77 [07-05-05 18:42:29] PAGES PGT: OPLG325Cite as: 539 U. S. 306 (2003)Opinion of the Courtcan justify the use of race. Id., at 315. Rather, "[t]he diver-sity that furthers a compelling state interest encompassesa far broader array of qualifications and characteristics ofwhich racial or ethnic origin is but a single though importantelement." Ibid.In the wake of our fractured decision inBakke, courtshave struggled to discern whether Justice Powell's diversityrationale, set forth in part of the opinion joined by no otherJustice, is nonetheless binding precedent underMarks. Inthat case, we explained that "[w]hen a fragmented Court de-cides a case and no single rationale explaining the result enjoys the assent of five Justices, the holding of the Court maybe viewed as that position taken by those Members who concurred in the judgments on the narrowest grounds." 430U. S., at 193 (internal quotation marks and citation omitted).As the divergent opinions of the lower courts demonstrate,however, "[t]his test is more easily stated than applied to thevarious opinions supporting the result in [Bakke]." Nichols v. United States, 511 U. S. 738, 745-746 (1994). Compare, e. g., Johnson v. Board of Regents of Univ. of Ga., 263F. 3d 1234 (CA11 2001) (Justice Powell's diversity rationalewas not the holding of the Court); Hopwood v. Texas, 236F. 3d 256, 274-275 (CA5 2000) (Hopwood II) (same); Hopwood I, 78 F. 3d 932 (CA5 1996) (same), with Smith v. University of Wash. Law School, 233 F. 3d, at 1199 (Justice Powell's opinion, including the diversity rationale, is controllingunder Marks).We do not find it necessary to decide whether Justice Powell's opinion is binding under Marks. It does not seem "useful to pursue the Marks inquiry to the utmost logical possibility when it has so obviously baffled and divided the lowercourts that have considered it." Nichols v. United States,supra, at 745-746. More important, for the reasons set outbelow, today we endorse Justice Powell's view that studentbody diversity is a compelling state interest that can justifythe use of race in university admissions.539US1 Unit: $U77 [07-05-05 18:42:29] PAGES PGT: OPLG326 GRUTTER v. BOLLINGEROpinion of the CourtBThe Equal Protection Clause provides that no State shall"deny to any person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws." U. S. Const., Amdt. 14, $ 2. Because theFourteenth Amendment "protect[s]persons, not groups," all"governmental action based on race--a group classificationlong recognized as in most circumstances irrelevant andtherefore prohibited--should be subjected to detailed judicial inquiry to ensure that the personal right to equal protec-tion of the laws has not been infringed." Adarand Constructors, Inc. v. Pen~ a, 515 U. S. 200, 227 (1995) (emphasisin original; internal quotation marks and citation omitted).We are a "free people whose institutions are founded uponthe doctrine of equality."Loving v. Virginia, 388 U. S. 1, 11(1967) (internal quotation marks and citation omitted). Itfollows from that principle that "government may treat peo-ple differently because of their race only for the most compelling reasons." Adarand Constructors, Inc. v. Pen~ a, 515U. S., at 227.We have held that all racial classifications imposed by gov-ernment "must be analyzed by a reviewing court under strictscrutiny." Ibid. This means that such classifications areconstitutional only if they are narrowly tailored to furthercompelling governmental interests. "Absent searching ju-dicial inquiry into the justification for such race-based measures," we have no way to determine what "classifications are`benign' or `remedial' and what classifications are in fact motivated by illegitimate notions of racial inferiority or simpleracial politics."Richmond v. J. A. Croson Co., 488 U. S. 469,493 (1989) (plurality opinion). We apply strict scrutiny toall racial classifications to " `smoke out' illegitimate uses ofrace by assuring that [government] is pursuing a goal important enough to warrant use of a highly suspect tool." Ibid.Strict scrutiny is not "strict in theory, but fatal in fact."Adarand Constructors, Inc. v. Pen~ a, supra, at 237 (internalquotation marks and citation omitted). Although all gov539US1 Unit: $U77 [07-05-05 18:42:29] PAGES PGT: OPLG327Cite as: 539 U. S. 306 (2003)Opinion of the Courternmental uses of race are subject to strict scrutiny, not allare invalidated by it. As we have explained, "whenever thegovernment treats any person unequally because of his orher race, that person has suffered an injury that fallssquarely within the language and spirit of the Constitution'sguarantee of equal protection." 515 U. S., at 229-230. Butthat observation "says nothing about the ultimate validity ofany particular law; that determination is the job of the courtapplying strict scrutiny." Id., at 230. When race-based ac-tion is necessary to further a compelling governmental interest, such action does not violate the constitutional guaranteeof equal protection so long as the narrow-tailoring requirement is also satisfied.Context matters when reviewing race-based governmentalaction under the Equal Protection Clause. See Gomillionv.Lightfoot, 364 U. S. 339, 343-344 (1960) (admonishing that,"in dealing with claims under broad provisions of the Constitution, which derive content by an interpretive process ofinclusion and exclusion, it is imperative that generalizations,based on and qualified by the concrete situations that gaverise to them, must not be applied out of context in disregardof variant controlling facts"). In Adarand Constructors,Inc. v. Pen~ a, we made clear that strict scrutiny must take" `relevant differences' into account." 515 U. S., at 228. Indeed, as we explained, that is its "fundamental purpose."Ibid. Not every decision influenced by race is equally objectionable, and strict scrutiny is designed to provide aframework for carefully examining the importance and thesincerity of the reasons advanced by the governmental deci-sionmaker for the use of race in that particular context.IIIAWith these principles in mind, we turn to the questionwhether the Law School's use of race is justified by a compelling state interest. Before this Court, as they have539US1 Unit: $U77 [07-05-05 18:42:29] PAGES PGT: OPLG328 GRUTTER v. BOLLINGEROpinion of the Courtthroughout this litigation, respondents assert only one justification for their use of race in the admissions process: obtaining "the educational benefits that flow from a diversestudent body." Brief for Respondent Bollinger et al. i. Inother words, the Law School asks us to recognize, in thecontext of higher education, a compelling state interest instudent body diversity.We first wish to dispel the notion that the Law School'sargument has been foreclosed, either expressly or implicitly,by our affirmative-action cases decided since Bakke. It istrue that some language in those opinions might be read tosuggest that remedying past discrimination is the only permissible justification for race-based governmental action.See, e. g., Richmond v. J. A. Croson Co., supra, at 493 (plurality opinion) (stating that unless classifications based on raceare "strictly reserved for remedial settings, they may in factpromote notions of racial inferiority and lead to a politicsof racial hostility"). But we have never held that the onlygovernmental use of race that can survive strict scrutiny isremedying past discrimination. Nor, since Bakke, have wedirectly addressed the use of race in the context of publichigher education. Today, we hold that the Law School hasa compelling interest in attaining a diverse student body.The Law School's educational judgment that such diversityis essential to its educational mission is one to which wedefer. The Law School's assessment that diversity will, infact, yield educational benefits is substantiated by respondents and their amici. Our scrutiny of the interest assertedby the Law School is no less strict for taking into accountcomplex educational judgments in an area that lies primarilywithin the expertise of the university. Our holding today isin keeping with our tradition of giving a degree of deferenceto a university's academic decisions, within constitutionallyprescribed limits. See Regents of Univ. of Mich. v. Ewing,474 U. S. 214, 225 (1985); Board of Curators of Univ. of Mo.539US1 Unit: $U77 [07-05-05 18:42:29] PAGES PGT: OPLG329Cite as: 539 U. S. 306 (2003)Opinion of the Courtv. Horowitz, 435 U. S. 78, 96, n. 6 (1978); Bakke, 438 U. S., at319, n. 53 (opinion of Powell, J.).We have long recognized that, given the important pur-pose of public education and the expansive freedoms ofspeech and thought associated with the university environ-ment, universities occupy a special niche in our constitutionaltradition. See, e. g., Wieman v. Updegraff, 344 U. S. 183, 195(1952) (Frankfurter, J., concurring); Sweezy v. New Hampshire, 354 U. S. 234, 250 (1957); Shelton v. Tucker, 364 U. S.479, 487 (1960); Keyishian v. Board of Regents of Univ. ofState of N. Y., 385 U. S., at 603. In announcing the principleof student body diversity as a compelling state interest, Justice Powell invoked our cases recognizing a constitutional dimension, grounded in the First Amendment, of educationalautonomy: "The freedom of a university to make its ownjudgments as to education includes the selection of its student body." Bakke, supra, at 312. From this premise, Justice Powell reasoned that by claiming "the right to selectthose students who will contribute the most to the `robustexchange of ideas,' " a university "seek[s] to achieve a goalthat is of paramount importance in the fulfillment of its mission." 438 U. S., at 313 (quoting Keyishian v. Board of Regents of Univ. of State of N. Y., supra, at 603). Our conclusion that the Law School has a compelling interest in adiverse student body is informed by our view that attaininga diverse student body is at the heart of the Law School'sproper institutional mission, and that "good faith" on thepart of a university is "presumed" absent "a showing to thecontrary." 438 U. S., at 318-319.As part of its goal of "assembling a class that is both exceptionally academically qualified and broadly diverse," theLaw School seeks to "enroll a `critical mass' of minority students." Brief for Respondent Bollinger et al. 13. The LawSchool's interest is not simply "to assure within its studentbody some specified percentage of a particular group merelybecause of its race or ethnic origin." Bakke, 438 U. S., at539US1 Unit: $U77 [07-05-05 18:42:29] PAGES PGT: OPLG330 GRUTTER v. BOLLINGEROpinion of the Court307 (opinion of Powell, J.). That would amount to outrightracial balancing, which is patently unconstitutional.Ibid.;Freeman v. Pitts, 503 U. S. 467, 494 (1992) ("Racial balanceis not to be achieved for its own sake");Richmond v. J. A.Croson Co., 488 U. S., at 507. Rather, the Law School's con-cept of critical mass is defined by reference to the educational benefits that diversity is designed to produce.These benefits are substantial. As the District Court em-phasized, the Law School's admissions policy promotes"cross-racial understanding," helps to break down racial ste-reotypes, and "enables [students] to better understand persons of different races." App. to Pet. for Cert. 246a. Thesebenefits are "important and laudable," because "classroomdiscussion is livelier, more spirited, and simply more enlightening and interesting" when the students have "the greatestpossible variety of backgrounds." Id., at 246a, 244a.The Law School's claim of a compelling interest is furtherbolstered by its amici, who point to the educational benefitsthat flow from student body diversity. In addition to theexpert studies and reports entered into evidence at trial, numerous studies show that student body diversity promoteslearning outcomes, and "better prepares students for an increasingly diverse workforce and society, and better prepares them as professionals." Brief for American Educational Research Association et al. as Amici Curiae 3; see,e. g., W. Bowen & D. Bok, The Shape of the River (1998);Diversity Challenged: Evidence on the Impact of AffirmativeAction (G. Orfield & M. Kurlaender eds. 2001); CompellingInterest: Examining the Evidence on Racial Dynamics inColleges and Universities (M. Chang, D. Witt, J. Jones, & K.Hakuta eds. 2003).These benefits are not theoretical but real, as major American businesses have made clear that the skills needed intoday's increasingly global marketplace can only be developed through exposure to widely diverse people, cultures,ideas, and viewpoints. Brief for 3M et al. as Amici Curiae539US1 Unit: $U77 [07-05-05 18:42:29] PAGES PGT: OPLG331Cite as: 539 U. S. 306 (2003)Opinion of the Court5; Brief for General Motors Corp. as Amicus Curiae 3-4.What is more, high-ranking retired officers and civilian leaders of the United States military assert that, "[b]ased on[their] decades of experience," a "highly qualified, raciallydiverse officer corps . . . is essential to the military's abilityto fulfill its principle mission to provide national security."Brief for Julius W. Becton, Jr., et al. as Amici Curiae 5. Theprimary sources for the Nation's officer corps are the serviceacademies and the Reserve Officers Training Corps (ROTC),the latter comprising students already admitted to partic-ipating colleges and universities.Ibid. At present, "themilitary cannot achieve an officer corps that is both highlyqualified and racially diverse unless the service academiesand the ROTC used limited race-conscious recruiting and admissions policies." Ibid. (emphasis in original). To fulfillits mission, the military "must be selective in admissions fortraining and education for the officer corps, and it must trainand educate a highly qualified, racially diverse officer corpsin a racially diverse educational setting." Id., at 29 (emphasis in original). We agree that "[i]t requires only a smallstep from this analysis to conclude that our country's othermost selective institutions must remain both diverse and selective." Ibid.We have repeatedly acknowledged the overriding importance of preparing students for work and citizenship, describing education as pivotal to "sustaining our political andcultural heritage" with a fundamental role in maintaining thefabric of society. Plyler v. Doe, 457 U. S. 202, 221 (1982).This Court has long recognized that "education . . . is thevery foundation of good citizenship." Brown v. Board ofEducation, 347 U. S. 483, 493 (1954). For this reason, thediffusion of knowledge and opportunity through public institutions of higher education must be accessible to all individuals regardless of race or ethnicity. The United States, asamicus curiae, affirms that "[e]nsuring that public institutions are open and available to all segments of American539US1 Unit: $U77 [07-05-05 18:42:29] PAGES PGT: OPLG332 GRUTTER v. BOLLINGEROpinion of the Courtsociety, including people of all races and ethnicities, represents a paramount government objective." Brief for UnitedStates as Amicus Curiae 13. And, "[n]owhere is the importance of such openness more acute than in the context ofhigher education." Ibid. Effective participation by members of all racial and ethnic groups in the civic life of ourNation is essential if the dream of one Nation, indivisible, isto be realized.Moreover, universities, and in particular, law schools, represent the training ground for a large number of our Nation's leaders. Sweatt v. Painter, 339 U. S. 629, 634 (1950)(describing law school as a "proving ground for legal learning and practice"). Individuals with law degrees occupyroughly half the state governorships, more than half theseats in the United States Senate, and more than a third ofthe seats in the United States House of Representatives.See Brief for Association of American Law Schools as Amicus Curiae 5-6. The pattern is even more striking when itcomes to highly selective law schools. A handful of theseschools accounts for 25 of the 100 United States Senators, 74United States Courts of Appeals judges, and nearly 200 ofthe more than 600 United States District Court judges.Id., at 6.In order to cultivate a set of leaders with legitimacy in theeyes of the citizenry, it is necessary that the path to leadership be visibly open to talented and qualified individuals ofevery race and ethnicity. All members of our heterogeneoussociety must have confidence in the openness and integrityof the educational institutions that provide this training. Aswe have recognized, law schools "cannot be effective in isolation from the individuals and institutions with which the lawinteracts." See Sweatt v. Painter, supra, at 634. Access tolegal education (and thus the legal profession) must be inclusive of talented and qualified individuals of every race andethnicity, so that all members of our heterogeneous society539US1 Unit: $U77 [07-05-05 18:42:29] PAGES PGT: OPLG333Cite as: 539 U. S. 306 (2003)Opinion of the Courtmay participate in the educational institutions that providethe training and education necessary to succeed in America.The Law School does not premise its need for critical masson "any belief that minority students always (or even consistently) express some characteristic minority viewpoint on anyissue." Brief for Respondent Bollinger et al. 30. To thecontrary, diminishing the force of such stereotypes is both acrucial part of the Law School's mission, and one that it cannot accomplish with only token numbers of minority stu-dents. Just as growing up in a particular region or havingparticular professional experiences is likely to affect an indi-vidual's views, so too is one's own, unique experience of beinga racial minority in a society, like our own, in which raceunfortunately still matters. The Law School has determined, based on its experience and expertise, that a "criticalmass" of underrepresented minorities is necessary to furtherits compelling interest in securing the educational benefitsof a diverse student body.BEven in the limited circumstance when drawing racial dis-tinctions is permissible to further a compelling state interest,government is still "constrained in how it may pursue thatend: [T]he means chosen to accomplish the [government's]asserted purpose must be specifically and narrowly framedto accomplish that purpose."Shaw v. Hunt, 517 U. S. 899,908 (1996) (internal quotation marks and citation omitted).The purpose of the narrow tailoring requirement is to ensurethat "the means chosen `fit' th[e] compelling goal so closelythat there is little or no possibility that the motive for theclassification was illegitimate racial prejudice or stereotype."Richmond v. J. A. Croson Co., 488 U. S., at 493 (pluralityopinion).Since Bakke, we have had no occasion to define the con-tours of the narrow-tailoring inquiry with respect to raceconscious university admissions programs. That inquiry539US1 Unit: $U77 [07-05-05 18:42:29] PAGES PGT: OPLG334 GRUTTER v. BOLLINGEROpinion of the Courtmust be calibrated to fit the distinct issues raised by the useof race to achieve student body diversity in public highereducation. Contrary to Justice Kennedy's assertions, wedo not "abando[n] strict scrutiny," seepost, at 394 (dissentingopinion). Rather, as we have already explained, supra, at327, we adhere toAdarand's teaching that the very purpose of strict scrutiny is to take such "relevant differencesinto account." 515 U. S., at 228 (internal quotation marksomitted).To be narrowly tailored, a race-conscious admissions pro-gram cannot use a quota system--it cannot "insulat[e] eachcategory of applicants with certain desired qualificationsfrom competition with all other applicants." Bakke, 438U. S., at 315 (opinion of Powell, J.). Instead, a universitymay consider race or ethnicity only as a " `plus' in a particularapplicant's file," without "insulat[ing] the individual fromcomparison with all other candidates for the available seats."Id., at 317. In other words, an admissions program must be"flexible enough to consider all pertinent elements of diversity in light of the particular qualifications of each applicant,and to place them on the same footing for consideration, although not necessarily according them the same weight."Ibid.We find that the Law School's admissions program bearsthe hallmarks of a narrowly tailored plan. As Justice Powellmade clear in Bakke, truly individualized consideration demands that race be used in a flexible, nonmechanical way. Itfollows from this mandate that universities cannot establishquotas for members of certain racial groups or put membersof those groups on separate admissions tracks. See id., at315-316. Nor can universities insulate applicants who belong to certain racial or ethnic groups from the competitionfor admission. Ibid. Universities can, however, considerrace or ethnicity more flexibly as a "plus" factor in the context of individualized consideration of each and every applicant. Ibid.539US1 Unit: $U77 [07-05-05 18:42:29] PAGES PGT: OPLG335Cite as: 539 U. S. 306 (2003)Opinion of the CourtWe are satisfied that the Law School's admissions pro-gram, like the Harvard plan described by Justice Powell,does not operate as a quota. Properly understood, a "quota"is a program in which a certain fixed number or proportion ofopportunities are "reserved exclusively for certain minoritygroups."Richmond v. J. A. Croson Co., supra, at 496 (plurality opinion). Quotas " `impose a fixed number or percentage which must be attained, or which cannot be exceeded,' "Sheet Metal Workers v. EEOC, 478 U. S. 421, 495 (1986)(O'Connor, J., concurring in part and dissenting in part),and "insulate the individual from comparison with all othercandidates for the available seats," Bakke, supra, at 317(opinion of Powell, J.). In contrast, "a permissible goal . . .require[s] only a good-faith effort . . . to come within a rangedemarcated by the goal itself," Sheet Metal Workers v.EEOC, supra, at 495, and permits consideration of race as a"plus" factor in any given case while still ensuring that eachcandidate "compete[s] with all other qualified applicants,"Johnson v. Transportation Agency, Santa Clara Cty., 480U. S. 616, 638 (1987).Justice Powell's distinction between the medical school'srigid 16-seat quota and Harvard's flexible use of race as a"plus" factor is instructive. Harvard certainly had minimum goals for minority enrollment, even if it had no specificnumber firmly in mind. See Bakke, supra, at 323 (opinionof Powell, J.) ("10 or 20 black students could not begin tobring to their classmates and to each other the variety ofpoints of view, backgrounds and experiences of blacks in theUnited States"). What is more, Justice Powell flatly rejected the argument that Harvard's program was "the functional equivalent of a quota" merely because it had some" `plus' " for race, or gave greater "weight" to race than tosome other factors, in order to achieve student body diversity. 438 U. S., at 317-318.The Law School's goal of attaining a critical mass of underrepresented minority students does not transform its pro539US1 Unit: $U77 [07-05-05 18:42:29] PAGES PGT: OPLG336 GRUTTER v. BOLLINGEROpinion of the Courtgram into a quota. As the Harvard plan described by Jus-tice Powell recognized, there is of course "some relationshipbetween numbers and achieving the benefits to be derivedfrom a diverse student body, and between numbers andproviding a reasonable environment for those students ad-mitted."Id., at 323. "[S]ome attention to numbers," without more, does not transform a flexible admissions systeminto a rigid quota. Ibid. Nor, as Justice Kennedy posits,does the Law School's consultation of the "daily reports,"which keep track of the racial and ethnic composition of theclass (as well as of residency and gender), "sugges[t] therewas no further attempt at individual review save for raceitself " during the final stages of the admissions process.See post, at 392 (dissenting opinion). To the contrary, theLaw School's admissions officers testified without contradiction that they never gave race any more or less weight basedon the information contained in these reports. Brief for Respondent Bollinger et al. 43, n. 70 (citing App. in Nos. 01-1447and 01-1516 (CA6), p. 7336). Moreover, as Justice Kennedy concedes, see post, at 390, between 1993 and 1998, thenumber of African-American, Latino, and Native-Americanstudents in each class at the Law School varied from 13.5 to20.1 percent, a range inconsistent with a quota.The Chief Justice believes that the Law School's policyconceals an attempt to achieve racial balancing, and cites admissions data to contend that the Law School discriminatesamong different groups within the critical mass. Post, at380-386 (dissenting opinion). But, as The Chief Justiceconcedes, the number of underrepresented minority studentswho ultimately enroll in the Law School differs substantiallyfrom their representation in the applicant pool and variesconsiderably for each group from year to year. See post, at385 (dissenting opinion).That a race-conscious admissions program does not operate as a quota does not, by itself, satisfy the requirement ofindividualized consideration. When using race as a "plus"539US1 Unit: $U77 [07-05-05 18:42:29] PAGES PGT: OPLG337Cite as: 539 U. S. 306 (2003)Opinion of the Courtfactor in university admissions, a university's admissionsprogram must remain flexible enough to ensure that eachapplicant is evaluated as an individual and not in a way thatmakes an applicant's race or ethnicity the defining feature ofhis or her application. The importance of this individualizedconsideration in the context of a race-conscious admissionsprogram is paramount. See Bakke, 438 U. S., at 318, n. 52(opinion of Powell, J.) (identifying the "denial . . . of th[e]right to individualized consideration" as the "principal evil"of the medical school's admissions program).Here, the Law School engages in a highly individualized,holistic review of each applicant's file, giving serious consideration to all the ways an applicant might contribute to adiverse educational environment. The Law School affordsthis individualized consideration to applicants of all races.There is no policy, either de jure or de facto, of automaticacceptance or rejection based on any single "soft" variable.Unlike the program at issue in Gratz v. Bollinger, ante,p. 244, the Law School awards no mechanical, predetermineddiversity "bonuses" based on race or ethnicity. See ante, at271-272 (distinguishing a race-conscious admissions programthat automatically awards 20 points based on race from theHarvard plan, which considered race but "did not contemplate that any single characteristic automatically ensured aspecific and identifiable contribution to a university's diversity"). Like the Harvard plan, the Law School's admissionspolicy "is flexible enough to consider all pertinent elementsof diversity in light of the particular qualifications of eachapplicant, and to place them on the same footing for consideration, although not necessarily according them the sameweight." Bakke, supra, at 317 (opinion of Powell, J.).We also find that, like the Harvard plan Justice Powellreferenced in Bakke, the Law School's race-conscious admissions program adequately ensures that all factors that maycontribute to student body diversity are meaningfully considered alongside race in admissions decisions. With re539US1 Unit: $U77 [07-05-05 18:42:29] PAGES PGT: OPLG338 GRUTTER v. BOLLINGEROpinion of the Courtspect to the use of race itself, all underrepresented minoritystudents admitted by the Law School have been deemedqualified. By virtue of our Nation's struggle with racial in-equality, such students are both likely to have experiencesof particular importance to the Law School's mission, andless likely to be admitted in meaningful numbers on criteriathat ignore those experiences. See App. 120.The Law School does not, however, limit in any way thebroad range of qualities and experiences that may be considered valuable contributions to student body diversity. Tothe contrary, the 1992 policy makes clear "[t]here are manypossible bases for diversity admissions," and provides examples of admittees who have lived or traveled widely abroad,are fluent in several languages, have overcome personal adversity and family hardship, have exceptional records of extensive community service, and have had successful careersin other fields. Id., at 118-119. The Law School seriouslyconsiders each "applicant's promise of making a notable contribution to the class by way of a particular strength, attainment, or characteristic--e. g., an unusual intellectual achievement, employment experience, nonacademic performance, orpersonal background." Id., at 83-84. All applicants havethe opportunity to highlight their own potential diversitycontributions through the submission of a personal statement, letters of recommendation, and an essay describing theways in which the applicant will contribute to the life anddiversity of the Law School.What is more, the Law School actually gives substantialweight to diversity factors besides race. The Law Schoolfrequently accepts nonminority applicants with grades andtest scores lower than underrepresented minority applicants(and other nonminority applicants) who are rejected. SeeBrief for Respondent Bollinger et al. 10; App. 121-122. Thisshows that the Law School seriously weighs many other diversity factors besides race that can make a real and dispositive difference for nonminority applicants as well. By this539US1 Unit: $U77 [07-05-05 18:42:29] PAGES PGT: OPLG339Cite as: 539 U. S. 306 (2003)Opinion of the Courtflexible approach, the Law School sufficiently takes into account, in practice as well as in theory, a wide variety of characteristics besides race and ethnicity that contribute to adiverse student body. Justice Kennedy speculates that"race is likely outcome determinative for many members ofminority groups" who do not fall within the upper range ofLSAT scores and grades. Post, at 389 (dissenting opinion).But the same could be said of the Harvard plan discussedapprovingly by Justice Powell in Bakke, and indeed of anyplan that uses race as one of many factors. See 438 U. S.,at 316 (" `When the Committee on Admissions reviews thelarge middle group of applicants who are "admissible" anddeemed capable of doing good work in their courses, the raceof an applicant may tip the balance in his favor' ").Petitioner and the United States argue that the LawSchool's plan is not narrowly tailored because race-neutralmeans exist to obtain the educational benefits of studentbody diversity that the Law School seeks. We disagree.Narrow tailoring does not require exhaustion of every conceivable race-neutral alternative. Nor does it require a university to choose between maintaining a reputation for excellence or fulfilling a commitment to provide educationalopportunities to members of all racial groups. See Wygantv. Jackson Bd. of Ed., 476 U. S. 267, 280, n. 6 (1986) (alternatives must serve the interest " `about as well' "); Richmondv. J. A. Croson Co., 488 U. S., at 509-510 (plurality opinion)(city had a "whole array of race-neutral" alternatives becausechanging requirements "would have [had] little detrimentaleffect on the city's interests"). Narrow tailoring does, however, require serious, good faith consideration of workablerace-neutral alternatives that will achieve the diversity theuniversity seeks. See id., at 507 (set-aside plan not narrowly tailored where "there does not appear to have beenany consideration of the use of race-neutral means"); Wygantv. Jackson Bd. of Ed., supra, at 280, n. 6 (narrow tailoring539US1 Unit: $U77 [07-05-05 18:42:29] PAGES PGT: OPLG340 GRUTTER v. BOLLINGEROpinion of the Court"require[s] consideration" of "lawful alternative and less re-strictive means").We agree with the Court of Appeals that the Law Schoolsufficiently considered workable race-neutral alternatives.The District Court took the Law School to task for failing toconsider race-neutral alternatives such as "using a lotterysystem" or "decreasing the emphasis for all applicants onundergraduate GPA and LSAT scores." App. to Pet. forCert. 251a. But these alternatives would require a dramaticsacrifice of diversity, the academic quality of all admitted stu-dents, or both.The Law School's current admissions program considersrace as one factor among many, in an effort to assemble astudent body that is diverse in ways broader than race. Be-cause a lottery would make that kind of nuanced judgmentimpossible, it would effectively sacrifice all other educationalvalues, not to mention every other kind of diversity. So toowith the suggestion that the Law School simply lower admis-sions standards for all students, a drastic remedy that wouldrequire the Law School to become a much different institution and sacrifice a vital component of its educationalmission. The United States advocates "percentage plans,"recently adopted by public undergraduate institutions inTexas, Florida, and California, to guarantee admission to allstudents above a certain class-rank threshold in every highschool in the State. Brief for United States as Amicus Curiae 14-18. The United States does not, however, explainhow such plans could work for graduate and professionalschools. Moreover, even assuming such plans are raceneutral, they may preclude the university from conductingthe individualized assessments necessary to assemble a student body that is not just racially diverse, but diverse alongall the qualities valued by the university. We are satisfiedthat the Law School adequately considered race-neutral alternatives currently capable of producing a critical masswithout forcing the Law School to abandon the academicselectivity that is the cornerstone of its educational mission.539US1 Unit: $U77 [07-05-05 18:42:29] PAGES PGT: OPLG341Cite as: 539 U. S. 306 (2003)Opinion of the CourtWe acknowledge that "there are serious problems of justice connected with the idea of preference itself." Bakke,438 U. S., at 298 (opinion of Powell, J.). Narrow tailoring,therefore, requires that a race-conscious admissions programnot unduly harm members of any racial group. Even remedial race-based governmental action generally "remains subject to continuing oversight to assure that it will work theleast harm possible to other innocent persons competing forthe benefit." Id., at 308. To be narrowly tailored, a raceconscious admissions program must not "unduly burden individuals who are not members of the favored racial and ethnicgroups." Metro Broadcasting, Inc. v. FCC, 497 U. S. 547,630 (1990) (O'Connor, J., dissenting).We are satisfied that the Law School's admissions programdoes not. Because the Law School considers "all pertinentelements of diversity," it can (and does) select nonminorityapplicants who have greater potential to enhance studentbody diversity over underrepresented minority applicants.See Bakke, supra, at 317 (opinion of Powell, J.). As JusticePowell recognized in Bakke, so long as a race-conscious admissions program uses race as a "plus" factor in the contextof individualized consideration, a rejected applicant"will not have been foreclosed from all consideration forthat seat simply because he was not the right color orhad the wrong surname. . . . His qualifications wouldhave been weighed fairly and competitively, and hewould have no basis to complain of unequal treatmentunder the Fourteenth Amendment." 438 U. S., at 318.We agree that, in the context of its individualized inquiryinto the possible diversity contributions of all applicants, theLaw School's race-conscious admissions program does notunduly harm nonminority applicants.We are mindful, however, that "[a] core purpose of theFourteenth Amendment was to do away with all governmentally imposed discrimination based on race." Palmore v. Si539US1 Unit: $U77 [07-05-05 18:42:29] PAGES PGT: OPLG342 GRUTTER v. BOLLINGEROpinion of the Courtdoti, 466 U. S. 429, 432 (1984). Accordingly, race-consciousadmissions policies must be limited in time. This requirement reflects that racial classifications, however compellingtheir goals, are potentially so dangerous that they may beemployed no more broadly than the interest demands. Enshrining a permanent justification for racial preferenceswould offend this fundamental equal protection principle.We see no reason to exempt race-conscious admissions programs from the requirement that all governmental use ofrace must have a logical end point. The Law School, too,concedes that all "race-conscious programs must have reasonable durational limits." Brief for Respondent Bollingeret al. 32.In the context of higher education, the durational requirement can be met by sunset provisions in race-conscious admissions policies and periodic reviews to determine whetherracial preferences are still necessary to achieve student bodydiversity. Universities in California, Florida, and Washington State, where racial preferences in admissions are prohibited by state law, are currently engaged in experimentingwith a wide variety of alternative approaches. Universitiesin other States can and should draw on the most promisingaspects of these race-neutral alternatives as they develop.Cf. United States v. Lopez, 514 U. S. 549, 581 (1995) (Kennedy, J., concurring) ("[T]he States may perform their roleas laboratories for experimentation to devise various solutions where the best solution is far from clear").The requirement that all race-conscious admissions programs have a termination point "assure[s] all citizens thatthe deviation from the norm of equal treatment of all racialand ethnic groups is a temporary matter, a measure taken inthe service of the goal of equality itself." Richmond v. J. A.Croson Co., 488 U. S., at 510 (plurality opinion); see also Nathanson & Bartnik, The Constitutionality of PreferentialTreatment for Minority Applicants to Professional Schools,539US1 Unit: $U77 [07-05-05 18:42:29] PAGES PGT: OPLG343Cite as: 539 U. S. 306 (2003)Opinion of the Court58 Chicago Bar Rec. 282, 293 (May- June 1977) ("It would bea sad day indeed, were America to become a quota-riddensociety, with each identifiable minority assigned proportionalrepresentation in every desirable walk of life. But that isnot the rationale for programs of preferential treatment; theacid test of their justification will be their efficacy in eliminating the need for any racial or ethnic preferences at all").We take the Law School at its word that it would "likenothing better than to find a race-neutral admissions formula" and will terminate its race-conscious admissions program as soon as practicable. See Brief for Respondent Bollinger et al. 34; Bakke, supra, at 317-318 (opinion of Powell,J.) (presuming good faith of university officials in the absenceof a showing to the contrary). It has been 25 years sinceJustice Powell first approved the use of race to further aninterest in student body diversity in the context of publichigher education. Since that time, the number of minorityapplicants with high grades and test scores has indeed increased. See Tr. of Oral Arg. 43. We expect that 25 yearsfrom now, the use of racial preferences will no longer be necessary to further the interest approved today.IVIn summary, the Equal Protection Clause does not prohibitthe Law School's narrowly tailored use of race in admissionsdecisions to further a compelling interest in obtaining theeducational benefits that flow from a diverse student body.Consequently, petitioner's statutory claims based on Title VIand 42 U. S. C. $ 1981 also fail. See Bakke, supra, at 287(opinion of Powell, J.) ("Title VI . . . proscribe[s] only thoseracial classifications that would violate the Equal ProtectionClause or the Fifth Amendment"); General Building Contractors Assn., Inc. v. Pennsylvania, 458 U. S. 375, 389-391(1982) (the prohibition against discrimination in $ 1981 is coextensive with the Equal Protection Clause). The judgment539US1 Unit: $U77 [07-05-05 18:42:29] PAGES PGT: OPLG344 GRUTTER v. BOLLINGERGinsburg, J., concurringof the Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit, accordingly,is affirmed.