This case presents the question whether a defendant whois prosecuted in a single proceeding for multiple petty offenses has a constitutional right to a jury trial where theaggregate prison term authorized for the offenses exceedssix months. We are also asked to decide whether a defend-ant who would otherwise have a constitutional right to a jurytrial may be denied that right because the presiding judgehas made a pretrial commitment that the aggregate sentenceimposed will not exceed six months.We conclude that no jury trial right exists where a defendant is prosecuted for multiple petty offenses. The Sixth*David A. Reiser, John Vanderstar, and Jeffrey B. Coopersmith filed abrief for the National Legal Aid and Defender Association et al. as amicicuriae urging reversal.Christopher Warnock filed a brief for the Jury Trial Group as amicuscuriae.518us2$80J 05-18-99 17:00:11 PAGES OPINPGT324 LEWIS v. UNITED STATESOpinion of the CourtAmendment's guarantee of the right to a jury trial does notextend to petty offenses, and its scope does not change wherea defendant faces a potential aggregate prison term in excessof six months for petty offenses charged. Because we decide that no jury trial right exists where a defendant ischarged with multiple petty offenses, we do not reach thesecond question. IPetitioner Ray Lewis was a mail handler for the UnitedStates Postal Service. One day, postal inspectors saw himopen several pieces of mail and pocket the contents. Thenext day, the inspectors routed "test" mail, containingmarked currency, through petitioner's station. After seeingpetitioner open the mail and remove the currency, the inspectors arrested him. Petitioner was charged with two countsof obstructing the mail, in violation of 18 U. S. C. $ 1701.Each count carried a maximum authorized prison sentence ofsix months. Petitioner requested a jury, but the MagistrateJudge granted the Government's motion for a bench trial.She explained that because she would not, under any circumstances, sentence petitioner to more than six months' impris-onment, he was not entitled to a jury trial.Petitioner sought review of the denial of a jury trial, andthe District Court affirmed. Petitioner appealed, and theCourt of Appeals for the Second Circuit affirmed. 65 F. 3d252 (1995). The court noted that the Sixth Amendment jurytrial right pertains only to serious offenses, that is, those forwhich the legislature has authorized a maximum penalty ofover six months' imprisonment. The court then addressedthe question whether a defendant facing more than sixmonths' imprisonment in the aggregate for multiple pettyoffenses is nevertheless entitled to a jury trial. The Courtof Appeals concluded that, for determination of the rightto a jury trial, the proper focus is on the legislature's determination regarding the character of the offense, as indi-cated by maximum penalty authorized, not on the length of518us2$80J 05-18-99 17:00:11 PAGES OPINPGT325Cite as: 518 U. S. 322 (1996)Opinion of the Courtthe maximum aggregate sentence faced. Id., at 254-255.Because each offense charged here was petty in character,the court concluded that petitioner was not entitled to ajury trial.The court explained in dictum that because the characterof the offense as petty or serious determined the right to ajury trial, not the sentence faced, a trial judge's self-imposedlimitation on sentencing could not deprive a defendant of theright to a jury trial. Id., at 255-256.We granted certiorari, 516 U. S. 1088 (1996), to resolve aconflict in the Courts of Appeals over whether a defendantprosecuted in a single proceeding for multiple petty offenseshas a constitutional right to a jury trial, where the aggregatesentence authorized for the offenses exceeds six months' imprisonment, and whether such jury trial right can be elimi-nated by a judge's pretrial commitment that the aggregatesentence imposed will not exceed six months. See UnitedStates v. Coppins, 953 F. 2d 86 (CA4 1991); United States v.Bencheck, 926 F. 2d 1512 (CA10 1991); Rife v. Godbehere, 814F. 2d 563 (CA9 1987).IIThe Sixth Amendment guarantees that "[i]n all criminalprosecutions, the accused shall enjoy the right to a speedyand public trial, by an impartial jury of the State and districtwherein the crime shall have been committed . . . ." It iswell established that the Sixth Amendment, like the commonlaw, reserves this jury trial right for prosecutions of seriousoffenses, and that "there is a category of petty crimes oroffenses which is not subject to the Sixth Amendment jurytrial provision." Duncan v. Louisiana, 391 U. S. 145, 159(1968).To determine whether an offense is properly characterizedas "petty," courts at one time looked to the nature of theoffense and whether it was triable by a jury at common law.Such determinations became difficult, because many statutory offenses lack common-law antecedents. Blanton v.518us2$80J 05-18-99 17:00:11 PAGES OPINPGT326 LEWIS v. UNITED STATESOpinion of the CourtNorth Las Vegas, 489 U. S. 538, 541, and n. 5 (1989). There-fore, more recently, we have instead sought "objective indications of the seriousness with which society regards the of-fense."Frank v. United States, 395 U. S. 147, 148 (1969);accord, District of Columbia v. Clawans, 300 U. S. 617, 628(1937). Now, to determine whether an offense is petty, weconsider the maximum penalty attached to the offense. Thiscriterion is considered the most relevant with which to as-sess the character of an offense, because it reveals the legislature's judgment about the offense's severity. "The judi-ciary should not substitute its judgment as to seriousness forthat of a legislature, which is far better equipped to performthe task . . . ." Blanton, 489 U. S., at 541 (internal quotationmarks omitted). In evaluating the seriousness of the offense, we place primary emphasis on the maximum prisonterm authorized. While penalties such as probation or a finemay infringe on a defendant's freedom, the deprivation ofliberty imposed by imprisonment makes that penalty thebest indicator of whether the legislature considered anoffense to be "petty" or "serious." Id., at 542. An offensecarrying a maximum prison term of six months or less ispresumed petty, unless the legislature has authorized additional statutory penalties so severe as to indicate that thelegislature considered the offense serious. Id., at 543;Codispoti v. Pennsylvania, 418 U. S. 506, 512 (1974).Here, the maximum authorized penalty for obstruction ofmail is six months' imprisonment--a penalty that presumptively places the offense in the "petty" category. We facethe question whether petitioner is nevertheless entitled to ajury trial, because he was tried in a single proceeding for twocounts of the petty offense so that the potential aggregatedpenalty is 12 months' imprisonment.Petitioner argues that, where a defendant is charged withmultiple petty offenses in a single prosecution, the SixthAmendment requires that the aggregate potential penalty bethe basis for determining whether a jury trial is required.518us2$80J 05-18-99 17:00:11 PAGES OPINPGT327Cite as: 518 U. S. 322 (1996)Opinion of the CourtAlthough each offense charged here was petty, petitionerfaced a potential penalty of more than six months' imprisonment; and, of course, if any offense charged had authorizedmore than six months' imprisonment, he would have beenentitled to a jury trial. The Court must look to the aggregate potential prison term to determine the existence of thejury trial right, petitioner contends, not to the "petty" character of the offenses charged.We disagree. The Sixth Amendment reserves the jurytrial right to defendants accused of serious crimes. As setforth above, we determine whether an offense is serious bylooking to the judgment of the legislature, primarily as expressed in the maximum authorized term of imprisonment.Here, by setting the maximum authorized prison term at sixmonths, the Legislature categorized the offense of obstructing the mail as petty. The fact that petitioner was chargedwith two counts of a petty offense does not revise the legislative judgment as to the gravity of that particular offense,nor does it transform the petty offense into a serious one, towhich the jury trial right would apply. We note that thereis precedent at common law that a jury trial was not provided to a defendant charged with multiple petty offenses.See, e. g., Queen v. Matthews, 10 Mod. 26, 88 Eng. Rep. 609(Q. B. 1712); King v. Swallow, 8 T. R. 285, 101 Eng. Rep. 1392(K. B. 1799).Petitioner nevertheless insists that a defendant is entitledto a jury trial whenever he faces a deprivation of liberty fora period exceeding six months, a proposition for which hecites our precedent establishing the six-months' prison sentence as the presumptive cutoff for determining whether anoffense is "petty" or "serious." To be sure, in the cases inwhich we sought to determine the line between "petty" and"serious" for Sixth Amendment purposes, we considered theseverity of the authorized deprivation of liberty as an indicator of the legislature's appraisal of the offense. See Blanton, supra, at 542-543; Baldwin v. New York, 399 U. S. 66,518us2$80J 05-18-99 17:00:11 PAGES OPINPGT328 LEWIS v. UNITED STATESOpinion of the Court68-69 (1970) (plurality opinion). But it is now settled thata legislature's determination that an offense carries a maximum prison term of six months or less indicates its viewthat an offense is "petty."Blanton, supra, at 543. Wherewe have a judgment by the legislature that an offense is"petty," we do not look to the potential prison term faced byaparticular defendant who is charged with more than onesuch petty offense. The maximum authorized penalty pro-vides an "objective indicatio[n] of the seriousness with whichsociety regards the offense," Frank, 395 U. S., at 148, and itis that indication that is used to determine whether a jurytrial is required, not the particularities of an individual case.Here, the penalty authorized by Congress manifests its judgment that the offense is petty, and the term of imprisonmentfaced by petitioner by virtue of the second count does notalter that fact.Petitioner directs our attention to Codispoti for supportfor the assertion that the "aggregation of multiple petty offenses renders a prosecution serious for jury trial purposes."Brief for Petitioner 18. Codispoti is inapposite. There, defendants were each convicted at a single, nonjury trial forseveral charges of criminal contempt. The Court was unable to determine the legislature's judgment of the characterof that offense, however, because the legislature had not seta specific penalty for criminal contempt. In such a situation,where the legislature has not specified a maximum penalty,courts use the severity of the penalty actually imposed as themeasure of the character of the particular offense. Codispoti, supra, at 511; Frank, supra, at 149. Here, in contrast,we need not look to the punishment actually imposed, because we are able to discern Congress' judgment of the character of the offense.Furthermore, Codispoti emphasized the special concernsraised by the criminal contempt context. Contempt "oftenstrikes at the most vulnerable and human qualities of ajudge's temperament. Even where the contempt is not a di518us2$80J 05-18-99 17:00:11 PAGES OPINPGT329Cite as: 518 U. S. 322 (1996)Opinion of the Courtrect insult to the court . . . it frequently represents a rejec-tion of judicial authority, or an interference with the judicialprocess . . . ." Codispoti, 418 U. S., at 516 (internal quota-tion marks omitted); see alsoMayberry v. Pennsylvania, 400U. S. 455, 465-466 (1971). In the face of courtroom disruption, a judge may have difficulty maintaining the detachmentnecessary for fair adjudication; at the same time, it is a judgewho "determines which and how many acts of contempt thecitation will cover," "determine[s] guilt or innocence absenta jury," and "impose[s] the sentence." Codispoti, 418 U. S.,at 515. Therefore,Codispoti concluded that the concentration of power in the judge in the often heated contempt context presented the "very likelihood of arbitrary action thatthe requirement of jury trial was intended to avoid or alleviate." Ibid. The benefit of a jury trial, " `as a protectionagainst the arbitrary exercise of official power,' " wasdeemed particularly important in that context. Id., at 516(quoting Bloom v. Illinois, 391 U. S. 194, 202 (1968)).The absence of a legislative judgment about the offense'sseriousness, coupled with the unique concerns presented ina criminal contempt case, persuaded us in Codispoti that,in those circumstances, the jury trial right should be determined by the aggregate penalties actually imposed. Codispoti was held to be entitled to a jury trial, because thesentence actually imposed on him for criminal contempt exceeded six months. By comparison, in Taylor v. Hayes, 418U. S. 488 (1974), which similarly involved a defendant convicted of criminal contempt in a jurisdiction where the legislature had not specified a penalty, we determined that thedefendant was not entitled to a jury trial, because the sentence actually imposed for criminal contempt did not exceedsix months. Contrary to Justice Kennedy's argument,see post, at 331-334, 338, Codispoti and Taylor do not standfor the sweeping proposition that, outside their narrow context, the jury trial right is determined by the aggregate penalties faced by a defendant.518us2$80J 05-18-99 17:00:11 PAGES OPINPGT330 LEWIS v. UNITED STATESKennedy, J., concurring in judgmentCertainly the aggregate potential penalty faced by peti-tioner is of serious importance to him. But to determinewhether an offense is serious for Sixth Amendment pur-poses, we look to the legislature's judgment, as evidencedby the maximum penalty authorized. Where the offensescharged are petty, and the deprivation of liberty exceeds sixmonths only as a result of the aggregation of charges, thejury trial right does not apply. As petitioner acknowledges,even if he were to prevail, the Government could properlycircumvent the jury trial right by charging the counts inseparate informations and trying them separately.The Constitution's guarantee of the right to a jury trialextends only to serious offenses, and petitioner was notcharged with a serious offense. That he was tried for twocounts of a petty offense, and therefore faced an aggregatepotential term of imprisonment of more than six months,does not change the fact that the Legislature deemed thisoffense petty. Petitioner is not entitled to a jury trial.Because petitioner is not entitled to a jury trial, we neednot reach the question whether a judge's self-imposed limitation on sentencing may affect the jury trial right.The judgment of the Court of Appeals for the SecondCircuit is affirmed.