In this original action we revisit the dispute among Ne-braska, Wyoming, Colorado, and the United States overwater rights to the North Platte River. In 1945, this Courtentered a decree establishing interstate priorities on theNorth Platte and apportioning the natural flow of one criticalportion of the river during the irrigation season. Nebraskareturned to the Court in 1986 seeking an order for enforce-ment of the decree and injunctive relief. A Special Master,appointed by the Court, has supervised pretrial proceedingsand discovery since 1987. Before us now are the SpecialMaster's recommended dispositions of several summaryjudgment motions, together with exceptions filed to theSpecial Master's reports. IThe North Platte River rises in northern Colorado andflows through Wyoming into Nebraska, where it joins theSouth Platte River. The topology of the river and the his-tory of its early development are described at length in theCourt's 1945 opinion. See Nebraska v. Wyoming, 325 U. S.*Briefs of amici curiae were filed for the Basin Electric Power Cooperative by Edward Weinberg, Richmond F. Allan, Michael J. Hinman, andClaire Olson; and for the National Audubon Society et al. by Peter A. A.Berle and Abbe David Lowell.507us2$55J 11-15-96 19:26:54 PAGES OPINPGT588 NEBRASKA v. WYOMINGOpinion of the Court589, 592-599. In 1934, Nebraska, invoking this Court's original jurisdiction under Article III, $ 2, of the Constitution,brought an action against Wyoming seeking an equitable apportionment of the North Platte. Colorado was impleadedas a defendant, and the United States intervened. After 11years of litigation, the Court imposed restrictions on storageand diversion by the upstream States, 325 U. S., at 621-625,established priorities among federal storage reservoirs andcertain canals, id., at 625-637, and apportioned the so-called"pivotal" reach of the North Platte between Whalen, Wyoming, and the Tri-State Dam. The natural irrigation-seasonflows in that section of the river were apportioned 75% toNebraska and 25% to Wyoming. Id., at 637-654.The Court directed the parties to formulate a decree toimplement its decision. See id., at 657. The resulting decree included a "reopener" provision, Paragraph XIII, thatstates, in relevant part:"Any of the parties may apply at the foot of this decree for its amendment or for further relief. The Courtretains jurisdiction of this suit for the purpose of anyorder, direction, or modification of the decree, or anysupplementary decree, that may at any time be deemedproper in relation to the subject matter in controversy.Matters with reference to which further relief may hereafter be sought shall include, but shall not be limited to,the following:. . . . ."(c) The question of the effect of the construction orthreatened construction of storage capacity not now existing on tributaries entering the North Platte Riverbetween Pathfinder Reservoir and Guernsey Reservoir;. . . . ."(f) Any change in conditions making modification ofthe decree or the granting of further relief necessary orappropriate." Id., at 671-672.507us2$55J 11-15-96 19:26:54 PAGES OPINPGT589Cite as: 507 U. S. 584 (1993)Opinion of the CourtParagraph XIII reflects the Court's observation that the de-cree is designed to "deal with conditions as they obtaintoday" and that it "can be adjusted to meet . . . new condi-tions."Id., at 620. The Court noted in more than one placein its opinion the need to retain jurisdiction to modify thedecree in light of substantial changes in supply, threatenedfuture development, or circumvention of the decree. See,e. g., id., at 622, 625, 628-629. Since it was entered, the de-cree already has been modified once, pursuant to the parties'stipulation, to account for construction of a new reservoir.SeeNebraska v. Wyoming, 345 U. S. 981 (1953).In 1986, Nebraska petitioned the Court for relief underParagraph XIII. Nebraska alleged that Wyoming was violating or threatening to violate the decree by virtue of developments on two North Platte tributaries, Deer Creek andthe Laramie River. Nebraska also objected to certain actions taken by Wyoming with respect to the Inland Lakes inNebraska. We granted Nebraska leave to file the petition.Wyoming answered and counterclaimed, arguing, essentially,that Nebraska was circumventing the decree by demandingand diverting water from above the Tri-State Dam for usesbelow Tri-State that are not recognized in the decree.After we referred the matter to Special Master OwenOlpin, Wyoming moved for summary judgment. In his FirstInterim Report, the Master explained his decision to denythe motion but leave open the possibility of summary adjudication following further factual findings. See First Interim Report (June 14, 1989). An intensive period of discovery followed. All four parties then moved for summaryjudgment on one or more issues. A year later, the SpecialMaster filed a Second Interim Report. See Second Interim Report on Motions for Summary Judgment and Renewed Motions for Intervention (Apr. 9, 1992) (hereinafterSecond Interim Report). The Master recommended thatthe Court deny the intervention motions of certain amici.No exceptions have been filed to this recommendation, and507us2$55J 11-15-96 19:26:54 PAGES OPINPGT590 NEBRASKA v. WYOMINGOpinion of the Courtwe adopt it. The Master also recommended that the Courtgrant summary judgment to Nebraska and the United Stateson the Inland Lakes issue, grant partial summary judgmentto Nebraska on a discrete question related to the below TriState issues, and deny summary judgment on the remainingissues. Exceptions have been filed by Nebraska, Wyoming,Colorado, and amicus Basin Electric Power Cooperative(Basin). The United States has filed a brief opposing theexceptions. We agree with the Master's recommended dis-positions of the summary judgment motions and accordinglyoverrule the exceptions. IIAt the outset we consider the legal principles governingthe case. The parties do not challenge the summary judgment standards applied by the Special Master. The Mastercorrectly observed that, although not strictly applicable,Rule 56(c) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure and ourprecedents construing that Rule serve as useful guides.See this Court's Rule 17.2. Summary judgment is appro-priate when there is no genuine issue of material fact andthe moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.Fed. Rule Civ. Proc. 56(c). When the nonmoving partybears the burden of proof at trial, summary judgment is war-ranted if the nonmovant fails to "make a showing sufficient toestablish the existence of an element essential to [its] case."Celotex Corp. v. Catrett, 477 U. S. 317, 322 (1986). In deter-mining whether a material factual dispute exists, the Courtviews the evidence through the prism of the controlling legalstandard. Anderson v. Liberty Lobby, Inc., 477 U. S. 242,248 (1986).The disagreement in this case centers on the applicablelegal standards. The question is whether these proceedingsinvolve an application forenforcement of rights already rec-ognized in the decree, or whether Nebraska seeks a modification of the decree. According to Wyoming, although theCourt has jurisdiction to modify the decree under Paragraph507us2$55J 11-15-96 19:26:54 PAGES OPINPGT591Cite as: 507 U. S. 584 (1993)Opinion of the CourtXIII, Nebraska obtained leave to file its petition on the as-surance that the case would involve only enforcement of existing rights. In Wyoming's view, Nebraska subsequently,and improperly, transformed the case into a request for recognition of new rights--in essence, into a request for anotherequitable apportionment. If Nebraska is allowed to arguefor modification of the decree, Wyoming andamicus Basinmaintain, the same high evidentiary threshold applicable toclaims for new apportionments applies. Under that standard, Nebraska can prevail only upon proof "by clear and con-vincing evidence" of "some real and substantial injury ordamage." Idaho ex rel. Evans v. Oregon, 462 U. S. 1017,1027 (1983). Accord, Colorado v. Kansas, 320 U. S. 383, 393(1943); Connecticut v. Massachusetts, 282 U. S. 660, 669(1931).We do not read the pleadings as narrowly as does Wyoming. Nebraska's petition and supporting briefs do containambiguous language. See, e. g., Petition for an Order Enforcing Decree and for Injunctive Relief 2 (Oct. 6, 1986)(hereinafter Petition) (alleging that Wyoming's actions violate the apportionment already "established in the Decree");Reply to Wyoming's Brief in Opposition to Motion for Leaveto File Petition 2 (Jan. 14, 1987) ("We do not propose to litigate anything new, but simply to protect what the Court hasalready decided"). But Nebraska also expressly invokedParagraph XIII, and particularly subparagraphs (c) and (f).See Petition 3. As we have said, the Court in those sections retained jurisdiction to modify the decree to answerunresolved questions and to accommodate "change[s] in conditions"--a phrase sufficiently broad to encompass not onlychanges in water supply, see, e. g., Nebraska v. Wyoming,325 U. S., at 620, but also new development that threatensa party's interests. Furthermore, nothing would preventNebraska from submitting a new petition if we deemed theoriginal one deficient. We therefore decline the invitation,at this late date, to restrict the scope of the litigation507us2$55J 11-15-96 19:26:54 PAGES OPINPGT592 NEBRASKA v. WYOMINGOpinion of the Courtsolely to enforcement of rights determined in the priorproceedings.At the same time, we find merit in Wyoming's contentionthat, to the extent Nebraska seeks modification of the decreerather than enforcement, a higher standard of proof applies.The two types of proceeding are markedly different. In anenforcement action, the plaintiff need not show injury. See,e. g., Wyoming v. Colorado, 309 U. S. 572, 581 (1940). Whenthe alleged conduct is admitted, the only question is whetherthat conduct violates a right established by the decree. Tobe sure, the right need not be stated explicitly in the decree.As the Master recognized, when the decree is silent or unclear, it is appropriate to consider the underlying opinion,the Master's Report, and the record in the prior proceedingsto determine whether the Court previously resolved theissue. See, e. g., Wyoming v. Colorado, 286 U. S. 494, 506-508 (1932). The parties' course of conduct under the decreealso may be relevant. But the underlying issue primarilyremains one of interpretation. In a modification proceeding,by contrast, there is by definition no pre-existing right tointerpret or enforce. At least where the case concerns theimpact of new development, the inquiry may well entail thesame sort of balancing of equities that occurs in an initialproceeding to establish an equitable apportionment. SeeNebraska v. Wyoming, supra, at 618 (listing equitableconsiderations).As discussed below, we believe that the Inland Lakes question is fairly characterized as an enforcement issue. Theclaims regarding tributary development, however, raisequestions not decided in the original proceedings and therefore may be best understood as requests for modification ofthe decree. The question remains what evidentiary standard applies to such claims. The Master evidently thoughtthe high standard advocated by Wyoming inapplicable because this is not a case in which the Court is asked to inter507us2$55J 11-15-96 19:26:54 PAGES OPINPGT593Cite as: 507 U. S. 584 (1993)Opinion of the Courtfere with state sovereign interests "in the first instance."Second Interim Report 13.We disagree with the Master to this extent. ParagraphXIII perhaps eases a plaintiff 's burden of establishing, as aninitial matter, that a claim falling within its purview is "ofthat character and dignity which makes the controversy ajusticiable one under our original jurisdiction." Nebraska v.Wyoming, 325 U. S., at 610. After all, a variety of changedconditions may "promis[e] to disturb the delicate balance ofthe river" created by the decree. Id., at 625. But whenthe plaintiff essentially seeks a reweighing of equities andan injunction declaring new rights and responsibilities, wethink the plaintiff still must make a showing of substantialinjury to be entitled to relief. That is so not only because anew injunction would work a new infringement on sovereignprerogatives, but also because the interests of certainty andstability counsel strongly against reopening an apportionment of interstate water rights absent considerable justifi-cation. Cf.Arizona v. California, 460 U. S. 605, 615-628(1983).IIIWith these principles in mind, we turn to the summaryjudgment motions. To the extent that we agree with theMaster, we have found it unnecessary to repeat in detail hiscareful evaluation of the voluminous evidence.AThe Inland Lakes are four off-channel reservoirs in Ne-braska served by the Interstate Canal, which diverts fromthe North Platte at Whalen, Wyoming. Both the InlandLakes and the Interstate Canal are part of the North PlatteProject, a series of reservoirs and canals operated by theUnited States Bureau of Reclamation (Bureau). Since 1913,the Bureau has diverted water through the Interstate Canalfor storage in the Inland Lakes during nonirrigation months507us2$55J 11-15-96 19:26:54 PAGES OPINPGT594 NEBRASKA v. WYOMINGOpinion of the Courtfor release to Nebraska users during the irrigation season.Due to icing conditions on the Interstate Canal during thewinter, the Bureau also temporarily has stored water des-tined for the Inland Lakes in the Guernsey and GlendoReservoirs.It appears that the Inland Lakes always have been oper-ated with the December 6, 1904, priority date that Wyomingrecognizes for other original components of the North PlatteProject, even though the Bureau never obtained a separateWyoming storage permit for the Inland Lakes. In 1986,however, Wyoming sued the Bureau in Wyoming state court,seeking to enjoin the Bureau from storing water in the Inland Lakes without a state permit and out of priority withother Wyoming users. (The action was subsequently removed to Federal District Court and dismissed without prejudice.) As the Master indicated, there is some reason tothink that Wyoming wished to establish a post-1986 prioritydate for the Inland Lakes in order to increase the amount ofNorth Platte water available for the new project on DeerCreek. At any rate, Nebraska (which was not a party tothe Wyoming lawsuit) challenged Wyoming's actions in itspetition to this Court.Nebraska and the United States moved for summary judgment, seeking determinations that the decree entitles theBureau to continue its longstanding diversion and storagepractices and that the Inland Lakes have a priority date ofDecember 6, 1904. Wyoming moved for partial summaryjudgment that the Inland Lakes do not have storage rightsunder either state law or the decree. The Special Masterrecommended that we grant the motions of Nebraska andthe United States and deny Wyoming's motion. That theBureau lacks a separate Wyoming permit for the InlandLakes, he reasoned, is immaterial because the question ofthe Inland Lakes' priority was determined in the originalproceedings. The decree did not explicitly establish the Inland Lakes' priority. But it is undisputed that the Court507us2$55J 11-15-96 19:26:54 PAGES OPINPGT595Cite as: 507 U. S. 584 (1993)Opinion of the Courtrecognized a right to store 46,000 acre-feet of water in theInland Lakes and, at Wyoming's suggestion, counted thatamount to reduce Nebraska's requirement of natural flows inthe pivotal reach. See Report of Michael J. Doherty, SpecialMaster in Nebraska v. Wyoming, O. T. 1944, No. 4, pp. 60-61(hereinafter Doherty Report); 325 U. S., at 646, 649, and n. 2.The Master therefore concluded that the Inland Lakes' priority was a necessary predicate of the apportionment andshould not be disturbed. He also suggested that Wyoming'spostdecree acquiescence in the Bureau's administration ofthe Inland Lakes should prevent Wyoming from challengingthe 1904 priority date now.We think the evidence from the prior litigation supportsthe conclusion that the Inland Lakes' priority was settledthere. And even if the issue was not previously determined,we would agree with the Special Master that Wyoming's arguments are foreclosed by its postdecree acquiescence. Cf.Ohio v. Kentucky, 410 U. S. 641, 648 (1973) ("[P]roceedings under this Court's original jurisdiction are basicallyequitable in nature, and a claim not technically precluded nonetheless may be foreclosed by acquiescence" (citation omitted)). Accordingly, we clarify today that the InlandLakes share a December 6, 1904, priority date with otheroriginal components of the North Platte Project. Pursuant to that priority, the Bureau has a right to divert 46,000acre-feet of water during the nonirrigation season months ofOctober, November, and April for storage in the InlandLakes. Although the practice of storing Inland Lakes watertemporarily in the Guernsey and Glendo Reservoirs was notestablished in 1945, the United States contends, and Wyoming apparently does not dispute, that the practice is necessary to ensure the delivery of the 46,000 acre-feet of waterenvisioned in the apportionment. For that reason we holdthat the temporary storage practice also is protected. Ourconclusion does not otherwise affect the rights of the Guernsey and Glendo Reservoirs under the decree.507us2$55J 11-15-96 19:26:54 PAGES OPINPGT596 NEBRASKA v. WYOMINGOpinion of the CourtBThe Laramie River originates in Colorado and meets theNorth Platte in Wyoming in the pivotal reach. In its petition, Nebraska challenged two new developments on the Lar-amie near the North Platte confluence. The first, GrayrocksProject, was completed in 1980. Operated by amicus Basin,it consists of Grayrocks Reservoir and an electric power generating plant. The second, Corn Creek Project, is a pro-posed irrigation system for Wyoming farmland.Wyoming and Nebraska both moved for summary judg-ment, taking diametrically opposed positions with respect totheir rights to Laramie waters. Nebraska claimed that theequitable apportionment of the water in the pivotal reachincludes Laramie flows that historically have reached theNorth Platte. Wyoming contended that the waters of theLaramie are completely apportioned between Colorado andWyoming by virtue of this Court's 1922 Laramie River decree, Wyoming v. Colorado, 259 U. S. 419, 496, modified, 260U. S. 1, vacated and new decree entered, 353 U. S. 953 (1957),which the North Platte decree expressly left undisturbed.Paragraph XII(d) of the North Platte decree does statethat the decree "shall not affect . . . [t]he apportionment here-tofore made by this Court between the States of Wyomingand Colorado of the waters of the Laramie River." 325U. S., at 671; see also id., at 592, n. 1 (Laramie decree "in noway affected" by North Platte decree). But we think theMaster correctly concluded that Wyoming was not grantedthe right entirely to dewater the Laramie. The 1922 Lara-mie decree to which Paragraph XII(d) refers did not apportion all the waters of the Laramie; it dealt only with flowsdown to and including the Wheatland Project, a facility upstream of Grayrocks and Corn Creek. See Wyoming v.Colorado, 259 U. S., at 488.There is a statement arguably to the contrary in a subsequent decision interpreting the 1922 decree. See Wyomingv. Colorado, 298 U. S. 573, 578 (1936) (decree establishes507us2$55J 11-15-96 19:26:54 PAGES OPINPGT597Cite as: 507 U. S. 584 (1993)Opinion of the CourtWyoming's right "to receive and divert . . . the remainingwaters of the stream and its tributaries"). But we read thatlanguage to refer only to the waters actually apportionedin the earlier proceedings--that is, the waters down to andincluding Wheatland. There is also contrary language inthe new Laramie decree entered on the joint motion of Wyo-ming and Colorado in 1957. SeeWyoming v. Colorado, 353U. S., at 953 (Wyoming "shall have the right to divert anduse all water flowing and remaining in the Laramie riverand its tributaries"). But the 1957 decree, entered withoutNebraska's participation, cannot affect our interpretationof the 1945 North Platte decree, since Paragraph XII(d)addresses only the Laramie apportionment "heretoforemade"--in other words, the 1922 decree.Further, the Court apparently expected that some Laramie water would contribute to the natural flows availablefor apportionment in the pivotal reach. See, e. g., DohertyReport 67, Table III (including Laramie inflows in calculation of natural flow in pivotal reach). But the Court did notaffirmatively apportion Laramie flows to Nebraska, either.The decree did not restrict Wyoming's use of the Laramie orrequire Wyoming regularly to deliver a specified amount ofLaramie water to the North Platte confluence. Since 1945,Laramie flows that actually have reached the North Plattehave been included in the equitable apportionment, butneither Nebraska nor the United States has requested thatWyoming account for diversions above the confluence. Forthese and other reasons given by the Special Master, weagree that the evidence, most fairly read, indicates that theCourt did not decide the fate of the excess Laramie watersin 1945.Because the North Platte decree gives Nebraska no rightsto Laramie waters, affording Nebraska injunctive reliefwould constitute a modification of the decree. We turn,then, to the question of injury. In 1978, Nebraska enteredinto a settlement agreement with Basin and other parties507us2$55J 11-15-96 19:26:54 PAGES OPINPGT598 NEBRASKA v. WYOMINGOpinion of the Court(but not Wyoming) that limits Grayrocks' consumption ofwater and requires Basin to release certain minimum flows.The agreement also provides for further depletions in theevent that Corn Creek is constructed. See Wyoming's App.to Brief in Opposition A-24 to A-32. At this juncture,Nebraska's argument seems to be that it will be injuredif Wyoming interferes with Basin's mandatory minimumreleases by allowing new Wyoming appropriators to divertfrom the Laramie between Grayrocks and the North Platteconfluence.Although Wyoming has declined to assure the Special Master that it will support Basin's obligation to maintain theminimum flows, see Second Interim Report 66-68, it is undisputed that Wyoming is not currently interfering with thoseflows. Other than Corn Creek, Nebraska points to no proposed development that might deplete releases from Grayrocks. Nor does Nebraska seem to argue that Grayrocksotherwise threatens its interests. The Master recommendsthat Paragraph XIII of the decree be amended expresslyto indicate that Nebraska or the United States may applyfor relief if Wyoming, in the future, threatens to interferewith the releases provided for in the settlement agreement.Because we do not believe such an amendment would addto our authority under subparagraph (f ), we do not adoptthis proposal. The Master also proposes to hold a statusconference concerning Corn Creek. We have no objectionto such a conference. We emphasize, however, that unlessNebraska comes forward with evidence sufficient to establishthat Corn Creek (or some other project on the Laramie)poses a threat of injury serious enough to warrant modification of the decree, summary judgment should be enteredin favor of Wyoming. We express no view as to whether,upon a proper showing of injury, incorporation of the settlement agreement into the North Platte decree would beappropriate.507us2$55J 11-15-96 19:26:54 PAGES OPINPGT599Cite as: 507 U. S. 584 (1993)Opinion of the CourtCDeer Creek enters the mainstem of the North Platte inWyoming between the Pathfinder and Guernsey Reservoirs,upstream of the pivotal reach. Nebraska's petition chal-lenged Wyoming's proposed construction of a new storagereservoir on Deer Creek. As we have said, in ParagraphXIII(c) of the decree the Court expressly retained jurisdiction to consider requests for further relief with respect tothe effect of threatened construction of new storage capacityon tributaries entering the North Platte between Pathfinderand Guernsey. See 325 U. S., at 671.Wyoming moved for summary judgment on alternativegrounds. It asserted that the primary function of the DeerCreek Project will be to furnish municipal water supplies(by exchange) to Wyoming communities. Accordingly, Wyoming claimed that, Paragraph XIII(c) notwithstanding, theproject is exempt from challenge by virtue of Paragraph Xof the decree, which provides:"This decree shall not affect or restrict the use or di-version of water from the North Platte River and itstributaries in Colorado or Wyoming for ordinary andusual domestic, municipal and stock watering purposesand consumption." Id., at 670.Wyoming also contended that Nebraska had failed to makean adequate showing of injury.Although admitting that Paragraph X "poses some mys-teries," Second Interim Report 79, the Special Master evidently agreed with Wyoming that the plain language of thatprovision permits Wyoming freely to divert North Plattewater for ordinary and usual municipal uses and that theother provisions of the decree act only upon the water remaining after such diversions. The Master declined to rec-ommend summary judgment on this ground, however, due tofactual questions concerning the Deer Creek Project's mu-nicipal character. The Master also recommended against507us2$55J 11-15-96 19:26:54 PAGES OPINPGT600 NEBRASKA v. WYOMINGOpinion of the Courtsummary judgment on the injury issue, based on an affidavitby H. Lee Becker, former state hydrologist for Nebraska.See Affidavit of H. Lee Becker || 2 (Apr. 25, 1991) (statingthat the project would cause reductions in the average yearend carryover storage of federal reservoirs on the NorthPlatte and that "[s]uch reductions . . . could limit diversionsin the [pivotal] reach in a series of dry years"), attached toNebraska's Response to Wyoming's and Colorado's Motionsfor Summary Judgment and to Basin Electric's Memorandum in Support Thereof (Apr. 25, 1991).Nebraska objects strenuously to the Master's interpretation of Paragraph X. The United States has not filed exceptions but agrees that the Master's interpretation is "problematic." Brief for United States Opposing Exceptions 35(Aug. 17, 1992) (hereinafter U. S. Brief). We, too, are troubled by Paragraph X. As the Master pointed out, the parties to the original proceedings fought mightily over smallquantities of water. It is therefore unclear why they andthe Court would have meant that the upstream States couldmake municipal diversions of any magnitude, in derogationof the careful system of interstate priorities establishedunder the decree, without the opportunity for further review.We nonetheless think it unnecessary to settle upon a definitive interpretation of Paragraph X at this time. TheSpecial Master rightly observed that the Deer Creek Projectmay not qualify as an ordinary and usual municipal use. Although Wyoming recently has promised to operate the project solely for municipal purposes, both the Final Environmental Impact Statement prepared for the project--whichdescribes a plan of operation that the project may be obligedto follow--and the state permit identify nonmunicipal uses.Nebraska also has presented evidence that the communitiesthat the Deer Creek Project is to serve do not need additional municipal supplies, and that, even if they did, there aremore cost-effective alternatives than the proposed reservoir.507us2$55J 11-15-96 19:26:54 PAGES OPINPGT601Cite as: 507 U. S. 584 (1993)Opinion of the CourtIn addition, Nebraska may be unable to prove that operation of the Deer Creek Project will cause it substantial injury. Such proof is necessary, as we have indicated, becausethe decree does not currently restrict Wyoming's use of DeerCreek, and a new injunction would constitute a modificationof the decree. Whether the project will injure Nebraskamay depend on the way it is administered.Wyoming has conceded that the Deer Creek Project willbe operated in accordance with state law and in priority withthe Glendo and Guernsey Reservoirs. It has not agreed,however, to operate the project junior to the Inland Lakes,perhaps because its position throughout the litigation hasbeen that the Inland Lakes lack a priority date. In light ofour recognition today that the decree establishes a 1904 priority date for the Inland Lakes, it is unclear whether Wyoming will persist in seeking to operate the Deer Creek Project out of priority. If the project is operated junior to theInland Lakes, the evidence of injury to Nebraska appearsto be diminished. See Affidavit of H. Lee Becker |||| 4-6(Aug. 12, 1988) (demonstrating that anticipated reductionsin federal reservoirs' carryover storage would be smaller ifInland Lakes' priority were recognized), attached to Nebraska's Response to Wyoming's Motion for Summary Judgment (Aug. 22, 1988); Affidavit of David G. Wilde || 89(b)(Aug. 15, 1988) (stating that, although Deer Creek would"substantially impac[t]" federal projects during an extendeddry period, impacts would be "minimized" if Deer Creekwere administered junior to the Inland Lakes), attached toResponse of United States to Wyoming's Motion for Summary Judgment (Aug. 23, 1988). But Wyoming still may assert that Paragraph X permits it to divert for municipal usesout of priority with the Inland Lakes. In that event, wethink the Wilde and Becker affidavits raise a genuine issueof material fact sufficient to defeat Wyoming's summaryjudgment motion.507us2$55J 11-15-96 19:26:54 PAGES OPINPGT602 NEBRASKA v. WYOMINGOpinion of the CourtDIn its counterclaim, Wyoming alleged that Nebraska wasviolating the decree by demanding natural flows and storagewater from sources above the Tri-State Dam and divertingthose waters to uses below Tri-State that are not recognizedin the decree. Wyoming also alleged that Nebraska was im-properly demanding North Platte flows for diversion by canals at and above Tri-State Dam in excess of the irrigationrequirements of the Nebraska lands entitled to water underthe decree. Increased diversions by the Nebraska canalsabove Tri-State evidently benefit users below Tri-State because they create increased return flows.Neither Wyoming nor Nebraska sought summary judgment on Wyoming's counterclaim. Rather, both States andColorado have sought a number of more limited rulings withrespect to the below Tri-State issues. We agree with theMaster that most of these claims are " `too theoretical andnot sufficiently anchored to concrete pleadings or an ade-quately developed factual [r]ecord' " to be susceptible ofsummary resolution at this time. Second Interim Report92 (quoting Post-Argument Comments of United States 6(July 29, 1991)). We further agree that one issue is suffi-ciently crystallized to warrant partial summary judgmentfor Nebraska.Nebraska requested a determination that the decree doesnot impose absolute ceilings on diversions by canals takingin the pivotal reach. As the Master explained, the irrigationrequirements of the lands the canals serve were calculatedin the prior proceedings. But the requirements were calculated for the purpose of determining the appropriate appor-tionment of the pivotal reach, not to impose a cap on thecanals' total diversions, either individually or cumulatively.See Doherty Report 161 ("[T]he findings herein as tore-quirements cannot, I think, be deemed a limitation upon individual canals or groups, in actual administration, either as tonatural flow or storage water, nor do I think any such limita507us2$55J 11-15-96 19:26:54 PAGES OPINPGT603Cite as: 507 U. S. 584 (1993)Opinion of the Courttions can properly be imposed by the decree" (emphasis inoriginal)). Paragraph V of the decree, which sets forth theapportionment, makes no mention of diversion ceilings andexpressly states that Nebraska is free to allocate its shareamong its canals as it sees fit. See 325 U. S., at 667.In Wyoming's view, Paragraph IV of the decree requiresa different result. The Master properly rejected this argu-ment. Paragraph IV establishes the priority of Nebraskacanals diverting in the pivotal reach relative to federal proj-ects in Wyoming. Seeid., at 666-667. We agree with theUnited States that, although Paragraph IV "limits the extent to which the Nebraska canals may stop federal reser-voirs from storing water, [it] does not place any `absoluteceilings' or other restrictions on the quantities of water thosecanals may actually divert." U. S. Brief 40, n. 21. Wyoming asks us to clarify that the federal reservoirs have noobligation to bypass natural flow to a senior Nebraska canalwhen the canal is making excessive calls for federal storagewater. Because there is as yet inadequate factual development on the question whether Nebraska canals have in factmade excessive calls, we decline to do so.IVFor the foregoing reasons, all of the exceptions filed tothe Special Master's reports are overruled. The summaryjudgment motions of Nebraska and the United States re-garding the Inland Lakes' priority date are granted, as isNebraska's partial summary judgment motion with respectto the issue of canal diversion limitations. All other summary judgment motions are denied.