Three days before his scheduled execution by lethal injec-tion, petitioner David Nelson filed a civil rights action in District Court, pursuant to Rev. Stat. $ 1979, 42 U. S. C. $ 1983,alleging that the use of a "cut-down" procedure to accesshis veins would violate the Eighth Amendment. Petitioner,who had already filed one unsuccessful federal habeas application, sought a stay of execution so that the District Courtcould consider the merits of his constitutional claim. Thequestion before us is whether $ 1983 is an appropriate vehiclefor petitioner's Eighth Amendment claim seeking a temporary stay and permanent injunctive relief. We answer thatquestion in the affirmative, reverse the contrary judgment*Briefs of amici curiae urging affirmance were filed for the State ofOhio et al. by Jim Petro, Attorney General of Ohio, Douglas R. Cole,State Solicitor, Christopher D. Stock, Deputy Solicitor, Charles L. Wille,Assistant Attorney General, by Christopher L. Morano, Chief State'sAttorney of Connecticut, and by the Attorneys General for their respective States as follows: Terry Goddard of Arizona, Bill Lockyer of California, Ken Salazar of Colorado, M. Jane Brady of Delaware, Charlie Cristof Florida, Thurbert E. Baker of Georgia, Lawrence G. Wasden of Idaho,Lisa Madigan of Illinois, Steve Carter of Indiana, Phill Kline of Kansas,Gregory D. Stumbo of Kentucky, Charles C. Foti, Jr., of Louisiana, JimHood of Mississippi, Jeremiah W. (Jay) Nixon of Missouri, Mike McGrathof Montana, Jon Bruning of Nebraska, Brian Sandoval of Nevada, Patricia A. Madrid of New Mexico, Roy Cooper of North Carolina, W. A. DrewEdmondson of Oklahoma, Gerald J. Pappert of Pennsylvania, Henry Dargan McMaster of South Carolina, Lawrence E. Long of South Dakota,Paul G. Summers of Tennessee, Greg Abbott of Texas, Mark L. Shurtleffof Utah, Jerry W. Kilgore of Virginia, and Patrick J. Crank of Wyoming;for the Criminal Justice Legal Foundation by Kent S. Scheidegger; and forSenator Orrin G. Hatch et al. by Ed R. Haden.George H. Kendall filed a brief for Laurie Dill, M. D., et al. as amicicuriae.541US2 Unit: $U52 [01-30-05 09:57:37] PAGES PGT: OPIN640 NELSON v. CAMPBELLOpinion of the Courtof the Eleventh Circuit, and remand the case for further pro-ceedings consistent with this opinion.IBecause the District Court dismissed the suit at the plead-ing stage, we assume the allegations in petitioner's complaintto be true. Petitioner was found guilty by a jury in 1979of capital murder and sentenced to death. Following tworesentencings, the Eleventh Circuit, on June 3, 2002, affirmedthe District Court's denial of petitioner's first federal habeaspetition challenging the most recent death sentence. Nelson v. Alabama, 292 F. 3d 1291. Up until and at the timeof that disposition, Alabama employed electrocution as itssole method of execution. On July 1, 2002, Alabama changedto lethal injection, though it still allowed inmates to opt forelectrocution upon written notification within 30 days of theAlabama Supreme Court's entry of judgment or July 1, 2002,whichever is later. Ala. Code $ 15-18-82.1 (Lexis Supp.2003). Because he failed to make a timely request, petitioner waived his option to be executed by electrocution.This Court denied petitioner's request for certiorari review of the Eleventh Circuit's decision on March 24, 2003.Nelson v. Alabama, 538 U. S. 926. Two weeks later, the Alabama Attorney General's office moved the Alabama Su-preme Court to set an execution date. App. 81. Petitionerresponded by letter that he "ha[d] no plans to contest [the]motion," agreeing "that an execution date should be setpromptly by the court in the immediate future." Id., at 89.Hearing no objection, the Alabama Supreme Court, on September 3, 2003, set petitioner's execution for October 9, 2003.Due to years of drug abuse, petitioner has severely compromised peripheral veins, which are inaccessible by stand-ard techniques for gaining intravenous access, such as a needle. Id., at 7. In August 2003, counsel for petitionercontacted Grantt Culliver, warden of Holman CorrectionalFacility where the execution was to take place, to discuss541US2 Unit: $U52 [01-30-05 09:57:37] PAGES PGT: OPIN641Cite as: 541 U. S. 637 (2004)Opinion of the Courthow petitioner's medical condition might impact the lethalinjection procedure. Counsel specifically requested a copyof the State's written protocol for gaining venous accessprior to execution, and asked that a privately retained orprison physician consult with petitioner about the procedure.Id., at 8-9, 25-26. The warden advised counsel that theState had such a protocol, but stated that he could not provide it to her. He nevertheless assured counsel that "medi-cal personnel" would be present during the execution andthat a prison physician would evaluate and speak with peti-tioner upon his arrival at Holman Correctional Facility.Id.,at 8, 26.Petitioner was transferred to Holman shortly after the Alabama Supreme Court set the execution date. Warden Culliver and a prison nurse met with and examined petitioneron September 10, 2003. Id., at 9-10. Upon confirming thatpetitioner had compromised veins, Warden Culliver informedpetitioner that prison personnel would cut a 0.5-inch incisionin petitioner's arm and catheterize a vein 24 hours before thescheduled execution. Id., at 11. At a second meeting onFriday, October 3, 2003, the warden dramatically altered theprognosis: prison personnel would now make a 2-inch incisionin petitioner's arm or leg; the procedure would take placeone hour before the scheduled execution; and only local anesthesia would be used. Id., at 12. There was no assurancethat a physician would perform or even be present for theprocedure. Counsel immediately contacted the AlabamaDepartment of Corrections Legal Department requesting acopy of the State's execution protocol. Id., at 13, 27. Thelegal department denied counsel's request. Id., at 28.The following Monday, three days before his scheduled execution, petitioner filed the present $ 1983 action allegingthat the so-called "cut-down" procedure constituted crueland unusual punishment and deliberate indifference to hisserious medical needs in violation of the Eighth Amendment.Id., at 21 (complaint), 102 (amended complaint). Petitioner541US2 Unit: $U52 [01-30-05 09:57:37] PAGES PGT: OPIN642 NELSON v. CAMPBELLOpinion of the Courtsought: a permanent injunction against use of the cut-down;a temporary stay of execution to allow the District Court toconsider the merits of his claim; an order requiring respond-ents to furnish a copy of the protocol setting forth the medical procedures to be used to gain venous access; and an orderdirecting respondents, in consultation with medical experts,to promulgate a venous access protocol that comports withcontemporary standards of medical care. Id., at 22. Ap-pended to the complaint was an affidavit from Dr. MarkHeath, a board certified anesthesiologist and assistant pro-fessor at Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons, attesting that the cut-down is a dangerous and antiquated medical procedure to be performed only by a trainedphysician in a clinical environment with the patient underdeep sedation. In light of safer and less-invasive contemporary means of venous access, Dr. Heath concluded that"there is no comprehensible reason for the State of Alabamato be planning to employ the cut-down procedure to obtainintravenous access, unless there exists an intent to renderthe procedure more painful and risky than it otherwise needsto be." Id., at 37.Respondents moved to dismiss the complaint for want ofjurisdiction on the grounds that petitioner's $ 1983 claim andaccompanying stay request were the " `functional equivalent' " of a second or successive habeas application subject tothe gatekeeping provisions of 28 U. S. C. $ 2244(b). App. 82.The District Court agreed and, because petitioner had notobtained authorization to file a second or successive application as required by $ 2244(b)(3), dismissed the complaint. Adivided panel of the Eleventh Circuit affirmed. Relying onFugate v. Department of Corrections, 301 F. 3d 1287 (2002),in which the Eleventh Circuit had held that $ 1983 claimschallenging the method of execution necessarily sound in habeas, the majority held that petitioner should have soughtauthorization to file a second or successive habeas application. 347 F. 3d 910, 912 (2003). The majority also con541US2 Unit: $U52 [01-30-05 09:57:37] PAGES PGT: OPIN643Cite as: 541 U. S. 637 (2004)Opinion of the Courtcluded that, even were it to construe petitioner's appeal as arequest for such authorization, it would nevertheless denythe request because petitioner could not show that, but forthe purported Eighth Amendment violation, " `no reasonablefactfinder would have found [him] guilty of the underly-ing offense.' " Ibid. (quoting 28 U. S. C. $ 2244(b)(2)(B)(ii)).Thus, the Eleventh Circuit held that petitioner was withoutrecourse to challenge the constitutionality of the cut-downprocedure in Federal District Court. We granted certiorari,540 U. S. 1046 (2003), and now reverse.IIASection 1983 authorizes a "suit in equity, or other properproceeding for redress," against any person who, under colorof state law, "subjects, or causes to be subjected, any citizenof the United States . . . to the deprivation of any rights,privileges, or immunities secured by the Constitution."Petitioner's complaint states such a claim. Despite its literal applicability, however, $ 1983 must yield to the more spe-cific federal habeas statute, with its attendant proceduraland exhaustion requirements, where an inmate seeks injunc-tive relief challenging the fact of his conviction or the duration of his sentence. See Preiser v. Rodriguez, 411 U. S. 475,489 (1973). Such claims fall within the "core" of habeas corpus and are thus not cognizable when brought pursuantto $ 1983.Ibid. By contrast, constitutional claims thatmerely challenge the conditions of a prisoner's confinement,whether the inmate seeks monetary or injunctive relief, falloutside of that core and may be brought pursuant to $ 1983in the first instance. See Muhammad v. Close, 540 U. S.749, 750 (2004) (per curiam); Preiser, supra, at 498-499.We have not yet had occasion to consider whether civilrights suits seeking to enjoin the use of a particular methodof execution--e. g., lethal injection or electrocution--fallwithin the core of federal habeas corpus or, rather, whether541US2 Unit: $U52 [01-30-05 09:57:37] PAGES PGT: OPIN644 NELSON v. CAMPBELLOpinion of the Courtthey are properly viewed as challenges to the conditions ofa condemned inmate's death sentence. Neither the "conditions" nor the "fact or duration" label is particularly apt. Asuit seeking to enjoin a particular means of effectuating asentence of death does not directly call into question the"fact" or "validity" of the sentence itself--by simply alteringits method of execution, the State can go forward with thesentence. Cf. Weaver v. Graham, 450 U. S. 24, 32-33, n. 17(1981) (noex post facto violation to change method of execution to more humane method). On the other hand, imposi-tion of the death penalty presupposes a means of carrying itout. In a State such as Alabama, where the legislature hasestablished lethal injection as the preferred method of execution, see Ala. Code $ 15-18-82 (Lexis Supp. 2003) (lethal injection as default method), a constitutional challenge seekingto permanently enjoin the use of lethal injection may amountto a challenge to the fact of the sentence itself. A finding ofunconstitutionality would require statutory amendment orvariance, imposing significant costs on the State and the administration of its penal system. And while it makes littlesense to talk of the "duration" of a death sentence, a Stateretains a significant interest in meting out a sentence ofdeath in a timely fashion. See Calderon v. Thompson, 523U. S. 538, 556-557 (1998); In re Blodgett, 502 U. S. 236, 238(1992) (per curiam); McCleskey v. Zant, 499 U. S. 467, 491(1991) ("[T]he power of a State to pass laws means little ifthe State cannot enforce them").We need not reach here the difficult question of how tocategorize method-of-execution claims generally. Respondents at oral argument conceded that $ 1983 would be an appropriate vehicle for an inmate who is not facing executionto bring a "deliberate indifference" challenge to the constitutionality of the cut-down procedure if used to gain venousaccess for purposes of providing medical treatment. Tr. ofOral Arg. 40 ("I don't disagree . . . that a cut-down occurringfor purposes of venous access, wholly divorced from an exe541US2 Unit: $U52 [01-30-05 09:57:37] PAGES PGT: OPIN645Cite as: 541 U. S. 637 (2004)Opinion of the Courtcution, is indeed a valid conditions of confinement claim");see alsoEstelle v. Gamble, 429 U. S. 97, 104 (1976) ("Wetherefore conclude that deliberate indifference to seriousmedical needs of prisoners constitutes the `unnecessary andwanton infliction of pain' proscribed by the Eighth Amend-ment" (citation omitted)). We see no reason on the face ofthe complaint to treat petitioner's claim differently solely because he has been condemned to die.Respondents counter that, because the cut-down is part ofthe execution procedure, petitioner's challenge is, in fact, achallenge to the fact of his execution. They offer the following argument: A challenge to the use of lethal injection as amethod of execution sounds in habeas; venous access is anecessary prerequisite to, and thus an indispensable part of,any lethal injection procedure; therefore, a challenge to theState's means of achieving venous access must be brought ina federal habeas application. Even were we to accept asgiven respondents' premise that a challenge to lethal injection sounds in habeas, the conclusion does not follow. Thatvenous access is a necessary prerequisite does not imply thata particular means of gaining such access is likewise necessary. Indeed, the gravamen of petitioner's entire claim isthat use of the cut-down would be gratuitous. Merely labeling something as part of an execution procedure is insufficient to insulate it from a $ 1983 attack.If as a legal matter the cut-down were a statutorily mandated part of the lethal injection protocol, or if as a factualmatter petitioner were unable or unwilling to concede acceptable alternatives for gaining venous access, respondentsmight have a stronger argument that success on the merits, coupled with injunctive relief, would call into questionthe death sentence itself. But petitioner has been carefulthroughout these proceedings, in his complaint and at oralargument, to assert that the cut-down, as well as the warden's refusal to provide reliable information regarding thecut-down protocol, are wholly unnecessary to gaining venous541US2 Unit: $U52 [01-30-05 09:57:37] PAGES PGT: OPIN646 NELSON v. CAMPBELLOpinion of the Courtaccess. Petitioner has alleged alternatives that, if they hadbeen used, would have allowed the State to proceed with theexecution as scheduled. App. 17 (complaint) (proffering as"less invasive, less painful, faster, cheaper, and safer" thealternative procedure of "percutaneous central line place-ment");id., at 37-38 (affidavit of Dr. Mark Heath) (describingrelative merits of the cut-down and percutaneous central lineplacement). No Alabama statute requires use of the cut-down, see Ala. Code $ 15-18-82 (Lexis Supp. 2003) (sayingonly that method of execution is lethal injection), and re-spondents have offered no duly-promulgated regulations tothe contrary.If on remand and after an evidentiary hearing the DistrictCourt concludes that use of the cut-down procedure as described in the complaint is necessary for administering thelethal injection, the District Court will need to address thebroader question, left open here, of how to treat method-ofexecution claims generally. An evidentiary hearing will inall likelihood be unnecessary, however, as the State nowseems willing to implement petitioner's proposed alternatives. See Tr. of Oral Arg. 45-46 ("I think there is no disagreement here that percutaneous central line placement isthe preferred method and will, in fact, be used, a cut-downto be used only if actually necessary").We note that our holding here is consistent with our approach to civil rights damages actions, which, like methodof-execution challenges, fall at the margins of habeas. Although damages are not an available habeas remedy, we havepreviously concluded that a $ 1983 suit for damages thatwould "necessarily imply" the invalidity of the fact of an inmate's conviction, or "necessarily imply" the invalidity of thelength of an inmate's sentence, is not cognizable under $ 1983unless and until the inmate obtains favorable termination ofa state, or federal habeas, challenge to his conviction or sentence. Heck v. Humphrey, 512 U. S. 477, 487 (1994); Edwards v. Balisok, 520 U. S. 641, 648 (1997). This "favorable541US2 Unit: $U52 [01-30-05 09:57:37] PAGES PGT: OPIN647Cite as: 541 U. S. 637 (2004)Opinion of the Courttermination" requirement is necessary to prevent inmatesfrom doing indirectly through damages actions what theycould not do directly by seeking injunctive relief--challengethe fact or duration of their confinement without complyingwith the procedural limitations of the federal habeas statute.Muhammad, 540 U. S., at 751. Even so, we were careful inHeck to stress the importance of the term "necessarily."For instance, we acknowledged that an inmate could bring achallenge to the lawfulness of a search pursuant to $ 1983 inthe first instance, even if the search revealed evidence usedto convict the inmate at trial, because success on the meritswould not "necessarily imply that the plaintiff 's convictionwas unlawful." 512 U. S., at 487, n. 7 (noting doctrines suchas inevitable discovery, independent source, and harmlesserror). To hold otherwise would have cut off potentiallyvalid damages actions as to which a plaintiff might neverobtain favorable termination--suits that could otherwisehave gone forward had the plaintiff not been convicted. Inthe present context, focusing attention on whether petitioner's challenge to the cut-down procedure would necessarilyprevent Alabama from carrying out its execution both protects against the use of $ 1983 to circumvent any limitsimposed by the habeas statute and minimizes the extentto which the fact of a prisoner's imminent execution willrequire differential treatment of his otherwise cognizable$ 1983 claims. BThere remains the question whether petitioner's requestfor a temporary stay of execution, subsequently recharacterized by petitioner as a request for a preliminary injunction,App. 49, transformed his conditions of confinement claim intoa challenge to the validity of his death sentence. Normally,it would not. If a request for a permanent injunction doesnot sound in habeas, it follows that the lesser included re-quest for a temporary stay (or preliminary injunction) doesnot either.541US2 Unit: $U52 [01-30-05 09:57:37] PAGES PGT: OPIN648 NELSON v. CAMPBELLOpinion of the CourtThere is a complication in the present case, however. Inhis prayer for relief, petitioner asked the District Court,among other things, to "[e]nter an order granting injunctiverelief and staying [petitioner's] execution, which is currentlyscheduled for October 9, 2003." Id., at 22. Though he didnot specify what permanent injunctive relief he was seeking,a fair reading of the complaint leaves no doubt that petitioner was asking only to enjoin the State's use of the cutdown, not his execution by lethal injection. The same cannot be said of petitioner's stay request. There, he explicitlyrequested that the District Court stay his execution, seemingly without regard to whether the State did or did notresort to the cut-down. This observation is potentially significant given the fact that the State has maintained, fromthe outset of this litigation, that it would attempt othermethods of venous access prior to engaging in the cut-down.See id., at 51-52; id., at 93-94 (affidavit of Warden Culliver).By asking for broader relief than necessary, petitioner undermines his assertions that: (1) his $ 1983 suit is not a tacticfor delay, and (2) he is not challenging the fact of his execution, but merely a dispensable preliminary procedure.Whatever problem this failing might have caused beforethis Court entered a stay, the execution warrant has nowexpired. If the State reschedules the execution while thiscase is pending on remand and petitioner seeks another similarly broad stay, the District Court will need to address thequestion whether a request to enjoin the execution, ratherthan merely to enjoin an allegedly unnecessary precursormedical procedure, properly sounds in habeas. See also 18U. S. C. $ 3626(a)(2) ("Preliminary injunctive relief [in prisonconditions cases] must be narrowly drawn, extend no furtherthan necessary to correct the harm the court finds requirespreliminary relief, and be the least intrusive means necessary to correct that harm").541US2 Unit: $U52 [01-30-05 09:57:37] PAGES PGT: OPIN649Cite as: 541 U. S. 637 (2004)Opinion of the CourtCRespondents argue that a decision to reverse the judg-ment of the Eleventh Circuit would open the floodgates toall manner of method-of-execution challenges, as well as lastminute stay requests. But, because we do not here resolvethe question of how to treat method-of-execution claims gen-erally, our holding is extremely limited.Moreover, as our previous decision in Gomez v. UnitedStates Dist. Court for Northern Dist. of Cal., 503 U. S. 653(1992) (per curiam), makes clear, the mere fact that an inmate states a cognizable $ 1983 claim does not warrant theentry of a stay as a matter of right.Gomez came to us ona motion by the State to vacate a stay entered by an en bancpanel of the Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit thatwould have allowed the District Court time to consider themerits of a condemned inmate's last-minute $ 1983 actionchallenging the constitutionality of California's use of the gaschamber. We left open the question whether the inmate'sclaim was cognizable under $ 1983, but vacated the staynonetheless. The inmate, Robert Alton Harris, who had al-ready filed four unsuccessful federal habeas applications,waited until the eleventh hour to file his challenge despitethe fact that California's method of execution had been inplace for years: "This claim could have been brought morethan a decade ago. There is no good reason for this abusivedelay, which has been compounded by last-minute attemptsto manipulate the judicial process. A court may considerthe last-minute nature of an application to stay execution indeciding whether to grant equitable relief." Id., at 654.A stay is an equitable remedy, and "[e]quity must take intoconsideration the State's strong interest in proceeding withits judgment and . . . attempt[s] at manipulation."Ibid.Thus, before granting a stay, a district court must considernot only the likelihood of success on the merits and the relative harms to the parties, but also the extent to which the541US2 Unit: $U52 [01-30-05 09:57:37] PAGES PGT: OPIN650 NELSON v. CAMPBELLOpinion of the Courtinmate has delayed unnecessarily in bringing the claim.Given the State's significant interest in enforcing its criminaljudgments, see Blodgett, 502 U. S., at 239; McCleskey, 499U. S., at 491, there is a strong equitable presumption againstthe grant of a stay where a claim could have been broughtat such a time as to allow consideration of the merits withoutrequiring entry of a stay.Finally, the ability to bring a $ 1983 claim, rather than ahabeas application, does not entirely free inmates from substantive or procedural limitations. The Prison LitigationReform Act of 1995 (Act) imposes limits on the scope andduration of preliminary and permanent injunctive relief, including a requirement that, before issuing such relief, "[a]court shall give substantial weight to any adverse impact on. . . the operation of a criminal justice system caused by therelief." 18 U. S. C. $ 3626(a)(1); accord, $ 3626(a)(2). It requires that inmates exhaust available state administrativeremedies before bringing a $ 1983 action challenging the conditions of their confinement. 110 Stat. 1321-71, 42 U. S. C.$ 1997e(a) ("No action shall be brought with respect to prisonconditions under section 1983 of this title, or any other Federal law, by a prisoner confined in any jail, prison, or othercorrectional facility until such administrative remedies as areavailable are exhausted"). The Act mandates that a districtcourt "shall," on its own motion, dismiss "any action broughtwith respect to prison conditions under section 1983 of thistitle . . . if the court is satisfied that the action is frivolous,malicious, fails to state a claim upon which relief can begranted, or seeks monetary relief from a defendant who isimmune from such relief." $ 1997e(c)(1). Indeed, if theclaim is frivolous on its face, a district court may dismiss thesuit before the plaintiff has exhausted his state remedies.$ 1997e(c)(2).541US2 Unit: $U52 [01-30-05 09:57:37] PAGES PGT: OPIN651Cite as: 541 U. S. 637 (2004)Opinion of the CourtFor the reasons stated herein, the judgment of the Courtof Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit is reversed, and the caseis remanded for further proceedings consistent with thisopinion.