This is a maritime case about a train wreck. A shipmentof machinery from Australia was destined for Huntsville, Alabama. The intercontinental journey was uneventful, andthe machinery reached the United States unharmed. Butthe train carrying the machinery on its final, inland leg de-railed, causing extensive damage. The machinery's ownersued the railroad. The railroad seeks shelter in two liabilitylimitations contained in contracts that upstream carriers negotiated for the machinery's delivery.IThis controversy arises from two bills of lading (essen-tially, contracts) for the transportation of goods from Australia to Alabama. A bill of lading records that a carrier hasreceived goods from the party that wishes to ship them,*Briefs of amici curiae urging reversal were filed for the Air TransportAssociation of America, Inc., by Robert K. Spotswood; for the AmericanSteamship Owners Mutual Protection and Indemnity Association, Inc.,et al. by David J. Bederman; for the Association of American Railroadsby Daniel Saphire; for the National Association of Waterfront Employersby Thomas D. Wilcox; for the Transportation Loss Prevention and Security Association by James Attridge; and for the World Shipping Councilby Jeffrey F. Lawrence and John W. Butler.Briefs of amici curiae urging affirmance were filed for the AmericanInstitute of Marine Underwriters et al. by Joseph G. Grasso and RobertHermann; for International Cargo Loss Prevention, Inc., by Stanley McDermott III; for the National Industrial Transportation League et al. byNicholas J. DiMichael and Karyn A. Booth; for the Transportation Intermediaries Association by Richard D. Gluck; for Francesco Berlingieriet al. by John Paul Jones; and for Martin Davies by Susan M. Vance.Briefs of amici curiae were filed for Public Citizen, Inc., by Brian Wolfman; and for Jan Ramberg by Christopher E. Carey, John B. Gooch, Jr.,and Michael W. Lodwick.543US1 Unit: $$U2 [03-06-07 11:32:46] PAGES PGT: OPIN19Cite as: 543 U. S. 14 (2004)Opinion of the Courtstates the terms of carriage, and serves as evidence of thecontract for carriage. See 2 T. Schoenbaum, Admiralty andMaritime Law 58-60 (3d ed. 2001) (hereinafter Schoenbaum);Carriage of Goods by Sea Act (COGSA), 49 Stat. 1208, 46U. S. C. App. $ 1303. Respondent James N. Kirby, Pty Ltd.(Kirby), an Australian manufacturing company, sold 10 containers of machinery to the General Motors plant located out-side Huntsville, Alabama. Kirby hired International CargoControl (ICC), an Australian freight forwarding company, toarrange for delivery by "through" (i. e., end-to-end) transpor-tation. (A freight forwarding company arranges for, coordinates, and facilitates cargo transport, but does not itselftransport cargo.) To formalize their contract for carriage,ICC issued a bill of lading to Kirby (ICC bill). The bill des-ignates Sydney, Australia, as the port of loading, Savannah,Georgia, as the port of discharge, and Huntsville as the ulti-mate destination for delivery.In negotiating the ICC bill, Kirby had the opportunity todeclare the full value of the machinery and to have ICC assume liability for that value. Cf. New York, N. H. & H. R.Co. v. Nothnagle, 346 U. S. 128, 135 (1953) (a carrier mustprovide a shipper with a fair opportunity to declare value).Instead, and as is common in the industry, see Sturley, Car-riage of Goods by Sea, 31 J. Mar. L. & Com. 241, 244 (2000),Kirby accepted a contractual liability limitation for ICCbelow the machinery's true value, resulting, presumably, inlower shipping rates. The ICC bill sets various liability lim-itations for the journey from Sydney to Huntsville. For thesea leg, the ICC bill invokes the default liability rule setforth in the COGSA. The COGSA "package limitation"provides:"Neither the carrier nor the ship shall in any event beor become liable for any loss or damage to or in connection with the transportation of goods in an amount ex-ceeding $500 per package lawful money of the UnitedStates . . . unless the nature and value of such goods543US1 Unit: $$U2 [03-06-07 11:32:46] PAGES PGT: OPIN20 NORFOLK SOUTHERN R. CO. v. JAMES N. KIRBY, PTY LTD.Opinion of the Courthave been declared by the shipper before shipment andinserted in the bill of lading." 46 U. S. C. App. $ 1304(5).For the land leg, in turn, the bill limits the carrier's liabilityto a higher amount. 1 So that other downstream parties expected to take part in the contract's execution could benefitfrom the liability limitations, the bill also contains a so-called"Himalaya Clause." 2 It provides:"These conditions [for limitations on liability] applywhenever claims relating to the performance of the contract evidenced by this [bill of lading] are made againstany servant, agent or other person (including any independent contractor) whose services have been used inorder to perform the contract." App. to Pet. for Cert.59a, cl. 10.1.1 The bill provides that "the Freight Forwarder shall in no event be orbecome liable for any loss of or damage to the goods in an amount exceeding the equivalent of 666.67 SDR per package or unit or 2 SDR per kilogramme of gross weight of the goods lost or damaged, whichever is thehigher, unless the nature and value of the goods shall have been declaredby the Consignor." App. to Pet. for Cert. 57a, cl. 8.3. An SDR, or Special Drawing Right, is a unit of account created by the International Monetary Fund and calculated daily on the basis of a basket of currencies. Liability computed per package for the 10 containers, for example, wasapproximately $17,373 when the bill of lading issued in June 1997, $17,231when the goods were damaged on October 9, 1997, and $9,763 when thecase was argued. See International Monetary Fund Exchange Rate Archives, http://www.imf.org/external/np/fin/rates/param_rms_mth.cfm (asvisited Nov. 5, 2004, and available in Clerk of Court's case file). Respondents claim that liability computed by weight is higher. The machinery'sweight is not in the record. In any case, because we conclude that Norfolk is also protected by the $500 per package limit in the second bill oflading at issue here, see Part III-B, infra, and thus cannot be liable formore than $5,000 for the 10 containers, each holding one machine, theprecise liability under the ICC bill of lading does not matter.2 Clauses extending liability limitations take their name from an Englishcase involving a steamship called Himalaya. See Adler v. Dickson,[1955] 1 Q. B. 158 (C. A.).543US1 Unit: $$U2 [03-06-07 11:32:46] PAGES PGT: OPIN21Cite as: 543 U. S. 14 (2004)Opinion of the CourtMeanwhile, Kirby separately insured the cargo for its truevalue with its co-respondent in this case, Allianz AustraliaInsurance Ltd. (formerly MMI General Insurance, Ltd.).Having been hired by Kirby, and because it does not itselfactually transport cargo, ICC then hired Hamburg Su" damer-ikanische Dampfschifffahrts-Gesellschaft Eggert & Amsinck(Hamburg Su" d), a German ocean shipping company, to transport the containers. To formalize their contract for car-riage, Hamburg Su" d issued its own bill of lading to ICC(Hamburg Su" d bill). That bill designates Sydney as theport of loading, Savannah as the port of discharge, andHuntsville as the ultimate destination for delivery. Itadopts COGSA's default rule in limiting the liability of Hamburg Su" d, the bill's designated carrier, to $500 per package.See 46 U. S. C. App. $ 1304(5). It also contains a clause extending that liability limitation beyond the "tackles"--thatis, to potential damage on land as well as on sea. Finally, ittoo contains a Himalaya Clause extending the benefit of itsliability limitation to "all agents . . . (including inland)carriers . . . and all independent contractors whatsoever."App. 63, cl. 5(b).Acting through a subsidiary, Hamburg Su" d hired petitioner Norfolk Southern Railway Company (Norfolk) totransport the machinery from the Savannah port to Huntsville. The Norfolk train carrying the machinery derailed enroute, causing an alleged $1.5 million in damages. Kirby'sinsurance company reimbursed Kirby for the loss. Kirbyand its insurer then sued Norfolk in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Georgia, assertingdiversity jurisdiction and alleging tort and contract claims.In its answer, Norfolk argued, among other things, that Kirby's potential recovery could not exceed the amounts setforth in the liability limitations contained in the bills of lading for the machinery's carriage.The District Court granted Norfolk's motion for partialsummary judgment, holding that Norfolk's liability was lim543US1 Unit: $$U2 [03-06-07 11:32:46] PAGES PGT: OPIN22 NORFOLK SOUTHERN R. CO. v. JAMES N. KIRBY, PTY LTD.Opinion of the Courtited to $500 per container. Upon a joint motion from Norfolk and Kirby, the District Court certified its decision forinterlocutory review pursuant to 28 U. S. C. $ 1292(b).A divided panel of the Eleventh Circuit reversed. It heldthat Norfolk could not claim protection under the HimalayaClause in the first contract, the ICC bill. It construed thelanguage of the clause to exclude parties, like Norfolk, thathad not been in privity with ICC when ICC issued the bill.300 F. 3d 1300, 1308-1309 (2002). The majority also suggested that "a special degree of linguistic specificity is required to extend the benefits of a Himalaya clause to an inland carrier." Id., at 1310. As for the Hamburg Su" d bill,the court held that Kirby could be bound by the bill's liabilitylimitation "only if ICC was acting as Kirby's agent when itreceived Hamburg Su" d's bill." Id., at 1305. And, applyingbasic agency law principles, the Court of Appeals concludedthat ICC had not been acting as Kirby's agent when it received the bill. Ibid. Based on its opinion that Norfolkwas not entitled to benefit from the liability limitation ineither bill of lading, the Eleventh Circuit reversed the District Court's grant of summary judgment for the railroad.We granted certiorari to decide whether Norfolk could takeshelter in the liability limitations of either bill, 540 U. S. 1099(2004), and now reverse.IIThe courts below appear to have decided this case on anassumption, shared by the parties, that federal rather thanstate law governs the interpretation of the two bills of lading. Respondents now object. They emphasize that, atbottom, this is a diversity case involving tort and contractclaims arising out of a rail accident somewhere between Savannah and Huntsville. We think, however, borrowing fromJustice Harlan, that "the situation presented here has a moregenuinely salty flavor than that." Kossick v. United FruitCo., 365 U. S. 731, 742 (1961). When a contract is a maritime543US1 Unit: $$U2 [03-06-07 11:32:46] PAGES PGT: OPIN23Cite as: 543 U. S. 14 (2004)Opinion of the Courtone, and the dispute is not inherently local, federal law con-trols the contract interpretation.Id., at 735.Our authority to make decisional law for the interpretationof maritime contracts stems from the Constitution's grant ofadmiralty jurisdiction to federal courts. See Art. III, $ 2,cl. 1 (providing that the federal judicial power shall extendto "all Cases of admiralty and maritime Jurisdiction"). See28 U. S. C. $ 1333(1) (granting federal district courts originaljurisdiction over "[a]ny civil case of admiralty or maritimejurisdiction"); R. Fallon, D. Meltzer, & D. Shapiro, Hart andWechsler's The Federal Courts and the Federal System 733-738 (5th ed. 2003). This suit was properly brought in diversity, but it could also be sustained under the admiralty jurisdiction by virtue of the maritime contracts involved. SeePope & Talbot, Inc. v. Hawn, 346 U. S. 406, 411 (1953)("[S]ubstantial rights . . . are not to be determined differentlywhether [a] case is labelled `law side' or `admiralty side' on adistrict court's docket"). Indeed, for federal common law toapply in these circumstances, this suit must also be sustainable under the admiralty jurisdiction. See Stewart Organization, Inc. v. Ricoh Corp., 487 U. S. 22, 28 (1988). Becausethe grant of admiralty jurisdiction and the power to makeadmiralty law are mutually dependent, the two are often intertwined in our cases.Applying the two-step analysis from Kossick, we find thatfederal law governs this contract dispute. Our cases do notdraw clean lines between maritime and nonmaritime contracts. We have recognized that "[t]he boundaries of admiralty jurisdiction over contracts--as opposed to torts orcrimes--being conceptual rather than spatial, have alwaysbeen difficult to draw." 365 U. S., at 735. To ascertainwhether a contract is a maritime one, we cannot look towhether a ship or other vessel was involved in the dispute,as we would in a putative maritime tort case. Cf. AdmiraltyExtension Act, 46 U. S. C. App. $ 740 ("The admiralty andmaritime jurisdiction of the United States shall extend to543US1 Unit: $$U2 [03-06-07 11:32:46] PAGES PGT: OPIN24 NORFOLK SOUTHERN R. CO. v. JAMES N. KIRBY, PTY LTD.Opinion of the Courtand include all cases of damage or injury . . . caused bya vessel on navigable water, notwithstanding that suchdamage or injury be done or consummated on land"); 1R. Force & M. Norris, The Law of Seamen $ 1:15 (5th ed.2003). Nor can we simply look to the place of the contract'sformation or performance. Instead, the answer "dependsupon . . . the nature and character of the contract," and thetrue criterion is whether it has "reference to maritime serv-ice or maritime transactions."North Pacific S. S. Co. v.Hall Brothers Marine Railway & Shipbuilding Co., 249U. S. 119, 125 (1919) (citingInsurance Co. v. Dunham, 11Wall. 1, 26 (1871)). See also Exxon Corp. v. Central GulfLines, Inc., 500 U. S. 603, 611 (1991) ("[T]he trend in modernadmiralty case law . . . is to focus the jurisdictional inquiryupon whether the nature of the transaction was maritime").The ICC and Hamburg Su" d bills are maritime contractsbecause their primary objective is to accomplish the transportation of goods by sea from Australia to the eastern coastof the United States. See G. Gilmore & C. Black, Law ofAdmiralty 31 (2d ed. 1975) ("Ideally, the [admiralty] jurisdiction [over contracts ought] to include those and only thosethings principally connected with maritime transportation"(emphasis deleted)). To be sure, the two bills call for someperformance on land; the final leg of the machinery's journeyto Huntsville was by rail. But under a conceptual ratherthan spatial approach, this fact does not alter the essentiallymaritime nature of the contracts.In Kossick, for example, we held that a shipowner's promise to assume responsibility for any improper treatment hisseaman might receive at a New York hospital was a maritimecontract. The seaman had asked the shipowner to pay fortreatment by a private physician, but the shipowner, preferring the cheaper public hospital, offered to cover the costs ofany complications that might arise from treatment there.We characterized his promise as a "fringe benefit" to a shipowner's duty in maritime law to provide " `maintenance and543US1 Unit: $$U2 [03-06-07 11:32:46] PAGES PGT: OPIN25Cite as: 543 U. S. 14 (2004)Opinion of the Courtcure.' " 365 U. S., at 736-737. Because the promise was infurtherance of a "peculiarly maritime concer[n],"id., at 738,it folded into federal maritime law. It did not matter thatthe site of the inadequate treatment--which gave rise to thecontract dispute--was in a hospital on land. Likewise, Nor-folk's rail journey from Savannah to Huntsville was a"fringe" portion of the intercontinental journey promised inthe ICC and Hamburg Su" d bills.We have reiterated that the " `fundamental interest givingrise to maritime jurisdiction is "the protection of maritimecommerce." ' " Exxon, supra, at 608 (emphasis added)(quoting Sisson v. Ruby, 497 U. S. 358, 367 (1990), in turnquoting Foremost Ins. Co. v. Richardson, 457 U. S. 668, 674(1982)). The conceptual approach vindicates that interestby focusing our inquiry on whether the principal objective ofa contract is maritime commerce. While it may once haveseemed natural to think that only contracts embodying commercial obligations between the "tackles" (i. e., from port toport) have maritime objectives, the shore is now an artificialplace to draw a line. Maritime commerce has evolved alongwith the nature of transportation and is often inseparablefrom some land-based obligations. The international transportation industry "clearly has moved into a new era--theage of multimodalism, door-to-door transport based on efficient use of all available modes of transportation by air,water, and land." 1 Schoenbaum 589 (4th ed. 2004). Thecause is technological change: Because goods can now bepackaged in standardized containers, cargo can move easilyfrom one mode of transport to another. Ibid. See alsoNLRB v. Longshoremen, 447 U. S. 490, 494 (1980) (" `[C]ontainerization may be said to constitute the single most important innovation in ocean transport since the steamshipdisplaced the schooner' "); G. Muller, Intermodal FreightTransportation 15-24 (3d ed. 1995).Contracts reflect the new technology, hence the popularityof "through" bills of lading, in which cargo owners can con543US1 Unit: $$U2 [03-06-07 11:32:46] PAGES PGT: OPIN26 NORFOLK SOUTHERN R. CO. v. JAMES N. KIRBY, PTY LTD.Opinion of the Courttract for transportation across oceans and to inland destina-tions in a single transaction. See 1 Schoenbaum 595. Putsimply, it is to Kirby's advantage to arrange for transportfrom Sydney to Huntsville in one bill of lading, rather thanto negotiate a separate contract--and to find an Americanrailroad itself--for the land leg. The popularity of that efficient choice, to assimilate land legs into international oceanbills of lading, should not render bills for ocean carriage non-maritime contracts.Some lower federal courts appear to have taken a spatialapproach when deciding whether intermodal transportationcontracts for intercontinental shipping are maritime in nature. They have held that admiralty jurisdiction does notextend to contracts which require maritime and nonmaritimetransportation, unless the nonmaritime transportation ismerely incidental--and that long-distance land travel is notincidental. See, e. g., Hartford Fire Ins. Co. v. Orient Overseas Containers Lines (UK) Ltd., 230 F. 3d 549, 555-556(CA2 2000) ("Transport by land under a bill of lading is not`incidental' to transport by sea if the land segment involvesgreat and substantial distances," and land transport of over850 miles across four countries is more than incidental); SeaLand Serv., Inc. v. Danzig, 211 F. 3d 1373, 1378 (CA Fed.2000) (holding that intermodal transport contracts were notmaritime contracts because they called for "substantialtransportation between inland locations and ports both inthis country and in the Middle East" that was not incidentalto the transportation by sea); Kuehne & Nagel (AG & Co.)v. Geosource, Inc., 874 F. 2d 283, 290 (CA5 1989) (holdingthat a through bill of lading calling for land transportationup to 1,000 miles was not a traditional maritime contractbecause such "extensive land-based operations cannot beviewed as merely incidental to the maritime operations").As a preliminary matter, it seems to us imprecise to describethe land carriage required by an intermodal transportationcontract as "incidental"; realistically, each leg of the journey543US1 Unit: $$U2 [03-06-07 11:32:46] PAGES PGT: OPIN27Cite as: 543 U. S. 14 (2004)Opinion of the Courtis essential to accomplishing the contract's purpose. In thiscase, for example, the bills of lading required delivery toHuntsville; the Savannah port would not do.Furthermore, to the extent that these lower court decisions fashion a rule for identifying maritime contracts thatdepends solely on geography, they are inconsistent with theconceptual approach our precedent requires. See Kossick,supra, at 735. Conceptually, so long as a bill of lading re-quires substantial carriage of goods by sea, its purpose isto effectuate maritime commerce--and thus it is a maritimecontract. Its character as a maritime contract is not defeated simply because it also provides for some land carriage.Geography, then, is useful in a conceptual inquiry only in alimited sense: If a bill's sea components are insubstantial,then the bill is not a maritime contract.Having established that the ICC and Hamburg Su" d billsare maritime contracts, then, we must clear a second hurdlebefore applying federal law in their interpretation. Is thiscase inherently local? For not "every term in every maritime contract can only be controlled by some federally defined admiralty rule." Wilburn Boat Co. v. Fireman's FundIns. Co., 348 U. S. 310, 313 (1955) (applying state law to maritime contract for marine insurance because of state regulatory power over insurance industry). A maritime contract'sinterpretation may so implicate local interests as to beckoninterpretation by state law. See Kossick, 365 U. S., at 735.Respondents have not articulated any specific Australian orstate interest at stake, though some are surely implicated.But when state interests cannot be accommodated withoutdefeating a federal interest, as is the case here, then federalsubstantive law should govern. See id., at 739 (the processof deciding whether federal law applies "is surely . . . one ofaccommodation, entirely familiar in many areas of overlapping state and federal concern, or a process somewhat analogous to the normal conflict of laws situation where two sovereignties assert divergent interests in a transaction"); 2543US1 Unit: $$U2 [03-06-07 11:32:46] PAGES PGT: OPIN28 NORFOLK SOUTHERN R. CO. v. JAMES N. KIRBY, PTY LTD.Opinion of the CourtSchoenbaum 61 (" `Bills of lading issued outside the UnitedStates are governed by the general maritime law, considering relevant choice of law rules' ").Here, our touchstone is a concern for the uniform meaningof maritime contracts like the ICC and Hamburg Su" d bills.We have explained that Article III's grant of admiralty jurisdiction " `must have referred to a system of law coextensivewith, and operating uniformly in, the whole country. It cer-tainly could not have been the intention to place the rulesand limits of maritime law under the disposal and regulationof the several States, as that would have defeated the uniformity and consistency at which the Constitution aimed onall subjects of a commercial character affecting the intercourse of the States with each other or with foreign states.' "American Dredging Co. v. Miller, 510 U. S. 443, 451 (1994)(quoting The Lottawanna, 21 Wall. 558, 575 (1875)). Seealso Yamaha Motor Corp., U. S. A. v. Calhoun, 516 U. S. 199,210 (1996) ("[I]n several contexts, we have recognized thatvindication of maritime policies demanded uniform adherence to a federal rule of decision" (citing Kossick, supra, at742; Pope & Talbot, 346 U. S., at 409; Garrett v. MooreMcCormack Co., 317 U. S. 239, 248-249 (1942))); Romero v.International Terminal Operating Co., 358 U. S. 354, 373(1959) ("[S]tate law must yield to the needs of a uniform federal maritime law when this Court finds inroads on a harmonious system[,] [b]ut this limitation still leaves the States awide scope").Applying state law to cases like this one would underminethe uniformity of general maritime law. The same liabilitylimitation in a single bill of lading for international intermodal transportation often applies both to sea and to land,as is true of the Hamburg Su" d bill. Such liability clausesare regularly executed around the world. See 1 Schoenbaum 595; Wood, Multimodal Transportation: An American Perspective on Carrier Liability and Bill of Lading Issues, 46 Am. J. Comp. L. 403, 407 (Supp. 1998). See also543US1 Unit: $$U2 [03-06-07 11:32:46] PAGES PGT: OPIN29Cite as: 543 U. S. 14 (2004)Opinion of the Court46 U. S. C. App. $ 1307 (permitting parties to extend theCOGSA default liability limit to damage done "prior to theloading on and subsequent to the discharge from the ship").Likewise, a single Himalaya Clause can cover both sea andland carriers downstream, as is true of the ICC bill. SeePart III-A,infra. Confusion and inefficiency will inevitably result if more than one body of law governs a given contract's meaning. As we said in Kossick, when "a [maritime]contract . . . may well have been made anywhere in theworld," it "should be judged by one law wherever it wasmade." 365 U. S., at 741. Here, that one law is federal.In protecting the uniformity of federal maritime law, wealso reinforce the liability regime Congress established inCOGSA. By its terms, COGSA governs bills of lading forthe carriage of goods "from the time when the goods areloaded on to the time when they are discharged from theship." 46 U. S. C. App. $ 1301(e). For that period, COGSA's"package limitation" operates as a default rule. $ 1304(5).But COGSA also gives the option of extending its rule bycontract. See $ 1307 ("Nothing contained in this chaptershall prevent a carrier or a shipper from entering into anyagreement, stipulation, condition, reservation, or exemptionas to the responsibility and liability of the carrier or the shipfor the loss or damage to or in connection with the custodyand care and handling of goods prior to the loading on andsubsequent to the discharge from the ship on which thegoods are carried by sea"). As COGSA permits, HamburgSu" d in its bill of lading chose to extend the default rule tothe entire period in which the machinery would be under itsresponsibility, including the period of the inland transport.Hamburg Su" d would not enjoy the efficiencies of the defaultrule if the liability limitation it chose did not apply equallyto all legs of the journey for which it undertook responsibility. And the apparent purpose of COGSA, to facilitate efficient contracting in contracts for carriage by sea, would bedefeated.543US1 Unit: $$U2 [03-06-07 11:32:46] PAGES PGT: OPIN30 NORFOLK SOUTHERN R. CO. v. JAMES N. KIRBY, PTY LTD.Opinion of the CourtIIIATurning to the merits, we begin with the ICC bill of lad-ing, the first of the contracts at issue. Kirby and ICC madea contract for the carriage of machinery from Sydney toHuntsville, and agreed to limit the liability of ICC and otherparties who would participate in transporting the machinery.The bill's Himalaya Clause states:"These conditions [for limitations on liability] applywhenever claims relating to the performance of the contract evidenced by this [bill of lading] are made againstany servant, agent or other person (including any independent contractor) whose services have been used inorder to perform the contract." App. to Pet. for Cert.59a, cl. 10.1 (emphasis added).The question presented is whether the liability limitation inKirby's and ICC's contract extends to Norfolk, which is ICC'ssub-subcontractor. The Circuits have split in answeringthis question. Compare,e. g., Akiyama Corp. of America v.M. V. Hanjin Marseilles, 162 F. 3d 571, 574 (CA9 1998) (privity of contract is not required in order to benefit from a Hi-malaya Clause), with Mikinberg v. Baltic S. S. Co., 988 F. 2d327, 332 (CA2 1993) (a contractual relationship is required).This is a simple question of contract interpretation. Itturns only on whether the Eleventh Circuit correctly appliedthis Court's decision inRobert C. Herd & Co. v. Krawill Ma-chinery Corp., 359 U. S. 297 (1959). We conclude that it didnot. In Herd, the bill of lading between a cargo owner andcarrier said that, consistent with COGSA, " `the Carrier's liability, if any, shall be determined on the basis of $500 perpackage.' " Id., at 302. The carrier then hired a stevedoring company to load the cargo onto the ship, and the steve-doring company damaged the goods. The Court held thatthe stevedoring company was not a beneficiary of the bill'sliability limitation. Because it found no evidence in COGSA543US1 Unit: $$U2 [03-06-07 11:32:46] PAGES PGT: OPIN31Cite as: 543 U. S. 14 (2004)Opinion of the Courtor its legislative history that Congress meant COGSA's lia-bility limitation to extend automatically to a carrier's agents,like stevedores, the Court looked to the language of the billof lading itself. It reasoned that a clause limiting " `the Carrier's liability' " did not "indicate that the contracting par-ties intended to limit the liability of stevedores or otheragents. . . . If such had been a purpose of the contractingparties it must be presumed that they would in some wayhave expressed it in the contract."Ibid. The Court addedthat liability limitations must be "strictly construed and lim-ited to intended beneficiaries."Id., at 305.The Eleventh Circuit, like respondents, made much of theHerd decision. Deriving a principle of narrow constructionfrom Herd, the Court of Appeals concluded that the languageof the ICC bill's Himalaya Clause is too vague to clearly include Norfolk. 300 F. 3d, at 1308. Moreover, the lowercourt interpreted Herd to require privity between the carrier and the party seeking shelter under a Himalaya Clause.300 F. 3d, at 1308. But nothing in Herd requires the linguistic specificity or privity rules that the Eleventh Circuit attributes to it. The decision simply says that contracts forcarriage of goods by sea must be construed like any othercontracts: by their terms and consistent with the intent ofthe parties. If anything, Herd stands for the propositionthat there is no special rule for Himalaya Clauses.The Court of Appeals' ruling is not true to the contractlanguage or to the intent of the parties. The plain languageof the Himalaya Clause indicates an intent to extend the liability limitation broadly--to "any servant, agent or otherperson (including any independent contractor)" whose services contribute to performing the contract. App. to Pet. forCert. 59a, cl. 10.1 (emphasis added). "Read naturally, theword `any' has an expansive meaning, that is, `one or someindiscriminately of whatever kind.' " United States v. Gonzales, 520 U. S. 1, 5 (1997) (quoting Webster's Third New International Dictionary 97 (1976)). There is no reason to con543US1 Unit: $$U2 [03-06-07 11:32:46] PAGES PGT: OPIN32 NORFOLK SOUTHERN R. CO. v. JAMES N. KIRBY, PTY LTD.Opinion of the Courttravene the clause's obvious meaning. See Green v. Biddle,8 Wheat. 1, 89-90 (1823) ("[W]here the words of a law, treaty,or contract, have a plain and obvious meaning, all construc-tion, in hostility with such meaning, is excluded"). The expansive contract language corresponds to the fact that vari-ous modes of transportation would be involved in performingthe contract. Kirby and ICC contracted for the transporta-tion of machinery from Australia to Huntsville, Alabama,and, as the crow flies, Huntsville is some 366 miles inlandfrom the port of discharge. See G. Fitzpatrick & M. Modlin,Direct-Line Distances 168 (1986). Thus, the parties musthave anticipated that a land carrier's services would be necessary for the contract's performance. It is clear to us thata railroad like Norfolk was an intended beneficiary of theICC bill's broadly written Himalaya Clause. Accordingly,Norfolk's liability is limited by the terms of that clause.BThe question arising from the Hamburg Su" d bill of ladingis more difficult. It requires us to set an efficient defaultrule for certain shipping contracts, a task that has been achallenge for courts for centuries. See,e. g., Hadley v. Bax-endale, 9 Exch. 341, 156 Eng. Rep. 145 (1854). ICC andHamburg Su" d agreed that Hamburg Su" d would transport themachinery from Sydney to Huntsville, and agreed to theCOGSA "package limitation" on the liability of HamburgSu" d, its agents, and its independent contractors. The second question presented is whether that liability limitation,which ICC negotiated, prevents Kirby from suing Norfolk(Hamburg Su" d's independent contractor) for more. As wehave explained, the liability limitation in the ICC bill, thefirst contract, sets liability for a land accident higher thanthis bill does. See n. 1,supra. Because Norfolk's liabilitywill be lower if it is protected by the Hamburg Su" d bill too,we must reach this second question in order to give Norfolkthe full relief for which it petitioned.543US1 Unit: $$U2 [03-06-07 11:32:46] PAGES PGT: OPIN33Cite as: 543 U. S. 14 (2004)Opinion of the CourtTo interpret the Hamburg Su" d bill, we turn to a ruledrawn from our precedent about common carriage: When anintermediary contracts with a carrier to transport goods, thecargo owner's recovery against the carrier is limited by theliability limitation to which the intermediary and carrieragreed. The intermediary is certainly not automaticallyempowered to be the cargo owner's agent in every sense.That would be unsustainable. But when it comes to liabilitylimitations for negligence resulting in damage, an intermediary can negotiate reliable and enforceable agreements withthe carriers it engages.We derive this rule from our decision about common carriage in Great Northern R. Co. v. O'Connor, 232 U. S. 508(1914). In Great Northern, an owner hired a transfer company to arrange for the shipment of her goods. Without theowner's express authority, the transfer company arrangedfor rail transport at a tariff rate that limited the railroad'sliability to less than the true value of the goods. The goodswere lost en route, and the owner sued the railroad. TheCourt held that the railroad must be able to rely on the liability limitation in its tariff agreement with the transfer company. The railroad "had the right to assume that the Transfer Company could agree upon the terms of the shipment";it could not be expected to know if the transfer company hadany outstanding, conflicting obligation to another party. Id.,at 514. The owner's remedy, if necessary, was against thetransfer company. Id., at 515.Respondents object to our reading of Great Northern, andargue that this Court should fashion the federal rule of decision from general agency law principles. Like the EleventhCircuit, respondents reason that Kirby cannot be bound bythe bill of lading that ICC negotiated with Hamburg Su" dunless ICC was then acting as Kirby's agent. Other Courtsof Appeals have also applied agency law to cases similar tothis one. See, e. g., Kukje Hwajae Ins. Co. v. The M/VHyundai Liberty, 294 F. 3d 1171, 1175-1177 (CA9 2002) (an543US1 Unit: $$U2 [03-06-07 11:32:46] PAGES PGT: OPIN34 NORFOLK SOUTHERN R. CO. v. JAMES N. KIRBY, PTY LTD.Opinion of the Courtintermediary acted as a cargo owner's agent when negotiating a bill of lading with a downstream carrier).We think reliance on agency law is misplaced here. It isundeniable that the traditional indicia of agency, a fiduciaryrelationship and effective control by the principal, did notexist between Kirby and ICC. See Restatement (Second) ofAgency $ 1 (1957). But that is of no moment. The principlederived from Great Northern does not require treating ICCas Kirby's agent in the classic sense. It only requires treating ICC as Kirby's agent for a single, limited purpose: whenICC contracts with subsequent carriers for limitation on liability. In holding that an intermediary binds a cargo ownerto the liability limitations it negotiates with downstream carriers, we do not infringe on traditional agency principles.We merely ensure the reliability of downstream contracts forliability limitations. In Great Northern, because the intermediary had been "entrusted with goods to be shipped byrailway, and, nothing to the contrary appearing, the carrierhad the right to assume that [the intermediary] could agreeupon the terms of the shipment." 232 U. S., at 514. Likewise, here we hold that intermediaries, entrusted withgoods, are "agents" only in their ability to contract for liability limitations with carriers downstream.Respondents also contend that any decision binding Kirbyto the Hamburg Su" d bill's liability limitation will be disastrous for the international shipping industry. Various participants in the industry have weighed in as amici on bothsides in this case, and we must make a close call. It wouldbe idle to pretend that the industry can easily be characterized, or that efficient default rules can easily be discerned.In the final balance, however, we disagree with respondentsfor three reasons.First, we believe that a limited agency rule tracks industrypractices. In intercontinental ocean shipping, carriers maynot know if they are dealing with an intermediary, rather543US1 Unit: $$U2 [03-06-07 11:32:46] PAGES PGT: OPIN35Cite as: 543 U. S. 14 (2004)Opinion of the Courtthan with a cargo owner. Even if knowingly dealing withan intermediary, they may not know how many other intermediaries came before, or what obligations may be outstanding among them. If the Eleventh Circuit's rule were thelaw, carriers would have to seek out more information beforecontracting, so as to assure themselves that their contractualliability limitations provide true protection. That task ofinformation gathering might be very costly or even impossible, given that goods often change hands many times in thecourse of intermodal transportation. See 1 Schoenbaum589; Wood, 46 Am. J. Comp. L., at 404.Second, if liability limitations negotiated with cargo owners were reliable while limitations negotiated with intermediaries were not, carriers would likely want to charge thelatter higher rates. A rule prompting downstream carriersto distinguish between cargo owners and intermediary shippers might interfere with statutory and decisional law promoting nondiscrimination in common carriage. Cf. ICC v.Delaware, L. & W. R. Co., 220 U. S. 235, 251-256 (1911) (common carrier cannot "sit in judgment on the title of the prospective shipper"); Shipping Act, 46 U. S. C. App. $ 1709(nondiscrimination rules). It would also, as we have intimated, undermine COGSA's liability regime.Finally, as in Great Northern, our decision produces anequitable result. See 232 U. S., at 515. Kirby retains theoption to sue ICC, the carrier, for any loss that exceeds theliability limitation to which they agreed. And indeed, Kirbyhas sued ICC in an Australian court for damages arisingfrom the Norfolk derailment. It seems logical that ICC--the only party that definitely knew about and was party toboth of the bills of lading at issue here--should bear responsibility for any gap between the liability limitations in thebills. Meanwhile, Norfolk enjoys the benefit of the Hamburg Su" d bill's liability limitation.543US1 Unit: $$U2 [03-06-07 11:32:46] PAGES PGT: OPIN36 NORFOLK SOUTHERN R. CO. v. JAMES N. KIRBY, PTY LTD.Opinion of the CourtIVWe hold that Norfolk is entitled to the protection of theliability limitations in the two bills of lading. Having undertaken this analysis, we recognize that our decision does nomore than provide a legal backdrop against which future billsof lading will be negotiated. It is not, of course, this Court'stask to structure the international shipping industry. Future parties remain free to adapt their contracts to the rulesset forth here, only now with the benefit of greater predictability concerning the rules for which their contracts mightcompensate.The judgment of the United States Court of Appeals forthe Eleventh Circuit is reversed, and the case is remandedfor further proceedings consistent with this opinion.