In 1989, we held that Johnny Paul Penry had been sen-tenced to death in violation of the Eighth Amendment because his jury had not been adequately instructed with re-spect to mitigating evidence. SeePenry v. Lynaugh, 492U. S. 302 (1989) (Penry I). The State of Texas retried Penryin 1990, and that jury also found him guilty of capital murderand sentenced him to death. We now consider whether thejury instructions at Penry's resentencing complied with ourmandate inPenry I. We also consider whether the admis-sion into evidence of statements from a psychiatric reportbased on an uncounseled interview with Penry ran afoul ofthe Fifth Amendment.IJohnny Paul Penry brutally raped and murdered PamelaCarpenter on October 25, 1979. In 1980, a Texas jury foundhim guilty of capital murder. At the close of the penaltyhearing, the jury was instructed to answer three statutorilymandated "special issues":" `(1) whether the conduct of the defendant that causedthe death of the deceased was committed deliberatelyand with the reasonable expectation that the death ofthe deceased or another would result;" `(2) whether there is a probability that the defendantwould commit criminal acts of violence that would constitute a continuing threat to society; and" `(3) if raised by the evidence, whether the conduct ofthe defendant in killing the deceased was unreasonablein response to the provocation, if any, by the deceased.' "Id., at 310 (quoting Tex. Code Crim. Proc. Ann., Art.37.071(b) (Vernon 1981 and Supp. 1989)).The jury answered "yes" to each issue and, as required bystatute, the trial court sentenced Penry to death. 492 U. S.,at 310-311.532US3 Unit: $U64 [09-06-02 19:16:25] PAGES PGT: OPIN787Cite as: 532 U. S. 782 (2001)Opinion of the CourtAlthough Penry had offered extensive evidence that hewas mentally retarded and had been severely abused as achild, the jury was never instructed that it could considerand give mitigating effect to that evidence in imposing sentence. Id., at 320. Nor was any of the three special issuesbroad enough in scope that the jury could consider and giveeffect to the mitigating evidence in answering the specialissue. Id., at 322-325. While Penry's mental retardationwas potentially relevant to the first special issue--whetherhe had acted deliberately--we found no way to be surethat the jurors fully considered the mitigating evidence asit bore on the broader question of Penry's moral culpability.Id., at 322-323. As to the second issue--whether Penrywould be a future danger--the evidence of his mental retardation and history of abuse was "relevant only as anaggravating factor." Id., at 323 (emphasis in original).And the evidence was simply not relevant in a mitigatingway to the third issue--whether Penry had unreasonablyresponded to any provocation. Id., at 324-325.The comments of counsel also failed to clarify the jury'srole. Defense counsel had urged the jurors to vote "no" onone of the special issues if they believed that Penry, becauseof the mitigating evidence, did not deserve to be put to death.The prosecutor, however, had reminded them of their "oathto follow the law and . . . answe[r] these questions based onthe evidence and following the law." Id., at 325 (internalquotation marks omitted)."In light of the prosecutor's argument, and . . . in the absence of instructions informing the jury that it could considerand give effect to the mitigating evidence of Penry's mentalretardation and abused background by declining to imposethe death penalty," we concluded that "a reasonable jurorcould well have believed that there was no vehicle for expressing the view that Penry did not deserve to be sentencedto death based upon his mitigating evidence." Id., at 326,532US3 Unit: $U64 [09-06-02 19:16:25] PAGES PGT: OPIN788 PENRY v. JOHNSONOpinion of the Court328. We thus vacated Penry's sentence, confirming that ina capital case, "[t]he sentencer must . . . be able to considerand give effect to [mitigating] evidence in imposing sentence," so that " `the sentence imposed . . . reflec[ts] a reasoned moral response to the defendant's background, character, and crime.' " Id., at 319 (quoting California v. Brown,479 U. S. 538, 545 (1987) (O'Connor, J., concurring) (emphasisin original)).Penry was retried in 1990 and again found guilty of capitalmurder. During the penalty phase, the defense again puton extensive evidence regarding Penry's mental impairmentsand childhood abuse. One defense witness on the subject ofPenry's mental impairments was Dr. Randall Price, a clinicalneuropsychologist. On direct examination, Dr. Price testified that he believed Penry suffered from organic brain impairment and mental retardation. App. 276-279; 878. Inthe course of cross-examining Dr. Price, the prosecutor askedwhat records Price had reviewed in preparing his testimony.Price cited 14 reports, including a psychiatric evaluation ofPenry prepared by Dr. Felix Peebles on May 19, 1977. Id.,at 327. The Peebles report had been prepared at the request of Penry's then-counsel to determine Penry's competency to stand trial on a 1977 rape charge--unrelated to therape and murder of Pamela Carpenter. Id., at 55-60, 125.The prosecutor asked Dr. Price to read a specific portionof the Peebles report for the jury. Over the objection ofdefense counsel, Dr. Price recited that it was Dr. Peebles'"professional opinion that if Johnny Paul Penry were released from custody, that he would be dangerous to otherpersons." Id., at 413. The prosecutor again recited thisportion of the Peebles report during his closing argument.Id., at 668.When it came time to submit the case to the jury, the courtinstructed the jury to determine Penry's sentence by answering three special issues--the same three issues that532US3 Unit: $U64 [09-06-02 19:16:25] PAGES PGT: OPIN789Cite as: 532 U. S. 782 (2001)Opinion of the Courthad been put before the jury in Penry I. Specifically, thejury had to determine whether Penry acted deliberatelywhen he killed Pamela Carpenter; whether there was a prob-ability that Penry would be dangerous in the future; andwhether Penry acted unreasonably in response to provoca-tion. App. 676-678. Cf. Penry I, 492 U. S., at 320.The court told the jury how to determine its answers tothose issues:"[B]efore any issue may be answered `Yes,' all jurorsmust be convinced by the evidence beyond a reasonabledoubt that the answer to such issue should be `Yes.' . . .[I]f any juror, after considering the evidence and theseinstructions, has a reasonable doubt as to whether theanswer to a Special Issue should be answered `Yes,' thensuch juror should vote `No' to that Special Issue."App. 672-673.The court explained the consequences of the jury's decision:"[I]f you return an affirmative finding on each of thespecial issues submitted to you, the court shall sentence the defendant to death. You are further in-structed that if you return a negative finding on anyspecial issue submitted to you, the court shall sen-tence the defendant to the Texas Department of Corrections for life. You are therefore instructed that youranswers to the special issues, which determine the punishment to be assessed the defendant by the court,should be reflective of your finding as to the personalculpability of the defendant, JOHNNY PAUL PENRY,in this case." Id., at 674-675.The court then gave the follow i ng "supplementalinstruction":"You are instructed that when you deliberate on thequestions posed in the special issues, you are to consider532US3 Unit: $U64 [09-06-02 19:16:25] PAGES PGT: OPIN790 PENRY v. JOHNSONOpinion of the Courtmitigating circumstances, if any, supported by the evidence presented in both phases of the trial, whether presented by the state or the defendant. A mitigating circumstance may include, but is not limited to, any aspectof the defendant's character and record or circumstancesof the crime which you believe could make a death sentence inappropriate in this case. If you find that thereare any mitigating circumstances in this case, you mustdecide how much weight they deserve, if any, and therefore, give effect and consideration to them in assessingthe defendant's personal culpability at the time you answer the special issue. If you determine, when givingeffect to the mitigating evidence, if any, that a life sentence, as reflected by a negative finding to the issueunder consideration, rather than a death sentence, is anappropriate response to the personal culpability of thedefendant, a negative finding should be given to one ofthe special issues." Id., at 675.A complete copy of the instructions was attached to theverdict form, and the jury took the entire packet into thedeliberation room. Tr. of Oral Arg. 31. The verdict formitself, however, contained only the text of the three specialissues, and gave the jury two choices with respect to eachspecial issue: "We, the jury, unanimously find and determinebeyond a reasonable doubt that the answer to this SpecialIssue is `Yes,' " or "We, the jury, because at least ten (10)jurors have a reasonable doubt as to the matter inquiredabout in this Special Issue, find and determine that the answer to this Special Issue is `No.' " App. 676-678.After deliberating for approximately 21/2 hours, the juryreturned its punishment verdict. See 51 Record 1948, 1950.The signed verdict form confirmed that the jury had unanimously agreed that the answer to each special issue was"yes." App. 676-678. In accordance with state law, thecourt sentenced Penry to death.532US3 Unit: $U64 [09-06-02 19:16:25] PAGES PGT: OPIN791Cite as: 532 U. S. 782 (2001)Opinion of the CourtThe Texas Court of Criminal Appeals affirmed Penry'sconviction and sentence. The court rejected Penry's claimthat the admission of language from the 1977 Peebles reportviolated Penry's Fifth Amendment privilege against selfincrimination. The court reasoned that because Dr. Peebleshad examined Penry two years prior to the murder of Pamela Carpenter, Penry had not at that time been "confrontedwith someone who was essentially an agent for the Statewhose function was to gather evidence that might be usedagainst him in connection with the crime for which he wasincarcerated."Penry v. State, 903 S. W. 2d 715, 759-760(1995) (internal quotation marks and citation omitted).The court also rejected Penry's claim that the jury instructions given at his second sentencing hearing were constitutionally inadequate because they did not permit the jury toconsider and give effect to his mitigating evidence of mentalretardation and childhood abuse. The court cited Penry Ifor the proposition that when a defendant proffers "mitigating evidence that is not relevant to the special issuesor that has relevance to the defendant's moral culpabilitybeyond the scope of the special issues . . . the jury must begiven a special instruction in order to allow it to considerand give effect to such evidence." 903 S. W. 2d, at 765.Quoting the supplemental jury instruction given at Penry'ssecond trial, see supra, at 789-790, the court overruled Penry's claim of error. The court stated that "a nullification instruction such as this one is sufficient to meet the constitutional requirements of [Penry I]." 903 S. W. 2d, at 765.In 1998, after his petition for state habeas corpus reliefwas denied, see App. 841 (trial court order); id., at 863 (Courtof Criminal Appeals order), Penry filed a petition for a writof habeas corpus pursuant to 28 U. S. C. $ 2254 (1994 ed. andSupp. V) in the United States District Court for the Southern District of Texas. The District Court rejected bothof Penry's claims, finding that the Texas Court of CriminalAppeals' conclusions on both points were neither contrary532US3 Unit: $U64 [09-06-02 19:16:25] PAGES PGT: OPIN792 PENRY v. JOHNSONOpinion of the Courtto, nor an unreasonable application of, clearly establishedfederal law. App. 893, 920. After full briefing and argument, the United States Court of Appeals for the FifthCircuit denied a certificate of appealability. 215 F. 3d 504(2000).We stayed Penry's execution and granted certiorari toconsider Penry's constitutional arguments regarding the admission of the Peebles report and the adequacy of the juryinstructions. 531 U. S. 1010 (2000).IIBecause Penry filed his federal habeas petition after theenactment of the Antiterrorism and Effective Death PenaltyAct of 1996, the provisions of that law govern the scope ofour review. Specifically, 28 U. S. C. $ 2254(d)(1) (1994 ed.,Supp. V) prohibits a federal court from granting an application for a writ of habeas corpus with respect to a claim adjudicated on the merits in state court unless that adjudication"resulted in a decision that was contrary to, or involved anunreasonable application of, clearly established Federal law,as determined by the Supreme Court of the United States."Last Term in Williams v. Taylor, 529 U. S. 362 (2000), weexplained that the "contrary to" and "unreasonable application" clauses of $ 2254(d)(1) have independent meaning.Id., at 404. A state court decision will be "contrary to"our clearly established precedent if the state court either"applies a rule that contradicts the governing law set forthin our cases," or "confronts a set of facts that are materiallyindistinguishable from a decision of this Court and nevertheless arrives at a result different from our precedent."Id., at 405-406. A state court decision will be an "unreasonable application of " our clearly established precedentif it "correctly identifies the governing legal rule but appliesit unreasonably to the facts of a particular prisoner's case."Id., at 407-408.532US3 Unit: $U64 [09-06-02 19:16:25] PAGES PGT: OPIN793Cite as: 532 U. S. 782 (2001)Opinion of the Court"[A] federal habeas court making the `unreasonable appli-cation' inquiry should ask whether the state court's application of clearly established federal law was objectivelyunreasonable." Id., at 409. Distinguishing between anunreasonable and an incorrect application of federal law, weclarified that even if the federal habeas court concludes thatthe state court decision applied clearly established federallaw incorrectly, relief is appropriate only if that applicationis also objectively unreasonable. Id., at 410-411.Although the District Court evaluated the Texas Courtof Criminal Appeals' disposition of Penry's claims under astandard we later rejected inWilliams, see App. 882 (statingthat an application of law to facts is "unreasonable `onlywhen it can be said that reasonable jurists considering thequestion would be of one view that the state court ruling was incorrect' " (citation omitted)), the Fifth Circuitarticulated the proper standard of review, as set forth in$ 2254(d)(1) and clarified in Williams, and denied Penryrelief. Guided by this same standard, we now turn to thesubstance of Penry's claims.IIIAPenry contends that the admission into evidence of theportion of the 1977 Peebles report that referred to Penry'sfuture dangerousness violated his Fifth Amendment privi-lege against self-incrimination because he was never warnedthat the statements he made to Dr. Peebles might later beused against him. The Texas Court of Criminal Appealsdisagreed, concluding that when Dr. Peebles interviewedPenry, Peebles was not acting as an agent for the State inorder to gather evidence that might be used against Penry.903 S. W. 2d, at 759.Penry argues that this case is indistinguishable fromEstelle v. Smith, 451 U. S. 454 (1981). In Estelle, we con-sidered a situation in which a psychiatrist conducted an532US3 Unit: $U64 [09-06-02 19:16:25] PAGES PGT: OPIN794 PENRY v. JOHNSONOpinion of the Courtostensibly neutral competency examination of a capital de-fendant, but drew conclusions from the defendant's uncounseled statements regarding his future dangerousness,and later testified for the prosecution on that crucial issue.We likened the psychiatrist to "an agent of the State re-counting unwarned statements made in a postarrest custodial setting," and held that "[a] criminal defendant, whoneither initiates a psychiatric evaluation nor attempts tointroduce any psychiatric evidence, may not be compelled torespond to a psychiatrist if his statements can be usedagainst him at a capital sentencing proceeding."Id., at 467-468. The admission of the psychiatrist's testimony underthose "distinct circumstances" violated the Fifth Amendment. Id., at 466.This case differs from Estelle in several respects. First,the defendant in Estelle had not placed his mental conditionat issue, id., at 457, n. 1, whereas Penry himself made hismental status a central issue in both the 1977 rape case andhis trials for Pamela Carpenter's rape and murder. Second,in Estelle, the trial court had called for the competencyevaluation and the State had chosen the examining psychiatrist. Id., at 456-457. Here, however, it was Penry's owncounsel in the 1977 case who requested the psychiatric examperformed by Dr. Peebles. Third, in Estelle, the Statehad called the psychiatrist to testify as a part of its affirmative case. Id., at 459. Here, it was during the crossexamination of Penry's own psychological witness that theprosecutor elicited the quotation from the Peebles report.And fourth, in Estelle, the defendant was charged with acapital crime at the time of his competency exam, and itwas thus clear that his future dangerousness would be aspecific issue at sentencing. Penry, however, had not yetmurdered Pamela Carpenter at the time of his interviewwith Dr. Peebles.We need not and do not decide whether these differences affect the merits of Penry's Fifth Amendment claim.532US3 Unit: $U64 [09-06-02 19:16:25] PAGES PGT: OPIN795Cite as: 532 U. S. 782 (2001)Opinion of the CourtRather, the question is whether the Texas court's decisionwas contrary to or an unreasonable application of our precedent. 28 U. S. C. $ 2254(d)(1) (1994 ed., Supp. V). We thinkit was not. The differences between this case andEstelleare substantial, and our opinion in Estelle suggested that ourholding was limited to the "distinct circumstances" presented there. It also indicated that the Fifth Amendmentanalysis might be different where a defendant "intends tointroduce psychiatric evidence at the penalty phase." 451U. S., at 472. Indeed, we have never extended Estelle'sFifth Amendment holding beyond its particular facts. Cf.,e. g., Buchanan v. Kentucky, 483 U. S. 402 (1987) (Estelledoes not apply, and it does not violate the Fifth Amendment,where a prosecutor uses portions of a psychiatric evaluationrequested by a defendant to rebut psychiatric evidence presented by the defendant at trial). We therefore cannot saythat it was objectively unreasonable for the Texas court toconclude that Penry is not entitled to relief on his FifthAmendment claim.Even if our precedent were to establish squarely thatthe prosecution's use of the Peebles report violated Penry'sFifth Amendment privilege against self-incrimination, thaterror would justify overturning Penry's sentence only ifPenry could establish that the error " `had substantialand injurious effect or influence in determining the jury'sverdict.' " Brecht v. Abrahamson, 507 U. S. 619, 637 (1993)(quoting Kotteakos v. United States, 328 U. S. 750, 776(1946)). We think it unlikely that Penry could make sucha showing.The excerpt from the Peebles report bolstered the State'sargument that Penry posed a future danger, but it wasneither the first nor the last opinion the jury heard onthat point. Four prison officials testified that they were ofthe opinion that Penry "would commit criminal acts of violence that would constitute a continuing threat to society."App. 94, 104, 138; 47 Record 970. Three psychiatrists tes532US3 Unit: $U64 [09-06-02 19:16:25] PAGES PGT: OPIN796 PENRY v. JOHNSONOpinion of the Courttified that Penry was a dangerous individual and likelyto remain so. Two were the State's own witnesses. SeeApp. 487, 557. The third was Dr. Price--the same defensewitness whom the prosecutor had asked to read from thePeebles report. Before that recitation, Dr. Price had statedhis own opinion that "[i]f [Penry] was in the free world,I would consider him dangerous." Id., at 392.While the Peebles report was an effective rhetorical tool,it was by no means the key to the State's case on the ques-tion whether Penry was likely to commit future acts ofviolence. We therefore have considerable doubt that theadmission of the Peebles report, even if erroneous, had a"substantial and injurious effect" on the verdict. Brechtv.Abrahamson, supra, at 637. Accordingly, we will notdisturb the Texas Court of Criminal Appeals' rejection ofPenry's Fifth Amendment claim.BPenry also contends that the jury instructions given athis second sentencing hearing did not comport with ourholding in Penry I because they did not provide the jurywith a vehicle for expressing its reasoned moral responseto the mitigating evidence of Penry's mental retardationand childhood abuse. The Texas Court of Criminal Appealsdisagreed. The court summarized Penry I as holding thatwhen a defendant proffers "mitigating evidence that is notrelevant to the special issues or that has relevance to thedefendant's moral culpability beyond the scope of the specialissues . . . the jury must be given a special instruction inorder to allow it to consider and give effect to such evidence." 903 S. W. 2d, at 765. The court then stated thatthe supplemental jury instruction given at Penry's secondsentencing hearing satisfied that mandate. Ibid.The Texas court did not make the rationale of its holding entirely clear. On one hand, it might have believedthatPenry I was satisfied merely by virtue of the fact that532US3 Unit: $U64 [09-06-02 19:16:25] PAGES PGT: OPIN797Cite as: 532 U. S. 782 (2001)Opinion of the Courta supplemental instruction had been given. On the otherhand, it might have believed that it was the substance of thatinstruction which satisfied Penry I.While the latter seems to be more likely, to the extentit was the former, the Texas court clearly misapprehendedour prior decision. Penry I did not hold that the mere mention of "mitigating circumstances" to a capital sentencingjury satisfies the Eighth Amendment. Nor does it stand forthe proposition that it is constitutionally sufficient to informthe jury that it may "consider" mitigating circumstances indeciding the appropriate sentence. Rather, the key underPenry I is that the jury be able to "consider and give effectto [a defendant's mitigating] evidence in imposing sentence."492 U. S., at 319 (emphasis added). See also Johnson v.Texas, 509 U. S. 350, 381 (1993) (O'Connor, J., dissenting)("[A] sentencer [must] be allowed to givefull considerationand full effect to mitigating circumstances" (emphasis inoriginal)). For it is only when the jury is given a "vehiclefor expressing its `reasoned moral response' to that evidencein rendering its sentencing decision," Penry I, 492 U. S., at328, that we can be sure that the jury "has treated the defendant as a `uniquely individual human bein[g]' and hasmade a reliable determination that death is the appropriatesentence," id., at 319 (quoting Woodson v. North Carolina,428 U. S. 280, 304, 305 (1976)).The State contends that the substance of the supple-mental instruction satisfiedPenry I because it provided thejury with the requisite vehicle for expressing its reasonedmoral response to Penry's particular mitigating evidence.Specifically, the State points to the admittedly "less thanartful" portion of the supplemental instruction which says:"If you find that there are any mitigating circumstancesin this case, you must decide how much weight they deserve, if any, and therefore, give effect and considerationto them in assessing the defendant's personal culpabilityat the time you answer the special issue. If you de532US3 Unit: $U64 [09-06-02 19:16:25] PAGES PGT: OPIN798 PENRY v. JOHNSONOpinion of the Courttermine, when giving effect to the mitigating evidence,if any, that a life sentence, as reflected by a negativefinding to the issue under consideration, rather than adeath sentence, is an appropriate response to the personal culpability of the defendant, a negative findingshould be given to one of the special issues." App. 675(emphasis added). See also Brief for Respondent 16.We see two possible ways to interpret this confusing in-struction. First, as the portions italicized above indicate,it can be understood as telling the jurors to take Penry'smitigating evidence into account in determining their truthful answers to each special issue. Viewed in this light, how-ever, the supplemental instruction placed the jury in no better position than was the jury in Penry I. As we made clearin Penry I, none of the special issues is broad enough toprovide a vehicle for the jury to give mitigating effect to theevidence of Penry's mental retardation and childhood abuse.Cf. 492 U. S., at 322-325. In the words of Judge Dennisbelow, the jury's ability to consider and give effect to Penry'smitigating evidence was still "shackled and confined withinthe scope of the three special issues." 215 F. 3d, at 514(dissenting opinion). Thus, because the supplemental in-struction had no practical effect, the jury instructions atPenry's second sentencing were not meaningfully differ-ent from the ones we found constitutionally inadequate inPenry I.Alternatively, the State urges, it is possible to understandthe supplemental instruction as informing the jury thatit could "simply answer one of the special issues `no' if itbelieved that mitigating circumstances made a life sen-tence . . . appropriate . . . regardless of its initial answersto the questions." Brief for Respondent 16. The TexasCourt of Criminal Appeals appeared to understand the instruction in this sense, when it termed the supplemental in-struction a "nullification instruction." 903 S. W. 2d, at 765.Even assuming the jurors could have understood the instruc532US3 Unit: $U64 [09-06-02 19:16:25] PAGES PGT: OPIN799Cite as: 532 U. S. 782 (2001)Opinion of the Courttion to operate in this way, the instruction was not as simpleto implement as the State contends. Rather, it made thejury charge as a whole internally contradictory, and placedlaw-abiding jurors in an impossible situation.The jury was clearly instructed that a "yes" answer toa special issue was appropriate only when supported "bythe evidence beyond a reasonable doubt." App. 672. A"no" answer was appropriate only when there was "a rea-sonable doubt as to whether the answer to a Special Issueshould be . . . `Yes.' " Id., at 673. The verdict form listedthe three special issues and, with no mention of mitigatingcircumstances, confirmed and clarified the jury's two choiceswith respect to each special issue. The jury could swearthat it had unanimously determined "beyond a reasonabledoubt that the answer to this Special Issue is `Yes.' " Id., at676-678. Or it could swear that at least 10 jurors had "areasonable doubt as to the matter inquired about in thisSpecial Issue" and that the jury thus had "determin[ed] thatthe answer to this Special Issue is `No.' " Ibid. (emphasisadded).In the State's view, however, the jury was also told thatit could ignore these clear guidelines and--even if there wasin fact no reasonable doubt as to the matter inquired about--answer any special issue in the negative if the mitigatingcircumstances warranted a life sentence. In other words,the jury could change one or more truthful "yes" answers toan untruthful "no" answer in order to avoid a death sentencefor Penry.We generally presume that jurors follow their instructions. See, e. g., Richardson v. Marsh, 481 U. S. 200, 211(1987). Here, however, it would have been both logicallyand ethically impossible for a juror to follow both sets ofinstructions. Because Penry's mitigating evidence did notfit within the scope of the special issues, answering thoseissues in the manner prescribed on the verdict form necessarily meant ignoring the command of the supplemental in532US3 Unit: $U64 [09-06-02 19:16:25] PAGES PGT: OPIN800 PENRY v. JOHNSONOpinion of the Courtstruction. And answering the special issues in the modeprescribed by the supplemental instruction necessarilymeant ignoring the verdict form instructions. Indeed, jurors who wanted to answer one of the special issues falselyto give effect to the mitigating evidence would have had toviolate their oath to render a " `true verdict.' " Tex. CodeCrim. Proc. Ann., Art. 35.22 (Vernon 1989).The mechanism created by the supplemental instructionthus inserted "an element of capriciousness" into the sentencing decision, "making the jurors' power to avoid thedeath penalty dependent on their willingness" to elevate thesupplemental instruction over the verdict form instructions.Roberts v. Louisiana, 428 U. S. 325, 335 (1976) (pluralityopinion). There is, at the very least, "a reasonable likelihood that the jury . . . applied the challenged instruction ina way that prevent[ed] the consideration" of Penry's mentalretardation and childhood abuse. Boyde v. California, 494U. S. 370, 380 (1990). The supplemental instruction therefore provided an inadequate vehicle for the jury to make areasoned moral response to Penry's mitigating evidence.Even though the Texas Court of Criminal Appeals focusedsolely on the supplemental instruction in affirming Penry'ssentence, the State urges us to evaluate the instruction contextually, with reference to the comments of the prosecutorand defense counsel, as well as the comments of the courtduring voir dire. Indeed, we have said that we will approach jury instructions in the same way a jury would--witha "commonsense understanding of the instructions in thelight of all that has taken place at the trial." Id., at 381.Penry I itself illustrates this methodology, as there we evaluated the likely effect on the jury of the comments of thedefense counsel and prosecutor. 492 U. S., at 325-326. Aswe did there, however, we conclude that these commentswere insufficient to clarify the confusion caused by the instructions themselves.532US3 Unit: $U64 [09-06-02 19:16:25] PAGES PGT: OPIN801Cite as: 532 U. S. 782 (2001)Opinion of the CourtVoir dire was a month-long process, during which approxi-mately 90 prospective jurors were interviewed. See 3 Record (index of transcripts). Many of the venire members--including each of the 12 jurors who was eventually empaneled--received a copy of an instruction largely similarto the supplemental instruction ultimately given to thejury. After each juror read the instruction, the judge attempted to explain how it worked. See, e. g., 18 Record 966-967 ("[I]f you thought the mitigating evidence was sufficient . . . you might, even though you really felt those an-swers [to the three special issues] should be yes, you mightanswer one or more of them no . . . so [Penry] could get thelife sentence rather than the death penalty"). The prosecutor then attempted to explain the instruction. See, e. g.,id., at 980 ("[E]ven though [you] believe all three of theseanswers are yes, [you] don't think the death penalty is appropriate for this particular person because of what has happened to him in the past . . . . [The] instruction is to giveeffect to that belief and answer one or all of these issuesno"). And with most of the jurors, defense counsel also gavea similar explanation. See, e. g., id., at 1018 ("[I]f you believe[d] [there] was a mitigating circumstance . . . you [could]apply that mitigation to answer--going back and changingan answer from yes to a no").While these comments reinforce the State's construction of the supplemental instruction, they do not bolsterour confidence in the jurors' ability to give effect to Penry'smitigating evidence in deciding his sentence. Rather, theyhighlight the arbitrary way in which the supplemental instruction operated, and the fact that the jury was essentiallyinstructed to return a false answer to a special issue in orderto avoid a death sentence.Moreover, we are skeptical that, by the time their penaltyphase deliberations began, the jurors would have remembered the explanations given during voir dire, much lesstaken them as a binding statement of the law. Voir dire532US3 Unit: $U64 [09-06-02 19:16:25] PAGES PGT: OPIN802 PENRY v. JOHNSONOpinion of the Courtbegan almost two full months before the penalty phase de-liberations. In the interim, the jurors had observed the restof voir dire, listened to a 5-day guilt-phase trial and exten-sive instructions, participated in 21/2 hours of deliberationswith respect to Penry's guilt, and listened to another 5-daytrial on punishment. The comments of the court and counsel during voir dire were surely a distant and convolutedmemory by the time the jurors began their deliberations onPenry's sentence.The State also contends that the closing arguments in thepenalty phase clarified matters. Penry's counsel attemptedto describe the jury's task:"If, when you thought about mental retardation and thechild abuse, you think that this guy deserves a life sen-tence, and not a death sentence, . . . then, you get toanswer one of . . . those questions no. The Judge hasnot told you which question, and you have to give thatanswer, even if you decide the literally correct answeris yes. Not the easiest instruction to follow and the lawdoes funny things sometimes." App. 640.Again, however, this explanation only reminded the jurorsthat they had to answer the special issues dishonestly inorder to give effect to Penry's mitigating evidence. For thereasons discussed above, such a "clarification" provided noreal help. Moreover, even if we thought that the argumentsof defense counsel could be an adequate substitute for state-ments of the law by the court, but seeBoyde v. California,supra, at 384, the prosecutor effectively neutralized defensecounsel's argument, as did the prosecutor inPenry I, bystressing the jury's duty "[t]o follow your oath, the evidenceand the law." App. 616. At best, the jury received mixedsignals.Our opinion in Penry I provided sufficient guidance asto how the trial court might have drafted the jury chargefor Penry's second sentencing hearing to comply with our532US3 Unit: $U64 [09-06-02 19:16:25] PAGES PGT: OPIN803Cite as: 532 U. S. 782 (2001)Opinion of the Courtmandate. We specifically indicated that our concerns wouldhave been alleviated by a jury instruction defining the term"deliberately" in the first special issue "in a way that wouldclearly direct the jury to consider fully Penry's mitigatingevidence as it bears on his personal culpability." 492 U. S.,at 323. The trial court surely could have drafted an instruction to this effect. Indeed, Penry offered two defini-tions of "deliberately" that the trial court refused to give.See Tr. of Oral Arg. 12, 14-15.A clearly drafted catchall instruction on mitigating evidence also might have complied with Penry I. Texas' cur-rent capital sentencing scheme (revised after Penry's secondtrial and sentencing) provides a helpful frame of reference.Texas now requires the jury to decide "[w]hether, takinginto consideration all of the evidence, including the cir-cumstances of the offense, the defendant's character andbackground, and the personal moral culpability of the de-fendant, there is a sufficient mitigating circumstance orcircumstances to warrant that a sentence of life impris-onment rather than a death sentence be imposed." Tex.Code Crim. Proc. Ann., Art. 37.071(2)(e)(1) (Vernon Supp.2001).* Penry's counsel, while not conceding the issue, admitted that he "would have a tough time saying that [PenryI] was not complied with under the new Texas procedure."Tr. of Oral Arg. 16. At the very least, the brevity and clar-ity of this instruction highlight the confusing nature of thesupplemental instruction actually given, and indicate thatthe trial court had adequate alternatives available to it as itdrafted the instructions for Penry's trial.Thus, to the extent the Texas Court of Criminal Appealsconcluded that the substance of the jury instructions given*Another recent development in Texas is the passage of a bill banningthe execution of mentally retarded persons. See Babineck, Perry:Death-penalty measure needs analyzing, Dallas Morning News, May 31,2001, p. 27A. As this opinion goes to press, Texas Governor Rick Perryis still in the process of deciding whether to sign the bill. Ibid.532US3 Unit: $U64 [09-06-02 19:16:25] PAGES PGT: OPIN804 PENRY v. JOHNSONOpinion of Thomas, J.at Penry's second sentencing hearing satisfied our mandatein Penry I, that determination was objectively unreasonable.Cf. Shafer v. South Carolina, ante, at 40, 50 (holding on di-rect review that the South Carolina Supreme Court "incorrectly limited" our holding in Simmons v. South Carolina,512 U. S. 154 (1994), because the court had mischaracterized"how the State's new [capital sentencing] scheme works").The three special issues submitted to the jury were identicalto the ones we found constitutionally inadequate as appliedinPenry I. Although the supplemental instruction mademention of mitigating evidence, the mechanism it purportedto create for the jurors to give effect to that evidence wasineffective and illogical. The comments of the court andcounsel accomplished little by way of clarification. Any re-alistic assessment of the manner in which the supplementalinstruction operated would therefore lead to the same con-clusion we reached in Penry I: "[A] reasonable juror couldwell have believed that there was no vehicle for expressingthe view that Penry did not deserve to be sentenced to deathbased upon his mitigating evidence." 492 U. S., at 326.The judgment of the United States Court of Appeals forthe Fifth Circuit is therefore affirmed in part and reversedin part, and the case is remanded for further proceedingsconsistent with this opinion.