Petitioner David Riggins challenges his murder and rob-bery convictions on the ground that the State of Nevada unconstitutionally forced an antipsychotic drug upon him dur-ing trial. Because the Nevada courts failed to make findingssufficient to support forced administration of the drug, wereverse.IDuring the early hours of November 20, 1987, Paul Wadewas found dead in his Las Vegas apartment. An autopsyrevealed that Wade died from multiple stab wounds, includ-ing wounds to the head, chest, and back. David Riggins wasarrested for the killing 45 hours later.A few days after being taken into custody, Riggins toldDr. R. Edward Quass, a private psychiatrist who treated pa-tients at the Clark County Jail, about hearing voices in hishead and having trouble sleeping. Riggins informed Dr.Quass that he had been successfully treated with Mellarilin the past. Mellaril is the trade name for thioridazine, anantipsychotic drug. After this consultation, Dr. Quass prescribed Mellaril at a level of 100 milligrams per day. Be-cause Riggins continued to complain of voices and sleep problems in the following months, Dr. Quass gradually increasedthe Mellaril prescription to 800 milligrams per day. Rigginsalso received a prescription for Dilantin, an antiepilepticdrug.In January 1988, Riggins successfully moved for a deter-mination of his competence to stand trial. App. 6. ThreeDefense Lawyers by David M. Eldridge; and for Nevada Attorneys forCriminal Justice by Kevin M. Kelly.Briefs of amici curiae were filed for the State of Louisiana et al. byWilliam J. Guste, Jr., Attorney General of Louisiana, and M. PatriciaJones and Kathleen E. Petersen, Assistant Attorneys General, and by theAttorneys General for their respective States as follows: Charles M. Oberly III of Delaware and Michael E. Carpenter of Maine; and for theAmerican Psychiatric Association by Richard G. Taranto and Joel I. Klein.504us1$70L 04-10-96 12:46:28 PAGES OPINPGT130 RIGGINS v. NEVADAOpinion of the Courtcourt-appointed psychiatrists performed examinations during February and March, while Riggins was taking 450 milligrams of Mellaril daily. Dr. William O'Gorman, a psychiatrist who had treated Riggins for anxiety in 1982, and Dr.Franklin Master concluded that Riggins was competent tostand trial. The third psychiatrist, Dr. Jack Jurasky, foundthat Riggins was incompetent. The Clark County DistrictCourt determined that Riggins was legally sane and competent to stand trial, id., at 13, so preparations for trial wentforward.In early June, the defense moved the District Court for anorder suspending administration of Mellaril and Dilantinuntil the end of Riggins' trial. Id., at 20. Relying on boththe Fourteenth Amendment and the Nevada Constitution,Riggins argued that continued administration of these drugsinfringed upon his freedom and that the drugs' effect on hisdemeanor and mental state during trial would deny him dueprocess. Riggins also asserted that, because he would offeran insanity defense at trial, he had a right to show jurors his"true mental state." Id., at 22. In response, the Statenoted that Nevada law prohibits the trial of incompetentpersons, see Nev. Rev. Stat. $ 178.400 (1989), and arguedthat the court therefore had authority to compel Riggins totake medication necessary to ensure his competence. App.31-32.On July 14, 1988, the District Court held an evidentiaryhearing on Riggins' motion. At the hearing, Dr. Master"guess[ed]" that taking Riggins off medication would not noticeably alter his behavior or render him incompetent tostand trial. Record 412. Dr. Quass testified that, in hisopinion, Riggins would be competent to stand trial evenwithout the administration of Mellaril, but that the effectsof Mellaril would not be noticeable to jurors if medicationcontinued. Id., at 443-445. Finally, Dr. O'Gorman told thecourt that Mellaril made the defendant calmer and more re504us1$70L 04-10-96 12:46:28 PAGES OPINPGT131Cite as: 504 U. S. 127 (1992)Opinion of the Courtlaxed but that an excessive dose would cause drowsiness.Id., at 464-466. Dr. O'Gorman was unable to predict howRiggins might behave if taken off antipsychotic medication,yet he questioned the need to give Riggins the high dose hewas receiving. Id., at 474-476. The court also had beforeit a written report in which Dr. Jurasky held to his earlierview that Riggins was incompetent to stand trial and predicted that if taken off Mellaril the defendant "would mostlikely regress to a manifest psychosis and become extremelydifficult to manage." App. 19.The District Court denied Riggins' motion to terminatemedication with a one-page order that gave no indication ofthe court's rationale. Id., at 49. Riggins continued to receive 800 milligrams of Mellaril each day through the completion of his trial the following November.At trial, Riggins presented an insanity defense and testified on his own behalf. He indicated that on the night ofWade's death he used cocaine before going to Wade's apartment. Riggins admitted fighting with Wade, but claimedthat Wade was trying to kill him and that voices in his headsaid that killing Wade would be justifiable homicide. A juryfound Riggins guilty of murder with use of a deadly weaponand robbery with use of a deadly weapon. After a penaltyhearing, the same jury set the murder sentence at death.Riggins presented several claims to the Nevada SupremeCourt, among them that forced administration of Mellaril denied him the ability to assist in his own defense and prejudicially affected his attitude, appearance, and demeanor attrial. This prejudice was not justified, Riggins said in hisopening brief, because the State neither demonstrated aneed to administer Mellaril nor explored alternatives to giving him 800 milligrams of the drug each day. Record 1020.Riggins amplified this claim in his reply brief, objecting thatthe State intruded upon his constitutionally protected lib504us1$70L 04-10-96 12:46:28 PAGES OPINPGT132 RIGGINS v. NEVADAOpinion of the Courterty interest in freedom from antipsychotic drugs withoutconsidering less intrusive options. Riggins argued:"In United States v. Bryant, 670 F. Supp. 840, 843(Minn. 1987)[,] the court, in reference to medicating prisoners against their will, stated that `courts have recog-nized aprotectable liberty interest . . . in the freedomto avoid unwanted medication with such drugs.' Thecourt in so stating citedBee v. Greaves, 744 F. 2d 1387(10th Cir. 1984)[,] which addressed the issue of medicat-ing pre-trial detainees and stated that `less restrictivealternatives, such as segregation or the use of less controversial drugs like tranquilizers or sedatives, shouldbe ruled out before resorting to antipsychotic drugs.'In the case at bar, no less restrictive alternatives wereutilized, considered or even proposed." Record 1070-1071 (emphasis in original).The Nevada Supreme Court affirmed Riggins' convictionsand death sentence. 107 Nev. 178, 808 P. 2d 535 (1991).With respect to administration of Mellaril, the court heldthat expert testimony presented at trial "was sufficient toinform the jury of the effect of the Mellaril on Riggins' demeanor and testimony." Id., at 181, 808 P. 2d, at 538. Thus,although Riggins' demeanor was relevant to his insanity defense, the court held that denial of the defense's motion toterminate medication was neither an abuse of discretion nora violation of Riggins' trial rights. In a concurring opinion,Justice Rose suggested that the District Court should havedetermined whether administration of Mellaril during trialwas "absolutely necessary" by ordering a pretrial suspensionof medication. Id., at 185, 808 P. 2d, at 540 (concurring opinion). Justice Springer dissented, arguing that antipsychoticdrugs may never be forced on a criminal defendant solely toallow prosecution. Id., at 186, 808 P. 2d, at 541.We granted certiorari, 502 U. S. 807 (1991), to decidewhether forced administration of antipsychotic medication504us1$70L 04-10-96 12:46:28 PAGES OPINPGT133Cite as: 504 U. S. 127 (1992)Opinion of the Courtduring trial violated rights guaranteed by the Sixth andFourteenth Amendments.IIThe record in this case narrowly defines the issues beforeus. The parties have indicated that once the District Courtdenied Riggins' motion to terminate use of Mellaril, subse-quent administration of the drug was involuntary. See,e. g.,Brief for Petitioner 6 (medication was "forced"); Brief forRespondent 14, 22, 28 (describing medication as "unwanted,""over objection," and "compelled"). This understanding accords with the determination of the Nevada Supreme Court.See 107 Nev., at 181; 808 P. 2d, at 537 (describing medicationas "involuntary" and "forced"). Given the parties' positionson this point and the absence of any record evidence to thecontrary, we adhere to the understanding of the State Su-preme Court.We also presume that administration of Mellaril was medi-cally appropriate. Although defense counsel stressed thatRiggins received a very high dose of the drug, at no pointdid he suggest to the Nevada courts that administration ofMellaril was medically improper treatment for his client.Finally, the record is dispositive with respect to Riggins'Eighth Amendment claim that administration of Mellaril de-nied him an opportunity to show jurors his true mental condition at the sentencing hearing. Because this argumentwas presented neither to the Nevada Supreme Court norin Riggins' petition for certiorari, we do not address it here.With these considerations in mind, we turn to Riggins'core contention that involuntary administration of Mellarildenied him "a full and fair trial." Pet. for Cert. i. Ourdiscussion in Washington v. Harper, 494 U. S. 210 (1990),provides useful background for evaluating this claim. InHarper, a prison inmate alleged that the State of Washingtonand various individuals violated his right to due process bygiving him Mellaril and other antipsychotic drugs against hiswill. Although the inmate did not prevail, we agreed that504us1$70L 04-10-96 12:46:28 PAGES OPINPGT134 RIGGINS v. NEVADAOpinion of the Courthis interest in avoiding involuntary administration of anti-psychotic drugs was protected under the Fourteenth Amendment's Due Process Clause. "The forcible injection ofmedication into a nonconsenting person's body," we said,"represents a substantial interference with that person's liberty." Id., at 229. In the case of antipsychotic drugs likeMellaril, that interference is particularly severe:"The purpose of the drugs is to alter the chemical balance in a patient's brain, leading to changes, intended tobe beneficial, in his or her cognitive processes. Whilethe therapeutic benefits of antipsychotic drugs are welldocumented, it is also true that the drugs can have seri-ous, even fatal, side effects. One such side effect identified by the trial court is acute dystonia, a severe involun-tary spasm of the upper body, tongue, throat, or eyes.The trial court found that it may be treated and re-versed within a few minutes through use of the medication Cogentin. Other side effects include akathesia(motor restlessness, often characterized by an inabilityto sit still); neuroleptic malignant syndrome (a relativelyrare condition which can lead to death from cardiac dys-function); and tardive dyskinesia, perhaps the most discussed side effect of antipsychotic drugs. Tardive dys-kinesia is a neurological disorder, irreversible in somecases, that is characterized by involuntary, uncontrolla-ble movements of various muscles, especially around theface. . . . [T]he proportion of patients treated with antipsychotic drugs who exhibit the symptoms of tardivedyskinesia ranges from 10% to 25%. According to theAmerican Psychiatric Association, studies of the condition indicate that 60% of tardive dyskinesia is mild orminimal in effect, and about 10% may be characterizedas severe." Id., at 229-230 (citations omitted).Taking account of the unique circumstances of penal confinement, however, we determined that due process allows a504us1$70L 04-10-96 12:46:28 PAGES OPINPGT135Cite as: 504 U. S. 127 (1992)Opinion of the Courtmentally ill inmate to be treated involuntarily with antipsy-chotic drugs where there is a determination that "the inmateis dangerous to himself or others and the treatment is in theinmate's medical interest."Id., at 227.Under Harper, forcing antipsychotic drugs on a convictedprisoner is impermissible absent a finding of overridingjustification and a determination of medical appropriateness.The Fourteenth Amendment affords at least as much pro-tection to persons the State detains for trial. SeeBell v.Wolfish, 441 U. S. 520, 545 (1979) ("[P]retrial detainees, whohave not been convicted of any crimes, retain at least thoseconstitutional rights that we have held are enjoyed by convicted prisoners"); O'Lone v. Estate of Shabazz, 482 U. S. 342,349 (1987) ("[P]rison regulations . . . are judged under a`reasonableness' test less restrictive than that ordinarily applied to alleged infringements of fundamental constitutionalrights"). Thus, once Riggins moved to terminate administration of antipsychotic medication, the State became obligated to establish the need for Mellaril and the medicalappropriateness of the drug.Although we have not had occasion to develop substantivestandards for judging forced administration of such drugs inthe trial or pretrial settings, Nevada certainly would havesatisfied due process if the prosecution had demonstrated,and the District Court had found, that treatment with antipsychotic medication was medically appropriate and, considering less intrusive alternatives, essential for the sake ofRiggins' own safety or the safety of others. See Harper,supra, at 225-226; cf. Addington v. Texas, 441 U. S. 418(1979) (Due Process Clause allows civil commitment of individuals shown by clear and convincing evidence to be mentally ill and dangerous). Similarly, the State might havebeen able to justify medically appropriate, involuntary treatment with the drug by establishing that it could not obtainan adjudication of Riggins' guilt or innocence by using lessintrusive means. See Illinois v. Allen, 397 U. S. 337, 347504us1$70L 04-10-96 12:46:28 PAGES OPINPGT136 RIGGINS v. NEVADAOpinion of the Court(1970) (Brennan, J., concurring) ("Constitutional power tobring an accused to trial is fundamental to a scheme of `ordered liberty' and prerequisite to social justice and peace").We note that during the July 14 hearing Riggins did notcontend that he had the right to be tried without Mellaril ifits discontinuation rendered him incompetent. See Record424-425, 496, 500. The question whether a competent criminal defendant may refuse antipsychotic medication if cessa-tion of medication would render him incompetent at trial isnot before us.Contrary to the dissent's understanding, we do not "adopta standard of strict scrutiny." Post, at 156. We have nooccasion to finally prescribe such substantive standards asmentioned above, since the District Court allowed administration of Mellaril to continue without making any determination of the need for this course or any findings aboutreasonable alternatives. The court's laconic order denyingRiggins' motion did not adopt the State's view, which wasthat continued administration of Mellaril was required to ensure that the defendant could be tried; in fact, the hearingtestimony casts considerable doubt on that argument. Seesupra, at 130-131. Nor did the order indicate a finding thatsafety considerations or other compelling concerns outweighed Riggins' interest in freedom from unwanted antipsychotic drugs.Were we to divine the District Court's logic from the hearing transcript, we would have to conclude that the court simply weighed the risk that the defense would be prejudicedby changes in Riggins' outward appearance against thechance that Riggins would become incompetent if taken offMellaril, and struck the balance in favor of involuntary medication. See Record 502 ("[T]hat he was nervous and soforth . . . can all be brought out [through expert testimony].And when you start weighing the consequences of takinghim off his medication and possibly have him revert into anincompetent situation, I don't think that that is a good exper504us1$70L 04-10-96 12:46:28 PAGES OPINPGT137Cite as: 504 U. S. 127 (1992)Opinion of the Courtiment"). The court did not acknowledge the defendant's lib-erty interest in freedom from unwanted antipsychotic drugs.This error may well have impaired the constitutionallyprotected trial rights Riggins invokes. At the hearing toconsider terminating medication, Dr. O'Gorman suggestedthat the dosage administered to Riggins was within the toxicrange,id., at 483, and could make him "uptight," id., at 484.Dr. Master testified that a patient taking 800 milligrams ofMellaril each day might suffer from drowsiness or confusion.Id., at 416. Cf. Brief for American Psychiatric AssociationasAmicus Curiae 10-11 ("[I]n extreme cases, the sedationlike effect [of antipsychotic medication] may be severeenough (akinesia) to affect thought processes"). It is clearlypossible that such side effects had an impact upon not justRiggins' outward appearance, but also the content of histestimony on direct or cross examination, his ability to follow the proceedings, or the substance of his communicationwith counsel.Efforts to prove or disprove actual prejudice from the record before us would be futile, and guesses whether the outcome of the trial might have been different if Riggins' motionhad been granted would be purely speculative. We accordingly reject the dissent's suggestion that Riggins should berequired to demonstrate how the trial would have proceededdifferently if he had not been given Mellaril. See post, at149-150. Like the consequences of compelling a defendantto wear prison clothing, see Estelle v. Williams, 425 U. S.501, 504-505 (1976), or of binding and gagging an accusedduring trial, see Allen, supra, at 344, the precise consequences of forcing antipsychotic medication upon Rigginscannot be shown from a trial transcript. What the testimony of doctors who examined Riggins establishes, and whatwe will not ignore, is a strong possibility that Riggins' defense was impaired due to the administration of Mellaril.We also are persuaded that allowing Riggins to presentexpert testimony about the effect of Mellaril on his de504us1$70L 04-10-96 12:46:28 PAGES OPINPGT138 RIGGINS v. NEVADAKennedy, J., concurring in judgmentmeanor did nothing to cure the possibility that the substanceof his own testimony, his interaction with counsel, or his comprehension at trial were compromised by forced administra-tion of Mellaril. Even if (as the dissent argues,post, at147-149) the Nevada Supreme Court was right that experttestimony allowed jurors to assess Riggins' demeanor fairly,an unacceptable risk of prejudice remained. See 107 Nev.,at 181, 808 P. 2d, at 537-538.To be sure, trial prejudice can sometimes be justified byan essential state interest. See Holbrook v. Flynn, 475 U. S.560, 568-569 (1986);Allen, supra, at 344 (binding and gagging the accused permissible only in extreme situationswhere it is the "fairest and most reasonable way" to controla disruptive defendant); see also Williams, supra, at 505(compelling defendants to wear prison clothing at trial furthers no essential state policy). Because the record containsno finding that might support a conclusion that administration of antipsychotic medication was necessary to accomplishan essential state policy, however, we have no basis for saying that the substantial probability of trial prejudice in thiscase was justified.The judgment of the Nevada Supreme Court is reversed,and the case is remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.