In this case we must decide the proper framework for eval-uating an ineffective assistance of counsel claim, based oncounsel's failure to file a notice of appeal without respond-ent's consent.IThe State of California charged respondent, Lucio Flores-Ortega, with one count of murder, two counts of assault, anda personal use of a deadly weapon enhancement allegation.In October 1993, respondent appeared in Superior Courtwith his court-appointed public defender, Nancy Kops, and aSpanish language interpreter, and pleaded guilty to seconddegree murder. The plea was entered pursuant to a Califor-nia rule permitting a defendant both to deny committing acrime and to admit that there is sufficient evidence to convicthim. SeePeople v. West, 3 Cal. 3d 595, 477 P. 2d 409 (1970).In exchange for the guilty plea, the state prosecutor movedto strike the allegation of personal use of a deadly weaponand to dismiss both assault charges. On November 10, 1993,*Kent S. Scheidegger and Christine M. Murphy filed a brief for theCriminal Justice Legal Foundation as amicus curiae urging reversal.Lawrence S. Lustberg, Kevin McNulty, and Lisa B. Kemler filed a brieffor the National Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers as amicuscuriae urging affirmance.528US2 Unit: $U28 [06-15-01 20:30:15] PAGES PGT: OPIN474 ROE v. FLORES-ORTEGAOpinion of the Courtrespondent was sentenced to 15 years to life in state prison.After pronouncing sentence, the trial judge informed respondent, "You may file an appeal within 60 days from to-day's date with this Court. If you do not have money forCounsel, Counsel will be appointed for you to represent youon your appeal." App. 40.Although Ms. Kops wrote "bring appeal papers" in her file,no notice of appeal was filed within the 60 days allowed bystate law. See Cal. Penal Code Ann. $ 1239(a) (West Supp.2000); Cal. App. Rule 31(d). (A notice of appeal is generallya one-sentence document stating that the defendant wishesto appeal from the judgment. See Rule 31(b); Judicial Council of California, Approved Form CR-120 (Notice of AppealFelony) (Jan. 5, 2000), http://www.courtinfo.ca.gov/forms/documents/cr120.pdf.) Filing such a notice is a purely ministerial task that imposes no great burden on counsel. Duringthe first 90 days after sentencing, respondent was apparentlyin lockup, undergoing evaluation, and unable to communicatewith counsel. About four months after sentencing, onMarch 24, 1994, respondent tried to file a notice of appeal,which the Superior Court Clerk rejected as untimely. Respondent sought habeas relief from California's appellatecourts, challenging the validity of both his plea and conviction, and (before the California Supreme Court) alleging thatMs. Kops had not filed a notice of appeal as she had promised.These efforts were uniformly unsuccessful.Respondent then filed a federal habeas petition pursuantto 28 U. S. C. $ 2254, alleging constitutionally ineffective assistance of counsel based on Ms. Kops' failure to file a noticeof appeal on his behalf after promising to do so. The UnitedStates District Court for the Eastern District of Californiareferred the matter to a Magistrate Judge, who in turn ordered an evidentiary hearing on the limited issue of whetherMs. Kops promised to file a notice of appeal on respondent'sbehalf. At the conclusion of the hearing, the MagistrateJudge found:528US2 Unit: $U28 [06-15-01 20:30:15] PAGES PGT: OPIN475Cite as: 528 U. S. 470 (2000)Opinion of the Court"The evidence in this case is, I think, quite clear thatthere was no consent to a failure to file [a notice ofappeal].. . . . ."It's clear to me that Mr. Ortega had little or no under-standing of what the process was, what the appeal process was, or what appeal meant at that stage of the game."I think there was a conversation [between Ortegaand Kops] in the jail. Mr. Ortega testified, and I'm surehe's testifying as to the best of his belief, that there wasa conversation after the pronouncement of judgment atthe sentencing hearing where it's his understanding thatMs. Kops was going to file a notice of appeal."She has no specific recollection of that. However,she is obviously an extremely experienced defense coun-sel. She's obviously a very meticulous person. And Ithink had Mr. Ortega requested that she file a notice ofappeal, she would have done so."But, I cannot find that he has carried his burden ofshowing by a preponderance of the evidence that shemade that promise." App. 132-133.The Magistrate Judge acknowledged that under precedentfrom the Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, UnitedStates v. Stearns, 68 F. 3d 328 (1995), a defendant need onlyshow that he did not consent to counsel's failure to file anotice of appeal to be entitled to relief. The judge con-cluded, however, thatStearns announced a new rule thatcould not be applied retroactively on collateral review to respondent's case. See Teague v. Lane, 489 U. S. 288 (1989).Thus, the Magistrate Judge recommended that the habeaspetition be denied. App. 161. The District Court adoptedthe Magistrate's findings and recommendation, and deniedrelief. Id., at 162-163.The Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit reversed, reasoning that the rule it applied in Stearns--that a habeaspetitioner need only show that his counsel's failure to file a528US2 Unit: $U28 [06-15-01 20:30:15] PAGES PGT: OPIN476 ROE v. FLORES-ORTEGAOpinion of the Courtnotice of appeal was without the petitioner's consent--tracked its earlier opinion in Lozada v. Deeds, 964 F. 2d 956(1992), which predated respondent's conviction. 160 F. 3d534 (1998). Because respondent did not consent to the failure to file a notice of appeal--and thus qualified for reliefunder Stearns--the court remanded the case to the DistrictCourt with instructions to issue a conditional habeas writunless the state court allowed respondent a new appeal. Wegranted certiorari, 526 U. S. 1097 (1999), to resolve a conflictin the lower courts regarding counsel's obligations to file anotice of appeal. Compare United States v. Tajeddini, 945F. 2d 458, 468 (CA1 1991)(per curiam) (counsel's failure tofile a notice of appeal, allegedly without the defendant'sknowledge or consent, constitutes deficient performance);Morales v. United States, 143 F. 3d 94, 97 (CA2 1998) (counselhas no duty to file a notice of appeal unless requested by thedefendant); Ludwig v. United States, 162 F. 3d 456, 459 (CA61998) (Constitution implicated only when defendant actuallyrequests an appeal and counsel disregards the request);Castellanos v. United States, 26 F. 3d 717, 719-720 (CA71994) (same);Romero v. Tansy, 46 F. 3d 1024, 1030-1031(CA10 1995) (defendant does not need to express to counselhis intent to appeal for counsel to be constitutionally obli-gated to perfect defendant's appeal; unless defendant waivedright, counsel was deficient for failing to advise defendantabout appeal right); United States v. Stearns, supra, (counsel's failure to file a notice of appeal is deficient unless thedefendant consents to the abandonment of his appeal).IIIn Strickland v. Washington, 466 U. S. 668 (1984), we heldthat criminal defendants have a Sixth Amendment right to"reasonably effective" legal assistance, id., at 687, and an-nounced a now-familiar test: A defendant claiming ineffectiveassistance of counsel must show (1) that counsel's representa-tion "fell below an objective standard of reasonableness,"528US2 Unit: $U28 [06-15-01 20:30:15] PAGES PGT: OPIN477Cite as: 528 U. S. 470 (2000)Opinion of the Courtid., at 688, and (2) that counsel's deficient performance prej-udiced the defendant, id., at 694. Today we hold that thistest applies to claims, like respondent's, that counsel was con-stitutionally ineffective for failing to file a notice of appeal.AAs we have previously noted, "[n]o particular set ofdetailed rules for counsel's conduct can satisfactorily takeaccount of the variety of circumstances faced by defensecounsel." Id., at 688-689. Rather, courts must "judge thereasonableness of counsel's challenged conduct on the factsof the particular case, viewed as of the time of counsel's conduct," id., at 690, and "[ j]udicial scrutiny of counsel's per-formance must be highly deferential,"id., at 689.We have long held that a lawyer who disregards specificinstructions from the defendant to file a notice of appeal actsin a manner that is professionally unreasonable. See Rodriquez v. United States, 395 U. S. 327 (1969); cf. Peguero v.United States, 526 U. S. 23, 28 (1999) ("[W]hen counsel failsto file a requested appeal, a defendant is entitled to [a new]appeal without showing that his appeal would likely havehad merit"). This is so because a defendant who instructscounsel to initiate an appeal reasonably relies upon counselto file the necessary notice. Counsel's failure to do so cannotbe considered a strategic decision; filing a notice of appealis a purely ministerial task, and the failure to file reflectsinattention to the defendant's wishes. At the other end ofthe spectrum, a defendant who explicitly tells his attorneynot to file an appeal plainly cannot later complain that, byfollowing his instructions, his counsel performed deficiently.See Jones v. Barnes, 463 U. S. 745, 751 (1983) (accused hasultimate authority to make fundamental decision whether totake an appeal). The question presented in this case liesbetween those poles: Is counsel deficient for not filing a notice of appeal when the defendant has not clearly conveyedhis wishes one way or the other?528US2 Unit: $U28 [06-15-01 20:30:15] PAGES PGT: OPIN478 ROE v. FLORES-ORTEGAOpinion of the CourtThe Courts of Appeals for the First and Ninth Circuitshave answered that question with a bright-line rule: Counselmust file a notice of appeal unless the defendant specificallyinstructs otherwise; failing to do so isper se deficient. See,e. g., Stearns, 68 F. 3d, at 330; Lozada, supra, at 958; Tajeddini, supra, at 468. Such a rule effectively imposes an obligation on counsel in all cases either (1) to file a notice ofappeal, or (2) to discuss the possibility of an appeal with thedefendant, ascertain his wishes, and act accordingly. We reject this per se rule as inconsistent with Strickland's holdingthat "the performance inquiry must be whether counsel's assistance was reasonable considering all the circumstances."466 U. S., at 688. The Court of Appeals failed to engagein the circumstance-specific reasonableness inquiry requiredby Strickland, and that alone mandates vacatur and remand.In those cases where the defendant neither instructs counsel to file an appeal nor asks that an appeal not be taken, webelieve the question whether counsel has performed deficiently by not filing a notice of appeal is best answered byfirst asking a separate, but antecedent, question: whethercounsel in fact consulted with the defendant about an appeal.We employ the term "consult" to convey a specific meaning--advising the defendant about the advantages and disadvantages of taking an appeal, and making a reasonable effort todiscover the defendant's wishes. If counsel has consultedwith the defendant, the question of deficient performance iseasily answered: Counsel performs in a professionally unreasonable manner only by failing to follow the defendant's express instructions with respect to an appeal. See supra, at477. If counsel has not consulted with the defendant, thecourt must in turn ask a second, and subsidiary, question:whether counsel's failure to consult with the defendant itselfconstitutes deficient performance. That question lies at theheart of this case: Under what circumstances does counselhave an obligation to consult with the defendant about anappeal?528US2 Unit: $U28 [06-15-01 20:30:15] PAGES PGT: OPIN479Cite as: 528 U. S. 470 (2000)Opinion of the CourtBecause the decision to appeal rests with the defendant,we agree withJustice Souter that the better practice isfor counsel routinely to consult with the defendant regardingthe possibility of an appeal. See ABA Standards for Criminal Justice, Defense Function 4-8.2(a) (3d ed. 1993); post,at 490-491 (opinion concurring in part and dissenting inpart). In fact, California imposes on trial counsel a per seduty to consult with defendants about the possibility ofan appeal. See Cal. Penal Code Ann. $ 1240.1(a) (WestSupp. 2000). Nonetheless, "[p]revailing norms of practice asreflected in American Bar Association standards and thelike . . . are only guides," and imposing "specific guidelines"on counsel is "not appropriate." Strickland, 466 U. S., at688. And, while States are free to impose whatever specificrules they see fit to ensure that criminal defendants are wellrepresented, we have held that the Federal Constitutionimposes one general requirement: that counsel make objectively reasonable choices. See ibid. We cannot say, as aconstitutional matter, that in every case counsel's failure toconsult with the defendant about an appeal is necessarilyunreasonable, and therefore deficient. Such a holding wouldbe inconsistent with both our decision in Strickland andcommon sense. See id., at 689 (rejecting mechanistic rulesgoverning what counsel must do). For example, supposethat a defendant consults with counsel; counsel advises thedefendant that a guilty plea probably will lead to a 2 yearsentence; the defendant expresses satisfaction and pleadsguilty; the court sentences the defendant to 2 years' imprisonment as expected and informs the defendant of his appealrights; the defendant does not express any interest in appealing, and counsel concludes that there are no nonfrivolousgrounds for appeal. Under these circumstances, it would bedifficult to say that counsel is "professionally unreasonable,"id., at 691, as a constitutional matter, in not consulting withsuch a defendant regarding an appeal. Or, for example, suppose a sentencing court's instructions to a defendant about528US2 Unit: $U28 [06-15-01 20:30:15] PAGES PGT: OPIN480 ROE v. FLORES-ORTEGAOpinion of the Courthis appeal rights in a particular case are so clear and informative as to substitute for counsel's duty to consult. Insome cases, counsel might then reasonably decide that heneed not repeat that information. We therefore reject abright-line rule that counsel must always consult with thedefendant regarding an appeal.We instead hold that counsel has a constitutionally imposed duty to consult with the defendant about an appealwhen there is reason to think either (1) that a rational defendant would want to appeal (for example, because thereare nonfrivolous grounds for appeal), or (2) that this particular defendant reasonably demonstrated to counsel that hewas interested in appealing. In making this determination,courts must take into account all the information counselknew or should have known. See id., at 690 (focusing on thetotality of the circumstances). Although not determinative,a highly relevant factor in this inquiry will be whether theconviction follows a trial or a guilty plea, both because aguilty plea reduces the scope of potentially appealable issuesand because such a plea may indicate that the defendantseeks an end to judicial proceedings. Even in cases whenthe defendant pleads guilty, the court must consider suchfactors as whether the defendant received the sentence bargained for as part of the plea and whether the plea expresslyreserved or waived some or all appeal rights. Only by considering all relevant factors in a given case can a court properly determine whether a rational defendant would have desired an appeal or that the particular defendant sufficientlydemonstrated to counsel an interest in an appeal.Rather than the standard we announce today, JusticeSouter would have us impose an "almost" bright-line ruleand hold that counsel "almost always" has a duty to consultwith a defendant about an appeal. Post, at 488. Althoughhe recognizes that "detailed rules for counsel's conduct" haveno place in a Strickland inquiry, he argues that this "qualifi528US2 Unit: $U28 [06-15-01 20:30:15] PAGES PGT: OPIN481Cite as: 528 U. S. 470 (2000)Opinion of the Courtcation" has no application here. Post, at 491. According toJustice Souter, in Strickland we only rejected per se rulesin order to respect the reasonable strategic choices made bylawyers, and that failing to consult about an appeal cannotbe a strategic choice.Post, at 491-492. But we have con-sistently declined to impose mechanical rules on counsel--even when those rules might lead to better representation--not simply out of deference to counsel's strategic choices, butbecause "the purpose of the effective assistance guaranteeof the Sixth Amendment is not to improve the quality oflegal representation, . . . [but rather] simply to ensure thatcriminal defendants receive a fair trial." 466 U. S., at 689.The relevant question is not whether counsel's choices werestrategic, but whether they were reasonable. Seeid., at 688(defendant must show that counsel's representation fellbelow an objective standard of reasonableness). We expectthat courts evaluating the reasonableness of counsel's performance using the inquiry we have described will find, inthe vast majority of cases, that counsel had a duty to consultwith the defendant about an appeal. We differ from Jus-tice Souter only in that we refuse to make this determina-tion as a per se (or "almost" per se) matter.BThe second part of the Strickland test requires thedefendant to show pre judice from counsel's deficientperformance. 1In most cases, a defendant's claim of ineffective assistanceof counsel involves counsel's performance during the courseof a legal proceeding, either at trial or on appeal. See, e. g.,id., at 699 (claim that counsel made poor strategic choicesregarding what to argue at a sentencing hearing); UnitedStates v. Cronic, 466 U. S. 648, 649-650 (1984) (claim thatyoung lawyer was incompetent to defend complex criminal528US2 Unit: $U28 [06-15-01 20:30:15] PAGES PGT: OPIN482 ROE v. FLORES-ORTEGAOpinion of the Courtcase); Penson v. Ohio, 488 U. S. 75, 88-89 (1988) (claim thatcounsel in effect did not represent defendant on appeal);Smith v. Robbins, ante, p. 259 (claim that counsel neglectedto file a merits brief on appeal); Smith v. Murray, 477 U. S.527, 535-536 (1986) (claim that counsel failed to make aparticular argument on appeal). In such circumstances,whether we require the defendant to show actual prejudice--"a reasonable probability that, but for counsel's unprofessional errors, the result of the proceeding would havebeen different," Strickland, 466 U. S., at 694--or whetherwe instead presume prejudice turns on the magnitude of thedeprivation of the right to effective assistance of counsel.That is because "the right to the effective assistance of counsel is recognized not for its own sake, but because of theeffect it has on the ability of the accused to receive a fairtrial," Cronic, supra, at 658, or a fair appeal, see Penson,supra, at 88-89. "Absent some effect of challenged conducton the reliability of the . . . process, the [effective counsel]guarantee is generally not implicated." Cronic, supra, at658.We "normally apply a `strong presumption of reliability' tojudicial proceedings and require a defendant to overcomethat presumption," Robbins, ante, at 286 (citing Strickland,supra, at 696), by "show[ing] how specific errors of counselundermined the reliability of the finding of guilt," Cronic,supra, at 659, n. 26. Thus, in cases involving mere "attorneyerror," we require the defendant to demonstrate that theerrors "actually had an adverse effect on the defense."Strickland, supra, at 693. See, e. g., Robbins, ante, at 287(applying actual prejudice requirement where counsel followed all required procedures and was alleged to havemissed a particular nonfrivolous argument); Strickland,supra, at 699-700 (rejecting claim in part because the evidence counsel failed to introduce probably would not havealtered defendant's sentence).528US2 Unit: $U28 [06-15-01 20:30:15] PAGES PGT: OPIN483Cite as: 528 U. S. 470 (2000)Opinion of the Court2In some cases, however, the defendant alleges not thatcounsel made specific errors in the course of representation,but rather that during the judicial proceeding he was--eitheractually or constructively--denied the assistance of counselaltogether. "The presumption that counsel's assistance isessential requires us to conclude that a trial is unfair if theaccused is denied counsel at a critical stage." Cronic, supra,at 659. The same is true on appeal. SeePenson, supra,at 88. Under such circumstances, "[n]o specific showing ofprejudice [is] required," because "the adversary process it-self [is] presumptively unreliable."Cronic, supra, at 659;see also Robbins, ante, at 286 ("denial of counsel altogether. . . warrants a presumption of prejudice"); Penson, supra,at 88-89 (complete denial of counsel on appeal requires a presumption of prejudice).Today's case is unusual in that counsel's alleged deficientperformance arguably led not to a judicial proceeding of dis-puted reliability, but rather to the forfeiture of a proceedingitself. According to respondent, counsel's deficient perform-ance deprived him of a notice of appeal and, hence, an appealaltogether. Assuming those allegations are true, counsel'sdeficient performance has deprived respondent of more thana fair judicial proceeding; that deficiency deprived re-spondent of the appellate proceeding altogether. InCronic,Penson, and Robbins, we held that the complete denial ofcounsel during a critical stage of a judicial proceeding man-dates a presumption of prejudice because "the adversaryprocess itself " has been rendered "presumptively unrelia-ble."Cronic, supra, at 659. The even more serious denialof the entire judicial proceeding itself, which a defendantwanted at the time and to which he had a right, similarlydemands a presumption of prejudice. Put simply, we cannotaccord any " `presumption of reliability,' "Robbins, ante, at286, to judicial proceedings that never took place.528US2 Unit: $U28 [06-15-01 20:30:15] PAGES PGT: OPIN484 ROE v. FLORES-ORTEGAOpinion of the Court3The Court of Appeals below applied a per se prejudicerule, and granted habeas relief based solely upon a showingthat counsel had performed deficiently under its standard.160 F. 3d, at 536. Unfortunately, this per se prejudice ruleignores the critical requirement that counsel's deficient performance must actually cause the forfeiture of the defendant's appeal. If the defendant cannot demonstrate that, butfor counsel's deficient performance, he would have appealed,counsel's deficient performance has not deprived him of anything, and he is not entitled to relief. Cf. Peguero v. UnitedStates, 526 U. S. 23 (1999) (defendant not prejudiced bycourt's failure to advise him of his appeal rights, where hehad full knowledge of his right to appeal and chose not to doso). Accordingly, we hold that, to show prejudice in thesecircumstances, a defendant must demonstrate that there is areasonable probability that, but for counsel's deficient failureto consult with him about an appeal, he would have timelyappealed.In adopting this standard, we follow the pattern established in Strickland and Cronic, and reaffirmed in Robbins,requiring a showing of actual prejudice (i. e., that, butfor counsel's errors, the defendant might have prevailed)when the proceeding in question was presumptively reliable,but presuming prejudice with no further showing from thedefendant of the merits of his underlying claims when theviolation of the right to counsel rendered the proceeding presumptively unreliable or entirely nonexistent. See Strickland, supra, at 493-496; Cronic, 466 U. S., at 658-659; Robbins, ante, at 286-287. Today, drawing on that line of casesand following the suggestion of the Solicitor General, we holdthat when counsel's constitutionally deficient performancedeprives a defendant of an appeal that he otherwise wouldhave taken, the defendant has made out a successful ineffective assistance of counsel claim entitling him to an appeal.528US2 Unit: $U28 [06-15-01 20:30:15] PAGES PGT: OPIN485Cite as: 528 U. S. 470 (2000)Opinion of the CourtWe believe this prejudice standard breaks no new ground,for it mirrors the prejudice inquiry applied inHill v. Lockhart, 474 U. S. 52 (1985), and Rodriquez v. United States,395 U. S. 327 (1969). InHill, we considered an ineffectiveassistance of counsel claim based on counsel's allegedly defi-cient advice regarding the consequences of entering a guiltyplea. Like the decision whether to appeal, the decisionwhether to plead guilty (i. e., waive trial) rested with thedefendant and, like this case, counsel's advice inHill mighthave caused the defendant to forfeit a judicial proceeding towhich he was otherwise entitled. We held that "to satisfythe `prejudice' requirement [of Strickland], the defendantmust show that there is a reasonable probability that, butfor counsel's errors, he would not have pleaded guilty andwould have insisted on going to trial." Hill, supra, at 59.Similarly, in Rodriquez, counsel failed to file a notice of appeal, despite being instructed by the defendant to do so.See 395 U. S., at 328. We held that the defendant, by instructing counsel to perfect an appeal, objectively indicatedhis intent to appeal and was entitled to a new appeal withoutany further showing. Because "[t]hose whose right to anappeal has been frustrated should be treated exactly like anyother appellan[t]," we rejected any requirement that thewould-be appellant "specify the points he would raisewere his right to appeal reinstated." Id., at 330. See alsoEvitts v. Lucey, 469 U. S. 387 (1985) (defendant entitled to new appeal when counsel's deficient failure to comply with mechanistic local court rules led to dismissal offirst appeal).As with all applications of the Strickland test, the question whether a given defendant has made the requisite showing will turn on the facts of a particular case. See 466 U. S.,at 695-696. Nonetheless, evidence that there were nonfrivolous grounds for appeal or that the defendant in questionpromptly expressed a desire to appeal will often be highlyrelevant in making this determination. We recognize that528US2 Unit: $U28 [06-15-01 20:30:15] PAGES PGT: OPIN486 ROE v. FLORES-ORTEGAOpinion of the Courtthe prejudice inquiry we have described is not wholly dissim-ilar from the inquiry used to determine whether counsel performed deficiently in the first place; specifically, both maybe satisfied if the defendant shows nonfrivolous grounds forappeal. See Hill, supra, at 59 (when, in connection with aguilty plea, counsel gives deficient advice regarding a potentially valid affirmative defense, the prejudice inquiry depends largely on whether that affirmative defense mighthave succeeded, leading a rational defendant to insist ongoing to trial). But, while the performance and prejudiceprongs may overlap, they are not in all cases coextensive.To prove deficient performance, a defendant can rely on evidence that he sufficiently demonstrated to counsel his interest in an appeal. But such evidence alone is insufficient toestablish that, had the defendant received reasonable advicefrom counsel about the appeal, he would have instructed hiscounsel to file an appeal.By the same token, although showing nonfrivolousgrounds for appeal may give weight to the contention thatthe defendant would have appealed, a defendant's inabilityto "specify the points he would raise were his right to appealreinstated," Rodriquez, 395 U. S., at 330, will not foreclosethe possibility that he can satisfy the prejudice requirementwhere there are other substantial reasons to believe that hewould have appealed. See ibid.; see also Peguero, supra,at 30 (O'Connor, J., concurring) ("To require defendants tospecify the grounds for their appeal and show that they havesome merit would impose a heavy burden on defendants whoare often proceeding pro se in an initial [habeas] motion").We similarly conclude here that it is unfair to require anindigent, perhaps pro se, defendant to demonstrate thathis hypothetical appeal might have had merit before any advocate has ever reviewed the record in his case in searchof potentially meritorious grounds for appeal. Rather, werequire the defendant to demonstrate that, but for counsel'sdeficient conduct, he would have appealed.528US2 Unit: $U28 [06-15-01 20:30:15] PAGES PGT: OPIN487Cite as: 528 U. S. 470 (2000)Opinion of the CourtIIIThe court below undertook neither part of the Stricklandinquiry we have described, but instead presumed both thatMs. Kops was deficient for failing to file a notice of appealwithout respondent's consent and that her deficient performance prejudiced respondent. See 160 F. 3d, at 536. Jus-tice Souter finds Ms. Kops' performance in this case tohave been "derelict," presumably because he believes thatshe did not consult with respondent about an appeal. Post,at 489. But the Magistrate Judge's findings do not provideus with sufficient information to determine whether Ms.Kops rendered constitutionally inadequate assistance. Specifically, the findings below suggest that there may have beensome conversation between Ms. Kops and respondent aboutan appeal, see App. 133; see also 160 F. 3d, at 535 (Ms. Kopswrote " `bring appeal papers' " in her file), but do not indicatewhat was actually said. Assuming, arguendo, that therewas a duty to consult in this case, it is impossible to determine whether that duty was satisfied without knowingwhether Ms. Kops advised respondent about the advantagesand disadvantages of taking an appeal and made a reasonableeffort to discover his wishes. Cf. Strickland, supra, at 691("inquiry into counsel's conversations with the defendantmay be critical to a proper assessment of counsel's . . . decisions"). Based on the record before us, we are unable todetermine whether Ms. Kops had a duty to consult with respondent (either because there were potential grounds forappeal or because respondent expressed interest in appealing), whether she satisfied her obligations, and, if she did not,whether respondent was prejudiced thereby. Accordingly,the judgment of the Court of Appeals is vacated, and thecase is remanded for further proceedings consistent withthis opinion.