Section 8(a)(3) of the National Labor Relations Act(NLRA), 49 Stat. 452, as added, 61 Stat. 140, 29 U. S. C.$ 158(a)(3), permits unions and employers to negotiate anagreement that requires union "membership" as a conditionof employment for all employees. We have interpreted aproviso to this language to mean that the only "membership"that a union can require is the payment of fees and dues,NLRB v. General Motors Corp., 373 U. S. 734, 742 (1963),and we have held that $ 8(a)(3) allows unions to collect andexpend funds over the objection of nonmembers only to theextent they are used for collective bargaining, contract ad-ministration, and grievance adjustment activities, Communications Workers v. Beck, 487 U. S. 735, 745, 762-763 (1988).In this case, we must determine whether a union breachesits duty of fair representation when it negotiates a unionsecurity clause that tracks the language of $ 8(a)(3) withoutexplaining, in the agreement, this Court's interpretation ofthat language. We conclude that it does not.We are also asked to review the Court of Appeals' decisionthat the District Court did not have jurisdiction to decide aclaim that a union breached the duty of fair representationby negotiating a clause that was inconsistent with the statute. We conclude that because this challenge to the unionsecurity clause was based purely on an alleged inconsistencywith the statute, the Court of Appeals correctly held thatthis claim was within the primary jurisdiction of the National Labor Relations Board (NLRB or Board).IAThe language of $ 8(a)(3) is at the heart of this case. Inpertinent part, it provides as follows:"It shall be an unfair labor practice for an employer--"(3) by discrimination in regard to hire or tenure ofemployment . . . to encourage or discourage membership525US1 Unit: $$U2 [10-23-00 11:13:05] PAGES PGT: OPIN37Cite as: 525 U. S. 33 (1998)Opinion of the Courtin any labor organization: Provided, That nothing in thissubchapter, or in any other statute of the United States,shall preclude an employer from making an agreementwith a labor organization . . . to require as a condition ofemployment membership therein on or after the thirti-eth day following the beginning of such employment orthe effective date of such agreement, whichever is thelater . . . .Provided further, That no employer shalljustify any discrimination against an employee for nonmembership in a labor organization . . . if he has reason-able grounds for believing that membership was deniedor terminated for reasons other than the failure of theemployee to tender the periodic dues and the initiationfees uniformly required as a condition of acquiring orretaining membership." 29 U. S. C. $ 158(a)(3).This section is the statutory authorization for "union secu-rity clauses," clauses that require employees to become"member[s]" of a union as a condition of employment. SeeCommunications Workers v. Beck, supra, at 744-745.The conclusion that $ 8(a)(3) permits union security clausesis not the end of the story. This Court has had several occa-sions to interpret $ 8(a)(3), and two of our conclusions aboutthe language of that subsection bear directly on this case.First, inNLRB v. General Motors Corp., supra, at 742-743(citing Radio Officers v. NLRB, 347 U. S. 17, 41 (1954)), weheld that although $ 8(a)(3) states that unions may negotiatea clause requiring "membership" in the union, an employeecan satisfy the membership condition merely by paying tothe union an amount equal to the union's initiation fees anddues. See also Pattern Makers v. NLRB, 473 U. S. 95, 106,n. 16, 108 (1985). In other words, the membership that maybe required "as a condition of employment is whittled downto its financial core."NLRB v. General Motors Corp.,supra, at 742. Second, in Communications Workers v.Beck, supra, we considered whether the employee's "finan-cial core" obligation included a duty to pay for support of525US1 Unit: $$U2 [10-23-00 11:13:05] PAGES PGT: OPIN38 MARQUEZ v. SCREEN ACTORSOpinion of the Courtunion activities beyond those activities undertaken by theunion as the exclusive bargaining representative. We heldthat the language of $ 8(a)(3) does not permit unions to exactdues or fees from employees for activities that are not germane to collective bargaining, grievance adjustment, or con-tract administration.Id., at 745, 762-763. As a result ofthese two conclusions, $ 8(a)(3) permits unions and employersto require only that employees pay the fees and dues neces-sary to support the union's activities as the employees' exclusive bargaining representative.BRespondent Screen Actors Guild (SAG or union) is a labororganization that represents performers in the entertainment industry. In 1994, respondent Lakeside Productions(Lakeside) signed a collective bargaining agreement withSAG, making SAG the exclusive bargaining agent for theperformers that Lakeside hired for its productions. Thisagreement contained a standard union security clause,providing that any performer who worked under the agreement must be "a member of the Union in good standing."App. 28. Tracking the language of $ 8(a)(3), the clause alsoprovided:"The foregoing [section], requiring as a condition ofemployment membership in the Union, shall not applyuntil on or after the thirtieth day following the begin-ning of such employment or the effective date of thisAgreement, whichever is the later; the Union and theProducers interpret this sentence to mean that membership in the Union cannot be required of any performerby a Producer as a condition of employment until thirty(30) days after his first employment as a performer inthe motion picture industry . . . . The Producer shallnot be held to have violated this paragraph if it employsa performer who is not a member of the Union in goodstanding . . . if the Producer has reasonable grounds for525US1 Unit: $$U2 [10-23-00 11:13:05] PAGES PGT: OPIN39Cite as: 525 U. S. 33 (1998)Opinion of the Courtbelieving that membership in the Union was denied tosuch performer or such performer's membership in theUnion was terminated for reasons other than the failureof the performer to tender the periodic dues and theinitiation fee uniformly required as a condition of acquir-ing or retaining membership in the Union . . . ."Id.,at 28-29.The present dispute arose when petitioner, a part-time ac-tress, successfully auditioned for a one-line role in an episodeof the television series, Medicine Ball, which was producedby Lakeside. Petitioner accepted the part, and pursuant tothe collective bargaining agreement, Lakeside's casting di-rector called SAG to verify that petitioner met the requirements of the union security clause. Because petitioner hadpreviously worked in the motion picture industry for morethan 30 days, the union security clause was triggered andpetitioner was required to pay the union fees before shecould begin working for Lakeside. There is some disputewhether the SAG representative told Lakeside's casting director that petitioner had to "join" or had to "pay" the union;regardless, petitioner understood from the casting directorthat she had to pay SAG before she could work for Lakeside.Petitioner called SAG's local office and learned that the feesthat she would have to pay to join the union would bearound $500.Over the next few days, petitioner attempted to negotiatean agreement with SAG that would allow her to pay theunion fees after she was paid for her work by Lakeside.When these negotiations failed to produce an acceptablecompromise and petitioner had not paid the required fees bythe day before her part was to be filmed, Lakeside hired adifferent actress to fill the part. At some point after Lake-side hired the new actress, SAG faxed a letter to Lakesidestating that it had no objection to petitioner working in theproduction. The letter was too late for petitioner; filmingproceeded on schedule with the replacement actress.525US1 Unit: $$U2 [10-23-00 11:13:05] PAGES PGT: OPIN40 MARQUEZ v. SCREEN ACTORSOpinion of the CourtPetitioner filed suit against Lakeside and SAG alleging,among other things, that SAG had breached the duty of fairrepresentation. According to petitioner, SAG had breachedits duty by negotiating and enforcing a union security clausewith two basic flaws. First, the union security clause required union "membership" and the payment of full fees anddues when those terms could not be legally enforced underGeneral Motors and Beck. Petitioner argued that the col-lective bargaining agreement should have contained language, in addition to the statutory language, informing herof her right not to join the union and of her right, underBeck, to pay only for the union's representational activities.Second, the union security clause contained a term that interpreted the 30-day grace period provision to begin runningwith any employment in the industry. According to petitioner, this interpretation of the grace period provision contravened the express language of $ 8(a)(3), which requiresthat employees be given a 30-day grace period from the beginning of "such employment." She interprets "such employment" to require a new grace period with each employment relationship. Finally, in addition to these claims aboutthe language of the union security clause, petitioner allegedthat SAG had violated the duty of fair representation by failing to notify her truthfully about her rights under the NLRAas defined in Beck and General Motors.The District Court granted summary judgment to the defendants on all claims, ruling first that SAG did not breachthe duty of fair representation by negotiating the union security clause. App. to Pet. for Cert. 28a-29a. The court alsodetermined that no reasonable factfinder could conclude thatSAG had attempted to enforce the union security clause beyond the lawful limits. Id., at 30a. Finally, the court ruledthat petitioner's challenge to the grace period provision wasactually an unfair labor practice claim, and thus it was preempted by the exclusive jurisdiction of the NLRB. Id., at31a.525US1 Unit: $$U2 [10-23-00 11:13:05] PAGES PGT: OPIN41Cite as: 525 U. S. 33 (1998)Opinion of the CourtPetitioner appealed, and the Court of Appeals for theNinth Circuit affirmed in part and reversed in part. 124F. 3d 1034 (1997). The Court of Appeals reversed the grantof summary judgment on petitioner's claim that SAG's enforcement of the union security clause breached the duty offair representation, finding that there were genuine issues ofmaterial fact remaining to be resolved on this issue. Forexample, the record contains conflicting evidence on whetherthe union told petitioner that she had to "join" the union, orwhether it told her that she had to "pay" the union. Id.,at 1041. The Court of Appeals also reversed the grant ofsummary judgment on petitioner's claim that the union hadbreached the duty of fair representation by failing to notifyher of her right, under Beck, to pay only the lesser "core"fees associated with the union's collective bargaining functions. The District Court had not addressed this claim, sothe Court of Appeals remanded this issue for consideration.Id., at 1042-1043.On the two issues before this Court, however, the Courtof Appeals affirmed the judgment of the District Court.First, the court held that SAG had not breached the duty offair representation merely by negotiating a union securityclause that tracked the language of the NLRA. The courtnoted that the statutory language had been given a specialized meaning, but rejected petitioner's argument that thefailure to fully explain this meaning in the collective bargaining agreement was an arbitrary or bad faith breach of theduty of fair representation. The court noted that two otherCourts of Appeals had recently rejected similar claims. Id.,at 1038-1039 (citing International Union Electronic, Electrical, Salaried, Machine and Furniture Workers v. NLRB,41 F. 3d 1532 (CADC 1994); Nielsen v. International Assn.of Machinists & Aerospace Workers, 94 F. 3d 1107 (CA71996), cert. denied, 520 U. S. 1165 (1997)). The Ninth Circuit's resolution of this issue is in tension with the decisionsof two other Courts of Appeals. See, e. g., Buzenius v.525US1 Unit: $$U2 [10-23-00 11:13:05] PAGES PGT: OPIN42 MARQUEZ v. SCREEN ACTORSOpinion of the CourtNLRB, 124 F. 3d 788 (CA6 1997), cert. pending, No. 97-945;Bloom v. NLRB, 30 F. 3d 1001 (CA8 1994).Second, the Court of Appeals affirmed the District Court'sjudgment that it did not have jurisdiction over petitioner'schallenge to the grace period provision. The court acknowl-edged that federal courts have jurisdiction over duty of fairrepresentation claims, but, noting our admonishment in Becknot to be deceived by a plaintiff 's attempt to disguise anunfair labor practice claim as a fair representation claim,Communications Workers v. Beck, 487 U. S., at 743, thecourt held that petitioner's claim was not a fair representation claim. According to the court, the statutory questionpresented by petitioner's challenge to the grace period provision was the central issue for resolution, and under thesecircumstances, the claim fell within the exclusive jurisdictionof the NLRB. 124 F. 3d, at 1039-1041.We granted certiorari to resolve the conflict over the facialvalidity of a union security clause that tracks the language of$ 8(a)(3), and to clarify the standards for defining the primaryjurisdiction of the NLRB. 523 U. S. 1019 (1998).IIAThis case presents a narrow question: Does a union breachits duty of fair representation merely by negotiating a unionsecurity clause that tracks the language of $ 8(a)(3)? To un-derstand why this is a narrow question, it is helpful to keepin mind what issues we are not resolving in this case. First,we are not deciding whether SAG illegally enforced theunion security clause to require petitioner to become amember of the union or to require her to pay dues fornoncollective bargaining activities. Petitioner's complaintincludes a claim that the union breached the duty of fairrepresentation by enforcing the clause illegally, but thatclaim is not before us. The Court of Appeals held that therewere factual disputes that precluded the grant of summary525US1 Unit: $$U2 [10-23-00 11:13:05] PAGES PGT: OPIN43Cite as: 525 U. S. 33 (1998)Opinion of the Courtjudgment on this issue, and so this claim was remandedto the District Court for further proceedings. 124 F. 3d,at 1041-1042. Second, we are not deciding whether SAGbreached its duty of fair representation by failing to adequately notify petitioner of her rights under Beck and General Motors. The Board has held (and SAG concedes, seeBrief for Respondent Screen Actors Guild 35-36) that unionshave an obligation to notify employees of their Beck rights.SeeUnited Paperworkers Int'l Union (Weyerhaeuser Paper),320 N. L. R. B. 349 (1995), rev'd on other grounds sub nom.Buzenius v. NLRB, supra; California Saw and KnifeWorks, 320 N. L. R. B. 224 (1995), enf 'd sub nom. International Association of Machinists & Aerospace Workers v.NLRB, 133 F. 3d 1012 (CA7), cert. denied sub nom. Strangv. NLRB, post, p. 813. See also Nielsen v. InternationalAssn. of Machinists & Aerospace Workers, supra, at 1114-1115 (recognizing such a duty on part of union); Abrams v.Communications Workers of America, 59 F. 3d 1373, 1378-1380 (CADC 1995) (same). The Board is currently in theprocess of defining the content of the notification right togive guidance to unions about what they must do to notifyemployees about their rights under Beck and General Motors. California Saw and Knife Works, supra; UnitedPaperworkers Int'l Union, supra. Petitioner's suit allegesthat SAG failed to notify her of her Beck and General Motorsrights, but this claim, too, is not before us. The Court ofAppeals remanded this claim to the District Court for reconsideration. 124 F. 3d, at 1042-1043.With this background, the question we are resolving comesinto sharper focus. There is no disagreement about the substance of the union's obligations: If a union negotiates a unionsecurity clause, it must notify workers that they may satisfythe membership requirement by paying fees to support theunion's representational activities, and it must enforce theclause in conformity with this notification. The only question presented by this case is whether a union breaches the525US1 Unit: $$U2 [10-23-00 11:13:05] PAGES PGT: OPIN44 MARQUEZ v. SCREEN ACTORSOpinion of the Courtduty of fair representation merely by negotiating a unionsecurity clause that uses the statutory language without expressly explaining, in the agreement, the refinements intro-duced by our decisions in General Motors and Beck. To rephrase the question slightly, petitioner's claim is that even ifthe union has an exemplary notification procedure and evenif the union enforces the union security clause in perfect con-formity with federal law, the mere negotiation of a unionsecurity clause that tracks the language of the NLRAbreaches the duty of fair representation. We hold that itdoes not. BWhen a labor organization has been selected as the exclu-sive representative of the employees in a bargaining unit, ithas a duty, implied from its status under $ 9(a) of the NLRAas the exclusive representative of the employees in the unit,to represent all members fairly. See, e. g., Ford Motor Co.v. Huffman, 345 U. S. 330, 337 (1953); Vaca v. Sipes, 386 U. S.171, 177 (1967). As we described this duty in Vaca v. Sipes,the duty of fair representation requires a union "to serve theinterests of all members without hostility or discriminationtoward any, to exercise its discretion with complete goodfaith and honesty, and to avoid arbitrary conduct." Ibid.In other words, a union breaches the duty of fair representation when its conduct toward a member of the bargainingunit is arbitrary, discriminatory, or in bad faith.Id., at 190.See also Air Line Pilots v. O'Neill, 499 U. S. 65, 67 (1991)(reaffirming this tripartite standard). In this case, peti-tioner does not argue that SAG's negotiation of the unionsecurity clause was discriminatory, so we only considerwhether SAG's conduct was arbitrary or in bad faith.Petitioner argues that in Beck, we redefined the standardfor evaluating when a union's conduct is "arbitrary." Petitioner reads our decision in Beck to hold that the union'sconduct was arbitrarymerely because its actions violatedthe statute. According to petitioner, because we did not525US1 Unit: $$U2 [10-23-00 11:13:05] PAGES PGT: OPIN45Cite as: 525 U. S. 33 (1998)Opinion of the Courtelaborate on our conclusion that the union's statutory viola-tion was a breach of the duty of fair representation, we musthave concluded that it was "arbitrary." Brief for Petitioner12. Under this reading, the "arbitrary" prong of the dutyof fair representation standard is equated with "statutoryviolation." This is an inaccurate reading of our decision inBeck. It is true that the focus of our attention in Beck waswhether the union's conduct was consistent with $ 8(a)(3) andthat once we found that it was inconsistent with the statute,we did not tarry to explain how this conduct breached theduty of fair representation. But we did not hold that thefinding of a mere statutory violation was sufficient to supporta conclusion that the union breached its duty. In Beck, theunion collected fees and dues from bargaining unit employeesunder its statutory grant of authority to serve as the exclusive bargaining representative. But then it used thatmoney for purposes wholly unrelated to the grant of authority that gave it the right to collect that money, and in waysthat were antithetical to the interests of some of the workersthat it was required to serve. 487 U. S., at 743-744. It wasthis latter aspect of the union's conduct, and not just the factthat the conduct violated the statute, that made the union'sactions a breach of the duty of fair representation.That our holding in Beck did not alter the standard forfinding conduct "arbitrary" is confirmed by our decision inAir Line Pilots. In that case, decided three years afterBeck, we specifically considered the appropriate standard forevaluating conduct under the "arbitrary" prong of the dutyof fair representation. We held that under the "arbitrary"prong, a union's actions breach the duty of fair representation "only if [the union's conduct] can be fairly characterizedas so far outside a `wide range of reasonableness' that it iswholly `irrational' or `arbitrary.' " 499 U. S., at 78 (quotingFord Motor Co. v. Huffman, supra, at 338). This "widerange of reasonableness" gives the union room to make discretionary decisions and choices, even if those judgments are525US1 Unit: $$U2 [10-23-00 11:13:05] PAGES PGT: OPIN46 MARQUEZ v. SCREEN ACTORSOpinion of the Courtultimately wrong. In Air Line Pilots, for example, theunion had negotiated a settlement agreement with the employer, which in retrospect proved to be a bad deal for theemployees. The fact that the union had not negotiated thebest agreement for its workers, however, was insufficient tosupport a holding that the union's conduct was arbitrary.499 U. S., at 78-81. A union's conduct can be classified asarbitrary only when it is irrational, when it is without a ra-tional basis or explanation.Ibid.Under this standard, SAG's negotiation of a union securityclause with language derived from the NLRA section authorizing such a clause is far from arbitrary. Petitioner argues that it is irrational to negotiate a clause that cannotbe enforced as written. But this clause can be enforced aswritten, because by tracking the statutory language, theclause incorporates all of the refinements that have becomeassociated with that language. When we interpreted$ 8(a)(3) in General Motors and Beck, we held that the section, fairly read, included the rights that we found. To theextent that these interpretations are not obvious, the relevant provisions of $ 8(a)(3) have become terms of art; thewords and phrasing of the subsection now encompass therights that we announced in General Motors and Beck.After we stated that the statutory language incorporates anemployee's right not to "join" the union (except by payingfees and dues) and an employee's right to pay for only representational activities, we cannot fault SAG for using thisvery language to convey these very concepts.Petitioner also invites us to conclude that the union's conduct in negotiating the union security clause breached theduty of fair representation because it was done in bad faith.She argues that the negotiation of this clause was in badfaith because the union had no reason to use the statutorylanguage except to mislead employees about their rightsunder Beck and General Motors. This argument has twocomponents: that the union intended to mislead workers, and525US1 Unit: $$U2 [10-23-00 11:13:05] PAGES PGT: OPIN47Cite as: 525 U. S. 33 (1998)Opinion of the Courtthat the union had no other purpose but to mislead. Bothclaims are unpersuasive. To understand why her first claimis unconvincing, it is again helpful to recall the nature of theclaim being asserted here. Petitioner's argument is not thatSAG chose to use this language in the collective bargainingagreement after determining that the use of this languagein the contract would deceive a large number of workers.Her argument is more ambitious. According to petitioner,even if the union always informs workers of their rights andeven if it enforces the union security clause in conformitywith federal law, it is bad faith for a union to use the statutory language in the collective bargaining agreement because such use can only mislead employees. Petitioner's argument fails because it is so broad. It is difficult to concludethat a union acts in bad faith by notifying workers of theirrights through more effective means of communication andby using a term of art to describe those rights in a contractworkers are unlikely to read. Under these circumstances,there is no intent to mislead, so the first part of petitioner's"bad faith" argument fails.The second part of petitioner's bad faith argument--thatthere was no other reason for the union's choice of the statutory language--also fails. The statutory language, whichwe have said incorporates all of the refinements associatedwith the language, is a shorthand description of workers'legal rights. A union might choose to use this shorthandprecisely because it incorporates all of the refinements.Petitioner argues that this reason for failing to explain all ofthe intricate rights and duties associated with a legal termof art is bad faith. The logic of petitioner's argument hasno stopping point; it would require unions (and all other contract drafters) to spell out all the intricacies of every termused in a contract. Contracts would become massive andunwieldy treatises, yet there would be no discernible benefitfrom the increased mass. Because there is no stoppingpoint to the logic of petitioner's argument, we find it unper525US1 Unit: $$U2 [10-23-00 11:13:05] PAGES PGT: OPIN48 MARQUEZ v. SCREEN ACTORSOpinion of the Courtsuasive. Contrary to petitioner's claim, we conclude that itmay be perfectly reasonable for a union to use terms of artin a contract.Petitioner proposed one stopping point at oral argument:the union security clause. Petitioner suggested that a unionis only required to explain the union security clause in intri-cate detail because that is the only part of the contract wherethe union's and the workers' interests diverge. Tr. of OralArg. 16. The union security clause, however, is not the onlypart of the contract where the union's interests diverge fromthe interests of the employees. To take a simple example,the union's duty of fair representation is implied from itsstatus as the exclusive bargaining representative of the bargaining unit workers. Under petitioner's logic, the unionwould have to incorporate into the collective bargainingagreement a section detailing the union's obligations underthis duty. Presumably, this section would have to includediscussions of judicial and NLRB interpretations of eachprong of the duty of fair representation and how thoseprongs limit union conduct toward employees. Moreover,petitioner's rights under Beck and General Motors are notthe only limits on a union's power under a union securityclause. For example, the NLRA provides that workers withreligious objections to supporting unions cannot be forced topay any fees to a union, 29 U. S. C. $ 169, and it also providesthat the workers cannot be forced to pay fees that are discriminatory or excessive, $ 158(b)(5). In other words, petitioner's proposed stopping point is no stopping point at all.A union's decision to avoid this slippery slope is not a fortioria decision made in bad faith.In sum, on this record, the union's conduct in negotiatinga union security clause that tracked the statutory languagecannot be said to have been either arbitrary or in bad faith.The Court of Appeals correctly rejected petitioner's argument that, by negotiating this clause, the union breached itsduty of fair representation.525US1 Unit: $$U2 [10-23-00 11:13:05] PAGES PGT: OPIN49Cite as: 525 U. S. 33 (1998)Opinion of the CourtIIIThe Court of Appeals also correctly refused to exercisejurisdiction over petitioner's challenge to the 30-day graceperiod provision of the union security clause. Petitioner ar-gues that all duty of fair representation claims are cognizablein federal court, and that because she couched her claim asa breach of the duty of fair representation, her claim bydefinition can be heard in federal court. Brief for Petitioner24-25. For this proposition, petitioner relies onBreiningerv.Sheet Metal Workers, 493 U. S. 67 (1989). Petitioner'sstarting point correctly describes the law. When a plaintiffchallenges an action that is "arguably subject to $ 7 or $ 8 ofthe [NLRA]," this challenge is within the primary jurisdiction of the NLRB. San Diego Building Trades Council v.Garmon, 359 U. S. 236, 245 (1959). These claims are withinthe primary jurisdiction of the NLRB in part to promote theuniform interpretation of the NLRA.Id., at 242-243. Butwhen a plaintiff alleges a breach of the duty of fair representation, this claim is cognizable in the first instance in federalcourt. Vaca v. Sipes, 386 U. S., at 177-183; Breininger v.Sheet Metal Workers, supra, at 73-84. In Breininger, werejected the invitation to create exceptions to this rule basedon the expertise of the NLRB, the subject matter of thecomplaint, or the presence of any other factor. 493 U. S., at75-77. Thus, petitioner is on solid ground to argue that ifher challenge to the grace period provision is a duty of fairrepresentation claim, the lower courts erred in refusing toexercise jurisdiction over that claim.The qualification--if her challenge is a duty of fair representation claim--is important. The ritualistic incantationof the phrase "duty of fair representation" is insufficient toinvoke the primary jurisdiction of federal courts. As wenoted inBeck, "[e]mployees . . . may not circumvent the pri-mary jurisdiction of the NLRB simply by casting statutoryclaims as violations of the union's duty of fair representa-tion." 487 U. S., at 743. When a plaintiff 's only claim is525US1 Unit: $$U2 [10-23-00 11:13:05] PAGES PGT: OPIN50 MARQUEZ v. SCREEN ACTORSOpinion of the Courtthat the union violated the NLRA, the plaintiff cannot avoidthe jurisdiction of the NLRB by characterizing this allegedstatutory violation as a breach of the duty of fair representa-tion. To invoke federal jurisdiction when the claim is basedin part on a violation of the NLRA, there must be somethingmore than just a claim that the union violated the statute.The plaintiff must adduce facts suggesting that the union'sviolation of the statute was arbitrary, discriminatory, or inbad faith.This does not mean that federal courts cannot resolve stat-utory issues under the NLRA in the first instance. Although federal district courts cannot resolve pure statutoryclaims under the NLRA, they can resolve statutory issues tothe extent that the resolution of these issues is necessary fora decision on the plaintiff 's duty of fair representation claim.Ibid. (quoting Connell Constr. Co. v. Plumbers, 421 U. S. 616,626 (1975)). Thus in Beck, we resolved the statutory question because it was collateral to the duty of fair representation claim, and that claim was independently within the jurisdiction of the federal courts. 487 U. S., at 743-744. Thepower of federal courts to resolve statutory issues under theNLRA when they arise as collateral matters in a duty of fairrepresentation suit does not open the door for federal courtfirst instance resolution of all statutory claims. Federalcourts can only resolve $ 7 and $ 8 claims that are collateralto a duty of fair representation claim.Applying these principles in this case, petitioner's challenge to SAG's grace period provision falls squarely withinthe primary jurisdiction of the NLRB. Her claim is thatSAG employed a term in the collective bargaining agreementthat was inconsistent with the NLRA. This allegation, although framed by the recitation that this act breached theduty of fair representation, is at base a claim that SAG'sconduct violated $ 8(a)(3). This claim is not collateral to anyindependent basis for federal jurisdiction; there are no factsalleged suggesting that this violation was arbitrary, discrimi525US1 Unit: $$U2 [10-23-00 11:13:05] PAGES PGT: OPIN51Cite as: 525 U. S. 33 (1998)Opinion of the Courtnatory, or in bad faith. Petitioner argues that the term ismisleading because it misrepresents the employee's obligations as stated in the NLRA, but this transparent attemptto avoid the jurisdiction of the NLRB is unconvincing. Thisterm is not misleading; the only question is whether the termis consistent with federal law. Because petitioner's only ar-gument is that the term is inconsistent with $ 8(a)(3), herclaim falls within the primary jurisdiction of the NLRB.Petitioner attempts to avoid this conclusion by arguingthat her challenge to the grace period provision is structur-ally identical to the duty of fair representation claim considered in Beck and to the duty of fair representation claimconsidered in the first part of this opinion. Brief for Petitioner 24-25. Thus, according to petitioner, because theseclaims were cognizable in federal trial court, so is her challenge to the grace period provision. But in Beck it was theunion that relied on $ 8(a)(3) as a defense to the plaintiffs'claim that it breached the duty of fair representation.When a claim that a union has breached its duty of fair representation is based in part on an alleged violation of theNLRA, it must be independently supported by some allegations describing arbitrary, discriminatory, or bad faith unionconduct. Thus, as we described above, in Beck, the dutyof fair representation claim was not premised on the mereunlawfulness of the union's conduct. The basis for the fairrepresentation claim was that the union's conduct was arbitrary and possibly in bad faith. Petitioner's challenge to themembership and fees requirements of the union securityclause is similarly distinguishable from her challenge to thegrace period provision. The claim we considered in the firstpart of the opinion was that the union's negotiation of theunion security clause breached the duty of fair representation because it was arbitrary and in bad faith for the unionto negotiate a clause that might mislead employees. Thisclaim, like the claim considered in Beck, is not solely aboutthe interpretation of the statute. Petitioner's challenge to525US1 Unit: $$U2 [10-23-00 11:13:05] PAGES PGT: OPIN52 MARQUEZ v. SCREEN ACTORSKennedy, J., concurringthe grace period provision, by contrast, is at most an allega-tion that the union violated the statute. This claim is quintessentially an issue for resolution by the NLRB, and theCourt of Appeals correctly refused to uphold District Courtjurisdiction over it.Accordingly, the judgment of the United States Court ofAppeals for the Ninth Circuit is affirmed.