The Civil Service Reform Act of 1978 allows eligible em-ployees to appeal termination and other serious disciplinaryactions to the Merit Systems Protection Board. 5 U. S. C.$$ 7512-7513. The Federal Circuit ruled that, when assessing the reasonableness of these actions, the Board may notconsider prior disciplinary actions that are pending in collectively bargained grievance proceedings. 212 F. 3d 1296,1298 (2000). Because the Board has broad discretion in determining how to review prior disciplinary actions and neednot adopt the Federal Circuit's rule, we now vacate and remand for further proceedings.IRespondent Maria Gregory worked for petitioner UnitedStates Postal Service as a letter technician with responsibil*Briefs of amici curiae urging affirmance were filed for the AmericanFederation of Government Employees, AFL-CIO, by Mark D. Roth andCharles A. Hobbie; for the National Association of Letter Carriers, AFL-CIO, by Keith E. Secular; for the National Employment Lawyers Association by Edward H. Passman and Paula A. Brantner; and for the NationalTreasury Employees Union by Gregory O'Duden, Barbara A. Atkin, andKerry L. Adams.534US1 Unit: $$U1 [04-10-03 14:13:02] PAGES PGT: OPIN4 POSTAL SERVICE v. GREGORYOpinion of the Courtity for overseeing letter carriers on five mail routes, andserving as a replacement carrier on those routes. App. toPet. for Cert. A-15. On April 7, 1997, respondent left workearly to take her daughter to the doctor, ignoring her supervisor's instructions to sort the mail for her route before leav-ing. She received a letter of warning for insubordination.App. 47-48. Respondent filed a grievance under the procedure established in the collective bargaining agreement be-tween her union and her employer, see generally 1998-2001Agreement Between National Association of Letter Carri-ers, AFL-CIO and U. S. Postal Service, Art. 15. App. 43.Later that same month respondent was cited for delayingthe mail, after mail from another route was found in hertruck at the end of the day. Id., at 45-46. The Postal Service suspended her for seven days, and respondent filed a second grievance. Id., at 41-42. In August 1997, respondentwas again disciplined for various violations, including failingto deliver certified mail and attempting to receive unauthorized or unnecessary overtime. Id., at 38-40. She receiveda 14-day suspension, and again filed a grievance.While these three disciplinary actions were pending ingrievance proceedings pursuant to the collective bargainingagreement, respondent was disciplined one final time. OnSeptember 13, 1997, respondent filed a form requesting assistance in completing her route or, alternatively, 31/2 hours ofovertime. Considering this request excessive, respondent'ssupervisor accompanied her on her route and determinedthat she had overestimated the necessary overtime by morethan an hour. Id., at 31-33. In light of this violation andrespondent's previous violations, her supervisor recommended that she be removed from her employment at thePostal Service. Ibid. On November 17, 1997, the PostalService ordered respondent's termination effective nine dayslater. Id., at 24-29.Because respondent previously served in the Army, shefalls into the category of "preference eligible" Postal Service534US1 Unit: $$U1 [04-10-03 14:13:02] PAGES PGT: OPIN5Cite as: 534 U. S. 1 (2001)Opinion of the Courtemployees covered by the Civil Service Reform Act of 1978(CSRA). 5 U. S. C. $ 7511(a)(1)(B)(ii). The CSRA providescovered employees the opportunity to appeal removals andother serious disciplinary actions to the Merit Systems Protection Board (Board). $$ 7512-7513. Under the CSRA,respondent could appeal her termination to the Board orseek relief through the negotiated grievance procedure, butcould not do both. $ 7121(e)(1). Respondent chose to ap-peal to the Board.When an employing agency's disciplinary action is chal-lenged before the Board, the agency bears the burden ofproving its charge by a preponderance of the evidence.$ 7701(c)(1)(B). Under the Board's settled procedures, thisrequires proving not only that the misconduct actually occurred, but also that the penalty assessed was reasonable inrelation to it. Douglas v. Veterans Admin., 5 M. S. P. B.313, 333-334 (1981).Following these guidelines, a Board Administrative LawJudge (ALJ) upheld respondent's termination, concludingthat the Postal Service had shown that respondent overestimated her overtime beyond permissible limits on September13, App. to Pet. for Cert. A-29, and that her termination wasreasonable in light of this violation and her prior violations.Id., at A-36 to A-40. Although the three prior disciplinaryactions were the subject of pending grievances, the ALJ analyzed them independently, following the approach set forthin Bolling v. Department of Air Force, 8 M. S. P. B. 658(1981). Bolling provides for de novo review of prior disciplinary actions unless: "(1) [the employee] was informed of theaction in writing; (2) the action is a matter of record; and(3) [the employee] was given the opportunity to dispute thecharges to a higher level than the authority that imposed thediscipline." Id., at 660-661. If these conditions are met,Board review of prior disciplinary action is limited to determining whether the action is clearly erroneous. Id., at 660.After finding that respondent's three prior disciplinary ac534US1 Unit: $$U1 [04-10-03 14:13:02] PAGES PGT: OPIN6 POSTAL SERVICE v. GREGORYOpinion of the Courttions met Bolling's three conditions, the ALJ concluded thatthere was no clear evidence of error. App. to Pet. forCert. A-37.Respondent petitioned the Board for review of the ALJ'sdecision. While this appeal was pending, an arbitrator re-solved respondent's first grievance (relating to the April 7incident) in her favor, and ordered that the letter of warningbe expunged. App. 3-16. Respondent did not advise theBoard of that ruling. The Board then denied her requestfor review of the ALJ's determination. App. to Pet. forCert. A-9 to A-10.Respondent petitioned for review of the Board's decisionin the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Cir-cuit. 5 U. S. C. $ 7703(a). That court affirmed the Board'sdecision to uphold the ALJ's factual findings with respect tothe September 13 incident. 212 F. 3d, at 1299. Taking judicial notice of the fact that one of the three disciplinary ac-tions underlying respondent's termination had been overturned in arbitration, and noting that respondent's tworemaining grievances were still pending, it reversed theBoard's determination that the penalty was reasonable.Ibid. While recognizing that disciplinary history is an "important factor" in assessing any penalty, id., at 1300, the Fed-eral Circuit held that "prior disciplinary actions that are subject to ongoing proceedings may not be used to support" apenalty's reasonableness, id., at 1298. It therefore vacatedthe Board's decision in part and remanded for further pro-ceedings. Id., at 1300. We granted certiorari, 531 U. S.1143 (2001). IIThe Federal Circuit's statutory review of the substance ofBoard decisions is limited to determining whether they areunsupported by substantial evidence or are "arbitrary, capri-cious, an abuse of discretion, or otherwise not in accordancewith law." 5 U. S. C. $ 7703(c). Like its counterpart in theAdministrative Procedure Act, 5 U. S. C. $ 706(2), the arbi534US1 Unit: $$U1 [04-10-03 14:13:02] PAGES PGT: OPIN7Cite as: 534 U. S. 1 (2001)Opinion of the Courttrary and capricious standard is extremely narrow, Citizensto Preserve Overton Park, Inc. v. Volpe, 401 U. S. 402, 416(1971), and allows the Board wide latitude in fulfilling itsobligation to review agency disciplinary actions. It is notfor the Federal Circuit to substitute its own judgment forthat of the Board.Motor Vehicle Mfrs. Assn. of UnitedStates, Inc. v. State Farm Mut. Automobile Ins. Co., 463U. S. 29, 43 (1983). The role of judicial review is only toascertain if the Board has met the minimum standards setforth in the statute. We conclude that the Board need notadopt the Federal Circuit's rule in order to meet thesestandards.The Postal Service argues that the Board's independentreview of prior disciplinary actions is sufficient to meet itsstatutory obligations. The adequacy of the Board's particular review mechanism--Bolling review, see Bolling v. Department of Air Force, supra--is not before us. The Federal Circuit said nothing about Bolling, instead adopting asweeping rule that the Board may never rely on prior disciplinary actions subject to ongoing grievance procedures, regardless of the sort of independent review the Board provides. Respondent likewise asks this Court only to upholdthe Federal Circuit's rule forbidding independent Board review. She does not seek a ruling requiring a differentBoard review mechanism, nor did she do so before the Federal Circuit. Her brief in that court mentioned neitherBolling nor its standard, arguing only that the Board shouldhold off its review altogether pending the outcome of collectively bargained grievance proceedings. Brief for Petitioner in No. 00-3123 (CA Fed.), p. 2. Moreover, even if theadequacy of Bolling review were before us, we lack sufficientbriefing on its specific functioning in this case. We thus consider only whether the Board may permissibly review priordisciplinary actions subject to ongoing grievance proceduresindependently, not whether the particular way in which itdoes so meets the statutory standard.534US1 Unit: $$U1 [04-10-03 14:13:02] PAGES PGT: OPIN8 POSTAL SERVICE v. GREGORYOpinion of the CourtThere is certainly nothing arbitrary about the Board's de-cision to independently review prior disciplinary violations.Neither the Federal Circuit nor respondent has suggestedthat the Board has applied this policy inconsistently--indeed,the Board has taken this same approach for 19 years. SeeCarr v. Department of Air Force, 9 M. S. P. B. 714 (1982).Nor have they argued that the Board lacks reasons for itsapproach. Following the Federal Circuit's rule would re-quire the Board either to wait until challenges to disciplinaryactions pending in grievance proceedings are completed be-fore rendering its decision, or to ignore altogether the violations being challenged in grievance in determining the reasonableness of the penalty. The former may cause unduedelay. See Reply Brief for Petitioner 6-7. The latterwould, in many cases, effectively preclude agencies from relying on an employee's disciplinary history, which the Federal Circuit itself acknowledged to be an "important factor"in any disciplinary decision. 212 F. 3d, at 1300.Nor is independent review by the Board contrary to anylaw. The Federal Circuit cited no provision of the CSRA orany other statute to justify its new rule. Id., at 1299-1300.At oral argument in this Court, respondent's counsel pointedto the Federal Circuit's statement that, if pending grievanceswere later overturned in arbitration, "the foundation of theBoard's Douglas analysis would be compromised." Tr. ofOral Arg. 49; 212 F. 3d, at 1300 (citing Douglas v. VeteransAdmin., 5 M. S. P. B. 313 (1981)). The Board's Douglas decision set out a general framework for reviewing agency disciplinary actions. Because Douglas at one point specificallydiscussed 5 U. S. C. $ 7701(c)(1)(B), the CSRA provision placing the burden of proof on the employing agency to justifyits disciplinary action, counsel claimed, the Federal Circuitmust have thought the Board's policy violates that section.Tr. of Oral Arg. 49. We do not read the Federal Circuit'scitation of Douglas as an implicit reference to $ 7701(c)(1)(B),particularly given that the Federal Circuit's opinion nowhere534US1 Unit: $$U1 [04-10-03 14:13:02] PAGES PGT: OPIN9Cite as: 534 U. S. 1 (2001)Opinion of the Courtmentions that section's standard. Rather, we interpret theFederal Circuit's reference toDouglas as a way of describingthe entire process of Board review of disciplinary actions.More importantly, any suggestion that the Board's decisionto independently review prior disciplinary actions violates$ 7701(c)(1)(B)'s preponderance of the evidence standardwould be incorrect. To the extent that that standard placesthe burden upon employing agencies to justify all of the vio-lations--including those dealt with in prior disciplinary actions--that are the basis for the penalty, the Board has itsown mechanism for allowing agencies to meet that burden.Insofar as Bolling review is adequate to meet this burden ofproof, an employing agency may meet its statutory burdento justify prior actions by prevailing either in grievance orbefore the Board.Amicus National Treasury Employees Union (NTEU)argues that independent Board review of prior disciplinaryactions pending in grievance violates the CSRA's generalstatutory scheme. Brief for National Treasury EmployeesUnion as Amicus Curiae 8-12. Employees covered by theCSRA may elect Board review only for disciplinary actionsof a certain seriousness, such as termination, suspension formore than 14 days, or a reduction in grade or pay. 5 U. S. C.$$ 7512-7513. For more minor actions, workers may onlyseek review through negotiated grievance procedures, if theyexist. $ 7121. According to NTEU, this scheme deprivesthe Board of the statutory authority to review minor disciplinary actions like the three that were pending in this case.It is true that the CSRA contemplates that at least someeligible employees (those represented by unions) will havetwo different forums for challenging disciplinary actions,depending in part on their seriousness. If the Board hadattempted to review respondent's first disciplinary actionbefore she was terminated, it would have exceeded itsstatutory authority. In this case, however, the Board wasasked to review respondent's termination, something it534US1 Unit: $$U1 [04-10-03 14:13:02] PAGES PGT: OPIN10 POSTAL SERVICE v. GREGORYOpinion of the Courtclearly has authority to do. $$ 7512-7513. Because thistermination was based on a series of disciplinary actions,some of which are minor, the Board's authority to review thetermination must also include the authority to review eachof the prior disciplinary actions to establish the reasonable-ness of the penalty as a whole.Independent Board review of disciplinary actions pendingin grievance proceedings may at times result in the Boardreaching a different conclusion than the arbitrator. It mayalso result in a terminated employee never reaching a resolution of her grievance at all, because some collective bar-gaining agreements require unions to withdraw grievanceswhen an employee's termination becomes final before theBoard. Brief for Respondent 10-11, 37; Reply Brief forPetitioner 14. Rather than being inconsistent with the stat-utory scheme, however, these possibilities are the result ofthe parallel structures of review set forth in the CSRA.Such results are not necessarily unfair. Any employeewho appeals a disciplinary action to the Board receives in-dependent Board review. If the Board's mechanism forreviewing prior disciplinary actions is itself adequate, thereview such an employee receives is fair. Although thefairness of the Board's own procedure is not before us, wenote that a presumption of regularity attaches to the actionsof Government agencies, United States v. Chemical Founda-tion, Inc., 272 U. S. 1, 14-15 (1926), and that some deferenceto agency disciplinary actions is appropriate.IIIAlthough the Board independently reviews prior discipli-nary actions pending in grievance, it also has a policy of notrelying upon disciplinary actions that have already beenoverturned in grievance proceedings at the time of Boardreview. See Jones v. Department of Air Force, 24 MSPR429, 431 (1984). As one of respondent's disciplinary actionswas overturned in arbitration before the Board rendered its534US1 Unit: $$U1 [04-10-03 14:13:02] PAGES PGT: OPIN11Cite as: 534 U. S. 1 (2001)Thomas, J., concurringdecision, the Postal Service concedes that a remand to theFederal Circuit is necessary to determine the effect of thisreversal on respondent's termination. Reply Brief for Peti-tioner 15-16.The judgment of the United States Court of Appeals forthe Federal Circuit is therefore vacated, and the case is remanded for further proceedings consistent with this opinion.