This original action presents a dispute between the UnitedStates and the State of Alaska over the ownership of submerged lands along Alaska's Arctic Coast. In 1979, withleave of the Court, 442 U. S. 937, the United States filed abill of complaint setting out a dispute over the right to offerlands in the Beaufort Sea for mineral leasing. Alaska counterclaimed, seeking a decree quieting its title to coastalsubmerged lands within two federal reservations, the National Petroleum Reserve-Alaska and the Arctic NationalWildlife Range (now the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge).The Court appointed a Special Master. 444 U. S. 1065(1980). Between 1980 and 1986, the Special Master oversawextensive hearings and briefing. Before us now are the report of the Special Master and the exceptions of the parties.We overrule Alaska's exceptions and sustain that of theUnited States.IAlaska and the United States dispute ownership of landsunderlying tidal waters off Alaska's North Slope. The region is rich in oil, and each sovereign seeks the right to grant*Briefs of amici curiae were filed for the State of Alabama et al. byDaniel E. Lungren, Attorney General of California, Roderick E. Walston,Chief Assistant Attorney General, and Jan S. Stevens, Assistant AttorneyGeneral, and by the Attorneys General for their respective jurisdictionsas follows: Jeff Sessions of Alabama, Grant Woods of Arizona, Jane Bradyof Delaware, Margery S. Bronster of Hawaii, Alan G. Lance of Idaho,Richard P. Ieyoub of Louisiana, Mike Moore of Mississippi, Joseph P. Mazurek of Montana, Frankie Sue Del Papa of Nevada, Michael F. Easleyof North Carolina, Heidi Heitkamp of North Dakota, Jan Graham ofUtah, Jeffrey L. Amestoy of Vermont, James S. Gilmore III of Virginia,and Julio A. Brady of the Virgin Islands; and for the Wilderness Societyet al. by Peter Van Tuyn, Eric Jorgensen, and James B. Dougherty.521US1 Unit: $U74 [11-17-99 14:25:33] PAGES PGT: OPIN5Cite as: 521 U. S. 1 (1997)Opinion of the Courtleases for offshore exploration and to share in oil and gasrevenues from the contested lands.Several general principles govern our analysis of the par-ties' claims. Ownership of submerged lands--which carrieswith it the power to control navigation, fishing, and otherpublic uses of water--is an essential attribute of sovereignty.Utah Div. of State Lands v. United States, 482 U. S. 193, 195(1987). Under the doctrine of Lessee of Pollard v. Hagan, 3How. 212, 228-229 (1845), new States are admitted to theUnion on an "equal footing" with the original 13 Coloniesand succeed to the United States' title to the beds of navigable waters within their boundaries. Although the UnitedStates has the power to divest a future State of its equalfooting title to submerged lands, we do not "lightly infer"such action. Utah Div. of State Lands, supra, at 197.In United States v. California, 332 U. S. 19 (1947) (California I), we distinguished between submerged lands locatedshoreward of the low-water line along the State's coast andsubmerged lands located seaward of that line. Only landsshoreward of the low-water line--that is, the periodicallysubmerged tidelands and inland navigable waters--pass toa State under the equal footing doctrine. The original 13Colonies had no right to lands seaward of the coastline, andnewly created States therefore cannot claim them on anequal footing rationale. Id., at 30-33. Accordingly, theUnited States has paramount sovereign rights in submergedlands seaward of the low-water line. Id., at 33-36. In 1953,following the California I decision, Congress enacted theSubmerged Lands Act, 67 Stat. 29, 43 U. S. C. $ 1301 et seq.That Act "confirmed" and "established" States' title to andinterest in "lands beneath navigable waters within theboundaries of the respective States." $ 1311(a). The Actdefines "lands beneath navigable waters" to include bothlands that would ordinarily pass to a State under the equalfooting doctrine and lands over which the United States hasparamount sovereign rights, beneath a 3-mile belt of the ter521US1 Unit: $U74 [11-17-99 14:25:33] PAGES PGT: OPIN6 UNITED STATES v. ALASKAOpinion of the Courtritorial sea. $ 1301(a). The Act essentially confirms States'equal footing rights to tidelands and submerged lands beneath inland navigable waters; it also establishes States' titleto submerged lands beneath a 3-mile belt of the territorialsea, which would otherwise be held by the United States.California ex rel. State Lands Comm'n v. United States, 457U. S. 273, 283 (1982). The Alaska Statehood Act expresslyprovides that the Submerged Lands Act applies to Alaska.Pub. L. 85-508, $ 6(m), 72 Stat. 343 (1958). As a generalmatter, then, Alaska is entitled under both the equal footingdoctrine and the Submerged Lands Act to submerged landsbeneath tidal and inland navigable waters, and under theSubmerged Lands Act alone to submerged lands extendingthree miles seaward of its coastline.In hearings before the Special Master, the parties identified 15 specific issues for resolution, which we treat in threegroups. First, the parties disputed the legal principles governing Alaska's ownership of submerged lands near certainbarrier islands along the Arctic Coast. Second, the partiescontested the proper legal characterization of particularcoastal features, including a gravel and ice formation in theFlaxman Island chain known as Dinkum Sands. Third, theparties disputed whether, when Alaska became a State, theUnited States retained ownership of certain submergedlands located within two federal reservations, the NationalPetroleum Reserve-Alaska in the northwest and the ArcticNational Wildlife Refuge in the northeast. For each reservation, the Master considered both whether the seawardboundary encompassed certain disputed waters and whetherparticular executive and congressional actions prevented thelands beneath tidally influenced waters from passing toAlaska at statehood.Alaska excepts to three of the Master's recommendations.First, it claims that the Master erred in concluding that waters between the Alaskan mainland and certain barrier islands were not "inland waters," the limits of which would521US1 Unit: $U74 [11-17-99 14:25:33] PAGES PGT: OPIN7Cite as: 521 U. S. 1 (1997)Opinion of the Courtform a portion of the State's coastline for purposes ofmeasuring the State's 3-mile Submerged Lands Act grant.Alaska argues that, at the time of its statehood, the UnitedStates had a clear policy of enclosing waters behind nearfringing islands as "inland waters." In abandoning thatpolicy in 1971, Alaska argues, the Federal Governmentimpermissibly "contracted" Alaska's recognized territory.Second, the State challenges the Master's conclusion thatDinkum Sands is not an "island." Under the Master's ap-proach, the low-water line on Dinkum Sands is not part ofAlaska's coastline, and the State cannot claim ownership ofsubmerged lands, covering an area of 28 square miles, surrounding the feature. Alaska argues that the Master erredin construing the relevant definition of an "island" and inapplying that definition to Dinkum Sands. Third, the Stateclaims that the Master erred in determining that the UnitedStates retained ownership of certain submerged lands withinthe boundaries of the National Petroleum Reserve at Alaska's statehood. Alaska argues both that the Executivelacked authority to prevent submerged lands from passing toAlaska, and that any attempt to include submerged landswithin the Reserve was not sufficiently clear to defeat Alaska's title under the equal footing doctrine or under the Sub-merged Lands Act.The United States excepts to the Master's recommenda-tion concerning the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge. TheMaster concluded, among other things, that an administra-tive application for the Refuge was insufficient to "set apart"submerged lands within the proposed boundaries. As aresult, the Master concluded, submerged lands within theRefuge passed to Alaska at statehood.We consider these exceptions in turn.IIBy applying the Submerged Lands Act to Alaska throughthe Alaska Statehood Act, see Pub. L. 85-508, $ 6(m), 72 Stat.521US1 Unit: $U74 [11-17-99 14:25:33] PAGES PGT: OPIN8 UNITED STATES v. ALASKAOpinion of the Court343 (1958), Congress granted the State title to submergedlands beneath a 3-mile belt of the territorial sea, measuredfrom the State's "coast line." 43 U. S. C. $$ 1301(a)(2),1311(a). The Act defines the term "coast line" as "the lineof ordinary low water along that portion of the coast whichis in direct contact with the open sea and the line markingthe seaward limit of inland waters." $ 1301(c). Alaska'sfirst exception requires us to consider how the presence ofbarrier islands along its northern shore affects the delimitation of its coastline. The issue is of primary relevance in theBeaufort Sea, between the National Petroleum ReserveAlaska and the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge. A jointfederal-state sale of mineral leases covering this so-calledLeased Area, conducted in December 1979, yielded largesums now held in escrow awaiting the outcome of this suit.In cases in which the Submerged Lands Act does not expressly address questions that might arise in locating acoastline, we have relied on the definitions and principles ofthe Convention on the Territorial Sea and the ContiguousZone, Apr. 29, 1958, [1964] 15 U. S. T. 1606 (Convention).See United States v. California, 381 U. S. 139, 165 (1965)(California II). Specifically, the coastline from which aState measures its Submerged Lands Act grant correspondsto the "baseline" from which the United States measures itsterritorial sea under the Convention. The Government argued before the Special Master that the United States measures its territorial sea from a "normal baseline"--the lowwater line along the coast, Art. 3, supplemented by closinglines drawn across bays and mouths of rivers, see Arts. 7,13. Under Article 10(2) of the Convention, each island hasits own belt of territorial sea, measured outward from a baseline corresponding to the low-water line along the island'scoast.Although the United States now claims a territorial seabelt of 12 nautical miles, see Presidential Proclamation No.5928, 3 CFR 547 (1988 Comp.), note following 43 U. S. C.521US1 Unit: $U74 [11-17-99 14:25:33] PAGES PGT: OPIN9Cite as: 521 U. S. 1 (1997)Opinion of the Court$ 1331, we are concerned in this case only with the 3-milebelt of the territorial sea that determines a State's Submerged Lands Act grant. Under Article 6 of the Conven-tion, the outer limit of that territorial sea belt is a line everypoint of which is three miles from the nearest point of thebaseline. This means of measuring the outer limit of thebelt is also known as the "arcs-of-circles" method.Alaska objected to application of the Article 3 "normalbaseline" approach to its Arctic Coast. In the Leased Areaof the Beaufort Sea, some offshore islands are more than sixmiles apart or more than six miles from the mainland. IfAlaska owns only those offshore submerged lands beneatheach 3-mile belt of territorial sea, the United States will own"enclaves" of submerged lands, wholly or partly surroundedby state-owned submerged lands, beneath waters more thanthree miles from the mainland but not within three miles ofan island. Two such federal enclaves exist in the LeasedArea between the mainland and the Flaxman Island chain,beneath the waters of Stefansson Sound. To eliminate theseenclaves, Alaska offered alternative theories for determiningthe seaward limit of its submerged lands in the vicinity ofbarrier islands. Alaska principally contended that theUnited States should be required to draw "straight baselines" connecting the barrier islands and to measure the territorial sea from those baselines. Article 4 of the Convention permits a nation to use straight baselines to measure itsterritorial sea "[i]n localities where the coast line is deeplyindented and cut into, or if there is a fringe of islands alongthe coast in its immediate vicinity." The parties agree thatAlaska's coastline satisfies this description. Under this approach, waters landward of the baseline would be treated as"inland" waters, and Alaska would own all submerged landsbeneath those waters.The Master rejected this approach, finding that the use ofstraight baselines under Article 4 is permissive, not mandatory, and that the decision whether to use straight baselines521US1 Unit: $U74 [11-17-99 14:25:33] PAGES PGT: OPIN10 UNITED STATES v. ALASKAOpinion of the Courtis normally one for the Federal Government. Report of theSpecial Master 45 (hereinafter Report). The United Stateshas never opted to draw straight baselines under Article 4.See California II, supra, at 167-169; United States v. Louisiana, 394 U. S. 11, 72-73 (1969) (Louisiana BoundaryCase); United States v. Louisiana, 470 U. S. 93, 99 (1985)(Alabama and Mississippi Boundary Case); United States v.Maine, 475 U. S. 89, 94, n. 9 (1986) (Massachusetts BoundaryCase). As a variant of its straight baselines argument,Alaska claimed that the United States has historicallytreated waters between the mainland and fringing islands as"inland waters," so long as the openings between the offlying islands are no more than 10 miles wide. Alaska didnot argue that the United States had ever specifically asserted, in its dealings with foreign nations, that the watersof Stefansson Sound are inland waters. Rather, Alaska attempted to identify a general but consistent "10-mile rule"invoked by the United States in its domestic and international affairs. If applied to Alaska's Arctic Coast, the Stateargued, this rule would require treating the waters of Stefansson Sound as inland waters.The Master examined the boundary delimitation practicesof the United States and concluded that the United Statesdid not have a well-established rule for treating waters between the mainland and fringing islands as inland waters.The Master recognized that, in the Alabama and Mississippi Boundary Case, we suggested that between 1903 and1961 the United States had "enclos[ed] as inland waters thoseareas between the mainland and off-lying islands that wereso closely grouped that no entrance exceeded 10 geographicalmiles." 470 U. S., at 106-107. Observing that this statement was not "strictly necessary" to the decision in the Alabama and Mississippi Boundary Case, the Master declinedto rely on it here. The Master therefore concluded that, forpurposes of measuring Alaska's submerged lands, the State's521US1 Unit: $U74 [11-17-99 14:25:33] PAGES PGT: OPIN11Cite as: 521 U. S. 1 (1997)Opinion of the Courtcoastline should correspond to a normal baseline under Arti-cle 3 of the Convention.For the reasons discussed below, we find no error in theMaster's approach.AUnder the Convention, a nation's past boundary delimita-tion practice is relevant in a narrow context: specifically,when a nation claims that certain waters are "historic" in-land waters under Article 7(6) of the Convention. If certaingeographic criteria are met, Article 7(4) of the Conventionpermits a nation to draw a "closing line" across the mouth ofa bay and to measure its territorial sea outward from thatline. Waters enclosed by the line are considered internalwaters. Article 7(6) also permits a nation to enclose "his-toric" bays, even if those waters do not satisfy the geographic criteria of Article 7(4). For a body of water to qual-ify as a historic bay, the coastal nation "must have effectivelyexercised sovereignty over the area continuously during atime sufficient to create a usage and have done so under thegeneral toleration" of the community of nations. Id., at 102(citing Juridical Regime of Historic Waters, Including Historic Bays 56, U. N. Doc. A/CN.4/143 (1962)) (internal quota-tion marks omitted). Accordingly, where a State within theUnited States wishes to claim submerged lands based on anarea's status as historic inland waters, the State must demonstrate that the United States: (1) exercises authority overthe area; (2) has done so continuously; and (3) has done sowith the acquiescence of foreign nations. See Alabama andMississippi Boundary Case, supra, at 101-102.Recognizing these strict evidentiary requirements, Alaskadoes not contend that the waters of Stefansson Sound arehistoric inland waters. Alaska does not purport to show anyspecific assertion by the United States that the waters ofStefansson Sound are inland waters. Rather, Alaska arguesthat, at the time it was admitted to the Union, the UnitedStates had a general, publicly stated policy of enclosing as521US1 Unit: $U74 [11-17-99 14:25:33] PAGES PGT: OPIN12 UNITED STATES v. ALASKAOpinion of the Courtinland waters areas between the mainland and closelygrouped fringing islands. If this general formula is appliedto the Alaska's Arctic Coast, the State argues, the waters ofStefansson Sound qualify as inland waters. Alaska maintains that this policy was in effect from the early 1900's to1971, when the United States published a set of chartsstrictly applying the arcs-of-circles method to StefanssonSound. In Alaska's view, relying solely on the Convention'snormal baseline approach to delimit the State's submergedlands impermissibly contracts the State's recognized terri-tory from that which existed at the time of statehood.Since adopting the Convention's definitions to give contentto the Submerged Lands Act, we have never sustained aState's claim to submerged lands based solely on an assertionthat the United States had adhered to a certain generalboundary delimitation practice at the time of statehood. Inthe Louisiana Boundary Case, we left open the possibilitythat Louisiana could claim ownership of certain submergedlands by demonstrating a "firm and continuing internationalpolicy" of enclosing waters between the mainland and islandfringes as "inland waters." 394 U. S., at 74, n. 97. Had thatbeen the United States' "consistent official internationalstance," the Government "arguably could not abandon thatstance solely to gain advantage in a lawsuit to the detrimentof Louisiana." Ibid. In that litigation, the State ultimatelyfailed to demonstrate any firm and continuing internationalpolicy of enclosing waters behind island fringes as inlandwaters. See United States v. Louisiana, 420 U. S. 529, 529-530 (1975) (per curiam) (decree) (accepting Master's recommendation that certain actions by the United States did notestablish a general policy of applying straight baselines tonear-fringing islands); Report of Special Master in UnitedStates v. Louisiana, O. T. 1974, No. 9 Orig., pp. 7-13. Alaskanevertheless claims that in the Alabama and MississippiBoundary Case the Court identified a "firm and continuing"10-mile rule for fringing islands. Alaska first contends that521US1 Unit: $U74 [11-17-99 14:25:33] PAGES PGT: OPIN13Cite as: 521 U. S. 1 (1997)Opinion of the Courtthe Alabama and Mississippi Boundary Case precludes theGovernment from claiming that the waters of StefanssonSound are not inland waters. The State then argues in thealternative that independent evidence supports its formulation of the rule. We address Alaska's points in turn.BIn the Alabama and Mississippi Boundary Case, theCourt considered the States' claim that the waters of Mississippi Sound constituted "historic" inland waters under Arti-cle 7(6) of the Convention. In discussing whether the Stateshad shown that the United States had continuously assertedthe inland water status of Mississippi Sound, the Court identified a general policy "of enclosing as inland waters thoseareas between the mainland and off-lying islands that wereso closely grouped that no entrance exceeded 10 geographicalmiles." 470 U. S., at 106.Alaska argues that the Government is estopped from ques-tioning application of this general coastline delimitationpractice to its Arctic Coast. Alaska recognizes the rule thatthe doctrine of nonmutual collateral estoppel is generally unavailable in litigation against the United States, see UnitedStates v. Mendoza, 464 U. S. 154, 160-163 (1984), but suggeststhat the policy considerations underlying this rule do notapply to cases arising under the Court's original jurisdiction,where the Court acts as factfinder and the United States hasan incentive to fully litigate all essential issues.We have not had occasion to consider application of nonmutual collateral estoppel in an original jurisdiction case, andwe see no reason to develop an exception toMendoza here.Even if the doctrine applied against the Government in anoriginal jurisdiction case, it could only preclude relitigationof issues of fact or lawnecessary to a court's judgment.Montana v. United States, 440 U. S. 147, 153 (1979); Mendoza, supra, at 158. A careful reading of the Alabama andMississippi Boundary Case makes clear that the Court did521US1 Unit: $U74 [11-17-99 14:25:33] PAGES PGT: OPIN14 UNITED STATES v. ALASKAOpinion of the Courtnot attach controlling legal significance to any general de-limitation formula.The Master in that case recited a series of statements andprecedents following Mississippi's admission to the Unionsupporting the view that the Federal Government hadtreated the waters of Mississippi Sound as inland waters.These statements included multiple references to a rule forclosing gulfs, bays, and estuaries with mouths less than 10miles wide as inland waters, Report of Special Master inAlabama and Mississippi Boundary Case, O. T. 1983, No. 9Orig., pp. 40, 42, 48-49, 52, and to a rule for closing straitsleading to inland waters, id., at 42, 49-50. In addition, theMaster cited a 1961 letter from the Solicitor General to theDirector of the United States Coast and Geodetic Surveyconcerning coastline delimitation principles for the Gulf ofMexico, proposing to treat " `[w]aters enclosed between themainland and offlying islands . . . so closely grouped that noentrance exceeds ten miles' " as inland waters. Id., at 52.In excepting to the Master's conclusion that the waters ofMississippi Sound qualified as historic inland waters, theUnited States argued that the "generalized . . . formulations"recited by the Master could not support the States' claim,without evidence of specific federal claims to inland watersstatus for Mississippi Sound. Exceptions of United Statesin Alabama and Mississippi Boundary Case, O. T. 1983, No.9 Orig., pp. 32-33. The Court assumed that the UnitedStates' position was correct, but concluded that the Stateshad in fact identified "specific assertions of the status of [Mississippi] Sound as inland waters." 470 U. S., at 107; see id.,at 108-110.In light of the Court's assumption that specific assertionsof dominion would be critical to the States' historic titleclaim, we cannot conclude that any general delimitation policy identified in the Alabama and Mississippi BoundaryCase is controlling here. The Court's inquiry in the Alabama and Mississippi Boundary Case was not whether the521US1 Unit: $U74 [11-17-99 14:25:33] PAGES PGT: OPIN15Cite as: 521 U. S. 1 (1997)Opinion of the CourtStates had demonstrated a "firm and continuing interna-tional policy" of enclosing waters between the mainland andisland fringes as inland waters, sufficiently well defined tocover the waters of Mississippi Sound. Rather, the inquirywas whether the States had demonstrated that the Soundmet the specific requirements for a historic inland watersclaim under Article 7(6) of the Convention. In the contextof that claim, the variation or imprecision in the UnitedStates' general boundary delimitation principles might havebeen irrelevant because the State could point to specific federal assertions that Mississippi Sound consisted of inland wa-ters. But variation and imprecision in general boundary delimitation principles become relevant where, as here, a Staterelies solely on such principles for its claim that certain waters were inland waters at statehood. The United States istherefore free to argue that any 10-mile rule is not sufficiently well defined to support Alaska's claim that the watersof Stefansson Sound constitute inland waters.CAlaska argues that even if principles of collateral estoppeldo not apply, the evidence before the Master established thatthe United States had a well-defined, "firm and continuing"10-mile rule that would require treating certain areas alongAlaska's Arctic Coast as inland waters. The Master exhaus-tively cataloged documents and statements reflecting theUnited States' views and practices on boundary delimitation,both in its international relations and in disputes with various States, between 1903 and 1971. The Master found that"the exact nature of the United States' historic practice is amatter of some intricacy," and concluded that any 10-milerule was not sufficiently well defined to require treating thewaters of Stefansson Sound as inland waters. Report 55.Alaska argues that the Master afforded "undue significanceto minor variations in the way the United States expressedits otherwise consistent policy over time, ignoring the prin521US1 Unit: $U74 [11-17-99 14:25:33] PAGES PGT: OPIN16 UNITED STATES v. ALASKAOpinion of the Courtciple that minor uncertainties and even contradictions in anation's practice are legally insignificant." Exceptions ofState of Alaska 14 (Alaska Exceptions Brief). The relevantsources do not bear out Alaska's claim.Of particular importance for our analysis is the position ofthe United States in its foreign relations between 1930 and1949. In March 1930, the United States formally proposedcertain principles for delimiting inland waters to the Leagueof Nations Conference for the Codification of InternationalLaw. See 3 Acts of the Conference for the Codification ofInternational Law, Territorial Waters 195-201 (1930) (Actsof the Conference). As the Geographer of the Departmentof State later observed, where the mainland and offshore islands are assigned individual 3-mile belts of territorial sea,there will remain "small pockets of the high sea deeply indenting territorial waters." U. S. Exh. 85-223 (Boggs, Delimitation of the Territorial Sea, 24 Am. J. Int'l L. 541, 552(1930)). Because such pockets would "constitute no usefulportion of the high sea from the viewpoint of navigation,"ibid., the United States proposed that countries "assimilate"these small enclaves of high seas to the adjacent territorialsea where a single straight line of no more than four nauticalmiles in length would enclose an enclave, 3 Acts of the Conference 201. At the same Conference, the United Statesalso proposed a rule for straits. Where a strait connected"two seas having the character of high seas," the waters ofthe strait would be considered territorial waters of thecoastal nation, as long as both entrances of the strait wereless than six nautical miles wide. Id., at 200. Where astrait was "merely a channel of communication with an inlandsea," rules regarding closing of bays would apply. Id., at201. Under those rules, waters shoreward of closing linesless than 10 nautical miles in length would be treated as"inland" waters. Id., at 198.The United States' 1930 "assimilation" proposal is inconsistent with Alaska's assertion that, since the early 1900's,521US1 Unit: $U74 [11-17-99 14:25:33] PAGES PGT: OPIN17Cite as: 521 U. S. 1 (1997)Opinion of the Courtthe United States had followed a firm and continuing 10-milerule for fringing islands. If the United States' policy hadbeen to draw a baseline connecting islands no more than 10miles apart, all waters between that line and the mainlandwould have been treated as "inland waters." Under the1930 formula, however, there were "small pockets of the highsea" between that line and the mainland, and those pocketswould have been assimilated to territorial waters (that is,waters seaward of the coastline), not to inland waters (thatis, waters enclosed by the coastline). Alaska now arguesthat the 1930 assimilation proposal "was at most one of thelegally insignificant uncertainties or contradictions" ratherthan a change from a firm 10-mile rule. Alaska ExceptionsBrief 25 (internal quotation marks omitted). Alaska took adifferent position before the Special Master, where it arguedthat the United States "unequivocally embraced the `assimilation' practice as the official United States position" between 1930 and 1949. Brief for Alaska on Island Fringes54, 60-61; see Alaska Exh. 85-63 (Memorandum of UnitedStates in Response to Request of Special Master in UnitedStates v. California, O. T. 1949, No. 11 Orig., p. 19); AlaskaExh. 85-82 (Aide-Me' moire from the Department of State tothe Government of Norway, Sept. 29, 1949, pp. 4-5). Alaskacannot explain why the United States would have pointed tothe assimilation formula as its official position between 1930and 1949 if a 10-mile rule for islands was in effect duringthat time.Nor does the United States' proposal on straits demonstrate a policy of connecting near-fringing islands withstraight baselines of less than 10 miles. If the mainland andoffshore islands form the two coasts of a strait, under theUnited States' proposal the strait would be treated as territorial waters (not inland waters) if it linked two areas of highseas. The distance between the fringing islands may havesome bearing on whether those islands in fact form the coastof a strait, but not on whether the waters they enclose are521US1 Unit: $U74 [11-17-99 14:25:34] PAGES PGT: OPIN18 UNITED STATES v. ALASKAOpinion of the Courtterritorial or inland waters. In other words, under the 1930proposal, the character of the waters to which a strait leads,not the distance between the islands forming one coast of thestrait, determines the character of the strait itself.Rather than treating the mainland and a line connectingfringing islands as the two coasts of a strait, Alaska appearsto view a passageway between two offshore islands, leadingto the waters between the islands and the mainland, as astrait. With this geographic configuration in mind, Alaskaargues that the proposal to apply a 10-mile bay-closing ruleto a strait serving as a "channel of communication with aninland sea" is "fully consistent" with a 10-mile rule. AlaskaExceptions Brief 25. But even under this approach, a rulethat straits leading to an inland sea are themselves inlandwaters is not equivalent to a simple 10-mile rule. Again,under the United States' 1930 proposal, the character of thestrait depends on the character of the waters to which itleads. A 10-mile bay-closing rule would apply only if thewaters between the strait and the mainland were inland waters under some other principle. Under the simple 10-milerule that Alaska advocates, the fact that the islands are lessthan 10 miles apart itself determines that the waters behindthe islands are inland waters.In sum, although Alaska is correct that the United States'position at the League of Nations Conference did not call forstrict application of the arcs-of-circles method, ibid., neitherthe assimilation proposal nor the proposal for straits is fullyconsistent with a simple rule that islands less than 10 milesapart enclose inland waters.The discussion above leads to the conclusion that, if theUnited States had a 10-mile rule at Alaska's statehood, thatrule developed after 1949. Even if a rule developed withina decade of Alaska's statehood could be considered a "firmand continuing" one, Alaska has not shown that any suchrule would encompass the islands off its Arctic Coast. Forthe period between 1950 and Alaska's statehood, Alaska fo521US1 Unit: $U74 [11-17-99 14:25:34] PAGES PGT: OPIN19Cite as: 521 U. S. 1 (1997)Opinion of the Courtcuses principally on the United States' position in a series ofdisputes with States over ownership of submerged lands inthe vicinity of near-fringing islands, rather than on positionstaken in its international relations. First, in 1950, the StateDepartment and the Justice Department proposed a boundary between Louisiana's inland and territorial waters for usein theLouisiana Boundary Case. That boundary, knownas the Chapman Line, followed certain barrier islandsalong Louisiana's southeast coast, enclosing Chandeleur andBreton Sounds and Calliou Bay as inland waters. Accordingto Alaska, the Chapman Line shows the use of a simple 10-mile rule. Second, in 1951, the Justice Department askedthe State Department to outline the United States' approachto demarcating inland and territorial waters, for purposes ofsubmerged lands litigation between the United States andCalifornia. A letter from the Acting Secretary of Statestated that an island "was to be surrounded by its own beltof territorial waters measured in the same manner as in thecase of the mainland." Alaska Exh. 85-94 (Letter fromJames E. Webb to J. Howard McGrath, Attorney General,Nov. 13, 1951, p. 3). The letter also drew upon the 1930Hague proposals for straits, noting that the waters of a straitconnecting high seas were never inland waters, but thatbay-closing rules should apply to a strait serving as "a channel of communication to an inland sea." Id., at 4. Third, ina submission to the Court in 1958, the United States commented that waters behind certain islands in Louisiana, Mississippi, and Alabama were inland waters. Brief for UnitedStates in Support of Motion for Judgment on Amended Complaint in United States v. Louisiana, O. T. 1958, No. 9 Orig.,pp. 177, 254, 261.We agree with the Special Master that the United Statesdid not exclusively employ a simple 10-mile rule in its disputes with the Gulf States and with California. The 1951State Department letter in the California litigation merelyechoed the United States' proposal at the Hague Conference521US1 Unit: $U74 [11-17-99 14:25:34] PAGES PGT: OPIN20 UNITED STATES v. ALASKAOpinion of the Courtconcerning straits leading to inland waters. As discussedsupra, at 18-19, a rule applying 10-mile bay-closing principles to straits leading to inland waters would not alwayslead to the same result as a simple 10-mile rule. Underthe former approach, the critical factor is where the straitleads, not the width of the strait. Alaska does not attemptto show that Stefansson Sound is a strait leading to inlandwaters.Nor does the 1950 Chapman Line reflect a "firm and continuing" policy of enclosing waters behind fringing islandsas "inland waters." The Chapman Line may be consistentwith such a policy, but as the Master noted, no contemporaneous document explains the theory behind the ChapmanLine in terms of a simple 10-mile rule. Report 85-88. Indeed, a 1950 draft memorandum from the State DepartmentGeographer to the Justice Department opined that Chandeleur and Breton Sounds should be treated as inland watersnot only because they were screened by a chain of islandsthat were less than 10 miles apart, but also because theywere "not extensively traversed by foreign vessels" and because the islands covered "more than half the total arc of theterritorial sea." U. S. Exh. 85-400. These criteria go farbeyond the simple 10-mile rule, and Alaska does not showhow they would apply to Stefansson Sound. Finally, statements in the briefs filed by the United States in litigationwith the Gulf States that certain waters behind offshore islands were inland waters do not explicitly rely on a 10-milerule. Moreover, in our decision in United States v. Louisiana, 363 U. S. 1, 67, n. 108 (1960), we made clear that we didnot take the Government's concession that certain islands offLouisiana's shore enclosed inland waters "to settle the location of the coastline of Louisiana or that of any other State."These and other documents considered by the Master support his conclusion that Alaska has not identified a firm andcontinuing 10-mile rule that would clearly require treatingthe waters of Stefansson Sound as inland waters at the time521US1 Unit: $U74 [11-17-99 14:25:34] PAGES PGT: OPIN21Cite as: 521 U. S. 1 (1997)Opinion of the Courtof Alaska's statehood. Indeed, we note that the resultAlaska seeks would be in tension with the outcome of theMassachusetts Boundary Case, 475 U. S. 89 (1986), where, ayear after deciding the Alabama and Mississippi BoundaryCase, we concluded that the waters of Nantucket Sound arenot inland waters. Following the Court's decision in theAlabama and Mississippi Boundary Case, Massachusettsargued that a 10-mile rule would make the waters of Nantucket Sound inland waters. The Master in that case recog-nized that no entrance between the islands enclosing Nantucket Sound exceeded 10 miles, but nevertheless concludedthat Massachusetts had not shown that the waters of Nantucket Sound were inland waters. Report of Special Masterin Massachusetts Boundary Case, O. T. 1984, No. 35 Orig.,pp. 69.2-70. We rejected the Commonwealth's claim to in-land waters status for Nantucket Sound, framed in its exception to the Master's recommendation as an "ancient title"claim. Massachusetts Boundary Case, supra, at 105. Ifthe case could have been resolved by reference to a simple10-mile rule for all fringing islands, we need not have entertained such a claim. DIn sum, we conclude that Alaska's entitlement to sub-merged lands along its Arctic Coast must be determined byapplying the Convention's normal baseline principles. TheAlabama and Mississippi Boundary Case does not foreclosethis conclusion. The sources before the Master showed that,in its foreign relations, particularly in the period 1930 to1949, the United States had advocated a rule under whichobjectionable pockets of high seas would be assimilated to acoastal nation's territorial sea. Such a rule would have beeninconsistent with the maintenance of a 10-mile rule for fring-ing islands. The United States also advocated a rule fortreating the waters of a strait leading to an inland sea asinland waters, but that rule is not equivalent to Alaska's simple 10-mile rule. Whether the waters of Stefansson Sound521US1 Unit: $U74 [11-17-99 14:25:34] PAGES PGT: OPIN22 UNITED STATES v. ALASKAOpinion of the Courtwould be considered inland waters under the 1930 proposalfor straits is unclear.Accordingly, we overrule Alaska's first exception.IIIAlaska next excepts to the Master's conclusion that a smallgravel and ice formation in the Flaxman Island chain, knownas Dinkum Sands, is not an island. Whether Dinkum Sandsis an island affects Alaska's ownership of offshore submergedlands in the feature's vicinity.As discussed above, a State's coastline provides the starting point for measuring its 3-mile Submerged Lands Actgrant. See 43 U. S. C. $$ 1301(a)(2), 1311(a). Generally, theState's coastline corresponds to a "baseline" from which,under the 1958 Convention, the United States measuresits territorial sea for international purposes. Supra, at 8.Article 10(1) of the Convention defines an island as "anaturally-formed area of land, surrounded by water, whichis above water at high-tide." A line of ordinary low wateralong the coast of an island can serve as a baseline for mea-suring the territorial sea. See Arts. 10(2), 3. The Convention also permits a nation to claim a belt of territorial seaaround certain features that are not above water at high tide,so long as they are located wholly or partly within the terri-torial sea belt of the mainland or an island. Arts. 11(1)-(2).Again, for purposes of determining a State's ownershiprights under the Submerged Lands Act, we are concernedwith a 3-mile belt of the territorial sea. See supra, at 8-9.Because Dinkum Sands is not within three miles of the nearest islands or the mainland, it does not meet the require-ments of Article 11. Accordingly, Dinkum Sands has its ownbelt of territorial sea--and Alaska owns submerged landsbeneath that belt--only if Dinkum Sands satisfies the requirements of Article 10(1).The issue here has been narrowed to whether DinkumSands is "above water at high-tide." Dinkum Sands has fre521US1 Unit: $U74 [11-17-99 14:25:34] PAGES PGT: OPIN23Cite as: 521 U. S. 1 (1997)Opinion of the Courtquently been submerged. Apart from daily shifts in thetide and seasonal shifts in sea level, the feature itself changesheight. Report 275, 280-283, 309, n. 66. This phenomenonmay be at least in part attributable to what the UnitedStates' expert witness termed "ice collapse." DinkumSands is formed by layers of ice and gravel mixed with ice.As the summer months approach, ice within Dinkum Sandsmelts and the feature slumps in elevation. 7 Tr. 986-987,8 Tr. 1060-1062 (July 23, 1984).Alaska and the United States agree that "high-tide" underArticle 10(1) should be defined as "mean high water," anaverage measure of high water over a 19-year period. Cf.United States v. California, 382 U. S. 448, 449-450 (1966)(per curiam) (entering decree defining an island as "abovethe level of mean high water" and defining mean high wateras "the average elevation of all the high tides occurring overa period of 18.6 years"); Borax Consol., Ltd. v. Los Angeles,296 U. S. 10, 26-27 (1935) (approving definition of "mean hightide line" based on "average height of all the high waters . . .over a considerable period of time," at least 18.6 years).They disagree over how frequently a feature of variable elevation such as Dinkum Sands must be above mean highwater to qualify as an island. Based on the drafting historyof Article 10, the Master concluded that an island must "generally," "normally," or "usually" be above mean high water.Report 302. Applying this standard, the Master reviewedhistorical hydrographic and cartographic evidence and theresults of a joint monitoring project conducted by the parties in 1981 and 1982. He concluded that Dinkum Sands isfrequently below mean high water and therefore is not anisland. Id., at 310.Alaska excepts to this conclusion on three grounds. First,Alaska challenges the legal conclusion that Article 10(1)requires an island to be above mean high water at least "generally," "normally," or "usually." Second, Alaska disputesthe Master's factual finding that Dinkum Sands is fre521US1 Unit: $U74 [11-17-99 14:25:34] PAGES PGT: OPIN24 UNITED STATES v. ALASKAOpinion of the Courtquently below mean high water. Finally, Alaska argues thatDinkum Sands should be treated as an island when it is infact above mean high water. We find no error in the Mas-ter's conclusion.AIn the proceedings before the Master, the United Statestook the position that an island must be "permanently" abovemean high water, Brief for United States on Dinkum Sands17-29, while Alaska argued that Article 10 permits a feature"to slump on occasion below" mean high water but still qual-ify as an island, Brief for Alaska on Dinkum Sands 64. TheMaster essentially rejected the United States' position infavor of a somewhat more lenient standard, under which anisland must "generally," "normally," or "usually" be abovemean high water. Although Alaska now objects to thisstandard, Alaska Exceptions Brief 44-45, 51, it sets forth noclear alternative. Alaska's observation that "an island thatis occasionally submerged is no less an island," id., at 45, isnot inconsistent with the Master's approach.If Alaska is now implicitly claiming that a feature needappear only episodically above mean high water to qualify asan island, its position is without merit. Because Article10(1) does not specify how frequently a feature must beabove mean high water to qualify as an island, we must lookto the Convention's drafting history for guidance. See Louisiana Boundary Case, 394 U. S., at 42-47. In urging thatthe Master's interpretation of Article 10(1) is inconsistentwith the development of that provision, Alaska focuses onthe fact that earlier drafts specified that an island must be"permanently above high-water mark." Report 297 (citingJ. Franc,ois, Report on the Re' gime of the Territorial Sea,[1952] 2 Y. B. Int'l L. Comm'n 25, 36, U. N. Doc. A/CN.4/53(in French; translation from Alaska Exh. 84A-21, p. 41)); seeAlaska Exceptions Brief 50. The eventual deletion of themodifier "permanently," in Alaska's view, suggests that Arti521US1 Unit: $U74 [11-17-99 14:25:34] PAGES PGT: OPIN25Cite as: 521 U. S. 1 (1997)Opinion of the Courtcle 10(1) contains no implicit modifier at all, such as "generally," "normally," or "usually."Alaska's reading of Article 10(1)'s drafting history is selective. In fact, the drafting history supports a standard atleast as stringent as that adopted by the Master. The provision was first introduced at the League of Nations Conference for the Codification of International Law, held at TheHague in 1930. A preparatory committee offered the following as a basis for discussion: "In order that an island mayhave its own territorial waters, it is necessary that it shouldbe permanently above the level of high tide." 2 Conferencefor the Codification of International Law, Bases of Discussion, Territorial Waters 54 (1929). A subcommittee revisedthe definition but retained the element of permanence: "Anisland is an area of land, surrounded by water, which is permanently above high-water mark." 3 Acts of the Conference 219. When the International Law Commission of theUnited Nations revived the work of the Conference in 1951,a special rapporteur reintroduced the subcommittee's definition. Report 297.In 1954, the British delegate proposed adding the modifier"in normal circumstances," so that an island's status wouldnot be questioned because it was temporarily submerged athigh tide in an "exceptional cas[e]." See Summary Recordsof the 260th Meeting, [1954] 1 Y. B. Int'l L. Comm'n 92. TheCommission adopted that proposal, id., at 94, and in its finalreport defined an island as "an area of land, surrounded bywater, which in normal circumstances is permanently abovehigh-water mark," Report of the International Law Commission to the General Assembly, Art. 10, U. N. Gen. Ass. Off.Rec., 11th Sess., Supp. No. 9, U. N. Doc. A/3159, p. 16 (1956).In 1957, an internal State Department memorandum evaluating the Commission's work suggested that the words"permanently" and "in normal circumstances" appeared tobe inconsistent and could both be omitted, because "current521US1 Unit: $U74 [11-17-99 14:25:34] PAGES PGT: OPIN26 UNITED STATES v. ALASKAOpinion of the Courtinternational law does not purport to solve such minor prob-lems" as how to treat formations that would be submergedat unusually high states of high tide. Alaska Exh. 84A-21(Memorandum from Benjamin H. Read, Islands, DryingRocks and Drying Shoals, Sept. 1957, p. 11). The UnitedStates presented that position at the 1958 United NationsConference on the Law of the Sea, arguing that "there is noestablished state practice regarding the effect of subnormalor abnormal or seasonal tidal action on the status of islands."3 United Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea, OfficialRecords: First Committee (Territorial Sea and ContiguousZone), Summary Records of Meetings and Annexes, U. N.Doc. A/CONF.13/C1. /L.112, p. 242 (1958). The Conferenceadopted the United States' recommendation, and excised thewords "permanently" and "in normal circumstances" fromthe definition of an island.As the Master recognized, in including the phrase "in normal circumstances," the Convention's drafters had sought toaccommodate abnormal events that would cause temporaryinundation of a feature otherwise qualifying as an island.Report 300. The United States' view that the internationaldefinition of an island need not address abnormal or seasonaltidal activity ultimately prevailed. But the change from theCommission's draft to the final language of the Conventiondid not signal an intent to cover features that are only sometimes or occasionally above high tide. In fact, the problemof abnormal or seasonal tidal activity that the 1954 amendment addressed is fully solved by the United States' practiceof construing "high tide" to mean "mean high water." Averaging high waters over a 19-year period accounts for periodicvariations attributable to astronomic forces; nonperiodic, meteorological variations can be assumed to balance out overthis length of time. See 2 A. Shalowitz, Shore and SeaBoundaries 58-59 (1964). Accordingly, even if a featurewould be submerged at the highest monthly tides during aparticular season or in unusual weather, the feature might521US1 Unit: $U74 [11-17-99 14:25:34] PAGES PGT: OPIN27Cite as: 521 U. S. 1 (1997)Opinion of the Courtstill be above "mean high water" and therefore qualify asan island.What Alaska seeks is insular status not for a feature thatis submerged at abnormally high states of tide, but for afeature that rises above and falls below mean high water--a tidal datum that has already accounted for the tidal abnormalities about which the drafters of Article 10(1) were con-cerned. Even if Article 10(1)'s drafting history could support insular status for a feature that slumps below mean highwater because of anabnormal change in elevation, it doesnot support insular status for a feature that exhibits a pattern of slumping below mean high water because of seasonalchanges in elevation. Alaska nevertheless contends thatthere is support for according island status to features more"ephemera[l]" than Dinkum Sands. See Alaska ExceptionsBrief 45-50. The authorities Alaska cites all predate theConvention and are therefore unhelpful in construing Article10(1). Alaska also relies on an analogy to the "mudlumps"of the Mississippi delta, features whose status under theConvention has never been determined. See Report of Spe-cial Master in United States v. Louisiana, O. T. 1974, No. 9Orig., p. 4 (filed July 31, 1974) (concluding that Louisiana'sSubmerged Lands Act grant could be measured from twomudlumps, but not deciding whether the mudlumps were is-lands under Article 10(1) or low-tide elevations under Article11(1)); United States v. Louisiana, 420 U. S. 529 (1975) (over-ruling exceptions).In sum, the Convention's drafting history suggests that, toqualify as an island, a feature must be above high water except in abnormal circumstances. Alaska identifies no basisfor according insular status to a feature that is frequentlybelow mean high water. BIn disputing the Master's factual conclusion that DinkumSands is "frequently below mean high water," Report 39,Alaska relies on three cartographic sources. First, two nau521US1 Unit: $U74 [11-17-99 14:25:34] PAGES PGT: OPIN28 UNITED STATES v. ALASKAOpinion of the Courttical charts produced following a 1949-1950 survey of theBeaufort Sea by a United States Coast and Geodetic Surveyparty depict Dinkum Sands as an island, consistent with asurvey note describing a "new gravel bar baring about threefeet" at mean high water. Alaska Exh. 84A-203 (U. S. Coastand Geodetic Survey, Descriptive Report to Accompany Hy-drographic Survey H-7761, p. 3); see Alaska Exh. 84A-202(U. S. Coast and Geodetic Survey, Addendum to DescriptiveReport to Accompany Hydrographic Survey H-7760, p. 4).Second, in 1971, an ad hoc interagency group known as theBaseline Committee, charged with delimiting the UnitedStates' coastline, produced baseline charts treating DinkumSands as an island. Third, a 1979 map developed for a jointfederal-state oil and gas lease sale in the Prudhoe Bay areaassigned ownership of a 3-mile belt of territorial sea aroundDinkum Sands to Alaska.As Alaska appears to acknowledge, see Alaska ExceptionsBrief 53, the 1971 baseline chart and the 1979 leasing mapwere based on the 1949-1950 survey rather than independent observations. In 1956, the United States Coast andGeodetic Survey resumed charting Dinkum Sands as a lowtide elevation, based on observations of a Navy vessel madethe prior year. It is undisputed that one of the members ofthe Baseline Committee persuaded the Committee to treatDinkum Sands as an island based solely on his personal observation of Dinkum Sands as a member of the 1949-1950survey party. See Alaska Exh. 84A-207 (Department ofState, Memorandum to Members of the Baseline Committee,Minutes of Oct. 10, 1979, Meeting, p. 2) (noting that the Committee "has used Dinkum Sands as a basepoint for determining the breadth of the territorial sea . . . because early surveys showed Dinkum Sands to be above high water andAdmiral Nygren had personally observed it above highwater"). The 1979 leasing map relied on the 1971 baselinechart in assigning Dinkum Sands its own 3-mile belt of territorial sea.521US1 Unit: $U74 [11-17-99 14:25:34] PAGES PGT: OPIN29Cite as: 521 U. S. 1 (1997)Opinion of the CourtThe question, then, is whether the 1949-1950 survey par-ty's conclusion that Dinkum Sands is three feet above meanhigh water, taken together with visual observations ofDinkum Sands above water, undermines the Master's factualfinding that Dinkum Sands is "frequently below mean highwater." Report 309. It does not.Alaska emphasizes that Dinkum Sands has been observed"many times . . . above water" and only "occasionally . . .submerged." Alaska Exceptions Brief 44. But visual observations of Dinkum Sands are not dispositive; the questionis not whether Dinkum Sands is above or below high tide onany given day, but where the feature lies in relation to meanhigh water. To address precisely this problem, the partiesjointly commissioned a $2.5 million study to calculate meanhigh water in the feature's vicinity and to determine the feature's elevation in relation to that datum. First, using ayear of tidal readings, the National Ocean Survey computeda mean high-water datum at Dinkum Sands and calculatedan error band to account for the fact that the level wouldordinarily be based on 19 years of readings. Second, an engineering firm measured Dinkum Sands' highest points inMarch, June, and August 1981.Comparing the feature's highest elevation measurementsto the mean high-water level, the Master found that DinkumSands was not above mean high water at any time it wassurveyed. The two highest points of the survey werewithin the error band for the mean high-water level, but theMaster found this fact to be of little weight because themeasurements were likely taken from piles of gravel disturbed by the March measurements, rather than fromDinkum Sands' true highest points. Alaska continued tomeasure Dinkum Sands in relation to mean high water in1982 and 1983. The feature was found to be above meanhigh water on a visit in July 1982. By September, the feature had fallen in elevation, possibly by more than a foot, seeReport 281-282, placing it below the mean high-water datum.521US1 Unit: $U74 [11-17-99 14:25:34] PAGES PGT: OPIN30 UNITED STATES v. ALASKAOpinion of the CourtBetween May and July 1983, the feature was observed abovewater several times, although its elevation in relation tomean high water was not known. Based on two helicopterobservations of the feature and estimates of sea level in relation to mean high water, the Master concluded that DinkumSands could have been above high water by a matter ofinches in September 1983. The Master found that the feature was "consistently" below mean high water in 1981 andbelow mean high water by September--the end of the openwater season--in both 1981 and 1982. Id., at 309. Relyinglargely on the 1981-1983 data, the Master concluded thatDinkum Sands is not an island.Alaska makes no mention of the 1981 joint monitoringproject. The Master discussed the State's methodologicalobjections to the results at length, see id., at 255-269, andwe see no reason to revisit the Master's conclusion that thoseobjections are unpersuasive. Alaska does not explain whythe Master should have relied on a single August 1949 measurement of Dinkum Sands' elevation in relation to mean highwater rather than on the exhaustive survey expressly designed to determine Dinkum Sands' status under Article10(1) of the Convention. In contending that Dinkum Sandshas been above mean high water except on a "handful ofoccasions," Alaska recognizes that Dinkum Sands slumps inelevation during the open water season between late Julyand September. Alaska Exceptions Brief 54. Alaska suggests that natural processes build up Dinkum Sands "just . . .prior to the autumn freeze-up," and that the feature thenremains above mean high water for 9 to 10 months of theyear. See ibid. There is no basis in the record, however,for concluding that Dinkum Sands is above mean highwater during the winter months. During the winter, thearea is completely covered by pack ice. The sole measurement of the feature's elevation during the winter was thattaken in March 1981, and it was then below mean high water.Report 286. But even if the record demonstrated that the521US1 Unit: $U74 [11-17-99 14:25:34] PAGES PGT: OPIN31Cite as: 521 U. S. 1 (1997)Opinion of the Courtfeature remained above mean high water until "ice collapse"caused it to slump, that would not compel a ruling in Alaska'sfavor. Although Article 10(1)'s drafting history may sug-gest that a feature submerged at abnormally high tides doesnot lose its insular status, it does not support the broaderconclusion that a feature with aseasonal loss in elevation,bringing it below mean high water, qualifies as an island.See supra, at 27.In sum, we find no error in the Master's conclusion thatDinkum Sands is frequently below mean high water andtherefore does not meet the standard for an island.CAlaska finally urges a compromise resolution, under whichDinkum Sands would be deemed an island when above meanhigh water. Alaska attempts to find support for its positionin this Court's recognition in prior cases of the concept of an"ambulatory coast line." Alaska Exceptions Brief 55. Inadopting the 1958 Convention to aid interpretation of theSubmerged Lands Act, we recognized that the Conventiontreats a nation's coastline as its modern, ambulatory coastline. See United States v. Louisiana, 394 U. S. 1, 5 (1969)(Texas Boundary Case); Louisiana Boundary Case, 394U. S., at 32-34. Shifts in a low-water line along the shore,we acknowledged, could lead to a shift in the baseline formeasuring a maritime zone for international purposes. Inturn, the State's entitlement to submerged lands beneath theterritorial sea would change.An island may very well have its own ambulatory coast-line. What Alaska seeks here, however, is not an entitlement to submerged lands seaward of a gradually accretingor eroding shore. Rather, Alaska's ownership of submergedlands around Dinkum Sands would appear and disappear pe-riodically, depending upon whether the feature was above orbelow mean high water. Not only does Article 10(1) of theConvention not support such a reading, but Alaska's position521US1 Unit: $U74 [11-17-99 14:25:34] PAGES PGT: OPIN32 UNITED STATES v. ALASKAOpinion of the Courtmakes a sensible application of other provisions of the Con-vention impossible. The Convention separately categorizesfeatures that are below mean high water, but above waterat low tide. See Art. 11. In addition, under Articles 10(2)and 3, an island's belt of territorial sea is measured from theline of low water. As Dinkum Sands' elevation shifts andthe feature slumps toward the mean high-water datum,below the mean high-water datum, and possibly below thelow-water datum, the baseline for measuring the surround-ing maritime zone would shift and then disappear. Quiteapart from the fact that Alaska's proposal would lead tocostly and time-consuming monitoring efforts, we agree withthe Master that Alaska has identified no precedent for treat-ing as an island a feature that oscillates above and belowmean high water. IVAlaska's third exception concerns the ownership of sub-merged lands within the National Petroleum Reserve-Alaska(Reserve), a 23-million acre federal reservation in the north-western part of the State. The Reserve's seaward boundaryruns along the Arctic Ocean from Icy Cape at the west to themouth of the Colville River at the east. When this litigationbegan, Alaska and the United States disputed the location ofthe Reserve's boundary, focusing in particular on whetherthe boundary followed the sinuosities of the coast or insteadcut across certain inlets, bays, and river estuaries. Alaskainitially conceded federal ownership of submerged landswithin that boundary. In light of this Court's decision inMontana v. United States, 450 U. S. 544 (1981), and with theconsent of the United States, the Special Master grantedAlaska relief from its concession, and Alaska claimed owner-ship of submerged lands beneath certain coastal featureswithin the Reserve's boundaries. Order of Special Masterin United States v. Alaska, O. T. 1983, No. 84 Orig. (Jan. 4,1984). A separate proceeding concerning ownership of sub-merged lands beneath inland navigable waters is pending in521US1 Unit: $U74 [11-17-99 14:25:34] PAGES PGT: OPIN33Cite as: 521 U. S. 1 (1997)Opinion of the CourtFederal District Court, Alaska v. United States, Nos. A83-343, A84-435, A86-191 (D. Alaska), and has been stayed untilresolution of the present case, see Report 347, n. 4.The parties no longer dispute the location of the Reserve'sboundary. Accordingly, we consider only the Master's rec-ommendation concerning the ownership of submerged landsbeneath certain coastal features within that boundary. TheMaster concluded that the United States retained ownershipof the submerged lands in question at Alaska's statehood.That conclusion rested principally on three premises: first,that the United States can prevent lands beneath navigablewaters from passing to a State upon admission to the Unionby reserving those lands in federal ownership (as opposed toconveying them to a third party); second, that Congress hadauthorized the President to reserve submerged lands with a1910 statute known as the Pickett Act; and third, that the1923 Executive Order creating the Reserve reflected a clearintent to reserve all submerged lands within the boundariesof the Reserve and to defeat the State's title to the sub-merged lands in question. Alaska excepts to the Master'sconclusion on several grounds, arguing that the Governmentdid not show a sufficiently clear intent to reserve submergedlands or to defeat state title and that the 1923 ExecutiveOrder was promulgated without proper authority. We discuss some background principles and then consider thesearguments in turn.AThe Property Clause, Art. IV, $ 3, cl. 2, provides that "Con-gress shall have Power to dispose of and make all needfulRules and Regulations respecting the Territory or otherProperty belonging to the United States." InShively v.Bowlby, 152 U. S. 1, 48 (1894), the Court concluded that thispower extended to granting submerged lands to private par-ties, and thereby defeating a future State's equal footingtitle, "to carry out . . . public purposes appropriate to theobjects for which the United States hold the Territory." We521US1 Unit: $U74 [11-17-99 14:25:34] PAGES PGT: OPIN34 UNITED STATES v. ALASKAOpinion of the Courtagree with the Special Master that Congress can also reservesubmerged lands under federal control for an appropriatepublic purpose, and thus resolve a question left open in UtahDiv. of State Lands, 482 U. S., at 201, in the United States'favor.As drawn by the Master, the boundary of the Reserve en-compasses both those lands that would ordinarily pass toAlaska under the equal footing doctrine--that is, tidelandsand submerged lands beneath inland navigable waters--andthose lands that would pass to Alaska only by virtue of theSubmerged Lands Act--that is, lands beneath the 3-mile territorial sea. As a result, the parties dispute the principlesgoverning ownership of the submerged lands.Under our equal footing cases, "[a] court deciding a question of title to the bed of navigable water must . . . beginwith a strong presumption" against defeat of a State's title.Montana, supra, at 552; see Utah Div. of State Lands,supra, at 197-198. We will not infer an intent to defeat afuture State's title to inland submerged lands "unless theintention was definitely declared or otherwise made veryplain." United States v. Holt State Bank, 270 U. S. 49, 55(1926). The United States argues that the presumptionagainst defeat of state title does not apply to lands passingsolely under the Submerged Lands Act--that is, lands beneath the territorial sea--over which the United States hasparamount authority: Any grant of such lands is to be " `construed strictly in favor of the United States.' " UnitedStates Opposition Brief 53 (quoting California ex rel. StateLands Comm'n, 457 U. S., at 287). The Master agreed withthe Government's approach, concluding that the UnitedStates can demonstrate that it retained title to submergedlands beneath the territorial sea under a "less demandingstandard" than our equal footing cases require. Report 394.Nevertheless, the Master analyzed the withdrawal under the"stricter" standards of Utah Div. of State Lands and Montana, reasoning that the less demanding test for lands be521US1 Unit: $U74 [11-17-99 14:25:34] PAGES PGT: OPIN35Cite as: 521 U. S. 1 (1997)Opinion of the Courtneath the territorial sea would be relevant only if the UnitedStates failed to satisfy the more stringent test. Report 394.Neither the Submerged Lands Act itself nor our case lawsupports the United States' approach. The SubmergedLands Act grants States submerged lands beneath a 3-milebelt of the territorial sea. The statute is a grant of federalproperty, and the scope of that grant must be construedstrictly in the United States' favor. But that principle doesnot permit us to ignore the statute's terms, which providethat a State receives title to submerged lands beneath theterritorial sea unless the United States "expressly retain[s]"them. 43 U. S. C. $ 1313(a) (emphasis added). We cannotresolve "doubts" about whether the United States has withheld state title to submerged lands beneath the territorialsea in the United States' favor, for doing so would requireus to find an "express" retention of submerged lands wherenone exists. The Submerged Lands Act does not call intoquestion cases holding that the United States has paramountsovereign authority over submerged lands beneath the territorial sea. See California I, 332 U. S., at 35-36; UnitedStates v. Louisiana, 339 U. S. 699, 704 (1950); United Statesv. Texas, 339 U. S. 707, 719 (1950). But Congress has chosento exercise that authority by presumptively granting thoselands to the States, unless the United States has "expresslyretained" submerged lands.Reinforcing this reading of the Act is the fact that theAct's terms reach lands governed by the equal footing doctrine as well as lands beneath the territorial sea. Under theterms of the statute, equal footing lands, like those beneaththe territorial sea, pass to a State unless the United States"expressly retained" them. In passing the Act, Congresswould have legislated against the backdrop of our early equalfooting cases. See Montana, 450 U. S., at 552, n. 2. Thereis no indication that, in formulating the "expressly retained"standard, Congress intended to upset settled doctrine and toimpose on the Federal Government a more or less demanding521US1 Unit: $U74 [11-17-99 14:25:34] PAGES PGT: OPIN36 UNITED STATES v. ALASKAOpinion of the Courtstandard than the one reflected in those cases, see, e. g., HoltState Bank, supra, at 55 (holding that intent to defeat statetitle to submerged lands must be "definitely declared or oth-erwise made very plain"), and carried forward in Montanaand Utah Div. of State Lands. Whether title to submergedlands rests with a State, of course, is ultimately a matterof federal intent. In construing a single federal instrumentcreating a reserve, we see no reason to apply the phrase"expressly retained" differently depending upon whether thelands in question would pass to a State by virtue of a statutory grant or by virtue of the equal footing doctrine, as con-firmed by statute.Applying Montana and Utah Div. of State Lands, then,we must ask whether the United States intended to includesubmerged lands within the Reserve and to defeat Alaska'stitle to those lands.B1President Harding created the National Petroleum Re-serve by Executive Order in 1923. The order described aboundary following the Arctic "coast line," measured along"the ocean side of the sandspits and islands forming the barrier reefs and extending across small lagoons from point topoint, where such barrier reefs are not over three miles offshore." Exec. Order No. 3797-A, in Presidential ExecutiveOrders (1980) (microform, reel 6). Because the boundaryfollows the ocean side of the islands, the Reserve necessarilyincludes tidelands landward of the islands. The Reservealso contains coastal features, including "small lagoons" (towhich the Order explicitly refers) and the mouths of riversand bays (which the Master concluded were within the Re-serve's boundary). Report 381. Alaska argues that thefact that the United States included certain water areaswithin the exterior boundaries of the Reserve does not necessarily mean that the United States clearly intended to re521US1 Unit: $U74 [11-17-99 14:25:34] PAGES PGT: OPIN37Cite as: 521 U. S. 1 (1997)Opinion of the Courtserve the submerged lands beneath those waters. AlaskaExceptions Brief 62. In support of this proposition, Alaskapoints primarily to our decisions in Montana, supra, at 554,and Utah Div. of State Lands, 482 U. S., at 202.In Montana, the United States, as trustee for the CrowTribe, sought a declaratory judgment that it owned theriverbed of the Big Horn River and had conveyed a beneficialinterest in the submerged lands to the Tribe. The river waslocated inside the boundaries of the Crow Reservation established by treaty in 1868, but the treaty did not expresslyrefer to the riverbed. 450 U. S., at 548, 554. Applying the"strong presumption against conveyance by the UnitedStates" to defeat a State's title, id., at 552, we concluded thatthe "mere fact that the bed of a navigable water lies withinthe boundaries described in the treaty does not make theriverbed part of the conveyed land, especially when there isno express reference to the riverbed that might overcomethe presumption against its conveyance," id., at 554. Eventhough creation of an Indian reservation could be an "appropriate public purpose" justifying a conveyance of submergedlands, a conveyance of submerged lands beneath the riverwould not have been necessary for the Government's purpose, because fishing was not important to the Crow Tribe'sway of life. Id., at 556.In Utah Div. of State Lands, the Court found that theUnited States had not prevented the bed of Utah Lake frompassing to Utah at statehood. The Sundry AppropriationsAct of 1888, 25 Stat. 505, authorized the United States Geological Survey to select "sites for reservoirs and other hydraulic works necessary for the storage and utilization ofwater for irrigation and the prevention of floods and overflows." Id., at 526. The Survey selected Utah Lake as areservoir site. 482 U. S., at 199. In 1890, when Congressrepealed the 1888 Act, it provided "that reservoir sites heretofore located or selected shall remain segregated and re521US1 Unit: $U74 [11-17-99 14:25:34] PAGES PGT: OPIN38 UNITED STATES v. ALASKAOpinion of the Courtserved from entry or settlement as provided by [the 1888Act]." Sundry Appropriations Act of 1890, 26 Stat. 391.In concluding that the 1888 Act did not reflect a clear in-tent to include submerged lands within lands reserved forreservoir sites, the Court focused in part on the fact that theAct was motivated by concerns that settlers would claimlands suitable for reservoir sites or other reclamation efforts.482 U. S., at 198, 203. These concerns of "monopolizationand speculation" "had nothing to do with the beds of navigable rivers and lakes." Id., at 203. Moreover, the Govern-ment's ability to control and develop navigable waters wouldnot be impaired if the land beneath the navigable waterspassed to the State. Id., at 202; see also Arizona v. California, 373 U. S. 546, 597-598 (1963); Arizona v. California, 283U. S. 423, 451-452, 457 (1931). We also considered whethercertain references to the bed of Utah Lake in reports by theGeological Survey, coupled with the 1890 Act's requirementthat selected sites remain segregated, accomplished a reservation of the lake bed. We concluded that the references tothe lake bed in the Survey documents, when placed in propercontext, did not indicate that the bed was included withinthe reservation. Utah Div. of State Lands, supra, at 206.Finally, we held that even if the 1888 or 1890 Acts reflected aclear intent to include submerged lands within a reservation,there was no evidence that the United States intended todefeat future States' entitlement to any land reserved.Again, our analysis focused on the fact that the transfer oftitle to the lake bed would not prevent the Government fromdeveloping a reservoir or water reclamation project at thelake. Id., at 208.Montana and Utah Div. of State Lands establish that thefact that navigable waters are within the boundaries of aconveyance or reservation does not in itself mean that submerged lands beneath those waters were conveyed or reserved. But Alaska's reliance on these cases is misplacedfor two reasons. First, the Executive Order of 1923 does521US1 Unit: $U74 [11-17-99 14:25:34] PAGES PGT: OPIN39Cite as: 521 U. S. 1 (1997)Opinion of the Courtnot merely define a boundary that encloses a body of naviga-ble water. Rather, in describing a boundary following theocean side of offshore islands and reefs, the Order createda Reserve that necessarily embraced certain submergedlands--specifically, tidelands shoreward of the barrier is-lands.1 Second, Montana and Utah Div. of State Lands establish that the purpose of a conveyance or reservation isa critical factor in determining federal intent. See alsoAlaska Pacific Fisheries v. United States, 248 U. S. 78, 87-89(1918) (reservation of "body of lands" in southeastern Alaskafor Metlakahtla Indians included adjacent waters and sub-merged lands, because fishing was necessary for Indians'subsistence). The Executive Order of 1923 sought to retainfederal ownership of land containing oil deposits. TheOrder recited that "there are large seepages of petroleumalong the Arctic Coast of Alaska and conditions favorable tothe occurrence of valuable petroleum fields on the ArcticCoast," and described the goal of securing a supply of oilfor the Navy as "at all times a matter of national concern."Petroleum resources exist in subsurface formations necessarily extending beneath submerged lands and uplands. Thepurpose of reserving in federal ownership all oil and gasdeposits within the Reserve's boundaries would have beenundermined if those deposits underlying lagoons and othertidally influenced waters had been excluded. It is simply1 In light of the fact that the Order necessarily encompasses tidelands,the partial dissent's conclusion that the United States owns no submergedlands within the Reserve is puzzling. The dissent suggests that theUnited States retains submerged lands only if the relevant instrument" `in terms embraces the land under the waters.' " Post, at 66 (Thomas,J., concurring in part and dissenting in part) (quoting Packer v. Bird, 137U. S. 661, 672 (1891)). By its terms, the Executive Order of 1923 certainlyembraces all tidelands landward of the barrier islands. Accordingly, evenif the dissent were correct that a federal intent to retain submerged landscan never be inferred, no inference is required for the conclusion that,at the very least, the United States retained the tidelands within theReserve.521US1 Unit: $U74 [11-17-99 14:25:34] PAGES PGT: OPIN40 UNITED STATES v. ALASKAOpinion of the Courtnot plausible that the United States sought to reserve onlythe upland portions of the area.Alaska also argues that any inclusion of submerged landswithin the Reserve was not supported by an appropriatepublic purpose. Specifically, Alaska claims that only a "public exigency" or "international duty" will support a reserva-tion of submerged lands. InShively, the Court recognizeda general congressional policy of granting away land beneathnavigable waters only "in case of some international duty orpublic exigency," 152 U. S., at 50. But that is a congres-sional policy, not a constitutional obligation.Utah Div. ofState Lands, 482 U. S., at 197. The only constitutional limitation on a conveyance or reservation of submerged landsis that it serve an appropriate public purpose: The UnitedStates has the power to dispose of submerged lands in prestatehood territories " `in order to perform internationalobligations, or to effect the improvement of such lands forthe promotion and convenience of commerce with foreignnations and among the several States, or to carry out otherpublic purposes appropriate to the objects for which theUnited States hold the Territory.' " Id., at 196-197 (emphasis added) (quoting Shively, supra, at 48). There is noquestion that, as the Master concluded, the inclusion ofsubmerged lands within the Reserve fulfilled an appropriatepublic purpose--namely, securing an oil supply for the national defense.In sum, the 1923 Executive Order creating the Reservereflects a clear intent to include submerged lands within theReserve. The boundary by its terms embraces certaincoastal features, and the Master interpreted it to embraceothers. In light of the purpose of the Reserve, it is simplynot plausible that the Order was intended to exclude submerged lands, and thereby to forfeit ownership of valuablepetroleum resources beneath those lands. The importanceof submerged lands to the United States' goal of securing asupply of oil distinguishes this case from Montana and Utah521US1 Unit: $U74 [11-17-99 14:25:34] PAGES PGT: OPIN41Cite as: 521 U. S. 1 (1997)Opinion of the CourtDiv. of State Lands, where the disputed submerged landswere unnecessary for achieving the federal objectives.2Under Utah Div. of State Lands, we must ask not onlywhether the United States intended a reservation to includesubmerged lands, but also whether the United States intended to defeat a future State's title to those lands. TheMaster found that Congress expressed a clear intent to defeat state title in $ 11(b) of the Alaska Statehood Act. Pub.L. 85-508, 72 Stat. 347. That section provides that theUnited States has the "power of exclusive legislation . . . asprovided by [the Enclave Clause of the Constitution, Art. I,$ 8, cl. 17,] over such tracts or parcels of land as, immediatelyprior to the admission of said State, are owned by the UnitedStates and held for military . . . purposes, including navalpetroleum reserve numbered 4 [the National Petroleum Reserve]." The Master concluded that $ 11(b), "in referringto the Reserve as `owned by the United States,' clearly contemplate[d] continued federal ownership of the Reserve."Report 433.Alaska argues that $ 11(b)'s reference to exclusive federallegislative authority over the Reserve under the EnclaveClause says nothing about United States' title to submergedlands within the Reserve. Alaska suggests that the UnitedStates need not own all lands within a military area to exercise jurisdiction, and Congress "had no reason to defeatState title to submerged lands [since] it always retains plenary authority to regulate navigable waters for defense purposes." Alaska Exceptions Brief 64. Alaska thus attemptsto align this case with Utah Div. of State Lands, where wefound no clear intent to defeat state title to the bed of UtahLake, in part because the United States need not have defeated state title to preserve its ability to develop a reservoiror water reclamation project at the lake. 482 U. S., at 208.521US1 Unit: $U74 [11-17-99 14:25:34] PAGES PGT: OPIN42 UNITED STATES v. ALASKAOpinion of the CourtAlaska's argument fails for several reasons. First, Alaskaignores the fact the Reserve was not created to preserve theUnited States' "authority to regulate navigable waters fordefense purposes," but to preserve the Government's abilityto extract petroleum resources. Ownership may not be necessary for federal regulation of navigable waters, but it isnecessary to prevent the Reserve's petroleum resources frombeing drained from beneath submerged lands. Second,when the United States exercises its power of "exclusive legislation" under the Enclave Clause, it necessarily acquirestitle to the property. SeeJames v. Dravo Contracting Co.,302 U. S. 134, 141, 142 (1937) ("[The Enclave Clause] governsthose cases where the United States acquires lands with theconsent of the legislature of the State for the purposes theredescribed" (emphasis added)); see also Collins v. YosemitePark & Curry Co., 304 U. S. 518, 527 (1938). Third, Alaska'sargument that $ 11(b) of the Statehood Act says nothingabout federal ownership of the Reserve ignores the fact that,on its face, $ 11(b) states that the United States "owned"the Reserve.As discussed supra, at 38-41, the Reserve included submerged lands. Section 11(b) thus reflects a clear congressional statement that the United States owned and wouldcontinue to own submerged lands included within the Reserve. The conclusion that Congress was aware when itpassed the Alaska Statehood Act that the Reserve encompassed submerged lands is reinforced by other legislation,enacted just before Alaska's admission to the Union, granting certain offshore lands to the Territory of Alaska. SeePub. L. 85-303, $ 2(a), 71 Stat. 623. Congress expressly exempted from that grant "all oil and gas deposits located inthe submerged lands along the Arctic coast of naval petroleum reserve numbered 4 [the National Petroleum Reserve]." $ 3(d) (emphasis added). Moreover, in contrast toUtah Div. of State Lands, defeating state title to submergedlands was necessary to achieve the United States' objec521US1 Unit: $U74 [11-17-99 14:25:34] PAGES PGT: OPIN43Cite as: 521 U. S. 1 (1997)Opinion of the Courttive--securing a supply of oil and gas that would necessarilyexist beneath uplands and submerged lands. The transferof submerged lands at statehood--and the loss of ownershiprights to the oil deposits beneath those lands--would havethwarted that purpose.CAlaska argues that even if the 1923 Executive Order purported to include submerged lands within the Reserve for anappropriate public purpose and even if $ 11(b) reflects a clearintent to defeat state title to all lands within the Reserve,title still passed to Alaska because the President lacked theauthority to include submerged lands within the Reserve.Alaska Exceptions Brief 58-60. The argument is based inpart on Utah Div. of State Lands, where we referred to theauthority of Congress to dispose of property under the Property Clause, Art. IV, $ 3, cl. 2. Since Utah Div. of StateLands concerned congressional enactments, it discloses littleabout the circumstances under which action by the Executive will defeat a State's equal footing claim to submergedlands.As authority for inclusion of submerged lands within theReserve, the Master focused on the Act of June 25, 1910,ch. 421, 36 Stat. 847, also known as the Pickett Act. TheAct stated:"[T]he President may, at any time in his discretion, temporarily withdraw from settlement, location, sale, orentry any of the public lands of the United States including the District of Alaska and reserve the same forwater-power sites, irrigation, classification of lands, orother public purposes to be specified in the orders ofwithdrawals, and such withdrawals or reservations shallremain in force until revoked by him or by an Act ofCongress." $ 1, 36 Stat. 847 (repealed by the FederalLand Policy and Management Act of 1976, Pub. L. 94-579, $ 704(a), 90 Stat. 2792).521US1 Unit: $U74 [11-17-99 14:25:34] PAGES PGT: OPIN44 UNITED STATES v. ALASKAOpinion of the CourtThe Pickett Act nowhere specifically mentions submergedlands, and Alaska therefore challenges the Master's conclusion that the Pickett Act gave the President the express au-thority to dispose of them. Its argument rests mainly onthe proposition that the Pickett Act's reference to "withdraw[al]" of "public lands" cannot include submerged lands,because such lands are not subject to sale, settlement, orentry under the general land laws and therefore need not be"withdrawn." Cf.Utah Div. of State Lands, 482 U. S., at203 (1888 Act stated that lands designated for reservoir siteswere " `reserved from sale as the property of the UnitedStates, and shall not be subject . . . to entry, settlement oroccupation' "; rejecting claim that Act authorized inclusion ofsubmerged lands in part because such lands were alreadyexempt from sale, entry, or occupation); Mann v. TacomaLand Co., 153 U. S. 273, 284 (1894) ("[T]he general legislationof Congress in respect to public lands does not extend totide lands"); Shively, 152 U. S., at 48 ("Congress has neverundertaken by general laws to dispose of " land under navigable waters).Assuming, arguendo, that Alaska's construction of thePickett Act is correct, it does not control the outcome of thiscase. We conclude that Congress ratified the terms of the1923 Executive Order in $ 11(b) of the Statehood Act. Despite Alaska's protestations to the contrary, there wouldhave been no barrier to Congress retaining a petroleum reserve, including submerged lands, at the point of Alaska'sstatehood, provided it satisfied Utah Div. of State Lands'requirements of demonstrating a clear intent to includesubmerged lands within the Reserve's scope and a clear intent to defeat Alaska's title. It follows that Congress couldachieve the same result by explicitly recognizing, at the pointof Alaska's statehood, an Executive reservation that clearlyincluded submerged lands. Cf. Utah Div. of State Lands,supra, at 205-207 (examining United States' claim that references to the bed of Utah Lake made by the Geological521US1 Unit: $U74 [11-17-99 14:25:34] PAGES PGT: OPIN45Cite as: 521 U. S. 1 (1997)Opinion of the CourtSurvey in reserving Utah Lake, taken together with 1890Act providing that reservoir sites selected by the GeologicalSurvey "shall remain segregated and reserved from entryor settlement," signaled Congress' ratification of the reservation of the lake bed; rejecting claim on the ground thatCongress was not on notice that the Geological Survey hadreserved the bed of the lake); Holden v. Joy, 17 Wall. 211,247 (1872) (rejecting Property Clause challenge to President's treaty with Cherokee Nation; although terms of treatyexceeded express delegation of authority by Congress to thePresident, Congress had "repeatedly recognized" the validityof the treaty by enacting appropriation statutes). As discussed supra, at 38-41, the 1923 Executive Order reflected aclear intent to include submerged lands within the Reserve.That instrument placed Congress on notice that the Presi-dent had construed his reservation authority to extend tosubmerged lands and had exercised that authority to setaside uplands and submerged lands in the Reserve to securea source of oil for the Navy. Congress acknowledged theUnited States' ownership of and jurisdiction over the Reserve in $ 11(b) of the Statehood Act. Accordingly, Congressratified the inclusion of submerged lands within the Reserve,whether or not it had intended the President's reservationauthority under the Pickett Act to extend to such lands.DIn sum, we conclude that the United States retained own-ership of submerged lands beneath certain coastal featureswithin the Reserve at Alaska's statehood. Under the strictstandards ofUtah Div. of State Lands, the Executive Orderof 1923 reflected a clear intent to include submerged landswithin the Reserve. In addition to the fact that the Orderrefers to coastal features and necessarily covers the tidelands, excluding submerged lands beneath the coastal fea-tures would have been inconsistent with the purpose of theReserve--to secure a supply of oil that would necessarily521US1 Unit: $U74 [11-17-99 14:25:34] PAGES PGT: OPIN46 UNITED STATES v. ALASKAOpinion of the Courtexist beneath both submerged lands and uplands. Section11(b) of the Alaska Statehood Act, which noted that theUnited States owned the Reserve and which included astatement of exclusive legislative jurisdiction under the Enclave Clause, reflects Congress' intent to ratify the inclusionof submerged lands within the Reserve and to defeat theState's title to those lands. VThe United States excepts to the Master's conclusion thatsubmerged lands within a federal reservation in northeastern Alaska, now known as the Arctic National Wildlife Ref-uge, passed to Alaska upon its admission to the Union in1959. In November 1957, the Department of the Interior'sBureau of Sport Fisheries and Wildlife submitted an application to the Secretary of the Interior for withdrawal of 8.9million acres of land "to establish an Arctic Wildlife Rangewithin all or such portion of the described lands as may befinally determined to be necessary for the preservation ofthe wildlife and wilderness resources of that region of north-eastern Alaska." Alaska Exh. 81 (Application for Withdrawal by Public Land Order, p. 1). This application wasstill pending in July 1958, when Congress passed the AlaskaStatehood Act, and in January 1959, when Alaska was for-mally admitted to the Union. On December 6, 1960, the Secretary of the Interior issued Public Land Order 2214, which"reserved" the area "for use of the United States Fish andWildlife Service as the Arctic National Wildlife Range." 25Fed. Reg. 12598. In 1980, Congress expanded the Rangeto include an additional 9.2 million acres and renamedit the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge. Pub. L. 96-487,$ 303(2)(A), 94 Stat. 2390.Before the Master, the parties disputed whether the 1957Bureau of Sport Fisheries and Wildlife application for with-drawal and creation of the Range--filed before but grantedafter Alaska's admission to the Union--could prevent title tosubmerged lands within the Range from passing to Alaska at521US1 Unit: $U74 [11-17-99 14:25:34] PAGES PGT: OPIN47Cite as: 521 U. S. 1 (1997)Opinion of the Courtstatehood. The Alaska Statehood Act transferred to Alaskacertain real property used for the conservation and protection of wildlife, but withheld from the State "lands with-drawn or otherwise set apart as refuges or reservations forthe protection of wildlife." Pub. L. 85-508, $ 6(e), 72 Stat.341. Among other things, the United States argued that thelands within the Range, including coastal submerged lands,had been "set apart" by the combined effect of the applica-tion and a Department of the Interior regulation in forcewhen the application was filed and when Congress passedthe Alaska Statehood Act. That regulation provided thatthe filing of an application "shall temporarily segregatesuch lands from settlement, location, sale, selection, entry,lease, and other forms of disposal under the public landlaws, including the mining and the mineral leasing laws,to the extent that the withdrawal or reservation appliedfor, if effected, would prevent such forms of disposal." 43CFR $ 295.11(a) (Supp. 1958). Accordingly, under the UnitedStates' principal theory, the 1957 Bureau of Sport Fisheriesand Wildlife application had the legal effect of segregatingor "setting apart" all lands within the projected boundariesof the Range, including submerged lands, as a wildlife refuge.If this were so, $ 6(e) of the Alaska Statehood Act withheldsuch lands from Alaska at statehood.The Special Master rejected this approach. He focusedon the fact that $ 6(e) prevents transfer only of those lands"set apart as refuges or reservations for the protection ofwildlife." (Emphasis added.) The Master concluded that,taken together, the 1957 application and the Department ofthe Interior regulation "caused land to be set apart for thepurpose of a wildlife reservation," but found that the land"was not yet set apart as a refuge or reservation" upon Alaska's admission to the Union, because the application had notyet been granted. Report 464 (first emphasis added). Sincethe application and regulation did not withhold the landswithin the Range from Alaska under $ 6(e) of the Alaska521US1 Unit: $U74 [11-17-99 14:25:34] PAGES PGT: OPIN48 UNITED STATES v. ALASKAOpinion of the CourtStatehood Act, the Master concluded that coastal submergedlands within the Range passed to Alaska upon its admissionto the Union. Because real property used for conservationof wildlife, but not set apart as a wildlife refuge or reservation, would have been transferred to Alaska, the Master'sapproach arguably calls into question federal ownership ofuplands as well as submerged lands within the Range. Seeinfra, at 60-61.Alaska had argued in the alternative that, even if the application was effective to prevent submerged lands withinthe Range from passing to Alaska at statehood, the boundaries of the Range did not embrace certain submerged landsbetween the mainland and the barrier islands along Alaska'snortheastern coast. The Master's recommendation in Alaska's favor on the effect of the application, if accepted, wouldhave made irrelevant the dispute concerning the boundariesof the Range. The Master nevertheless addressed Alaska'salternative argument and resolved the boundary dispute inthe United States' favor. Report 478-495. The Masteralso considered the effect of Montana and Utah Div. of StateLands on Alaska's ownership of submerged lands within theRange. In supplemental briefing submitted after we decided those cases, Alaska argued that the 1957 applicationreflected no clear intent to include submerged lands withinthe Range. Even if the application embraced submergedlands, Alaska asserted, the United States had identified noevidence that Congress intended to defeat Alaska's title tothose lands. Relying principally on a statement of justification attached to the 1957 application, the Master found aclear intent to include submerged lands within the Range.That statement of justification described the seacoast as"provid[ing] habitat for polar bears, Arctic foxes, seals, andwhales," Alaska Exh. 16 (Memorandum from the Director ofthe Bureau of Sport Fisheries and Wildlife to the Bureau ofLand Management, Nov. 7, 1957, p. 2); the Master reasonedthat the drafters of the application "[could] not have thought521US1 Unit: $U74 [11-17-99 14:25:34] PAGES PGT: OPIN49Cite as: 521 U. S. 1 (1997)Opinion of the Courtthis habitat was only upland," Report 496. In addition, theMaster noted that the original boundary of the Range wasthe high water mark along the Arctic Coast; the drafterschanged the boundary to the extreme low water mark so asto include the tidelands within the Range. Ibid. The Mas-ter also found that the application reflected an intent to defeat Alaska's title, pointing out that the reservation was"meant to have permanent effect," not merely to hold whatever submerged lands were made part of the Range untilAlaska's admission to the Union.Ibid.The United States excepts to the Special Master's conclusion that the 1957 application and the Department of the In-terior regulation, read together, did not have the effect of"setting apart" lands within the Range "as [a] refug[e] . . . forthe protection of wildlife." Alaska defends the Master's conclusion concerning the legal effect of the application. Alaskaalso defends on alternative grounds the ultimate conclusionthat submerged lands within the Range passed to Alaska,arguing that the United States did not clearly intend to include submerged lands within the Range and that the UnitedStates did not clearly intend to defeat Alaska's title to thoselands. In essence, Alaska challenges the Master's conclu-sion that the 1957 application met the requirements of Montana and Utah Div. of State Lands--a conclusion appearingin a section of the Report to which it did not except. SeeReport 495-499. As will become clear, however, althoughthe Master considered separately whether the applicationhad the effect of "setting apart" lands within the Rangewithin the meaning of $ 6(e) and whether the requirementsof Montana and Utah Div. of State Lands had been met,those inquiries overlap considerably. We therefore mustaddress the application of Montana and Utah Div. of StateLands to this case. AAs with the Reserve, the boundaries of the Range, asdrawn by the Master, encompass both submerged lands be521US1 Unit: $U74 [11-17-99 14:25:34] PAGES PGT: OPIN50 UNITED STATES v. ALASKAOpinion of the Courtneath tidelands and inland navigable waters--which wouldordinarily pass to Alaska under the equal footing doctrineas confirmed by the Submerged Lands Act--and submergedlands beneath the territorial sea--which would pass toAlaska only by virtue of its Submerged Lands Act grant.As discussedsupra, at 35-36, Congress has chosen in theSubmerged Lands Act to exercise its paramount authorityover submerged lands beneath the territorial sea by grant-ing such lands to a coastal State, unless the Federal Government "expressly retained" the lands in question when theState entered the Union. 43 U. S. C. $ 1313(a); see $ 1301(a).Applying the logic of Montana and Utah Div. of StateLands, therefore, we ask whether the United States clearlyincluded submerged lands within the Range and intended todefeat state title to such lands. If it did, the United Stateswill have demonstrated that it "expressly retained" thecoastal submerged lands at issue in this case, including tide-lands and lands beneath the territorial sea.BThe Master examined the legal effect of the 1957 applica-tion in one section of his Report and applied the analysis ofMontana and Utah Div. of State Lands in another. Theseinquiries overlap significantly, as the Government's argument makes clear. The Government claims that the 1957Bureau of Sport Fisheries and Wildlife application reflectedthe United States' clear intent to include submerged landswithin the proposed Range, satisfying the first inquiry underUtah Div. of State Lands. As for the second inquiry, theGovernment argues that the United States expressly retained all lands within the Range, including submergedlands, with $ 6(e) of the Alaska Statehood Act. That subsection prevented the transfer to Alaska of any lands "set apart"as a refuge. The Government maintains that the legal effectof the 1957 application was to "set apart" the Range as arefuge. If so, the Government argues, $ 6(e) reflects a clear521US1 Unit: $U74 [11-17-99 14:25:34] PAGES PGT: OPIN51Cite as: 521 U. S. 1 (1997)Opinion of the Courtcongressional intent to defeat state title. We address theterms of the application and the proper interpretation of$ 6(e) in turn. 1It is clear that the 1957 application by the Bureau of SportFisheries and Wildlife for withdrawal of lands in northeastern Alaska included submerged lands. The application con-tained a boundary description beginning from "the line ofextreme low water of the Arctic Ocean" at the Canadian bor-der and following "westerly along the said line of extremelow water, including all offshore bars, reefs, and islands" toBrownlow Point. Alaska Exh. 81, p. 3. Because the boundary follows the line of extreme low water, the Range neces-sarily encompasses the periodically submerged tidelands.The boundary description also expressly refers to certainsubmerged lands, including offshore "bars" and "reefs."Moreover, a statement of justification accompanying the ap-plication illustrates that the Range was intended to includesubmerged lands beneath other bodies of water. The state-ment explained that "countless lakes, ponds, and marshes[within the proposed Range] are nesting grounds for largenumbers of migratory waterfowl that spend about half ofeach year in the United States. . . . The river bottoms withtheir willow thickets furnish habitat for moose. This sectionof the seacoast provides habitat for polar bears, Arctic foxes,seals, and whales." Alaska Exh. 16, p. 2. As the Masterconcluded, the drafters of the application would not havethought that the habitats mentioned were only upland. Report 496.The express reference to bars and reefs and the purposeof the proposed Range each distinguish this case from Mon-tana and Utah Div. of State Lands. In those cases, we concluded that submerged lands beneath certain bodies of waterhad not been conveyed or reserved, despite the fact that thebodies of water fell within the boundaries of the conveyanceor reservation. Neither case involved an instrument of con521US1 Unit: $U74 [11-17-99 14:25:34] PAGES PGT: OPIN52 UNITED STATES v. ALASKAOpinion of the Courtveyance or reservation that, properly understood, referredto submerged lands. SeeMontana, 450 U. S., at 548, 554;Utah Div. of State Lands, 482 U. S., at 203. Moreover, ineach case, we focused on the purpose of the conveyance orreservation as a critical factor in determining federal intent.See supra, at 38-40. In Montana, we reasoned that a con-veyance of a beneficial interest in submerged lands beneatha river on the Crow Reservation would not have been neces-sary to achieve the Government's purpose in creating thereservation, because fishing was not important to the CrowTribe's way of life. 450 U. S., at 556. Similarly, inUtahDiv. of State Lands, we concluded that the Federal Government could prevent settlers from claiming lands adjacent towaters suitable for reservoir sites and could control the development of those waters, even if lands beneath the watersin question passed to the State. 482 U. S., at 202, 208.Here, in contrast, the statement of justification accompanying the 1957 Bureau of Sport Fisheries and Wildlife application demonstrated that waters within the boundaries of theRange were an essential part of the habitats of the speciesthe Range was designed to protect, and that retention oflands underlying those waters was critical to the Government's goal of preserving these aquatic habitats.Alaska resists the conclusion that the application reflectedan intent to include submerged lands within the Range ontwo grounds. First, Alaska focuses on the fact that the application sought only to withdraw lands within the Rangefrom " `all forms of appropriation under the public land laws'except mineral leasing and mining locations." Reply Brieffor State of Alaska 17 (quoting Alaska Exh. 81, p. 1). Relying on language in Utah Div. of State Lands, Alaska arguesthat submerged lands are not subject to disposal under thepublic land laws and there would have been no need to exempt them from appropriation under those laws. AlaskaOpposition Brief 17; see 482 U. S., at 203 (rejecting claim that1888 Act authorized inclusion of submerged lands in part be521US1 Unit: $U74 [11-17-99 14:25:34] PAGES PGT: OPIN53Cite as: 521 U. S. 1 (1997)Opinion of the Courtcause such lands were already exempt from sale, entry, oroccupation).Alaska misreads the application. Although the applica-tion did seek to preclude appropriation of lands within theproposed Range under the public land laws (presumablywhere those laws would otherwise apply), the applicationhad a far broader purpose: to establish a reservation for theuse of the Bureau of Sport Fisheries and Wildlife. SeeAlaska Exh. 81, p. 1 ("The purpose of this withdrawal is toestablish an Arctic Wildlife Range within all or such portionof the described lands as may be finally determined to benecessary for the preservation of the wildlife and wildernessresources of that region of northeastern Alaska"). Becausethe application was not designed solely to prevent appropriation of lands governed by the public land laws, focusing onwhether the public land laws reach submerged lands cannotend our inquiry into whether the application embraced submerged lands.Second, Alaska argues that no "international duty or public exigency" supported the inclusion of submerged landswithin the application. As we concluded earlier, however,the United States need only identify an "appropriate publicpurpose" for conveying or reserving submerged lands. Seesupra, at 40. Creation of a wildlife refuge is an appropriatepublic purpose that is served by including submerged landswithin the refuge. Alaska also appears to suggest that anapplication alone can never reveal an appropriate public purpose, because until the application is granted it cannot beknown whether submerged lands are necessary to achievethat purpose. See Reply Brief for State of Alaska 14. Ifthe Secretary of the Interior had granted the withdrawalapplication before Alaska's statehood--thereby confirmingthat an appropriate public purpose supported the reservation of submerged lands--Alaska presumably would have noclaim that the application had never covered submergedlands in the first place. It follows that Alaska objects not to521US1 Unit: $U74 [11-17-99 14:25:34] PAGES PGT: OPIN54 UNITED STATES v. ALASKAOpinion of the Courtthe notion that the application covered submerged lands, butrather to the proposition that Alaska's title to submergedlands covered by the application could be defeated eventhough the application was still pending when Alaska wasadmitted to the Union. We address below whether theUnited States could have defeated Alaska's title to lands notyet part of a completed reservation. See infra, at 59-61.Finally, it is important to point out what Alaska does notargue at this stage of the proceedings. Alaska does not defend the Master's ultimate recommendation on the alternative ground that the Bureau of Sport Fisheries and Wildlifelacked the authority to include submerged lands within anapplication to set aside lands for a wildlife refuge. In connection with its exception to the Master's recommendation that the United States retained submerged lands withinthe Reserve, Alaska argued that Congress had not properlydelegated to the Executive its authority under the Property Clause, Art. IV, $ 3, cl. 2, to divest a future State ofits title to submerged lands. Alaska makes no parallel argument here. Tr. of Oral Arg. 80-81. In any event, theGovernment does not claim here that Executive actionsalone establish in this case that the United States retainedsubmerged lands within the Range. Rather, the Government relies squarely on congressional intent underlying$ 6(e) of the Alaska Statehood Act. Our prior discussion ofratification of Executive action applies equally here. Seesupra, at 44-46. There would have been no constitutionalimpediment to Congress designating a wildlife refuge encompassing submerged lands and retaining title to it uponAlaska's admission to the Union, provided Congress' actionswere sufficiently clear to meet the requirements of our submerged lands cases. It follows that Congress could accomplish the same result by recognizing prior Executive actions.We discuss below whether Congress did so here. See infra,at 56-61.521US1 Unit: $U74 [11-17-99 14:25:34] PAGES PGT: OPIN55Cite as: 521 U. S. 1 (1997)Opinion of the CourtIn sum, we conclude that the application by the Bureau ofSport Fisheries and Wildlife to withdraw lands for a wildliferefuge reflected a clear intent to reserve submerged lands aswell as uplands. The Range's boundary was drawn so thatthe periodically submerged tidelands were necessarily in-cluded within it; the boundary description referred on itsface to submerged features such as bars and reefs. More-over, the purpose of the federal reservation--protecting thehabitats of various species found along the coast and in othernavigable water bodies within the Range--supported inclusion of submerged lands within the Range.2We now consider whether, prior to Alaska's admission tothe Union, the United States defeated the future State's titleto the submerged lands included within the proposed Range.The Alaska Statehood Act set forth a general rule that theUnited States would retain title to all property it held priorto Alaska's admission to the Union, while the State of Alaskawould acquire title to all property held by the Territory ofAlaska or its subdivisions. Pub. L. 85-508, $ 5, 72 Stat. 340.There were several exceptions to that provision. Of pri-mary relevance here is $ 6(e), which transferred to Alaska"[a]ll real and personal property of the United States situ-ated in the Territory of Alaska which is specifically used forthe sole purpose of conservation and protection of the fisher-ies and wildlife of Alaska . . . [provided] [t]hat such transfershall not include lands withdrawn or otherwise set apart asrefuges or reservations for the protection of wildlife . . . ."Id., at 340-341.In our view, under $ 6(e) of the Alaska Statehood Act, theUnited States retained the Range as lands "withdrawn orotherwise set apart as refuges or reservations for the protection of wildlife," rather than transferring the lands to Alaska.As discussed above, the 1957 application reflected an intentto include submerged lands within the Range. Shortly after521US1 Unit: $U74 [11-17-99 14:25:34] PAGES PGT: OPIN56 UNITED STATES v. ALASKAOpinion of the Courtthe application was filed, the Secretary of the Interior pub-licly announced the action. See U. S. Exh. 12 (Departmentof the Interior Press Release, Nov. 20, 1957); U. S. Exh. 32(statement of Secretary Seaton). Formal notice of the application was published in the Federal Register in January 1958.23 Fed. Reg. 364. Moreover, later in 1958, while Congresswas considering Alaska's admission to the Union, the Sec-retary of the Interior informed Congress that the applicationfor the Range was pending and submitted maps showing thearea as a federal enclave embracing submerged lands. SeeU. S. Exh. 61 (Department of Interior, Bureau of Land Man-agement, Alaska: Federal Land Withdrawals and Reservations, July 1958, Section No. 8).2 By virtue of that submis-sion, Congress was on notice when it passed the AlaskaStatehood Act that the Secretary of the Interior had con-strued his authority to withdraw or reserve lands, delegatedby the President, see Exec. Order No. 10355, 3 CFR 873(1949-1953 Comp.), to reach submerged lands. If the 1957application in fact had the legal effect of "withdraw[ing] orotherwise set[ting] apart" lands within the proposed Range"as refuges or reservations for the protection of wildlife"within the meaning of $ 6(e), then the United States retainedtitle to submerged lands as well as uplands within the Range.This is so despite $ 6(m) of the Statehood Act, which appliedthe Submerged Lands Act of 1953 to Alaska. The Sub-merged Lands Act operated to confirm Alaska's title to equalfooting lands and to transfer title to submerged lands be2 Alaska claims that the map submitted to Congress did not depict theRange, but a 1943 withdrawal under Public Land Order 82, 8 Fed. Reg.1599, revoked, 25 Fed. Reg. 12599 (1960). Five million acres of the landto be included in the Range were covered by PLO 82, and the Secretaryof the Interior announced a modification of the terms of PLO 82 and thefiling of the application for the Range at the same time. See U. S. Exh.12, p. 2; U. S. Exh. 32, p. 2. The importance of the map is not that itprecisely depicts the Range's current boundaries, but that it shows thearea encompassing the Range as a proposed federal enclave embracingsubmerged lands.521US1 Unit: $U74 [11-17-99 14:25:34] PAGES PGT: OPIN57Cite as: 521 U. S. 1 (1997)Opinion of the Courtneath the territorial sea to Alaska at statehood, unless theUnited States clearly withheld submerged lands withineither category prior to statehood. In $ 6(e) of the State-hood Act, Congress clearly contemplated continued federalownership of certain submerged lands--both inland sub-merged lands and submerged lands beneath the territorialsea--so long as those submerged lands were among those"withdrawn or otherwise set apart as refuges or reservations for the protection of wildlife."UnderMontana and Utah Div. of State Lands, an intentto defeat state title to submerged lands must be clear. Asthis discussion illustrates, the operative provision of theAlaska Statehood Act, $ 6(e), reflects a very clear intent todefeat state title. The only remaining question is whetheran application by the head of the Bureau of Sport Fisheriesand Wildlife, upon which the Secretary of the Interior hadnot yet acted, had the effect of "withdraw[ing] or otherwiseset[ting] apart" lands within the proposed Range "as refugesor reservations for the protection of wildlife" within themeaning of $ 6(e).Under a Department of the Interior regulation first promulgated in 1952, 17 Fed. Reg. 7368, and in effect at thetime Congress passed the Statehood Act, an application fora withdrawal temporarily segregated the lands covered bythe application. That regulation provided:"The noting of the receipt of the application . . . shalltemporarily segregate such lands from settlement, location, sale, selection, entry, lease, and other forms of dis-posal under the public land laws . . . to the extent thatthe withdrawal or reservation applied for, if effected,would prevent such forms of disposal. To that extent,action on all prior applications the allowance of which isdiscretionary, and on all subsequent applications, respecting such lands will be suspended until final actionon the application for withdrawal or reservation hasbeen taken." 43 CFR $ 295.11(a) (Supp. 1958).521US1 Unit: $U74 [11-17-99 14:25:34] PAGES PGT: OPIN58 UNITED STATES v. ALASKAOpinion of the CourtThe regulation temporarily foreclosed any use of the landthat a decision by the Secretary of the Interior to grant theapplication would prevent. It also suspended all pendingdiscretionary applications and all subsequent applicationsfor other uses of the land. This temporary segregation remained in effect unless and until the Secretary of the Inte-rior denied an application. $ 295.13(c).The Special Master adopted the United States' view thatthe application and the regulation together "set apart" alllands within the Range. Report 464. We agree that thisconclusion follows from a straightforward application of$ 295.11. Alaska argues that the regulation was not intended to operate on submerged lands. The object of theregulation is quite clear: to prevent, during the pendency ofan application, any use of the land that would frustratefederal control if the application were ultimately granted.That goal is implicated wherever a threat to future federalcontrol exists--whether the lands in question are uplands orsubmerged lands. The State focuses on the fact that theregulation segregates lands from sale, entry, or other formsof disposal, and argues that submerged lands are ordinarilynot subject to such forms of disposal. Cf. Utah Div. of StateLands, 482 U. S., at 203. But the language in Utah Div.of State Lands on which Alaska relies reflects the Court'srecognition that under the general land laws opening uplands for settlement, private parties ordinarily cannot layclaims to submerged lands. In Alaska, however, specificlaws had opened up certain submerged lands for mining wellprior to the filing of the application for the Range. See, e. g.,Act of June 6, 1900, $ 26, 31 Stat. 329-330 (providing that"land and shoal water between low and mean high tide onthe shores, bays, and inlets of Bering Sea . . . shall be subjectto exploration and mining for gold and other precious metals"); Act of May 31, 1938, ch. 297, 52 Stat. 588 (extendingprovisions beyond the Bering Sea to "the shores, bays, andinlets of Alaska"); Act of Aug. 8, 1947, 61 Stat. 916 (extending521US1 Unit: $U74 [11-17-99 14:25:34] PAGES PGT: OPIN59Cite as: 521 U. S. 1 (1997)Opinion of the Courtprovisions to lands beneath nontidal navigable waters). Inlight of these provisions, Alaska's premise--that there wouldhave been no need to withdraw or set apart submerged landsto preserve ultimate federal control--is flawed.Although the Master concluded that the application andregulation together "set apart" all lands within the Range,the Master accepted Alaska's argument that the lands hadnot been set apart "as [a] refug[e] . . . for the protection ofwildlife" within the meaning of $ 6(e) of the Alaska StatehoodAct. (Emphasis added.) The Master found that the appli-cation "did not have the same effect as a reservation of lands,dedicating them to a specific public purpose." Report 464.The Master reasoned that under the proviso to $ 6(e), theUnited States would retain ownership only of "wildliferefuges or reservations already established at statehood."Ibid. (emphasis added). Because the application had not yetbeen granted, the proviso to $ 6(e) would not prevent thetransfer of lands within the Range to Alaska.We disagree. Under the Master's interpretation, $ 6(e)applies only to completed reservations of land. But Congress did not limit $ 6(e) to completed reservations. Rather,Congress provided that the United States would not transfer to Alaska lands "withdrawn or otherwise set apart asrefuges" for the protection of wildlife. (Emphasis added.)The Master's reading of $ 6(e) would render the broader terminology superfluous. The Court will avoid an interpretation of a statute that "renders some words altogether redundant." Gustafson v. Alloyd Co., 513 U. S. 561, 574 (1995).In light of Congress' clear intent, it was error for the Masterto conclude that the lands within the Range were not "otherwise set apart as [a] refug[e]" unless the United States couldpoint to a completed reservation. In the phrase "set apartas [a] refug[e]," the word "as" does not carry the requirementthat the refuge be presently established; the phrase aptlydescribes the administrative segregation of lands designatedto become a wildlife refuge. Accordingly, the application521US1 Unit: $U74 [11-17-99 14:25:34] PAGES PGT: OPIN60 UNITED STATES v. ALASKAOpinion of the Courtand regulation, taken together, placed the Range squarelywithin the proviso of $ 6(e), preventing a transfer of landscovered by the application to Alaska.The partial dissent's contrary conclusion rests on the viewthat the lands covered by the application "had no certaintyof ever becoming a refuge or reservation." Post, at 71(Thomas, J., concurring in part and dissenting in part). Butthe dissent identifies nothing in $ 6(e) requiring "certainty"that a projected final action will in fact occur, convertinglands designated for a particular use into lands so used, inorder for $ 6(e)'s proviso to prevent the transfer of such landsto Alaska. Moreover, our reading of the proviso of $ 6(e) isreinforced by Alaska's concession that the uplands withinthe Range are held by the United States, not Alaska. Tr.of Oral Arg. 79; Letter from Attorney General Bruce M.Botelho to the Clerk of the Court, Mar. 3, 1997, p. 1. If theMaster were correct that the application and regulation didnot operate to "set apart" submerged lands in the proposedRange within the meaning of $ 6(e), then it follows that thesame instruments could not set apart uplands within theRange. Nevertheless, Alaska disclaims ownership of theuplands. The State argues that it could only have claimeduplands within the Refuge under $ 6(b) of the Alaska Statehood Act, which authorized Alaska to select a specifiedamount of "vacant, unappropriated, and unreserved" federalland. Since Alaska did not select the uplands before theSecretary of the Interior approved the application for theRange in 1960, and since after 1960 the uplands were nolonger "vacant, unappropriated, and unreserved," the Statecannot now argue that it owns the uplands. Ibid. But theState's argument ignores the main clause of $ 6(e). Underthat clause, the United States transferred to Alaska "[a]llreal and personal property of the United States situated inthe Territory of Alaska which is specifically used for the solepurpose of conservation and protection of the fisheries andwildlife of Alaska . . . ." The State does not explain why all521US1 Unit: $U74 [11-17-99 14:25:34] PAGES PGT: OPIN61Cite as: 521 U. S. 1 (1997)Opinion of the Courtof the lands within the Range--uplands as well as sub-merged lands--would not have been transferred to Alaska atstatehood as real property used for the protection of wildlifeunless covered by the proviso. Unless all lands--submergedlands and uplands--covered by the application were "setapart" within the meaning of the proviso to $ 6(e), they wouldhave passed to Alaska under the main clause of $ 6(e).There is no basis for concluding that the United States retained uplands but not submerged lands within the Range.CIn sum, we conclude that the United States did not trans-fer to Alaska submerged lands within the Range at statehood. The 1957 application to create the wildlife refugeclearly encompassed submerged lands. Since its seawardboundary is the low-water line along Alaska's coast, theRange necessarily encompasses the tidelands. Further reflecting an intent to withhold submerged lands is the state-ment of justification accompanying the application, which describes the habitat of various species along the coast andbeneath inland waters. A Department of the Interior regulation in effect when the application was filed and whenCongress passed the Alaska Statehood Act operated to "segregate" the lands for which the application was pending.Section 6(e) of the Alaska Statehood Act expressly preventedlands that had been "set apart as [a] refug[e]" from passingto Alaska. It follows that, because all of the lands coveredby the 1957 application had been "set apart" for future useas a refuge, the United States retained title to submergedlands within the Range. We therefore sustain the UnitedStates' exception to the Master's recommendation.VIWe overrule Alaska's exceptions to the Special Master'srecommended rulings that (1) Alaska's submerged lands inthe vicinity of barrier islands should be measured as a 3-mile521US1 Unit: $U74 [11-17-99 14:25:34] PAGES PGT: OPIN62 UNITED STATES v. ALASKAOpinion of Thomas, J.belt from a coastline following the normal baseline under theConvention on the Territorial Sea and the Contiguous Zone;(2) Dinkum Sands is not an island constituting part of Alas-ka's coastline under the Submerged Lands Act; and (3) submerged lands beneath tidally influenced waters within theboundary of the National Petroleum Reserve-Alaska did notpass to Alaska at statehood. We sustain the United States'exception to the Special Master's recommended ruling thatoffshore submerged lands within the boundaries of the ArcticNational Wildlife Refuge passed to Alaska at statehood.The recommendations of the Special Master are adoptedto the extent that they are consistent with this opinion. Theparties are directed to prepare and submit an appropriatedecree for this Court's consideration. The Court retains jurisdiction to entertain such further proceedings, enter suchorders, and issue such writs as from time to time may bedetermined necessary or advisable to effectuate and supple-ment the forthcoming decree and the rights of the respective parties.The parties shall bear their own costs.