to Parts I, II-A, and II-B, concluding:1. The most faithful reading of Rule 804(b)(3)--which renders admissible "statement[s] which . . . so far ten[d] to subject the declarant to . . .criminal liability . . . that a reasonable person . . . would not have made[them] unless believing [them] to be true"--is that it does not allowadmission of non-self-inculpatory statements, even if they are madewithin a broader narrative that is generally self-inculpatory. Althoughthe statutory term "statement" can mean either an extended declarationor a single remark, the principle behind the Rule, so far as it is discernible from the text, points clearly to the narrower reading, so that onlythose remarks within a confession that are individually self-inculpatoryare covered. The Rule is founded on the commonsense notion that reasonable people, even those who are not especially honest, tend not tomake self-inculpatory statements unless they believe them to be true.This notion does not extend to a confession's non-self-inculpatoryparts--to parts that are actually self-exculpatory, or to collateral statements, even ones that are neutral as to interest. A district court maynot just assume that a statement is self-inculpatory because it is part ofa fuller confession, especially when the statement implicates someoneelse. The policy expressed in the Rule's text is clear enough that itoutweighs whatever force lies in ambiguous statements contained in theAdvisory Committee Notes to the Rule. Pp. 598-602.2. The foregoing reading does not eviscerate the against penal interest exception. There are many circumstances in which Rule 804(b)(3)512us3$88z 12-28-97 16:12:24 PAGES OPINPGT595Cite as: 512 U. S. 594 (1994)Syllabusdoes allow the admission of statements that inculpate a criminal defendant. Even the confessions of arrested accomplices may be admissible ifthey are truly self-inculpatory, rather than merely attempts to shiftblame or curry favor. The question under the Rule is always whetherthe statement at issue was sufficiently against the declarant's penal interest under the Rule's language, and this question can only be answered in light of all the surrounding circumstances. Pp. 602-604.Justice O'Connor, joined by Justice Scalia, concluded in PartII-C that, on remand, the Court of Appeals must inquire in the firstinstance whether each of the statements in Harris' confession was trulyself-inculpatory. Pp. 604-605.O'Connor, J., announced the judgment of the Court and delivered theopinion of the Court with respect to Parts I, II-A, and II-B, in whichBlackmun, Stevens, Scalia, Souter, and Ginsburg, JJ., joined, and anopinion with respect to Part II-C, in which Scalia, J., joined. Scalia,J., filed a concurring opinion, post, p. 605. Ginsburg, J., filed an opinionconcurring in part and concurring in the judgment, in which Blackmun,Stevens, and Souter, JJ., joined, post, p. 607. Kennedy, J., filed anopinion concurring in the judgment, in which Rehnquist, C. J., andThomas, J., joined, post, p. 611.Benjamin S. Waxman argued the cause and filed briefsfor petitioner.John F. Manning argued the cause for the United States.With him on the brief were Solicitor General Days andAssistant Attorney General Harris.**Briefs of amici curiae urging affirmance were filed for the State ofCalifornia et al. by Daniel E. Lungren, Attorney General of California,and M. Howard Wayne, Deputy Attorney General, and by the AttorneysGeneral for their respective jurisdictions as follows: Larry EchoHawk ofIdaho, Pamela Carter of Indiana, Robert T. Stephan of Kansas, Chris Gorman of Kentucky, Richard P. Ieyoub of Louisiana, J. Joseph Curran, Jr.,of Maryland, Frank J. Kelley of Michigan, Joseph P. Mazurek of Montana,Don Stenberg of Nebraska, Frankie Sue Del Papa of Nevada, Michael F.Easley of North Carolina, Lee Fisher of Ohio, Jeffrey B. Pine of RhodeIsland, T. Travis Medlock of South Carolina, Jan Graham of Utah, Jeffrey L. Amestoy of Vermont, and James S. Gilmore III of Virginia;and for Wayne County, Michigan, by John D. O'Hair and Timothy A.Baughman.512us3$88J 12-28-97 16:12:24 PAGES OPINPGT596 WILLIAMSON v. UNITED STATESOpinion of the CourtJustice O'Connor delivered the opinion of the Court,except as to Part II-C.In this case we clarify the scope of the hearsay exceptionfor statements against penal interest. Fed. Rule Evid.804(b)(3). IA deputy sheriff stopped the rental car driven by ReginaldHarris for weaving on the highway. Harris consented to asearch of the car, which revealed 19 kilograms of cocaine intwo suitcases in the trunk. Harris was promptly arrested.Shortly after Harris' arrest, Special Agent Donald Waltonof the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) interviewedhim by telephone. During that conversation, Harris saidthat he got the cocaine from an unidentified Cuban in FortLauderdale; that the cocaine belonged to petitioner William-son; and that it was to be delivered that night to a particulardumpster. Williamson was also connected to Harris byphysical evidence: The luggage bore the initials of Williamson's sister, Williamson was listed as an additional driver onthe car rental agreement, and an envelope addressed to Williamson and a receipt with Williamson's girlfriend's addresswere found in the glove compartment.Several hours later, Agent Walton spoke to Harris in per-son. During that interview, Harris said he had rented thecar a few days earlier and had driven it to Fort Lauderdaleto meet Williamson. According to Harris, he had gotten thecocaine from a Cuban who was Williamson's acquaintance,and the Cuban had put the cocaine in the car with a notetelling Harris how to deliver the drugs. Harris repeatedthat he had been instructed to leave the drugs in a certaindumpster, to return to his car, and to leave without waitingfor anyone to pick up the drugs.Agent Walton then took steps to arrange a controlled de-livery of the cocaine. But as Walton was preparing to leavethe interview room, Harris "got out of [his] chair . . . and . . .512us3$88J 12-28-97 16:12:24 PAGES OPINPGT597Cite as: 512 U. S. 594 (1994)Opinion of the Courttook a half step toward [Walton] . . . and . . . said, . . . `I can'tlet you do that,' threw his hands up and said `that's not true,I can't let you go up there for no reason.' " App. 40. Harristold Walton he had lied about the Cuban, the note, and thedumpster. The real story, Harris said, was that he wastransporting the cocaine to Atlanta for Williamson, and thatWilliamson was traveling in front of him in another rentalcar. Harris added that after his car was stopped, Williamson turned around and drove past the location of the stop,where he could see Harris' car with its trunk open.Ibid.Because Williamson had apparently seen the police searchingthe car, Harris explained that it would be impossible to makea controlled delivery.Id., at 41.Harris told Walton that he had lied about the source of thedrugs because he was afraid of Williamson. Id., at 61, 68;see also id., at 30-31. Though Harris freely implicated himself, he did not want his story to be recorded, and he refusedto sign a written version of the statement. Id., at 24-25.Walton testified that he had promised to report any coop-eration by Harris to the Assistant United States Attorney.Walton said Harris was not promised any reward or otherbenefit for cooperating.Id., at 25-26.Williamson was eventually convicted of possessing cocainewith intent to distribute, conspiring to possess cocaine withintent to distribute, and traveling interstate to promote thedistribution of cocaine, 21 U. S. C. $$ 841(a)(1), 846; 18 U. S. C.$ 1952. When called to testify at Williamson's trial, Harrisrefused, even though the prosecution gave him use immunityand the court ordered him to testify and eventually held himin contempt. The District Court then ruled that, underRule 804(b)(3), Agent Walton could relate what Harris hadsaid to him:"The ruling of the Court is that the statements . . . areadmissible under [Rule 804(b)(3)], which deals withstatements against interest.512us3$88J 12-28-97 16:12:24 PAGES OPINPGT598 WILLIAMSON v. UNITED STATESOpinion of the Court"First, defendant Harris' statements clearly impli-cated himself, and therefore, are against his penalinterest."Second, defendant Harris, the declarant, isunavailable."And third, as I found yesterday, there are sufficientcorroborating circumstances in this case to ensure thetrustworthiness of his testimony. Therefore, under[United States v. Harrell, 788 F. 2d 1524 (CA11 1986)],these statements by defendant Harris implicating [Williamson] are admissible." App. 51-52.Williamson appealed his conviction, claiming that the ad-mission of Harris' statements violated Rule 804(b)(3) and theConfrontation Clause of the Sixth Amendment. The Courtof Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit affirmed without opinion,judgt. order reported at 981 F. 2d 1262 (1992), and wegranted certiorari. 510 U. S. 1039 (1994).IIAThe hearsay rule, Fed. Rule Evid. 802, is premised on thetheory that out-of-court statements are subject to particularhazards. The declarant might be lying; he might have mis-perceived the events which he relates; he might have faultymemory; his words might be misunderstood or taken out ofcontext by the listener. And the ways in which these dangers are minimized for in-court statements--the oath, thewitness' awareness of the gravity of the proceedings, thejury's ability to observe the witness' demeanor, and, mostimportantly, the right of the opponent to cross-examine--aregenerally absent for things said out of court.Nonetheless, the Federal Rules of Evidence also recognizethat some kinds of out-of-court statements are less subjectto these hearsay dangers, and therefore except them fromthe general rule that hearsay is inadmissible. One such cat512us3$88J 12-28-97 16:12:24 PAGES OPINPGT599Cite as: 512 U. S. 594 (1994)Opinion of the Courtegory covers statements that are against the declarant'sinterest:"statement[s] which . . . at the time of [their] making . . .so far tended to subject the declarant to . . . criminalliability . . . that a reasonable person in the declarant'sposition would not have made the statement[s] unlessbelieving [them] to be true." Fed. Rule Evid. 804(b)(3).To decide whether Harris' confession is made admissibleby Rule 804(b)(3), we must first determine what the Rulemeans by "statement," which Federal Rule of Evidence801(a)(1) defines as "an oral or written assertion." One possible meaning, "a report or narrative," Webster's Third NewInternational Dictionary 2229, defn. 2(a) (1961), connotes anextended declaration. Under this reading, Harris' entireconfession--even if it contains both self-inculpatory andnon-self-inculpatory parts--would be admissible so long asin the aggregate the confession sufficiently inculpates him.Another meaning of "statement," "a single declaration or remark," ibid., defn. 2(b), would make Rule 804(b)(3) cover onlythose declarations or remarks within the confession that areindividually self-inculpatory. See also id., at 131 (defining"assertion" as a "declaration"); id., at 586 (defining "declaration" as a "statement").Although the text of the Rule does not directly resolve thematter, the principle behind the Rule, so far as it is discernible from the text, points clearly to the narrower reading.Rule 804(b)(3) is founded on the commonsense notion thatreasonable people, even reasonable people who are not especially honest, tend not to make self-inculpatory statementsunless they believe them to be true. This notion simplydoes not extend to the broader definition of "statement."The fact that a person is making a broadly self-inculpatoryconfession does not make more credible the confession's nonself-inculpatory parts. One of the most effective ways to lie512us3$88J 12-28-97 16:12:24 PAGES OPINPGT600 WILLIAMSON v. UNITED STATESOpinion of the Courtis to mix falsehood with truth, especially truth that seemsparticularly persuasive because of its self-inculpatory nature.In this respect, it is telling that the non-self-inculpatorythings Harris said in his first statement actually proved tobe false, as Harris himself admitted during the second interrogation. And when part of the confession is actually self-exculpatory, the generalization on which Rule 804(b)(3)is founded becomes even less applicable. Self-exculpatorystatements are exactly the ones which people are most likelyto make even when they are false; and mere proximity toother, self-inculpatory, statements does not increase theplausibility of the self-exculpatory statements.We therefore cannot agree with Justice Kennedy's suggestion that the Rule can be read as expressing a policy thatcollateral statements--even ones that are not in any wayagainst the declarant's interest--are admissible, post, at 614.Nothing in the text of Rule 804(b)(3) or the general theoryof the hearsay Rules suggests that admissibility should turnon whether a statement is collateral to a self-inculpatorystatement. The fact that a statement is self-inculpatorydoes make it more reliable; but the fact that a statement iscollateral to a self-inculpatory statement says nothing at allabout the collateral statement's reliability. We see no reason why collateral statements, even ones that are neutralas to interest, post, at 617-619 (Kennedy, J., concurring injudgment), should be treated any differently from otherhearsay statements that are generally excluded.Congress certainly could, subject to the constraints of theConfrontation Clause, make statements admissible based ontheir proximity to self-inculpatory statements. But we willnot lightly assume that the ambiguous language means anything so inconsistent with the Rule's underlying theory.See Cooter & Gell v. Hartmarx Corp., 496 U. S. 384, 394-395,408-409 (1990). In our view, the most faithful reading ofRule 804(b)(3) is that it does not allow admission of non-selfinculpatory statements, even if they are made within a512us3$88J 12-28-97 16:12:25 PAGES OPINPGT601Cite as: 512 U. S. 594 (1994)Opinion of the Courtbroader narrative that is generally self-inculpatory. Thedistrict court may not just assume for purposes of Rule804(b)(3) that a statement is self-inculpatory because it ispart of a fuller confession, and this is especially true whenthe statement implicates someone else. "[T]he arrest statements of a codefendant have traditionally been viewed withspecial suspicion. Due to his strong motivation to implicatethe defendant and to exonerate himself, a codefendant'sstatements about what the defendant said or did are lesscredible than ordinary hearsay evidence." Lee v. Illinois,476 U. S. 530, 541 (1986) (internal quotation marks omitted);see also Bruton v. United States, 391 U. S. 123, 136 (1968);Dutton v. Evans, 400 U. S. 74, 98 (1970) (Harlan, J., concurring in result).Justice Kennedy suggests that the Advisory Committee's Notes to Rule 804(b)(3) should be read as endorsingthe position we reject--that an entire narrative, includingnon-self-inculpatory parts (but excluding the clearly selfserving parts, post, at 620), may be admissible if it is inthe aggregate self-inculpatory. See post, at 614-615. TheNotes read, in relevant part:"[T]he third-party confession . . . may include statements implicating [the accused], and under the generaltheory of declarations against interest they would be admissible as related statements. . . . [Douglas v. Alabama,380 U. S. 415 (1965), and Bruton v. United States, 391U. S. 123 (1968),] . . . by no means require that all statements implicating another person be excluded from thecategory of declarations against interest. Whether astatement is in fact against interest must be determinedfrom the circumstances of each case. Thus a statementadmitting guilt and implicating another person, madewhile in custody, may well be motivated by a desire tocurry favor with the authorities and hence fail to qualifyas against interest. . . . On the other hand, the same512us3$88J 12-28-97 16:12:25 PAGES OPINPGT602 WILLIAMSON v. UNITED STATESOpinion of the Courtwords spoken under different circumstances, e. g., to anacquaintance, would have no difficulty in qualifying. . . ."The balancing of self-serving against dissenting [sic]aspects of a declaration is discussed in McCormick$ 256." 28 U. S. C. App., p. 790.This language, however, is not particularly clear, and someof it--especially the Advisory Committee's endorsement ofthe position taken by Dean McCormick's treatise--points theother way:"A certain latitude as to contextual statements, neutralas to interest, giving meaning to the declaration againstinterest seems defensible, but bringing in self-servingstatements contextually seems questionable.. . . . .". . . [A]dmit[ting] the disserving parts of the declara-tion, and exclud[ing] the self-serving parts . . . seemsthe most realistic method of adjusting admissibility totrustworthiness, where the serving and disserving partscan be severed." See C. McCormick, Law of Evidence$ 256, pp. 552-553 (1954) (footnotes omitted).Without deciding exactly how much weight to give the Notesin this particular situation, compare Schiavone v. Fortune,477 U. S. 21, 31 (1986) (Notes are to be given some weight),with Green v. Bock Laundry Machine Co., 490 U. S. 504, 528(1989) (Scalia, J., concurring in judgment) (Notes ought tobe given no weight), we conclude that the policy expressedin the Rule's text points clearly enough in one direction thatit outweighs whatever force the Notes may have. Andthough Justice Kennedy believes that the text can fairlybe read as expressing a policy of admitting collateral statements, post, at 614, for the reasons given above we disagree.BWe also do not share Justice Kennedy's fears that ourreading of the Rule "eviscerate[s] the against penal interest512us3$88J 12-28-97 16:12:25 PAGES OPINPGT603Cite as: 512 U. S. 594 (1994)Opinion of the Courtexception," post, at 616 (internal quotation marks omitted),or makes it lack "meaningful effect,"ibid. There are manycircumstances in which Rule 804(b)(3) does allow the admis-sion of statements that inculpate a criminal defendant.Even the confessions of arrested accomplices may be admissible if they are truly self-inculpatory, rather than merelyattempts to shift blame or curry favor.For instance, a declarant's squarely self-inculpatory con-fession--"yes, I killed X"--will likely be admissible underRule 804(b)(3) against accomplices of his who are being triedunder a co-conspirator liability theory. SeePinkerton v.United States, 328 U. S. 640, 647 (1946). Likewise, by showing that the declarant knew something, a self-inculpatorystatement can in some situations help the jury infer that hisconfederates knew it as well. And when seen with otherevidence, an accomplice's self-inculpatory statement can inculpate the defendant directly: "I was robbing the bank onFriday morning," coupled with someone's testimony that thedeclarant and the defendant drove off together Friday morning, is evidence that the defendant also participated in therobbery.Moreover, whether a statement is self-inculpatory or notcan only be determined by viewing it in context. Evenstatements that are on their face neutral may actually beagainst the declarant's interest. "I hid the gun in Joe'sapartment" may not be a confession of a crime; but if it islikely to help the police find the murder weapon, then it iscertainly self-inculpatory. "Sam and I went to Joe's house"might be against the declarant's interest if a reasonable person in the declarant's shoes would realize that being linked toJoe and Sam would implicate the declarant in Joe and Sam'sconspiracy. And other statements that give the police significant details about the crime may also, depending on thesituation, be against the declarant's interest. The questionunder Rule 804(b)(3) is always whether the statement wassufficiently against the declarant's penal interest "that a rea512us3$88J 12-28-97 16:12:25 PAGES OPINPGT604 WILLIAMSON v. UNITED STATESOpinion of O'Connor, J.sonable person in the declarant's position would not havemade the statement unless believing it to be true," and thisquestion can only be answered in light of all the surrounding circumstances.*CIn this case, however, we cannot conclude that all thatHarris said was properly admitted. Some of Harris' confession would clearly have been admissible under Rule804(b)(3); for instance, when he said he knew there was cocaine in the suitcase, he essentially forfeited his only possibledefense to a charge of cocaine possession, lack of knowledge.But other parts of his confession, especially the parts thatimplicated Williamson, did little to subject Harris himself tocriminal liability. A reasonable person in Harris' positionmight even think that implicating someone else would decrease his practical exposure to criminal liability, at least sofar as sentencing goes. Small fish in a big conspiracy oftenget shorter sentences than people who are running the wholeshow, see, e. g., United States Sentencing Commission,Guidelines Manual $ 3B1.2 (Nov. 1993), especially if the smallfish are willing to help the authorities catch the big ones, see,e. g., id., $ 5K1.1.Nothing in the record shows that the District Court or theCourt of Appeals inquired whether each of the statements inHarris' confession was truly self-inculpatory. As we explained above, this can be a fact-intensive inquiry, whichwould require careful examination of all the circumstancessurrounding the criminal activity involved; we therefore remand to the Court of Appeals to conduct this inquiry in thefirst instance.*Of course, an accomplice's statements may also be admissible underother provisions of Rules 801-804. For instance, statements made in furtherance of the conspiracy may be admissible under Rule 801(d)(2)(E), andother statements that bear circumstantial guarantees of trustworthinessmay be admissible under Rule 804(b)(5), the catchall hearsay exception.512us3$88J 12-28-97 16:12:25 PAGES OPINPGT605Cite as: 512 U. S. 594 (1994)Scalia, J., concurringIn light of this disposition, we need not address William-son's claim that the statements were also made inadmissibleby the Confrontation Clause, see generally White v. Illinois,502 U. S. 346 (1992), and in particular we need not decidewhether the hearsay exception for declarations against inter-est is "firmly rooted" for Confrontation Clause purposes.Compare, e. g., United States v. Seeley, 892 F. 2d 1, 2 (CA11989) (holding that the exception is firmly rooted), withUnited States v. Flores, 985 F. 2d 770 (CA5 1993) (holdingthe contrary). We note, however, that the very fact that astatement is genuinely self-inculpatory--which our readingof Rule 804(b)(3) requires--is itself one of the "particularizedguarantees of trustworthiness" that makes a statementadmissible under the Confrontation Clause. See Lee v. Illinois, 476 U. S. 530, 543-545 (1986). We also need not decidewhether, as some Courts of Appeals have held, the secondsentence of Rule 804(b)(3)--"A statement tending to exposethe declarant to criminal liability and offered to exculpatethe accused is not admissible unless corroborating circum-stances clearly indicate the trustworthiness of the statement" (emphasis added)--also requires that statementsinculpating the accused be supported by corroborating circumstances. See, e. g., United States v. Alvarez, 584 F. 2d694, 701 (CA5 1978);United States v. Taggart, 944 F. 2d 837,840 (CA11 1991). The judgment of the Court of Appeals isvacated, and the case is remanded for further proceedings.