Illinois State Trooper Daniel Gillette stopped respondent for speeding on an interstate highway. When Gilletteradioed the police dispatcher to report the stop, a secondtrooper, Craig Graham, a member of the Illinois State PoliceDrug Interdiction Team, overheard the transmission and immediately headed for the scene with his narcotics-detectiondog. When they arrived, respondent's car was on the shoulder of the road and respondent was in Gillette's vehicle.While Gillette was in the process of writing a warning ticket,Graham walked his dog around respondent's car. The dogalerted at the trunk. Based on that alert, the officerssearched the trunk, found marijuana, and arrested respondent. The entire incident lasted less than 10 minutes.*Briefs of amici curiae urging reversal were filed for the State of Arkansas et al. by Mike Beebe, Attorney General of Arkansas, Lauren Elizabeth Heil, Assistant Attorney General, and Dan Schweitzer, and by theAttorneys General for their respective States as follows: Troy King ofAlabama, Terry Goddard of Arizona, Christopher L. Morano of Connecticut, M. Jane Brady of Delaware, Thurbert E. Baker of Georgia, Mark J.Bennett of Hawaii, Lawrence G. Wasden of Idaho, Steve Carter of Indiana,Phill Kline of Kansas, Charles C. Foti of Louisiana, G. Steven Rowe ofMaine, J. Joseph Curran, Jr., of Maryland, Michael A. Cox of Michigan,Jon Bruning of Nebraska, Peter C. Harvey of New Jersey, Patricia A.Madrid of New Mexico, Roy Cooper of North Carolina, Wayne Stenehjemof North Dakota, Jim Petro of Ohio, Hardy Myers of Oregon, Henry D.McMaster of South Carolina, Lawrence E. Long of South Dakota, GregAbbott of Texas, Mark L. Shurtleff of Utah, William H. Sorrell of Vermont, Jerry Kilgore of Virginia, and Patrick J. Crank of Wyoming; andfor the Illinois Association of Chiefs of Police et al. by James G. Sotos.Briefs of amici curiae urging affirmance were filed for the AmericanCivil Liberties Union et al. by Barry Sullivan, Jacob I. Corre', Steven R.Shapiro, and Harvey Grossman; and for the National Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers by Jeffrey T. Green, John Wesley Hall, Jr., andDavid M. Siegel.543US2 Unit: $U17 [03-06-07 14:47:41] PAGES PGT: OPIN407Cite as: 543 U. S. 405 (2005)Opinion of the CourtRespondent was convicted of a narcotics offense and sen-tenced to 12 years' imprisonment and a $256,136 fine. Thetrial judge denied his motion to suppress the seized evidenceand to quash his arrest. He held that the officers had notunnecessarily prolonged the stop and that the dog alert wassufficiently reliable to provide probable cause to conduct thesearch. Although the Appellate Court affirmed, the IllinoisSupreme Court reversed, concluding that because the caninesniff was performed without any " `specific and articulablefacts' " to suggest drug activity, the use of the dog "unjusti-fiably enlarg[ed] the scope of a routine traffic stop into a druginvestigation." 207 Ill. 2d 504, 510, 802 N. E. 2d 202, 205(2003).The question on which we granted certiorari, 541 U. S. 972(2004), is narrow: "Whether the Fourth Amendment requiresreasonable, articulable suspicion to justify using a drugdetection dog to sniff a vehicle during a legitimate trafficstop." Pet. for Cert. i. Thus, we proceed on the assumption that the officer conducting the dog sniff had no information about respondent except that he had been stopped forspeeding; accordingly, we have omitted any reference to factsabout respondent that might have triggered a modicum ofsuspicion.Here, the initial seizure of respondent when he wasstopped on the highway was based on probable cause andwas concededly lawful. It is nevertheless clear that a seizure that is lawful at its inception can violate the FourthAmendment if its manner of execution unreasonably infringes interests protected by the Constitution. UnitedStates v. Jacobsen, 466 U. S. 109, 124 (1984). A seizure thatis justified solely by the interest in issuing a warning ticketto the driver can become unlawful if it is prolonged beyondthe time reasonably required to complete that mission. Inan earlier case involving a dog sniff that occurred duringan unreasonably prolonged traffic stop, the Illinois SupremeCourt held that use of the dog and the subsequent discovery543US2 Unit: $U17 [03-06-07 14:47:41] PAGES PGT: OPIN408 ILLINOIS v. CABALLESOpinion of the Courtof contraband were the product of an unconstitutional sei-zure.People v. Cox, 202 Ill. 2d 462, 782 N. E. 2d 275 (2002).We may assume that a similar result would be warranted inthis case if the dog sniff had been conducted while respondent was being unlawfully detained.In the state-court proceedings, however, the judges carefully reviewed the details of Officer Gillette's conversationswith respondent and the precise timing of his radio transmis-sions to the dispatcher to determine whether he had improperly extended the duration of the stop to enable the dog sniffto occur. We have not recounted those details because weaccept the state court's conclusion that the duration of thestop in this case was entirely justified by the traffic offenseand the ordinary inquiries incident to such a stop.Despite this conclusion, the Illinois Supreme Court heldthat the initially lawful traffic stop became an unlawful seizure solely as a result of the canine sniff that occurred outside respondent's stopped car. That is, the court characterized the dog sniff as the cause rather than the consequenceof a constitutional violation. In its view, the use of the dogconverted the citizen-police encounter from a lawful trafficstop into a drug investigation, and because the shift in purpose was not supported by any reasonable suspicion that respondent possessed narcotics, it was unlawful. In our view,conducting a dog sniff would not change the character of atraffic stop that is lawful at its inception and otherwise executed in a reasonable manner, unless the dog sniff itself infringed respondent's constitutionally protected interest inprivacy. Our cases hold that it did not.Official conduct that does not "compromise any legitimateinterest in privacy" is not a search subject to the FourthAmendment. Jacobsen, 466 U. S., at 123. We have heldthat any interest in possessing contraband cannot be deemed"legitimate," and thus, governmental conduct that only reveals the possession of contraband "compromises no legitimate privacy interest." Ibid. This is because the expecta543US2 Unit: $U17 [03-06-07 14:47:41] PAGES PGT: OPIN409Cite as: 543 U. S. 405 (2005)Opinion of the Courttion "that certain facts will not come to the attention of theauthorities" is not the same as an interest in "privacy thatsociety is prepared to consider reasonable." Id., at 122(punctuation omitted). InUnited States v. Place, 462 U. S.696 (1983), we treated a canine sniff by a well-trainednarcotics-detection dog as"sui generis" because it "disclosesonly the presence or absence of narcotics, a contrabanditem." Id., at 707; see also Indianapolis v. Edmond, 531U. S. 32, 40 (2000). Respondent likewise concedes that"drug sniffs are designed, and if properly conducted are gen-erally likely, to reveal only the presence of contraband."Brief for Respondent 17. Although respondent argues thatthe error rates, particularly the existence of false positives,call into question the premise that drug-detection dogs alertonly to contraband, the record contains no evidence or findings that support his argument. Moreover, respondent doesnot suggest that an erroneous alert, in and of itself, revealsany legitimate private information, and, in this case, the trialjudge found that the dog sniff was sufficiently reliable to establish probable cause to conduct a full-blown search of thetrunk.Accordingly, the use of a well-trained narcotics-detectiondog--one that "does not expose noncontraband items thatotherwise would remain hidden from public view," Place, 462U. S., at 707--during a lawful traffic stop generally does notimplicate legitimate privacy interests. In this case, the dogsniff was performed on the exterior of respondent's car whilehe was lawfully seized for a traffic violation. Any intrusionon respondent's privacy expectations does not rise to thelevel of a constitutionally cognizable infringement.This conclusion is entirely consistent with our recent decision that the use of a thermal-imaging device to detect thegrowth of marijuana in a home constituted an unlawfulsearch. Kyllo v. United States, 533 U. S. 27 (2001). Criticalto that decision was the fact that the device was capable ofdetecting lawful activity--in that case, intimate details in a543US2 Unit: $U17 [03-06-07 14:47:41] PAGES PGT: OPIN410 ILLINOIS v. CABALLESSouter, J., dissentinghome, such as "at what hour each night the lady of the housetakes her daily sauna and bath." Id., at 38. The legitimateexpectation that information about perfectly lawful activitywill remain private is categorically distinguishable from respondent's hopes or expectations concerning the nondetection of contraband in the trunk of his car. A dog sniff conducted during a concededly lawful traffic stop that revealsno information other than the location of a substance thatno individual has any right to possess does not violate theFourth Amendment.The judgment of the Illinois Supreme Court is vacated,and the case is remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.