The Arkansas River rises in the mountains of Coloradojust east of the Continental Divide, descends for about 280miles to the Kansas border, then flows through that State,Oklahoma, and Arkansas and empties into the MississippiRiver. On May 20, 1901, Kansas first invoked this Court'soriginal jurisdiction to seek a remedy for Colorado's diversion of water from the Arkansas River. See Kansasv.Colorado, 185 U. S. 125, 126 (1902) (statement of case).In opinions written during the past century, most recentlyin Kansas v. Colorado, 514 U. S. 673, 675-678 (1995), we havedescribed the history and the importance of the river. Forpresent purposes it suffices to note that two of those cases,Kansas v. Colorado, 206 U. S. 46 (1907), and Colorado v.Kansas, 320 U. S. 383 (1943), led to the negotiation of theArkansas River Compact (Compact), an agreement betweenKansas and Colorado that in turn was approved by Congressin 1949. See 63 Stat. 145. The case before us today in533US1 Unit: $U68 [10-21-02 15:08:35] PAGES PGT: OPIN5Cite as: 533 U. S. 1 (2001)Opinion of the Courtvolves a claim by Kansas for damages based on Colorado'sviolations of that Compact.The Compact was designed to "[s]ettle existing disputesand remove causes of future controversy" between the twoStates and their citizens concerning waters of the Arkan-sas River and to "[e]quitably divide and apportion" thosewaters and the benefits arising from construction and operation of the federal project known as the "John Martin Reser-voir." Arkansas River Compact, Art. I, reprinted in App.to Brief for Kansas A-1, A-2. Article IV-D of the Com-pact provides:"This Compact is not intended to impede or preventfuture beneficial development of the Arkansas Riverbasin in Colorado and Kansas by Federal or State agen-cies, by private enterprise, or by combinations thereof,which may involve construction of dams, reservoir, andother works for the purpose of water utilization and control, as well as the improved or prolonged functioningof existing works: Provided, that the waters of theArkansas River, as defined in Article III, shall not bematerially depleted in usable quantity or availability foruse to the water users in Colorado and Kansas underthis Compact by such future development or construction." Id., at A-5.It is the proviso to that paragraph that is of special relevance to this case.In 1986, we granted Kansas leave to file a complaint alleging three violations of the Compact by Colorado. See514 U. S., at 679-680. After taking evidence in the liabilityphase of the proceeding, Special Master Arthur L. Littleworth filed his first report, in which he recommendedthat two of the claims be denied, but that the Court findthat post-Compact increases in groundwater well pumpingin Colorado had materially depleted the waters of the riverin violation of Article IV-D. See id., at 680. We overruled533US1 Unit: $U68 [10-21-02 15:08:35] PAGES PGT: OPIN6 KANSAS v. COLORADOOpinion of the CourtColorado's exceptions to that recommendation, including anargument that Kansas was guilty of laches. Id., at 687-689.We remanded the case to the Special Master to determinean appropriate remedy for the violations of Article IV-D.Id., at 694.After further proceedings the Special Master filed a second report recommending an award of damages. Coloradofiled exceptions to that report, arguing that the Eleventh Amendment barred an award based on losses incurredby Kansas citizens, and that the report improperly recommended the recovery of prejudgment interest on an unliquidated claim. We overruled those exceptions withoutprejudice to their renewal after the Special Master madea more specific recommendation for a remedy. 522 U. S.1073 (1998). He did so in his third report, and we are nowconfronted with exceptions filed by both States.In the third report, the Special Master recommends thatdamages be measured by Kansas' losses, rather than Colorado's profits, attributable to Compact violations after 1950;that the damages be paid in money rather than water; andthat the damages should include prejudgment interest from1969 to the date of judgment. Colorado has filed four objections to the report. It contends (1) that the recommendedaward of damages would violate the Eleventh Amendmentto the United States Constitution; (2) that the damagesaward should not include prejudgment interest; (3) thatthe amount of interest awarded is excessive; and (4) that theSpecial Master improperly credited flawed expert testimony,with the result that Kansas' crop production losses wereimproperly calculated. On the other hand, Kansas has filedan objection submitting that prejudgment interest shouldbe paid from 1950, rather than 1969. The United States,which intervened because of its interest in the operationof flood control projects in Colorado, submits that bothStates' objections should be overruled.533US1 Unit: $U68 [10-21-02 15:08:35] PAGES PGT: OPIN7Cite as: 533 U. S. 1 (2001)Opinion of the CourtIWe have decided that a State may recover monetarydamages from another State in an original action, withoutrunning afoul of the Eleventh Amendment.1 See, e. g.,Texas v. New Mexico, 482 U. S. 124, 130 (1987) ("The Courthas recognized the propriety of money judgments againsta State in an original action, and specifically in a case in-volving a compact. In proper original actions, the Eleventh Amendment is no barrier, for by its terms, it appliesonly to suits by citizens against a State" (citations omitted));see also Maryland v. Louisiana, 451 U. S. 725, 745, n. 21(1981);South Dakota v. North Carolina, 192 U. S. 286, 317-321 (1904). Colorado contends, however, that the EleventhAmendment precludes any such recovery based on lossessustained by individual water users in Kansas.It is firmly established, and undisputed in this litigation,that the text of the Eleventh Amendment would bar a direct action against Colorado by citizens of Kansas. More-over, we have several times held that a State may not invoke our original jurisdiction when it is merely acting asan agent or trustee for one or more of its citizens. For example, in New Hampshire v. Louisiana, 108 U. S. 76 (1883),we refused to assume jurisdiction over an action to recoverpayment on defaulted bonds that had been formally assignedto the state plaintiffs but remained beneficially owned byprivate individuals. And, in North Dakota v. Minnesota,263 U. S. 365 (1923), we held that, while the plaintiff Statecould obtain an injunction against the improper operationof Minnesota's drainage ditches, the Eleventh Amendmentprecluded an award of damages based on injuries to indi-vidual farmers, where the damages claim was financed by1 That Amendment provides: "The Judicial power of the United Statesshall not be construed to extend to any suit in law or equity, commencedor prosecuted against one of the United States by Citizens of anotherState, or by Citizens or Subjects of any Foreign State."533US1 Unit: $U68 [10-21-02 15:08:35] PAGES PGT: OPIN8 KANSAS v. COLORADOOpinion of the Courtcontributions from the farmers and the State had committedto dividing any recovery among the farmers "in proportionto the amount of [their] loss." Id., at 375.Those cases make it clear that a "State is not permitted toenter a controversy as a nominal party in order to forwardthe claims of individual citizens."Maryland v. Louisiana,451 U. S., at 737; see also New Hampshire v. Louisiana, 108U. S., at 89 (Eleventh Amendment applies and acts to barjurisdiction where "the State and the attorney-general areonly nominal actors in the proceeding"). The "governingprinciple" is that in order to invoke our original jurisdiction,"the State must show a direct interest of its own and notmerely seek recovery for the benefit of individuals who arethe real parties in interest." Oklahoma ex rel. Johnson v.Cook, 304 U. S. 387, 396 (1938).Kansas has unquestionably made such a showing. Indeed,the present proceeding is but one of several in which Kansas'own interest in preventing upstream diversions from theArkansas River has justified an exercise of our original jurisdiction. In Cook we even offered as an example of properoriginal jurisdiction one of the prior original suits betweenKansas and Colorado, see id., at 393-394 (citing Kansas v.Colorado, 206 U. S. 46 (1907)), and in Texas v. New Mexicowe held that enforcement of an interstate water compactby means of a recovery of money damages can be within aState's proper pursuit of the "general public interest" in anoriginal action, 482 U. S., at 132, n. 7.Moreover, the record in this case plainly discloses thatthe State of Kansas has been in full control of this litigationsince its inception. Its right to control the disposition of anyrecovery of damages is entirely unencumbered. The injuryto individual farmers is but one component of the formulaadopted by the Special Master to quantify the damagescaused by Colorado's violation of its contractual obligations.In short, there is simply nothing in the record to suggestthat the State of Kansas is merely a "nominal party" to this533US1 Unit: $U68 [10-21-02 15:08:35] PAGES PGT: OPIN9Cite as: 533 U. S. 1 (2001)Opinion of the Courtlitigation or that the individual farmers are "the real partiesin interest."When a State properly invokes our jurisdiction to seekredress for a wrong perpetrated against it by a sister State,neither the measure of damages that we ultimately de-termine to be proper nor our method for calculating thosedamages can retrospectively negate our jurisdiction. Norwould our jurisdiction to order a damages remedy be affected by Kansas' postjudgment decisions concerning theuse of the money recovered from Colorado. As we havepreviously recognized, it is the State's prerogative eitherto deposit the proceeds of any judgment in "the generalcoffers of the State" or to use them to "benefit those whowere hurt."Ibid.We overrule Colorado's first exception.IIColorado next excepts to the Special Master's conclusionthat the damages award should include prejudgment interestdespite the fact that Kansas' claim is unliquidated.2 At onepoint in time, the fact that the claim was unliquidated wouldhave been of substantial importance. As a general matter,early common-law cases drew a distinction between liquidated and unliquidated claims and refused to allow intereston the latter. See,e. g., Comment, Prejudgment Interest:2 Though final damages have not yet been calculated, the importanceof this issue is illustrated by breaking down the damages claimed byKansas. Of $62,369,173 in damages so claimed, $9,218,305 representsdirect and indirect losses in actual dollars when the damage occurred.Of the remaining $53,150,868, about $12 million constitutes an adjustmentfor inflation (a type of interest that Colorado concedes is appropriate)while the remaining amount (approximately $41 million) representsadditional interest intended to compensate for lost investment opportunities. Third Report of Special Master 87-88 (hereinafter Third Report).The magnitude of prejudgment interest ultimately awarded in this casewill, of course, turn on the date from which interest accrues. See PartIII-B, infra.533US1 Unit: $U68 [10-21-02 15:08:35] PAGES PGT: OPIN10 KANSAS v. COLORADOOpinion of the CourtSurvey and Suggestion, 77 Nw. U. L. Rev. 192, 196, and n. 26(1982) (discussing history and collecting sources). This ruleseems to have rested upon a belief that there was somethinginherently unfair about requiring debtors to pay interestwhen they were unable to halt its accrual by handing overto their creditors a fixed and unassailable amount. See, e. g.,id., at 196.This common-law distinction has long since lost its holdon the legal imagination. Beginning in the early part of thelast century, numerous courts and commentators have rejected the distinction for failing to acknowledge the compen-satory nature of interest awards.3 This Court allied itselfwith the evolving consensus in 1933, when we expressed theopinion that the distinction between cases of liquidated andunliquidated damages "is not a sound one." Funkhouser v.J. B. Preston Co., 290 U. S. 163, 168 (1933). The analysissupporting that conclusion gave no doubt as to our reasoning:"Whether the case is of the one class or the other, the in-jured party has suffered a loss which may be regarded asnot fully compensated if he is confined to the amount foundto be recoverable as of the time of breach and nothing isadded for the delay in obtaining the award of damages."Ibid. Our cases since 1933 have consistently acknowledgedthat a monetary award does not fully compensate for aninjury unless it includes an interest component. See, e. g.,Milwaukee v. Cement Div., National Gypsum Co., 515 U. S.189, 195 (1995) ("The essential rationale for awarding pre3 For sources from the early part of the century criticizing, qualifying,or rejecting the distinction, see, e. g., Faber v. New York, 222 N. Y. 255,262, 118 N. E. 609, 610-611 (1918); Bernhard v. Rochester German Ins.Co., 79 Conn. 388, 398, 65 A. 134, 138 (1906); Restatement of Contracts$ 337, p. 542 (1932); C. McCormick, Law of Damages $ 51, p. 210 (1935); 1T. Sedgwick, Measure of Damages $ 315 (9th ed. 1912); cf. 3 S. Williston,Law of Contracts $ 1413, p. 2508 (1920) ("The disinclination to allow interest on claim of uncertain amount seems based on practice ratherthan theoretical grounds"). For a thorough modern treatment of theissue, see 1 D. Dobbs, Law of Remedies $ 3.6(3) (2d ed. 1993).533US1 Unit: $U68 [10-21-02 15:08:35] PAGES PGT: OPIN11Cite as: 533 U. S. 1 (2001)Opinion of the Courtjudgment interest is to ensure that an injured party is fullycompensated for its loss"); West Virginia v. United States,479 U. S. 305, 310-311, n. 2 (1987); General Motors Corp. v.Devex Corp., 461 U. S. 648, 655-656, n. 10 (1983).Relying on our cases, the Special Master "concluded thatthe unliquidated nature of Kansas' money damages doesnot, in and of itself, bar an award of prejudgment interest."Second Report, $ XV, reprinted in App. to Third Report 43.In reaching that conclusion, the Special Master was fullycognizant of both the displaced common-law rule and thesubsequent doctrinal evolution. In addition, he gave care-ful consideration to equitable considerations that mightmitigate against an award of interest, concluding that "con-siderations of fairness,"Board of Comm'rs of Jackson Cty.v. United States, 308 U. S. 343, 352 (1939), supported theaward of at least some prejudgment interest in this case.We find no fault in the Special Master's analysis of eitherour prior cases or the equities of this matter. While wewill deal with the amount of prejudgment interest below,to answer Colorado's second objection it is sufficient to con-clude that the Special Master was correct in determiningthat the unliquidated nature of the damages does not pre-clude an award of prejudgment interest.44 Justice O'Connor argues that the state of the law was insufficientlyevolved by 1949 for Colorado to have had notice that the courts mightaward prejudgment interest if it violated its obligations under the Compact. See post, at 21-25 (opinion concurring in part and dissenting inpart). Though the law was indeed in flux at that time, this Court hadalready made it clear that it put no stock in the traditional common-lawprohibition, see Funkhouser v. J. B. Preston Co., 290 U. S. 163, 168 (1933),and had stated explicitly that such interest may accrue when "considerations of fairness" demand it, see Board of Comm'rs of Jackson Cty. v.United States, 308 U. S. 343, 352 (1939). The contemporary Restatementof Contracts was in accord. See Restatement of Contracts $ 337(b), at 542("Where the contract that is broken [is not for a set or easily ascertainable amount of money], interest may be allowed in the discretion of the court, if justice requires it, on the amount that would havebeen just compensation if it had been paid when performance was533US1 Unit: $U68 [10-21-02 15:08:35] PAGES PGT: OPIN12 KANSAS v. COLORADOOpinion of the CourtColorado's second exception is overruled.IIIColorado's third exception takes issue with both therate of interest adopted by the Special Master and the datefrom which he recommended that interest begin to accrue.As to the second of these two concerns, Colorado submitsthat, if any prejudgment interest is to be awarded, it shouldbegin to accrue in 1985 (when Kansas filed its complaint inthis action), rather than in 1969 (when, the Special Masterconcluded, Colorado knew or should have known that itwas violating the Compact). On the other hand, Kansas hasentered an exception, arguing that the accrual of interestshould begin in 1950. We first address the rate question,then the timing issue.AThe Special Master credited the testimony of Kansas'three experts who calculated the interest rates that theythought necessary to provide full compensation for the damages caused by Colorado's violations of the Compact in theyears since 1950. As a result of inflation and changing market conditions those rates varied from year to year. In theircalculation of the damages suffered by Kansas farmers, theexperts used the interest rates that were applicable to individuals in the relevant years rather than the (lower) ratesavailable to States.due"). Under those circumstances, we think it is clear that, in 1949, aninformed contracting party would not have concluded that an agreement'ssilence on the issue deprived a reviewing court of the authority to awardcompensatory interest if the party willfully violated its contractual obligations. Moreover, under Justice O'Connor's reasoning, States who entered into interstate compacts before 1987, see post, at 23, would retaina perpetual incentive to breach their contractual obligations and reapthe benefits of such a breach with the full knowledge that the courts lackthe authority to order a fully compensatory remedy.533US1 Unit: $U68 [10-21-02 15:08:35] PAGES PGT: OPIN13Cite as: 533 U. S. 1 (2001)Opinion of the CourtColorado argues that the lower rates should have beenused because it is the State, rather than the individual farmers, that is maintaining the action and will receive any awardof damages. But if, as we have already decided, see Part I,supra, it is permissible for the State to measure a portionof its damages by losses suffered by individual farmers, itnecessarily follows that the courts are free to utilize what-ever interest rate will most accurately measure those losses.The money in question in this portion of the damages awardis revenue that would--but for Colorado's actions--havebeen earned by individual farmers. Thus, the Special Mas-ter correctly concluded that the economic consequences ofColorado's breach could best be remedied by an interestaward that mirrors the cost of any additional borrowingthe farmers may have been forced to undertake in orderto compensate for lost revenue.BAlthough the Special Master rejected Colorado's sub-mission that there is a categorical bar to the award of prejudgment interest on unliquidated claims, he concluded thatsuch interest should not "be awarded according to [any] rigidtheory of compensation for money withheld," but rathershould respond to " `considerations of fairness.' " Third Report 97 (quoting Jackson Cty., 308 U. S., at 352). Kansasargues that our decisions subsequent to Jackson Countyhave effectively foreclosed the equities-balancing approachthat the Special Master adopted. There is some merit toKansas' position. See National Gypsum Co., 515 U. S., at193 (affirming a decision of the Court of Appeals that hadread our cases as "disapproving of a `balancing of the equi-ties' as a method of deciding whether to allow prejudgmentinterest").However, despite the clear direction indicated by someof our earlier opinions, we cannot say that by 1949 our caselaw had developed sufficiently to put Colorado on notice533US1 Unit: $U68 [10-21-02 15:08:35] PAGES PGT: OPIN14 KANSAS v. COLORADOOpinion of the Courtthat, upon a violation of the Compact, we would auto-matically award prejudgment interest from the time of injury. Given the state of the law at that time, Colorado maywell have believed that we would balance the equities inorder to achieve a just and equitable remedy, rather thanautomatically imposing prejudgment interest in order toachieve full compensation. See Jackson Cty., 308 U. S., at352 (prejudgment interest award limited by "considerationsof fairness");Miller v. Robertson, 266 U. S. 243, 258 (1924)("[W]hen necessary in order to arrive at fair compensation,the court in the exercise of a sound discretion may includeinterest or its equivalent as an element of damages" on un-liquidated claims); Restatement of Contracts $ 337, p. 542(1932) (prejudgment interest on unliquidated claims "maybe allowed in the discretion of the court, if justice requires it"). While we are confident that, when it signedthe Compact, Colorado was on notice that it might be subject to prejudgment interest if such interest was neces-sary to fashion an equitable remedy, we are unable to conclude with sufficient certainty that Colorado was on noticethat such interest would be imposed as a matter of course.We, therefore, believe that the Special Master acted properly in carefully analyzing the facts of the case and in onlyawarding as much prejudgment interest as was required bya balancing of the equities.We also agree with the Special Master that the equities inthis case do not support an award of prejudgment interestfrom the date of the first violation of the Compact, but ratherfavor an award beginning on a later date. In reaching thisconclusion, the Special Master appropriately considered several factors. In particular, he relied on the fact that in theearly years after the Compact was signed, no one had anythought that the pact was being violated. Third Report 106.In addition, he considered the long interval that passed between the original injuries and these proceedings, as wellas the dramatic impact of compounding interest over manyyears. Id., at 99-101; see also n. 3, supra.533US1 Unit: $U68 [10-21-02 15:08:35] PAGES PGT: OPIN15Cite as: 533 U. S. 1 (2001)Opinion of the CourtIn its exception, Kansas argues that the Special Master'sreasoning would be appropriate if damages were beingawarded as a form of punishment, but does not justify arefusal to provide full compensation to an injured party.Moreover, Kansas argues, a rule that rewards ignorancemight discourage diligence in making sure that there is fullcompliance with the terms of the Compact. Kansas' argument is consistent with a "rigid theory of compensation formoney withheld," but, for the reasons discussed above, weare persuaded that the Special Master correctly declined toadopt such a theory. The equitable considerations identified by the Special Master fully justify his view that in thiscase it would be inappropriate to award prejudgment interest for any years before either party was aware of theexcessive pumping in Colorado.In its third exception, Colorado argues that, if prejudgment interest is to be awarded at all, the equities are bestbalanced by limiting such interest to the time after the complaint was filed, rather than the time after which Coloradoknew or should have known that it was violating the Compact. Specifically, Colorado suggests that prejudgment interest should begin to accrue in 1985 rather than 1969. Thechoice between the two dates is surely debatable; it is amatter over which reasonable people can--and do--disagree.After examining the equities for ourselves, however, a majority of the Court has decided that the later date is themore appropriate.55 Justice O'Connor, Justice Scalia, and Justice Thomas wouldnot allow any prejudgment interest. See post, at 20. Justice Kennedyand The Chief Justice are of the opinion that prejudgment interestshould run from the date of the filing of the complaint. Justice Souter,Justice Ginsburg, Justice Breyer, and the author of this opinionagree with the Special Master's view that interest should run from thetime when Colorado knew or should have known that it was violatingthe Compact. In order to produce a majority for a judgment, the fourJustices who agree with the Special Master have voted to endorse theposition expressed in the text.533US1 Unit: $U68 [10-21-02 15:08:35] PAGES PGT: OPIN16 KANSAS v. COLORADOOpinion of the CourtWhen we overruled Colorado's objections to the SpecialMaster's first report, we held that Kansas was not guiltyof inexcusable delay in failing to complain more promptlyabout post-Compact well pumping. 514 U. S., at 687-689.In saying that the delay was not inexcusable, we recog-nized that the nature and extent of Colorado's violationscontinued to be unclear even in the years after which itbecame obvious that the Compact was being violated.Id.,at 688-689. That conclusion is something of a two-edgedsword, however. While Kansas' delay was understandablegiven the amorphous nature of its claims, there is no doubtthat the interests of both States would have been servedif the claim had been advanced promptly after its basisbecame known. Once it became obvious that a violationof the Compact had occurred, it was equally clear that theproceedings necessary to evaluate the significance of the vio-lations would be complex and protracted. Despite the diligence of the parties and the Special Master, over 15 yearshave elapsed since the complaint was filed. Given the uncertainty over the scope of damages that prevailed duringthe period between 1968 and 1985 and the fact that it wasuniquely in Kansas' power to begin the process by whichthose damages would be quantified, Colorado's request thatwe deny prejudgment interest for that period is reasonable.For these reasons, we overrule Kansas' exception. Wealso overrule Colorado's third exception insofar as it chal-lenges the interest rates recommended by the Special Master, but we sustain that objection insofar as it challengesthe award of interest for the years prior to 1985.IVColorado's final objection challenges the Special Master'sdetermination of the value of the crop losses attributableto the Compact violations, the largest component of Kansas'damages claim. The Special Master accomplished the calculation by estimating the amount of farmland affected by533US1 Unit: $U68 [10-21-02 15:08:35] PAGES PGT: OPIN17Cite as: 533 U. S. 1 (2001)Opinion of the CourtColorado's violations, the crops planted on that farmland,the price of those crops, and the difference in yield betweenwhat the affected land would have produced with the addi-tional water and what the land actually produced with thewater it received.The parties were in agreement concerning most of thefacts bearing on the Special Master's calculation. Theyagreed that water was in short supply in the affected areaeach year, 178 Tr. 127-128; they agreed on the amount of theshortage that resulted from Colorado's violations,ibid.; andthey generally agreed on which crops were planted on theaffected farmland as well as the prices of those crops in therelevant years. See Third Report 46.The only issue on which the parties disagreed was theexact effect of the diverted water on the crop yields forthe farmland in question. On that score, both Kansas andColorado accepted the general notion that "[u]p to thepoint where crops no longer can make use of additionalwater, more water produces more crop yield."Id., at 47.But they parted ways on the question of precisely how muchadditional yield would have been produced with the miss-ing water.6 Kansas' experts relied upon the hypothesis ofa generally linear relationship between water available for6 As the Special Master noted, "Colorado experts did not dispute, ingeneral, the linear relationship between [water usage] and crop yield. . . .However, they were of the view that the particular linear crop yield coefficients used by Kansas were not sufficiently reliable to determine theincrease in yields that would have occurred if there had been no depletionsof headgate deliveries to the [affected] lands." Third Report 47. Colorado suggests that Kansas' model, based as it is upon academic studies,does not adequately account for reductions in crop yield from such realworld conditions as "weather, disease, and pests." Brief for Colorado 44,n. 12. But, as the Special Master correctly noted, Kansas' experts reduced the predicted crop yield by 25% in order to account for such possibilities. Third Report 51 ("The 25% reduction was calculated to adjustthe controlled experimental data to `realistic long-term type conditions'in western Kansas, including high temperatures, winds, insects, and otherstressful conditions").533US1 Unit: $U68 [10-21-02 15:08:35] PAGES PGT: OPIN18 KANSAS v. COLORADOOpinion of the Courtuse and increased crop yields. With figures drawn from anumber of studies, Professor Norman Whittlesey, Kansas'principal expert,7 developed quantitative estimates of thelost yield, per unit of water, for the various crops grown onthe affected farmland. Although Colorado's expert initiallyattempted to propose his own model, he ultimately abandoned his position when confronted with flaws in his data.197 Tr. 44-46.Its own expert having recanted his alternative proposalfor calculating the effects of the diverted water on cropyield, Colorado attempts to poke holes in Kansas' method-ology through a speculative application of abstract economictheory. Kansas' numbers (for crop losses due to divertedwater) cannot be correct, Colorado argues, because if theywere, it would have been economically profitable for theaffected farmers to drill wells and obtain water from underground sources rather than suffer the reduced yield fromthe shortage of surface water. Brief for Colorado 41-49.Because Kansas farmers did not install wells, Coloradoconcludes, we can know that the diverted water was notas valuable as Kansas' experts claim.The Special Master did not question Colorado's assertionthat digging wells would, in retrospect, actually have beenprofitable for Kansas farmers, but he declined to employColorado's argument as a basis for rejecting Kansas' ex-pert testimony on the extent of crop losses. His thoughtfulanalysis is worth quoting in full:"Given the hindsight of present day economists, itmight have been profitable for everyone to drill supplemental wells . . . . However, there are many reasonswhy this may not have been done, and the failure todrill wells does not by itself indicate that Kansas'7 Professor Whittlesey served for 20 years as a full professor and agricultural economist at Washington State University. His publications,many of which concern the kind of issues presented by this case, fill14 pages on his curriculum vitae. See Kan. Exh. 891.533US1 Unit: $U68 [10-21-02 15:08:35] PAGES PGT: OPIN19Cite as: 533 U. S. 1 (2001)Opinion of the Courtestimate of crop losses is too high. The favorable eco-nomics of drilling wells may not have been understoodat the time. Quality information regarding costs andreturns was not readily available. [211 Tr.] 31. Somefarmers, for reasons of age or otherwise, may not havewanted to go into long-term debt. Some farmers maynot have had the available capital, or the credit toborrow. Many farmers were `cash poor.'Id. at 32.Some farmers may have been averse to risk. Somefarmers may have been tenants, and the landlord maynot have been willing to undertake the necessary investment. Some farms may have been small in termsof total acreage, or the acreage spread out over space,so that it was not feasible or practical to consider a wellinvestment. [208 Tr.] 37-39. Capital for well investments, with three to ten year repayment periods, wasless available than for long-term investments. [211 Tr.]32." Third Report 60-61.We agree with the Special Master that accepting Colo-rado's argument requires a good deal of speculation, notonly about the comparative advantages of wells as opposedto irrigation, but also about the ability of the farmers fullyto understand or to implement different choices withoutthe benefit of expert hindsight. Given Colorado's inabilityto mount an effective challenge to Kansas' experts on theirown terms and its complete failure to provide a plausiblealternative estimate of the crop damage that resulted fromits violations of the Compact, we conclude that its attackon Kansas' conclusions is unpersuasive.88 We also agree with the Special Master's decision to disregard theColorado expert's comparison of the numbers produced by Kansas' modelwith numbers drawn from the literature on the various crops planted onthe affected farmland. As Colorado admits, see Brief for Colorado 46,the water values in the literature were not based on "a `short-short run'situation, that is, an intra-seasonal transaction in which no capital costswere involved, and only additional harvesting and irrigation costs would533US1 Unit: $U68 [10-21-02 15:08:35] PAGES PGT: OPIN20 KANSAS v. COLORADOOpinion of O'Connor, J.Colorado's fourth exception is overruled.VWe remand the case to the Special Master for preparationof a final judgment consistent with this opinion.