This case raises two questions concerning the applicationof the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, 104 Stat. 328,42 U. S. C. $ 12101 et seq., to a gifted athlete: first, whetherthe Act protects access to professional golf tournaments bya qualified entrant with a disability; and second, whether a*Briefs of amici curiae urging reversal were filed for the Equal Employment Advisory Council by Ann Elizabeth Reesman; for ATP Tour,Inc., et al. by Bradley I. Ruskin; for the United States Golf Associationby Roy T. Englert, Jr., Lee N. Abrams, James C. Schroeder, Robert M.Dow, Jr., and John W. Vardaman; and for Kenneth R. Green II by GregoryD. Smith.Briefs of amici curiae urging affirmance were filed for the AmericanAssociation of Adapted Sports Programs et al. by Anita M. Moorman andLisa Pike Masteralexis; for the K-T Support Group by Brian D. Shannon;for the National Association of Protection and Advocacy Systems et al. bySharon Masling, Samuel R. Bagenstos, and Neil V. McKittrick; and forRobert J. Dole et al. by Robert L. Burgdorf, Jr., and George G. Olsen.532US3 Unit: $U57 [09-19-02 20:27:29] PAGES PGT: OPIN665Cite as: 532 U. S. 661 (2001)Opinion of the Courtdisabled contestant may be denied the use of a golf cart be-cause it would "fundamentally alter the nature" of the tournaments, $ 12182(b)(2)(A)(ii), to allow him to ride when allother contestants must walk.IPetitioner PGA TOUR, Inc., a nonprofit entity formed in1968, sponsors and cosponsors professional golf tournamentsconducted on three annual tours. About 200 golfers partici-pate in the PGA TOUR; about 170 in the NIKE TOUR;1 andabout 100 in the SENIOR PGA TOUR. PGA TOUR andNIKE TOUR tournaments typically are 4-day events, playedon courses leased and operated by petitioner. The entirefield usually competes in two 18-hole rounds played onThursday and Friday; those who survive the "cut" play onSaturday and Sunday and receive prize money in amountsdetermined by their aggregate scores for all four rounds.The revenues generated by television, admissions, concessions, and contributions from cosponsors amount to about$300 million a year, much of which is distributed in prizemoney.There are various ways of gaining entry into particulartours. For example, a player who wins three NIKE TOURevents in the same year, or is among the top-15 money winners on that tour, earns the right to play in the PGA TOUR.Additionally, a golfer may obtain a spot in an official tournament through successfully competing in "open" qualifyingrounds, which are conducted the week before each tournament. Most participants, however, earn playing privilegesin the PGA TOUR or NIKE TOUR by way of a three-stagequalifying tournament known as the "Q-School."Any member of the public may enter the Q-School by paying a $3,000 entry fee and submitting two letters of reference1 After the trial of the case, the name of the NIKE TOUR was changedto the Buy.com TOUR.532US3 Unit: $U57 [09-19-02 20:27:29] PAGES PGT: OPIN666 PGA TOUR, INC. v. MARTINOpinion of the Courtfrom, among others, PGA TOUR or NIKE TOUR members.The $3,000 entry fee covers the players' greens fees and thecost of golf carts, which are permitted during the first twostages, but which have been prohibited during the thirdstage since 1997. Each year, over a thousand contestantscompete in the first stage, which consists of four 18-holerounds at different locations. Approximately half of themmake it to the second stage, which also includes 72 holes.Around 168 players survive the second stage and advance tothe final one, where they compete over 108 holes. Of thosefinalists, about a fourth qualify for membership in the PGATOUR, and the rest gain membership in the NIKE TOUR.The significance of making it into either tour is illuminatedby the fact that there are about 25 million golfers in thecountry.2Three sets of rules govern competition in tour events.First, the "Rules of Golf," jointly written by the UnitedStates Golf Association (USGA) and the Royal and AncientGolf Club of Scotland, apply to the game as it is played, notonly by millions of amateurs on public courses and in privatecountry clubs throughout the United States and worldwide,but also by the professionals in the tournaments conductedby petitioner, the USGA, the Ladies' Professional Golf Asso-ciation, and the Senior Women's Golf Association. Thoserules do not prohibit the use of golf carts at any time.3Second, the "Conditions of Competition and Local Rules,"often described as the "hard card," apply specifically to peti-tioner's professional tours. The hard cards for the PGA2 Generally, to maintain membership in a tour for the succeeding year,rather than go through the Q-School again, a player must perform at acertain level.3 Instead, Appendix I to the Rules of Golf lists a number of "optional"conditions, among them one related to transportation: "If it is desiredto require players to walk in a competition, the following condition issuggested:"Players shall walk at all times during a stipulated round." App. 125.532US3 Unit: $U57 [09-19-02 20:27:29] PAGES PGT: OPIN667Cite as: 532 U. S. 661 (2001)Opinion of the CourtTOUR and NIKE TOUR require players to walk the golfcourse during tournaments, but not during open qualifyingrounds.4 On the SENIOR PGA TOUR, which is limited togolfers age 50 and older, the contestants may use golf carts.Most seniors, however, prefer to walk.5Third, "Notices to Competitors" are issued for particulartournaments and cover conditions for that specific event.Such a notice may, for example, explain how the Rules of Golfshould be applied to a particular water hazard or manmadeobstruction. It might also authorize the use of carts tospeed up play when there is an unusual distance betweenone green and the next tee.6The basic Rules of Golf, the hard cards, and the weeklynotices apply equally to all players in tour competitions. Asone of petitioner's witnesses explained with reference to "theMasters Tournament, which is golf at its very highestlevel, . . . the key is to have everyone tee off on the first holeunder exactly the same conditions and all of them be testedover that 72-hole event under the conditions that exist during those four days of the event." App. 192.IICasey Martin is a talented golfer. As an amateur, he won17 Oregon Golf Association junior events before he was 15,4 The PGA TOUR hard card provides: "Players shall walk at all timesduring a stipulated round unless permitted to ride by the PGA TOURRules Committee." Id., at 127. The NIKE TOUR hard card similarlyrequires walking unless otherwise permitted. Id., at 129. Additionally,as noted, golf carts have not been permitted during the third stage of theQ-School since 1997. Petitioner added this recent prohibition in order to"approximat[e] a PGA TOUR event as closely as possible." Id., at 152.5 994 F. Supp. 1242, 1251 (Ore. 1998).6 See, e. g., App. 156-160 (Notices to Competitors for 1997 Bob HopeChrysler Classic, 1997 AT&T Pebble Beach National Pro-Am, and 1997Quad City Classic).532US3 Unit: $U57 [09-19-02 20:27:29] PAGES PGT: OPIN668 PGA TOUR, INC. v. MARTINOpinion of the Courtand won the state championship as a high school senior. Heplayed on the Stanford University golf team that won the1994 National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) championship. As a professional, Martin qualified for the NIKETOUR in 1998 and 1999, and based on his 1999 performance,qualified for the PGA TOUR in 2000. In the 1999 season,he entered 24 events, made the cut 13 times, and had 6 top-10finishes, coming in second twice and third once.Martin is also an individual with a disability as defined inthe Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (ADA or Act).7Since birth he has been afflicted with Klippel-TrenaunayWeber Syndrome, a degenerative circulatory disorder thatobstructs the flow of blood from his right leg back to hisheart. The disease is progressive; it causes severe pain andhas atrophied his right leg. During the latter part of hiscollege career, because of the progress of the disease, Martincould no longer walk an 18-hole golf course.8 Walking notonly caused him pain, fatigue, and anxiety, but also createda significant risk of hemorrhaging, developing blood clots,and fracturing his tibia so badly that an amputation mightbe required. For these reasons, Stanford made written requests to the Pacific 10 Conference and the NCAA to waivefor Martin their rules requiring players to walk and carrytheir own clubs. The requests were granted.97 Title 42 U. S. C. $ 12102 provides, in part:"The term `disability' means, with respect to an individual--"(A) a physical or mental impairment that substantially limits one ormore of the major life activities of such individual . . . ."8 Before then, even when Martin was in extreme pain, and was offereda cart, he declined. Tr. 564-565.9 When asked about the other teams' reaction to Martin's use of a cart,the Stanford coach testified:"Q. Was there any complaint ever made to you by the coaches when hewas allowed a cart that that gave a competitive advantage over the--"A. Any complaints? No sir, there were exactly--exactly the opposite.Everybody recognized Casey for the person he was, and what he was532US3 Unit: $U57 [09-19-02 20:27:29] PAGES PGT: OPIN669Cite as: 532 U. S. 661 (2001)Opinion of the CourtWhen Martin turned pro and entered petitioner 'sQ-School, the hard card permitted him to use a cart duringhis successful progress through the first two stages. Hemade a request, supported by detailed medical records, forpermission to use a golf cart during the third stage. Peti-tioner refused to review those records or to waive its walking rule for the third stage. Martin therefore filed thisaction. A preliminary injunction entered by the DistrictCourt made it possible for him to use a cart in the final stageof the Q-School and as a competitor in the NIKE TOUR andPGA TOUR. Although not bound by the injunction, and de-spite its support for petitioner's position in this litigation,the USGA voluntarily granted Martin a similar waiver inevents that it sponsors, including the U. S. Open.IIIIn the District Court, petitioner moved for summary judg-ment on the ground that it is exempt from coverage underTitle III of the ADA as a "private clu[b] or establish-men[t],"10 or alternatively, that the play areas of its tourcompetitions do not constitute places of "public accommoda-tion" within the scope of that Title.11 The Magistrate Judgeconcluded that petitioner should be viewed as a commercialenterprise operating in the entertainment industry for theeconomic benefit of its members rather than as a privatedoing with his life, and every coach, to my knowledge, and every playerwanted Casey in the tournament and they welcomed him there."Q. Did anyone contend that that constituted an alteration of the competition to the extent that it didn't constitute the game to your level, thecollege level?"A. Not at all, sir." App. 208.10 Title 42 U. S. C. $ 12187 provides: "The provisions of this subchaptershall not apply to private clubs or establishments exempted from coverageunder Title II of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (42 U. S. C. $ 2000-a(e)) or toreligious organizations or entities controlled by religious organizations,including places of worship."11 See $ 12181(7).532US3 Unit: $U57 [09-19-02 20:27:29] PAGES PGT: OPIN670 PGA TOUR, INC. v. MARTINOpinion of the Courtclub. Furthermore, after noting that the statutory defini-tion of public accommodation included a "golf course,"12 herejected petitioner's argument that its competitions are onlyplaces of public accommodation in the areas open to spectators. The operator of a public accommodation could not, inhis view, "create private enclaves within the facility . . . andthus relegate the ADA to hop-scotch areas." 984 F. Supp.1320, 1326-1327 (Ore. 1998). Accordingly, he denied petitioner's motion for summary judgment.At trial, petitioner did not contest the conclusion that Martin has a disability covered by the ADA, or the fact "that hisdisability prevents him from walking the course during around of golf." 994 F. Supp. 1242, 1244 (Ore. 1998). Rather,petitioner asserted that the condition of walking is a sub-stantive rule of competition, and that waiving it as toany individual for any reason would fundamentally alter thenature of the competition. Petitioner's evidence includedthe testimony of a number of experts, among them someof the greatest golfers in history. Arnold Palmer,13 JackNicklaus,14 and Ken Venturi 15 explained that fatigue can be12 $ 12181(7)(L).13 "Q. And fatigue is one of the factors that can cause a golfer at thePGA Tour level to lose one stroke or more?"A. Oh, it is. And it has happened."Q. And can one stroke be the difference between winning and not winning a tournament at the PGA Tour level?"A. As I said, I've lost a few national opens by one stroke." App. 177.14 "Q. Mr. Nicklaus, what is your understanding of the reason why inthese competitive events . . . that competitors are required to walk thecourse?"A. Well, in my opinion, physical fitness and fatigue are part of the gameof golf." Id., at 190.15 "Q. So are you telling the court that this fatigue factor tends to accumulate over the course of the four days of the tournament?"A. Oh definitely. There's no doubt.. . . . ."Q. Does this fatigue factor that you've talked about, Mr. Venturi, affectthe manner in which you--you perform as a professional out on the golfcourse?532US3 Unit: $U57 [09-19-02 20:27:29] PAGES PGT: OPIN671Cite as: 532 U. S. 661 (2001)Opinion of the Courta critical factor in a tournament, particularly on the last daywhen psychological pressure is at a maximum. Their testimony makes it clear that, in their view, permission to use acart might well give some players a competitive advantageover other players who must walk. They did not, however,express any opinion on whether a cart would give Martinsuch an advantage.16Rejecting petitioner's argument that an individualized inquiry into the necessity of the walking rule in Martin's casewould be inappropriate, the District Court stated that it had"the independent duty to inquire into the purpose of the ruleat issue, and to ascertain whether there can be a reasonablemodification made to accommodate plaintiff without frustrating the purpose of the rule" and thereby fundamentally altering the nature of petitioner's tournaments. Id., at 1246.The judge found that the purpose of the rule was to injectfatigue into the skill of shotmaking, but that the fatigue injected "by walking the course cannot be deemed significantunder normal circumstances." Id., at 1250. Furthermore,Martin presented evidence, and the judge found, that evenwith the use of a cart, Martin must walk over a mile during"A. Oh, there's no doubt, again, but that, that fatigue does play a bigpart. It will influence your game. It will influence your shot-making.It will influence your decisions." Id., at 236-237.16 "Q. Based on your experience, do you believe that it would fundamentally alter the nature of the competition on the PGA Tour and the NikeTour if competitors in those events were permitted to use golf carts?"A. Yes, absolutely."Q. Why do you say so, sir?"A. It would--it would take away the fatigue factor in many ways. Itwould--it would change the game.. . . . ."Q. Now, when you say that the use of carts takes away the fatiguefactor, it would be an aid, et cetera, again, as I understand it, you are nottestifying now about the plaintiff. You are just talking in general terms?. . . . ."A. Yes, sir." Id., at 238. See also id., at 177-178 (Palmer); id., at191 (Nicklaus).532US3 Unit: $U57 [09-19-02 20:27:29] PAGES PGT: OPIN672 PGA TOUR, INC. v. MARTINOpinion of the Courtan 18-hole round,17 and that the fatigue he suffers from coping with his disability is "undeniably greater" than the fatigue his able-bodied competitors endure from walking thecourse. Id., at 1251. As the judge observed:"[P]laintiff is in significant pain when he walks, andeven when he is getting in and out of the cart. Witheach step, he is at risk of fracturing his tibia and hemorrhaging. The other golfers have to endure the psychological stress of competition as part of their fatigue;Martin has the same stress plus the added stress of painand risk of serious injury. As he put it, he would gladlytrade the cart for a good leg. To perceive that the cartputs him--with his condition--at a competitive advantage is a gross distortion of reality." Id., at 1251-1252.As a result, the judge concluded that it would "not fundamentally alter the nature of the PGA Tour's game to accommodate him with a cart." Id., at 1252. The judge accordingly entered a permanent injunction requiring petitionerto permit Martin to use a cart in tour and qualifying events.On appeal to the Ninth Circuit, petitioner did not challenge the District Court's rejection of its claim that it wasexempt as a "private club," but it renewed the contentionthat during a tournament the portion of the golf course " `behind the ropes' is not a public accommodation because thepublic has no right to enter it." 204 F. 3d 994, 997 (2000).The Court of Appeals viewed that contention as resting onthe incorrect assumption that the competition among participants was not itself public. The court first pointed out that,as with a private university, "the fact that users of a facilityare highly selected does not mean that the facility cannot be17 "In the first place, he does walk while on the course--even with a cart,he must move from cart to shot and back to the cart. In essence, he stillmust walk approximately 25% of the course. On a course roughly fivemiles in length, Martin will walk 11/4 miles." 994 F. Supp., at 1251.532US3 Unit: $U57 [09-19-02 20:27:29] PAGES PGT: OPIN673Cite as: 532 U. S. 661 (2001)Opinion of the Courta public accommodation." Id., at 998.18 In its opinion, thecompetition to enter the select circle of PGA TOUR andNIKE TOUR golfers was comparable because "[a]ny mem-ber of the public who pays a $3000 entry fee and suppliestwo letters of recommendation may try out in the qualifyingschool." Id., at 999. The court saw "no justification in reason or in the statute to draw a line beyond which the per-formance of athletes becomes so excellent that a competitionrestricted to their level deprives its situs of the character ofa public accommodation."Ibid. Nor did it find a basis fordistinguishing between "use of a place of public accommodation for pleasure and use in the pursuit of a living." Ibid.Consequently, the Court of Appeals concluded that golfcourses remain places of public accommodation during PGAtournaments.Ibid.On the merits, because there was no serious dispute aboutthe fact that permitting Martin to use a golf cart was both areasonable and a necessary solution to the problem of provid-ing him access to the tournaments, the Court of Appeals regarded the central dispute as whether such permission would"fundamentally alter" the nature of the PGA TOUR orNIKE TOUR. Like the District Court, the Court of Appeals viewed the issue not as "whether use of carts generallywould fundamentally alter the competition, but whether theuse of a cart by Martin would do so." Id., at 1001. Thatissue turned on "an intensively fact-based inquiry," and, thecourt concluded, had been correctly resolved by the trialjudge. In its words, "[a]ll that the cart does is permit Martin access to a type of competition in which he otherwisecould not engage because of his disability."Id., at 1000.18 It explained: "For example, Title III includes in its definition `secondary, undergraduate, or post-graduate private school[s].' 42 U. S. C.$ 12181(7)(J). The competition to enter the most elite private universitiesis intense, and a relatively select few are admitted. That fact clearly doesnot remove the universities from the statute's definition as places of publicaccommodation." 204 F. 3d, at 998.532US3 Unit: $U57 [09-19-02 20:27:29] PAGES PGT: OPIN674 PGA TOUR, INC. v. MARTINOpinion of the CourtThe day after the Ninth Circuit ruled in Martin's favor,the Seventh Circuit came to a contrary conclusion in a casebrought against the USGA by a disabled golfer who failed toqualify for "America's greatest--and most democratic--golftournament, the United States Open." Olinger v. UnitedStates Golf Assn., 205 F. 3d 1001 (2000).19 The Seventh Circuit endorsed the conclusion of the District Court in thatcase that "the nature of the competition would be fundamentally altered if the walking rule were eliminated because itwould remove stamina (at least a particular type of stamina)from the set of qualities designed to be tested in this compe-tition."Id., at 1006 (internal quotation marks omitted). Inthe Seventh Circuit's opinion, the physical ordeals enduredby Ken Venturi and Ben Hogan when they walked to theirOpen victories in 1964 and 1950 amply demonstrated the importance of stamina in such a tournament.20 As an alterna-tive basis for its holding, the court also concluded that theADA does not require the USGA to bear "the administrativeburdens of evaluating requests to waive the walking rule andpermit the use of a golf cart." Id., at 1007.Although the Seventh Circuit merely assumed that theADA applies to professional golf tournaments, and thereforedid not disagree with the Ninth on the threshold coverageissue, our grant of certiorari, 530 U. S. 1306 (2000), encom-passes that question as well as the conflict between thosecourts. IVCongress enacted the ADA in 1990 to remedy widespreaddiscrimination against disabled individuals. In studying theneed for such legislation, Congress found that "historically,society has tended to isolate and segregate individuals with19 The golfer in the Seventh Circuit case, Ford Olinger, suffers frombilateral avascular necrosis, a degenerative condition that significantlyhinders his ability to walk.20 For a description of the conditions under which they played, seeOlinger v. United States Golf Assn., 205 F. 3d, at 1006-1007.532US3 Unit: $U57 [09-19-02 20:27:29] PAGES PGT: OPIN675Cite as: 532 U. S. 661 (2001)Opinion of the Courtdisabilities, and, despite some improvements, such forms ofdiscrimination against individuals with disabilities continueto be a serious and pervasive social problem." 42 U. S. C.$ 12101(a)(2); see $ 12101(a)(3) ("[D]iscrimination against individuals with disabilities persists in such critical areas asemployment, housing, public accommodations, education,transportation, communication, recreation, institutionaliza-tion, health services, voting, and access to public services").Congress noted that the many forms such discriminationtakes include "outright intentional exclusion" as well as the"failure to make modifications to existing facilities and prac-tices." $ 12101(a)(5). After thoroughly investigating theproblem, Congress concluded that there was a "compellingneed" for a "clear and comprehensive national mandate" toeliminate discrimination against disabled individuals, and tointegrate them "into the economic and social mainstream ofAmerican life." S. Rep. No. 101-116, p. 20 (1989); H. R. Rep.No. 101-485, pt. 2, p. 50 (1990).In the ADA, Congress provided that broad mandate. See42 U. S. C. $ 12101(b). In fact, one of the Act's "most impressive strengths" has been identified as its "comprehensivecharacter," Hearings on S. 933 before the Senate Committeeon Labor and Human Resources and the Subcommittee onthe Handicapped, 101st Cong., 1st Sess., 197 (1989) (statement of Attorney General Thornburgh), and accordingly theAct has been described as "a milestone on the path to a moredecent, tolerant, progressive society," Board of Trustees ofUniv. of Ala. v. Garrett, 531 U. S. 356, 375 (2001) (Kennedy,J., concurring). To effectuate its sweeping purpose, theADA forbids discrimination against disabled individuals inmajor areas of public life, among them employment (Title Iof the Act),21 public services (Title II),22 and public accommo-dations (Title III).23 At issue now, as a threshold matter, is21 42 U. S. C. $$ 12111-12117.22 $$ 12131-12165.23 $$ 12181-12189.532US3 Unit: $U57 [09-19-02 20:27:29] PAGES PGT: OPIN676 PGA TOUR, INC. v. MARTINOpinion of the Courtthe applicability of Title III to petitioner's golf tours andqualifying rounds, in particular to petitioner's treatment of aqualified disabled golfer wishing to compete in those events.Title III of the ADA prescribes, as a "[g]eneral rule":"No individual shall be discriminated against on thebasis of disability in the full and equal enjoyment of thegoods, services, facilities, privileges, advantages, or accommodations of any place of public accommodation byany person who owns, leases (or leases to), or operatesa place of public accommodation." 42 U. S. C. $ 12182(a).The phrase "public accommodation" is defined in terms of 12extensive categories,24 which the legislative history indicates"should be construed liberally" to afford people with disabili24 "(A) an inn, hotel, motel, or other place of lodging, except for an establishment located within a building that contains not more than five roomsfor rent or hire and that is actually occupied by the proprietor of suchestablishment as the residence of such proprietor;"(B) a restaurant, bar, or other establishment serving food or drink;"(C) a motion picture house, theater, concert hall, stadium, or otherplace of exhibition or entertainment;"(D) an auditorium, convention center, lecture hall, or other place ofpublic gathering;"(E) a bakery, grocery store, clothing store, hardware store, shoppingcenter, or other sales or rental establishment;"(F) a laundromat, dry-cleaner, bank, barber shop, beauty shop, travelservice, shoe repair service, funeral parlor, gas station, office of an accountant or lawyer, pharmacy, insurance office, professional office of ahealth care provider, hospital, or other service establishment;"(G) a terminal, depot, or other station used for specified publictransportation;"(H) a museum, library, gallery, or other place of display or collection;"(I) a park, zoo, amusement park, or other place of recreation;"(J) a nursery, elementary, secondary, undergraduate, or postgraduateprivate school, or other place of education;"(K) a day care center, senior citizen center, homeless shelter, foodbank, adoption agency, or other social service center establishment; and"(L) a gymnasium, health spa, bowling alley, golf course, or other placeof exercise or recreation." $ 12181(7) (emphasis added).532US3 Unit: $U57 [09-19-02 20:27:29] PAGES PGT: OPIN677Cite as: 532 U. S. 661 (2001)Opinion of the Courtties "equal access" to the wide variety of establishmentsavailable to the nondisabled.25It seems apparent, from both the general rule and the com-prehensive definition of "public accommodation," that petitioner's golf tours and their qualifying rounds fit comfortablywithin the coverage of Title III, and Martin within its protection. The events occur on "golf course[s]," a type of placespecifically identified by the Act as a public accommodation.$ 12181(7)(L). In addition, at all relevant times, petitioner"leases" and "operates" golf courses to conduct its Q-Schooland tours. $ 12182(a). As a lessor and operator of golfcourses, then, petitioner must not discriminate against any"individual" in the "full and equal enjoyment of the goods,services, facilities, privileges, advantages, or accommodations" of those courses. Ibid. Certainly, among the "privi-leges" offered by petitioner on the courses are those of competing in the Q-School and playing in the tours; indeed, theformer is a privilege for which thousands of individuals fromthe general public pay, and the latter is one for which theyvie. Martin, of course, is one of those individuals. It wouldtherefore appear that Title III of the ADA, by its plainterms, prohibits petitioner from denying Martin equal accessto its tours on the basis of his disability. Cf. PennsylvaniaDept. of Corrections v. Yeskey, 524 U. S. 206, 209 (1998)(holding that text of Title II's prohibition of discrimina-tion by "public entities" against disabled individuals "unmistakably includes State prisons and prisoners within itscoverage").Petitioner argues otherwise. To be clear about its posi-tion, it does not assert (as it did in the District Court) thatit is a private club altogether exempt from Title III's cov-erage. In fact, petitioner admits that its tournaments areconducted at places of public accommodation.26 Nor doespetitioner contend (as it did in both the District Court and25 S. Rep. No. 101-116, p. 59 (1989); H. R. Rep. No. 101-485, pt. 2, p. 100(1990).26 Reply Brief for Petitioner 1-2.532US3 Unit: $U57 [09-19-02 20:27:29] PAGES PGT: OPIN678 PGA TOUR, INC. v. MARTINOpinion of the Courtthe Court of Appeals) that the competitors' area "behind theropes" is not a public accommodation, notwithstanding thestatus of the rest of the golf course. Rather, petitioner re-frames the coverage issue by arguing that the competinggolfers are not members of the class protected by Title IIIof the ADA.27According to petitioner, Title III is concerned with dis-crimination against "clients and customers" seeking to obtain"goods and services" at places of public accommodation,whereas it is Title I that protects persons who work at suchplaces.28 As the argument goes, petitioner operates not a"golf course" during its tournaments but a "place of exhibition or entertainment," 42 U. S. C. $ 12181(7)(C), and a pro-fessional golfer such as Martin, like an actor in a theaterproduction, is a provider rather than a consumer of theentertainment that petitioner sells to the public. Martintherefore cannot bring a claim under Title III because he isnot one of the " `clients or customers of the covered publicaccommodation.' " 29 Rather, Martin's claim of discrimina-tion is "job-related"30 and could only be brought under TitleI--but that Title does not apply because he is an independentcontractor (as the District Court found) rather than anemployee.The reference to "clients or customers" that petitionerquotes appears in 42 U. S. C. $ 12182(b)(1)(A)(iv), which27 Martin complains that petitioner's failure to make this exact argumentbelow precludes its assertion here. However, the Title III coverage issuewas raised in the lower courts, petitioner advanced this particular argumentin support of its position on the issue in its petition for certiorari, and theargument was fully briefed on the merits by both parties. Given the importance of the issue, we exercise our discretion to consider it. See HarrisTrust and Sav. Bank v. Salomon Smith Barney Inc., 530 U. S. 238, 245-246,n. 2 (2000); Carlson v. Green, 446 U. S. 14, 17, n. 2 (1980).28 Brief for Petitioner 10, 11.29 Id., at 19 (quoting 42 U. S. C. $ 12182(b)(1)(A)(iv)).30 Brief for Petitioner 15; see also id., at 16 (Martin's claim "is nothing morethan a straightforward discrimination-in-the-workplace complaint").532US3 Unit: $U57 [09-19-02 20:27:29] PAGES PGT: OPIN679Cite as: 532 U. S. 661 (2001)Opinion of the Courtstates: "For purposes of clauses (i) through (iii) of this sub-paragraph, the term `individual or class of individuals' refersto the clients or customers of the covered public accommoda-tion that enters into the contractual, licensing or other arrangement." Clauses (i) through (iii) of the subparagraphprohibit public accommodations from discriminating againsta disabled "individual or class of individuals" in certainways31 either directly or indirectly through contractual arrangements with other entities. Those clauses make clearon the one hand that their prohibitions cannot be avoided bymeans of contract, while clause (iv) makes clear on the otherhand that contractual relationships will not expand a publicaccommodation's obligations under the subparagraph beyondits own clients or customers.As petitioner recognizes, clause (iv) is not literally appli-cable to Title III's general rule prohibiting discrimination against disabled individuals.32 Title III's broad generalrule contains no express "clients or customers" limitation,$ 12182(a), and $ 12182(b)(1)(A)(iv) provides that its limi-tation is only "[f]or purposes of " the clauses in that separate subparagraph. Nevertheless, petitioner contends thatclause (iv)'s restriction of the subparagraph's coverage to theclients or customers of public accommodations fairly de-scribes the scope of Title III's protection as a whole.We need not decide whether petitioner's construction ofthe statute is correct, because petitioner's argument falterseven on its own terms. If Title III's protected class werelimited to "clients or customers," it would be entirely appropriate to classify the golfers who pay petitioner $3,000 forthe chance to compete in the Q-School and, if successful, inthe subsequent tour events, as petitioner's clients or custom31 Clause (i) prohibits the denial of participation, clause (ii) participation inunequal benefits, and clause (iii) the provision of separate benefits.32 Brief for Petitioner 20 (clause (iv) "applies directly just to subsection12182(b)"); Reply Brief for Petitioner 4, n. 1 (clause (iv) "does not apply directly to the general provision prohibiting discrimination").532US3 Unit: $U57 [09-19-02 20:27:29] PAGES PGT: OPIN680 PGA TOUR, INC. v. MARTINOpinion of the Courters. In our view, petitioner's tournaments (whether situated at a "golf course" or at a "place of exhibition or entertainment") simultaneously offer at least two "privileges" tothe public--that of watching the golf competition and that ofcompeting in it. Although the latter is more difficult andmore expensive to obtain than the former, it is nonethelessa privilege that petitioner makes available to members of thegeneral public. In consideration of the entry fee, any golferwith the requisite letters of recommendation acquires theopportunity to qualify for and compete in petitioner's tours.Additionally, any golfer who succeeds in the open qualifyingrounds for a tournament may play in the event. That petitioner identifies one set of clients or customers that it serves(spectators at tournaments) does not preclude it from havinganother set (players in tournaments) against whom it maynot discriminate. It would be inconsistent with the literaltext of the statute as well as its expansive purpose to readTitle III's coverage, even given petitioner's suggested limitation, any less broadly.3333 Contrary to the dissent's suggestion, our view of the Q-School does notmake "everyone who seeks a job" at a public accommodation, through "anopen tryout" or otherwise, "a customer." Post, at 697 (opinion of Scalia,J.). Unlike those who successfully apply for a job at a place of public accommodation, or those who successfully bid for a contract, the golfers who qualify for petitioner's tours play at their own pleasure (perhaps, but not necessarily, for prize money), and although they commit to playing in at least 15tournaments, they are not bound by any obligations typically associatedwith employment. See, e. g., App. 260 (trial testimony of PGA commissioner Timothy Finchem) (petitioner lacks control over when and where tourmembers compete, and over their manner of performance outside the rulesof competition). Furthermore, unlike athletes in "other professionalsports, such as baseball," post, at 697, in which players are employed by theirclubs, the golfers on tour are not employed by petitioner or any related organizations. The record does not support the proposition that the purpose ofthe Q-School "is to hire," ibid., rather than to narrow the field of participantsin the sporting events that petitioner sponsors at places of publicaccommodation.532US3 Unit: $U57 [09-19-02 20:27:29] PAGES PGT: OPIN681Cite as: 532 U. S. 661 (2001)Opinion of the CourtOur conclusion is consistent with case law in the analogouscontext of Title II of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, 78 Stat.243, 42 U. S. C. $ 2000a et seq. Title II of that Act prohibitspublic accommodations from discriminating on the basis ofrace, color, religion, or national origin. $ 2000a(a). In Dan-iel v. Paul, 395 U. S. 298, 306 (1969), applying Title II to theLake Nixon Club in Little Rock, Arkansas, we held that thedefinition of a "place of exhibition or entertainment," as apublic accommodation, covered participants "in some sportor activity" as well as "spectators or listeners." We findequally persuasive two lower court opinions applying TitleII specifically to golfers and golf tournaments. InEvans v.Laurel Links, Inc., 261 F. Supp. 474, 477 (ED Va. 1966), aclass action brought to require a commercial golf establish-ment to permit black golfers to play on its course, the District Court held that Title II "is not limited to spectators ifthe place of exhibition or entertainment provides facilitiesfor the public to participate in the entertainment." 34 AndinWesley v. Savannah, 294 F. Supp. 698 (SD Ga. 1969), theDistrict Court found that a private association violated TitleII when it limited entry in a golf tournament on a municipalcourse to its own members but permitted all (and only) whitegolfers who paid the membership and entry fees to com-pete.35 These cases support our conclusion that, as a publicaccommodation during its tours and qualifying rounds, peti-tioner may not discriminate against either spectators or competitors on the basis of disability.VAs we have noted, 42 U. S. C. $ 12182(a) sets forth TitleIII's general rule prohibiting public accommodations from34 Title II of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 includes in its definition of "publicaccommodation" a "place of exhibition or entertainment" but does not specifically list a "golf course" as an example. See 42 U. S. C. $ 2000a(b).35 Under petitioner's theory, Title II would not preclude it from discriminating against golfers on racial grounds. App. 197; Tr. of Oral Arg. 11-12.532US3 Unit: $U57 [09-19-02 20:27:29] PAGES PGT: OPIN682 PGA TOUR, INC. v. MARTINOpinion of the Courtdiscriminating against individuals because of their disabili-ties. The question whether petitioner has violated that ruledepends on a proper construction of the term "discrimina-tion," which is defined by Title III to include"a failure to make reasonable modifications in policies,practices, or procedures, when such modifications arenecessary to afford such goods, services, facilities, priv-ileges, advantages, or accommodations to individualswith disabilities, unless the entity can demonstrate thatmaking such modifications would fundamentally alterthe nature of such goods, services, facilities, privileges,advantages, or accommodations." $ 12182(b)(2)(A)(ii)(emphasis added).Petitioner does not contest that a golf cart is a reasonablemodification that is necessary if Martin is to play in its tournaments. Martin's claim thus differs from one that mightbe asserted by players with less serious afflictions that makewalking the course uncomfortable or difficult, but not beyondtheir capacity. In such cases, an accommodation might bereasonable but not necessary. In this case, however, thenarrow dispute is whether allowing Martin to use a golfcart, despite the walking requirement that applies to thePGA TOUR, the NIKE TOUR, and the third stage of theQ-School, is a modification that would "fundamentally alterthe nature" of those events.In theory, a modification of petitioner's golf tournamentsmight constitute a fundamental alteration in two differentways. It might alter such an essential aspect of the gameof golf that it would be unacceptable even if it affected allcompetitors equally; changing the diameter of the hole fromthree to six inches might be such a modification.36 Alternatively, a less significant change that has only a peripheral36 Cf. post, at 701 (Scalia, J., dissenting) ("I suppose there is some point atwhich the rules of a well-known game are changed to such a degree that noreasonable person would call it the same game").532US3 Unit: $U57 [09-19-02 20:27:29] PAGES PGT: OPIN683Cite as: 532 U. S. 661 (2001)Opinion of the Courtimpact on the game itself might nevertheless give a disabledplayer, in addition to access to the competition as requiredby Title III, an advantage over others and, for that reason,fundamentally alter the character of the competition.37 Weare not persuaded that a waiver of the walking rule for Mar-tin would work a fundamental alteration in either sense.38As an initial matter, we observe that the use of carts isnot itself inconsistent with the fundamental character of thegame of golf. From early on, the essence of the game hasbeen shotmaking--using clubs to cause a ball to progressfrom the teeing ground to a hole some distance away with asfew strokes as possible.39 That essential aspect of the game37 Accord, post, at 703 (Scalia, J., dissenting) ("The statute seeks to assure that a disabled person's disability will not deny him equal access to(among other things) competitive sporting events--not that his disabilitywill not deny him an equal chance to win competitive sporting events").38 As we have noted, the statute contemplates three inquiries: whetherthe requested modification is "reasonable," whether it is "necessary" forthe disabled individual, and whether it would "fundamentally alter thenature of" the competition. 42 U. S. C. $ 12182(b)(2)(A)(ii). Whether onequestion should be decided before the others likely will vary from case tocase, for in logic there seems to be no necessary priority among the three.In routine cases, the fundamental alteration inquiry may end with thequestion whether a rule is essential. Alternatively, the specifics of theclaimed disability might be examined within the context of what is a reasonable or necessary modification. Given the concession by petitionerthat the modification sought is reasonable and necessary, and given petitioner's reliance on the fundamental alteration provision, we have no occasion to consider the alternatives in this case.39 Golf is an ancient game, tracing its ancestry to Scotland, and playedby such notables as Mary Queen of Scots and her son James. That shotmaking has been the essence of golf since early in its history is reflectedin the first recorded rules of golf, published in 1744 for a tournament onthe Leith Links in Edinburgh:"Articles & Laws in Playing at Golf"1. You must Tee your Ball, within a Club's length of the [previous] Hole."2. Your Tee must be upon the Ground."3. You are not to change the Ball which you Strike off the Tee.[Footnote 39 is continued on p. 684]532US3 Unit: $U57 [09-19-02 20:27:29] PAGES PGT: OPIN684 PGA TOUR, INC. v. MARTINOpinion of the Courtis still reflected in the very first of the Rules of Golf, whichdeclares: "The Game of Golf consists in playing a ball fromthe teeing ground into the hole by a stroke or successivestrokes in accordance with the rules." Rule 1-1, Rules ofGolf, App. 104 (emphasis in original). Over the years, therehave been many changes in the players' equipment, in golfcourse design, in the Rules of Golf, and in the method oftransporting clubs from hole to hole.40 Originally, so fewclubs were used that each player could carry them without"4. You are not to remove, Stones, Bones or any Break Club for the sakeof playing your Ball, Except upon the fair Green/& that only/ within aClub's length of your Ball."5. If your Ball comes among Water, or any Watery Filth, you are at liberty to take out your Ball & bringing it behind the hazard and Teeing it,you may play it with any Club and allow your Adversary a Stroke for sogetting out your Ball."6. If your Balls be found anywhere touching one another, You are to liftthe first Ball, till you play the last."7. At Holling, you are to play your Ball honestly for the Hole, and, not toplay upon your Adversary's Ball, not lying in your way to the Hole."8. If you should lose your Ball, by its being taken up, or any other way,you are to go back to the Spot, where you struck last & drop another Ball,And allow your Adversary a Stroke for the misfortune."9. No man at Holling his Ball, is to be allowed, to mark his way to theHole with his Club or, any thing else."10. If a Ball be stopp'd by any person, Horse, Dog, or any thing else, TheBall so stop'd must be play'd where it lyes."11. If you draw your Club, in order to Strike & proceed so far in theStroke, as to be bringing down your Club; If then, your Club shall break,in, any way, it is to be Accounted a Stroke."12. He, whose Ball lyes farthest from the Hole is obliged to play first."13. Neither Trench, Ditch, or Dyke, made for the preservation of theLinks, nor the Scholar's Holes or the Soldier's Lines, Shall be accounted aHazard; But the Ball is to be taken out/Teed/and play'd with any IronClub." K. Chapman, Rules of the Green 14-15 (1997).40 See generally M. Campbell, The Random House International Encyclopedia of Golf 9-57 (1991); Golf Magazine's Encyclopedia of Golf 1-17 (2ded. 1993).532US3 Unit: $U57 [09-19-02 20:27:29] PAGES PGT: OPIN685Cite as: 532 U. S. 661 (2001)Opinion of the Courta bag. Then came golf bags, caddies, carts that were pulledby hand, and eventually motorized carts that carried playersas well as clubs. "Golf carts started appearing with increas-ing regularity on American golf courses in the 1950's.Today they are everywhere. And they are encouraged.For one thing, they often speed up play, and for another, theyare great revenue producers." 41 There is nothing in theRules of Golf that either forbids the use of carts or penalizesa player for using a cart. That set of rules, as we have ob-served, is widely accepted in both the amateur and professional golf world as the rules of the game.42 The walkingrule that is contained in petitioner's hard cards, based on anoptional condition buried in an appendix to the Rules ofGolf,43 is not an essential attribute of the game itself.Indeed, the walking rule is not an indispensable featureof tournament golf either. As already mentioned, petitionerpermits golf carts to be used in the SENIOR PGA TOUR,the open qualifying events for petitioner's tournaments, thefirst two stages of the Q-School, and, until 1997, the thirdstage of the Q-School as well. See supra, at 665-667.Moreover, petitioner allows the use of carts during certaintournament rounds in both the PGA TOUR and the NIKE41 Olinger v. United States Golf Assn., 205 F. 3d 1001, 1003 (CA7 2000).42 On this point, the testimony of the immediate past president of theUSGA (and one of petitioner's witnesses at trial) is illuminating:"Tell the court, if you would, Ms. Bell, who it is that plays under theseRules of Golf . . . ?"A. Well, these are the rules of the game, so all golfers. These are forall people who play the game."Q. So the two amateurs that go out on the weekend to play golftogether would--would play by the Rules of Golf?"A. We certainly hope so."Q. Or a tournament that is conducted at a private country club for itsmembers, is it your understanding that that would typically be conductedunder the Rules of Golf?"A. Well, that's--that's right. If you want to play golf, you need to playby these rules." App. 239.43 See n. 3, supra.532US3 Unit: $U57 [09-19-02 20:27:29] PAGES PGT: OPIN686 PGA TOUR, INC. v. MARTINOpinion of the CourtTOUR. See supra, at 667, and n. 6. In addition, althoughthe USGA enforces a walking rule in most of the tournaments that it sponsors, it permits carts in the Senior Ama-teur and the Senior Women's Amateur championships.44Petitioner, however, distinguishes the game of golf as it isgenerally played from the game that it sponsors in the PGATOUR, NIKE TOUR, and (at least recently) the last stageof the Q-School--golf at the "highest level." According topetitioner, "[t]he goal of the highest-level competitive athlet-ics is to assess and compare the performance of differentcompetitors, a task that is meaningful only if the competitorsare subject to identical substantive rules."45 The waiver ofany possibly "outcome-affecting" rule for a contestant wouldviolate this principle and therefore, in petitioner's view, fundamentally alter the nature of the highest level athleticevent.46 The walking rule is one such rule, petitioner submits, because its purpose is "to inject the element of fatigueinto the skill of shot-making,"47 and thus its effect may bethe critical loss of a stroke. As a consequence, the reason-able modification Martin seeks would fundamentally alterthe nature of petitioner's highest level tournaments even ifhe were the only person in the world who has both the talentto compete in those elite events and a disability sufficientlyserious that he cannot do so without using a cart.The force of petitioner's argument is, first of all, mitigatedby the fact that golf is a game in which it is impossible toguarantee that all competitors will play under exactly the44 Furthermore, the USGA's handicap system, used by over 4 millionamateur golfers playing on courses rated by the USGA, does not considerwhether a player walks or rides in a cart, or whether she uses a caddy orcarries her own clubs. Rather, a player's handicap is determined by aformula that takes into account the average score in the 10 best of her 20most recent rounds, the difficulty of the different courses played, andwhether or not a round was a "tournament" event.45 Brief for Petitioner 13.46 Id., at 37.47 994 F. Supp., at 1250.532US3 Unit: $U57 [09-19-02 20:27:29] PAGES PGT: OPIN687Cite as: 532 U. S. 661 (2001)Opinion of the Courtsame conditions or that an individual's ability will be the soledeterminant of the outcome. For example, changes in theweather may produce harder greens and more head windsfor the tournament leader than for his closest pursuers. Alucky bounce may save a shot or two.48 Whether such hap-penstance events are more or less probable than the likelihood that a golfer afflicted with Klippel-Trenaunay-WeberSyndrome would one day qualify for the NIKE TOUR andPGA TOUR, they at least demonstrate that pure chance mayhave a greater impact on the outcome of elite golf tournaments than the fatigue resulting from the enforcement of thewalking rule.Further, the factual basis of petitioner's argument is undermined by the District Court's finding that the fatiguefrom walking during one of petitioner's 4-day tournamentscannot be deemed significant. The District Court creditedthe testimony of a professor in physiology and expert on fatigue, who calculated the calories expended in walking a golfcourse (about five miles) to be approximately 500 calories--" `nutritionally . . . less than a Big Mac.' " 994 F. Supp., at1250. What is more, that energy is expended over a 5-hourperiod, during which golfers have numerous intervals forrest and refreshment. In fact, the expert concluded, be-cause golf is a low intensity activity, fatigue from the gameis primarily a psychological phenomenon in which stress andmotivation are the key ingredients. And even under conditions of severe heat and humidity, the critical factor in fa-tigue is fluid loss rather than exercise from walking.Moreover, when given the option of using a cart, the ma-jority of golfers in petitioner's tournaments have chosen to48 A drive by Andrew Magee earlier this year produced a result that heneither intended nor expected. While the foursome ahead of him wasstill on the green, he teed off on a 322-yard par four. To his surprise, theball not only reached the green, but also bounced off Tom Byrum's putterand into the hole. Davis, Magee Gets Ace on Par-4, Ariz. Republic, Jan.26, 2001, p. C16, 2001 WL 8510792.532US3 Unit: $U57 [09-19-02 20:27:29] PAGES PGT: OPIN688 PGA TOUR, INC. v. MARTINOpinion of the Courtwalk, often to relieve stress or for other strategic reasons.49As NIKE TOUR member Eric Johnson testified, walkingallows him to keep in rhythm, stay warmer when it is chilly,and develop a better sense of the elements and the coursethan riding a cart.50Even if we accept the factual predicate for petitioner'sargument--that the walking rule is "outcome affecting"because fatigue may adversely affect performance--its legalposition is fatally flawed. Petitioner's refusal to considerMartin's personal circumstances in deciding whether to ac-commodate his disability runs counter to the clear languageand purpose of the ADA. As previously stated, the ADAwas enacted to eliminate discrimination against "individuals"with disabilities, 42 U. S. C. $ 12101(b)(1), and to that endTitle III of the Act requires without exception that any "policies, practices, or procedures" of a public accommodation bereasonably modified for disabled "individuals" as necessaryto afford access unless doing so would fundamentally alterwhat is offered, $ 12182(b)(2)(A)(ii). To comply with thiscommand, an individualized inquiry must be made to determine whether a specific modification for a particular person'sdisability would be reasonable under the circumstances aswell as necessary for that person, and yet at the same timenot work a fundamental alteration. See S. Rep. No. 101-116,at 61; H. R. Rep. No. 101-485, pt. 2, at 102 (public accommodations "are required to make decisions based on facts applicable to individuals"). Cf. Sutton v. United Air Lines, Inc.,527 U. S. 471, 483 (1999) ("[W]hether a person has a disabilityunder the ADA is an individualized inquiry").49 That has been so not only in the SENIOR PGA TOUR and the firsttwo stages of the Q-School, but also, as Martin himself noticed, in the thirdstage of the Q-School after petitioner permitted everyone to ride ratherthan just waiving the walking rule for Martin as required by the DistrictCourt's injunction.50 App. 201. See also id., at 179-180 (deposition testimony of Gerry Norquist); id., at 225-226 (trial testimony of Harry Toscano).532US3 Unit: $U57 [09-19-02 20:27:29] PAGES PGT: OPIN689Cite as: 532 U. S. 661 (2001)Opinion of the CourtTo be sure, the waiver of an essential rule of competitionfor anyone would fundamentally alter the nature of petitioner's tournaments. As we have demonstrated, however, thewalking rule is at best peripheral to the nature of petitioner's athletic events, and thus it might be waived in individ-ual cases without working a fundamental alteration. Therefore, petitioner's claim that all the substantive rules for its"highest-level" competitions are sacrosanct and cannot bemodified under any circumstances is effectively a contentionthat it is exempt from Title III's reasonable modification requirement. But that provision carves out no exemption forelite athletics, and given Title III's coverage not only ofplaces of "exhibition or entertainment" but also of "golfcourse[s]," 42 U. S. C. $$ 12181(7)(C), (L), its application topetitioner's tournaments cannot be said to be unintended orunexpected, see $$ 12101(a)(1), (5). Even if it were, "the factthat a statute can be applied in situations not expresslyanticipated by Congress does not demonstrate ambiguity.It demonstrates breadth." Pennsylvania Dept. of Correc-tions v. Yeskey, 524 U. S., at 212 (internal quotation marksomitted).5151 Hence, petitioner's questioning of the ability of courts to apply thereasonable modification requirement to athletic competition is a complaintmore properly directed to Congress, which drafted the ADA's coveragebroadly, than to us. Even more misguided is Justice Scalia's suggestionthat Congress did not place that inquiry into the hands of the courts atall. According to the dissent, the game of golf as sponsored by petitioneris, like all sports games, the sum of its "arbitrary rules," and no one,including courts, "can pronounce one or another of them to be `nonessential' if the rulemaker (here the PGA TOUR) deems it to be essential."Post, at 700. Whatever the merit of Justice Scalia's postmodern viewof "What Is [Sport]," ibid., it is clear that Congress did not enshrine it inTitle III of the ADA. While Congress expressly exempted "private clubsor establishments" and "religious organizations or entities" from Title III'scoverage, 42 U. S. C. $ 12187, Congress made no such exception for athleticcompetitions, much less did it give sports organizations carte blanche authority to exempt themselves from the fundamental alteration inquiry bydeeming any rule, no matter how peripheral to the competition, to be532US3 Unit: $U57 [09-19-02 20:27:29] PAGES PGT: OPIN690 PGA TOUR, INC. v. MARTINOpinion of the CourtUnder the ADA's basic requirement that the need of a dis-abled person be evaluated on an individual basis, we haveno doubt that allowing Martin to use a golf cart would notfundamentally alter the nature of petitioner's tournaments.As we have discussed, the purpose of the walking rule is tosubject players to fatigue, which in turn may influence theoutcome of tournaments. Even if the rule does serve thatpurpose, it is an uncontested finding of the District Courtthat Martin "easily endures greater fatigue even with a cartthan his able-bodied competitors do by walking." 994 F.Supp., at 1252. The purpose of the walking rule is thereforenot compromised in the slightest by allowing Martin to usea cart. A modification that provides an exception to a pe-ripheral tournament rule without impairing its purpose cannot be said to "fundamentally alter" the tournament. Whatit can be said to do, on the other hand, is to allow Martinthe chance to qualify for, and compete in, the athletic eventspetitioner offers to those members of the public who havethe skill and desire to enter. That is exactly what the ADArequires.52 As a result, Martin's request for a waiver of thewalking rule should have been granted.The ADA admittedly imposes some administrative burdens on the operators of places of public accommodation thatcould be avoided by strictly adhering to general rules andpolicies that are entirely fair with respect to the able-bodiedbut that may indiscriminately preclude access by qualifiedpersons with disabilities.53 But surely, in a case of this kind,essential. In short, Justice Scalia's reading of the statute renders theword "fundamentally" largely superfluous, because it treats the alterationof any rule governing an event at a public accommodation to be a fundamental alteration.52 On this fundamental point, the dissent agrees. See post, at 699 ("ThePGA TOUR cannot deny respondent access to that game because of hisdisability").53 However, we think petitioner's contention that the task of assessingrequests for modifications will amount to a substantial burden is overstated. As Martin indicates, in the three years since he requested the532US3 Unit: $U57 [09-19-02 20:27:29] PAGES PGT: OPIN691Cite as: 532 U. S. 661 (2001)Scalia, J., dissentingCongress intended that an entity like the PGA not only giveindividualized attention to the handful of requests that itmight receive from talented but disabled athletes for a modi-fication or waiver of a rule to allow them access to the competition, but also carefully weigh the purpose, as well as theletter, of the rule before determining that no accommodationwould be tolerable.The judgment of the Court of Appeals is affirmed.