Parts I, II, III, and VI, concluding that petitioner has not carried itsburden of showing a probability of success on the merits of its Commerce Clause claims. Its arguments--that the rebate requirement constitutes impermissible extraterritorial regulation and that it discriminates against interstate commerce in order to subsidize in-state retailsales--are unpersuasive. Unlike the price control statute invalidatedin Baldwin v. G. A. F. Seelig, Inc., 294 U. S. 511, and the price affirma538US2 Unit: $U52 [11-02-04 18:02:39] PAGES PGT: OPIN645Cite as: 538 U. S. 644 (2003)Syllabustion statute struck down in Healy v. Beer Institute, 491 U. S. 324, MaineRx does not regulate the price of any out-of-state transaction by itsexpress terms or its inevitable effect. Nor does Maine Rx impose adisparate burden on out-of-state competitors. A manufacturer cannotavoid its rebate obligation by opening production facilities in Maine andwould receive no benefit from the rebates even if it did so; the paymentsto local pharmacists provide no special benefit to competitors of rebatepaying manufacturers. West Lynn Creamery, Inc. v. Healy, 512 U. S.186, distinguished. Pp. 668-670.Justice Stevens, joined by Justice Souter, Justice Ginsburg,and Justice Breyer, concluded in Parts IV and VII:(a) The answer to the question before the Court--whether petitioner's showing was sufficient to support the District Court's injunction--will not determine the validity of Maine's Rx Program since furtherproceedings may lead to another result. Moreover, the Secretary mayview Maine Rx as an amendment to its Medicaid Plan that requires hisapproval before becoming effective. As the case comes to this Court,the question is whether there is a probability that Maine's program waspre-empted by the federal statute's mere existence. Therefore, thereis a presumption that the state statute is valid, and the question askedis whether petitioner has shouldered the burden of overcoming that presumption. Pp. 660-662.(b) At this stage of the litigation, petitioner has not carried its burden of showing a probability of success on the merits of its claims.P. 670.Justice Stevens, joined by Justice Souter and Justice Ginsburg, concluded in Part V that petitioner's showing is insufficient tosupport a finding that the Medicaid Act pre-empts Maine's Rx Programinsofar as it threatens to coerce manufacturers into reducing their priceson non-Medicaid sales. Petitioner claims that the potential interferencewith Medicaid benefits without serving any Medicaid purpose is prohibited by the federal statute. However, petitioner must show that MaineRx serves no such goal. In fact, Maine Rx may serve the Medicaidrelated purposes of providing benefits to needy persons and curtailingthe State's Medicaid costs. While these purposes would not provide asufficient basis for upholding the program if it severely curtailed Medicaid recipients' prescription drug access, the District Court erred in assuming that even a modest impediment to such access would invalidatethe program. The Medicaid Act gives States substantial discretion tochoose the proper mix of amount, scope, and duration limitations oncoverage as long as care and services are provided in the recipients'best interests. Alexander v. Choate, 469 U. S. 287, 303. That a State'sdecision to curtail Medicaid benefits may have been motivated by a state538US2 Unit: $U52 [11-02-04 18:02:39] PAGES PGT: OPIN646 PHARMACEUTICAL RESEARCH AND MFRS. OFAMERICA v. WALSHSyllabuspolicy unrelated to the Medicaid Act does not limit the scope of its broaddiscretion to define the benefits package it will finance. See Beal v.Doe, 432 U. S. 438. The presumption against federal pre-emption of astate statute designed to foster public health has special force when itappears, and the Secretary has not decided to the contrary, that thetwo governments are pursuing common purposes. At this stage of theproceeding, the severity of any impediment that Maine's program mayimpose on a Medicaid patient's access to the drug of her choice is amatter of conjecture. Thus, the First Circuit correctly resolved thepre-emption issue. Pp. 662-668.Justice Breyer concluded that petitioner cannot obtain a preliminary injunction simply by showing minimal or quite modest harm eventhough Maine offered no evidence of countervailing Medicaid-relatedbenefit. Proper determination of the pre-emption question will demanda more careful balancing of Medicaid-related harms and benefits thanthe District Court undertook. Thus, its technical misstatement of theproper legal standard should not be overlooked. Vacating the injunction will also help ensure that the District Court takes account of theSecretary's views in further proceedings, which is important since HHSadministers Medicaid and is better able than a court to assemble relevant facts and to make relevant predictions, and since the law grantssignificant weight to the Secretary's legal conclusions about whetherMaine's program is consistent with Medicaid's objectives. Under theMedicaid Act, Maine may obtain those views when it files its plan withHHS for approval. In addition, a court may "refer" a question to theSecretary under the legal doctrine of "primary jurisdiction," whichseeks to produce better informed and uniform legal rulings by allowingcourts to take advantage of an agency's specialized knowledge, expertise, and central position within a regulatory regime. Where, as here,certain conditions are satisfied, see Far East Conference v. UnitedStates, 342 U. S. 570, 574-575, a court may raise the doctrine on its ownmotion. A court may then stay its proceedings to allow a party toinitiate agency review. Even if Maine chooses not to obtain the Secretary's views on its own, the desirability of the District Court's havingthose views to consider is relevant to the "public interest" determinationthat often factors into whether a preliminary injunction should issue.Pp. 670-674.Justice Scalia concluded that petitioner's statutory claim should berejected on the ground that the remedy for the State's failure to complywith its Medicaid Act obligations is set forth in the Act itself: termination of funding by the Secretary. Petitioner must seek enforcement ofMedicaid conditions by that authority and may obtain relief in the courts538US2 Unit: $U52 [11-02-04 18:02:39] PAGES PGT: OPIN647Cite as: 538 U. S. 644 (2003)Syllabusonly when a denial of enforcement is arbitrary, capricious, an abuse ofdiscretion, or otherwise unlawful. 5 U. S. C. $ 706(2)(A). Pp. 674-675.Justice Thomas concluded that Maine Rx is not pre-empted by theMedicaid Act. The premise of petitioner's pre-emption claim is thatMaine Rx is "an obstacle to the accomplishment and execution of thefull purposes and objectives of Congress." Hines v. Davidowitz, 312U. S. 52, 67. The Medicaid Act represents a delicate balance betweencompeting interests, e. g., care and cost. It grants States broad discretion to impose prior authorization, and proper consideration of the Secretary's role in administering the Act forecloses petitioner's pre-emptionclaim. The Act provides a complete list of the restrictions participatingStates may place on prescription drug coverage. 42 U. S. C. $ 1396r-8(d)(1). The only stricture on a prior authorization program is compliance with certain procedures, $ 1396r-8(d)(5). The purpose of $ 1396r-8(d)(1) is its effect--to grant participating States authority to subjectdrugs to prior authorization subject only to $ 1396r-8(d)(5)'s express limitations. In light of the broad grant of discretion to States to imposeprior authorization, petitioner cannot produce a credible conflict between Maine Rx and the Medicaid Act. Given the Secretary's authorityto administer and interpret the Medicaid Act, petitioner can prevail onits view that the Medicaid Act pre-empts Maine Rx and renders it voidunder the Supremacy Clause only by showing that the Medicaid Act isunambiguous or that Congress has directly addressed the issue. SeeChevron U. S. A. Inc. v. Natural Resources Defense Council, Inc., 467U. S. 837, 842. However, the Act's text cannot be read in such a way.Indeed, the Secretary has adopted an interpretation of the Act thatdoes not preclude States from negotiating prices for non-Medicaid drugpurchases. Obstacle pre-emption's very premise is that Congress hasnot expressly displaced state law and therefore not directly spoken tothe pre-emption question. Therefore, where an agency is charged withadministering a federal statute, as the Secretary is here, Chevron imposes a perhaps-insurmountable barrier to an obstacle pre-emptionclaim. Pp. 675-683.Stevens, J., announced the judgment of the Court and delivered theopinion of the Court with respect to Parts I, II, III, and VI, in whichRehnquist, C. J., and O'Connor, Kennedy, Souter, Ginsburg, andBreyer, JJ., joined, an opinion with respect to Parts IV and VII, in whichSouter, Ginsburg, and Breyer, JJ., joined, and an opinion with respectto Part V, in which Souter and Ginsburg, JJ., joined. Breyer, J., filedan opinion concurring in part and concurring in the judgment, post, p. 670.Scalia, J., post, p. 674, and Thomas, J., post, p. 675, filed opinions concurring in the judgment. O'Connor, J., filed an opinion concurring in part538US2 Unit: $U52 [11-02-04 18:02:39] PAGES PGT: OPIN648 PHARMACEUTICAL RESEARCH AND MFRS. OFAMERICA v. WALSHSyllabusand dissenting in part, in which Rehnquist, C. J., and Kennedy, J.,joined, post, p. 684.Carter G. Phillips argued the cause for petitioner. Withhim on the briefs were Kathleen M. Sullivan, Daniel M.Price, Marinn F. Carlson, Bruce C. Gerrity, and Ann R.Robinson.Deputy Solicitor General Kneedler argued the cause forthe United States as amicus curiae urging reversal. Withhim on the brief were Solicitor General Olson, AssistantAttorney General McCallum, Lisa Schiavo Blatt, Mark B.Stern, Mark S. Davies, Alex M. Azar II, Sheree R. Kanner,Henry R. Goldberg, and Janice L. Hoffman.Andrew S. Hagler, Assistant Attorney General of Maine,argued the cause for respondents. With him on the briefwere G. Steven Rowe, Attorney General, Paul Stern, DeputyAttorney General,John R. Brautigam, Assistant AttorneyGeneral, and Cabanne Howard.**Briefs of amici curiae urging reversal were filed for the Chamber ofCommerce of the United States of America by John G. Roberts, Jr., Catherine E. Stetson, and Robin S. Conrad; for the International Patient Advocacy Association et al. by Bert W. Rein; for the Long Term Care PharmacyAlliance by David C. Todd; for the Pacific Legal Foundation by DeborahJ. La Fetra; and for the Washington Legal Foundation et al. by Daniel J.Popeo and Richard A. Samp.Briefs of amici curiae urging affirmance were filed for the State ofMassachusetts et al. by Thomas F. Reilly, Attorney General of Massachusetts, and Linda A. Tomaselli and Peter Leight, Assistant Attorneys General, and by the Attorneys General for their respective jurisdictions asfollows: Bruce M. Botelho of Alaska, Janet Napolitano of Arizona, MarkPryor of Arkansas, Bill Lockyer of California, Earl I. Anzai of Hawaii,Steve Carter of Indiana, Thomas J. Miller of Iowa, Albert B. Chandler IIIof Kentucky, Richard P. Ieyoub of Louisiana, J. Joseph Curran, Jr., ofMaryland, Jennifer M. Granholm of Michigan, Mike Hatch of Minnesota,Mike Moore of Mississippi, Jeremiah W. (Jay) Nixon of Missouri, MikeMcGrath of Montana, Philip T. McLaughlin of New Hampshire, PatriciaA. Madrid of New Mexico, Eliot Spitzer of New York, W. A. DrewEdmondson of Oklahoma, Hardy Myers of Oregon, D. Michael Fisher of538US2 Unit: $U52 [11-02-04 18:02:39] PAGES PGT: OPIN649Cite as: 538 U. S. 644 (2003)Opinion of the CourtJustice Stevens announced the judgment of the Courtand delivered the opinion of the Court with respect toParts I, II, III, and VI, an opinion with respect to Parts IVand VII, in whichJustice Souter, Justice Ginsburg, andJustice Breyer join, and an opinion with respect to Part V,in whichJustice Souter and Justice Ginsburg join.In response to increasing Medicaid expenditures for pre-scription drugs,1 Congress enacted a cost-saving measure in1990 that requires drug companies to pay rebates to Stateson their Medicaid purchases. Over the last several years,state legislatures have enacted supplemental rebate pro-grams to achieve additional cost savings on Medicaid purchases as well as for purchases made by other needy citizens.The "Maine Rx" program, enacted in 2000, is primarily intended to provide discounted prescription drugs to Maine'suninsured citizens but its coverage is open to all residents ofthe State. Under the program, Maine will attempt to nego-tiate rebates with drug manufacturers to fund the reducedprice for drugs offered to Maine Rx participants. If adrug company does not enter into a rebate agreement, itsPennsylvania, Sheldon Whitehouse of Rhode Island, Charlie M. Condonof South Carolina, Mark Barnett of South Dakota, John Cornyn of Texas,William H. Sorrell of Vermont, Christine O. Gregoire of Washington, Darrell V. McGraw, Jr., of West Virginia, and Anabelle Rodri'guez of PuertoRico; for AARP et al. by Sarah Lenz Lock, Bruce Vignery, Michael Schuster, and Robert M. Hayes; for the Maine Council of Senior Citizens et al.by Arn H. Pearson and Thomas C. Bradley; and for the National Conference of State Legislatures et al. by Richard Ruda and James I. Crowley.Sheldon V. Toubman filed a brief for Legal Services Organizations Representing Medicaid Beneficiaries as amicus curiae.1 From 1980 to 1989, payments for Medicaid prescription drugs increased179% while Medicaid expenditures for all services increased by only 134%.Between 1982 and 1988, prescription drug costs "increased at an averageannual rate of 9.5 percent . . . , more than any other component of thehealth care sector." M. Ford, Congressional Research Service Report toCongress, Medicaid: Reimbursement for Outpatient Prescription Drugs,CRS-15 (Mar. 7, 1991) (hereinafter Ford).538US2 Unit: $U52 [11-02-04 18:02:39] PAGES PGT: OPIN650 PHARMACEUTICAL RESEARCH AND MFRS. OFAMERICA v. WALSHOpinion of the CourtMedicaid sales will be subjected to a "prior authorization"procedure.In this case, an association of nonresident drug manufacturers has challenged the constitutionality of the Maine RxProgram, claiming that the program is pre-empted by thefederal Medicaid statute and that it violates the negativeCommerce Clause. The association has not alleged that theprogram denies Medicaid patients meaningful access to prescription drugs or that it has excluded any drugs from accessto the market in Maine. Instead, it contends that the program imposes a significant burden on Medicaid recipientsby requiring prior authorization in certain circumstanceswithout serving any valid Medicaid purpose, and that theprogram effectively regulates out-of-state commerce. TheDistrict Court sustained both challenges and entered a preliminary injunction preventing implementation of the statute. The Court of Appeals reversed, and we granted certiorari because the questions presented are of nationalimportance. 536 U. S. 956 (2002).ICongress created the Medicaid program in 1965 by addingTitle XIX to the Social Security Act.2 The program authorizes federal financial assistance to States that choose to reimburse certain costs of medical treatment for needy persons.In order to participate in the Medicaid program, a State musthave a plan for medical assistance approved by the Secretaryof Health and Human Services (Secretary). 42 U. S. C.$ 1396a(b).3 A state plan defines the categories of individuals eligible for benefits and the specific kinds of medical services that are covered. $$ 1396a(a)(10), (17). The plan must2 79 Stat. 343, as amended, 42 U. S. C. $ 1396 et seq.3 The Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) is the agencyadministering the Medicaid program on behalf of the Secretary.538US2 Unit: $U52 [11-02-04 18:02:39] PAGES PGT: OPIN651Cite as: 538 U. S. 644 (2003)Opinion of the Courtprovide coverage for the "categorically needy" 4 and, at theState's option, may also cover the "medically needy."5Prior to 1990, the Medicaid statute did not specifically ad-dress outpatient prescription drug coverage. The Secretary's regulations and guidelines "set upper limits on eachState's aggregate expenditures for drugs."6 Under plansapproved by the Secretary, some States designed and admin-istered their own formularies, listing the drugs that theywould cover. States also employed "prior authorization pro-grams" that required approval by a state agency to qualifya doctor's prescription for reimbursement. See, e. g., Dodson v. Parham, 427 F. Supp. 97, 100-101 (ND Ga. 1977)("Georgia has historically administered its prescription drugprogram on the basis of a drug `formulary' or, in other words,a restricted list of drugs for which Medicaid will reimburseprovider pharmacists. Thus, any drug not specifically in-cluded on the list will not be reimbursed unless prior approval is granted by [the administrator of Georgia Medicaidprogram]");Cowan v. Myers, 187 Cal. App. 3d 968, 974-975,232 Cal. Rptr. 299, 301-303 (1986) (describing 1982 Californialaw providing that certain drugs would be covered under4 The "categorically needy" groups include individuals eligible for cashbenefits under the Aid to Families with Dependent Children (AFDC) program, the aged, blind, or disabled individuals who qualify for supplemental security income (SSI) benefits, and other low-income groups suchas pregnant women and children entitled to poverty-related coverage.$ 1396a(a)(10)(A)(i).5 The "medically needy" are individuals who meet the nonfinancial eligibility requirements for inclusion in one of the groups covered under Medicaid, but whose income or resources exceed the financial eligibility requirements for categorically needy eligibility. $ 1396a(a)(10)(C). Individualsare typically "entitled to medically needy protection when their incomeand resources, after deducting incurred medical expenses, falls [sic] belowthe medically needy standards." House Subcommittee on Health and theEnvironment of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, MedicaidSource Book: Background Data and Analysis, 103d Cong., 1st Sess., 167(Comm. Print 1993).6 Ford, at CRS-1.538US2 Unit: $U52 [11-02-04 18:02:39] PAGES PGT: OPIN652 PHARMACEUTICAL RESEARCH AND MFRS. OFAMERICA v. WALSHOpinion of the CourtCalifornia Medicaid program only after prior authorization).These programs were not specifically governed by any federal law or regulations, but rather were made part of theState Medicaid plans and approved by the Secretary becausethey aided in controlling Medicaid costs.7Congress effectively ratified the Secretary's practice of approving state plans containing prior authorization require-ments when it created its rebate program in an amendmentcontained in the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1990(OBRA 1990).8 The new program had two basic parts.First, it imposed a general requirement that, in order toqualify for Medicaid payments, drug companies must enterinto agreements either with the Secretary or, if authorizedby the Secretary, with individual States, to provide rebateson their Medicaid sales of outpatient prescription drugs.9The rebate on a "single source drug" or an "innovator multiple source drug" is the difference between the manufactur-er's average price and its "best price," or 15.1% of the average manufacturer price, whichever is greater. 42 U. S. C.$$ 1396r-8(c)(1), (2). The rebate for other drugs is 11.1% ofthe average manufacturer price. See $ 1396r-8(c)(3).Second, once a drug manufacturer enters into a rebateagreement, the law requires the State to provide coveragefor that drug under its plan unless the State complies withone of the exclusion or restriction provisions in the MedicaidAct. See $ 1396r-8(d). For example, a State may exclude7 "Before 1990, States had routinely required prior authorization for prescription or dispensing of drugs in order to control Medicaid costs . . . .In enacting the drug rebate provisions of Section 1396r-8 in 1990, Congress did not intend to upset that practice." Brief in Opposition forUnited States as Amicus Curiae 14-15.8 104 Stat. 1388-143.9 The statute authorizes payment for some drugs not covered by rebateagreements if a State determines that their availability is essential to thehealth of beneficiaries, if they have been given a special rating by theFederal Food and Drug Administration, and if a doctor has obtained priorauthorization for their use. See 42 U. S. C. $ 1396r-8(a)(3).538US2 Unit: $U52 [11-02-04 18:02:39] PAGES PGT: OPIN653Cite as: 538 U. S. 644 (2003)Opinion of the Courtcoverage of drugs such as "[a]gents . . . used for cosmeticpurposes or hair growth." $ 1396r-8(d)(2)(C).Most relevant to this case, Congress allowed States, "as acondition of coverage or payment for a covered outpatientdrug," $ 1396r-8(d)(5), to require approval of the drug beforeit is dispensed. Thus, under OBRA 1990, except for anarrow category of new drugs,10 "[a] State may subject toprior authorization any covered outpatient drug," $ 1396r-8(d)(1)(A), so long as the State's prior authorization program(1) provides a response by telephone or other telecommunication device within 24 hours of a request for prior authoriza-tion, and, (2) except for the listed excludable drugs, providesfor the dispensing of at least a 72-hour supply of a covereddrug in an emergency situation, see $ 1396r-8(d)(5).In the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1993,11 Con-gress further amended the Act to allow the States to useformularies subject to strict limitations. That amendmentexpressly stated that a prior authorization program thatcomplies with the 24-hour and 72-hour conditions is not sub-ject to the limitations imposed on formularies.12 The 1993amendment reenacted the provisions for state prior authori-zation programs that had been included in OBRA 1990, omitting, however, the narrow exception for new drugs.IIIn 2000, the Maine Legislature established the Maine RxProgram "to reduce prescription drug prices for residents ofthe State." Me. Rev. Stat. Ann., Tit. 22, $ 2681 (West Supp.10 "A State may not exclude for coverage, subject to prior authorization,or otherwise restrict any new biological or drug approved by the Foodand Drug Administration after the date of enactment of this section, for aperiod of 6 months after such approval." 104 Stat. 1388-150, $ 1927(d)(6).11 107 Stat. 613.12 "A prior authorization program established by a State under paragraph (5) is not a formulary subject to the requirements of this paragraph." $ 1396r-8(d)(4).538US2 Unit: $U52 [11-02-04 18:02:39] PAGES PGT: OPIN654 PHARMACEUTICAL RESEARCH AND MFRS. OFAMERICA v. WALSHOpinion of the Court2002). The statute provides that "the State [shall] act as apharmacy benefit manager in order to make prescriptiondrugs more affordable for qualified Maine residents, therebyincreasing the overall health of Maine residents, promotinghealthy communities and protecting the public health andwelfare." $ 2681(1). The program is intended to enable individuals to buy drugs from retail pharmacies at a discountroughly equal to the rebate on Medicaid purchases. See$ 2681(4).The statute provides that any manufacturer or "labeler"13selling drugs in Maine through any publicly supported fi-nancial assistance program "shall enter into a rebate agreement" with the State Commissioner of Human Services(Commissioner). $ 2681(3). The Commissioner is directedto use his best efforts to obtain a rebate that is at least equalto the rebate calculated under the federal program createdpursuant to OBRA 1990. See $ 2681(4). Rebates are to bepaid into a fund administered by the Commissioner, and thendistributed to participating pharmacies to compensate themfor selling at discounted prices. $ 2681(6).For those manufacturers that do not enter into rebateagreements, there are two consequences: First, their nonparticipation is information that the Department of HumanServices must release "to health care providers and the public." $ 2681(7). Second, and more importantly for our pur-poses, the "department shall impose prior authorization requirements in the Medicaid program under this Title, aspermitted by law, for the dispensing of prescription drugsprovided by those [nonparticipating] manufacturers and la-belers."Ibid.The statute authorizes the department to adopt implementing rules. $ 2681(14). The rules that have been pro-posed would limit access to the program to individuals who13 A "labeler" is a person who receives prescription drugs from a manufacturer or wholesaler and repackages them for later retail sale.$ 2681(2)(C).538US2 Unit: $U52 [11-02-04 18:02:39] PAGES PGT: OPIN655Cite as: 538 U. S. 644 (2003)Opinion of the Courtdo "not have a comparable or superior prescription drug ben-efit plan."14 The proposed rules also explain that Maine intends to appoint a "Drug Utilization Review Committee,"composed of physicians and pharmacists who will evaluateeach drug manufactured by a company that has declined toenter into a rebate agreement to decide whether it is clinically appropriate to subject the drug to prior authorization.15The State represents that it "certainly will not subject anysingle-source drug that fulfills a unique therapeutic functionto the prior authorization process" even if its manufacturerdoes not enter into a rebate agreement.16 The determina-tion "whether a particular drug should be subjected to aprior authorization requirement will be based firmly uponconsiderations of medical necessity, and in compliance withthe State's responsibilities as the administrator of the MaineMedicaid Program."17IIISeveral months before January 1, 2001, the intended com-mencement date of the Maine Rx Program, the Commissioner, then Kevin Concannon, sent a form letter to drugmanufacturers enclosing a proposed rebate agreement.1814 App. 317. The statute authorizes coverage for all "qualified Maineresidents," Me. Rev. Stat. Ann., Tit. 22, $ 2681(1) (West Supp. 2002), anddefines a qualified resident as one "who has obtained from the departmenta Maine Rx enrollment card," $ 2681(2)(F). In describing program goals,it provides: "It is not the intention of the State to discourage employersfrom offering or paying for prescription drug benefits for their employeesor to replace employer-sponsored prescription drug benefit plans that provide benefits comparable to those made available to qualified Maine residents under this subchapter." $ 2681(1). In their brief, respondentsstate: "It would be economically irrational for a person with prescriptiondrug coverage to use Maine Rx, but if any patient mistakenly attempts todo so, [the] proposed regulations . . . will not allow it." Brief forRespondents 7.15 See App. 268, 278.16 Id., at 149.17 Ibid.18 See id., at 62-74.538US2 Unit: $U52 [11-02-04 18:02:39] PAGES PGT: OPIN656 PHARMACEUTICAL RESEARCH AND MFRS. OFAMERICA v. WALSHOpinion of the CourtAlthough 27 individual manufacturers elected to participateby executing the proposed agreement, petitioner, the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America, an asso-ciation representing manufacturers that "account for morethan 75 percent of brand name drug sales in the UnitedStates,"19 responded by bringing this action challenging thevalidity of the statute. Its complaint was accompanied bya motion for a preliminary injunction, supported by sevenaffidavits.Four of the affidavits describe the nature of the associationand the companies' methods of distribution, emphasizing thefact that, with the exception of sales to two resident distributors, all of their prescription drug sales occur outside ofMaine.20 Three of them comment on the operation of priorauthorization programs administered by private managedcare organizations, describing their actual and potential adverse impact on both manufacturers and patients. Thus,one executive stated: "Imposition of a prior authorization[(PA)] requirement with respect to a particular drug se-verely curtails access to the drug for covered patients andsharply reduces the drug's market share and sales, as thePA causes a shift of patients to competing drugs of othermanufacturers that are not subject to a PA. Because a PAimposes additional procedural burdens on physicians prescribing the manufacturer's drug and retail pharmacies dis-pensing it, the effect of a PA is to diminish the manufacturer's goodwill that helped foster demand for its drug overcompeting drugs produced by other manufacturers, and toshift physician and patient loyalty to those competing drugs,perhaps permanently."21 Another affidavit described howprior authorization by a managed care organization in Ne-vada had sharply reduced the market share of four of SmithKline's drugs. For example, the market share of Aug19 Id., at 37 (Complaint || 6).20 Id., at 50, 53, 76-77, 87.21 Id., at 57 (affidavit of George Bilyk of Janssen Pharmaceutica, Inc.).538US2 Unit: $U52 [11-02-04 18:02:39] PAGES PGT: OPIN657Cite as: 538 U. S. 644 (2003)Opinion of the Courtmentin, a drug used to treat bacterial infections, declinedfrom 49% to 18% in the six months after the program wasimposed.22 In the third affidavit, Dr. Howell of SmithKlineBeecham Corporation expressed the opinion that prior authorization had never been required in one program "for thepurpose of influencing the manufacturer's pricing behaviorin another program," and that such use, "without regard tosafety or efficacy, will lead to drugs being prescribed thatare less safe and efficacious." 23Respondents' opposition to the motion was supported byConcannon's own affidavit and the affidavits of two doctors.They do not dispute the factual assertions concerning theimpact of prior authorization on the drug companies' marketshares, but instead comment on the benefits of prior authorization for patients. The State's Medicaid Medical Director,Dr. Clifford, explained that "[p]hysicians in Maine are al-ready well acquainted with the extensive prior authorizationprograms of the four HMO/Insurance programs which collectively cover nearly half the state's residents" and that theState had taken steps to "ensure that physicians will alwaysbe able to prescribe the safest and most efficacious drugs fortheir Medicaid patients."24 The second doctor, Dr. Richardson, stated that he prescribed Augmentin as a second linedrug, that the drug amoxicillin was effective in treatingear infections 80%-85% of the time, and that Augmentin was22 Id., at 112 (affidavit of David Moules of SmithKline Beecham Corp.).23 Id., at 103-104. Dr. Howell further stated: "Prior authorization isoften employed by managed care organizations (`MCOs') to enforce a drugformulary and is usually intended to limit the drugs to be prescribed byhealth care professionals. MCOs typically require health care professionals to obtain prior authorization from the MCO before prescribing a drug(1) to ensure proper use of prescription drugs with a high potential forinappropriate use, (2) to limit the use of prescription drugs with severe orlife threatening side effects and/or drug interactions; and (3) to encouragethe use of cost-effective medications without diminishing safety or efficacy." Id., at 102-103.24 Id., at 149-150.538US2 Unit: $U52 [11-02-04 18:02:39] PAGES PGT: OPIN658 PHARMACEUTICAL RESEARCH AND MFRS. OFAMERICA v. WALSHOpinion of the Court"3 to 6 times as expensive" as amoxicillin.25 Concannon'saffidavit described the composition of a committee of physicians and pharmacists that would "make the final determina-tion of the clinical appropriateness of any recommendationthat a prior authorization requirement be imposed with re-spect to a particular prescription drug manufactured by amanufacturer which has not entered into a Maine Rx Re-bate Agreement."26Without resolving any factual issues, the District Courtgranted petitioner's motion for a preliminary injunction.Relying on Healy v. Beer Institute, 491 U. S. 324, 336 (1989),the court first held that Maine had no power to regulate theprices paid to drug manufacturers in transactions that occurout of the State. Recognizing that some of their sales weremade to two distributors in Maine, the court further heldthat the Medicaid Act pre-empted Maine's Rx Program inso-far as it threatened to impose a prior authorization requirement on nonparticipating manufacturers. In so holding, thecourt assumed for the purpose of the decision that the " `De-partment of Human Services will not deny a single Medicaidrecipient access to the safest and most efficacious prescrip-tion drug therapy indicated for their individual medical circumstances.' " 27 In that court's view, pre-emption was nev-ertheless required because "Maine can point to noMedicaidpurpose in this new prior authorization requirement thatMaine has added for Medicaid prescription drugs. Mainehas not just passed a law that might conflict with the objec-tives of a federal law. It has actually taken the federal Medicaid program and altered it to serve Maine's local pur-poses."28 In the District Court's view, the fact that the25 Id., at 154.26 Id., at 167.27 Civ. No. 00-157-B-H (D. Me., Oct. 26, 2000), App. to Pet. for Cert. 68.28 Ibid. The court further observed: "If Maine can use its authorityover Medicaid authorization to leverage drug manufacturer rebates for thebenefit of uninsured citizens, then it can just as easily put the rebates into538US2 Unit: $U52 [11-02-04 18:02:39] PAGES PGT: OPIN659Cite as: 538 U. S. 644 (2003)Opinion of the Courtalteration served purposes outside the scope of the Medicaidprogram and created an obstacle to the administration of thefederal program was sufficient to establish pre-emption: "Nomatter how modest an obstacle the new prior authorizationamounts to (the parties disagree on the severity of the obsta-cle), it is an obstacle--drugs on the list must be approvedby the state Medicaid Medical Director before they can bedispensed . . . ."29The Court of Appeals disagreed with the District Court'sanalysis of the pre-emption issue for three reasons. First,since the federal statute expressly authorizes use of priorauthorization, it found "no conflict between the Maine Actand Medicaid's structure and purpose." 249 F. 3d 66, 75(CA1 2001). In its view, as long as there is compliance withthe federal 24- and 72-hour conditions, the State's motivationfor imposing the requirement is irrelevant. Second, giventhe absence of an actual conflict, the court found that themere fact that Maine Rx "fails to directly advance the purpose of the federal program" is an insufficient basis for"inflicting the `strong medicine' of preemption" on a statestatute. Id., at 76. Third, the court further stated that, as-suming the relevance of the State's motivation, "the MaineRx Program furthers Medicaid's aim of providing medicalservices to those whose `income and resources are insufficient to meet the costs of necessary medical services,' 42U. S. C. $ 1396, even if the individuals covered by the MaineRx Program are not poor enough to qualify for Medicaid."Ibid. Moreover, the court held that there is evidence thatmaking prescription drugs more accessible to the uninsuredmay keep some of them off Medicaid thereby minimizing theState's Medicaid expenditures.The Court of Appeals also reviewed the affidavits and concluded that they "fall short of establishing that the Act willa state program for highway and bridge construction or school funding."Ibid.29 Ibid.538US2 Unit: $U52 [11-02-04 18:02:39] PAGES PGT: OPIN660 PHARMACEUTICAL RESEARCH AND MFRS. OFAMERICA v. WALSHOpinion of Stevens, J.inflict inevitable or even probable harm" on Medicaid pa-tients, and thus were insufficient to support a pre-emptionbased facial challenge. Id., at 78. The court did, however,express concern that the prior authorization requirementmight affect the quality of medical care for Medicaid recipi-ents in subtle ways, such as inconveniencing prescribing physicians. It therefore expressly preserved petitioner's rightto renew its pre-emption challenge after implementation ofthe program "should there be evidence that Medicaid recipi-ents are harmed by the prior authorization requirement `asapplied.' " Ibid. The Court also found no violation of thedormant Commerce Clause and vacated the temporary injunction, but stayed its mandate pending our review of thecase.IVThe question before us is whether the District Courtabused its discretion when it entered the preliminary injunction. See Doran v. Salem Inn, Inc., 422 U. S. 922, 931-932(1975). By no means will our answer to that question finallydetermine the validity of Maine's Rx Program. The DistrictCourt did not conduct an evidentiary hearing and did notresolve any factual disputes raised by the affidavits filed bythe parties. Accordingly, no matter how we answer thequestion whether petitioner's showing was sufficient to sup-port the injunction, further proceedings in this case may leadto a contrary result.Moreover, there is also a possibility that the Secretarymay view the Maine Rx Program as an amendment to itsMedicaid Plan that requires his approval before it becomeseffective.30 While the petition for certiorari was pending,30 We note that CMS, acting on behalf of the Secretary, see n. 3, supra,sent a letter on September 18, 2002, to all of the state Medicaid directors.In that letter, the CMS Director indicated that "the establishment of aprior authorization program for Medicaid covered drugs to secure drugbenefits, rebates, or discounts for non-Medicaid populations is a significantcomponent of a State plan and we would therefore expect that a State538US2 Unit: $U52 [11-02-04 18:02:39] PAGES PGT: OPIN661Cite as: 538 U. S. 644 (2003)Opinion of Stevens, J.the United States filed a brief recommending that we denyreview, in part because further proceedings may clarify theissues. Its brief cautioned against the adoption of a ruleprohibiting prior authorization programs whenever they operate in part to benefit a non-Medicaid population, and sug-gested that a program tailored to benefit needy persons whoare not Medicaid-eligible might advance Medicaid-relatedgoals.31 That brief, however, as well as the Federal Govern-ment's brief filed after we granted review, expressed theopinion that, because Maine's program was adopted withoutthe Secretary's approval and was open to all Maine residentsregardless of financial need, it was not tailored to achieveMedicaid-related goals and was therefore invalid. Like theinterlocutory judicial rulings in this case, we assume that amore complete understanding of all the relevant facts mightlead to a modification of the views expressed in those briefs.In all events, we must confront the issues without the benefitof either a complete record or any dispositive ruling by theSecretary.The issue we confront is, of course, quite different fromthe question that would be presented if the Secretary, aftera hearing, had held that the Maine Rx Program was an impermissible amendment of its Medicaid Plan. In such event,the Secretary's ruling would be presumptively valid. Asthe case comes to us, however, the question is whether thereis a probability that Maine's program was pre-empted by themere existence of the federal statute. We start thereforewith a presumption that the state statute is valid, see DaviesWarehouse Co. v. Bowles, 321 U. S. 144, 153 (1944), and askwould submit such a program for CMS review under the State planprocess." App. to Brief in Opposition for United States as AmicusCuriae 48a.31 Brief in Opposition for United States as Amicus Curiae 9, 12("A prescription drug discount, made possible by encouraging manufacturers to give rebates to the State, may significantly decrease the chance thatsuch individuals will become Medicaid-eligible").538US2 Unit: $U52 [11-02-04 18:02:39] PAGES PGT: OPIN662 PHARMACEUTICAL RESEARCH AND MFRS. OFAMERICA v. WALSHOpinion of Stevens, J.whether petitioner has shouldered the burden of overcomingthat presumption.VThe centerpiece of petitioner's attack on Maine's Rx Pro-gram is its allegedly unique use of a threat to impose a priorauthorization requirement on Medicaid sales to coerce manu-facturers into reducing their prices on sales to non-Medicaidrecipients. Petitioner argues, and the District Court held,that the potential interference with the delivery of Medicaidbenefits without any benefit to the federal program is prohib-ited by the federal statute. In accepting this argument, theDistrict Court relied heavily on the fact that Maine hadfailed to identify any "Medicaid purpose" in its new authorization requirement. It appears that Maine had argued be-fore the District Court that such a purpose was unnecessarybecause the federal statute expressly authorizes what ithas done.In this Court, petitioner argues that it could not have beenan abuse of discretion for the District Court to decide thecase on the assumption that the program will serve no Med-icaid purpose, even if that assumption is erroneous, giventhat the State, insisting that no such purpose was necessary,offered no Medicaid purpose in its opposition to the motionfor a temporary injunction. To the extent that petitioner isrelying on a waiver theory, such reliance is inappropriatebecause the State never represented that there was no Med-icaid purpose served by its program; it simply argued that itdid not need to offer one. Regardless of the legal positiontaken by the State, petitioner bore the burden of establishing, by a clear showing, a probability of success on the mer-its. SeeMazurek v. Armstrong, 520 U. S. 968, 972 (1997)(per curiam); cf. Benten v. Kessler, 505 U. S. 1084, 1085(1992) (per curiam) (requiring movant to demonstrate a sub-stantial likelihood of success on the merits). Accordingly, itwas petitioner's burden to show that there was no Medicaid-related goal or purpose served by Maine Rx. Given that538US2 Unit: $U52 [11-02-04 18:02:39] PAGES PGT: OPIN663Cite as: 538 U. S. 644 (2003)Opinion of Stevens, J.burden, if the program on its face clearly serves someMedicaid-related goals, it would follow that the DistrictCourt's evaluation rested on an erroneous predicate. Weare persuaded that there are three such goals plainly presentin the Maine Rx Program.The Court of Appeals identified two Medicaid-related interests that will be served if the program is successful andrebates become available on sales to uninsured individuals.First, the program will provide medical benefits to personswho can be described as "medically needy" even if they donot qualify for AFDC or SSI benefits. There is some factualdispute concerning the extent to which the program will alsobenefit nonneedy persons, but even if the program is moreinclusive than the Secretary thinks it should be, the potentialbenefits for nonneedy persons would not nullify the benefitsthat would be provided to the neediest segment of the uninsured population.32 Second, there is the possibility that, byenabling some borderline aged and infirm persons better access to prescription drugs earlier, Medicaid expenses will bereduced. If members of this borderline group are not ableto purchase necessary prescription medicine, their conditionsmay worsen, causing further financial hardship and thusmaking it more likely that they will end up in the Medicaidprogram and require more expensive treatment.A third rather obvious Medicaid purpose will be fosteredwhenever it is necessary to impose the prior authorizationrequirement on a manufacturer that refuses to participate.As the record demonstrates, private managed care organizations typically require prior authorization both to protect pa-tients from inappropriate prescriptions and "to encouragethe use of cost-effective medications without diminishing32 We note in this regard that it is estimated that almost two-thirds ofthe nonelderly uninsured are low-income individuals or come from lowincome families making less than 200% of the federal poverty level. SeeKaiser Commission on Medicaid and the Uninsured, The Uninsured: APrimer 2 (Mar. 2001).538US2 Unit: $U52 [11-02-04 18:02:39] PAGES PGT: OPIN664 PHARMACEUTICAL RESEARCH AND MFRS. OFAMERICA v. WALSHOpinion of Stevens, J.safety or efficacy." 33 No doubt that is why Congress expressly preserved the States' ability to adopt that practicewhen it passed the Medicaid amendments in 1990.34 Thefact that prior authorization actually does produce substantial cost savings for organizations purchasing large volumesof drugs is apparent both from the affidavits in the recorddescribing the impact of such programs on manufacturers'market shares and from the results of a program adopted inFlorida. See Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America v. Meadows, 304 F. 3d 1197 (CA11 2002).35Avoiding unnecessary costs in the administration of a State'sMedicaid program obviously serves the interests of both theFederal Government and the States that pay the cost of providing prescription drugs to Medicaid patients.The fact that the Maine Rx Program may serve Medicaidrelated purposes, both by providing benefits to needy persons and by curtailing the State's Medicaid costs, would not33 See n. 23, supra.34 "As under current law, States would have the option of imposing priorauthorization requirements with respect to covered prescription drugs inorder to safeguard against unnecessary utilization and assure that payments are consistent with efficiency, economy, and quality of care." H. R.Rep. No. 101-881, p. 98 (1990).35 "The new Florida law . . . exempts certain Medicaid-eligible drugsfrom a `prior authorization' requirement. If a drug is not on the preferredlist, the prescribing doctor must call a state pharmacist to obtain approvalof its use. In the course of this procedure, the pharmacist informs thedoctor of the availability of other drugs (usually on the preferred druglist) that allegedly have comparable therapeutic value but are less expensive. The actual phone calls tend to be relatively brief (usually less than10 minutes in length), and approval of the prescribing doctor's first-choicedrug is guaranteed in 100 percent of all cases, provided only that he or shemake the telephone call. During the first three months of the program,approximately 55 percent of all these calls have resulted in a change ofthe prescription to a drug on the preferred drug list. Naturally, becausethis procedure may tend to promote less profitable drugs at the expenseof more profitable ones, it is not favored by the pharmaceutical manufacturers that brought this lawsuit." 304 F. 3d, at 1198.538US2 Unit: $U52 [11-02-04 18:02:39] PAGES PGT: OPIN665Cite as: 538 U. S. 644 (2003)Opinion of Stevens, J.provide a sufficient basis for upholding the program if it severely curtailed Medicaid recipients' access to prescriptiondrugs. Cf. 42 U. S. C. $ 1396a(a)(19) (State Medicaid planmust assure that care and services are to be provided "in amanner consistent with . . . the best interests of the recipients"). It was, however, incorrect for the District Court toassume that any impediment, "[n]o matter how modest," toa patient's ability to obtain the drug of her choice at stateexpense would invalidate the Maine Rx Program. Civ.No. 00-157-B-H, App. to Pet. for Cert. 68.We have made it clear that the Medicaid Act "gives theStates substantial discretion to choose the proper mix ofamount, scope, and duration limitations on coverage, as longas care and services are provided in `the best interest of therecipients.' " Alexander v. Choate, 469 U. S. 287, 303 (1985).In that case, we rejected a challenge brought by a class ofhandicapped persons to a Tennessee cost-saving measurethat reduced the number of annual days of inpatient hospitalcare for Medicaid patients from 20 to 14, emphasizing thatthe change did not deny beneficiaries "meaningful access"to medical services. Id., at 302, 306. The District Court'sfinding that the 14-day limitation would fully serve 95% ofhandicapped individuals eligible for Medicaid satisfied thestatutory standard.In this case, the District Court made no comparable finding, but assumed that Maine would fully comply with all federal requirements and "not deny a single Medicaid recipientaccess to the safest and most efficacious prescription drugtherapy indicated for their [sic] individual medical circumstances." 36 The District Court's assumption gave appropriate credence to the affidavits filed on behalf of the State,and, under our reasoning in Alexander, reflects compliancewith the statutory standard.36 Civ. No. 00-157-B-H, App. to Pet. for Cert. 68 (internal quotationmarks omitted).538US2 Unit: $U52 [11-02-04 18:02:39] PAGES PGT: OPIN666 PHARMACEUTICAL RESEARCH AND MFRS. OFAMERICA v. WALSHOpinion of Stevens, J.The fact that a State's decision to curtail Medicaid benefitsmay have been motivated by a state policy unrelated to theMedicaid Act does not limit the scope of its broad discretionto define the package of benefits it will finance. In Beal v.Doe, 432 U. S. 438 (1977), despite accepting the plaintiffs'submission that nontherapeutic abortions are both less dangerous and less expensive than childbirth, we held that Penn-sylvania's interest in encouraging normal childbirth providedan adequate justification for its decision to exclude the abor-tion procedure from its Medicaid program. Maine's interestin protecting the health of its uninsured residents also pro-vides a plainly permissible justification for a prior authorization requirement that is assumed to have only a minimal im-pact on Medicaid recipients' access to prescription drugs.The Medicaid Act contains no categorical prohibition againstreliance on state interests unrelated to the Medicaid programitself when a State is fashioning the particular contours ofits own program. It retains the "considerable latitude" thatcharacterizes optional participation in a jointly financed ben-efit program.37The presumption against federal pre-emption of a statestatute desig ned to foster public health, HillsboroughCounty v. Automated Medical Laboratories, Inc., 471 U. S.707, 715-718 (1985), has special force when it appears, andthe Secretary has not decided to the contrary, that the twogovernments are pursuing "common purposes," New YorkState Dept. of Social Servs. v. Dublino, 413 U. S. 405, 421(1973). In Dublino, we rejected a pre-emption challenge toa state statute that imposed employment requirements asconditions for continued eligibility for AFDC benefits thatwent beyond the federal requirements. Commenting on37 "There is no question that States have considerable latitude in allocating their AFDC resources, since each State is free to set its own standardof need and to determine the level of benefits by the amount of funds itdevotes to the program." King v. Smith, 392 U. S. 309, 318-319 (1968)(footnotes omitted).538US2 Unit: $U52 [11-02-04 18:02:39] PAGES PGT: OPIN667Cite as: 538 U. S. 644 (2003)Opinion of Stevens, J.New York's interest in encouraging employment of its citi-zens, we wrote:"To the extent that the Work Rules embody New York'sattempt to promote self-reliance and civic responsibility,to assure that limited state welfare funds be spent onbehalf of those genuinely incapacitated and most inneed, and to cope with the fiscal hardships envelopingmany state and local governments, this Court shouldnot lightly interfere. The problems confronting our so-ciety in these areas are severe, and state governments,in cooperation with the Federal Government, mustbe allowed considerable latitude in attempting theirresolution." Id., at 413.The mere fact that the New York program imposed a nonfederal obstacle to continued eligibility for benefits did not pro-vide a sufficient basis for pre-emption, but we left open questions concerning possible conflicts with the federal programfor resolution in further proceedings.Id., at 422- 423.Similarly, in this case, the mere fact that prior authoriza-tion may impose a modest impediment to access to prescription drugs provided at government expense does not providea sufficient basis for pre-emption of the entire Maine RxProgram.At this stage of the proceeding, the severity of any impedi-ment that Maine's program may impose on a Medicaid patient's access to the drug of her choice is a matter of con-jecture. To the extent that drug manufacturers agree toparticipate in the program, there will be no impediment. Tothe extent that the manufacturers refuse, the Drug Utilization Review Committee will determine whether it is clinically appropriate to subject those drugs to prior authorization. If the committee determines prior authorization isrequired, that requirement may result in the delivery of aless expensive drug than a physician first prescribed, but onthe present record we cannot conclude that a significant538US2 Unit: $U52 [11-02-04 18:02:39] PAGES PGT: OPIN668 PHARMACEUTICAL RESEARCH AND MFRS. OFAMERICA v. WALSHOpinion of the Courtnumber of patients' medical needs--indeed, any patient'smedical needs--will be adversely affected.The record does demonstrate that prior authorization maywell have a significant adverse impact on the manufacturersof brand name prescription drugs and that it will imposesome administrative costs on physicians. The impact onmanufacturers is not relevant because any transfer of busi-ness to less expensive products will produce savings for theMedicaid program. The impact on doctors may be signifi-cant if it produces an administrative burden that affects thequality of their treatment of patients, but no such effect hasbeen proved. Moreover, given doctors' familiarity with theextensive use of prior authorization in the private sector,any such effect seems unlikely.We therefore agree with the Court of Appeals' resolutionof the pre-emption issue based on the record before us. Weagain reiterate that the question whether the Secretary's ap-proval must be sought before Maine Rx Program may gointo effect is not before us. Along these same lines, we offerno view as to whether it would be appropriate for the Secretary to disapprove this program if Maine had asked the Sec-retary to review it. We also offer no view as to whether itwould be proper for the Secretary to disallow funding forthe Maine Medicaid program if Maine fails to seek approvalfrom the Secretary of its Maine Rx Program. Based on theCMS letter of September 18, 2002,38 it appears that the Secretary is likely to take some action with respect to this pro-gram. Until the Secretary does, however, we cannot predictat this preliminary stage the ultimate fate of the Maine RxProgram, and we limit our holding accordingly.VIWhereas petitioner's pre-emption challenge focused on theeffects of the prior authorization requirement that would fol38 See n. 30, supra.538US2 Unit: $U52 [11-02-04 18:02:39] PAGES PGT: OPIN669Cite as: 538 U. S. 644 (2003)Opinion of the Courtlow a manufacturer's refusal to participate in the Rx Pro-gram, its Commerce Clause challenge focuses on the effectsof the rebate agreements that will follow manufacturer com-pliance with the program. As we understand the challenge,the alleged harm to interstate commerce would be the sameregardless of whether manufacturer compliance is completely voluntary or the product of coercion. Petitionerargues, first, that the rebate requirement constitutes im-permissible extraterritorial regulation, and second, that itdiscriminates against interstate commerce in order to subsi-dize in-state retail sales. Neither argument is persuasive.Writing for the Court in Baldwin v. G. A. F. Seelig, Inc.,294 U. S. 511, 521 (1935), Justice Cardozo made the classicobservation that "New York has no power to project its legislation into Vermont by regulating the price to be paid inthat state for milk acquired there." That proposition provided the basis for the majority's conclusion in Healy v. BeerInstitute, 491 U. S. 324 (1989), that a Massachusetts priceaffirmation statute had the impermissible effect of regulatingthe price of beer sold in neighboring States. Petitioner argues that the reasoning in those cases applies to what itcharacterizes as Maine's regulation of the terms of transactions that occur elsewhere. But, as the Court of Appealscorrectly stated, unlike price control or price affirmationstatutes, "the Maine Act does not regulate the price of anyout-of-state transaction, either by its express terms or by itsinevitable effect. Maine does not insist that manufacturerssell their drugs to a wholesaler for a certain price. Similarly, Maine is not tying the price of its in-state products toout-of-state prices." 249 F. 3d, at 81-82 (footnote omitted).The rule that was applied in Baldwin and Healy accordinglyis not applicable to this case.In West Lynn Creamery, Inc. v. Healy, 512 U. S. 186(1994), we reviewed the constitutionality of a Massachusettspricing order that imposed an assessment on all fluid milksold by dealers to Massachusetts retailers and distributed538US2 Unit: $U52 [11-02-04 18:02:39] PAGES PGT: OPIN670 PHARMACEUTICAL RESEARCH AND MFRS. OFAMERICA v. WALSHOpinion of Breyer, J.the proceeds to Massachusetts dairy farmers. Becausetwo-thirds of the assessed milk was produced by out-of-statefarmers while the entire fund was used to benefit in-statefarmers, the order effectively imposed a tax on out-of-stateproducers to subsidize production by their in-state competi-tors. We concluded that the program was invalid because ithad a discriminatory effect analogous to a protective tariffthat taxes goods imported from neighboring States but doesnot tax similar products produced locally.Petitioner argues that Maine's Rx fund is similar becauseit would be created entirely from rebates paid by out-of-statemanufacturers and would be used to subsidize sales by localpharmacists to local consumers. Unlike the situation inWest Lynn, however, the Maine Rx Program will not imposea disparate burden on any competitors. A manufacturercould not avoid its rebate obligation by opening productionfacilities in Maine and would receive no benefit from the rebates even if it did so; the payments to the local pharmacistsprovide no special benefit to competitors of rebate-payingmanufacturers. The rule that was applied in West Lynn isthus not applicable to this case.VIIAt this stage of the litigation, petitioner has not carriedits burden of showing a probability of success on the meritsof its claims. And petitioner has not argued that the Courtof Appeals was incorrect in holding that other factors--suchas the risk of irreparable harm, the balance of the equities,and the public interest--do not alter the analysis of its injunction request. The judgment of the Court of Appeals isaffirmed.