The District Court for the Eastern District of Virginiagranted petitioner's application for a writ of habeas corpusand vacated his capital murder conviction and death sentenceon the grounds that the Commonwealth had failed to discloseimportant exculpatory evidence and that petitioner had not,in consequence, received a fair trial. The Court of Appealsfor the Fourth Circuit reversed because petitioner had notraised his constitutional claim at his trial or in state collateral proceedings. In addition, the Fourth Circuit concludedthat petitioner's claim was, "in any event, without merit."App. 418, n. 8.1 Finding the legal question presented by this*Gerald T. Zerkin filed a brief for the National Association of CriminalDefense Lawyers et al. as amici curiae urging reversal.Kent S. Scheidegger filed a brief for the Criminal Justice Legal Foundation as amicus curiae urging affirmance.#Justice Thomas joins Parts I and IV of this opinion. Justice Kennedy joins Part III.1 The opinion of the Court of Appeals is unreported. The judgmentorder is reported, Strickler v. Pruett, 149 F. 3d 1170 (CA4 1998). Theopinion of the District Court is also unreported.527US1 Unit: $U77 [05-02-01 17:48:17] PAGES PGT: OPIN266 STRICKLER v. GREENEOpinion of the Courtcase considerably more difficult than the Fourth Circuit, wegranted certiorari, 525 U. S. 809 (1998), to consider (1)whether the Commonwealth violated Brady v. Maryland,373 U. S. 83 (1963), and its progeny; (2) whether there wasan acceptable "cause" for petitioner's failure to raise thisclaim in state court; and (3), if so, whether he suffered prejudice sufficient to excuse his procedural default.IIn the early evening of January 5, 1990, Leanne Whitlock,an African-American sophomore at James Madison University, was abducted from a local shopping center and robbedand murdered. In separate trials, both petitioner and Ronald Henderson were convicted of all three offenses. Hen-derson was convicted of first-degree murder, a noncapital offense, whereas petitioner was convicted of capital murderand sentenced to death.2At both trials, a woman named Anne Stoltzfus testifiedin vivid detail about Whitlock's abduction. The exculpatorymaterial that petitioner claims should have been disclosedbefore trial includes documents prepared by Stoltzfus, andnotes of interviews with her, that impeach significant por-tions of her testimony. We begin, however, by noting that,even without the Stoltzfus testimony, the evidence in the rec-ord was sufficient to establish petitioner's guilt on the murder charge. Whether petitioner would have been convictedof capital murder and received the death sentence if she hadnot testified, or if she had been sufficiently impeached, is lessclear. To put the question in context, we review the trialtestimony at some length.The Testimony at TrialAt about 4:30 p.m. on January 5, 1990, Whitlock borroweda 1986 blue Mercury Lynx from her boyfriend, John Dean,2 Petitioner was tried in May 1990. Henderson fled the Commonwealthand was later apprehended in Oregon. He was tried in March 1991.527US1 Unit: $U77 [05-02-01 17:48:17] PAGES PGT: OPIN267Cite as: 527 U. S. 263 (1999)Opinion of the Courtwho worked in the Valley Shopping Mall in Harrisonburg,Virginia. At about 6:30 or 6:45 p.m., she left her apartment,intending to return the car to Dean at the mall. She did notreturn the car and was not again seen alive by any of herfriends or family.Petitioner's mother testified that she had driven petitionerand Henderson to Harrisonburg on January 5. She also testified that petitioner always carried a hunting knife that hadbelonged to his father. Two witnesses, a friend of Henderson's and a security guard, saw petitioner and Henderson atthe mall that afternoon. The security guard was informedaround 3:30 p.m. that two men, one of whom she identified attrial as petitioner, were attempting to steal a car in the parking lot. She had them under observation during the remainder of the afternoon but lost sight of them at about 6:45.At approximately 7:30 p.m., a witness named Kurt Massiesaw the blue Lynx at a location in Augusta County about 25miles from Harrisonburg and a short distance from the cornfield where Whitlock's body was later found. Massie identified petitioner as the driver of the vehicle; he also saw awhite woman in the front seat and another man in the back.Massie noticed that the car was muddy, and that it turnedoff Route 340 onto a dirt road.At about 8 p.m., another witness saw the Lynx at Buddy'sMarket, with two men sitting in the front seat. The witnessdid not see anyone else in the car. At approximately 9 p.m.,petitioner and Henderson arrived at Dice's Inn, a bar inStaunton, Virginia, where they stayed for about four or fivehours. They danced with several women, including fourprosecution witnesses: Donna Kay Tudor, Nancy Simmons,Debra Sievers, and Carolyn Brown. While there, Henderson gave Nancy Simmons a watch that had belonged to Whitlock. Petitioner spent most of his time with Tudor, who waslater arrested for grand larceny based on her possession ofthe blue Lynx.527US1 Unit: $U77 [05-02-01 17:48:17] PAGES PGT: OPIN268 STRICKLER v. GREENEOpinion of the CourtThese four women all testified that Tudor had arrived atDice's at about 8 p.m. Three of them noticed nothing unusual about petitioner's appearance, but Tudor saw someblood on his jeans and a cut on his knuckle. Tudor also testified that she, Henderson, and petitioner left Dice's togetherafter it closed to search for marijuana. Henderson was driv-ing the blue Lynx, and petitioner and Tudor rode in back.Tudor related that petitioner was leaning toward Hendersonand talking with him; she overheard a crude conversationthat could reasonably be interpreted as describing the as-sault and murder of a black person with a "rock crusher."Tudor stated that petitioner made a statement that impliedthat he had killed someone, so the person "wouldn't give himno more trouble." App. 99. Tudor testified that while she,petitioner, and Henderson were driving around, petitionertook out his knife and threatened to stab Henderson becausehe was driving recklessly. Petitioner then began driving.At about 4:30 or 5 a.m. on January 6, petitioner drove Henderson to Kenneth Workman's apartment in Timberville.3Henderson went inside to get something, and petitioner andTudor drove off without waiting for him. Workman testifiedthat Henderson had blood on his pants and stated he hadkilled a black person.Petitioner and Tudor then drove to a motel in Blue Ridge.A day or two later they went to Virginia Beach, where theyspent the rest of the week. Petitioner gave Tudor pearl earrings that Whitlock had been wearing when she was lastseen. Tudor saw Whitlock's driver's license and bank cardin the glove compartment of the car. Tudor testified thatpetitioner unsuccessfully attempted to use Whitlock's bankcard when they were in Virginia Beach.When petitioner and Tudor returned to Augusta County,they abandoned the blue Lynx. On January 11, the policeidentified the car as Dean's, and found petitioner's and Tu3 Workman was called as a defense witness.527US1 Unit: $U77 [05-02-01 17:48:17] PAGES PGT: OPIN269Cite as: 527 U. S. 263 (1999)Opinion of the Courtdor's fingerprints on both the inside and the outside of thecar. They also found shoe impressions that matched thesoles of shoes belonging to petitioner. Inside the car, theyretrieved a jacket that contained identification papers belonging to Henderson.The police also recovered a bag at petitioner's mother'shouse that Tudor testified she and petitioner had left whenthey returned from Virginia Beach. The bag contained,among other items, three identification cards belonging toWhitlock and a black "tank top" shirt that was later foundto have human blood and semen stains on it. Tr. 707.On January 13, a farmer called the police to advise themthat he had found Henderson's wallet; a search of the arealed to the discovery of Whitlock's frozen, nude, and batteredbody. A 69-pound rock, spotted with blood, lay nearby. Forensic evidence indicated that Whitlock's death was causedby "multiple blunt force injuries to the head." App. 109.The location of the rock and the human blood on the rocksuggested that it had been used to inflict these injuries.Based on the contents of Whitlock's stomach, the medicalexaminer determined that she died fewer than six hoursafter she had last eaten.4A number of Caucasian hair samples were found at thescene, three of which were probably petitioner's. Given theweight of the rock, the prosecution argued that one of thekillers must have held the victim down while the otherstruck her with the murder weapon.Donna Tudor's estranged husband, Jay Tudor, was calledby the defense and testified that in March she had told himthat she was present at the murder scene and that petitionerdid not participate in the murder. Jay Tudor's testimonywas inconsistent in several respects with that of other witnesses. For example, he testified that several days elapsed4 Whitlock's roommate testified that Whitlock had dinner at 6 p.m. onJanuary 5, 1990, just before she left for the mall to return Dean's car.527US1 Unit: $U77 [05-02-01 17:48:17] PAGES PGT: OPIN270 STRICKLER v. GREENEOpinion of the Courtbetween the time that petitioner, Henderson, and DonnaTudor picked up Whitlock and the time of Whitlock's murder.Anne Stoltzfus' TestimonyAnne Stoltzfus testified that on two occasions on January5 she saw petitioner, Henderson, and a blonde girl inside theHarrisonburg mall, and that she later witnessed their abduction of Whitlock in the parking lot. She did not call thepolice, but a week and a half after the incident she discussedit with classmates at James Madison University, where bothshe and Whitlock were students. One of them called thepolice. The next night a detective visited her, and the fol-lowing morning she went to the police station and told herstory to Detective Claytor, a member of the HarrisonburgCity Police Department. Detective Claytor showed herphotographs of possible suspects, and she identified petitioner and Henderson "with absolute certainty" but statedthat she had a slight reservation about her identification ofthe blonde woman. Id., at 56.At trial, Stoltzfus testified that, at about 6 p.m. on January5, she and her 14-year-old daughter were in the Music Landstore in the mall looking for a compact disc. While she waswaiting for assistance from a clerk, petitioner, whom she described as "Mountain Man," and the blonde girl entered.55 She testified to their appearances in great detail. She stated that petitioner had "a kind of multi layer look." He wore a grey T-shirt with aHarley Davidson insignia on it. The prosecutor showed Stoltzfus theshirt, stained with blood and semen, that the police had discovered atpetitioner's mother's house. He asked if it were the same shirt she sawpetitioner wearing at the mall. She replied, "That could have been it."App. 37, 39. Henderson "had either a white or light colored shirt, probably a short sleeve knit shirt and his pants were neat. They weren't justold blue jeans. They may have been new blue jeans or it may have justbeen more dressy slacks of some sort." Id., at 37. The woman "hadblonde hair, it was kind of in a shaggy cut down the back. She had blueeyes, she had a real sweet smile, kind of a small mouth. Just a touch offreckles on her face." Id., at 60.527US1 Unit: $U77 [05-02-01 17:48:17] PAGES PGT: OPIN271Cite as: 527 U. S. 263 (1999)Opinion of the CourtBecause petitioner was "revved up" and "very impatient,"she was frightened and backed up, bumping into Henderson(whom she called "Shy Guy"), and thought she felt somethinghard in the pocket of his coat. Id., at 36-37.Stoltzfus left the store, intending to return later. Atabout 6:45, while heading back toward Music Land, she againencountered the threesome: "Shy Guy" walking by himself,followed by the girl, and then "Mountain Man" yelling"Donna, Donna, Donna." The girl bumped into Stoltzfusand then asked for directions to the bus stop.6 The threethen left.At first Stoltzfus tried to follow them because of her concern about petitioner's behavior, but she "lost him" and thenheaded back to Music Land. The clerk had not returned, soshe and her daughter went to their car. While driving toanother store, they saw a shiny dark blue car. The driverwas "beautiful," "well dressed and she was happy, she wassinging . . . ." Id., at 41. When the blue car was stoppedbehind a minivan at a stop sign, Stoltzfus saw petitioner forthe third time.She testified:" `Mountain Man' came tearing out of the Mall entrancedoor and went up to the driver of the van and . . . wasjust really mad and ran back and banged on back ofthe backside of the van and then went back to the Mallentrance wall where `Shy Guy' and `Blonde Girl' wasstanding . . . . [T]hen we left [and before the van and awhite pickup truck could turn] `Mountain Man' came outagain . . . ." Id., at 42-43.After first going to the passenger side of the pickup truck,petitioner came back to the black girl's car, "pounded on" thepassenger window, shook the car, yanked the door open andjumped in. When he motioned for "Blonde Girl" and "Shy6 Stoltzfus stated that the girl caught a button in Stoltzfus' "open weavesweater, which is why I remember her attire." Id., at 39.527US1 Unit: $U77 [05-02-01 17:48:17] PAGES PGT: OPIN272 STRICKLER v. GREENEOpinion of the CourtGuy" to get in, the driver stepped on the gas and "just laidon the horn" but she could not go because there were peoplewalking in front of the car. The horn "blew a long time"and petitioner"started hitting her . . . on the left shoulder, her rightshoulder and then it looked like to me that he startedhitting her on the head and I was, I just became con-cerned and upset. So I beeped, honked my horn andthen she stopped honking the horn and he stopped hit-ting her and opened the door again and the `Blonde Girl'got in the back and `Shy Guy' followed and got behindhim."Id., at 44-45.Stoltzfus pulled her car up parallel to the blue car, got outfor a moment, got back in, and leaned over to ask repeatedlyif the other driver was "O.K." The driver looked "frozen"and mouthed an inaudible response. Stoltzfus started todrive away and then realized "the only word that it couldpossibly be, was help."Id., at 47. The blue car then droveslowly around her, went over the curb with its horn honking,and headed out of the mall. Stoltzfus briefly followed, toldher daughter to write the license number on a "3x4 [inch]index card," 7 and then left for home because she had anempty gas tank and "three kids at home waiting for supper."Id., at 48-49.At trial Stoltzfus identified Whitlock from a picture as thedriver of the car and pointed to petitioner as "MountainMan." When asked if pretrial publicity about the murderhad influenced her identification, Stoltzfus replied "abso-lutely not." She explained:"[F]irst of all, I have an exceptionally good memory. Ihad very close contact with [petitioner] and he made an7 "I said to my fourteen[-year-]old daughter, write down the license number, you know, it was West Virginia, NKA 243 and I said help me to remember, `No Kids Alone 243,' and I said remember, 243 is my age." Id.,at 48.527US1 Unit: $U77 [05-02-01 17:48:17] PAGES PGT: OPIN273Cite as: 527 U. S. 263 (1999)Opinion of the Courtemotional impression with me because of his behaviorand I, he caught my attention and I paid attention. SoI have absolutely no doubt of my identification." Id.,at 58.The Commonwealth did not produce any other witnessesto the abduction. Stoltzfus' daughter did not testify.The Stoltzfus DocumentsThe materials that provide the basis of petitioner's Bradyclaim consist of notes taken by Detective Claytor during hisinterviews with Stoltzfus, and letters written by Stoltzfusto Claytor. They cast serious doubt on Stoltzfus' confidentassertion of her "exceptionally good memory." Because thecontent of the documents is critical to petitioner's proceduraland substantive claims, we summarize their content.Exhibit 18 is a handwritten note prepared by DetectiveClaytor after his first interview with Stoltzfus on January19, 1990, just two weeks after the crime. The note indicatesthat she could not identify the black female victim. Theonly person Stoltzfus apparently could identify at this timewas the white female. Id., at 306.Exhibit 2 is a document prepared by Detective Claytorsome time after February 1. It contains a summary of hisinterviews with Stoltzfus conducted on January 19 and January 20, 1990.9 At that time "she was not sure whether shecould identify the white males but felt sure she could identifythe white female."8 These materials were originally attached to an affidavit submitted withpetitioner's motion for summary judgment on his federal petition for habeas corpus. Because both the District Court and the Court of Appealsreferred to the documents by their exhibit numbers, we have done thesame.9 As the District Court pointed out, however, it omits reference to thefact that Stoltzfus originally said that she could not identify the victim--a fact recorded in his handwritten notes. Id., at 387.527US1 Unit: $U77 [05-02-01 17:48:17] PAGES PGT: OPIN274 STRICKLER v. GREENEOpinion of the CourtExhibit 3 is entitled "Observations" and includes a sum-mary of the abduction.Exhibit 4 is a letter written by Stoltzfus to Claytor threedays after their first interview "to clarify some of my confusion for you." The letter states that she had not remembered being at the mall, but that her daughter had helpedjog her memory. Her description of the abduction includesthe comment: "I have a very vague memory that I'm notsure of. It seems as if the wild guy that I saw had comerunning through the door and up to a bus as the bus waspulling off. . . . Then the guy I saw came running up to theblack girl's window. Were those 2 memories the same per-son?"Id., at 316. In a postscript she noted that her daughter "doesn't remember seeing the 3 people get into the blackgirl's car . . . ." Ibid.Exhibit 5 is a note to Claytor captioned "My Impressionsof `The Car,' " which contains three paragraphs describingthe size of the car and comparing it with Stoltzfus' Volkswagen Rabbit, but not mentioning the license plate number thatshe vividly recalled at the trial. Id., at 317-318.Exhibit 6 is a brief note from Stoltzfus to Claytor datedJanuary 25, 1990, stating that after spending several hourswith John Dean, Whitlock's boyfriend, "looking at currentphotos," she had identified Whitlock "beyond a shadow of adoubt." 10 Id., at 318. The District Court noted that by thetime of trial her identification had been expanded to includea description of her clothing and her appearance as a collegekid who was "singing" and "happy." Id., at 387-388.Exhibit 7 is a letter from Stoltzfus to Detective Claytor,dated January 16, 1990, in which she thanks him for his "patience with my sometimes muddled memories." She statesthat if the student at school had not called the police, "Inever would have made any of the associations that youhelped me make." Id., at 321.10 Stoltzfus' trial testimony made no mention of her meeting with Dean.527US1 Unit: $U77 [05-02-01 17:48:17] PAGES PGT: OPIN275Cite as: 527 U. S. 263 (1999)Opinion of the CourtIn Exhibit 8, which is undated and summarizes the eventsdescribed in her trial testimony, Stoltzfus commented:"So where is the 3x4 card? . . . It would have beenvery nice if I could have remembered all this at the timeand had simply gone to the police with the information.But I totally wrote this off as a trivial episode of collegekids carrying on and proceeded with my own full-timecollege load at JMU. . . . Monday, January 15th. I wascleaning out my car and found the 3x4 card. I tore itinto little pieces and put it in the bottom of a trash bag."Id., at 326.There is a dispute between the parties over whether petitioner's counsel saw Exhibits 2, 7, and 8 before trial. Theprosecuting attorney conceded that he himself never saw Exhibits 1, 3, 4, 5, and 6 until long after petitioner's trial, andthey were not in the file he made available to petitioner.11For purposes of this case, therefore, we assume that petitioner proceeded to trial without having seen Exhibits 1, 3,4, 5, and 6.1211 The prosecutor recalled that Exhibits 2, 7, and 8 had been in his openfile, id., at 365-368, but the lawyer who represented Henderson at his trialswore that they were not in the file, id., at 330; the recollection of petitioner's trial counsel was somewhat equivocal. Lead defense counsel wassure he had not seen the documents, id., at 300, while petitioner's otherlawyer signed an affidavit to the effect that he does "remember the information contained in [the documents]" but "cannot recall if I have seenthese specific documents," id., at 371.12 Although the parties have not advanced an explanation for the nondisclosure of the documents, perhaps it was an inadvertent consequenceof the fact that Harrisonburg is in Rockingham County and the trial wasconducted by the Augusta County prosecutor. We note, however, thatthe prosecutor is responsible for "any favorable evidence known to theothers acting on the government's behalf in the case, including the police."Kyles v. Whitley, 514 U. S. 419, 437 (1995). Thus, the Commonwealth,through its prosecutor, is charged with knowledge of the Stoltzfus materials for purposes of Brady v. Maryland, 373 U. S. 83 (1963).527US1 Unit: $U77 [05-02-01 17:48:17] PAGES PGT: OPIN276 STRICKLER v. GREENEOpinion of the CourtState ProceedingsPetitioner was tried in Augusta County, where Whitlock'sbody was found, on charges of capital murder, robbery, andabduction. Because the prosecutor maintained an open filepolicy, which gave petitioner's counsel access to all of theevidence in the Augusta County prosecutor's files,13 petitioner's counsel did not file a pretrial motion for discovery ofpossible exculpatory evidence.14 In closing argument, petitioner's lawyer effectively conceded that the evidence wassufficient to support the robbery and abduction charges, aswell as the lesser offense of first-degree murder, but arguedthat the evidence was insufficient to prove that petitionerwas guilty of capital murder.Id., at 192-193.The judge instructed the jury that petitioner could befound guilty of the capital charge if the evidence establishedbeyond a reasonable doubt that he "jointly participated inthe fatal beating" and "was an active and immediate partici13 In the federal habeas proceedings, the prosecutor gave the followingsworn answer to an interrogatory requesting him to state what materialswere disclosed by him to defense counsel pursuant to Brady: "I disclosedmy entire prosecution file to Strickler's defense counsel prior to Strickler'strial by allowing him to inspect my entire prosecution file including, butnot limited to, all police reports in the file and all witness statements inthe file." App. 368. Petitioner's trial counsel had shared the prosecutor'sunderstanding of the "open file" policy. In an affidavit filed in the statehabeas proceeding, they stated that they "thoroughly investigated" petitioner's case. "In this we were aided by the prosecutor's office, whichgave us full access to their files and the evidence they intended to present.We made numerous visits to their office to examine these files . . . . As aresult of this cooperation, they introduced nothing at trial of which wewere previously unaware." Id., at 223.14 In its pleadings on state habeas, the Commonwealth explained: "Fromthe inception of this case, the prosecutor's files were open to the petitioner's counsel. Each of the petitioner's attorneys made numerous visits tothe prosecutor's offices and reviewed all the evidence the Commonwealthintended to present. . . . Given that counsel were voluntarily given fulldisclosure of everything known to the government, there was no need fora formal [Brady] motion." Id., at 212-213.527US1 Unit: $U77 [05-02-01 17:48:17] PAGES PGT: OPIN277Cite as: 527 U. S. 263 (1999)Opinion of the Courtpant in the act or acts that caused the victim's death." Id.,at 160-161. The jury found petitioner guilty of abduction,robbery, and capital murder. Id., at 200-201. After listening to testimony and arguments presented during the sentencing phase, the jury made findings of "vileness" and "future dangerousness," and unanimously recommended thedeath sentence that the judge later imposed.The Virginia Supreme Court affirmed the conviction andsentence. Strickler v. Commonwealth, 241 Va. 482, 404S. E. 2d 227 (1991). It held that the trial court had properlyinstructed the jury on the "joint perpetrator" theory of capital murder and that the evidence, viewed most favorably insupport of the verdict, amply supported the prosecution'stheory that both petitioner and Henderson were active participants in the actual killing.15In December 1991, the Augusta County Circuit Court appointed new counsel to represent petitioner in state habeascorpus proceedings. State habeas counsel advanced an15 "The Commonwealth's theory of the case was that Strickler and Henderson had acted jointly to accomplish the actual killing. It contended attrial, and argues on appeal, that the physical evidence points to a violentstruggle between the assailants and the victim, in which Strickler's hairhad actually been torn out by the roots. Although Leanne had beenbeaten and kicked, none of her injuries would have been sufficient to immobilize her until her skull was crushed with the 69-pound rock. Because, the Commonwealth's argument goes, the rock had been dropped onher head at least twice, while she was on the ground, leaving two bloodstained depressions in the frozen earth, it would have been necessary thatshe be held down by one assailant while the other lifted the rock anddropped it on her head."The weight and dimensions of the 69-pound bloodstained rock, whichwas introduced in evidence as an exhibit, made it apparent that a singleperson could not have lifted it and dropped or thrown it while simultaneously holding the victim down. The bloodstains on Henderson's jacket aswell as on Strickler's clothing further tended to corroborate the Commonwealth's theory that the two men had been in the immediate presence ofthe victim's body when the fatal blows were struck and, hence, had jointlyparticipated in the killing." Strickler, 241 Va., at 494, 404 S. E. 2d, at 235.527US1 Unit: $U77 [05-02-01 17:48:17] PAGES PGT: OPIN278 STRICKLER v. GREENEOpinion of the Courtineffective-assistance-of-counsel claim based, in part, on trialcounsel's failure to file a motion under Brady v. Maryland,373 U. S. 83 (1963), "to have the Commonwealth disclose tothe defense all exculpatory evidence known to it--or in itspossession." App. 205-206. In answer to that claim, theCommonwealth asserted that such a motion was unnecessarybecause the prosecutor had maintained an open file policy.16The Circuit Court dismissed the petition, and the StateSupreme Court affirmed. Strickler v. Murray, 249 Va.120, 452 S. E. 2d 648 (1995).Federal Habeas Corpus ProceedingsIn March 1996, petitioner filed a federal habeas corpuspetition in the Eastern District of Virginia. The DistrictCourt entered a sealed, ex parte order granting petitioner'scounsel the right to examine and to copy all of the police andprosecution files in the case. Record, Doc. No. 20. Thatorder led to petitioner's counsel's first examination of theStoltzfus materials, described supra, at 273-275.Based on the discovery of those exhibits, petitioner for thefirst time raised a direct claim that his conviction was invalidbecause the prosecution had failed to comply with the ruleof Brady v. Maryland. The District Court granted theCommonwealth's motion to dismiss all claims except for petitioner's contention that the Commonwealth violated Brady,that he received ineffective assistance of counsel,17 and thathe was denied due process of law under the Fifth and Four-teenth Amendments. In its order denying the Commonwealth's motion to dismiss, the District Court found thatpetitioner had "demonstrated cause for his failure to raisethis claim earlier [because] [d]efense counsel had no inde-pendent access to this material and the Commonwealth repeatedly withheld it throughout Petitioner's state habeasproceeding." App. 287.16 See n. 14, supra.17 Petitioner later voluntarily dismissed this claim. App. 384.527US1 Unit: $U77 [05-02-01 17:48:17] PAGES PGT: OPIN279Cite as: 527 U. S. 263 (1999)Opinion of the CourtAfter reviewing the Stoltzfus materials, and making theassumption that the three disputed exhibits had been available to the defense, the District Court concluded that thefailure to disclose the other five was sufficiently prejudicialto undermine confidence in the jury's verdict. Id., at 396.It granted summary judgment to petitioner and grantedthe writ.The Court of Appeals vacated in part and remanded. Itheld that petitioner's Brady claim was procedurally de-faulted because the factual basis for the claim was availableto him at the time he filed his state habeas petition. Giventhat he knew that Stoltzfus had been interviewed by Harrisonburg police officers, the court opined that "reasonablycompetent counsel would have sought discovery in statecourt" of the police files, and that in response to this "simplerequest, it is likely the state court would have ordered theproduction of the files." App. 421. Therefore, the Court ofAppeals reasoned, it could not address the Brady claim unless petitioner could demonstrate both cause and actualprejudice.Under Fourth Circuit precedent a party "cannot establishcause to excuse his default if he should have known of suchclaims through the exercise of reasonable diligence." App.423 (citingStockton v. Murray, 41 F. 3d 920, 925 (1994)).Having already decided that the claim was available to reasonably competent counsel, the Fourth Circuit stated thatthe basis for finding procedural default also foreclosed afinding of cause. Moreover, the Court of Appeals reasoned,petitioner could not fault his trial lawyers' failure to make aBrady claim because they reasonably relied on the prosecu-tor's open file policy. App. 423-424.18As an alternative basis for decision, the Court of Appealsalso held that petitioner could not establish prejudice be18 For reasons we do not entirely understand, the Court of Appeals thusconcluded that, while it was reasonable for trial counsel to rely on theopen file policy, it was unreasonable for postconviction counsel to do so.527US1 Unit: $U77 [05-02-01 17:48:17] PAGES PGT: OPIN280 STRICKLER v. GREENEOpinion of the Courtcause "the Stoltzfus materials would have provided little orno help . . . in either the guilt or sentencing phases of thetrial." Id., at 425. With respect to guilt, the court notedthat Stoltzfus' testimony was not relevant to petitioner's argument that he was only guilty of first-degree murder ratherthan capital murder because Henderson, rather than he,actually killed Whitlock. With respect to sentencing, thecourt concluded that her testimony "was of no import" because the findings of future dangerousness and vilenessrested on other evidence. Finally, the court noted that evenif it could get beyond the procedural default, the Brady claimwould fail on the merits because of the absence of prejudice.App. 425, n. 11. The Court of Appeals, therefore, reversedthe District Court's judgment and remanded the case withinstructions to dismiss the petition.IIThe first question that our order granting certiorari di-rected the parties to address is whether the Commonwealthviolated the Brady rule. We begin our analysis by identify-ing the essential components of aBrady violation.In Brady, this Court held "that the suppression by theprosecution of evidence favorable to an accused upon requestviolates due process where the evidence is material either toguilt or to punishment, irrespective of the good faith or badfaith of the prosecution." 373 U. S., at 87. We have sinceheld that the duty to disclose such evidence is applicable eventhough there has been no request by the accused,UnitedStates v. Agurs, 427 U. S. 97, 107 (1976), and that the dutyencompasses impeachment evidence as well as exculpatoryevidence,United States v. Bagley, 473 U. S. 667, 676 (1985).Such evidence is material "if there is a reasonable probabilitythat, had the evidence been disclosed to the defense, the re-sult of the proceeding would have been different." Id., at682; see also Kyles v. Whitley, 514 U. S. 419, 433-434 (1995).Moreover, the rule encompasses evidence "known only to po527US1 Unit: $U77 [05-02-01 17:48:17] PAGES PGT: OPIN281Cite as: 527 U. S. 263 (1999)Opinion of the Courtlice investigators and not to the prosecutor." Id., at 438.In order to comply with Brady, therefore, "the individualprosecutor has a duty to learn of any favorable evidenceknown to the others acting on the government's behalf inthis case, including the police." Kyles, 514 U. S., at 437.These cases, together with earlier cases condemning theknowing use of perjured testimony,19 illustrate the specialrole played by the American prosecutor in the search fortruth in criminal trials. Within the federal system, for example, we have said that the United States Attorney is "therepresentative not of an ordinary party to a controversy, butof a sovereignty whose obligation to govern impartially is ascompelling as its obligation to govern at all; and whose interest, therefore, in a criminal prosecution is not that it shallwin a case, but that justice shall be done." Berger v. UnitedStates, 295 U. S. 78, 88 (1935).This special status explains both the basis for the prosecution's broad duty of disclosure and our conclusion that notevery violation of that duty necessarily establishes that theoutcome was unjust. Thus the term "Brady violation" issometimes used to refer to any breach of the broad obligationto disclose exculpatory evidence 20--that is, to any suppression of so-called "Brady material"--although, strictly speaking, there is never a real "Brady violation" unless the nondisclosure was so serious that there is a reasonable probabilitythat the suppressed evidence would have produced a different verdict. There are three components of a true Bradyviolation: The evidence at issue must be favorable to the ac19 See, e. g., Mooney v. Holohan, 294 U. S. 103, 112 (1935) (per curiam);Pyle v. Kansas, 317 U. S. 213, 216 (1942); Napue v. Illinois, 360 U. S. 264,269-270 (1959).20 Consider, for example, this comment in the dissenting opinion in Kylesv. Whitley: "It is petitioner's burden to show that in light of all the evidence, including that untainted by the Brady violation, it is reasonablyprobable that a jury would have entertained a reasonable doubt regardingpetitioner's guilt." 514 U. S., at 460 (opinion of Scalia, J.).527US1 Unit: $U77 [05-02-01 17:48:17] PAGES PGT: OPIN282 STRICKLER v. GREENEOpinion of the Courtcused, either because it is exculpatory, or because it is im-peaching; that evidence must have been suppressed by theState, either willfully or inadvertently; and prejudice musthave ensued.Two of those components are unquestionably establishedby the record in this case. The contrast between (a) theterrifying incident that Stoltzfus confidently described in hertestimony and (b) her initial perception of that event "as atrivial episode of college kids carrying on" that her daughterdid not even notice, suffices to establish the impeaching character of the undisclosed documents.21 Moreover, with re-spect to at least five of those documents, there is no disputeabout the fact that they were known to the Commonwealthbut not disclosed to trial counsel. It is the third component--whether petitioner has established the prejudice nec-essary to satisfy the "materiality" inquiry--that is the mostdifficult element of the claimed Brady violation in this case.Because petitioner acknowledges that his Brady claim isprocedurally defaulted, we must first decide whether thatdefault is excused by an adequate showing of cause and prejudice. In this case, cause and prejudice parallel two of thethree components of the alleged Brady violation itself. Thesuppression of the Stoltzfus documents constitutes one of thecauses for the failure to assert aBrady claim in the statecourts, and unless those documents were "material" forBrady purposes, their suppression did not give rise to suffi-cient prejudice to overcome the procedural default.IIIRespondent expressly disavows any reliance on the factthat petitioner's Brady claim was not raised at trial. Brief21 We reject respondent's contention that these documents do not fallunder Brady because they were "inculpatory." Brief for Respondent 41.Our cases make clear that Brady's disclosure requirements extend to materials that, whatever their other characteristics, may be used to impeacha witness. United States v. Bagley, 473 U. S. 667, 676 (1985).527US1 Unit: $U77 [05-02-01 17:48:17] PAGES PGT: OPIN283Cite as: 527 U. S. 263 (1999)Opinion of the Courtfor Respondent 17-18, n. 6. He states that the Common-wealth has consistently argued "that the claim is defaultedbecause it could have been raised on state habeas corpusthrough the exercise of due diligence, but was not."Ibid.Despite this concession, it is appropriate to begin the analysis of the "cause" issue by explaining why petitioner's rea-sons for failing to raise hisBrady claim at trial are acceptable under this Court's cases.Three factors explain why trial counsel did not advancethis claim: The documents were suppressed by the Common-wealth; the prosecutor maintained an open file policy;22 andtrial counsel were not aware of the factual basis for theclaim. The first and second factors--i. e., the nondisclosureand the open file policy--are both fairly characterized as con-duct attributable to the Commonwealth that impeded trialcounsel's access to the factual basis for making a Bradyclaim.23 As we explained in Murray v. Carrier, 477 U. S.478, 488 (1986), it is just such factors that ordinarily establishthe existence of cause for a procedural default.2422 While the precise dimensions of an "open file policy" may vary fromjurisdiction to jurisdiction, in this case it is clear that the prosecutor's useof the term meant that his entire prosecution file was made available tothe defense. App. 368; see also n. 13, supra.23 We certainly do not criticize the prosecution's use of the open file policy. We recognize that this practice may increase the efficiency and thefairness of the criminal process. We merely note that, if a prosecutorasserts that he complies with Brady through an open file policy, defensecounsel may reasonably rely on that file to contain all materials the Stateis constitutionally obligated to disclose under Brady.24 "[W]e think that the existence of cause for a procedural default mustordinarily turn on whether the prisoner can show that some objectivefactor external to the defense impeded counsel's efforts to comply withthe State's procedural rule. Without attempting an exhaustive catalog ofsuch objective impediments to compliance with a procedural rule, we notethat a showing that the factual or legal basis for a claim was not reasonably available to counsel, see Reed v. Ross, 468 U. S., at 16, or that `someinterference by officials,' Brown v. Allen, 344 U. S. 443, 486 (1953), madecompliance impracticable, would constitute cause under this stand527US1 Unit: $U77 [05-02-01 17:48:17] PAGES PGT: OPIN284 STRICKLER v. GREENEOpinion of the CourtIf it was reasonable for trial counsel to rely on, not justthe presumption that the prosecutor would fully perform hisduty to disclose all exculpatory materials, but also the implicit representation that such materials would be includedin the open files tendered to defense counsel for their examination, we think such reliance by counsel appointed to represent petitioner in state habeas proceedings was equally reasonable. Indeed, in Murray we expressly noted that "thestandard for cause should not vary depending on the timingof a procedural default." Id., at 491.Respondent contends, however, that the prosecution'smaintenance of an open file policy that did not include all itwas purported to contain is irrelevant because the factualbasis for the assertion of a Brady claim was available to statehabeas counsel. He presses two factors to support this assertion. First, he argues that an examination of Stoltzfus'trial testimony,25 as well as a letter published in a local newspaper,26 made it clear that she had had several interviewswith Detective Claytor. Second, the fact that the FederalDistrict Court entered an order allowing discovery of theHarrisonburg police files indicates that diligent counsel couldard." Murray, 477 U. S., at 488; see also Amadeo v. Zant, 486 U. S. 214,221-222 (1988).25 Stoltzfus testified to meeting with Claytor at least three times.App. 55-56.26 In her letter, which appeared on July 18, 1990 (after petitioner's trial)in the Harrisonburg Daily News-Record, Stoltzfus stated: "It never occurred to me that I was witnessing an abduction. In fact, if it hadn'tbeen for the intelligent, persistent, professional work of Detective DanielClaytor, I still wouldn't realize it. What sounded like a coherent story atthe trial was the result of an incredible effort by the police to fit a zillionlittle puzzle pieces into one big picture." Id., at 250. Stoltzfus also gavea pretrial interview to a reporter with the Roanoke Times that conflictedin some respects with her trial testimony, principally because she identified the blonde woman at the mall as Tudor. Id., at 373.527US1 Unit: $U77 [05-02-01 17:48:17] PAGES PGT: OPIN285Cite as: 527 U. S. 263 (1999)Opinion of the Courthave obtained a similar order from the state court. We findneither factor persuasive.Although it is true that petitioner's lawyers--both at trialand in post-trial proceedings--must have known that Stoltzfus had had multiple interviews with the police, it by nomeans follows that they would have known that records pertaining to those interviews, or that the notes that Stoltzfussent to the detective, existed and had been suppressed.27Indeed, if respondent is correct that Exhibits 2, 7, and 8 werein the prosecutor's "open file," it is especially unlikely thatcounsel would have suspected that additional impeachingevidence was being withheld. The prosecutor must haveknown about the newspaper articles and Stoltzfus' meetingswith Claytor, yet he did not believe that his prosecution filewas incomplete.Furthermore, the fact that the District Court entered abroad discovery order even before federal habeas counselhad advanced a Brady claim does not demonstrate that astate court also would have done so.28 Indeed, as we un-derstand Virginia law and respondent's position, petitionerwould not have been entitled to such discovery in state ha27 The defense could not discover copies of these notes from Stoltzfusherself, because she refused to speak with defense counsel before trial.Id., at 370.28 The parties have been unable to provide, and the record does not illuminate, the factual basis on which the District Court entered the discovery order. It was granted ex parte and under seal and furnished broadaccess to any records relating to petitioner. District Court Record, Doc.No. 20. The Fourth Circuit has since found that federal district courts donot possess the authority to issue ex parte discovery orders in habeasproceedings. In re Pruett, 133 F. 3d 275, 280 (1997). We express no opinion on the Fourth Circuit's decision on this question. However, we notethat it is unlikely that petitioner would have been granted in state courtthe sweeping discovery that led to the Stoltzfus materials, since Virginialaw limits discovery available during state habeas. Indeed, it is not evenclear that he had a right to such discovery in federal court. See n. 29,infra.527US1 Unit: $U77 [05-02-01 17:48:17] PAGES PGT: OPIN286 STRICKLER v. GREENEOpinion of the Courtbeas proceedings without a showing of good cause.29 Evenpursuant to the broader discovery provisions afforded attrial, petitioner would not have had access to these materialsunder Virginia law, except as modified by Brady.30 Merespeculation that some exculpatory material may have beenwithheld is unlikely to establish good cause for a discoveryrequest on collateral review. Nor, in our opinion, shouldsuch suspicion suffice to impose a duty on counsel to advancea claim for which they have no evidentiary support. Properrespect for state procedures counsels against a requirementthat all possible claims be raised in state collateral proceedings, even when no known facts support them. The presumption, well established by " `tradition and experience,' "that prosecutors have fully " `discharged their official duties,' " United States v. Mezzanatto, 513 U. S. 196, 210 (1995),is inconsistent with the novel suggestion that conscientiousdefense counsel have a procedural obligation to assert consti29 Virginia law provides that "no discovery shall be allowed in any proceeding for a writ of habeas corpus or in the nature of coram nobis withoutprior leave of the court, which may deny or limit discovery in any suchproceeding." Va. Sup. Ct. Rule 4:1(b)(5)(3)(b) (1998); see also Yeatts v.Murray, 249 Va. 285, 289, 455 S. E. 2d 18, 21 (1995). Respondent acknowledges that petitioner was not entitled to discovery under Virginia law.Brief for Respondent 25.30 See Va. Sup. Ct. Rule 3A:11 (1998). This rule expressly excludes fromdefendants "the discovery or inspection of statements made by Commonwealth witnesses or prospective Commonwealth witnesses to agents of theCommonwealth or of reports, memoranda or other internal Commonwealth documents made by agents in connection with the investigation orprosecution of the case, except [for scientific reports of the accused oralleged victim]." The Virginia Supreme Court found that petitioner hadbeen afforded all the discovery he was entitled to on direct review. "Limited discovery is permitted in criminal cases by the Rules of Court. . . .Strickler had the benefit of all the discovery to which he was entitledunder the Rules. Those rights do not extend to general production ofevidence, except in the limited areas prescribed by Rule 3A:11." Strickler v. Commonwealth, 241 Va. 482, 491, 404 S. E. 2d 227, 233 (1991).527US1 Unit: $U77 [05-02-01 17:48:17] PAGES PGT: OPIN287Cite as: 527 U. S. 263 (1999)Opinion of the Courttutional error on the basis of mere suspicion that some prose-cutorial misstep may have occurred.Respondent's position on the "cause" issue is particularlyweak in this case because the state habeas proceedingsconfirmed petitioner's justification for his failure to raise aBrady claim. As already noted, when he alleged that trialcounsel had been incompetent because they had not advanced such a claim, the warden responded by pointing outthat there was no need for counsel to do so because they"were voluntarily given full disclosure of everything knownto the government."31 Given that representation, petitioner had no basis for believing the Commonwealth hadfailed to comply with Brady at trial.32Respondent also argues that our decisions in Gray v. Neth-erland, 518 U. S. 152 (1996), and McCleskey v. Zant, 499 U. S.467 (1991), preclude the conclusion that the cause for peti-tioner's default was adequate. In both of those cases, however, the petitioner was previously aware of the factual basisfor his claim but failed to raise it earlier. SeeGray, 518U. S., at 161; McCleskey, 499 U. S., at 498-499. In the context of a Brady claim, a defendant cannot conduct the "rea31 This statement is quoted in full at n. 14, supra. Respondent arguesthat this representation is not dispositive because it was made in his motion to dismiss and therefore cannot excuse the failure to include a Bradyclaim in the petitioner's original state habeas pleading. We find the timing of the statement irrelevant, since the warden's response merely summarizes the Commonwealth's "open file" policy, instituted by the prosecution at the inception of the case.32 Furthermore, in its opposition to petitioner's motion during state habeas review for funds for an investigator, the Commonwealth argued:"Strickler's Petition contains 139 separate habeas claims. By requestingappointment of an investigator `to procure the necessary factual basis tosupport certain of Petitioner's claims' (Motion, p. 1), Petitioner is implicitlyconceding that he is not aware of factual support for the claims he hasalready made. Respondent agrees." App. 242.In light of these assertions, we fail to see how the Commonwealth believes petitioner could have shown "good cause" sufficient to get discoveryon a Brady claim in state habeas.527US1 Unit: $U77 [05-02-01 17:48:17] PAGES PGT: OPIN288 STRICKLER v. GREENEOpinion of the Courtsonable and diligent investigation" mandated by McCleskeyto preclude a finding of procedural default when the evidenceis in the hands of the State.33The controlling precedents on "cause" are Murray v. Carrier, 477 U. S., at 488, and Amadeo v. Zant, 486 U. S. 214(1988). As we explained in the latter case:"If the District Attorney's memorandum was not reason-ably discoverable because it was concealed by PutnamCounty officials, and if that concealment, rather thantactical considerations, was the reason for the failure ofpetitioner's lawyers to raise the jury challenge in thetrial court, then petitioner established ample cause toexcuse his procedural default under this Court's prece-dents."Id., at 222.34There is no suggestion that tactical considerations playedany role in petitioner's failure to raise hisBrady claim instate court. Moreover, under Brady an inadvertent nondisclosure has the same impact on the fairness of the proceed-ings as deliberate concealment. "If the suppression of evidence results in constitutional error, it is because of thecharacter of the evidence, not the character of the prosecutor." Agurs, 427 U. S., at 110.33 We do not reach, because it is not raised in this case, the impact of ashowing by the State that the defendant was aware of the existence of thedocuments in question and knew, or could reasonably discover, how toobtain them. Although Gray involved a procedurally defaulted Bradyclaim, in that case, the Court found that the petitioner had made "noattempt to demonstrate cause or prejudice for his default." Gray, 518U. S., at 162.34 It is noteworthy that both of the reasons on which we relied in McCleskey to distinguish Amadeo also apply to this case: "This case differsfrom Amadeo in two crucial respects. First, there is no finding that theState concealed evidence. And second, even if the State intentionallyconcealed the 21-page document, the concealment would not establishcause here because, in light of McCleskey's knowledge of the informationin the document, any initial concealment would not have prevented himfrom raising the claim in the first federal petition." 499 U. S., at 501-502.527US1 Unit: $U77 [05-02-01 17:48:17] PAGES PGT: OPIN289Cite as: 527 U. S. 263 (1999)Opinion of the CourtIn summary, petitioner has established cause for failing toraise a Brady claim prior to federal habeas because (a) theprosecution withheld exculpatory evidence; (b) petitionerreasonably relied on the prosecution's open file policy asfulfilling the prosecution's duty to disclose such evidence;and (c) the Commonwealth confirmed petitioner's reliance onthe open file policy by asserting during state habeas proceedings that petitioner had already received "everything knownto the government." 35 We need not decide in this casewhether any one or two of these factors would be sufficientto constitute cause, since the combination of all threesurely suffices.IVThe differing judgments of the District Court and theCourt of Appeals attest to the difficulty of resolving the issueof prejudice. Unlike the Fourth Circuit, we do not believethat "the Stolzfus [sic] materials would have provided littleor no help to Strickler in either the guilt or sentencingphases of the trial." App. 425. Without a doubt, Stoltzfus'testimony was prejudicial in the sense that it made petitioner's conviction more likely than if she had not testified, anddiscrediting her testimony might have changed the outcomeof the trial.That, however, is not the standard that petitioner mustsatisfy in order to obtain relief. He must convince us that"there is a reasonable probability" that the result of the trialwould have been different if the suppressed documents hadbeen disclosed to the defense. As we stressed in Kyles:"[T]he adjective is important. The question is not whetherthe defendant would more likely than not have received adifferent verdict with the evidence, but whether in its ab35 Because our opinion does not modify Brady, we reject respondent'scontention that we announce a "new rule" today. See Bousley v. UnitedStates, 523 U. S. 614 (1998).527US1 Unit: $U77 [05-02-01 17:48:17] PAGES PGT: OPIN290 STRICKLER v. GREENEOpinion of the Courtsence he received a fair trial, understood as a trial resultingin a verdict worthy of confidence." 514 U. S., at 434.The Court of Appeals' negative answer to that questionrested on its conclusion that, without considering Stoltzfus'testimony, the record contained ample, independent evidenceof guilt, as well as evidence sufficient to support the findingsof vileness and future dangerousness that warranted the imposition of the death penalty. The standard used by thatcourt was incorrect. As we made clear in Kyles, the materiality inquiry is not just a matter of determining whether,after discounting the inculpatory evidence in light of the undisclosed evidence, the remaining evidence is sufficient tosupport the jury's conclusions. Id., at 434-435. Rather,the question is whether "the favorable evidence could reasonably be taken to put the whole case in such a differentlight as to undermine confidence in the verdict." Id., at 435.The District Judge decided not to hold an evidentiaryhearing to determine whether Exhibits 2, 7, and 8 had beendisclosed to the defense, because he was satisfied that the"potentially devastating impeachment material" contained inthe other five warranted the entry of summary judgment inpetitioner's favor. App. 392. The District Court's conclusion that the admittedly undisclosed documents were sufficiently important to establish a violation of the Brady rulewas supported by the prosecutor's closing argument. Thatargument relied on Stoltzfus' testimony to demonstrate petitioner's violent propensities and to establish that he was theinstigator and leader in Whitlock's abduction and, by inference, her murder. The prosecutor emphasized the importance of Stoltzfus' testimony in proving the abduction:"[W]e are lucky enough to have an eyewitness who saw[what] happened out there in that parking lot. [In a] lotof cases you don't. A lot of cases you can just theorizewhat happened in the actual abduction. But Mrs. Stoltzfus was there, she saw [what] happened." App. 169.527US1 Unit: $U77 [05-02-01 17:48:17] PAGES PGT: OPIN291Cite as: 527 U. S. 263 (1999)Opinion of the CourtGiven the record evidence involving Henderson,36 the District Court concluded that, without Stoltzfus' testimony, thejury might have been persuaded that Henderson, rather thanpetitioner, was the ringleader. He reasoned that a "reasonable probability of conviction" of first-degree, rather thancapital, murder sufficed to establish the materiality of theundisclosed Stoltzfus materials and, thus, a Brady violation.App. 396.The District Court was surely correct that there is a reasonable possibility that either a total, or just a substantial,discount of Stoltzfus' testimony might have produced a different result, either at the guilt or sentencing phases. Petitioner did, for example, introduce substantial mitigating evidence about abuse he had suffered as a child at the hands ofhis stepfather.37 As the District Court recognized, however,petitioner's burden is to establish a reasonable probabilityof a different result. Kyles, 514 U. S., at 434.36 The District Court summarized the evidence against Henderson."Henderson's clothes had blood on them that night. Henderson had property belonging to Whitlock and gave her watch to a woman, Simmons,while at a restaurant known as Dice's Inn. Tr. 541. Henderson leftDice's Inn driving Whitlock's car. Henderson's wallet was found in thevicinity of Whitlock's body and was possibly lost during his struggle withher. Significantly, Henderson confessed to a friend on the night of themurder that he had just killed an unidentified black person and that friendobserved blood on Henderson's jeans." App. 395.37 At sentencing, the trial court discussed the mitigation evidence: "Onthe charge of capital murder . . . it is difficult . . . to sit here and listen tothe testimony of [petitioner's mother] and Mr. Strickler's two sisters andnot feel a great, great deal of sympathy for, for any person who has achildhood and a life like Mr. Strickler has had. He was in no way responsible for the circumstances of his birth. He was brutalized from the minute he's, almost from the minute he was born and certainly with his . . .limitations and his ability with which he was born, it would have beenextremely difficult for him to, to help himself. And difficult, when youlook at a case like that to feel but anything but sympathy for him." Sentencing Hearing, 20 Record 57-58.527US1 Unit: $U77 [05-02-01 17:48:17] PAGES PGT: OPIN292 STRICKLER v. GREENEOpinion of the CourtEven if Stoltzfus and her testimony had been entirely dis-credited, the jury might still have concluded that petitionerwas the leader of the criminal enterprise because he was theone seen driving the car by Kurt Massie near the location ofthe murder and the one who kept the car for the followingweek.38 In addition, Tudor testified that petitioner threatened Henderson with a knife later in the evening.More importantly, however, petitioner's guilt of capitalmurder did not depend on proof that he was the dominantpartner: Proof that he was an equal participant with Henderson was sufficient under the judge's instructions.39 Accord-ingly, the strong evidence that Henderson was a killer is entirely consistent with the conclusion that petitioner was alsoan actual participant in the killing.4038 As the trial court stated at petitioner's sentencing hearing: "The factsin this case which support this jury verdict are one that Mr. Stricklerwas . . . in control of this situation. He was in control at the shoppingcenter in Harrisonburg. He was in control when the car went into thefield up here on the 340 north of Waynesboro. He was in control thereafter, he ended up with the car. There is no question who . . . was in controlof this entire situation." Id., at 22.39 The judge gave the following instruction at petitioner's trial: "Youmay find the defendant guilty of capital murder if the evidence establishesthat the defendant jointly participated in the fatal beating, if it is established beyond a reasonable doubt that the defendant was an active andimmediate participant in the act or acts that caused the victim's death."Strickler v. Commonwealth, 241 Va., at 493-494, 404 S. E. 2d, at 234-235.The Virginia Supreme Court affirmed the propriety of this instruction onpetitioner's direct appeal. Id., at 495, 404 S. E. 2d, at 235.40 It is also consistent with the fact that Henderson was convicted offirst-degree murder but acquitted of capital murder after his jury, unlikepetitioner's, was instructed that they could convict him of capital murderonly if they found that he had " `inflict[ed] the fatal blows.' " Henderson'sjury was instructed, " `One who is present aiding and abetting the actualkilling, but who does not inflict the fatal blows that cause death is a principle [sic] in the second degree, and may not be found guilty of capital murder. Before you can find the defendant guilty of capital murder, the evidence must establish beyond a reasonable doubt that the defendant was527US1 Unit: $U77 [05-02-01 17:48:17] PAGES PGT: OPIN293Cite as: 527 U. S. 263 (1999)Opinion of the CourtFurthermore, there was considerable forensic and otherphysical evidence linking petitioner to the crime.41 Theweight and size of the rock,42 and the character of the fatalinjuries to the victim,43 are powerful evidence supporting theconclusion that two people acted jointly to commit a brutalmurder.We recognize the importance of eyewitness testimony;Stoltzfus provided the only disinterested, narrative accountof what transpired on January 5, 1990. However, Stoltzfus'vivid description of the events at the mall was not the onlyevidence that the jury had before it. Two other eyewitan active and immediate participant in the acts that caused the death.' "2 App. in No. 97-29 (CA4), p. 777.Henderson's trial took place before the Virginia Supreme Court affirmedthe trial instruction, and the "joint perpetrator" theory it embodied, givenat petitioner's trial. Strickler v. Commonwealth, 241 Va., at 494, 404 S. E.2d, at 235. Petitioner's trial judge rejected one of petitioner's profferedinstructions, which would have required the Commonwealth to prove that"the defendant was the person who actually delivered the blow that killedLeanne Whitlock." Ibid. Petitioner's trial judge recused himself frompresiding over Henderson's trial, indicating that he had already formedhis own opinion about what had happened the night of Whitlock's murder.21 Record 2.41 For example, the police recovered hairs on a bra and shirt found withWhitlock's body that "were microscopically alike in all identifiable characteristics" to petitioner's hair. App. 135. The shirt recovered from thecar at Strickler's mother's house had human blood on it. Petitioner's fingerprints were found on the outside and inside of the car taken from Whitlock. Id., at 128-129. Tudor testified that petitioner's pants had bloodon them, and he had a cut on his knuckle. Id., at 95.42 The trial judge thought the shape of the rock so significant to thejury's conclusion that he instructed the lawyers to have "detailed, highquality photographs taken of [the rock] . . . and I want it put in the recordof the case." Sentencing Hearing, 20 Record 53.43 The Deputy Chief Medical Examiner, who performed the autopsy, testified that the object that produced the fractures in Whitlock's skull caused"severe lacerations to the brain," and any two of the four fractures wouldhave been fatal. App. 112.527US1 Unit: $U77 [05-02-01 17:48:17] PAGES PGT: OPIN294 STRICKLER v. GREENEOpinion of the Courtnesses, the security guard and Henderson's friend, placedpetitioner and Henderson at the Harrisonburg Valley Shopping Mall on the afternoon of Whitlock's murder. One eye-witness later saw petitioner driving Dean's car near thescene of the murder.The record provides strong support for the conclusion thatpetitioner would have been convicted of capital murder andsentenced to death, even if Stoltzfus had been severely impeached. The jury was instructed on two predicates forcapital murder: robbery with a deadly weapon and abductionwith intent to defile.44 On state habeas, the Virginia Su-preme Court rejected as procedurally barred petitioner'schallenge to this jury instruction on the ground that "abduc-tion with intent to defile" was not a predicate for capitalmurder for a victim over the age of 12.45 That issue is notbefore us. Even assuming, however, that this predicate waserroneous, armed robbery still would have supported thecapital murder conviction.Petitioner argues that the prosecution's evidence on armedrobbery "flowed almost entirely from inferences from Stoltzfus' testimony," and especially from her statement that Hen-derson had a "hard object" under his coat at the mall. Brieffor Petitioner 35. That argument, however, ignores the factthat petitioner's mother and Tudor provided direct evidencethat petitioner had a knife with him on the day of the crime.44 The trial court instructed the jury that, to convict petitioner of capitalmurder, it must find beyond a reasonable doubt that (1) "the defendantkilled Leanne Whitlock"; (2) "the killing was willful, deliberate and premeditated"; and (3) "the killing occurred during the commission of robberywhile the defendant was armed with a deadly weapon, or occurred duringthe commission of abduction with intent to extort money or a pecuniarybenefit or with the intent to defile or was of a person during the commission of, or subsequent to, rape." Strickler v. Murray, 249 Va. 120, 124-125, 452 S. E. 2d 648, 650 (1995).45 In its motion to dismiss petitioner's state habeas petition, the Commonwealth conceded that the instruction on intent to defile was erroneously given in this case as a predicate for capital murder. App. 218.527US1 Unit: $U77 [05-02-01 17:48:17] PAGES PGT: OPIN295Cite as: 527 U. S. 263 (1999)Opinion of the CourtIn addition, the prosecution contended in its closing argument that the rock--not the knife--was the murderweapon.46 The prosecution did advance the theory thatpetitioner had a knife when he got in the car with Whitlock,but it did not specifically argue that petitioner used the knifeduring the robbery.47Petitioner also maintains that he suffered prejudice fromthe failure to disclose the Stoltzfus documents because hertestimony impacted on the jury's decision to impose thedeath penalty. Her testimony, however, did not relate to hiseligibility for the death sentence and was not relied upon bythe prosecution at all during its closing argument at the penalty phase.48 With respect to the jury's discretionary decision to impose the death penalty, it is true that Stoltzfusdescribed petitioner as a violent, aggressive person, but thatportrayal surely was not as damaging as either the evidencethat he spent the evening of the murder dancing and drinking at Dice's or the powerful message conveyed by the 69-46 In his closing argument, the prosecutor stated that there was "reallyno doubt about where it happened and what the murder weapon was. Itwas not a gun, it wasn't a knife. It was this thing here, it is to[o] big tobe called a rock and to[o] small to be called a boulder." Id., at 167.47 The instructions given to the jury defined a deadly weapon as "anyobject or instrument that is likely to cause death or great bodily injurybecause of the manner and under the circumstance in which it is used."Id., at 160.48 The jury recommended death after finding the predicates of "futuredangerousness" and "vileness." Neither of these predicates depended onStoltzfus' testimony. The trial court instructed the jury, "Before the penalty can be fixed at death, the Commonwealth must prove beyond a reasonable doubt at least one of the following two alternatives. One, thatafter consideration of his history and background, there is a probabilitythat he would commit criminal acts of violence that would constitute acontinuing, continuing serious threat to society or two, that his conductin committing the offense was outrageously or wantonly vile, horrible orinhuman and that it involved torture, depravity of mind or aggravatedbattery to the victim beyond the minimum necessary to accomplish theact of murder." Tr. 899-900.527US1 Unit: $U77 [05-02-01 17:48:17] PAGES PGT: OPIN296 STRICKLER v. GREENEOpinion of Souter, J.pound rock that was part of the record before the jury. Not-withstanding the obvious significance of Stoltzfus' testimony,petitioner has not convinced us that there is a reasonableprobability that the jury would have returned a differentverdict if her testimony had been either severely impeachedor excluded entirely.Petitioner has satisfied two of the three components of aconstitutional violation underBrady: exculpatory evidenceand nondisclosure of this evidence by the prosecution. Petitioner has also demonstrated cause for failing to raise thisclaim during trial or on state postconviction review. However, petitioner has not shown that there is a reasonableprobability that his conviction or sentence would have beendifferent had these materials been disclosed. He thereforecannot show materiality underBrady or prejudice from hisfailure to raise the claim earlier. Accordingly, the judgmentof the Court of Appeals is Affirmed.Justice Souter, with whom Justice Kennedy joins asto Part II, concurring in part and dissenting in part.I look at this case much as the Court does, starting withits view in Part III (which I join) that Strickler has showncause to excuse the procedural default of his Brady claim.Like the Court, I think it clear that the materials withheldwere exculpatory as devastating ammunition for impeachingStoltzfus.1 See ante, at 282. Even on the question of preju1 The Court notes that the District Court did not resolve whether alleight of the Stoltzfus documents had been withheld, as Strickler claimed,or only five. For purposes of its decision granting summary judgment forStrickler, the District Court assumed that only five had not been disclosed.See ante, at 290, 279. The Court of Appeals also left the dispute unresolved, see App. 418, n. 8, though granting summary judgment for respondent based on a lack of prejudice would presumably have requiredthat court to assume that all eight documents had been withheld. Because this Court affirms the grant of summary judgment for respondentbased on lack of prejudice and because it relies on at least one of the527US1 Unit: $U77 [05-02-01 17:48:17] PAGES PGT: OPIN297Cite as: 527 U. S. 263 (1999)Opinion of Souter, J.dice or materiality,2 over which I ultimately part companywith the majority, I am persuaded that Strickler has failedto establish a reasonable probability that, had the materialswithheld been disclosed, he would not have been found guiltyof capital murder. See ante, at 292-296. As the Court says,however, the prejudice enquiry does not stop at the conviction but goes to each step of the sentencing process: thejury's consideration of aggravating, death-qualifying facts,the jury's discretionary recommendation of a death sentenceif it finds the requisite aggravating factors, and the judge'sdiscretionary decision to follow the jury's recommendation.Seeante, at 294-296. It is with respect to the penultimatestep in determining the sentence that I think Strickler hascarried his burden. I believe there is a reasonable probabil-ity (which I take to mean a significant possibility) that disclosure of the Stoltzfus materials would have led the jury torecommend life, not death, and I respectfully dissent.IBefore I get to the analysis of prejudice I should say some-thing about the standard for identifying it, and about theunfortunate phrasing of the shorthand version in which thestandard is customarily couched. The Court speaks interms of the familiar, and perhaps familiarly deceptive, for-mulation: whether there is a "reasonable probability" of adifferent outcome if the evidence withheld had been dis-closed. The Court rightly cautions that the standard indisputed documents in its analysis, see ante, at 282, I understand it tohave assumed that none of the eight documents was disclosed. I proceedbased on that assumption as well. If one thought the difference betweenfive and eight documents withheld would affect the determination of prejudice, a remand to resolve that factual question would be necessary.2 In keeping with suggestions in a number of our opinions, see Schlup v.Delo, 513 U. S. 298, 327, n. 45 (1995); Sawyer v. Whitley, 505 U. S. 333, 345(1992), the Court treats the prejudice enquiry as synonymous with themateriality determination under Brady v. Maryland, 373 U. S. 83 (1963).See ante, at 282, 288-289, 296. I follow the Court's lead.527US1 Unit: $U77 [05-02-01 17:48:17] PAGES PGT: OPIN298 STRICKLER v. GREENEOpinion of Souter, J.tended by these words does not require defendants to showthat a different outcome would have been more likely thannot with the suppressed evidence, let alone that without thematerials withheld the evidence would have been insufficientto support the result reached. See ante, at 289-290; Kylesv. Whitley, 514 U. S. 419, 434-435 (1995). Instead, the Courtrestates the question (as I have done elsewhere) as whether" `the favorable evidence could reasonably be taken to putthe whole case in such a different light as to undermineconfidence' " in the outcome. Ante, at 290 (quoting Kyles,supra, at 435).Despite our repeated explanation of the shorthand formulation in these words, the continued use of the term "probability" raises an unjustifiable risk of misleading courts intotreating it as akin to the more demanding standard, "morelikely than not." While any short phrases for what thecases are getting at will be "inevitably imprecise," UnitedStates v. Agurs, 427 U. S. 97, 108 (1976), I think "significantpossibility" would do better at capturing the degree to whichthe undisclosed evidence would place the actual result inquestion, sufficient to warrant overturning a conviction orsentence.To see that this is so, we need to recall Brady's evolutionsince the appearance of the rule as originally stated, that"suppression by the prosecution of evidence favorable to anaccused upon request violates due process where the evidence is material either to guilt or to punishment, irrespective of the good faith or bad faith of the prosecution."Brady v. Maryland, 373 U. S. 83, 87 (1963). Brady itself didnot explain what it meant by "material" (perhaps assumingthe term would be given its usual meaning in the law ofevidence, see United States v. Bagley, 473 U. S. 667, 703, n. 5(1985) (Marshall, J., dissenting)). We first essayed a partialdefinition in United States v. Agurs, supra, where we identified three situations arguably within the ambit of Brady andsaid that in the first, involving knowing use of perjured testi527US1 Unit: $U77 [05-02-01 17:48:17] PAGES PGT: OPIN299Cite as: 527 U. S. 263 (1999)Opinion of Souter, J.mony, reversal was required if there was "any reasonablelikelihood" that the false testimony had affected the verdict.Agurs, supra, at 103 (citing Giglio v. United States, 405 U. S.150, 154 (1972), in turn quoting Napue v. Illinois, 360 U. S.264, 271 (1959)). We have treated "reasonable likelihood"as synonymous with "reasonable possibility" and thus haveequated materiality in the perjured-testimony cases with ashowing that suppression of the evidence was not harmlessbeyond a reasonable doubt. Bagley, supra, at 678-680, andn. 9 (opinion of Blackmun, J.). See also Brecht v. Abrahamson, 507 U. S. 619, 637 (1993) (defining harmless-beyond-areasonable-doubt standard as no " `reasonable possibility'that trial error contributed to the verdict"); Chapman v.California, 386 U. S. 18, 24 (1967) (same). In Agurs, wethought a less demanding standard appropriate when theprosecution fails to turn over materials in the absence of aspecific request. Although we refrained from attaching alabel to that standard, we explained it as falling between themore-likely-than-not level and yet another criterion, whetherthe reviewing court's " `conviction [was] sure that the errordid not influence the jury, or had but very slight effect.' "427 U. S., at 112 (quoting Kotteakos v. United States, 328U. S. 750, 764 (1946)). Finally, in United States v. Bagley,supra, we embraced "reasonable probability" as the appropriate standard to judge the materiality of information withheld by the prosecution whether or not the defense hadasked first. Bagley took that phrase from Strickland v.Washington, 466 U. S. 668, 694 (1984), where it had been usedfor the level of prejudice needed to make out a claim of constitutionally ineffective assistance of counsel. Strickland inturn cited two cases for its formulation, Agurs (which did notcontain the expression "reasonable probability") and UnitedStates v. Valenzuela-Bernal, 458 U. S. 858, 873-874 (1982)(which held that sanctions against the Government for deportation of a potential defense witness were appropriate only527US1 Unit: $U77 [05-02-01 17:48:17] PAGES PGT: OPIN300 STRICKLER v. GREENEOpinion of Souter, J.if there was a "reasonable likelihood" that the lost testimony"could have affected the judgment of the trier of fact").The circuitous path by which the Court came to adopt"reasonable probability" of a different result as the rule ofBrady materiality suggests several things. First, while"reasonable possibility" or "reasonable likelihood," theKot-teakos standard, and "reasonable probability" express distinct levels of confidence concerning the hypothetical effectsof errors on decisionmakers' reasoning, the differencesamong the standards are slight. Second, the gap betweenall three of those formulations and "more likely than not" isgreater than any differences among them. Third, becauseof that larger gap, it is misleading inBrady cases to use theterm "probability," which is naturally read as the cognate of"probably" and thus confused with "more likely than not,"see Morris v. Mathews, 475 U. S. 237, 247 (1986) (apparentlytreating "reasonable probability" as synonymous with "prob-ably"); id., at 254, n. 3 (Blackmun, J., concurring in judgment)(cautioning against confusing "reasonable probability" withmore likely than not). We would be better off speaking ofa "significant possibility" of a different result to characterizetheBrady materiality standard. Even then, given the softedges of all these phrases,3 the touchstone of the enquiry3 Each of these phrases or standards has been used in a number of contexts. This Court has used "reasonable possibility," for example, in defining the level of threat of injury to competition needed to make out a claimunder the Robinson-Patman Act, see, e. g., Brooke Group Ltd. v. Brown &Williamson Tobacco Corp., 509 U. S. 209, 222 (1993); the standard for judging whether a grand jury subpoena should be quashed under Federal Ruleof Criminal Procedure 17(c), see United States v. R. Enterprises, Inc., 498U. S. 292, 301 (1991); and the debtor's burden in establishing that certaincollateral is necessary to reorganization and thus exempt from the Bankruptcy Code's automatic stay provision, see United Sav. Assn. of Tex. v.Timbers of Inwood Forest Associates, Ltd., 484 U. S. 365, 375-376 (1988).We have adopted the standard established in Kotteakos v. United States,328 U. S. 750 (1946), for determining the harmlessness of nonconstitutionalerrors on direct review as the criterion for the harmlessness enquiry concerning constitutional errors on collateral review. See Brecht v. Abra527US1 Unit: $U77 [05-02-01 17:48:17] PAGES PGT: OPIN301Cite as: 527 U. S. 263 (1999)Opinion of Souter, J.must remain whether the evidentiary suppression "under-mines our confidence" that the factfinder would have reachedthe same result. IIEven keeping in mind these caveats about the appropriatelevel of materiality, applying the standard to the facts of thiscase does not give the Court easy answers, as the Courtcandidly acknowledges. Seeante, at 289. Indeed, the Courtconcedes that discrediting Stoltzfus's testimony "might havechanged the outcome of the trial," ibid., and that the DistrictCourt was "surely correct" to find a "reasonable possibilitythat either a total, or just a substantial, discount of Stoltzfus'testimony might have produced a different result, either atthe guilt or sentencing phases," ante, at 291.In the end, however, the Court finds the undisclosed evidence inadequate to undermine confidence in the jury's senhamson, 507 U. S. 619, 637-638 (1993). We have used "reasonable probability" to define the plaintiff's burden in making out a claim under $ 7 ofthe Clayton Act, see, e. g., Brown Shoe Co. v. United States, 370 U. S. 294,325 (1962); FTC v. Morton Salt Co., 334 U. S. 37, 55-61 (1948) (Jackson, J.,dissenting in part) (contrasting "reasonable possibility" and "reasonableprobability" and arguing for latter as appropriate standard underRobinson-Patman Act); the standard for granting certiorari, vacating, andremanding in light of intervening developments, see, e. g., Lawrence v.Chater, 516 U. S. 163, 167 (1996) (per curiam); and the standard for exempting organizations from otherwise valid disclosure requirements inlight of threats or harassment resulting from the disclosure, see, e. g.,Buckley v. Valeo, 424 U. S. 1, 74 (1976) (per curiam). We have recentlyused "significant possibility" in explaining the circumstances under whichnominal compensation is an appropriate award in a suit under the Longshore and Harbor Workers' Compensation Act, see Metropolitan Stevedore Co. v. Rambo, 521 U. S. 121, 123 (1997), but we most commonly usethat term in defining one of the requirements for the granting of a staypending certiorari. The three-part test requires a "reasonable probability" that the Court will grant certiorari or note probable jurisdiction, a"significant possibility" that the Court will reverse the decision below,and a likelihood of irreparable injury absent a stay. See, e. g., Barefoot v.Estelle, 463 U. S. 880, 895 (1983); Packwood v. Senate Select Comm. onEthics, 510 U. S. 1319 (1994) (Rehnquist, C. J., in chambers).527US1 Unit: $U77 [05-02-01 17:48:17] PAGES PGT: OPIN302 STRICKLER v. GREENEOpinion of Souter, J.tencing recommendation, whereas I find it sufficient to dothat. Since we apply the same standard to the same record,our differing conclusions largely reflect different assess-ments of the significance the jurors probably ascribed to theStoltzfus testimony. My assessment turns on two points.First, I believe that in making the ultimate judgment aboutwhat should be done to one of several participants in a crimethis appalling the jurors would very likely have given weightto the degree of initiative and leadership exercised by thatparticular defendant. Second, I believe that no other testi-mony comes close to the prominence and force of Stoltzfus'saccount in showing Strickler as the unquestionably dominantmember of the trio involved in Whitlock's abduction and theaggressive and moving figure behind her murder.Although Stoltzfus was not the prosecution's first witness,she was the first to describe Strickler in any detail, thusproviding the frame for the remainder of the story the prosecution presented to the jury. From the start of Stoltzfus'stestimony, Strickler was "Mountain Man" and his male companion "Shy Guy," labels whose repetition more than a dozentimes (by the prosecutor as well as by Stoltzfus) must haveleft the jurors with a clear sense of the relative roles thatStrickler and Henderson played in the crimes that followedStoltzfus's observation. According to her, when she firstsaw Strickler she "just sort of instinctively backed up because I was frightened." App. 36. Unlike retiring "ShyGuy," Strickler was "revved up." Id., at 39, 60. Even indescribing her first encounter with Strickler inside the mall,Stoltzfus spoke of him as domineering, a "very impatient"character yelling at his female companion, "Blonde Girl," tojoin him. Id., at 36, 38-39.After describing in detail how "Mountain Man" and"Blonde Girl" were dressed, Stoltzfus said that " `MountainMan' came tearing out of the Mall entrance door and wentup to the driver of [a] van and . . . was just really mad andran back and banged on back of the backside of the van"527US1 Unit: $U77 [05-02-01 17:48:17] PAGES PGT: OPIN303Cite as: 527 U. S. 263 (1999)Opinion of Souter, J.while "Shy Guy" and "Blonde Girl" hung back. Id., at 43."Mountain Man" approached a pickup truck, then "poundedon" the front passenger side window of Whitlock's car,"shook and shook the car door," "banging and banging on thewindow" while Whitlock checked to see if the door waslocked. Ibid. Finally, "he just really shook it hard and youcould tell he was mad. Shook it really hard and the dooropened and he jumped in . . . and faced her." Id., at 43-44.While Whitlock tried to push him away, "Mountain Man""motioned for `Blonde Girl' and `Shy Guy' to come" and thegirl did as she was bidden. She "started to jump into thecar," but "jumped back" when Whitlock stepped on the gas.Id., at 44. Then "Mountain Man" started "hitting [Whitlock]on the left shoulder, her right shoulder and then . . . thehead," finally "open[ing] the door again" so "the `Blonde Girl'got in the back and `Shy Guy' followed and got behind him."Id., at 45. "Shy Guy" passed "Mountain Man" his tan coat,which "Mountain Man" "fiddled with" for "what seemed likea long time," then "sat back up and . . . faced" Whitlock while"the other two in the back seat sat back and relaxed." Ibid.Stoltzfus then claimed that she got out of her car and wentover to Whitlock's, whereupon unassertive "Shy Guy" "instinctively jumped, you know, laid over on the seat to hidefrom me." Id., at 46. Stoltzfus pulled up next to Whitlock'scar and repeatedly asked, "[A]re you O.K.[?]," but Whitlockresponded only with eye contact; "she didn't smile, there wasno expression," and "[ j]ust very serious, looked down to herright," suggesting Strickler was holding a weapon on her.Id., at 46, 47. Finally, Whitlock mouthed something, whichStoltzfus demonstrated for the jury and then explained sherealized must have been the word, "help." Id., at 47.Without rejecting the very notion that jurors with discretion in sentencing would be influenced by the relative dominance of one accomplice among others in a shocking crime,I could not regard Stoltzfus's colorful testimony as anythingbut significant on the matter of sentence. It was Stoltzfus527US1 Unit: $U77 [05-02-01 17:48:17] PAGES PGT: OPIN304 STRICKLER v. GREENEOpinion of Souter, J.alone who described Strickler as the initiator of the abduc-tion, as the one who broke into Whitlock's car, who beckonedhis companions to follow him, and who violently subdued thevictim while "Shy Guy" sat in the back seat. The bare content of this testimony, important enough, was enhanced byone of the inherent hallmarks of reliability, as Stoltzfus con-fidently recalled detail after detail. The withheld documents would have shown, however, that many of the detailsStoltzfus confidently mentioned on the stand (such as Strickler's appearance, Whitlock's appearance, the hour of daywhen the episode occurred, and her daughter's alleged notation of the license plate number of Whitlock's car) had apparently escaped her memory in her initial interviews with thepolice. Her persuasive account did not come, indeed, untilafter her recollection had been aided by further conversations with the police and with the victim's boyfriend. Itherefore have to assess the likely havoc that an informedcross-examiner could have wreaked upon Stoltzfus as adequate to raise a significant possibility of a different recommendation, as sufficient to undermine confidence that thedeath recommendation would have been the choice. All itwould have taken, after all, was one juror to hold out againstdeath to preclude the recommendation actually given.The Court does not, of course, deny that evidence of dominant role would probably have been considered by the jury;the Court, instead, doubts that this consideration, and theevidence bearing on it, would have figured so prominently ina juror's mind as to be a fulcrum of confidence. I am notconvinced by the Court's reasons.The Court emphasizes the brutal manner of the killing andStrickler's want of remorse as jury considerations diminishing the relative importance of Strickler's position as ringleader. See ante, at 295-296. Without doubt the jurorsconsidered these to be important factors, and without doubtthey may have been treated as sufficient to warrant death.But as the Court says, sufficiency of other evidence and the527US1 Unit: $U77 [05-02-01 17:48:17] PAGES PGT: OPIN305Cite as: 527 U. S. 263 (1999)Opinion of Souter, J.facts it supports is not the Brady standard, and the signifi-cance of both brutality and sangfroid must surely have beencomplemented by a certainty that without Strickler therewould have been no abduction and no ensuing murder.The Court concludes that Stoltzfus's testimony is unlikelyto have had significant influence on the jury's sentencing rec-ommendation because the prosecutor made no mention of hertestimony in his closing statement at the sentencing proceed-ing. Seeante, at 295. But although the Court is entirelyright that the prosecution gave no prominence to the Stoltz-fus testimony at the sentencing stage, the Commonwealth'sclosing actually did include two brief references to Strickler'sbehavior in "just grabbing a complete stranger and abducting her," 19 Record 919; see also id., at 904, as relevant tothe jury's determination of future dangerousness. Andsince Strickler's criminal record had no convictions involvingactual violence, a point defense counsel stressed in his closing argument, see id., at 913, the jurors may well have givenweight to Stoltzfus's lively portrait of Strickler as the aggressive leader of the group when they came to assess hisfuture dangerousness.What is more important, common experience, supportedby at least one empirical study, see Bowers, Sandys, &Steiner, Foreclosed Impartiality in Capital Sentencing: Jurors' Predispositions, Guilt-Trial Experience, and PrematureDecision Making, 83 Cornell L. Rev. 1476, 1486-1496 (1998),tells us that the evidence and arguments presented duringthe guilt phase of a capital trial will often have a significanteffect on the jurors' choice of sentence. True, Stoltzfus'stestimony directly discussed only the circumstances of Whitlock's abduction, but its impact on the jury was almost certainly broader, as the prosecutor recognized. After the juryrendered its verdict on guilt, for example, the defense movedfor a judgment of acquittal on the capital murder chargebased on insufficiency of the evidence. In the prosecutor'sargument to the court he replied that527US1 Unit: $U77 [05-02-01 17:48:17] PAGES PGT: OPIN306 STRICKLER v. GREENEOpinion of Souter, J."the evidence clearly shows that this man was the ag-gressor. He was the one that ran out. He was the onethat grabbed Leanne Whitlock. When she struggledtrying to get away from him . . . , he was the one thatstarted beating her there in the car. And finally sub-dued her enough to make her drive away from the mall,so you start with the principle that he is the aggressor."20 Record 15.Stoltzfus's testimony helped establish the "principle," as theprosecutor put it, that Strickler was "the aggressor," thedominant figure, in the whole sequence of criminal events,including the murder, not just in the abduction. If the defense could have called Stoltzfus's credibility into question,the jurors' belief that Strickler was the chief aggressor mighthave been undermined to the point that at least one of themwould have hesitated to recommend death.The Court suggests that the jury might have concludedthat Strickler was the leader based on three other pieces ofevidence: Kurt Massie's identification of Strickler as thedriver of Whitlock's car on its way toward the field whereshe was killed; Donna Tudor's testimony that Strickler keptthe car the following week; and Tudor's testimony thatStrickler threatened Henderson with a knife later on the eve-ning of the murder. But if we are going to look at othertestimony we cannot stop here. The accuracy of both Mas-sie's and Tudor's testimony was open to question,4 and all ofit was subject to some evidence that Henderson had taken amajor role in the murder. The Court has quoted the Dis4 Massie's identification was open to some doubt because it occurred atnight as one car passed another on a highway. Moreover, he testified thathe first saw four people in the car, then only three, and that none of theoccupants was black. App. 66-67, 70-73. Tudor, as defense counselbrought out on cross-examination, testified pursuant to a cooperationagreement with the government and admitted that the story she told onthe stand was different from what she had told the defense investigatorbefore trial. Id., at 100-101, 103-104.527US1 Unit: $U77 [05-02-01 17:48:17] PAGES PGT: OPIN307Cite as: 527 U. S. 263 (1999)Opinion of Souter, J.trict Court's summation of evidence against him, ante, at 291,n. 36: Henderson's wallet was found near the body, his clotheswere bloody, he presented a woman friend with the victim'swatch at a postmortem celebration (which he left driving thevictim's car), and he confessed to a friend that he had justkilled an unidentified black person. Had this been the totality of the evidence, the jurors could well have had little cer-tainty about who had been in charge. But they could havehad no doubt about the leader if they believed Stoltzfus.Ultimately, I cannot accept the Court's discount of Stoltzfus in the Brady sentencing calculus for the reason I haverepeatedly emphasized, the undeniable narrative force ofwhat she said. Against this, it does not matter so much thatother witnesses could have placed Strickler at the shoppingmall on the afternoon of the murder, ante, at 293-294, or thatthe Stoltzfus testimony did not directly address the aggravating factors found, ante, at 295. What is important is thather evidence presented a gripping story, see E. Loftus &J. Doyle, Eyewitness Testimony: Civil and Criminal 5 (3d ed.1997) ("[R]esearch redoundingly proves that the story formatis a powerful key to juror decision making"). Its messagewas that Strickler was the madly energetic leader of twomorally apathetic accomplices, who were passive but for hisdirection. One cannot be reasonably confident that not asingle juror would have had a different perspective after animpeachment that would have destroyed the credibility ofthat story. I would accordingly vacate the sentence and re-mand for reconsideration, and to that extent I respectfullydissent.527US1 Unit: $U78 [05-09-01 12:58:54] PAGES PGT: OPIN308 OCTOBER TERM, 1998SyllabusGRUPO MEXICANO de DESARROLLO, S. A., et al. v.ALLIANCE BOND FUND, INC., et al.certiorari to the united states court of appeals forthe second circuitNo. 98-231. Argued March 31, 1999--Decided June 17, 1999Respondent investment funds purchased unsecured notes (Notes) frompetitioner Grupo Mexicano de Desarrollo, S. A. (GMD), a Mexican holding company. Four GMD subsidiaries (also petitioners) guaranteed theNotes. After GMD fell into financial trouble and missed an interestpayment on the Notes, respondents accelerated the Notes' principalamount and filed suit for the amount due in Federal District Court.Alleging that GMD was at risk of insolvency, or already insolvent, thatit was preferring its Mexican creditors by its planned allocation to themof its most valuable assets, and that these actions would frustrate anyjudgment respondents could obtain, respondents requested a preliminary injunction restraining petitioners from transferring the assets.The court issued the preliminary injunction and ordered respondents topost a $50,000 bond. The Second Circuit affirmed.Held:1. This case has not been rendered moot by the District Court'sgranting summary judgment to respondents on their contract claim andconverting the preliminary injunction into a permanent injunction.Generally, the appeal of a preliminary injunction becomes moot whenthe trial court enters a permanent injunction because the former mergesinto the latter. Here, however, petitioners' potential cause of actionagainst the injunction bond for wrongful injunction suffices to preservethe Court's jurisdiction, since petitioners' argument that the DistrictCourt lacked the power to restrain their use of assets pending a moneyjudgment is independent of their defense against the money judgmenton the merits. For the same reason, petitioners' failure to appeal theconversion of the preliminary injunction into a permanent injunctiondoes not forfeit their claim on the bond. Pp. 313-318.2. The District Court lacked the authority to issue a preliminary injunction preventing petitioners from disposing of their assets pendingadjudication of respondents' contract claim for money damages becausesuch a remedy was historically unavailable from a court of equity.Pp. 318-333.527US1 Unit: $U78 [05-09-01 12:58:54] PAGES PGT: OPIN309Cite as: 527 U. S. 308 (1999)Syllabus(a) The federal courts have the equity jurisdiction that was exercised by the English Court of Chancery at the time the Constitutionwas adopted and the Judiciary Act of 1789 was enacted. Pp. 318-319.(b) The well-established general rule was that a judgment fixingthe debt was necessary before a court in equity would interfere withthe debtor's use of his property. See, e. g., Pusey & Jones Co. v. Hanssen, 261 U. S. 491, 497. It is by no means clear that there are anyexceptions to the general rule relevant to this case, and the lower courtsdid not address this point. The merger of law and equity did notchange the rule, since the merger did not alter substantive rights. Therule was regarded as serving not merely the procedural end of assuringexhaustion of legal remedies, but also the substantive end of giving thecreditor an interest in the property which equity could act upon.Pp. 319-324.(c) The postmerger cases of Deckert v. Independence Shares Corp.,311 U. S. 282, United States v. First Nat. City Bank, 379 U. S. 378, andDe Beers Consol. Mines, Ltd. v. United States, 325 U. S. 212, are entirelyconsistent with the view that the preliminary injunction in this case wasbeyond the District Court's equitable power. Pp. 324-327.(d) The English Court of Chancery did not provide a prejudgmentinjunctive remedy until 1975, and the decision doing so has been viewedby commentators as a dramatic departure from prior practice. Enjoining the debtor's disposition of his property at the instance of a nonjudgment creditor is incompatible with this Court's traditionally cautiousapproach to equitable powers, which leaves any substantial expansionof past practice to Congress. Pp. 327-329.(e) The various weighty considerations both for and against creating the remedy at issue here should be resolved not in this forum, butin Congress. Pp. 329-333.143 F. 3d 688, reversed and remanded.Scalia, J., delivered the opinion for a unanimous Court with respect toPart II, and the opinion of the Court with respect to Parts I, III, and IV,in which Rehnquist, C. J., and O'Connor, Kennedy, and Thomas, JJ.,joined. Ginsburg, J., filed an opinion concurring in part and dissentingin part, in which Stevens, Souter, and Breyer, JJ., joined, post, p. 333.Richard A. Mescon argued the cause for petitioners.With him on the briefs wereScott S. Balber and PeterBuscemi.Drew S. Days III argued the cause for respondents. Withhim on the brief were Kenneth W. Irvin, Dale C. Christen527US1 Unit: $U78 [05-09-01 12:58:54] PAGES PGT: OPIN310 GRUPO MEXICANO de DESARROLLO, S. A. v.ALLIANCE BOND FUND, INC.Opinion of the Courtsen, Jr., John J. Galban, Jeremy G. Epstein, Stephen J. Mar-zen, Meredith Kolsky Lewis, Andrew J. Wertheim, and LisaT. Simpson.*Justice Scalia delivered the opinion of the Court.This case presents the question whether, in an action formoney damages, a United States District Court has thepower to issue a preliminary injunction preventing the de-fendant from transferring assets in which no lien or equitableinterest is claimed. IPetitioner Grupo Mexicano de Desarrollo, S. A. (GMD), isa Mexican holding company. In February 1994, GMD issued$250 million of 8.25% unsecured, guaranteed notes due in2001 (Notes), which ranked pari passu in priority of paymentwith all of GMD's other unsecured and unsubordinated debt.Interest payments were due in February and August ofevery year. Four subsidiaries of GMD (which are the re-maining petitioners) guaranteed the Notes. Respondentsare investment funds which purchased approximately $75million of the Notes.Between 1990 and 1994, GMD was involved in a toll roadconstruction program sponsored by the Government of Mexico. In order to elicit private financing, the Mexican Gov-ernment granted concessions to companies that would buildand operate the system of toll roads. GMD was both aninvestor in the concessionaries and among the constructioncompanies hired by the concessionaries to build the toll*Daniel W. Krasner filed a brief for the Dominican Republic urgingreversal.Briefs of amici curiae urging affirmance were filed for the UnitedStates by Solicitor General Waxman, Acting Assistant Attorney GeneralOgden, Deputy Solicitor General Kneedler, Edward C. DuMont, MichaelJay Singer, and Peter J. Smith; and for the Securities Industry Associationet al. by Richard A. Rosen and Robert S. Smith.527US1 Unit: $U78 [05-09-01 12:58:54] PAGES PGT: OPIN311Cite as: 527 U. S. 308 (1999)Opinion of the Courtroads. Problems in the Mexican economy resulted in severelosses for the concessionaries, who were therefore unable topay contractors like GMD. In response to these problems,in 1997, the Mexican Government announced the Toll RoadRescue Program, under which it would issue guaranteednotes (Toll Road Notes) to the concessionaries, in exchangefor their ceding to the Government ownership of the tollroads. The Toll Road Notes were to be used to pay the bankdebt of the concessionaries, and also to pay outstanding receivables held by GMD and other contractors for servicesrendered to the concessionaries (Toll Road Receivables). Inthe fall of 1997, GMD announced that it expected to receiveapproximately $309 million of Toll Road Notes under theprogram.Because of the downturn in the Mexican economy and therelated difficulties in the toll road program, by mid-1997GMD was in serious financial trouble. In addition to theNotes, GMD owed other debts of about $450 million. GMD's1997 Form 20-F, which was filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on June 30, 1997, stated that GMD's current liabilities exceeded its current assets and that there was"substantial doubt" whether it could continue as a going concern. As a result of these financial problems, neither GMDnor its subsidiaries (who had guaranteed payment) made theAugust 1997 interest payment on the Notes.Between August and December 1997, GMD attempted tonegotiate a restructuring of its debt with its creditors. OnAugust 26, Reuters reported that GMD was negotiating withthe Mexican banks to reduce its $256 million bank debt, andthat it planned to deal with this liability before negotiatingwith the investors owning the Notes. On October 28, GMDpublicly announced that it would place in trust its right toreceive $17 million of Toll Road Notes, to cover employeecompensation payments, and that it had transferred its rightto receive $100 million of Toll Road Notes to the Mexican527US1 Unit: $U78 [05-09-01 12:58:54] PAGES PGT: OPIN312 GRUPO MEXICANO de DESARROLLO, S. A. v.ALLIANCE BOND FUND, INC.Opinion of the CourtGovernment (apparently to pay back taxes). GMD also negotiated with the holders of the Notes (including respondents) to restructure that debt, but by December these negotiations had failed.On December 11, respondents accelerated the principalamount of their Notes, and, on December 12, filed suit forthe amount due in the United States District Court for theSouthern District of New York (petitioners had consented topersonal jurisdiction in that forum). The complaint allegedthat "GMD is at risk of insolvency, if not insolvent already";that GMD was dissipating its most significant asset, the TollRoad Notes, and was preferring its Mexican creditors by itsplanned allocation of Toll Road Notes to the payment of theirclaims, and by its transfer to them of Toll Road Receivables;and that these actions would "frustrate any judgment" respondents could obtain. App. 29-30. Respondents soughtbreach-of-contract damages of $80.9 million, and requested apreliminary injunction restraining petitioners from transferring the Toll Road Notes or Receivables. On that same day,the District Court entered a temporary restraining orderpreventing petitioners from transferring their right to receive the Toll Road Notes.On December 23, the District Court entered an order inwhich it found that "GMD is at risk of insolvency if not already insolvent"; that the Toll Road Notes were GMD's "onlysubstantial asset"; that GMD planned to use the Toll RoadNotes "to satisfy its Mexican creditors to the exclusion of[respondents] and other holders of the Notes"; that "[i]n lightof [petitioners'] financial condition and dissipation of assets,any judgment [respondents] obtain in this action will be frustrated"; that respondents had demonstrated irreparable injury; and that it was "almost certain" that respondents wouldsucceed on the merits of their claim. App. to Pet. for Cert.25a-26a. It preliminarily enjoined petitioners "from dissipating, disbursing, transferring, conveying, encumbering527US1 Unit: $U78 [05-09-01 12:58:54] PAGES PGT: OPIN313Cite as: 527 U. S. 308 (1999)Opinion of the Courtor otherwise distributing or affecting any [petitioner's] rightto, interest in, title to or right to receive or retain, any ofthe [Toll Road Notes]." Id., at 26a. The court orderedrespondents to post a $50,000 bond.The Second Circuit affirmed. 143 F. 3d 688 (1998). Wegranted certiorari, 525 U. S. 1015 (1998).IIRespondents contend that events subsequent to petition-ers' appeal of the preliminary injunction render this casemoot. While that appeal was pending in the Second Circuit,the case proceeded in the District Court. Petitioners filedan answer and asserted various counterclaims. On April 17,1998, the District Court granted summary judgment to respondents on their contract claim and dismissed petitioners'counterclaims. The court ordered petitioners to pay respondents $82,444,259 by assignment or transfer of Toll RoadReceivables or Toll Road Notes; the court also converted thepreliminary injunction into a permanent injunction pendingsuch assignment or transfer. Although petitioners initiallyappealed both portions of this order to the Second Circuit,they later abandoned their appeal from the permanent injunction. The appeal from the payment order is still pend-ing in the Second Circuit. The same date the District Courtentered judgment, respondents moved to dismiss petitioners'first appeal--the one now before us--arguing that the finaljudgment rendered the appeal moot. On May 4, the SecondCircuit denied the motion to dismiss and two days later affirmed, as mentioned above, the District Court's grant of thepreliminary injunction.Respondents argue that the issue of the propriety of thepreliminary injunction is moot because that injunction is nowmerged into the permanent injunction. Petitioners contendthat the case is not moot because, if we hold that the DistrictCourt was without power to issue the preliminary injunction,527US1 Unit: $U78 [05-09-01 12:58:54] PAGES PGT: OPIN314 GRUPO MEXICANO de DESARROLLO, S. A. v.ALLIANCE BOND FUND, INC.Opinion of the Courtthen under Federal Rules of Civil Procedure 65(c) and 65.11they will have a claim against the injunction bond. Theyassert that the injunction "interfered with GMD's effortsto restructure its debt and substantially impaired GMD'sability to continue its operations in the ordinary course ofbusiness." Brief for Petitioners 7. Respondents concedethat a party who has been wrongfully enjoined has a claimon the bond, but they argue that although such a claim mightmean that the case is not moot, it does not prevent this interlocutory appeal from becoming moot. In any event, sayrespondents, because a claim for wrongful injunction requires that the enjoined party win on the ultimate merits,petitioners have forfeited any claim by failing to appeal theportion of the District Court's judgment converting the preliminary injunction into a permanent injunction.Generally, an appeal from the grant of a preliminary injunction becomes moot when the trial court enters a perma-nent injunction, because the former merges into the latter.We have dismissed appeals in such circumstances. See, e. g.,Smith v. Illinois Bell Telephone Co., 270 U. S. 587, 588-589(1926). We agree with petitioners, however, that their potential cause of action against the injunction bond preservesour jurisdiction over this appeal. Cf.Liner v. Jafco, Inc.,375 U. S. 301, 305-306 (1964).In the case of the usual preliminary injunction, the plaintiff seeks to enjoin, pending the outcome of the litigation,action that he claims is unlawful. If his lawsuit turns out tobe meritorious--if he is found to be entitled to the perma-nent injunction that he seeks--even if the preliminary injunction was wrongly issued (because at that stage of the1 Rule 65(c) provides that an applicant for a preliminary injunction mustobtain security "for the payment of such costs and damages as may beincurred or suffered by any party who is found to have been wrongfullyenjoined or restrained." Rule 65.1 states in part that "[t]he surety's liability may be enforced on motion without the necessity of an independent action."527US1 Unit: $U78 [05-09-01 12:58:54] PAGES PGT: OPIN315Cite as: 527 U. S. 308 (1999)Opinion of the Courtlitigation the plaintiff 's prospects of winning were not suffi-ciently clear, or the plaintiff was not suffering irreparableinjury) its issuance would in any event be harmless error.The final injunction establishes that the defendant shouldnot have been engaging in the conduct that was enjoined.Hence, it is reasonable to regard the preliminary injunctionas merging into the final one: If the latter is valid, the formeris, if not procedurally correct, at least harmless. A quitedifferent situation obtains in the present case, where (accord-ing to petitioners' claim) the substantive validity of the finalinjunction does not establish the substantive validity of thepreliminary one. For the latter was issued not to enjoinunlawful conduct, but rather to render unlawful conduct thatwould otherwise be permissible, in order to protect the anticipated judgment of the court; and it is the essence of petition-ers' claim that such an injunction can be issued only afterthe judgment is rendered. If petitioners are correct, theyhave been harmed by issuance of the unauthorized preliminary injunction--and hence should be able to recover on thebond--even if the final injunction is proper. It would makeno sense, when this is the claim, to say that the preliminaryinjunction merges into the final one.22 We recognize that respondents alleged in their complaint that the assignments of the rights to receive Toll Road Notes violated the negativepledge clause of the note instrument and the provision that the Notesranked pari passu with other debt, and therefore that petitioners werenot entitled to engage in the restrained conduct. We do not, however,understand the District Court to have made a finding--either in the preliminary injunction order or in the final order--that petitioners' enjoinedconduct was unlawful. The mootness of petitioners' claim at the presentstage of the proceedings must be assessed on the basis of what that claimis. As shown by the question on which we granted certiorari, it is thatthe District Court wrongfully entered an order to protect its judgmentbefore the judgment was rendered. If, in fact, petitioners had no rightunder the note instrument to take the actions that were enjoined, thatwould presumably be a defense to the action on the injunction bond. See,e. g., Blumenthal v. Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith, Inc., 910 F. 2d1049, 1054 (CA2 1990); Note, Recovery for Wrongful Interlocutory Injunc527US1 Unit: $U78 [05-09-01 12:58:54] PAGES PGT: OPIN316 GRUPO MEXICANO de DESARROLLO, S. A. v.ALLIANCE BOND FUND, INC.Opinion of the CourtWe reject respondents' argument that the controversyover the bond saves the "case" from mootness, but does notsave the "issue" of the validity of the preliminary injunctionfrom mootness. University of Texas v. Camenisch, 451 U. S.390 (1981), upon which respondents principally rely, is inapposite. In that case a deaf graduate student sued the University of Texas to obtain an injunction requiring the schoolto pay for a sign-language interpreter for his school work.The District Court granted a preliminary injunction andrequired the student to post an injunction bond. Pendingappeal of that injunction, the university paid for the interpreter, but the student graduated before the Courtof Appeals issued its decision. Nevertheless, the Court ofAppeals held that the appeal of the preliminary injunctionwas not moot because the issue of who had to pay for theinterpreter remained. We reversed:"The Court of Appeals correctly held that the case asa whole is not moot, since, as that court noted, it remainsto be decided who should ultimately bear the cost of theinterpreter. However, the issue before the Court ofAppeals was not who should pay for the interpreter, butrather whether the District Court had abused its discretion in issuing a preliminary injunction requiring theUniversity to pay for him. The two issues are significantly different, since whether the preliminary injunction should have issued depended on the balance of factors listed in [Fifth Circuit precedent], while whetherthe University should ultimately bear the cost of theinterpreter depends on a final resolution of the meritsof Camenisch's case.tions Under Rule 65(c), 99 Harv. L. Rev. 828, 836 (1986). But it does notbear upon the mootness of petitioners' present claim.527US1 Unit: $U78 [05-09-01 12:58:54] PAGES PGT: OPIN317Cite as: 527 U. S. 308 (1999)Opinion of the Court"This, then, is simply another instance in which oneissue in a case has become moot, but the case as a wholeremains alive because other issues have not becomemoot. . . . Because the only issue presently before us--the correctness of the decision to grant a preliminaryinjunction--is moot, the judgment of the Court of Appeals must be vacated and the case must be remandedto the District Court for trial on the merits."Id., at393-394 (citations omitted).Camenisch is simply an application of the same principlewhich underlies the rule that a preliminary injunction ordinarily merges into the final injunction. Since the prelimi-nary injunction no longer had any effect (the student hadgraduated), and since the substantive issue governing thepropriety of what had been paid under the preliminary injunction (as opposed to the procedural issue of whether theinjunction should have issued when it did) was the sameissue underlying the merits claim, there was no sense in try-ing the preliminary injunction question separately. In thepresent case, however, petitioners' basis for arguing that thepreliminary injunction was wrongfully issued--which is thatthe District Court lacked the power to restrain their use ofassets pending a money judgment--is independent of respondents' claim on the merits--which is that petitionersbreached the note instrument by failing to make the August1997 interest payment. The resolution of the merits is im-material to the validity of petitioners' potential claim on thebond. Cf. American Can Co. v. Mansukhani, 742 F. 2d 314,320-321 (CA7 1984); Stacey G. v. Pasadena Independent Sch.Dist., 695 F. 2d 949, 955 (CA5 1983).For the same reason, petitioners' failure to appeal thepermanent injunction does not forfeit their claim that thepreliminary injunction was wrongful. Petitioners do notcontest the District Court's power to issue a permanentinjunction after rendering a money judgment against them,527US1 Unit: $U78 [05-09-01 12:58:54] PAGES PGT: OPIN318 GRUPO MEXICANO de DESARROLLO, S. A. v.ALLIANCE BOND FUND, INC.Opinion of the Courtbut they do contest its power to issue a preliminary injunc-tion, and they do so on a ground that has nothing to do withthe validity of the permanent injunction. And again for thesame reason, we reject respondents' argument that petitioners have no wrongful injunction claim because they lost thecase on the merits.IIIWe turn, then, to the merits question whether the DistrictCourt had authority to issue the preliminary injunction inthis case pursuant to Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 65.3The Judiciary Act of 1789 conferred on the federal courtsjurisdiction over "all suits . . . in equity." $ 11, 1 Stat. 78.We have long held that "[t]he `jurisdiction' thus conferred . . .is an authority to administer in equity suits the principles ofthe system of judicial remedies which had been devised andwas being administered by the English Court of Chanceryat the time of the separation of the two countries." AtlasLife Ins. Co. v. W. I. Southern, Inc., 306 U. S. 563, 568 (1939).See also,e. g., Stainback v. Mo Hock Ke Lok Po, 336 U. S.368, 382, n. 26 (1949); Guaranty Trust Co. v. York, 326U. S. 99, 105 (1945); Gordon v. Washington, 295 U. S. 30, 36(1935). "Substantially, then, the equity jurisdiction of thefederal courts is the jurisdiction in equity exercised by theHigh Court of Chancery in England at the time of the adoption of the Constitution and the enactment of the originalJudiciary Act, 1789 (1 Stat. 73)." A. Dobie, Handbook ofFederal Jurisdiction and Procedure 660 (1928). "[T]he sub-stantive prerequisites for obtaining an equitable remedy as3 Although this is a diversity case, respondents' complaint sought theinjunction pursuant to Rule 65, and the Second Circuit's decision wasbased on that rule and on federal equity principles. Petitioners argue forthe first time before this Court that under Erie R. Co. v. Tompkins, 304U. S. 64 (1938), the availability of this injunction under Rule 65 should bedetermined by the law of the forum State (in this case New York). Because this argument was neither raised nor considered below, we declineto consider it.527US1 Unit: $U78 [05-09-01 12:58:54] PAGES PGT: OPIN319Cite as: 527 U. S. 308 (1999)Opinion of the Courtwell as the general availability of injunctive relief are notaltered by [Rule 65] and depend on traditional principles ofequity jurisdiction." 11A C. Wright, A. Miller, & M. Kane,Federal Practice and Procedure $ 2941, p. 31 (2d ed. 1995).We must ask, therefore, whether the relief respondents re-quested here was traditionally accorded by courts of equity.ARespondents do not even argue this point. The UnitedStates asamicus curiae, however, contends that the prelimi-nary injunction issued in this case is analogous to the reliefobtained in the equitable action known as a "creditor's bill."This remedy was used (among other purposes) to permit ajudgment creditor to discover the debtor's assets, to reachequitable interests not subject to execution at law, and toset aside fraudulent conveyances. See 1 D. Dobbs, Law ofRemedies $ 2.8(1), pp. 191-192 (2d ed. 1993); 4 S. Symons,Pomeroy's Equity Jurisprudence $ 1415, pp. 1065-1066 (5thed. 1941); 1 G. Glenn, Fraudulent Conveyances and Preferences $ 26, p. 51 (rev. ed. 1940). It was well established,however, that, as a general rule, a creditor's bill could bebrought only by a creditor who had already obtained a judg-ment establishing the debt. See,e. g., Pusey & Jones Co. v.Hanssen, 261 U. S. 491, 497 (1923); Hollins v. BrierfieldCoal & Iron Co., 150 U. S. 371, 378-379 (1893); Cates v. Allen,149 U. S. 451, 457 (1893); National Tube Works Co. v. Ballou,146 U. S. 517, 523-524 (1892); Scott v. Neely, 140 U. S. 106,113 (1891); Smith v. Railroad Co., 99 U. S. 398, 401 (1879);Adler v. Fenton, 24 How. 407, 411-413 (1861); see also 4Symons, supra, at 1067; 1 Glenn, supra, $ 9, at 11; F. Wait,Fraudulent Conveyances and Creditors' Bills $ 73, pp. 110-111 (1884). The rule requiring a judgment was a product,not just of the procedural requirement that remedies at lawhad to be exhausted before equitable remedies could be pur-sued, but also of the substantive rule that a general creditor(one without a judgment) had no cognizable interest, either527US1 Unit: $U78 [05-09-01 12:58:54] PAGES PGT: OPIN320 GRUPO MEXICANO de DESARROLLO, S. A. v.ALLIANCE BOND FUND, INC.Opinion of the Courtat law or in equity, in the property of his debtor, and there-fore could not interfere with the debtor's use of that property. As stated by Chancellor Kent: "The reason of the ruleseems to be, that until the creditor has established his title,he has no right to interfere, and it would lead to an unneces-sary, and, perhaps, a fruitless and oppressive interruption ofthe exercise of the debtor's rights." Wiggins v. Armstrong,2 Johns. Ch. 144, 145-146 (N. Y. 1816). See also,e. g., Guar-anty Trust Co., supra, at 106-107, n. 3; Pusey & Jones Co.,supra, at 497; Cates, supra, at 457; Adler, supra, at 411-413;Shufeldt v. Boehm, 96 Ill. 560, 564 (1880); 1 Glenn, supra, $ 9,at 11; Wait, supra, $ 52, at 81, $ 73, at 113.The United States asserts that there were exceptionsto the general rule requiring a judgment. The existenceand scope of these exceptions is by no means clear.4 Cf.G. Glenn, The Rights and Remedies of Creditors Respect-ing Their Debtor's Property $$ 21-24, pp. 18-21 (1915). Although the United States says that some of them "mighthave been relevant in a case like this one," Brief for UnitedStates as Amicus Curiae 11, it chooses not to resolve (orargue definitively) whether any particular one would havebeen, id., at 12.5 For their part, as noted above, respondents4 For example, some courts said that insolvency was an exception, butothers disagreed. See, e. g., Annot., Of the Demands Which Will Supporta Creditor's Bill, 66 American State Reports 271, 285 (1899) (cases are "inalmost hopeless conflict"). This Court has concluded that that particularexception does not exist. See, e. g., Pusey & Jones Co. v. Hanssen, 261U. S. 491, 495-497 (1923); Hollins v. Brierfield Coal & Iron Co., 150 U. S.371, 385-386 (1893); Smith v. Railroad Co., 99 U. S. 398, 400-401 (1879).5 Some cases suggested that there was an exception where the debt wasadmitted or confessed, at least if the creditor possessed an interest in thedebtor's property. See, e. g., Scott v. Neely, 140 U. S. 106, 113 (1891); D. A.Tompkins Co. v. Catawba Mills, 82 F. 780, 783 (CCSC 1897). Even if thelatter condition is overlooked, it is by no means clear that the action herewould qualify. Petitioners' answer (filed after the preliminary injunctionhad issued) denied knowledge or information sufficient to form a belief(which is the equivalent of a denial, see Federal Rule of Civil Procedure8(b)) as to respondents' allegations that petitioners were currently in527US1 Unit: $U78 [05-09-01 12:58:54] PAGES PGT: OPIN321Cite as: 527 U. S. 308 (1999)Opinion of the Courtdo not discuss creditor's bills at all. Particularly in theabsence of any discussion of this point by the lower courts,we are not inclined to speculate upon the existence or appli-cability to this case of any exceptions, and follow the wellestablished general rule that a judgment establishing thedebt was necessary before a court of equity would interferewith the debtor's use of his property.Justice Ginsburg concedes that federal equity courtshave traditionally rejected the type of provisional reliefgranted in this case. See post, at 338 (opinion concurringin part and dissenting in part). She invokes, however, "thegrand aims of equity," and asserts a general power to grantrelief whenever legal remedies are not "practical and efficient," unless there is a statute to the contrary. Post, at 342(internal quotation marks omitted). This expansive view ofequity must be rejected. Joseph Story's famous treatise re-flects what we consider the proper rule, both with regard tothe general role of equity in our "government of laws, not ofmen," and with regard to its application in the very casebefore us:"Mr. Justice Blackstone has taken considerable painsto refute this doctrine. `It is said,' he remarks, `that itis the business of a Court of Equity, in England, to abatethe rigor of the common law. But no such power is contended for. Hard was the case of bond creditors, whosedebtor devised away his real estate . . . . But a Courtof Equity can give no relief . . . .' And illustrations ofthe same character may be found in every state of theUnion. . . . In many [States], if not in all, a debtor mayprefer one creditor to another, in discharging his debts,whose assets are wholly insufficient to pay all thedebted to respondents in the amount of $80.9 million, and that petitionersbreached their agreements under the Notes and the related guarantee;and denied respondents' allegations that all conditions precedent to suithad occurred, been waived, or otherwise been satisfied, and that respondents had suffered damages of $80.9 million.527US1 Unit: $U78 [05-09-01 12:58:54] PAGES PGT: OPIN322 GRUPO MEXICANO de DESARROLLO, S. A. v.ALLIANCE BOND FUND, INC.Opinion of the Courtdebts." 1 Commentaries on Equity Jurisprudence $ 12,pp. 14-15 (1836).See also infra, at 332-333. We do not question the propo-sition that equity is flexible; but in the federal system, atleast, that flexibility is confined within the broad bound-aries of traditional equitable relief. To accord a type ofrelief that has never been available before--and especially(as here) a type of relief that has been specifically disclaimedby longstanding judicial precedent--is to invoke a "defaultrule,"post, at 342, not of flexibility but of omnipotence.When there are indeed new conditions that might call for awrenching departure from past practice, Congress is in amuch better position than we both to perceive them andto design the appropriate remedy. Despite Justice Ginsburg's allusion to the "increasing complexities of modernbusiness relations,"post, at 337 (internal quotation marksomitted), and to the bygone "age of slow-moving capital andcomparatively immobile wealth," post, at 338, we suspectthere is absolutely nothing new about debtors' trying toavoid paying their debts, or seeking to favor some credi-tors over others--or even about their seeking to achievethese ends through "sophisticated . . . strategies," ibid. Thelaw of fraudulent conveyances and bankruptcy was developed to prevent such conduct; an equitable power to restricta debtor's use of his unencumbered property before judgment was not.Respondents argue (supported by the United States) thatthe merger of law and equity changed the rule that a generalcreditor could not interfere with the debtor's use of his property. But the merger did not alter substantive rights."Notwithstanding the fusion of law and equity by the Rulesof Civil Procedure, the substantive principles of Courts ofChancery remain unaffected."Stainback, 336 U. S., at 382,n. 26. Even in the absence of historical support, we wouldnot be inclined to believe that it is merely a question ofprocedure whether a person's unencumbered assets can be527US1 Unit: $U78 [05-09-01 12:58:54] PAGES PGT: OPIN323Cite as: 527 U. S. 308 (1999)Opinion of the Courtfrozen by general-creditor claimants before their claims havebeen vindicated by judgment. It seems to us that questiongoes to the substantive rights of all property owners. Inany event it appears, as we have observed, that the rule requiring a judgment was historically regarded as serving, notmerely the procedural end of assuring exhaustion of legalremedies (which the merger of law and equity could renderirrelevant), but also the substantive end of giving the creditor an interest in the property which equity could then actupon. Seesupra, at 319-320.6We note that none of the parties or amici specificallyraised the applicability to this case of Federal Rule of CivilProcedure 18(b), which states:"Whenever a claim is one heretofore cognizable onlyafter another claim has been prosecuted to a conclusion,the two claims may be joined in a single action; but thecourt shall grant relief in that action only in accordancewith the relative substantive rights of the parties. Inparticular, a plaintiff may state a claim for money and aclaim to have set aside a conveyance fraudulent as tothat plaintiff, without first having obtained a judgmentestablishing the claim for money."6 As we stated in Adler v. Fenton, 24 How. 407, 411-412 (1861): " `Ourlaws determine with accuracy the time and manner in which the propertyof a debtor ceases to be subject to his disposition, and becomes subject tothe rights of his creditor. A creditor acquires a lien upon the lands of hisdebtor by a judgment; and upon the personal goods of the debtor, by thedelivery of an execution to the sheriff. It is only by these liens that acreditor has any vested or specific right in the property of his debtor.Before these liens are acquired, the debtor has full dominion over his property; he may convert one species of property into another, and he mayalienate to a purchaser. The rights of the debtor, and those of a creditor,are thus defined by positive rules; and the points at which the power ofthe debtor ceases, and the right of the creditor commences, are clearlyestablished. These regulations cannot be contravened or varied by anyinterposition of equity' " (quoting Moran v. Dawes, 1 Hopk. Ch. 365, 367(N. Y. 1825)).527US1 Unit: $U78 [05-09-01 12:58:54] PAGES PGT: OPIN324 GRUPO MEXICANO de DESARROLLO, S. A. v.ALLIANCE BOND FUND, INC.Opinion of the CourtBecause the Rule was neither mentioned by the lower courtsnor briefed by the parties, we decline to consider its application to the present case. We note, however, that it saysnothing about preliminary relief, and specifically reservessubstantive rights (as did the Rules Enabling Act, see 28U. S. C. $ 2072(b)).7BRespondents contend that two of our postmerger casessupport the District Court's order "in principle." Brief forRespondents 22. We find both of these cases entirely consistent with the view that the preliminary injunction in thiscase was beyond the equitable authority of the DistrictCourt.In Deckert v. Independence Shares Corp., 311 U. S. 282(1940), purchasers of certificates that entitled the holders toinvest in a trust of common stocks sued the company thatsold the certificates and the company administering thetrust, and related officers and affiliates, under the SecuritiesAct of 1933, alleging that the sale was fraudulent. They further alleged that the company that sold the certificates wasinsolvent, that it was likely to make preferential paymentsto certain creditors, and that its assets were in danger ofdissipation. They sought the appointment of a receiver andan injunction restraining the company administering thetrust from transferring any assets of the corporations or ofthe trust. The District Court preliminarily enjoined thecompany from transferring a fixed sum. Id., at 285-286.7 Several States have adopted the Uniform Fraudulent Conveyance Act(or its successor the Uniform Fraudulent Transfers Act), which has beeninterpreted as conferring on a nonjudgment creditor the right to bring afraudulent conveyance claim. See generally P. Alces, Law of FraudulentTransactions || 5.04[3], p. 5-116 (1989). Insofar as Rule 18(b) applies tosuch an action, the state statute eliminating the need for a judgment mayhave altered the common-law rule that a general contract creditor has nointerest in his debtor's property. Because this case does not involve aclaim of fraudulent conveyance, we express no opinion on the point.527US1 Unit: $U78 [05-09-01 12:58:54] PAGES PGT: OPIN325Cite as: 527 U. S. 308 (1999)Opinion of the CourtAfter deciding that the Securities Act permitted equitablerelief, we concluded that the bill stated a cause of action forthe equitable remedies of rescission of the contracts and restitution of the consideration paid, id., at 287-288, and thatthe preliminary injunction "was a reasonable measure to preserve the status quo pending final determination of the questions raised by the bill," id., at 290. Deckert is not on pointhere because, as the Court took pains to explain, "the billstate[d] a cause [of action] for equitable relief." Id., at 288."The principal objects of the suit are rescission of theSavings Plan contracts and restitution of the consideration paid . . . . That a suit to rescind a contract inducedby fraud and to recover the consideration paid maybe maintained in equity, at least where there are circumstances making the legal remedy inadequate, is wellestablished." Id., at 289.The preliminary relief available in a suit seeking equitablerelief has nothing to do with the preliminary relief availablein a creditor's bill seeking equitable assistance in the collection of a legal debt.In the second case relied on by respondents, United Statesv. First Nat. City Bank, 379 U. S. 378 (1965), the UnitedStates, in its suit to enforce a tax assessment and tax lien,requested a preliminary injunction preventing a third-partybank from transferring any of the taxpayer's assets whichwere held in a foreign branch office of the bank. Id., at 379-380. Relying on a statute giving district courts the powerto grant injunctions " `necessary or appropriate for the enforcement of the internal revenue laws,' " id., at 380 (quotingformer 26 U. S. C. $ 7402(a) (1964 ed.)), we concluded that thetemporary injunction was "appropriate to prevent furtherdissipation of assets," 379 U. S., at 385. We stated that ifa district court could not issue such an injunction, foreigntaxpayers could avoid their tax obligations.527US1 Unit: $U78 [05-09-01 12:58:54] PAGES PGT: OPIN326 GRUPO MEXICANO de DESARROLLO, S. A. v.ALLIANCE BOND FUND, INC.Opinion of the CourtFirst National is distinguishable from the present case ona number of grounds. First, of course, it involved not theCourt's general equitable powers under the Judiciary Act of1789, but its powers under the statute authorizing issuanceof tax injunctions.8 Second, First National relied in parton the doctrine that courts of equity will " `go much fartherboth to give and withhold relief in furtherance of the publicinterest than they are accustomed to go when only privateinterests are involved,' " id., at 383 (quoting Virginian R. Co.v. Railway Employees, 300 U. S. 515, 552 (1937)). And finally, although the Court did not rely on this fact, the creditor (the Government) asserted an equitable lien on the property, see 379 U. S., at 379-380, which presents a differentcase from that of the unsecured general creditor.That Deckert and First National should not be read asestablishing the principle relied on by respondents isstrongly suggested by De Beers Consol. Mines, Ltd. v.United States, 325 U. S. 212 (1945). In that case the UnitedStates brought suit against several corporations seekingequitable relief against alleged antitrust violations. TheUnited States also sought a preliminary injunction restraining the defendants from removing their assets from thiscountry pending adjudication of the merits. We concludedthat the injunction was beyond the power of the DistrictCourt. We stated that "[a] preliminary injunction is alwaysappropriate to grant intermediate relief of the same character as that which may be granted finally," but that the injunction in that case dealt "with a matter lying wholly out8 Although the United States suggests that there is statutory supportfor the present injunction in the All Writs Act, 28 U. S. C. $ 1651, Brief forUnited States as Amicus Curiae 18, we have said that the power conferred by the predecessor of that provision is defined by "what is theusage, and what are the principles of equity applicable in such a case."De Beers Consol. Mines, Ltd. v. United States, 325 U. S. 212, 219 (1945).That is the very inquiry in which we have engaged.527US1 Unit: $U78 [05-09-01 12:58:54] PAGES PGT: OPIN327Cite as: 527 U. S. 308 (1999)Opinion of the Courtside the issues in the suit." Id., at 220. We pointed outthat "Federal and State courts appear consistently to haverefused relief of the nature here sought," id., at 221, andwe concluded:"To sustain the challenged order would create a prece-dent of sweeping effect. This suit, as we have said, isnot to be distinguished from any other suit in equity.What applies to it applies to all such. Every suitor whoresorts to chancery for any sort of relief by injunctionmay, on a mere statement of belief that the defendant can easily make away with or transport his moneyor goods, impose an injunction on him, indefinite induration, disabling him to use so much of his funds orproperty as the court deems necessary for security orcompliance with its possible decree. And, if so, it is dif-ficult to see why a plaintiff in any action for a personaljudgment in tort or contract may not, also, apply to thechancellor for a so-called injunction sequestrating hisopponent's assets pending recovery and satisfaction ofa judgment in such a law action. No relief of this character has been thought justified in the long history ofequity jurisprudence."Id., at 222-223.The statements in the last two sentences, though dictum,confirms that the relief sought by respondents does not havea basis in the traditional powers of equity courts.CAs further support for the proposition that the relief ac-corded here was unknown to traditional equity practice, it isinstructive that the English Court of Chancery, from whichthe First Congress borrowed in conferring equitable powerson the federal courts, did not provide an injunctive remedysuch as this until 1975. In that year, the Court of Appealdecided Mareva Compania Naviera S. A. v. International527US1 Unit: $U78 [05-09-01 12:58:54] PAGES PGT: OPIN328 GRUPO MEXICANO de DESARROLLO, S. A. v.ALLIANCE BOND FUND, INC.Opinion of the CourtBulkcarriers S. A., 2 Lloyd's Rep. 509.9 Mareva, althoughacknowledging that the prior case of Lister & Co. v. Stubbs,[1890] 45 Ch. D. 1 (C. A.), said that a court has no power toprotect a creditor before he gets judgment,10 relied on a statute giving courts the authority to grant an interlocutory in-junction " `in all cases in which it shall appear to the courtto be just or convenient,' " 2 Lloyd's Rep., at 510 (quotingJudicature Act of 1925, Law Reports 1925 (2), 15 & 16 Geo.V, ch. 49, $ 45). It held (in the words of Lord Denning) that"[i]f it appears that the debt is due and owing--and there isa danger that the debtor may dispose of his assets so as todefeat it before judgment--the Court has jurisdiction in aproper case to grant an interlocutory judgment so as to prevent him [sic] disposing of those assets." 2 Lloyd's Rep.,at 510. The Mareva injunction has now been confirmed bystatute. See Supreme Court Act of 1981, $ 37, 11 Halsbury'sStatutes 966, 1001 (1991 reissue).Commentators have emphasized that the adoption ofMareva injunctions was a dramatic departure from priorpractice."Before 1975 the courts would not grant an injunctionto restrain a defendant from disposing of his assets pen9 Apparently the first "Mareva" injunction was actually issued in Nippon Yusen Kaisha v. Karageorgis, [1975] 2 Lloyd's Rep. 137 (C. A.), inwhich Lord Denning recognized the prior practice of not granting suchinjunctions, but stated that "the time has come when we should revise ourpractice." Id., at 138; see also Hetherington, Introduction to the MarevaInjunction, in Mareva Injunctions 1, n. 1 (M. Hetherington ed. 1983). Forwhatever reason, Mareva has gotten the credit (or blame), and we followthe tradition of leaving Nippon Yusen in the shadows.10 In Lister & Co. v. Stubbs, 45 Ch. D., at 1, 13, the Court of Appeal heldthat an injunction restraining the defendant's use of assets could not beissued. Lord Justice Cotton stated: "I know of no case where, because itwas highly probable that if the action were brought to a hearing the plaintiff could establish that a debt was due to him from the defendant, thedefendant has been ordered to give security until that has been established by the judgment or decree."527US1 Unit: $U78 [05-09-01 12:58:54] PAGES PGT: OPIN329Cite as: 527 U. S. 308 (1999)Opinion of the Courtdente lite merely because the plaintiff feared that bythe time he obtained judgment the defendant wouldhave no assets against which execution could be levied.Applications for such injunctions were consistently refused in the English Commercial Court as elsewhere.They were thought to be so clearly beyond the powers ofthe court as to be `wholly unarguable.' " Hetherington,supra n. 9, at 3.See also Wasserman, Equity Renewed: Preliminary Injunc-tions to Secure Potential Money Judgments, 67 Wash. L. Rev.257, 337 (1992) (stating that Mareva "revolutionized Englishpractice"). The Mareva injunction has been recognized asa powerful tool for general creditors; indeed, it has beencalled the "nuclear weapo[n] of the law." R. Ough & W.Flenley, The Mareva Injunction and Anton Piller Order:Practice and Precedents xi (2d ed. 1993).The parties debate whetherMareva was based on statutory authority or on inherent equitable power. See Brieffor Petitioners 17, n. 8; Brief for Respondents 35-36. Regardless of the answer to this question, it is indisputable thatthe English courts of equity did not actually exercise thispower until 1975, and that federal courts in this country havetraditionally applied the principle that courts of equity willnot, as a general matter, interfere with the debtor's disposition of his property at the instance of a nonjudgment credi-tor. We think it incompatible with our traditionally cautiousapproach to equitable powers, which leaves any substantialexpansion of past practice to Congress, to decree the elimination of this significant protection for debtors.IVThe parties and amici discuss various arguments for andagainst creating the preliminary injunctive remedy at issuein this case. The United States suggests that the factorssupporting such a remedy include527US1 Unit: $U78 [05-09-01 12:58:54] PAGES PGT: OPIN330 GRUPO MEXICANO de DESARROLLO, S. A. v.ALLIANCE BOND FUND, INC.Opinion of the Court"simplicity and uniformity of procedure; preservation ofthe court's ability to render a judgment that will proveenforceable; prevention of inequitable conduct on thepart of defendants; avoiding disparities between defendants that have assets within the jurisdiction (whichwould be subject to pre-judgment attachment `at law')and those that do not; avoiding the necessity for plain-tiffs to locate a forum in which the defendant has substantial assets; and, in an age of easy global mobility ofcapital, preserving the attractiveness of the UnitedStates as a center for financial transactions." Brief forUnited States asAmicus Curiae 16.But there are weighty considerations on the other side aswell, the most significant of which is the historical principlethat before judgment (or its equivalent) an unsecured credi-tor has no rights at law or in equity in the property of hisdebtor. As one treatise writer explained:"A rule of procedure which allowed any prowling credi-tor, before his claim was definitely established by judgment, and without reference to the character of hisdemand, to file a bill to discover assets, or to impeachtransfers, or interfere with the business affairs of thealleged debtor, would manifestly be susceptible of thegrossest abuse. A more powerful weapon of oppres-sion could not be placed at the disposal of unscrupulous litigants." Wait, Fraudulent Conveyances $ 73, at110-111.The requirement that the creditor obtain a prior judgmentis a fundamental protection in debtor-creditor law--renderedall the more important in our federal system by the debtor'sright to a jury trial on the legal claim. There are other factors which likewise give us pause: The remedy sought herecould render Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 64, which authorizes use of state prejudgment remedies, a virtual irrele-vance. Why go through the trouble of complying with local527US1 Unit: $U78 [05-09-01 12:58:54] PAGES PGT: OPIN331Cite as: 527 U. S. 308 (1999)Opinion of the Courtattachment and garnishment statutes when this all-purposeprejudgment injunction is available? More importantly,by adding, through judicial fiat, a new and powerful weaponto the creditor's arsenal, the new rule could radically alterthe balance between debtor's and creditor's rights whichhas been developed over centuries through many laws--including those relating to bankruptcy, fraudulent conveyances, and preferences. Because any rational creditorwould want to protect his investment, such a remedy mightinduce creditors to engage in a "race to the courthouse" incases involving insolvent or near-insolvent debtors, whichmight prove financially fatal to the struggling debtor. (Inthis case, we might observe, the respondents did not represent all of the holders of the Notes; they were an active fewwho sought to benefit at the expense of the other noteholdersas well as GMD's other creditors.11) It is significant that, inEngland, use of the Mareva injunction has expanded rapidly."Since 1975, the English courts have awarded Mareva injunctions to freeze assets in an ever-increasing set of circumstances both within and beyond the commercial settingto an ever-expanding number of plaintiffs." Wasserman,supra, at 339. As early as 1984, one observer statedthat "[t]here are now a steady flow of such applications toour Courts which have been estimated to exceed one thou11 Justice Ginsburg suggests that respondents acted to benefit all ofGMD's creditors. See post, at 341, n. 6. But respondents' complaintsought the full amount they were allegedly owed, despite their contentionthat petitioners could not pay all their creditors. It is not clear that the"trust in compliance with Mexican law" that respondents proposed as apossible preliminary remedy, ibid., was to be for the benefit of all creditors, rather than respondents alone--but that remedy was in any eventdenied, which did not deter respondents from seeking a simple freeze onassets to satisfy their anticipated judgment. There is nothing whateverwrong with respondents' pursuing their own interests. Indeed, the factthat it is entirely proper and entirely predictable is the very premise ofthe point we are making: that this new remedy will promote unregulatedcompetition among the creditors of a struggling debtor.527US1 Unit: $U78 [05-09-01 12:58:54] PAGES PGT: OPIN332 GRUPO MEXICANO de DESARROLLO, S. A. v.ALLIANCE BOND FUND, INC.Opinion of the Courtsand per month." Shenton, Attachments and Other InterimCourt Remedies in Support of Arbitration, 1984 Int'l Bus.Law. 101, 104.We do not decide which side has the better of these arguments. We set them forth only to demonstrate that resolving them in this forum is incompatible with the democraticand self-deprecating judgment we have long since made: thatthe equitable powers conferred by the Judiciary Act of 1789did not include the power to create remedies previously unknown to equity jurisprudence. Even when sitting as acourt in equity, we have no authority to craft a "nuclearweapon" of the law like the one advocated here. JosephStory made the point many years ago:"If, indeed, a Court of Equity in England did possess theunbounded jurisdiction, which has been thus generallyascribed to it, of correcting, controlling, moderating, andeven superceding the law, and of enforcing all the rights,as well as charities, arising from natural law and justice,and of freeing itself from all regard to former rules andprecedents, it would be the most gigantic in its sway,and the most formidable instrument of arbitrary power,that could well be devised. It would literally place thewhole rights and property of the community under thearbitrary will of the Judge, acting, if you please, arbitrioboni judicis, and it may be, ex aequo et bono, accordingto his own notions and conscience; but still acting with adespotic and sovereign authority. A Court of Chancerymight then well deserve the spirited rebuke of Seldon;`For law we have a measure, and know what to trustto--Equity is according to the conscience of him, that isChancellor; and as that is larger, or narrower, so is Equity. 'T is all one, as if they should make the standardfor the measure the Chancellor's foot. What an uncertain measure would this be? One Chancellor has a longfoot; another a short foot; a third an indifferent foot. It527US1 Unit: $U78 [05-09-01 12:58:54] PAGES PGT: OPIN333Cite as: 527 U. S. 308 (1999)Opinion of Ginsburg, J.is the same thing with the Chancellor's conscience.' " 1Commentaries on Equity Jurisprudence $ 19, at 21.The debate concerning this formidable power over debtorsshould be conducted and resolved where such issues belongin our democracy: in the Congress.* * *Because such a remedy was historically unavailable froma court of equity, we hold that the District Court had noauthority to issue a preliminary injunction preventing petitioners from disposing of their assets pending adjudica-tion of respondents' contract claim for money damages. Wereverse the judgment of the Second Circuit and remandthe case for further proceedings consistent with this opinion.