III, and IV, concluding that Williams was denied his constitutionallyguaranteed right to the effective assistance of counsel, as defined inStrickland, when his trial lawyers failed to investigate and to presentsubstantial mitigating evidence to the sentencing jury. Pp. 390-398.(a) The threshold question under AEDPA--whether Williams seeksto apply a rule of law that was clearly established at the time his statecourt conviction became final--is easily answered because the merits ofhis claim are squarely governed by Strickland. To establish ineffectiveassistance of counsel, the defendant must prove: (1) that counsel's performance fell below an objective standard of reasonableness, 466 U. S.,at 688; and (2) that the deficient performance prejudiced the defense,which requires a showing that there is a reasonable probability that,but for counsel's unprofessional errors, the result of the proceedingwould have been different, id., at 694. Because the Strickland testqualifies as "clearly established Federal law, as determined by theSupreme Court," this Court's precedent "dictated" that the VirginiaSupreme Court apply that test in entertaining Williams' ineffectiveassistance claim. See Teague v. Lane, 489 U. S. 288, 301. Pp. 390-391.(b) Williams is entitled to relief because the Virginia Supreme Court'sdecision rejecting his ineffective-assistance claim both is "contrary to,[and] involved an unreasonable application of, clearly established Federal law." Strickland provides sufficient guidance for resolving virtually all ineffective-assistance claims, and the Virginia Supreme Courterred in holding that Lockhart modified or in some way supplantedStrickland. Although there are a few situations in which the overriding focus on fundamental fairness may affect the analysis, see Strickland, 466 U. S., at 692, cases such as Lockhart and Nix v. Whiteside,475 U. S. 157, do not justify a departure from a straightforward application of Strickland when counsel's ineffectiveness deprives the defendantof a substantive or procedural right to which the law entitles him.Here, Williams had a constitutionally protected right to provide mitigating evidence that his trial counsel either failed to discover or failed tooffer. Moreover, the Virginia trial judge correctly applied both components of the Strickland standard to Williams' claim. The record establishes that counsel failed to prepare for sentencing until a week beforehand, to uncover extensive records graphically describing Williams'nightmarish childhood, to introduce available evidence that Williamswas "borderline mentally retarded" and did not advance beyond sixthgrade, to seek prison records recording Williams' commendations for529US2 Unit: $U46 [10-07-01 17:18:24] PAGES PGT: OPIN364 WILLIAMS v. TAYLORSyllabushelping to crack a prison drug ring and for returning a guard's missingwallet, and to discover the testimony of prison officials who describedWilliams as among the inmates least likely to act violently, dangerously,or provocatively, and of a prison minister that Williams seemed to thrivein a more regimented environment. Although not all of the additionalevidence was favorable to Williams, the failure to introduce the comparatively voluminous amount of favorable evidence was not justified by atactical decision and clearly demonstrates that counsel did not fulfilltheir ethical obligation to conduct a thorough investigation of Williams'background. Moreover, counsel's unprofessional service prejudicedWilliams within Strickland's meaning. The Virginia Supreme Court'sprejudice analysis was unreasonable in at least two respects: (1) It wasnot only "contrary to," but also--inasmuch as it relied on the inapplicable Lockhart exception--an "unreasonable application of," the clear lawas established in Strickland; and (2) it failed to evaluate the totality of,and to accord appropriate weight to, the available mitigation evidence.Pp. 391-398.Justice O'Connor delivered the opinion of the Court as to Part II(except as to the footnote), concluding that $ 2254(d)(1) places a newconstraint on the power of a federal habeas court to grant relief to astate prisoner with respect to claims adjudicated on the merits in statecourt: The habeas writ may issue only if the state-court adjudication (1)"was contrary to," or (2) "involved an unreasonable application of . . ."clearly established Federal law, as determined by the Supreme Court ofthe United States." Pp. 402-413.(a) Because Williams filed his petition in 1997, his case is not governed by the pre-1996 version of the federal habeas statute, but by thestatute as amended by AEDPA. Accordingly, for Williams to obtainfederal habeas relief, he must first demonstrate that his case satisfiesthe condition set by $ 2254(d)(1). That provision modifies the previouslysettled rule of independent federal review of state prisoners' habeaspetitions in order to curb delays, to prevent "retrials" on federal habeas,and to give effect to state convictions to the extent possible under law.In light of the cardinal principle of statutory construction that courtsmust give effect, if possible, to every clause and word of a statute, thisCourt must give independent meaning to both the "contrary to" and"unreasonable application" clauses of $ 2254(d)(1). Given the commonlyunderstood definitions of "contrary" as "diametrically different," "opposite in character or nature," or "mutually opposed," $ 2254(d)(1)'s firstclause must be interpreted to mean that a federal habeas court maygrant relief if the state court (1) arrives at a conclusion opposite to thatreached by this Court on a question of law or (2) decides a case differ529US2 Unit: $U46 [10-07-01 17:18:24] PAGES PGT: OPIN365Cite as: 529 U. S. 362 (2000)Syllabusently than this Court has on a set of materially indistinguishable facts.Under the "unreasonable application" clause, a federal habeas court maygrant relief if the state court identifies the correct governing legal principle from this Court's decisions but unreasonably applies that principleto the facts of the prisoner's case. Pp. 402-409.(b) In defining what qualifies as an "unreasonable application of . . .clearly established Federal law," the Fourth Circuit erred in holdingthat a state-court decision involves such an application only if the statecourt has applied federal law in a manner that reasonable jurists wouldall agree is unreasonable. That standard would tend to mislead federalhabeas courts by focusing on a subjective inquiry. Rather, the federalcourt should ask whether the state court's application of clearly established federal law was objectively unreasonable. Cf. Wright v. West,505 U. S. 277, 304. Although difficult to define, "unreasonable" is a common legal term familiar to federal judges. For present purposes, themost important point is that an unreasonable application of federal lawis different from an incorrect application of federal law. See, e. g., id.,at 305. Because Congress specifically used the word "unreasonable,"and not a term like "erroneous" or "incorrect," a federal habeas courtmay not grant relief simply because it concludes in its independent judgment that the relevant state-court decision applied clearly establishedfederal law erroneously or incorrectly. Rather, that application mustalso be unreasonable. Finally, the phrase "clearly established Federallaw, as determined by [this] Court" refers to the holdings, as opposed tothe dicta, of this Court's decisions as of the time of the relevant statecourt decision. In this respect, the quoted phrase bears only a slightconnection to this Court's jurisprudence under Teague v. Lane, 489 U. S.288. Whatever would qualify as an "old rule" under Teague will constitute "clearly established Federal law, as determined by [this] Court,"see, e. g., Stringer v. Black, 503 U. S. 222, 228, but with one caveat: Section 2254(d)(1) restricts the source of clearly established law to thisCourt's jurisprudence. Pp. 409-413.Stevens, J., announced the judgment of the Court and delivered theopinion of the Court with respect to Parts I, III, and IV, in which O'Con-nor, Kennedy, Souter, Ginsburg, and Breyer, JJ., joined, and an opinion with respect to Parts II and V, in which Souter, Ginsburg, andBreyer, JJ., joined. O'Connor, J., delivered the opinion of the Courtwith respect to Part II (except as to the footnote), in which Rehnquist,C. J., and Kennedy and Thomas, JJ., joined, and in which Scalia, J.,joined, except as to the footnote, and an opinion concurring in part and529US2 Unit: $U46 [10-07-01 17:18:24] PAGES PGT: OPIN366 WILLIAMS v. TAYLORSyllabusconcurring in the judgment, in which Kennedy, J., joined, post, p. 399.Rehnquist, C. J., filed an opinion concurring in part and dissenting inpart, in which Scalia and Thomas, JJ., joined, post, p. 416.John J. Gibbons argued the cause for petitioner. Withhim on the briefs wereBrian A. Powers, by appointment ofthe Court, 526 U. S. 1110, and Ellen O. Boardman.Robert Q. Harris, Assistant Attorney General of Virginia,argued the cause for respondent. With him on the brief wasMark L. Earley, Attorney General.**Briefs of amici curiae urging reversal were filed for the American BarAssociation by Philip S. Anderson, Abe Krash, Kathleen A. Behan, andJohn A. Freedman; for the American Civil Liberties Union by Larry W.Yackle and Steven R. Shapiro; for the National Association of CriminalDefense Lawyers by John D. Cline and Lisa B. Kemler; for the VirginiaCollege of Criminal Defense Attorneys et al. by Gerald T. Zerkin; forProfessors Lance G. Banning et al. by Barry Levenstam and Jeffrey T.Shaw; and for Marvin E. Frankel et al. by Abner J. Mikva.Briefs of amici curiae urging affirmance were filed for the State ofCalifornia et al. by Bill Lockyer, Attorney General of California, DavidDruliner, Chief Assistant Attorney General, Dane R. Gillette, Senior Assistant Attorney General, and Donald E. De Nicola and Ward A. Campbell, Deputy Attorneys General, joined by the Attorneys General for theirrespective States as follows: Bill Pryor of Alabama, Bruce M. Botelho ofAlaska, Mark Pryor of Arkansas, Ken Salazar of Colorado, John M. Bailey of Connecticut, M. Jane Brady of Delaware, Robert A. Butterworth ofFlorida, Thurbert E. Baker of Georgia, Alan G. Lance of Idaho, James E.Ryan of Illinois, Carla Stovall of Kansas, Richard P. Ieyoub of Louisiana,J. Joseph Curran, Jr., of Maryland, Thomas F. Reilly of Massachusetts,Michael C. Moore of Mississippi, Jeremiah W. (Jay) Nixon of Missouri,Joseph P. Mazurek of Montana, Don Stenberg of Nebraska, Frankie SueDel Papa of Nevada, John J. Farmer, Jr., of New Jersey, Patricia A.Madrid of New Mexico, Michael E. Easley of North Carolina, HeidiHeitkamp of North Dakota, Betty D. Montgomery of Ohio, W. A. DrewEdmondson of Oklahoma, Hardy Myers of Oregon, D. Michael Fisher ofPennsylvania, Charles M. Condon of South Carolina, Mark Barnett ofSouth Dakota, Paul G. Summers of Tennessee, John Cornyn of Texas,Jan Graham of Utah, Christine O. Gregoire of Washington, and DarrellMcGraw, Jr., of West Virginia; and for the Criminal Justice Legal Foundation by Kent S. Scheidegger.529US2 Unit: $U46 [10-07-01 17:18:24] PAGES PGT: OPIN367Cite as: 529 U. S. 362 (2000)Opinion of the CourtJustice Stevens announced the judgment of the Courtand delivered the opinion of the Court with respect to PartsI, III, and IV, and an opinion with respect to Parts II and V.*The questions presented are whether Terry Williams' constitutional right to the effective assistance of counsel asdefined in Strickland v. Washington, 466 U. S. 668 (1984),was violated, and whether the judgment of the Virginia Supreme Court refusing to set aside his death sentence "wascontrary to, or involved an unreasonable application of,clearly established Federal law, as determined by the Supreme Court of the United States," within the meaning of28 U. S. C. $ 2254(d)(1) (1994 ed., Supp. III). We answerboth questions affirmatively.IOn November 3, 1985, Harris Stone was found dead in hisresidence on Henry Street in Danville, Virginia. Finding noindication of a struggle, local officials determined that thecause of death was blood alcohol poisoning, and the case wasconsidered closed. Six months after Stone's death, TerryWilliams, who was then incarcerated in the "I" unit of thecity jail for an unrelated offense, wrote a letter to the policestating that he had killed " `that man down on HenryStreet' " and also stating that he " `did it' " to that " `ladydown on West Green Street' " and was " `very sorry.' " Theletter was unsigned, but it closed with a reference to "I cell."App. 41. The police readily identified Williams as its author,and, on April 25, 1986, they obtained several statements fromhim. In one Williams admitted that, after Stone refused tolend him " `a couple of dollars,' " he had killed Stone with a*Justice Souter, Justice Ginsburg, and Justice Breyer join thisopinion in its entirety. Justice O'Connor and Justice Kennedy joinParts I, III, and IV of this opinion.529US2 Unit: $U46 [10-07-01 17:18:24] PAGES PGT: OPIN368 WILLIAMS v. TAYLOROpinion of the Courtmattock and taken the money from his wallet.1 Id., at 4.In September 1986, Williams was convicted of robbery andcapital murder.At Williams' sentencing hearing, the prosecution provedthat Williams had been convicted of armed robbery in 1976and burglary and grand larceny in 1982. The prosecutionalso introduced the written confessions that Williams hadmade in April. The prosecution described two auto theftsand two separate violent assaults on elderly victims perpe-trated after the Stone murder. On December 4, 1985, Williams had started a fire outside one victim's residence beforeattacking and robbing him. On March 5, 1986, Williams hadbrutally assaulted an elderly woman on West Green Street--an incident he had mentioned in his letter to the police.That confession was particularly damaging because otherevidence established that the woman was in a "vegetativestate" and not expected to recover. Id., at 60. Williamshad also been convicted of arson for setting a fire in the jailwhile awaiting trial in this case. Two expert witnesses em-ployed by the State testified that there was a "high probabil1 " `I had gone to Dee Dee Stone's house on Henry Street, Dee Dee'sfather was there. No one else was there except him. He had been drinking a lot. He was on the bed. He asked me if I wanted a drink. I toldhim, `No.' I asked him if I could borrow a couple of dollars and he toldme, `No.' We started arguing and things started going around in myhead. I just wanted to get back at him. I don't know what. He just laidback like he had passed out. He was laying there talking and moaning tohimself. I went into the kitchen. I saw the butcher knife. I didn't wantto use it. I was looking for something to use. I went into the bathroomand I saw the mattock. I picked up the mattock and I came back into theroom where he was at. He was laying on the bed. He was laying on hisback. I took the mattock and I hit him on the chest with it. He raisedup and was gasping for his breath. He fell over to his side and I hit himin the back with the mattock. He fell back on the bed. I went and putthe mattock back in the bathroom. I came back into the room. I tookhis wallet from his pocket. He had three dollars in it. I got the threedollars from it. I left him there. He was still grasping for breath.' "App. 4-5.529US2 Unit: $U46 [10-07-01 17:18:24] PAGES PGT: OPIN369Cite as: 529 U. S. 362 (2000)Opinion of the Courtity" that Williams would pose a serious continuing threat tosociety. Id., at 89.The evidence offered by Williams' trial counsel at the sentencing hearing consisted of the testimony of Williams'mother, two neighbors, and a taped excerpt from a statementby a psychiatrist. One of the neighbors had not been previously interviewed by defense counsel, but was noticed bycounsel in the audience during the proceedings and asked totestify on the spot. The three witnesses briefly describedWilliams as a "nice boy" and not a violent person. Id., at124. The recorded psychiatrist's testimony did little morethan relate Williams' statement during an examination thatin the course of one of his earlier robberies, he had removedthe bullets from a gun so as not to injure anyone.In his cross-examination of the prosecution witnesses, Williams' counsel repeatedly emphasized the fact that Williamshad initiated the contact with the police that enabled themto solve the murder and to identify him as the perpetratorof the recent assaults, as well as the car thefts. In closingargument, Williams' counsel characterized Williams' confessional statements as "dumb," but asked the jury to giveweight to the fact that he had "turned himself in, not on onecrime but on four . . . that the [police otherwise] would nothave solved." Id., at 140. The weight of defense counsel'sclosing, however, was devoted to explaining that it was difficult to find a reason why the jury should spare Williams' life.22 In defense counsel's words: "I will admit too that it is very difficult toask you to show mercy to a man who maybe has not shown much mercyhimself. I doubt very seriously that he thought much about mercy whenhe was in Mr. Stone's bedroom that night with him. I doubt very seriously that he had mercy very highly on his mind when he was walkingalong West Green and the incident with Alberta Stroud. I doubt veryseriously that he had mercy on his mind when he took two cars that didn'tbelong to him. Admittedly it is very difficult to get us and ask that yougive this man mercy when he has shown so little of it himself. But Iwould ask that you would." Id., at 132-133.529US2 Unit: $U46 [10-07-01 17:18:24] PAGES PGT: OPIN370 WILLIAMS v. TAYLOROpinion of the CourtThe jury found a probability of future dangerousness andunanimously fixed Williams' punishment at death. The trialjudge concluded that such punishment was "proper" and"just" and imposed the death sentence. Id., at 154. TheVirginia Supreme Court affirmed the conviction and sen-tence. Williams v. Commonwealth, 234 Va. 168, 360 S. E.2d 361 (1987), cert. denied, Williams v. Virginia, 484 U. S.1020 (1988). It rejected Williams' argument that when thetrial judge imposed sentence, he failed to give mitigatingweight to the fact that Williams had turned himself in. 234Va., at 181-182, 360 S. E. 2d, at 369-370.State Habeas Corpus ProceedingsIn 1988 Williams filed for state collateral relief in theDanville Circuit Court. The petition was subsequentlyamended, and the Circuit Court (the same judge who hadpresided over Williams' trial and sentencing) held an evidentiary hearing on Williams' claim that trial counsel had beenineffective.3 Based on the evidence adduced after two daysof hearings, Judge Ingram found that Williams' convictionwas valid, but that his trial attorneys had been ineffectiveduring sentencing. Among the evidence reviewed that hadnot been presented at trial were documents prepared in connection with Williams' commitment when he was 11 years oldthat dramatically described mistreatment, abuse, and neglectduring his early childhood, as well as testimony that he was"borderline mentally retarded," had suffered repeated headinjuries, and might have mental impairments organic in ori-gin. App. 528-529, 595. The habeas hearing also revealed3 While Williams' petition was pending before the Circuit Court, Virginia amended its state habeas statute to vest in the State Supreme Courtexclusive jurisdiction to award writs of habeas corpus in capital cases.Va. Code Ann. $ 8.01-654(C)(1) (Supp. 1999). Shortly after the CircuitCourt held its evidentiary hearing, the Supreme Court assumed jurisdiction over Williams' petition and instructed the Circuit Court to issue findings of fact and legal recommendation regarding Williams' ineffectiveassistance claims.529US2 Unit: $U46 [10-07-01 17:18:24] PAGES PGT: OPIN371Cite as: 529 U. S. 362 (2000)Opinion of the Courtthat the same experts who had testified on the State's behalfat trial believed that Williams, if kept in a "structured environment," would not pose a future danger to society. Id.,at 313-314.Counsel's failure to discover and present this and othersignificant mitigating evidence was "below the range expected of reasonable, professional competent assistance ofcounsel." Id., at 424. Counsel's performance thus "did notmeasure up to the standard required under the holding ofStrickland v. Washington, 466 U. S. 668 (1984), and [if ithad,] there is a reasonable probability that the result of thesentencing phase would have been different." Id., at 429.Judge Ingram therefore recommended that Williams begranted a rehearing on the sentencing phase of his trial.The Virginia Supreme Court did not accept that recommendation. Williams v. Warden, 254 Va. 16, 487 S. E. 2d194 (1997). Although it assumed, without deciding, thattrial counsel had been ineffective, id., at 23-26, 487 S. E. 2d,at 198, 200, it disagreed with the trial judge's conclusion thatWilliams had suffered sufficient prejudice to warrant relief.Treating the prejudice inquiry as a mixed question of lawand fact, the Virginia Supreme Court accepted the factualdetermination that available evidence in mitigation had notbeen presented at the trial, but held that the trial judge hadmisapplied the law in two respects. First, relying on ourdecision in Lockhart v. Fretwell, 506 U. S. 364 (1993), thecourt held that it was wrong for the trial judge to rely " `onmere outcome determination' " when assessing prejudice, 254Va., at 23, 487 S. E. 2d, at 198 (quoting Lockhart, 506 U. S.,at 369). Second, it construed the trial judge's opinion ashaving "adopted a per se approach" that would establishprejudice whenever any mitigating evidence was omitted.254 Va., at 26, 487 S. E. 2d, at 200.The court then reviewed the prosecution evidence supporting the "future dangerousness" aggravating circumstance, reciting Williams' criminal history, including the sev529US2 Unit: $U46 [10-07-01 17:18:24] PAGES PGT: OPIN372 WILLIAMS v. TAYLOROpinion of the Courteral most recent offenses to which he had confessed. Incomparison, it found that the excluded mitigating evidence--which it characterized as merely indicating "that numerouspeople, mostly relatives, thought that defendant was nonviolent and could cope very well in a structured environment,"ibid.--"barely would have altered the profile of this defendant that was presented to the jury," ibid. On this basis, thecourt concluded that there was no reasonable possibility thatthe omitted evidence would have affected the jury's sentenc-ing recommendation, and that Williams had failed to demonstrate that his sentencing proceeding was fundamentallyunfair.Federal Habeas Corpus ProceedingsHaving exhausted his state remedies, Williams sought afederal writ of habeas corpus pursuant to 28 U. S. C. $ 2254(1994 ed. and Supp. III). After reviewing the state habeashearing transcript and the state courts' findings of fact andconclusions of law, the federal trial judge agreed with theVirginia trial judge: The death sentence was constitutionally infirm.After noting that the Virginia Supreme Court had not addressed the question whether trial counsel's performance atthe sentencing hearing fell below the range of competencedemanded of lawyers in criminal cases, the judge began byaddressing that issue in detail. He identified five categoriesof mitigating evidence that counsel had failed to introduce,44 "(i) Counsel did not introduce evidence of the Petitioner's background. . . . (ii) Counsel did not introduce evidence that Petitioner wasabused by his father. (iii) Counsel did not introduce testimony from correctional officers who were willing to testify that defendant would notpose a danger while incarcerated. Nor did counsel offer prison commendations awarded to Williams for his help in breaking up a prison drugring and for returning a guard's missing wallet. (iv) Several characterwitnesses were not called to testify. . . . [T]he testimony of Elliott, a respected CPA in the community, could have been quite important to thejury . . . . (v) Finally, counsel did not introduce evidence that Petitioner529US2 Unit: $U46 [10-07-01 17:18:24] PAGES PGT: OPIN373Cite as: 529 U. S. 362 (2000)Opinion of the Courtand he rejected the argument that counsel's failure to con-duct an adequate investigation had been a strategic decisionto rely almost entirely on the fact that Williams had volun-tarily confessed.According to Williams' trial counsel's testimony before thestate habeas court, counsel did not fail to seek Williams' juvenile and social services records because he thought theywould be counterproductive, but because counsel erroneously believed that " `state law didn't permit it.' " App. 470.Counsel also acknowledged in the course of the hearings thatinformation about Williams' childhood would have been im-portant in mitigation. And counsel's failure to contact a potentially persuasive character witness was likewise not aconscious strategic choice, but simply a failure to return thatwitness' phone call offering his service. Id., at 470-471.Finally, even if counsel neglected to conduct such an investigation at the time as part of a tactical decision, the DistrictJudge found, tactics as a matter of reasonable performancecould not justify the omissions.Turning to the prejudice issue, the judge determined thatthere was " `a reasonable probability that, but for counsel'sunprofessional errors, the result of the proceeding wouldhave been different.' Strickland, 466 U. S. at 694." Id., at473. He found that the Virginia Supreme Court had erroneously assumed that Lockhart had modified the Stricklandstandard for determining prejudice, and that it had made animportant error of fact in discussing its finding of no preju-dice.5 Having introduced his analysis of Williams' claimwas borderline mentally retarded, though he was found competent tostand trial." App. 465-469.5 "Specifically, the Virginia Supreme Court found no prejudice, reasoning: `The mitigation evidence that the prisoner says, in retrospect, his trialcounsel should have discovered and offered barely would have altered theprofile of this defendant that was presented to the jury. At most, thisevidence would have shown that numerous people, mostly relatives,thought that defendant was nonviolent and could cope very well in a structured environment.' Williams, 487 S. E. 2d at 200. The Virginia Su529US2 Unit: $U46 [10-07-01 17:18:24] PAGES PGT: OPIN374 WILLIAMS v. TAYLOROpinion of Stevens, J.with the standard of review applicable on habeas appealsprovided by 28 U. S. C. $ 2254(d) (1994 ed., Supp. III), thejudge concluded that those errors established that the Vir-ginia Supreme Court's decision "was contrary to, or involvedan unreasonable application of, clearly established Federallaw" within the meaning of $ 2254(d)(1).The Federal Court of Appeals reversed. 163 F. 3d 860(CA4 1998). It construed $ 2254(d)(1) as prohibiting thegrant of habeas corpus relief unless the state court " `decidedthe question by interpreting or applying the relevant prece-dent in a manner that reasonable jurists would all agree isunreasonable.' " Id., at 865 (quoting Green v. French, 143 F.3d 865, 870 (CA4 1998)). Applying that standard, it couldnot say that the Virginia Supreme Court's decision on theprejudice issue was an unreasonable application of the testsdeveloped in either Strickland or Lockhart.6 It explainedthat the evidence that Williams presented a future dangerto society was "simply overwhelming," 163 F. 3d, at 868, itendorsed the Virginia Supreme Court's interpretation ofLockhart, 163 F. 3d, at 869, and it characterized the statecourt's understanding of the facts in this case as "reason-able,"id., at 870.We granted certiorari, 526 U. S. 1050 (1999), and nowreverse.IIIn 1867, Congress enacted a statute providing that federalcourts "shall have power to grant writs of habeas corpus inpreme Court ignored or overlooked the evidence of Williams' difficultchildhood and abuse and his limited mental capacity. It is also unreasonable to characterize the additional evidence as coming from `mostly relatives.' As stated, supra, Bruce Elliott, a respected professional in thecommunity, and several correctional officers offered to testify on Williamsbehalf." Id., at 476.6 Like the Virginia Supreme Court, the Court of Appeals assumed, without deciding, that the performance of trial counsel fell below an objectivestandard of reasonableness. 163 F. 3d, at 867.529US2 Unit: $U46 [10-07-01 17:18:24] PAGES PGT: OPIN375Cite as: 529 U. S. 362 (2000)Opinion of Stevens, J.all cases where any person may be restrained of his or herliberty in violation of the constitution, or of any treaty orlaw of the United States . . . ." Act of Feb. 5, 1867, ch. 28,$ 1, 14 Stat. 385. Over the years, the federal habeas corpusstatute has been repeatedly amended, but the scope of thatjurisdictional grant remains the same.7 It is, of course, wellsettled that the fact that constitutional error occurred in theproceedings that led to a state-court conviction may notalone be sufficient reason for concluding that a prisoner isentitled to the remedy of habeas. See,e. g., Stone v. Powell,428 U. S. 465 (1976); Brecht v. Abrahamson, 507 U. S. 619(1993). On the other hand, errors that undermine confidencein the fundamental fairness of the state adjudication certainly justify the issuance of the federal writ. See, e. g.,Teague v. Lane, 489 U. S. 288, 311-314 (1989) (quotingMackey v. United States, 401 U. S. 667, 692-694 (1971) (Har-lan, J., concurring in judgments in part and dissenting inpart), and quoting Rose v. Lundy, 455 U. S. 509, 544 (1982)(Stevens, J., dissenting)). The deprivation of the right tothe effective assistance of counsel recognized in Stricklandis such an error. Strickland, 466 U. S., at 686, 697-698.The warden here contends that federal habeas corpus relief is prohibited by the amendment to 28 U. S. C. $ 2254 (1994ed., Supp. III), enacted as a part of the Antiterrorism andEffective Death Penalty Act of 1996 (AEDPA). The rele-vant portion of that amendment provides:7 By Act of Congress: "(a) Writs of habeas corpus may be granted by theSupreme Court, any justice thereof, the district courts and any circuitjudge within their respective jurisdictions. . . . (c) The writ of habeascorpus shall not extend to a prisoner unless-- . . . (3) He is in custody inviolation of the Constitution or laws or treaties of the United States . . . ."28 U. S. C. $ 2241(c)(3). In parallel, $ 2254(a) provides: "The SupremeCourt, a Justice thereof, a circuit judge, or a district court shall entertainan application for a writ of habeas corpus in behalf of a person in custodypursuant to the judgment of a State court only on the ground that heis in custody in violation of the Constitution or laws or treaties of theUnited States."529US2 Unit: $U46 [10-07-01 17:18:24] PAGES PGT: OPIN376 WILLIAMS v. TAYLOROpinion of Stevens, J."(d) An application for a writ of habeas corpus on be-half of a person in custody pursuant to the judgment ofa State court shall not be granted with respect to anyclaim that was adjudicated on the merits in State courtproceedings unless the adjudication of the claim--"(1) resulted in a decision that was contrary to, orinvolved an unreasonable application of, clearly estab-lished Federal law, as determined by the Supreme Courtof the United States . . . ."In this case, the Court of Appeals applied the constructionof the amendment that it had adopted in its earlier opinionin Green v. French, 143 F. 3d 865 (CA4 1998). It read theamendment as prohibiting federal courts from issuing thewrit unless:"(a) the state court decision is in `square conflict' withSupreme Court precedent that is controlling as to lawand fact or (b) if no such controlling decision exists, `thestate court's resolution of a question of pure law restsupon an objectively unreasonable derivation of legalprinciples from the relevant [S]upreme [C]ourt precedents, or if its decision rests upon an objectively unrea-sonable application of established principles to newfacts,' " 163 F. 3d, at 865 (quoting Green, 143 F. 3d, at870).Accordingly, it held that a federal court may issue habeasrelief only if " `the state courts have decided the question byinterpreting or applying the relevant precedent in a mannerthat reasonable jurists would all agree is unreasonable,' " 163F. 3d, at 865.88 The warden's view is narrower. He argues that 28 U. S. C. $ 2254(d)(1)(1994 ed., Supp. III) establishes a new general rule that prohibits federalcourts from granting habeas corpus relief on the basis of any claim that astate court has adjudicated on the merits, and that $ 2254(d)(1) merelyidentifies two narrow exceptions to the general rule--when a state courthas issued a decision "contrary to" or an "unreasonable application of"529US2 Unit: $U46 [10-07-01 17:18:24] PAGES PGT: OPIN377Cite as: 529 U. S. 362 (2000)Opinion of Stevens, J.We are convinced that that interpretation of the amendment is incorrect. It would impose a test for determiningwhen a legal rule is clearly established that simply cannotbe squared with the real practice of decisional law.9 Itwould apply a standard for determining the "reasonableness"of state-court decisions that is not contained in the statuteitself, and that Congress surely did not intend. And itwould wrongly require the federal courts, including thisCourt, to defer to state judges' interpretations of federal law.As the Fourth Circuit would have it, a state-court judgment is "unreasonable" in the face of federal law only if allreasonable jurists would agree that the state court was unreasonable. Thus, in this case, for example, even if the Virginia Supreme Court misread our opinion in Lockhart, wecould not grant relief unless we believed that none of thejudges who agreed with the state court's interpretation ofthat case was a "reasonable jurist." But the statute saysclearly established federal law. Brief for Respondent 14-15. The first,"contrary to" exception, in his view, applies only to "starkly unreasonable"errors of law. The first category thus imposes "a standard of review farmore limited than `de novo,' `independent' or `plenary' review." Id., at24. The state-court judgment must thus be so far afield "as to make the`unlawfulness' of the state court decision `apparent.' " Id., at 25. Thesecond exception likewise replaces the "de novo" standard of reviewingmixed questions of law and fact with the standard of "objective reasonableness" as formulated by the Court of Appeals. Id., at 30-31.9 Although we explain our understanding of "clearly established law,"infra, at 379-384, we note that the Fourth Circuit's construction of theamendment's inquiry in this respect is especially problematic. It separates cases into those for which a "controlling decision" exists and thosefor which no such decision exists. The former category includes very fewcases, since a rule is "controlling" only if it matches the case before thecourt both "as to law and fact," and most cases are factually distinguishable in some respect. A literal application of the Fourth Circuit testwould yield a particularly perverse outcome in cases involving the Strickland rule for establishing ineffective assistance of counsel, since that case,which established the "controlling" rule of law on the issue, containedfacts insufficient to show ineffectiveness.529US2 Unit: $U46 [10-07-01 17:18:24] PAGES PGT: OPIN378 WILLIAMS v. TAYLOROpinion of Stevens, J.nothing about "reasonable judges," presumably because all,or virtually all, such judges occasionally commit error; theymake decisions that in retrospect may be characterized as"unreasonable." Indeed, it is most unlikely that Congresswould deliberately impose such a requirement of unanimityon federal judges. As Congress is acutely aware, reasonablelawyers and lawgivers regularly disagree with one another.Congress surely did not intend that the views of one suchjudge who might think that relief is not warranted in aparticular case should always have greater weight than thecontrary, considered judgment of several other reasonablejudges.The inquiry mandated by the amendment relates to theway in which a federal habeas court exercises its duty todecide constitutional questions; the amendment does notalter the underlying grant of jurisdiction in $ 2254(a), seen. 7, supra.10 When federal judges exercise their federal-question jurisdiction under the "judicial Power" of ArticleIII of the Constitution, it is "emphatically the province andduty" of those judges to "say what the law is." Marbury v.Madison, 1 Cranch 137, 177 (1803). At the core of this10 Indeed, Congress roundly rejected an amendment to the bill eventually adopted that directly invoked the text of the jurisdictional grant, 28U. S. C. $ 2254(a) (providing that the federal courts "shall entertain anapplication for a writ of habeas corpus" (emphasis added)). The amendment read: "Notwithstanding any other provision of law, an application fora writ of habeas corpus in behalf of a person in custody pursuant to ajudgment or order of a State court shall not be entertained by a court ofthe United States unless the remedies in the courts of the State are inadequate or ineffective to test the legality of the person's detention." 141Cong. Rec. 14991 (1995) (amendment of Sen. Kyl) (emphasis added). Inspeaking against the Kyl amendment, Senator Specter (a key proponentof the eventual habeas reform) explained that when "dealing with thequestion of jurisdiction of the Federal courts to entertain questions onFederal issues, on constitutional issues, I believe it is necessary that theFederal courts retain that jurisdiction as a constitutional matter." Id.,at 15050.529US2 Unit: $U46 [10-07-01 17:18:24] PAGES PGT: OPIN379Cite as: 529 U. S. 362 (2000)Opinion of Stevens, J.power is the federal courts' independent responsibility--independent from its coequal branches in the Federal Government, and independent from the separate authority of theseveral States--to interpret federal law. A construction ofAEDPA that would require the federal courts to cede thisauthority to the courts of the States would be inconsistentwith the practice that federal judges have traditionally followed in discharging their duties under Article III of theConstitution. If Congress had intended to require such animportant change in the exercise of our jurisdiction, we believe it would have spoken with much greater clarity than isfound in the text of AEDPA.This basic premise informs our interpretation of both partsof $ 2254(d)(1): first, the requirement that the determinationsof state courts be tested only against "clearly establishedFederal law, as determined by the Supreme Court of theUnited States," and second, the prohibition on the issuanceof the writ unless the state court's decision is "contrary to,or involved an unreasonable application of," that clearly established law. We address each part in turn.The "clearly established law" requirementIn Teague v. Lane, 489 U. S. 288 (1989), we held that thepetitioner was not entitled to federal habeas relief becausehe was relying on a rule of federal law that had not beenannounced until after his state conviction became final. Theantiretroactivity rule recognized in Teague, which prohibitsreliance on "new rules," is the functional equivalent of a statutory provision commanding exclusive reliance on "clearlyestablished law." Because there is no reason to believe thatCongress intended to require federal courts to ask bothwhether a rule sought on habeas is "new" under Teague--which remains the law--and also whether it is "clearly established" under AEDPA, it seems safe to assume that Congress529US2 Unit: $U46 [10-07-01 17:18:24] PAGES PGT: OPIN380 WILLIAMS v. TAYLOROpinion of Stevens, J.had congruent concepts in mind.11 It is perfectly clear thatAEDPA codifies Teague to the extent that Teague requiresfederal habeas courts to deny relief that is contingent upona rule of law not clearly established at the time the stateconviction became final.12Teague's core principles are therefore relevant to our construction of this requirement. Justice Harlan recognized11 It is not unusual for Congress to codify earlier precedent in the habeascontext. Thus, for example, the exhaustion rule applied in Ex parteHawk, 321 U. S. 114 (1944) (per curiam), and the abuse of the writ doctrine applied in Sanders v. United States, 373 U. S. 1 (1963), were latercodified. See 28 U. S. C. $ 2254(b) (1994 ed., Supp. III) (exhaustion requirement); 28 U. S. C. $ 2254, Rule 9(b), Rules Governing $ 2254 Cases inthe United States District Courts. A previous version of $ 2254, as westated in Miller v. Fenton, 474 U. S. 104, 111 (1985), "was an almost verbatim codification of the standards delineated in Townsend v. Sain, 372 U. S.293 (1963), for determining when a district court must hold an evidentiaryhearing before acting on a habeas petition."12 We are not persuaded by the argument that because Congress usedthe words "clearly established law" and not "new rule," it meant in thissection to codify an aspect of the doctrine of executive qualified immunityrather than Teague's antiretroactivity bar. Brief for Respondent 28-29,n. 19. The warden refers us specifically to $ 2244(b)(2)(A) and 28 U. S. C.$ 2254(e)(2) (1994 ed., Supp. III), in which the statute does in so manywords employ the "new rule" language familiar to Teague and its progeny.Congress thus knew precisely the words to use if it had wished to codifyTeague per se. That it did not use those words in $ 2254(d) is evidence,the argument goes, that it had something else in mind entirely in amending that section. We think, quite the contrary, that the verbatim adoptionof the Teague language in these other sections bolsters our impression thatCongress had Teague--and not any unrelated area of our jurisprudence--specifically in mind in amending the habeas statute. These provisions,seen together, make it impossible to conclude that Congress was not fullyaware of, and interested in codifying into law, that aspect of this Court'shabeas doctrine. We will not assume that in a single subsection of anamendment entirely devoted to the law of habeas corpus, Congress madethe anomalous choice of reaching into the doctrinally distinct law of qualified immunity for a single phrase that just so happens to be the conceptualtwin of a dominant principle in habeas law of which Congress was fullyaware.529US2 Unit: $U46 [10-07-01 17:18:24] PAGES PGT: OPIN381Cite as: 529 U. S. 362 (2000)Opinion of Stevens, J.the "inevitable difficulties" that come with "attempting `todetermine whether a particular decision has really announced a "new" rule at all or whether it has simply applieda well-established constitutional principle to govern a casewhich is closely analogous to those which have been pre-viously considered in the prior case law.' " Mackey, 401U. S., at 695 (quoting Desist v. United States, 394 U. S. 244,263 (1969)). ButTeague established some guidance for mak-ing this determination, explaining that a federal habeascourt operates within the bounds of comity and finality if itapplies a rule "dictated by precedent existing at the timethe defendant's conviction became final." 489 U. S., at 301(emphasis deleted). A rule that "breaks new ground or imposes a new obligation on the States or the Federal Govern-ment," ibid., falls outside this universe of federal law.To this, AEDPA has added, immediately following the"clearly established law" requirement, a clause limiting thearea of relevant law to that "determined by the SupremeCourt of the United States." 28 U. S. C. $ 2254(d)(1) (1994ed., Supp. III). If this Court has not broken sufficient legalground to establish an asked-for constitutional principle, thelower federal courts cannot themselves establish such a prin-ciple with clarity sufficient to satisfy the AEDPA bar. Inthis respect, we agree with the Seventh Circuit that thisclause "extends the principle ofTeague by limiting the sourceof doctrine on which a federal court may rely in addressingthe application for a writ." Lindh v. Murphy, 96 F. 3d 856,869 (1996). As that court explained:"This is a retrenchment from former practice, which al-lowed the United States courts of appeals to rely ontheir own jurisprudence in addition to that of the Su-preme Court. The novelty in this portion of $ 2254(d)(1)is not the `contrary to' part but the reference to `Federallaw, as determined by the Supreme Court of the UnitedStates' (emphasis added). This extends the principle ofTeague [v. Lane, 489 U. S. 288 (1989),] by limiting the529US2 Unit: $U46 [10-07-01 17:18:24] PAGES PGT: OPIN382 WILLIAMS v. TAYLOROpinion of Stevens, J.source of doctrine on which a federal court may relyin addressing the application for a writ. It does not,however, purport to limit the federal courts' independ-ent interpretive authority with respect to federal questions." Ibid.A rule that fails to satisfy the foregoing criteria is barred byTeague from application on collateral review, and, similarly,is not available as a basis for relief in a habeas case to whichAEDPA applies.In the context of this case, we also note that, as our precedent interpreting Teague has demonstrated, rules of law maybe sufficiently clear for habeas purposes even when they areexpressed in terms of a generalized standard rather than asa bright-line rule. AsJustice Kennedy has explained:"If the rule in question is one which of necessity re-quires a case-by-case examination of the evidence, thenwe can tolerate a number of specific applications withoutsaying that those applications themselves create a newrule. . . . Where the beginning point is a rule of thisgeneral application, a rule designed for the specific purpose of evaluating a myriad of factual contexts, it willbe the infrequent case that yields a result so novel thatit forges a new rule, one not dictated by precedent."Wright v. West, 505 U. S. 277, 308-309 (1992) (opinionconcurring in judgment).Moreover, the determination whether or not a rule is clearlyestablished at the time a state court renders its final judgment of conviction is a question as to which the "federalcourts must make an independent evaluation." Id., at 305(O'Connor, J., concurring in judgment); accord, id., at 307(Kennedy, J., concurring in judgment).It has been urged, in contrast, that we should readTeagueand its progeny to encompass a broader principle of deference requiring federal courts to "validat[e] `reasonable,good-faith interpretations' of the law" by state courts.529US2 Unit: $U46 [10-07-01 17:18:24] PAGES PGT: OPIN383Cite as: 529 U. S. 362 (2000)Opinion of Stevens, J.Brief for California et al. as Amici Curiae 6 (quoting Butlerv. McKellar, 494 U. S. 407, 414 (1990)). The position hasbeen bolstered with references to our statements elucidatingthe "new rule" inquiry as one turning on whether "reasonable jurists" would agree the rule was not clearly estab-lished. Sawyer v. Smith, 497 U. S. 227, 234 (1990). Thispresumption of deference was in essence the position takenby three Members of this Court inWright, 505 U. S., at 290-291 (opinion ofThomas, J.) ("[A] federal habeas court `mustdefer to the state court's decision rejecting the claim unlessthat decision is patently unreasonable' ") (quoting Butler, 494U. S., at 422 (Brennan, J., dissenting)).Teague, however, does not extend this far. The often re-peated language thatTeague endorses "reasonable, good-faith interpretations" by state courts is an explanation ofpolicy, not a statement of law. The Teague cases reflect thisCourt's view that habeas corpus is not to be used as a secondcriminal trial, and federal courts are not to run roughshodover the considered findings and judgments of the statecourts that conducted the original trial and heard the initialappeals. On the contrary, we have long insisted that federalhabeas courts attend closely to those considered decisions,and give them full effect when their findings and judgmentsare consistent with federal law. See Thompson v. Keohane,516 U. S. 99, 107-116 (1995). But asJustice O'Connor ex-plained in Wright:"[T]he duty of the federal court in evaluating whethera rule is `new' is not the same as deference; . . . Teaguedoes not direct federal courts to spend less time or ef-fort scrutinizing the existing federal law, on the groundthat they can assume the state courts interpreted itproperly. . . ."[T]he maxim that federal courts should `give greatweight to the considered conclusions of a coequal statejudiciary' . . . does not mean that we have held in thepast that federal courts must presume the correctness529US2 Unit: $U46 [10-07-01 17:18:24] PAGES PGT: OPIN384 WILLIAMS v. TAYLOROpinion of Stevens, J.of a state court's legal conclusions on habeas, or that astate court's incorrect legal determination has ever beenallowed to stand because it was reasonable. We havealways held that federal courts, even on habeas, have anindependent obligation to say what the law is." 505U. S., at 305 (opinion concurring in judgment).We are convinced that in the phrase, "clearly establishedlaw," Congress did not intend to modify that independentobligation.The "contrary to, or an unreasonable application of,"requirementThe message that Congress intended to convey by usingthe phrases "contrary to" and "unreasonable application of "is not entirely clear. The prevailing view in the Circuits isthat the former phrase requiresde novo review of "pure"questions of law and the latter requires some sort of "reasonability" review of so-called mixed questions of law and fact.See, e. g., Neelley v. Nagle, 138 F. 3d 917 (CA11 1998); Drinkard v. Johnson, 97 F. 3d 751 (CA5 1996); Lindh v. Murphy,96 F. 3d 856 (CA7 1996) (en banc), rev'd on other grounds,521 U. S. 320 (1997).We are not persuaded that the phrases define two mutually exclusive categories of questions. Most constitutionalquestions that arise in habeas corpus proceedings--andtherefore most "decisions" to be made--require the federaljudge to apply a rule of law to a set of facts, some of whichmay be disputed and some undisputed. For example, an er-roneous conclusion that particular circumstances establishedthe voluntariness of a confession, or that there exists a con-flict of interest when one attorney represents multiple defendants, may well be described either as "contrary to" or asan "unreasonable application of " the governing rule of law.Cf. Miller v. Fenton, 474 U. S. 104, 116 (1985); Cuyler v. Sullivan, 446 U. S. 335, 341-342 (1980). In constitutional adju-dication, as in the common law, rules of law often develop529US2 Unit: $U46 [10-07-01 17:18:24] PAGES PGT: OPIN385Cite as: 529 U. S. 362 (2000)Opinion of Stevens, J.incrementally as earlier decisions are applied to new factualsituations. SeeWright, 505 U. S., at 307 (Kennedy, J., concurring in judgment). But rules that depend upon suchelaboration are hardly less lawlike than those that establisha bright-line test.Indeed, our pre-AEDPA efforts to distinguish questions offact, questions of law, and "mixed questions," and to createan appropriate standard of habeas review for each, generatedsome not insubstantial differences of opinion as to which issues of law fell into which category of question, and as towhich standard of review applied to each. SeeThompson,516 U. S., at 110-111 (acknowledging " `that the Court hasnot charted an entirely clear course in this area' " and that"the proper characterization of a question as one of fact orlaw is sometimes slippery") (quoting Miller, 474 U. S., at113). We thus think the Fourth Circuit was correct when itattributed the lack of clarity in the statute, in part, to theoverlapping meanings of the phrases "contrary to" and "unreasonable application of." See Green, 143 F. 3d, at 870.The statutory text likewise does not obviously prescribe aspecific, recognizable standard of review for dealing witheither phrase. Significantly, it does not use any term, suchas "de novo" or "plain error," that would easily identify afamiliar standard of review. Rather, the text is fairly readsimply as a command that a federal court not issue the habeas writ unless the state court was wrong as a matter oflaw or unreasonable in its application of law in a given case.The suggestion that a wrong state-court "decision"--a legaljudgment rendered "after consideration of facts, and . . .law," Black's Law Dictionary 407 (6th ed. 1990) (emphasisadded)--may no longer be redressed through habeas (because it is unreachable under the "unreasonable application"phrase) is based on a mistaken insistence that the $ 2254(d)(1)phrases have not only independent, but mutually exclusive,meanings. Whether or not a federal court can issue the writ"under [the] `unreasonable application' clause," the statute is529US2 Unit: $U46 [10-07-01 17:18:24] PAGES PGT: OPIN386 WILLIAMS v. TAYLOROpinion of Stevens, J.clear that habeas may issue under $ 2254(d)(1) if a state-court"decision" is "contrary to . . . clearly established Federallaw." We thus anticipate that there will be a variety ofcases, like this one, in which both phrases may be implicated.Even though we cannot conclude that the phrases establish"a body of rigid rules," they do express a "mood" that theFederal Judiciary must respect. Universal Camera Corp. v.NLRB, 340 U. S. 474, 487 (1951). In this respect, it seemsclear that Congress intended federal judges to attend withthe utmost care to state-court decisions, including all of thereasons supporting their decisions, before concluding thatthose proceedings were infected by constitutional error sufficiently serious to warrant the issuance of the writ. Likewise, the statute in a separate provision provides for thehabeas remedy when a state-court decision "was based on anunreasonable determination of the facts in light of the evidence presented in the State court proceeding." 28 U. S. C.$ 2254(d)(2) (1994 ed., Supp. III) (emphasis added). Whilethis provision is not before us in this case, it provides relevant context for our interpretation of $ 2254(d)(1); in this respect, it bolsters our conviction that federal habeas courtsmust make as the starting point of their analysis the statecourts' determinations of fact, including that aspect of a"mixed question" that rests on a finding of fact. AEDPAplainly sought to ensure a level of "deference to the determinations of state courts," provided those determinations didnot conflict with federal law or apply federal law in an unreasonable way. H. R. Conf. Rep. No. 104-518, p. 111 (1996).Congress wished to curb delays, to prevent "retrials" on federal habeas, and to give effect to state convictions to theextent possible under law. When federal courts are able tofulfill these goals within the bounds of the law, AEDPA instructs them to do so.On the other hand, it is significant that the word "deference" does not appear in the text of the statute itself. Neither the legislative history nor the statutory text suggests529US2 Unit: $U46 [10-07-01 17:18:24] PAGES PGT: OPIN387Cite as: 529 U. S. 362 (2000)Opinion of Stevens, J.any difference in the so-called "deference" depending onwhich of the two phrases is implicated.13 Whatever "deference" Congress had in mind with respect to both phrases, itsurely is not a requirement that federal courts actually deferto a state-court application of the federal law that is, in theindependent judgment of the federal court, in error. AsJudge Easterbrook noted with respect to the phrase "con-trary to":"Section 2254(d) requires us to give state courts' opin-ions a respectful reading, and to listen carefully to theirconclusions, but when the state court addresses a legalquestion, it is the law `as determined by the SupremeCourt of the United States' that prevails." Lindh, 96F. 3d, at 869.1413 As Judge Easterbrook has noted, the statute surely does not requirethe kind of "deference" appropriate in other contexts: "It does not tell usto `defer' to state decisions, as if the Constitution means one thing inWisconsin and another in Indiana. Nor does it tell us to treat state courtsthe way we treat federal administrative agencies. Deference after thefashion of Chevron U. S. A. Inc. v. Natural Resources Defense Council,Inc., 467 U. S. 837 . . . (1984), depends on delegation. See Adams FruitCo. v. Barrett, 494 U. S. 638 . . . (1990). Congress did not delegate eitherinterpretive or executive power to the state courts. They exercise powers under their domestic law, constrained by the Constitution of the UnitedStates. `Deference' to the jurisdictions bound by those constraints is notsensible." Lindh v. Murphy, 96 F. 3d 856, 868 (CA7 1996) (en banc), rev'don other grounds, 521 U. S. 320 (1997).14 The Court advances three reasons for adopting its alternative construction of the phrase "unreasonable application of." First, the use ofthe word "unreasonable" in the statute suggests that Congress was directly influenced by the "patently unreasonable" standard advocated byJustice Thomas in his opinion in Wright v. West, 505 U. S. 277, 287 (1992),post, at 411-412; second, the legislative history supports this view, seepost, at 408, n.; and third, Congress must have intended to change the lawmore substantially than our reading of 28 U. S. C. $ 2254(d)(1) (1994 ed.,Supp. III) permits.None of these reasons is persuasive. First, even though, as the Courtrecognizes, the term "unreasonable" is "difficult to define," post, at 410,neither the statute itself nor the Court's explanation of it suggests that529US2 Unit: $U46 [10-07-01 17:18:24] PAGES PGT: OPIN388 WILLIAMS v. TAYLOROpinion of Stevens, J.Our disagreement with the Court about the precisemeaning of the phrase "contrary to," and the word "unreasonable," is, of course, important, but should affect only anarrow category of cases. The simplest and first definitionof "contrary to" as a phrase is "in conflict with." Webster'sAEDPA's "unreasonable application of" has the same meaning as JusticeThomas' " `patently unreasonable' " standard mentioned in his dictum inWright. 505 U. S., at 291 (quoting Butler v. McKellar, 494 U. S. 407, 422(1990) (Brennan, J., dissenting)). To the extent the "broader debate" inWright touched upon the Court's novel distinction today between what is"wrong" and what is "unreasonable," it was in the context of a discussionnot about the standard of review habeas courts should use for lawapplication questions, but about whether a rule is "new" or "old" suchthat Teague's retroactivity rule would bar habeas relief; Justice Thomascontended that Teague barred habeas "whenever the state courts haveinterpreted old precedents reasonably, not [as Justice O'Connor suggested] only when they have done so `properly.' " 505 U. S., at 291-292,n. 8. Teague, of course, as Justice O'Connor correctly pointed out, "didnot establish a standard of review at all," 505 U. S., at 303-304; ratherthan instructing a court how to review a claim, it simply asks, in absoluteterms, whether a rule was clear at the time of a state-court decision. Wethus do not think Wright "confirms" anything about the meaning of$ 2254(d)(1), which is, as our division reflects, anything but "clear." Post,at 412.As for the other bases for the Court's view, the only two specific citations to the legislative history upon which it relies, post, at 408, do nomore than beg the question. One merely quotes the language of the statute without elaboration, and the other goes to slightly greater length instating that state-court judgments must be upheld unless "unreasonable."Neither sheds any light on what the content of the hypothetical categoryof "decisions" that are wrong but nevertheless not "unreasonable." Finally, while we certainly agree with the Court, post, at 403, that AEDPAwrought substantial changes in habeas law, see supra, at 386; see also,e. g., 28 U. S. C. $ 2244(b) (1994 ed., Supp. III) (strictly limiting second orsuccessive petitions); $ 2244(d) (1-year statute of limitations for habeaspetitions); $ 2254(e)(2) (limiting availability of evidentiary hearings onhabeas); $$ 2263, 2266 (strict deadlines for habeas court rulings), there isan obvious fallacy in the assumption that because the statute changedpre-existing law in some respects, it must have rendered this specificchange here.529US2 Unit: $U46 [10-07-01 17:18:24] PAGES PGT: OPIN389Cite as: 529 U. S. 362 (2000)Opinion of Stevens, J.Ninth New Collegiate Dictionary 285 (1983). In this sense,we think the phrase surely capacious enough to include afinding that the state-court "decision" is simply "erroneous"or wrong. (We hasten to add that even "diametrically different" from, or "opposite" to, an established federal lawwould seem to include "decisions" that are wrong in light ofthat law.) And there is nothing in the phrase "contraryto"--as the Court appears to agree--that implies anythingless than independent review by the federal courts. Moreover, state-court decisions that do not "conflict" with federallaw will rarely be "unreasonable" under either the Court'sreading of the statute or ours. We all agree that state-courtjudgments must be upheld unless, after the closest examination of the state-court judgment, a federal court is firmlyconvinced that a federal constitutional right has been violated. Our difference is as to the cases in which, at firstblush, a state-court judgment seems entirely reasonable, butthorough analysis by a federal court produces a firm conviction that that judgment is infected by constitutional error.In our view, such an erroneous judgment is "unreasonable"within the meaning of the Act even though that conclusionwas not immediately apparent.In sum, the statute directs federal courts to attend toevery state-court judgment with utmost care, but it does notrequire them to defer to the opinion of every reasonablestate-court judge on the content of federal law. If, aftercarefully weighing all the reasons for accepting a statecourt's judgment, a federal court is convinced that a prisoner's custody--or, as in this case, his sentence of death--violates the Constitution, that independent judgment shouldprevail. Otherwise the federal "law as determined by theSupreme Court of the United States" might be applied bythe federal courts one way in Virginia and another way inCalifornia. In light of the well-recognized interest in ensuring that federal courts interpret federal law in a uniform529US2 Unit: $U46 [10-07-01 17:18:24] PAGES PGT: OPIN390 WILLIAMS v. TAYLOROpinion of the Courtway,15 we are convinced that Congress did not intend thestatute to produce such a result.IIIIn this case, Williams contends that he was denied his con-stitutionally guaranteed right to the effective assistance ofcounsel when his trial lawyers failed to investigate and topresent substantial mitigating evidence to the sentencingjury. The threshold question under AEDPA is whether Wil-liams seeks to apply a rule of law that was clearly establishedat the time his state-court conviction became final. Thatquestion is easily answered because the merits of his claimare squarely governed by our holding in Strickland v. Washington, 466 U. S. 668 (1984).We explained in Strickland that a violation of the right onwhich Williams relies has two components:"First, the defendant must show that counsel's perform-ance was deficient. This requires showing that counselmade errors so serious that counsel was not functioningas the `counsel' guaranteed the defendant by the SixthAmendment. Second, the defendant must show thatthe deficient performance prejudiced the defense. Thisrequires showing that counsel's errors were so seriousas to deprive the defendant of a fair trial, a trial whoseresult is reliable." Id., at 687.To establish ineffectiveness, a "defendant must show thatcounsel's representation fell below an objective standard of15 See, e. g., Mackey v. United States, 401 U. S. 667, 689 (1971); Felker v.Turpin, 518 U. S. 651, 667 (1996) (Souter, J., concurring). Indeed, a contrary rule would be in substantial tension with the interest in uniformityserved by Congress' modification in AEDPA of our previous Teague jurisprudence--now the law on habeas review must be "clearly established" bythis Court alone. See supra, at 381-382. It would thus seem somewhatperverse to ascribe to Congress the entirely inconsistent policy of perpetuating disparate readings of our decisions under the guise of deference toanything within a conceivable spectrum of reasonableness.529US2 Unit: $U46 [10-07-01 17:18:24] PAGES PGT: OPIN391Cite as: 529 U. S. 362 (2000)Opinion of the Courtreasonableness." Id., at 688. To establish prejudice he"must show that there is a reasonable probability that, butfor counsel's unprofessional errors, the result of the proceed-ing would have been different. A reasonable probability isa probability sufficient to undermine confidence in the out-come." Id., at 694.It is past question that the rule set forth in Stricklandqualifies as "clearly established Federal law, as determinedby the Supreme Court of the United States." That theStrickland test "of necessity requires a case-by-case exami-nation of the evidence," Wright, 505 U. S., at 308 (Kennedy,J., concurring in judgment), obviates neither the clarity ofthe rule nor the extent to which the rule must be seen as"established" by this Court. This Court's precedent "dictated" that the Virginia Supreme Court apply the Stricklandtest at the time that court entertained Williams' ineffectiveassistance claim. Teague, 489 U. S., at 301. And it canhardly be said that recognizing the right to effective counsel"breaks new ground or imposes a new obligation on theStates," ibid. Williams is therefore entitled to relief if theVirginia Supreme Court's decision rejecting his ineffective-assistance claim was either "contrary to, or involved anunreasonable application of," that established law. It wasboth.IVThe Virginia Supreme Court erred in holding that our de-cision inLockhart v. Fretwell, 506 U. S. 364 (1993), modifiedor in some way supplanted the rule set down in Strickland.It is true that while the Strickland test provides sufficientguidance for resolving virtually all ineffective-assistance-ofcounsel claims, there are situations in which the overridingfocus on fundamental fairness may affect the analysis.Thus, on the one hand, as Strickland itself explained, thereare a few situations in which prejudice may be presumed.466 U. S., at 692. And, on the other hand, there are alsosituations in which it would be unjust to characterize the529US2 Unit: $U46 [10-07-01 17:18:24] PAGES PGT: OPIN392 WILLIAMS v. TAYLOROpinion of the Courtlikelihood of a different outcome as legitimate "prejudice."Even if a defendant's false testimony might have persuadedthe jury to acquit him, it is not fundamentally unfair to con-clude that he was not prejudiced by counsel's interferencewith his intended perjury. Nix v. Whiteside, 475 U. S. 157,175-176 (1986).Similarly, in Lockhart, we concluded that, given the over-riding interest in fundamental fairness, the likelihood of adifferent outcome attributable to an incorrect interpretationof the law should be regarded as a potential "windfall" to thedefendant rather than the legitimate "prejudice" contemplated by our opinion in Strickland. The death sentencethat Arkansas had imposed on Bobby Ray Fretwell wasbased on an aggravating circumstance (murder committedfor pecuniary gain) that duplicated an element of the underlying felony (murder in the course of a robbery). Shortlybefore the trial, the United States Court of Appeals for theEighth Circuit had held that such "double counting" was im-permissible, seeCollins v. Lockhart, 754 F. 2d 258, 265(1985), but Fretwell's lawyer (presumably because he wasunaware of the Collins decision) failed to object to the useof the pecuniary gain aggravator. Before Fretwell's claimfor federal habeas corpus relief reached this Court, the Collins case was overruled.16 Accordingly, even though the Arkansas trial judge probably would have sustained a timelyobjection to the double counting, it had become clear thatthe State had a right to rely on the disputed aggravat-ing circumstance. Because the ineffectiveness of Fretwell'scounsel had not deprived him of any substantive or proce-dural right to which the law entitled him, we held that his16 In Lowenfield v. Phelps, 484 U. S. 231 (1988), we held that an aggravating circumstance may duplicate an element of the capital offense if theclass of death-eligible defendants is sufficiently narrowed by the definitionof the offense itself. In Perry v. Lockhart, 871 F. 2d 1384 (1989), theEighth Circuit correctly decided that our decision in Lowenfield requiredit to overrule Collins.529US2 Unit: $U46 [10-07-01 17:18:24] PAGES PGT: OPIN393Cite as: 529 U. S. 362 (2000)Opinion of the Courtclaim did not satisfy the "prejudice" component of the Strickland test.17Cases such as Nix v. Whiteside, 475 U. S. 157 (1986), andLockhart v. Fretwell, 506 U. S. 364 (1993), do not justify adeparture from a straightforward application of Stricklandwhen the ineffectiveness of counsel does deprive the defendant of a substantive or procedural right to which the lawentitles him.18 In the instant case, it is undisputed thatWilliams had a right--indeed, a constitutionally protectedright--to provide the jury with the mitigating evidence thathis trial counsel either failed to discover or failed to offer.Nevertheless, the Virginia Supreme Court read our decision in Lockhart to require a separate inquiry into fundamental fairness even when Williams is able to show that his lawyer was ineffective and that his ineffectiveness probablyaffected the outcome of the proceeding. It wrote:17 "But the `prejudice' component of the Strickland test does not implicate these concerns. It focuses on the question whether counsel's deficient performance renders the result of the trial unreliable or the proceeding fundamentally unfair. [466 U. S., at 687]; see Kimmelman, 477 U. S.,at 393 (Powell, J., concurring). Unreliability or unfairness does not resultif the ineffectiveness of counsel does not deprive the defendant of anysubstantive or procedural right to which the law entitles him. As wehave noted, it was the premise of our grant in this case that Perry wascorrectly decided, i. e., that respondent was not entitled to an objectionbased on `double counting.' Respondent therefore suffered no prejudicefrom his counsel's deficient performance." Lockhart v. Fretwell, 506 U. S.364, 372 (1993).18 In her concurring opinion in Lockhart, Justice O'Connor stressedthis precise point. "I write separately only to point out that today's decision will, in the vast majority of cases, have no effect on the prejudiceinquiry under Strickland v. Washington, 466 U. S. 668 (1984). The determinative question--whether there is `a reasonable probability that, but forcounsel's unprofessional errors, the result of the proceeding would havebeen different,' id., at 694--remains unchanged. This case, however, concerns the unusual circumstance where the defendant attempts to demonstrate prejudice based on considerations that, as a matter of law, oughtnot inform the inquiry." Id., at 373.529US2 Unit: $U46 [10-07-01 17:18:24] PAGES PGT: OPIN394 WILLIAMS v. TAYLOROpinion of the Court" `The prisoner argues there `is a "reasonable probabil-ity" that at least one juror would have been moved tospare Petitioner's life had he heard' the mitigation evi-dence developed at the habeas hearing that was not presented at the trial. Summarizing, he contends there `isa "reasonable probability" that had at least one jurorheard any of this evidence--let alone all of this evidence--the outcome of this case would have beendifferent.'"We reject these contentions. The prisoner's discus-sion flies in the face of the Supreme Court's admonitionin Lockhart, supra, that `an analysis focusing solely onmere outcome determination, without attention towhether the result of the proceeding was fundamentallyunfair or unreliable, is defective.' " 254 Va., at 25, 487S. E. 2d, at 199.Unlike the Virginia Supreme Court, the state trial judgeomitted any reference to Lockhart and simply relied on ouropinion inStrickland as stating the correct standard forjudging ineffective-assistance claims. With respect to theprejudice component, he wrote:"Even if a Petitioner shows that counsel's performance was deficient, however, he must also show prejudice. Petitioner must show `that there is a reasonableprobability that but for counsel's unprofessional errors,the result . . . would have been different.' Strickland,466 U. S. at 694. `A reasonable probability is a probability sufficient to undermine confidence in the outcome.'Id. Indeed, it is insufficient to show only that the errors had some conceivable effect on the outcome of theproceeding, because virtually every act or omission ofcounsel would meet that test. Id. at 693. The petitioner bears the `highly demanding' and `heavy burden'in establishing actual prejudice." App. 417.529US2 Unit: $U46 [10-07-01 17:18:24] PAGES PGT: OPIN395Cite as: 529 U. S. 362 (2000)Opinion of the CourtThe trial judge analyzed the ineffective-assistance claimunder the correct standard; the Virginia Supreme Courtdid not.We are likewise persuaded that the Virginia trial judgecorrectly applied both components of that standard to Wil-liams' ineffectiveness claim. Although he concluded thatcounsel competently handled the guilt phase of the trial, hefound that their representation during the sentencing phasefell short of professional standards--a judgment barely dis-puted by the State in its brief to this Court. The recordestablishes that counsel did not begin to prepare for thatphase of the proceeding until a week before the trial.Id.,at 207, 227. They failed to conduct an investigation thatwould have uncovered extensive records graphically describ-ing Williams' nightmarish childhood, not because of any strategic calculation but because they incorrectly thought thatstate law barred access to such records. Had they done so,the jury would have learned that Williams' parents had beenimprisoned for the criminal neglect of Williams and his siblings,19 that Williams had been severely and repeatedlybeaten by his father, that he had been committed to the custody of the social services bureau for two years during hisparents' incarceration (including one stint in an abusive foster home), and then, after his parents were released fromprison, had been returned to his parents' custody.19 Juvenile records contained the following description of his home:"The home was a complete wreck. . . . There were several places on thefloor where someone had had a bowel movement. Urine was standing inseveral places in the bedrooms. There were dirty dishes scattered overthe kitchen, and it was impossible to step any place on the kitchen floorwhere there was no trash. . . . The children were all dirty and none ofthem had on under-pants. Noah and Lula were so intoxicated, they couldnot find any clothes for the children, nor were they able to put the clotheson them. . . . The children had to be put in Winslow Hospital, as fourof them, by that time, were definitely under the influence of whiskey."App. 528-529.529US2 Unit: $U46 [10-07-01 17:18:24] PAGES PGT: OPIN396 WILLIAMS v. TAYLOROpinion of the CourtCounsel failed to introduce available evidence that Wil-liams was "borderline mentally retarded" and did not advance beyond sixth grade in school. Id., at 595. Theyfailed to seek prison records recording Williams' commendations for helping to crack a prison drug ring and for return-ing a guard's missing wallet, or the testimony of prison officials who described Williams as among the inmates "leastlikely to act in a violent, dangerous or provocative way."Id., at 569, 588. Counsel failed even to return the phone callof a certified public accountant who had offered to testifythat he had visited Williams frequently when Williams wasincarcerated as part of a prison ministry program, that Williams "seemed to thrive in a more regimented and structuredenvironment," and that Williams was proud of the carpentrydegree he earned while in prison. Id., at 563-566.Of course, not all of the additional evidence was favorableto Williams. The juvenile records revealed that he had beenthrice committed to the juvenile system--for aiding andabetting larceny when he was 11 years old, for pulling a falsefire alarm when he was 12, and for breaking and enteringwhen he was 15. Id., at 534-536. But as the Federal District Court correctly observed, the failure to introduce thecomparatively voluminous amount of evidence that did speakin Williams' favor was not justified by a tactical decision tofocus on Williams' voluntary confession. Whether or notthose omissions were sufficiently prejudicial to have affectedthe outcome of sentencing, they clearly demonstrate thattrial counsel did not fulfill their obligation to conduct a thorough investigation of the defendant's background. See 1ABA Standards for Criminal Justice 4-4.1, commentary,p. 4-55 (2d ed. 1980).We are also persuaded, unlike the Virginia Supreme Court,that counsel's unprofessional service prejudiced Williamswithin the meaning of Strickland. After hearing the additional evidence developed in the postconviction proceedings,the very judge who presided at Williams' trial, and who once529US2 Unit: $U46 [10-07-01 17:18:24] PAGES PGT: OPIN397Cite as: 529 U. S. 362 (2000)Opinion of the Courtdetermined that the death penalty was "just" and "appro-priate," concluded that there existed "a reasonable probability that the result of the sentencing phase would have beendifferent" if the jury had heard that evidence. App. 429.We do not agree with the Virginia Supreme Court that JudgeIngram's conclusion should be discounted because he apparently adopted "a per se approach to the prejudice element"that placed undue "emphasis on mere outcome determina-tion." 254 Va., at 26-27, 487 S. E. 2d, at 200. Judge Ingramdid stress the importance of mitigation evidence in makinghis "outcome determination," but it is clear that his predictive judgment rested on his assessment of the totality of theomitted evidence rather than on the notion that a single itemof omitted evidence, no matter how trivial, would require anew hearing.The Virginia Supreme Court's own analysis of prejudicereaching the contrary conclusion was thus unreasonable inat least two respects. First, as we have already explained,the State Supreme Court mischaracterized at best the appropriate rule, made clear by this Court in Strickland, for determining whether counsel's assistance was effective withinthe meaning of the Constitution. While it may also haveconducted an "outcome determinative" analysis of its own,254 Va., at 27, 487 S. E. 2d, at 200, it is evident to us that thecourt's decision turned on its erroneous view that a "mere"difference in outcome is not sufficient to establish constitutionally ineffective assistance of counsel. See supra, at 394.Its analysis in this respect was thus not only "contrary to,"but also, inasmuch as the Virginia Supreme Court relied onthe inapplicable exception recognized in Lockhart, an "unreasonable application of " the clear law as established bythis Court.Second, the State Supreme Court's prejudice determination was unreasonable insofar as it failed to evaluate thetotality of the available mitigation evidence--both thatadduced at trial, and the evidence adduced in the habeas pro529US2 Unit: $U46 [10-07-01 17:18:24] PAGES PGT: OPIN398 WILLIAMS v. TAYLOROpinion of Stevens, J.ceeding--in reweighing it against the evidence in aggrava-tion. See Clemons v. Mississippi, 494 U. S. 738, 751-752(1990). This error is apparent in its consideration of the ad-ditional mitigation evidence developed in the postconvictionproceedings. The court correctly found that as to "thefactual part of the mixed question," there was "really . . .n[o] . . . dispute" that available mitigation evidence was notpresented at trial. 254 Va., at 24, 487 S. E. 2d, at 198. Asto the prejudice determination comprising the "legal part" ofits analysis,id., at 23-25, 487 S. E. 2d, at 198-199, it correctlyemphasized the strength of the prosecution evidence supporting the future dangerousness aggravating circumstance.But the state court failed even to mention the sole argument in mitigation that trial counsel did advance--Williamsturned himself in, alerting police to a crime they otherwisewould never have discovered, expressing remorse for his ac-tions, and cooperating with the police after that. Whilethis, coupled with the prison records and guard testimony,may not have overcome a finding of future dangerousness,the graphic description of Williams' childhood, filled withabuse and privation, or the reality that he was "borderlinementally retarded," might well have influenced the jury's ap-praisal of his moral culpability. SeeBoyde v. California,494 U. S. 370, 387 (1990). The circumstances recited in hisseveral confessions are consistent with the view that in eachcase his violent behavior was a compulsive reaction ratherthan the product of cold-blooded premeditation. Mitigatingevidence unrelated to dangerousness may alter the jury's selection of penalty, even if it does not undermine or rebut theprosecution's death-eligibility case. The Virginia SupremeCourt did not entertain that possibility. It thus failed toaccord appropriate weight to the body of mitigation evidenceavailable to trial counsel. VIn our judgment, the state trial judge was correct both inhis recognition of the established legal standard for deter529US2 Unit: $U46 [10-07-01 17:18:24] PAGES PGT: OPIN399Cite as: 529 U. S. 362 (2000)Opinion of O'Connor, J.mining counsel's effectiveness, and in his conclusion that theentire postconviction record, viewed as a whole and cumulative of mitigation evidence presented originally, raised "areasonable probability that the result of the sentencing proceeding would have been different" if competent counsel hadpresented and explained the significance of all the availableevidence. It follows that the Virginia Supreme Courtrendered a "decision that was contrary to, or involved anunreasonable application of, clearly established Federal law."Williams' constitutional right to the effective assistance ofcounsel as defined in Strickland v. Washington, 466 U. S. 668(1984), was violated.Accordingly, the judgment of the Court of Appeals is re-versed, and the case is remanded for further proceedings.