Petitioner Dale G. Becker, an Ohio prisoner, instituted apro se civil rights action in a Federal District Court, contest-ing conditions of his confinement. Upon dismissal of hiscomplaint for failure to state a claim for relief, Becker soughtto appeal. Using a Government-printed form, Becker timelyfiled a notice of appeal that contained all of the requestedinformation. On the line tagged "(Counsel for Appellant),"532US3 Unit: $U61 [10-25-01 20:50:41] PAGES PGT: OPIN760 BECKER v. MONTGOMERYOpinion of the CourtBecker typed, but did not hand sign, his own name. Forwant of a handwritten signature on the notice as originally filed, the Court of Appeals dismissed Becker's appeal.The appellate court deemed the defect "jurisdictional," andtherefore not curable outside the time allowed to file thenotice.We granted review to address this question: "When aparty files a timely notice of appeal in district court, doesthe failure to sign the notice of appeal require the court ofappeals to dismiss the appeal?" 531 U. S. 1110 (2001). Ouranswer is no. For want of a signature on a timely notice,the appeal is not automatically lost. The governing FederalRules direct that the notice of appeal, like other papers filedin district court, shall be signed by counsel or, if the partyis unrepresented, by the party himself. But if the notice istimely filed and adequate in other respects, jurisdiction willvest in the court of appeals, where the case may proceed solong as the appellant promptly supplies the signature oncethe omission is called to his attention.IThis case originated from a civil rights complaint under42 U. S. C. $ 1983 filed pro se by Ohio prison inmate Dale G.Becker in the United States District Court for the SouthernDistrict of Ohio. Becker challenged the conditions of hisincarceration at the Chillicothe Correctional Institution,specifically, his exposure to second-hand cigarette smoke.The District Court dismissed Becker's complaint for failureto exhaust prison administrative remedies and failure tostate a claim upon which relief could be granted. App. 5-8.Within the 30 days allowed for appeal from a districtcourt's judgment, see 28 U. S. C. $ 2107(a); Fed. Rule App.Proc. 4(a)(1), Becker, stillpro se, filed a notice of appeal.Using a notice of appeal form printed by the GovernmentPrinting Office, Becker filled in the blanks, specifying him-self as sole appellant, designating the judgment from which532US3 Unit: $U61 [10-25-01 20:50:41] PAGES PGT: OPIN761Cite as: 532 U. S. 757 (2001)Opinion of the Courthe appealed, and naming the court to which he appealed.See Fed. Rule App. Proc. 3(c)(1). He typed his own name inthe space above "(Counsel for Appellant)," and also typed,in the spaces provided on the form, his address and thedate of the notice. The form Becker completed containedno statement or other indication of a signature requirementand Becker did not hand sign the notice.The District Court docketed the notice, sent a copy to theCourt of Appeals, and subsequently granted Becker leave toproceed in forma pauperis on appeal. Becker received aletter from the Sixth Circuit Clerk's Office telling him thathis appeal had been docketed and setting a briefing schedule.The letter stated: "The court is aware that you are not anattorney and it will not hold you to the same standards itrequires of them in stating your case." App. 14.Becker filed his brief more than two weeks in advance ofthe scheduled deadline. He signed it both on the cover andon the last page. Some six months later, on its own motion,the Sixth Circuit dismissed the appeal in a spare order relying on that court's prior, published decision in Mattingly v.Farmers State Bank, 153 F. 3d 336 (1998) (per curiam). InBecker's case, the Court of Appeals said, summarily:"This court lacks jurisdiction over this appeal. Thenotice of appeal is defective because it was not signedby the pro se appellant or by a qualified attorney."App. 16-17.No court officer had earlier called Becker's attention to theneed for a signature, and the dismissal order, issued longafter the 30-day time to appeal expired, accorded Becker noopportunity to cure the defect.Becker filed a timely but unsuccessful motion for reconsideration, to which he appended a new, signed notice of appeal.Thereafter, he petitioned for this Court's review. The Attorney General of Ohio, in response, urged us "to summarily532US3 Unit: $U61 [10-25-01 20:50:41] PAGES PGT: OPIN762 BECKER v. MONTGOMERYOpinion of the Courtreverse the judgment below," Brief in Response to Pet. forCert. 1, stating:"We cannot honestly claim any uncertain[t]y about peti-tioner Becker's intention to pursue an appeal once hefiled his timely, though unsigned, notice of appeal in thedistrict court. We never objected to the lack of a signature on his notice of appeal, and fully expected thecourt of appeals to address his appellate arguments onthe merits." Id., at 5.We granted certiorari, 531 U. S. 1069; 531 U. S. 1110 (2001),to assure the uniform interpretation of the governing Federal Rules, and now address the question whether Becker'sfailure to sign his timely filed notice of appeal requires theCourt of Appeals to dismiss his appeal.1IIIn Mattingly v. Farmers State Bank, 153 F. 3d 336 (1998)(per curiam), the Sixth Circuit determined that a notice ofappeal must be signed, and that a signature's omission cannot be cured by giving the appellant an opportunity to signafter the time to appeal has expired. For this determination, that court relied on the complementary operation of twoFederal Rules: Federal Rule of Appellate Procedure (Appellate Rule) 4(a)(1), which provides that "the notice of appealrequired by Rule 3 [to commence an appeal] must be filedwith the district clerk within 30 days after the judgment ororder appealed from is entered";2 and Federal Rule of Civil1 Without any party to defend the Sixth Circuit's position, we invitedStewart A. Baker to brief and argue this case, as amicus curiae, in support of the judgment below. 531 U. S. 1110 (2001). His able representation, and that of Jeffrey S. Sutton, whom we appointed to representBecker, 531 U. S. 1123 (2001), permit us to decide this case satisfied thatthe relevant issues have been fully aired.2 On motion filed no later than 30 days after expiration of the originalappeal time, the appeal period may be extended upon a showing of "excusable neglect or good cause," but the extension "may [not] exceed 30532US3 Unit: $U61 [10-25-01 20:50:41] PAGES PGT: OPIN763Cite as: 532 U. S. 757 (2001)Opinion of the CourtProcedure (Civil Rule) 11(a), which provides that "[e]very . . .paper [filed in a district court] shall be signed." We agreewith the Sixth Circuit that the governing Federal Rules callfor a signature on notices of appeal. We disagree, however,with that court's dispositive ruling that the signature re-quirement cannot be met after the appeal period expires.Civil Rule 11(a), the source of the signature requirement,comes into play on appeal this way. An appeal can be initiated, Appellate Rule 3(a)(1) instructs, "only by filing a no-tice of appeal with the district clerk within the time allowedby [Appellate] Rule 4." Whenever the Appellate Rules pro-vide for a filing in the district court, Appellate Rule 1(a)(2)directs, "the procedure must comply with the practice of thedistrict court." The district court practice relevant here isCivil Rule 11(a).Ru le 11(a)'s first sentence st ates the si g naturerequirement:"Every pleading, written motion, and other paper shallbe signed by at least one attorney of record in the attorney's individual name, or, if the party is not representedby an attorney, shall be signed by the party."Notices of appeal unquestionably qualify as "other paper[s],"so they "shall be signed."Becker maintains that typing one's name satisfies thesignature requirement and that his original notice of appeal,containing his name typed above "(Counsel of Record)," metCivil Rule 11(a)'s instruction. We do not doubt that thesignature requirement can be adjusted to keep pace withtechnological advances. A 1996 amendment to Civil Rule 5provides in this regard:"A court may by local rule permit papers to be filed,signed, or verified by electronic means that are consistdays after the [originally] prescribed time or 10 days after the date whenthe order granting the motion is entered, whichever is later." Fed. RuleApp. Proc. 4(a)(5).532US3 Unit: $U61 [10-25-01 20:50:41] PAGES PGT: OPIN764 BECKER v. MONTGOMERYOpinion of the Courtent with technical standards, if any, that the JudicialConference of the United States establishes. A paperfiled by electronic means in compliance with a local ruleconstitutes a written paper for the purpose of applyingthese rules." Fed. Rule Civ. Proc. 5(e).See, e. g., Rule 5.1 (ND Ohio 2000) (permitting "papers filed,signed, or verified by electronic means"). The local ruleson electronic filing provide some assurance, as does a handwritten signature, that the submission is authentic. See,e. g., United States District Court for the Northern Districtof Ohio, Electronic Filing Policies and Procedures Manual4 (Apr. 2, 2001) (available at http://www.ohnd.uscourts.gov/Electronic Filing/user.pdf) (allowing only registered attorneys assigned identification names and passwords to filepapers electronically). Without any rule change so ordering, however, we are not disposed to extend the meaningof the word "signed," as that word appears in Civil Rule11(a), to permit typed names. As Rule 11(a) is now framed,we read the requirement of a signature to indicate, as asignature requirement commonly does, and as it did in JohnHancock's day, a name handwritten (or a mark handplaced).As plainly as Civil Rule 11(a) requires a signature on filedpapers, however, so the rule goes on to provide in its finalsentence that "omission of the signature" may be "correctedpromptly after being called to the attention of the attorneyor party." "Correction can be made," the Rules AdvisoryCommittee noted, "by signing the paper on file or by submitting a duplicate that contains the signature." AdvisoryCommittee's Notes on Fed. Rule Civ. Proc. 11, 28 U. S. C.App., p. 666.Amicus urges that only the first sentence of Civil Rule11(a), containing the signature requirement--not Rule 11(a)'sfinal sentence, providing for correction of a signature omission--applies to appeal notices. Appellate Rule 1(a)(2)'s di532US3 Unit: $U61 [10-25-01 20:50:41] PAGES PGT: OPIN765Cite as: 532 U. S. 757 (2001)Opinion of the Courtrection to "comply with the practice of the district court"ceases to hold sway, amicus maintains, once the notice ofappeal is transmitted from the district court, in which it isfiled, to the court of appeals, in which the case will proceed.Brief for Amicus Curiae in Support of the Judgment Below15-18, and nn. 18-20.Civil Rule 11(a), in our view, cannot be sliced as amicusproposes. The rule was formulated and should be applied asa cohesive whole. So understood, the signature requirementand the cure for an initial failure to meet the requirementgo hand in hand. The remedy for a signature omission, inother words, is part and parcel of the requirement itself.Becker proffered a correction of the defect in his notice inthe manner Rule 11(a) permits--he attempted to submit aduplicate containing his signature, see supra, at 761--andtherefore should not have suffered dismissal of his appeal fornonobservance of that rule.The Sixth Circuit in Mattingly correctly observed that wehave described Appellate Rules 3 and 4 as "jurisdictional innature." 153 F. 3d, at 337 (citing Torres v. Oakland Scavenger Co., 487 U. S. 312, 315 (1988), and Smith v. Barry, 502U. S. 244, 248 (1992)). We do not today hold otherwise. Werule simply and only that Becker's lapse was curable as CivilRule 11(a) prescribes; his initial omission was not a "jurisdictional" impediment to pursuit of his appeal.Appellate Rules 3 and 4, we clarify, are indeed linked jurisdictional provisions. Rule 3(a)(1) directs that a noticeof appeal be filed "within the time allowed by Rule 4,"i. e., ordinarily, within 30 days after the judgment appealedfrom is entered, see supra, at 762-763, and n. 2. Rule 3(c)(1)details what the notice of appeal must contain: The notice,within Rule 4's timeframe, must (1) specify the party orparties taking the appeal; (2) designate the judgment fromwhich the appeal is taken; and (3) name the court to which532US3 Unit: $U61 [10-25-01 20:50:41] PAGES PGT: OPIN766 BECKER v. MONTGOMERYOpinion of the Courtthe appeal is taken.3 Notably, a signature requirement isnot among Rule 3(c)(1)'s specifications, for Civil Rule 11(a)alone calls for and controls that requirement and renders itnonjurisdictional.Amicus ultimately urges that even if there is no juris-dictional notice of appeal signature requirement for partiesrepresented by attorneys, pro se parties, like Becker, mustsign within Rule 4's time line to avoid automatic dismissal.See Tr. of Oral Arg. 34-36. Appellate Rule 3(c)(2) is thefoundation for this argument. That provision reads: "Apro se notice of appeal is considered filed on behalf of thesigner and the signer's spouse and minor children (if theyare parties), unless the notice clearly indicates otherwise."We do not agree that Rule 3(c)(2)'s prescription, added in1993 to a then unsubdivided Rule 3(c), see Advisory Commit-tee's Notes on Fed. Rule App. Proc. 3, 28 U. S. C. App., p. 590,places pro se litigants in a singularly exacting time bind.The provision, as we read it, does not dislodge the signaturerequirement from its Civil Rule 11(a) moorings and makeof it an Appellate Rule 3 jurisdictional specification. Thecurrent Rule 3(c)(2), like other changes made in 1993, theAdvisory Committee Notes explain, was designed "to prevent the loss of a right to appeal through inadvertent omis-sion of a party's name" when "it is objectively clear that [the]party intended to appeal." Advisory Committee's Notes onFed. Rule App. Proc. 3, 28 U. S. C. App., p. 590. Seen in thislight, the Rule is entirely ameliorative; it assumes and as-sures that the pro se litigant's spouse and minor children,3 Appellate Rule 3(c)(1), as currently framed, provides in full:"(1) The notice of appeal must:"(A) specify the party or parties taking the appeal by naming each onein the caption or body of the notice, but an attorney representing morethan one party may describe those parties with such terms as `all plaintiffs,' `the defendants,' `the plaintiffs A, B, et al.,' or `all defendantsexcept X';"(B) designate the judgment, order, or part thereof being appealed; and"(C) name the court to which the appeal is taken."532US3 Unit: $U61 [10-25-01 20:50:41] PAGES PGT: OPIN767Cite as: 532 U. S. 757 (2001)Opinion of the Courtif they were parties below, will remain parties on appeal,"unless the notice clearly indicates a contrary intent." Ibid.If we had any doubt that Appellate Rule 3(c)(2) was meantonly to facilitate, not to impede, access to an appeal, wewould find corroboration in a related ameliorative rule, Ap-pellate Rule 3(c)(4), which provides: "An appeal must not bedismissed for informality of form or title of the notice of ap-peal, or for failure to name a party whose intent to appeal isotherwise clear from the notice." Cf. this Court's Rule 14.5("If the Clerk determines that a petition submitted timelyand in good faith is in a form that does not comply with thisRule [governing the content of petitions for certiorari] orwith Rule 33 or Rule 34 [governing document preparation],the Clerk will return it with a letter indicating the deficiency.A corrected petition received no more than 60 days after thedate of the Clerk's letter will be deemed timely.").In Torres v. Oakland Scavenger Co., 487 U. S. 312 (1988),it is true, we held, that a notice of appeal that omitted thename of a particular appellant, through a clerical error, wasineffective to take an appeal for that party. Id., at 318 (construing Rule 3(c) prior to the ameliorative changes made in1993).4 Becker's notice, however, did not suffer from anyfailure to "specify the party or parties taking the appeal."Fed. Rule App. Proc. 3(c)(1)(A). Other opinions of thisCourt are in full harmony with the view that imperfectionsin noticing an appeal should not be fatal where no genuinedoubt exists about who is appealing, from what judg-ment, to which appellate court. See Smith v. Barry, 502U. S., at 245, 248-249 (holding that "a document intended toserve as an appellate brief [filed within the time specified by Appellate Rule 4 and containing the informationrequired by Appellate Rule 3] may qualify as the notice of4 The Advisory Committee intended the elaborate 1993 amendment ofAppellate Rule 3(c) "to reduce the amount of satellite litigation spawnedby [Torres]." Advisory Committee's Notes on Fed. Rule App. Proc. 3, 28U. S. C. App., p. 590.532US3 Unit: $U61 [10-25-01 20:50:41] PAGES PGT: OPIN768 BECKER v. MONTGOMERYOpinion of the Courtappeal"); Foman v. Davis, 371 U. S. 178, 181 (1962) (holdingthat an appeal was improperly dismissed when the record asa whole--including a timely but incomplete notice of appealand a premature but complete notice--revealed the orderspetitioner sought to appeal).* * *In sum, the Federal Rules require a notice of appeal tobe signed. That requirement derives from Civil Rule 11(a),and so does the remedy for a signature's omission on thenotice originally filed. On the facts here presented, theSixth Circuit should have accepted Becker's corrected noticeas perfecting his appeal. We therefore reverse the judgment dismissing Becker's appeal and remand the case forfurther proceedings consistent with this opinion.