In Kiowa Tribe of Okla. v. Manufacturing Technologies,Inc., 523 U. S. 751 (1998), this Court held that an Indian tribeis not subject to suit in a state court--even for breach ofcontract involving off-reservation commercial conduct--un-less "Congress has authorized the suit or the tribe haswaived its immunity." Id., at 754. This case concerns theimpact of an arbitration agreement on a tribe's plea of suitimmunity. The document on which the case centers is astandard form construction contract signed by the parties togovern the installation of a foam roof on a building, the FirstOklahoma Bank, in Shawnee, Oklahoma. The building andland are owned by an Indian Tribe, the Citizen PotawatomiNation (Tribe). The building is commercial, and the landis off-reservation, nontrust property. The form contract,which was proposed by the Tribe and accepted by the contractor, C & L Enterprises, Inc. (C & L), contains an arbitra-tion clause.The question presented is whether the Tribe waived itsimmunity from suit in state court when it expressly agreedto arbitrate disputes with C & L relating to the contract, tothe governance of Oklahoma law, and to the enforcement ofarbitral awards "in any court having jurisdiction thereof."We hold that, by the clear import of the arbitration clause,the Tribe is amenable to a state-court suit to enforce an arbi-tral award in favor of contractor C & L.IRespondent Citizen Potawatomi Nation is a federally rec-ognized Indian Tribe. In 1993, it entered into a contractwith petitioner C & L for the installation of a roof on a Shaw-nee, Oklahoma, building owned by the Tribe. The building,532US2 Unit: $U47 [09-06-02 13:18:53] PAGES PGT: OPIN415Cite as: 532 U. S. 411 (2001)Opinion of the Courtwhich housed the First Oklahoma Bank, is not on the Tribe'sreservation or on land held by the Federal Government intrust for the Tribe.The contract at issue is a standard form agreement copyrighted by the American Institute of Architects. The Tribeproposed the contract; details not set out in the form wereinserted by the Tribe and its architect. Two provisions ofthe contract are key to this case. First, the contract con-tains an arbitration clause:"All claims or disputes between the Contractor[C & L] and the Owner [the Tribe] arising out of or relat-ing to the Contract, or the breach thereof, shall be decided by arbitration in accordance with the Construction[I]ndustry Arbitration Rules of the American Arbitra-tion Association currently in effect unless the partiesmutually agree otherwise . . . . The award rendered bythe arbitrator or arbitrators shall be final, and judgmentmay be entered upon it in accordance with applicablelaw in any court having jurisdiction thereof." App. toPet. for Cert. 46.The American Arbitration Association Rules to which theclause refers provide: "Parties to these rules shall be deemedto have consented that judgment upon the arbitration awardmay be entered in any federal or state court having jurisdic-tion thereof." American Arbitration Association, Construction Industry Dispute Resolution Procedures, R-48(c) (Sept.1, 2000).Second, the contract includes a choice-of-law clause thatreads: "The contract shall be governed by the law of theplace where the Project is located." App. to Pet. for Cert.56. Oklahoma has adopted a Uniform Arbitration Act,which instructs that "[t]he making of an agreement . . . providing for arbitration in this state confers jurisdiction on thecourt to enforce the agreement under this act and to enterjudgment on an award thereunder." Okla. Stat., Tit. 15,532US2 Unit: $U47 [09-06-02 13:18:53] PAGES PGT: OPIN416 C & L ENTERPRISES, INC. v. CITIZEN BANDPOTAWATOMI TRIBE OF OKLA.Opinion of the Court$ 802.B (1993). The Act defines "court" as "any court ofcompetent jurisdiction of this state."Ibid.After execution of the contract but before C & L com-menced performance, the Tribe decided to change the roofingmaterial from foam (the material specified in the contract) torubber guard. The Tribe solicited new bids and retainedanother company to install the roof. C & L, claiming thatthe Tribe had dishonored the contract, submitted an arbitra-tion demand. The Tribe asserted sovereign immunity anddeclined to participate in the arbitration proceeding. It no-tified the arbitrator, however, that it had several substantivedefenses to C & L's claim. On consideration of C & L's evidence, the arbitrator rendered an award in favor of C & Lfor $25,400 in damages (close to 30% of the contract price),plus attorney's fees and costs.Several weeks later, C & L filed suit to enforce the arbitration award in the District Court of Oklahoma County, a statecourt of general, first instance, jurisdiction. The Tribe appeared specially for the limited purpose of moving to dismissthe action on the ground that the Tribe was immune fromsuit. The District Court denied the motion and entered ajudgment confirming the award.The Oklahoma Court of Civil Appeals affirmed, holdingthat the Tribe lacked immunity because the contract givingrise to the suit was "between an Indian tribe and a nonIndian" and was "executed outside of Indian Country."App. to Pet. for Cert. 14 (citation omitted). The OklahomaSupreme Court denied review, and the Tribe petitioned forcertiorari in this Court.While the Tribe's petition was pending here, the Courtdecided Kiowa, holding: "Tribes enjoy immunity from suitson contracts, whether those contracts involve governmentalor commercial activities and whether they were made on oroff a reservation." 523 U. S., at 760. Kiowa reconfirmed:"[A]n Indian tribe is subject to suit only where Congress hasauthorized the suit or the tribe has waived its immunity."532US2 Unit: $U47 [09-06-02 13:18:53] PAGES PGT: OPIN417Cite as: 532 U. S. 411 (2001)Opinion of the CourtId., at 754. Thereafter, we granted the Tribe's petition inthis case, vacated the judgment of the Court of Civil Appeals, and remanded for reconsideration in light of Kiowa.524 U. S. 901 (1998).On remand, the Court of Civil Appeals changed course.It held that, under Kiowa, the Tribe here was immune fromsuit on its contract with C & L, despite the contract's offreservation subject matter. App. to Pet. for Cert. 4-5.The court then addressed whether the Tribe had waived itsimmunity. "The agreement of [the] Tribe to arbitration, andthe contract language regarding enforcement in courts having jurisdiction," the court observed, "seem to indicate awillingness on [the] Tribe's part to expose itself to suit onthe contract." Id., at 7. But, the court quickly added, "theleap from that willingness to a waiver of immunity is onebased on implication, not an unequivocal expression." Ibid.Concluding that the Tribe had not waived its suit immunitywith the requisite clarity, the appeals court instructed thetrial court to dismiss the case. The Oklahoma SupremeCourt denied C & L's petition for review.Conflicting with the Oklahoma Court of Civil Appeals' current decision, several state and federal courts have held thatan arbitration clause, kin to the one now before us, expresslywaives tribal immunity from a suit arising out of the contract. See Sokaogon Gaming Enterprise Corp. v. TushieMontgomery Associates, Inc., 86 F. 3d 656, 661 (CA7 1996)(clause requiring arbitration of contractual disputes and authorizing entry of judgment upon arbitral award "in anycourt having jurisdiction thereof " expressly waived Tribe'simmunity); Native Village of Eyak v. GC Contractors, 658P. 2d 756 (Alaska 1983) (same); Val/Del, Inc. v. SuperiorCourt, 145 Ariz. 558, 703 P. 2d 502 (Ct. App. 1985) (same).But cf. Pan American Co. v. Sycuan Band of Mission Indians, 884 F. 2d 416 (CA9 1989) (clause requiring arbitration ofcontractual disputes did not expressly waive Tribe's immu532US2 Unit: $U47 [09-06-02 13:18:53] PAGES PGT: OPIN418 C & L ENTERPRISES, INC. v. CITIZEN BANDPOTAWATOMI TRIBE OF OKLA.Opinion of the Courtnity). We granted certiorari to resolve this conflict, 531U. S. 956 (2000), and now reverse.IIKiowa, in which we reaffirmed the doctrine of tribal im-munity, involved an off-reservation, commercial agreement (astock purchase) by a federally recognized Tribe. The Tribesigned a promissory note agreeing to pay the seller $285,000plus interest. The note recited: "Nothing in this Notesubjects or limits the sovereign rights of the Kiowa Tribeof Oklahoma." 523 U. S., at 753-754. The Tribe defaulted,the seller sued on the note in state court, and the Tribe asserted sovereign immunity. We upheld the plea. Tribalimmunity, we ruled inKiowa, extends to suits on off-reservation commercial contracts. Id., at 754-760. TheKiowa Tribe was immune from suit for defaulting on thepromissory note, we held, because "Congress ha[d] not abrogated [the Tribe's] immunity, nor ha[d] petitioner waived it."Id., at 760.Like Kiowa, this case arises out of the breach of a commer-cial, off-reservation contract by a federally recognized IndianTribe. The petitioning contractor, C & L, does not contendthat Congress has abrogated tribal immunity in this setting.The question presented is whether the Tribe has waived itsimmunity.To abrogate tribal immunity, Congress must "unequivo-cally" express that purpose.Santa Clara Pueblo v. Marti-nez, 436 U. S. 49, 58 (1978) (citing United States v. Testan,424 U. S. 392, 399 (1976)). Similarly, to relinquish its im-munity, a tribe's waiver must be "clear." Oklahoma TaxComm'n v. Citizen Band Potawatomi Tribe of Okla., 498U. S. 505, 509 (1991). We are satisfied that the Tribe in thiscase has waived, with the requisite clarity, immunity fromthe suit C & L brought to enforce its arbitration award.The construction contract's provision for arbitration andrelated prescriptions lead us to this conclusion. The arbitra532US2 Unit: $U47 [09-06-02 13:18:53] PAGES PGT: OPIN419Cite as: 532 U. S. 411 (2001)Opinion of the Courttion clause requires resolution of all contract-related dis-putes between C & L and the Tribe by binding arbitration;ensuing arbitral awards may be reduced to judgment "in ac-cordance with applicable law in any court having jurisdictionthereof." App. to Pet. for Cert. 46. For governance of ar-bitral proceedings, the arbitration clause specifies AmericanArbitration Association Rules for the construction industry,ibid., and under those Rules, "the arbitration award may beentered in any federal or state court having jurisdictionthereof," American Arbitration Association, ConstructionIndustry Dispute Resolution Procedures, R-48(c) (Sept. 1,2000).The contract's choice-of-law clause makes it plain enoughthat a "court having jurisdiction" to enforce the award inquestion is the Oklahoma state court in which C & L filedsuit. By selecting Oklahoma law ("the law of the placewhere the Project is located") to govern the contract, App.to Pet. for Cert. 56, the parties have effectively consented toconfirmation of the award "in accordance with" the Oklahoma Uniform Arbitration Act, id., at 46 ("judgment maybe entered upon [the arbitration award] in accordance withapplicable law"); Okla. Stat., Tit. 15, $ 802.A (1993) ("This actshall apply to . . . a provision in a written contract to submitto arbitration any controversy thereafter arising betweenthe parties.").1The Uniform Act in force in Oklahoma prescribes that,when "an agreement . . . provid[es] for arbitration in thisstate," i. e., in Oklahoma, jurisdiction to enforce the agreement vests in "any court of competent jurisdiction of this1 The United States, as amicus supporting the Tribe, urges us to remainwithin the "four corners of the contract" and refrain from reliance on "secondary sources." Brief for United States as Amicus Curiae 19, and n. 7.The American Arbitration Association Rules and the Uniform ArbitrationAct, however, are not secondary interpretive aides that supplement ourreading of the contract; they are prescriptions incorporated by the expressterms of the agreement itself.532US2 Unit: $U47 [09-06-02 13:18:53] PAGES PGT: OPIN420 C & L ENTERPRISES, INC. v. CITIZEN BANDPOTAWATOMI TRIBE OF OKLA.Opinion of the Courtstate." $ 802.B. On any sensible reading of the Act, theDistrict Court of Oklahoma County, a local court of generaljurisdiction, fits that statutory description.2In sum, the Tribe agreed, by express contract, to adhereto certain dispute resolution procedures. In fact, the Tribeitself tendered the contract calling for those procedures.The regime to which the Tribe subscribed includes entry ofjudgment upon an arbitration award in accordance with theOklahoma Uniform Arbitration Act. That Act concernsarbitration in Oklahoma and correspondingly designates asenforcement forums "court[s] of competent jurisdiction of[Oklahoma]." Ibid. C & L selected for its enforcement suitjust such a forum. In a case involving an arbitration clauseessentially indistinguishable from the one to which the Tribeand C & L agreed, the Seventh Circuit stated:"There is nothing ambiguous about th[e] language [of thearbitration clause]. The tribe agrees to submit disputesarising under the contract to arbitration, to be bound bythe arbitration award, and to have its submission andthe award enforced in a court of law.. . . . .. . . "The [tribal immunity] waiver . . . is implicit ratherthan explicit only if a waiver of sovereign immunity, tobe deemed explicit, must use the words `sovereign immunity.' No case has ever held that." Sokaogon, 86F. 3d, at 659-660.2 The United States argues that the Oklahoma Uniform Arbitration Actis inapplicable in this case because it does not reach all arbitrations properly held in Oklahoma, but only those in which the agreement explicitly"provide[s] for arbitration in [Oklahoma]." Tr. of Oral Arg. 47-48 (referring to $ 802.B). No Oklahoma authority is cited for this constricted reading of an Act that expressly "appl[ies] to . . . a provision in a writtencontract to submit to arbitration any controversy thereafter arising between the parties." $ 802.A. We decline to attribute to the Oklahomalawmakers and interpreters a construction that so severely shrinks theAct's domain.532US2 Unit: $U47 [09-06-02 13:18:53] PAGES PGT: OPIN421Cite as: 532 U. S. 411 (2001)Opinion of the CourtThat cogent observation holds as well for the case weconfront.3The Tribe strenuously urges, however, that an arbitrationclause simply "is not a waiver of immunity from suit." Brieffor Respondent 13. The phrase in the clause providing forenforcement of arbitration awards "in any court having jurisdiction thereof," the Tribe maintains, "begs the questionof what court has jurisdiction."Id., at 22. As counsel forthe Tribe clarified at oral argument, the Tribe's answer is"no court," on earth or even on the moon. Tr. of Oral Arg.32-33. No court--federal, state, or even tribal--has jurisdiction over C & L's suit, the Tribe insists, because it hasnot expressly waived its sovereign immunity in any judicialforum. Ibid.; cf. Sokaogon, 86 F. 3d, at 660 (facing a similarargument, Seventh Circuit gleaned that counsel meant onlya statement to this effect will do: "The tribe will not assertthe defense of sovereign immunity if sued for breach ofcontract.").43 Instructive here is the law governing waivers of immunity by foreignsovereigns. Cf. Kiowa Tribe of Okla. v. Manufacturing Technologies,Inc., 523 U. S. 751, 759 (1998) ("In considering Congress' role in reforming tribal immunity, we find instructive the problems of sovereign immunity for foreign countries."). "Under the law of the United States . . .an agreement to arbitrate is a waiver of immunity from jurisdiction in. . . an action to enforce an arbitral award rendered pursuant to theagreement . . . ." Restatement (Third) of the Foreign Relations Law ofthe United States $ 456(2)(b)(ii) (1987).4 Relying on our state sovereign immunity jurisprudence, the UnitedStates maintains that "courts must be especially reluctant to construeambiguous expressions as consent by a Tribe to be sued in state court."Brief for United States as Amicus Curiae 23; see also id., at 25 (arguingthat a State's generalized consent to suit, without an express selection ofthe forum in which suit may proceed, "should be construed narrowly asthe State's consent to be sued in its own courts of competent jurisdiction,and not its consent to be subjected to suits in another sovereign's courts")(citing, e. g., Kennecott Copper Corp. v. State Tax Comm'n, 327 U. S. 573(1946) (State statute authorizing suits against State in "any court of competent jurisdiction" did not waive State's immunity from suit in federalcourt)). But in this case, as we explained supra, at 419-420, the Tribehas plainly consented to suit in Oklahoma state court. We therefore have532US2 Unit: $U47 [09-06-02 13:18:53] PAGES PGT: OPIN422 C & L ENTERPRISES, INC. v. CITIZEN BANDPOTAWATOMI TRIBE OF OKLA.Opinion of the CourtInstead of waiving suit immunity in any court, the Tribeargues, the arbitration clause waives simply and only theparties' rights to a court trial of contractual disputes; underthe clause, the Tribe recognizes, the parties must insteadarbitrate. Brief for Respondent 21 ("An arbitration clauseis what it is: a clause submitting contractual disputes to arbitration."). The clause no doubt memorializes the Tribe'scommitment to adhere to the contract's dispute resolutionregime. That regime has a real world objective; it is notdesigned for regulation of a game lacking practical consequences. And to the real world end, the contract specifically authorizes judicial enforcement of the resolution arrived at through arbitration. See Eyak, 658 P. 2d, at 760("[W]e believe it is clear that any dispute arising from a contract cannot be resolved by arbitration, as specified in thecontract, if one of the parties intends to assert the defenseof sovereign immunity. . . . The arbitration clause . . . wouldbe meaningless if it did not constitute a waiver of whateverimmunity [the Tribe] possessed."); Val/Del, 145 Ariz., at 565,703 P. 2d, at 509 (because the Tribe has "agree[d] that anydispute would be arbitrated and the result entered as a judgment in a court of competent jurisdiction, we find that therewas an express waiver of the tribe's sovereign immunity");cf. Rosebud Sioux Tribe v. Val-U Constr. Co., 50 F. 3d 560,562 (CA8 1995) (agreement to arbitrate contractual disputesdid not contain provision for court enforcement; court nonetheless observed that "disputes could not be resolved by arbitration if one party intended to assert sovereign immunityas a defense").5no occasion to decide whether parallel principles govern state and tribalwaivers of immunity.5 The Tribe's apparent concession--that the arbitration clause embodiesthe parties' agreement to resolve disputes through arbitration--is not altogether consistent with the Tribe's refusal to participate in the arbitrationproceedings.532US2 Unit: $U47 [09-06-02 13:18:53] PAGES PGT: OPIN423Cite as: 532 U. S. 411 (2001)Opinion of the CourtThe Tribe also asserts that a form contract, designed prin-cipally for private parties who have no immunity to waive,cannot establish a clear waiver of tribal suit immunity.Brief for Respondent 20; Tr. of Oral Arg. 27-28. In appropriate cases, we apply "the common-law rule of contract in-terpretation that a court should construe ambiguous language against the interest of the party that drafted it."Mastrobuono v. Shearson Lehman Hutton, Inc., 514 U. S.52, 62 (1995) (construing form contract containing arbitrationclause). That rule, however, is inapposite here. The con-tract, as we have explained, is not ambiguous. Nor did theTribe find itself holding the short end of an adhesion contractstick: The Tribe proposed and prepared the contract; C & Lfoisted no form on a quiescent Tribe. Cf. United States v.Bankers Ins. Co., 245 F. 3d 315, 319-320 (CA4 2001) (wherefederal agency prepared agreement, including its arbitrationprovision, sovereign immunity does not shield the agencyfrom engaging in the arbitration process).6* * *For the reasons stated, we conclude that under the agree-ment the Tribe proposed and signed, the Tribe clearly consented to arbitration and to the enforcement of arbitralawards in Oklahoma state court; the Tribe thereby waivedits sovereign immunity from C & L's suit. The judgment ofthe Oklahoma Court of Civil Appeals is therefore reversed,and the case is remanded for further proceedings not incon-sistent with this opinion.