The question presented in this case is whether an anony-mous tip that a person is carrying a gun is, without more,sufficient to justify a police officer's stop and frisk of thatperson. We hold that it is not.IOn October 13, 1995, an anonymous caller reported to theMiami-Dade Police that a young black male standing at aparticular bus stop and wearing a plaid shirt was carrying agun. App. to Pet. for Cert. A-40 to A-41. So far as therecord reveals, there is no audio recording of the tip, andnothing is known about the informant. Sometime after thepolice received the tip--the record does not say how long--two officers were instructed to respond. They arrived atthe bus stop about six minutes later and saw three blackmales "just hanging out [there]." Id., at A-42. One of thethree, respondent J. L., was wearing a plaid shirt. Id., atA-41. Apart from the tip, the officers had no reason to suspect any of the three of illegal conduct. The officers did notsee a firearm, and J. L. made no threatening or otherwiseunusual movements. Id., at A-42 to A-44. One of the of-ficers approached J. L., told him to put his hands up on thebus stop, frisked him, and seized a gun from J. L.'s pocket.The second officer frisked the other two individuals, againstwhom no allegations had been made, and found nothing.Pennsylvania, Jose A. Fuentes Agostini of Puerto Rico, Sheldon Whitehouse of Rhode Island, Charles M. Condon of South Carolina, Paul G.Summers of Tennessee, John Cornyn of Texas, Jan Graham of Utah,Christine O. Gregoire of Washington, and Gay Woodhouse of Wyoming.Briefs of amici curiae urging affirmance were filed for the Congress ofRacial Equality, Inc., by Stefan B. Tahmassebi; for the National Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers et al. by James J. Tomkovicz and Barbara E. Bergman; for the National Rifle Association of America et al. byRobert Dowlut and David B. Kopel; and for the Rutherford Institute byJohn W. Whitehead and Steven H. Aden.529US1 Unit: $U41 [09-26-01 09:10:16] PAGES PGT: OPIN269Cite as: 529 U. S. 266 (2000)Opinion of the CourtJ. L., who was at the time of the frisk "10 days shy of his16th birth[day]," Tr. of Oral Arg. 6, was charged under statelaw with carrying a concealed firearm without a license andpossessing a firearm while under the age of 18. He movedto suppress the gun as the fruit of an unlawful search, andthe trial court granted his motion. The intermediate appellate court reversed, but the Supreme Court of Floridaquashed that decision and held the search invalid under theFourth Amendment. 727 So. 2d 204 (1998).Anonymous tips, the Florida Supreme Court stated, aregenerally less reliable than tips from known informants andcan form the basis for reasonable suspicion only if accompanied by specific indicia of reliability, for example, the correctforecast of a subject's " `not easily predicted' " movements.Id., at 207 (quoting Alabama v. White, 496 U. S. 325, 332(1990)). The tip leading to the frisk of J. L., the court observed, provided no such predictions, nor did it contain anyother qualifying indicia of reliability. 727 So. 2d, at 207-208.Two justices dissented. The safety of the police and thepublic, they maintained, justifies a "firearm exception" to thegeneral rule barring investigatory stops and frisks on thebasis of bare-boned anonymous tips. Id., at 214-215.Seeking review in this Court, the State of Florida notedthat the decision of the State's Supreme Court conflicts withdecisions of other courts declaring similar searches compati-ble with the Fourth Amendment. See, e. g., United Statesv. DeBerry, 76 F. 3d 884, 886-887 (CA7 1996); United Statesv. Clipper, 973 F. 2d 944, 951 (CADC 1992). We grantedcertiorari, 528 U. S. 963 (1999), and now affirm the judgmentof the Florida Supreme Court.IIOur "stop and frisk" decisions begin with Terry v. Ohio,392 U. S. 1 (1968). This Court held inTerry:"[W]here a police officer observes unusual conductwhich leads him reasonably to conclude in light of his529US1 Unit: $U41 [09-26-01 09:10:16] PAGES PGT: OPIN270 FLORIDA v. J. L.Opinion of the Courtexperience that criminal activity may be afoot and thatthe persons with whom he is dealing may be armed andpresently dangerous, where in the course of investigat-ing this behavior he identifies himself as a policemanand makes reasonable inquiries, and where nothing inthe initial stages of the encounter serves to dispel hisreasonable fear for his own or others' safety, he is enti-tled for the protection of himself and others in the areato conduct a carefully limited search of the outer cloth-ing of such persons in an attempt to discover weaponswhich might be used to assault him." Id., at 30.In the instant case, the officers' suspicion that J. L. wascarrying a weapon arose not from any observations of theirown but solely from a call made from an unknown locationby an unknown caller. Unlike a tip from a known informantwhose reputation can be assessed and who can be held re-sponsible if her allegations turn out to be fabricated, seeAdams v. Williams, 407 U. S. 143, 146-147 (1972), "an anony-mous tip alone seldom demonstrates the informant's basis ofknowledge or veracity," Alabama v. White, 496 U. S., at 329.As we have recognized, however, there are situations inwhich an anonymous tip, suitably corroborated, exhibits "suf-ficient indicia of reliability to provide reasonable suspicion tomake the investigatory stop." Id., at 327. The question wehere confront is whether the tip pointing to J. L. had thoseindicia of reliability.InWhite, the police received an anonymous tip assertingthat a woman was carrying cocaine and predicting that shewould leave an apartment building at a specified time, getinto a car matching a particular description, and drive to anamed motel. Ibid. Standing alone, the tip would not havejustified a Terry stop. 496 U. S., at 329. Only after police observation showed that the informant had accurately predictedthe woman's movements, we explained, did it become reasonable to think the tipster had inside knowledge about the sus-pect and therefore to credit his assertion about the cocaine.529US1 Unit: $U41 [09-26-01 09:10:16] PAGES PGT: OPIN271Cite as: 529 U. S. 266 (2000)Opinion of the CourtId., at 332. Although the Court held that the suspicion inWhite became reasonable after police surveillance, we regarded the case as borderline. Knowledge about a person'sfuture movements indicates some familiarity with that person's affairs, but having such knowledge does not necessarilyimply that the informant knows, in particular, whether thatperson is carrying hidden contraband. We accordingly classified White as a "close case." Ibid.The tip in the instant case lacked the moderate indicia ofreliability present in White and essential to the Court's deci-sion in that case. The anonymous call concerning J. L. provided no predictive information and therefore left the policewithout means to test the informant's knowledge or credibility. That the allegation about the gun turned out to be correct does not suggest that the officers, prior to the frisks,had a reasonable basis for suspecting J. L. of engaging inunlawful conduct: The reasonableness of official suspicionmust be measured by what the officers knew before theyconducted their search. All the police had to go on in thiscase was the bare report of an unknown, unaccountable informant who neither explained how he knew about the gunnor supplied any basis for believing he had inside information about J. L. If White was a close case on the reliabilityof anonymous tips, this one surely falls on the other side ofthe line.Florida contends that the tip was reliable because its description of the suspect's visible attributes proved accurate:There really was a young black male wearing a plaid shirtat the bus stop. Brief for Petitioner 20-21. The UnitedStates as amicus curiae makes a similar argument, proposing that a stop and frisk should be permitted "when (1) ananonymous tip provides a description of a particular personat a particular location illegally carrying a concealed firearm,(2) police promptly verify the pertinent details of the tip except the existence of the firearm, and (3) there are no factorsthat cast doubt on the reliability of the tip . . . ." Brief529US1 Unit: $U41 [09-26-01 09:10:16] PAGES PGT: OPIN272 FLORIDA v. J. L.Opinion of the Courtfor United States 16. These contentions misapprehend thereliability needed for a tip to justify aTerry stop.An accurate description of a subject's readily observablelocation and appearance is of course reliable in this limitedsense: It will help the police correctly identify the personwhom the tipster means to accuse. Such a tip, however,does not show that the tipster has knowledge of concealedcriminal activity. The reasonable suspicion here at issue re-quires that a tip be reliable in its assertion of illegality, notjust in its tendency to identify a determinate person. Cf. 4W. LaFave, Search and Seizure $ 9.4(h), p. 213 (3d ed. 1996)(distinguishing reliability as to identification, which is oftenimportant in other criminal law contexts, from reliability asto the likelihood of criminal activity, which is central inanonymous-tip cases).A second major argument advanced by Florida and theUnited States as amicus is, in essence, that the standardTerry analysis should be modified to license a "firearm exception." Under such an exception, a tip alleging an illegalgun would justify a stop and frisk even if the accusationwould fail standard pre-search reliability testing. We decline to adopt this position.Firearms are dangerous, and extraordinary dangers sometimes justify unusual precautions. Our decisions recognizethe serious threat that armed criminals pose to public safety;Terry's rule, which permits protective police searches on thebasis of reasonable suspicion rather than demanding that officers meet the higher standard of probable cause, respondsto this very concern. See 392 U. S., at 30. But an automatic firearm exception to our established reliability analysiswould rove too far. Such an exception would enable anyperson seeking to harass another to set in motion an intrusive, embarrassing police search of the targeted person simply by placing an anonymous call falsely reporting thetarget's unlawful carriage of a gun. Nor could one securelyconfine such an exception to allegations involving firearms.529US1 Unit: $U41 [09-26-01 09:10:16] PAGES PGT: OPIN273Cite as: 529 U. S. 266 (2000)Opinion of the CourtSeveral Courts of Appeals have held it per se foreseeablefor people carrying significant amounts of illegal drugs to becarrying guns as well. See, e. g., United States v. Sakyi, 160F. 3d 164, 169 (CA4 1998);United States v. Dean, 59 F. 3d1479, 1490, n. 20 (CA5 1995); United States v. Odom, 13 F. 3d949, 959 (CA6 1994);United States v. Martinez, 958 F. 2d217, 219 (CA8 1992). If police officers may properly conductTerry frisks on the basis of bare-boned tips about guns, itwould be reasonable to maintain under the above-cited decisions that the police should similarly have discretion to friskbased on bare-boned tips about narcotics. As we clarifiedwhen we made indicia of reliability critical in Adams andWhite, the Fourth Amendment is not so easily satisfied. Cf.Richards v. Wisconsin, 520 U. S. 385, 393-394 (1997) (reject-ing aper se exception to the "knock and announce" rule fornarcotics cases partly because "the reasons for creating anexception in one category [of Fourth Amendment cases] can,relatively easily, be applied to others," thus allowing the exception to swallow the rule).*The facts of this case do not require us to speculate aboutthe circumstances under which the danger alleged in ananonymous tip might be so great as to justify a search evenwithout a showing of reliability. We do not say, for example,that a report of a person carrying a bomb need bear the*At oral argument, petitioner also advanced the position that J. L.'syouth made the stop and frisk valid, because it is a crime in Florida forpersons under the age of 21 to carry concealed firearms. See Fla. Stat.$ 790.01 (1997) (carrying a concealed weapon without a license is a misdemeanor), $ 790.06(2)(b) (only persons aged 21 or older may be licensed tocarry concealed weapons). This contention misses the mark. Even assuming that the arresting officers could be sure that J. L. was under 21,they would have had reasonable suspicion that J. L. was engaged in criminal activity only if they could be confident that he was carrying a gun inthe first place. The mere fact that a tip, if true, would describe illegalactivity does not mean that the police may make a Terry stop withoutmeeting the reliability requirement, and the fact that J. L. was under 21in no way made the gun tip more reliable than if he had been an adult.529US1 Unit: $U41 [09-26-01 09:10:16] PAGES PGT: OPIN274 FLORIDA v. J. L.Kennedy, J., concurringindicia of reliability we demand for a report of a person car-rying a firearm before the police can constitutionally conducta frisk. Nor do we hold that public safety officials in quar-ters where the reasonable expectation of Fourth Amendmentprivacy is diminished, such as airports, see Florida v. Rodri-guez, 469 U. S. 1 (1984) (per curiam), and schools, see NewJersey v. T. L. O., 469 U. S. 325 (1985), cannot conduct protec-tive searches on the basis of information insufficient to justify searches elsewhere.Finally, the requirement that an anonymous tip bearstandard indicia of reliability in order to justify a stop in noway diminishes a police officer's prerogative, in accord withTerry, to conduct a protective search of a person who hasalready been legitimately stopped. We speak in today's decision only of cases in which the officer's authority to makethe initial stop is at issue. In that context, we hold thatan anonymous tip lacking indicia of reliability of the kindcontemplated inAdams and White does not justify a stopand frisk whenever and however it alleges the illegal possession of a firearm.The judgment of the Florida Supreme Court is affirmed.