This case presents a challenge to a statute enacted by Con-gress to protect minors from exposure to sexually explicitmaterials on the Internet, the Child Online Protection Act*Briefs of amici curiae urging reversal were filed for DuPage County,Illinois, by Richard Hodyl, Jr., and Joseph E. Birkett; for the AmericanCenter for Law and Justice et al. by Jay Alan Sekulow, Stuart J. Roth,Colby M. May, Joel H. Thornton, John P. Tuskey, and Shannon D. Woodruff; for Focus on the Family et al. by William Wagner, Steve Reed, andPat Trueman; for Morality in Media, Inc., by Paul J. McGeady; for WallBuilders, Inc., by Barry C. Hodge; and for Senator John S. McCain et al.by Carol A. Clancy and Bruce A. Taylor.Briefs of amici curiae urging affirmance were filed for the AmericanSociety of Journalists and Authors et al. by Carl A. Solano, Theresa E.Loscalzo, Jennifer DuFault James, and Stephen J. Shapiro; for the Association of American Publishers, Inc., et al. by R. Bruce Rich, JonathanBloom, Jerry Berman, John B. Morris, Jr., and Robert Corn-Revere; andfor Volunteer Lawyers for the Arts et al. by Seth M. Galanter, CharlesH. Kennedy, Lois K. Perrin, and Elliot M. Mincberg.542US2 Unit: $U79 [10-30-06 07:07:24] PAGES PGT: OPIN660 ASHCROFT v. AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNIONOpinion of the Court(COPA), 112 Stat. 2681-736, codified at 47 U. S. C. $ 231. Wemust decide whether the Court of Appeals was correct toaffirm a ruling by the District Court that enforcement ofCOPA should be enjoined because the statute likely violatesthe First Amendment.In enacting COPA, Congress gave consideration to ourearlier decisions on this subject, in particular the decision inReno v. American Civil Liberties Union, 521 U. S. 844(1997). For that reason, "the Judiciary must proceed withcaution and . . . with care before invalidating the Act." Ashcroft v. American Civil Liberties Union, 535 U. S. 564, 592(2002) (Ashcroft I) (Kennedy, J., concurring in judgment).The imperative of according respect to the Congress, however, does not permit us to depart from well-establishedFirst Amendment principles. Instead, we must hold theGovernment to its constitutional burden of proof.Content-based prohibitions, enforced by severe criminalpenalties, have the constant potential to be a repressive forcein the lives and thoughts of a free people. To guard againstthat threat the Constitution demands that content-based restrictions on speech be presumed invalid, R. A. V. v. St. Paul,505 U. S. 377, 382 (1992), and that the Government bear theburden of showing their constitutionality, United States v.Playboy Entertainment Group, Inc., 529 U. S. 803, 817(2000). This is true even when Congress twice has attempted to find a constitutional means to restrict, and punish, the speech in question.This case comes to the Court on certiorari review of anappeal from the decision of the District Court granting apreliminary injunction. The Court of Appeals reviewed thedecision of the District Court for abuse of discretion. Underthat standard, the Court of Appeals was correct to concludethat the District Court did not abuse its discretion in granting the preliminary injunction. The Government has failed,at this point, to rebut the plaintiffs' contention that there areplausible, less restrictive alternatives to the statute. Sub542US2 Unit: $U79 [10-30-06 07:07:24] PAGES PGT: OPIN661Cite as: 542 U. S. 656 (2004)Opinion of the Courtstantial practical considerations, furthermore, argue in favorof upholding the injunction and allowing the case to proceedto trial. For those reasons, we affirm the decision of theCourt of Appeals upholding the preliminary injunction, andwe remand the case so that it may be returned to the DistrictCourt for trial on the issues presented.IACOPA is the second attempt by Congress to make the Internet safe for minors by criminalizing certain Internetspeech. The first attempt was the Communications DecencyAct of 1996, Pub. L. 104-104, $ 502, 110 Stat. 133, 47 U. S. C.$ 223 (1994 ed., Supp. II). The Court held the CDA unconstitutional because it was not narrowly tailored to serve acompelling governmental interest and because less restrictive alternatives were available. Reno, supra.In response to the Court's decision in Reno, Congresspassed COPA. COPA imposes cr iminal pena lties of a$50,000 fine and six months in prison for the knowing posting, for "commercial purposes," of World Wide Web contentthat is "harmful to minors." $ 231(a)(1). Material that is"harmful to minors" is defined as:"any communication, picture, image, graphic image file,article, recording, writing, or other matter of any kindthat is obscene or that--"(A) the average person, applying contemporary community standards, would find, taking the material as awhole and with respect to minors, is designed to appealto, or is designed to pander to, the prurient interest;"(B) depicts, describes, or represents, in a manner patently offensive with respect to minors, an actual orsimulated sexual act or sexual contact, an actual orsimulated normal or perverted sexual act, or a lewd542US2 Unit: $U79 [10-30-06 07:07:24] PAGES PGT: OPIN662 ASHCROFT v. AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNIONOpinion of the Courtexhibition of the genitals or post-pubescent femalebreast; and"(C) taken as a whole, lacks serious literary, artistic, political, or scientific value for minors." $ 231(e)(6)."Minor[s]" are defined as "any person under 17 years ofage." $ 231(e)(7). A person acts for "commercial purposesonly if such person is engaged in the business of making suchcommunications." "Engaged in the business," in turn,"means that the person who makes a communication, oroffers to make a communication, by means of the WorldWide Web, that includes any material that is harmful tominors, devotes time, attention, or labor to such activities, as a regular course of such person's trade or business, with the objective of earning a profit as a result ofsuch activities (although it is not necessary that the person make a profit or that the making or offering to makesuch communications be the person's sole or principalbusiness or source of income)." $ 231(e)(2).While the statute labels all speech that falls within thesedefinitions as criminal speech, it also provides an affirmativedefense to those who employ specified means to prevent minors from gaining access to the prohibited materials on theirWeb site. A person may escape conviction under the statuteby demonstrating that he"has restricted access by minors to material that isharmful to minors--"(A) by requiring use of a credit card, debit account,adult access code, or adult personal identificationnumber;"(B) by accepting a digital certificate that verifies age;or"(C) by any other reasonable measures that are feasibleunder available technology." $ 231(c)(1).542US2 Unit: $U79 [10-30-06 07:07:24] PAGES PGT: OPIN663Cite as: 542 U. S. 656 (2004)Opinion of the CourtSince the passage of COPA, Congress has enacted addi-tional laws regulating the Internet in an attempt to protectminors. For example, it has enacted a prohibition on mis-leading Internet domain names, 18 U. S. C. $ 2252B (2000 ed.,Supp. III), in order to prevent Web site owners from disguis-ing pornographic Web sites in a way likely to cause uninterested persons to visit them. See Brief for Petitioner 7 (giv-ing, as an example, the Web site "whitehouse.com"). It hasalso passed a statute creating a "Dot Kids" second-level In-ternet domain, the content of which is restricted to thatwhich is fit for minors under the age of 13. 47 U. S. C. $ 941(2000 ed., Supp. II).BRespondents, Internet content providers and others con-cerned with protecting the freedom of speech, filed suit inthe United States District Court for the Eastern Districtof Pennsylvania. They sought a preliminary injunctionagainst enforcement of the statute. After considering testi-mony from witnesses presented by both respondents and theGovernment, the District Court issued an order granting thepreliminary injunction. The court first noted that the statute would place a burden on some protected speech. Amer-ican Civil Liberties Union v. Reno, 31 F. Supp. 2d 473, 495(1999). The court then concluded that respondents werelikely to prevail on their argument that there were less restrictive alternatives to the statute: "On the record to date,it is not apparent . . . that [petitioner] can meet its burden toprove that COPA is the least restrictive means available toachieve the goal of restricting the access of minors" to harmful material. Id., at 497. In particular, it noted that "[t]herecord before the Court reveals that blocking or filteringtechnology may be at least as successful as COPA would bein restricting minors' access to harmful material online without imposing the burden on constitutionally protected speechthat COPA imposes on adult users or Web site operators."Ibid.542US2 Unit: $U79 [10-30-06 07:07:24] PAGES PGT: OPIN664 ASHCROFT v. AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNIONOpinion of the CourtThe Government appealed the District Court's decision tothe United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit.The Court of Appeals affirmed the preliminary injunction,but on a different ground. American Civil Liberties Unionv. Reno, 217 F. 3d 162, 166 (2000). The court concluded thatthe "community standards" language in COPA by itselfrendered the statute unconstitutionally overbroad. Ibid.We granted certiorari and reversed, holding that thecommunity-standards language did not, standing alone, makethe statute unconstitutionally overbroad. Ashcroft I, 535U. S., at 585. We emphasized, however, that our decisionwas limited to that narrow issue. Ibid. We remanded thecase to the Court of Appeals to reconsider whether the District Court had been correct to grant the preliminary injunction. On remand, the Court of Appeals again affirmed theDistrict Court. 322 F. 3d 240 (2003). The Court of Appealsconcluded that the statute was not narrowly tailored to servea compelling Government interest, was overbroad, and wasnot the least restrictive means available for the Governmentto serve the interest of preventing minors from using theInternet to gain access to materials that are harmful tothem. Id., at 266-271. The Government once again soughtreview from this Court, and we again granted certiorari.540 U. S. 944 (2003).IIA"This Court, like other appellate courts, has always applied the abuse of discretion standard on review of a preliminary injunction." Walters v. National Assn. of RadiationSurvivors, 473 U. S. 305, 336 (1985) (O'Connor, J., concurring) (internal quotation marks omitted). "The grant of appellate jurisdiction under [28 U. S. C.] $ 1252 does not givethe Court license to depart from established standards ofappellate review." Ibid. If the underlying constitutionalquestion is close, therefore, we should uphold the injunction542US2 Unit: $U79 [10-30-06 07:07:24] PAGES PGT: OPIN665Cite as: 542 U. S. 656 (2004)Opinion of the Courtand remand for trial on the merits. Applying this mode ofinquiry, we agree with the Court of Appeals that the DistrictCourt did not abuse its discretion in entering the preliminaryinjunction. Our reasoning in support of this conclusion,however, is based on narrower, more specific grounds thanthe rationale the Court of Appeals adopted. The Court ofAppeals, in its opinion affirming the decision of the DistrictCourt, construed a number of terms in the statute, and heldthat COPA, so construed, was unconstitutional. None ofthose constructions of statutory terminology, however, wererelied on by or necessary to the conclusions of the DistrictCourt. Instead, the District Court concluded only that thestatute was likely to burden some speech that is protectedfor adults, 31 F. Supp. 2d, at 495, which petitioner does notdispute. As to the definitional disputes, the District Courtconcluded only that respondents' interpretation was "not unreasonable," and relied on their interpretation only to conclude that respondents had standing to challenge the statute,id., at 481, which, again, petitioner does not dispute. Because we affirm the District Court's decision to grant thepreliminary injunction for the reasons relied on by the District Court, we decline to consider the correctness of theother arguments relied on by the Court of Appeals.The District Court, in deciding to grant the preliminaryinjunction, concentrated primarily on the argument thatthere are plausible, less restrictive alternatives to COPA.A statute that "effectively suppresses a large amount ofspeech that adults have a constitutional right to receive andto address to one another . . . is unacceptable if less restrictive alternatives would be at least as effective in achievingthe legitimate purpose that the statute was enacted toserve." Reno, 521 U. S., at 874. When plaintiffs challengea content-based speech restriction, the burden is on the Government to prove that the proposed alternatives will not beas effective as the challenged statute. Ibid.542US2 Unit: $U79 [10-30-06 07:07:24] PAGES PGT: OPIN666 ASHCROFT v. AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNIONOpinion of the CourtIn considering this question, a court assumes that certainprotected speech may be regulated, and then asks what isthe least restrictive alternative that can be used to achievethat goal. The purpose of the test is not to considerwhether the challenged restriction has some effect in achiev-ing Congress' goal, regardless of the restriction it imposes.The purpose of the test is to ensure that speech is restrictedno further than necessary to achieve the goal, for it is impor-tant to ensure that legitimate speech is not chilled or punished. For that reason, the test does not begin with thestatus quo of existing regulations, then ask whether the challenged restriction has some additional ability to achieve Congress' legitimate interest. Any restriction on speech couldbe justified under that analysis. Instead, the court shouldask whether the challenged regulation is the least restrictivemeans among available, effective alternatives.In deciding whether to grant a preliminary injunction, adistrict court must consider whether the plaintiffs have demonstrated that they are likely to prevail on the merits. See,e. g., Doran v. Salem Inn, Inc., 422 U. S. 922, 931 (1975).(The court also considers whether the plaintiff has shownirreparable injury, see ibid., but the parties in this casedo not contest the correctness of the District Court's conclusion that a likelihood of irreparable injury had been established. See 31 F. Supp. 2d, at 497-498.) As the Government bears the burden of proof on the ultimate question ofCOPA's constitutionality, respondents must be deemed likelyto prevail unless the Government has shown that respondents' proposed less restrictive alternatives are less effectivethan COPA. Applying that analysis, the District Court concluded that respondents were likely to prevail. Id., at 496-497. That conclusion was not an abuse of discretion, becauseon this record there are a number of plausible, less restrictive alternatives to the statute.The primary alternative considered by the District Courtwas blocking and filtering software. Blocking and filtering542US2 Unit: $U79 [10-30-06 07:07:24] PAGES PGT: OPIN667Cite as: 542 U. S. 656 (2004)Opinion of the Courtsoftware is an alternative that is less restrictive than COPA,and, in addition, likely more effective as a means of restricting children's access to materials harmful to them. The Dis-trict Court, in granting the preliminary injunction, did soprimarily because the plaintiffs had proposed that filters area less restrictive alternative to COPA and the Governmenthad not shown it would be likely to disprove the plaintiffs'contention at trial. Ibid.Filters are less restrictive than COPA. They impose selective restrictions on speech at the receiving end, not uni-versal restrictions at the source. Under a filtering regime,adults without children may gain access to speech they havea right to see without having to identify themselves or provide their credit card information. Even adults with children may obtain access to the same speech on the sameterms simply by turning off the filter on their home computers. Above all, promoting the use of filters does not condemn as criminal any category of speech, and so the potentialchilling effect is eliminated, or at least much diminished.All of these things are true, moreover, regardless of howbroadly or narrowly the definitions in COPA are construed.Filters also may well be more effective than COPA.First, a filter can prevent minors from seeing all pornography, not just pornography posted to the Web from America.The District Court noted in its factfindings that one witnessestimated that 40% of harmful-to-minors content comes fromoverseas. Id., at 484. COPA does not prevent minors fromhaving access to those foreign harmful materials. Thatalone makes it possible that filtering software might be moreeffective in serving Congress' goals. Effectiveness is likelyto diminish even further if COPA is upheld, because the providers of the materials that would be covered by the statutesimply can move their operations overseas. It is not an answer to say that COPA reaches some amount of materialsthat are harmful to minors; the question is whether it wouldreach more of them than less restrictive alternatives. In542US2 Unit: $U79 [10-30-06 07:07:24] PAGES PGT: OPIN668 ASHCROFT v. AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNIONOpinion of the Courtaddition, the District Court found that verification systemsmay be subject to evasion and circumvention, for example,by minors who have their own credit cards. See id., at 484,496-497. Finally, filters also may be more effective becausethey can be applied to all forms of Internet communication,including e-mail, not just communications available via theWorld Wide Web.That filtering software may well be more effective thanCOPA is confirmed by the findings of the Commission onChild Online Protection, a blue-ribbon Commission createdby Congress in COPA itself. Congress directed the Commission to evaluate the relative merits of different means ofrestricting minors' ability to gain access to harmful materialson the Internet. Note following 47 U. S. C. $ 231. It unambiguously found that filters are more effective than ageverification requirements. See Commission on Child OnlineProtection (COPA), Report to Congress 19-21, 23-25, 27(Oct. 20, 2000) (assigning a score for "Effectiveness" of 7.4for server-based filters and 6.5 for client-based filters, ascompared to 5.9 for independent adult-ID verification, and5.5 for credit card verification). Thus, not only has the Government failed to carry its burden of showing the DistrictCourt that the proposed alternative is less effective, but alsoa Government Commission appointed to consider the question has concluded just the opposite. That finding supportsour conclusion that the District Court did not abuse its discretion in enjoining the statute.Filtering software, of course, is not a perfect solution tothe problem of children gaining access to harmful-to-minorsmaterials. It may block some materials that are not harmful to minors and fail to catch some that are. See 31 F. Supp.2d, at 492. Whatever the deficiencies of filters, however, theGovernment failed to introduce specific evidence provingthat existing technologies are less effective than the restrictions in COPA. The District Court made a specific factfinding that "[n]o evidence was presented to the Court as to the542US2 Unit: $U79 [10-30-06 07:07:24] PAGES PGT: OPIN669Cite as: 542 U. S. 656 (2004)Opinion of the Courtpercentage of time that blocking and filtering technology isover- or underinclusive."Ibid. In the absence of a showing as to the relative effectiveness of COPA and the al-ternatives proposed by respondents, it was not an abuse ofdiscretion for the District Court to grant the preliminaryinjunction. The Government's burden is not merely to showthat a proposed less restrictive alternative has some flaws;its burden is to show that it is less effective. Reno, 521U. S., at 874. It is not enough for the Government to showthat COPA has some effect. Nor do respondents bear a bur-den to introduce, or offer to introduce, evidence that theirproposed alternatives are more effective. The Governmenthas the burden to show they are less so. The Governmenthaving failed to carry its burden, it was not an abuse ofdiscretion for the District Court to grant the preliminaryinjunction.One argument to the contrary is worth mentioning--theargument that filtering software is not an available alternative because Congress may not require it to be used. Thatargument carries little weight, because Congress undoubtedly may act to encourage the use of filters. We have heldthat Congress can give strong incentives to schools and libraries to use them. United States v. American LibraryAssn., Inc., 539 U. S. 194 (2003). It could also take stepsto promote their development by industry, and their use byparents. It is incorrect, for that reason, to say that filtersare part of the current regulatory status quo. The need forparental cooperation does not automatically disqualify a proposed less restrictive alternative. Playboy EntertainmentGroup, 529 U. S., at 824 ("A court should not assume a plausible, less restrictive alternative would be ineffective; and acourt should not presume parents, given full information,will fail to act"). In enacting COPA, Congress said its goalwas to prevent the "widespread availability of the Internet"from providing "opportunities for minors to access materialsthrough the World Wide Web in a manner that can frustrate542US2 Unit: $U79 [10-30-06 07:07:24] PAGES PGT: OPIN670 ASHCROFT v. AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNIONOpinion of the Courtparental supervision or control." Congressional Findings,note following 47 U. S. C. $ 231 (quoting Pub. L. 105-277, Tit.XIV, $ 1402(1), 112 Stat. 2681-736). COPA presumes thatparents lack the ability, not the will, to monitor what theirchildren see. By enacting programs to promote use of fil-tering software, Congress could give parents that abilitywithout subjecting protected speech to severe penalties.The closest precedent on the general point is our decisionin Playboy Entertainment Group. Playboy EntertainmentGroup, like this case, involved a content-based restrictiondesigned to protect minors from viewing harmful materials.The choice was between a blanket speech restriction and amore specific technological solution that was available to parents who chose to implement it. 529 U. S., at 825. Absenta showing that the proposed less restrictive alternativewould not be as effective, we concluded, the more restrictiveoption preferred by Congress could not survive strict scrutiny. Id., at 826 (reversing because "[t]he record is silent asto the comparative effectiveness of the two alternatives").In the instant case, too, the Government has failed to show,at this point, that the proposed less restrictive alternativewill be less effective. The reasoning of Playboy Entertainment Group and the holdings and force of our precedentsrequire us to affirm the preliminary injunction. To do otherwise would be to do less than the First Amendment com-mands. "The `starch' in our constitutional standards cannotbe sacrificed to accommodate the enforcement choices of theGovernment." Id., at 830 (Thomas, J., concurring).BThere are also important practical reasons to let the in-junction stand pending a full trial on the merits. First, thepotential harms from reversing the injunction outweighthose of leaving it in place by mistake. Where a prosecutionis a likely possibility, yet only an affirmative defense is avail-able, speakers may self-censor rather than risk the perils of542US2 Unit: $U79 [10-30-06 07:07:24] PAGES PGT: OPIN671Cite as: 542 U. S. 656 (2004)Opinion of the Courttrial. There is a potential for extraordinary harm and a se-rious chill upon protected speech. Cf.id., at 817 ("Error inmarking that line exacts an extraordinary cost"). The harmdone from letting the injunction stand pending a trial on themerits, in contrast, will not be extensive. No prosecutionshave yet been undertaken under the law, so none will bedisrupted if the injunction stands. Further, if the injunction is upheld, the Government in the interim can enforceobscenity laws already on the books.Second, there are substantial factual disputes remaining inthe case. As mentioned above, there is a serious gap in theevidence as to the effectiveness of filtering software. Seesupra, at 668. For us to assume, without proof, that filtersare less effective than COPA would usurp the DistrictCourt's factfinding role. By allowing the preliminary injunction to stand and remanding for trial, we require theGovernment to shoulder its full constitutional burden ofproof respecting the less restrictive alternative argument,rather than excuse it from doing so.Third, and on a related point, the factual record does notreflect current technological reality--a serious flaw in anycase involving the Internet. The technology of the Internetevolves at a rapid pace. Yet the factfindings of the DistrictCourt were entered in February 1999, over five years ago.Since then, certain facts about the Internet are known tohave changed. Compare, e. g., 31 F. Supp. 2d, at 481 (36.7million Internet hosts as of July 1998), with Internet Systems Consortium, Internet Domain Survey, Jan. 2004, http://www.isc.org/index.pl?/ops/ds (as visited June 22, 2004, andavailable in Clerk of Court's case file) (233.1 million hosts asof Jan. 2004). It is reasonable to assume that other technological developments important to the First Amendmentanalysis have also occurred during that time. More and better filtering alternatives may exist than when the DistrictCourt entered its findings. Indeed, we know that after theDistrict Court entered its factfindings, a congressionally ap542US2 Unit: $U79 [10-30-06 07:07:24] PAGES PGT: OPIN672 ASHCROFT v. AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNIONOpinion of the Courtpointed commission issued a report that found that filters aremore effective than verification screens. See supra, at 668.Delay between the time that a district court makes factfindings and the time that a case reaches this Court is inevitable, with the necessary consequence that there will besome discrepancy between the facts as found and the factsat the time the appellate court takes up the question. See,e. g., Benjamin, Stepping into the Same River Twice: RapidlyChanging Facts and the Appellate Process, 78 Texas L. Rev.269, 290-296 (1999) (noting the problems presented for appellate courts by changing facts in the context of cases involvingthe Internet, and giving as a specific example the Court'sdecision in Reno, 521 U. S. 844). We do not mean, therefore,to set up an insuperable obstacle to fair review. Here, however, the usual gap has doubled because the case has beenthrough the Court of Appeals twice. The additional twoyears might make a difference. By affirming the preliminary injunction and remanding for trial, we allow the partiesto update and supplement the factual record to reflect current technological realities.Remand will also permit the District Court to take account of a changed legal landscape. Since the District Courtmade its factfindings, Congress has passed at least two further statutes that might qualify as less restrictive alternatives to COPA--a prohibition on misleading domain names,and a statute creating a minors-safe "Dot Kids" domain.See supra, at 663. Remanding for trial will allow the District Court to take into account those additional potentialalternatives.On a final point, it is important to note that this opiniondoes not hold that Congress is incapable of enacting any regulation of the Internet designed to prevent minors from gaining access to harmful materials. The parties, because of theconclusion of the Court of Appeals that the statute's definitions rendered it unconstitutional, did not devote their atten542US2 Unit: $U79 [10-30-06 07:07:24] PAGES PGT: OPIN673Cite as: 542 U. S. 656 (2004)Stevens, J., concurringtion to the question whether further evidence might be intro-duced on the relative restrictiveness and effectiveness of alternatives to the statute. On remand, however, the partieswill be able to introduce further evidence on this point.This opinion does not foreclose the District Court from con-cluding, upon a proper showing by the Government thatmeets the Government's constitutional burden as defined inthis opinion, that COPA is the least restrictive alternativeavailable to accomplish Congress' goal.* * *On this record, the Government has not shown that theless restrictive alternatives proposed by respondents shouldbe disregarded. Those alternatives, indeed, may be moreeffective than the provisions of COPA. The District Courtdid not abuse its discretion when it entered the preliminaryinjunction. The judgment of the Court of Appeals is affirmed, and the case is remanded for further proceedingsconsistent with this opinion.