The University of Virginia, an instrumentality of the Com-monwealth for which it is named and thus bound by the Firstand Fourteenth Amendments, authorizes the payment of out-side contractors for the printing costs of a variety of studentpublications. It withheld any authorization for payments onbehalf of petitioners for the sole reason that their student*Briefs of amici curiae urging reversal were filed for the Commonwealth of Virginia by James S. Gilmore III, Attorney General, David E.Anderson, Chief Deputy Attorney General, William Henry Hurd, DeputyAttorney General, and Alison Paige Landry, Assistant Attorney General;for the American Center for Law and Justice by Jay Alan Sekulow, JamesMatthew Henderson, Sr., and Keith A. Fournier; for the Catholic Leaguefor Religious and Civil Rights by Edward M. Gaffney, Jr.; for the Christian Legal Society et al. by Douglas Laycock, Steven T. McFarland, andSamuel B. Casey; and for the Intercollegiate Studies Institute by RobertM. Rader and Donn C. Meindertsma.Briefs of amici curiae urging affirmance were filed for the AmericanCivil Liberties Union et al. by Marjorie Heins, Steven R. Shapiro, andStephen B. Pershing; for Americans United for Separation of Church andState et al. by Steven K. Green, Samuel Rabinove, Jeffrey P. Sinensky,and Steven M. Freeman; for the Baptist Joint Committee on Public Affairset al. by J. Brent Walker, Oliver S. Thomas, Elliot M. Mincberg, MelissaRogers, David Saperstein, and Lois C. Waldman; for the Council on Religious Freedom by Lee Boothby, Walter E. Carson, Robert W. Nixon, andRolland Truman; for the National School Boards Association by Gwendolyn H. Gregory, August W. Steinhilber, and Thomas A. Shannon; for thePacific Legal Foundation by Anthony T. Caso and Deborah J. La Fetra;and for the Student Press Law Center by S. Mark Goodman.515us3$91L 08-18-98 10:04:58 PAGES OPINPGT823Cite as: 515 U. S. 819 (1995)Opinion of the Courtpaper "primarily promotes or manifests a particular belie[f]in or about a deity or an ultimate reality." That the paperdid promote or manifest views within the defined exclusionseems plain enough. The challenge is to the University'sregulation and its denial of authorization, the case raisingissues under the Speech and Establishment Clauses of theFirst Amendment. IThe public corporation we refer to as the "University" isdenominated by state law as "the Rector and Visitors of theUniversity of Virginia," Va. Code Ann. $ 23-69 (1993), and itis responsible for governing the school, see $$ 23-69 to 23-80.Founded by Thomas Jefferson in 1819, and ranked by him,together with the authorship of the Declaration of Independence and of the Virginia Act for Religious Freedom, Va. CodeAnn. $ 57-1 (1950), as one of his proudest achievements, theUniversity is among the Nation's oldest and most respectedseats of higher learning. It has more than 11,000 undergraduate students, and 6,000 graduate and professional stu-dents. An understanding of the case requires a somewhatdetailed description of the program the University createdto support extracurricular student activities on its campus.Before a student group is eligible to submit bills from itsoutside contractors for payment by the fund described below,it must become a "Contracted Independent Organization"(CIO). CIO status is available to any group the majority ofwhose members are students, whose managing officers arefull-time students, and that complies with certain proceduralrequirements. App. to Pet. for Cert. 2a. A CIO must fileits constitution with the University; must pledge not todiscriminate in its membership; and must include in deal-ings with third parties and in all written materials a disclaimer, stating that the CIO is independent of the Univer-sity and that the University is not responsible for the CIO.App. 27-28. CIO's enjoy access to University facilities, in-cluding meeting rooms and computer terminals. Id., at 30.515us3$91L 08-18-98 10:04:58 PAGES OPINPGT824 ROSENBERGER v. RECTOR AND VISITORSOF UNIV. OF VA.Opinion of the CourtA standard agreement signed between each CIO and theUniversity provides that the benefits and opportunities afforded to CIO's "should not be misinterpreted as meaningthat those organizations are part of or controlled by the University, that the University is responsible for the organizations' contracts or other acts or omissions, or that the Uni-versity approves of the organizations' goals or activities."Id., at 26.All CIO's may exist and operate at the University, butsome are also entitled to apply for funds from the StudentActivities Fund (SAF). Established and governed by University Guidelines, the purpose of the SAF is to support abroad range of extracurricular student activities that "arerelated to the educational purpose of the University." App.to Pet. for Cert. 61a. The SAF is based on the University's"recogni[tion] that the availability of a wide range of opportunities" for its students "tends to enhance the Universityenvironment." App. 26. The Guidelines require that it beadministered "in a manner consistent with the educationalpurpose of the University as well as with state and federallaw." App. to Pet. for Cert. 61a. The SAF receives itsmoney from a mandatory fee of $14 per semester assessed toeach full-time student. The Student Council, elected by thestudents, has the initial authority to disburse the funds, butits actions are subject to review by a faculty body chairedby a designee of the Vice President for Student Affairs.Cf. id., at 63a-64a.Some, but not all, CIO's may submit disbursement requests to the SAF. The Guidelines recognize 11 categoriesof student groups that may seek payment to third-party contractors because they "are related to the educational purposeof the University of Virginia." Id., at 61a-62a. One ofthese is "student news, information, opinion, entertainment,or academic communications media groups." Id., at 61a.The Guidelines also specify, however, that the costs of certain activities of CIO's that are otherwise eligible for funding515us3$91L 08-18-98 10:04:58 PAGES OPINPGT825Cite as: 515 U. S. 819 (1995)Opinion of the Courtwill not be reimbursed by the SAF. The student activitiesthat are excluded from SAF support are religious activities,philanthropic contributions and activities, political activities,activities that would jeopardize the University's tax-exemptstatus, those which involve payment of honoraria or similarfees, or social entertainment or related expenses. Id., at62a-63a. The prohibition on "political activities" is definedso that it is limited to electioneering and lobbying. TheGuidelines provide that "[t]hese restrictions on funding political activities are not intended to preclude funding of anyotherwise eligible student organization which . . . espousesparticular positions or ideological viewpoints, including thosethat may be unpopular or are not generally accepted." Id.,at 65a-66a. A "religious activity," by contrast, is defined asany activity that "primarily promotes or manifests a particular belie[f] in or about a deity or an ultimate reality." Id.,at 66a.The Guidelines prescribe these criteria for determiningthe amounts of third-party disbursements that will be allowed on behalf of each eligible student organization: the sizeof the group, its financial self-sufficiency, and the Universitywide benefit of its activities. If an organization seeks SAFsupport, it must submit its bills to the Student Council,which pays the organization's creditors upon determiningthat the expenses are appropriate. No direct payments aremade to the student groups. During the 1990-1991 academic year, 343 student groups qualified as CIO's. Onehundred thirty-five of them applied for support from theSAF, and 118 received funding. Fifteen of the groupswere funded as "student news, information, opinion, entertainment, or academic communications media groups."Petitioners' organization, Wide Awake Productions (WAP),qualified as a CIO. Formed by petitioner Ronald Rosenberger and other undergraduates in 1990, WAP was established "[t]o publish a magazine of philosophical and religiousexpression," "[t]o facilitate discussion which fosters an at515us3$91L 08-18-98 10:04:58 PAGES OPINPGT826 ROSENBERGER v. RECTOR AND VISITORSOF UNIV. OF VA.Opinion of the Courtmosphere of sensitivity to and tolerance of Christian viewpoints," and "[t]o provide a unifying focus for Christiansof multicultural backgrounds." App. 67. WAP publishesWide Awake: A Christian Perspective at the University ofVirginia. The paper's Christian viewpoint was evident fromthe first issue, in which its editors wrote that the journal"offers a Christian perspective on both personal and community issues, especially those relevant to college students atthe University of Virginia." App. 45. The editors committed the paper to a two-fold mission: "to challenge Christians to live, in word and deed, according to the faith theyproclaim and to encourage students to consider what a personal relationship with Jesus Christ means." Ibid. Thefirst issue had articles about racism, crisis pregnancy, stress,prayer, C. S. Lewis' ideas about evil and free will, and reviews of religious music. In the next two issues, WideAwake featured stories about homosexuality, Christian missionary work, and eating disorders, as well as music reviewsand interviews with University professors. Each page ofWide Awake, and the end of each article or review, is markedby a cross. The advertisements carried in Wide Awake alsoreveal the Christian perspective of the journal. For themost part, the advertisers are churches, centers for Christian study, or Christian bookstores. By June 1992, WAP haddistributed about 5,000 copies of Wide Awake to Universitystudents, free of charge.WAP had acquired CIO status soon after it was organized.This is an important consideration in this case, for had itbeen a "religious organization," WAP would not have beenaccorded CIO status. As defined by the Guidelines, a "[r]eligious [o]rganization" is "an organization whose purpose is topractice a devotion to an acknowledged ultimate reality ordeity." App. to Pet. for Cert. 66a. At no stage in this controversy has the University contended that WAP is such anorganization.515us3$91L 08-18-98 10:04:58 PAGES OPINPGT827Cite as: 515 U. S. 819 (1995)Opinion of the CourtA few months after being given CIO status, WAP requested the SAF to pay its printer $5,862 for the costs ofprinting its newspaper. The Appropriations Committee ofthe Student Council denied WAP's request on the groundthat Wide Awake was a "religious activity" within the meaning of the Guidelines, i. e., that the newspaper "promote[d]or manifest[ed] a particular belie[f] in or about a deity oran ultimate reality." Ibid. It made its determination afterexamining the first issue. App. 54. WAP appealed the denial to the full Student Council, contending that WAP metall the applicable Guidelines and that denial of SAF supporton the basis of the magazine's religious perspective violatedthe Constitution. The appeal was denied without furthercomment, and WAP appealed to the next level, the StudentActivities Committee. In a letter signed by the Dean ofStudents, the committee sustained the denial of funding.App. 55.Having no further recourse within the University structure, WAP, Wide Awake, and three of its editors and members filed suit in the United States District Court for theWestern District of Virginia, challenging the SAF's action asviolative of Rev. Stat. $ 1979, 42 U. S. C. $ 1983. They alleged that refusal to authorize payment of the printing costsof the publication, solely on the basis of its religious editorialviewpoint, violated their rights to freedom of speech andpress, to the free exercise of religion, and to equal protectionof the law. They relied also upon Article I of the VirginiaConstitution and the Virginia Act for Religious Freedom, Va.Code Ann. $$ 57-1, 57-2 (1986 and Supp. 1994), but did notpursue those theories on appeal. The suit sought damagesfor the costs of printing the paper, injunctive and declaratoryrelief, and attorney's fees.On cross-motions for summary judgment, the DistrictCourt ruled for the University, holding that denial of SAFsupport was not an impermissible content or viewpoint dis515us3$91L 08-18-98 10:04:58 PAGES OPINPGT828 ROSENBERGER v. RECTOR AND VISITORSOF UNIV. OF VA.Opinion of the Courtcrimination against petitioners' speech, and that the Univer-sity's Establishment Clause concern over its "religious activities" was a sufficient justification for denying payment tothird-party contractors. The court did not issue a definitiveruling on whether reimbursement, had it been made here,would or would not have violated the Establishment Clause.795 F. Supp. 175, 181-182 (WD Va. 1992).The United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit,in disagreement with the District Court, held that the Guide-lines did discriminate on the basis of content. It ruled that,while the State need not underwrite speech, there was a pre-sumptive violation of the Speech Clause when viewpoint discrimination was invoked to deny third-party payment other-wise available to CIO's. 18 F. 3d 269, 279-281 (1994). TheCourt of Appeals affirmed the judgment of the DistrictCourt nonetheless, concluding that the discrimination by theUniversity was justified by the "compelling interest in main-taining strict separation of church and state." Id., at 281.We granted certiorari. 513 U. S. 959 (1994).IIIt is axiomatic that the government may not regulatespeech based on its substantive content or the message itconveys. Police Dept. of Chicago v. Mosley, 408 U. S. 92, 96(1972). Other principles follow from this precept. In therealm of private speech or expression, government regula-tion may not favor one speaker over another. Members ofCity Council of Los Angeles v. Taxpayers for Vincent, 466U. S. 789, 804 (1984). Discrimination against speech becauseof its message is presumed to be unconstitutional. SeeTurner Broadcasting System, Inc. v. FCC, 512 U. S. 622,641-643 (1994). These rules informed our determinationthat the government offends the First Amendment when itimposes financial burdens on certain speakers based on thecontent of their expression. Simon & Schuster, Inc. v.Members of N. Y. State Crime Victims Bd., 502 U. S. 105,515us3$91L 08-18-98 10:04:58 PAGES OPINPGT829Cite as: 515 U. S. 819 (1995)Opinion of the Court115 (1991). When the government targets not subject mat-ter, but particular views taken by speakers on a subject, theviolation of the First Amendment is all the more blatant.SeeR. A. V. v. St. Paul, 505 U. S. 377, 391 (1992). Viewpointdiscrimination is thus an egregious form of content discrimination. The government must abstain from regulatingspeech when the specific motivating ideology or the opinionor perspective of the speaker is the rationale for the restric-tion. SeePerry Ed. Assn. v. Perry Local Educators' Assn.,460 U. S. 37, 46 (1983).These principles provide the framework forbidding theState to exercise viewpoint discrimination, even when thelimited public forum is one of its own creation. In a caseinvolving a school district's provision of school facilities forprivate uses, we declared that "[t]here is no question thatthe District, like the private owner of property, may legallypreserve the property under its control for the use to whichit is dedicated." Lamb's Chapel v. Center Moriches UnionFree School Dist., 508 U. S. 384, 390 (1993). The necessitiesof confining a forum to the limited and legitimate purposesfor which it was created may justify the State in reservingit for certain groups or for the discussion of certain topics.See, e. g., Cornelius v. NAACP Legal Defense & Ed. Fund,Inc., 473 U. S. 788, 806 (1985); Perry Ed. Assn., supra, at 49.Once it has opened a limited forum, however, the State mustrespect the lawful boundaries it has itself set. The Statemay not exclude speech where its distinction is not "reasonable in light of the purpose served by the forum," Cornelius,supra, at 804-806; see also Perry Ed. Assn., supra, at 46, 49,nor may it discriminate against speech on the basis of itsviewpoint, Lamb's Chapel, supra, at 392-393; see also PerryEd. Assn., supra, at 46; R. A. V., supra, at 386-388, 391-393;cf. Texas v. Johnson, 491 U. S. 397, 414-415 (1989). Thus, indetermining whether the State is acting to preserve the limits of the forum it has created so that the exclusion of a classof speech is legitimate, we have observed a distinction be515us3$91L 08-18-98 10:04:58 PAGES OPINPGT830 ROSENBERGER v. RECTOR AND VISITORSOF UNIV. OF VA.Opinion of the Courttween, on the one hand, content discrimination, which maybe permissible if it preserves the purposes of that limitedforum, and, on the other hand, viewpoint discrimination,which is presumed impermissible when directed againstspeech otherwise within the forum's limitations. See PerryEd. Assn., supra, at 46.The SAF is a forum more in a metaphysical than in a spatial or geographic sense, but the same principles are applica-ble. See,e. g., Perry Ed. Assn., supra, at 46-47 (forum analysis of a school mail system); Cornelius, supra, at 801 (forumanalysis of charitable contribution program). The most recent and most apposite case is our decision in Lamb's Chapel,supra. There, a school district had opened school facilitiesfor use after school hours by community groups for a widevariety of social, civic, and recreational purposes. The district, however, had enacted a formal policy against openingfacilities to groups for religious purposes. Invoking its policy, the district rejected a request from a group desiring toshow a film series addressing various child-rearing questionsfrom a "Christian perspective." There was no indication inthe record in Lamb's Chapel that the request to use theschool facilities was "denied, for any reason other than thefact that the presentation would have been from a religiousperspective." 508 U. S., at 393-394. Our conclusion wasunanimous: "[I]t discriminates on the basis of viewpoint topermit school property to be used for the presentation ofall views about family issues and child rearing except thosedealing with the subject matter from a religious standpoint."Id., at 393.The University does acknowledge (as it must in light of ourprecedents) that "ideologically driven attempts to suppress aparticular point of view are presumptively unconstitutionalin funding, as in other contexts," but insists that this casedoes not present that issue because the Guidelines draw linesbased on content, not viewpoint. Brief for Respondents 17,n. 10. As we have noted, discrimination against one set of515us3$91L 08-18-98 10:04:58 PAGES OPINPGT831Cite as: 515 U. S. 819 (1995)Opinion of the Courtviews or ideas is but a subset or particular instance of themore general phenomenon of content discrimination. See,e. g., R. A. V., supra, at 391. And, it must be acknowledged,the distinction is not a precise one. It is, in a sense, something of an understatement to speak of religious thought anddiscussion as just a viewpoint, as distinct from a comprehen-sive body of thought. The nature of our origins and destinyand their dependence upon the existence of a divine beinghave been subjects of philosophic inquiry throughout humanhistory. We conclude, nonetheless, that here, as in Lamb'sChapel, viewpoint discrimination is the proper way to interpret the University's objections to Wide Awake. By thevery terms of the SAF prohibition, the University does notexclude religion as a subject matter but selects for disfavored treatment those student journalistic efforts with religious editorial viewpoints. Religion may be a vast area ofinquiry, but it also provides, as it did here, a specific premise,a perspective, a standpoint from which a variety of subjectsmay be discussed and considered. The prohibited perspective, not the general subject matter, resulted in the refusal tomake third-party payments, for the subjects discussed wereotherwise within the approved category of publications.The dissent's assertion that no viewpoint discriminationoccurs because the Guidelines discriminate against an entireclass of viewpoints reflects an insupportable assumption thatall debate is bipolar and that antireligious speech is the onlyresponse to religious speech. Our understanding of thecomplex and multifaceted nature of public discourse has notembraced such a contrived description of the marketplace ofideas. If the topic of debate is, for example, racism, thenexclusion of several views on that problem is just as offensiveto the First Amendment as exclusion of only one. It is asobjectionable to exclude both a theistic and an atheistic perspective on the debate as it is to exclude one, the other, oryet another political, economic, or social viewpoint. The dissent's declaration that debate is not skewed so long as multi515us3$91L 08-18-98 10:04:58 PAGES OPINPGT832 ROSENBERGER v. RECTOR AND VISITORSOF UNIV. OF VA.Opinion of the Courtple voices are silenced is simply wrong; the debate is skewedin multiple ways.The University's denial of WAP's request for third-partypayments in the present case is based upon viewpoint discrimination not unlike the discrimination the school districtrelied upon in Lamb's Chapel and that we found invalid.The church group inLamb's Chapel would have been qualified as a social or civic organization, save for its religiouspurposes. Furthermore, just as the school district inLamb's Chapel pointed to nothing but the religious views ofthe group as the rationale for excluding its message, so inthis case the University justifies its denial of SAF participation to WAP on the ground that the contents of Wide Awakereveal an avowed religious perspective. See supra, at 827.It bears only passing mention that the dissent's attempt todistinguish Lamb's Chapel is entirely without support in thelaw. Relying on the transcript of oral argument, the dissentseems to argue that we found viewpoint discrimination inthat case because the government excluded Christian, butnot atheistic, viewpoints from being expressed in the forumthere. Post, at 897-898, and n. 13. The Court relied on nosuch distinction in holding that discriminating against religious speech was discriminating on the basis of viewpoint.There is no indication in the opinion of the Court (which,unlike an advocate's statements at oral argument, is the law)that exclusion or inclusion of other religious or antireligiousvoices from that forum had any bearing on its decision.The University tries to escape the consequences of ourholding in Lamb's Chapel by urging that this case involvesthe provision of funds rather than access to facilities. TheUniversity begins with the unremarkable proposition thatthe State must have substantial discretion in determininghow to allocate scarce resources to accomplish its educationalmission. Citing our decisions in Rust v. Sullivan, 500 U. S.173 (1991), Regan v. Taxation with Representation of Wash.,461 U. S. 540 (1983), and Widmar v. Vincent, 454 U. S. 263515us3$91L 08-18-98 10:04:58 PAGES OPINPGT833Cite as: 515 U. S. 819 (1995)Opinion of the Court(1981), the University argues that content-based funding de-cisions are both inevitable and lawful. Were the reasoningof Lamb's Chapel to apply to funding decisions as well as tothose involving access to facilities, it is urged, its holding"would become a judicial juggernaut, constitutionalizing theubiquitous content-based decisions that schools, colleges, andother government entities routinely make in the allocationof public funds." Brief for Respondents 16.To this end the University relies on our assurance inWidmar v. Vincent, supra. There, in the course of strikingdown a public university's exclusion of religious groups fromuse of school facilities made available to all other studentgroups, we stated: "Nor do we question the right of theUniversity to make academic judgments as to how best toallocate scarce resources." 454 U. S., at 276. The quotedlanguage in Widmar was but a proper recognition of theprinciple that when the State is the speaker, it may makecontent-based choices. When the University determines thecontent of the education it provides, it is the Universityspeaking, and we have permitted the government to regulatethe content of what is or is not expressed when it is thespeaker or when it enlists private entities to convey its ownmessage. In the same vein, in Rust v. Sullivan, supra, weupheld the government's prohibition on abortion-related advice applicable to recipients of federal funds for family planning counseling. There, the government did not create aprogram to encourage private speech but instead used private speakers to transmit specific information pertaining toits own program. We recognized that when the governmentappropriates public funds to promote a particular policy ofits own it is entitled to say what it wishes. 500 U. S., at 194.When the government disburses public funds to privateentities to convey a governmental message, it may takelegitimate and appropriate steps to ensure that its messageis neither garbled nor distorted by the grantee. See id.,at 196-200.515us3$91L 08-18-98 10:04:58 PAGES OPINPGT834 ROSENBERGER v. RECTOR AND VISITORSOF UNIV. OF VA.Opinion of the CourtIt does not follow, however, and we did not suggest inWidmar, that viewpoint-based restrictions are proper whenthe University does not itself speak or subsidize transmittalof a message it favors but instead expends funds to encourage a diversity of views from private speakers. A holdingthat the University may not discriminate based on the view-point of private persons whose speech it facilitates does notrestrict the University's own speech, which is controlled bydifferent principles. See,e. g., Board of Ed. of WestsideCommunity Schools (Dist. 66) v. Mergens, 496 U. S. 226, 250(1990);Hazelwood School Dist. v. Kuhlmeier, 484 U. S. 260,270-272 (1988). For that reason, the University's relianceon Regan v. Taxation with Representation of Wash., supra,is inapposite as well. Regan involved a challenge to Congress' choice to grant tax deductions for contributions madeto veterans' groups engaged in lobbying, while denying thatfavorable status to other charities which pursued lobbyingefforts. Although acknowledging that the Government isnot required to subsidize the exercise of fundamental rights,see 461 U. S., at 545-546, we reaffirmed the requirement ofviewpoint neutrality in the Government's provision of financial benefits by observing that "[t]he case would be differentif Congress were to discriminate invidiously in its subsidiesin such a way as to `ai[m] at the suppression of dangerousideas,' " see id., at 548 (quoting Cammarano v. United States,358 U. S. 498, 513 (1959), in turn quoting Speiser v. Randall,357 U. S. 513, 519 (1958)). Regan relied on a distinctionbased on preferential treatment of certain speakers--veterans' organizations--and not a distinction based on the content or messages of those groups' speech. 461 U. S., at 548;cf. Perry Ed. Assn., 460 U. S., at 49. The University's regulation now before us, however, has a speech-based restrictionas its sole rationale and operative principle.The distinction between the University's own favored message and the private speech of students is evident in the casebefore us. The University itself has taken steps to ensure515us3$91L 08-18-98 10:04:58 PAGES OPINPGT835Cite as: 515 U. S. 819 (1995)Opinion of the Courtthe distinction in the agreement each CIO must sign. Seesupra, at 824. The University declares that the studentgroups eligible for SAF support are not the University'sagents, are not subject to its control, and are not its responsibility. Having offered to pay the third-party contractors onbehalf of private speakers who convey their own messages,the University may not silence the expression of selectedviewpoints.The University urges that, from a constitutional standpoint, funding of speech differs from provision of access tofacilities because money is scarce and physical facilities arenot. Beyond the fact that in any given case this propositionmight not be true as an empirical matter, the underlyingpremise that the University could discriminate based onviewpoint if demand for space exceeded its availability iswrong as well. The government cannot justify viewpointdiscrimination among private speakers on the economic factof scarcity. Had the meeting rooms in Lamb's Chapel beenscarce, had the demand been greater than the supply, ourdecision would have been no different. It would have beenincumbent on the State, of course, to ration or allocate thescarce resources on some acceptable neutral principle; butnothing in our decision indicated that scarcity would give theState the right to exercise viewpoint discrimination that isotherwise impermissible.Vital First Amendment speech principles are at stakehere. The first danger to liberty lies in granting the Statethe power to examine publications to determine whether ornot they are based on some ultimate idea and, if so, for theState to classify them. The second, and corollary, danger isto speech from the chilling of individual thought and expression. That danger is especially real in the University setting, where the State acts against a background and traditionof thought and experiment that is at the center of our intellectual and philosophic tradition. See Healy v. James, 408U. S. 169, 180-181 (1972); Keyishian v. Board of Regents of515us3$91L 08-18-98 10:04:58 PAGES OPINPGT836 ROSENBERGER v. RECTOR AND VISITORSOF UNIV. OF VA.Opinion of the CourtUniv. of State of N. Y., 385 U. S. 589, 603 (1967); Sweezy v.New Hampshire, 354 U. S. 234, 250 (1957). In ancient Athens, and, as Europe entered into a new period of intellectualawakening, in places like Bologna, Oxford, and Paris, universities began as voluntary and spontaneous assemblages orconcourses for students to speak and to write and to learn.See generally R. Palmer & J. Colton, A History of the Modern World 39 (7th ed. 1992). The quality and creative powerof student intellectual life to this day remains a vital measure of a school's influence and attainment. For the Univer-sity, by regulation, to cast disapproval on particular viewpoints of its students risks the suppression of free speech andcreative inquiry in one of the vital centers for the Nation'sintellectual life, its college and university campuses.The Guideline invoked by the University to deny thirdparty contractor payments on behalf of WAP effects asweeping restriction on student thought and student inquiryin the context of University sponsored publications. Theprohibition on funding on behalf of publications that "primarily promot[e] or manifes[t] a particular belie[f] in or about adeity or an ultimate reality," in its ordinary and commonsense meaning, has a vast potential reach. The term "promotes" as used here would comprehend any writing advocating a philosophic position that rests upon a belief in a deityor ultimate reality. See Webster's Third New InternationalDictionary 1815 (1961) (defining "promote" as "to contributeto the growth, enlargement, or prosperity of: further, encourage"). And the term "manifests" would bring withinthe scope of the prohibition any writing that is explicable asresting upon a premise that presupposes the existence of adeity or ultimate reality. See id., at 1375 (defining "manifest" as "to show plainly: make palpably evident or certainby showing or displaying"). Were the prohibition appliedwith much vigor at all, it would bar funding of essays byhypothetical student contributors named Plato, Spinoza, andDescartes. And if the regulation covers, as the University515us3$91L 08-18-98 10:04:58 PAGES OPINPGT837Cite as: 515 U. S. 819 (1995)Opinion of the Courtsays it does, see Tr. of Oral Arg. 18-19, those student jour-nalistic efforts that primarily manifest or promote a beliefthat there is no deity and no ultimate reality, then under-graduates named Karl Marx, Bertrand Russell, and JeanPaul Sartre would likewise have some of their major essaysexcluded from student publications. If any manifestation ofbeliefs in first principles disqualifies the writing, as seems tobe the case, it is indeed difficult to name renowned thinkerswhose writings would be accepted, save perhaps for articlesdisclaiming all connection to their ultimate philosophy.Plato could contrive perhaps to submit an acceptable essayon making pasta or peanut butter cookies, provided he didnot point out their (necessary) imperfections.Based on the principles we have discussed, we hold thatthe regulation invoked to deny SAF support, both in itsterms and in its application to these petitioners, is a denialof their right of free speech guaranteed by the First Amend-ment. It remains to be considered whether the violation following from the University's action is excused by the neces-sity of complying with the Constitution's prohibition againststate establishment of religion. We turn to that question.IIIBefore its brief on the merits in this Court, the Universityhad argued at all stages of the litigation that inclusion ofWAP's contractors in SAF funding authorization would vio-late the Establishment Clause. Indeed, that is the groundon which the University prevailed in the Court of Appeals.We granted certiorari on this question: "Whether the Establishment Clause compels a state university to exclude an oth-erwise eligible student publication from participation in thestudent activities fund, solely on the basis of its religiousviewpoint, where such exclusion would violate the Speechand Press Clauses if the viewpoint of the publication werenonreligious." Pet. for Cert. i. The University now seemsto have abandoned this position, contending that "[t]he fun515us3$91L 08-18-98 10:04:58 PAGES OPINPGT838 ROSENBERGER v. RECTOR AND VISITORSOF UNIV. OF VA.Opinion of the Courtdamental objection to petitioners' argument is not that itimplicates the Establishment Clause but that it would defeatthe ability of public education at all levels to control the useof public funds." Brief for Respondents 29; seeid., at 27-29,and n. 17; Tr. of Oral Arg. 14. That the University itselfno longer presses the Establishment Clause claim is someindication that it lacks force; but as the Court of Appealsrested its judgment on the point and our dissenting col-leagues would find it determinative, it must be addressed.The Court of Appeals ruled that withholding SAF supportfrom Wide Awake contravened the Speech Clause of theFirst Amendment, but proceeded to hold that the University's action was justified by the necessity of avoiding a violation of the Establishment Clause, an interest it found compelling. 18 F. 3d, at 281. Recognizing that this Court hasregularly "sanctioned awards of direct nonmonetary benefitsto religious groups where government has created open forato which all similarly situated organizations are invited,"id., at 286 (citing Widmar, 454 U. S., at 277), the FourthCircuit asserted that direct monetary subsidization of religious organizations and projects is "a beast of an entirelydifferent color," 18 F. 3d, at 286. The court declared thatthe Establishment Clause would not permit the use of publicfunds to support " `a specifically religious activity in an otherwise substantially secular setting.' " Id., at 285 (quotingHunt v. McNair, 413 U. S. 734, 743 (1973) (emphasis deleted)). It reasoned that because Wide Awake is "a journalpervasively devoted to the discussion and advancement of anavowedly Christian theological and personal philosophy," theUniversity's provision of SAF funds for its publication would"send an unmistakably clear signal that the University ofVirginia supports Christian values and wishes to promotethe wide promulgation of such values." 18 F. 3d, at 286.If there is to be assurance that the Establishment Clauseretains its force in guarding against those governmental actions it was intended to prohibit, we must in each case in515us3$91L 08-18-98 10:04:58 PAGES OPINPGT839Cite as: 515 U. S. 819 (1995)Opinion of the Courtquire first into the purpose and object of the governmentalaction in question and then into the practical details of theprogram's operation. Before turning to these matters, how-ever, we can set forth certain general principles that mustbear upon our determination.A central lesson of our decisions is that a significant factorin upholding governmental programs in the face of Establishment Clause attack is their neutrality towards religion.We have decided a series of cases addressing the receipt ofgovernment benefits where religion or religious views areimplicated in some degree. The first case in our modernEstablishment Clause jurisprudence was Everson v. Boardof Ed. of Ewing, 330 U. S. 1 (1947). There we cautioned thatin enforcing the prohibition against laws respecting establishment of religion, we must "be sure that we do not inadvertently prohibit [the government] from extending its general state law benefits to all its citizens without regard totheir religious belief." Id., at 16. We have held that theguarantee of neutrality is respected, not offended, when thegovernment, following neutral criteria and evenhanded policies, extends benefits to recipients whose ideologies andviewpoints, including religious ones, are broad and diverse.See Board of Ed. of Kiryas Joel Village School Dist. v.Grumet, 512 U. S. 687, 704 (1994) (Souter, J.) ("[T]he principle is well grounded in our case law [and] we have frequentlyrelied explicitly on the general availability of any benefit provided religious groups or individuals in turning aside Establishment Clause challenges"); Witters v. Washington Dept.of Servs. for Blind, 474 U. S. 481, 487-488 (1986); Mueller v.Allen, 463 U. S. 388, 398-399 (1983); Widmar, supra, at 274-275. More than once have we rejected the position that theEstablishment Clause even justifies, much less requires, arefusal to extend free speech rights to religious speakerswho participate in broad-reaching government programsneutral in design. See Lamb's Chapel, 508 U. S., at 393-394;Mergens, 496 U. S., at 248, 252; Widmar, supra, at 274-275.515us3$91L 08-18-98 10:04:58 PAGES OPINPGT840 ROSENBERGER v. RECTOR AND VISITORSOF UNIV. OF VA.Opinion of the CourtThe governmental program here is neutral toward reli-gion. There is no suggestion that the University created itto advance religion or adopted some ingenious device withthe purpose of aiding a religious cause. The object of theSAF is to open a forum for speech and to support variousstudent enterprises, including the publication of newspapers,in recognition of the diversity and creativity of student life.The University's SAF Guidelines have a separate classifica-tion for, and do not make third-party payments on behalf of,"religious organizations," which are those "whose purpose isto practice a devotion to an acknowledged ultimate realityor deity." Pet. for Cert. 66a. The category of support hereis for "student news, information, opinion, entertainment, oracademic communications media groups," of which WideAwake was 1 of 15 in the 1990 school year. WAP did notseek a subsidy because of its Christian editorial viewpoint;it sought funding as a student journal, which it was.The neutrality of the program distinguishes the studentfees from a tax levied for the direct support of a church orgroup of churches. A tax of that sort, of course, would runcontrary to Establishment Clause concerns dating from theearliest days of the Republic. The apprehensions of ourpredecessors involved the levying of taxes upon the publicfor the sole and exclusive purpose of establishing and supporting specific sects. The exaction here, by contrast, is astudent activity fee designed to reflect the reality that student life in its many dimensions includes the necessity ofwide-ranging speech and inquiry and that student expressionis an integral part of the University's educational mission.The fee is mandatory, and we do not have before us the question whether an objecting student has the First Amendmentright to demand a pro rata return to the extent the fee isexpended for speech to which he or she does not subscribe.See Keller v. State Bar of Cal., 496 U. S. 1, 15-16 (1990);Abood v. Detroit Bd. of Ed., 431 U. S. 209, 235-236 (1977).We must treat it, then, as an exaction upon the students.515us3$91L 08-18-98 10:04:58 PAGES OPINPGT841Cite as: 515 U. S. 819 (1995)Opinion of the CourtBut the $14 paid each semester by the students is not a gen-eral tax designed to raise revenue for the University. SeeUnited States v. Butler, 297 U. S. 1, 61 (1936) ("A tax, inthe general understanding of the term, and as used in theConstitution, signifies an exaction for the support of the Government"); see also Head Money Cases, 112 U. S. 580, 595-596 (1884). The SAF cannot be used for unlimited purposes,much less the illegitimate purpose of supporting one religion.Much like the arrangement inWidmar, the money goes to aspecial fund from which any group of students with CIO sta-tus can draw for purposes consistent with the University'seducational mission; and to the extent the student is interested in speech, withdrawal is permitted to cover the wholespectrum of speech, whether it manifests a religious view, anantireligious view, or neither. Our decision, then, cannot beread as addressing an expenditure from a general tax fund.Here, the disbursements from the fund go to private contractors for the cost of printing that which is protected underthe Speech Clause of the First Amendment. This is a farcry from a general public assessment designed and effectedto provide financial support for a church.Government neutrality is apparent in the State's overallscheme in a further meaningful respect. The program respects the critical difference "between government speechendorsing religion, which the Establishment Clause forbids,and private speech endorsing religion, which the FreeSpeech and Free Exercise Clauses protect." Mergens,supra, at 250 (opinion of O'Connor, J.). In this case, "thegovernment has not fostered or encouraged" any mistakenimpression that the student newspapers speak for the University. Capitol Square Review and Advisory Bd. v. Pinette, ante, at 766. The University has taken pains to disassociate itself from the private speech involved in this case.The Court of Appeals' apparent concern that Wide Awake'sreligious orientation would be attributed to the Universityis not a plausible fear, and there is no real likelihood that the515us3$91L 08-18-98 10:04:58 PAGES OPINPGT842 ROSENBERGER v. RECTOR AND VISITORSOF UNIV. OF VA.Opinion of the Courtspeech in question is being either endorsed or coerced by theState, seeLee v. Weisman, 505 U. S. 577, 587 (1992); Witters,supra, at 489 (citing Lynch v. Donnelly, 465 U. S. 668, 688(1984) (O'Connor, J., concurring)); see also Witters, supra,at 493 (O'Connor, J., concurring in part and concurringin judgment) (citing Lynch, supra, at 690 (O'Connor, J.,concurring)).The Court of Appeals (and the dissent) are correct toextract from our decisions the principle that we have recognized special Establishment Clause dangers where thegovernment makes direct money payments to sectarianinstitutions, citing Roemer v. Board of Public Works of Md.,426 U. S. 736, 747 (1976); Bowen v. Kendrick, 487 U. S. 589,614-615 (1988); Hunt v. McNair, 413 U. S., at 742; Tilton v.Richardson, 403 U. S. 672, 679-680 (1971); Board of Ed. ofCentral School Dist. No. 1 v. Allen, 392 U. S. 236 (1968).The error is not in identifying the principle, but in believingthat it controls this case. Even assuming that WAP is nodifferent from a church and that its speech is the same as thereligious exercises conducted in Widmar (two points much indoubt), the Court of Appeals decided a case that was, in essence, not before it, and the dissent would have us do thesame. We do not confront a case where, even under a neutral program that includes nonsectarian recipients, the government is making direct money payments to an institutionor group that is engaged in religious activity. Neither theCourt of Appeals nor the dissent, we believe, takes sufficientcognizance of the undisputed fact that no public funds flowdirectly to WAP's coffers.It does not violate the Establishment Clause for a publicuniversity to grant access to its facilities on a religionneutral basis to a wide spectrum of student groups, includinggroups that use meeting rooms for sectarian activities, accompanied by some devotional exercises. See Widmar, 454U. S., at 269; Mergens, 496 U. S., at 252. This is so evenwhere the upkeep, maintenance, and repair of the facilities515us3$91L 08-18-98 10:04:58 PAGES OPINPGT843Cite as: 515 U. S. 819 (1995)Opinion of the Courtattributed to those uses are paid from a student activitiesfund to which students are required to contribute. Widmar,supra, at 265. The government usually acts by spendingmoney. Even the provision of a meeting room, as inMergens and Widmar, involved governmental expenditure,if only in the form of electricity and heating or cooling costs.The error made by the Court of Appeals, as well as by thedissent, lies in focusing on the money that is undoubtedlyexpended by the government, rather than on the nature ofthe benefit received by the recipient. If the expenditure ofgovernmental funds is prohibited whenever those funds payfor a service that is, pursuant to a religion-neutral program,used by a group for sectarian purposes, then Widmar,Mergens, and Lamb's Chapel would have to be overruled.Given our holdings in these cases, it follows that a publicuniversity may maintain its own computer facility and givestudent groups access to that facility, including the use of theprinters, on a religion neutral, say first-come-first-served,basis. If a religious student organization obtained access onthat religion-neutral basis and used a computer to composeor a printer or copy machine to print speech with a religiouscontent or viewpoint, the State's action in providing thegroup with access would no more violate the EstablishmentClause than would giving those groups access to an assemblyhall. See Lamb's Chapel v. Center Moriches Union FreeSchool Dist., 508 U. S. 384 (1993); Widmar, supra; Mergens,supra. There is no difference in logic or principle, and nodifference of constitutional significance, between a schoolusing its funds to operate a facility to which students haveaccess, and a school paying a third-party contractor to operate the facility on its behalf. The latter occurs here. TheUniversity provides printing services to a broad spectrum ofstudent newspapers qualified as CIO's by reason of their officers and membership. Any benefit to religion is incidentalto the government's provision of secular services for secular515us3$91L 08-18-98 10:04:58 PAGES OPINPGT844 ROSENBERGER v. RECTOR AND VISITORSOF UNIV. OF VA.Opinion of the Courtpurposes on a religion-neutral basis. Printing is a routine,secular, and recurring attribute of student life.By paying outside printers, the University in fact attainsa further degree of separation from the student publication,for it avoids the duties of supervision, escapes the costs ofupkeep, repair, and replacement attributable to student use,and has a clear record of costs. As a result, and as inWidmar, the University can charge the SAF, and not thetaxpayers as a whole, for the discrete activity in question.It would be formalistic for us to say that the University mustforfeit these advantages and provide the services itself inorder to comply with the Establishment Clause. It is, ofcourse, true that if the State pays a church's bills it is subsidizing it, and we must guard against this abuse. That is nota danger here, based on the considerations we have advancedand for the additional reason that the student publication isnot a religious institution, at least in the usual sense of thatterm as used in our case law, and it is not a religious organization as used in the University's own regulations. It is instead a publication involved in a pure forum for the expression of ideas, ideas that would be both incomplete and chilledwere the Constitution to be interpreted to require that stateofficials and courts scan the publication to ferret out viewsthat principally manifest a belief in a divine being.Were the dissent's view to become law, it would requirethe University, in order to avoid a constitutional violation, toscrutinize the content of student speech, lest the expressionin question--speech otherwise protected by the Constitution--contain too great a religious content. The dissent, infact, anticipates such censorship as "crucial" in distinguishing between "works characterized by the evangelism of WideAwake and writing that merely happens to express viewsthat a given religion might approve." Post, at 896. Thateventuality raises the specter of governmental censorship, toensure that all student writings and publications meet somebaseline standard of secular orthodoxy. To impose that515us3$91L 08-18-98 10:04:58 PAGES OPINPGT845Cite as: 515 U. S. 819 (1995)Opinion of the Courtstandard on student speech at a university is to imperil thevery sources of free speech and expression. As we recognized in Widmar, official censorship would be far more incon-sistent with the Establishment Clause's dictates than wouldgovernmental provision of secular printing services on areligion-blind basis."[T]he dissent fails to establish that the distinction [be-tween `religious' speech and speech `about' religion] hasintelligible content. There is no indication when `sing-ing hymns, reading scripture, and teaching biblical principles' cease to be `singing, teaching, and reading'--allapparently forms of `speech,' despite their religious subject matter--and become unprotected `worship.' . . ."[E]ven if the distinction drew an arguably principledline, it is highly doubtful that it would lie within thejudicial competence to administer. Merely to draw thedistinction would require the university--and ultimatelythe courts--to inquire into the significance of words andpractices to different religious faiths, and in varying circumstances by the same faith. Such inquiries wouldtend inevitably to entangle the State with religion in amanner forbidden by our cases. E. g., Walz v. TaxComm'n of City of New York, 397 U. S. 664 (1970)." 454U. S., at 269-270, n. 6 (citations omitted).* * *To obey the Establishment Clause, it was not necessaryfor the University to deny eligibility to student publicationsbecause of their viewpoint. The neutrality commanded ofthe State by the separate Clauses of the First Amendmentwas compromised by the University's course of action. Theviewpoint discrimination inherent in the University's regulation required public officials to scan and interpret studentpublications to discern their underlying philosophic assumptions respecting religious theory and belief. That course ofaction was a denial of the right of free speech and would risk515us3$91L 08-18-98 10:04:58 PAGES OPINPGT846 ROSENBERGER v. RECTOR AND VISITORSOF UNIV. OF VA.O'Connor, J., concurringfostering a pervasive bias or hostility to religion, which couldundermine the very neutrality the Establishment Clauserequires. There is no Establishment Clause violation inthe University's honoring its duties under the Free SpeechClause.The judgment of the Court of Appeals must be, and is,reversed.