The United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit,convening en banc, granted habeas relief to respondentWilliam Payton. It held that the jury instructions in thepenalty phase of his trial for capital murder did not permitconsideration of all the mitigation evidence Payton pre-sented. The error, the court determined, was that the general mitigation instruction did not make it clear to the jurythat it could consider evidence concerning Payton's postcrime religious conversion and the prosecutor was allowed*Kent S. Scheidegger and Charles L. Hobson filed a brief for the Criminal Justice Legal Foundation as amicus curiae urging reversal.544US1 Unit: $U32 [11-02-07 17:56:04] PAGES PGT: OPIN136 BROWN v. PAYTONOpinion of the Courtto urge this erroneous interpretation. We granted the peti-tion for certiorari, 541 U. S. 1062 (2004), to decide whetherthe Ninth Circuit's decision was contrary to the limits onfederal habeas review imposed by 28 U. S. C. $ 2254(d). Wenow reverse. IIn 1980, while spending the night at a boarding house, Pay-ton raped another boarder, Pamela Montgomery, and thenused a butcher knife to stab her to death. Payton proceededto enter the bedroom of the house's patron, Patricia Pensinger, and to stab her as she slept aside her 10-year-old son,Blaine. When Blaine resisted, Payton started to stab himas well. Payton's knife blade bent, and he went to thekitchen to retrieve another. Upon the intervention of otherboarders, Payton dropped the second knife and fled.Payton was arrested and tried for the first-degree murderand rape of Pamela Montgomery and for the attempted mur-ders of Patricia and Blaine Pensinger. Payton presented noevidence in the guilt phase of the trial and was convicted onall counts. The trial proceeded to the penalty phase, wherethe prosecutor introduced evidence of a prior incident whenPayton stabbed a girlfriend; a prior conviction for rape; aprior drug-related felony conviction; and evidence of jail-house conversations in which Payton admitted he had an"urge to kill" and a "severe problem with sex and women"that caused him to view all women as potential victimsto "stab . . . and rape." People v. Payton, 3 Cal. 4th 1050,1058, 839 P. 2d 1035, 1040 (1992) (internal quotation marksomitted).Defense counsel concentrated on Payton's postcrime behavior and presented evidence from eight witnesses. Theytestified that in the year and nine months Payton spent inprison since his arrest, he had made a sincere commitment toGod, participated in prison Bible study classes and a prisonministry, and had a calming effect on other prisoners.544US1 Unit: $U32 [11-02-07 17:56:04] PAGES PGT: OPIN137Cite as: 544 U. S. 133 (2005)Opinion of the CourtBefore the penalty phase closing arguments, the judgeheld an in-chambers conference with counsel to discuss juryinstructions. He proposed to give--and later did give--aninstruction which followed verbatim the text of a Californiastatute. Cal. Penal Code Ann. $ 190.3 (West 1988). The instruction set forth 11 different factors, labeled (a) through(k), for the jury to "consider, take into account and be guidedby" in determining whether to impose a sentence of life imprisonment or death. 1 Cal. Jury Instr., Crim., No. 8.84.1(4th rev. ed. 1979).The in-chambers conference considered in particular thelast instruction in the series, the so-called factor (k) instruction. Factor (k) was a catchall instruction, in contrast tothe greater specificity of the instructions that preceded it.As set forth in the statute, and as explained to the jury, itdirected jurors to consider "[a]ny other circumstance whichextenuates the gravity of the crime even though it is not alegal excuse for the crime." Cal. Penal Code Ann. $ 190.3(West 1988). (The statute has since been amended.)Defense counsel objected to the instruction and asked thatit be modified to direct the jury, in more specific terms, toconsider evidence of the defendant's character and background. The prosecution, on the other hand, indicated thatin its view factor (k) was not intended to encompass evidenceconcerning a defendant's background or character. Thecourt agreed with defense counsel that factor (k) was a general instruction covering all mitigating evidence. It declined, however, to modify the wording, in part because theinstruction repeated the text of the statute. In addition, thecourt stated: "I assume you gentlemen, as I said, in yourargument can certainly relate--relate back to those factorsand certainly can argue the defendant's character, background, history, mental condition, physical condition; certainly fall into category `k' and certainly make a clear argument to the jury." App. 59.544US1 Unit: $U32 [11-02-07 17:56:04] PAGES PGT: OPIN138 BROWN v. PAYTONOpinion of the CourtThe judge prefaced closing arguments by instructing thejury that what it would hear from counsel was "not evidencebut argument" and "[you] should rely on your own recollec-tion of the evidence."Id., at 62. In his closing, the prosecutor offered jurors his opinion that factor (k) did not allowthem to consider anything that happened "after the [crime]or later." Id., at 68. The parties do not now dispute thatthis was a misstatement of law. The defense objected to thecomment and moved for a mistrial, which the trial court denied. The court admonished the jury that the prosecutor'scomments were merely argument, but it did not explicitlyinstruct the jury that the prosecutor's interpretation was incorrect. Id., at 69-70.Although the prosecutor again told the jury several timesthat, in his view, the jury had not heard any evidence ofmitigation, he proceeded to argue that the circumstances andfacts of the case, coupled with Payton's prior violent acts,outweighed the mitigating effect of Payton's newfoundChristianity. Id., at 70. He discussed the mitigation evidence in considerable detail and concluded by urging thatthe circumstances of the case and Payton's prior violent actsoutweighed his religious conversion. Id., at 75-76. In hisclosing, defense counsel argued to the jury that, although itmight be awkwardly worded, factor (k) was a catchall instruction designed to cover precisely the kind of evidencePayton had presented.The trial court's final instructions to the jury included thefactor (k) instruction, as well as an instruction directing thejury to consider all evidence presented during the trial. Id.,at 94. The jury found the special circumstance of murder inthe course of committing rape and returned a verdict recommending a death sentence. The judge sentenced Payton todeath for murder and to 21 years and 8 months for rape andattempted murder.On direct appeal to the California Supreme Court, Paytonargued that his penalty phase jury incorrectly was led to544US1 Unit: $U32 [11-02-07 17:56:04] PAGES PGT: OPIN139Cite as: 544 U. S. 133 (2005)Opinion of the Courtbelieve it could not consider the mitigating evidence of hispostconviction conduct in determining whether he should receive a sentence of life imprisonment or death, in violationof the Eighth Amendment of the U. S. Constitution.Lockettv. Ohio, 438 U. S. 586, 602-609 (1978) (plurality opinion).The text of the factor (k) instruction, he maintained, wasmisleading, and rendered more so in light of the prosecutor's argument.In a 5-to-2 decision, the California Supreme Court rejectedPayton's claims and affirmed his convictions and sentence.3 Cal. 4th 1050, 839 P. 2d 1035 (1992). ApplyingBoyde v.California, 494 U. S. 370 (1990), which had considered theconstitutionality of the same factor (k) instruction, the statecourt held that in the context of the proceedings there wasno reasonable likelihood that Payton's jury believed it wasrequired to disregard his mitigating evidence. 3 Cal. 4th, at1070-1071, 839 P. 2d, at 1048. Payton sought review of theCalifornia Supreme Court's decision here. We declined togrant certiorari. Payton v. California, 510 U. S. 1040 (1994).Payton filed a petition for a writ of habeas corpus in theUnited States District Court for the Central District of California, reiterating that the jury was prevented from considering his mitigation evidence. The District Court held thatthe Antiterrorism and Effective Death Penalty Act of 1996(AEDPA), 110 Stat. 1214, did not apply to Payton's petitionbecause he had filed a motion for appointment of counsel before AEDPA's effective date, even though he did not file thepetition until after that date. The District Court consideredhis claims de novo and granted the petition.On appeal to the Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, adivided panel reversed. Payton v. Woodford, 258 F. 3d 905(2001). The Court of Appeals granted Payton's petition forrehearing en banc and, by a 6-to-5 vote, affirmed the DistrictCourt's order granting habeas relief. Payton v. Woodford,299 F. 3d 815 (2002). The en banc panel, like the DistrictCourt, held that AEDPA did not govern Payton's petition.544US1 Unit: $U32 [11-02-07 17:56:04] PAGES PGT: OPIN140 BROWN v. PAYTONOpinion of the CourtIt, too, conducted a de novo review of his claims, and con-cluded that postcrime mitigation evidence was not encompassed by the factor (k) instruction, a view it found to havebeen reinforced by the prosecutor's arguments.The State petitioned for certiorari. Pursuant to Woodford v. Garceau, 538 U. S. 202 (2003), which held that a request for appointment of counsel did not suffice to make"pending" a habeas petition filed after AEDPA's effectivedate, we granted the State's petition,Woodford v. Payton,538 U. S. 975 (2003), and remanded to the Court of Appealsfor reconsideration of its decision under AEDPA's deferentialstandards. See Williams v. Taylor, 529 U. S. 362 (2000).On remand, the en banc panel affirmed the District Court'sprevious grant of habeas relief by the same 6-to-5 vote.Payton v. Woodford, 346 F. 3d 1204 (CA9 2003). In light ofGarceau, the Court of Appeals purported to decide the caseunder the deferential standard AEDPA mandates. It concluded, however, that the California Supreme Court had unreasonably applied this Court's precedents in holding the factor (k) instruction was not unconstitutionally ambiguous inPayton's case.The Court of Appeals relied, as it had in its initial decision,on the proposition that Boyde concerned precrime, not postcrime, mitigation evidence. Boyde, in its view, reasonedthat a jury would be unlikely to disregard mitigating evidence as to character because of the long-held social beliefthat defendants who commit criminal acts attributable to adisadvantaged background may be less culpable than defendants who have no such excuse. As to postcrime mitigatingevidence, however, the Court of Appeals concluded that"there is reason to doubt that a jury would similarly considerpost-crime evidence of a defendant's religious conversion andgood behavior in prison." 346 F. 3d, at 1212. It cited noprecedent of this Court to support that supposition.In addition, it reasoned that unlike in Boyde the prosecutor in Payton's case misstated the law and the trial court did544US1 Unit: $U32 [11-02-07 17:56:04] PAGES PGT: OPIN141Cite as: 544 U. S. 133 (2005)Opinion of the Courtnot give a specific instruction rejecting that misstatement,relying instead on a general admonition that counsel's arguments were not evidence. These two differences, the Courtof Appeals concluded, made Payton's case unlike Boyde. 346F. 3d, at 1216. In its view, the factor (k) instruction waslikely to have misled the jury and it was an unreasonableapplication of this Court's cases for the California SupremeCourt to have concluded otherwise.IIAEDPA provides that, when a habeas petitioner's claimhas been adjudicated on the merits in state-court proceedings, a federal court may not grant relief unless the statecourt's adjudication of the claim "resulted in a decision thatwas contrary to, or involved an unreasonable application of,clearly established Federal law, as determined by the Supreme Court of the United States." 28 U. S. C. $ 2254(d)(1).A state-court decision is contrary to this Court's clearly established precedents if it applies a rule that contradicts thegoverning law set forth in our cases, or if it confronts a setof facts that is materially indistinguishable from a decisionof this Court but reaches a different result. Williams v.Taylor, supra, at 405; Early v. Packer, 537 U. S. 3, 8 (2002)(per curiam). A state-court decision involves an unreasonable application of this Court's clearly established precedentsif the state court applies this Court's precedents to the factsin an objectively unreasonable manner. Williams v. Taylor,supra, at 405; Woodford v. Visciotti, 537 U. S. 19, 24-25(2002) (per curiam). These conditions for the grant of fed-eral habeas relief have not been established.AThe California Supreme Court was correct to identifyBoyde as the starting point for its analysis. Boyde involveda challenge to the same instruction at issue here, factor (k).As to the text of factor (k),Boyde established that it does544US1 Unit: $U32 [11-02-07 17:56:04] PAGES PGT: OPIN142 BROWN v. PAYTONOpinion of the Courtnot limit the jury's consideration of extenuating circum-stances solely to circumstances of the crime. See 494 U. S.,at 382. In so holding, we expressly rejected the suggestionthat factor (k) precluded the jury from considering evidencepertaining to a defendant's background and character be-cause those circumstances did not concern the crime itself.Boyde instead found that factor (k), by its terms, directedthe jury to consider any other circumstance that might ex-cuse the crime, including factors related to a defendant'sbackground and character. We held:"The [factor (k)] instruction did not, as petitioner seemsto suggest, limit the jury's consideration to `any othercircumstance of the crime which extenuates the gravityof the crime.' The jury was directed to consider anyother circumstance that might excuse the crime, whichcertainly includes a defendant's background and charac-ter."Ibid. (emphasis in original).The California Supreme Court read Boyde as establishingthat the text of factor (k) was broad enough to accommodatethe postcrime mitigating evidence Payton presented.People v. Payton, 3 Cal. 4th, at 1070, 839 P. 2d, at 1048. TheCourt of Appeals held Boyde's reasoning did not control Pay-ton's case becauseBoyde concerned precrime, not postcrime,mitigation evidence. 346 F. 3d, at 1211-1212.We do not think that, in light ofBoyde, the CaliforniaSupreme Court acted unreasonably in declining to distin-guish between precrime and postcrime mitigating evidence.After all, Boyde held that factor (k) directed considerationof any circumstance that might excuse the crime, and it isnot unreasonable to believe that a postcrime character transformation could do so. Indeed, to accept the view that suchevidence could not because it occurred after the crime, onewould have to reach the surprising conclusion that remorsecould never serve to lessen or excuse a crime. But remorse,which by definition can only be experienced after a crime's544US1 Unit: $U32 [11-02-07 17:56:04] PAGES PGT: OPIN143Cite as: 544 U. S. 133 (2005)Opinion of the Courtcommission, is something commonly thought to lessen or ex-cuse a defendant's culpability.BThat leaves respondent to defend the decision of the Courtof Appeals on grounds that, even if it was at least reasonablefor the California Supreme Court to conclude that the textof factor (k) allowed the jury to consider the postcrime evidence, it was unreasonable to conclude that the prosecutor'sargument and remarks did not mislead the jury into believing it could not consider Payton's mitigation evidence. Aswe shall explain, however, the California Supreme Court'sconclusion that the jury was not reasonably likely to haveaccepted the prosecutor's narrow view of factor (k) was anapplication of Boyde to similar but not identical facts. Evenon the assumption that its conclusion was incorrect, it wasnot unreasonable, and is therefore just the type of decisionthat AEDPA shields on habeas review.The following language from Boyde should be noted atthe outset:"We think the proper inquiry in such a case is whetherthere is a reasonable likelihood that the jury has appliedthe challenged instruction in a way that prevents theconsideration of constitutionally relevant evidence. . . .Jurors do not sit in solitary isolation booths parsing in-structions for subtle shades of meaning in the same waythat lawyers might. Differences among them in inter-pretation of instructions may be thrashed out in the deliberative process, with commonsense understanding ofthe instructions in the light of all that has taken placeat the trial likely to prevail over technical hairsplitting."494 U. S., at 380-381 (footnote omitted).Unlike in Boyde the prosecutor here argued to jurorsduring his closing that they should not consider Payton's mitigation evidence, evidence which concerned postcrime as op544US1 Unit: $U32 [11-02-07 17:56:04] PAGES PGT: OPIN144 BROWN v. PAYTONOpinion of the Courtposed to precrime conduct. Because Boyde sets forth a gen-eral framework for determining whether a challenged instruction precluded jurors from considering a defendant'smitigation evidence, however, the California Supreme Courtwas correct to structure its own analysis on the premisesthat controlledBoyde. The Boyde analysis applies here,and, even if it did not dictate a particular outcome in Payton'scase, it refutes the conclusion of the Court of Appeals thatthe California Supreme Court was unreasonable.The prosecutor's mistaken approach appears most promi-nently at three different points in the penalty phase. First,in chambers and outside the presence of the jury he arguedto the judge that background and character (whether of precrime or postcrime) was simply beyond the ambit of the instruction. Second, he told the jurors in his closing statement that factor (k) did not allow them to consider whathappened "after the [crime] or later." App. 68. Third,after defense counsel objected to his narrow view, he arguedto the jury that it had not heard any evidence of mitigation.Id., at 70. Boyde, however, mandates that the whole contextof the trial be considered. And considering the whole context of the trial, it was not unreasonable for the state courtto have concluded that this line of prosecutorial argumentdid not put Payton's mitigating evidence beyond the jury'sreach.The prosecutor's argument came after the defense presented eight witnesses, spanning two days of testimonywithout a single objection from the prosecution as to its relevance. As the California Supreme Court recognized, like inBoyde, for the jury to have believed it could not considerPayton's mitigating evidence, it would have had to believethat the penalty phase served virtually no purpose at all.Payton's counsel recognized as much, arguing to the jurythat "[t]he whole purpose for the second phase [of the] trialis to decide the proper punishment to be imposed. Everything that was presented by the defense relates directly to544US1 Unit: $U32 [11-02-07 17:56:04] PAGES PGT: OPIN145Cite as: 544 U. S. 133 (2005)Opinion of the Courtthat." App. 88. He told the jury that if the evidence Pay-ton presented was not entitled to consideration, and therefore "all the evidence we presented [would not be] applicable,why didn't we hear any objections to its relevance?" Ibid.The prosecutor was not given an opportunity to rebut de-fense counsel's argument that factor (k) required the jury toconsider Payton's mitigating evidence.For his part, the prosecutor devoted specific attention todisputing the sincerity of Payton's evidence, stating that "ev-erybody seems to get religion in jail when facing the deathpenalty" and that "[s]tate prison is full of people who getreligion when they are in jail."Id., at 74. Later, he inti-mated the timing of Payton's religious conversion was suspect, stating "he becomes a newborn Christian, after he's incustody" after "he gets caught." Ibid. As the CaliforniaSupreme Court reasonably surmised, this exercise wouldhave been pointless if the jury believed it could not considerthe evidence.Along similar lines, although the prosecutor characterizedPayton's evidence as not being evidence of mitigation, he de-voted substantial attention to discounting its importance ascompared to the aggravating factors. He said:"The law in its simplicity is that the aggravating--if theaggravating factors outweigh the mitigating, the sentence the jury should vote for should be the death pen-alty. How do the factors line up? The circumstancesand facts of the case, the defendant's other acts showingviolence . . . , the defendant's two prior convictions lineup against really nothing except [the] defendant's new-born Christianity and the fact that he's 28 years old.This is not close. You haven't heard anything to miti-gate what he's done. If you wanted to distribute athousand points over the factors, 900 would have to go towhat he did to [the victim], and I really doubt if [defensecounsel] would dispute that breakdown of the facts."Id., at 76.544US1 Unit: $U32 [11-02-07 17:56:04] PAGES PGT: OPIN146 BROWN v. PAYTONOpinion of the CourtIndeed, the prosecutor characterized testimony concerningPayton's religious conversion as "evidence" on at least fourseparate occasions. Id., at 68, 70, 73. In context, it was notunreasonable for the state court to conclude that the jurybelieved Payton's evidence was neither credible nor sufficientto outweigh the aggravating factors, not that it was not evidence at all.To be sure, the prosecutor advocated a narrow interpreta-tion of factor (k), an interpretation that neither party acceptsas correct. There is, however, no indication that the prose-cutor's argument was made in bad faith, nor does Paytonsuggest otherwise. In addition, the first time the jury wasexposed to the prosecutor's narrow and incorrect view of factor (k), it had already heard the entirety of Payton's mitigating evidence. Defense counsel immediately objected to theprosecutor's narrow characterization, and the trial court,noting at a side bar that one could "argue it either way,"admonished the jury that "the comments by both the prosecution and the defense are not evidence. You've heard theevidence and, as I said, this is argument. And it's to beplaced in its proper perspective." Id., at 69-70.The trial judge, of course, should have advised the jurythat it could consider Payton's evidence under factor (k), andallowed counsel simply to argue the evidence's persuasiveforce instead of the meaning of the instruction itself. Thejudge is, after all, the one responsible for instructing thejury on the law, a responsibility that may not be abdicatedto counsel. Even in the face of the trial court's failure togive an instant curative instruction, however, it was notunreasonable to find that the jurors did not likely believePayton's mitigation evidence beyond their reach. The jurywas not left without any judicial direction. Before it begandeliberations as to what penalty was appropriate, the courtinstructed it to consider all evidence received "during anypart of the trial in this case, except as you may be hereafterinstructed," id., at 94, and it was not thereafter instructed544US1 Unit: $U32 [11-02-07 17:56:04] PAGES PGT: OPIN147Cite as: 544 U. S. 133 (2005)Scalia, J., concurringto disregard anything. It was also instructed as to factor(k) which, as we held in Boyde, by its terms directs jurorsto consider any other circumstance that might lessen a defendant's culpability.Testimony about a religious conversion spanning one yearand nine months may well have been considered altogetherinsignificant in light of the brutality of the crimes, the prioroffenses, and a proclivity for committing violent acts againstwomen. It was not unreasonable for the state court to determine that the jury most likely believed that the evidencein mitigation, while within the reach of the factor (k)instruction, was simply too insubstantial to overcome thearguments for imposing the death penalty; nor was it unreasonable for the state court to rely upon Boyde to support itsanalysis. Even were we to assume the " `relevant statecourt decision applied clearly established federal law erroneously or incorrectly,' " Lockyer v. Andrade, 538 U. S. 63, 76(2003) (quoting Williams v. Taylor, 529 U. S., at 411), thereis no basis for further concluding that the application of ourprecedents was "objectively unreasonable," Lockyer, supra,at 76. The Court of Appeals made this last mentioned assumption, and it was in error to do so. The judgment of theNinth Circuit is reversed.