Thomas M. Thompson was convicted in California statecourt of the rape and murder of Ginger Fleischli. More than15 years after the crime, 13 years after Thompson's convic-tion, and 7 years after Thompson filed his first petition forfederal habeas relief, the United States Court of Appeals forthe Ninth Circuit issued its mandate denying the writ ofhabeas corpus. Two days before Thompson's scheduled ex-ecution, however, the Court of Appeals, sitting en banc, recalled the mandate and granted habeas relief to Thompson.The case presents two issues: First, whether the Court ofAppeals' order recalling its mandate violated 28 U. S. C.$ 2244(b) (1994 ed., Supp. II), as amended by the Antiterrorism and Effective Death Penalty Act of 1996 (AEDPA), Pub.L. 104-132, $ 104, 110 Stat. 1218; and second, whether the*Briefs of amici curiae urging reversal were filed for the State of Arizona et al. by Grant Woods, Attorney General of Arizona, Paul J. McMurdie, and Randall M. Howe, Assistant Attorney General, joined by theAttorneys General for their respective States as follows: M. Jane Bradyof Delaware, Robert A. Butterworth of Florida, Alan G. Lance of Idaho,Carla J. Stovall of Kansas, Richard P. Ieyoub of Louisiana, Jeremiah W.Nixon of Missouri, Joseph P. Mazurek of Montana, Don Stenberg of Nebraska, Frankie Sue Del Papa of Nevada, Dennis C. Vacco of New York,Michael F. Easley of North Carolina, Betty D. Montgomery of Ohio, W. A.Drew Edmondson of Oklahoma, D. Michael Fisher of Pennsylvania,Charles M. Condon of South Carolina, Mark W. Barnett of South Dakota,Jan Graham of Utah, Christine O. Gregoire of Washington, and RichardCullen of Virginia; and for the Criminal Justice Legal Foundation by KentS. Scheidegger.Edward M. Chikofsky and Barbara E. Bergman filed a brief for theNational Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers as amicus curiaeurging affirmance.523US2 Unit: $U57 [04-29-00 18:35:19] PAGES PGT: OPIN542 CALDERON v. THOMPSONOpinion of the Courtorder was an abuse of the court's discretion. The recall ofthe mandate was not controlled by the precise terms ofAEDPA, but this does not save the order, which, we hold,was a grave abuse of discretion.IAThompson met his 20-year-old victim, Ginger Fleischli, inthe summer of 1981. Fleischli shared a Laguna Beach studio apartment with David Leitch, with whom she had anintermittent sexual relationship. In August of that year,Fleischli moved out and Thompson moved in. Fleischli tookup residence with Tracy Leitch, the former wife of DavidLeitch.On September 11, 1981, at about 7:30 p.m., Fleischli andTracy Leitch encountered Thompson and David Leitch at apizza parlor. Fleischli told Tracy Leitch she was afraidThompson might kill her if she were left alone with him.The group later went to a bar together, but David and TracyLeitch soon departed. At 9:30 p.m., Afshin Kashani joinedThompson and Fleischli, drinking with both of them andsmoking hashish with Thompson. The trio went to a secondbar before walking to Thompson's apartment around 1 a.m.At about 2 a.m., after Fleischli had gone to a nearby liquorstore to buy soda, Thompson told Kashani he wanted to havesexual intercourse with Fleischli that night. He assuredKashani, however, that Kashani could "have" Fleischli afterThompson and David Leitch left for Thailand to smuggle ref-ugees and drugs back to the United States. App. 7.Before Fleischli returned to the apartment, Kashani beganwalking to his truck, which seems to have been left at alocal bar. On the way, Kashani realized he had forgotten hiscigarettes. He returned to the apartment, where Thompsonmet him at the door. Thompson appeared nervous andmade Kashani wait outside while Thompson retrieved thecigarettes. After returning to his truck, Kashani looked for523US2 Unit: $U57 [04-29-00 18:35:19] PAGES PGT: OPIN543Cite as: 523 U. S. 538 (1998)Opinion of the CourtFleischli at a nearby liquor store and, not finding her, wenthome.Tracy Leitch visited Thompson's apartment the morn-ing of September 12, asking where Fleischli was. Lying,Thompson said she had left the Sandpiper Inn with Kashanithe night before. At a party that evening, Tracy Leitchagain asked Thompson where Fleischli was. In response,Thompson described Fleischli in the past tense, saying hehad liked her. The next day, Tracy Leitch filed a missingperson's report with the local police department.On September 14, police found Fleischli's body buried in afield 10 miles from the apartment shared by Thompson andDavid Leitch. The body was wrapped in rope as well as asleeping bag and blanket, both taken from the apartment.Fleischli's head was wrapped with duct tape, two towels, asheet, and her jacket. She had been stabbed five times inthe head near the right ear. The body was bruised on theankles, palms, and left wrist; the right wrist was crushed.Fleischli's shirt and bra had been cut down the middle andpulled to her elbows, restraining her arms and exposing herbreasts. She had on unbuttoned jeans, but no underwear,shoes, or socks. A vaginal swab revealed semen consistentwith Thompson's blood type.Police found two footprints near the body, one smooth andone with a wavy pattern matching a shoe worn by DavidLeitch. Fibers from the blanket around the body were identical to fibers found in the trunk of David Leitch's car. Therope around the body was smeared with paint from the car'strunk. Other fibers matched the carpet in the apartment,which was stained with Fleischli's blood.On or around the day police found the body, Thompsonand David Leitch went to Mexico. Leitch returned to theUnited States, but Mexican authorities arrested Thompsonon September 26, 1981. He had handcuffs with him. Whenquestioned by police after his return to the United States,Thompson claimed Fleischli had left his apartment with Ka523US2 Unit: $U57 [04-29-00 18:35:19] PAGES PGT: OPIN544 CALDERON v. THOMPSONOpinion of the Courtshani the night of the murder. He also said Fleischli hadbeen stabbed in the head, though this information had notyet been made public. He further claimed not to have hadsex with Fleischli, but later asserted they had engaged inconsensual sex.We next recount the lengthy procedural history of thecase. BOn November 4, 1983, an Orange County Superior Courtjury convicted Thompson of the first-degree murder andforcible rape of Fleischli. The jury made a special findingthat "the homicide of Ginger Lorraine Fleischli was an intentional killing personally committed by the defendant ThomasMartin Thompson." 45 Cal. 3d 86, 117, n. 23, 753 P. 2d 37,56, n. 23 (1988). The jury further found the special circum-stance of murder during the commission of rape, makingThompson eligible for the death penalty. After penaltyphase proceedings the jury was unanimous in recommendinga capital sentence, which the trial judge imposed. In a latertrial, a different jury found David Leitch guilty of seconddegree murder for his role in Fleischli's slaying.On April 28, 1988, the California Supreme Court unanimously affirmed Thompson's rape and murder convictionsand the jury's finding of the rape special circumstance. Thecourt also affirmed Thompson's death sentence, with two ofseven justices dissenting. The dissenters concurred in theaffirmance of the murder and rape convictions and the rapespecial circumstance, but asserted the jury's sentencing recommendation had been influenced in an improper manner byevidence that Thompson had solicited the murder of DavidLeitch. Id., at 144-145, 753 P. 2d, at 74-75. Thompson pe-titioned for rehearing, which the court denied in June 1988.Thompson also filed a petition for certiorari with this Court,which we denied. 488 U. S. 960 (1988).Thompson filed his first state habeas petition, which theCalifornia Supreme Court denied in March 1989. Thompson523US2 Unit: $U57 [04-29-00 18:35:19] PAGES PGT: OPIN545Cite as: 523 U. S. 538 (1998)Opinion of the Courtfiled a federal habeas petition in January 1990. The DistrictCourt held Thompson's petition in abeyance while Thompsonpursued unexhausted claims in state court. In January1991, the California Supreme Court denied Thompson's second state habeas petition. In February 1993, the California Supreme Court denied Thompson's third state habeaspetition.In November 1993, the United States District Court forthe Central District of California held an evidentiary hearingon the claims raised in Thompson's federal habeas petition.In an order dated March 28, 1995, the District Court grantedhabeas relief as to the rape conviction and rape special circumstance and denied relief as to the murder conviction. Inthe District Court's view, Thompson's trial attorney rendered ineffective assistance of counsel as to the rape charge.The District Court cited two failings by the attorney. First,the court held, counsel failed to contest certain of the conclusions offered by the State's forensic expert at trial. Second,the court determined, counsel should have impeached thecredibility of two jailhouse informants to a greater extentthan he did. In the District Court's view, these failingsprejudiced Thompson under the rule of Strickland v. Washington, 466 U. S. 668 (1984). Having granted relief as to therape special circumstance, the District Court ruled Thompson's death sentence was invalid. As to the murder conviction, the District Court rejected Thompson's claim he hadbeen prejudiced by what Thompson alleged were inconsistencies between the prosecution's theories at his trial and thelater trial of David Leitch. Having read the transcripts ofboth trials, the court found "the trials differed mainly in emphasis." App. 71.The timing of later federal proceedings is critical to theissues we now resolve. On June 19, 1996, a unanimousthree-judge panel of the Court of Appeals reversed the District Court's grant of habeas relief as to the rape convictionand rape special circumstance, affirmed the denial of habeas523US2 Unit: $U57 [04-29-00 18:35:19] PAGES PGT: OPIN546 CALDERON v. THOMPSONOpinion of the Courtrelief as to the murder conviction, and reinstated Thompson'sdeath sentence. Noting that "[t]he State presented strongevidence of rape" at Thompson's trial, 109 F. 3d 1358, 1365(CA9 1997), the court held that, irrespective of whether theperformance of Thompson's counsel was deficient in the manner Thompson alleged, Thompson could not demonstrateprejudice underStrickland.On August 5, 1996, Thompson filed a petition for rehearingand suggestion for rehearing en banc, which circulated to"each active judge" of the court. See U. S. Court of Appealsfor the Ninth Circuit General Orders 5.4(a)(1), p. 30 (Aug.1997). In an order dated March 6, 1997, the original paneldenied the petition and rejected the suggestion, observingthat "[t]he full court has been advised of the suggestion forrehearing en banc and no judge in active service has requested a vote to rehear the matter en banc." App. 137.In the same order, the panel reissued its opinion in the casewith minor changes. Thompson filed a petition for certiorari with this Court, which we denied on June 2, 1997. 520U. S. 1259. The Court of Appeals issued its mandate denying all habeas relief in Thompson's case on June 11, 1997.In response, the State of California scheduled Thompson'sexecution for August 5, 1997.Thompson filed a fourth state habeas petition on July 3,1997. In it, he alleged David Leitch had stated in a parolehearing that he had witnessed Thompson and Fleischli engaged in what appeared to be consensual intercourse on thenight of Fleischli's murder. The California Supreme Courtdenied the petition on July 16, 1997.On July 22, 1997, Thompson filed a motion with the Courtof Appeals to recall its mandate denying habeas relief. Thefollowing day, Thompson filed a motion in United States District Court for relief from judgment pursuant to FederalRule of Civil Procedure 60(b). In support of both motions,Thompson cited Leitch's alleged statement that he had seenThompson and Fleischli engaged in consensual sex.523US2 Unit: $U57 [04-29-00 18:35:19] PAGES PGT: OPIN547Cite as: 523 U. S. 538 (1998)Opinion of the CourtThe District Court denied Thompson's Rule 60(b) motionon July 25, 1997. The court construed the motion to be asuccessive petition under 28 U. S. C. $ 2244 as amended byAEDPA, ruling that Thompson "must not be permitted toutilize a Rule 60(b) motion to make an end-run around therequirements" of AEDPA. App. 170. The court observedthat the alleged new statement by Leitch conflicted withThompson's own account of the specifics of his encounterwith Fleischli, the physical evidence in the case, and the previous stories told by Leitch himself. Thus, the court held,Thompson "certainly cannot make the requisite showing thathe is actually innocent such that his execution would be amiscarriage of justice." Id., at 188.The Court of Appeals denied Thompson's motion to recallthe mandate on July 28, 1997. Two days later, however, thefull court voted to consider en banc whether to recall itsearlier mandate "to consider whether the panel decision ofour court would result in a fundamental miscarriage ofjustice." 120 F. 3d 1042, 1043. The court scheduled oralargument on this question for August 1, 1997, four daysbefore Thompson's scheduled execution.Meanwhile, on July 29, 1997, the Governor of Californiaheld a hearing on whether to grant clemency to Thompson.In addition to the arguments presented by Thompson's attorneys during the hearing, the Governor reviewed "the materials submitted on [Thompson's] behalf, the petition and letterssigned by supporters of clemency, the submissions of theOrange County District Attorney, the letters of the trialjudge concerning clemency," all the court opinions in Thompson's case, and "the materials and recommendation providedto [him] by the Board of Prison Terms." App. to Brief forCriminal Justice Legal Foundation as Amicus Curiae A-2to A-3 (Decision of Governor Pete Wilson). In a comprehensive decision dated July 31, 1997, the Governor foundThompson "ha[d] not remotely approached making any"showing of innocence of rape or murder. Id., at A-16. The523US2 Unit: $U57 [04-29-00 18:35:19] PAGES PGT: OPIN548 CALDERON v. THOMPSONOpinion of the CourtGovernor agreed with the view of the judge who presidedover Thompson's trial, that "it would be an absolute tragedy and a travesty of justice to even seriously consider clem-ency in this case."Ibid. (internal quotation marks omitted).Clemency was denied.Two days before Thompson was to be executed, a divideden banc panel of the Court of Appeals recalled the court'smandate of June 11, 1997. This action came 53 days afterthe mandate had issued and almost a full year after Thompson had filed his suggestion for rehearing en banc. TheCourt of Appeals asserted it did not recall the mandate onthe basis of Thompson's later motion for recall, but did sosua sponte, on the basis of the claims and evidence presentedin Thompson's first federal habeas petition. Thus, the courtsaid, its "recall of the mandate is not predicated on any newevidence or claims Thompson raises in his motion to recallthe mandate." 120 F. 3d 1045, 1049, n. 3. The court statedit had considered whether to recall the mandate sooner, buthad chosen to wait until the conclusion of Thompson's statecourt proceedings before taking action.The court presented two bases for recalling its earliermandate. First, the court asserted that, absent certain"procedural misunderstandings within [the] court," it wouldhave called for en banc review of the underlying decisionbefore issuing the mandate denying relief. Id., at 1047.These procedural misunderstandings included a mishandledlaw clerk transition in one judge's chambers and the failureof another judge to notice that the original panel had issuedits opinion in the case. Id., at 1067 (Kozinski, J., dissenting).Second, the en banc court asserted the decision of the original panel "would lead to a miscarriage of justice." Id., at1048.Having recalled the mandate in Thompson's case, the enbanc court went on to address the merits of his first federalhabeas petition. The court held that Thompson's trial counsel had provided ineffective assistance as to the rape charge523US2 Unit: $U57 [04-29-00 18:35:19] PAGES PGT: OPIN549Cite as: 523 U. S. 538 (1998)Opinion of the Courtand rape special circumstance, to the defendant's prejudice.A plurality of the court would have granted habeas relief onthe additional ground of inconsistent theories by the prosecu-tion at his trial and the later trial of David Leitch. Themajority made no effort to determine whether Thompsonwas actually innocent of the rape and murder of Fleischli.The court nonetheless affirmed the District Court's grant ofthe writ as to the rape conviction and rape special circumstance, vacated Thompson's death sentence, and further "re-mand[ed] the question of the murder conviction for [theDistrict Court's] initial consideration in light of our vacaturof the rape conviction."Id., at 1060. Thus, almost 16 yearsafter Fleischli's murder, the Ninth Circuit directed the District Court to "enter the partial writ unless the State electsto retry Thompson within a reasonable time."Ibid.Four judges dissented. Judge Hall argued the majority'sdecision allowed Thompson to evade AEDPA's restrictionson successive petitions. Id., at 1064-1066. Judge Kozinskidetailed the circumstances which led the majority to find itsen banc process had malfunctioned. He asserted that, contrary to the majority's conclusion, the court's en banc process"operated just as it's supposed to."Id., at 1067. In a thirddissenting opinion, Judge Kleinfeld recited in detail the evidence of Thompson's guilt of rape. Id., at 1073.Within hours of the Court of Appeals' order recalling itsmandate, the State of California filed with this Court a sec-ond petition for a writ of mandamus, which we construed asa petition for certiorari. We granted the petition, 521 U. S.1136 (1997), and now reverse.IIAlthough some Justices have expressed doubt on the point,see,e. g., United States v. Ohio Power Co., 353 U. S. 98, 102-103 (1957) (Harlan, J., dissenting), the courts of appeals arerecognized to have an inherent power to recall their man-dates, subject to review for an abuse of discretion. Hawaii523US2 Unit: $U57 [04-29-00 18:35:19] PAGES PGT: OPIN550 CALDERON v. THOMPSONOpinion of the CourtHousing Authority v. Midkiff, 463 U. S. 1323, 1324 (1983)(Rehnquist, J., in chambers); see also Hazel-Atlas GlassCo. v. Hartford-Empire Co., 322 U. S. 238, 249-250 (1944).In light of "the profound interests in repose" attaching tothe mandate of a court of appeals, however, the power canbe exercised only in extraordinary circumstances. 16 C.Wright, A. Miller, & E. Cooper, Federal Practice and Procedure $ 3938, p. 712 (2d ed. 1996). The sparing use of thepower demonstrates it is one of last resort, to be held inreserve against grave, unforeseen contingencies.The en banc majority asserted extraordinary circumstances justified its order recalling the mandate in Thompson's case because, "[b]ut for procedural misunderstandingsby some judges of this court, an en banc call would havebeen made and voted upon at the ordinary time." 120 F. 3d,at 1048. As noted earlier, the original panel issued its decision denying habeas relief on June 19, 1996, and Thompsonfiled a petition for rehearing and suggestion for rehearing enbanc on August 5, 1996. On January 17, 1997, the panel notified the full court of its intention to reject the suggestion.Id., at 1067 (Kozinski, J., dissenting). The panel reissued itsearlier opinion with minor revisions on March 6, 1997. Inthe March 6 order, the panel also denied Thompson's petitionfor rehearing and rejected his suggestion for rehearing enbanc. The panel observed that, although the full court hadbeen advised of Thompson's suggestion, no judge in activeservice had requested a vote to rehear the case en bancwithin the time specified in the General Orders of the NinthCircuit. App. 137.It appears from Judge Kozinski's opinion that the following events also transpired. On March 12, 1997, an off-paneljudge wrote to the panel, requesting an opportunity to makea belated call for a vote to rehear the case en banc. Thejudge stated that the panel's decision had been "circulatedshortly before a law clerk transition" in the judge's chambers, and that "the old and new law clerks assigned to the523US2 Unit: $U57 [04-29-00 18:35:19] PAGES PGT: OPIN551Cite as: 523 U. S. 538 (1998)Opinion of the Courtcase failed to communicate." 120 F. 3d, at 1067 (dissentingopinion). Another judge seconded the request and asked:"Was [the panel's January 17, 1997, notice of intention to reject the suggestion for rehearing en banc] circulated? DidI miss it?" Ibid. The author of the panel opinion deniedthe request for a belated en banc call, explaining that therequesting judges had been notified two months earlier ofthe panel's intention to reject Thompson's suggestion, id., at1067-1068, which itself had circulated to every active judgeof the court on August 5, 1996.The panel stayed the issuance of its mandate pendingThompson's petition to this Court for certiorari review. Wedenied Thompson's petition on June 2, 1997. 520 U. S. 1259.The Court of Appeals issued its mandate on June 11, 1997.According to the en banc majority, "[a] sua sponte request toconsider en banc whether to recall the mandate was madeshortly thereafter, even before the mandate was spread inthe district court." 120 F. 3d, at 1049. "[I]n the interestsof comity," however, the court delayed further action untilthe California Supreme Court had denied Thompson's fourthstate petition for habeas relief. Ibid. It was not untilAugust 3, 1997--two days before Thompson was scheduledto be executed--that the Ninth Circuit voted to recall itsmandate.Measured even by standards of general application, theCourt of Appeals' decision to recall the mandate rests on themost doubtful of grounds. A mishandled law clerk transition in one judge's chambers, and the failure of another judgeto notice the action proposed by the original panel, constitutethe slightest of bases for setting aside the "deep rooted policy in favor of the repose of judgments." Hazel-Atlas GlassCo., supra, at 244. This is especially true where the onlyconsequence of the oversights was the failure of two judgesto contribute their views to a determination that had beengiven full consideration on the merits by a panel of the court.523US2 Unit: $U57 [04-29-00 18:35:19] PAGES PGT: OPIN552 CALDERON v. THOMPSONOpinion of the CourtEven if the Ninth Circuit's en banc process did somehowmalfunction--which is itself open to question, see 120 F. 3d,at 1067 (Kozinski, J., dissenting) ("[T]he process operatedjust as it's supposed to")--the court only compounded itserror when it delayed further action for more than fourmonths after the alleged misunderstandings took place.The promptness with which a court acts to correct its mistakes is evidence of the adequacy of its grounds for reopen-ing the case. In this case, the two judges first revealed theiroversights to the full court in March 1997. At that point thetwo judges remained free to "request that the [full] courtvote to suspend" its time limits for voting to rehear the caseen banc. See Ninth Circuit General Orders 11.11, at 83.They chose not to do so, instead waiting another four monthsto make what was, in effect, an identical request. The Courtof Appeals for all practical purposes lay in wait while thisCourt acted on the petition for certiorari, the State scheduled a firm execution date for Thompson, and the Governorconducted an exhaustive clemency review. Then, only twodays before Thompson was scheduled to be executed, thecourt came forward to recall the judgment on which theState, not to mention this Court, had placed heavy reliance.It is no answer for the Court of Appeals to assert it delayed action in the interests of comity. Comity is not limitedto the judicial branch of a state government. In this case,the executive branch of California's government took extensive action in reliance on the mandate denying relief toThompson. Rather than focus only on the California Supreme Court's interest in considering Thompson's fourth(and, as could be predicted, meritless) state habeas petition,the Court of Appeals should have considered as well themore vital interests of California's executive branch.It would be the rarest of cases where the negligence oftwo judges in expressing their views is sufficient grounds tofrustrate the interests of a State of some 32 million personsin enforcing a final judgment in its favor. Even if this were523US2 Unit: $U57 [04-29-00 18:35:19] PAGES PGT: OPIN553Cite as: 523 U. S. 538 (1998)Opinion of the Courta case implicating no more than ordinary concerns of finality,we would have grave doubts about the actions taken by theCourt of Appeals.IIIThompson's is not an ordinary case, however, because heseeks relief from a criminal judgment entered in state court.To decide whether the Court of Appeals' order recalling themandate was proper in these circumstances, we measure itnot only against standards of general application, but alsoagainst the statutory and jurisprudential limits applicable inhabeas corpus cases.ACalifornia argues the Court of Appeals' recall of its mandate was barred by 28 U. S. C. $ 2244(b) (1994 ed., Supp. II)as amended by AEDPA. Section 2244(b)(1) provides: "Aclaim presented in a second or successive habeas corpus application under section 2254 that was presented in a priorapplication shall be dismissed." Subsection 2244(b)(2) provides: "A claim presented in a second or successive application under section 2254 that was not presented in a priorapplication shall be dismissed" unless a narrow exceptionapplies. The immediate question is whether the Court ofAppeals recalled its mandate on the basis of a "second orsuccessive application" for habeas relief.In a $ 2254 case, a prisoner's motion to recall the mandateon the basis of the merits of the underlying decision can beregarded as a second or successive application for purposesof $ 2244(b). Otherwise, petitioners could evade the baragainst relitigation of claims presented in a prior application,$ 2244(b)(1), or the bar against litigation of claims not presented in a prior application, $ 2244(b)(2). If the courtgrants such a motion, its action is subject to AEDPA irrespective of whether the motion is based on old claims (inwhich case $ 2244(b)(1) would apply) or new ones (in whichcase $ 2244(b)(2) would apply).523US2 Unit: $U57 [04-29-00 18:35:19] PAGES PGT: OPIN554 CALDERON v. THOMPSONOpinion of the CourtAs a textual matter, $ 2244(b) applies only where the courtacts pursuant to a prisoner's "application." This carries implications for cases where a motion to recall the mandate ispending, but the court instead recalls the mandate on its owninitiative. Whether these cases are subject to $ 2244(b) de-pends on the underlying basis of the court's action. If, inrecalling the mandate, the court considers new claims or evidence presented in a successive application for habeas relief,it is proper to regard the court's action as based on thatapplication. In these cases, $ 2244(b)(2) applies irrespectiveof whether the court characterizes the action as sua sponte.In Thompson's case, however, the Court of Appeals wasspecific in reciting that it acted on the exclusive basis ofThompson's first federal habeas petition. The court's char-acterization of its action assua sponte does not, of course,prove this point; had the court considered claims or evidencepresented in Thompson's later filings, its action would havebeen based on a successive application, and so would be subject to $ 2244(b). But in Thompson's case the court's recita-tion that it acted on the exclusive basis of his first federalpetition is not disproved by consideration of matters pre-sented in a later filing. Thus we deem the court to haveacted on his first application rather than a successive one.As a result, the court's order recalling its mandate did notcontravene the letter of AEDPA.Although the terms of AEDPA do not govern this case,a court of appeals must exercise its discretion in a mannerconsistent with the objects of the statute. In a habeas case,moreover, the court must be guided by the general principlesunderlying our habeas corpus jurisprudence. We now consider those principles as applied to this case.BIn light of "the profound societal costs that attend the ex-ercise of habeas jurisdiction,"Smith v. Murray, 477 U. S.527, 539 (1986), we have found it necessary to impose signifi523US2 Unit: $U57 [04-29-00 18:35:20] PAGES PGT: OPIN555Cite as: 523 U. S. 538 (1998)Opinion of the Courtcant limits on the discretion of federal courts to grant habeasrelief. See,e. g., McCleskey v. Zant, 499 U. S. 467, 487 (1991)(limiting "a district court's discretion to entertain abusivepetitions");Wainwright v. Sykes, 433 U. S. 72, 90-91 (1977)(limiting courts' discretion to entertain procedurally defaulted claims); Teague v. Lane, 489 U. S. 288, 308-310 (1989)(plurality opinion ofO'Connor, J.) (limiting courts' discretion to give retroactive application to "new rules" in habeascases);Brecht v. Abrahamson, 507 U. S. 619, 637-638 (1993)(limiting courts' discretion to grant habeas relief on the basisof "trial error").These limits reflect our enduring respect for "the State'sinterest in the finality of convictions that have surviveddirect review within the state court system." Id., at 635;accord, Wood v. Bartholomew, 516 U. S. 1, 8 (1995) (per curiam); Sawyer v. Whitley, 505 U. S. 333, 338 (1992); Keeneyv. Tamayo-Reyes, 504 U. S. 1, 7 (1992); McCleskey, supra, at491-492; Teague, supra, at 309; Murray v. Carrier, 477 U. S.478, 487 (1986); Engle v. Isaac, 456 U. S. 107, 127 (1982). Finality is essential to both the retributive and the deterrentfunctions of criminal law. "Neither innocence nor just punishment can be vindicated until the final judgment is known."McCleskey, supra, at 491. "Without finality, the criminallaw is deprived of much of its deterrent effect." Teague,supra, at 309.Finality also enhances the quality of judging. There isperhaps "nothing more subversive of a judge's sense of responsibility, of the inner subjective conscientiousness whichis so essential a part of the difficult and subtle art of judgingwell, than an indiscriminate acceptance of the notion that allthe shots will always be called by someone else." Bator,Finality in Criminal Law and Federal Habeas Corpus forState Prisoners, 76 Harv. L. Rev. 441, 451 (1963).Finality serves as well to preserve the federal balance.Federal habeas review of state convictions frustrates " `boththe States' sovereign power to punish offenders and their523US2 Unit: $U57 [04-29-00 18:35:20] PAGES PGT: OPIN556 CALDERON v. THOMPSONOpinion of the Courtgood-faith attempts to honor constitutional rights.' " Murray v. Carrier, supra, at 487 (quoting Engle, supra, at 128)."Our federal system recognizes the independent power of aState to articulate societal norms through criminal law; butthe power of a State to pass laws means little if the Statecannot enforce them." McCleskey, 499 U. S., at 491.A State's interests in finality are compelling when a federal court of appeals issues a mandate denying federal ha-beas relief. At that point, having in all likelihood borne foryears "the significant costs of federal habeas review," id., at490-491, the State is entitled to the assurance of finality.When lengthy federal proceedings have run their course anda mandate denying relief has issued, finality acquires anadded moral dimension. Only with an assurance of real finality can the State execute its moral judgment in a case.Only with real finality can the victims of crime move forwardknowing the moral judgment will be carried out. See generally Payne v. Tennessee, 501 U. S. 808 (1991). To unsettlethese expectations is to inflict a profound injury to the "powerful and legitimate interest in punishing the guilty," Herrera v. Collins, 506 U. S. 390, 421 (1993) (O'Connor, J., concurring), an interest shared by the State and the victims ofcrime alike.This case well illustrates the extraordinary costs associated with a federal court of appeals' recall of its mandatedenying federal habeas relief. By July 31, 1997, to vindicatethe laws enacted by the legislature of the State of California,a jury had convicted Thompson of rape and murder and recommended that he be executed; the trial judge had imposeda sentence of death; the California Supreme Court had affirmed Thompson's sentence and on four occasions refused todisturb it on collateral attack; and, in a comprehensive andpublic decision, the Governor had determined the sentencewas just. Relying upon the mandate denying habeas reliefto Thompson, the State of California had invoked its entirelegal and moral authority in support of executing its judg523US2 Unit: $U57 [04-29-00 18:35:20] PAGES PGT: OPIN557Cite as: 523 U. S. 538 (1998)Opinion of the Courtment. Yet, after almost 13 years of state and federal reviewof Thompson's conviction and sentence, almost one year afterThompson filed his petition for rehearing and suggestion forrehearing en banc, a full 53 days after issuance of the mandate denying relief, and a mere two days before Thompsonwas scheduled to be executed, the Ninth Circuit recalled itsmandate and granted the writ of habeas corpus. The costsimposed by these actions are as severe as any that can beimposed in federal habeas review.We should be clear about the circumstances we address inthis case. We deal not with the recall of a mandate to correct mere clerical errors in the judgment itself, similar tothose described in Federal Rule of Criminal Procedure 36 orFederal Rule of Civil Procedure 60(a). The State can havelittle interest, based on reliance or other grounds, in preserving a mandate not in accordance with the actual decision rendered by the court. This also is not a case of fraud uponthe court, calling into question the very legitimacy of thejudgment. See Hazel-Atlas Glass Co. v. Hartford-EmpireCo., 322 U. S. 238 (1944). Nor is this a case where the mandate is stayed under Federal Rule of Appellate Procedure 41pending the court's disposition of a suggestion for rehearingen banc.Rather, we are concerned with cases where, as here, acourt of appeals recalls its mandate to revisit the merits ofits earlier decision denying habeas relief. In these cases,the State's interests in finality are all but paramount, without regard to whether the court of appeals predicates therecall on a procedural misunderstanding or some other irregularity occurring prior to its decision. The prisoner hasalready had extensive review of his claims in federal andstate courts. In the absence of a strong showing of "actua[l]innocen[ce]," Murray v. Carrier, supra, at 496, the State'sinterests in actual finality outweigh the prisoner's interestin obtaining yet another opportunity for review.523US2 Unit: $U57 [04-29-00 18:35:20] PAGES PGT: OPIN558 CALDERON v. THOMPSONOpinion of the CourtBased on these considerations, we hold the general rule tobe that, where a federal court of appealssua sponte recallsits mandate to revisit the merits of an earlier decision deny-ing habeas corpus relief to a state prisoner, the court abusesits discretion unless it acts to avoid a miscarriage of justiceas defined by our habeas corpus jurisprudence. The ruleaccommodates the need to allow courts to remedy actual injustice while recognizing that, at some point, the State mustbe allowed to exercise its " `sovereign power to punish offenders.' " McCleskey, supra, at 491 (quoting Murray v.Carrier, 477 U. S., at 487).This standard comports with the values and purposes underlying AEDPA. Although AEDPA does not govern thiscase, see supra, at 554, its provisions "certainly informour consideration" of whether the Court of Appeals abusedits discretion. Felker v. Turpin, 518 U. S. 651, 663 (1996).Section 2244(b) of the statute is grounded in respect for thefinality of criminal judgments. With the exception of claimsbased on new rules of constitutional law made retroactive bythis Court, see $ 2244(b)(2)(A), a federal court can consider aclaim presented in a second or successive application only ifthe prisoner shows, among other things, that the facts underlying the claim establish his innocence by clear and convincing evidence. See $ 2244(b)(2)(B). It is true that the miscarriage of justice standard we adopt today is somewhatmore lenient than the standard in $ 2244(b)(2)(B). See, e. g.,$ 2244(b)(2)(B)(i) (factual predicate for claim must "not havebeen discover[able] previously through the exercise of duediligence"). The miscarriage of justice standard is altogether consistent, however, with AEDPA's central concernthat the merits of concluded criminal proceedings not be revisited in the absence of a strong showing of actual innocence. And, of course, the rules applicable in all caseswhere the court recalls its mandate, see supra, at 549-553,further ensure the practice is limited to the most rare andextraordinary case.523US2 Unit: $U57 [04-29-00 18:35:20] PAGES PGT: OPIN559Cite as: 523 U. S. 538 (1998)Opinion of the CourtLike other standards applicable in habeas cases, moreover,the miscarriage of justice standard is objective in content,"[w]ell defined in the case law," and "familiar to federalcourts." McCleskey, 499 U. S., at 496. It is indeed thestandard the Ninth Circuit determined to apply in voting toconsider en banc whether to recall the mandate in Thompson's case. See App. 194 (Order of July 30, 1997) ("The fullcourt has voted to consider whether to recall the mandate toconsider whether the panel decision of our court would resultin a fundamental miscarriage of justice"). Hence the standard is not only a just but also " `a sound and workable meansof channeling the discretion of federal habeas courts.' "McCleskey, supra, at 496 (quoting Murray v. Carrier, supra,at 497).We now determine whether this standard was met inThompson's case.C"[T]he miscarriage of justice exception is concerned withactual as compared to legal innocence."Sawyer, 505 U. S.,at 339. We have often emphasized "the narrow scope" ofthe exception. Id., at 340; accord, Harris v. Reed, 489 U. S.255, 271 (1989) (O'Connor, J., concurring) ("narrow excep-tion" for the " `extraordinary case' "). "To be credible," aclaim of actual innocence must be based on reliable evidencenot presented at trial. Schlup v. Delo, 513 U. S. 298, 324(1995). Given the rarity of such evidence, "in virtuallyevery case, the allegation of actual innocence has been summarily rejected." Ibid. (internal quotation marks omitted).Although demanding in all cases, the precise scope of themiscarriage of justice exception depends on the nature of thechallenge brought by the habeas petitioner. If the petitioner asserts his actual innocence of the underlying crime,he must show "it is more likely than not that no reasonablejuror would have convicted him in light of the new evidence"presented in his habeas petition.Id., at 327. If, on theother hand, a capital petitioner challenges his death sentence523US2 Unit: $U57 [04-29-00 18:35:20] PAGES PGT: OPIN560 CALDERON v. THOMPSONOpinion of the Courtin particular, he must show "by clear and convincing evi-dence" that no reasonable juror would have found him eligible for the death penalty in light of the new evidence. Sawyer, supra, at 348.The Sawyer standard has a broader application than is atfirst apparent. As the Court explained in Schlup, when acapital petitioner challenges his underlying capital murderconviction on the basis of an element that "function[s] essen-tially as a sentence enhancer," theSawyer "clear and convincing" standard applies to the claim. Schlup, supra, at326. Thus, to the extent a capital petitioner claims he didnot kill the victim, the Schlup "more likely than not" standard applies. To the extent a capital petitioner contests thespecial circumstances rendering him eligible for the deathpenalty, the Sawyer "clear and convincing" standard applies,irrespective of whether the special circumstances are elements of the offense of capital murder or, as here, mere sentencing enhancers.A claim like Thompson's could present some difficulty concerning whether to apply Schlup or Sawyer. Thompsonmakes no appreciable effort to assert his innocence ofFleischli's murder. Instead, he challenges, first, his rapeconviction, and second, the jury's finding of the special circumstance of rape. The former challenge is subject to theSchlup "more likely than not" standard; the latter challengeis subject to the Sawyer "clear and convincing" standard.In theory, then, it would be possible to vacate Thompson'sstand-alone conviction of rape but to let stand his convictionof murder and sentence of death. This anomaly perhaps reflects some tension between Sawyer and the later decidedSchlup. The anomaly need not detain us, however, forThompson's claims fail under either standard.At trial, the prosecution presented ample evidence to showThompson committed the rape. A vaginal swab of Fleischli's body revealed semen consistent with Thompson's bloodtype. App. 109. In addition, there was extensive evidence523US2 Unit: $U57 [04-29-00 18:35:20] PAGES PGT: OPIN561Cite as: 523 U. S. 538 (1998)Opinion of the Courtof restraint consistent with rape. Dr. Robert Richards, apathologist who performed the autopsy on Fleischli and testified for the prosecution at trial, stated that, at or near thetime of death, Fleischli suffered a crushing injury to herright wrist with surrounding bruising. Id., at 9. DeputyDarryl Coder, who in his 23 years as a law enforcement offi-cer had seen "hundreds" of handcuff injuries, testified theinjury to Fleischli's right wrist was consistent with injuriescaused by handcuffs, a pair of which were in Thompson's possession when he was arrested in Mexico. Id., at 13, n. 9.Dr. Richards further testified that Fleischli had other bruiseson her ankles, palms, left elbow, and left wrist, all of whichwere caused at or near the time of death. Id., at 9, 10 Record 1619. Fleischli's shirt and bra had been cut down themiddle and pulled down to her elbows, exposing her breastsand restraining her arms. App. 7, 109. Fleischli's mouthhad been gagged with duct tape. 9 Record 1505, 11 id., at1772.There was further evidence of rape. As Judge Kleinfeldnoted in dissent, "Fleischli was murdered by Thompson, afate more frequent among rape victims than friendly sexpartners." 120 F. 3d, at 1073. Two jailhouse informants,though discredited to a substantial extent at trial, testifiedthat Thompson had confessed the rape (as well as the murder) to them.As the District Court observed, moreover, Thompson'sown testimony "was devastating to his defense." App. 51.Contrary to the emphatic advice of trial counsel, Thompsonchose to testify. The result was by all accounts a disasterfor his claim that he did not rape or murder Fleischli. Theprosecution got Thompson to admit he lied to police after hisarrest, when he denied having sex with Fleischli. He alsoadmitted having lied to police about Fleischli's whereaboutsthe night of the murder, telling them she had left his apartment with Kashani. When asked about this lie, Thompsonreplied, "Mr. Kashani seemed as likely a candidate [as] any523US2 Unit: $U57 [04-29-00 18:35:20] PAGES PGT: OPIN562 CALDERON v. THOMPSONOpinion of the Courtbody at that time." 18 Record 2378. He then presented hismost recent, and perhaps most fantastic, account of theevents of the night of the murder. Thompson testified that,after having consensual sex with Fleischli, he fell asleep andremained asleep while, not more than six feet away, someoneelse stabbed Fleischli five times in the head, wrapped herhead and body with duct tape, two towels, a sheet, herjacket, a sleeping bag, and a rope, moved her body from theapartment, and scrubbed the carpet to remove her blood.The District Court found Thompson's testimony "was riddledwith inconsistencies and outright falsehoods." App. 51.The District Court further stated: "Thompson's testimony nodoubt affected the jury's verdict." Id., at 51. The point isbeyond dispute; since Thompson lied about almost everyother material aspect of the case, the jury had good reasonto believe he lied about whether the sex was consensual.Thompson presents little evidence to undermine the evidence presented at trial. The en banc court based its decision only on the claims and evidence presented in Thompson's first petition for federal habeas relief. Had itconsidered the additional evidence or claims presented inThompson's motion to recall the mandate, of course, its decision would have been subject to $ 2244(b). See supra, at554. Hence the record of Thompson's first federal habeaspetition will govern whether he has demonstrated actualinnocence of rape.The evidence in Thompson's petition falls into two categories. First, Thompson presented additional evidence to impeach the credibility of Fink and Del Frate, the jailhouseinformants who testified Thompson confessed the rape andmurder to them. In the case of Fink, Thompson presentedadditional evidence of Fink's history as an informant and oflaw enforcement favors for Fink. Thompson also presentedstatements by law enforcement officials to the effect thatFink was an unreliable witness. In the case of Del Frate,Thompson presented evidence that law enforcement officials523US2 Unit: $U57 [04-29-00 18:35:20] PAGES PGT: OPIN563Cite as: 523 U. S. 538 (1998)Opinion of the Courtand certain members of Del Frate's family regarded DelFrate as dishonest, that Del Frate shared a jail cell withDavid Leitch prior to meeting Thompson, that Del Frate'sstatements to police tracked newspaper accounts of thecrime, and that Del Frate neglected to mention at trial hisprior convictions for grand theft and distribution of halluci-nogens without a license.This impeachment evidence provides no basis for finding amiscarriage of justice. As inSawyer, the evidence is a stepremoved from evidence pertaining to the crime itself. 505U. S., at 348. It tends only to impeach the credibility ofFink and Del Frate. To find that these matters in all probability would have altered the outcome of Thompson's trial,we should have to assume, first, that there was little evidence of rape apart from the informant's testimony; andsecond, that the jury accepted the informants' testimonywithout reservation. The former assumption is belied bythe evidence recited above. The latter one is belied by thesubstantial impeachment evidence Thompson's attorney didintroduce.With regard to Fink, Thompson's trial counsel presentedthe following evidence: Fink had four prior felony convictions and had spent a total of 14 years in prison at the timeof trial. He used heroin on a frequent basis during the 15years preceding trial, including the period in which he gavehis statement to police. He lied about his identity as a matter of routine. He acted as an informant on numerous otheroccasions, including one occasion where he informed on another inmate to gain protective custody in prison. He requested and received a transfer to another penal facility inexchange for his statement against Thompson. And he admitted being unable to explain why criminals confessed tohim with such frequency.With regard to Del Frate, Thompson's trial counsel presented the following evidence: Del Frate had served time forsecond-degree murder and credit card forgery. At the time523US2 Unit: $U57 [04-29-00 18:35:20] PAGES PGT: OPIN564 CALDERON v. THOMPSONOpinion of the Courtof trial, Del Frate faced felony charges in Ohio and California. Del Frate admitted claiming another murderer confessed to him during the period in which Thompson confessed to him. He also admitted changing his account ofThompson's confession to him numerous times. Given thetrial evidence impeaching each informant, we would disrespect the jury in Thompson's case if we were to find that,had it been presented with still more impeachment evidence,it would have reached a different verdict.In support of his first federal habeas petition, Thompsonalso presented the opinions of Dr. Irving Root, a pathologistwho testified on Thompson's behalf during the evidentiaryhearing in Federal District Court. Dr. Root disputed certain of the opinions offered by Dr. Richards and DeputyCoder at trial. First, Dr. Root disagreed with Deputy Coder's conclusion that the crushing injury to Fleischli's leftwrist was caused by handcuffs. Dr. Root stated the injurywas unlike handcuff injuries he had seen on other corpses.1 Tr. 52-54, 62-63 (Aug. 5, 1997). He did not, however, offerany alternative explanation as to how the injury might havebeen caused. Second, Dr. Root disputed Dr. Richards' conclusions regarding the bruises on Fleischli's body. Dr. Rootopined the bruises to Fleischli's ankles and left wrist werecaused at least 11 hours before death. Id., at 47-50. Hefurther stated the bruises to Fleischli's palms were the result of lividity, i. e., the settling of blood by gravity afterdeath. Id., at 48. Third, Dr. Root noted there had been"infrequent" sperm on the vaginal swab of Fleischli's body.Id., at 63. Dr. Root suggested this finding could be the result of low sperm count for the male, or douching or drainageafter intercourse. Ibid. He further suggested the otherevidence in the case ruled out the possibility of drainage.Id., at 63-64. He did not, however, opine as to whether lowsperm count or douching was the more probable of the remaining possibilities. Finally, Dr. Root summarized his tes523US2 Unit: $U57 [04-29-00 18:35:20] PAGES PGT: OPIN565Cite as: 523 U. S. 538 (1998)Opinion of the Courttimony by agreeing "there was remarkably little in the wayof trauma to the decedent's body." Id., at 52.Dr. Root's testimony provides no occasion for disturbingthe findings of the jury in Thompson's case. His testimonythat the crushing injury to Fleischli's wrist was not causedby handcuffs is far from compelling, given Deputy Coder'sextensive experience with handcuff injuries (albeit with living persons) and Dr. Root's failure to offer any alternativeexplanation as to how the crushing injury might have occurred. His testimony that the other bruises to Fleischli'sbody were caused well before death is more plausible. Unlike Dr. Richards, however, Dr. Root based his conclusionsnot on his own examination of the body, but on his review ofthe record of Dr. Richards' examination. See id., at 70. Itis improbable, moreover, that Fleischli had been walkingabout with bruises all over her body, without any witnesshaving noticed her condition in the days and hours beforeThompson murdered her. As for the infrequent sperm onthe vaginal swab, Dr. Root himself suggested the causemight have been low sperm count for the male, a possibilityconsistent with rape. Id., at 63. Finally, Dr. Root's assessment of the overall trauma to the body was to a large extentconsistent with Dr. Richards' testimony at trial. For instance, Dr. Richards testified there was no evidence of vaginal tearing or bruising in Fleischli's case, though he indicated(and Dr. Root did not dispute) there was no such evidence inthe majority of rape cases. 10 Record 1629. As Dr. Roothimself acknowledged, his conclusion that there was "remarkably little" trauma to Fleischli's body was lifted verbatim from Dr. Richards' own autopsy report in Fleischli's case.1 Tr. 52 (Aug. 5, 1997).To say that no reasonable juror would have convictedThompson of rape if presented with Dr. Root's testimony,then, we would have to ignore the totality of evidence ofThompson's guilt. This we cannot do.523US2 Unit: $U57 [04-29-00 18:35:20] PAGES PGT: OPIN566 CALDERON v. THOMPSONSouter, J., dissentingIn conclusion, Thompson's evidence does not meet the"more likely than not" showing necessary to vacate hisstand-alone conviction of rape, much less the "clear and con-vincing" showing necessary to vacate his sentence of death.The judgment of the State of California will not result ina miscarriage of justice. The Court of Appeals abused itsdiscretion in holding the contrary.IVThe judgment of the Court of Appeals is reversed, and thecase is remanded with instructions to reinstate the June 11,1997, mandate denying habeas relief to Thompson.