A decision by local zoning authorities to deny a church abuilding permit was challenged under the Religious Freedom Restoration Act of 1993 (RFRA or Act), 107 Stat. 1488,42 U. S. C. $ 2000bbet seq. The case calls into question theauthority of Congress to enact RFRA. We conclude thestatute exceeds Congress' power.ISituated on a hill in the city of Boerne, Texas, some 28miles northwest of San Antonio, is St. Peter Catholic Church.Built in 1923, the church's structure replicates the missionChrist of Latter-day Saints by W. Cole Durham, Jr., James A. Serritella,James C. Geoly, Kevin R. Gustafson, and Von G. Keetch; for the Coalitionfor the Free Exercise of Religion by Marc D. Stern, Oliver S. Thomas, J.Brent Walker, Melissa Rogers, Steven T. McFarland, Samuel Rabinove,Richard Foltin, David Zwiebel, Steven R. Shapiro, Steven K. Green,and Jack F. Trope; for the Defenders of Property Rights et al. by NancieG. Marzulla; for the Minnesota Family Council et al. by Jordan W. Lorence; for the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund, Inc., byElaine R. Jones, Theodore M. Shaw, and Norman J. Chachkin; for theNational Committee for Amish Religious Freedom by William BentleyBall and Richard E. Connell; for the National Jewish Commission on Lawand Public Affairs by Nathan Lewin, Mathew S. Nosanchuk, and DennisRapps; for the National Trust for Historic Preservation in the UnitedStates by John H. Beisner and Elizabeth S. Merritt; for the Prison Fellowship Ministries et al. by Michael Joseph Woodruff, Scott J. Ward, J. Matthew Szymanski, Stephen M. Clarke, and Isaac M. Jaroslawicz; and forthe United States Catholic Conference et al. by Michael W. McConnell,Mark E. Chopko, and Jeffrey Hunter Moon.Briefs of amici curiae were filed for the State of Texas by Dan Morales,Attorney General, Jorge Vega, First Assistant Attorney General, andSamuel W. Goodhope and Javier Aguilar, Special Assistant AttorneysGeneral; for the Center for the Community Interest by Gilbert R. Serota;for Children's Healthcare is a Legal Duty, Inc., et al. by Robert J. Bruno;for the Knights of Columbus by Thomas D. Yannucci and Carl A. Anderson; for the Rutherford Institute by John W. Whitehead, James A.Hayes, Jr., and Brian L. Day; and by Thurston Greene, pro se.*Justice Scalia joins all but Part III-A-1 of this opinion.521US2 Unit: $U86 [11-20-99 14:39:13] PAGES PGT: OPIN512 CITY OF BOERNE v. FLORESOpinion of the Courtstyle of the region's earlier history. The church seats about230 worshippers, a number too small for its growing parish.Some 40 to 60 parishioners cannot be accommodated at someSunday masses. In order to meet the needs of the congregation the Archbishop of San Antonio gave permission to theparish to plan alterations to enlarge the building.A few months later, the Boerne City Council passed anordinance authorizing the city's Historic Landmark Commission to prepare a preservation plan with proposed historiclandmarks and districts. Under the ordinance, the commission must preapprove construction affecting historic land-marks or buildings in a historic district.Soon afterwards, the Archbishop applied for a buildingpermit so construction to enlarge the church could proceed.City authorities, relying on the ordinance and the designa-tion of a historic district (which, they argued, included thechurch), denied the application. The Archbishop broughtthis suit challenging the permit denial in the United StatesDistrict Court for the Western District of Texas. 877F. Supp. 355 (1995).The complaint contained various claims, but to this pointthe litigation has centered on RFRA and the question of itsconstitutionality. The Archbishop relied upon RFRA as onebasis for relief from the refusal to issue the permit. TheDistrict Court concluded that by enacting RFRA Congressexceeded the scope of its enforcement power under $ 5 of theFourteenth Amendment. The court certified its order forinterlocutory appeal and the Fifth Circuit reversed, findingRFRA to be constitutional. 73 F. 3d 1352 (1996). Wegranted certiorari, 519 U. S. 926 (1996), and now reverse.IICongress enacted RFRA in direct response to the Court'sdecision in Employment Div., Dept. of Human Resources ofOre. v. Smith, 494 U. S. 872 (1990). There we considereda Free Exercise Clause claim brought by members of the521US2 Unit: $U86 [11-20-99 14:39:13] PAGES PGT: OPIN513Cite as: 521 U. S. 507 (1997)Opinion of the CourtNative American Church who were denied unemploymentbenefits when they lost their jobs because they had used peyote. Their practice was to ingest peyote for sacramentalpurposes, and they challenged an Oregon statute of generalapplicability which made use of the drug criminal. In evaluating the claim, we declined to apply the balancing test setforth in Sherbert v. Verner, 374 U. S. 398 (1963), under whichwe would have asked whether Oregon's prohibition substantially burdened a religious practice and, if it did, whether theburden was justified by a compelling government interest.We stated:"[G]overnment's ability to enforce generally applicableprohibitions of socially harmful conduct . . . cannot depend on measuring the effects of a governmental actionon a religious objector's spiritual development. Tomake an individual's obligation to obey such a law contingent upon the law's coincidence with his religiousbeliefs, except where the State's interest is `compelling'. . . contradicts both constitutional tradition and commonsense." 494 U. S., at 885 (internal quotation marks andcitations omitted).The application of the Sherbert test, the Smith decision explained, would have produced an anomaly in the law, a constitutional right to ignore neutral laws of general applicability.The anomaly would have been accentuated, the Court reasoned, by the difficulty of determining whether a particularpractice was central to an individual's religion. We explained, moreover, that it "is not within the judicial ken toquestion the centrality of particular beliefs or practices to afaith, or the validity of particular litigants' interpretations ofthose creeds." 494 U. S., at 887 (internal quotation marksand citation omitted).The only instances where a neutral, generally applicablelaw had failed to pass constitutional muster, the Smith Court521US2 Unit: $U86 [11-20-99 14:39:13] PAGES PGT: OPIN514 CITY OF BOERNE v. FLORESOpinion of the Courtnoted, were cases in which other constitutional protectionswere at stake.Id., at 881-882. In Wisconsin v. Yoder, 406U. S. 205 (1972), for example, we invalidated Wisconsin'smandatory school-attendance law as applied to Amish parents who refused on religious grounds to send their childrento school. That case implicated not only the right to the freeexercise of religion but also the right of parents to controltheir children's education.TheSmith decision acknowledged the Court had employedthe Sherbert test in considering free exercise challenges tostate unemployment compensation rules on three occasionswhere the balance had tipped in favor of the individual. SeeSherbert, supra; Thomas v. Review Bd. of Indiana Employment Security Div., 450 U. S. 707 (1981); Hobbie v. Unemployment Appeals Comm'n of Fla., 480 U. S. 136 (1987).Those cases, the Court explained, stand for "the propositionthat where the State has in place a system of individual exemptions, it may not refuse to extend that system to casesof religious hardship without compelling reason." 494 U. S.,at 884 (internal quotation marks omitted). By contrast,where a general prohibition, such as Oregon's, is at issue,"the sounder approach, and the approach in accord with thevast majority of our precedents, is to hold the test inapplicable to [free exercise] challenges." Id., at 885. Smith heldthat neutral, generally applicable laws may be applied to religious practices even when not supported by a compellinggovernmental interest.Four Members of the Court disagreed. They argued thelaw placed a substantial burden on the Native AmericanChurch members so that it could be upheld only if the lawserved a compelling state interest and was narrowly tailoredto achieve that end. Id., at 894. Justice O'Connor concluded Oregon had satisfied the test, while Justice Blackmun,joined by Justice Brennan and Justice Marshall, could see nocompelling interest justifying the law's application to themembers.521US2 Unit: $U86 [11-20-99 14:39:13] PAGES PGT: OPIN515Cite as: 521 U. S. 507 (1997)Opinion of the CourtThese points of constitutional interpretation were debatedby Members of Congress in hearings and floor debates.Many criticized the Court's reasoning, and this disagreementresulted in the passage of RFRA. Congress announced:"(1) [T]he framers of the Constitution, recognizing freeexercise of religion as an unalienable right, secured itsprotection in the First Amendment to the Constitution;"(2) laws `neutral' toward religion may burden religiousexercise as surely as laws intended to interfere with religious exercise;"(3) governments should not substantially burden reli-gious exercise without compelling justification;"(4) in Employment Division v. Smith, 494 U. S. 872(1990), the Supreme Court virtually eliminated the requirement that the government justify burdens on reli-gious exercise imposed by laws neutral toward religion; and"(5) the compelling interest test as set forth in priorFederal court rulings is a workable test for striking sensible balances between religious liberty and competingprior governmental interests." 42 U. S. C. $ 2000bb(a).The Act's stated purposes are:"(1) to restore the compelling interest test as set forthin Sherbert v. Verner, 374 U. S. 398 (1963) and Wisconsinv. Yoder, 406 U. S. 205 (1972) and to guarantee its appli-cation in all cases where free exercise of religion is substantially burdened; and"(2) to provide a claim or defense to persons whosereligious exercise is substantially burdened by government." $ 2000bb(b).RFRA prohibits "[g]overnment" from "substantially bur-den[ing]" a person's exercise of religion even if the burdenresults from a rule of general applicability unless the govern-ment can demonstrate the burden "(1) is in furtherance of521US2 Unit: $U86 [11-20-99 14:39:13] PAGES PGT: OPIN516 CITY OF BOERNE v. FLORESOpinion of the Courta compelling governmental interest; and (2) is the least re-strictive means of furthering that compelling governmentalinterest." $ 2000bb-1. The Act's mandate applies to any"branch, department, agency, instrumentality, and official (orother person acting under color of law) of the United States,"as well as to any "State, or . . . subdivision of a State."$ 2000bb-2(1). The Act's universal coverage is confirmed in$ 2000bb-3(a), under which RFRA "applies to all Federal andState law, and the implementation of that law, whether statutory or otherwise, and whether adopted before or after[RFRA's enactment]." In accordance with RFRA's usage ofthe term, we shall use "state law" to include local and munici-pal ordinances.IIIAUnder our Constitution, the Federal Government is one ofenumerated powers.McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat.316, 405 (1819); see also The Federalist No. 45, p. 292 (C.Rossiter ed. 1961) (J. Madison). The judicial authority todetermine the constitutionality of laws, in cases and controversies, is based on the premise that the "powers of the leg-islature are defined and limited; and that those limits maynot be mistaken, or forgotten, the constitution is written."Marbury v. Madison, 1 Cranch 137, 176 (1803).Congress relied on its Fourteenth Amendment enforce-ment power in enacting the most far-reaching and substantial of RFRA's provisions, those which impose its require-ments on the States. See Religious Freedom RestorationAct of 1993, S. Rep. No. 103-111, pp. 13-14 (1993) (SenateReport); H. R. Rep. No. 103-88, p. 9 (1993) (House Report).The Fourteenth Amendment provides, in relevant part:"Section 1. . . . No State shall make or enforce any lawwhich shall abridge the privileges or immunities of citizens of the United States; nor shall any State depriveany person of life, liberty, or property, without due proc521US2 Unit: $U86 [11-20-99 14:39:14] PAGES PGT: OPIN517Cite as: 521 U. S. 507 (1997)Opinion of the Courtess of law; nor deny to any person within its jurisdictionthe equal protection of the laws.. . . . ."Section 5. The Congress shall have power to enforce,by appropriate legislation, the provisions of this article."The parties disagree over whether RFRA is a proper exercise of Congress' $ 5 power "to enforce" by "appropriatelegislation" the constitutional guarantee that no State shalldeprive any person of "life, liberty, or property, without dueprocess of law," nor deny any person "equal protection ofthe laws."In defense of the Act, respondent the Archbishop con-tends, with support from the United States, that RFRA ispermissible enforcement legislation. Congress, it is said, isonly protecting by legislation one of the liberties guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment's Due Process Clause,the free exercise of religion, beyond what is necessary underSmith. It is said the congressional decision to dispensewith proof of deliberate or overt discrimination and insteadconcentrate on a law's effects accords with the settled understanding that $ 5 includes the power to enact legislationdesigned to prevent, as well as remedy, constitutional violations. It is further contended that Congress' $ 5 power isnot limited to remedial or preventive legislation.All must acknowledge that $ 5 is "a positive grant of legis-lative power" to Congress,Katzenbach v. Morgan, 384 U. S.641, 651 (1966). In Ex parte Virginia, 100 U. S. 339, 345-346 (1880), we explained the scope of Congress' $ 5 power inthe following broad terms:"Whatever legislation is appropriate, that is, adapted tocarry out the objects the amendments have in view,whatever tends to enforce submission to the prohibitionsthey contain, and to secure to all persons the enjoymentof perfect equality of civil rights and the equal protection of the laws against State denial or invasion, if not521US2 Unit: $U86 [11-20-99 14:39:14] PAGES PGT: OPIN518 CITY OF BOERNE v. FLORESOpinion of the Courtprohibited, is brought within the domain of congres-sional power."Legislation which deters or remedies constitutional viola-tions can fall within the sweep of Congress' enforcementpower even if in the process it prohibits conduct which is notitself unconstitutional and intrudes into "legislative spheresof autonomy previously reserved to the States." Fitzpat-rick v. Bitzer, 427 U. S. 445, 455 (1976). For example, theCourt upheld a suspension of literacy tests and similar votingrequirements under Congress' parallel power to enforce theprovisions of the Fifteenth Amendment, see U. S. Const.,Amdt. 15, $ 2, as a measure to combat racial discriminationin voting, South Carolina v. Katzenbach, 383 U. S. 301, 308(1966), despite the facial constitutionality of the tests underLassiter v. Northampton County Bd. of Elections, 360 U. S.45 (1959). We have also concluded that other measures protecting voting rights are within Congress' power to enforcethe Fourteenth and Fifteenth Amendments, despite the burdens those measures placed on the States. South Carolinav. Katzenbach, supra (upholding several provisions of theVoting Rights Act of 1965); Katzenbach v. Morgan, supra(upholding ban on literacy tests that prohibited certain people schooled in Puerto Rico from voting); Oregon v. Mitchell,400 U. S. 112 (1970) (upholding 5-year nationwide ban on literacy tests and similar voting requirements for registeringto vote);City of Rome v. United States, 446 U. S. 156, 161(1980) (upholding 7-year extension of the Voting Rights Act'srequirement that certain jurisdictions preclear any changeto a " `standard, practice, or procedure with respect to voting' "); see also James Everard's Breweries v. Day, 265 U. S.545 (1924) (upholding ban on medical prescription of intoxicating malt liquors as appropriate to enforce EighteenthAmendment ban on manufacture, sale, or transportation ofintoxicating liquors for beverage purposes).It is also true, however, that "[a]s broad as the congressional enforcement power is, it is not unlimited." Oregon v.521US2 Unit: $U86 [11-20-99 14:39:14] PAGES PGT: OPIN519Cite as: 521 U. S. 507 (1997)Opinion of the CourtMitchell, supra, at 128 (opinion of Black, J.). In assessingthe breadth of $ 5's enforcement power, we begin with itstext. Congress has been given the power "to enforce" the"provisions of this article." We agree with respondent, ofcourse, that Congress can enact legislation under $ 5 enforcing the constitutional right to the free exercise of religion.The "provisions of this article," to which $ 5 refers, includethe Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.Congress' power to enforce the Free Exercise Clause followsfrom our holding in Cantwell v. Connecticut, 310 U. S. 296,303 (1940), that the "fundamental concept of liberty embodied in [the Fourteenth Amendment's Due Process Clause]embraces the liberties guaranteed by the First Amendment." See also United States v. Price, 383 U. S. 787, 789(1966) (there is "no doubt of the power of Congress to enforceby appropriate criminal sanction every right guaranteed bythe Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment" (internal quotation marks and citation omitted)).Congress' power under $ 5, however, extends only to "enforc[ing]" the provisions of the Fourteenth Amendment.The Court has described this power as "remedial," SouthCarolina v. Katzenbach, supra, at 326. The design of theAmendment and the text of $ 5 are inconsistent with the suggestion that Congress has the power to decree the substanceof the Fourteenth Amendment's restrictions on the States.Legislation which alters the meaning of the Free ExerciseClause cannot be said to be enforcing the Clause. Congressdoes not enforce a constitutional right by changing what theright is. It has been given the power "to enforce," not thepower to determine what constitutes a constitutional violation. Were it not so, what Congress would be enforcingwould no longer be, in any meaningful sense, the "provisionsof [the Fourteenth Amendment]."While the line between measures that remedy or preventunconstitutional actions and measures that make a substantive change in the governing law is not easy to discern, and521US2 Unit: $U86 [11-20-99 14:39:14] PAGES PGT: OPIN520 CITY OF BOERNE v. FLORESOpinion of the CourtCongress must have wide latitude in determining where itlies, the distinction exists and must be observed. Theremust be a congruence and proportionality between the in-jury to be prevented or remedied and the means adopted tothat end. Lacking such a connection, legislation may be-come substantive in operation and effect. History and ourcase law support drawing the distinction, one apparent fromthe text of the Amendment.1The Fourteenth Amendment's history confirms the reme-dial, rather than substantive, nature of the EnforcementClause. The Joint Committee on Reconstruction of the 39thCongress began drafting what would become the FourteenthAmendment in January 1866. The objections to the Com-mittee's first draft of the Amendment, and the rejection ofthe draft, have a direct bearing on the central issue of defin-ing Congress' enforcement power. In February, RepublicanRepresentative John Bingham of Ohio reported the followingdraft Amendment to the House of Representatives on behalfof the Joint Committee:"The Congress shall have power to make all lawswhich shall be necessary and proper to secure to thecitizens of each State all privileges and immunities ofcitizens in the several States, and to all persons in theseveral States equal protection in the rights of life, lib-erty, and property." Cong. Globe, 39th Cong., 1st Sess.,1034 (1866).The proposal encountered immediate opposition, whichcontinued through three days of debate. Members of Congress from across the political spectrum criticized theAmendment, and the criticisms had a common theme: Theproposed Amendment gave Congress too much legislativepower at the expense of the existing constitutional structure.E. g., id., at 1063-1065 (statement of Rep. Hale); id., at 1082521US2 Unit: $U86 [11-20-99 14:39:14] PAGES PGT: OPIN521Cite as: 521 U. S. 507 (1997)Opinion of the Court(statement of Sen. Stewart); id., at 1095 (statement of Rep.Hotchkiss);id., at App. 133-135 (statement of Rep. Rogers).Democrats and conservative Republicans argued that theproposed Amendment would give Congress a power to intrude into traditional areas of state responsibility, a powerinconsistent with the federal design central to the Constitu-tion. Typifying these views, Republican RepresentativeRobert Hale of New York labeled the Amendment "an utterdeparture from every principle ever dreamed of by the menwho framed our Constitution," id., at 1063, and warned thatunder it "all State legislation, in its codes of civil and criminal jurisprudence and procedure . . . may be overridden,may be repealed or abolished, and the law of Congress established instead." Ibid. Senator William Stewart of Nevadalikewise stated the Amendment would permit "Congress tolegislate fully upon all subjects affecting life, liberty, andproperty," such that "there would not be much left for theState Legislatures," and would thereby "work an entirechange in our form of government." Id., at 1082; accord, id.,at 1087 (statement of Rep. Davis); id., at App. 133 (statementof Rep. Rogers). Some radicals, like their brethren "unwilling that Congress shall have any such power . . . to establishuniform laws throughout the United States upon . . . theprotection of life, liberty, and property," id., at 1095 (statement of Rep. Hotchkiss), also objected that giving Congressprimary responsibility for enforcing legal equality wouldplace power in the hands of changing congressional majorities, ibid. See generally Bickel, The Original Understanding and the Segregation Decision, 69 Harv. L. Rev. 1, 57(1955); Graham, Our "Declaratory" Fourteenth Amendment,7 Stan. L. Rev. 3, 21 (1954).As a result of these objections having been expressed fromso many different quarters, the House voted to table the proposal until April. See, e. g., B. Kendrick, Journal of the JointCommittee of Fifteen on Reconstruction 215, 217 (1914);Cong. Globe, 42d Cong., 1st Sess., App. 115 (1871) (statement521US2 Unit: $U86 [11-20-99 14:39:14] PAGES PGT: OPIN522 CITY OF BOERNE v. FLORESOpinion of the Courtof Rep. Farnsworth). The congressional action was seen asmarking the defeat of the proposal. See The Nation, Mar.8, 1866, p. 291 ("The postponement of the amendment . . . isconclusive against the passage of [it]"); New York Times,Mar. 1, 1866, p. 4 ("It is doubtful if this ever comes beforethe House again . . ."); see also Cong. Globe, 42d Cong., 1stSess., at App. 115 (statement of Rep. Farnsworth) (TheAmendment was "given its quietus by a postponement fortwo months, where it slept the sleep that knows no waking").The measure was defeated "chiefly because many membersof the legal profession s[aw] in [it] . . . a dangerous centralization of power," The Nation, supra, at 291, and "many leadingRepublicans of th[e] House [of Representatives] would notconsent to so radical a change in the Constitution," Cong.Globe, 42d Cong., 1st Sess., at App. 151 (statement of Rep.Garfield). The Amendment in its early form was not againconsidered. Instead, the Joint Committee began drafting anew article of Amendment, which it reported to Congress onApril 30, 1866.Section 1 of the new draft Amendment imposed selfexecuting limits on the States. Section 5 prescribed that"[t]he Congress shall have power to enforce, by appropriatelegislation, the provisions of this article." See Cong. Globe,39th Cong., 1st Sess., at 2286. Under the revised Amendment, Congress' power was no longer plenary but remedial.Congress was granted the power to make the substantiveconstitutional prohibitions against the States effective.Representative Bingham said the new draft would give Congress "the power . . . to protect by national law the privileges and immunities of all the citizens of the Republic . . .whenever the same shall be abridged or denied by the unconstitutional acts of any State." Id., at 2542. RepresentativeStevens described the new draft Amendment as "allow[ing]Congress to correct the unjust legislation of the States."Id., at 2459. See also id., at 2768 (statement of Sen. Howard) ($ 5 "enables Congress, in case the States shall enact521US2 Unit: $U86 [11-20-99 14:39:14] PAGES PGT: OPIN523Cite as: 521 U. S. 507 (1997)Opinion of the Courtlaws in conflict with the principles of the amendment, to cor-rect that legislation by a formal congressional enactment").See generally H. Brannon, The Rights and Privileges Guar-anteed by the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitutionof the United States 387 (1901) (Congress' "powers are onlyprohibitive, corrective, vetoing, aimed only at undue processof law");id., at 420, 452-455 (same); T. Cooley, ConstitutionalLimitations 294, n. 1 (2d ed. 1871) ("This amendment of theConstitution does not concentrate power in the general government for any purpose of police government within theStates; its object is to preclude legislation by any Statewhich shall `abridge the privileges or immunities of citizensof the United States' "). The revised Amendment proposaldid not raise the concerns expressed earlier regarding broadcongressional power to prescribe uniform national laws withrespect to life, liberty, and property. See, e. g., Cong. Globe,42d Cong., 1st Sess., at App. 151 (statement of Rep. Garfield)("The [Fourteenth Amendment] limited but did not oust thejurisdiction of the State[s]"). After revisions not relevanthere, the new measure passed both Houses and was ratifiedin July 1868 as the Fourteenth Amendment.The significance of the defeat of the Bingham proposal wasapparent even then. During the debates over the Ku KluxKlan Act only a few years after the Amendment's ratification, Representative James Garfield argued there were limits on Congress' enforcement power, saying "unless we ignore both the history and the language of these clauses wecannot, by any reasonable interpretation, give to [$ 5] . . . theforce and effect of the rejected [Bingham] clause." Ibid.;see also id., at App. 115-116 (statement of Rep. Farnsworth).Scholars of successive generations have agreed with this assessment. See H. Flack, The Adoption of the FourteenthAmendment 64 (1908); Bickel, The Voting Rights Cases, 1966S. Ct. Rev. 79, 97.The design of the Fourteenth Amendment has proved significant also in maintaining the traditional separation of pow521US2 Unit: $U86 [11-20-99 14:39:14] PAGES PGT: OPIN524 CITY OF BOERNE v. FLORESOpinion of the Courters between Congress and the Judiciary. The first eightAmendments to the Constitution set forth self-executingprohibitions on governmental action, and this Court has hadprimary authority to interpret those prohibitions. The Bingham draft, some thought, departed from that tradition byvesting in Congress primary power to interpret and elaborate on the meaning of the new Amendment through legisla-tion. Under it, "Congress, and not the courts, was to judgewhether or not any of the privileges or immunities were notsecured to citizens in the several States." Flack,supra, at64. While this separation-of-powers aspect did not occasionthe widespread resistance which was caused by the propos-al's threat to the federal balance, it nonetheless attracted theattention of various Members. See Cong. Globe, 39th Cong.,1st Sess., at 1064 (statement of Rep. Hale) (noting that Billof Rights, unlike the Bingham proposal, "provide[s] safe-guards to be enforced by the courts, and not to be exercisedby the Legislature"); id., at App. 133 (statement of Rep. Rog-ers) (prior to Bingham proposal it "was left entirely for thecourts . . . to enforce the privileges and immunities of thecitizens"). As enacted, the Fourteenth Amendment conferssubstantive rights against the States which, like the pro-visions of the Bill of Rights, are self-executing. Cf. SouthCarolina v. Katzenbach, 383 U. S., at 325 (discussing Fif-teenth Amendment). The power to interpret the Constitution in a case or controversy remains in the Judiciary.2The remedial and preventive nature of Congress' enforce-ment power, and the limitation inherent in the power, wereconfirmed in our earliest cases on the Fourteenth Amend-ment. In the Civil Rights Cases, 109 U. S. 3 (1883), theCourt invalidated sections of the Civil Rights Act of 1875which prescribed criminal penalties for denying to any person "the full enjoyment of " public accommodations and con-veyances, on the grounds that it exceeded Congress' power521US2 Unit: $U86 [11-20-99 14:39:14] PAGES PGT: OPIN525Cite as: 521 U. S. 507 (1997)Opinion of the Courtby seeking to regulate private conduct. The EnforcementClause, the Court said, did not authorize Congress to pass"general legislation upon the rights of the citizen, but correc-tive legislation, that is, such as may be necessary and properfor counteracting such laws as the States may adopt or enforce, and which, by the amendment, they are prohibitedfrom making or enforcing . . . ."Id., at 13-14. The powerto "legislate generally upon" life, liberty, and property, asopposed to the "power to provide modes of redress" againstoffensive state action, was "repugnant" to the Constitution.Id., at 15. See also United States v. Reese, 92 U. S. 214, 218(1876); United States v. Harris, 106 U. S. 629, 639 (1883);James v. Bowman, 190 U. S. 127, 139 (1903). Although thespecific holdings of these early cases might have been superseded or modified, see, e. g., Heart of Atlanta Motel, Inc. v.United States, 379 U. S. 241 (1964); United States v. Guest,383 U. S. 745 (1966), their treatment of Congress' $ 5 poweras corrective or preventive, not definitional, has not beenquestioned.Recent cases have continued to revolve around the question whether $ 5 legislation can be considered remedial.In South Carolina v. Katzenbach, supra, we emphasized that"[t]he constitutional propriety of [legislation adopted underthe Enforcement Clause] must be judged with reference tothe historical experience . . . it reflects." 383 U. S., at 308.There we upheld various provisions of the Voting Rights Actof 1965, finding them to be "remedies aimed at areas wherevoting discrimination has been most flagrant," id., at 315,and necessary to "banish the blight of racial discriminationin voting, which has infected the electoral process in partsof our country for nearly a century," id., at 308. We notedevidence in the record reflecting the subsisting and pervasivediscriminatory--and therefore unconstitutional--use of literacy tests. Id., at 333-334. The Act's new remedies, whichused the administrative resources of the Federal Government, included the suspension of both literacy tests and,521US2 Unit: $U86 [11-20-99 14:39:14] PAGES PGT: OPIN526 CITY OF BOERNE v. FLORESOpinion of the Courtpending federal review, all new voting regulations in coveredjurisdictions, as well as the assignment of federal examinersto list qualified applicants enabling those listed to vote. Thenew, unprecedented remedies were deemed necessary giventhe ineffectiveness of the existing voting rights laws, see id.,at 313-315, and the slow, costly character of case-by-caselitigation,id., at 328.After South Carolina v. Katzenbach, the Court continuedto acknowledge the necessity of using strong remedial andpreventive measures to respond to the widespread and per-sisting deprivation of constitutional rights resulting fromthis country's history of racial discrimination. See Oregonv. Mitchell, 400 U. S., at 132 ("In enacting the literacy testban . . . Congress had before it a long history of the discriminatory use of literacy tests to disfranchise voters on accountof their race") (opinion of Black, J.); id., at 147 (Literacy tests"have been used at times as a discriminatory weapon againstsome minorities, not only Negroes but Americans of Mexicanancestry, and American Indians") (opinion of Douglas, J.); id.,at 216 ("Congress could have determined that racial prejudice is prevalent throughout the Nation, and that literacytests unduly lend themselves to discriminatory application,either conscious or unconscious") (opinion of Harlan, J.); id.,at 235 ("[T]here is no question but that Congress could legitimately have concluded that the use of literacy tests anywhere within the United States has the inevitable effect ofdenying the vote to members of racial minorities whose inability to pass such tests is the direct consequence of previous governmental discrimination in education") (opinion ofBrennan, J.); id., at 284 ("[N]ationwide [suspension of literacytests] may be reasonably thought appropriate when Congress acts against an evil such as racial discrimination whichin varying degrees manifests itself in every part of the country") (opinion of Stewart, J.); City of Rome, 446 U. S., at 182("Congress' considered determination that at least another 7years of statutory remedies were necessary to counter the521US2 Unit: $U86 [11-20-99 14:39:14] PAGES PGT: OPIN527Cite as: 521 U. S. 507 (1997)Opinion of the Courtperpetuation of 95 years of pervasive voting discriminationis both unsurprising and unassailable"); Morgan, 384 U. S.,at 656 (Congress had a factual basis to conclude that NewYork's literacy requirement "constituted an invidious discrimination in violation of the Equal Protection Clause").3Any suggestion that Congress has a substantive, non-remedial power under the Fourteenth Amendment is notsupported by our case law. In Oregon v. Mitchell, supra, at112, a majority of the Court concluded Congress had exceeded its enforcement powers by enacting legislation lower-ing the minimum age of voters from 21 to 18 in state andlocal elections. The five Members of the Court who reachedthis conclusion explained that the legislation intruded intoan area reserved by the Constitution to the States. See 400U. S., at 125 (concluding that the legislation was unconstitutional because the Constitution "reserves to the States thepower to set voter qualifications in state and local elections")(opinion of Black, J.); id., at 154 (explaining that the "Four-teenth Amendment was never intended to restrict the authority of the States to allocate their political power as theysee fit") (opinion of Harlan, J.);id., at 294 (concluding thatStates, not Congress, have the power "to establish a qualification for voting based on age") (opinion of Stewart, J., joinedby Burger, C. J., and Blackmun, J.). Four of these five wereexplicit in rejecting the position that $ 5 endowed Congresswith the power to establish the meaning of constitutionalprovisions. See id., at 209 (opinion of Harlan, J.); id., at 296(opinion of Stewart, J.). Justice Black's rejection of this position might be inferred from his disagreement with Con-gress' interpretation of the Equal Protection Clause. Seeid., at 125.There is language in our opinion in Katzenbach v. Morgan,384 U. S. 641 (1966), which could be interpreted as acknowl-edging a power in Congress to enact legislation that expands521US2 Unit: $U86 [11-20-99 14:39:14] PAGES PGT: OPIN528 CITY OF BOERNE v. FLORESOpinion of the Courtthe rights contained in $ 1 of the Fourteenth Amendment.This is not a necessary interpretation, however, or even thebest one. In Morgan, the Court considered the constitution-ality of $ 4(e) of the Voting Rights Act of 1965, which provided that no person who had successfully completed thesixth primary grade in a public school in, or a private schoolaccredited by, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico in whichthe language of instruction was other than English could bedenied the right to vote because of an inability to read orwrite English. New York's Constitution, on the other hand,required voters to be able to read and write English. TheCourt provided two related rationales for its conclusion that$ 4(e) could "be viewed as a measure to secure for the PuertoRican community residing in New York nondiscriminatorytreatment by government." Id., at 652. Under the first rationale, Congress could prohibit New York from denying theright to vote to large segments of its Puerto Rican community, in order to give Puerto Ricans "enhanced politicalpower" that would be "helpful in gaining nondiscriminatorytreatment in public services for the entire Puerto Rican community." Ibid. Section 4(e) thus could be justified as a remedial measure to deal with "discrimination in governmentalservices." Id., at 653. The second rationale, an alternativeholding, did not address discrimination in the provision ofpublic services but "discrimination in establishing voterqualifications." Id., at 654. The Court perceived a factualbasis on which Congress could have concluded that NewYork's literacy requirement "constituted an invidious discrimination in violation of the Equal Protection Clause."Id., at 656. Both rationales for upholding $ 4(e) rested onunconstitutional discrimination by New York and Congress'reasonable attempt to combat it. As Justice Stewart explained in Oregon v. Mitchell, supra, at 296, interpretingMorgan to give Congress the power to interpret the Constitution "would require an enormous extension of that decision's rationale."521US2 Unit: $U86 [11-20-99 14:39:14] PAGES PGT: OPIN529Cite as: 521 U. S. 507 (1997)Opinion of the CourtIf Congress could define its own powers by altering theFourteenth Amendment's meaning, no longer would theConstitution be "superior paramount law, unchangeable byordinary means." It would be "on a level with ordinary legislative acts, and, like other acts, . . . alterable when thelegislature shall please to alter it."Marbury v. Madison, 1Cranch, at 177. Under this approach, it is difficult to conceive of a principle that would limit congressional power.See Van Alstyne, The Failure of the Religious Freedom Restoration Act under Section 5 of the Fourteenth Amendment,46 Duke L. J. 291, 292-303 (1996). Shifting legislative majorities could change the Constitution and effectively circum-vent the difficult and detailed amendment process containedin Article V.We now turn to consider whether RFRA can be considered enforcement legislation under $ 5 of the FourteenthAmendment.BRespondent contends that RFRA is a proper exercise ofCongress' remedial or preventive power. The Act, it is said,is a reasonable means of protecting the free exercise of reli-gion as defined by Smith. It prevents and remedies lawswhich are enacted with the unconstitutional object of target-ing religious beliefs and practices. SeeChurch of LukumiBabalu Aye, Inc. v. Hialeah, 508 U. S. 520, 533 (1993) ("[A]law targeting religious beliefs as such is never permissible").To avoid the difficulty of proving such violations, it is said,Congress can simply invalidate any law which imposes a sub-stantial burden on a religious practice unless it is justifiedby a compelling interest and is the least restrictive means ofaccomplishing that interest. If Congress can prohibit lawswith discriminatory effects in order to prevent racial dis-crimination in violation of the Equal Protection Clause, seeFullilove v. Klutznick, 448 U. S. 448, 477 (1980) (pluralityopinion);City of Rome, 446 U. S., at 177, then it can do thesame, respondent argues, to promote religious liberty.521US2 Unit: $U86 [11-20-99 14:39:14] PAGES PGT: OPIN530 CITY OF BOERNE v. FLORESOpinion of the CourtWhile preventive rules are sometimes appropriate reme-dial measures, there must be a congruence between themeans used and the ends to be achieved. The appropriate-ness of remedial measures must be considered in light of theevil presented. See South Carolina v. Katzenbach, 383U. S., at 308. Strong measures appropriate to address oneharm may be an unwarranted response to another, lesserone. Id., at 334.A comparison between RFRA and the Voting Rights Actis instructive. In contrast to the record which confrontedCongress and the Judiciary in the voting rights cases,RFRA's legislative record lacks examples of modern instances of generally applicable laws passed because of religious bigotry. The history of persecution in this country detailed in the hearings mentions no episodes occurring in thepast 40 years. See, e. g., Religious Freedom Restoration Actof 1991, Hearings on H. R. 2797 before the Subcommittee onCivil and Constitutional Rights of the House Committee onthe Judiciary, 102d Cong., 2d Sess., 331-334 (1993) (statementof Douglas Laycock) (House Hearings); The Religious Freedom Restoration Act, Hearing on S. 2969 before the SenateCommittee on the Judiciary, 102d Cong., 2d Sess., 30-31(1993) (statement of Dallin H. Oaks) (Senate Hearing); id., at68-76 (statement of Douglas Laycock); Religious FreedomRestoration Act of 1990, Hearing on H. R. 5377 before theSubcommittee on Civil and Constitutional Rights of theHouse Committee on the Judiciary, 101st Cong., 2d Sess., 49(1991) (statement of John H. Buchanan, Jr.) (1990 HouseHearing). The absence of more recent episodes stems fromthe fact that, as one witness testified, "deliberate persecution is not the usual problem in this country." House Hearings 334 (statement of Douglas Laycock). See also HouseReport 2 ("[L]aws directly targeting religious practices havebecome increasingly rare"). Rather, the emphasis of thehearings was on laws of general applicability which place incidental burdens on religion. Much of the discussion cen521US2 Unit: $U86 [11-20-99 14:39:14] PAGES PGT: OPIN531Cite as: 521 U. S. 507 (1997)Opinion of the Courttered upon anecdotal evidence of autopsies performed onJewish individuals and Hmong immigrants in violation oftheir religious beliefs, see, e. g., House Hearings 81 (statement of Nadine Strossen); id., at 107-110 (statement of William Yang); id., at 118 (statement of Rep. Stephen J. Solarz);id., at 336 (statement of Douglas Laycock); Senate Hearing5-6, 14-26 (statement of William Yang); id., at 27-28 (statement of Hmong-Lao Unity Assn., Inc.); id., at 50 (statementof Baptist Joint Committee); see also Senate Report 8; HouseReport 5-6, and n. 14, and on zoning regulations and historicpreservation laws (like the one at issue here), which, as anincident of their normal operation, have adverse effects onchurches and synagogues. See, e. g., House Hearings 17, 57(statement of Robert P. Dugan, Jr.); id., at 81 (statement ofNadine Strossen); id., at 122-123 (statement of Rep. StephenJ. Solarz); id., at 157 (statement of Edward M. Gaffney, Jr.);id., at 327 (statement of Douglas Laycock); Senate Hearing143-144 (statement of Forest D. Montgomery); 1990 HouseHearing 39 (statement of Robert P. Dugan, Jr.); see also Senate Report 8; House Report 5-6, and n. 14. It is difficultto maintain that they are examples of legislation enacted orenforced due to animus or hostility to the burdened religiouspractices or that they indicate some widespread pattern ofreligious discrimination in this country. Congress' concernwas with the incidental burdens imposed, not the object orpurpose of the legislation. See House Report 2; Senate Report 4-5; House Hearings 64 (statement of Nadine Strossen);id., at 117-118 (statement of Rep. Stephen J. Solarz); 1990House Hearing 14 (statement of Rep. Stephen J. Solarz).This lack of support in the legislative record, however, is notRFRA's most serious shortcoming. Judicial deference, inmost cases, is based not on the state of the legislative recordCongress compiles but "on due regard for the decision ofthe body constitutionally appointed to decide." Oregon v.Mitchell, 400 U. S., at 207 (opinion of Harlan, J.). As a gen521US2 Unit: $U86 [11-20-99 14:39:14] PAGES PGT: OPIN532 CITY OF BOERNE v. FLORESOpinion of the Courteral matter, it is for Congress to determine the method bywhich it will reach a decision.Regardless of the state of the legislative record, RFRAcannot be considered remedial, preventive legislation, ifthose terms are to have any meaning. RFRA is so out ofproportion to a supposed remedial or preventive object thatit cannot be understood as responsive to, or designed toprevent, unconstitutional behavior. It appears, instead, toattempt a substantive change in constitutional protections.Preventive measures prohibiting certain types of laws maybe appropriate when there is reason to believe that manyof the laws affected by the congressional enactment have asignificant likelihood of being unconstitutional. SeeCity ofRome, 446 U. S., at 177 (since "jurisdictions with a demonstrable history of intentional racial discrimination . . . createthe risk of purposeful discrimination," Congress could "prohibit changes that have a discriminatory impact" in thosejurisdictions). Remedial legislation under $ 5 "should beadapted to the mischief and wrong which the [Fourteenth][A]mendment was intended to provide against."CivilRights Cases, 109 U. S., at 13.RFRA is not so confined. Sweeping coverage ensures itsintrusion at every level of government, displacing laws andprohibiting official actions of almost every description andregardless of subject matter. RFRA's restrictions applyto every agency and official of the Federal, State, and localGovernments. 42 U. S. C. $ 2000bb-2(1). RFRA applies toall federal and state law, statutory or otherwise, whetheradopted before or after its enactment. $ 2000bb-3(a).RFRA has no termination date or termination mechanism.Any law is subject to challenge at any time by any individualwho alleges a substantial burden on his or her free exerciseof religion.The reach and scope of RFRA distinguish it from othermeasures passed under Congress' enforcement power, evenin the area of voting rights. In South Carolina v. Katzenbach, the challenged provisions were confined to those re521US2 Unit: $U86 [11-20-99 14:39:14] PAGES PGT: OPIN533Cite as: 521 U. S. 507 (1997)Opinion of the Courtgions of the country where voting discrimination had beenmost flagrant, see 383 U. S., at 315, and affected a discreteclass of state laws, i. e., state voting laws. Furthermore, toensure that the reach of the Voting Rights Act was limitedto those cases in which constitutional violations were mostlikely (in order to reduce the possibility of overbreadth), thecoverage under the Act would terminate "at the behest ofStates and political subdivisions in which the danger of sub-stantial voting discrimination has not materialized duringthe preceding five years." Id., at 331. The provisions re-stricting and banning literacy tests, upheld inKatzenbach v.Morgan, 384 U. S. 641 (1966), and Oregon v. Mitchell, supra,attacked a particular type of voting qualification, one with along history as a "notorious means to deny and abridge voting rights on racial grounds." South Carolina v. Katzenbach, 383 U. S., at 355 (Black, J., concurring and dissenting).In City of Rome, supra, the Court rejected a challenge tothe constitutionality of a Voting Rights Act provision whichrequired certain jurisdictions to submit changes in electoralpractices to the Department of Justice for preimplementation review. The requirement was placed only on jurisdic-tions with a history of intentional racial discrimination invoting. Id., at 177. Like the provisions at issue in SouthCarolina v. Katzenbach, this provision permitted a coveredjurisdiction to avoid preclearance requirements under certain conditions and, moreover, lapsed in seven years. Thisis not to say, of course, that $ 5 legislation requires termination dates, geographic restrictions, or egregious predicates.Where, however, a congressional enactment pervasively prohibits constitutional state action in an effort to remedy or toprevent unconstitutional state action, limitations of this kindtend to ensure Congress' means are proportionate to endslegitimate under $ 5.The stringent test RFRA demands of state laws reflectsa lack of proportionality or congruence between the meansadopted and the legitimate end to be achieved. If an objector can show a substantial burden on his free exercise, the521US2 Unit: $U86 [11-20-99 14:39:14] PAGES PGT: OPIN534 CITY OF BOERNE v. FLORESOpinion of the CourtState must demonstrate a compelling governmental interestand show that the law is the least restrictive means of furthering its interest. Claims that a law substantially bur-dens someone's exercise of religion will often be difficult tocontest. See Smith, 494 U. S., at 887 ("What principle oflaw or logic can be brought to bear to contradict a believer'sassertion that a particular act is `central' to his personalfaith?"); id., at 907 ("The distinction between questions ofcentrality and questions of sincerity and burden is admittedly fine . . .") (O'Connor, J., concurring in judgment). Re-quiring a State to demonstrate a compelling interest andshow that it has adopted the least restrictive means ofachieving that interest is the most demanding test knownto constitutional law. If " `compelling interest' really meanswhat it says . . . , many laws will not meet the test. . . . [Thetest] would open the prospect of constitutionally requiredreligious exemptions from civic obligations of almost everyconceivable kind."Id., at 888. Laws valid under Smithwould fall under RFRA without regard to whether they hadthe object of stifling or punishing free exercise. We makethese observations not to reargue the position of the major-ity inSmith but to illustrate the substantive alteration of itsholding attempted by RFRA. Even assuming RFRA wouldbe interpreted in effect to mandate some lesser test, say, oneequivalent to intermediate scrutiny, the statute neverthelesswould require searching judicial scrutiny of state law withthe attendant likelihood of invalidation. This is a considerable congressional intrusion into the States' traditional prerogatives and general authority to regulate for the healthand welfare of their citizens.The substantial costs RFRA exacts, both in practicalterms of imposing a heavy litigation burden on the Statesand in terms of curtailing their traditional general regulatory power, far exceed any pattern or practice of unconstitutional conduct under the Free Exercise Clause as interpretedin Smith. Simply put, RFRA is not designed to identify andcounteract state laws likely to be unconstitutional because of521US2 Unit: $U86 [11-20-99 14:39:14] PAGES PGT: OPIN535Cite as: 521 U. S. 507 (1997)Opinion of the Courttheir treatment of religion. In most cases, the state lawsto which RFRA applies are not ones which will have beenmotivated by religious bigotry. If a state law disproportion-ately burdened a particular class of religious observers, thiscircumstance might be evidence of an impermissible legislative motive. Cf. Washington v. Davis, 426 U. S. 229, 241(1976). RFRA's substantial-burden test, however, is noteven a discriminatory-effects or disparate-impact test. It isa reality of the modern regulatory state that numerous statelaws, such as the zoning regulations at issue here, impose asubstantial burden on a large class of individuals. When theexercise of religion has been burdened in an incidental wayby a law of general application, it does not follow that thepersons affected have been burdened any more than othercitizens, let alone burdened because of their religious beliefs.In addition, the Act imposes in every case a least restrictivemeans requirement--a requirement that was not used in thepreSmith jurisprudence RFRA purported to codify--whichalso indicates that the legislation is broader than is appro-priate if the goal is to prevent and remedy constitutionalviolations.When Congress acts within its sphere of power and responsibilities, it has not just the right but the duty to makeits own informed judgment on the meaning and force of theConstitution. This has been clear from the early days of theRepublic. In 1789, when a Member of the House of Representatives objected to a debate on the constitutionality oflegislation based on the theory that "it would be officious" toconsider the constitutionality of a measure that did not affectthe House, James Madison explained that "it is incontrovertibly of as much importance to this branch of the Governmentas to any other, that the constitution should be preservedentire. It is our duty." 1 Annals of Congress 500 (1789).Were it otherwise, we would not afford Congress the presumption of validity its enactments now enjoy.Our national experience teaches that the Constitution ispreserved best when each part of the Government respects521US2 Unit: $U86 [11-20-99 14:39:14] PAGES PGT: OPIN536 CITY OF BOERNE v. FLORESStevens, J., concurringboth the Constitution and the proper actions and determina-tions of the other branches. When the Court has interpreted the Constitution, it has acted within the province ofthe Judicial Branch, which embraces the duty to say whatthe law is. Marbury v. Madison, 1 Cranch, at 177. Whenthe political branches of the Government act against thebackground of a judicial interpretation of the Constitutionalready issued, it must be understood that in later cases andcontroversies the Court will treat its precedents with therespect due them under settled principles, includingstaredecisis, and contrary expectations must be disappointed.RFRA was designed to control cases and controversies, suchas the one before us; but as the provisions of the federalstatute here invoked are beyond congressional authority,it is this Court's precedent, not RFRA, which must control.* * *It is for Congress in the first instance to "determin[e]whether and what legislation is needed to secure the guaran-tees of the Fourteenth Amendment," and its conclusions areentitled to much deference. Katzenbach v. Morgan, 384U. S., at 651. Congress' discretion is not unlimited, however, and the courts retain the power, as they have sinceMarbury v. Madison, to determine if Congress has exceededits authority under the Constitution. Broad as the power ofCongress is under the Enforcement Clause of the FourteenthAmendment, RFRA contradicts vital principles necessary tomaintain separation of powers and the federal balance. Thejudgment of the Court of Appeals sustaining the Act's constitutionality is reversed.