We granted certiorari, 523 U. S. 1105 (1998), to consider inthis case whether the Constitution requires a State or itslocal entities to give detailed and specific instructions or ad-vice to owners who seek return of property lawfully seizedbut no longer needed for police investigation or criminalprosecution. Interpreting the Due Process Clause of theFourteenth Amendment, the Court of Appeals for the NinthCircuit imposed a series of specific notice requirements onthe city responsible for the seizure. We conclude these re-quirements are not mandated by the Due Process Clause,and we reverse. IThe case began when police officers of petitioner, the cityof West Covina, California (City), acting in accordance withlaw and pursuant to a valid search warrant, seized per-sonal property. The property belonged to the owner of thesearched home, respondent Lawrence Perkins, and to hisfamily. The suspect in the crime was neither Perkins noranyone in his family, but one Marcus Marsh. Marsh hadbeen a boarder in the Perkins' home. After leaving theirhome, and unknown to them, he became the subject of ahomicide investigation.During the search of respondents' home for evidenceincriminating Marsh, the police seized a number of items,including photos of Marsh, an address book, a 12-gaugeshotgun, a starter pistol, ammunition, and $2,629 in cash.113 F. 3d 1004, 1006 (CA9 1997). At the conclusion of thesearch, the officers left respondents a form entitled "SearchWarrant: Notice of Service," which stated:"TO WHOM IT MAY CONCERN:"1. THESE PREMISES HAVE BEEN SEARCHEDBY PEACE OFFICERS OF THE (name of searchingagency) West Covina Police DEPARTMENT PURSU-ANT TO A SEARCH WARRANT ISSUED ON (date)525US1 Unit: $U14 [10-24-00 14:23:52] PAGES PGT: OPIN237Cite as: 525 U. S. 234 (1999)Opinion of the Court5-20-93, BY THE HONORABLE (name of magistrate)Dan Oki, JUDGE OF THE SUPERIOR/MUNICIPALCOURT, Citrus JUDICIAL DISTRICT."2. THE SEARCH WAS CONDUCTED ON (date)5-21-93. A LIST OF THE PROPERTY SEIZEDPURSUANT TO THE SEARCH WARRANT ISATTACHED."3. IF YOU WISH FURTHER INFORMATION, YOUMAY CONTACT:(name of investigator) Det. Ferrari or Det. Melnyk AT[telephone number]."LT. SCHIMANSKI [telephone number]." App. 76-77(italicized characters represent those portions of theoriginal document which were handwritten on the form).In accordance with the notice, the officers also left respond-ents an itemized list of the property seized. 113 F. 3d, at1011-1012. The officers did not leave the search warrantnumber because the warrant was under seal to avoid compro-mising the ongoing investigation.Id., at 1007. In a publicindex maintained by the court clerk, however, the issuanceof the warrant was recorded by the address of the homesearched and the search warrant number. Ibid.Not long after the search, Perkins called Ferrari, one ofthe detectives listed on the notice, and inquired about returnof the seized property. No. CV 93-7084 SVW (CD Cal., July8, 1996), App. to Pet. for Cert. E3. One of the detectivestold Perkins he needed to obtain a court order authorizingthe property's return.Ibid.About a month after the search, Perkins went to the Citrus Municipal Court to see Judge Oki, who had issued thewarrant. He learned Judge Oki was on vacation. Ibid.He tried to have another judge release his property but wastold the court had nothing under Perkins' name. Ibid.Rather than continuing to pursue a court order releasingthe property by filing a written motion with the court, mak525US1 Unit: $U14 [10-24-00 14:23:52] PAGES PGT: OPIN238 WEST COVINA v. PERKINSOpinion of the Courting other inquiries, or returning to the courthouse at somelater date, ibid., respondents filed suit in United States District Court against the City and the officers who conductedthe search. They alleged the officers had violated theirFourth Amendment rights by conducting a search withoutprobable cause and exceeding the scope of the warrant.App. 7-9. They further alleged that the City had a policyof permitting unlawful searches. Id., at 10.The District Court granted summary judgment for theCity and its officers. App. to Pet. for Cert. B1-B11. Thecourt, however, invited supplemental briefing on an issue respondents had not raised: whether available remedies for thereturn of seized property were adequate to satisfy due process. Id., at B7. The parties submitted briefs on the issue,but the court did not rule on it. Respondents appealed theDistrict Court's holding on their Fourth Amendment claims,but the Court of Appeals remanded the case to the District Court for resolution of the due process question.No. 94-56365 (CA9, Apr. 30, 1996), App. to Pet. for Cert.D1-D3.The District Court held on remand that the remedies provided by California law for return of the seized propertysatisfied due process, and it granted summary judgment forthe City. No. CV 93-7084 SVW, supra, App. to Pet. forCert. E2. In particular, the court rejected respondents'claim that the procedure for return of their property wasunavailable to them because the City did not give them adequate notice of the remedy and the information needed toinvoke it. Id., at E6.On appeal, the Court of Appeals reversed the grant ofsummary judgment for the City. 113 F. 3d, at 1006. As aninitial matter, the court noted that, under Fuentes v. Shevin,407 U. S. 67 (1972), respondents were entitled only to an adequate postdeprivation remedy, and not to a predeprivationhearing prior to the seizure. 113 F. 3d, at 1010. The Court525US1 Unit: $U14 [10-24-00 14:23:52] PAGES PGT: OPIN239Cite as: 525 U. S. 234 (1999)Opinion of the Courtof Appeals also agreed with the District Court that the post-deprivation remedies for return of property established byCalifornia statute and case law satisfied the requirements ofdue process.Id., at 1011.Nevertheless, the court held, by analogy to this Court'sdecision in Memphis Light, Gas & Water Div. v. Craft, 436U. S. 1 (1978), that the City was required to give respondentsnotice of the state procedures for return of seized propertyand the information necessary to invoke those procedures(including the search warrant number or a method for ob-taining the number). 113 F. 3d, at 1012. While acknowledging that it was not the court's place "to specify the exactphrasing of an adequate notice," the court proceeded to explicate, in some detail, the content of the required notice:"In cases where property is taken under California law. . . the notice should include the following: as on thepresent notice, the fact of the search, its date, and thesearching agency; the date of the warrant, the issuingjudge, and the court in which he or she serves; and thepersons to be contacted for further information. Inaddition, the notice must inform the recipient of the procedure for contesting the seizure or retention of theproperty taken, along with any additional informationrequired for initiating that procedure in the appropriatecourt. In circumstances such as those presented by thisrecord, the notice must include the search warrant number or, if it is not available or the record is sealed, themeans of identifying the court file. It also must explainthe need for a written motion or request to the courtstating why the property should be returned." Id., at1013.This expansive requirement lacks support in our case lawand mandates notice not now prescribed by the Federal Government or by any one of the 50 States.525US1 Unit: $U14 [10-24-00 14:23:52] PAGES PGT: OPIN240 WEST COVINA v. PERKINSOpinion of the CourtIIAt this stage, no one contests the right of the State tohave seized the property in the first instance or its ultimateobligation to return it. So rules restricting the substantivepower of the State to take property are not implicated bythis case. What is at issue is the obligation of the State toprovide fair procedures to ensure return of the propertywhen the State no longer has a lawful right to retain it.Respondents acknowledge, as they must, that the City notified them of the initial seizure and gave them an inventoryof the property taken. Accordingly, we need not decide howdetailed the notice of the seizure must be or when the noticemust be given. They also raise no independent challenge tothe Court of Appeals' conclusion that California law providesadequate remedies for return of their property, including amotion under Cal. Penal Code Ann. $ 1536 (West 1982) or amotion under $ 1540. See 113 F. 3d, at 1011. Rather, theycontend the City deprived them of due process by failing toprovide them notice of their remedies and the factual information necessary to invoke the remedies under Californialaw. When the police seize property for a criminal investigation, however, due process does not require them to pro-vide the owner with notice of state-law remedies.A primary purpose of the notice required by the Due Proc-ess Clause is to ensure that the opportunity for a hearingis meaningful. See Mullane v. Central Hanover Bank &Trust Co., 339 U. S. 306, 314 (1950) ("Th[e] right to be heardhas little reality or worth unless one is informed that thematter [affecting one's property rights] is pending and canchoose for himself whether to appear or default, acquiesce orcontest"). It follows that when law enforcement agentsseize property pursuant to warrant, due process requiresthem to take reasonable steps to give notice that the property has been taken so the owner can pursue available reme-dies for its return. Cf.Schroeder v. City of New York, 371U. S. 208, 214 (1962) (requiring a city to provide adequate525US1 Unit: $U14 [10-24-00 14:23:52] PAGES PGT: OPIN241Cite as: 525 U. S. 234 (1999)Opinion of the Courtnotice of the deprivation--the city's condemnation of certainwater rights--which created the property owner's right topursue damages claims and triggered the statute of limita-tions on those claims). Individualized notice that the officers have taken the property is necessary in a case such asthe one before us because the property owner would have noother reasonable means of ascertaining who was responsiblefor his loss.No similar rationale justifies requiring individualized notice of state-law remedies which, like those at issue here, areestablished by published, generally available state statutesand case law. Once the property owner is informed that hisproperty has been seized, he can turn to these public sourcesto learn about the remedial procedures available to him.The City need not take other steps to inform him of his options. Cf. Reetz v. Michigan, 188 U. S. 505, 509 (1903) (holding that a statute fixing the time and place of meetings of amedical licensing board provided license applicants adequatenotice of the procedure for obtaining a hearing on their applications because: "When a statute fixes the time and place ofmeeting of any board or tribunal, no special notice to partiesinterested is required. The statute is itself sufficient notice"); Atkins v. Parker, 472 U. S. 115, 131 (1985) (noting that"[t]he entire structure of our democratic government restson the premise that the individual citizen is capable of informing himself about the particular policies that affect hisdestiny"). In prior cases in which we have held that postdeprivation state-law remedies were sufficient to satisfy thedemands of due process and the laws were public and available, we have not concluded that the State must provide further information about those procedures. See, e. g., Hudsonv. Palmer, 468 U. S. 517 (1984).Memphis Light, the case on which the Court of Appealsrelied, is not to the contrary. In Memphis Light, the Courtheld that a public utility must make available to its customers the opportunity to discuss a billing dispute with a utility525US1 Unit: $U14 [10-24-00 14:23:52] PAGES PGT: OPIN242 WEST COVINA v. PERKINSOpinion of the Courtemployee who has authority to resolve the matter before ter-minating utility service for nonpayment. 436 U. S., at 16-17.The Court also held that due process required the utilityto inform the customer not only of the planned termination,but also of the availability and general contours of the internal administrative procedure for resolving the accountingdispute.Id., at 13-15. In requiring notice of the administrative procedures, however, we relied not on any generalprinciple that the government must provide notice of theprocedures for protecting one's property interests but on thefact that the administrative procedures at issue were notdescribed in any publicly available document. A customerwho was informed that the utility planned to terminate hisservice could not reasonably be expected to educate himselfabout the procedures available to protect his interests:"[T]here is no indication in the record that a writtenaccount of [the utility's dispute resolution] procedurewas accessible to customers who had complaints abouttheir bills. [The plaintiff 's] case reveals that the oppor-tunity to invoke that procedure, if it existed at all, depended on the vagaries of `word of mouth referral.' "Id., at 14, n. 14.While Memphis Light demonstrates that notice of the procedures for protecting one's property interests may be required when those procedures are arcane and are not setforth in documents accessible to the public, it does not support a general rule that notice of remedies and proceduresis required.The Court of Appeals' far-reaching notice requirement notonly lacks support in our precedent but also conflicts withthe well-established practice of the States and the FederalGovernment. The notice required by the Court of Appealsfar exceeds that which the States and the Federal Government have traditionally required their law enforcementagencies to provide. Indeed, neither the Federal Govern525US1 Unit: $U14 [10-24-00 14:23:52] PAGES PGT: OPIN243Cite as: 525 U. S. 234 (1999)Opinion of the Courtment nor any State requires officers to provide individual-ized notice of the procedures for seeking return of seizedproperty. See Appendix, infra, p. 244.Federal Rule of Criminal Procedure 41(d), for example, requires federal agents seizing property pursuant to a warrantto "give to the person from whom or from whose premisesthe property was taken a copy of the warrant and a receiptfor the property taken or [to] leave the copy and receipt atthe place from which the property was taken." The Rulemakes no provision for notifying property owners of the procedures for seeking return of their property. The Court ofAppeals' analysis would render the notice required by thisFederal Rule--and by every analogous state statute--inade-quate as a constitutional matter. In the shadow of this unwavering state and federal tradition, the Court of Appeals'holding is all the more untenable; to sustain it, we would berequired to find that due process requires notice that not oneState or the Federal Government has seen fit to require, inthe context of law enforcement practices that have existedfor centuries.Respondents urge that if we cannot uphold the Court ofAppeals' broad notice requirement, we should, at least, affirm the Court of Appeals' judgment on the narrower groundthat the notice provided respondents was inadequate becauseit did not provide them with the factual information--spe-cifically, the search warrant number--they needed to invoketheir judicial remedies. The District Court, however, madean explicit factual finding that respondents failed to establishthat they needed the search warrant number to file a courtmotion seeking return of their property:"Perkins argues that this [court] procedure was notavailable to him because he did not know the number ofthe warrant pursuant to which his property was seized.Unfortunately for Perkins, there is no evidence eitherway about whether one must have the warrant numberin order to obtain a court order releasing seized prop525US1 Unit: $U14 [10-24-00 14:23:52] PAGES PGT: OPIN244 WEST COVINA v. PERKINSAppendix to opinion of the Courterty. Defendants assert that it is not necessary, that aslong as the claimant can sufficiently identify the property he seeks (i. e., by providing the date of the warrant,the name of the seizing agency and officer, and the identity of the issuing court and judge, all of which infor-mation was in Perkins' possession), the court will release it. Plaintiffs want the Court simply to assumethat if Perkins had filed a request with the court, itwould have been denied because he did not have thewarrant number. But there is no evidence to supportthat speculation." No. CV 93-7084 SVW, App. to Pet.for Cert. E6.This finding undermines the factual predicate for respond-ents' alternative argument, and we need not discuss itfurther.The judgment of the Court of Appeals is reversed, andthe case is remanded for further proceedings consistent withthis opinion.