The Federal Trade Commission filed an administrativecomplaint against six of the Nation's largest title insuranceM. Ringo, Assistant Attorney General, William J. Guste, Jr., AttorneyGeneral of Louisiana, and Jesse James Marks and Anne F. Benoit, Assistant Attorneys General, Michael E. Carpenter, Attorney General of Maine,and Stephen L. Wessler, Deputy Attorney General, Scott Harshbarger,Attorney General of Massachusetts, and George K. Weber and Thomas M.Alpert, Assistant Attorneys General, Frank J. Kelley, Attorney Generalof Michigan, Hubert H. Humphrey III, Attorney General of Minnesota,Mike Moore, Attorney General of Mississippi, Marc Racicot, AttorneyGeneral of Montana, Frankie Sue Del Papa, Attorney General of Nevada,John P. Arnold, Attorney General of New Hampshire, Charles T. Putnam,Senior Assistant Attorney General, and Walter L. Maroney, AssistantAttorney General, Robert J. Del Tufo, Attorney General of New Jersey,and Laurel A. Price, Deputy Attorney General, Robert Abrams, AttorneyGeneral of New York, Jerry Boone, Solicitor General, and George W.Sampson and Richard Schwartz, Assistant Attorneys General, Lacy H.Thornburg, Attorney General of North Carolina, James C. Gulick, SpecialDeputy Attorney General, and K. D. Sturgis, Assistant Attorney General,Nicholas J. Spaeth, Attorney General of North Dakota, and David W.Huey, Assistant Attorney General, Lee Fisher, Attorney General of Ohio,and Marc B. Bandman, Assistant Attorney General, Susan B. Loving,Attorney General of Oklahoma, and Jane F. Wheeler, Assistant AttorneyGeneral, Ernest D. Preate, Jr., Attorney General of Pennsylvania, ThomasL. Welch, Chief Deputy Attorney General, and Carl S. Hisiro, AssistantChief Deputy Attorney General, James E. O'Neil, Attorney General ofRhode Island, and Edmund F. Murray, Jr., Special Assistant AttorneyGeneral, Charles W. Burson, Attorney General of Tennessee, John KnoxWalkup, Solicitor General, and Perry A. Craft, Deputy Attorney General,Dan Morales, Attorney General of Texas, Will Pryor, First AssistantAttorney General, Mary F. Keller, Deputy Attorney General, and MarkTobey, Assistant Attorney General, R. Paul Van Dam, Attorney Generalof Utah, Jeffrey L. Amestoy, Attorney General of Vermont, and GeoffreyA. Yudien, Assistant Attorney General, Mary Sue Terry, Attorney General of Virginia, Kenneth O. Eikenberry, Attorney General of Washington,and Carol A. Smith, Assistant Attorney General, Mario J. Palumbo, Attorney General of West Virginia, and Donald L. Darling, Deputy AttorneyGeneral, and Joseph B. Meyer, Attorney General of Wyoming.Briefs of amici curiae urging affirmance were filed for the State ofCalifornia et al. by Daniel E. Lungren, Attorney General of California,504us2$87L 04-05-96 17:44:16 PAGES OPINPGT625Cite as: 504 U. S. 621 (1992)Opinion of the Courtcompanies, alleging horizontal price fixing in their fees fortitle searches and title examinations. One company settledby consent decree, while five other firms continue to contestthe matter. The Commission charged the title companieswith violating $ 5(a)(1) of the Federal Trade Commission Act,38 Stat. 719, 15 U. S. C. $ 45(a)(1), which prohibits "[u]nfairmethods of competition in or affecting commerce." One ofthe principal defenses the companies assert is state-actionimmunity from antitrust prosecution, as contemplated in theline of cases beginning withParker v. Brown, 317 U. S. 341(1943). The Commission rejected this defense, In re TicorTitle Ins. Co., 112 F. T. C. 344 (1989), and the firms soughtreview in the United States Court of Appeals for the ThirdCircuit. Ruling that state-action immunity was availableunder the state regulatory schemes in question, the Courtof Appeals reversed. 922 F. 2d 1122 (1991). We grantedcertiorari. 502 U. S. 806 (1991).ITitle insurance is the business of insuring the record titleof real property for persons with some interest in the estate,including owners, occupiers, and lenders. A title insurancepolicy insures against certain losses or damages sustained byreason of a defect in title not shown on the policy or titlereport to which it refers. Before issuing a title insuranceRoderick E. Walston, Chief Assistant Attorney General, and Thomas F.Gede, Special Assistant Attorney General, Gale A. Norton, Attorney General of Colorado, Don Stenberg, Attorney General of Nebraska, and MarkW. Barnett, Attorney General of South Dakota; for the American Insurance Association et al. by John E. Nolan, Craig A. Berrington, James H.Bradner, Jr., Theresa L. Sorota, and Patrick J. McNally; for HartfordFire Insurance Co. et al. by Stephen M. Shapiro, Mark I. Levy, Andrew J.Pincus, and Roy T. Englert, Jr.; and for the National Council on Compensation Insurance by Jerome A. Hochberg and Mark E. Solomons.Briefs of amici curiae were filed for the American Land Title Association by Philip H. Rudolph and James R. Maher; and for the PennsylvaniaElectric Association by Jeffrey H. Howard.504us2$87L 04-05-96 17:44:16 PAGES OPINPGT626 FTC v. TICOR TITLE INS. CO.Opinion of the Courtpolicy, the insurance company or one of its agents performsa title search and examination. The search produces achronological list of the public documents in the chain of titleto the real property. The examination is a critical analysisor interpretation of the condition of title revealed by the documents disclosed through this search.The title search and examination are major components ofthe insurance company's services. There are certain variances from State to State and from policy to policy, but abrief summary of the functions performed by the title companies can be given. The insurance companies exclude fromcoverage defects uncovered during the search; that is, theinsurers conduct searches in order to inform the insured andto reduce their own liability by identifying and excludingknown risks. The insured is protected from some losses resulting from title defects not discoverable from a search ofthe public records, such as forgery, missing heirs, previousmarriages, impersonation, or confusion in names. They areprotected also against errors or mistakes in the search andexamination. Negligence need not be proved in order to recover. Title insurance also includes the obligation to defendin the event that an insured is sued by reason of some defectwithin the scope of the policy's guarantee.The title insurance industry earned $1.35 billion in grossrevenues in 1982, and respondents accounted for 57 percentof that amount. Four of respondents are the nation's largesttitle insurance companies: Ticor Title Insurance Co., with16.5 percent of the market; Chicago Title Insurance Co., with12.8 percent; Lawyers Title Insurance Co., with 12 percent;and SAFECO Title Insurance Co. (now operating under thename Security Union Title Insurance Co.), with 10.3 percent.Stewart Title Guarantee Co., with 5.4 percent of the market,is the country's eighth largest title insurer, with a strongposition in the West and Southwest. App. to Pet. for Cert.145a.504us2$87L 04-05-96 17:44:16 PAGES OPINPGT627Cite as: 504 U. S. 621 (1992)Opinion of the CourtThe Commission issued an administrative complaint in1985. Horizontal price fixing was alleged in these terms:" `Respondents have agreed on the prices to be chargedfor title search and examination services or settlementservices through rating bureaus in various states. Ex-amples of states in which one or more of the respondents have fixed prices with other respondents or othercompetitors for all or part of their search and examination services or settlement services are Arizona, Con-necticut, Idaho, Louisiana, Montana, New Jersey, NewMexico, New York, Ohio, Oregon, Pennsylvania, Wisconsin and Wyoming.' " 112 F. T. C., at 346.The Commission did not challenge the insurers' practice ofsetting uniform rates for insurance against the risk of lossfrom defective titles, but only the practice of setting uniformrates for the title search, examination, and settlement, as-pects of the business which, the Commission alleges, do notinvolve insurance.Before the Administrative Law Judge (ALJ), respondentsdefended against liability on three related grounds. First,they maintained that the challenged conduct is exemptfrom antitrust scrutiny under the McCarran-Ferguson Act,59 Stat. 34, 15 U. S. C. $ 1012(b), which confers antitrustimmunity over the "business of insurance" to the extent regulated by state law. Second, they argued that their collec-tive ratemaking activities are exempt under theNoerrPennington doctrine, which places certain "[ j]oint efforts toinfluence public officials" beyond the reach of the antitrustlaws. Mine Workers v. Pennington, 381 U. S. 657, 670(1965); Eastern Railroad Presidents Conference v. NoerrMotor Freight, Inc., 365 U. S. 127, 136 (1961). Third, respondents contended their activities are entitled to stateaction immunity, which permits anticompetitive conduct ifauthorized and supervised by state officials. See CaliforniaRetail Liquor Dealers Assn. v. Midcal Aluminum, Inc., 445504us2$87L 04-05-96 17:44:16 PAGES OPINPGT628 FTC v. TICOR TITLE INS. CO.Opinion of the CourtU. S. 97 (1980); Parker v. Brown, 317 U. S. 341 (1943). App.to Pet. for Cert. 218a. As to one State, Ohio, respondentscontended that the rates for title search, examination, andsettlement had not been set by a rating bureau.Title insurance company rates and practices in 13 Stateswere the subject of the initial complaint. Before the matterwas decided by the ALJ, the Commission declined to pursueits complaint with regard to fees in five of these States:Louisiana, New Mexico, New York, Oregon, and Wyoming.Upon the recommendation of the ALJ, the Commission didnot pursue its complaint with regard to fees in two additionalStates, Idaho and Ohio. This left six States in which theCommission found antitrust violations, but in two of theseStates, New Jersey and Pennsylvania, the Commission conceded the issue on which certiorari was sought here, so theregulatory regimes in these two States are not before us.Four States remain in which violations were alleged: Connecticut, Wisconsin, Arizona, and Montana.The ALJ held that the rates for search and examinationservices had been fixed in these four States. For reasons weneed not pause to examine, the ALJ rejected the McCarranFerguson and Noerr-Pennington defenses. The ALJ thenturned his attention to the question of state-action immunity.A summary of the ALJ's extensive findings on this point isnecessary for a full understanding of the decisions reachedat each level of the proceedings in the case.Rating bureaus are private entities organized by title insurance companies to establish uniform rates for their members. The ALJ found no evidence that the collective settingof title insurance rates through rating bureaus is a way ofpooling risk information. Indeed, he found no evidence thatany title insurer sets rates according to actuarial loss experience. Instead, the ALJ found that the usual practice is forrating bureaus to set rates according to profitability studiesthat focus on the costs of conducting searches and examinations. Uniform rates are set notwithstanding differences in504us2$87L 04-05-96 17:44:16 PAGES OPINPGT629Cite as: 504 U. S. 621 (1992)Opinion of the Courtefficiencies and costs among individual members. App. toPet. for Cert. 183a-184a.The ALJ described the regulatory regimes for title insurance rates in the four States still at issue. In each one, thetitle insurance rating bureau was licensed by the State andauthorized to establish joint rates for its members. Each ofthe four States used what has come to be called a "negativeoption" system to approve rate filings by the bureaus.Under a negative option system, the rating bureau filed ratesfor title searches and title examinations with the state insurance office. The rates became effective unless the Staterejected them within a specified period, such as 30 days. Although the negative option system provided a theoreticalmechanism for substantive review, the ALJ determined,after making detailed findings regarding the operation ofeach regulatory regime, that the rate filings were subject tominimal scrutiny by state regulators.In Connecticut the State Insurance Department has theauthority to audit the rating bureau and hold hearings regarding rates, but it has not done so. The Connecticut rating bureau filed only two major rate increases, in 1966 andin 1981. The circumstances behind the 1966 rate increaseare somewhat obscure. The ALJ found that the InsuranceDepartment asked the rating bureau to submit additional information justifying the increase, and later approved therate increase although there is no evidence the additionalinformation was provided. In 1981 the Connecticut ratingbureau filed for a 20 percent rate increase. The factualbackground for this rate increase is better developed thoughthe testimony was somewhat inconsistent. A state insurance official testified that he reviewed the rate increase withcare and discussed various components of the increase withthe rating bureau. The same official testified, however, thathe lacked the authority to question certain expense data heconsidered quite high. Id., at 189a-195a.504us2$87L 04-05-96 17:44:16 PAGES OPINPGT630 FTC v. TICOR TITLE INS. CO.Opinion of the CourtIn Wisconsin the State Insurance Commissioner is required to examine the rating bureau at regular intervals andauthorized to reject rates through a process of hearings.Neither has been done. The Wisconsin rating bureau mademajor rate filings in 1971, 1981, and 1982. The 1971 ratefiling was approved in 1971 although supporting justification,which had been requested by the State Insurance Commissioner, was not provided until 1978. The 1981 rate filingrequested an 11 percent rate increase. The increase wasapproved after the office of the Insurance Commissionerchecked the supporting data for accuracy. No one in theagency inquired into insurer expenses, though an officialtestified that substantive scrutiny would not be possiblewithout that inquiry. The 1982 rate increase received but acursory reading at the office of the Insurance Commissioner.The supporting materials were not checked for accuracy,though in the absence of an objection by the agency, the rateincrease went into effect. Id., at 196a-200a.In Arizona the Insurance Director was required to examine the rating bureau at least once every five years. It wasnot done. In 1980 the State Insurance Department announced a comprehensive investigation of the rating bureau.It was not conducted. The rating bureau spent most of itstime justifying its escrow rates. Following conclusion in1981 of a federal civil suit challenging the joint fixing of escrow rates, the rating bureau went out of business withouthaving made any major rate filings, though it had proposedminor rate adjustments. Id., at 200a-205a.In Montana the rating bureau made its only major ratefiling in 1983. In connection with it, a representative of therating bureau met with officials of the State Insurance Department. He was told that the filed rates could go intoimmediate effect though further profit data would have to beprovided. The ALJ found no evidence that the additionaldata were furnished. Id., at 211a-214a.504us2$87L 04-05-96 17:44:16 PAGES OPINPGT631Cite as: 504 U. S. 621 (1992)Opinion of the CourtTo complete the background, the ALJ observed that noneof the rating bureaus are now active. The respondentsabandoned them between 1981 and 1985 in response to nu-merous private treble-damages suits, so by the time theCommission filed its formal complaint in 1985, the rating bureaus had been dismantled. Id., at 195a, 200a, 205a, 208a.The ALJ held that the case is not moot, though, becausenothing would preclude respondents from resuming theconduct challenged by the Commission.Id., at 246a-247a.See United States v. W. T. Grant Co., 345 U. S. 629, 632-633(1953).These factual determinations established, the ALJ addressed the two-part test that must be satisfied for stateaction immunity under the antitrust laws, the test we set outin California Retail Liquor Dealers Assn. v. Midcal Aluminum, Inc., 445 U. S. 97 (1980). A state law or regulatoryscheme cannot be the basis for antitrust immunity unless,first, the State has articulated a clear and affirmative policyto allow the anticompetitive conduct, and second, the Stateprovides active supervision of anticompetitive conduct undertaken by private actors. Id., at 105. The Commissionhaving conceded that the first part of the test was satisfiedin the four States still at issue, the immunity question, beginning with the hearings before the ALJ and in all later proceedings, has turned upon the proper interpretation andapplication of Midcal's active supervision requirement. TheALJ found the active supervision test was met in Arizonaand Montana but not in Connecticut or Wisconsin. App. toPet. for Cert. 248a.On review of the ALJ's decision, the Commission held thatnone of the four States had conducted sufficient supervision,so that the title companies were not entitled to immunity inany of those jurisdictions. Id., at 47a. The Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit disagreed with the Commission,adopting the approach of the First Circuit in New EnglandMotor Rate Bureau, Inc. v. FTC, 908 F. 2d 1064 (1990), which504us2$87L 04-05-96 17:44:16 PAGES OPINPGT632 FTC v. TICOR TITLE INS. CO.Opinion of the Courthad held that the existence of a state regulatory program, ifstaffed, funded, and empowered by law, satisfied the requirement of active supervision. Id., at 1071. Under this standard, the Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit ruled thatthe active state supervision requirement was met in all fourStates and held that the respondents' conduct was entitledto state-action immunity in each of them. 922 F. 2d, at 1140.We granted certiorari to consider two questions: First,whether the Third Circuit was correct in its statement of thelaw and in its application of law to fact, and second, whetherthe Third Circuit exceeded its authority by departing fromthe factual findings entered by the ALJ and adopted by theCommission. Before this Court, the parties have confinedtheir briefing on the first of these questions to the regulatoryregimes of Wisconsin and Montana, and focused on the regulatory regimes of Connecticut and Arizona in briefing on thesecond question. We now reverse the Court of Appealsunder the first question and remand for further proceedingsunder the second.IIThe preservation of the free market and of a system offree enterprise without price fixing or cartels is essential toeconomic freedom. United States v. Topco Associates, Inc.,405 U. S. 596, 610 (1972). A national policy of such a pervasive and fundamental character is an essential part of theeconomic and legal system within which the separate Statesadminister their own laws for the protection and advancement of their people. Continued enforcement of the nationalantitrust policy grants the States more freedom, not less, indeciding whether to subject discrete parts of the economyto additional regulations and controls. Against this background, in Parker v. Brown, 317 U. S. 341 (1943), we uphelda state-supervised, market sharing scheme against a Sherman Act challenge. We announced the doctrine that federalantitrust laws are subject to supersession by state regula504us2$87L 04-05-96 17:44:16 PAGES OPINPGT633Cite as: 504 U. S. 621 (1992)Opinion of the Courttory programs. Our decision was grounded in principles offederalism. Id., at 350-352.The principle of freedom of action for the States, adoptedto foster and preserve the federal system, explains the laterevolution and application of the Parker doctrine in our decisions in Midcal, supra, and Patrick v. Burget, 486 U. S. 94(1988). In Midcal we invalidated a California statute forbidding licensees in the wine trade to sell below prices setby the producer. There we announced the two-part test applicable to instances where private parties participate in aprice-fixing regime. "First, the challenged restraint mustbe one clearly articulated and affirmatively expressed asstate policy; second, the policy must be actively supervisedby the State itself." 445 U. S., at 105 (internal quotationmarks omitted). Midcal confirms that while a State maynot confer antitrust immunity on private persons by fiat, itmay displace competition with active state supervision if thedisplacement is both intended by the State and implementedin its specific details. Actual state involvement, not deference to private price-fixing arrangements under the generalauspices of state law, is the precondition for immunity fromfederal law. Immunity is conferred out of respect for ongoing regulation by the State, not out of respect for theeconomics of price restraint. In Midcal we found that theintent to restrain prices was expressed with sufficient precision so that the first part of the test was met, but that theabsence of state participation in the mechanics of the priceposting was so apparent that the requirement of active supervision had not been met. Ibid.The rationale was further elaborated in Patrick v. Burget.In Patrick it had been alleged that private physicians participated in the State's peer review system in order to injureor destroy competition by denying hospital privileges to aphysician who had begun a competing clinic. We referredto the purpose of preserving the State's own administrative504us2$87L 04-05-96 17:44:16 PAGES OPINPGT634 FTC v. TICOR TITLE INS. CO.Opinion of the Courtpolicies, as distinct from allowing private parties to foreclosecompetition, in the following passage:"The active supervision requirement stems from the rec-ognition that where a private party is engaging in theanticompetitive activity, there is a real danger that heis acting to further his own interests, rather than thegovernmental interests of the State. . . . The require-ment is designed to ensure that the state-action doctrinewill shelter only the particular anticompetitive acts ofprivate parties that, in the judgment of the State, actually further state regulatory policies. To accomplishthis purpose, the active supervision requirement man-dates that the State exercise ultimate control over thechallenged anticompetitive conduct. . . . The mere pres-ence of some state involvement or monitoring does notsuffice. . . . The active supervision prong of the Midcaltest requires that state officials have and exercise powerto review particular anticompetitive acts of private parties and disapprove those that fail to accord with statepolicy. Absent such a program of supervision, there isno realistic assurance that a private party's anticompeti-tive conduct promotes state policy, rather than merelythe party's individual interests." 486 U. S., at 100-101(internal quotation marks and citations omitted).Because the particular anticompetitive conduct at issue inPatrick had not been supervised by governmental actors, wedecided that the actions of the peer review committee werenot entitled to state-action immunity.Id., at 106.Our decisions make clear that the purpose of the activesupervision inquiry is not to determine whether the Statehas met some normative standard, such as efficiency, in itsregulatory practices. Its purpose is to determine whetherthe State has exercised sufficient independent judgment andcontrol so that the details of the rates or prices have beenestablished as a product of deliberate state intervention, not504us2$87L 04-05-96 17:44:16 PAGES OPINPGT635Cite as: 504 U. S. 621 (1992)Opinion of the Courtsimply by agreement among private parties. Much as incausation inquiries, the analysis asks whether the State hasplayed a substantial role in determining the specifics of theeconomic policy. The question is not how well state regulation works but whether the anticompetitive scheme is theState's own.Although the point bears but brief mention, we observethat our prior cases considered state-action immunityagainst actions brought under the Sherman Act, and thiscase arises under the Federal Trade Commission Act. TheCommission has argued at other times that state-action immunity does not apply to Commission action under $ 5 of theFederal Trade Commission Act, 15 U. S. C. $ 45. See U. S.Bureau of Consumer Protection, Staff Report to the FederalTrade Commission on Prescription Drug Price Disclosures,Chs. VI(B) and (C) (1975); see also Note, The State ActionExemption and Antitrust Enforcement under the FederalTrade Commission Act, 89 Harv. L. Rev. 715 (1976). A leading treatise has expressed its skepticism of this view. See1 P. Areeda & D. Turner, Antitrust Law || 218 (1978). Weneed not determine whether the antitrust statutes can bedistinguished on this basis, because the Commission does notassert any superior pre-emption authority in the instantmatter. We apply our prior cases to the one before us.Respondents contend that principles of federalism justifya broad interpretation of state-action immunity, but there isa powerful refutation of their viewpoint in the briefs thatwere filed in this case. The State of Wisconsin, joined byMontana and 34 other States, has filed a brief as amici curiae on the precise point. These States deny that respondents' broad immunity rule would serve the States' best interests. We are in agreement with the amici submission.If the States must act in the shadow of state-action immunity whenever they enter the realm of economic regulation,then our doctrine will impede their freedom of action, notadvance it. The fact of the matter is that the States regu504us2$87L 04-05-96 17:44:16 PAGES OPINPGT636 FTC v. TICOR TITLE INS. CO.Opinion of the Courtlate their economies in many ways not inconsistent with theantitrust laws. For example, Oregon may provide for peerreview by its physicians without approving anticompetitiveconduct by them. SeePatrick, 486 U. S., at 105. Or Michigan may regulate its public utilities without authorizingmonopolization in the market for electric light bulbs. SeeCantor v. Detroit Edison Co., 428 U. S. 579, 596 (1976). So wehave held that state-action immunity is disfavored, much asare repeals by implication.Lafayette v. Louisiana Power &Light Co., 435 U. S. 389, 398-399 (1978). By adhering inmost cases to fundamental and accepted assumptions aboutthe benefits of competition within the framework of the antitrust laws, we increase the States' regulatory flexibility.States must accept political responsibility for actions theyintend to undertake. It is quite a different matter, however,for federal law to compel a result that the States do not intend but for which they are held to account. Federalismserves to assign political responsibility, not to obscure it.Neither federalism nor political responsibility is well servedby a rule that essential national policies are displaced bystate regulations intended to achieve more limited ends.For States which do choose to displace the free market withregulation, our insistence on real compliance with both partsof the Midcal test will serve to make clear that the State isresponsible for the price fixing it has sanctioned and undertaken to control.Respondents contend that these concerns are better addressed by the requirement that the States articulate a clearpolicy to displace the antitrust laws with their own formsof economic regulation. This contention misapprehends theclose relation between Midcal's two elements. Both are directed at ensuring that particular anticompetitive mechanisms operate because of a deliberate and intended state policy. See Patrick, supra, at 100. In the usual case, Midcal'srequirement that the State articulate a clear policy showslittle more than that the State has not acted through inad504us2$87L 04-05-96 17:44:16 PAGES OPINPGT637Cite as: 504 U. S. 621 (1992)Opinion of the Courtvertence; it cannot alone ensure, as required by our prece-dents, that particular anticompetitive conduct has been approved by the State. It seems plain, moreover, in light ofthe amici curiae brief to which we have referred, that solereliance on the requirement of clear articulation will notallow the regulatory flexibility that these States deem necessary. For States whose object it is to benefit their citizensthrough regulation, a broad doctrine of state-action immunity may serve as nothing more than an attractive nuisancein the economic sphere. To oppose these pressures, sole reliance on the requirement of clear articulation could becomea rather meaningless formal constraint.IIIIn the case before us, the Court of Appeals relied upon aformulation of the active supervision requirement articulated by the First Circuit:" `Where . . . the state's program is in place, is staffedand funded, grants to the state officials ample power andthe duty to regulate pursuant to declared standards ofstate policy, is enforceable in the state's courts, and demonstrates some basic level of activity directed towardsseeing that the private actors carry out the state's policyand not simply their own policy, more need not be estab-lished.' " 922 F. 2d, at 1136, quotingNew EnglandMotor Rate Bureau, Inc. v. FTC, 908 F. 2d, at 1071.Based on this standard, the Third Circuit ruled that the ac-tive supervision requirement was met in all four States, andheld that the respondents' conduct was entitled to state-action immunity from antitrust liability. 922 F. 2d, at 1140.While in theory the standard articulated by the First Cir-cuit might be applied in a manner consistent with our precedents, it seems to us insufficient to establish the requisitelevel of active supervision. The criteria set forth by theFirst Circuit may have some relevance as the beginning504us2$87L 04-05-96 17:44:16 PAGES OPINPGT638 FTC v. TICOR TITLE INS. CO.Opinion of the Courtpoint of the active state supervision inquiry, but the analysiscannot end there. Where prices or rates are set as an initialmatter by private parties, subject only to a veto if the Statechooses to exercise it, the party claiming the immunity mustshow that state officials have undertaken the necessary stepsto determine the specifics of the price-fixing or ratesettingscheme. The mere potential for state supervision is notan adequate substitute for a decision by the State. Underthese standards, we must conclude that there was no activesupervision in either Wisconsin or Montana.Respondents point out that in Wisconsin and Montana therating bureaus filed rates with state agencies and that inboth States the so-called negative option rule prevailed.The rates became effective unless they were rejected withina set time. It is said that as a matter of law in those Statesinaction signified substantive approval. This propositioncannot be reconciled, however, with the detailed findings, entered by the ALJ and adopted by the Commission, whichdemonstrate that the potential for state supervision was notrealized in fact. The ALJ found, and the Commissionagreed, that at most the rate filings were checked for mathematical accuracy. Some were unchecked altogether. InMontana, a rate filing became effective despite the failure ofthe rating bureau to provide additional requested information. In Wisconsin, additional information was providedafter a lapse of seven years, during which time the rate filingremained in effect. These findings are fatal to respondents'attempts to portray the state regulatory regimes as providing the necessary component of active supervision. Thefindings demonstrate that, whatever the potential for stateregulatory review in Wisconsin and Montana, active statesupervision did not occur. In the absence of active supervision in fact, there can be no state-action immunity for whatwere otherwise private price-fixing arrangements. And asin Patrick, the availability of state judicial review could notfill the void. Because of the state agencies' limited role and504us2$87L 04-05-96 17:44:16 PAGES OPINPGT639Cite as: 504 U. S. 621 (1992)Opinion of the Courtparticipation, state judicial review was likewise limited.SeePatrick, 486 U. S., at 103-105.Our decision in Southern Motor Carriers Rate Conference, Inc. v. United States, 471 U. S. 48 (1985), though it tooinvolved a negative option regime, is not to the contrary.The question there was whether the first part of the Midcaltest was met, the Government's contention being that a pricing policy is not an articulated one unless the practice is com-pelled. We rejected that assertion and undertook no realexamination of the active supervision aspect of the case, forthe Government conceded that the second part of the testhad been met. Id., at 62, 66. The concession was againstthe background of a District Court determination that, although submitted rates could go into effect without furtherstate activity, the State had ordered and held ratemakinghearings on a consistent basis, using the industry submissions as the beginning point. See United States v. SouthernMotor Carriers Rate Conference, Inc., 467 F. Supp. 471, 476-477 (ND Ga. 1979). In the case before us, of course, theCommission concedes the first part of the Midcal requirement and litigates the second; and there is no finding of substantial state participation in the ratesetting scheme.This case involves horizontal price fixing under a vagueimprimatur in form and agency inaction in fact. No antitrust offense is more pernicious than price fixing. FTC v.Superior Court Trial Lawyers Assn., 493 U. S. 411, 434, n. 16(1990). In this context, we decline to formulate a rule thatwould lead to a finding of active state supervision where infact there was none. Our decision should be read in light ofthe gravity of the antitrust offense, the involvement of private actors throughout, and the clear absence of state supervision. We do not imply that some particular form of stateor local regulation is required to achieve ends other thanthe establishment of uniform prices. Cf. Columbia v. OmniOutdoor Advertising, Inc., 499 U. S. 365 (1991) (city billboardzoning ordinance entitled to state-action immunity). We do504us2$87L 04-05-96 17:44:16 PAGES OPINPGT640 FTC v. TICOR TITLE INS. CO.Scalia, J., concurringnot have before us a case in which governmental actors madeunilateral decisions without participation by private actors.Cf. Fisher v. Berkeley, 475 U. S. 260 (1986) (private actorsnot liable without private action). And we do not here callinto question a regulatory regime in which sampling tech-niques or a specified rate of return allow state regulatorsto provide comprehensive supervision without complete con-trol, or in which there was an infrequent lapse of state supervision. Cf. 324 Liquor Corp. v. Duffy, 479 U. S. 335, 344,n. 6 (1987) (a statute specifying the margin between wholesale and retail prices may satisfy the active supervision re-quirement). In the circumstances of this case, however, weconclude that the acts of respondents in the States of Mon-tana and Wisconsin are not immune from antitrust liability.IVIn granting certiorari we undertook to review the furthercontention by the Commission that the Court of Appeals wasincorrect in disregarding the Commission's findings as to theextent of state supervision. The parties have focused theirbriefing on this question on the regulatory schemes ofConnecticut and Arizona. We think the Court of Appealsshould have the opportunity to reexamine its determinationswith respect to these latter two States in light of the viewswe have expressed.The judgment of the Court of Appeals is reversed, andthe case is remanded for further proceedings consistent withthis opinion.