Parts I, II, and IV, concluding:536US2 Unit: $U76 [12-23-03 07:23:17] PAGES PGT: OPIN546 HARRIS v. UNITED STATESSyllabus1. As a matter of statutory interpretation, $ 924(c)(1)(A) defines a single offense, in which brandishing and discharging are sentencing factorsto be found by the judge, not offense elements to be found by the jury.Pp. 552-556.(a) The prohibition's structure suggests that brandishing and discharging are sentencing factors. Federal laws usually list all offenseelements in a single sentence and separate the sentencing factors intosubsections. Castillo v. United States, 530 U. S. 120, 125. The instantstatute's lengthy principal paragraph lists the elements of a completecrime. Toward the end of the paragraph is the word "shall," whichoften divides offense-defining provisions from sentence-specifying ones.Jones v. United States, 526 U. S. 227, 233. And following "shall" arethe separate subsections, which explain how defendants are to "be sentenced." Thus this Court can presume that the principal paragraphdefines a single crime and its subsections identify sentencing factors.Pp. 552-553.(b) As Jones illustrates, the statute's text might provide evidenceto the contrary, but the critical textual clues here reinforce the singleoffense interpretation. Brandishing has been singled out as a paradigmatic sentencing factor, Castillo, supra, at 126. Under the SentencingGuidelines, moreover, brandishing and discharging are factors that affect sentences for numerous crimes. The incremental changes in theminimum penalty at issue here are precisely what one would expect tosee in provisions meant to identify matters for the sentencing judge'sconsideration. Pp. 553-554.(c) The canon of constitutional avoidance--which provides thatwhen a statute is susceptible of two constructions, the Court must adoptthe one that avoids grave and doubtful constitutional questions--playsno role here. The constitutional principle that petitioner says a singleoffense interpretation of the statute would violate--that any fact increasing the statutory minimum sentence must be accorded the safeguards assigned to elements--was rejected in McMillan. Petitioner'ssuggestion that the canon be used to avoid overruling one of this Court'sown precedents is novel and, given that McMillan was in place when$ 924(c)(1)(A) was enacted, unsound. Congress would have had no reason to believe that it was approaching the constitutional line by following the instruction this Court gave in McMillan. Pp. 554-556.2. Reaffirming McMillan and employing the approach outlined in thatopinion, the Court concludes that $ 924(c)(1)(A)(ii) is constitutional.Basing a 2-year increase in the defendant's minimum sentence on a judicial finding of brandishing does not evade the Fifth and Sixth Amendments' requirements. Congress simply dictated the precise weight536US2 Unit: $U76 [12-23-03 07:23:17] PAGES PGT: OPIN547Cite as: 536 U. S. 545 (2002)Syllabusto be given to one traditional sentencing factor. McMillan, supra, at89-90. Pp. 568-569.Justice Kennedy, joined by The Chief Justice, Justice O'Connor, and Justice Scalia, concluded in Part III that $ 924(c)(1)(A)(ii)is constitutional under McMillan, which remains sound authority afterApprendi. The Court will not overrule a precedent absent a specialjustification. The justification offered by petitioner is that Apprendiand McMillan cannot be reconciled. Those decisions are consistent,however, because there is a fundamental distinction between the factualfindings at issue in those two cases. Apprendi said that any fact extending the defendant's sentence beyond the maximum authorized bythe jury's verdict would have been considered an element of an aggravated crime by the Framers of the Bill of Rights. That cannot be saidof a fact increasing the mandatory minimum (but not extending thesentence beyond the statutory maximum), for the jury's verdict has authorized the judge to impose the minimum with or without the finding.This sort of fact is more like the facts judges have traditionally considered when exercising their discretion to choose a sentence within therange authorized by the jury's verdict--facts that the Constitution doesnot require to be alleged in the indictment, submitted to the jury, orproved beyond a reasonable doubt. Read together, McMillan and Apprendi mean that those facts setting the outer limits of a sentence, andof the judicial power to impose it, are elements of the crime for thepurposes of the constitutional analysis. Within the range authorizedby the jury's verdict, however, the political system may channel judicialdiscretion--and rely upon judicial expertise--by requiring defendantsto serve minimum terms after judges make certain factual findings.Legislatures have relied upon McMillan's holding, and there is no reason to overturn these statutes or cast uncertainty upon sentences imposed under them. Pp. 556-568.Justice Breyer concluded that although Apprendi v. New Jersey,530 U. S. 466, cannot easily be distinguished from this case in terms oflogic, the Sixth Amendment permits judges to apply sentencing factors--whether those factors lead to a sentence beyond the statutorymaximum (as in Apprendi) or the application of a mandatory minimum(as here). This does not mean to suggest approval of mandatory minimum sentences as a matter of policy. Mandatory minimum statutes arefundamentally inconsistent with Congress' simultaneous effort to createa fair, honest, and rational sentencing system through the use of theSentencing Guidelines. They transfer sentencing power to prosecutors,who can determine sentences through the charges they decide to bring,and who thereby have reintroduced much of the sentencing disparity536US2 Unit: $U76 [12-23-03 07:23:17] PAGES PGT: OPIN548 HARRIS v. UNITED STATESSyllabusthat Congress created the Guidelines to eliminate. Applying Apprendiin this case would not, however, lead Congress to abolish, or to modify,such statutes; and it would take from the judge the power to makea factual determination, while giving that power not to juries, but toprosecutors. The legal consequences of extending Apprendi are alsoseriously adverse, for doing so would diminish further Congress' otherwise broad constitutional authority to define crimes through the specification of elements, to shape criminal sentences through the specificationof sentencing factors, and to limit judicial discretion in applying thosefactors in particular cases. Pp. 569-572.Kennedy, J., announced the judgment of the Court and delivered theopinion of the Court with respect to Parts I, II, and IV, in which Rehnquist, C. J., and O'Connor, Scalia, and Breyer, JJ., joined, and an opinion with respect to Part III, in which Rehnquist, C. J., and O'Connorand Scalia, JJ., joined. O'Connor, J., filed a concurring opinion, post,p. 569. Breyer, J., filed an opinion concurring in part and concurring inthe judgment, post, p. 569. Thomas, J., filed a dissenting opinion, in whichStevens, Souter, and Ginsburg, JJ., joined, post, p. 572.William C. Ingram, by appointment of the Court, 534 U. S.1160, argued the cause for petitioner. With him on thebriefs were Louis C. Allen III, Elizabeth A. Flagg, and Jeffrey T. Green.Deputy Solicitor General Dreeben argued the cause forthe United States. With him on the brief were SolicitorGeneral Olson, Assistant Attorney General Chertoff, Mat-thew D. Roberts, and Nina Goodman.**Briefs of amici curiae urging reversal were filed for the Cato Instituteet al. by Stephen P. Halbrook; and for Families Against Mandatory Minimums Foundation by Peter Goldberger and Mary Price.Briefs of amici curiae urging affirmance were filed for the State of NewJersey et al. by David Samson, Attorney General of New Jersey, andLisa Sarnoff Gochman, Deputy Attorney General, and by the AttorneysGeneral for their respective jurisdictions as follows: Bruce M. Botelho ofAlaska, Janet Napolitano of Arizona, Ken Salazar of Colorado, M. JaneBrady of Delaware, Robert A. Butterworth of Florida, James E. Ryan ofIllinois, Carla J. Stovall of Kansas, Richard P. Ieyoub of Louisiana, J.Joseph Curran, Jr., of Maryland, Thomas F. Reilly of Massachusetts, Michael C. Moore of Mississippi, Jeremiah W. (Jay) Nixon of Missouri, MikeMcGrath of Montana, Don Stenberg of Nebraska, Frankie Sue Del Papa536US2 Unit: $U76 [12-23-03 07:23:18] PAGES PGT: OPIN549Cite as: 536 U. S. 545 (2002)Opinion of the CourtJustice Kennedy announced the judgment of the Courtand delivered the opinion of the Court with respect toParts I, II, and IV, and an opinion with respect to Part III,in whichThe Chief Justice, Justice O'Connor, andJustice Scalia join.Once more we consider the distinction the law has drawnbetween the elements of a crime and factors that influence acriminal sentence. Legislatures define crimes in terms ofthe facts that are their essential elements, and constitutionalguarantees attach to these facts. In federal prosecutions,"[n]o person shall be held to answer for a capital, or otherwise infamous crime, unless on a presentment or indictmentof a Grand Jury" alleging all the elements of the crime.U. S. Const., Amdt. 5; see Hamling v. United States, 418U. S. 87, 117 (1974). "In all criminal prosecutions," stateand federal, "the accused shall enjoy the right to . . . trial . . .by an impartial jury," U. S. Const., Amdt. 6; see Duncan v.Louisiana, 391 U. S. 145, 149 (1968), at which the govern-ment must prove each element beyond a reasonable doubt,see In re Winship, 397 U. S. 358, 364 (1970).Yet not all facts affecting the defendant's punishment areelements. After the accused is convicted, the judge may im-pose a sentence within a range provided by statute, basingit on various facts relating to the defendant and the mannerin which the offense was committed. Though these factsmay have a substantial impact on the sentence, they are notelements, and are thus not subject to the Constitution's indictment, jury, and proof requirements. Some statutes alsodirect judges to give specific weight to certain facts whenchoosing the sentence. The statutes do not require theseof Nevada, Betty D. Montgomery of Ohio, D. Michael Fisher of Pennsylvania, Mark Barnett of South Dakota, Paul G. Summers of Tennessee, JohnCornyn of Texas, Mark L. Shurtleff of Utah, William Sorrell of Vermont,Elliot M. Davis of the Virgin Islands, and Darrell V. McGraw, Jr., ofWest Virginia; and for the Criminal Justice Legal Foundation by KentS. Scheidegger and Charles L. Hobson.536US2 Unit: $U76 [12-23-03 07:23:18] PAGES PGT: OPIN550 HARRIS v. UNITED STATESOpinion of the Courtfacts, sometimes referred to as sentencing factors, to be alleged in the indictment, submitted to the jury, or establishedbeyond a reasonable doubt.The Constitution permits legislatures to make the distinction between elements and sentencing factors, but it imposessome limitations as well. For if it did not, legislatures couldevade the indictment, jury, and proof requirements by labeling almost every relevant fact a sentencing factor. TheCourt described one limitation in this respect two Terms agoin Apprendi v. New Jersey, 530 U. S. 466, 490 (2000): "Otherthan the fact of a prior conviction, any fact that increasesthe penalty for a crime beyond the prescribed statutory maximum," whether the statute calls it an element or a sentencing factor, "must be submitted to a jury, and proved beyonda reasonable doubt." Fourteen years before, in McMillanv. Pennsylvania, 477 U. S. 79 (1986), the Court had declinedto adopt a more restrictive constitutional rule. McMillansustained a statute that increased the minimum penalty fora crime, though not beyond the statutory maximum, whenthe sentencing judge found, by a preponderance of the evidence, that the defendant had possessed a firearm.The principal question before us is whether McMillanstands after Apprendi.IPetitioner William Joseph Harris sold illegal narcotics outof his pawnshop with an unconcealed semiautomatic pistol athis side. He was later arrested for violating federal drugand firearms laws, including 18 U. S. C. $ 924(c)(1)(A). Thatstatute provides in relevant part:"[A]ny person who, during and in relation to any crimeof violence or drug trafficking crime . . . uses or carriesa firearm, or who, in furtherance of any such crime, possesses a firearm, shall, in addition to the punishmentprovided for such crime of violence or drug traffickingcrime--536US2 Unit: $U76 [12-23-03 07:23:18] PAGES PGT: OPIN551Cite as: 536 U. S. 545 (2002)Opinion of the Court"(i) be sentenced to a term of imprisonment of notless than 5 years;"(ii) if the firearm is brandished, be sentenced to aterm of imprisonment of not less than 7 years; and"(iii) if the firearm is discharged, be sentenced to aterm of imprisonment of not less than 10 years."The Government proceeded on the assumption that$ 924(c)(1)(A) defines a single crime and that brandishing isa sentencing factor to be considered by the judge after thetrial. For this reason the indictment said nothing of brandishing and made no reference to subsection (ii). Instead,it simply alleged the elements from the statute's principalparagraph: that "during and in relation to a drug traffickingcrime," petitioner had "knowingly carr[ied] a firearm." Ata bench trial the United States District Court for the MiddleDistrict of North Carolina found petitioner guilty as charged.Following his conviction, the presentence report recom-mended that petitioner be given the 7-year minimum because he had brandished the gun. Petitioner objected, cit-ing this Court's decision inJones v. United States, 526 U. S.227 (1999), and arguing that, as a matter of statutory interpretation, brandishing is an element of a separate offense, anoffense for which he had not been indicted or tried. At thesentencing hearing the District Court overruled the objec-tion, found by a preponderance of the evidence that petitioner had brandished the gun, and sentenced him to sevenyears in prison.In the Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit petitioneragain pressed his statutory argument. He added that ifbrandishing is a sentencing factor as a statutory matter,the statute is unconstitutional in light ofApprendi--eventhough, as petitioner acknowledged, the judge's finding didnot alter the maximum penalty to which he was exposed.Rejecting these arguments, the Court of Appeals affirmed.243 F. 3d 806 (2001). Like every other Court of Appeals tohave addressed the question, it held that the statute makes536US2 Unit: $U76 [12-23-03 07:23:18] PAGES PGT: OPIN552 HARRIS v. UNITED STATESOpinion of the Courtbrandishing a sentencing factor. Id., at 812; accord, UnitedStates v. Barton, 257 F. 3d 433, 443 (CA5 2001); United Statesv. Carlson, 217 F. 3d 986, 989 (CA8 2000); United States v.Pounds, 230 F. 3d 1317, 1319 (CA11 2000). The court alsoheld that the constitutional argument was foreclosed by Mc-Millan. 243 F. 3d, at 809.We granted certiorari, 534 U. S. 1064 (2001), and nowaffirm.IIWe must first answer a threshold question of statutoryconstruction: Did Congress make brandishing an element ora sentencing factor in $ 924(c)(1)(A)? In the Government'sview the text in question defines a single crime, and the factsin subsections (ii) and (iii) are considerations for the sentenc-ing judge. Petitioner, on the other hand, contends that Congress meant the statute to define three different crimes.Subsection (ii), he says, creates a separate offense of whichbrandishing is an element. If petitioner is correct, he wasneither indicted nor tried for that offense, and the 7-yearminimum did not apply.So we begin our analysis by asking what $ 924(c)(1)(A)means. The statute does not say in so many words whetherbrandishing is an element or a sentencing factor, but thestructure of the prohibition suggests it is the latter. Fed-eral laws usually list all offense elements "in a single sentence" and separate the sentencing factors "into subsec-tions."Castillo v. United States, 530 U. S. 120, 125 (2000).Here, $ 924(c)(1)(A) begins with a lengthy principal paragraph listing the elements of a complete crime--"the basicfederal offense of using or carrying a gun during and in relation to" a violent crime or drug offense. Id., at 124. To-ward the end of the paragraph is "the word `shall,' whichoften divides offense-defining provisions from those thatspecify sentences." Jones, 526 U. S., at 233. And following"shall" are the separate subsections, which explain how de-fendants are to "be sentenced." Subsection (i) sets a catch536US2 Unit: $U76 [12-23-03 07:23:18] PAGES PGT: OPIN553Cite as: 536 U. S. 545 (2002)Opinion of the Courtall minimum and "certainly adds no further element." Ibid.Subsections (ii) and (iii), in turn, increase the minimum penalty if certain facts are present, and those subsections do notrepeat the elements from the principal paragraph.When a statute has this sort of structure, we can presumethat its principal paragraph defines a single crime and itssubsections identify sentencing factors. But even if a statute "has a look to it suggesting that the numbered subsec-tions are only sentencing provisions,"id., at 232, the textmight provide compelling evidence to the contrary. Thiswas illustrated by the Court's decision inJones, in which thefederal carjacking statute, which had a similar structure, wasinterpreted as setting out the elements of multiple offenses.The critical textual clues in this case, however, reinforcethe single-offense interpretation implied by the statute'sstructure. Tradition and past congressional practice, for example, were perhaps the most important guideposts in Jones.The fact at issue there--serious bodily injury--is an elementin numerous federal statutes, including two on which the carjacking statute was modeled; and the Jones Court doubtedthat Congress would have made this fact a sentencing factorin one isolated instance. Id., at 235-237; see also Castillo,supra, at 126-127; Almendarez-Torres v. United States, 523U. S. 224, 230 (1998). In contrast, there is no similar federaltradition of treating brandishing and discharging as offenseelements. In Castillo v. United States, supra, the Courtsingled out brandishing as a paradigmatic sentencing factor:"Traditional sentencing factors often involve . . . special features of the manner in which a basic crime was carried out(e. g., that the defendant . . . brandished a gun)." Id., at 126.Under the Sentencing Guidelines, moreover, brandishingand discharging affect the sentences for numerous federalcrimes. See, e. g., United States Sentencing Commission,Guidelines Manual $$ 2A2.2(b)(2), 2B3.1(b)(2), 2B3.2(b)(3)(A),2E2.1(b)(1), 2L1.1(b)(4) (Nov. 2001). Indeed, the Guidelinesappear to have been the only antecedents for the statute's536US2 Unit: $U76 [12-23-03 07:23:18] PAGES PGT: OPIN554 HARRIS v. UNITED STATESOpinion of the Courtbrandishing provision. The term "brandished" does not ap-pear in any federal offense-defining provision save 18 U. S. C.$ 924(c)(1)(A), and did not appear there until 1998, when thestatute was amended to take its current form. The numbered subsections were added then, describing, as sentencingfactors often do, "special features of the manner in which"the statute's "basic crime" could be carried out. Castillo,supra, at 126. It thus seems likely that brandishing and dis-charging were meant to serve the same function under thestatute as they do under the Guidelines.We might have had reason to question that inference ifbrandishing or discharging altered the defendant's punishment in a manner not usually associated with sentencing factors. Jones is again instructive. There the Court accordedgreat significance to the "steeply higher penalties" authorized by the carjacking statute's three subsections, which enhanced the defendant's maximum sentence from 15 years, to25 years, to life--enhancements the Court doubted Congresswould have made contingent upon judicial factfinding. 526U. S., at 233; see also Castillo, supra, at 131; AlmendarezTorres, supra, at 235-236. The provisions before us now,however, have an effect on the defendant's sentence that ismore consistent with traditional understandings about howsentencing factors operate; the required findings constrain,rather than extend, the sentencing judge's discretion. Section 924(c)(1)(A) does not authorize the judge to impose"steeply higher penalties"--or higher penalties at all--oncethe facts in question are found. Since the subsections alteronly the minimum, the judge may impose a sentence well inexcess of seven years, whether or not the defendant brandished the firearm. The incremental changes in the minimum--from 5 years, to 7, to 10--are precisely what onewould expect to see in provisions meant to identify mattersfor the sentencing judge's consideration.Nothing about the text or history of the statute rebuts thepresumption drawn from its structure. Against the single536US2 Unit: $U76 [12-23-03 07:23:18] PAGES PGT: OPIN555Cite as: 536 U. S. 545 (2002)Opinion of the Courtoffense interpretation to which these considerations point,however, petitioner invokes the canon of constitutionalavoidance. Under that doctrine, when "a statute is susceptible of two constructions, by one of which grave and doubtfulconstitutional questions arise and by the other of which suchquestions are avoided, our duty is to adopt the latter."United States ex rel. Attorney General v. Delaware & Hudson Co., 213 U. S. 366, 408 (1909). It is at least an open question, petitioner contends, whether the Fifth and SixthAmendments require every fact increasing a federal defendant's minimum sentence to be alleged in the indictment, submitted to the jury, and proved beyond a reasonable doubt.To avoid resolving that question (and possibly invalidatingthe statute), petitioner urges, we should read $ 924(c)(1)(A)as making brandishing an element of an aggravated federalcrime.The avoidance canon played a role in Jones, for the subsections of the carjacking statute enhanced the maximum sentence, and a single-offense interpretation would have implicated constitutional questions later addressed--and resolvedin the defendant's favor--by Apprendi. See Jones, supra,at 243, n. 6 ("[A]ny fact (other than prior conviction) thatincreases the maximum penalty for a crime must be chargedin an indictment, submitted to a jury, and proven beyond areasonable doubt"). Yet the canon has no role to play here.It applies only when there are serious concerns about thestatute's constitutionality, Reno v. Flores, 507 U. S. 292, 314,n. 9 (1993), and petitioner's proposed rule--that the Constitution requires any fact increasing the statutory minimumsentence to be accorded the safeguards assigned to elements--was rejected 16 years ago in McMillan. Petitioneracknowledges as much but argues that recent developmentscast doubt on McMillan's viability. To avoid decidingwhether McMillan must be overruled, he says, we shouldconstrue the problem out of the statute.536US2 Unit: $U76 [12-23-03 07:23:18] PAGES PGT: OPIN556 HARRIS v. UNITED STATESOpinion of Kennedy, J.Petitioner's suggestion that we use the canon to avoidoverruling one of our own precedents is novel and, giventhat McMillan was in place when $ 924(c)(1)(A) was enacted,unsound. The avoidance canon rests upon our "respect forCongress, which we assume legislates in the light of consti-tutional limitations." Rust v. Sullivan, 500 U. S. 173, 191(1991). The statute at issue in this case was passed whenMcMillan provided the controlling instruction, and Con-gress would have had no reason to believe that it was approaching the constitutional line by following that instruc-tion. We would not further the canon's goal of eliminatingfriction with our coordinate branch, moreover, if we allevi-ated our doubt about a constitutional premise we had supplied by adopting a strained reading of a statute that Con-gress had enacted in reliance on the premise. And if westretched the text to avoid the question of McMillan's con-tinuing vitality, the canon would embrace a dynamic view ofstatutory interpretation, under which the text might meanone thing when enacted yet another if the prevailing view ofthe Constitution later changed. We decline to adopt thatapproach.As the avoidance canon poses no obstacle and the interpre-tive circumstances point in a common direction, we concludethat, as a matter of statutory interpretation, $ 924(c)(1)(A)defines a single offense. The statute regards brandishingand discharging as sentencing factors to be found by thejudge, not offense elements to be found by the jury.IIIConfident that the statute does just what McMillansaid it could, we consider petitioner 's argument that$ 924(c)(1)(A)(ii) is unconstitutional because McMillan is nolonger sound authority.Stare decisis is not an "inexorablecommand," Burnet v. Coronado Oil & Gas Co., 285 U. S. 393,405 (1932) (Brandeis, J., dissenting), but the doctrine is "offundamental importance to the rule of law,"Welch v. Texas536US2 Unit: $U76 [12-23-03 07:23:18] PAGES PGT: OPIN557Cite as: 536 U. S. 545 (2002)Opinion of Kennedy, J.Dept. of Highways and Public Transp., 483 U. S. 468, 494(1987). Even in constitutional cases, in which stare decisisconcerns are less pronounced, we will not overrule a precedent absent a "special justification." Arizona v. Rumsey,467 U. S. 203, 212 (1984).The special justification petitioner offers is our decision inApprendi, which, he says, cannot be reconciled with McMillan. Cf. Ring v. Arizona, post, at 609 (overruling Waltonv. Arizona, 497 U. S. 639 (1990), because "Walton and Apprendi are irreconcilable"). We do not find the argumentconvincing. As we shall explain, McMillan and Apprendiare consistent because there is a fundamental distinction between the factual findings that were at issue in those twocases. Apprendi said that any fact extending the defendant's sentence beyond the maximum authorized by the jury'sverdict would have been considered an element of an aggravated crime--and thus the domain of the jury--by those whoframed the Bill of Rights. The same cannot be said of a factincreasing the mandatory minimum (but not extending thesentence beyond the statutory maximum), for the jury's verdict has authorized the judge to impose the minimum withor without the finding. As McMillan recognized, a statutemay reserve this type of factual finding for the judge withoutviolating the Constitution.Though defining criminal conduct is a task generally "leftto the legislative branch," Patterson v. New York, 432 U. S.197, 210 (1977), Congress may not manipulate the definitionof a crime in a way that relieves the Government of its constitutional obligations to charge each element in the indictment, submit each element to the jury, and prove each element beyond a reasonable doubt, Jones, 526 U. S., at 240-241;Mullaney v. Wilbur, 421 U. S. 684, 699 (1975). McMillanand Apprendi asked whether certain types of facts, thoughlabeled sentencing factors by the legislature, were nevertheless "traditional elements" to which these constitutional safe536US2 Unit: $U76 [12-23-03 07:23:18] PAGES PGT: OPIN558 HARRIS v. UNITED STATESOpinion of Kennedy, J.guards were intended to apply. Patterson v. New York,supra, at 211, n. 12.McMillan's answer stemmed from certain historical anddoctrinal understandings about the role of the judge at sentencing. The mid-19th century produced a general shift inthis country from criminal statutes "providing fixed-termsentences to those providing judges discretion within a permissible range." Apprendi, 530 U. S., at 481. Under thesestatutes, judges exercise their sentencing discretion through"an inquiry broad in scope, largely unlimited either as to thekind of information [they] may consider, or the source fromwhich it may come." United States v. Tucker, 404 U. S. 443,446 (1972). The Court has recognized that this process isconstitutional--and that the facts taken into considerationneed not be alleged in the indictment, submitted to the jury,or proved beyond a reasonable doubt. See, e. g., UnitedStates v. Watts, 519 U. S. 148, 156 (1997) (per curiam); Nichols v. United States, 511 U. S. 738, 747 (1994); Williams v.New York, 337 U. S. 241, 246 (1949). As the Court reiteratedin Jones: "It is not, of course, that anyone today would claimthat every fact with a bearing on sentencing must be foundby a jury; we have resolved that general issue and have nointention of questioning its resolution." 526 U. S., at 248.Judicial factfinding in the course of selecting a sentencewithin the authorized range does not implicate the indictment, jury-trial, and reasonable-doubt components of theFifth and Sixth Amendments.That proposition, coupled with another shift in prevailingsentencing practices, explains McMillan. In the latter partof the 20th century, many legislatures, dissatisfied with sentencing disparities among like offenders, implemented measures regulating judicial discretion. These systems maintained the statutory ranges and the judge's factfinding rolebut assigned a uniform weight to factors judges often reliedupon when choosing a sentence. See, e. g., Payne v. Tennessee, 501 U. S. 808, 820 (1991). One example of reform, the536US2 Unit: $U76 [12-23-03 07:23:18] PAGES PGT: OPIN559Cite as: 536 U. S. 545 (2002)Opinion of Kennedy, J.kind addressed in McMillan, was mandatory minimumsentencing. The Pennsylvania Mandatory Minimum Sentencing Act, 42 Pa. Cons. Stat. $ 9712 (1982), imposed a minimum prison term of five years when the sentencing judgefound, by a preponderance of the evidence, that the defendant had possessed a firearm while committing the crime ofconviction.In sustaining the statute the McMillan Court placed considerable reliance on the similarity between the sentencingfactor at issue and the facts judges contemplate when exercising their discretion within the statutory range. Giventhat the latter are not elements of the crime, the Court explained, neither was the former:"Section 9712 neither alters the maximum penalty forthe crime committed nor creates a separate offense calling for a separate penalty; it operates solely to limitthe sentencing court's discretion in selecting a penaltywithin the range already available to it without the special finding of visible possession of a firearm. Section9712 `ups the ante' for the defendant only by raising tofive years the minimum sentence which may be imposedwithin the statutory plan. . . . Petitioners' claim thatvisible possession under the Pennsylvania statute is`really' an element of the offenses for which they arebeing punished . . . would have at least more superficialappeal if a finding of visible possession exposed them togreater or additional punishment, . . . but it does not."477 U. S., at 87-88 (footnote omitted).In response to the argument that the Act evaded the Constitution's procedural guarantees, the Court noted that thestatute "simply took one factor that has always been considered by sentencing courts to bear on punishment . . . anddictated the precise weight to be given that factor." Id.,at 89-90.536US2 Unit: $U76 [12-23-03 07:23:18] PAGES PGT: OPIN560 HARRIS v. UNITED STATESOpinion of Kennedy, J.That reasoning still controls. If the facts judges considerwhen exercising their discretion within the statutory rangeare not elements, they do not become as much merely be-cause legislatures require the judge to impose a minimumsentence when those facts are found--a sentence the judgecould have imposed absent the finding. It does not matter,for the purposes of the constitutional analysis, that in statutes like the Pennsylvania Act the "State provides" that afact "shall give rise both to a special stigma and to a specialpunishment." Id., at 103 (Stevens, J., dissenting). Judgeschoosing a sentence within the range do the same, and"[ j]udges, it is sometimes necessary to remind ourselves, arepart of the State." Apprendi, supra, at 498 (Scalia, J., concurring). These facts, though stigmatizing and punitive,have been the traditional domain of judges; they have notbeen alleged in the indictment or proved beyond a reasonable doubt. There is no reason to believe that those whoframed the Fifth and Sixth Amendments would have thoughtof them as the elements of the crime.This conclusion might be questioned if there were extensive historical evidence showing that facts increasing the defendant's minimum sentence (but not affecting the maximum) have, as a matter of course, been treated as elements.The evidence on this score, however, is lacking. Statuteslike the Pennsylvania Act, which alter the minimum sentencewithout changing the maximum, were for the most part theproduct of the 20th century, when legislatures first assertedcontrol over the sentencing judge's discretion. Courts atthe founding (whose views might be relevant, given the contemporaneous adoption of the Bill of Rights, see Apprendi,530 U. S., at 478-484) and in the mid-19th century (whoseviews might be relevant, given that sentencing ranges firstarose then, see id., at 501-518 (Thomas, J., concurring)) werenot as a general matter required to decide whether a factgiving rise to a mandatory minimum sentence within theavailable range was to be alleged in the indictment and536US2 Unit: $U76 [12-23-03 07:23:18] PAGES PGT: OPIN561Cite as: 536 U. S. 545 (2002)Opinion of Kennedy, J.proved to the jury. See King & Klein, Essential Elements,54 Vand. L. Rev. 1467, 1474-1477 (2001). Indeed, thoughthere is no clear record of how history treated these facts, itis clear that they did not fall within the principle by whichhistory determined what facts were elements. That princi-ple defined elements as "fact[s] . . . legally essential to thepunishment to be inflicted." United States v. Reese, 92 U. S.214, 232 (1876) (Clifford, J., dissenting) (citing 1 J. Bishop,Law of Criminal Procedure $ 81, p. 51 (2d ed. 1872)). Thisformulation includes facts that, asMcMillan put it, "alte[r]the maximum penalty," 477 U. S., at 87, but it does not include facts triggering a mandatory minimum. The mini-mum may be imposed with or without the factual finding;the finding is by definition not "essential" to the defendant'spunishment.McMillan was on firm historical ground, then, when itheld that a legislature may specify the condition for a mandatory minimum without making the condition an element ofthe crime. The fact of visible firearm possession was morelike the facts considered by judges when selecting a sentencewithin the statutory range--facts that, as the authoritiesfrom the 19th century confirm, have never been charged inthe indictment, submitted to the jury, or proved beyond areasonable doubt:"[W]ithin the limits of any discretion as to the punish-ment which the law may have allowed, the judge, whenhe pronounces sentence, may suffer his discretion to beinfluenced by matter shown in aggravation or mitigation, not covered by the allegations of the indictment.Where the law permits the heaviest punishment, on ascale laid down, to be inflicted, and has merely com-mitted to the judge the authority to interpose its mercyand inflict a punishment of a lighter grade, no rights ofthe accused are violated though in the indictment thereis no mention of mitigating circumstances. The aggra-vating circumstances spoken of cannot swell the penalty536US2 Unit: $U76 [12-23-03 07:23:18] PAGES PGT: OPIN562 HARRIS v. UNITED STATESOpinion of Kennedy, J.above what the law has provided for the acts chargedagainst the prisoner, and they are interposed merely tocheck the judicial discretion in the exercise of the per-mitted mercy. This is an entirely different thing frompunishing one for what is not alleged against him."Bishop, Criminal Procedure $ 85, at 54.Since sentencing ranges came into use, defendants have notbeen able to predict from the face of the indictment preciselywhat their sentence will be; the charged facts have simplymade them aware of the "heaviest punishment" they face ifconvicted. Ibid. Judges, in turn, have always considereduncharged "aggravating circumstances" that, while increasing the defendant's punishment, have not "swell[ed] the pen-alty above what the law has provided for the acts charged."Ibid. Because facts supporting a mandatory minimum fitsquarely within that description, the legislature's choice toentrust them to the judge does not implicate the "com-petition . . . between judge and jury over . . . their respectiveroles," Jones, 526 U. S., at 245, that is the central concern ofthe Fifth and Sixth Amendments.At issue in Apprendi, by contrast, was a sentencing factorthat did "swell the penalty above what the law has provided," Bishop, supra, $ 85, at 54, and thus functioned morelike a "traditional elemen[t]."Patterson v. New York, 432U. S., at 211, n. 12. The defendant had been convicted ofillegal possession of a firearm, an offense for which New Jer-sey law prescribed a maximum of 10 years in prison. SeeN. J. Stat. Ann. $$ 2C:39-4(a), 2C:43-6(a)(2) (1995). He wassentenced to 12 years, however, because a separate statutepermitted an enhancement when the judge found, by a pre-ponderance of the evidence, that the defendant "acted witha purpose to intimidate an individual or group of individualsbecause of race." $ 2C:44-3(e) (Supp. 2001-2002).The Court held that the enhancement was unconstitu-tional. "[O]ur cases in this area, and . . . the history uponwhich they rely," the Court observed, confirmed the constitu536US2 Unit: $U76 [12-23-03 07:23:18] PAGES PGT: OPIN563Cite as: 536 U. S. 545 (2002)Opinion of Kennedy, J.tional principle first identified in Jones: "Other than the factof a prior conviction, any fact that increases the penalty fora crime beyond the prescribed statutory maximum must besubmitted to a jury, and proved beyond a reasonable doubt."530 U. S., at 490. Those facts, Apprendi held, were whatthe Framers had in mind when they spoke of "crimes" and"criminal prosecutions" in the Fifth and Sixth Amendments:A crime was not alleged, and a criminal prosecution not com-plete, unless the indictment and the jury verdict included allthe facts to which the legislature had attached the maximumpunishment. Any "fact that . . . exposes the criminal defendant to a penalty exceeding the maximum he would re-ceive if punished according to the facts reflected in the juryverdict alone," the Court concluded, id., at 483, would havebeen, under the prevailing historical practice, an element ofan aggravated offense. See id., at 479-481; see also id., at501-518 (Thomas, J., concurring).Apprendi's conclusions do not undermine McMillan's.There was no comparable historical practice of submittingfacts increasing the mandatory minimum to the jury, so theApprendi rule did not extend to those facts. Indeed, theCourt made clear that its holding did not affectMcMillanat all:"We do not overrule McMillan. We limit its holding tocases that do not involve the imposition of a sentencemore severe than the statutory maximum for the offenseestablished by the jury's verdict--a limitation identifiedin theMcMillan opinion itself." 530 U. S., at 487, n. 13.The sentencing factor in McMillan did not increase "thepenalty for a crime beyond the prescribed statutory maximum," 530 U. S., at 490; nor did it, as the concurring opinionsin Jones put it, "alter the congressionally prescribed rangeof penalties to which a criminal defendant is exposed," 526U. S., at 253 (Scalia, J., concurring). As the ApprendiCourt observed, the McMillan finding merely required the536US2 Unit: $U76 [12-23-03 07:23:18] PAGES PGT: OPIN564 HARRIS v. UNITED STATESOpinion of Kennedy, J.judge to impose "a specific sentence within the range author-ized by the jury's finding that the defendant [was] guilty."530 U. S., at 494, n. 19; see also Jones, supra, at 242 ("[T]heWinship issue [in McMillan] rose from a provision that ajudge's finding (by a preponderance) of visible possession ofa firearm would require a mandatory minimum sentence forcertain felonies, but a minimum that fell within the sentencing ranges otherwise prescribed").As its holding and the history on which it was based wouldsuggest, the Apprendi Court's understanding of the Consti-tution is consistent with the holding inMcMillan. Factsextending the sentence beyond the statutory maximum hadtraditionally been charged in the indictment and submittedto the jury, Apprendi said, because the function of the indict-ment and jury had been to authorize the State to imposepunishment:"The evidence . . . that punishment was, by law, tied tothe offense . . . and the evidence that American judgeshave exercised sentencing discretion within a legallyprescribed range . . . point to a single, consistent conclu-sion: The judge's role in sentencing is constrained at itsouter limits by the facts alleged in the indictment andfound by the jury. Put simply, facts that expose a defendant to a punishment greater than that otherwise legally prescribed were by definition `elements' of a sepa-rate legal offense." 530 U. S., at 483, n. 10.The grand and petit juries thus form a " `strong and two-foldbarrier . . . between the liberties of the people and the pre-rogative of the [government].' "Duncan v. Louisiana, 391U. S., at 151 (quoting W. Blackstone, Commentaries on theLaws of England 349 (T. Cooley ed. 1899)). Absent authorization from the trial jury--in the form of a finding, by proofbeyond a reasonable doubt, of the facts warranting the extended sentence under the New Jersey statute--the Statehad no power to sentence the defendant to more than536US2 Unit: $U76 [12-23-03 07:23:18] PAGES PGT: OPIN565Cite as: 536 U. S. 545 (2002)Opinion of Kennedy, J.10 years, the maximum "authorized by the jury's guiltyverdict."Apprendi, 530 U. S., at 494. "[T]hose facts thatdetermine the maximum sentence the law allows," then, arenecessarily elements of the crime.Id., at 499 (Scalia, J.,concurring).Yet once the jury finds all those facts,Apprendi says thatthe defendant has been convicted of the crime; the Fifth andSixth Amendments have been observed; and the Govern-ment has been authorized to impose any sentence below themaximum. That is why, as Apprendi noted, "nothing in thishistory suggests that it is impermissible for judges to exercise discretion--taking into consideration various factors relating both to offense and offender--in imposing a judgmentwithin the range." Id., at 481. That is also why, as McMillan noted, nothing in this history suggests that it is impermissible for judges to find facts that give rise to a mandatoryminimum sentence below "the maximum penalty for thecrime committed." 477 U. S., at 87-88. In both instancesthe judicial factfinding does not "expose a defendant to apunishment greater than that otherwise legally prescribed."Apprendi, supra, at 483, n. 10. Whether chosen by thejudge or the legislature, the facts guiding judicial discretionbelow the statutory maximum need not be alleged in theindictment, submitted to the jury, or proved beyond a reasonable doubt. When a judge sentences the defendant to amandatory minimum, no less than when the judge chooses asentence within the range, the grand and petit juries alreadyhave found all the facts necessary to authorize the Government to impose the sentence. The judge may impose theminimum, the maximum, or any other sentence within therange without seeking further authorization from those juries--and without contradicting Apprendi.Petitioner argues, however, that the concerns underlyingApprendi apply with equal or more force to facts increasingthe defendant's minimum sentence. Those factual findings,he contends, often have a greater impact on the defendant536US2 Unit: $U76 [12-23-03 07:23:18] PAGES PGT: OPIN566 HARRIS v. UNITED STATESOpinion of Kennedy, J.than the findings at issue in Apprendi. This is so becausewhen a fact increasing the statutory maximum is found, thejudge may still impose a sentence far below that maximum;but when a fact increasing the minimum is found, the judgehas no choice but to impose that minimum, even if he orshe otherwise would have chosen a lower sentence. Cf.Almendarez-Torres, 523 U. S., at 244-245. Why, petitionerasks, would fairness not also require the latter sort of factto be alleged in the indictment and found by the jury undera reasonable-doubt standard? The answer is that because itis beyond dispute that the judge's choice of sentences withinthe authorized range may be influenced by facts not considered by the jury, a factual finding's practical effect cannot byitself control the constitutional analysis. The Fifth andSixth Amendments ensure that the defendant "will never getmore punishment than he bargained for when he did thecrime," but they do not promise that he will receive "anything less" than that. Apprendi, supra, at 498 (Scalia, J.,concurring). If the grand jury has alleged, and the trial juryhas found, all the facts necessary to impose the maximum,the barriers between government and defendant fall. Thejudge may select any sentence within the range, based onfacts not alleged in the indictment or proved to the jury--even if those facts are specified by the legislature, and evenif they persuade the judge to choose a much higher sentencethan he or she otherwise would have imposed. That a factaffects the defendant's sentence, even dramatically so, doesnot by itself make it an element.In light of the foregoing, it is not surprising that the decisions for the Court in both Apprendi and Jones insisted thatthey were consistent with McMillan--and that a distinctioncould be drawn between facts increasing the defendant'sminimum sentence and facts extending the sentence beyondthe statutory maximum. See, e. g., Apprendi, supra, at 494,n. 19 ("The term [sentencing factor] appropriately describesa circumstance, which may be either aggravating or mitigat536US2 Unit: $U76 [12-23-03 07:23:18] PAGES PGT: OPIN567Cite as: 536 U. S. 545 (2002)Opinion of Kennedy, J.ing in character, that supports a specific sentence within therange authorized by the jury's finding that the defendant isguilty of a particular offense"); Jones, 526 U. S., at 242 ("McMillan, then, recognizes a question under both the DueProcess Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment and the juryguarantee of the Sixth: . . . [M]ay judicial factfinding by apreponderance support the application of a provision that increases the potential severity of the penalty for a variant ofa given crime?"); see alsoAlmendarez-Torres, supra, at 256(Scalia, J., dissenting) ("[N]o one can read McMillan . . .without perceiving that the determinative element in ourvalidation of the Pennsylvania statute was the fact that itmerely limited the sentencing judge's discretion within therange of penalty already available, rather than substantiallyincreasing the available sentence"). That distinction maycontinue to stand. The factual finding in Apprendi extended the power of the judge, allowing him or her to imposea punishment exceeding what was authorized by the jury.The finding in McMillan restrained the judge's power, limiting his or her choices within the authorized range. It isquite consistent to maintain that the former type of factmust be submitted to the jury while the latter need not be.Read together, McMillan and Apprendi mean that thosefacts setting the outer limits of a sentence, and of the judicialpower to impose it, are the elements of the crime for thepurposes of the constitutional analysis. Within the rangeauthorized by the jury's verdict, however, the political system may channel judicial discretion--and rely upon judicialexpertise--by requiring defendants to serve minimum termsafter judges make certain factual findings. It is critical notto abandon that understanding at this late date. Legislatures and their constituents have relied upon McMillan toexercise control over sentencing through dozens of statuteslike the one the Court approved in that case. Congress andthe States have conditioned mandatory minimum sentencesupon judicial findings that, as here, a firearm was possessed,536US2 Unit: $U76 [12-23-03 07:23:18] PAGES PGT: OPIN568 HARRIS v. UNITED STATESOpinion of the Courtbrandished, or discharged, Ala. Code $ 13A-5-6(a)(4) (1994);Kan. Stat. Ann. $ 21-4618 (1995); Minn. Stat. Ann. $ 609.11(Supp. 2002); N. J. Stat. Ann. $$ 2C:43-6(c), 6(d) (1998); oramong other examples, that the victim was over 60 years ofage, 42 Pa. Cons. Stat. $ 9717(a) (1998); that the defendantpossessed a certain quantity of drugs, Ill. Comp. Stat.,ch. 730, $ 5/5-5-3(c)(2)(D) (2000); that the victim was relatedto the defendant, Alaska Stat. $ 12.55.125(b) (2000); and thatthe defendant was a repeat offender, Md. Ann. Code, Art.27, $ 286 (Supp. 2000). We see no reason to overturn thosestatutes or cast uncertainty upon the sentences imposedunder them.IVReaffirming McMillan and employing the approach out-lined in that case, we conclude that the federal provision atissue, 18 U. S. C. $ 924(c)(1)(A)(ii), is constitutional. Basinga 2-year increase in the defendant's minimum sentence on ajudicial finding of brandishing does not evade the require-ments of the Fifth and Sixth Amendments. Congress "simply took one factor that has always been considered by sen-tencing courts to bear on punishment . . . and dictated theprecise weight to be given that factor." McMillan, 477U. S., at 89-90. That factor need not be alleged in the indictment, submitted to the jury, or proved beyond a reason-able doubt.The Court is well aware that many question the wisdomof mandatory minimum sentencing. Mandatory minimums,it is often said, fail to account for the unique circumstancesof offenders who warrant a lesser penalty. See,e. g., Brieffor Families Against Mandatory Minimums Foundation asAmicus Curiae 25, n. 16; cf. Almendarez-Torres, supra, at245 (citing United States Sentencing Commission, MandatoryMinimum Penalties in the Federal Criminal Justice System26-34 (Aug. 1991)). These criticisms may be sound, butthey would persist whether the judge or the jury foundthe facts giving rise to the minimum. We hold only that the536US2 Unit: $U76 [12-23-03 07:23:18] PAGES PGT: OPIN569Cite as: 536 U. S. 545 (2002)Opinion of Breyer, J.Constitution permits the judge to do so, and we leave theother questions to Congress, the States, and the democraticprocesses.The judgment of the Court of Appeals is affirmed.