ISince the inception of cable television, cable companieshave sought the means to run a wire into the home of eachsubscriber. They have found it convenient, and often essen-tial, to lease space for their cables on telephone and electricutility poles. Utilities, in turn, have found it convenient tocharge monopoly rents.Congress first addressed these transactions in 1978, byenacting the Pole Attachments Act, 92 Stat. 35, as amended,47 U. S. C. $ 224 (1994 ed.), which requires the FederalCommunications Commission (FCC) to "regulate the rates,#Briefs of amici curiae urging reversal were filed for the Associationfor Local Telecommunications Services et al. by Philip L. Verveer, Theodore Case Whitehouse, Joseph M. Sandri, Jr., Howard J. Symons, andDouglas I. Brandon; and for the United States Telecom Associationet al. by William P. Barr, Michael E. Glover, Edward Shakin, RichardG. Taranto, and John W. Hunter.Briefs of amici curiae urging affirmance were filed for Real AccessAlliance by William Malone, Matthew C. Ames, and Clarine Nardi Riddle; for the Site Owners and Managers Alliance of the Personal Communications Industry Association by Dennis P. Corbett and H. AnthonyLehv; and for the United Telecom Council et al. by Jill Mace Lyon andEdward Comer.Briefs of amici curiae were filed for the Consumers Union et al. byCheryl A. Leanza, Andrew Jay Schwartzman, and Harold J. Feld; and forEarthlink, Inc., by John W. Butler, Earl W. Comstock, and David Baker.534US2 Unit: $U18 [04-11-03 19:51:04] PAGES PGT: OPIN331Cite as: 534 U. S. 327 (2002)Opinion of the Courtterms, and conditions for pole attachments to provide thatsuch rates, terms, and conditions are just and reasonable."$ 224(b). (The Act is set forth in full in the Appendix, infra.)The cases now before us present two questions regarding thescope of the Act. First, does the Act reach attachments thatprovide both cable television and high-speed (broadband) Internet service? Second, does it reach attachments by wireless telecommunications providers? Both questions requireus to interpret what constitutes a "pole attachment" underthe Act.In the original Act a "pole attachment" was defined as"any attachment by a cable television system to a pole, duct,conduit, or right-of-way owned or controlled by a utility,"$ 224(a)(4). The Telecommunications Act of 1996, $ 703, 110Stat. 150, expanded the definition to include, as an additionalregulated category, "any attachment by a . . . provider oftelecommunications service." $ 224(a)(4) (1994 ed., Supp.V).Cable companies had begun providing high-speed Internetservice, as well as traditional cable television, over theirwires even before 1996. The FCC had interpreted the Actto cover pole attachments for these commingled services,and its interpretation had been approved by the Court ofAppeals for the District of Columbia Circuit. Texas Util.Elec. Co. v. FCC, 997 F. 2d 925, 927, 929 (1993). Findingnothing in the 1996 amendments to change its view on thisquestion, the FCC continued to assert jurisdiction overpole attachments for these particular commingled services.In re Implementation of Section 703(e) of the Telecommunications Act of 1996: Amendment of the Commission's Rulesand Policies Governing Pole Attachments, 13 FCC Rcd.6777 (1998). In the same order the FCC concluded furtherthat the amended Act covers attachments by wireless telecommunications providers. "[T]he use of the word `any'534US2 Unit: $U18 [04-11-03 19:51:04] PAGES PGT: OPIN332 NATIONAL CABLE & TELECOMMUNICATIONS ASSN.,INC. v. GULF POWER CO.Opinion of the Courtprecludes a position that Congress intended to distinguishbetween wire and wireless attachments." Id., at 6798.Certain pole-owning utilities challenged the FCC's orderin various Courts of Appeals. See 47 U. S. C. $ 402(a) (1994ed.); 28 U. S. C. $ 2342 (1994 ed.). The challenges were consolidated in the Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit,see $ 2112(a), which reversed the FCC on both points. 208F. 3d 1263 (2000). On the question of commingled services,the court held that the two specific rate formulas in 47U. S. C. $$ 224(d)(3) and (e)(1) (1994 ed., Supp. V) narrow thegeneral definition of pole attachments. The first formula applies to "any pole attachment used by a cable television system solely to provide cable service," $ 224(d)(3), and the second applies to "pole attachments used by telecommunicationscarriers to provide telecommunications services," $ 224(e)(1).The majority concluded that attachments for commingledservices are neither, and that "no other rates are authorized." 208 F. 3d, at 1276, n. 29. Because it found that neither rate formula covers commingled services, it ruled thoseattachments must be excluded from the Act's coverage.On the wireless question, the majority relied on the statutory definition of "utility": "any person . . . who owns or controls poles, ducts, conduits, or rights-of-way used, in wholeor in part, for any wire communications." $ 224(a)(1). Themajority concluded that the definition of "utility" informedthe definition of "pole attachment," restricting it to attachments used, at least in part, for wire communications. Attachments for wireless communications, it held, are excludedby negative implication. Id., at 1274.Judge Carnes dissented on these two issues. In his view,$$ 224(a)(4) and (b) "unambiguously giv[e] the FCC regulatory authority over wireless telecommunications service andInternet service." Id., at 1281 (opinion concurring in partand dissenting in part). We granted certiorari. 531 U. S.1125 (2001).534US2 Unit: $U18 [04-11-03 19:51:04] PAGES PGT: OPIN333Cite as: 534 U. S. 327 (2002)Opinion of the CourtIIWe turn first to the question whether the Act applies toattachments that provide high-speed Internet access at thesame time as cable television, the commingled services atissue here. As we have noted, the Act requires the FCC to"regulate the rates, terms, and conditions for pole attach-ments," $ 224(b) (1994 ed.), and defines these to include "anyattachment by a cable television system," $ 224(a)(4) (1994ed., Supp. V). These provisions resolve the question.No one disputes that a cable attached by a cable televisioncompany, which provides only cable television service, is anattachment "by a cable television system." If one day itscable provides high-speed Internet access, in addition tocable television service, the cable does not cease, at that in-stant, to be an attachment "by a cable television system."The addition of a service does not change the character ofthe attaching entity--the entity the attachment is "by."And this is what matters under the statute.This is our own, best reading of the statute, which wefind unambiguous. If the statute were thought ambiguous,however, the FCC's reading must be accepted nonetheless,provided it is a reasonable interpretation. See ChevronU. S. A. Inc. v. Natural Resources Defense Council, Inc.,467 U. S. 837, 842-844 (1984). Respondents' burden, then, isnot merely to refute the proposition that "any attachment"means "any attachment"; they must prove also the FCC'sinterpretation is unreasonable. This they cannot do.Some respondents now advance an interpretation of thestatute not presented to the Court of Appeals, or, so far asour review discloses, to the FCC. They contend it is wrongto concentrate on whose attachment is at issue; the question,they say, is what does the attachment do? Under this ap-proach, an attachment is only an attachment by a cable television system to the extent it is used to provide cable televi-sion. To the extent it does other things, it falls outside theambit of the Act, and respondents may charge whatever534US2 Unit: $U18 [04-11-03 19:51:04] PAGES PGT: OPIN334 NATIONAL CABLE & TELECOMMUNICATIONS ASSN.,INC. v. GULF POWER CO.Opinion of the Courtrates they choose. To make this argument, respondents relyon a statutory definition of "cable system" (which the FCCtreats as synonymous with "cable television system," see47 CFR $ 76.5(a) (2000)). The definition begins as follows:"[T]he term `cable system' means a facility, consisting of aset of closed transmission paths and associated signal generation, reception, and control equipment that is designedto provide cable service which includes video programmingand which is provided to multiple subscribers within a community." 47 U. S. C. $ 522(7) (1994 ed., Supp. V). The firstpart of the definition would appear to cover commingledservices, but the definition goes on to exclude "a facility of acommon carrier . . . except that such facility shall be considered a cable system . . . to the extent such facility is usedin the transmission of video programming directly to subscribers, unless the extent of such use is solely to provideinteractive on-demand services." Ibid.Respondents assert that "most major cable companies arenow common carriers [since they also provide] residentialand/or commercial telephone service." Brief for Respondents American Electric Power Service Corp. et al. 20. If so,they contend, then for purposes of $ 224(a)(4), a facility thatprovides commingled cable television and Internet serviceis a "cable television system" only "to the extent that" itprovides cable television.Even if a cable company is a common carrier because itprovides telephone service, of course, the attachment mightstill fall under the second half of the "pole attachments"definition: "any attachment by a . . . provider of telecommunications service." $ 224(a)(4). This argument, and the related assertion that "most major cable companies are nowcommon carriers," need not be considered by us in the firstinstance, when neither the FCC nor the Court of Appealshas had the opportunity to pass upon the points. There is afactual premise here, as well as an application of the statuteto the facts, that the FCC and the Court of Appeals ought534US2 Unit: $U18 [04-11-03 19:51:04] PAGES PGT: OPIN335Cite as: 534 U. S. 327 (2002)Opinion of the Courtto have the opportunity to address in the first instance.This does not leave the cases in doubt, however. Even if a"cable television system" is best thought of as a certain"facility" rather than a certain type of entity, respondentsstill must confront the problem that the statute regulatesattachments "by" (rather than "of ") these facilities. Theword "by" still limits pole attachments by who is doing theattaching, not by what is attached. So even if a cable televi-sion system is only a cable television system "to the extent"it provides cable television, an "attachment . . . by a cabletelevision system" is still (entirely) an attachment "by" acable television system whether or not it does other thingsas well.The Court of Appeals based its ruling on a different theory. The statute sets two different formulas for just andreasonable rates--one for pole attachments "used by a cabletelevision system solely to provide cable service," $ 224(d)(3),and one for those "used by telecommunications carriers toprovide telecommunications services," $ 224(e)(1). In a footnote, the Court of Appeals concluded without analysis that"subsections (d) and (e) narrow (b)(1)'s general mandate toset just and reasonable rates." 208 F. 3d, at 1276, n. 29. Inits view, Congress would not have provided two specific rateformulas, and yet left a residual category for which the FCCwould derive its own view of just and reasonable rates."The straightforward language of subsections (d) and (e) directs the FCC to establish two specific just and reasonablerates . . . ; no other rates are authorized." Ibid.This conclusion has no foundation in the plain languageof $$ 224(a)(4) and (b). Congress did indeed prescribe twoformulas for "just and reasonable" rates in two specific categories; but nothing about the text of $$ 224(d) and (e) (1994ed. and Supp. V), and nothing about the structure of the Act,suggest that these are the exclusive rates allowed. It istrue that specific statutory language should control moregeneral language when there is a conflict between the two.534US2 Unit: $U18 [04-11-03 19:51:04] PAGES PGT: OPIN336 NATIONAL CABLE & TELECOMMUNICATIONS ASSN.,INC. v. GULF POWER CO.Opinion of the CourtHere, however, there is no conflict. The specific controls butonly within its self-described scope.The sum of the transactions addressed by the rate for-mulas--$ 224(d)(3) (1994 ed., Supp. V) (attachments "usedby a cable television system solely to provide cable service")and $ 224(e)(1) (attachments "used by telecommunicationscarriers to provide telecommunications services")--is lessthan the theoretical coverage of the Act as a whole. Section224(a)(4) reaches "any attachment by a cable television system or provider of telecommunications service." The firsttwo subsections are simply subsets of--but not limitationsupon--the third.Likewise, nothing about the 1996 amendments suggestsan intent to decrease the jurisdiction of the FCC. To thecontrary, the amendments' new provisions extend the Actto cover telecommunications. As we have noted, commingled services were covered under the statute as firstenacted, in the views of the FCC and the Court of Appealsfor the District of Columbia Circuit. Texas Util. Elec. Co.v. FCC, 997 F. 2d 925 (1993). Before 1996, it is true, thegrant of authority in $$ 224(a)(4) and (b) was coextensivewith the application of the single rate formula in $ 224(d).The 1996 amendments limited $ 224(d) to attachments usedby a cable television system "solely to provide cable service,"but--despite Texas Util. Elec. Co.--did not so limit "poleattachment" in $ 224(a)(4). At this point, coextensivenessended. Cable television systems that also provide Internetservice are still covered by $$ 224(a)(4) and (b)--just as theywere before 1996--whether or not they are now excludedfrom the specific rate formula of $ 224(d); if they are, thiswould simply mean that the FCC must prescribe just andreasonable rates for them without necessary reliance upon aspecific statutory formula devised by Congress.The Court of Appeals held that $$ 224(d) and (e) implicitlylimit the reach of $$ 224(a)(4) and (b); as a result, it wascompelled to reach the question of the correct categoriza534US2 Unit: $U18 [04-11-03 19:51:04] PAGES PGT: OPIN337Cite as: 534 U. S. 327 (2002)Opinion of the Courttion of Internet services--that is, whether these services are"cable service," $ 224(d)(3), or "telecommunications services,"$ 224(e)(1). It held that they are neither. By contrast, wehold that $$ 224(d) and (e) work no limitation on $$ 224(a)(4)and (b); for this reason, and because we granted certiorarionly to determine the scope of the latter provisions, we neednot decide the scope of the former.The FCC had to go a step further, because once it decidedthat it had jurisdiction over attachments providing commin-gled services, it then had to set a just and reasonable rate.Again, no rate challenge is before us, but we note that theFCC proceeded in a sensible fashion. It first decided thatInternet services are not telecommunications services:"Several commentators suggested that cable operatorsproviding Internet service should be required to paythe Section 224(e) telecommunications rate. We dis-agree. . . . Under [our] precedent, a cable televisionsystem providing Internet service over a commingledfacility is not a telecommunications carrier subject tothe revised rate mandated by Section 224(e) by virtueof providing Internet service." 13 FCC Rcd., at 6794-6795 (footnotes omitted).After deciding Internet services are not telecommunicationsservices, the FCC then found that it did not need to decidewhether they are cable services:"Regardless of whether such commingled services con-stitute `solely cable services' under Section 224(d)(3), webelieve that the subsection (d) rate should apply. If theprovision of such services over a cable television systemis a `cable service' under Section 224(d)(3), then the rateencompassed by that section would clearly apply. Evenif the provision of Internet service over a cable televi-sion system is deemed to be neither `cable service' nor`telecommunications service' under the existing defi-nitions, the Commission is still obligated under Sec534US2 Unit: $U18 [04-11-03 19:51:04] PAGES PGT: OPIN338 NATIONAL CABLE & TELECOMMUNICATIONS ASSN.,INC. v. GULF POWER CO.Opinion of the Courttion 224(b)(1) to ensure that the `rates, terms and condi-tions [for pole attachments] are just and reasonable,' . . .[a]nd we would, in our discretion, apply the subsection(d) rate as a `just and reasonable rate.' " Id., at 6795-6796 (footnote omitted).Respondents are frustrated by the FCC's refusal to cate-gorize Internet services, and doubly frustrated by the FCC'scontingent decision that even if commingled services arenot "cable service," those services nevertheless warrantthe $ 224(d) rate. On the first point, though, decisionmakerssometimes dodge hard questions when easier ones are dispositive; and we cannot fault the FCC for taking this ap-proach. The second point, in essence, is a challenge to therate the FCC has chosen, a question not now before us.We note that the FCC, subsequent to the order under review, has reiterated that it has not yet categorized Internetservice. See, e. g., Pet. for Cert. in No. 00-843, p. 15, n. 4.It has also suggested a willingness to reconsider its con-clusion that Internet services are not telecommunications.See, e. g., In re Inquiry Concerning High-Speed Access toInternet Over Cable and Other Facilities, 15 FCC Rcd.19287, 19294 (2000). Of course, the FCC has power to re-consider prior decisions. The order under review in thislitigation, however, is both logical and unequivocal.If the FCC should reverse its decision that Internet services are not telecommunications, only its choice of rate, andnot its assertion of jurisdiction, would be implicated bythe reversal. In this suit, though, we address only whetherpole attachments that carry commingled services are subject to FCC regulation at all. The question is answered by$$ 224(a)(4) and (b), and the answer is yes.Even if the FCC decides, in the end, that Internet serviceis not "cable service," the result obtained by its interpretation of $$ 224(a)(4) and (b) is sensible. Congress may wellhave chosen to define a "just and reasonable" rate for purecable television service, yet declined to produce a prospec534US2 Unit: $U18 [04-11-03 19:51:05] PAGES PGT: OPIN339Cite as: 534 U. S. 327 (2002)Opinion of the Courttive formula for commingled cable service. The latter mightbe expected to evolve in directions Congress knew it couldnot anticipate. As it was in Chevron U. S. A. Inc. v. NaturalResources Defense Council, Inc., 467 U. S. 837 (1984), thesubject matter here is technical, complex, and dynamic; andas a general rule, agencies have authority to fill gaps wherethe statutes are silent, id., at 843-844. It might have beenthought prudent to provide set formulas for telecommunications service and "solely cable service," and to leave unmodi-fied the FCC's customary discretion in calculating a "just andreasonable" rate for commingled services.This result is more sensible than the one for which respondents contend. On their view, if a cable company at-tempts to innovate at all and provide anything other thanpure television, it loses the protection of the Pole Attach-ments Act and subjects itself to monopoly pricing. Theresulting contradiction of longstanding interpretation--onwhich cable companies have relied since before the 1996amendments to the Act--would defeat Congress' generalinstruction to the FCC to "encourage the deployment" ofbroadband Internet capability and, if necessary, "to accel-erate deployment of such capability by removing barriersto infrastructure investment." Pub. L. 104-104, Tit. VII,$$ 706(a), (b), and (c)(1), 110 Stat. 153, note following 47U. S. C. $ 157 (1994 ed., Supp. V). This congressional policyunderscores the reasonableness of the FCC's interpretation: Cable attachments providing commingled services comewithin the ambit of the Act.IIIThe second question presented is whether and to what ex-tent the equipment of wireless telecommunications providersis susceptible of FCC regulation under the Act. The Elev-enth Circuit held that "the act does not provide the FCCwith authority to regulate wireless carriers." 208 F. 3d, at1275. All parties now agree this holding was overstated.534US2 Unit: $U18 [04-11-03 19:51:05] PAGES PGT: OPIN340 NATIONAL CABLE & TELECOMMUNICATIONS ASSN.,INC. v. GULF POWER CO.Opinion of the Court"[T]o the extent a wireless carrier seeks to attach a wirelinefacility to a utility pole . . . the wireline attachment is subjectto Section 224." Brief for Respondents American ElectricPower Service Corp. et al. 31; see also Brief for RespondentsAtlantic City Electric Co. et al. 40; Brief for Repondent TXUElectric Co. 18; Brief for Respondent Florida Power & LightCo. 10-11. We agree, and we so hold.The dispute that remains becomes a narrow one. Aresome attachments by wireless telecommunications providers--those, presumably, which are composed of distinctivelywireless equipment--excluded from the coverage of the Act?Again, the dispositive text requires the FCC to "regulate therates, terms, and conditions for pole attachments," $ 224(b)(1994 ed.), and defines these to include "any attachment bya . . . provider of telecommunications service," $ 224(a)(4)(1994 ed., Supp. V). "Telecommunications service," in turn,is defined as the offering of telecommunications to the publicfor a fee, "regardless of the facilities used," $ 153(46). A provider of wireless telecommunications service is a "providerof telecommunications service," so its attachment is a "poleattachment."Once more, respondents seek refuge in other parts ofthe statute. A "utility" is defined as an entity "who ownsor controls poles, ducts, conduits, or rights-of-way used, inwhole or in part, for any wire communications." $ 224(a)(1).The definition, though, concerns only whose poles are covered, not which attachments are covered. Likewise, therate formula is based upon the poles' "usable space," whichis defined as "the space above the minimum grade levelwhich can be used for the attachment of wires, cables, andassociated equipment," $ 224(d)(2) (1994 ed.). This definition, too, does not purport to limit which pole attachmentsare covered.In short, nothing in $ 224(a)(1) or $ 224(d)(2) limits$ 224(a)(4) or $ 224(b). Even if they did, moreover, respondents still would need to confront the provision for "associ534US2 Unit: $U18 [04-11-03 19:51:05] PAGES PGT: OPIN341Cite as: 534 U. S. 327 (2002)Opinion of the Courtated equipment." As noted above, respondents themselvesconcede that attachments of wires by wireless providers oftelecommunications service are covered by the Act. Seesupra, at 339-340. It follows, in our view, that "associatedequipment" which is indistinguishable from the "associatedequipment" of wire-based telecommunications providerswould also be covered. Respondents must demand a dis-tinction between prototypical wire-based "associated equipment" and the wireless "associated equipment" to which theyobject. The distinction, they contend, is required by theeconomic rationale of the Act. The very reason for the Actis that--as to wires--utility poles constitute a bottleneckfacility, for which utilities could otherwise charge monopolyrents. Poles, they say, are not a bottleneck facility for thesiting of at least some, distinctively wireless equipment, likeantennas. These can be located anywhere sufficiently high.The economic analysis may be correct as far as it goes.Yet the proposed distinction--between prototypical wirebased "associated equipment" and the wireless "associatedequipment" which allegedly falls outside of the rationaleof the Act--finds no support in the text, and, based on ourpresent understanding of the record before us, appearsquite difficult to draw. Congress may have decided that thedifficulties of drawing such a distinction would burden theorderly administration of the Act. In any event, the FCCwas not unreasonable in declining to draw this distinction;and if the text were ambiguous, we would defer to its judg-ment on this technical question.IVRespondents insist that "any attachment" cannot mean"any attachment." Surely, they say, the Act cannot coverbillboards, or clotheslines, or anything else that a cabletelevision system or provider of telecommunications serviceshould fancy attaching to a pole. Since the literal readingis absurd, they contend, there must be a limiting principle.534US2 Unit: $U18 [04-11-03 19:51:05] PAGES PGT: OPIN342 NATIONAL CABLE & TELECOMMUNICATIONS ASSN.,INC. v. GULF POWER CO.Appendix to opinion of the CourtThe FCC did not purport either to enunciate or to disclaima specific limiting principle, presumably because, in its view,the attachments at issue here did not test the margins ofthe Act. The term "any attachment by a cable televisionsystem" covers at least those attachments which do in factprovide cable television service, and "any attachment bya . . . provider of telecommunications service" covers at leastthose which in fact provide telecommunications. Attachments of other sorts may be examined by the agency in thefirst instance.The attachments at issue in this suit--ones which providecommingled cable and Internet service and ones which provide wireless telecommunications--fall within the heartlandof the Act. The agency's decision, therefore, to assert jurisdiction over these attachments is reasonable and entitled toour deference. The judgment of the Court of Appeals forthe Eleventh Circuit is reversed, and the cases are remandedfor further proceedings consistent with this opinion.