For the second time this Term, we consider a constitu-tional challenge to the former Texas capital sentencing system. Like the condemned prisoner in Graham v. Collins,506 U. S. 461 (1993), the petitioner here claims that the Texasspecial issues system in effect until 1991 did not allow hisjury to give adequate mitigating effect to evidence of hisyouth. Graham was a federal habeas corpus proceedingwhere the petitioner had to confront the rule of Teague v.Lane, 489 U. S. 288 (1989), barring the application of newrules of law on federal habeas corpus. In part because therelief sought by Graham would have required a new rulewithin the meaning ofTeague, we denied relief. The instantcase comes to us on direct review of petitioner's convictionand sentence, so we consider it without the constraints ofTeague, though of course with the customary respect for the*Kent S. Scheidegger filed a brief for the Criminal Justice Legal Foundation as amicus curiae urging affirmance.509us2108K 05-04-97 17:51:50 PAGES OPINPGT353Cite as: 509 U. S. 350 (1993)Opinion of the Courtdoctrine of stare decisis. Based upon our precedents, in-cluding much of the reasoning in Graham, we find the Texasprocedures as applied in this case were consistent with theEighth and Fourteenth Amendments.IPetitioner, then 19 years of age, and his companion,Amanda Miles, decided to rob Allsup's convenience store inSnyder, Texas, on March 23, 1986. After agreeing thatthere should be no witnesses to the crime, the pair went tothe store to survey its layout and, in particular, to determinethe number of employees working in the store that evening.They found that the only employee present during the pre-dawn hours was a clerk, Jack Huddleston. Petitioner andMiles left the store to make their final plans.They returned to Allsup's a short time later. Petitioner,a handgun in his pocket, reentered the store with Miles.After waiting for other customers to leave, petitioner askedHuddleston whether the store had any orange juice in onegallon plastic jugs because there were none on the shelves.Saying he would check, Huddleston went to the store'scooler. Petitioner followed Huddleston there, told Huddleston the store was being robbed, and ordered him to lie onthe floor. After Huddleston complied with the order andplaced his hands behind his head, petitioner shot him in theback of the neck, killing him. When petitioner emergedfrom the cooler, Miles had emptied the cash registers ofabout $160. They each grabbed a carton of cigarettes andfled.In April 1986, a few weeks after this crime, petitioner wasarrested for a subsequent robbery and attempted murder ofa store clerk in Colorado City, Texas. He confessed to themurder of Jack Huddleston and the robbery of Allsup's andwas tried and convicted of capital murder. The homicidequalified as a capital offense under Texas law because peti-tioner intentionally or knowingly caused Huddleston's death509us2108K 05-04-97 17:51:50 PAGES OPINPGT354 JOHNSON v. TEXASOpinion of the Courtand the murder was carried out in the course of committinga robbery. Tex. Penal Code Ann. $$ 19.02(a)(1), 19.03(a)(2)(1989).After the jury determined that petitioner was guilty ofcapital murder, a separate punishment phase of the proceedings was conducted in which petitioner's sentence was determined. In conformity with the Texas capital sentencingstatute then in effect, see Tex. Code Crim. Proc. Ann., Art.37.071(b) (Vernon 1981),1 the trial court instructed the jurythat it was to answer two special issues:"[(1)] Was the conduct of the Defendant, Dorsie LeeJohnson, Jr., that caused the death of the deceased, committed deliberately and with the reasonable expectationthat the death of the deceased or another would result?. . . . ."[(2)] Is there a probability that the Defendant, DorsieLee Johnson, Jr., would commit criminal acts of violencethat would constitute a continuing threat to society?" 2App. 148-149.The trial court made clear to the jury the consequences ofits answers to the special issues:"You are further instructed that if the jury returnsaffirmative or `yes' answer [sic] to all the Issues submitted, this Court shall sentence the Defendant to death.If the jury returns a negative or `no' answer to any Issuesubmitted, the Court shall sentence the Defendant tolife in prison." Id., at 146.1 The Texas Legislature amended the statute in 1991. See Art.37.071(2) (Vernon Supp. 1992-1993).2 The statute also required that a third special issue, asking whether thedefendant's act was "unreasonable in response to the provocation, if any,by the deceased," be submitted to the jury "if raised by the evidence."Art. 37.071(b)(3) (Vernon 1981). Petitioner does not contest the trialcourt's decision not to submit the third special issue in this case.509us2108K 05-04-97 17:51:50 PAGES OPINPGT355Cite as: 509 U. S. 350 (1993)Opinion of the CourtThe jury was instructed not to consider or discuss the possi-bility of parole.Id., at 147. The trial court also instructedthe jury as follows concerning its consideration of mitigat-ing evidence:"In determining each of these Issues, you may takeinto consideration all the evidence submitted to you inthe trial of this case, whether aggravating or mitigatingin nature, that is, all the evidence in the first part of thetrial when you were called upon to determine the guiltor innocence of the Defendant and all the evidence, ifany, in the second part of the trial wherein you arecalled upon to determine the answers to the SpecialIssues."Ibid.Although petitioner's counsel filed various objections to thejury charge, there was no request that a more expansiveinstruction be given concerning any particular mitigatingcircumstance, including petitioner's youth.In anticipation of the trial court's instructions, the Stateduring the punishment phase of the proceedings presentednumerous witnesses who testified to petitioner's violenttendencies. The most serious evidence related to the Aprilconvenience store robbery in Colorado City. Witnesses tes-tified that petitioner had shot that store clerk in the face,resulting in the victim's permanent disfigurement and braindamage. Other witnesses testified that petitioner had firedtwo shots at a man outside a restaurant in Snyder only sixdays after the murder of Huddleston, and a sheriff 's deputywho worked in the jail where petitioner was being held testified that petitioner had threatened to "get" the deputy whenhe got out of jail.Petitioner's acts of violence were not limited to strangers.A longtime friend of petitioner, Beverly Johnson, testifiedthat in early 1986 petitioner had hit her, thrown a large rockat her head, and pointed a gun at her on several occasions.Petitioner's girlfriend, Paula Williams, reported that, after509us2108K 05-04-97 17:51:50 PAGES OPINPGT356 JOHNSON v. TEXASOpinion of the Courtpetitioner had become angry with her one afternoon in 1986,he threatened her with an axe. There were other incidents,of less gravity, before 1986. One of petitioner's classmatestestified that petitioner cut him with a piece of glass whilethey were in the seventh grade. Another classmate testifiedthat petitioner also cut him with glass just a year later, andthere was additional evidence presented that petitioner hadstabbed a third classmate with a pencil.The State established that the crimes committed in 1986were not petitioner's first experience with the criminal justice system. Petitioner had been convicted in 1985 of a storeburglary in Waco, Texas. Petitioner twice violated theterms of probation for that offense by smoking marijuana.Petitioner was still on probation when he committed theHuddleston murder.The defense presented petitioner's father, Dorsie Johnson,Sr., as its only witness. The elder Johnson attributed hisson's criminal activities to his drug use and his youth.When asked by defense counsel whether his son at the age of19 was "a real mature person," petitioner's father answered:"No, no. Age of nineteen? No, sir. That, also, I findto be a foolish age. That's a foolish age. They tend towant to be macho, built-up, trying to step into manhood.You're not mature-lized for it."Id., at 27.At the close of his testimony, Johnson summarized the rolethat he thought youth had played in his son's crime:"[A]ll I can say is I still think that a kid eighteen ornineteen years old has an undeveloped mind, undeveloped sense of assembling not--I don't say what is rightor wrong, but the evaluation of it, how much, you know,that might be--well, he just don't--he just don't evalu-ate what is worth--what's worth and what's isn't like heshould like a thirty or thirty-five year old man would.He would take under consideration a lot of things that ayounger person that age wouldn't." Id., at 47.509us2108K 05-04-97 17:51:50 PAGES OPINPGT357Cite as: 509 U. S. 350 (1993)Opinion of the CourtThe father also testified that his son had been a regularchurchgoer and his problems were attributable in large partto the death of his mother following a stroke in 1984 andthe murder of his sister in 1985. Finally, the senior Johnsontestified to his son's remorse over the killing of Huddleston.At the voir dire phase of the proceedings, during whichmore than 90 prospective jurors were questioned over thecourse of 15 days, petitioner's counsel asked the venirepersons whether they believed that people were capable ofchange and whether the venirepersons had ever done thingsas youths that they would not do now. See, e. g., Tr. of VoirDire in No. 5575 (132d Jud. Dist. Ct., Scurry County, Tex.),pp. 1526-1529 (Juror Swigert); id., at 1691-1692 (Juror Free-man); id., at 2366 (Juror Witte); id., at 2630-2632 (JurorRaborn).3 Petitioner's counsel returned to this theme in hisclosing argument:"The question--the real question, I think, is whetheryou believe that there is a possibility that he can change.You will remember that that was one thing every one ofyou told me you agreed--every one of you agreed withme that people can change. If you agree that peoplecan change, then that means that Dorsie can change andthat takes question two [regarding future dangerous-ness] out of the realm of probability and into possibility,3 The colloquy on this point between petitioner's counsel and Juror Raborn is illustrative of the discussions had with the other jurors:"Q. Okay. Do you feel that--let me ask you this. Do you feel a personwho is--or a young person will do things that they will not do in lateryears, thirty or forty--"A. I believe that."Q. Do you believe that people can change?"A. Yes, I believe they can. I've known some that have."Q. Do you think that the way a person acts in the present or the pastor how he has acted in the past is an absolute indicator of what he will doin the future, thirty or forty years down the road?"A. No, not on down the line. Like I say, you can change." Tr. of VoirDire, at 2630-2631.509us2108K 05-04-97 17:51:50 PAGES OPINPGT358 JOHNSON v. TEXASOpinion of the Courtyou see, because if he can change, then it is no longerprobable that he will do these things, but only possiblethat he can and will do these things, you see."If people couldn't change, if you could say I knowpeople cannot change, then you could say probably. Butevery one of you knows in your heart and in your mindthat people can and people do change and Dorsie John-son can change and, therefore, the answer to questiontwo should be no." App. 81.Counsel also urged the jury to remember the testimony ofpetitioner's father. Id., at 73-74.The jury was instructed that the State bore the burden ofproving each special issue beyond a reasonable doubt. Id.,at 145. A unanimous jury found that the answer to bothspecial issues was yes, and the trial court sentenced petitioner to death, as required by law. Tex. Code Crim. Proc.Ann., Art. 37.071(e) (Vernon 1981).On appeal, the Texas Court of Criminal Appeals affirmedthe conviction and sentence after rejecting petitioner's sevenallegations of error, none of which involved a challenge tothe punishment-phase jury instructions. 773 S. W. 2d 322(1989). Five days after that state court ruling, we issuedour opinion inPenry v. Lynaugh, 492 U. S. 302 (1989). Peti-tioner filed a motion for rehearing in the Texas Court ofCriminal Appeals arguing, among other points, that the spe-cial issues did not allow for adequate consideration of hisyouth. Citing Penry, petitioner claimed that a separate in-struction should have been given that would have allowedthe jury to consider petitioner's age as a mitigating factor.Although petitioner had not requested such an instruction attrial and had not argued the point prior to the rehearingstage on appeal, no procedural bar was interposed. Instead,the Court of Criminal Appeals considered the argument onthe merits and rejected it. After noting that it had alreadyindicated in Lackey v. State, 819 S. W. 2d 111, 134 (Tex. Crim.App. 1989), that youth was relevant to the jury's consider509us2108K 05-04-97 17:51:50 PAGES OPINPGT359Cite as: 509 U. S. 350 (1993)Opinion of the Courtation of the second special issue, the court reasoned that "[i]fa juror believed that [petitioner's] violent actions were a result of his youth, that same juror would naturally believethat [petitioner] would cease to behave violently as he grewolder." App. 180. The court concluded that "the jury wasable to express a reasoned moral response to [petitioner's]mitigating evidence within the scope of the art. 37.071 instructions given to them by the trial court." Id., at 180-181.Petitioner filed a petition for certiorari, which we granted.506 U. S. 1090 (1993).IIAThis is the latest in a series of decisions in which the Courthas explained the requirements imposed by the Eighth andFourteenth Amendments regarding consideration of mitigating circumstances by sentencers in capital cases. The earliest case in the decisional line is Furman v. Georgia, 408 U. S.238 (1972). At the time of Furman, sentencing juries hadalmost complete discretion in determining whether a givendefendant would be sentenced to death, resulting in a systemin which there was "no meaningful basis for distinguishingthe few cases in which [death was] imposed from the manycases in which it [was] not." Id., at 313 (White, J., concurring). Although no two Justices could agree on a single rationale, a majority of the Court in Furman concluded thatthis system was "cruel and unusual" within the meaningof the Eighth Amendment. The guiding principle thatemerged from Furman was that States were required tochannel the discretion of sentencing juries in order to avoida system in which the death penalty would be imposed ina "wanto[n]" and "freakis[h]" manner. Id., at 310 (Stewart,J., concurring).Four Terms after Furman, we decided five cases, in opinions issued on the same day, concerning the constitutionalityof various capital sentencing systems. Gregg v. Georgia,509us2108K 05-04-97 17:51:50 PAGES OPINPGT360 JOHNSON v. TEXASOpinion of the Court428 U. S. 153 (1976); Proffitt v. Florida, 428 U. S. 242 (1976);Jurek v. Texas, 428 U. S. 262 (1976); Woodson v. North Carolina, 428 U. S. 280 (1976); Roberts v. Louisiana, 428 U. S.325 (1976). In the wake of Furman, at least 35 States hadabandoned sentencing schemes that vested complete discretion in juries in favor of systems that either (i) "specif[ied]the factors to be weighed and the procedures to be followedin deciding when to impose a capital sentence," or (ii)"ma[de] the death penalty mandatory for certain crimes."Gregg, supra, at 179-180 (opinion of Stewart, Powell, andStevens, JJ.). In the five cases, the controlling joint opinion of three Justices reaffirmed the principle of Furman that"discretion must be suitably directed and limited so as tominimize the risk of wholly arbitrary and capricious action."428 U. S., at 189; accord, Proffitt, supra, at 258 (opinion ofStewart, Powell, and Stevens, JJ.).Based upon this principle, it might have been thought thatstatutes mandating imposition of the death penalty if a defendant was found guilty of certain crimes would be consistent with the Constitution. But the joint opinions of JusticesStewart, Powell, and Stevens indicated that there was asecond principle, in some tension with the first, to be considered in assessing the constitutionality of a capital sentencingscheme. According to the three Justices, "consideration ofthe character and record of the individual offender and thecircumstances of the particular offense [is] a constitutionallyindispensable part of the process of inflicting the penalty ofdeath." Woodson, supra, at 304 (plurality opinion); accord,Gregg, supra, at 189-190, n. 38 (opinion of Stewart, Powell,and Stevens, JJ.); Jurek, supra, at 273-274 (opinion of Stewart, Powell, and Stevens, JJ.); Roberts, supra, at 333 (plurality opinion of Stewart, Powell, and Stevens, JJ.). Basedupon this second principle, the Court struck down mandatoryimposition of the death penalty for specified crimes as inconsistent with the requirements of the Eighth and Fourteenth509us2108K 05-04-97 17:51:50 PAGES OPINPGT361Cite as: 509 U. S. 350 (1993)Opinion of the CourtAmendments. See Woodson, supra, at 305; Roberts, supra,at 335-336.Two Terms later, a plurality of the Court in Lockett v.Ohio, 438 U. S. 586 (1978), refined the requirements relatedto the consideration of mitigating evidence by a capitalsentencer. Unlike the mandatory schemes struck down inWoodson and Roberts in which all mitigating evidence wasexcluded, the Ohio system at issue in Lockett permitted alimited range of mitigating circumstances to be consideredby the sentencer.4 The plurality nonetheless found thissystem to be unconstitutional, holding that "the Eighth andFourteenth Amendments require that the sentencer . . . notbe precluded from considering, as a mitigating factor, anyaspect of a defendant's character or record and any of thecircumstances of the offense that the defendant proffers as abasis for a sentence less than death." 438 U. S., at 604. Amajority of the Court adopted the Lockett rule in Eddingsv. Oklahoma, 455 U. S. 104 (1982); accord, Hitchcock v. Dugger, 481 U. S. 393, 398-399 (1987); Skipper v. South Carolina,476 U. S. 1, 4 (1986), and we have not altered the rule's central requirement. "Lockett and its progeny stand only forthe proposition that a State may not cut off in an absolutemanner the presentation of mitigating evidence, either bystatute or judicial instruction, or by limiting the inquiries towhich it is relevant so severely that the evidence could neverbe part of the sentencing decision at all." McKoy v. NorthCarolina, 494 U. S. 433, 456 (1990) (Kennedy, J., concurring4 Once an Ohio defendant was found guilty of aggravated murder involving at least one of seven aggravating circumstances, the judge was required to sentence the defendant to death unless at least one of threemitigating circumstances was present: (1) the victim induced or facilitatedthe offense; (2) it is unlikely the crime would have been committed but forthe fact that the defendant was acting under duress, coercion, or strongprovocation; or (3) the offense was primarily the product of the defendant'spsychosis or mental deficiency. See Lockett, 438 U. S., at 607-608.509us2108K 05-04-97 17:51:50 PAGES OPINPGT362 JOHNSON v. TEXASOpinion of the Courtin judgment); see also Graham, 506 U. S., at 475; Saffle v.Parks, 494 U. S. 484, 490-491 (1990).Although Lockett and Eddings prevent a State from plac-ing relevant mitigating evidence "beyond the effective reachof the sentencer," Graham, supra, at 475, those cases andothers in that decisional line do not bar a State from guidingthe sentencer's consideration of mitigating evidence. In-deed, we have held that "there is no . . . constitutional requirement of unfettered sentencing discretion in the jury,and States are free to structure and shape consideration ofmitigating evidence `in an effort to achieve a more rationaland equitable administration of the death penalty,' "Boydev.California, 494 U. S. 370, 377 (1990) (quoting Franklin v.Lynaugh, 487 U. S. 164, 181 (1988) (plurality opinion)); seealso Saffle, supra, at 490. BThe Texas law under which petitioner was sentenced hasbeen the principal concern of four previous opinions in ourCourt. See Jurek v. Texas, supra; Franklin v. Lynaugh,supra; Penry v. Lynaugh, 492 U. S. 302 (1989); Graham,supra. As we have mentioned, Jurek was included in thegroup of five cases addressing the post-Furman statutes in1976.InJurek, the joint opinion of Justices Stewart, Powell, andStevens first noted that there was no constitutional defi-ciency in the means used to narrow the group of offenderssubject to capital punishment, the statute having adoptedfive different classifications of murder for that purpose. SeeJurek, 428 U. S., at 270-271. Turning to the mitigation sideof the sentencing system, the three Justices said: "[T]he constitutionality of the Texas procedures turns on whether theenumerated [special issues] allow consideration of particularized mitigating factors." Id., at 272. In assessing the con-stitutionality of the mitigation side of this scheme, the threeJustices examined in detail only the second special issue,which asks whether " `there is a probability that the defend509us2108K 05-04-97 17:51:50 PAGES OPINPGT363Cite as: 509 U. S. 350 (1993)Opinion of the Courtant would commit criminal acts of violence that would consti-tute a continuing threat to society.' " Although the statutedid not define these terms, the joint opinion noted that theTexas Court of Criminal Appeals had indicated that it wouldinterpret the question in a manner that allowed the defendant to bring all relevant mitigating evidence to the jury'sattention:" `In determining the likelihood that the defendantwould be a continuing threat to society, the jury couldconsider whether the defendant had a significant criminal record. It could consider the range and severity ofhis prior criminal conduct. It could further look to theage of the defendant and whether or not at the time ofthe commission of the offense he was acting under du-ress or under the domination of another. It could alsoconsider whether the defendant was under an extremeform of mental or emotional pressure, something less,perhaps, than insanity, but more than the emotions ofthe average man, however inflamed, could withstand.'[Jurek v. State,] 522 S. W. 2d [934], 939-940 [(Tex. Crim.App. 1975)]." Id., at 272-273.The joint opinion determined that the Texas system satisfiedthe requirements of the Eighth and Fourteenth Amendmentsconcerning the consideration of mitigating evidence: "Byauthorizing the defense to bring before the jury at the sepa-rate sentencing hearing whatever mitigating circumstancesrelating to the individual defendant can be adduced, Texashas ensured that the sentencing jury will have adequateguidance to enable it to perform its sentencing function."Id., at 276. Three other Justices agreed that the Texassystem satisfied constitutional requirements. See id., at277 (White, J., concurring in judgment).We next considered a constitutional challenge involvingthe Texas special issues in Franklin v. Lynaugh, supra.Although the defendant in that case recognized that we had509us2108K 05-04-97 17:51:50 PAGES OPINPGT364 JOHNSON v. TEXASOpinion of the Courtupheld the constitutionality of the Texas system as a generalmatter inJurek, he claimed that the special issues did notallow the jury to give adequate weight to his mitigating evi-dence concerning his good prison disciplinary record and thatthe jury, therefore, should have been instructed that it couldconsider this mitigating evidence independent of the specialissues. 487 U. S., at 171-172. A plurality of the Court rejected the defendant's claim, holding that the second specialissue provided an adequate vehicle for consideration of thedefendant's prison record as it bore on his character. Id.,at 178. The plurality also noted thatJurek foreclosed thedefendant's argument that the jury was still entitled to castan "independent" vote against the death penalty even if itanswered yes to the special issues. 487 U. S., at 180. Theplurality concluded that, with its special issues system, Texashad guided the jury's consideration of mitigating evidencewhile still providing for sufficient jury discretion. See id.,at 182. Although Justice O'Connor expressed reservations about the Texas scheme for other cases, she agreed thatthe special issues had not inhibited the jury's considerationof the defendant's mitigating evidence in that case. See id.,at 183-186 (opinion concurring in judgment).The third case in which we considered the Texas statuteis the pivotal one from petitioner's point of view, for therewe set aside a capital sentence because the Texas specialissues did not allow for sufficient consideration of the defendant's mitigating evidence. Penry v. Lynaugh, supra. InPenry, the condemned prisoner had presented mitigating evidence of his mental retardation and childhood abuse. Weagreed that the jury instructions were too limited for theappropriate consideration of this mitigating evidence in lightof Penry's particular circumstances. We noted that "[t]hejury was never instructed that it could consider the evidenceoffered by Penry as mitigating evidence and that it couldgive mitigating effect to that evidence in imposing sentence."492 U. S., at 320. Absent any definition for the term "delib509us2108K 05-04-97 17:51:50 PAGES OPINPGT365Cite as: 509 U. S. 350 (1993)Opinion of the Courterately," we could not "be sure that the jury was able to giveeffect to the mitigating evidence . . . in answering the firstspecial issue," id., at 323, so we turned to the second specialissue, future dangerousness. The evidence in the case suggested that Penry's mental retardation rendered him unableto learn from his mistakes. As a consequence, we decidedthe mitigating evidence was relevant to the second specialissue "only as an aggravating factor because it suggestsa `yes' answer to the question of future dangerousness."Ibid. The Court concluded that the trial court had erred innot instructing the jury that it could "consider and give effect to the mitigating evidence of Penry's mental retardationand abused background by declining to impose the deathpenalty." Id., at 328. The Court was most explicit in rejecting the dissent's concern that Penry was seeking a newrule, in contravention of Teague v. Lane, 489 U. S. 288(1989). Indeed, the Court characterized its holding in Penryas a straightforward application of our earlier rulings inJurek, Lockett, and Eddings, making it clear that thesecases can stand together with Penry. See Penry, 492 U. S.,at 314-318.We confirmed this limited view of Penry and its scope inGraham v. Collins. There we confronted a claim by a defendant that the Texas system had not allowed for adequateconsideration of mitigating evidence concerning his youth,family background, and positive character traits. In rejecting the contention that Penry dictated a ruling in the defendant's favor, we stated that Penry did not "effec[t] a seachange in this Court's view of the constitutionality of theformer Texas death penalty statute," 506 U. S., at 474, andwe noted that a contrary view of Penry would be inconsistent with the Penry Court's conclusion that it was not creating a "new rule," 506 U. S., at 474. We also did not acceptthe view that the Lockett and Eddings line of cases, uponwhich Penry rested, compelled a holding for the defendantin Graham:509us2108K 05-04-97 17:51:50 PAGES OPINPGT366 JOHNSON v. TEXASOpinion of the Court"In those cases, the constitutional defect lay in the factthat relevant mitigating evidence was placed beyond theeffective reach of the sentencer. In Lockett, Eddings,Skipper, and Hitchcock, the sentencer was precludedfrom even considering certain types of mitigating evi-dence. InPenry, the defendant's evidence was placedbefore the sentencer but the sentencer had no reliablemeans of giving mitigating effect to that evidence. Inthis case, however, Graham's mitigating evidence wasnot placed beyond the jury's effective reach." Graham,506 U. S., at 475.In addition, we held that Graham's case differed from Penryin that "Graham's evidence--unlike Penry's--had mitigatingrelevance to the second special issue concerning his likelyfuture dangerousness." 506 U. S., at 475. We concludedthat, even with the benefit of the subsequent Penry decision,reasonable jurists at the time of Graham's sentencing "would[not] have deemed themselves compelled to accept Graham'sclaim." 506 U. S., at 477. Thus, we held that a ruling infavor of Graham would have required the impermissibleapplication of a new rule underTeague. 506 U. S., at 477.IIIToday we are asked to take the step that would have beena new rule had we taken it inGraham. Like Graham, peti-tioner contends that the Texas sentencing system did notallow the jury to give adequate mitigating effect to the evi-dence of his youth. Unlike Graham, petitioner comes hereon direct review, so Teague presents no bar to the rule heseeks. The force ofstare decisis, though, which rests onconsiderations parallel in many respects to Teague, is applicable here. The interests of the State of Texas, and of thevictims whose rights it must vindicate, ought not to beturned aside when the State relies upon an interpretationof the Eighth Amendment approved by this Court, absentdemonstration that our earlier cases were themselves a mis509us2108K 05-04-97 17:51:50 PAGES OPINPGT367Cite as: 509 U. S. 350 (1993)Opinion of the Courtinterpretation of some constitutional command. See, e. g.,Vasquez v. Hillery, 474 U. S. 254, 265-266 (1986); Arizona v.Rumsey, 467 U. S. 203, 212 (1984).There is no dispute that a defendant's youth is a relevantmitigating circumstance that must be within the effectivereach of a capital sentencing jury if a death sentence is tomeet the requirements ofLockett and Eddings. See, e. g.,Sumner v. Shuman, 483 U. S. 66, 81-82 (1987); Eddings, 455U. S., at 115;Lockett, 438 U. S., at 608 (plurality opinion).Our cases recognize that "youth is more than a chronologicalfact. It is a time and condition of life when a person may bemost susceptible to influence and to psychological damage."Eddings, supra, at 115. A lack of maturity and an underdeveloped sense of responsibility are found in youth more oftenthan in adults and are more understandable among theyoung. These qualities often result in impetuous and illconsidered actions and decisions. A sentencer in a capitalcase must be allowed to consider the mitigating qualities ofyouth in the course of its deliberations over the appropriatesentence.The question presented here is whether the Texas specialissues allowed adequate consideration of petitioner's youth.An argument that youth can never be given proper mitigating force under the Texas scheme is inconsistent with ourholdings in Jurek, Graham, and Penry itself. The standardagainst which we assess whether jury instructions satisfythe rule of Lockett and Eddings was set forth in Boydev. California, 494 U. S. 370 (1990). There we held that areviewing court must determine "whether there is a reasonable likelihood that the jury has applied the challengedinstruction in a way that prevents the consideration ofconstitutionally relevant evidence." Id., at 380. Althoughthe reasonable likelihood standard does not require that thedefendant prove that it was more likely than not that thejury was prevented from giving effect to the evidence, thestandard requires more than a mere possibility of such a bar.509us2108K 05-04-97 17:51:50 PAGES OPINPGT368 JOHNSON v. TEXASOpinion of the CourtIbid. In evaluating the instructions, we do not engage in atechnical parsing of this language of the instructions, butinstead approach the instructions in the same way that thejury would--with a "commonsense understanding of the instructions in the light of all that has taken place at the trial."Id., at 381.We decide that there is no reasonable likelihood that thejury would have found itself foreclosed from considering therelevant aspects of petitioner's youth. Pursuant to the second special issue, the jury was instructed to decide whetherthere was "a probability that [petitioner] would commit criminal acts of violence that would constitute a continuing threatto society." App. 149. The jury also was told that, in answering the special issues, it could consider all the mitigatingevidence that had been presented during the guilt and punishment phases of petitioner's trial. Id., at 147. Even ona cold record, one cannot be unmoved by the testimony ofpetitioner's father urging that his son's actions were due inlarge part to his youth. It strains credulity to suppose thatthe jury would have viewed the evidence of petitioner'syouth as outside its effective reach in answering the secondspecial issue. The relevance of youth as a mitigating factorderives from the fact that the signature qualities of youthare transient; as individuals mature, the impetuousness andrecklessness that may dominate in younger years can subside. We believe that there is ample room in the assessmentof future dangerousness for a juror to take account of thedifficulties of youth as a mitigating force in the sentencingdetermination. As we recognized in Graham, the fact thata juror might view the evidence of youth as aggravating, asopposed to mitigating, does not mean that the rule of Lockettis violated. Graham, 506 U. S., at 475-476. As long as themitigating evidence is within "the effective reach of thesentencer," the requirements of the Eighth Amendment aresatisfied. Ibid.509us2108K 05-04-97 17:51:50 PAGES OPINPGT369Cite as: 509 U. S. 350 (1993)Opinion of the CourtThat the jury had a meaningful basis to consider the rele-vant mitigating qualities of petitioner's youth is what distinguishes this case from Penry. In Penry, there was expertmedical testimony that the defendant was mentally retardedand that his condition prevented him from learning from experience. 492 U. S., at 308-309. Although the evidence ofthe mental illness fell short of providing Penry a defense toprosecution for his crimes, the Court held that the secondspecial issue did not allow the jury to give mitigating effectto this evidence. Penry's condition left him unable to learnfrom his mistakes, and the Court reasoned that the only logical manner in which the evidence of his mental retardationcould be considered within the future dangerousness inquirywas as an aggravating factor. Id., at 323. Penry remainsthe law and must be given a fair reading. The evidence ofpetitioner's youth, however, falls outside Penry's ambit.Unlike Penry's mental retardation, which rendered him unable to learn from his mistakes, the ill effects of youth thata defendant may experience are subject to change and, as aresult, are readily comprehended as a mitigating factor inconsideration of the second special issue.Petitioner does not contest that the evidence of youthcould be given some effect under the second special issue.Instead, petitioner argues that the forward-looking perspective of the future dangerousness inquiry did not allow thejury to take account of how petitioner's youth bore upon hispersonal culpability for the murder he committed. According to petitioner, "[a] prediction of future behavior is not thesame thing as an assessment of moral culpability for a crimealready committed." Brief for Petitioner 38. Contrary topetitioner's suggestion, however, this forward-looking inquiry is not independent of an assessment of personal culpability. It is both logical and fair for the jury to make itsdetermination of a defendant's future dangerousness by asking the extent to which youth influenced the defendant's conduct. See Skipper, 476 U. S., at 5 ("Consideration of a de509us2108K 05-04-97 17:51:50 PAGES OPINPGT370 JOHNSON v. TEXASOpinion of the Courtfendant's past conduct as indicative of his probable futurebehavior is an inevitable and not undesirable element ofcriminal sentencing"). If any jurors believed that the tran-sient qualities of petitioner's youth made him less culpablefor the murder, there is no reasonable likelihood that thosejurors would have deemed themselves foreclosed from con-sidering that in evaluating petitioner's future dangerousness.It is true that Texas has structured consideration of the rele-vant qualities of petitioner's youth, but in so doing, the Statestill "allow[s] the jury to give effect to [this] mitigating evi-dence in making the sentencing decision."Saffle, 494 U. S.,at 491. Although Texas might have provided other vehiclesfor consideration of petitioner's youth, no additional instruction beyond that given as to future dangerousness was required in order for the jury to be able to consider the mitigating qualities of youth presented to it.In a related argument, petitioner, quoting a portion of ourdecision in Penry, supra, at 328, claims that the jurors werenot able to make a "reasoned moral response" to the evidenceof petitioner's youth because the second special issue calledfor a narrow factual inquiry into future dangerousness. We,however, have previously interpreted the Texas specialissues system as requiring jurors to "exercise a range ofjudgment and discretion." Adams v. Texas, 448 U. S. 38, 46(1980). This view accords with a "commonsense understanding" of how the jurors were likely to view their instructions and to implement the charge that they were entitledto consider all mitigating evidence from both the trial andsentencing phases. Boyde, 494 U. S., at 381. The crucialterm employed in the second special issue--"continuingthreat to society"--affords the jury room for independentjudgment in reaching its decision. Indeed, we cannot forgetthat "a Texas capital jury deliberating over the Special Issues is aware of the consequences of its answers, and is likelyto weigh mitigating evidence as it formulates these answersin a manner similar to that employed by capital juries in509us2108K 05-04-97 17:51:50 PAGES OPINPGT371Cite as: 509 U. S. 350 (1993)Opinion of the Court`pure balancing' States." Franklin, 487 U. S., at 182, n. 12(plurality opinion). InBlystone v. Pennsylvania, 494 U. S.299 (1990), four Members of the Court in dissent used theTexas statute as an example of a capital sentencing systemthat permitted the exercise of judgment. That opinionstated:"[The two special issues] require the jury to do morethan find facts supporting a legislatively defined aggravating circumstance. Instead, by focusing on the delib-erateness of the defendant's actions and his future dangerousness, the questions compel the jury to make amoral judgment about the severity of the crime and thedefendant's culpability. The Texas statute directs theimposition of the death penalty only after the jury hasdecided that the defendant's actions were sufficientlyegregious to warrant death." Id., at 322 (Brennan, J.,dissenting).The Texas Court of Criminal Appeals' view of the futuredangerousness inquiry supports our conclusion that consideration of the second special issue is a comprehensive inquirythat is more than a question of historical fact. In reviewingdeath sentences imposed under the former Texas system,that court has consistently looked to a nonexclusive list ofeight factors, which includes the defendant's age, in decidingwhether there was sufficient evidence to support a yes an-swer to the second special issue. See,e. g., Ellason v. State,815 S. W. 2d 656, 660 (1991); Brasfield v. State, 600 S. W. 2d288 (1980).There might have been a juror who, on the basis solely ofsympathy or mercy, would have opted against the deathpenalty had there been a vehicle to do so under the Texasspecial issues scheme. But we have not construed the Lockett line of cases to mean that a jury must be able to dispensemercy on the basis of a sympathetic response to the defendant. Indeed, we have said that "[i]t would be very difficult509us2108K 05-04-97 17:51:51 PAGES OPINPGT372 JOHNSON v. TEXASOpinion of the Courtto reconcile a rule allowing the fate of a defendant to turnon the vagaries of particular jurors' emotional sensitivitieswith our longstanding recognition that, above all, capitalsentencing must be reliable, accurate, and nonarbitrary."Saffle v. Parks, 494 U. S., at 493; see also California v.Brown, 479 U. S. 538, 542-543 (1987) (permitting an instruc-tion that the jury could not base its sentencing decision onsympathy).For us to find a constitutional defect in petitioner's deathsentence, we would have to alter in significant fashion thisCourt's capital sentencing jurisprudence. The first casualtyof a holding in petitioner's favor would be Jurek. The inevi-table consequence of petitioner's argument is that the Texasspecial issues system in almost every case would have tobe supplemented by a further instruction. As we said inGraham:"[H]olding that a defendant is entitled to special instructions whenever he can offer mitigating evidence that hassome arguable relevance beyond the special issues . . .would be to require in all cases that a fourth `specialissue' be put to the jury: ` "Does any mitigating evidencebefore you, whether or not relevant to the above [three]questions, lead you to believe that the death penaltyshould not be imposed?" ' " 506 U. S., at 476 (quotingFranklin, supra, at 180, n. 10).In addition to overruling Jurek, accepting petitioner's arguments would entail an alteration of the rule of Lockett andEddings. Instead of requiring that a jury be able to consider in some manner all of a defendant's relevant mitigatingevidence, the rule would require that a jury be able to giveeffect to mitigating evidence in every conceivable manner inwhich the evidence might be relevant.The fundamental flaw in petitioner's position is its failureto recognize that "[t]here is a simple and logical differencebetween rules that govern what factors the jury must be509us2108K 05-04-97 17:51:51 PAGES OPINPGT373Cite as: 509 U. S. 350 (1993)Scalia, J., concurringpermitted to consider in making its sentencing decision andrules that govern how the State may guide the jury in considering and weighing those factors in reaching a decision."Saffle, supra, at 490. To rule in petitioner's favor, we wouldhave to require that a jury be instructed in a manner thatleaves it free to depart from the special issues in every case.This would, of course, remove all power on the part of theStates to structure the consideration of mitigating evi-dence--a result we have been consistent in rejecting. See,e. g., Boyde, 494 U. S., at 377; Saffle, supra, at 493; Franklin,supra, at 181 (plurality opinion).The reconciliation of competing principles is the functionof law. Our capital sentencing jurisprudence seeks to reconcile two competing, and valid, principles in Furman, whichare to allow mitigating evidence to be considered and toguide the discretion of the sentencer. Our holding in Jurekreflected the understanding that the Texas sentencingscheme "accommodates both of these concerns." Franklin,supra, at 182 (plurality opinion). The special issues structure in this regard satisfies the Eighth Amendment and ourprecedents that interpret its force. There was no constitutional infirmity in its application here.The judgment of the Texas Court of Criminal Appeals isaffirmed.