The United States Sentencing Commission Guidelines es-tablish ranges of criminal sentences for federal offenses andoffenders. A district court must impose a sentence withinthe applicable Guideline range, if it finds the case to be atypical one. See 18 U. S. C. $ 3553(a). District courts maydepart from the Guideline range in certain circumstances,however, see ibid., and here the District Court departeddownward eight levels. The Court of Appeals for the NinthCircuit rejected the District Court's departure rulings, and,over the published objection of nine of its judges, declinedto rehear the case en banc. In this suit we explore the ap-propriate standards of appellate review of a district court'sdecision to depart from the Guidelines.IAThe petitioners' guilt has been established, and we are con-cerned here only with the sentencing determinations madeby the District Court and Court of Appeals. A sentencingcourt's departure decisions are based on the facts of the case,however, so we must set forth the details of the crime atsome length.On the evening of March 2, 1991, Rodney King and two ofhis friends sat in King's wife's car in Altadena, California, acity in Los Angeles County, and drank malt liquor for a num#Briefs of amici curiae urging reversal were filed for the Law Enforcement Legal Defense Fund by Richard K. Willard and David HendersonMartin in No. 94-1664; for the National Association of Criminal DefenseLawyers by Lawrence S. Goldman in No. 94-1664; and for the NationalAssociation of Police Organizations, Inc., by William J. Johnson andByron L. Warnken in both cases.518us1$71l 05-19-99 16:40:35 PAGES OPINPGT86 KOON v. UNITED STATESOpinion of the Courtber of hours. Then, with King driving, they left Altadenavia a major freeway. King was intoxicated.California Highway Patrol officers observed King's cartraveling at a speed they estimated to be in excess of 100m.p.h. The officers followed King with red lights and sirensactivated and ordered him by loudspeaker to pull over, buthe continued to drive. The Highway Patrol officers calledon the radio for help. Units of the Los Angeles Police De-partment joined in the pursuit, one of them manned by petitioner Laurence Powell and his trainee, Timothy Wind.King left the freeway, and after a chase of about eightmiles, stopped at an entrance to a recreation area. The officers ordered King and his two passengers to exit the carand to assume a felony prone position--that is, to lie on theirstomachs with legs spread and arms behind their backs.King's two friends complied. King, too, got out of the carbut did not lie down. Petitioner Stacey Koon arrived, atonce followed by Ted Briseno and Roland Solano. All wereofficers of the Los Angeles Police Department, and as sergeant, Koon took charge. The officers again ordered Kingto assume the felony prone position. King got on his handsand knees but did not lie down. Officers Powell, Wind, Briseno and Solano tried to force King down, but King resistedand became combative, so the officers retreated. Koon thenfired taser darts (designed to stun a combative suspect)into King.The events that occurred next were captured on videotapeby a bystander. As the videotape begins, it shows that Kingrose from the ground and charged toward Officer Powell.Powell took a step and used his baton to strike King on theside of his head. King fell to the ground. From the 18thto the 30th second on the videotape, King attempted to rise,but Powell and Wind each struck him with their batons toprevent him from doing so. From the 35th to the 51st second, Powell administered repeated blows to King's lower extremities; one of the blows fractured King's leg. At the 55th518us1$71l 05-19-99 16:40:35 PAGES OPINPGT87Cite as: 518 U. S. 81 (1996)Opinion of the Courtsecond, Powell struck King on the chest, and King rolledover and lay prone. At that point, the officers stepped backand observed King for about 10 seconds. Powell began toreach for his handcuffs. (At the sentencing phase, the District Court found that Powell no longer perceived King to bea threat at this point.)At one-minute-five-seconds (1:05) on the videotape, Bri-seno, in the District Court's words, "stomped" on King'supper back or neck. King's body writhed in response. At1:07, Powell and Wind again began to strike King with aseries of baton blows, and Wind kicked him in the upperthoracic or cervical area six times until 1:26. At about 1:29,King put his hands behind his back and was handcuffed.Where the baton blows fell and the intentions of King andthe officers at various points were contested at trial, but, asnoted, petitioners' guilt has been established.Powell radioed for an ambulance. He sent two messagesover a communications network to the other officers that said" `ooops' " and " `I havent [sic] beaten anyone this bad in along time.' " 34 F. 3d 1416, 1425 (CA9 1994). Koon sent amessage to the police station that said: " `U[nit] just had abig time use of force. . . . Tased and beat the suspect of CHPpursuit big time.' " Ibid.King was taken to a hospital where he was treated for afractured leg, multiple facial fractures, and numerous bruisesand contusions. Learning that King worked at Dodger Stadium, Powell said to King: " `We played a little ball tonight,didn't we Rodney? . . . You know, we played a little ball, weplayed a little hardball tonight, we hit quite a few homeruns. . . . Yes, we played a little ball and you lost and wewon.' " Ibid. BKoon, Powell, Briseno, and Wind were tried in state courton charges of assault with a deadly weapon and excessiveuse of force by a police officer. The officers were acquittedof all charges, with the exception of one assault charge518us1$71l 05-19-99 16:40:35 PAGES OPINPGT88 KOON v. UNITED STATESOpinion of the Courtagainst Powell that resulted in a hung jury. The verdictstouched off widespread rioting in Los Angeles. More than40 people were killed in the riots, more than 2,000 were in-jured, and nearly $1 billion in property was destroyed.New Initiatives for a New Los Angeles: Final Report andRecommendations, Senate Special Task Force on a New LosAngeles, Dec. 9, 1992, pp. 10-11.On August 4, 1992, a federal grand jury indicted the fourofficers under 18 U. S. C. $ 242, charging them with violatingKing's constitutional rights under color of law. Powell, Bri-seno, and Wind were charged with willful use of unreasonable force in arresting King. Koon was charged with willfully permitting the other officers to use unreasonable forceduring the arrest. After a trial in United States DistrictCourt for the Central District of California, the jury convicted Koon and Powell but acquitted Wind and Briseno.We now consider the District Court's sentencing determinations. Under the Sentencing Guidelines, a district courtidentifies the base offense level assigned to the crimein question, adjusts the level as the Guidelines instruct,and determines the defendant's criminal history category.United States Sentencing Commission, Guidelines Manual$ 1B1.1 (Nov. 1992) (1992 USSG). Coordinating the adjustedoffense level and criminal history category yields the appropriate sentencing range. Ibid.The District Court sentenced petitioners pursuant to 1992USSG $ 2H1.4, which applies to violations of 18 U. S. C. $ 242.Section 2H1.4 prescribes a base offense level which is thegreater of the following: 10, or 6 plus the offense level applicable to any underlying offense. The District Court foundthe underlying offense was aggravated assault, which carriesa base offense level of 15, 1992 USSG $ 2A2.2(a), to which 6was added for a total of 21.The court increased the offense level by four becausepetitioners had used dangerous weapons, $ 2A2.2(b)(2)(B).The Government asked the court also to add four levels for518us1$71l 05-19-99 16:40:35 PAGES OPINPGT89Cite as: 518 U. S. 81 (1996)Opinion of the CourtKing's serious bodily injury pursuant to $ 2A2.2(b)(3)(B).The court found, however, that King's serious injuries weresustained when the officers were using lawful force. (Attrial, the Government contended that all the blows administered after King fell to the ground 30 seconds into the videotape violated $ 242. The District Court found that many ofthose blows "may have been tortious," but that the criminalviolations did not commence until 1:07 on the videotape, afterBriseno stomped King. 833 F. Supp. 769, 778 (CD Cal.1993).) The court did add two levels for bodily injury pursu-ant to $ 2A2.2(b)(3)(A). The adjusted offense level totaled27, and because neither petitioner had a criminal record, eachfell within criminal history category I. The sentencingrange for an offense level of 27 and a criminal history category I was, under the 1992 Guidelines, 70-to-87 months' imprisonment. Rather than sentencing petitioners to a termwithin the Guideline range, however, the District Courtdeparted downward eight levels. The departure determinations are the subject of this controversy.The court granted a five-level departure because "thevictim's wrongful conduct contributed significantly to provoking the offense behavior," $ 5K2.10, p. s. 833 F. Supp.,at 787. The court also granted a three-level departure,based on a combination of four factors. First, as a result ofthe "widespread publicity and emotional outrage which havesurrounded this case," petitioners were "particularly likelyto be targets of abuse" in prison. Id., at 788. Second, petitioners would face job-termination proceedings, after whichthey would lose their positions as police officers, be disqualified from prospective employment in the field of law enforcement, and suffer the "anguish and disgrace these deprivations entail." Id., at 789. Third, petitioners had been"significantly burden[ed]" by having been subjected to successive state and federal prosecutions. Id., at 790. Fourth,petitioners were not "violent, dangerous, or likely to engagein future criminal conduct," so there was "no reason to518us1$71l 05-19-99 16:40:35 PAGES OPINPGT90 KOON v. UNITED STATESOpinion of the Courtimpose a sentence that reflects a need to protect the publicfrom [them]."Ibid. The court concluded these factors justified a departure when taken together, although none wouldhave been sufficient standing alone.Id., at 786.The departures yielded an offense level of 19 and a sentencing range of 30-to-37 months' imprisonment. The courtsentenced each petitioner to 30 months' imprisonment. Thepetitioners appealed their convictions, and the Governmentappealed the sentences, arguing that the District Courterred in granting the downward departures and in failing toadjust the offense level upward for serious bodily injury.The Court of Appeals affirmed petitioners' convictions, andaffirmed the District Court's refusal to adjust the offenselevel, but it reversed the District Court's departure determinations. Only the last ruling is before us.The Court of Appeals reviewed "de novo whether the district court had authority to depart." 34 F. 3d, at 1451. Thecourt reversed the five-level departure for victim misconduct, reasoning that misbehavior by suspects is typical incases involving excessive use of force by police and is thuscomprehended by the applicable Guideline. Id., at 1460.As for the three-level departure, the court rejected eachfactor cited. Acknowledging that a departure for susceptibility to abuse in prison may be appropriate in some instances and that police officers as a group are susceptible toprison abuse, the court nevertheless said the factor did notjustify departure because "reliance solely on hostility towarda group of which the defendant is a member provides anunlimited open-ended rationale for departing." Id., at 1455.The court further noted that, unlike cases in which a defendant is vulnerable to prison abuse due to physical characteristics over which he has no control, here the petitioners'vulnerability stemmed from public condemnation of theircrimes. Id., at 1456.As for petitioners' collateral employment consequences,the court first held consideration of the factor by the trial518us1$71l 05-19-99 16:40:35 PAGES OPINPGT91Cite as: 518 U. S. 81 (1996)Opinion of the Courtcourt inconsistent with the sentencing goals of 18 U. S. C.$ 3553(a) because the factor did not "speak to the offender'scharacter, the nature or seriousness of the offense, or someother legitimate sentencing concern." 34 F. 3d, at 1453.The court noted further that because the societal consequences of a criminal conviction are almost unlimited, reli-ance on them "would create a system of sentencing thatwould be boundless in the moral, social, and psychologicalexaminations it required courts to make."Id., at 1454.Third, the court noted the ease of using the factor to justifydepartures based on a defendant's socioeconomic status, aconsideration that, under 1992 USSG $ 5H1.10, is never apermitted basis for departure. As a final point, the Courtof Appeals said the factor was "troubling" because petitioners, as police officers, held positions of trust they had abused.Section 3B1.3 of the Guidelines increases, rather than decreases, punishment for those who abuse positions of trust.34 F. 3d, at 1454.The Court of Appeals next found the successive state andfederal prosecutions could not be a downward departure factor. It deemed the factor irrelevant to the sentencing goalsof $ 3553(a)(2) and contradictory to the Attorney General'sdetermination that compelling federal interests warranted asecond prosecution. Id., at 1457. The court rejected thelast departure factor as well, ruling that low risk of recidivism was comprehended in the criminal history category andso should not be double counted. Id., at 1456-1457.We granted certiorari to determine the standard of reviewgoverning appeals from a district court's decision to departfrom the sentencing ranges in the Guidelines. 515 U. S. 1190(1995). The appellate court should not review the departuredecision de novo, but instead should ask whether the sentencing court abused its discretion. Having invoked thewrong standard, the Court of Appeals erred further in rejecting certain of the downward departure factors reliedupon by the District Judge.518us1$71l 05-19-99 16:40:35 PAGES OPINPGT92 KOON v. UNITED STATESOpinion of the CourtIIThe Sentencing Reform Act of 1984, as amended, 18U. S. C. $ 3551 et seq., 28 U. S. C. $$ 991-998, made farreaching changes in federal sentencing. Before the Act,sentencing judges enjoyed broad discretion in determiningwhether and how long an offender should be incarcerated.Mistretta v. United States, 488 U. S. 361, 363 (1989). Thediscretion led to perceptions that "federal judges mete outan unjustifiably wide range of sentences to offenders withsimilar histories, convicted of similar crimes, committedunder similar circumstances." S. Rep. No. 98-225, p. 38(1983). In response, Congress created the United StatesSentencing Commission and charged it with developing acomprehensive set of sentencing guidelines, 28 U. S. C. $ 994.The Commission promulgated the United States SentencingGuidelines, which "specify an appropriate [sentencing range]for each class of convicted persons" based on various factorsrelated to the offense and the offender. United States Sentencing Commission, Guidelines Manual ch. 1, pt. A, p. 1(Nov. 1995) (1995 USSG). A district judge now must imposeon a defendant a sentence falling within the range of theapplicable Guideline, if the case is an ordinary one.The Act did not eliminate all of the district court's discretion, however. Acknowledging the wisdom, even the necessity, of sentencing procedures that take into account individual circumstances, see 28 U. S. C. $ 991(b)(1)(B), Congressallows district courts to depart from the applicable Guidelinerange if "the court finds that there exists an aggravating ormitigating circumstance of a kind, or to a degree, not adequately taken into consideration by the Sentencing Commission in formulating the guidelines that should result in a sentence different from that described." 18 U. S. C. $ 3553(b).To determine whether a circumstance was adequately takeninto consideration by the Commission, Congress instructedcourts to "consider only the sentencing guidelines, policy518us1$71l 05-19-99 16:40:35 PAGES OPINPGT93Cite as: 518 U. S. 81 (1996)Opinion of the Courtstatements, and official commentary of the Sentencing Com-mission." Ibid.Turning our attention, as instructed, to the GuidelinesManual, we learn that the Commission did not adequatelytake into account cases that are, for one reason or another,"unusual." 1995 USSG ch. 1, pt. A, intro. comment. 4(b).The Introduction to the Guidelines explains:"The Commission intends the sentencing courts to treateach guideline as carving out a `heartland,' a set of typical cases embodying the conduct that each guideline de-scribes. When a court finds an atypical case, one towhich a particular guideline linguistically applies butwhere conduct significantly differs from the norm, thecourt may consider whether a departure is warranted."Ibid.The Commission lists certain factors that never can be basesfor departure (race, sex, national origin, creed, religion, socioeconomic status, 1995 USSG $ 5H1.10; lack of guidance asa youth, $ 5H1.12; drug or alcohol dependence, $ 5H1.4; andeconomic hardship, $ 5K2.12), but then states that with theexception of those listed factors, it "does not intend to limitthe kinds of factors, whether or not mentioned anywhere elsein the guidelines, that could constitute grounds for departurein an unusual case." 1995 USSG ch. 1, pt. A, intro. comment.4(b). The Commission gives two reasons for its approach:"First, it is difficult to prescribe a single set of guide-lines that encompasses the vast range of human conductpotentially relevant to a sentencing decision. The Com-mission also recognizes that the initial set of guidelinesneed not do so. The Commission is a permanent body,empowered by law to write and rewrite guidelines, withprogressive changes, over many years. By monitoringwhen courts depart from the guidelines and by analyzing their stated reasons for doing so and court decisionswith references thereto, the Commission, over time, will518us1$71l 05-19-99 16:40:35 PAGES OPINPGT94 KOON v. UNITED STATESOpinion of the Courtbe able to refine the guidelines to specify more preciselywhen departures should and should not be permitted."Second, the Commission believes that despite thecourts' legal freedom to depart from the guidelines, theywill not do so very often. This is because the guide-lines, offense by offense, seek to take account of thosefactors that the Commission's data indicate made a sig-nificant difference in pre-guidelines sentencing practice." Ibid.So the Act authorizes district courts to depart in casesthat feature aggravating or mitigating circumstances of akind or degree not adequately taken into consideration bythe Commission. The Commission, in turn, says it has formulated each Guideline to apply to a heartland of typicalcases. Atypical cases were not "adequately taken into consideration," and factors that may make a case atypical pro-vide potential bases for departure. Potential departure factors "cannot, by their very nature, be comprehensively listedand analyzed in advance," 1995 USSG $ 5K2.0, of course.Faced with this reality, the Commission chose to prohibitconsideration of only a few factors, and not otherwise tolimit, as a categorical matter, the considerations that mightbear upon the decision to depart.Sentencing courts are not left adrift, however. The Com-mission provides considerable guidance as to the factors thatare apt or not apt to make a case atypical, by listing certainfactors as either encouraged or discouraged bases for departure. Encouraged factors are those "the Commission hasnot been able to take into account fully in formulating theguidelines." $ 5K2.0. Victim provocation, a factor reliedupon by the District Court in this suit, is an example of anencouraged downward departure factor, $ 5K2.10, whereasdisruption of a governmental function is an example of anencouraged upward departure factor, $ 5K2.7. Even an en-couraged factor is not always an appropriate basis for departure, for on some occasions the applicable Guideline will have518us1$71l 05-19-99 16:40:35 PAGES OPINPGT95Cite as: 518 U. S. 81 (1996)Opinion of the Courttaken the encouraged factor into account. For instance, adeparture for disruption of a governmental function "ordinarily would not be justified when the offense of convictionis an offense such as bribery or obstruction of justice; in suchcases interference with a governmental function is inherentin the offense."Ibid. A court still may depart on the basisof such a factor but only if it "is present to a degree substantially in excess of that which ordinarily is involved in theoffense." $ 5K2.0.Discouraged factors, by contrast, are those "not ordinarilyrelevant to the determination of whether a sentence shouldbe outside the applicable guideline range." 1995 USSG ch.5, pt. H, intro. comment. Examples include the defendant'sfamily ties and responsibilities, 1995 USSG $ 5H1.6, his orher education and vocational skills, $ 5H1.2, and his or hermilitary, civic, charitable, or public service record, $ 5H1.11.The Commission does not view discouraged factors "as necessarily inappropriate" bases for departure but says theyshould be relied upon only "in exceptional cases." 1995USSG ch. 5, pt. H, intro. comment.The Commission's treatment of departure factors ledthen-Chief Judge Breyer to explain that a sentencing courtconsidering a departure should ask the following questions:"1) What features of this case, potentially, take it outsidethe Guidelines' `heartland' and make of it a special, orunusual, case?"2) Has the Commission forbidden departures based onthose features?"3) If not, has the Commission encouraged departuresbased on those features?"4) If not, has the Commission discouraged departuresbased on those features?" United States v. Rivera, 994F. 2d 942, 949 (CA1 1993).We agree with this summary. If the special factor is a for-bidden factor, the sentencing court cannot use it as a basis518us1$71l 05-19-99 16:40:35 PAGES OPINPGT96 KOON v. UNITED STATESOpinion of the Courtfor departure. If the special factor is an encouraged factor,the court is authorized to depart if the applicable Guidelinedoes not already take it into account. If the special factoris a discouraged factor, or an encouraged factor alreadytaken into account by the applicable Guideline, the courtshould depart only if the factor is present to an exceptionaldegree or in some other way makes the case different fromthe ordinary case where the factor is present. Cf.ibid. Ifa factor is unmentioned in the Guidelines, the court must,after considering the "structure and theory of both relevantindividual guidelines and the Guidelines taken as a whole,"ibid., decide whether it is sufficient to take the case out ofthe Guideline's heartland. The court must bear in mind theCommission's expectation that departures based on groundsnot mentioned in the Guidelines will be "highly infrequent."1995 USSG ch. 1, pt. A, p. 6.Against this background, we consider the standard ofreview. IIIBefore the Guidelines system, a federal criminal sentencewithin statutory limits was, for all practical purposes, notreviewable on appeal. Dorszynski v. United States, 418U. S. 424, 431 (1974) (reiterating "the general propositionthat once it is determined that a sentence is within the limi-tations set forth in the statute under which it is imposed,appellate review is at an end"); United States v. Tucker, 404U. S. 443, 447 (1972) (same). The Act altered this schemein favor of a limited appellate jurisdiction to review fed-eral sentences. 18 U. S. C. $ 3742. Among other things, itallows a defendant to appeal an upward departure and theGovernment to appeal a downward one. $$ 3742(a), (b).That much is clear. Less clear is the standard of reviewon appeal. The Government advocatesde novo review, say-ing that, like the Guidelines themselves, appellate review ofsentencing, and in particular of departure decisions, was in-tended to reduce unjustified disparities in sentencing. In its518us1$71l 05-19-99 16:40:35 PAGES OPINPGT97Cite as: 518 U. S. 81 (1996)Opinion of the Courtview, de novo review of departure decisions is necessary "toprotect against unwarranted disparities arising from the differing sentencing approaches of individual district judges."Brief for United States 12.We agree that Congress was concerned about sentencingdisparities, but we are just as convinced that Congress didnot intend, by establishing limited appellate review, to vestin appellate courts wide-ranging authority over districtcourt sentencing decisions. Indeed, the text of $ 3742 manifests an intent that district courts retain much of their tradi-tional sentencing discretion. Section 3742(e)(4), as enactedin 1984, provided "[t]he court of appeals shall give due regardto the opportunity of the district court to judge the credibility of the witnesses, and shall accept the findings of factof the district court unless they are clearly erroneous." In1988, Congress amended the statute to impose the additionalrequirement that courts of appeals "give due deference tothe district court's application of the guidelines to the facts."Examining $ 3742 in Williams v. United States, 503 U. S. 193(1992), we stated as follows:"Although the Act established a limited appellate reviewof sentencing decisions, it did not alter a court of appeals' traditional deference to a district court's exerciseof its sentencing discretion. . . . The development of theguideline sentencing regime has not changed our viewthat, except to the extent specifically directed by statute, `it is not the role of an appellate court to substituteits judgment for that of the sentencing court as to theappropriateness of a particular sentence.' "Id., at 205(quoting Solem v. Helm, 463 U. S. 277, 290, n. 16 (1983)).See also S. Rep. No. 225, at 150 ("The sentencing provisionsof the reported bill are designed to preserve the concept thatthe discretion of a sentencing judge has a proper place insentencing and should not be displaced by the discretion ofan appellate court").518us1$71l 05-19-99 16:40:35 PAGES OPINPGT98 KOON v. UNITED STATESOpinion of the CourtThat the district court retains much of its traditional dis-cretion does not mean appellate review is an empty exercise.Congress directed courts of appeals to "give due deferenceto the district court's application of the guidelines to thefacts." 18 U. S. C. $ 3742(e)(4). The deference that is duedepends on the nature of the question presented. Thedistrict court may be owed no deference, for instance, whenthe claim on appeal is that it made some sort of mathemati-cal error in applying the Guidelines; under these circumstances, the appellate court will be in as good a position toconsider the question as the district court was in the firstinstance.A district court's decision to depart from the Guidelines,by contrast, will in most cases be due substantial deference,for it embodies the traditional exercise of discretion by asentencing court. See Mistretta, 488 U. S., at 367 (notingthat although the Act makes the Guidelines binding on sentencing courts, "it preserves for the judge the discretion todepart from the guideline applicable to a particular case").Before a departure is permitted, certain aspects of the casemust be found unusual enough for it to fall outside the heartland of cases in the Guideline. To resolve this question, thedistrict court must make a refined assessment of the manyfacts bearing on the outcome, informed by its vantage pointand day-to-day experience in criminal sentencing. Whethera given factor is present to a degree not adequately considered by the Commission, or whether a discouraged factornonetheless justifies departure because it is present in someunusual or exceptional way, are matters determined in largepart by comparison with the facts of other Guidelines cases.District courts have an institutional advantage over appellate courts in making these sorts of determinations,especially as they see so many more Guidelines cases thanappellate courts do. In 1994, for example, 93.9% of Guidelines cases were not appealed. Letter from Pamela G.Montgomery, Deputy General Counsel, United States Sen518us1$71l 05-19-99 16:40:35 PAGES OPINPGT99Cite as: 518 U. S. 81 (1996)Opinion of the Courttencing Commission (Mar. 29, 1996). "To ignore the districtcourt's special competence--about the `ordinariness' or`unusualness' of a particular case--would risk depriving theSentencing Commission of an important source of information, namely, the reactions of the trial judge to the factspecific circumstances of the case. . . ." Rivera, 994 F. 2d,at 951.Considerations like these persuaded us to adopt theabuse-of-discretion standard inCooter & Gell v. HartmarxCorp., 496 U. S. 384 (1990), which involved review of a Dis-trict Court's imposition of Rule 11 sanctions, and inPiercev. Underwood, 487 U. S. 552 (1988), which involved review ofa District Court's determination under the Equal Access toJustice Act, 28 U. S. C. $ 2412(d), that the position of theUnited States was "substantially justified," thereby precluding an award of attorney's fees against the Government.There, as here, we noted that deference was owed to the" `judicial actor . . . better positioned than another to decidethe issue in question.' " Pierce, supra, at 559-560 (quotingMiller v. Fenton, 474 U. S. 104, 114 (1985)); Cooter & Gell,supra, at 403. Furthermore, we adopted deferential reviewto afford "the district court the necessary flexibility to resolve questions involving `multifarious, fleeting, special, narrow facts that utterly resist generalization.' " 496 U. S., at404 (quoting Pierce, supra, at 561-562). Like the questionsinvolved in those cases, a district court's departure decisioninvolves "the consideration of unique factors that are `littlesusceptible . . . of useful generalization,' " 496 U. S., at 404,and as a consequence, de novo review is "unlikely to establishclear guidelines for lower courts," id., at 405.The Government seeks to avoid the factual nature of thedeparture inquiry by describing it at a higher level of generality linked closely to questions of law. The relevant question, however, is not, as the Government says, "whether aparticular factor is within the `heartland' " as a general proposition, Brief for United States 28, but whether the particu518us1$71l 05-19-99 16:40:35 PAGES OPINPGT100 KOON v. UNITED STATESOpinion of the Courtlar factor is within the heartland given all the facts of thecase. For example, it does not advance the analysis muchto determine that a victim's misconduct might justify adeparture in some aggravated assault cases. What thedistrict court must determine is whether the misconductthat occurred in the particular instance suffices to make thecase atypical. The answer is apt to vary depending on,for instance, the severity of the misconduct, its timing, andthe disruption it causes. These considerations are factualmatters.This does not mean that district courts do not confrontquestions of law in deciding whether to depart. In thepresent suit, for example, the Government argues that theDistrict Court relied on factors that may not be consideredin any case. The Government is quite correct that whethera factor is a permissible basis for departure under anycircumstances is a question of law, and the court of appealsneed not defer to the district court's resolution of the point.Little turns, however, on whether we label review of thisparticular question abuse of discretion or de novo, for anabuse-of-discretion standard does not mean a mistake of lawis beyond appellate correction. Cooter & Gell, supra, at 402.A district court by definition abuses its discretion whenit makes an error of law. 496 U. S., at 405. That a departure decision, in an occasional case, may call for a legal determination does not mean, as a consequence, that parts ofthe review must be labeled de novo while other parts arelabeled an abuse of discretion. See id., at 403 (court ofappeals should "appl[y] a unitary abuse-of-discretion standard"). The abuse-of-discretion standard includes review todetermine that the discretion was not guided by erroneouslegal conclusions.IVThe principles we have explained require us to reverse therulings of the Court of Appeals in significant part.518us1$71l 05-19-99 16:40:35 PAGES OPINPGT101Cite as: 518 U. S. 81 (1996)Opinion of the CourtAThe District Court departed downward five levels becauseKing's "wrongful conduct contributed significantly to provoking the offense behavior." 833 F. Supp., at 786. Victimmisconduct was an encouraged basis for departure under the1992 Guidelines and is so now. 1992 USSG $ 5K2.10; 1995USSG $ 5K2.10.Most Guidelines prescribe punishment for a single discretestatutory offense or a few similar statutory offenses withrather predictable fact patterns. Petitioners were con-victed of violating 18 U. S. C. $ 242, however, a statute unusual for its application in so many varied circumstances. Itprohibits, among other things, subjecting any person undercolor of law "to the deprivation of any rights, privileges, orimmunities secured or protected by the Constitution or lawsof the United States." A violation of $ 242 can arise in amyriad of forms, and the Guideline applicable to the statuteapplies to any violation of $ 242 regardless of the form ittakes. 1992 USSG $ 2H1.4. Section 2H1.4 takes account ofthe different kinds of conduct that might constitute a $ 242violation by instructing courts to use as a base offense levelthe greater of 10, or 6 plus the offense level applicable to anyunderlying offense. In this way, $ 2H1.4 incorporates thebase offense level of the underlying offense; as a conse-quence, the heartland of $ 2H1.4 will vary depending on thedefendant's conduct.Here, the underlying offense was aggravated assault.After adjusting the offense level for use of a dangerousweapon and bodily injury, see 1992 USSG $ 1B1.5(a) (a Guideline that incorporates another Guideline incorporates as wellthe other's specific offense characteristics), the DistrictCourt added six levels as required by $ 2H1.4. Section2H1.4 adds the six levels to account for the fact that theoffense was committed "under actual or purported legalauthority," commentary to $ 2H1.4, and that "the harminvolved both the underlying conduct and activity intended518us1$71l 05-19-99 16:40:35 PAGES OPINPGT102 KOON v. UNITED STATESOpinion of the Courtto deprive a person of his civil rights," ibid. (incorporatingintroductory commentary to $ 2H1.1).The District Court's analysis of this departure factorshowed a correct understanding in applying $ 2H1.4 as a mechanical matter and in interpreting its heartland. Aftersummarizing King's misconduct--his driving while intoxicated, fleeing from the police, refusing to obey the officers'commands, attempting to escape from police custody, etc.--the District Court concluded that a downward departurepursuant to $ 5K2.10 was justified:"Mr. King's provocative behavior eventually subsided.The Court recognizes that by the time the defendants'conduct crossed the line to unlawfulness, Mr. King wasno longer resisting arrest. He posed no objectivethreat, and the defendants had no reasonable perceptionof danger. Nevertheless, the incident would not haveescalated to this point, indeed it would not have oc-curred at all, but for Mr. King's initial misconduct."833 F. Supp., at 787.The court placed these facts within the context of the rele-vant Guideline range:"Messrs. Koon and Powell were convicted of conductwhich began as a legal use of force against a resistantsuspect and subsequently crossed the line to unlawful-ness, all in a matter of seconds, during the course of adynamic arrest situation. However, the convicted of-fenses fall under the same Guideline Sections that wouldapply to a jailor, correctional officer, police officer orother state agent who intentionally used a dangerousweapon to assault an inmate, without legitimate causeto initiate a use of force."The two situations are clearly different. Police offi-cers are always armed with `dangerous weapons' andmay legitimately employ those weapons to administerreasonable force. Where an officer's initial use of force518us1$71l 05-19-99 16:40:35 PAGES OPINPGT103Cite as: 518 U. S. 81 (1996)Opinion of the Courtis provoked and lawful, the line between a legal arrestand an unlawful deprivation of civil rights within theaggravated assault Guideline is relatively thin. Thestringent aggravated assault Guideline, along with itsupward adjustments for use of a deadly weapon andbodily injury, contemplates a range of offenses involvingdeliberate and unprovoked assaultive conduct. TheGuidelines do not adequately account for the differencesbetween such `heartland' offenses and the case athand."Ibid.The Court of Appeals rejected this analysis. It inter-preted the District Court to have found that King had beenthe but-for cause of the crime, not that he had provoked it.According to the Court of Appeals, the District Court "ultimately focused not on provocation itself but rather on thevolatility of the incident, and the close proximity between,on the one hand, the victim's misconduct and the officers'concomitant lawful use of force, and, on the other hand, theappellants' unlawful use or authorization of the use of force."34 F. 3d, at 1459. The Court of Appeals thought these considerations did not justify departure for victim misconduct.It first quoted the test this Court formulated for excessiveforce cases under the Fourth Amendment:" `The calculus of reasonableness must embody allow-ance for the fact that police officers are often forcedto make split-second judgments--in circumstances thatare tense, uncertain, and rapidly evolving--about theamount of force that is necessary in a particular situa-tion.' " Ibid. (quoting Graham v. Connor, 490 U. S. 386,396-397 (1989)).The Court of Appeals reasoned that "before a use of forcecan be found excessive, theGraham `calculus,' embracing thevery factor which the district court found to be unusual inthis case--the `dynamic arrest situation'--has been takeninto consideration." 34 F. 3d, at 1459. Indeed, it noted the518us1$71l 05-19-99 16:40:35 PAGES OPINPGT104 KOON v. UNITED STATESOpinion of the Courtjury not only had to take the Graham factors into account,but also, to establish criminal liability, had to conclude thatthe petitioners "willfully came down on the wrong side oftheGraham standard." 34 F. 3d, at 1459 (emphasis in original). The Court of Appeals concluded that "the featurewhich the district court found unusual, and exculpatory,is built into the most fundamental structure of excessiveforce jurisprudence, and in criminal cases is built in twice."Ibid.The court misinterpreted both the District Court's opinionand the heartland of the applicable Guideline range. TheDistrict Court's observation that the incident would not haveoccurred at all "but for" King's misconduct does not alterthe further ruling that King provoked petitioners' illegal useof force. At the outset of its analysis, the District Courtstated: "[T]he Court finds, and considers as a mitigating circumstance, that Mr. King's wrongful conduct contributedsignificantly to provoking the offense behavior." 833 F.Supp., at 786. It later discussed "Mr. King's wrongdoingand the substantial role it played in bringing about the defendants' unlawful conduct." Id., at 787. Indeed, a findingthat King's misconduct provoked lawful force but not theunlawful force that followed without interruption would bea startling interpretation and contrary to ordinary understandings of provocation. A response need not immediatelyfollow an action in order to be provoked by it. The Commission recognized this when it noted that although victim misconduct would rarely be a basis for departure in a nonviolentoffense, "an extended course of provocation and harassmentmight lead a defendant to steal or destroy property in retaliation." 1992 USSG $ 5K2.10. Furthermore, even if animmediate response were required by $ 5K2.10, it occurredhere: The excessive force followed within seconds of King'smisconduct.The Court of Appeals misinterpreted the heartland of$ 2H1.4 by concentrating on whether King's misconduct518us1$71l 05-19-99 16:40:35 PAGES OPINPGT105Cite as: 518 U. S. 81 (1996)Opinion of the Courtmade this an unusual case of excessive force. If $ 2H1.4 cov-ered punishment only for excessive force cases, it might wellbe a close question whether victim misconduct of this kindwould be sufficient to take the case out of the heartland.Section 2H1.4 is not so designed, however. It incorporatesthe Guideline for the underlying offense, here $ 2A2.2 for ag-gravated assault, and thus creates a Guideline range and aheartland for aggravated assault committed under color oflaw. As the District Court was correct to point out, thesame Guideline range applies both to a government officialwho assaults a citizen without provocation as well as instances like this where what begins as legitimate force becomes excessive. The District Court did not abuse its discretion in differentiating between the classes of cases, nordid it do so in concluding that unprovoked assaults constitutethe relevant heartland. Victim misconduct is an encouragedground for departure. A district court, without question,would have had discretion to conclude that victim misconduct could take an aggravated assault case outside the heartland of $ 2A2.2. That petitioners' aggravated assaults werecommitted under color of law does not change the analysis.The Court of Appeals thought that it did because $ 2H1.4"explicitly enhances sentences for official misconduct beyondthose for civilian misconduct." 34 F. 3d, at 1460. Thestatement is a non sequitur. Section 2H1.4 imposes a sixlevel increase regardless of whether the government official'saggravated assault is provoked or unprovoked. Aggravatedassault committed under color of law always will be punishedmore severely than ordinary aggravated assault. The District Court did not compare civilian offenders with officialoffenders; it compared official offenders who are provokedwith official offenders who are not. That was the correctinquiry. The punishment prescribed by $ 2A2.2 contemplates unprovoked assaults, and as a consequence, the District Court did not abuse its discretion in departing downward for King's misconduct in provoking the wrong.518us1$71l 05-19-99 16:40:35 PAGES OPINPGT106 KOON v. UNITED STATESOpinion of the CourtBWe turn now to the three-level departure. As an initialmatter, the Government urges us to hold each of the factorsrelied upon by the District Court to be impermissible depar-ture factors under all circumstances. A defendant's loss ofcareer opportunities must always be an improper consid-eration, the Government argues, because "persons convictedof crimes suffer a wide range of consequences in addition tothe sentence." Brief for United States 38. Susceptibilityto prison abuse, continues the Government, likewise nevershould be considered because the "degree of vulnerability toassault is an entirely `subjective' judgment, and the numberof defendants who may qualify for that departure is `virtually unlimited.' " Id., at 39 (quoting 34 F. 3d, at 1455). Andso on.Those arguments, however persuasive as a matter of sen-tencing policy, should be directed to the Commission. Congress did not grant federal courts authority to decide whatsorts of sentencing considerations are inappropriate in everycircumstance. Rather, 18 U. S. C. $ 3553(b) instructs a courtthat, in determining whether there exists an aggravating ormitigating circumstance of a kind or to a degree not ade-quately considered by the Commission, it should consider"only the sentencing guidelines, policy statements, and offi-cial commentary of the Sentencing Commission." TheGuidelines, however, "place essentially no limit on the num-ber of potential factors that may warrant a departure."Burns v. United States, 501 U. S. 129, 136-137 (1991). TheCommission set forth factors courts may not consider underany circumstances but made clear that with those exceptions, it "does not intend to limit the kinds of factors,whether or not mentioned anywhere else in the guidelines,that could constitute grounds for departure in an unusualcase." 1995 USSG ch. I, pt. A, intro. comment. 4(b). Thus,for the courts to conclude a factor must not be considered518us1$71l 05-19-99 16:40:35 PAGES OPINPGT107Cite as: 518 U. S. 81 (1996)Opinion of the Courtunder any circumstances would be to transgress the policy-making authority vested in the Commission.An example is helpful. In United States v. Lara, 905 F. 2d599 (1990), the Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit upheld a District Court's downward departure based on thedefendant's "potential for victimization" in prison due to hisdiminutive size, immature appearance, and bisexual orienta-tion.Id., at 601. In what appeared to be a response toLara, the Commission amended 1989 USSG $ 5H1.4, to make[p]hysicial . . . appearance, including physique," a discouragedfactor. 1995 USSG App. C, Amdt. 386 (effective Nov. 1,1991). The Commission did not see fit, however, to prohibitconsideration of physical appearance in all cases, nor did itaddress the broader category of susceptibility to abuse inprison. By urging us to hold susceptibility to abuse inprison to be an impermissible factor in all cases, the Govern-ment would have us reject the Commission's consideredjudgment in favor of our own.The Government acknowledges as much but says its position is required by 18 U. S. C. $ 3553(a)(2). The statuteprovides:"The court, in determining the particular sentence to beimposed, shall consider--. . . . ."(2) the need for the sentence imposed--"(A) to reflect the seriousness of the offense, to promoterespect for the law, and to provide just punishment forthe offense;"(B) to afford adequate deterrence to criminal conduct;"(C) to protect the public from further crimes of thedefendant; and"(D) to provide the defendant with needed educationalor vocational training, medical care, or other correctional treatment in the most effective manner."518us1$71l 05-19-99 16:40:35 PAGES OPINPGT108 KOON v. UNITED STATESOpinion of the CourtEchoing the Court of Appeals, the Government interprets$ 3553(a)(2) to direct courts to test potential departure factors against its broad sentencing goals and to reject, as acategorical matter, factors that are inconsistent with them.The Government and the Court of Appeals read too muchinto $ 3553(a)(2). The statute requires a court to considerthe listed goals in determining "the particular sentence tobe imposed." The wording suggests that the goals shouldbe considered in determining which sentence to choose froma given Guideline range or from outside the range, if a depar-ture is appropriate. The statute says nothing about requiring each potential departure factor to advance one of thespecified goals. So long as the overall sentence is "sufficient, but not greater than necessary, to comply" with theabove-listed goals, the statute is satisfied. $ 3553(a).Even if the text of the statute were ambiguous, we wouldreject the Government's interpretation. The Government'stheory--that $ 3553(a)(2) directs courts to decide for themselves, by reference to the broad, open-ended goals of theprovision, whether a given factor ever can be an appropriatesentencing consideration--would impose widespread judicialcontrol over sentencing policy. This in turn would nullifythe Commission's treatment of particular departure factorsand its determination that, with few exceptions, departurefactors should not be ruled out on a categorical basis. Thesparse text of $ 3553(a)(2) cannot support this implausible result. Congress created the Commission to "establish sentencing policies and practices for the Federal criminal justicesystem," 28 U. S. C. $ 991(b)(1), and Congress instructed theCommission, not the courts, to "review and revise" theGuidelines periodically, $ 994(o). As a result, the Commission has assumed that its role is "over time [to] . . . refine theguidelines to specify more precisely when departures shouldand should not be permitted." 1992 USSG ch. I, pt. A, intro.comment. 4(b). Had Congress intended the courts to supervise the Commission's treatment of departure factors, we ex518us1$71l 05-19-99 16:40:35 PAGES OPINPGT109Cite as: 518 U. S. 81 (1996)Opinion of the Courtpect it would have said so in a clear way. It did not, and wewill not assume this role.We conclude, then, that a federal court's examination ofwhether a factor can ever be an appropriate basis for departure is limited to determining whether the Commission hasproscribed, as a categorical matter, consideration of the factor. If the answer to the question is no--as it will be mostof the time--the sentencing court must determine whetherthe factor, as occurring in the particular circumstances, takesthe case outside the heartland of the applicable Guideline.We now turn to the four factors underlying the DistrictCourt's three-level departure.1The first question is whether the District Court abused itsdiscretion in relying on the collateral employment consequences petitioners would face as a result of their convic-tions. The District Court stated:"Defendants Koon and Powell will be subjected to amultiplicity of adversarial proceedings. The LAPDBoard of Rights will charge Koon and Powell with a fel-ony conviction and, in a quasi-judicial proceeding, willstrip them of their positions and tenure. Koon andPowell will be disqualified from other law enforcementcareers. In combination, the additional proceedings,the loss of employment and tenure, prospective disqualification from the field of law enforcement, and theanguish and disgrace these deprivations entail, will constitute substantial punishment in addition to any court-imposed sentence. In short, because Koon and Powellare police officers, certain unique burdens flow fromtheir convictions." 833 F. Supp., at 789 (footnotesomitted).The Court of Appeals rejected the District Court's analy-sis, noting among other things the "ease with which this fac518us1$71l 05-19-99 16:40:35 PAGES OPINPGT110 KOON v. UNITED STATESOpinion of the Courttor can be used to justify departures that are based, eitherconsciously or unconsciously, on the defendant's socioeconomic status, a factor that is never a permissible basis forreview." 34 F. 3d, at 1454. We agree with the Court ofAppeals that a defendant's career may relate to his or hersocioeconomic status, but the link is not so close as to justifycategorical exclusion of the effect of conviction on a career.Although an impermissible factor need not be invoked byname to be rejected, socioeconomic status and job loss arenot the semantic or practical equivalents of each other.We nonetheless conclude that the District Court abusedits discretion by considering petitioners' career loss becausethe factor, as it exists in these circumstances, cannot takethe suit out of the heartland of 1992 USSG $ 2H1.4. Asnoted above, 18 U. S. C. $ 242 offenses may take a variety offorms, but they must involve willful violations of rightsunder color of law. Although cognizant of the deferenceowed to the District Court, we must conclude it is not unusual for a public official who is convicted of using his governmental authority to violate a person's rights to lose hisor her job and to be barred from future work in that field.Indeed, many public employees are subject to terminationand are prevented from obtaining future government employment following conviction of a serious crime, whether ornot the crime relates to their employment. See Cal. Govt.Code Ann. $ 19572(k) (West 1995) ("Conviction of a felonyor conviction of a misdemeanor involving moral turpitude"constitutes cause for dismissal); $ 18935(f) (State PersonnelBoard may refuse to declare eligible for state employmentone who has "been convicted of a felony, or convicted of amisdemeanor involving moral turpitude"); Ky. Rev. Stat.Ann. 18A.146(2) (Michie 1992); 4 Pa. Code $ 7.173 (1995).Public officials convicted of violating $ 242 have done morethan engage in serious criminal conduct; they have doneso under color of the law they have sworn to uphold. It isto be expected that a government official would be subject518us1$71l 05-19-99 16:40:35 PAGES OPINPGT111Cite as: 518 U. S. 81 (1996)Opinion of the Courtto the career-related consequences petitioners faced afterviolating $ 242, so we conclude these consequences wereadequately considered by the Commission in formulating$ 2H1.4.2We further agree with the Court of Appeals that the lowlikelihood of petitioners' recidivism was not an appropriatebasis for departure. Petitioners were first-time offendersand so were classified in criminal history category I. TheDistrict Court found that "[w]ithin Criminal History Cate-gory I, the Guidelines do not adequately distinguish defendants who, for a variety of reasons, are particularly unlikelyto commit crimes in the future. Here, the need to protectthe public from the defendants' future criminal conduct isabsent `to a degree' not contemplated by the Guidelines."833 F. Supp., at 790, n. 20. The District Court failed to ac-count for the Commission's specific treatment of this issue,however. After explaining that a district court may departupward from the highest criminal offense category, the Commission stated:"However, this provision is not symmetrical. The lowerlimit of the range for Criminal History Category I is setfor a first offender with the lowest risk of recidivism.Therefore, a departure below the lower limit of theguideline range for Criminal History Category I on thebasis of the adequacy of criminal history cannot be appropriate." 1992 USSG $ 4A1.3.The District Court abused its discretion by considering ap-pellants' low likelihood of recidivism. The Commission tookthat factor into account in formulating the criminal historycategory.3The two remaining factors are susceptibility to abuse inprison and successive prosecutions. The District Court didnot abuse its discretion in considering these factors. The518us1$71l 05-19-99 16:40:35 PAGES OPINPGT112 KOON v. UNITED STATESOpinion of the CourtCourt of Appeals did not dispute, and neither do we, theDistrict Court's finding that "[t]he extraordinary notorietyand national media coverage of this case, coupled with thedefendants' status as police officers, make Koon and Powellunusually susceptible to prison abuse," 833 F. Supp., at785-786. Petitioners' crimes, however brutal, were bydefinition the same for purposes of sentencing law as thoseof any other police officers convicted under 18 U. S. C. $ 242of using unreasonable force in arresting a suspect, sentencedunder $ 2H1.4, and receiving the upward adjustments petitioners received. Had the crimes been still more severe,petitioners would have been assigned a different base offenselevel or received additional upward adjustments. Yet, duein large part to the existence of the videotape and all theevents that ensued, "widespread publicity and emotional outrage . . . have surrounded this case from the outset," 833F. Supp., at 788, which led the District Court to find petitioners "particularly likely to be targets of abuse during theirincarceration," ibid. The District Court's conclusion thatthis factor made the case unusual is just the sort of determination that must be accorded deference by the appellatecourts.As for petitioners' successive prosecutions, it is true thatconsideration of this factor could be incongruous with thedual responsibilities of citizenship in our federal system insome instances. Successive state and federal prosecutionsdo not violate the Double Jeopardy Clause. Heath v. Alabama, 474 U. S. 82 (1985). Nonetheless, the District Courtdid not abuse its discretion in determining that a "federalconviction following a state acquittal based on the sameunderlying conduct . . . significantly burden[ed] the defendants." 833 F. Supp., at 790. The state trial was lengthy,and the toll it took is not beyond the cognizance of theDistrict Court.518us1$71l 05-19-99 16:40:35 PAGES OPINPGT113Cite as: 518 U. S. 81 (1996)Opinion of the CourtVThe goal of the Sentencing Guidelines is, of course, to re-duce unjustified disparities and so reach toward the evenhandedness and neutrality that are the distinguishing marksof any principled system of justice. In this respect, theGuidelines provide uniformity, predictability, and a degree ofdetachment lacking in our earlier system. This, too, mustbe remembered, however. It has been uniform and constantin the federal judicial tradition for the sentencing judge toconsider every convicted person as an individual and everycase as a unique study in the human failings that sometimesmitigate, sometimes magnify, the crime and the punishmentto ensue. We do not understand it to have been the congressional purpose to withdraw all sentencing discretion fromthe United States district judge. Discretion is reservedwithin the Sentencing Guidelines, and reflected by the stand-ard of appellate review we adopt.* * *The Court of Appeals identified the wrong standard of re-view. It erred as well in finding that victim misconduct didnot justify the five-level departure and that susceptibility toprison abuse and the burdens of successive prosecutionscould not be relied upon for the three-level departure.Those sentencing determinations were well within the sounddiscretion of the District Court. The District Court didabuse its discretion in relying on the other two factors forming the three-level departure: career loss and low recidivismrisk. When a reviewing court concludes that a district courtbased a departure on both valid and invalid factors, a remandis required unless it determines the district court would haveimposed the same sentence absent reliance on the invalidfactors.Williams, 503 U. S., at 203. As the District Courthere stated that none of the four factors standing alonewould justify the three-level departure, it is not evident that518us1$71l 05-19-99 16:40:35 PAGES OPINPGT114 KOON v. UNITED STATESOpinion of Souter, J.the court would have imposed the same sentence if it hadrelied only on susceptibility to abuse in prison and the hardship of successive prosecutions. The Court of Appealsshould therefore remand the case to the District Court.The judgment of the Court of Appeals is affirmed in partand reversed in part, and the cases are remanded for furtherproceedings consistent with this opinion.