In this case we once again examine when a state prisonercan appeal the denial or dismissal of his petition for writ ofhabeas corpus. In 1986 two Dallas County assistant districtattorneys used peremptory strikes to exclude 10 of the 11African-Americans eligible to serve on the jury which triedpetitioner Thomas Joe Miller-El. During the ensuing 17years, petitioner has been unsuccessful in establishing, ineither state or federal court, that his conviction and deathsentence must be vacated because the jury selection procedures violated the Equal Protection Clause and our holdingin Batson v. Kentucky, 476 U. S. 79 (1986). The claim nowarises in a federal petition for writ of habeas corpus. Theprocedures and standards applicable in the case are controlled by the habeas corpus statute codified at Title 28,chapter 153, of the United States Code, most recentlyamended in a substantial manner by the Antiterrorism andEffective Death Penalty Act of 1996 (AEDPA). In the interest of finality AEDPA constrains a federal court's powerto disturb state-court convictions.The United States District Court for the Northern District of Texas, after reviewing the evidence before the statetrial court, determined that petitioner failed to establisha constitutional violation warranting habeas relief. TheCourt of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit, concluding there wasinsufficient merit to the case, denied a certificate of appeal*Briefs of amici curiae urging reversal were filed for Former Prosecutors and Judges by Elisabeth Semel, Charles D. Weisselberg, and CarterG. Phillips; and for the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund,Inc., et al. by Elaine R. Jones, Norman J. Chachkin, James L. Cott, GeorgeKendall, Deborah Fins, and Miriam Gohara.537US2 Unit: $U19 [04-16-04 22:45:31] PAGES PGT: OPIN327Cite as: 537 U. S. 322 (2003)Opinion of the Courtability (COA) from the District Court's determination. TheCOA denial is the subject of our decision.At issue here are the standards AEDPA imposes beforea court of appeals may issue a COA to review a denial ofhabeas relief in the district court. Congress mandates thata prisoner seeking postconviction relief under 28 U. S. C.$ 2254 has no automatic right to appeal a district court's denial or dismissal of the petition. Instead, petitioner mustfirst seek and obtain a COA. In resolving this case we decide again that when a habeas applicant seeks permission toinitiate appellate review of the dismissal of his petition, thecourt of appeals should limit its examination to a thresholdinquiry into the underlying merit of his claims. Slack v.McDaniel, 529 U. S. 473, 481 (2000). Consistent with ourprior precedent and the text of the habeas corpus statute,we reiterate that a prisoner seeking a COA need only demonstrate "a substantial showing of the denial of a constitutional right." 28 U. S. C. $ 2253(c)(2). A petitioner satisfiesthis standard by demonstrating that jurists of reason coulddisagree with the district court's resolution of his constitutional claims or that jurists could conclude the issues presented are adequate to deserve encouragement to proceedfurther. Slack, supra, at 484. Applying these principlesto petitioner's application, we conclude a COA should haveissued.IAPetitioner, his wife Dorothy Miller-El, and one KennethFlowers robbed a Holiday Inn in Dallas, Texas. They emptied the cash drawers and ordered two employees, DougWalker and Donald Hall, to lie on the floor. Walker and Hallwere gagged with strips of fabric, and their hands and feetwere bound. Petitioner asked Flowers if he was going tokill Walker and Hall. When Flowers hesitated or refused,537US2 Unit: $U19 [04-16-04 22:45:31] PAGES PGT: OPIN328 MILLER-EL v. COCKRELLOpinion of the Courtpetitioner shot Walker twice in the back and shot Hall in theside. Walker died from his wounds.The State indicted petitioner for capital murder. Hepleaded not guilty, and jury selection took place during fiveweeks in February and March 1986. When voir dire hadbeen concluded, petitioner moved to strike the jury on thegrounds that the prosecution had violated the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment by excludingAfrican-Americans through the use of peremptory challenges. Petitioner's trial occurred before our decision inBatson, supra, and Swain v. Alabama, 380 U. S. 202 (1965),was then the controlling precedent. As Swain required,petitioner sought to show that the prosecution's conduct waspart of a larger pattern of discrimination aimed at excludingAfrican-Americans from jury service. In a pretrial hearingheld on March 12, 1986, petitioner presented extensive evidence in support of his motion. The trial judge, however,found "no evidence . . . that indicated any systematic exclusion of blacks as a matter of policy by the District Attorney'soffice; while it may have been done by individual prosecutorsin individual cases." App. 813. The state court then denied petitioner's motion to strike the jury. Ibid. Twelvedays later, the jury found petitioner guilty; and the trialcourt sentenced him to death.Petitioner appealed to the Texas Court of Criminal Appeals. While the appeal was pending, on April 30, 1986, theCourt decided Batson v. Kentucky and established its threepart process for evaluating claims that a prosecutor usedperemptory challenges in violation of the Equal ProtectionClause. First, a defendant must make a prima facie showingthat a peremptory challenge has been exercised on the basisof race. 476 U. S., at 96-97. Second, if that showing hasbeen made, the prosecution must offer a race-neutral basisfor striking the juror in question. Id., at 97-98. Third, inlight of the parties' submissions, the trial court must deter537US2 Unit: $U19 [04-16-04 22:45:31] PAGES PGT: OPIN329Cite as: 537 U. S. 322 (2003)Opinion of the Courtmine whether the defendant has shown purposeful discrimi-nation.Id., at 98.After acknowledging petitioner had established an infer-ence of purposeful discrimination, the Texas Court of Criminal Appeals remanded the case for new findings in light ofBatson. Miller-El v. State, 748 S. W. 2d 459 (1988). Apost-trial hearing was held on May 10, 1988 (a little over twoyears after petitioner's jury had been empaneled). There,the original trial court admitted all the evidence presentedat the Swain hearing and further evidence and testimonyfrom the attorneys in the original trial. App. 843-844.On January 13, 1989, the trial court concluded that petitioner's evidence failed to satisfy step one of Batson becauseit "did not even raise an inference of racial motivation inthe use of the state's peremptory challenges" to support aprima facie case. App. 876. Notwithstanding this conclusion, the state court determined that the State would haveprevailed on steps two and three because the prosecutorshad offered credible, race-neutral explanations for eachAfrican-American excluded. The court further found "nodisparate prosecutorial examination of any of the veniremenin question" and "that the primary reasons for the exerciseof the challenges against each of the veniremen in question[was] their reluctance to assess or reservations concerningthe imposition of the death penalty." Id., at 878. Therewas no discussion of petitioner's other evidence.The Texas Court of Criminal Appeals denied petitioner'sappeal, and we denied certiorari. Miller-El v. Texas, 510U. S. 831 (1993). Petitioner's state habeas proceedings faredno better, and he was denied relief by the Texas Court ofCriminal Appeals.Petitioner filed a petition for writ of habeas corpus in Federal District Court pursuant to 28 U. S. C. $ 2254. Althoughpetitioner raised four issues, we concern ourselves here withonly petitioner's jury selection claim premised on Batson.The Federal Magistrate Judge who considered the merits537US2 Unit: $U19 [04-16-04 22:45:31] PAGES PGT: OPIN330 MILLER-EL v. COCKRELLOpinion of the Courtwas troubled by some of the evidence adduced in the state-court proceedings. He, nevertheless, recommended, in deference to the state courts' acceptance of the prosecutors'race-neutral justifications for striking the potential jurors,that petitioner be denied relief. The United States DistrictCourt adopted the recommendation. Pursuant to $ 2253,petitioner sought a COA from the District Court, and theapplication was denied. Petitioner renewed his request tothe Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit, and it also deniedthe COA.The Court of Appeals noted that, under controlling habeasprinciples, a COA will issue " `only if the applicant has madea substantial showing of the denial of a constitutional right.' "Miller-El v. Johnson, 261 F. 3d 445, 449 (2001) (quoting 28U. S. C. $ 2253(c)(2)). Citing our decision in Slack v. McDaniel, 529 U. S. 473 (2000), the court reasoned that "[a] petitioner makes a `substantial showing' when he demonstratesthat his petition involves issues which are debatable amongjurists of reason, that another court could resolve the issuesdifferently, or that the issues are adequate to deserve encouragement to proceed further." 261 F. 3d, at 449. TheCourt of Appeals also interjected the requirements of 28U. S. C. $ 2254 into the COA determination: "As an appellatecourt reviewing a federal habeas petition, we are requiredby $ 2254(d)(2) to presume the state court findings correctunless we determine that the findings result in a decisionwhich is unreasonable in light of the evidence presented.And the unreasonableness, if any, must be established byclear and convincing evidence. See 28 U. S. C. $ 2254(e)(1)."261 F. 3d, at 451.Applying this framework to petitioner's COA application,the Court of Appeals concluded "that the state court's findings are not unreasonable and that Miller-El has failed topresent clear and convincing evidence to the contrary." Id.,at 452. As a consequence, the court "determined that thestate court's adjudication neither resulted in a decision that537US2 Unit: $U19 [04-16-04 22:45:31] PAGES PGT: OPIN331Cite as: 537 U. S. 322 (2003)Opinion of the Courtwas unreasonable in light of the evidence presented nor re-sulted in a decision contrary to clearly established federallaw as determined by the Supreme Court," ibid.; and it de-nied petitioner's request for a COA. We granted certiorari.534 U. S. 1122 (2002). BWhile a COA ruling is not the occasion for a ruling on themerit of petitioner's claim, our determination to reverse theCourt of Appeals counsels us to explain in some detail theextensive evidence concerning the jury selection procedures.Petitioner's evidence falls into two broad categories. First,he presented to the state trial court, at a pretrialSwainhearing, evidence relating to a pattern and practice of racediscrimination in the voir dire. Second, two years later, hepresented, to the same state court, evidence that directlyrelated to the conduct of the prosecutors in his case. Wediscuss the latter first.A comparative analysis of the venire members demon-strates that African-Americans were excluded from petitioner's jury in a ratio significantly higher than Caucasians were.Of the 108 possible jurors reviewed by the prosecution anddefense, 20 were African-American. Nine of them were ex-cused for cause or by agreement of the parties. Of the 11African-American jurors remaining, however, all but 1 wereexcluded by peremptory strikes exercised by the prosecutors. On this basis 91% of the eligible black jurors wereremoved by peremptory strikes. In contrast the prosecutors used their peremptory strikes against just 13% (4 out of31) of the eligible nonblack prospective jurors qualified toserve on petitioner's jury.These numbers, while relevant, are not petitioner's wholecase. During voir dire, the prosecution questioned veniremembers as to their views concerning the death penalty andtheir willingness to serve on a capital case. Responses thatdisclosed reluctance or hesitation to impose capital punishment were cited as a justification for striking a potential537US2 Unit: $U19 [04-16-04 22:45:31] PAGES PGT: OPIN332 MILLER-EL v. COCKRELLOpinion of the Courtjuror for cause or by peremptory challenge. Wainwright v.Witt, 469 U. S. 412 (1985). The evidence suggests, however,that the manner in which members of the venire were ques-tioned varied by race. To the extent a divergence in responses can be attributed to the racially disparate mode ofexamination, it is relevant to our inquiry.Most African-Americans (53%, or 8 out of 15) were firstgiven a detailed description of the mechanics of an executionin Texas:"[I]f those three [sentencing] questions are answeredyes, at some point[,] Thomas Joe Miller-El will be takento Huntsville, Texas. He will be placed on death rowand at some time will be taken to the death house wherehe will be strapped on a gurney, an IV put into his armand he will be injected with a substance that will causehis death . . . as the result of the verdict in this case ifthose three questions are answered yes." App. 215.Only then were these African-American venire membersasked whether they could render a decision leading to a sen-tence of death. Very few prospective white jurors (6%, or3 out of 49) were given this preface prior to being asked fortheir views on capital punishment. Rather, all but threewere questioned in vague terms: "Would you share with us. . . your personal feelings, if you could, in your own wordshow you do feel about the death penalty and capital punishment and secondly, do you feel you could serve on this typeof a jury and actually render a decision that would result inthe death of the Defendant in this case based on the evi-dence? "Id., at 506.There was an even more pronounced difference, on the apparent basis of race, in the manner the prosecutors questioned members of the venire about their willingness to impose the minimum sentence for murder. Under Texas lawat the time of petitioner's trial, an unwillingness to do sowarranted removal for cause. Huffman v. State, 450 S. W.537US2 Unit: $U19 [04-16-04 22:45:31] PAGES PGT: OPIN333Cite as: 537 U. S. 322 (2003)Opinion of the Court2d 858, 861 (Tex. Crim. App. 1970), vacated in part, 408 U. S.936 (1972). This strategy normally is used by the defenseto weed out pro-state members of the venire, but, ironically,the prosecution employed it here. The prosecutors firstidentified the statutory minimum sentence of five years' im-prisonment to 34 out of 36 (94%) white venire members, andonly then asked: "If you hear a case, to your way of thinking[that] calls for and warrants and justifies five years, you'llgive it?" App. 509. In contrast, only one out of eight(12.5%) African-American prospective jurors were informedof the statutory minimum before being asked what minimumsentence they would impose. The typical questioning of theother seven black jurors was as follows:"[Prosecutor]: Now, the maximum sentence for [murder]. . . is life under the law. Can you give me an idea ofjust your personal feelings what you feel a minimumsentence should be for the offense of murder the wayI've set it out for you?"[Juror]: Well, to me that's almost like it's premeditated.But you said they don't have a premeditated statutehere in Texas.. . . . ."[Prosecutor]: Again, we're not talking about self-defense or accident or insanity or killing in the heat ofpassion or anything like that. We're talking about theknowing--"[Juror]: I know you said the minimum. The minimumamount that I would say would be at least twentyyears." Id., at 226-227.Furthermore, petitioner points to the prosecution's use ofa Texas criminal procedure practice known as jury shuffling.This practice permits parties to rearrange the order in whichmembers of the venire are examined so as to increase thelikelihood that visually preferable venire members will bemoved forward and empaneled. With no information about537US2 Unit: $U19 [04-16-04 22:45:31] PAGES PGT: OPIN334 MILLER-EL v. COCKRELLOpinion of the Courtthe prospective jurors other than their appearance, the partyrequesting the procedure literally shuffles the juror cards,and the venire members are then reseated in the new order.Tex. Code Crim. Proc. Ann., Art. 35.11 (Vernon Supp. 2003).Shuffling affects jury composition because any prospectivejurors not questioned duringvoir dire are dismissed at theend of the week, and a new panel of jurors appears the following week. So jurors who are shuffled to the back of thepanel are less likely to be questioned or to serve.On at least two occasions the prosecution requested shuf-fles when there were a predominant number of AfricanAmericans in the front of the panel. On yet another occasion the prosecutors complained about the purportedinadequacy of the card shuffle by a defense lawyer but lodgeda formal objection only after the postshuffle panel composition revealed that African-American prospective jurors hadbeen moved forward.Next, we turn to the pattern and practice evidence adduced at petitioner's pretrial Swain hearing. Petitionersubpoenaed a number of current and former Dallas Countyassistant district attorneys, judges, and others who had observed firsthand the prosecution's conduct during jury selection over a number of years. Although most of the witnesses denied the existence of a systematic policy to excludeAfrican-Americans, others disagreed. A Dallas County district judge testified that, when he had served in the DistrictAttorney's Office from the late-1950's to early-1960's, his superior warned him that he would be fired if he permittedany African-Americans to serve on a jury. Similarly, another Dallas County district judge and former assistant district attorney from 1976 to 1978 testified that he believed theoffice had a systematic policy of excluding African-Americansfrom juries.Of more importance, the defense presented evidence thatthe District Attorney's Office had adopted a formal policy toexclude minorities from jury service. A 1963 circular by the537US2 Unit: $U19 [04-16-04 22:45:31] PAGES PGT: OPIN335Cite as: 537 U. S. 322 (2003)Opinion of the CourtDistrict Attorney's Office instructed its prosecutors to exercise peremptory strikes against minorities: " `Do not takeJews, Negroes, Dagos, Mexicans or a member of any minority race on a jury, no matter how rich or how well educated.' "App. 710. A manual entitled "Jury Selection in a CriminalCase" was distributed to prosecutors. It contained an article authored by a former prosecutor (and later a judge) underthe direction of his superiors in the District Attorney's Office, outlining the reasoning for excluding minorities fromjury service. Although the manual was written in 1968, itremained in circulation until 1976, if not later, and was available at least to one of the prosecutors in Miller-El's trial.Id., at 749, 774, 783.Some testimony casts doubt on the State's claim that thesepractices had been discontinued before petitioner's trial.For example, a judge testified that, in 1985, he had to excludea prosecutor from trying cases in his courtroom for racebased discrimination in jury selection. Other testimony indicated that the State, by its own admission, once requesteda jury shuffle in order to reduce the number of AfricanAmericans in the venire. Id., at 788. Concerns over theexclusion of African-Americans by the District Attorney'sOffice were echoed by Dallas County's Chief Public Defender.This evidence had been presented by petitioner, in supportof his Batson claim, to the state and federal courts that denied him relief. It is against this background that we examine whether petitioner's case should be heard by the Courtof Appeals.IIAAs mandated by federal statute, a state prisoner seekinga writ of habeas corpus has no absolute entitlement to appeala district court's denial of his petition. 28 U. S. C. $ 2253.Before an appeal may be entertained, a prisoner who wasdenied habeas relief in the district court must first seek and537US2 Unit: $U19 [04-16-04 22:45:31] PAGES PGT: OPIN336 MILLER-EL v. COCKRELLOpinion of the Courtobtain a COA from a circuit justice or judge. This is a jurisdictional prerequisite because the COA statute mandatesthat "[u]nless a circuit justice or judge issues a certificate ofappealability, an appeal may not be taken to the court ofappeals. . . ." $ 2253(c)(1). As a result, until a COA hasbeen issued federal courts of appeals lack jurisdiction to ruleon the merits of appeals from habeas petitioners.A COA will issue only if the requirements of $ 2253 havebeen satisfied. "The COA statute establishes proceduralrules and requires a threshold inquiry into whether the circuit court may entertain an appeal." Slack, 529 U. S., at482; Hohn v. United States, 524 U. S. 236, 248 (1998). As theCourt of Appeals observed in this case, $ 2253(c) permits theissuance of a COA only where a petitioner has made a "substantial showing of the denial of a constitutional right." InSlack, supra, at 483, we recognized that Congress codifiedour standard, announced in Barefoot v. Estelle, 463 U. S. 880(1983), for determining what constitutes the requisite showing. Under the controlling standard, a petitioner must"sho[w] that reasonable jurists could debate whether (or, forthat matter, agree that) the petition should have been resolved in a different manner or that the issues presentedwere `adequate to deserve encouragement to proceed further.' " 529 U. S., at 484 (quoting Barefoot, supra, at 893,n. 4).The COA determination under $ 2253(c) requires an overview of the claims in the habeas petition and a general assessment of their merits. We look to the District Court'sapplication of AEDPA to petitioner's constitutional claimsand ask whether that resolution was debatable amongst jurists of reason. This threshold inquiry does not require fullconsideration of the factual or legal bases adduced in supportof the claims. In fact, the statute forbids it. When a courtof appeals sidesteps this process by first deciding the meritsof an appeal, and then justifying its denial of a COA based537US2 Unit: $U19 [04-16-04 22:45:31] PAGES PGT: OPIN337Cite as: 537 U. S. 322 (2003)Opinion of the Courton its adjudication of the actual merits, it is in essence decid-ing an appeal without jurisdiction.To that end, our opinion in Slack held that a COA doesnot require a showing that the appeal will succeed. Accordingly, a court of appeals should not decline the applicationfor a COA merely because it believes the applicant will notdemonstrate an entitlement to relief. The holding in Slackwould mean very little if appellate review were denied be-cause the prisoner did not convince a judge, or, for that matter, three judges, that he or she would prevail. It is consist-ent with $ 2253 that a COA will issue in some instanceswhere there is no certainty of ultimate relief. After all,when a COA is sought, the whole premise is that the prisoner" `has already failed in that endeavor.' " Barefoot, supra, at893, n. 4.Our holding should not be misconstrued as directing thata COA always must issue. Statutes such as AEDPA haveplaced more, rather than fewer, restrictions on the power offederal courts to grant writs of habeas corpus to stateprisoners. Duncan v. Walker, 533 U. S. 167, 178 (2001)(" `AEDPA's purpose [is] to further the principles of comity,finality, and federalism' " (quoting Williams v. Taylor, 529U. S. 420, 436 (2000))); Williams v. Taylor, 529 U. S. 362, 399(2000) (opinion of O'Connor, J.). The concept of a threshold,or gateway, test was not the innovation of AEDPA. Congress established a threshold prerequisite to appealability in1908, in large part because it was "concerned with the increasing number of frivolous habeas corpus petitions challenging capital sentences which delayed execution pendingcompletion of the appellate process . . . ." Barefoot, supra,at 892, n. 3. By enacting AEDPA, using the specific standards the Court had elaborated earlier for the threshold test,Congress confirmed the necessity and the requirement of differential treatment for those appeals deserving of attentionfrom those that plainly do not. It follows that issuance of aCOA must not be pro forma or a matter of course.537US2 Unit: $U19 [04-16-04 22:45:31] PAGES PGT: OPIN338 MILLER-EL v. COCKRELLOpinion of the CourtA prisoner seeking a COA must prove " `something morethan the absence of frivolity' " or the existence of mere "goodfaith" on his or her part. Barefoot, supra, at 893. We donot require petitioner to prove, before the issuance of a COA,that some jurists would grant the petition for habeas corpus.Indeed, a claim can be debatable even though every jurist ofreason might agree, after the COA has been granted and thecase has received full consideration, that petitioner will notprevail. As we stated in Slack, "[w]here a district court hasrejected the constitutional claims on the merits, the showingrequired to satisfy $ 2253(c) is straightforward: The peti-tioner must demonstrate that reasonable jurists would findthe district court's assessment of the constitutional claimsdebatable or wrong." 529 U. S., at 484.BSince Miller-El's claim rests on a Batson violation, resolu-tion of his COA application requires a preliminary, thoughnot definitive, consideration of the three-step frameworkmandated byBatson and reaffirmed in our later precedents.E. g., Purkett v. Elem, 514 U. S. 765 (1995) (per curiam);Hernandez v. New York, 500 U. S. 352 (1991) (plurality opin-ion). Contrary to the state trial court's ruling on remand,the State now concedes that petitioner, Miller-El, satisfiedstep one: "[T]here is no dispute that Miller-El presented aprima facie claim" that prosecutors used their peremptorychallenges to exclude venire members on the basis of race.Brief for Respondent 32. Petitioner, for his part, acknowl-edges that the State proceeded through step two by proffering facially race-neutral explanations for these strikes.UnderBatson, then, the question remaining is step three:whether Miller-El "has carried his burden of proving purposeful discrimination." Hernandez, supra, at 359.As we confirmed in Purkett v. Elem, 514 U. S., at 768, thecritical question in determining whether a prisoner hasproved purposeful discrimination at step three is the persua537US2 Unit: $U19 [04-16-04 22:45:31] PAGES PGT: OPIN339Cite as: 537 U. S. 322 (2003)Opinion of the Courtsiveness of the prosecutor's justification for his peremptorystrike. At this stage, "implausible or fantastic justificationsmay (and probably will) be found to be pretexts for purpose-ful discrimination."Ibid. In that instance the issue comesdown to whether the trial court finds the prosecutor's race-neutral explanations to be credible. Credibility can bemeasured by, among other factors, the prosecutor's demeanor; by how reasonable, or how improbable, the explana-tions are; and by whether the proffered rationale has somebasis in accepted trial strategy.InHernandez v. New York, a plurality of the Court concluded that a state court's finding of the absence of discrimi-natory intent is "a pure issue of fact" accorded significantdeference:"Deference to trial court findings on the issue of discriminatory intent makes particular sense in this context be-cause, as we noted inBatson, the finding `largely willturn on evaluation of credibility.' 476 U. S., at 98, n. 21.In the typical peremptory challenge inquiry, the decisivequestion will be whether counsel's race-neutral explana-tion for a peremptory challenge should be believed.There will seldom be much evidence bearing on thatissue, and the best evidence often will be the demeanorof the attorney who exercises the challenge. As withthe state of mind of a juror, evaluation of the prosecu-tor's state of mind based on demeanor and credibilitylies `peculiarly within a trial judge's province.' Wainwright v. Witt, 469 U. S. 412, 428 (1985), citing Patton v.Yount, 467 U. S. 1025, 1038 (1984)." 500 U. S., at 365.Deference is necessary because a reviewing court, whichanalyzes only the transcripts from voir dire, is not as wellpositioned as the trial court is to make credibility determinations. "[I]f an appellate court accepts a trial court's findingthat a prosecutor's race-neutral explanation for his peremptory challenges should be believed, we fail to see how the537US2 Unit: $U19 [04-16-04 22:45:31] PAGES PGT: OPIN340 MILLER-EL v. COCKRELLOpinion of the Courtappellate court nevertheless could find discrimination. Thecredibility of the prosecutor's explanation goes to the heartof the equal protection analysis, and once that has been set-tled, there seems nothing left to review."Id., at 367.In the context of direct review, therefore, we have notedthat "the trial court's decision on the ultimate question ofdiscriminatory intent represents a finding of fact of the sortaccorded great deference on appeal" and will not be over-turned unless clearly erroneous.Id., at 364. A federalcourt's collateral review of a state-court decision must beconsistent with the respect due state courts in our federalsystem. Where 28 U. S. C. $ 2254 applies, our habeas jurisprudence embodies this deference. Factual determinationsby state courts are presumed correct absent clear and convincing evidence to the contrary, $ 2254(e)(1), and a decisionadjudicated on the merits in a state court and based on afactual determination will not be overturned on factualgrounds unless objectively unreasonable in light of the evidence presented in the state-court proceeding, $ 2254(d)(2);see also Williams, 529 U. S., at 399 (opinion of O'Connor, J.).Even in the context of federal habeas, deference does notimply abandonment or abdication of judicial review. Deference does not by definition preclude relief. A federal courtcan disagree with a state court's credibility determinationand, when guided by AEDPA, conclude the decision was unreasonable or that the factual premise was incorrect by clearand convincing evidence. In the context of the threshold examination in this Batson claim the issuance of a COA canbe supported by any evidence demonstrating that, despitethe neutral explanation of the prosecution, the peremptorystrikes in the final analysis were race based. It goes without saying that this includes the facts and circumstances thatwere adduced in support of the prima facie case. Cf. Reevesv. Sanderson Plumbing Products, Inc., 530 U. S. 133 (2000)(in action under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964,employee's prima facie case and evidence that employer's537US2 Unit: $U19 [04-16-04 22:45:31] PAGES PGT: OPIN341Cite as: 537 U. S. 322 (2003)Opinion of the Courtrace-neutral response was a pretext can support a finding ofpurposeful discrimination). Only after a COA is grantedwill a reviewing court determine whether the trial court'sdetermination of the prosecutor's neutrality with respect torace was objectively unreasonable and has been rebutted byclear and convincing evidence to the contrary. At this stage,however, we only ask whether the District Court's application of AEDPA deference, as stated in $$ 2254(d)(2) and(e)(1), to petitioner's Batson claim was debatable amongstjurists of reason.CApplying these rules to Miller-El's application, we have nodifficulty concluding that a COA should have issued. Weconclude, on our review of the record at this stage, that theDistrict Court did not give full consideration to the substantial evidence petitioner put forth in support of the primafacie case. Instead, it accepted without question the statecourt's evaluation of the demeanor of the prosecutors andjurors in petitioner's trial. The Court of Appeals evaluatedMiller-El's application for a COA in the same way. In rulingthat petitioner's claim lacked sufficient merit to justify appellate proceedings, the Court of Appeals recited the requirements for granting a writ under $ 2254, which it interpretedas requiring petitioner to prove that the state-court decision was objectively unreasonable by clear and convincingevidence.This was too demanding a standard on more than one level.It was incorrect for the Court of Appeals, when lookingat the merits, to merge the independent requirements of$$ 2254(d)(2) and (e)(1). AEDPA does not require petitionerto prove that a decision is objectively unreasonable by clearand convincing evidence. The clear and convincing evidencestandard is found in $ 2254(e)(1), but that subsection pertainsonly to state-court determinations of factual issues, ratherthan decisions. Subsection (d)(2) contains the unreasonable537US2 Unit: $U19 [04-16-04 22:45:31] PAGES PGT: OPIN342 MILLER-EL v. COCKRELLOpinion of the Courtrequirement and applies to the granting of habeas reliefrather than to the granting of a COA.The Court of Appeals, moreover, was incorrect for an evenmore fundamental reason. Before the issuance of a COA,the Court of Appeals had no jurisdiction to resolve the mer-its of petitioner's constitutional claims. True, to the extentthat the merits of this case will turn on the agreement ordisagreement with a state-court factual finding, the clear andconvincing evidence and objective unreasonableness standards will apply. At the COA stage, however, a court neednot make a definitive inquiry into this matter. As we havesaid, a COA determination is a separate proceeding, one distinct from the underlying merits. Slack, 529 U. S., at 481;Hohn, 524 U. S., at 241. The Court of Appeals should haveinquired whether a "substantial showing of the denial of aconstitutional right" had been proved. Deciding the substance of an appeal in what should only be a threshold inquiry undermines the concept of a COA. The question isthe debatability of the underlying constitutional claim, notthe resolution of that debate.In this case, the statistical evidence alone raises some debate as to whether the prosecution acted with a race-basedreason when striking prospective jurors. The prosecutorsused their peremptory strikes to exclude 91% of the eligibleAfrican-American venire members, and only one served onpetitioner's jury. In total, 10 of the prosecutors' 14 peremptory strikes were used against African-Americans. Happenstance is unlikely to produce this disparity.The case for debatability is not weakened when we examine the State's defense of the disparate treatment. TheCourt of Appeals held that "[t]he presumption of correctnessis especially strong, where, as here, the trial court and statehabeas court are one and the same." 261 F. 3d, at 449. Aswe have noted, the trial court held its Batson hearing twoyears after the voir dire. While the prosecutors had proffered contemporaneous race-neutral justifications for many537US2 Unit: $U19 [04-16-04 22:45:31] PAGES PGT: OPIN343Cite as: 537 U. S. 322 (2003)Opinion of the Courtof their peremptory strikes, the state trial court had no occasion to judge the credibility of these explanations at thattime because our equal protection jurisprudence then, dictated by Swain, did not require it. As a result, the evidencepresented to the trial court at the Batson hearing was subject to the usual risks of imprecision and distortion from thepassage of time.In this case, three of the State's proffered race-neutral rationales for striking African-American jurors pertained justas well to some white jurors who were not challenged andwho did serve on the jury. The prosecutors explained thattheir peremptory challenges against six African-Americanpotential jurors were based on ambivalence about the deathpenalty; hesitancy to vote to execute defendants capable ofbeing rehabilitated; and the jurors' own family history ofcriminality. In rebuttal of the prosecution's explanation,petitioner identified two empaneled white jurors who expressed ambivalence about the death penalty in a mannersimilar to their African-American counterparts who were thesubject of prosecutorial peremptory challenges. One indicated that capital punishment was not appropriate for a firstoffense, and another stated that it would be "difficult" to impose a death sentence. Similarly, two white jurors expressed hesitation in sentencing to death a defendant whomight be rehabilitated; and four white jurors had familymembers with criminal histories. As a consequence, eventhough the prosecution's reasons for striking AfricanAmerican members of the venire appear race neutral, theapplication of these rationales to the venire might have beenselective and based on racial considerations. Whether acomparative juror analysis would demonstrate the prosecutors' rationales to have been pretexts for discrimination isan unnecessary determination at this stage, but the evidencedoes make debatable the District Court's conclusion that nopurposeful discrimination occurred.537US2 Unit: $U19 [04-16-04 22:45:31] PAGES PGT: OPIN344 MILLER-EL v. COCKRELLOpinion of the CourtWe question the Court of Appeals' and state trial court'sdismissive and strained interpretation of petitioner's evidence of disparate questioning. 261 F. 3d, at 452 ("The find-ings of the state court that there was no disparate questioning of the Batson jurors . . . [is] fully supported by therecord"). Petitioner argues that the prosecutors' sole purpose in using disparate questioning was to elicit responsesfrom the African-American venire members that reflected anopposition to the death penalty or an unwillingness to impose a minimum sentence, either of which justified for-causechallenges by the prosecution under the then-applicablestate law. This is more than a remote possibility. Disparate questioning did occur. Petitioner submits that disparatequestioning created the appearance of divergent opinionseven though the venire members' views on the relevant subject might have been the same. It follows that, if the use ofdisparate questioning is determined by race at the outset, itis likely a justification for a strike based on the resultingdivergent views would be pretextual. In this context thedifferences in the questions posed by the prosecutors aresome evidence of purposeful discrimination. Batson, 476U. S., at 97 ("Similarly, the prosecutor's questions and statements during voir dire examination and in exercising hischallenges may support or refute an inference of discriminatory purpose").As a preface to questions about views the prospective jurors held on the death penalty, the prosecution in some instances gave an explicit account of the execution process.Of those prospective jurors who were asked their views oncapital punishment, the preface was used for 53% of theAfrican-Americans questioned on the issue but for just 6%of white persons. The State explains the disparity by asserting that a disproportionate number of African-Americanvenire members expressed doubts as to the death penalty ontheir juror questionnaires. This cannot be accepted withoutfurther inquiry, however, for the State's own evidence is in537US2 Unit: $U19 [04-16-04 22:45:31] PAGES PGT: OPIN345Cite as: 537 U. S. 322 (2003)Opinion of the Courtconsistent with that explanation. By the State's calculations, 10 African-American and 10 white prospective jurorsexpressed some hesitation about the death penalty on theirquestionnaires; however, of that group, 7 out of 10 AfricanAmericans and only 2 out of 10 whites were given the explicit description.There is an even greater disparity along racial lines whenwe consider disparate questioning concerning minimum punishments. Ninety-four percent of whites were informed ofthe statutory minimum sentence, compared to only twelveand a half percent of African-Americans. No explanation isproffered for the statistical disparity. Pierre v. Louisiana,306 U. S. 354, 361-362 (1939) (" `The fact that the testimony. . . was not challenged by evidence appropriately direct, cannot be brushed aside.' Had there been evidence obtainableto contradict and disprove the testimony offered by petitioner, it cannot be assumed that the State would have refrained from introducing it" (quoting Norris v. Alabama, 294U. S. 587, 594-595 (1935))). Indeed, while petitioner's appeal was pending before the Texas Court of Criminal Appeals, that court found a Batson violation where this preciseline of disparate questioning on mandatory minimums wasemployed by one of the same prosecutors who tried the instant case. Chambers v. State, 784 S. W. 2d 29, 31 (Tex.Crim. App. 1989). It follows, in our view, that a fair interpretation of the record on this threshold examination in theCOA analysis is that the prosecutors designed their questions to elicit responses that would justify the removal ofAfrican-Americans from the venire. Batson, supra, at 93("Circumstantial evidence of invidious intent may includeproof of disproportionate impact. . . . We have observed thatunder some circumstances proof of discriminatory impact`may for all practical purposes demonstrate unconstitutionality because in various circumstances the discrimination isvery difficult to explain on nonracial grounds' ").537US2 Unit: $U19 [04-16-04 22:45:31] PAGES PGT: OPIN346 MILLER-EL v. COCKRELLOpinion of the CourtWe agree with petitioner that the prosecution's decision toseek a jury shuffle when a predominant number of AfricanAmericans were seated in the front of the panel, along withits decision to delay a formal objection to the defense's shuffle until after the new racial composition was revealed, raisea suspicion that the State sought to exclude AfricanAmericans from the jury. Our concerns are amplified by thefact that the state court also had before it, and apparentlyignored, testimony demonstrating that the Dallas CountyDistrict Attorney's Office had, by its own admission, usedthis process to manipulate the racial composition of the juryin the past. App. 788 (noting that a prosecutor admitted torequesting a jury shuffle "because a predominant number ofthe first six, eight or ten jurors were blacks"). Even thoughthe practice of jury shuffling might not be denominated as aBatson claim because it does not involve a peremptory challenge, the use of the practice here tends to erode the credibility of the prosecution's assertion that race was not a motivating factor in the jury selection.Finally, in our threshold examination, we accord someweight to petitioner's historical evidence of racial discrimination by the District Attorney's Office. Evidence presentedat the Swain hearing indicates that African-Americans almost categorically were excluded from jury service. Batson, supra, at 94 ("Proof of systematic exclusion from thevenire raises an inference of purposeful discrimination because the `result bespeaks discrimination' "); Vasquez v. Hillery, 474 U. S. 254, 259 (1986) ("As early as 1942, this Courtrejected a contention that absence of blacks on the grandjury was insufficient to support an inference of discrimination, summarily asserting that `chance or accident couldhardly have accounted for the continuous omission of negroesfrom the grand jury lists for so long a period as sixteen yearsor more' " (quoting Hill v. Texas, 316 U. S. 400, 404 (1942)));Hernandez v. Texas, 347 U. S. 475, 482 (1954) ("But it taxesour credulity to say that mere chance resulted in there being537US2 Unit: $U19 [04-16-04 22:45:31] PAGES PGT: OPIN347Cite as: 537 U. S. 322 (2003)Opinion of the Courtno members of this class among the over six thousand jurorscalled in the past 25 years"). Only the Federal MagistrateJudge addressed the import of this evidence in the contextof a Batson claim; and he found it both unexplained and disturbing. Irrespective of whether the evidence could provesufficient to support a charge of systematic exclusion ofAfrican-Americans, it reveals that the culture of the DistrictAttorney's Office in the past was suffused with bias againstAfrican-Americans in jury selection. This evidence, ofcourse, is relevant to the extent it casts doubt on the legitimacy of the motives underlying the State's actions in petitioner's case. Even if we presume at this stage that theprosecutors in Miller-El's case were not part of this cultureof discrimination, the evidence suggests they were likely notignorant of it. Both prosecutors joined the District Attorney's Office when assistant district attorneys received formaltraining in excluding minorities from juries. The supposition that race was a factor could be reinforced by the factthat the prosecutors marked the race of each prospectivejuror on their juror cards.In resolving the equal protection claim against petitioner,the state courts made no mention of either the jury shuffleor the historical record of purposeful discrimination. Weadhere to the proposition that a state court need not makedetailed findings addressing all the evidence before it. Thisfailure, however, does not diminish its significance. Ourconcerns here are heightened by the fact that, when presented with this evidence, the state trial court somehow reasoned that there was not even the inference of discriminationto support a prima facie case. This was clear error, and theState declines to defend this particular ruling. "If thesegeneral assertions were accepted as rebutting a defendant'sprima facie case, the Equal Protection Clause `would be buta vain and illusory requirement.' " Batson, 476 U. S., at 98(quoting Norris, 294 U. S., at 598).537US2 Unit: $U19 [04-16-04 22:45:31] PAGES PGT: OPIN348 MILLER-EL v. COCKRELLScalia, J., concurringTo secure habeas relief, petitioner must demonstrate thata state court's finding of the absence of purposeful discrimination was incorrect by clear and convincing evidence, 28U. S. C. $ 2254(e)(1), and that the corresponding factual determination was "objectively unreasonable" in light of the record before the court. The State represents to us that petitioner will not be able to satisfy his burden. That may ormay not be the case. It is not, however, the question beforeus. The COA inquiry asks only if the District Court's decision was debatable. Our threshold examination convincesus that it was.The judgment of the Fifth Circuit is reversed, and the caseis remanded for further proceedings consistent with thisopinion.