The National Labor Relations Act (Act) affords employeesthe rights to organize and to engage in collective bargainingfree from employer interference. The Act does not grant*Briefs of amici curiae urging reversal were filed for the AmericanFederation of Labor and Congress of Industrial Organizations by MarshaS. Berzon and Laurence Gold; and for the American Nurses Associationby Barbara J. Sapin and Woody N. Peterson.Briefs of amici curiae urging affirmance were filed for the AmericanHealth Care Association by Andrew A. Peterson, Thomas V. Walsh, andPatrick L. Vaccaro; for the Council on Labor Law Equality by GerardC. Smetana and Michael E. Avakian; and for U. S. Home Care Corp. byWilliam H. DuRoss III.511us2$54L 11-05-97 14:07:43 PAGES OPINPGT573Cite as: 511 U. S. 571 (1994)Opinion of the Courtthose rights to supervisory employees, however, so the statu-tory definition of supervisor becomes essential in determining which employees are covered by the Act. In this case,we decide the narrow question whether the National LaborRelations Board's (Board's) test for determining if a nurse isa supervisor is consistent with the statutory definition.ICongress enacted the National Labor Relations Act in1935. Act of July 5, 1935, ch. 372, 49 Stat. 449. In the earlyyears of its operation, the Act did not exempt supervisoryemployees from its coverage; as a result, supervisory employees could organize as part of bargaining units and negoti-ate with the employer. Employers complained that thisproduced an imbalance between labor and management, butin 1947 this Court refused to carve out a supervisory employee exception from the Act's broad coverage. The Courtstated that "it is for Congress, not for us, to create exceptions or qualifications at odds with [the Act's] plain terms."Packard Motor Car Co. v. NLRB, 330 U. S. 485, 490 (1947).Later that year, Congress did just that, amending the statuteso that the term " `employee' . . . shall not include . . . anyindividual employed as a supervisor." 61 Stat. 137-138, codified at 29 U. S. C. $ 152(3). Congress defined a supervisoras:"[A]ny individual having authority, in the interest of theemployer, to hire, transfer, suspend, lay off, recall, promote, discharge, assign, reward, or discipline other em-ployees, or responsibly to direct them, or to adjust theirgrievances, or effectively to recommend such action, ifin connection with the foregoing the exercise of suchauthority is not of a merely routine or clerical nature,but requires the use of independent judgment." 61Stat. 138, codified at 29 U. S. C. $ 152(11).As the Board has stated, the statute requires the res-olution of three questions; and each must be answered in511us2$54L 11-05-97 14:07:43 PAGES OPINPGT574 NLRB v. HEALTH CARE & RETIREMENT CORP.OF AMERICAOpinion of the Courtthe affirmative if an employee is to be deemed a super-visor. First, does the employee have authority to engage in1 of the 12 listed activities? Second, does the exercise ofthat authority require "the use of independent judgment"?Third, does the employee hold the authority "in the interest of the employer"? Northcrest Nursing Home, 313N. L. R. B. 491, 493 (1993). This case concerns only thethird question, and our decision turns upon the proper inter-pretation of the statutory phrase "in the interest of theemployer."In cases involving nurses, the Board admits that it hasinterpreted the statutory phrase in a unique manner. Tr. ofOral Arg. 52 (Board: "[t]he Board has not applied a theorythat's phrased in the same terms to other categories of professionals"). The Board has held that "a nurse's direction ofless-skilled employees, in the exercise of professional judgment incidental to the treatment of patients, is not authorityexercised `in the interest of the employer.' " Pet. for Cert.15. As stated in reviewing its position on this issue in itsrecent decision in Northcrest Nursing Home, supra, at 491-492, the Board believes that its special interpretation of "inthe interest of the employer" in cases involving nurses isnecessary because professional employees (including registered nurses) are not excluded from coverage under the Act.See 29 U. S. C. $ 152(12). Respondent counters that "[t]hereis simply no basis in the language of the statute to concludethat direction given to aides in the interest of nursing homeresidents, pursuant to professional norms, is not `in the interest of the employer.' " Brief for Respondent 30.In this case, the Board's General Counsel issued a complaint alleging that respondent, the owner and operator ofthe Heartland Nursing Home in Urbana, Ohio, had committed unfair labor practices in disciplining four licensedpractical nurses. At Heartland, the Director of Nursing hasoverall responsibility for the nursing department. There isalso an Assistant Director of Nursing, 9 to 11 staff nurses511us2$54L 11-05-97 14:07:43 PAGES OPINPGT575Cite as: 511 U. S. 571 (1994)Opinion of the Court(including both registered nurses and the four licensed prac-tical nurses involved in this case), and 50 to 55 nurses' aides.The staff nurses are the senior ranking employees on dutyafter 5 p.m. during the week and at all times on weekends--approximately 75% of the time. The staff nurses have responsibility to ensure adequate staffing; to make daily workassignments; to monitor the aides' work to ensure properperformance; to counsel and discipline aides; to resolve aides'problems and grievances; to evaluate aides' performances;and to report to management. In light of these varied activ-ities, respondent contended, among other things, that thefour nurses involved in this case were supervisors, and sonot protected under the Act. The Administrative LawJudge (ALJ) disagreed, concluding that the nurses were notsupervisors. The ALJ stated that the nurses' supervisorywork did not "equate to responsibly . . . direct[ing] the aidesin the interest of the employer," noting that "the nurses'focus is on the well-being of the residents rather than of theemployer." 306 N. L. R. B. 68, 70 (1992) (internal quotationmarks omitted) (emphasis added). The Board stated onlythat "[t]he judge found, and we agree, that the Respondent'sstaff nurses are employees within the meaning of the Act."306 N. L. R. B. 63, 63, n. 1 (1992).The United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuitreversed. 987 F. 2d 1256 (1993). The Court of Appeals haddecided in earlier cases that the Board's test for determiningthe supervisory status of nurses was inconsistent with thestatute. See Beverly California Corp. v. NLRB, 970 F. 2d1548 (1992); NLRB v. Beacon Light Christian NursingHome, 825 F. 2d 1076 (1987). In Beverly, for example, thecourt had stated that "the notion that direction given to subordinate personnel to ensure that the employer's nursinghome customers receive `quality care' somehow fails to qualify as direction given `in the interest of the employer' makesvery little sense to us." 970 F. 2d, at 1552. Addressing theinstant case, the court followed Beverly and again held the511us2$54L 11-05-97 14:07:43 PAGES OPINPGT576 NLRB v. HEALTH CARE & RETIREMENT CORP.OF AMERICAOpinion of the CourtBoard's interpretation inconsistent with the statute. 987 F.2d, at 1260. The court further stated that "it is up to Congress to carve out an exception for the health care field, in-cluding nurses, should Congress not wish for such nurses tobe considered supervisors." Id., at 1261. The court "re-mind[ed] the Board that it is the courts, and not the Board,who bear the final responsibility for interpreting the law."Id., at 1260. After concluding that the Board's test was in-consistent with the statute, the court found that the fourlicensed practical nurses involved in this case were supervi-sors. Id., at 1260-1261.We granted certiorari, 510 U. S. 810 (1993), to resolve theconflict in the Courts of Appeals over the validity of theBoard's rule. See, e. g., Waverly-Cedar Falls Health CareCenter, Inc. v. NLRB, 933 F. 2d 626 (CA8 1991); NLRB v.Res-Care, Inc., 705 F. 2d 1461 (CA7 1983); Misericordia Hospital Medical Center v. NLRB, 623 F. 2d 808 (CA2 1980).IIWe must decide whether the Board's test for determiningif nurses are supervisors is rational and consistent with theAct. See Fall River Dyeing & Finishing Corp. v. NLRB,482 U. S. 27, 42 (1987). We agree with the Court of Appealsthat it is not. AThe Board's interpretation, that a nurse's supervisory ac-tivity is not exercised in the interest of the employer if it isincidental to the treatment of patients, is similar to an ap-proach the Board took, and we rejected, in NLRB v. YeshivaUniv., 444 U. S. 672 (1980). There, we had to determinewhether faculty members at Yeshiva were "managerial employees." Managerial employees are those who "formulateand effectuate management policies by expressing and making operative the decisions of their employer." NLRB v.Bell Aerospace Co., 416 U. S. 267, 288 (1974) (internal quota-tion marks omitted). Like supervisory employees, manage511us2$54L 11-05-97 14:07:43 PAGES OPINPGT577Cite as: 511 U. S. 571 (1994)Opinion of the Courtrial employees are excluded from the Act's coverage. Id., at283 ("so clearly outside the Act that no specific exclusionaryprovision was thought necessary"). The Board in Yeshivaargued that the faculty members were not managerial, contending that faculty authority was "exercised in the faculty'sown interest rather than in the interest of the university."444 U. S., at 685. To support its position, the Board placedmuch reliance on the faculty members' independent profes-sional role in designing the curriculum and in dischargingtheir professional obligations to the students. We found theBoard's reasoning unpersuasive:"In arguing that a faculty member exercising independ-ent judgment acts primarily in his own interest andtherefore does not represent the interest of his em-ployer, the Board assumes that the professional interests of the faculty and the interests of the institution aredistinct, separable entities with which a faculty membercould not simultaneously be aligned. The Court ofAppeals found no justification for this distinction, andwe perceive none. In fact, the faculty's professionalinterests--as applied to governance at a universitylike Yeshiva--cannot be separated from those of theinstitution.". . . The `business' of a university is education."Id.,at 688.The Board's reasoning fares no better here than it did inYeshiva. As in Yeshiva, the Board has created a false di-chotomy--in this case, a dichotomy between acts taken inconnection with patient care and acts taken in the interestof the employer. That dichotomy makes no sense. Patientcare is the business of a nursing home, and it follows thatattending to the needs of the nursing home patients, who arethe employer's customers, is in the interest of the employer.See Beverly California, supra, at 1553. We thus see nobasis for the Board's blanket assertion that supervisory au511us2$54L 11-05-97 14:07:43 PAGES OPINPGT578 NLRB v. HEALTH CARE & RETIREMENT CORP.OF AMERICAOpinion of the Courtthority exercised in connection with patient care is somehownot in the interest of the employer.Our conclusion is supported by the case that gave impetusto the statutory provision now before us. InPackardMotor, we considered the phrase "in the interest of an employer" contained in the definition of "employer" in the origi-nal 1935 Act. We stated that "[e]very employee, from thevery fact of employment in the master's business, is requiredto act in his interest." 330 U. S., at 488. We rejected theargument of the dissenters who, like the Board in this case,advanced the proposition that the phrase covered only "thosewho acted for management . . . in formulating [and] executingits labor policies." Id., at 496 (Douglas, J., dissenting); cf.Reply Brief for Petitioner 4 (filed July 23, 1993) (nurses aresupervisors when, "in addition to performing their professional duties and responsibilities, they also possess the authority to affect the job status or pay of employees workingunder them"). Consistent with the ordinary meaning of thephrase, the Court in Packard Motor determined that actswithin the scope of employment or on the authorized business of the employer are "in the interest of the employer."330 U. S., at 488-489. There is no indication that Congressintended any different meaning when it included the phrasein the statutory definition of supervisor later in 1947. To besure, Congress altered the result of Packard Motor, but itdid not change the meaning of the phrase "in the interest ofthe employer" when doing so. And we of course have rejected the argument that a statute altering the resultreached by a judicial decision necessarily changes the meaning of the language interpreted in that decision. See PublicEmployees Retirement System of Ohio v. Betts, 492 U. S.158, 168 (1989).Not only is the Board's test inconsistent with Yeshiva,Packard Motor, and the ordinary meaning of the phrase "inthe interest of the employer," it also renders portions of thestatutory definition in $ 2(11) meaningless. Under $ 2(11),511us2$54L 11-05-97 14:07:43 PAGES OPINPGT579Cite as: 511 U. S. 571 (1994)Opinion of the Courtan employee who in the course of employment uses independ-ent judgment to engage in 1 of the 12 listed activities, including responsible direction of other employees, is a supervisor.Under the Board's test, however, a nurse who in the courseof employment uses independent judgment to engage in responsible direction of other employees is not a supervisor.Only a nurse who in the course of employment uses independent judgment to engage in one of the activities relatedto another employee's job status or pay can qualify as a supervisor under the Board's test. See Reply Brief for Peti-tioner 4 (filed July 23, 1993) (nurses are supervisors whenthey affect "job status or pay of employees working underthem"). The Board provides no plausible justification, however, for reading the responsible direction portion of $ 2(11)out of the statute in nurse cases, and we can perceive none.The Board defends its test by arguing that phrases in$ 2(11) such as "independent judgment" and "responsibly todirect" are ambiguous, so the Board needs to be given ampleroom to apply them to different categories of employees.That is no doubt true, but it is irrelevant in this particularcase because interpretation of those phrases is not the underpinning of the Board's test. The Board instead has placedexclusive reliance on the "in the interest of the employer"language in $ 2(11). With respect to that particular phrase,we find no ambiguity supporting the Board's position. Itshould go without saying, moreover, that ambiguity in oneportion of a statute does not give the Board license to distortother provisions of the statute. Yet that is what the Boardseeks us to sanction in this case.The interpretation of the "in the interest of the employer"language mandated by our precedents and by the ordinarymeaning of the phrase does not render the phrase meaningless in the statutory definition. The language ensures, forexample, that union stewards who adjust grievances are notconsidered supervisory employees and deprived of the Act'sprotections. But the language cannot support the Board's511us2$54L 11-05-97 14:07:43 PAGES OPINPGT580 NLRB v. HEALTH CARE & RETIREMENT CORP.OF AMERICAOpinion of the Courtargument that supervision of the care of patients is not inthe interest of the employer. The welfare of the patient,after all, is no less the object and concern of the employerthan it is of the nurses. And the statutory dichotomy theBoard has created is no more justified in the health care fieldthan it would be in any other business where supervisoryduties are a necessary incident to the production of goods orthe provision of services.BBecause the Board's test is inconsistent with both the stat-utory language and this Court's precedents, the Board seeksto shift ground, putting forth a series of nonstatutory argu-ments. None of them persuades us that we can ignore thestatutory language and our case law.The Board first contends that we should defer to its testbecause, according to the Board, granting organizationalrights to nurses whose supervisory authority concerns patient care does not threaten the conflicting loyalties that thesupervisor exception was designed to avoid. Brief for Petitioner 25. We rejected the same argument in Yeshivawhere the Board contended that there was "no danger ofdivided loyalty and no need for the managerial exclusion" forthe Yeshiva faculty members. 444 U. S., at 684. And wemust reject that reasoning again here. The Act is to be en-forced according to its own terms, not by creating legal categories inconsistent with its meaning, as the Board has donein nurse cases. Whether the Board proceeds through adjudication or rulemaking, the statute must control the Board'sdecision, not the other way around. See Florida Power &Light Co. v. Electrical Workers, 417 U. S. 790, 811 (1974); cf.Packard Motor, supra, at 493 (rejecting resort to policy andlegislative history in interpreting meaning of the phrase "inthe interest of the employer"). Even on the assumption,moreover, that the statute permits consideration of the potential for divided loyalties so that a unique interpretationis permitted in the health care field, we do not share the511us2$54L 11-05-97 14:07:43 PAGES OPINPGT581Cite as: 511 U. S. 571 (1994)Opinion of the CourtBoard's confidence that there is no danger of divided loyaltyhere. Nursing home owners may want to implement policies to ensure that patients receive the best possible caredespite potential adverse reaction from employees workingunder the nurses' direction. If so, the statute gives nursinghome owners the ability to insist on the undivided loyalty ofits nurses notwithstanding the Board's impression that thereis no danger of divided loyalty.The Board also argues that "[t]he statutory criterion ofhaving authority `in the interest of the employer' . . . mustnot be read so broadly that it overrides Congress's intentionto accord the protections of the Act to professional employees." Brief for Petitioner 26; see 29 U. S. C. $ 152(12). TheAct does not distinguish professional employees from otheremployees for purposes of the definition of supervisor in$ 2(11). The supervisor exclusion applies to "any individual"meeting the statutory requirements, not to "any nonprofessional employee." In addition, the Board relied on thesame argument in Yeshiva, but to no avail. The Board argued that "the managerial exclusion cannot be applied in astraightforward fashion to professional employees becausethose employees often appear to be exercising managerialauthority when they are merely performing routine job duties." 444 U. S., at 683-684. Holding to the contrary, wesaid that the Board could not support a statutory distinctionbetween the university's interest and the managerial interestbeing exercised on its behalf. There is no reason for a different result here. To be sure, as recognized in Yeshiva,there may be "some tension between the Act's exclusion of[supervisory and] managerial employees and its inclusion ofprofessionals," but we find no authority for "suggesting thatthat tension can be resolved" by distorting the statutory language in the manner proposed by the Board. Id., at 686.Finally, as a reason for us to defer to its conclusion, theBoard cites legislative history of the 1974 amendments toother sections of the Act. Those amendments did not alter511US2 Unit: $U54 [11-04-99 07:40:57] PAGES PGT: OPIN582 NLRB v. HEALTH CARE & RETIREMENT CORP.OF AMERICAOpinion of the Courtthe test for supervisory status in the health care field, yetthe Board points to a statement in a Committee Report expressing apparent approval of the Board's then-current ap-plication of its supervisory employee test to nurses. S. Rep.No. 93-766, p. 6 (1974); see Yeshiva, supra, at 690, n. 30. Asan initial matter, it is far from clear that the Board in facthad a consistent test for nurses before 1974. Compare AvonConvalescent Center, Inc., 200 N. L. R. B. 702 (1972), withDoctors' Hospital of Modesto, Inc., 183 N. L. R. B. 950 (1970).In any event, the isolated statement in the 1974 CommitteeReport does not represent an authoritative interpretation ofthe phrase "in the interest of the employer," which was en-acted by Congress in 1947. "[I]t is the function of the courtsand not the Legislature, much less a Committee of one Houseof the Legislature, to say what an enacted statute means."Pierce v. Underwood, 487 U. S. 552, 566 (1988). Indeed, inAmerican Hospital Assn. v. NLRB, 499 U. S. 606 (1991), thepetitioner pointed to isolated statements from the same 1974Senate Report cited here and argued that they revealed Con-gress' intent with respect to a provision of the original 1935Act. We dismissed the argument, stating that such state-ments do not have "the force of law, for the Constitution isquite explicit about the procedure that Congress must followin legislating."Id., at 616; see also Betts, 492 U. S., at 168.In this case as well, we must reject the Board's reliance onthe 1974 Committee Report. If Congress wishes to enactthe policies of the Board, it can do so without indirection.See generally Central Bank of Denver, N. A. v. First Interstate Bank of Denver, N. A., ante, at 185-188.IIIAn examination of the professional's duties (or in this casethe duties of the four nonprofessional nurses) to determinewhether 1 or more of the 12 listed activities is performed ina manner that makes the employee a supervisor is, of course,part of the Board's routine and proper adjudicative function.511us2$54L 11-05-97 14:07:43 PAGES OPINPGT583Cite as: 511 U. S. 571 (1994)Opinion of the CourtIn cases involving nurses, that inquiry no doubt could leadthe Board in some cases to conclude that supervisory statushas not been demonstrated. The Board has not sought tosustain its decision on that basis here, however. It has chosen instead to rely on an industrywide interpretation of thephrase "in the interest of the employer" that contravenesprecedents of this Court and has no relation to the ordinarymeaning of that language.To be sure, in applying $ 2(11) in other industries, theBoard on occasion reaches results reflecting a distinction be-tween authority arising from professional knowledge and authority encompassing front-line management prerogatives.It is important to emphasize, however, that in almost all ofthose cases (unlike in cases involving nurses) the Board's decisions did not result from manipulation of the statutoryphrase "in the interest of the employer," but instead from afinding that the employee in question had not met the otherrequirements for supervisory status under the Act, such asthe requirement that the employee exercise one of the listedactivities in a nonroutine manner. See supra, at 573 (listingother requirements for supervisory status). That may explain why the Board did not cite in its submissions to thisCourt a single case outside the health care field approvingthe interpretation of "in the interest of the employer" theBoard uses in nurse cases. That the Board sometimes findsa professional employee not to be a supervisor when applying other elements of the statutory definition of $ 2(11) cannot be shoehorned into the conclusion that the Board can relyon its strained interpretation of the phrase "in the interest ofthe employer" in all nurse cases. If we accepted the Board'sposition in this case, moreover, nothing would prevent theBoard from applying this interpretation of "in the interestof the employer" to all professional employees.We note further that our decision casts no doubt on Boardor court decisions interpreting parts of $ 2(11) other than thespecific phrase "in the interest of the employer." Because511us2$54L 11-05-97 14:07:43 PAGES OPINPGT584 NLRB v. HEALTH CARE & RETIREMENT CORP.OF AMERICAGinsburg, J., dissentingthe Board's interpretation of "in the interest of the em-ployer" is for the most part confined to nurse cases, our decision will have almost no effect outside that context. Anyparade of horribles about the meaning of this decision foremployees in other industries is thus quite misplaced; indeed,the Board does not make that argument.In sum, the Board's test for determining the supervisorystatus of nurses is inconsistent with the statute and our prec-edents. The Board did not petition this Court to uphold itsorder in this case under any other theory. See Brief forRespondent 21, n. 25. If the case presented the questionwhether these nurses were supervisors under the propertest, we would have given a lengthy exposition and analysisof the facts in the record. But as we have indicated, theBoard made and defended its decision by relying on the particular test it has applied to nurses. Our conclusion that theCourt of Appeals was correct to find the Board's test inconsistent with the statute therefore suffices to resolve the case.The judgment of the Court of Appeals is