Petitioner Anthony Palazzolo owns a waterfront parcel ofland in the town of Westerly, Rhode Island. Almost all ofthe property is designated as coastal wetlands under RhodeIsland law. After petitioner's development proposals wererejected by respondent Rhode Island Coastal ResourcesManagement Council (Council), he sued in state court, asserting the Council's application of its wetlands regulationstook the property without compensation in violation of theTakings Clause of the Fifth Amendment, binding uponthe State through the Due Process Clause of the FourteenthAmendment. Petitioner sought review in this Court,contending the Supreme Court of Rhode Island erred in rejecting his takings claim. We granted certiorari. 531 U. S.923 (2000).IThe town of Westerly is on an edge of the Rhode Islandcoastline. The town's western border is the PawcatuckRiver, which at that point is the boundary between RhodeBlumenthal of Connecticut, Thurbert E. Baker of Georgia, Earl I. Anzaiof Hawaii, Andrew Ketterer of Maine, Thomas F. Reilly of Massachusetts,Mike McGrath of Montana, Frankie Sue Del Papa of Nevada, Phillip T.McLaughlin of New Hampshire, John J. Farmer, Jr., of New Jersey, EliotSpitzer of New York, Betty D. Montgomery of Ohio, W. A. Drew Edmondson of Oklahoma, Mark W. Barnett of South Dakota, William H. Sorrellof Vermont, Iver A. Stridiron of the Virgin Islands, and Christine O. Gregoire of Washington; for the County of Santa Barbara by Stephen ShaneStark and Alan L. Seltzer; for the American Planning Association et al.by Timothy J. Dowling and James E. Ryan; for the Board of County Commissioners of the County of La Plata, Colorado, by Michael A. Goldmanand Jeffery P. Robbins; for the National Conference of State Legislatureset al. by Richard Ruda and James I. Crowley; for the National WildlifeFederation et al. by Vicki L. Been and Glenn P. Sugameli; for Save theBay-People for Narragansett Bay by Deming E. Sherman and KendraBeaver; and for Daniel W. Bromley et al. by John D. Echeverria.Briefs of amici curiae were filed for the National Association of HomeBuilders by Christopher G. Senior; and for Dr. John M. Teal et al. byPatrick A. Parenteau and Tim Eichenberg.533US2 Unit: $U85 [10-19-02 15:38:31] PAGES PGT: OPIN612 PALAZZOLO v. RHODE ISLANDOpinion of the CourtIsland and Connecticut. Situated on land purchased fromthe Narragansett Indian Tribe, the town was incorporatedin 1669 and had a precarious, though colorful, early his-tory. Both Connecticut and Massachusetts contested theboundaries--and indeed the validity--of Rhode Island'sroyal charter; and Westerly's proximity to Connecticut invited encroachments during these jurisdictional squabbles.See M. Best, The Town that Saved a State--Westerly 60-83(1943); see also W. McLoughlin, Rhode Island: A BicentennialHistory 39-57 (1978). When the borders of the RhodeIsland Colony were settled by compact in 1728, the town'sdevelopment was more orderly, and with some historicaldistinction. For instance, Watch Hill Point, the peninsulaat the southwestern tip of the town, was of strategic importance in the Revolutionary War and the War of 1812. SeeBest,supra, at 190; F. Denison, Westerly and its Witnesses118-119 (1878).In later times Westerly's coastal location had a new sig-nificance: It became a popular vacation and seaside destination. One of the town's historians gave this happy account:"After the Civil War the rapid growth of manufactureand expansion of trade had created a spending class onpleasure bent, and Westerly had superior attractions tooffer, surf bathing on ocean beaches, quieter bathing insalt and fresh water ponds, fishing, annual sail and latermotor boat races. The broad beaches of clean whitesand dip gently toward the sea; there are no odorousmarshes at low tide, no railroad belches smoke, and theclimate is unrivalled on the coast, that of Newport onlyexcepted. In the phenomenal heat wave of 1881 oceanresorts from northern New England to southern NewJersey sweltered as the thermometer climbed to 95 and104 degrees, while Watch Hill enjoyed a comfortable 80.When Providence to the north runs a temperature of 90,the mercury in this favored spot remains at 77." Best,supra, at 192.533US2 Unit: $U85 [10-19-02 15:38:31] PAGES PGT: OPIN613Cite as: 533 U. S. 606 (2001)Opinion of the CourtWesterly today has about 20,000 year-round residents, andthousands of summer visitors come to enjoy its beaches andcoastal advantages.One of the more popular attractions is Misquamicut StateBeach, a lengthy expanse of coastline facing Block IslandSound and beyond to the Atlantic Ocean. The primary pointof access to the beach is Atlantic Avenue, a well-traveled3-mile stretch of road running along the coastline within thetown's limits. At its western end, Atlantic Avenue is something of a commercial strip, with restaurants, hotels, arcades,and other typical seashore businesses. The pattern of development becomes more residential as the road winds eastward onto a narrow spine of land bordered to the south bythe beach and the ocean, and to the north by WinnapaugPond, an intertidal inlet often used by residents for boating,fishing, and shellfishing.In 1959 petitioner, a lifelong Westerly resident, decidedto invest in three undeveloped, adjoining parcels along thiseastern stretch of Atlantic Avenue. To the north, the property faces, and borders upon, Winnapaug Pond; the south ofthe property faces Atlantic Avenue and the beachfronthomes abutting it on the other side, and beyond that thedunes and the beach. To purchase and hold the property,petitioner and associates formed Shore Gardens, Inc. (SGI).After SGI purchased the property petitioner bought out hisassociates and became the sole shareholder. In the first decade of SGI's ownership of the property the corporation submitted a plat to the town subdividing the property into 80lots; and it engaged in various transactions that left it with74 lots, which together encompassed about 20 acres. Duringthe same period SGI also made initial attempts to developthe property and submitted intermittent applications tostate agencies to fill substantial portions of the parcel. Mostof the property was then, as it is now, salt marsh subject totidal flooding. The wet ground and permeable soil wouldrequire considerable fill--as much as six feet in some533US2 Unit: $U85 [10-19-02 15:38:31] PAGES PGT: OPIN614 PALAZZOLO v. RHODE ISLANDOpinion of the Courtplaces--before significant structures could be built. SGI'sproposal, submitted in 1962 to the Rhode Island Division ofHarbors and Rivers (DHR), sought to dredge from Winna-paug Pond and fill the entire property. The application wasdenied for lack of essential information. A second, similarproposal followed a year later. A third application, submitted in 1966 while the second application was pending, proposed more limited filling of the land for use as a privatebeach club. These latter two applications were referred tothe Rhode Island Department of Natural Resources, whichindicated initial assent. The agency later withdrew approval, however, citing adverse environmental impacts.SGI did not contest the ruling.No further attempts to develop the property were madefor over a decade. Two intervening events, however, become important to the issues presented. First, in 1971,Rhode Island enacted legislation creating the Council, anagency charged with the duty of protecting the State'scoastal properties. 1971 R. I. Pub. Laws, ch. 279, $ 1 et seq.Regulations promulgated by the Council designated saltmarshes like those on SGI's property as protected "coastalwetlands," Rhode Island Coastal Resources ManagementProgram (CRMP) $ 210.3 (as amended, June 28, 1983) (lodgedwith the Clerk of this Court), on which development is limited to a great extent. Second, in 1978, SGI's corporatecharter was revoked for failure to pay corporate incometaxes; and title to the property passed, by operation of statelaw, to petitioner as the corporation's sole shareholder.In 1983, petitioner, now the owner, renewed the efforts todevelop the property. An application to the Council, resembling the 1962 submission, requested permission to constructa wooden bulkhead along the shore of Winnapaug Pond andto fill the entire marshland area. The Council rejected theapplication, noting it was "vague and inadequate for a project of this size and nature." App. 16. The agency alsofound that "the proposed activities will have significant im533US2 Unit: $U85 [10-19-02 15:38:31] PAGES PGT: OPIN615Cite as: 533 U. S. 606 (2001)Opinion of the Courtpacts upon the waters and wetlands of Winnapaug Pond,"and concluded that "the proposed alteration . . . will conflictwith the Coastal Resources Management Plan presently ineffect."Id., at 17. Petitioner did not appeal the agency'sdetermination.Petitioner went back to the drawing board, this time hiring counsel and preparing a more specific and limited proposal for use of the property. The new application, submit-ted to the Council in 1985, echoed the 1966 request to builda private beach club. The details do not tend to inspire thereader with an idyllic coastal image, for the proposal was tofill 11 acres of the property with gravel to accommodate "50cars with boat trailers, a dumpster, port-a-johns, picnic tables, barbecue pits of concrete, and other trash receptacles."Id., at 25.The application fared no better with the Council than previous ones. Under the agency's regulations, a landownerwishing to fill salt marsh on Winnapaug Pond needed a "special exception" from the Council. CRMP $ 130. In a shortopinion the Council said the beach club proposal conflictedwith the regulatory standard for a special exception. SeeApp. 27. To secure a special exception the proposed activitymust serve "a compelling public purpose which provides benefits to the public as a whole as opposed to individual orprivate interests." CRMP $ 130A(1). This time petitionerappealed the decision to the Rhode Island courts, challengingthe Council's conclusion as contrary to principles of state administrative law. The Council's decision was affirmed. SeeApp. 31-42.Petitioner filed an inverse condemnation action in RhodeIsland Superior Court, asserting that the State's wetlandsregulations, as applied by the Council to his parcel, had takenthe property without compensation in violation of the Fifthand Fourteenth Amendments. See id., at 45. The suit alleged the Council's action deprived him of "economically,beneficial use" of his property, ibid., resulting in a total tak533US2 Unit: $U85 [10-19-02 15:38:31] PAGES PGT: OPIN616 PALAZZOLO v. RHODE ISLANDOpinion of the Courting requiring compensation under Lucas v. South CarolinaCoastal Council, 505 U. S. 1003 (1992). He sought damagesin the amount of $3,150,000, a figure derived from an appraiser's estimate as to the value of a 74-lot residential subdivision. The State countered with a host of defenses. Aftera bench trial, a justice of the Superior Court ruled againstpetitioner, accepting some of the State's theories. App. toPet. for Cert. B-1 to B-13.The Rhode Island Supreme Court affirmed. 746 A. 2d 707(2000). Like the Superior Court, the State Supreme Courtrecited multiple grounds for rejecting petitioner's suit. Thecourt held, first, that petitioner's takings claim was not ripe,id., at 712-715; second, that petitioner had no right to challenge regulations predating 1978, when he succeeded to legalownership of the property from SGI, id., at 716; and third,that the claim of deprivation of all economically beneficialuse was contradicted by undisputed evidence that he had$200,000 in development value remaining on an upland parcelof the property, id., at 715. In addition to holding petitionercould not assert a takings claim based on the denial of alleconomic use, the court concluded he could not recover underthe more general test of Penn Central Transp. Co. v. NewYork City, 438 U. S. 104 (1978). On this claim, too, the dateof acquisition of the parcel was found determinative, and thecourt held he could have had "no reasonable investmentbacked expectations that were affected by this regulation"because it predated his ownership, 746 A. 2d, at 717; see alsoPenn Central, supra, at 124.We disagree with the Supreme Court of Rhode Island asto the first two of these conclusions; and, we hold, the courtwas correct to conclude that the owner is not deprived of alleconomic use of his property because the value of uplandportions is substantial. We remand for further consideration of the claim under the principles set forth in PennCentral.533US2 Unit: $U85 [10-19-02 15:38:31] PAGES PGT: OPIN617Cite as: 533 U. S. 606 (2001)Opinion of the CourtIIThe Takings Clause of the Fifth Amendment, applicable tothe States through the Fourteenth Amendment,Chicago,B. & Q. R. Co. v. Chicago, 166 U. S. 226 (1897), prohibits thegovernment from taking private property for public usewithout just compensation. The clearest sort of taking occurs when the government encroaches upon or occupies pri-vate land for its own proposed use. Our cases establish thateven a minimal "permanent physical occupation of real prop-erty" requires compensation under the Clause. Loretto v.Teleprompter Manhattan CATV Corp., 458 U. S. 419, 427(1982). InPennsylvania Coal Co. v. Mahon, 260 U. S. 393(1922), the Court recognized that there will be instanceswhen government actions do not encroach upon or occupythe property yet still affect and limit its use to such an extent that a taking occurs. In Justice Holmes' well-known, ifless than self-defining, formulation, "while property may beregulated to a certain extent, if a regulation goes too far itwill be recognized as a taking." Id., at 415.Since Mahon, we have given some, but not too specific,guidance to courts confronted with deciding whether a particular government action goes too far and effects a regula-tory taking. First, we have observed, with certain qualifications, see infra, at 629-630, that a regulation which"denies all economically beneficial or productive use ofland" will require compensation under the Takings Clause.Lucas, 505 U. S., at 1015; see also id., at 1035 (Kennedy, J.,concurring); Agins v. City of Tiburon, 447 U. S. 255, 261(1980). Where a regulation places limitations on land thatfall short of eliminating all economically beneficial use, a taking nonetheless may have occurred, depending on a complexof factors including the regulation's economic effect on thelandowner, the extent to which the regulation interfereswith reasonable investment-backed expectations, and thecharacter of the government action. Penn Central, supra,at 124. These inquiries are informed by the purpose of the533US2 Unit: $U85 [10-19-02 15:38:31] PAGES PGT: OPIN618 PALAZZOLO v. RHODE ISLANDOpinion of the CourtTakings Clause, which is to prevent the government from"forcing some people alone to bear public burdens which, inall fairness and justice, should be borne by the public as awhole." Armstrong v. United States, 364 U. S. 40, 49 (1960).Petitioner seeks compensation under these principles. Atthe outset, however, we face the two threshold considerations invoked by the state court to bar the claim: ripeness,and acquisition which postdates the regulation.AIn Williamson County Regional Planning Comm'n v.Hamilton Bank of Johnson City, 473 U. S. 172 (1985), theCourt explained the requirement that a takings claim mustbe ripe. The Court held that a takings claim challengingthe application of land-use regulations is not ripe unless "thegovernment entity charged with implementing the regula-tions has reached a final decision regarding the applicationof the regulations to the property at issue." Id., at 186. Afinal decision by the responsible state agency informs theconstitutional determination whether a regulation has de-prived a landowner of "all economically beneficial use" of theproperty, see Lucas, supra, at 1015, or defeated the reason-able investment-backed expectations of the landowner to theextent that a taking has occurred, see Penn Central, supra,at 124. These matters cannot be resolved in definitiveterms until a court knows "the extent of permitted develop-ment" on the land in question.MacDonald, Sommer &Frates v. Yolo County, 477 U. S. 340, 351 (1986). Drawingon these principles, the Rhode Island Supreme Court heldthat petitioner had not taken the necessary steps to ripenhis takings claim.The central question in resolving the ripeness issue, underWilliamson County and other relevant decisions, is whetherpetitioner obtained a final decision from the Council determining the permitted use for the land. As we have noted,SGI's early applications to fill had been granted at one point,533US2 Unit: $U85 [10-19-02 15:38:31] PAGES PGT: OPIN619Cite as: 533 U. S. 606 (2001)Opinion of the Courtthough that assent was later revoked. Petitioner then sub-mitted two proposals: the 1983 proposal to fill the entire parcel, and the 1985 proposal to fill 11 of the property's 18 wet-land acres for construction of the beach club. The courtreasoned that, notwithstanding the Council's denials of theapplications, doubt remained as to the extent of developmentthe Council would allow on petitioner's parcel. We cannotagree.The court based its holding in part upon petitioner's failureto explore "any other use for the property that would involvefilling substantially less wetlands." 746 A. 2d, at 714. Itrelied upon this Court's observations that the final decisionrequirement is not satisfied when a developer submits, and aland-use authority denies, a grandiose development proposal,leaving open the possibility that lesser uses of the propertymight be permitted. See MacDonald, supra, at 353, n. 9.The suggestion is that while the Council rejected petitioner'seffort to fill all of the wetlands, and then rejected his proposal to fill 11 of the wetland acres, perhaps an applicationto fill (for instance) 5 acres would have been approved.Thus, the reasoning goes, we cannot know for sure the extentof permitted development on petitioner's wetlands.This is belied by the unequivocal nature of the wetlandregulations at issue and by the Council's application of theregulations to the subject property. Winnapaug Pond isclassified under the CRMP as a Type 2 body of water. SeeCRMP $ 200.2. A landowner, as a general rule, is prohibitedfrom filling or building residential structures on wetlandsadjacent to Type 2 waters, see id., Table 1, p. 22, and$ 210.3(C)(4), but may seek a special exception from theCouncil to engage in a prohibited use, see id., $ 130. TheCouncil is permitted to allow the exception, however, onlywhere a "compelling public purpose" is served. Id.,$ 130A(2). The proposal to fill the entire property was notaccepted under Council regulations and did not qualify forthe special exception. The Council determined the use pro533US2 Unit: $U85 [10-19-02 15:38:31] PAGES PGT: OPIN620 PALAZZOLO v. RHODE ISLANDOpinion of the Courtposed in the second application (the beach club) did not sat-isfy the "compelling public purpose" standard. There is noindication the Council would have accepted the applicationhad petitioner's proposed beach club occupied a smaller surface area. To the contrary, it ruled that the proposed activ-ity was not a "compelling public purpose." App. 27; cf.id.,at 17 (1983 application to fill wetlands proposed an "activity"conflicting with the CRMP).Williamson County's final decision requirement "respondsto the high degree of discretion characteristically possessedby land-use boards in softening the strictures of the generalregulations they administer." Suitum v. Tahoe RegionalPlanning Agency, 520 U. S. 725, 738 (1997). While a landowner must give a land-use authority an opportunity to exercise its discretion, once it becomes clear that the agency lacksthe discretion to permit any development, or the permissibleuses of the property are known to a reasonable degree ofcertainty, a takings claim is likely to have ripened. The caseis quite unlike those upon which respondents place principalreliance, which arose when an owner challenged a land-useauthority's denial of a substantial project, leaving doubtwhether a more modest submission or an application for avariance would be accepted. See MacDonald, supra, at 342(denial of 159-home residential subdivision); WilliamsonCounty, supra, at 182 (476-unit subdivision); cf. Agins v. Cityof Tiburon, 447 U. S. 255 (1980) (case not ripe because noplan to develop was submitted).These cases stand for the important principle that a landowner may not establish a taking before a land-use authorityhas the opportunity, using its own reasonable procedures, todecide and explain the reach of a challenged regulation.Under our ripeness rules a takings claim based on a law orregulation which is alleged to go too far in burdening property depends upon the landowner's first having followed reasonable and necessary steps to allow regulatory agencies toexercise their full discretion in considering development533US2 Unit: $U85 [10-19-02 15:38:31] PAGES PGT: OPIN621Cite as: 533 U. S. 606 (2001)Opinion of the Courtplans for the property, including the opportunity to grantany variances or waivers allowed by law. As a general rule,until these ordinary processes have been followed the extentof the restriction on property is not known and a regulatorytaking has not yet been established. See Suitum, supra, at736, and n. 10 (noting difficulty of demonstrating that "mereenactment" of regulations restricting land use effects a taking). Government authorities, of course, may not burdenproperty by imposition of repetitive or unfair land-use procedures in order to avoid a final decision. Monterey v. DelMonte Dunes at Monterey, Ltd., 526 U. S. 687, 698 (1999).With respect to the wetlands on petitioner's property, theCouncil's decisions make plain that the agency interpretedits regulations to bar petitioner from engaging in any fillingor development activity on the wetlands, a fact reinforced bythe Attorney General's forthright responses to our questioning during oral argument in this case. See Tr. of Oral Arg.26, 31. The rulings of the Council interpreting the regulations at issue, and the briefs, arguments, and candid statements by counsel for both sides, leave no doubt on this point:On the wetlands there can be no fill for any ordinary landuse. There can be no fill for its own sake; no fill for a beachclub, either rustic or upscale; no fill for a subdivision; no fillfor any likely or foreseeable use. And with no fill there canbe no structures and no development on the wetlands. Further permit applications were not necessary to establishthis point.As noted above, however, not all of petitioner's parcel constitutes protected wetlands. The trial court accepted uncontested testimony that an upland site located at the eastern end of the property would have an estimated value of$200,000 if developed. App. to Pet. for Cert. B-5. WhileCouncil approval is required to develop upland propertywhich lies within 200 feet of protected waters, see CRMP$ 100.1(A), the strict "compelling public purpose" test doesnot govern proposed land uses on property in this classifica533US2 Unit: $U85 [10-19-02 15:38:31] PAGES PGT: OPIN622 PALAZZOLO v. RHODE ISLANDOpinion of the Courttion, see id., $ 110, Table 1A, $ 120. Council officials testifiedat trial, moreover, that they would have allowed petitionerto build a residence on the upland parcel. App. to Pet. forCert. B-5. The State Supreme Court found petitioner'sclaim unripe for the further reason that he "has not soughtpermission for any . . . use of the property that wouldinvolve . . . development only of the upland portion of theparcel." 746 A. 2d, at 714.In assessing the significance of petitioner's failure to submit applications to develop the upland area it is important tobear in mind the purpose that the final decision requirementserves. Our ripeness jurisprudence imposes obligations onlandowners because "[a] court cannot determine whether aregulation goes `too far' unless it knows how far the regulation goes." MacDonald, 477 U. S., at 348. Ripeness doctrine does not require a landowner to submit applications fortheir own sake. Petitioner is required to explore development opportunities on his upland parcel only if there is uncertainty as to the land's permitted use.The State asserts the value of the uplands is in doubt. Itrelies in part on a comment in the opinion of the Rhode Island Supreme Court that "it would be possible to build atleast one single-family home on the upland portion of theparcel." 746 A. 2d, at 714. It argues that the qualification"at least" indicates that additional development beyond thesingle dwelling was possible. The attempt to interject ambiguity as to the value or use of the uplands, however, comestoo late in the day for purposes of litigation before thisCourt. It was stated in the petition for certiorari that theuplands on petitioner's property had an estimated worth of$200,000. See Pet. for Cert. 21. The figure not only wasuncontested but also was cited as fact in the State's brief inopposition. See Brief in Opposition 4, 19. In this circumstance ripeness cannot be contested by saying that the valueof the nonwetland parcels is unknown. See Lucas, 505 U. S.,at 1020, and n. 9.533US2 Unit: $U85 [10-19-02 15:38:31] PAGES PGT: OPIN623Cite as: 533 U. S. 606 (2001)Opinion of the CourtThe State's prior willingness to accept the $200,000 figure,furthermore, is well founded. The only reference to uplandproperty in the trial court's opinion is to a single parcelworth an estimated $200,000. See App. to Pet. for Cert.B-5. There was, it must be acknowledged, testimony attrial suggesting the existence of an additional upland parcelelsewhere on the property. See Tr. 190-191, 199-120 (testimony of Dr. Grover Fugate, Council Executive Director);see alsoid., at 610 (testimony of Steven Clarke). The testimony indicated, however, that the potential, second uplandparcel was on an "island" which required construction ofa road across wetlands, id., at 610, 623-624 (testimony ofMr. Clarke)--and, as discussed above, the filling of wetlandsfor such a purpose would not justify a special exceptionunder Council regulations. See supra, at 619-621; see alsoBrief for Respondents 10 ("Residential construction is notthe basis of such a `special exception' "). Perhaps for thisreason, the State did not maintain in the trial court thatadditional uplands could have been developed. To the contrary, its post-trial memorandum identified only the single parcel that petitioner concedes retains a developmentvalue of $200,000. See State's Post-Trial Memorandum inNo. 88-0297 (Super. Ct. R. I.), pp. 25, 81. The trial courtaccepted the figure. So there is no genuine ambiguity in therecord as to the extent of permitted development on petitioner's property, either on the wetlands or the uplands.Nonetheless, there is some suggestion that the use permitted on the uplands is not known, because the State acceptedthe $200,000 value for the upland parcel on the premise thatonly a Lucas claim was raised in the pleadings in the statetrial court. See Brief for Respondents 29-30. Since aPenn Central argument was not pressed at trial, it is argued,the State had no reason to assert with vigor that more thana single-family residence might be placed on the uplands.We disagree; the State was aware of the applicability ofPenn Central. The issue whether the Council's decisions533US2 Unit: $U85 [10-19-02 15:38:31] PAGES PGT: OPIN624 PALAZZOLO v. RHODE ISLANDOpinion of the Courtamounted to a taking under Penn Central was discussed inthe trial court, App. to Pet. for Cert. B-7, the State SupremeCourt, 746 A. 2d, at 717, and the State's own post-trial sub-missions, see State's Post-Trial Supplemental Memorandum7-10. The state-court opinions cannot be read as indicatingthat aPenn Central claim was not properly presented fromthe outset of this litigation.A final ripeness issue remains. In concluding that Williamson County's final decision requirement was not satisfied, the State Supreme Court placed emphasis on petition-er's failure to "appl[y] for permission to develop [the]seventy-four-lot subdivision" that was the basis for the damages sought in his inverse condemnation suit. 746 A. 2d,at 714. The court did not explain why it thought this factsignificant, but respondents and amici defend the ruling.The Council's practice, they assert, is to consider a proposalonly if the applicant has satisfied all other regulatory preconditions for the use envisioned in the application. The subdivision proposal that was the basis for petitioner's takingsclaim, they add, could not have proceeded before the Councilwithout, at minimum, zoning approval from the town ofWesterly and a permit from the Rhode Island Departmentof Environmental Management allowing the installation ofindividual sewage disposal systems on the property. Petitioner is accused of employing a hide the ball strategy ofsubmitting applications for more modest uses to the Council,only to assert later a takings action predicated on the purported inability to build a much larger project. Brief forthe National Wildlife Federation et al. as Amici Curiae 9.It is difficult to see how this concern is relevant to theinquiry at issue here. Petitioner was informed by the Council that he could not fill the wetlands; it follows of necessitythat he could not fill and then build 74 single-family dwellings upon it. Petitioner's submission of this proposal wouldnot have clarified the extent of development permitted bythe wetlands regulations, which is the inquiry required533US2 Unit: $U85 [10-19-02 15:38:31] PAGES PGT: OPIN625Cite as: 533 U. S. 606 (2001)Opinion of the Courtunder our ripeness decisions. The State's concern may bethat landowners could demand damages for a taking basedon a project that could not have been constructed underother, valid zoning restrictions quite apart from the regulation being challenged. This, of course, is a valid concern ininverse condemnation cases alleging injury from wrongfulrefusal to permit development. The instant case does notrequire us to pass upon the authority of a State to insist insuch cases that landowners follow normal planning procedures or to enact rules to control damages awards based onhypothetical uses that should have been reviewed in the normal course, and we do not intend to cast doubt upon suchrules here. The mere allegation of entitlement to the valueof an intensive use will not avail the landowner if the projectwould not have been allowed under other existing, legitimateland-use limitations. When a taking has occurred, under accepted condemnation principles the owner's damages will bebased upon the property's fair market value, see, e. g., Olsonv. United States, 292 U. S. 246, 255 (1934); 4 J. Sackman, Nichols on Eminent Domain $ 12.01 (rev. 3d ed. 2000)--an inquirywhich will turn, in part, on restrictions on use imposed bylegitimate zoning or other regulatory limitations, see id.,$ 12C.03[1].The state court, however, did not rely upon state-law ripeness or exhaustion principles in holding that petitioner's takings claim was barred by virtue of his failure to apply for a74-lot subdivision; it relied on Williamson County. As wehave explained, Williamson County and our other ripenessdecisions do not impose further obligations on petitioner, forthe limitations the wetland regulations imposed were clearfrom the Council's denial of his applications, and there is noindication that any use involving any substantial structuresor improvements would have been allowed. Where thestate agency charged with enforcing a challenged land-useregulation entertains an application from an owner and itsdenial of the application makes clear the extent of develop533US2 Unit: $U85 [10-19-02 15:38:31] PAGES PGT: OPIN626 PALAZZOLO v. RHODE ISLANDOpinion of the Courtment permitted, and neither the agency nor a reviewingstate court has cited noncompliance with reasonable statelaw exhaustion or pre-permit processes, see Felder v. Casey,487 U. S. 131, 150-151 (1988), federal ripeness rules do notrequire the submission of further and futile applications withother agencies.BWe turn to the second asserted basis for declining to address petitioner's takings claim on the merits. When theCouncil promulgated its wetlands regulations, the disputedparcel was owned not by petitioner but by the corporationof which he was sole shareholder. When title was transferred to petitioner by operation of law, the wetlands regulations were in force. The state court held the postregulationacquisition of title was fatal to the claim for deprivation ofall economic use, 746 A. 2d, at 716, and to the Penn Centralclaim, 746 A. 2d, at 717. While the first holding was couchedin terms of background principles of state property law, seeLucas, 505 U. S., at 1015, and the second in terms of petitioner's reasonable investment-backed expectations, see PennCentral, 438 U. S., at 124, the two holdings together amountto a single, sweeping, rule: A purchaser or a successive titleholder like petitioner is deemed to have notice of an earlierenacted restriction and is barred from claiming that it effectsa taking.The theory underlying the argument that postenactmentpurchasers cannot challenge a regulation under the TakingsClause seems to run on these lines: Property rights are created by the State. See, e. g., Phillips v. Washington LegalFoundation, 524 U. S. 156, 163 (1998). So, the argumentgoes, by prospective legislation the State can shape and define property rights and reasonable investment-backed expectations, and subsequent owners cannot claim any injuryfrom lost value. After all, they purchased or took title withnotice of the limitation.533US2 Unit: $U85 [10-19-02 15:38:31] PAGES PGT: OPIN627Cite as: 533 U. S. 606 (2001)Opinion of the CourtThe State may not put so potent a Hobbesian stick intothe Lockean bundle. The right to improve property, ofcourse, is subject to the reasonable exercise of state author-ity, including the enforcement of valid zoning and land-userestrictions. See Pennsylvania Coal Co., 260 U. S., at 413("Government hardly could go on if to some extent valuesincident to property could not be diminished without payingfor every such change in the general law"). The TakingsClause, however, in certain circumstances allows a landowner to assert that a particular exercise of the State's regu-latory power is so unreasonable or onerous as to compel compensation. Just as a prospective enactment, such as a newzoning ordinance, can limit the value of land without effecting a taking because it can be understood as reasonable byall concerned, other enactments are unreasonable and do notbecome less so through passage of time or title. Were weto accept the State's rule, the postenactment transfer of titlewould absolve the State of its obligation to defend any actionrestricting land use, no matter how extreme or unreasonable.A State would be allowed, in effect, to put an expiration dateon the Takings Clause. This ought not to be the rule. Future generations, too, have a right to challenge unreasonablelimitations on the use and value of land.Nor does the justification of notice take into account theeffect on owners at the time of enactment, who are prejudiced as well. Should an owner attempt to challenge a newregulation, but not survive the process of ripening his or herclaim (which, as this case demonstrates, will often takeyears), under the proposed rule the right to compensationmay not be asserted by an heir or successor, and so may notbe asserted at all. The State's rule would work a criticalalteration to the nature of property, as the newly regulatedlandowner is stripped of the ability to transfer the interestwhich was possessed prior to the regulation. The Statemay not by this means secure a windfall for itself. SeeWebb's Fabulous Pharmacies, Inc. v. Beckwith, 449 U. S.533US2 Unit: $U85 [10-19-02 15:38:31] PAGES PGT: OPIN628 PALAZZOLO v. RHODE ISLANDOpinion of the Court155, 164 (1980) ("[A] State, by ipse dixit, may not transformprivate property into public property without compensation"); cf. Ellickson, Property in Land, 102 Yale L. J. 1315,1368-1369 (1993) (right to transfer interest in land is a defining characteristic of the fee simple estate). The proposedrule is, furthermore, capricious in effect. The young ownercontrasted with the older owner, the owner with the resources to hold contrasted with the owner with the need tosell, would be in different positions. The Takings Clause isnot so quixotic. A blanket rule that purchasers with noticehave no compensation right when a claim becomes ripe is tooblunt an instrument to accord with the duty to compensatefor what is taken.Direct condemnation, by invocation of the State's power ofeminent domain, presents different considerations from casesalleging a taking based on a burdensome regulation. In adirect condemnation action, or when a State has physicallyinvaded the property without filing suit, the fact and extentof the taking are known. In such an instance, it is a generalrule of the law of eminent domain that any award goes tothe owner at the time of the taking, and that the right tocompensation is not passed to a subsequent purchaser. SeeDanforth v. United States, 308 U. S. 271, 284 (1939); 2 Sackman, Eminent Domain, at $ 5.01[5][d][i] ("It is well settledthat when there is a taking of property by eminent domainin compliance with the law, it is the owner of the propertyat the time of the taking who is entitled to compensation").A challenge to the application of a land-use regulation, bycontrast, does not mature until ripeness requirements havebeen satisfied, under principles we have discussed; until thispoint an inverse condemnation claim alleging a regulatorytaking cannot be maintained. It would be illogical, and unfair, to bar a regulatory takings claim because of the postenactment transfer of ownership where the steps necessaryto make the claim ripe were not taken, or could not havebeen taken, by a previous owner.533US2 Unit: $U85 [10-19-02 15:38:31] PAGES PGT: OPIN629Cite as: 533 U. S. 606 (2001)Opinion of the CourtThere is controlling precedent for our conclusion. Nollanv.California Coastal Comm'n, 483 U. S. 825 (1987), presented the question whether it was consistent with the Tak-ings Clause for a state regulatory agency to require oceanfront landowners to provide lateral beach access to the publicas the condition for a development permit. The principaldissenting opinion observed it was a policy of the CaliforniaCoastal Commission to require the condition, and that theNollans, who purchased their home after the policy went intoeffect, were "on notice that new developments would be ap-proved only if provisions were made for lateral beach access." Id., at 860 (Brennan, J., dissenting). A majority ofthe Court rejected the proposition. "So long as the Commission could not have deprived the prior owners of theeasement without compensating them," the Court reasoned,"the prior owners must be understood to have transferredtheir full property rights in conveying the lot." Id., at 834,n. 2.It is argued that Nollan's holding was limited by the laterdecision in Lucas v. South Carolina Coastal Council, 505U. S. 1003 (1992). In Lucas the Court observed that a landowner's ability to recover for a government deprivation ofall economically beneficial use of property is not absolute butinstead is confined by limitations on the use of land which"inhere in the title itself." Id., at 1029. This is so, theCourt reasoned, because the landowner is constrained bythose "restrictions that background principles of the State'slaw of property and nuisance already place upon land ownership." Ibid. It is asserted here that Lucas stands for theproposition that any new regulation, once enacted, becomesa background principle of property law which cannot be challenged by those who acquire title after the enactment.We have no occasion to consider the precise circumstanceswhen a legislative enactment can be deemed a backgroundprinciple of state law or whether those circumstances arepresent here. It suffices to say that a regulation that other533US2 Unit: $U85 [10-19-02 15:38:31] PAGES PGT: OPIN630 PALAZZOLO v. RHODE ISLANDOpinion of the Courtwise would be unconstitutional absent compensation is nottransformed into a background principle of the State's lawby mere virtue of the passage of title. This relative stand-ard would be incompatible with our description of the concept in Lucas, which is explained in terms of those common,shared understandings of permissible limitations derivedfrom a State's legal tradition, see id., at 1029-1030. A regu-lation or common-law rule cannot be a background principlefor some owners but not for others. The determinationwhether an existing, general law can limit all economic useof property must turn on objective factors, such as the na-ture of the land use proscribed. Seeid., at 1030 ("The `totaltaking' inquiry we require today will ordinarily entail . . .analysis of, among other things, the degree of harm to publiclands and resources, or adjacent private property, posed bythe claimant's proposed activities"). A law does not becomea background principle for subsequent owners by enactmentitself. Lucas did not overrule our holding in Nollan, which,as we have noted, is based on essential Takings Clauseprinciples.For reasons we discuss next, the state court will not findit necessary to explore these matters on remand in connec-tion with the claim that all economic use was deprived; itmust address, however, the merits of petitioner's claim underPenn Central. That claim is not barred by the mere factthat title was acquired after the effective date of the stateimposed restriction. IIIAs the case is ripe, and as the date of transfer of titledoes not bar petitioner's takings claim, we have before us thealternative ground relied upon by the Rhode Island SupremeCourt in ruling upon the merits of the takings claims. Itheld that all economically beneficial use was not deprivedbecause the uplands portion of the property can still be improved. On this point, we agree with the court's decision.Petitioner accepts the Council's contention and the state trial533US2 Unit: $U85 [10-19-02 15:38:31] PAGES PGT: OPIN631Cite as: 533 U. S. 606 (2001)Opinion of the Courtcourt's finding that his parcel retains $200,000 in develop-ment value under the State's wetlands regulations. He asserts, nonetheless, that he has suffered a total taking andcontends the Council cannot sidestep the holding inLucas"by the simple expedient of leaving a landowner a fewcrumbs of value." Brief for Petitioner 37.Assuming a taking is otherwise established, a State maynot evade the duty to compensate on the premise that thelandowner is left with a token interest. This is not the situation of the landowner in this case, however. A regulationpermitting a landowner to build a substantial residence onan 18-acre parcel does not leave the property "economicallyidle." Lucas, supra, at 1019.In his brief submitted to us petitioner attempts to revivethis part of his claim by reframing it. He argues, for thefirst time, that the upland parcel is distinct from the wetlands portions, so he should be permitted to assert a deprivation limited to the latter. This contention asks us toexamine the difficult, persisting question of what is theproper denominator in the takings fraction. See Michelman,Property, Utility, and Fairness: Comments on the EthicalFoundations of "Just Compensation Law," 80 Harv. L. Rev.1165, 1192 (1967). Some of our cases indicate that the extentof deprivation effected by a regulatory action is measuredagainst the value of the parcel as a whole, see, e. g., KeystoneBituminous Coal Assn. v. DeBenedictis, 480 U. S. 470, 497(1987); but we have at times expressed discomfort with thelogic of this rule, see Lucas, supra, at 1016-1017, n. 7, a sentiment echoed by some commentators, see, e. g., Epstein, Takings: Descent and Resurrection, 1987 S. Ct. Rev. 1, 16-17(1987); Fee, Unearthing the Denominator in Regulatory Takings Claims, 61 U. Chi. L. Rev. 1535 (1994). Whatever themerits of these criticisms, we will not explore the point here.Petitioner did not press the argument in the state courts,and the issue was not presented in the petition for certiorari.The case comes to us on the premise that petitioner's entire533US2 Unit: $U85 [10-19-02 15:38:31] PAGES PGT: OPIN632 PALAZZOLO v. RHODE ISLANDO'Connor, J., concurringparcel serves as the basis for his takings claim, and, soframed, the total deprivation argument fails.* * *For the reasons we have discussed, the State SupremeCourt erred in finding petitioner's claims were unripe andin ruling that acquisition of title after the effective date ofthe regulations barred the takings claims. The court didnot err in finding that petitioner failed to establish a depriva-tion of all economic value, for it is undisputed that the parcelretains significant worth for construction of a residence.The claims under thePenn Central analysis were not exam-ined, and for this purpose the case should be remanded.The judgment of the Rhode Island Supreme Court is af-firmed in part and reversed in part, and the case is remandedfor further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.