In this case a citizen alleged excessive force was usedto arrest him. The arresting officer asserted the defenseof qualified immunity. The matter we address is whetherthe requisite analysis to determine qualified immunity is sointertwined with the question whether the officer used excessive force in making the arrest that qualified immunityand constitutional violation issues should be treated as onequestion, to be decided by the trier of fact. The Court ofAppeals held the inquiries do merge into a single question.We now reverse and hold that the ruling on qualified immunity requires an analysis not susceptible of fusion with thequestion whether unreasonable force was used in makingthe arrest.IIn autumn of 1994, the Presidio Army Base in San Francisco was the site of an event to celebrate conversion ofthe base to a national park. Among the speakers was VicePresident Albert Gore, Jr., who attracted several hundredobservers from the military and the general public. Somein attendance were not on hand to celebrate, however. Respondent Elliot Katz was concerned that the Army's Letterman Hospital would be used for conducting experiments onanimals. (Katz was president of a group called In Defenseof Animals. Although both he and the group are respondents here, the issues we discuss center upon Katz, and werefer to him as "respondent.") To voice opposition to thepossibility that the hospital might be used for experiments,respondent brought with him a cloth banner, approximately4 by 3 feet, that read "Please Keep Animal Torture Out ofOur National Parks." In the past, as respondent was aware,members of the public had been asked to leave the militarybase when they engaged in certain activities, such as distributing handbills; and he kept the banner concealed underhis jacket as he walked through the base.533US1 Unit: $U75 [10-17-02 19:24:57] PAGES PGT: OPIN198 SAUCIER v. KATZOpinion of the CourtThe area designated for the speakers contained seatingfor the general public, separated from the stage by a waisthigh fence. Respondent sat in the front row of the publicseating area. At about the time Vice President Gore beganspeaking, respondent removed the banner from his jacket,started to unfold it, and walked toward the fence and speakers' platform.Petitioner Donald Saucier is a military police officer whowas on duty that day. He had been warned by his superiorsof the possibility of demonstrations, and respondent hadbeen identified as a potential protester. Petitioner and Sergeant Steven Parker--also a military police officer, but nota party to the suit--recognized respondent and moved tointercept him as he walked toward the fence. As he reachedthe barrier and began placing the banner on the other side,the officers grabbed respondent from behind, took the banner, and rushed him out of the area. Each officer had oneof respondent's arms, half-walking, half-dragging him, withhis feet "barely touching the ground." App. 24. Respondent was wearing a visible, knee-high leg brace, although petitioner later testified he did not remember noticing it atthe time. Saucier and Parker took respondent to a nearbymilitary van, where, respondent claims, he was shoved orthrown inside. Id., at 25. The reason for the shove remainsunclear. It seems agreed that respondent placed his feetsomewhere on the outside of the van, perhaps the bumper,but there is a dispute whether he did so to resist. As aresult of the shove, respondent claims, he fell to the floor ofthe van, where he caught himself just in time to avoid anyinjury. The officers drove respondent to a military policestation, held him for a brief time, and then released him.Though the details are not clear, it appears that at least oneother protester was also placed into the van and detained fora brief time. Id., at 27.Respondent brought this action in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California against533US1 Unit: $U75 [10-17-02 19:24:57] PAGES PGT: OPIN199Cite as: 533 U. S. 194 (2001)Opinion of the Courtpetitioner and other officials pursuant to Bivens v. Six Unknown Fed. Narcotics Agents, 403 U. S. 388 (1971), alleging, inter alia, that defendants had violated respondent'sFourth Amendment rights by using excessive force to arresthim. The District Court granted the defendants' motionsfor summary judgment on the grounds of qualified immunity on all claims other than the excessive force claim againstSaucier. It held a dispute on a material fact existed con-cerning whether excessive force was used to remove respondent from the crowd and place him into the van. App.to Pet. for Cert. 27a. The District Court held that the lawgoverning excessive force claims was clearly established atthe time of the arrest, and that "[i]n the Fourth Amendmentcontext, the qualified immunity inquiry is the same as theinquiry made on the merits." Id., at 29a-30a. As a result,it ruled, petitioner was not entitled to summary judgment.Id., at 30a.In the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit petitioner filed an interlocutory appeal from the denialof qualified immunity. 194 F. 3d 962 (1999). The Court ofAppeals affirmed, noting at the outset its two-part analysisfor qualified immunity questions. First, the Court of Appeals considers "whether the law governing the official'sconduct was clearly established." Id., at 967. If it wasnot, that ends the matter, and the official is entitled to immunity. If, however, the law was clearly established when theconduct occurred, the Court of Appeals' second step is todetermine if a reasonable officer could have believed, inlight of the clearly established law, that his conduct waslawful. Ibid. As to the first step of its analysis, the courtobserved that Graham v. Connor, 490 U. S. 386 (1989), setsforth the objective reasonableness test for evaluating excessive force claims, a principle the Court of Appeals concluded was clearly established for qualified immunity purposes. The court then concluded that the second step of thequalified immunity inquiry and the merits of the Fourth533US1 Unit: $U75 [10-17-02 19:24:57] PAGES PGT: OPIN200 SAUCIER v. KATZOpinion of the CourtAmendment excessive force claim are identical, since bothconcern the objective reasonableness of the officer's conduct in light of the circumstances the officer faced on thescene. 194 F. 3d, at 968. On this reasoning, summary judgment based on qualified immunity was held inappropriate.Id., at 968-969.Saucier, represented by the Government of the UnitedStates, sought review here, arguing the Court of Appealserred in its view that the qualified immunity inquiry isthe same as the constitutional inquiry and so becomes superfluous or duplicative when excessive force is alleged.We granted certiorari, 531 U. S. 991 (2000).IIThe Court of Appeals ruled first that the right was clearlyestablished; and second that the reasonableness inquiry intoexcessive force meant that it need not consider aspects ofqualified immunity, leaving the whole matter to the jury.194 F. 3d, at 967. This approach cannot be reconciled withAnderson v. Creighton, 483 U. S. 635 (1987), however, andwas in error in two respects. As we shall explain, the firstinquiry must be whether a constitutional right would havebeen violated on the facts alleged; second, assuming the violation is established, the question whether the right wasclearly established must be considered on a more specificlevel than recognized by the Court of Appeals.In a suit against an officer for an alleged violation of aconstitutional right, the requisites of a qualified immunitydefense must be considered in proper sequence. Where thedefendant seeks qualified immunity, a ruling on that issueshould be made early in the proceedings so that the costsand expenses of trial are avoided where the defense isdispositive. Qualified immunity is "an entitlement not tostand trial or face the other burdens of litigation." Mitchell v. Forsyth, 472 U. S. 511, 526 (1985). The privilege is"animmunity from suit rather than a mere defense to lia533US1 Unit: $U75 [10-17-02 19:24:57] PAGES PGT: OPIN201Cite as: 533 U. S. 194 (2001)Opinion of the Courtbility; and like an absolute immunity, it is effectively lostif a case is erroneously permitted to go to trial."Ibid. Asa result, "we repeatedly have stressed the importance ofresolving immunity questions at the earliest possible stagein litigation." Hunter v. Bryant, 502 U. S. 224, 227 (1991)(per curiam).A court required to rule upon the qualified immunity issuemust consider, then, this threshold question: Taken in thelight most favorable to the party asserting the injury, dothe facts alleged show the officer's conduct violated a con-stitutional right? This must be the initial inquiry.Siegertv. Gilley, 500 U. S. 226, 232 (1991). In the course of determining whether a constitutional right was violated on thepremises alleged, a court might find it necessary to setforth principles which will become the basis for a holding that a right is clearly established. This is the processfor the law's elaboration from case to case, and it is onereason for our insisting upon turning to the existence ornonexistence of a constitutional right as the first inquiry.The law might be deprived of this explanation were a courtsimply to skip ahead to the question whether the law clearlyestablished that the officer's conduct was unlawful in thecircumstances of the case.If no constitutional right would have been violated werethe allegations established, there is no necessity for further inquiries concerning qualified immunity. On the otherhand, if a violation could be made out on a favorable viewof the parties' submissions, the next, sequential step is toask whether the right was clearly established. This inquiry, it is vital to note, must be undertaken in light of thespecific context of the case, not as a broad general proposition; and it too serves to advance understanding of the lawand to allow officers to avoid the burden of trial if qualifiedimmunity is applicable.In this litigation, for instance, there is no doubt thatGraham v. Connor, supra, clearly establishes the general533US1 Unit: $U75 [10-17-02 19:24:57] PAGES PGT: OPIN202 SAUCIER v. KATZOpinion of the Courtproposition that use of force is contrary to the FourthAmendment if it is excessive under objective standards ofreasonableness. Yet that is not enough. Rather, we em-phasized inAnderson "that the right the official is allegedto have violated must have been `clearly established' in amore particularized, and hence more relevant, sense: Thecontours of the right must be sufficiently clear that a reasonable official would understand that what he is doingviolates that right." 483 U. S., at 640. The relevant, dispositive inquiry in determining whether a right is clearlyestablished is whether it would be clear to a reasonableofficer that his conduct was unlawful in the situation heconfronted. See Wilson v. Layne, 526 U. S. 603, 615 (1999)("[A]s we explained in Anderson, the right allegedly violated must be defined at the appropriate level of specificitybefore a court can determine if it was clearly established").The approach the Court of Appeals adopted--to denysummary judgment any time a material issue of fact remains on the excessive force claim--could undermine thegoal of qualified immunity to "avoid excessive disruption ofgovernment and permit the resolution of many insubstantialclaims on summary judgment." Harlow v. Fitzgerald, 457U. S. 800, 818 (1982). If the law did not put the officer onnotice that his conduct would be clearly unlawful, summaryjudgment based on qualified immunity is appropriate. SeeMalley v. Briggs, 475 U. S. 335, 341 (1986) (qualified immunity protects "all but the plainly incompetent or those whoknowingly violate the law").This is not to say that the formulation of a general ruleis beside the point, nor is it to insist the courts must haveagreed upon the precise formulation of the standard. Assuming, for instance, that various courts have agreed thatcertain conduct is a constitutional violation under facts notdistinguishable in a fair way from the facts presented inthe case at hand, the officer would not be entitled to qualified immunity based simply on the argument that courts533US1 Unit: $U75 [10-17-02 19:24:57] PAGES PGT: OPIN203Cite as: 533 U. S. 194 (2001)Opinion of the Courthad not agreed on one verbal formulation of the controllingstandard.The Court of Appeals concluded that qualified immunityis merely duplicative in an excessive force case, eliminatingthe need for the second step where a constitutional viola-tion could be found based on the allegations. InAnderson,a warrantless search case, we rejected the argument thatthere is no distinction between the reasonableness standardfor warrantless searches and the qualified immunity inquiry.We acknowledged there was some "surface appeal" to theargument that, because the Fourth Amendment's guaranteewas a right to be free from "unreasonable" searches andseizures, it would be inconsistent to conclude that an officerwho acted unreasonably under the constitutional standardnevertheless was entitled to immunity because he " `reasonably' acted unreasonably." 483 U. S., at 643. This superficial similarity, however, could not overcome either ourhistory of applying qualified immunity analysis to FourthAmendment claims against officers or the justifications forapplying the doctrine in an area where officers performtheir duties with considerable uncertainty as to "whetherparticular searches or seizures comport with the FourthAmendment." Id., at 644. With respect, moreover, to theargument made in Anderson that an exception should bemade for Fourth Amendment cases, we observed "the heavyburden this argument must sustain to be successful," since"the doctrine of qualified immunity reflects a balance thathas been struck `across the board.' " Id., at 642 (quotingHarlow v. Fitzgerald, supra, at 821). We held that qualifiedimmunity applied in the Fourth Amendment context justas it would for any other claim of official misconduct. 483U. S., at 644.Faced, then, with the heavy burden of distinguishing Anderson and of carving out an exception to the typical qualified immunity analysis applied in other Fourth Amendmentcontexts, the primary submission by respondent in defense533US1 Unit: $U75 [10-17-02 19:24:57] PAGES PGT: OPIN204 SAUCIER v. KATZOpinion of the Courtof the Court of Appeals' decision is that our decision inGraham v. Connor, 490 U. S. 386 (1989), somehow changesmatters. Graham, in respondent's view, sets forth an ex-cessive force analysis indistinguishable from qualified immunity, rendering the separate immunity inquiry superfluousand inappropriate. Respondent asserts that, like the qualified immunity analysis applicable in other contexts, the excessive force test already affords officers latitude for mis-taken beliefs as to the amount of force necessary, so that"Graham has addressed for the excessive force area mostof the concerns expressed inAnderson." Brief for Respondents 7. Respondent points out that Graham did notaddress the interaction of excessive force claims and qualified immunity, since the issue was not raised, see 490 U. S.,at 399, n. 12; and respondent seeks to distinguish Andersonon the theory that the issue of probable cause implicatesevolving legal standards and resulting legal uncertainty,a subject raising recurrent questions of qualified immunity.By contrast, respondent says, excessive force is governedby the standard established in Graham, a standard providing ample guidance for particular situations. Finally,respondent adopts the suggestion made by one Court ofAppeals that the relevant distinction is that probable causeis an ex post inquiry, whereas excessive force, like qualified immunity, should be evaluated from an ex ante perspective. See Finnegan v. Fountain, 915 F. 2d 817, 824,n. 11 (CA2 1990).These arguments or attempted distinctions cannot bearthe weight respondent seeks to place upon them. Grahamdid not change the qualified immunity framework explainedin Anderson. The inquiries for qualified immunity and excessive force remain distinct, even after Graham.In Graham, we held that claims of excessive force in thecontext of arrests or investigatory stops should be analyzedunder the Fourth Amendment's "objective reasonablenessstandard," not under substantive due process principles.533US1 Unit: $U75 [10-17-02 19:24:57] PAGES PGT: OPIN205Cite as: 533 U. S. 194 (2001)Opinion of the Court490 U. S., at 388, 394. Because "police officers are oftenforced to make split-second judgments--in circumstancesthat are tense, uncertain, and rapidly evolving--about theamount of force that is necessary in a particular situation,"id., at 397, the reasonableness of the officer's belief as tothe appropriate level of force should be judged from thaton-scene perspective, id., at 396. We set out a test thatcautioned against the "20/20 vision of hindsight" in favorof deference to the judgment of reasonable officers on thescene. Id., at 393, 396. Graham sets forth a list of factorsrelevant to the merits of the constitutional excessive forceclaim, "requir[ing] careful attention to the facts and circumstances of each particular case, including the severityof the crime at issue, whether the suspect poses an immediate threat to the safety of the officers or others, andwhether he is actively resisting arrest or attempting toevade arrest by flight." Id., at 396. If an officer reasonably, but mistakenly, believed that a suspect was likely tofight back, for instance, the officer would be justified in usingmore force than in fact was needed.The qualified immunity inquiry, on the other hand, has afurther dimension. The concern of the immunity inquiryis to acknowledge that reasonable mistakes can be madeas to the legal constraints on particular police conduct. Itis sometimes difficult for an officer to determine how therelevant legal doctrine, here excessive force, will apply tothe factual situation the officer confronts. An officer mightcorrectly perceive all of the relevant facts but have a mistaken understanding as to whether a particular amountof force is legal in those circumstances. If the officer's mistake as to what the law requires is reasonable, however, theofficer is entitled to the immunity defense.Graham does not always give a clear answer as to whethera particular application of force will be deemed excessive bythe courts. This is the nature of a test which must accommodate limitless factual circumstances. This reality serves533US1 Unit: $U75 [10-17-02 19:24:58] PAGES PGT: OPIN206 SAUCIER v. KATZOpinion of the Courtto refute respondent's claimed distinction between excessiveforce and other Fourth Amendment contexts; in both spheresthe law must be elaborated from case to case. Qualified im-munity operates in this case, then, just as it does in others,to protect officers from the sometimes "hazy border betweenexcessive and acceptable force,"Priester v. Riviera Beach,208 F. 3d 919, 926-927 (CA11 2000), and to ensure that beforethey are subjected to suit, officers are on notice their conductis unlawful.Graham and Anderson refute the excessive force/probablecause distinction on which much of respondent's positionseems to depend. The deference owed officers facing suitsfor alleged excessive force is not different in some qualitative respect from the probable-cause inquiry in Anderson.Officers can have reasonable, but mistaken, beliefs as to thefacts establishing the existence of probable cause or exigentcircumstances, for example, and in those situations courtswill not hold that they have violated the Constitution. Yet,even if a court were to hold that the officer violated theFourth Amendment by conducting an unreasonable, warrantless search, Anderson still operates to grant officersimmunity for reasonable mistakes as to the legality of theiractions. The same analysis is applicable in excessive forcecases, where in addition to the deference officers receiveon the underlying constitutional claim, qualified immunitycan apply in the event the mistaken belief was reasonable.The temporal perspective of the inquiry, whether labeledas ex ante or ex post, offers no meaningful distinction between excessive force and other Fourth Amendment suits.Graham recognized as much, reviewing several of ourprobable-cause and search warrant cases, then stating that"[w]ith respect to a claim of excessive force, the same standard of reasonableness at the moment applies." 490 U. S., at396 (discussing use of force under Terry v. Ohio, 392 U. S. 1(1968); probable cause to arrest under Hill v. California, 401U. S. 797 (1971); and search warrant requirements under533US1 Unit: $U75 [10-17-02 19:24:58] PAGES PGT: OPIN207Cite as: 533 U. S. 194 (2001)Opinion of the CourtMaryland v. Garrison, 480 U. S. 79 (1987)); see also Hunterv. Bryant, 502 U. S., at 228 ("Probable cause existed if `atthe moment the arrest was made . . . the facts and circum-stances within their knowledge and of which they had reasonably trustworthy information were sufficient to warranta prudent man in believing' " a crime had been committed(quoting Beck v. Ohio, 379 U. S. 89, 91 (1964))). Excessiveforce claims, like most other Fourth Amendment issues,are evaluated for objective reasonableness based upon theinformation the officers had when the conduct occurred.IIIThe case was presented to the Court of Appeals on theassumption that respondent's seizure and brief detentiondid not violate clearly established First Amendment privi-leges and did not violate the Fourth Amendment right tobe free from arrest without probable cause, as distinctfrom the force used to detain. The sole question, then,is whether the force used violated a clearly establishedFourth Amendment protection so that petitioner was notentitled to immunity.Our instruction to the district courts and courts of appeals to concentrate at the outset on the definition of theconstitutional right and to determine whether, on the factsalleged, a constitutional violation could be found is im-portant. As we have said, the procedure permits courtsin appropriate cases to elaborate the constitutional rightwith greater degrees of specificity. Because we granted certiorari only to determine whether qualified immunity wasappropriate, however, and because of the limits imposedupon us by the questions on which we granted review, wewill assume a constitutional violation could have occurredunder the facts alleged based simply on the general ruleprohibiting excessive force, then proceed to the questionwhether this general prohibition against excessive force wasthe source for clearly established law that was contravened533US1 Unit: $U75 [10-17-02 19:24:58] PAGES PGT: OPIN208 SAUCIER v. KATZOpinion of the Courtin the circumstances this officer faced. There was no con-travention under this standard. Though it is doubtful thatthe force used was excessive, we need not rest our conclu-sion on that determination. The question is what the officer reasonably understood his powers and responsibilitiesto be, when he acted, under clearly established standards.Respondent's excessive force claim for the most partdepends upon the "gratuitously violent shove" allegedly re-ceived when he was placed into the van, although respondent notes as well that the alleged violation resulted fromthe "totality of the circumstances," including the way hewas removed from the speaking area. See Brief for Respondents 3, n. 2.These circumstances, however, disclose substantialgrounds for the officer to have concluded he had legitimatejustification under the law for acting as he did. In Grahamwe noted that "[o]ur Fourth Amendment jurisprudence haslong recognized that the right to make an arrest or investigatory stop necessarily carries with it the right to use somedegree of physical coercion or threat thereof to effect it."490 U. S., at 396. A reasonable officer in petitioner's position could have believed that hurrying respondent away fromthe scene, where the Vice President was speaking and respondent had just approached the fence designed to separate the public from the speakers, was within the boundsof appropriate police responses.Petitioner did not know the full extent of the threat respondent posed or how many other persons there might bewho, in concert with respondent, posed a threat to the security of the Vice President. There were other potential protesters in the crowd, and at least one other individual wasarrested and placed into the van with respondent. In carrying out the detention, as it has been assumed the officershad the right to do, petitioner was required to recognizethe necessity to protect the Vice President by securing respondent and restoring order to the scene. It cannot be said533US1 Unit: $U75 [10-17-02 19:24:58] PAGES PGT: OPIN209Cite as: 533 U. S. 194 (2001)Ginsburg, J., concurring in judgmentthere was a clearly established rule that would prohibitusing the force petitioner did to place respondent into thevan to accomplish these objectives.As for the shove respondent received when he wasplaced into the van, those same circumstances show somedegree of urgency. We have approved the observation that"[n]ot every push or shove, even if it may later seem un-necessary in the peace of a judge's chambers, violates theFourth Amendment." Ibid. (citations omitted). Pushesand shoves, like other police conduct, must be judged underthe Fourth Amendment standard of reasonableness.In the circumstances presented to this officer, whichincluded the duty to protect the safety and security of theVice President of the United States from persons unknownin number, neither respondent nor the Court of Appealshas identified any case demonstrating a clearly establishedrule prohibiting the officer from acting as he did, nor arewe aware of any such rule. Our conclusion is confirmedby the uncontested fact that the force was not so excessivethat respondent suffered hurt or injury. On these premises, petitioner was entitled to qualified immunity, and thesuit should have been dismissed at an early stage in theproceedings.The judgment of the Court of Appeals is reversed, andthe case is remanded for further proceedings consistent withthis opinion.