Part II-B, concluding:1. Rule 801(d)(1)(B) permits the introduction of a declarant's consistent out-of-court statements to rebut a charge of recent fabrication orimproper influence or motive only when those statements were madebefore the charged fabrication, influence, or motive, conditions that werenot established here. Pp. 156-160, 163-166.(a) Rule 801(d)(1)(B) embodies the prevailing common-law rule inexistence for more than a century before the Federal Rules of Evidencewere adopted: A prior consistent statement introduced to rebut a chargeof recent fabrication or improper influence or motive was admissible if513us1$12Z 04-04-98 13:51:10 PAGES OPINPGT151Cite as: 513 U. S. 150 (1995)Syllabusthe statement had been made before the alleged fabrication, influence,or motive came into being but was inadmissible if made afterwards.The Rule's language speaks of rebutting charges of recent fabricationand improper influence and motive to the exclusion of other forms ofimpeachment, and it bears close similarity to the language used in manyof the common-law premotive requirement cases. Pp. 156-160.(b) The Government's argument that the common-law rule is inconsistent with the Federal Rules' liberal approach to relevancy misconceives the design of the Rules' hearsay provisions. Hearsay evidenceis often relevant. But if relevance were the sole criterion of admissibility, it would be difficult to account for the Rules' general proscription ofhearsay testimony or the traditional analysis of hearsay that the Rules,for the most part, reflect. The Government's reliance on academic commentators critical of excluding a witness' out-of-court statements is alsomisplaced. The Advisory Committee rejected the balancing approachsuch commentators proposed when the Rules were adopted. The approach used by the Court of Appeals here creates the precise dangersthe Advisory Committee sought to avoid: It involves considerable judicial discretion, reduces predictability, and enhances the difficulties oftrial preparation because parties will have difficulty knowing in advancewhether or not particular out-of-court statements will be admitted.Pp. 163-165.(c) The instant case illustrates some of the important considerations supporting the foregoing interpretation. Permitting the introduction of prior statements as substantive evidence to rebut every implicit charge that a witness' in-court testimony results from recentfabrication or improper influence or motive would shift the trial's wholeemphasis to the out-of-court, rather than the in-court, statements. Itmay be difficult to ascertain when a particular fabrication, influence, ormotive arose in some cases. However, a majority of common-law courtswere performing this task for over a century, and the Government haspresented no evidence that those courts or the courts that adhere to therule today have been unable to make the determination. Pp. 165-166.2. The admissibility of A. T.'s statements under Rule 803(24) or anyother evidentiary principle is left for the Court of Appeals to decide inthe first instance. Pp. 166-167.Kennedy, J., announced the judgment of the Court and delivered theopinion of the Court with respect to Parts I, II-A, II-C, and III, in whichStevens, Scalia, Souter, and Ginsburg, JJ., joined, and an opinion withrespect to Part II-B, in which Stevens, Souter, and Ginsburg, JJ.,joined. Scalia, J., filed an opinion concurring in part and concurring inthe judgment, post, p. 167. Breyer, J., filed a dissenting opinion, in513us1$12Z 04-04-98 13:51:10 PAGES OPINPGT152 TOME v. UNITED STATESOpinion of the Courtwhich Rehnquist, C. J., and O'Connor and Thomas, JJ., joined, post,p. 169.Joseph W. Gandert argued the cause for petitioner. Withhim on the briefs were Tova Indritz and Carol H. Marion.Deputy Solicitor General Wallace argued the cause forthe United States. With him on the briefs were SolicitorGeneral Days, Assistant Attorney General Harris, Paul R.Q. Wolfson, and Deborah Watson.*Justice Kennedy delivered the opinion of the Court,except as to Part II-B.Various Federal Courts of Appeals are divided over theevidence question presented by this case. At issue is theinterpretation of a provision in the Federal Rules of Evi-dence bearing upon the admissibility of statements, made bya declarant who testifies as a witness, that are consistentwith the testimony and are offered to rebut a charge of a"recent fabrication or improper influence or motive." Fed.Rule Evid. 801(d)(1)(B). The question is whether out-ofcourt consistent statements made after the alleged fabrica-tion, or after the alleged improper influence or motive arose,are admissible under the Rule.IPetitioner Tome was charged in a one-count indictmentwith the felony of sexual abuse of a child, his own daughter,*A brief of amicus curiae urging affirmance was filed for the State ofOhio et al. by Lee Fisher, Attorney General of Ohio, Richard A. Cordray,State Solicitor, and Simon B. Karas, and by the Attorneys General fortheir respective States as follows: Jimmy Evans of Alabama, Bruce M.Botelho of Alaska, Larry EchoHawk of Idaho, Pamela Carter of Indiana,Richard P. Ieyoub of Louisiana, J. Joseph Curran, Jr., of Maryland, JosephP. Mazurek of Montana, Frankie Sue Del Papa of Nevada, Jeffery B. Pineof Rhode Island, T. Travis Medlock of South Carolina, Jan Graham ofUtah, and Jeffrey L. Amestoy of Vermont.Bruce Robert Rogoff filed a brief for the National Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers as amicus curiae.513us1$12L 04-04-98 13:51:10 PAGES OPINPGT153Cite as: 513 U. S. 150 (1995)Opinion of the Courtaged four at the time of the alleged crime. The case havingarisen on the Navajo Indian Reservation, Tome was tried bya jury in the United States District Court for the District ofNew Mexico, where he was found guilty of violating 18U. S. C. $$ 1153, 2241(c), and 2245(2)(A) and (B).Tome and the child's mother had been divorced in 1988.A tribal court awarded joint custody of the daughter, A. T.,to both parents, but Tome had primary physical custody. In1989 the mother was unsuccessful in petitioning the tribalcourt for primary custody of A. T., but was awarded custodyfor the summer of 1990. Neither parent attended a furthercustody hearing in August 1990. On August 27, 1990, themother contacted Colorado authorities with allegations thatTome had committed sexual abuse against A. T.The prosecution's theory was that Tome committed sexualassaults upon the child while she was in his custody and thatthe crime was disclosed when the child was spending vacation time with her mother. The defense argued that the allegations were concocted so the child would not be returnedto her father. At trial A. T., then 61/2 years old, was theGovernment's first witness. For the most part, her directtestimony consisted of one- and two-word answers to a seriesof leading questions. Cross-examination took place overtwo trial days. The defense asked A. T. 348 questions. Onthe first day A. T. answered all the questions posed to heron general, background subjects.The next day there was no testimony, and the prosecutormet with A. T. When cross-examination of A. T. resumed,she was questioned about those conversations but was reluctant to discuss them. Defense counsel then began questioning her about the allegations of abuse, and it appears shewas reluctant at many points to answer. As the trial judgenoted, however, some of the defense questions were imprecise or unclear. The judge expressed his concerns with theexamination of A. T., observing there were lapses of as muchas 40-55 seconds between some questions and the answers513us1$12L 04-04-98 13:51:10 PAGES OPINPGT154 TOME v. UNITED STATESOpinion of the Courtand that on the second day of examination the witnessseemed to be losing concentration. The trial judge stated,"We have a very difficult situation here."After A. T. testified, the Government produced six witnesses who testified about a total of seven statements madeby A. T. describing the alleged sexual assaults: A. T.'s babysitter recited A. T.'s statement to her on August 22, 1990,that she did not want to return to her father because he"gets drunk and he thinks I'm his wife"; the babysitter related further details given by A. T. on August 27, 1990, whileA. T.'s mother stood outside the room and listened after themother had been unsuccessful in questioning A. T. herself;the mother recounted what she had heard A. T. tell the babysitter; a social worker recounted details A. T. told her onAugust 29, 1990, about the assaults; and three pediatricians,Drs. Kuper, Reich, and Spiegel, related A. T.'s statements tothem describing how and where she had been touched byTome. All but A. T.'s statement to Dr. Spiegel implicatedTome. (The physicians also testified that their clinical examinations of the child indicated that she had been subjectedto vaginal penetrations. That part of the testimony is notat issue here.)A. T.'s out-of-court statements, recounted by the sixwitnesses, were offered by the Government under Rule801(d)(1)(B). The trial court admitted all of the statementsover defense counsel's objection, accepting the Government'sargument that they rebutted the implicit charge that A. T.'stestimony was motivated by a desire to live with her mother.The court also admitted A. T.'s August 22d statement to herbabysitter under Rule 803(24), and the statements to Dr.Kuper (and apparently also to Dr. Reich) under Rule 803(4)(statements for purposes of medical diagnosis). The Government offered the testimony of the social worker underboth Rules 801(d)(1)(B) and 803(24), but the record does notindicate whether the court ruled on the latter ground. No513us1$12L 04-04-98 13:51:10 PAGES OPINPGT155Cite as: 513 U. S. 150 (1995)Opinion of the Courtobjection was made to Dr. Spiegel's testimony. Followingtrial, Tome was convicted and sentenced to 12 years'imprisonment.On appeal, the Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuitaffirmed, adopting the Government's argument that all ofA. T.'s out-of-court statements were admissible under Rule801(d)(1)(B) even though they had been made after A. T.'salleged motive to fabricate arose. The court reasoned that"the pre-motive requirement is a function of the relevancyrules, not the hearsay rules" and that as a "function of relevance, the pre-motive rule is clearly too broad . . . because itis simply not true that an individual with a motive to liealways will do so." 3 F. 3d 342, 350 (1993). "Rather, therelevance of the prior consistent statement is more accurately determined by evaluating the strength of the motiveto lie, the circumstances in which the statement is made, andthe declarant's demonstrated propensity to lie." Ibid. Thecourt recognized that some Circuits require that the consistent statements, to be admissible under the Rule, must bemade before the motive or influence arose, see, e. g., UnitedStates v. Guevara, 598 F. 2d 1094, 1100 (CA7 1979); UnitedStates v. Quinto, 582 F. 2d 224, 234 (CA2 1978), but cited theNinth Circuit's decision in United States v. Miller, 874 F. 2d1255, 1272 (1989), in support of its balancing approach. Applying this balancing test to A. T.'s first statement to herbabysitter, the Court of Appeals determined that althoughA. T. might have had "some motive to lie, we do not believethat it is a particularly strong one." 3 F. 3d, at 351. Thecourt held that the District Judge had not abused his discretion in admitting A. T.'s out-of-court statements. It did notanalyze the probative quality of A. T.'s six other out-of-courtstatements, nor did it reach the admissibility of the statements under any other rule of evidence.We granted certiorari, 510 U. S. 1109 (1994), and nowreverse.513us1$12L 04-04-98 13:51:10 PAGES OPINPGT156 TOME v. UNITED STATESOpinion of the CourtIIThe prevailing common-law rule for more than a centurybefore adoption of the Federal Rules of Evidence was that aprior consistent statement introduced to rebut a charge ofrecent fabrication or improper influence or motive was admissible if the statement had been made before the allegedfabrication, influence, or motive came into being, but it wasinadmissible if made afterwards. As Justice Story ex-plained: "[W]here the testimony is assailed as a fabricationof a recent date, . . . in order to repel such imputation, proofof the antecedent declaration of the party may be admitted."Ellicott v. Pearl, 10 Pet. 412, 439 (1836) (emphasis added).See also People v. Singer, 300 N. Y. 120, 124-125, 89 N. E. 2d710, 712 (1949).McCormick and Wigmore stated the rule in a more categorical manner: "[T]he applicable principle is that the priorconsistent statement has no relevancy to refute the chargeunless the consistent statement was made before the sourceof the bias, interest, influence or incapacity originated." E.Cleary, McCormick on Evidence $ 49, p. 105 (2d ed. 1972)(hereafter McCormick). See also 4 J. Wigmore, Evidence$ 1128, p. 268 (J. Chadbourn rev. 1972) (hereafter Wigmore)("A consistent statement, at a time prior to the existence ofa fact said to indicate bias . . . will effectively explain awaythe force of the impeaching evidence" (emphasis in original)).The question is whether Rule 801(d)(1)(B) embodies this tem-poral requirement. We hold that it does.ARule 801 provides:"(d) Statements which are not hearsay.--A statement isnot hearsay if--"(1) Prior statement by witness.--The declarant testi-fies at the trial or hearing and is subject to crossexamination concerning the statement, and the state-ment is . . .513us1$12L 04-04-98 13:51:10 PAGES OPINPGT157Cite as: 513 U. S. 150 (1995)Opinion of the Court"(B) consistent with the declarant's testimony and is of-fered to rebut an express or implied charge against thedeclarant of recent fabrication or improper influence ormotive."Rule 801 defines prior consistent statements as nonhear-say only if they are offered to rebut a charge of "recent fabrication or improper influence or motive." Fed. Rule Evid.801(d)(1)(B). Noting the "troublesome" logic of treating awitness' prior consistent statements as hearsay at all (be-cause the declarant is present in court and subject to crossexamination), the Advisory Committee decided to treat thoseconsistent statements, once the preconditions of the Rulewere satisfied, as nonhearsay and admissible as substantiveevidence, not just to rebut an attack on the witness' credibility. See Advisory Committee's Notes on Fed. Rule Evid.801(d)(1), 28 U. S. C. App., p. 773. A consistent statementmeeting the requirements of the Rule is thus placed in thesame category as a declarant's inconsistent statement madeunder oath in another proceeding, or prior identification tes-timony, or admissions by a party opponent. See Fed. RuleEvid. 801.The Rules do not accord this weighty, nonhearsay statusto all prior consistent statements. To the contrary, admissi-bility under the Rules is confined to those statements offeredto rebut a charge of "recent fabrication or improper influenceor motive," the same phrase used by the Advisory Committee in its description of the "traditiona[l]" common law ofevidence, which was the background against which the Ruleswere drafted. See Advisory Committee's Notes, supra, at773. Prior consistent statements may not be admitted tocounter all forms of impeachment or to bolster the witnessmerely because she has been discredited. In the presentcontext, the question is whether A. T.'s out-of-court state-ments rebutted the alleged link between her desire to bewith her mother and her testimony, not whether they sug-gested that A. T.'s in-court testimony was true. The Rule513us1$12L 04-04-98 13:51:10 PAGES OPINPGT158 TOME v. UNITED STATESOpinion of the Courtspeaks of a party rebutting an alleged motive, not bolsteringthe veracity of the story told.This limitation is instructive, not only to establish the pre-conditions of admissibility but also to reinforce the significance of the requirement that the consistent statementsmust have been made before the alleged influence, or motiveto fabricate, arose. That is to say, the forms of impeachmentwithin the Rule's coverage are the ones in which the tempo-ral requirement makes the most sense. Impeachment bycharging that the testimony is a recent fabrication or resultsfrom an improper influence or motive is, as a general matter,capable of direct and forceful refutation through introductionof out-of-court consistent statements that predate the alleged fabrication, influence, or motive. A consistent statement that predates the motive is a square rebuttal of thecharge that the testimony was contrived as a consequence ofthat motive. By contrast, prior consistent statements carrylittle rebuttal force when most other types of impeachmentare involved. McCormick $ 49, p. 105 ("When the attacktakes the form of impeachment of character, by showing misconduct, convictions or bad reputation, it is generally agreedthat there is no color for sustaining by consistent statements.The defense does not meet the assault" (footnote omitted));see also 4 Wigmore $ 1131, p. 293 ("The broad rule obtainsin a few courts that consistent statements may be admittedafter impeachment of any sort--in particular after any impeachment by cross-examination. But there is no reasonfor such a loose rule" (footnote omitted)).There may arise instances when out-of-court statementsthat postdate the alleged fabrication have some probativeforce in rebutting a charge of fabrication or improper influence or motive, but those statements refute the charged fabrication in a less direct and forceful way. Evidence that awitness made consistent statements after the alleged motiveto fabricate arose may suggest in some degree that the incourt testimony is truthful, and thus suggest in some degree513us1$12L 04-04-98 13:51:10 PAGES OPINPGT159Cite as: 513 U. S. 150 (1995)Opinion of the Courtthat that testimony did not result from some improper influ-ence; but if the drafters of Rule 801(d)(1)(B) intended tocountenance rebuttal along that indirect inferential chain,the purpose of confining the types of impeachment that openthe door to rebuttal by introducing consistent statementsbecomes unclear. If consistent statements are admissiblewithout reference to the timeframe we find imbedded in theRule, there appears no sound reason not to admit consistentstatements to rebut other forms of impeachment as well.Whatever objections can be leveled against limiting the Ruleto this designated form of impeachment and confining therebuttal to those statements made before the fabrication orimproper influence or motive arose, it is clear to us that thedrafters of Rule 801(d)(1)(B) were relying upon the commonlaw temporal requirement.The underlying theory of the Government's position is thatan out-of-court consistent statement, whenever it was made,tends to bolster the testimony of a witness and so tends alsoto rebut an express or implied charge that the testimony hasbeen the product of an improper influence. Congress couldhave adopted that rule with ease, providing, for instance,that "a witness' prior consistent statements are admissiblewhenever relevant to assess the witness' truthfulness oraccuracy." The theory would be that, in a broad sense, anyprior statement by a witness concerning the disputed issuesat trial would have some relevance in assessing the accuracyor truthfulness of the witness' in-court testimony on thesame subject. The narrow Rule enacted by Congress, however, cannot be understood to incorporate the Government'stheory.Our analysis is strengthened by the observation thatthe somewhat peculiar language of the Rule bears close similarity to the language used in many of the common-law casesthat describe the premotive requirement. "Rule 801(d)(1)(B) employs the precise language--`rebut[ting] . . . charge[s]. . . of recent fabrication or improper influence or motive'--513us1$12L 04-04-98 13:51:10 PAGES OPINPGT160 TOME v. UNITED STATESOpinion of Kennedy, J.consistently used in the panoply of pre-1975 decisions." Oh-lbaum, The Hobgoblin of the Federal Rules of Evidence: AnAnalysis of Rule 801(d)(1)(B), Prior Consistent Statementsand a New Proposal, 1987 B. Y. U. L. Rev. 231, 245. See,e. g., Ellicott v. Pearl, 10 Pet., at 439; Hanger v. UnitedStates, 398 F. 2d 91, 104 (CA8 1968); People v. Singer, 300N. Y. 120, 89 N. E. 2d 710 (1949).The language of the Rule, in its concentration on rebuttingcharges of recent fabrication or improper influence or motiveto the exclusion of other forms of impeachment, as well as inits use of wording that follows the language of the commonlaw cases, suggests that it was intended to carry over thecommon-law premotive rule.BOur conclusion that Rule 801(d)(1)(B) embodies thecommon-law premotive requirement is confirmed by an examination of the Advisory Committee's Notes to the FederalRules of Evidence. We have relied on those well-consideredNotes as a useful guide in ascertaining the meaning of theRules. See,e. g., Huddleston v. United States, 485 U. S. 681,688 (1988); United States v. Owens, 484 U. S. 554, 562 (1988).Where, as with Rule 801(d)(1)(B), "Congress did not amendthe Advisory Committee's draft in any way . . . the Committee's commentary is particularly relevant in determining themeaning of the document Congress enacted."Beech Air-craft Corp. v. Rainey, 488 U. S. 153, 165-166, n. 9 (1988).The Notes are also a respected source of scholarly commen-tary. Professor Cleary was a distinguished commentator onthe law of evidence, and he and members of the Committeeconsulted and considered the views, criticisms, and suggestions of the academic community in preparing the Notes.The Notes disclose a purpose to adhere to the common lawin the application of evidentiary principles, absent expressprovisions to the contrary. Where the Rules did departfrom their common-law antecedents, in general the Commit513us1$12L 04-04-98 13:51:10 PAGES OPINPGT161Cite as: 513 U. S. 150 (1995)Opinion of Kennedy, J.tee said so. See, e. g., Notes on Rule 804(b)(4), 28 U. S. C.App., p. 790 ("The general common law requirement that adeclaration in this area must have been made ante litemmotam has been dropped, as bearing more appropriately onweight than admissibility"); Rule 804(b)(2), id., at 789 ("Theexception is the familiar dying declaration of the commonlaw, expanded somewhat beyond its traditionally narrow limits"); Rule 804(b)(3), ibid. ("The exception discards the com-mon law limitation and expands to the full logical limit").The Notes give no indication, however, that Rule 801(d)(1)(B)abandoned the premotive requirement. The entire discussion of Rule 801(d)(1)(B) is limited to the following comment:"Prior consistent statements traditionally have been admissible to rebut charges of recent fabrication or im-proper influence or motive but not as substantive evidence. Under the rule they are substantive evidence.The prior statement is consistent with the testimonygiven on the stand, and, if the opposite party wishes toopen the door for its admission in evidence, no soundreason is apparent why it should not be received generally." Notes on Rule 801(d)(1)(B), id., at 773.Throughout their discussion of the Rules, the AdvisoryCommittee's Notes rely on Wigmore and McCormick as authority for the common-law approach. In light of the categorical manner in which those authors state the premotiverequirement, seesupra, at 156, it is difficult to imagine thatthe drafters, who noted the new substantive use of prior con-sistent statements, would have remained silent if they intended to modify the premotive requirement. As we observed with respect to another provision of the Rules, "[w]iththis state of unanimity confronting the drafters of the Federal Rules of Evidence, we think it unlikely that they intended to scuttle entirely [the common-law requirement]."United States v. Abel, 469 U. S. 45, 50 (1984). Here, we donot think the drafters of the Rule intended to scuttle the513us1$12L 04-04-98 13:51:10 PAGES OPINPGT162 TOME v. UNITED STATESOpinion of Kennedy, J.whole premotive requirement and rationale without so muchas a whisper of explanation.Observing that Edward Cleary was the Reporter of theAdvisory Committee that drafted the Rules, the Court hasrelied upon his writings as persuasive authority on the meaning of the Rules. See Daubert v. Merrell Dow Pharmaceuticals, Inc., 509 U. S. 579 (1993); Abel, supra, at 51-52.Cleary also was responsible for the 1972 revision of McCor-mick's treatise, which included an examination of the changesintroduced by the proposed federal rules to the common-lawpractice of impeachment and rehabilitation. The discussion,which occurs only three paragraphs after the treatise's categorical description of the common-law premotive rule, alsolacks any indication that the proposed rules were abandoningthat temporal limitation. See McCormick $ 50, p. 107.Our conclusion is bolstered by the Advisory Committee'sstated "unwillingness to countenance the general use of priorprepared statements as substantive evidence." See Noteson Rule 801(d)(1), 28 U. S. C. App., p. 773. Rule 801(d),which "enumerates three situations in which the statement isexcepted from the category of hearsay," ibid., was expresslycontrasted by the Committee with Uniform Rule of Evidence63(1) (1953), "which allows any out-of-court statement of adeclarant who is present at the trial and available for crossexamination." Notes on Rule 801(d)(1), supra, at 773 (emphasis added). When a witness presents important testimony damaging to a party, the party will often counter withat least an implicit charge that the witness has been undersome influence or motive to fabricate. If Rule 801 were readso that the charge opened the floodgates to any prior consistent statement that satisfied Rule 403, as the Tenth Circuitconcluded, the distinction between rejected Uniform Rule63(1) and Rule 801(d)(1)(B) would all but disappear.That Rule 801(d)(1)(B) permits prior consistent statementsto be used for substantive purposes after the statements areadmitted to rebut the existence of an improper influence or513us1$12L 04-04-98 13:51:10 PAGES OPINPGT163Cite as: 513 U. S. 150 (1995)Opinion of the Courtmotive makes it all the more important to observe the pre-conditions for admitting the evidence in the first place. Theposition taken by the Rules reflects a compromise betweenthe views expressed by the "bulk of the case law . . . againstallowing prior statements of witnesses to be used generallyas substantive evidence" and the views of the majority of"writers . . . [who] ha[d] taken the opposite position." Ibid.That compromise was one that the Committee candidly admitted was a "judgment . . . more of experience than oflogic."Ibid."A party contending that legislative action changed settledlaw has the burden of showing that the legislature intendedsuch a change."Green v. Bock Laundry Machine Co., 490U. S. 504, 521 (1989) (applying that presumption in interpreting Federal Rule of Evidence 609). Nothing in the AdvisoryCommittee's Notes suggests that it intended to alter thecommon-law premotive requirement.CThe Government's final argument in favor of affirmance isthat the common-law premotive rule advocated by petitioneris inconsistent with the Federal Rules' liberal approach torelevancy and with strong academic criticism, beginning inthe 1940's, directed at the exclusion of out-of-court state-ments made by a declarant who is present in court and subject to cross-examination. This argument misconceives thedesign of the Rules' hearsay provisions.Hearsay evidence is often relevant. "The only way inwhich the probative force of hearsay differs from the probative force of other testimony is in the absence of oath, de-meanor, and cross-examination as aids in determining credibility." Advisory Committee's Introduction to Article VIII,28 U. S. C. App., p. 771. That does not resolve the matter,however. Relevance is not the sole criterion of admissibil-ity. Otherwise, it would be difficult to account for the Rules'general proscription of hearsay testimony (absent a specific513us1$12L 04-04-98 13:51:10 PAGES OPINPGT164 TOME v. UNITED STATESOpinion of the Courtexception), see Fed. Rule Evid. 802, let alone the traditionalanalysis of hearsay that the Rules, for the most part, reflect.Ibid. ("The approach to hearsay in these rules is that of thecommon law. . . . The traditional hearsay exceptions aredrawn upon for the exceptions . . ."). That certain out-of-court statements may be relevant does not dispose of thequestion whether they are admissible.The Government's reliance on academic commentatorscritical of excluding out-of-court statements by a witness, seeBrief for United States 40, is subject to like criticism. Tobe sure, certain commentators in the years preceding theadoption of the Rules had been critical of the common-lawapproach to hearsay, particularly its categorical exclusion ofout-of-court statements offered for substantive purposes.See, e. g., Weinstein, The Probative Force of Hearsay, 46Iowa L. Rev. 331, 344-345 (1961) (gathering sources). General criticism was directed to the exclusion of a declarant'sout-of-court statements where the declarant testified at trial.See, e. g., id., at 333 ("[T]reating the out of court statementof the witness himself as hearsay" is a "practical absurdityin many instances"); Morgan, Hearsay Dangers and the Ap-plication of the Hearsay Concept, 62 Harv. L. Rev. 177, 192-196 (1948). As an alternative, they suggested moving awayfrom the categorical exclusion of hearsay and toward a caseby-case balancing of the probative value of particular state-ments against their likely prejudicial effect. See Weinstein,supra, at 338; Ladd, The Relationship of the Principles ofExclusionary Rules of Evidence to the Problem of Proof, 18Minn. L. Rev. 506 (1934). The Advisory Committee, how-ever, was explicit in rejecting this balancing approach tohearsay:"The Advisory Committee has rejected this approachto hearsay as involving too great a measure of judicialdiscretion, minimizing the predictability of rulings,[and] enhancing the difficulties of preparation for trial."Advisory Committee's Introduction, supra, at 771.513us1$12L 04-04-98 13:51:10 PAGES OPINPGT165Cite as: 513 U. S. 150 (1995)Opinion of the CourtGiven the Advisory Committee's rejection of both the gen-eral balancing approach to hearsay and of Uniform Rule63(1), see supra, at 162, the Government's reliance on theviews of those who advocated these positions is misplaced.The statement-by-statement balancing approach advo-cated by the Government and adopted by the Tenth Circuitcreates the precise dangers the Advisory Committee notedand sought to avoid: It involves considerable judicial discretion; it reduces predictability; and it enhances the difficultiesof trial preparation because parties will have difficulty knowing in advance whether or not particular out-of-court state-ments will be admitted. See Advisory Committee's Introduction, supra, at 771. DThe case before us illustrates some of the important con-siderations supporting the Rule as we interpret it, especiallyin criminal cases. If the Rule were to permit the introduc-tion of prior statements as substantive evidence to rebutevery implicit charge that a witness' in-court testimony re-sults from recent fabrication or improper influence or motive,the whole emphasis of the trial could shift to the out-of-courtstatements, not the in-court ones. The present case illustrates the point. In response to a rather weak charge thatA. T.'s testimony was a fabrication created so the child couldremain with her mother, the Government was permitted topresent a parade of sympathetic and credible witnesses whodid no more than recount A. T.'s detailed out-of-court state-ments to them. Although those statements might have beenprobative on the question whether the alleged conduct hadoccurred, they shed but minimal light on whether A. T. hadthe charged motive to fabricate. At closing argument be-fore the jury, the Government placed great reliance on theprior statements for substantive purposes but did not onceseek to use them to rebut the impact of the alleged motive.We are aware that in some cases it may be difficult toascertain when a particular fabrication, influence, or motive513us1$12L 04-04-98 13:51:10 PAGES OPINPGT166 TOME v. UNITED STATESOpinion of the Courtarose. Yet, as the Government concedes, a majority ofcommon-law courts were performing this task for well overa century, see Brief for United States 39, and the Government has presented us with no evidence that those courts,or the judicial circuits that adhere to the rule today, havebeen unable to make the determination. Even under theGovernment's hypothesis, moreover, the thing to be rebuttedmust be identified, so the date of its origin cannot be thatmuch more difficult to ascertain. By contrast, as the Advisory Committee commented, see supra, at 164, the Government's approach, which would require the trial court toweigh all of the circumstances surrounding a statement thatsuggest its probativeness against the court's assessment ofthe strength of the alleged motive, would entail more of aburden, with no guidance to attorneys in preparing a case orto appellate courts in reviewing a judgment.IIICourts must be sensitive to the difficulties attendant uponthe prosecution of alleged child abusers. In almost all casesa youth is the prosecution's only eyewitness. But "[t]hisCourt cannot alter evidentiary rules merely because litigantsmight prefer different rules in a particular class of cases."United States v. Salerno, 505 U. S. 317, 322 (1992). When aparty seeks to introduce out-of-court statements that containstrong circumstantial indicia of reliability, that are highlyprobative on the material questions at trial, and that arebetter than other evidence otherwise available, there is noneed to distort the requirements of Rule 801(d)(1)(B). If itsrequirements are met, Rule 803(24) exists for that eventuality. We intimate no view, however, concerning the admissibility of any of A. T.'s out-of-court statements under thatsection, or any other evidentiary principle. These matters,and others, are for the Court of Appeals to decide in thefirst instance.513us1$12L 04-04-98 13:51:10 PAGES OPINPGT167Cite as: 513 U. S. 150 (1995)Opinion of Scalia, J.Our holding is confined to the requirements for admissionunder Rule 801(d)(1)(B). The Rule permits the introductionof a declarant's consistent out-of-court statements to rebut acharge of recent fabrication or improper influence or motiveonly when those statements were made before the chargedrecent fabrication or improper influence or motive. Theseconditions of admissibility were not established here.The judgment of the Court of Appeals for the TenthCircuit is reversed, and the case is remanded for furtherproceedings consistent with this opinion.