Temporary road signs with warnings like "Road WorkAhead" or "Left Shoulder Closed" must withstand stronggusts of wind. An inventor named Robert Sarkisian obtained two utility patents for a mechanism built upon twosprings (the dual-spring design) to keep these and other outdoor signs upright despite adverse wind conditions. Theholder of the now-expired Sarkisian patents, respondentMarketing Displays, Inc. (MDI), established a successfulbusiness in the manufacture and sale of sign stands incorporating the patented feature. MDI's stands for road signswere recognizable to buyers and users (it says) because thedual-spring design was visible near the base of the sign.*Briefs of amici curiae urging reversal were filed for the Holmes Group,Inc., by James W. Dabney; for Panduit Corp. by Roy E. Hofer, JeromeGilson, Cynthia A. Homan, and Philip A. Jones; and for Malla Pollack,pro se.Briefs of amici curiae urging affirmance were filed for the AmericanIntellectual Property Association by Louis T. Pirkey; and for Thomas &Betts Corp. by Sidney David and Roy H. Wepner.Theodore H. Davis, Jr., Marie V. Driscoll, and Helen Hill Minsker fileda brief for the International Trademark Association as amicus curiae.532US1 Unit: $U31 [09-06-02 12:28:10] PAGES PGT: OPIN26 TRAFFIX DEVICES, INC. v. MARKETING DISPLAYS, INC.Opinion of the CourtThis litigation followed after the patents expired and acompetitor, TrafFix Devices, Inc., sold sign stands with avisible spring mechanism that looked like MDI's. MDI andTrafFix products looked alike because they were. WhenTrafFix started in business, it sent an MDI product abroadto have it reverse engineered, that is to say copied. Complicating matters, TrafFix marketed its sign stands under aname similar to MDI's. MDI used the name "WindMaster,"while TrafFix, its new competitor, used "WindBuster."MDI brought suit under the Trademark Act of 1946 (Lanham Act), 60 Stat. 427, as amended, 15 U. S. C. $ 1051 et seq.,against TrafFix for trademark infringement (based on thesimilar names), trade dress infringement (based on the cop-ied dual-spring design), and unfair competition. TrafFixcounterclaimed on antitrust theories. After the UnitedStates District Court for the Eastern District of Michiganconsidered cross-motions for summary judgment, MDI pre-vailed on its trademark claim for the confusing similarity ofnames and was held not liable on the antitrust counterclaim;and those two rulings, affirmed by the Court of Appeals, arenot before us. IWe are concerned with the trade dress question. TheDistrict Court ruled against MDI on its trade dress claim.971 F. Supp. 262 (ED Mich. 1997). After determining thatthe one element of MDI's trade dress at issue was the dualspring design, id., at 265, it held that "no reasonable trierof fact could determine that MDI has established secondarymeaning" in its alleged trade dress, id., at 269. In otherwords, consumers did not associate the look of the dualspring design with MDI. As a second, independent reasonto grant summary judgment in favor of TrafFix, the DistrictCourt determined the dual-spring design was functional.On this rationale secondary meaning is irrelevant becausethere can be no trade dress protection in any event. In rul-ing on the functional aspect of the design, the District Court532US1 Unit: $U31 [09-06-02 12:28:10] PAGES PGT: OPIN27Cite as: 532 U. S. 23 (2001)Opinion of the Courtnoted that Sixth Circuit precedent indicated that the burdenwas on MDI to prove that its trade dress was nonfunctional,and not on TrafFix to show that it was functional (a rulesince adopted by Congress, see 15 U. S. C. $ 1125(a)(3) (1994ed., Supp. V)), and then went on to consider MDI's argu-ments that the dual-spring design was subject to trade dressprotection. Finding none of MDI's contentions persuasive,the District Court concluded MDI had not "proffered suf-ficient evidence which would enable a reasonable trier offact to find that MDI's vertical dual-spring design is non-functional." 971 F. Supp., at 276. Summary judgment wasentered against MDI on its trade dress claims.The Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit reversed thetrade dress ruling. 200 F. 3d 929 (1999). The Court of Appeals held the District Court had erred in ruling MDI failedto show a genuine issue of material fact regarding whetherit had secondary meaning in its alleged trade dress, id., at938, and had erred further in determining that MDI couldnot prevail in any event because the alleged trade dress wasin fact a functional product configuration, id., at 940. TheCourt of Appeals suggested the District Court committedlegal error by looking only to the dual-spring design whenevaluating MDI's trade dress. Basic to its reasoning wasthe Court of Appeals' observation that it took "little imagination to conceive of a hidden dual-spring mechanism ora tri or quad-spring mechanism that might avoid infringing [MDI's] trade dress." Ibid. The Court of Appeals explained that "[i]f TrafFix or another competitor chooses touse [MDI's] dual-spring design, then it will have to find someother way to set its sign apart to avoid infringing [MDI's]trade dress." Ibid. It was not sufficient, according to theCourt of Appeals, that allowing exclusive use of a particularfeature such as the dual-spring design in the guise of tradedress would "hinde[r] competition somewhat." Rather,"[e]xclusive use of a feature must `put competitors at a significant non-reputation-related disadvantage' before trade532US1 Unit: $U31 [09-06-02 12:28:10] PAGES PGT: OPIN28 TRAFFIX DEVICES, INC. v. MARKETING DISPLAYS, INC.Opinion of the Courtdress protection is denied on functionality grounds." Ibid.(quoting Qualitex Co. v. Jacobson Products Co., 514 U. S. 159,165 (1995)). In its criticism of the District Court's ruling onthe trade dress question, the Court of Appeals took note ofa split among Courts of Appeals in various other Circuits onthe issue whether the existence of an expired utility patentforecloses the possibility of the patentee's claiming tradedress protection in the product's design. 200 F. 3d, at 939.Compare Sunbeam Products, Inc. v. West Bend Co., 123 F. 3d246 (CA5 1997) (holding that trade dress protection is notforeclosed), Thomas & Betts Corp. v. Panduit Corp., 138F. 3d 277 (CA7 1998) (same), andMidwest Industries, Inc. v.Karavan Trailers, Inc., 175 F. 3d 1356 (CA Fed 1999) (same),with Vornado Air Circulation Systems, Inc. v. DuracraftCorp., 58 F. 3d 1498, 1500 (CA10 1995) ("Where a productconfiguration is a significant inventive component of an in-vention covered by a utility patent . . . it cannot receive tradedress protection"). To resolve the conflict, we granted cer-tiorari. 530 U. S. 1260 (2000).IIIt is well established that trade dress can be protectedunder federal law. The design or packaging of a productmay acquire a distinctiveness which serves to identify theproduct with its manufacturer or source; and a design orpackage which acquires this secondary meaning, assumingother requisites are met, is a trade dress which may not beused in a manner likely to cause confusion as to the origin,sponsorship, or approval of the goods. In these respectsprotection for trade dress exists to promote competition.As we explained just last Term, seeWal-Mart Stores, Inc. v.Samara Brothers, Inc., 529 U. S. 205 (2000), various Courtsof Appeals have allowed claims of trade dress infringementrelying on the general provision of the Lanham Act whichprovides a cause of action to one who is injured when a per-son uses "any word, term name, symbol, or device, or any532US1 Unit: $U31 [09-06-02 12:28:10] PAGES PGT: OPIN29Cite as: 532 U. S. 23 (2001)Opinion of the Courtcombination thereof . . . which is likely to cause confusion . . .as to the origin, sponsorship, or approval of his or hergoods." 15 U. S. C. $ 1125(a)(1)(A). Congress confirmedthis statutory protection for trade dress by amending theLanham Act to recognize the concept. Title 15 U. S. C.$ 1125(a)(3) (1994 ed., Supp. V) provides: "In a civil action fortrade dress infringement under this chapter for trade dressnot registered on the principal register, the person who as-serts trade dress protection has the burden of proving thatthe matter sought to be protected is not functional." Thisburden of proof gives force to the well-established rule thattrade dress protection may not be claimed for product features that are functional. Qualitex, supra, at 164-165; TwoPesos, Inc. v. Taco Cabana, Inc., 505 U. S. 763, 775 (1992).And in Wal-Mart, supra, we were careful to caution againstmisuse or overextension of trade dress. We noted that"product design almost invariably serves purposes otherthan source identification." Id., at 213.Trade dress protection must subsist with the recognitionthat in many instances there is no prohibition against copying goods and products. In general, unless an intellectualproperty right such as a patent or copyright protects anitem, it will be subject to copying. As the Court has explained, copying is not always discouraged or disfavored bythe laws which preserve our competitive economy. BonitoBoats, Inc. v. Thunder Craft Boats, Inc., 489 U. S. 141, 160(1989). Allowing competitors to copy will have salutary effects in many instances. "Reverse engineering of chemicaland mechanical articles in the public domain often leads tosignificant advances in technology." Ibid.The principal question in this case is the effect of an expired patent on a claim of trade dress infringement. A priorpatent, we conclude, has vital significance in resolving thetrade dress claim. A utility patent is strong evidence thatthe features therein claimed are functional. If trade dressprotection is sought for those features the strong evidence532US1 Unit: $U31 [09-06-02 12:28:10] PAGES PGT: OPIN30 TRAFFIX DEVICES, INC. v. MARKETING DISPLAYS, INC.Opinion of the Courtof functionality based on the previous patent adds greatweight to the statutory presumption that features aredeemed functional until proved otherwise by the party seek-ing trade dress protection. Where the expired patentclaimed the features in question, one who seeks to establishtrade dress protection must carry the heavy burden of showing that the feature is not functional, for instance by showingthat it is merely an ornamental, incidental, or arbitrary as-pect of the device.In the case before us, the central advance claimed in theexpired utility patents (the Sarkisian patents) is the dualspring design; and the dual-spring design is the essential feature of the trade dress MDI now seeks to establish and toprotect. The rule we have explained bars the trade dressclaim, for MDI did not, and cannot, carry the burden of overcoming the strong evidentiary inference of functionalitybased on the disclosure of the dual-spring design in theclaims of the expired patents.The dual springs shown in the Sarkisian patents were wellapart (at either end of a frame for holding a rectangular signwhen one full side is the base) while the dual springs at issuehere are close together (in a frame designed to hold a signby one of its corners). As the District Court recognized,this makes little difference. The point is that the springsare necessary to the operation of the device. The fact thatthe springs in this very different-looking device fall withinthe claims of the patents is illustrated by MDI's own positionin earlier litigation. In the late 1970's, MDI engaged in along-running intellectual property battle with a companyknown as Winn-Proof. Although the precise claims of theSarkisian patents cover sign stands with springs "spacedapart," U. S. Patent No. 3,646,696, col. 4; U. S. PatentNo. 3,662,482, col. 4, the Winn-Proof sign stands (withsprings much like the sign stands at issue here) were foundto infringe the patents by the United States District Courtfor the District of Oregon, and the Court of Appeals for the532US1 Unit: $U31 [09-06-02 12:28:10] PAGES PGT: OPIN31Cite as: 532 U. S. 23 (2001)Opinion of the CourtNinth Circuit affirmed the judgment. Sarkisian v. WinnProof Corp., 697 F. 2d 1313 (1983). Although the WinnProof traffic sign stand (with dual springs close together) didnot appear, then, to infringe the literal terms of the patentclaims (which called for "spaced apart" springs), the Winn-Proof sign stand was found to infringe the patents underthe doctrine of equivalents, which allows a finding of patentinfringement even when the accused product does not fallwithin the literal terms of the claims.Id., at 1321-1322; seegenerally Warner-Jenkinson Co. v. Hilton Davis ChemicalCo., 520 U. S. 17 (1997). In light of this past ruling--a rulingprocured at MDI's own insistence--it must be concluded theproducts here at issue would have been covered by theclaims of the expired patents.The rationale for the rule that the disclosure of a featurein the claims of a utility patent constitutes strong evidence offunctionality is well illustrated in this case. The dual-springdesign serves the important purpose of keeping the sign upright even in heavy wind conditions; and, as confirmed bythe statements in the expired patents, it does so in a uniqueand useful manner. As the specification of one of the patents recites, prior art "devices, in practice, will topple underthe force of a strong wind." U. S. Patent No. 3,662,482, col.1. The dual-spring design allows sign stands to resist toppling in strong winds. Using a dual-spring design ratherthan a single spring achieves important operational advantages. For example, the specifications of the patents notethat the "use of a pair of springs . . . as opposed to the useof a single spring to support the frame structure preventscanting or twisting of the sign around a vertical axis," andthat, if not prevented, twisting "may cause damage to thespring structure and may result in tipping of the device."U. S. Patent No. 3,646,696, col. 3. In the course of patentprosecution, it was said that "[t]he use of a pair of springconnections as opposed to a single spring connection . . .forms an important part of this combination" because it532US1 Unit: $U31 [09-06-02 12:28:10] PAGES PGT: OPIN32 TRAFFIX DEVICES, INC. v. MARKETING DISPLAYS, INC.Opinion of the Court"forc[es] the sign frame to tip along the longitudinal axis ofthe elongated ground-engaging members." App. 218. Thedual-spring design affects the cost of the device as well; itwas acknowledged that the device "could use three springsbut this would unnecessarily increase the cost of the device."Id., at 217. These statements made in the patent applications and in the course of procuring the patents demonstratethe functionality of the design. MDI does not assert thatany of these representations are mistaken or inaccurate, andthis is further strong evidence of the functionality of thedual-spring design. IIIIn finding for MDI on the trade dress issue the Court ofAppeals gave insufficient recognition to the importance ofthe expired utility patents, and their evidentiary significance,in establishing the functionality of the device. The errorlikely was caused by its misinterpretation of trade dressprinciples in other respects. As we have noted, even ifthere has been no previous utility patent the party assertingtrade dress has the burden to establish the nonfunctionalityof alleged trade dress features. MDI could not meet thisburden. Discussing trademarks, we have said " `[i]n generalterms, a product feature is functional,' and cannot serve asa trademark, `if it is essential to the use or purpose of thearticle or if it affects the cost or quality of the article.' "Qualitex, 514 U. S., at 165 (quoting Inwood Laboratories,Inc. v. Ives Laboratories, Inc., 456 U. S. 844, 850, n. 10(1982)). Expanding upon the meaning of this phrase, wehave observed that a functional feature is one the "exclusiveuse of [which] would put competitors at a significant nonreputation-related disadvantage." 514 U. S., at 165. TheCourt of Appeals in the instant case seemed to interpret thislanguage to mean that a necessary test for functionality is"whether the particular product configuration is a competitive necessity." 200 F. 3d, at 940. See also Vornado, 58F. 3d, at 1507 ("Functionality, by contrast, has been defined532US1 Unit: $U31 [09-06-02 12:28:10] PAGES PGT: OPIN33Cite as: 532 U. S. 23 (2001)Opinion of the Courtboth by our circuit, and more recently by the Supreme Court,in terms of competitive need"). This was incorrect as a comprehensive definition. As explained in Qualitex, supra, andInwood, supra, a feature is also functional when it is essential to the use or purpose of the device or when it affects thecost or quality of the device. TheQualitex decision did notpurport to displace this traditional rule. Instead, it quotedthe rule as Inwood had set it forth. It is proper to inquireinto a "significant non-reputation-related disadvantage" incases of esthetic functionality, the question involved in Qualitex. Where the design is functional under the Inwood formulation there is no need to proceed further to consider ifthere is a competitive necessity for the feature. In Qualitex, by contrast, esthetic functionality was the central question, there having been no indication that the green-goldcolor of the laundry press pad had any bearing on the use orpurpose of the product or its cost or quality.The Court has allowed trade dress protection to certainproduct features that are inherently distinctive. Two Pesos,505 U. S., at 774. In Two Pesos, however, the Court at theoutset made the explicit analytic assumption that the tradedress features in question (decorations and other features toevoke a Mexican theme in a restaurant) were not functional.Id., at 767, n. 6. The trade dress in those cases did not barcompetitors from copying functional product design features.In the instant case, beyond serving the purpose of informingconsumers that the sign stands are made by MDI (assumingit does so), the dual-spring design provides a unique and useful mechanism to resist the force of the wind. Functionalityhaving been established, whether MDI's dual-spring designhas acquired secondary meaning need not be considered.There is no need, furthermore, to engage, as did the Courtof Appeals, in speculation about other design possibilities,such as using three or four springs which might serve thesame purpose. 200 F. 3d, at 940. Here, the functionality ofthe spring design means that competitors need not explore532US1 Unit: $U31 [09-06-02 12:28:10] PAGES PGT: OPIN34 TRAFFIX DEVICES, INC. v. MARKETING DISPLAYS, INC.Opinion of the Courtwhether other spring juxtapositions might be used. Thedual-spring design is not an arbitrary flourish in the configuration of MDI's product; it is the reason the device works.Other designs need not be attempted.Because the dual-spring design is functional, it is unneces-sary for competitors to explore designs to hide the springs,say, by using a box or framework to cover them, as suggestedby the Court of Appeals. Ibid. The dual-spring design as-sures the user the device will work. If buyers are assuredthe product serves its purpose by seeing the operative mech-anism that in itself serves an important market need. Itwould be at cross-purposes to those objectives, and something of a paradox, were we to require the manufacturer toconceal the very item the user seeks.In a case where a manufacturer seeks to protect arbitrary,incidental, or ornamental aspects of features of a productfound in the patent claims, such as arbitrary curves in thelegs or an ornamental pattern painted on the springs, a different result might obtain. There the manufacturer couldperhaps prove that those aspects do not serve a purposewithin the terms of the utility patent. The inquiry intowhether such features, asserted to be trade dress, are functional by reason of their inclusion in the claims of an expiredutility patent could be aided by going beyond the claims andexamining the patent and its prosecution history to see if thefeature in question is shown as a useful part of the invention.No such claim is made here, however. MDI in essence seeksprotection for the dual-spring design alone. The assertedtrade dress consists simply of the dual-spring design, fourlegs, a base, an upright, and a sign. MDI has pointed tonothing arbitrary about the components of its device or theway they are assembled. The Lanham Act does not existto reward manufacturers for their innovation in creating aparticular device; that is the purpose of the patent law andits period of exclusivity. The Lanham Act, furthermore,does not protect trade dress in a functional design simply532US1 Unit: $U31 [09-06-02 12:28:10] PAGES PGT: OPIN35Cite as: 532 U. S. 23 (2001)Opinion of the Courtbecause an investment has been made to encourage the pub-lic to associate a particular functional feature with a single manufacturer or seller. The Court of Appeals erred inviewing MDI as possessing the right to exclude competitorsfrom using a design identical to MDI's and to require thosecompetitors to adopt a different design simply to avoid copying it. MDI cannot gain the exclusive right to produce signstands using the dual-spring design by asserting that consumers associate it with the look of the invention itself.Whether a utility patent has expired or there has been noutility patent at all, a product design which has a particularappearance may be functional because it is "essential to theuse or purpose of the article" or "affects the cost or qualityof the article."Inwood, 456 U. S., at 850, n. 10.TrafFix and some of its amici argue that the PatentClause of the Constitution, Art. I, $ 8, cl. 8, of its own force,prohibits the holder of an expired utility patent from claiming trade dress protection. Brief for Petitioner 33-36; Brieffor Panduit Corp. asAmicus Curiae 3; Brief for Malla Pol-lack as Amicus Curiae 2. We need not resolve this question. If, despite the rule that functional features may notbe the subject of trade dress protection, a case arises inwhich trade dress becomes the practical equivalent of an ex-pired utility patent, that will be time enough to consider thematter. The judgment of the Court of Appeals is reversed,and the case is remanded for further proceedings consistentwith this opinion. It is so ordered.532US1 Unit: $U32 [09-05-02 18:30:34] PAGES PGT: OPIN36 OCTOBER TERM, 2000SyllabusSHAFER v. SOUTH CAROLINAcertiorari to the supreme court of south carolinaNo. 00-5250. Argued January 9, 2001--Decided March 20, 2001Under recent amendments to South Carolina law, capital jurors face twoquestions at the sentencing phase of the trial. They decide firstwhether the State has proved beyond a reasonable doubt the existenceof any statutory aggravating circumstance. If the jury fails to agreeunanimously on the presence of a statutory aggravator, it cannot makea sentencing recommendation. In that event, the trial judge is chargedwith sentencing the defendant to either life imprisonment or a mandatory minimum 30-year prison term. If, on the other hand, the juryunanimously finds a statutory aggravator, it then recommends one oftwo potential sentences--death or life imprisonment without the possibility of parole. No other sentencing option is available to the jury.A South Carolina jury found petitioner Shafer guilty of murder,armed robbery, and conspiracy. During the trial's sentencing phase,Shafer's counsel and the prosecutor disagreed on the application of Simmons v. South Carolina, 512 U. S. 154, to this case. This Court held inSimmons that where a capital defendant's future dangerousness is atissue, and the only sentencing alternative to death available to the juryis life imprisonment without possibility of parole, due process requiresthat the jury be informed of the defendant's parole ineligibility. Shafer's counsel maintained that Simmons required the trial judge to instruct the jury that under South Carolina law a life sentence carriesno possibility of parole. The prosecutor, in opposition, urged that noSimmons instruction was required because the State did not plan toargue to the jury that Shafer would be a danger in the future. Shafer'scounsel replied that the State had in fact put future dangerousness atissue by introducing evidence of a postarrest assault by Shafer and jailrules violations. The judge refused to charge on parole ineligibility,stating that future dangerousness had not been argued. The judge alsodenied Shafer's counsel leave to read in his closing argument lines fromthe controlling statute stating plainly that a life sentence in South Carolina carries no possibility of parole. After the prosecution's closing argument, Shafer's counsel renewed his plea for a life without parole instruction on the ground that the State had placed future dangerousnessat issue by repeating the statements of an alarmed witness at the crimescene that Shafer and his accomplices "might come back." The trialjudge again denied the request. Quoting a passage from the relevant532US1 Unit: $U32 [09-05-02 18:30:34] PAGES PGT: OPIN37Cite as: 532 U. S. 36 (2001)Syllabusstatute but not the full text, the judge twice told the jury that "lifeimprisonment means until the death of the defendant." During its sentencing deliberations, the jury asked the judge whether, and under whatcircumstances, someone convicted of murder could become eligible forparole. The judge responded that "[p]arole eligibility or ineligibilityis not for your consideration." The jury unanimously found beyond areasonable doubt the aggravating factor of murder while attemptingarmed robbery, and recommended the death penalty, which the judgeimposed.The South Carolina Supreme Court affirmed. Without considering whether the prosecutor's evidentiary submissions or closing argument in fact placed Shafer's future dangerousness at issue, the courtheld Simmons generally inapplicable to the State's "new sentencingscheme." Simmons is not triggered, the South Carolina court said, unless life without parole is the only legally available sentence alternativeto death. Currently, the court observed, when a capital jury begins itssentencing deliberations, three alternative sentences are available: (1)death, (2) life without the possibility of parole, or (3) a mandatory minimum 30-year sentence. Since an alternative to death other than lifewithout the possibility of parole exists, the court concluded, Simmonsno longer constrains capital sentencing in South Carolina.Held:1. The South Carolina Supreme Court incorrectly interpreted Simmons when it declared the case inapplicable to South Carolina's currentsentencing scheme. That court's reasoning might be persuasive if thejury's sentencing discretion actually encompassed the three choices thecourt identified: death, life without the possibility of parole, or a mandatory minimum 30-year sentence. But, that is not how the State's newscheme works. Under the law now governing sentencing proceedings,if the jury finds an aggravating circumstance, it must recommend a sentence, and its choices are limited to death and life without parole.When the jury makes the threshold determination whether a statutoryaggravator exists, a tightly circumscribed factual inquiry, none of Simmons' due process concerns yet arise. At that stage, there are no "misunderstanding[s]" to avoid, no "false choice[s]" to guard against. SeeSimmons, 512 U. S., at 161 (plurality opinion). The jury, as aggravatingcircumstance factfinder, exercises no sentencing discretion itself. If noaggravator is found, the judge takes over and has sole authority to impose the mandatory minimum so heavily relied upon by the State Supreme Court. It is only when the jury endeavors the moral judgmentwhether to impose the death penalty that parole eligibility may becomecritical. Correspondingly, it is only at that stage that Simmons comes532US1 Unit: $U32 [09-05-02 18:30:34] PAGES PGT: OPIN38 SHAFER v. SOUTH CAROLINASyllabusinto play, a stage at which South Carolina law provides no third choice,no 30-year mandatory minimum, just death or life without parole. SeeRamdass v. Angelone, 530 U. S. 156, 169. Thus, whenever future dangerousness is at issue in a capital sentencing proceeding under SouthCarolina's new scheme, due process requires that the jury be informedthat a life sentence carries no possibility of parole. Pp. 48-51.2. South Carolina's other grounds in support of the trial judge'srefusal to give Shafer's requested parole ineligibility instruction areunavailing. Pp. 52-55.(a) The State's argument that the jury was properly informed ofthe law on parole ineligibility by the trial court's instructions and bydefense counsel's own argument is unpersuasive. To support that contention, the State sets out defense counsel's closing pleas that, if Shafer'slife is spared, he will die in prison after spending his natural life there,as well as passages from the trial judge's instructions reiterating thatlife imprisonment means until the death of the defendant. Displacement of the longstanding practice of parole availability remains a relatively recent development, and common sense indicates that many jurorsmight not know whether a life sentence carries with it the possibility ofparole. Simmons, 512 U. S., at 177-178 (O'Connor, J., concurring injudgment). Indeed, until two years before Shafer's trial, South Carolina's law did not categorically preclude parole for capital defendantssentenced to life imprisonment. Most plainly contradicting the State'scontention, the jury's written request for further instructions on thequestion left no doubt about the jury's failure to gain from defense counsel's closing argument or the judge's instructions any clear understanding of what a life sentence means. Cf., e. g., id., at 178. The jury'scomprehension was hardly aided by the court's final instruction declaring that parole eligibility was not for the jury's consideration. Thatinstruction did nothing to ensure that the jury was not misled and maywell have been taken to mean that parole was available but that thejury, for some unstated reason, should be blind to this fact. E. g., id.,at 170 (plurality opinion). Thus, although a life sentence for Shaferwould permit no parole or other release under current state law, thisreality was not conveyed to Shafer's jury by the court's instructions orby the arguments defense counsel was allowed to make. Pp. 52-54.(b) The State's contention that no parole ineligibility instructionwas required under Simmons because the State never argued thatShafer would pose a future danger to society presents an issue that isnot ripe for this Court's resolution. The State Supreme Court, in orderto rule broadly that Simmons no longer governs capital sentencing inthe State, apparently assumed, arguendo, that future dangerousness hadbeen shown at Shafer's sentencing proceeding. Because that court did532US1 Unit: $U32 [09-05-02 18:30:34] PAGES PGT: OPIN39Cite as: 532 U. S. 36 (2001)Opinion of the Courtnot home in on the question whether the prosecutor's evidentiary submissions or closing argument in fact placed Shafer's future dangerousness at issue, the question is left open for the state court's attention anddisposition. Pp. 54-55.340 S. C. 291, 531 S. E. 2d 524, reversed and remanded.Ginsburg, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which Rehnquist,C. J., and Stevens, O'Connor, Kennedy, Souter, and Breyer, JJ.,joined. Scalia, J., post, p. 55, and Thomas, J., post, p. 55, filed dissenting opinions.David I. Bruck, by appointment of the Court, 531 U. S.1009, argued the cause for petitioner. With him on thebriefs was William N. Nettles.Donald J. Zelenka, Assistant Deputy Attorney Generalof South Carolina, argued the cause for respondent. Withhim on the brief were Charlie Condon, Attorney General,John W. McIntosh, Chief Deputy Attorney General, andS. Creighton Waters, Assistant Attorney General.*Justice Ginsburg delivered the opinion of the Court.This case concerns the right of a defendant in a capitalcase to inform the jury that, under the governing state law,he would not be eligible for parole in the event that the jurysentences him to life imprisonment. In Simmons v. SouthCarolina, 512 U. S. 154 (1994), this Court held that where acapital defendant's future dangerousness is at issue, and theonly sentencing alternative to death available to the jury islife imprisonment without possibility of parole, due processentitles the defendant "to inform the jury of [his] parole ineli-gibility, either by a jury instruction or in arguments by counsel." Ramdass v. Angelone, 530 U. S. 156, 165 (2000) (plu-rality opinion) (describingSimmons' premise and pluralityopinion). The case we now confront involves a death sentence returned by a jury instructed both that "life imprison*Sheri Lynn Johnson and John H. Blume filed a brief for the CornellDeath Penalty Project as amicus curiae.532US1 Unit: $U32 [09-05-02 18:30:34] PAGES PGT: OPIN40 SHAFER v. SOUTH CAROLINAOpinion of the Courtment means until death of the offender," and that "[p]aroleeligibility or ineligibility is not for your consideration." 340S. C. 291, 297, 531 S. E. 2d 524, 527 (2000). It presents thequestion whether the South Carolina Supreme Court misread our precedent when it declared Simmons inapplicableto South Carolina's current sentencing scheme. We holdthat South Carolina's Supreme Court incorrectly limitedSimmons and therefore reverse that court's judgment.IIn April 1997, in the course of an attempted robbery inUnion County, South Carolina, then-18-year-old WesleyAaron Shafer, Jr., shot and killed a convenience store cashier.A grand jury indicted Shafer on charges of murder, attempted armed robbery, and criminal conspiracy. App. 2-4.Prior to trial, the prosecutor notified Shafer that the Statewould seek the death penalty for the murder. App. 4-5. Inthat pursuit, the prosecutor further informed Shafer, theState would present evidence of Shafer's "prior bad acts,"as well as his "propensity for [future] violence and unlawfulconduct." App. 6, 8.Under South Carolina law, juries in capital cases considerguilt and sentencing in separate proceedings. S. C. CodeAnn. $$ 16-3-20(A), (B) (2000 Cum. Supp.). In the initial(guilt phase) proceeding, the jury found Shafer guilty on allthree charges. Governing the sentencing proceeding, SouthCarolina law instructs: "[T]he jury . . . shall hear additionalevidence in extenuation, mitigation, or aggravation of thepunishment. . . . The State, the defendant, and his counselare permitted to present arguments for or against the sentence to be imposed." $ 16-3-20(B).Under amendments effective January 1, 1996, South Carolina capital jurors face two questions at sentencing. Theydecide first whether the State has proved beyond a reasonable doubt the existence of any statutory aggravatingcircumstance. If the jury fails to agree unanimously on532US1 Unit: $U32 [09-05-02 18:30:34] PAGES PGT: OPIN41Cite as: 532 U. S. 36 (2001)Opinion of the Courtthe presence of a statutory aggravator, "it shall not makea sentencing recommendation." $ 16-3-20(C). "[T]he trialjudge," in that event, "shall sentence the defendant to eitherlife imprisonment or a mandatory minimum term of imprisonment for thirty years." Ibid.; see $ 16-3-20(B). If, onthe other hand, the jury unanimously finds a statutory aggravator, it then recommends one of two potential sentences--death or life imprisonment without the possibility of parole.$$ 16-3-20(A), (B). No sentencing option other than deathor life without parole is available to the jury.During the sentencing proceeding in Shafer's case, theState introduced evidence of his criminal record, past aggressive conduct, probation violations, and misbehavior inprison. The State urged the statutory aggravating circumstance that Shafer had committed the murder in the courseof an attempted robbery while armed with a deadly weapon.See $ 16-3-20(C)(a)(1)(d). The defense presented evidenceof Shafer's abusive childhood and mental problems.Near the completion of the parties' sentencing presentations, the trial judge conducted an in camera hearing on juryinstructions. Shafer's counsel maintained that due process,and our decision in Simmons v. South Carolina, 512 U. S.154 (1994), required the judge to instruct that under SouthCarolina law a life sentence carries no possibility of parole.The prosecutor, in opposition, urged that Shafer was notentitled to a Simmons instruction because "the State hasnot argued at any point . . . that he would be a danger toanybody in the future, nor will we argue [that] in our closingargument . . . ." App. 161. Shafer's counsel replied: "TheState cannot introduce evidence of future dangerousness,and then say we are not going to argue it and [thereby avoid]a charge on the law. . . . They have introduced [evidence ofa] post arrest assault, [and] post arrest violations of the rulesof the jail . . . . If you put a jailer on to say that [Shafer] ischarged with assault . . . on [the jailer], that is future dangerousness." App. 162. Ruling that "the matter of parole532US1 Unit: $U32 [09-05-02 18:30:34] PAGES PGT: OPIN42 SHAFER v. SOUTH CAROLINAOpinion of the Courtineligibility will not be charged," the trial judge stated: "Ifind that future dangerousness [was] not argued[;] if it's argued [in the prosecutor's closing], it may become different."App. 164.Unsuccessful in his effort to gain a court instruction onparole ineligibility, Shafer's counsel sought permission to impart the information to the jury himself. He sought leaveto read in his closing argument lines from the controllingstatute, $ 16-3-20(A), stating plainly that a life sentence inSouth Carolina carries no possibility of parole. App. 164-165.1 In accord with the State's motion "to prevent the de-fense from arguing in their closing argument anything to theeffect that [Shafer] will never get out of prison," App. 161,the judge denied the defense permission to read the statute'stext to the jury. App. 165.1 Section 16-3-20(A) reads: "A person who is convicted of or pleadsguilty to murder must be punished by death, by imprisonment for life, orby a mandatory minimum term of imprisonment for thirty years. If theState seeks the death penalty and a statutory aggravating circumstanceis found beyond a reasonable doubt pursuant to subsections (B) and (C),and a recommendation of death is not made, the trial judge must imposea sentence of life imprisonment. For purposes of this section, `life imprisonment' means until death of the offender. No person sentenced to lifeimprisonment pursuant to this section is eligible for parole, communitysupervision, or any early release program, nor is the person eligible toreceive any work credits, education credits, good conduct credits, or anyother credits that would reduce the mandatory life imprisonment requiredby this section. No person sentenced to a mandatory minimum term ofimprisonment for thirty years pursuant to this section is eligible for paroleor any early release program, nor is the person eligible to receive anywork credits, education credits, good conduct credits, or any other creditsthat would reduce the mandatory minimum term of imprisonment forthirty years required by this section. . . . When the Governor commutes asentence of death to life imprisonment under the provisions of Section 14of Article IV of the Constitution of South Carolina, 1895, the commutee isnot eligible for parole, community supervision, or any early release program, nor is the person eligible to receive any work credits, good conductcredits, education credits, or any other credits that would reduce the mandatory imprisonment required by this subsection."532US1 Unit: $U32 [09-05-02 18:30:34] PAGES PGT: OPIN43Cite as: 532 U. S. 36 (2001)Opinion of the CourtAfter the prosecution's closing argument, and out of thepresence of the jury, Shafer's counsel renewed his plea for "alife without parole charge." App. 188. He referred to hisearlier submissions and urged, in addition, that the State hadplaced future dangerousness at issue during closing argu-ment by repeating the words of an alarmed witness at thecrime scene: "[T]hey [Shafer and his two accomplices] mightcome back, they might come back." App. 188. The trialjudge denied the request. The judge "admit[ted he] hadsome concern [as to whether the State's] argument . . . hadcrossed the line," but in the end he found "that it comesclose, but did not." App. 191-192.Instructing the jury, the judge explained:"If you do not unanimously find the existence of the ag-gravating circumstance as set forth on the form [murderduring the commission of an attempted armed robbery],you do not need to go any further."If you find unanimously the existence of a statutoryaggravating circumstance . . . you will go further andcontinue your deliberations."Once you have unanimously found and signed as tothe presence of an aggravated circumstance, you thenfurther deliberate, and determine whether or not Wesley Aaron Shafer should be sentence[d] to life imprisonment or death." App. 202.The judge twice told the jury, quoting words from $ 16-3-20(A), that "life imprisonment means until the death of thedefendant." App. 201; see App. 209. In line with his priorrulings, the judge did not instruct that a life sentence, ifrecommended by the jury, would be without parole. In theconcluding portion of his charge, he told the jury that "thesentence you send to me by way of a recommendation willin fact be the sentence that the court imposes on the defendant." App. 215. After the judge instructed the jury, thedefense once more renewed its "objection to the statutory532US1 Unit: $U32 [09-05-02 18:30:34] PAGES PGT: OPIN44 SHAFER v. SOUTH CAROLINAOpinion of the Courtlanguage [on parole ineligibility] not being charged," App.221, and the judge again overruled the objection, App. 222.Three hours and twenty-five minutes into its sentencingdeliberations, the jury sent a note to the trial judge containing two questions:"1) Is there any remote chance for someone convictedof murder to become elig[i]ble for parole?"2) Under what conditions would someone convicted formurder be elig[i]ble." App. 253.Shafer's counsel urged the court to read to the jury the fol-lowing portion of $ 16-3-20(A):"If the State seeks the death penalty and a statutoryaggravating circumstance is found beyond a reasonabledoubt . . . and a recommendation of death is not made,the trial judge must impose a sentence of life imprisonment. For purposes of this section, `life imprisonment'means until death of the offender. No person sen-tenced to life imprisonment pursuant to this sectionis eligible for parole, community supervision, or anyearly release program, nor is the person eligible toreceive any work credits, education credits, goodconduct credits, or any other credits that would reduce the mandatory life imprisonment required bythis section." App. 226 (emphasis added).He argued that the court's charge, which partially quotedfrom $ 16-3-20 (above in italics), but omitted the provision'sconcluding sentence (above in boldface), had left the jurorsconfused about Shafer's parole eligibility. App. 226. TheState adhered to its position that "the jury should not beinformed as to any parole eligibility." App. 223. SouthCarolina law, the prosecutor insisted, required the judge to"instruct the jury that it shall not consider parole eligibilityin reaching its decision, and that the term life imprisonmentand a death sentence should be understood in their ordinaryand plain meaning." App. 223-224.532US1 Unit: $U32 [09-05-02 18:30:34] PAGES PGT: OPIN45Cite as: 532 U. S. 36 (2001)Opinion of the CourtThe trial judge decided "not . . . to charge the jury aboutparole ineligibility," App. 229, and informed counsel that hewould instruct:"Your consideration is restricted to what sentence torecommend. I will, as trial judge, impose the sentenceyou recommend. Section 16-3-20 of the South CarolinaCode of Laws provides that for the purpose of thissection life imprisonment means until the death of theoffender. Parole eligibility is not for your consideration." App. 236.Shafer's counsel asked the judge "to take off the language ofparole eligibility." App. 236. The statement that "paroleeligibility is not to be considered by [the jury]," counsel ar-gued, "impl[ies] that it is available." App. 236; see App. 239(Shafer's counsel reiterated: "[I]f you tell them they can'tconsider parole eligibility . . . that certainly implies that hemay be eligible.").Following counsels' arguments, and nearly an hour afterthe jury tendered its questions, the trial judge instructed:"Section 16-3-20 of our Code of Laws as applies tothis case in the process we're in, states that, quote, forthe purposes of this section life imprisonment meansuntil the death of the offender, end quote."Parole eligibility or ineligibility is not for your con-sideration." App. 240.The jury returned some 80 minutes later. It unanimouslyfound beyond a reasonable doubt the aggravating factor ofmurder while attempting armed robbery, and recommendedthe death penalty. App. 242-243. The jury was polled, andeach member indicated his or her assent to the aggravatedcircumstance finding and to the death penalty recommendation. App. 243-248. Defense counsel asked that the jurybe polled on "the specific question as to whether parole eligibility, their belief therein, gave rise to the verdict," and"whether juror number 233 who works for probation and pa532US1 Unit: $U32 [09-05-02 18:30:34] PAGES PGT: OPIN46 SHAFER v. SOUTH CAROLINAOpinion of the Courtrole, expressed personal knowledge in the jury's deliberationoutside of the evidence and the law given." App. 248. Thejudge denied both requests and imposed the death sentence.App. 248, 251.2Shafer appealed his death sentence to the South CarolinaSupreme Court. Noting our decision in Simmons, theSouth Carolina Supreme Court acknowledged that "[w]henthe State places the defendant's future dangerousness atissue and the only available alternative sentence to the deathpenalty is life imprisonment without parole, due process entitles the defendant to inform the jury he is parole ineligible."340 S. C., at 297-298, 531 S. E. 2d, at 528. Without considering whether the prosecutor's evidentiary submissions orclosing argument in fact placed Shafer's future dangerousness at issue, the court held Simmons generally inapplicableto South Carolina's "new sentencing scheme." Under thatscheme, life without the possibility of parole and death arenot the only authorized sentences, the court said, for thereis a third potential sentence, "a mandatory minimum thirtyyear sentence." 340 S. C., at 298, 531 S. E. 2d, at 528 (citingState v. Starnes, 340 S. C. 312, 531 S. E. 2d 907 (2000) (de-cided the same day as Shafer)).32 The judge also sentenced Shafer to consecutive terms of 20 years inprison for the attempted armed robbery and 5 years in prison for thecriminal conspiracy. App. 251-252.3 South Carolina's "new" sentencing scheme changed the punishmentsavailable for a capital murder conviction that did not result in a deathsentence. The capital sentencing law in effect at the time we decidedSimmons read: "A person who is convicted of or pleads guilty to murdermust be punished by death or by imprisonment for life and is not eligiblefor parole until the service of twenty years; provided, however, that whenthe State seeks the death penalty and an aggravating circumstance is specifically found beyond a reasonable doubt . . . , and a recommendation ofdeath is not made, the court must impose a sentence of life imprisonmentwithout eligibility for parole until the service of thirty years." S. C. CodeAnn. $ 16-3-20(A) (Supp. 1993). What made Simmons parole ineligiblewas the provision stating: "The board must not grant parole nor is paroleauthorized to any prisoner serving a sentence for a second or subsequentconviction, following a separate sentencing for a prior conviction, for vio532US1 Unit: $U32 [09-05-02 18:30:34] PAGES PGT: OPIN47Cite as: 532 U. S. 36 (2001)Opinion of the CourtShafer had urged that a Simmons instruction was war-ranted under the new sentencing scheme, for when the juryserves as sentencer, i. e., when it finds a statutory aggravat-ing circumstance, sentencing discretion is limited to death orlife without the possibility of parole. See 340 S. C., at 298,531 S. E. 2d, at 528. The South Carolina Supreme Courtread Simmons differently. In its view, "Simmons requiresthe trial judge instruct the jury the defendant is parole ineligible only if no other sentence than death, other than lifewithout the possibility of parole, islegally available to thedefendant." 340 S. C., at 298, 531 S. E. 2d, at 528 (emphasisin original) (citing Simmons, 512 U. S., at 178 (O'Connor, J.,concurring in judgment)). "At the time [Shafer's] jurybegan its deliberations," the court observed, "three alter-native sentences were available"; "[s]ince one of these alternatives to death was not life without the possibility ofparole," the court concluded, "Simmons was inapplicable."340 S. C., at 299, 531 S. E. 2d, at 528.Chief Justice Finney dissented. "[T]he overriding principle to be drawn from [Simmons]," he stated, "is that dueprocess is violated when a jury's speculative misunderstanding about a capital defendant's parole eligibility is allowed togo uncorrected." Id., at 310, 531 S. E. 2d, at 534. Due proc-ess mandates reversal here, he concluded, because "the jury'sinquiry prompted a misleading response which suggested pa-role was a possibility."Ibid. Moreover, Chief Justice Finney added, when "a capital jury inquires about parole," id.,at 310, n. 2, 531 S. E. 2d, at 534, n. 2, even if the question "issimply one of policy, as the majority suggests [it is], thenwhy not adopt a policy which gives the jurors the simpl[e]truth: no parole." Id., at 311, 531 S. E. 2d, at 534.lent crimes . . . ." $ 24-21-640. This latter provision has not beenamended; however, it did not apply to Shafer. Here, we consider whetherSouth Carolina's wholesale elimination of parole for capital defendants sentenced to life in prison, see S. C. Code Ann. $ 16-3-20 (2000 Cum. Supp.),described supra, at 40-41, requires a Simmons instruction in all SouthCarolina capital cases in which future dangerousness is "at issue."532US1 Unit: $U32 [09-05-02 18:30:34] PAGES PGT: OPIN48 SHAFER v. SOUTH CAROLINAOpinion of the CourtWe granted certiorari, 530 U. S. 1306 (2000), to determinewhether the South Carolina Supreme Court properly heldSimmons inapplicable to the State's current sentencing re-gime. We conclude that South Carolina's Supreme Courtmisinterpreted Simmons, and we therefore reverse thatcourt's judgment.IISouth Carolina has consistently refused to inform the juryof a capital defendant's parole eligibility status.4 We firstconfronted this practice in Simmons. The South Carolinasentencing scheme then in effect, S. C. Code Ann. $$ 16-3-20(A) and 24-21-610 (Supp. 1993), did not categorically pre-clude parole for capital defendants sentenced to life imprisonment, see supra, at 46-47, n. 3. Simmons, however, wasparole ineligible under that scheme because of prior convictions for crimes of violence. See $ 24-21-640; Simmons, 512U. S., at 156 (plurality opinion); id., at 176 (O'Connor, J.,concurring in judgment). Simmons' jury, in a note to thejudge during the penalty phase deliberations, asked: "Doesthe imposition of a life sentence carry with it the possibilityof parole?" Id., at 160 (plurality opinion). Over defensecounsel's objection, the trial judge inSimmons instructed:"Do not consider parole or parole eligibility [in reaching your4 At the time we decided Simmons v. South Carolina, 512 U. S. 154(1994), South Carolina was one of only three States--Pennsylvania andVirginia were the others--that "ha[d] a life-without-parole sentencing alternative to capital punishment for some or all convicted murderers butrefuse[d] to inform sentencing juries of th[at] fact." Id., at 168, n. 8.Since Simmons, Virginia has abandoned this practice. Yarbrough v.Commonwealth, 258 Va. 347, 374, 519 S. E. 2d 602, 616 (1999) ("[W]e holdthat in the penalty-determination phase of a trial where the defendant hasbeen convicted of capital murder, in response to a proffer of a properinstruction from the defendant prior to submitting the issue of penaltydetermination to the jury or where the defendant asks for such an instruction following an inquiry from the jury during deliberations, the trial courtshall instruct the jury that the words `imprisonment for life' mean `imprisonment for life without possibility of parole.' ").532US1 Unit: $U32 [09-05-02 18:30:34] PAGES PGT: OPIN49Cite as: 532 U. S. 36 (2001)Opinion of the Courtverdict]. That is not a proper issue for your consideration."Ibid. After receiving this response from the court, Simmons' jury returned a sentence of death, which Simmons un-successfully sought to overturn on appeal to the South Carolina Supreme Court. Id., at 160-161.Mindful of the "longstanding practice of parole availability," id., at 177 (O'Connor, J.), we recognized that Simmons'jury, charged to chose between death and life imprisonment,may have been misled. Given no clear definition of "life imprisonment" and told not to consider parole eligibility, thatjury "reasonably may have believed that [Simmons] could bereleased on parole if he were not executed." Id., at 161 (plurality opinion); see id., at 177-178 (O'Connor, J.). It did notcomport with due process, we held, for the State to "secur[e]a death sentence on the ground, at least in part, of [defendant's] future dangerousness, while at the same time concealing from the sentencing jury the true meaning of its [only]noncapital sentencing alternative, namely, that life imprisonment meant life without parole." Id., at 162 (plurality opinion); see id., at 178 (O'Connor, J.) ("Where the State putsthe defendant's future dangerousness in issue, and the onlyavailable alternative sentence to death is life imprisonmentwithout possibility of parole, due process entitles the defendant to inform the capital sentencing jury--by either argument or instruction--that he is parole ineligible.").As earlier stated, see supra, at 46-47, the South CarolinaSupreme Court held Simmons "inapplicable under the[State's] new sentencing scheme," 340 S. C., at 298, 531 S. E.2d, at 528. Simmons is not triggered, the South Carolinacourt said, unless life without parole is "the only legallyavailable sentence alternative to death." 340 S. C., at 298,531 S. E. 2d, at 528. Currently, the court observed, when acapital case jury begins its sentencing deliberations, threealternative sentences are available: "1) death, 2) life withoutthe possibility of parole, or 3) a mandatory minimum thirtyyear sentence." Ibid. "Since one of these alternatives to532US1 Unit: $U32 [09-05-02 18:30:34] PAGES PGT: OPIN50 SHAFER v. SOUTH CAROLINAOpinion of the Courtdeath [is] not life without the possibility of parole," the courtconcluded, Simmons no longer constrains capital sentencingin South Carolina. 340 S. C., at 299, 531 S. E. 2d, at 528.This reasoning might be persuasive if the jury's sentencingdiscretion encompassed the three choices the South Carolinacourt identified. But, that is not how the State's newscheme works. See supra, at 40-41. Under the law nowgoverning, in any case in which the jury does not unanimously find a statutory aggravator, death is not a permissible sentence and Simmons has no relevance. In such a case,the judge alone becomes the sentencer. S. C. Code Ann.$ 16-3-20(C) (2000 Cum. Supp.). Only if the jury finds anaggravating circumstance does it decide on the sentence.Ibid. And when it makes that decision, as was the case inSimmons, only two sentences are legally available underSouth Carolina law: death or life without the possibility ofparole. $ 16-3-20(C).The South Carolina Supreme Court was no doubt correctto this extent: At the time the trial judge instructed the juryin Shafer's case, it was indeed possible that Shafer wouldreceive a sentence other than death or life without the possibility of parole. That is so because South Carolina, in linewith other States, gives capital juries, at the penalty phase,discrete and sequential functions. Initially, capital juriesserve as factfinders in determining whether an alleged aggravating circumstance exists. Once that factual thresholdis passed, the jurors exercise discretion in determining thepunishment that ought to be imposed. The trial judge inShafer's case recognized the critical difference in the twofunctions. He charged that "[a] statutory aggravating circumstance is a fact, an incident, a detail or an occurrence,"the existence of which must be found beyond a reasonabledoubt. App. 203. Turning to the sentencing choice, he referred to considerations of "fairness and mercy," and the defendant's "moral culpability." App. 204. He also instructed532US1 Unit: $U32 [09-05-02 18:30:34] PAGES PGT: OPIN51Cite as: 532 U. S. 36 (2001)Opinion of the Courtthat the jury was free to decide "whether . . . for any reasonor no reason at all Mr. Shafer should be sentenced to lifeimprisonment rather than to death." App. 203.In sum, when the jury determines the existence of a statutory aggravator, a tightly circumscribed factual inquiry,none of Simmons' due process concerns arise. There are no"misunderstanding[s]" to avoid, no "false choice[s]" to guardagainst. See Simmons, 512 U. S., at 161 (plurality opinion).The jury, as aggravating circumstance factfinder, exercisesno sentencing discretion itself. If no aggravator is found,the judge takes over and has sole authority to impose themandatory minimum so heavily relied upon by the SouthCarolina Supreme Court. See supra, at 46-47, 49-50. It isonly when the jury endeavors the moral judgment whetherto impose the death penalty that parole eligibility may become critical. Correspondingly, it is only at that stage thatSimmons comes into play, a stage at which South Carolinalaw provides no third choice, no 30-year mandatory minimum, just death or life without parole. See Ramdass, 530U. S., at 169 (Simmons applies where "as a legal matter,there is no possibility of parole if the jury decides the appropriate sentence is life in prison." (emphasis added)).5 Wetherefore hold that whenever future dangerousness is atissue in a capital sentencing proceeding under South Carolina's new scheme, due process requires that the jury be informed that a life sentence carries no possibility of parole.5 Tellingly, the State acknowledged at oral argument that if future dangerousness was a factor, and the jury first reported finding an aggravatorbefore going on to its sentencing recommendation, a Simmons chargewould at that point be required. Tr. of Oral Arg. 32. We see no significant difference between that situation and the one presented here. Nordoes Justice Thomas' dissent in this case plausibly urge any such distinction. See post, at 56-58. If the jurors should be told life means no parolein the hypothesized bifurcated sentencing proceeding, they should beequally well informed in the actual uninterrupted proceeding.532US1 Unit: $U32 [09-05-02 18:30:34] PAGES PGT: OPIN52 SHAFER v. SOUTH CAROLINAOpinion of the CourtIIISouth Carolina offers two other grounds in support of thetrial judge's refusal to give Shafer's requested parole ineligibility instruction. First, the State argues that the jury wasproperly informed of the law on parole ineligibility by thetrial court's instructions and by defense counsel's own argument. Second, the State contends that no parole ineligibility instruction was required under Simmons because theState never argued Shafer would pose a future danger tosociety. We now turn to those arguments.A"Even if this Court finds Simmons was triggered," theState urges, "the defense's closing argument and the judge'scharge fulfilled the requirements of Simmons." Brief forRespondent 38. To support that contention, the State setsout defense counsel's closing pleas that, if Shafer's life isspared, he will "die in prison" after "spend[ing] his naturallife there." Id., at 39. Next, the State recites passagesfrom the trial judge's instructions reiterating that "life imprisonment means until the death of the defendant." Id.,at 40.The South Carolina Supreme Court, we note, never suggested that counsel's arguments or the trial judge's instructions satisfied Simmons. That court simply held Simmonsinapplicable under the State's new sentencing scheme. 340S. C., at 298, 531 S. E. 2d, at 528. We do not find the State'sposition persuasive. Displacement of "the longstandingpractice of parole availability" remains a relatively recentdevelopment, and "common sense tells us that many jurorsmight not know whether a life sentence carries with it thepossibility of parole." Simmons, 512 U. S., at 177-178(O'Connor, J.). South Carolina's situation is illustrative.Until two years before Shafer's trial, as we earlier noted, theState's law did not categorically preclude parole for capital532US1 Unit: $U32 [09-05-02 18:30:34] PAGES PGT: OPIN53Cite as: 532 U. S. 36 (2001)Opinion of the Courtdefendants sentenced to life imprisonment. See supra, at46-47, n. 3, and 48.Most plainly contradicting the State's contention, Shafer'sjury left no doubt about its failure to gain from defense counsel's closing argument or the judge's instructions any clearunderstanding of what a life sentence means. The jurorssought further instruction, asking: "Is there any remotechance for someone convicted of murder to become elig[i]blefor parole?" App. 253; cf.Simmons, 512 U. S., at 178(O'Connor, J.) ("that the jury in this case felt compelled toask whether parole was available shows that the jurors didnot know whether or not a life-sentenced defendant will bereleased from prison").6The jury's comprehension was hardly aided by the court'sfinal instruction: "Parole eligibility or ineligibility is not foryour consideration." App. 240. That instruction did noth-ing to ensure that the jury was not misled and may well havebeen taken to mean "that parole was available but that thejury, for some unstated reason, should be blind to this fact."Simmons, 512 U. S., at 170 (plurality opinion); see 340 S. C.,at 310, 531 S. E. 2d, at 534 (Finney, C. J., dissenting) ("[T]hejury's inquiry prompted a misleading response which suggested parole was a possibility."); State v. Kelly, 343 S. C.342, 375, 540 S. E. 2d 851, 863-864 (2001) (Pleicones, J., dissenting in part, concurring in part) ("Without the knowledgethat, if aggravators are found, a life sentence is not subjectto being reduced by parole, or any other method of earlyrelease, the jury is likely to speculate unnecessarily on thepossibility of early release, and impose a sentence of death6 Animating Justice Thomas' dissent is the conviction that the limitedinformation defense counsel was allowed to convey and the judge's charge"left no room for speculation by the jury." Post, at 57. The full recordscarcely supports, and we do not share, that conviction. Cf. 340 S. C. 291,310-311, 531 S. E. 2d 524, 534 (2000) (Finney, C. J., dissenting) ("the jury'sinquiry prompted a misleading response" that did not reveal the "simpl[e] truth").532US1 Unit: $U32 [09-05-02 18:30:34] PAGES PGT: OPIN54 SHAFER v. SOUTH CAROLINAOpinion of the Courtbased upon `fear rather than reason.' " (quoting Yarbrough v.Commonwealth, 258 Va. 347, 369, 519 S. E. 2d 602, 613(1999))).In sum, a life sentence for Shafer would permit no "parole,community supervision, . . . early release program, . . . orany other credits that would reduce the mandatory lifeimprisonment," S. C. Code Ann. $ 16-3-20(A) (2000 Cum.Supp.) (set outsupra, at 42, n. 1); this reality was not con-veyed to Shafer's jury by the court's instructions or by thearguments defense counsel was allowed to make.BUltimately, the State maintains that "[t]he prosecution didnot argue future dangerousness," so the predicate for aSim-mons charge is not present here. Brief for Respondent 42.That issue is not ripe for our resolution.In the trial court, the prosecutor and defense counsel differed on what it takes to place future dangerousness "atissue." The prosecutor suggested that the State mustformally argue future dangerousness. App. 161. Defensecounsel urged that once the prosecutor introduces evidenceshowing future dangerousness, the State cannot avoid a Sim-mons charge by saying the point was not argued or callingthe evidence by another name. See App. 161-162.As earlier recounted, the trial judge determined that future dangerousness was not at issue, but acknowledged, atone point, that the prosecutor had come close to crossing theline. See supra, at 41-42, 43. The South Carolina SupremeCourt, in order to rule broadly thatSimmons no longergoverns capital sentencing in the State, apparently assumed,arguendo, that future dangerousness had been shown atShafer's sentencing proceeding. See supra, at 46-47; cf.Kelly, 343 S. C., at 363, 540 S. E. 2d, at 857 (recognizingthat future dangerousness is an issue when it is "a logicalinference from the evidence" or was "injected into the casethrough the State's closing argument"). Because the South532US1 Unit: $U32 [09-05-02 18:30:34] PAGES PGT: OPIN55Cite as: 532 U. S. 36 (2001)Thomas, J., dissentingCarolina Supreme Court did not home in on the questionwhether the prosecutor's evidentiary submissions or closingargument in fact placed Shafer's future dangerousness atissue, we leave that question open for the state court's attention and disposition. * * *For the reasons stated, the judgment of the South CarolinaSupreme Court is reversed, and the case is remanded forfurther proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.