This case concerns regulations relating to the customsclassification of certain imported goods. The regulationswere issued by the United States Customs Service with ap-proval of the Secretary of the Treasury. The question iswhether these regulations, deemed controlling by the Treas-ury, are entitled to judicial deference in a refund suit broughtin the Court of International Trade. Contrary to the posi-tion of that court and the Court of Appeals for the FederalCircuit, we hold the regulation in question is subject to theanalysis required byChevron U. S. A. Inc. v. Natural Re-sources Defense Council, Inc., 467 U. S. 837 (1984), and thatif it is a reasonable interpretation and implementation ofan ambiguous statutory provision, it must be given judicialdeference. IRespondent Haggar Apparel Co. designs, manufactures,and markets apparel for men. This matter arises from arefund proceeding for duties imposed on men's trousersshipped by respondent to this country from an assemblyplant it controlled in Mexico. The fabric had been cut inthe United States and then shipped to Mexico, along withthe thread, buttons, and zippers necessary to complete thegarments. App. 37-38. There the trousers were sewn andreshipped to the United States. If that had been the fullextent of it, there would be no dispute, for if there were*Briefs of amici curiae urging affirmance were filed for Anhydrides &Chemicals, Inc., et al. by Richard C. King; and for the Customs and International Trade Bar Association by Terence P. Stewart, Bernard J. Babb,Munford Paige Hall II, Rufus E. Jarman, Jr., William D. Outman II,Christopher E. Pey, Melvin Schwechter, David Serko, Sidney N. Weiss,and Sandra Liss Friedman.526US2 Unit: $U48 [12-11-00 18:45:22] PAGES PGT: OPIN384 UNITED STATES v. HAGGAR APPAREL CO.Opinion of the Courtmere assembly without other steps, all agree the importedgarments would have been eligible for the duty exemptionwhich respondent claims.Respondent, however, in the Government's view, addedone other step at the Mexican plant: permapressing. Permapressing is designed to maintain a garment's crease in thedesired place and to avoid other creases or wrinkles thatdetract from its proper appearance. There are variousmethods and sequences by which permapressing can be accomplished, and one of respondent's contentions is that theTreasury's categorical approach fails to take these differences into account.For the permapressed garments in question here, respondent purchased fabric in the United States that had beentreated with a chemical resin. Id., at 37. After the treatedfabric had been cut in the United States, shipped to Mexico,and sewn and given a regular pressing there, respondentbaked the garments in an oven at the Mexican facility beforetagging and shipping them to the United States. The baking operation took some 12 to 15 minutes. Id., at 38. Withthe right heat, the preapplied chemical was activated and thepermapress quality was imparted to the garment. If it haddelayed baking until the articles returned to the UnitedStates, respondent would have had to take extra, otherwiseunnecessary steps in the United States before shipping thegarments to retailers. Id., at 127-128; App. to Pet. for Cert.20a-21a. In addition, respondent maintained below, therewould have been a risk that during shipping unwantedcreases and wrinkles might have developed in the otherwisefinished garments. Ibid.The Customs Service claimed the baking was an addedprocess in addition to assembly, and denied a duty exemption; respondent claimed the baking was simply part of theassembly process, or, in the words of the controlling statute,an "operatio[n] incidental to the assembly process." Subheading 9802.00.80, Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the526US2 Unit: $U48 [12-11-00 18:45:22] PAGES PGT: OPIN385Cite as: 526 U. S. 380 (1999)Opinion of the CourtUnited States (HTSUS), 19 U. S. C. $ 1202; Item 807.00, Tar-iff Schedule of the United States (TSUS), 19 U. S. C. $ 1202(1982 ed.). Respondent's case was made more difficult by aregulation, to be discussed further, that deems all permapressing operations to be an additional step in manufacture,not part of or incidental to the assembly process. See 19CFR $ 10.16(c) (1998). The issue before us is the force andeffect of the regulation in subsequent judicial proceedings.After being denied the exemption it sought for the perma-pressed articles, respondent brought suit for refund in theCourt of International Trade. The court declined to treatthe regulation as controlling. 938 F. Supp. 868, 874-875(1996). In making its determination, the court relied on adetailed analysis stemming from United States v. Mast Industries, Inc., 668 F. 2d 501 (CCPA 1981), a leading prece-dent on this duty exemption from the predecessor to theCourt of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. Mast Industries,in fact, involved garment fabrication and assembly, thoughthe Court of International Trade drew also on cases involv-ing other assembly operations.E. g., 938 F. Supp., at 872(citing General Motors Corp. v. United States, 976 F. 2d 716(CA Fed. 1992) (painting of sheet metal component partsused in motor vehicles)). The court ruled in favor of respondent. 938 F. Supp., at 875. On review, the Court ofAppeals for the Federal Circuit declined to analyze the regulation under Chevron, and affirmed. 127 F. 3d 1460, 1462(1997). We granted certiorari, 524 U. S. 981 (1998), and wenow vacate the judgment of the Court of Appeals and re-mand the case for further proceedings.IIThe statute on which respondent relies provides importersa partial exemption from duties otherwise imposed. Theexemption extends to:"Articles . . . assembled abroad in whole or in part offabricated components, the product of the United States,526US2 Unit: $U48 [12-11-00 18:45:22] PAGES PGT: OPIN386 UNITED STATES v. HAGGAR APPAREL CO.Opinion of the Courtwhich . . . (c) have not been advanced in value or im-proved in condition abroad except by being assembledand except by operations incidental to the assemblyprocess such as cleaning, lubricating and painting."Subheading 9802.00.80, HTSUS, 19 U. S. C. $ 1202.(The HTSUS became law on January 1, 1989, replacing theprovisions of the former TSUS. See 19 U. S. C. $ 3004.Item 807.00 of the TSUS, the previous statute which governssome of the shipments at issue in this case, is identical toHTSUS Subheading 9802.00.80.)The relevant regulation interpreting the statute with respect to permapressed articles provides as follows:"Any significant process, operation, or treatmentother than assembly whose primary purpose is the fabrication, completion, physical or chemical improvement ofa component, or which is not related to the assemblyprocess, whether or not it effects a substantial trans-formation of the article, shall not be regarded as incidental to the assembly and shall preclude the applicationof the exemption to such article. The following are examples of operations not considered incidental to theassembly . . . :. . . . ."(4) Chemical treatment of components or assembledarticles to impart new characteristics, such as shower-proofing, permapressing, sanforizing, dying or bleachingof textiles." 19 CFR $ 10.16(c) (1998).The regulation was adopted in 1975 by the Commissionerof Customs upon approval by the Treasury Department,after notice-and-comment rulemaking. See 39 Fed. Reg.24651 (1974) (proposed regulation); 40 Fed. Reg. 43021 (1975)(final regulation).In contending that the regulation is not within the generalpurview of the Chevron framework, respondent advancestwo sets of arguments. First, citing the terms of the regula526US2 Unit: $U48 [12-11-00 18:45:22] PAGES PGT: OPIN387Cite as: 526 U. S. 380 (1999)Opinion of the Courttion and its enabling statutes, respondent contends the regu-lation is limited in application to customs officers themselvesand is not intended to govern the adjudication of importers'refund suits in the Court of International Trade. Second,in reliance on the authority and jurisdiction of the Court ofInternational Trade, respondent argues that even if theTreasury Department did intend the regulation to bear onthe determination of refund suits, the Court of InternationalTrade is empowered to interpret the tariff statute withoutgiving the usual deference to regulations issued by the ad-ministering agency.As to the first set of arguments, respondent says the regulation binds Customs Service employees when they classifyimported merchandise under the tariff schedules but doesnot bind the importers themselves. The statutory schemedoes not support this limited view of the force and effect ofthe regulation. The Customs Service (which is within theTreasury Department) is charged with the classification ofimported goods under the proper provision of the tariffschedules in the first instance. There is specific statutorydirection to this effect: "The Customs Service shall, underrules and regulations prescribed by the Secretary [of theTreasury,] . . . fix the final classification and rate of dutyapplicable to" imported goods. 19 U. S. C. $ 1500(b). In addition, the Secretary is directed by statute to "establish andpromulgate such rules and regulations not inconsistent withthe law . . . as may be necessary to secure a just, impartialand uniform appraisement of imported merchandise and theclassification and assessment of duties thereon at the variousports of entry." $ 1502(a). See also General Headnote 11,TSUS, 19 U. S. C. $ 1202 (1982 ed.) (authorizing the Secretary"to issue rules and regulations governing the admission ofarticles under the provisions" of the tariff schedules); General Note 20, HTSUS, 19 U. S. C. $ 1202 (same). The Secretary, in turn, has delegated to the Commissioner of Customsthe authority to issue generally applicable regulations, sub526US2 Unit: $U48 [12-11-00 18:45:22] PAGES PGT: OPIN388 UNITED STATES v. HAGGAR APPAREL CO.Opinion of the Courtject to the Secretary's approval. Treasury Dept. OrderNo. 165, T. D. 53160 (Dec. 15, 1952).Respondent relies on the specific direction to the Secre-tary to make rules of classification for "the various ports ofentry" to argue that the statute authorizes promulgation ofregulations that do nothing more than ensure that customsofficers in field offices around the country classify goods according to a similar and consistent scheme. The regulationsissued under the statute have no bearing, says respondent,on the rights of the importer. We disagree. The phrase inquestion is explained by the simple fact that classificationdecisions must be made at the port where goods enter. Weshall not assume Congress was concerned only to ensure thatcustoms officials at the various ports of entry make uniformdecisions but that it had no concern for uniformity once thegoods entered the country and judicial proceedings commenced. The tariffs do not mean one thing for customs officers and another for importers. It is of course possible,even common, for agencies to give instructions or legal opinions to their officers and employees in one form or another,without intending to bind the public. Cf. Crandon v. UnitedStates, 494 U. S. 152, 177 (1990) (Scalia, J., concurring injudgment). The statutory authorization for the regulationsin this case, we conclude, was not limited in this way. Likeother regulations which help to define the legal relationsbetween the Government and regulated entities, customsregulations were authorized by Congress at least in part toclarify the rights and obligations of importers.Our conclusion is not altered by the circumstance that theUnited States Trade Representative (USTR), by delegation from the President, and the International Trade Commission (ITC) have certain responsibilities for recommending and proclaiming changes in the HTSUS. See 19 U. S. C.$$ 3004(c), 3005, 3006; 3 CFR 443 (1992). These powers pertain to changing or amending the tariff schedules themselves; the Treasury Department and the Customs Service526US2 Unit: $U48 [12-11-00 18:45:22] PAGES PGT: OPIN389Cite as: 526 U. S. 380 (1999)Opinion of the Courtare charged with administering the adopted schedules appli-cable on the date of importation. This also is the positionof the Government, for it acknowledged at oral argumentthat it is for the Treasury Department and the CustomsService, not for the USTR or ITC, to issue regulations entitled to judicial deference in the interpretation of the tariffschedules. Tr. of Oral Arg. 14.Respondent further cites a portion of the regulation andargues that the Customs Service itself views its regulatoryauthority as limited to controlling its own agents' classifica-tion decisions, without affecting the course of later proceedings. It cites subsection (a) of 19 CFR $ 10.11 (1998), whichintroduces $ 10.16 and the other classification regulationsadopted at the same time. Section 10.11(a) provides that"[t]he definitions and regulations that follow are promulgatedto inform the public of the constructions and interpretationsthat the United States Customs Service shall give to relevant statutory terms and to assure the impartial and uniformassessment of duties upon merchandise claimed to be partially exempt from duty . . . at the various ports of entry."It further provides that "[n]othing in these regulationspurports or is intended to restrict the legal right of importers or others to a judicial review of the matters containedtherein." Ibid.This language, in our view, does not suffice to displace theusual rule of Chevron deference. Subsections (a) and (b) of$ 10.11 together serve to introduce the two kinds of regulations which follow. Section 10.11(b) advises that a refundclaimant must comply with both the substantive terms of thestatute and with certain "documentary requirements" setforth in $ 10.24. If the importer fails to comply with thedocumentary requirements, it is foreclosed from judicial review of the classification decision. $ 10.11(b). In contrast,subsection (a) recites that nothing in the substantive classification regulations "purports or is intended to restrict thelegal right . . . to a judicial review of the matters contained526US2 Unit: $U48 [12-11-00 18:45:22] PAGES PGT: OPIN390 UNITED STATES v. HAGGAR APPAREL CO.Opinion of the Courttherein." Assuming an importer complies with the docu-mentary requirements of $ 10.24, the disclaimer in $ 10.11(a)is applicable, and the importer is entitled to bring a refundsuit challenging Customs' decision in federal court.Apart from underscoring this distinction between substan-tive rules and documentary requirements, the quoted language from $ 10.11(a) may be thought surplusage in that itmerely confirms the existence of judicial review. Even if thelanguage is thought to be unnecessary, however, we do notview it as a tacit instruction for courts to disregard the substantive regulations. Particularly in light of the fact thatthe agency utilized the notice-and-comment rulemakingprocess before issuing the regulations, the argument thatthey were not intended to be entitled to judicial deferenceimplies a sufficient departure from conventional contempo-rary administrative practice that we ought not to adopt itabsent a different statutory structure and more express lan-guage to this effect in the regulations themselves.IIIFor the reasons we have given, the statutes authorizingcustoms classification regulations are consistent with theusual rule that regulations of an administering agency war-rant judicial deference; and nothing in the regulation itselfpersuades us that the agency intended the regulation to havesome lesser force and effect. We turn to respondent's second major contention, that the statutes governing the re-viewing authority of the Court of International Trade inclassification cases displace this customary framework.In support of the argument that Chevron rules are inapplicable, both respondent and the Court of Appeals rely on 28U. S. C. $ 2643. It provides:"If the Court of International Trade is unable to deter-mine the correct decision on the basis of the evidencepresented in any civil action, the court may order a re-trial or rehearing for all purposes, or may order such526US2 Unit: $U48 [12-11-00 18:45:22] PAGES PGT: OPIN391Cite as: 526 U. S. 380 (1999)Opinion of the Courtfurther administrative or adjudicative procedures as thecourt considers necessary to reach the correct decision."The authority of the Court of International Trade to orderadditional proceedings to reach the correct decision, as wellas its duty to "make its determinations upon the basis ofthe record made before the court," $ 2640(a), and its authority to consider new grounds not advanced to the agency,$ 2638, are said to be inconsistent with deference to anagency's regulation.A central theme in respondent's argument is that the trialcourt proceedings may be, as they were in this case, de novo,and hence the court owes no deference to the regulationunder Chevron principles. Brief for Respondent 16-28.The conclusion does not follow from the premise. Valid regulations establish legal norms. Courts can give themproper effect even while applying the law to newfound facts,just as any court conducting a trial in the first instance mustconform its rulings to controlling statutes, rules, and judicialprecedents. Though Congress might have chosen to directthe court not to pay deference to the agency's views, we donot find that directive in these statutes. Cf. Scalia, JudicialDeference to Administrative Interpretations of Law, 1989Duke L. J. 511, 515-516 (suggesting that "[i]f . . . Congresshad specified that in all suits involving interpretation or application of [a statute] the courts were to give no deferenceto the agency's views, but were to determine the issue denovo," Chevron deference would be inappropriate). De novoproceedings presume a foundation of law. The questionhere is whether the regulations are part of that controllinglaw. Deference can be given to the regulations without impairing the authority of the court to make factual determina-tions, and to apply those determinations to the law, de novo.The Court of Appeals held in this case, and in previouscases presenting the issue, that these regulations were notentitled to deference because the Court of InternationalTrade is charged to " `reach the correct decision' " in deter526US2 Unit: $U48 [12-11-00 18:45:22] PAGES PGT: OPIN392 UNITED STATES v. HAGGAR APPAREL CO.Opinion of the Courtmining the proper classification of goods. 127 F. 3d, at 1462;see alsoRollerblade, Inc. v. United States, 112 F. 3d 481, 483(CA Fed. 1997); Universal Elecs. Inc. v. United States, 112F. 3d 488, 491-493 (CA Fed. 1997). The whole point of regulations such as these, however, is to ensure that the statuteis applied in a consistent and proper manner. Deference toan agency's expertise in construing a statutory command isnot inconsistent with reaching a correct decision.The analysis of a regulation's application in any particularcase, of course, may disclose an imprecise or imperfect imple-mentation of the statute. "One can doubtless imagine questionable applications of the regulation that test the limitsof the agency's authority." Babbitt v. Sweet Home Chapter,Communities for Great Ore., 515 U. S. 687, 714 (1995)(O'Connor, J., concurring). In the process of considering aregulation in relation to specific factual situations, a courtmay conclude the regulation is inconsistent with the statutory language or is an unreasonable implementation of it.In those instances, the regulation will not control. UnderChevron, if a court determines that "Congress has directlyspoken to the precise question at issue," then "that is theend of the matter; for the court, as well as the agency, mustgive effect to the unambiguously expressed intent of Congress." 467 U. S., at 842-843. If, however, the agency'sstatutory interpretation "fills a gap or defines a term ina way that is reasonable in light of the legislature's revealed design, we give [that] judgment `controlling weight.' "NationsBank of N. C., N. A. v. Variable Annuity Life Ins.Co., 513 U. S. 251, 257 (1995) (quoting Chevron, supra, at 844).A statute may be ambiguous, for purposes of Chevronanalysis, without being inartful or deficient. The presentcase exemplifies the familiar proposition that Congress neednot, and likely cannot, anticipate all circumstances in whicha general policy must be given specific effect. Here Congress has authorized the agency to issue rules so that thetariff statutes may be applied to unforeseen situations and526US2 Unit: $U48 [12-11-00 18:45:22] PAGES PGT: OPIN393Cite as: 526 U. S. 380 (1999)Opinion of the Courtchanging circumstances in a manner consistent with Con-gress' general intent. The statute under which respondentclaims an exemption gives direction not only by stating ageneral policy (to grant the partial exemption where onlyassembly and incidental operations were abroad) but also bydetermining some specifics of the policy (finding that paint-ing, for example, is incidental to assembly). For purposes ofthe Chevron analysis, the statute is ambiguous nonetheless,ambiguous in that the agency must use its discretion to determine how best to implement the policy in those cases notcovered by the statute's specific terms. Those specifics areinstructive to the agency as to the general congressional purpose, and the agency's rules as to instances not covered bythe statute should be parallel, to the extent possible, withthe specific cases Congress did address.Finally, respondent and a supporting amicus contendChevron deference is inconsistent with the historical practicein customs cases. Brief for Respondent 1-6; Brief for Customs and International Trade Bar Association as AmicusCuriae 6-11. This history, suffice it to say, is not so uniformand clear as to convince us that judicial deference wouldthwart congressional intent. As early as 1809, Chief JusticeMarshall noted in a customs case that "[i]f the question hadbeen doubtful, the court would have respected the uniformconstruction which it is understood has been given by thetreasury department of the United States upon similar questions." United States v. Vowell, 5 Cranch 368, 372. Seealso P. Reed, The Role of Federal Courts in U. S. Customs &International Trade Law 289 (1997) ("Consistent with theChevron methodology, and as has long been the rule in customs cases, customs regulations are sustained if they represent reasonable interpretations of the statute"); cf. ZenithRadio Corp. v. United States, 437 U. S. 443, 450 (1978) (deferring to the Treasury Department's "longstanding and consistent administrative interpretation" of the countervailingduty provision of the Tariff Act).526US2 Unit: $U48 [12-11-00 18:45:22] PAGES PGT: OPIN394 UNITED STATES v. HAGGAR APPAREL CO.Opinion of the CourtIVAThe customs regulations may not be disregarded. Appli-cation of theChevron framework is the beginning of the legalanalysis. Like other courts, the Court of InternationalTrade must, when appropriate, give regulationsChevrondeference. Cf. Atlantic Mut. Ins. Co. v. Commissioner, 523U. S. 382, 389 (1998) (when a term in the Internal RevenueCode is ambiguous, "the task that confronts us is to decide,not whether the Treasury regulation represents the best interpretation of the statute, but whether it represents a reasonable one"). The expertise of the Court of InternationalTrade, somewhat like the expertise of the Tax Court, guidesit in making complex determinations in a specialized area ofthe law; it is well positioned to evaluate customs regulationsand their operation in light of the statutory mandate todetermine if the preconditions forChevron deference arepresent. BIn addition to the applicability of the Chevron frameworkin general, we also granted certiorari on a second question,asking whether 19 CFR $ 10.16(c) (1998) met the precondi-tions forChevron deference as a reasonable interpretation ofthe statutory phrase "operations incidental to the assemblyprocess," Subheading 9802.00.80, HTSUS, 19 U. S. C. $ 1202,and Item 807.00, TSUS, 19 U. S. C. $ 1202 (1982 ed.). Because the Court of Appeals determined the Chevron frame-work was not applicable, it did not go on to consider whetherthe regulation ultimately warrants deference under thatframework.Respondent has made various arguments turning on thedetails and facts of its manufacturing process, including substantial arguments challenging the regulation's interpretation of the statutory language as well as the application ofthe regulation to the particular process and goods at issue526US2 Unit: $U48 [12-11-00 18:45:22] PAGES PGT: OPIN395Cite as: 526 U. S. 380 (1999)Opinion of Stevens, J.here. For instance, the Customs Service granted the ex-emption for trousers made from a pure synthetic fabric,which were apparently pressed in the Mexico facility. App.33, 37; Brief for Respondent 47. Yet it denied the exemptionwhen ovenbaking was used for 12 to 15 minutes after somepressing, notwithstanding the fact that the permapress characteristics could have been achieved on the trousers involvedhere by pressing them for an additional period of time in lieuof ovenbaking. Tr. 79-87. Moreover, though the regula-tion refers to the "[c]hemical treatment of components, . . .such as . . . permapressing," 19 CFR $ 10.16(c)(4) (1998), it isundisputed that the chemical resin was applied to the trousers in the United States. App. 37.It will be open to respondent on remand to argue that thebaking of the garments in quantity is, from the standpointof the statute or the regulation itself, no less incidental tothe assembly process which the statute permits, or no morewithin the regulation's reference to permapressing, than is apressing-only operation. We conclude that these and similararguments, which raise the difficult question of how the regulation at issue fares under the Chevron framework, are bestaddressed in the first instance to the Court of Appeals forthe Federal Circuit or to the Court of International Trade.Declining to reach the second question on which certiorariwas granted, we remand the case to the Court of Appeals.The judgment is vacated, and the case is remanded forfurther proceedings consistent with this opinion.