The Fourth Amendment permits police officers to ap-proach bus passengers at random to ask questions and torequest their consent to searches, provided a reasonableperson would understand that he or she is free to refuse.Florida v. Bostick, 501 U. S. 429 (1991). This case requiresus to determine whether officers must advise bus passengersduring these encounters of their right not to cooperate.IOn February 4, 1999, respondents Christopher Draytonand Clifton Brown, Jr., were traveling on a Greyhound busen route from Ft. Lauderdale, Florida, to Detroit, Michigan.The bus made a scheduled stop in Tallahassee, Florida. Thepassengers were required to disembark so the bus could berefueled and cleaned. As the passengers reboarded, thedriver checked their tickets and then left to complete paper-work inside the terminal. As he left, the driver allowedthree members of the Tallahassee Police Department toboard the bus as part of a routine drug and weapons interdiction effort. The officers were dressed in plain clothes andcarried concealed weapons and visible badges.Once onboard Officer Hoover knelt on the driver's seat andfaced the rear of the bus. He could observe the passengers*Daniel J. Popeo and Richard A. Samp filed a brief for the WashingtonLegal Foundation et al. as amici curiae urging reversal.Leon Friedman and Joshua L. Dratel filed a brief for the NationalAssociation of Criminal Defense Lawyers as amicus curiae urgingaffirmance.James P. Manak, Wayne W. Schmidt, Richard Weintraub, Bernard J.Farber, and Carl Milazzo filed a brief for Americans For Effective LawEnforcement, Inc., et al. as amici curiae.536US1 Unit: $U65 [12-19-02 17:56:58] PAGES PGT: OPIN198 UNITED STATES v. DRAYTONOpinion of the Courtand ensure the safety of the two other officers without block-ing the aisle or otherwise obstructing the bus exit. OfficersLang and Blackburn went to the rear of the bus. Blackburnremained stationed there, facing forward. Lang worked hisway toward the front of the bus, speaking with individualpassengers as he went. He asked the passengers abouttheir travel plans and sought to match passengers with lug-gage in the overhead racks. To avoid blocking the aisle,Lang stood next to or just behind each passenger with whomhe spoke.According to Lang 's testimony, passengers who declinedto cooperate with him or who chose to exit the bus at anytime would have been allowed to do so without argument.In Lang's experience, however, most people are willing tocooperate. Some passengers go so far as to commend thepolice for their efforts to ensure the safety of their travel.Lang could recall five to six instances in the previous yearin which passengers had declined to have their luggagesearched. It also was common for passengers to leave thebus for a cigarette or a snack while the officers were onboard. Lang sometimes informed passengers of their rightto refuse to cooperate. On the day in question, however,he did not.Respondents were seated next to each other on the bus.Drayton was in the aisle seat, Brown in the seat next to thewindow. Lang approached respondents from the rear andleaned over Drayton's shoulder. He held up his badge longenough for respondents to identify him as a police officer.With his face 12-to-18 inches away from Drayton's, Langspoke in a voice just loud enough for respondents to hear:"I'm Investigator Lang with the Tallahassee PoliceDepartment. We're conducting bus interdiction[sic],attempting to deter drugs and illegal weapons beingtransported on the bus. Do you have any bags on thebus?" App. 55.536US1 Unit: $U65 [12-19-02 17:56:58] PAGES PGT: OPIN199Cite as: 536 U. S. 194 (2002)Opinion of the CourtBoth respondents pointed to a single green bag in the overhead luggage rack. Lang asked, "Do you mind if I checkit?," and Brown responded, "Go ahead." Id., at 56. Langhanded the bag to Officer Blackburn to check. The bag contained no contraband.Officer Lang noticed that both respondents were wearingheavy jackets and baggy pants despite the warm weather.In Lang's experience drug traffickers often use baggy clothing to conceal weapons or narcotics. The officer thus askedBrown if he had any weapons or drugs in his possession.And he asked Brown: "Do you mind if I check your person?"Brown answered, "Sure," and cooperated by leaning up inhis seat, pulling a cell phone out of his pocket, and openingup his jacket. Id., at 61. Lang reached across Draytonand patted down Brown's jacket and pockets, including hiswaist area, sides, and upper thighs. In both thigh areas,Lang detected hard objects similar to drug packagesdetected on other occasions. Lang arrested and handcuffedBrown. Officer Hoover escorted Brown from the bus.Lang then asked Drayton, "Mind if I check you?" Id.,at 65. Drayton responded by lifting his hands about eightinches from his legs. Lang conducted a patdown of Drayton's thighs and detected hard objects similar to those foundon Brown. He arrested Drayton and escorted him from thebus. A further search revealed that respondents had ducttaped plastic bundles of powder cocaine between severalpairs of their boxer shorts. Brown possessed three bundlescontaining 483 grams of cocaine. Drayton possessed twobundles containing 295 grams of cocaine.Respondents were charged with conspiring to distributecocaine, in violation of 21 U. S. C. $$ 841(a)(1) and 846, andwith possessing cocaine with intent to distribute it, in violation of $ 841(a)(1). They moved to suppress the cocaine, arguing that the consent to the patdown search was invalid.Following a hearing at which only Officer Lang testified, the536US1 Unit: $U65 [12-19-02 17:56:58] PAGES PGT: OPIN200 UNITED STATES v. DRAYTONOpinion of the CourtUnited States District Court for the Northern District ofFlorida denied their motions to suppress. The DistrictCourt determined that the police conduct was not coerciveand respondents' consent to the search was voluntary. TheDistrict Court pointed to the fact that the officers weredressed in plain clothes, did not brandish their badges in anauthoritative manner, did not make a general announcementto the entire bus, and did not address anyone in a menacingtone of voice. It noted that the officers did not block theaisle or the exit, and stated that it was "obvious that [respondents] can get up and leave, as can the people ahead ofthem." App. 132. The District Court concluded: "[E]verything that took place between Officer Lang and Mr. Draytonand Mr. Brown suggests that it was cooperative. There wasnothing coercive, there was nothing confrontational aboutit."Ibid.The Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit reversedand remanded with instructions to grant respondents' mo-tions to suppress. 231 F. 3d 787 (2000). The court held thatthis disposition was compelled by its previous decisions inUnited States v. Washington, 151 F. 3d 1354 (1998), andUnited States v. Guapi, 144 F. 3d 1393 (1998). Those caseshad held that bus passengers do not feel free to disregardpolice officers' requests to search absent "some positive indication that consent could have been refused." Washington,supra, at 1357.We granted certiorari. 534 U. S. 1074 (2002). The re-spondents, we conclude, were not seized and their consent tothe search was voluntary; and we reverse.IILaw enforcement officers do not violate the FourthAmendment's prohibition of unreasonable seizures merely byapproaching individuals on the street or in other publicplaces and putting questions to them if they are willing tolisten. See, e. g., Florida v. Royer, 460 U. S. 491, 497 (1983)536US1 Unit: $U65 [12-19-02 17:56:58] PAGES PGT: OPIN201Cite as: 536 U. S. 194 (2002)Opinion of the Court(plurality opinion); see id., at 523, n. 3 (Rehnquist, J., dis-senting);Florida v. Rodriguez, 469 U. S. 1, 5-6 (1984) (percuriam) (holding that such interactions in airports are "thesort of consensual encounter[s] that implicat[e] no FourthAmendment interest"). Even when law enforcement offi-cers have no basis for suspecting a particular individual,they may pose questions, ask for identification, and requestconsent to search luggage--provided they do not induce co-operation by coercive means. SeeFlorida v. Bostick, 501U. S., at 434-435 (citations omitted). If a reasonable personwould feel free to terminate the encounter, then he or shehas not been seized.The Court has addressed on a previous occasion the specific question of drug interdiction efforts on buses. In Bostick, two police officers requested a bus passenger's consentto a search of his luggage. The passenger agreed, and theresulting search revealed cocaine in his suitcase. The Florida Supreme Court suppressed the cocaine. In doing so itadopted a per se rule that due to the cramped confines onboard a bus the act of questioning would deprive a person ofhis or her freedom of movement and so constitute a seizureunder the Fourth Amendment.This Court reversed. Bostick first made it clear that forthe most part per se rules are inappropriate in the FourthAmendment context. The proper inquiry necessitates aconsideration of "all the circumstances surrounding the encounter." Id., at 439. The Court noted next that the traditional rule, which states that a seizure does not occur solong as a reasonable person would feel free "to disregard thepolice and go about his business," California v. Hodari D.,499 U. S. 621, 628 (1991), is not an accurate measure of thecoercive effect of a bus encounter. A passenger may notwant to get off a bus if there is a risk it will depart beforethe opportunity to reboard. Bostick, 501 U. S., at 434-436.A bus rider's movements are confined in this sense, but thisis the natural result of choosing to take the bus; it says noth536US1 Unit: $U65 [12-19-02 17:56:58] PAGES PGT: OPIN202 UNITED STATES v. DRAYTONOpinion of the Courting about whether the police conduct is coercive. Id., at 436.The proper inquiry "is whether a reasonable person wouldfeel free to decline the officers' requests or otherwise ter-minate the encounter."Ibid. Finally, the Court rejectedBostick's argument that he must have been seized becauseno reasonable person would consent to a search of luggagecontaining drugs. The reasonable person test, the Court explained, is objective and "presupposes an innocent person."Id., at 437-438.In light of the limited record, Bostick refrained from decid-ing whether a seizure occurred.Id., at 437. The Court,however, identified two factors "particularly worth noting"on remand. Id., at 432. First, although it was obvious thatan officer was armed, he did not remove the gun from itspouch or use it in a threatening way. Second, the officeradvised the passenger that he could refuse consent to thesearch. Ibid.Relying upon this latter factor, the Eleventh Circuit hasadopted what is in effect a per se rule that evidence obtainedduring suspicionless drug interdiction efforts aboard busesmust be suppressed unless the officers have advised passengers of their right not to cooperate and to refuse consent toa search. In United States v. Guapi, supra, the Court ofAppeals described "[t]he most glaring difference" betweenthe encounters in Guapi and in Bostick as "the complete lackof any notification to the passengers that they were in factfree to decline the search request. . . . Providing [this] simplenotification . . . is perhaps the most efficient and effectivemethod to ensure compliance with the Constitution." 144F. 3d, at 1395. The Court of Appeals then listed other factors that contributed to the coerciveness of the encounter:(1) the officer conducted the interdiction before the passengers disembarked from the bus at a scheduled stop; (2) theofficer explained his presence in the form of a general announcement to the entire bus; (3) the officer wore a policeuniform; and (4) the officer questioned passengers as he536US1 Unit: $U65 [12-19-02 17:56:58] PAGES PGT: OPIN203Cite as: 536 U. S. 194 (2002)Opinion of the Courtmoved from the front to the rear of the bus, thus obstructingthe path to the exit.Id., at 1396.After its decision in Guapi the Court of Appeals decidedUnited States v. Washington and the instant case. Thecourt suppressed evidence obtained during similar drug in-terdiction efforts despite the following facts: (1) the officersin both cases conducted the interdiction after the passengershad reboarded the bus; (2) the officer in the present case didnot make a general announcement to the entire bus but instead spoke with individual passengers; (3) the officers inboth cases were not in uniform; and (4) the officers in bothcases questioned passengers as they moved from the rear tothe front of the bus and were careful not to obstruct passengers' means of egress from the bus.Although the Court of Appeals has disavowed a per se requirement, the lack of an explicit warning to passengers isthe only element common to all its cases. See Washington,151 F. 3d, at 1357 ("It seems obvious to us that if police officers genuinely want to ensure that their encounters withbus passengers remain absolutely voluntary, they can simplysay so. Without such notice in this case, we do not feel areasonable person would have felt able to decline the agents'requests"); 231 F. 3d, at 790 (noting that "[t]his case iscontrolled by" Guapi and Washington, and dismissing anyfactual differences between the three cases as irrelevant).Under these cases, it appears that the Court of Appealswould suppress any evidence obtained during suspicionless drug interdiction efforts aboard buses in the absence ofa warning that passengers may refuse to cooperate. TheCourt of Appeals erred in adopting this approach.Applying the Bostick framework to the facts of this particular case, we conclude that the police did not seize respondents when they boarded the bus and began questioningpassengers. The officers gave the passengers no reasonto believe that they were required to answer the officers'questions. When Officer Lang approached respondents, he536US1 Unit: $U65 [12-19-02 17:56:58] PAGES PGT: OPIN204 UNITED STATES v. DRAYTONOpinion of the Courtdid not brandish a weapon or make any intimidating move-ments. He left the aisle free so that respondents could exit.He spoke to passengers one by one and in a polite, quietvoice. Nothing he said would suggest to a reasonable person that he or she was barred from leaving the bus or other-wise terminating the encounter.There were ample grounds for the District Court to conclude that "everything that took place between Officer Langand [respondents] suggests that it was cooperative" and thatthere "was nothing coercive [or] confrontational" about theencounter. App. 132. There was no application of force, nointimidating movement, no overwhelming show of force, nobrandishing of weapons, no blocking of exits, no threat,no command, not even an authoritative tone of voice. It isbeyond question that had this encounter occurred on thestreet, it would be constitutional. The fact that an encounter takes place on a bus does not on its own transform standard police questioning of citizens into an illegal seizure. SeeBostick, 501 U. S., at 439-440. Indeed, because many fellowpassengers are present to witness officers' conduct, a reasonable person may feel even more secure in his or her decision not to cooperate with police on a bus than in othercircumstances.Respondents make much of the fact that Officer Lang displayed his badge. In Florida v. Rodriguez, 469 U. S., at 5-6,however, the Court rejected the claim that the defendantwas seized when an officer approached him in an airport,showed him his badge, and asked him to answer some questions. Likewise, in INS v. Delgado, 466 U. S. 210, 212-213(1984), the Court held that Immigration and NaturalizationService (INS) agents' wearing badges and questioning workers in a factory did not constitute a seizure. And while neither Lang nor his colleagues were in uniform or visiblyarmed, those factors should have little weight in the analysis.Officers are often required to wear uniforms and in manycircumstances this is cause for assurance, not discomfort.536US1 Unit: $U65 [12-19-02 17:56:58] PAGES PGT: OPIN205Cite as: 536 U. S. 194 (2002)Opinion of the CourtMuch the same can be said for wearing sidearms. Thatmost law enforcement officers are armed is a fact well knownto the public. The presence of a holstered firearm thus isunlikely to contribute to the coerciveness of the encounterabsent active brandishing of the weapon.Officer Hoover's position at the front of the bus also doesnot tip the scale in respondents' favor. Hoover did nothingto intimidate passengers, and he said nothing to suggest thatpeople could not exit and indeed he left the aisle clear. InDelgado, the Court determined there was no seizure eventhough several uniformed INS officers were stationed nearthe exits of the factory. Id., at 219. The Court noted: "Thepresence of agents by the exits posed no reasonable threatof detention to these workers, . . . the mere possibility thatthey would be questioned if they sought to leave the buildings should not have resulted in any reasonable apprehensionby any of them that they would be seized or detained in anymeaningful way." Ibid.Finally, the fact that in Officer Lang 's experience only afew passengers have refused to cooperate does not suggestthat a reasonable person would not feel free to terminatethe bus encounter. In Lang 's experience it was common forpassengers to leave the bus for a cigarette or a snack whilethe officers were questioning passengers. App. 70, 81.And of more importance, bus passengers answer officers'questions and otherwise cooperate not because of coercionbut because the passengers know that their participation enhances their own safety and the safety of those around them."While most citizens will respond to a police request, the factthat people do so, and do so without being told they are freenot to respond, hardly eliminates the consensual nature ofthe response." Delgado, supra, at 216.Drayton contends that even if Brown's cooperation withthe officers was consensual, Drayton was seized because noreasonable person would feel free to terminate the encounterwith the officers after Brown had been arrested. The Court536US1 Unit: $U65 [12-19-02 17:56:58] PAGES PGT: OPIN206 UNITED STATES v. DRAYTONOpinion of the Courtof Appeals did not address this claim; and in any event theargument fails. The arrest of one person does not mean thateveryone around him has been seized by police. If anything,Brown's arrest should have put Drayton on notice of theconsequences of continuing the encounter by answeringthe officers' questions. Even after arresting Brown, Langaddressed Drayton in a polite manner and provided himwith no indication that he was required to answer Lang'squestions.We turn now from the question whether respondents wereseized to whether they were subjected to an unreasonablesearch, i. e., whether their consent to the suspicionless searchwas involuntary. In circumstances such as these, where thequestion of voluntariness pervades both the search and seizure inquiries, the respective analyses turn on very similarfacts. And, as the facts above suggest, respondents' consentto the search of their luggage and their persons was voluntary. Nothing Officer Lang said indicated a command toconsent to the search. Rather, when respondents informedLang that they had a bag on the bus, he asked for their permission to check it. And when Lang requested to searchBrown and Drayton's persons, he asked first if they objected,thus indicating to a reasonable person that he or she wasfree to refuse. Even after arresting Brown, Lang providedDrayton with no indication that he was required to consentto a search. To the contrary, Lang asked for Drayton's permission to search him ("Mind if I check you?"), and Drayton agreed.The Court has rejected in specific terms the suggestionthat police officers must always inform citizens of their rightto refuse when seeking permission to conduct a warrantlessconsent search. See, e. g., Ohio v. Robinette, 519 U. S. 33,39-40 (1996); Schneckloth v. Bustamonte, 412 U. S. 218, 227(1973). "While knowledge of the right to refuse consent isone factor to be taken into account, the government need notestablish such knowledge as the sine qua non of an effective536US1 Unit: $U65 [12-19-02 17:56:58] PAGES PGT: OPIN207Cite as: 536 U. S. 194 (2002)Opinion of the Courtconsent." Ibid. Nor do this Court's decisions suggest thateven though there are noper se rules, a presumption of invalidity attaches if a citizen consented without explicit notifi-cation that he or she was free to refuse to cooperate. Instead, the Court has repeated that the totality of thecircumstances must control, without giving extra weight tothe absence of this type of warning. See, e. g., Schneckloth,supra; Robinette, supra, at 39-40. Although Officer Langdid not inform respondents of their right to refuse thesearch, he did request permission to search, and the totalityof the circumstances indicates that their consent was voluntary, so the searches were reasonable.In a society based on law, the concept of agreement andconsent should be given a weight and dignity of its own.Police officers act in full accord with the law when they askcitizens for consent. It reinforces the rule of law for thecitizen to advise the police of his or her wishes and for thepolice to act in reliance on that understanding. When thisexchange takes place, it dispels inferences of coercion.We need not ask the alternative question whether, afterthe arrest of Brown, there were grounds for a Terry stopand frisk of Drayton, Terry v. Ohio, 392 U. S. 1 (1968), thoughthis may have been the case. It was evident that Draytonand Brown were traveling together--Officer Lang observedthe pair reboarding the bus together; they were each dressedin heavy, baggy clothes that were ill-suited for the day'swarm temperatures; they were seated together on the bus;and they each claimed responsibility for the single piece ofgreen carry-on luggage. Once Lang had identified Brown ascarrying what he believed to be narcotics, he may have hadreasonable suspicion to conduct a Terry stop and frisk onDrayton as well. That question, however, has not been presented to us. The fact the officers may have had reasonablesuspicion does not prevent them from relying on a citizen'sconsent to the search. It would be a paradox, and one mostpuzzling to law enforcement officials and courts alike, were536US1 Unit: $U65 [12-19-02 17:56:58] PAGES PGT: OPIN208 UNITED STATES v. DRAYTONSouter, J., dissentingwe to say, after holding that Brown's consent was voluntary,that Drayton's consent was ineffectual simply because thepolice at that point had more compelling grounds to detainhim. After taking Brown into custody, the officers wereentitled to continue to proceed on the basis of consent and toask for Drayton's cooperation.The judgment of the Court of Appeals is reversed, andthe case is remanded for further proceedings consistent withthis opinion.