Petitioner Michael Wayne Williams received a capital sen-tence for the murders of Morris Keller, Jr., and Keller's wife,Mary Elizabeth. Petitioner later sought a writ of habeascorpus in federal court. Accompanying his petition was arequest for an evidentiary hearing on constitutional claimswhich, he alleged, he had been unable to develop in statecourt proceedings. The question in this case is whether 28U. S. C. $ 2254(e)(2) (1994 ed., Supp. III), as amended by theAntiterrorism and Effective Death Penalty Act of 1996(AEDPA), 110 Stat. 1214, bars the evidentiary hearing petitioner seeks. If petitioner "has failed to develop the factualbasis of [his] claim[s] in State court proceedings," his case issubject to $ 2254(e)(2), and he may not receive a hearing be-cause he concedes his inability to satisfy the statute's furtherstringent conditions for excusing the deficiency.IOn the evening of February 27, 1993, Verena Lozano Jamesdropped off petitioner and his friend Jeffrey Alan Cruse neara local store in a rural area of Cumberland County, Virginia.The pair planned to rob the store's employees and customersusing a .357 revolver petitioner had stolen in the course ofa quadruple murder and robbery he had committed twomonths earlier. Finding the store closed, petitioner andCruse walked to the Kellers' home. Petitioner was familiarwith the couple, having grown up down the road from wherethey lived. He told Cruse they would have "a couple thousand dollars." App. 78. Cruse, who had been holding the.357, handed the gun to petitioner and knocked on the door.When Mr. Keller opened the door, petitioner pointed the gunat him as the two intruders forced their way inside. Petitioner and Cruse forced Mr. Keller to the kitchen, whereJohn Cornyn of Texas, Jan Graham of Utah, and Christine O. Gregoireof Washington.529US2 Unit: $U47 [10-04-01 09:34:47] PAGES PGT: OPIN425Cite as: 529 U. S. 420 (2000)Opinion of the Courtthey discovered Mrs. Keller. Petitioner ordered the captives to remove their clothing. While petitioner kept guardon the Kellers, Cruse searched the house for money andother valuables. He found a .38-caliber handgun and bullets. Upon Cruse's return to the kitchen, petitioner hadCruse tie their captives with telephone cords. The Kellerswere confined to separate closets while the intruders continued ransacking the house.When they gathered all they wanted, petitioner and Crusedecided to rape Mrs. Keller. With Mrs. Keller pleading withthem not to hurt her or her husband, petitioner raped her.Cruse did the same. Petitioner then ordered the Kellers toshower and dress and "take a walk" with him and Cruse.Id., at 97. As they were leaving, petitioner told Mrs. Kellerhe and Cruse were going to burn down the house. Mrs. Keller begged to be allowed to retrieve her marriage license,which she did, guarded by petitioner.As the prosecution later presented the case, details of themurders were as follows. Petitioner, now carrying the .38,and Cruse, carrying the .357, took the Kellers to a thicketdown a dirt road from the house. With petitioner standingbehind Mr. Keller and Cruse behind Mrs. Keller, petitionertold Cruse, "We'll shoot at the count of three." Id., at 103.At the third count, petitioner shot Mr. Keller in the head,and Mr. Keller collapsed to the ground. Cruse did not shootMrs. Keller at the same moment. Saying "he didn't want toleave no witnesses," petitioner urged Cruse to shoot Mrs.Keller. Ibid. Cruse fired one shot into her head. Despitehis wound, Mr. Keller stood up, but petitioner shot him asecond time. To ensure the Kellers were dead, petitionershot each of them two or three more times.After returning to the house and loading the stolen property into the Kellers' jeep, petitioner and Cruse set fire tothe house and drove the jeep to Fredericksburg, Virginia,where they sold some of the property. They threw the re529US2 Unit: $U47 [10-04-01 09:34:47] PAGES PGT: OPIN426 WILLIAMS v. TAYLOROpinion of the Courtmaining property and the .357 revolver into the Rappahan-nock River and set fire to the jeep.Pursuing a lead from Verena James, the police interviewedCruse about the fire at the Kellers' home. Petitioner hadfled to Florida. Cruse provided no useful information untilthe police discovered the bodies of the victims, at which pointCruse consulted counsel. In a plea bargain Cruse agreed todisclose the details of the crimes in exchange for the Com-monwealth's promise not to seek the death penalty againsthim. Cruse described the murders but made no mention ofhis own act of rape. When the Commonwealth discoveredthe omission, it revoked the plea agreement and chargedCruse with capital murder.Petitioner was arrested and charged with robbery, abduction, rape, and the capital murders of the Kellers. At trialin January 1994, Cruse was the Commonwealth's main witness. He recounted the murders as we have just described.Cruse testified petitioner raped Mrs. Keller, shot Mr. Kellerat least twice, and shot Mrs. Keller several times after shehad been felled by Cruse's bullet. He also described petitioner as the mastermind of the murders. The circumstances of the first plea agreement between the Commonwealth and Cruse and its revocation were disclosed to thejury. Id., at 158-159. Testifying on his own behalf, petitioner admitted he was the first to shoot Mr. Keller and itwas his idea to rob the store and set fire to the house. Hedenied, however, raping or shooting Mrs. Keller, and claimedto have shot Mr. Keller only once. Petitioner blamed Crusefor the remaining shots and disputed some other parts ofCruse's testimony.The jury convicted petitioner on all counts. After considering the aggravating and mitigating evidence presentedduring the sentencing phase, the jury found the aggravatingcircumstances of future dangerousness and vileness of thecrimes and recommended a death sentence. The trial courtimposed the recommended sentence. The Supreme Court529US2 Unit: $U47 [10-04-01 09:34:47] PAGES PGT: OPIN427Cite as: 529 U. S. 420 (2000)Opinion of the Courtof Virginia affirmed petitioner's convictions and sentence,Williams v. Commonwealth, 248 Va. 528, 450 S. E. 2d 365(1994), and we denied certiorari, Williams v. Virginia, 515U. S. 1161 (1995). In a separate proceeding, Cruse pleadedguilty to the capital murder of Mrs. Keller and the first-degree murder of Mr. Keller. After the prosecution askedthe sentencing court to spare his life because of his testimony against petitioner, Cruse was sentenced to lifeimprisonment.Petitioner filed a habeas petition in state court alleging, inrelevant part, that the Commonwealth failed to disclose asecond agreement it had reached with Cruse after the firstone was revoked. The new agreement, petitioner alleged,was an informal undertaking by the prosecution to recommend a life sentence in exchange for Cruse's testimony.Finding no merit to petitioner's claims, the Virginia SupremeCourt dismissed the habeas petition, and we again deniedcertiorari. Williams v. Netherland, 519 U. S. 877 (1996).Petitioner filed a habeas petition in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia on November20, 1996. In addition to his claim regarding the alleged undisclosed agreement between the Commonwealth and Cruse,the petition raised three claims relevant to questions nowbefore us. First, petitioner claimed the prosecution had violated Brady v. Maryland, 373 U. S. 83 (1963), in failing todisclose a report of a confidential pretrial psychiatric examination of Cruse. Second, petitioner alleged his trial wasrendered unfair by the seating of a juror who at voir direhad not revealed possible sources of bias. Finally, petitioneralleged one of the prosecutors committed misconduct in failing to reveal his knowledge of the juror's possible bias.The District Court granted an evidentiary hearing on theundisclosed agreement and the allegations of juror bias andprosecutorial misconduct but denied a hearing on the psychiatric report. Before the evidentiary hearing could be held,the Commonwealth filed an application for an emergency529US2 Unit: $U47 [10-04-01 09:34:47] PAGES PGT: OPIN428 WILLIAMS v. TAYLOROpinion of the Courtstay and a petition for a writ of mandamus and prohibitionin the Court of Appeals. The Commonwealth argued thatpetitioner's evidentiary hearing was prohibited by 28 U. S. C.$ 2254(e)(2) (1994 ed., Supp. III). A divided panel of theCourt of Appeals granted the emergency stay and remandedfor the District Court to apply the statute to petitioner'srequest for an evidentiary hearing. On remand, the DistrictCourt vacated its order granting an evidentiary hearing anddismissed the petition, having determined petitioner couldnot satisfy $ 2254(e)(2)'s requirements.The Court of Appeals affirmed. It first considered petitioner's argument that $ 2254(e)(2) did not apply to his casebecause he had been diligent in attempting to develop hisclaims in state court. Citing its decision in Cardwell v.Greene, 152 F. 3d 331 (CA4), cert. denied, 525 U. S. 1037(1998), the Court of Appeals agreed with petitioner that$ 2254(e)(2) would not apply if he had exercised diligence instate court. The court held, however, that petitioner hadnot been diligent and so had "failed to develop" in state courtthe factual bases of his Brady, juror bias, and prosecutorialmisconduct claims. See 189 F. 3d 421, 426 (CA4 1999). TheCourt of Appeals concluded petitioner could not satisfy thestatute's conditions for excusing his failure to developthe facts and held him barred from receiving an evidentiaryhearing. The Court of Appeals ruled in the alternative that,even if $ 2254(e)(2) did not apply, petitioner would be ineligible for an evidentiary hearing under the cause and prejudicestandard of pre-AEDPA law. See id., at 428.Addressing petitioner's claim of an undisclosed informalagreement between the Commonwealth and Cruse, theCourt of Appeals rejected it on the merits under 28 U. S. C.$ 2254(d)(1) and, as a result, did not consider whether$ 2254(e)(2) applied. See 189 F. 3d, at 429.On October 18, 1999, petitioner filed an application for stayof execution and a petition for a writ of certiorari. On Octo529US2 Unit: $U47 [10-04-01 09:34:47] PAGES PGT: OPIN429Cite as: 529 U. S. 420 (2000)Opinion of the Courtber 28, we stayed petitioner's execution and granted certio-rari to decide whether $ 2254(e)(2) precludes him from receiving an evidentiary hearing on his claims. See 528 U. S. 960(1999). We now affirm in part and reverse in part.IIAPetitioner filed his federal habeas petition after AEDPA'seffective date, so the statute applies to his case. SeeLindhv.Murphy, 521 U. S. 320, 326-327 (1997). The Common-wealth argues AEDPA bars petitioner from receiving anevidentiary hearing on any claim whose factual basis wasnot developed in state court, absent narrow circumstancesnot applicable here. Petitioner did not develop, or raise, hisclaims of juror bias, prosecutorial misconduct, or the prosecution's alleged Brady violation regarding Cruse's psychiat-ric report until he filed his federal habeas petition. Petitioner explains he could not have developed the claimsearlier because he was unaware, through no fault of his own,of the underlying facts. As a consequence, petitioner con-tends, AEDPA erects no barrier to an evidentiary hearingin federal court.Section 2254(e)(2), the provision which controls whetherpetitioner may receive an evidentiary hearing in federaldistrict court on the claims that were not developed in theVirginia courts, becomes the central point of our analysis.It provides as follows:"If the applicant has failed to develop the factual basisof a claim in State court proceedings, the court shallnot hold an evidentiary hearing on the claim unless theapplicant shows that--"(A) the claim relies on--"(i) a new rule of constitutional law, made retroactiveto cases on collateral review by the Supreme Court, thatwas previously unavailable; or529US2 Unit: $U47 [10-04-01 09:34:47] PAGES PGT: OPIN430 WILLIAMS v. TAYLOROpinion of the Court"(ii) a factual predicate that could not have been previously discovered through the exercise of due diligence; and"(B) the facts underlying the claim would be sufficientto establish by clear and convincing evidence that butfor constitutional error, no reasonable factfinder wouldhave found the applicant guilty of the underlyingoffense."By the terms of its opening clause the statute applies onlyto prisoners who have "failed to develop the factual basis ofa claim in State court proceedings." If the prisoner hasfailed to develop the facts, an evidentiary hearing cannot begranted unless the prisoner's case meets the other conditionsof $ 2254(e)(2). Here, petitioner concedes his case does notcomply with $ 2254(e)(2)(B), see Brief for Petitioner 25, so hemay receive an evidentiary hearing only if his claims fall outside the opening clause.There was no hearing in state court on any of the claimsfor which petitioner now seeks an evidentiary hearing.That, says the Commonwealth, is the end of the matter. Inits view petitioner, whether or not through his own fault orneglect, still "failed to develop the factual basis of a claim inState court proceedings." Petitioner, on the other hand,says the phrase "failed to develop" means lack of diligence indeveloping the claims, a defalcation he contends did not occursince he made adequate efforts during state-court proceedings to discover and present the underlying facts. TheCourt of Appeals agreed with petitioner's interpretation of$ 2254(e)(2) but believed petitioner had not exercised enoughdiligence to avoid the statutory bar. See 189 F. 3d, at 426.We agree with petitioner and the Court of Appeals that"failed to develop" implies some lack of diligence; but, unlikethe Court of Appeals, we find no lack of diligence on petitioner's part with regard to two of his three claims.529US2 Unit: $U47 [10-04-01 09:34:47] PAGES PGT: OPIN431Cite as: 529 U. S. 420 (2000)Opinion of the CourtBWe start, as always, with the language of the statute. SeeUnited States v. Ron Pair Enterprises, Inc., 489 U. S. 235,241 (1989). Section 2254(e)(2) begins with a conditionalclause, "[i]f the applicant has failed to develop the factualbasis of a claim in State court proceedings," which directsattention to the prisoner's efforts in state court. We askfirst whether the factual basis was indeed developed in statecourt, a question susceptible, in the normal course, of a sim-ple yes or no answer. Here the answer is no.The Commonwealth would have the analysis begin andend there. Under its no-fault reading of the statute, if thereis no factual development in the state court, the federal ha-beas court may not inquire into the reasons for the defaultwhen determining whether the opening clause of $ 2254(e)(2)applies. We do not agree with the Commonwealth's interpretation of the word "failed."We do not deny "fail" is sometimes used in a neutral way,not importing fault or want of diligence. So the phrase "Wefail to understand his argument" can mean simply "We cannot understand his argument." This is not the sense inwhich the word "failed" is used here, however.We give the words of a statute their " `ordinary, contempo-rary, common meaning,' " absent an indication Congress intended them to bear some different import. Walters v. Met-ropolitan Ed. Enterprises, Inc., 519 U. S. 202, 207 (1997)(quoting Pioneer Investment Services Co. v. Brunswick Associates Ltd. Partnership, 507 U. S. 380 (1993)). See alsoBailey v. United States, 516 U. S. 137, 141 (1995). In its cus-tomary and preferred sense, "fail" connotes some omission,fault, or negligence on the part of the person who has failedto do something. See,e. g., Webster's New InternationalDictionary 910 (2d ed. 1939) (defining "fail" as "to be want-ing; to fall short; to be or become deficient in any measureor degree," and "failure" as "a falling short," "a deficiency or529US2 Unit: $U47 [10-04-01 09:34:47] PAGES PGT: OPIN432 WILLIAMS v. TAYLOROpinion of the Courtlack," and an "[o]mission to perform"); Webster's New Inter-national Dictionary 814 (3d ed. 1993) ("to leave some possibleor expected action unperformed or some condition un-achieved"). See also Black's Law Dictionary 594 (6th ed.1990) (defining "fail" as "[f]ault, negligence, or refusal"). Tosay a person has failed in a duty implies he did not take thenecessary steps to fulfill it. He is, as a consequence, at faultand bears responsibility for the failure. In this sense, a per-son is not at fault when his diligent efforts to perform an actare thwarted, for example, by the conduct of another or byhappenstance. Fault lies, in those circumstances, eitherwith the person who interfered with the accomplishment ofthe act or with no one at all. We conclude Congress usedthe word "failed" in the sense just described. Had Congressintended a no-fault standard, it would have had no difficultyin making its intent plain. It would have had to do no morethan use, in lieu of the phrase "has failed to," the phrase"did not."Under the opening clause of $ 2254(e)(2), a failure to develop the factual basis of a claim is not established unlessthere is lack of diligence, or some greater fault, attributableto the prisoner or the prisoner's counsel. In this we agreewith the Court of Appeals and with all other courts ofappeals which have addressed the issue. See, e. g., Baja v.Ducharme, 187 F. 3d 1075, 1078-1079 (CA9 1999); Miller v.Champion, 161 F. 3d 1249, 1253 (CA10 1998); Cardwell, 152F. 3d, at 337; McDonald v. Johnson, 139 F. 3d 1056, 1059(CA5 1998); Burris v. Parke, 116 F. 3d 256, 258 (CA7 1997);Love v. Morton, 112 F. 3d 131, 136 (CA3 1997).Our interpretation of $ 2254(e)(2)'s opening clause has support in Keeney v. Tamayo-Reyes, 504 U. S. 1 (1992), a casedecided four years before AEDPA's enactment. In Keeney,a prisoner with little knowledge of English sought an evidentiary hearing in federal court, alleging his nolo contendereplea to a manslaughter charge was not knowing and voluntary because of inaccuracies in the translation of the plea529US2 Unit: $U47 [10-04-01 09:34:47] PAGES PGT: OPIN433Cite as: 529 U. S. 420 (2000)Opinion of the Courtproceedings. The prisoner had not developed the facts ofhis claim in state collateral proceedings, an omission causedby the negligence of his state postconviction counsel. Seeid., at 4, 8-9. The Court characterized this as the "prisoner's failure to develop material facts in state court." Id.,at 8. We required the prisoner to demonstrate cause andprejudice excusing the default before he could receive ahearing on his claim, ibid., unless the prisoner could "showthat a fundamental miscarriage of justice would result fromfailure to hold a federal evidentiary hearing," id., at 12.Section 2254(e)(2)'s initial inquiry into whether "the applicant has failed to develop the factual basis of a claim in Statecourt proceedings" echoes Keeney's language regarding "thestate prisoner's failure to develop material facts in statecourt." In Keeney, the Court borrowed the cause and prejudice standard applied to procedurally defaulted claims, seeWainwright v. Sykes, 433 U. S. 72, 87-88 (1977), decidingthere was no reason "to distinguish between failing to properly assert a federal claim in state court and failing in statecourt to properly develop such a claim." Keeney, supra, at8. As is evident from the similarity between the Court'sphrasing in Keeney and the opening clause of $ 2254(e)(2),Congress intended to preserve at least one aspect ofKeeney's holding: prisoners who are at fault for the deficiency in the state-court record must satisfy a heightenedstandard to obtain an evidentiary hearing. To be sure, inrequiring that prisoners who have not been diligent satisfy$ 2254(e)(2)'s provisions rather than show cause and prejudice, and in eliminating a freestanding "miscarriage of justice" exception, Congress raised the bar Keeney imposed onprisoners who were not diligent in state-court proceedings.Contrary to the Commonwealth's position, however, there isno basis in the text of $ 2254(e)(2) to believe Congress used"fail" in a different sense than the Court did in Keeney orotherwise intended the statute's further, more stringent requirements to control the availability of an evidentiary hear529US2 Unit: $U47 [10-04-01 09:34:47] PAGES PGT: OPIN434 WILLIAMS v. TAYLOROpinion of the Courting in a broader class of cases than were covered by Keeney'scause and prejudice standard.In sum, the opening clause of $ 2254(e)(2) codifies Keeney'sthreshold standard of diligence, so that prisoners who wouldhave had to satisfy Keeney's test for excusing the deficiencyin the state-court record prior to AEDPA are now controlledby $ 2254(e)(2). When the words of the Court are used in alater statute governing the same subject matter, it is re-spectful of Congress and of the Court's own processes to givethe words the same meaning in the absence of specific direc-tion to the contrary. SeeLorillard v. Pons, 434 U. S. 575,581 (1978) ("[W]here . . . Congress adopts a new law incorporating sections of a prior law, Congress normally can be presumed to have had knowledge of the interpretation given tothe incorporated law, at least insofar as it affects the newstatute"). See also Cottage Savings Assn. v. Commissioner,499 U. S. 554, 562 (1991).Interpreting $ 2254(e)(2) so that "failed" requires lack ofdiligence or some other fault avoids putting it in needlesstension with $ 2254(d). A prisoner who developed his claimin state court and can prove the state court's decision was"contrary to, or involved an unreasonable application of,clearly established Federal law, as determined by the Supreme Court of the United States," is not barred from obtaining relief by $ 2254(d)(1). See Williams v. Taylor, ante,at 412-413 (majority opinion). If the opening clause of$ 2254(e)(2) covers a request for an evidentiary hearing on aclaim which was pursued with diligence but remained undeveloped in state court because, for instance, the prosecutionconcealed the facts, a prisoner lacking clear and convincingevidence of innocence could be barred from a hearing onthe claim even if he could satisfy $ 2254(d). See 28 U. S. C.$ 2254(e)(2)(B). The "failed to develop" clause does not bearthis harsh reading, which would attribute to Congress a purpose or design to bar evidentiary hearings for diligent prisoners with meritorious claims just because the prosecution's529US2 Unit: $U47 [10-04-01 09:34:47] PAGES PGT: OPIN435Cite as: 529 U. S. 420 (2000)Opinion of the Courtconduct went undetected in state court. We see no indica-tion that Congress by this language intended to remove thedistinction between a prisoner who is at fault and one whois not.The Commonwealth argues a reading of "failed to de-velop" premised on fault empties $ 2254(e)(2)(A)(ii) of itsmeaning. To treat the prisoner's lack of diligence in statecourt as a prerequisite for application of $ 2254(e)(2), theCommonwealth contends, renders a nullity of the statute'sown diligence provision requiring the prisoner to show "afactual predicate [of his claim] could not have been previously discovered through the exercise of due diligence."$ 2254(e)(2)(A)(ii). We disagree.The Commonwealth misconceives the inquiry mandatedby the opening clause of $ 2254(e)(2). The question is notwhether the facts could have been discovered but insteadwhether the prisoner was diligent in his efforts. The purpose of the fault component of "failed" is to ensure the prisoner undertakes his own diligent search for evidence. Diligence for purposes of the opening clause depends uponwhether the prisoner made a reasonable attempt, in light ofthe information available at the time, to investigate and pursue claims in state court; it does not depend, as the Commonwealth would have it, upon whether those efforts could havebeen successful. Though lack of diligence will not bar anevidentiary hearing if efforts to discover the facts wouldhave been in vain, see $ 2254(e)(2)(A)(ii), and there is a convincing claim of innocence, see $ 2254(e)(2)(B), only a prisonerwho has neglected his rights in state court need satisfy theseconditions. The statute's later reference to diligence pertains to cases in which the facts could not have been discovered, whether there was diligence or not. In this important respect $ 2254(e)(2)(A)(ii) bears a close resemblance to(e)(2)(A)(i), which applies to a new rule that was not availableat the time of the earlier proceedings. Cf. Gutierrez v. Ada,528 U. S. 250, 255 (2000) ("[W]ords and people are known by529US2 Unit: $U47 [10-04-01 09:34:47] PAGES PGT: OPIN436 WILLIAMS v. TAYLOROpinion of the Courttheir companions"). Cf. also United States v. Locke, ante, at105. In these two parallel provisions Congress has givenprisoners who fall within $ 2254(e)(2)'s opening clause an op-portunity to obtain an evidentiary hearing where the legalor factual basis of the claims did not exist at the time ofstate-court proceedings.We are not persuaded by the Commonwealth's further argument that anything less than a no-fault understanding ofthe opening clause is contrary to AEDPA's purpose to further the principles of comity, finality, and federalism. Thereis no doubt Congress intended AEDPA to advance these doctrines. Federal habeas corpus principles must inform andshape the historic and still vital relation of mutual respectand common purpose existing between the States and thefederal courts. In keeping this delicate balance we havebeen careful to limit the scope of federal intrusion into statecriminal adjudications and to safeguard the States' interestin the integrity of their criminal and collateral proceedings.See, e. g., Coleman v. Thompson, 501 U. S. 722, 726 (1991)("This is a case about federalism. It concerns the respectthat federal courts owe the States and the States' proceduralrules when reviewing the claims of state prisoners in federalhabeas corpus"); McCleskey v. Zant, 499 U. S. 467, 493 (1991)("[T]he doctrines of procedural default and abuse of the writare both designed to lessen the injury to a State that resultsthrough reexamination of a state conviction on a ground thatthe State did not have the opportunity to address at a prior,appropriate time; and both doctrines seek to vindicate theState's interest in the finality of its criminal judgments").It is consistent with these principles to give effect to Congress' intent to avoid unneeded evidentiary hearings in federal habeas corpus, while recognizing the statute does notequate prisoners who exercise diligence in pursuing theirclaims with those who do not. Principles of exhaustion arepremised upon recognition by Congress and the Court thatstate judiciaries have the duty and competence to vindicate529US2 Unit: $U47 [10-04-01 09:34:47] PAGES PGT: OPIN437Cite as: 529 U. S. 420 (2000)Opinion of the Courtrights secured by the Constitution in state criminal proceed-ings. Diligence will require in the usual case that the prisoner, at a minimum, seek an evidentiary hearing in statecourt in the manner prescribed by state law. "Comity . . .dictates that when a prisoner alleges that his continued con-finement for a state court conviction violates federal law, thestate courts should have the first opportunity to review thisclaim and provide any necessary relief."O'Sullivan v.Boerckel, 526 U. S. 838, 844 (1999). For state courts to havetheir rightful opportunity to adjudicate federal rights, theprisoner must be diligent in developing the record and presenting, if possible, all claims of constitutional error. If theprisoner fails to do so, himself or herself contributing to theabsence of a full and fair adjudication in state court,$ 2254(e)(2) prohibits an evidentiary hearing to develop therelevant claims in federal court, unless the statute's otherstringent requirements are met. Federal courts sitting inhabeas are not an alternative forum for trying facts and is-sues which a prisoner made insufficient effort to pursue instate proceedings. Yet comity is not served by saying aprisoner "has failed to develop the factual basis of a claim"where he was unable to develop his claim in state court de-spite diligent effort. In that circumstance, an evidentiaryhearing is not barred by $ 2254(e)(2).IIINow we apply the statutory test. If there has been nolack of diligence at the relevant stages in the state proceedings, the prisoner has not "failed to develop" the facts under$ 2254(e)(2)'s opening clause, and he will be excused fromshowing compliance with the balance of the subsection's re-quirements. We find lack of diligence as to one of the threeclaims but not as to the other two.APetitioner did not exercise the diligence required to pre-serve the claim that nondisclosure of Cruse's psychiatric re529US2 Unit: $U47 [10-04-01 09:34:47] PAGES PGT: OPIN438 WILLIAMS v. TAYLOROpinion of the Courtport was in contravention of Brady v. Maryland, 373 U. S.83 (1963). The report concluded Cruse "ha[d] little recollection of the [murders of the Kellers], other than vague memo-ries, as he was intoxicated with alcohol and marijuana at thetime." App. 495. The report had been prepared in Sep-tember 1993, before petitioner was tried; yet it was not mentioned by petitioner until he filed his federal habeas petitionand attached a copy of the report. Petitioner explained thatan investigator for his federal habeas counsel discovered thereport in Cruse's court file but state habeas counsel had notseen it when he had reviewed the same file. State habeascounsel averred as follows:"Prior to filing [petitioner's] habeas corpus petitionwith the Virginia Supreme Court, I reviewed the Cumberland County court files of [petitioner] and of his co-defendant, Jeffrey Cruse. . . . I have reviewed theattached psychiatric evaluation of Jeffrey Cruse . . . . Ihave no recollection of seeing this report in Mr. Cruse'scourt file when I examined the file. Given the contentsof the report, I am confident that I would remember it."Id., at 625-626.The trial court was not satisfied with this explanation for thelate discovery. Nor are we.There are repeated references to a "psychiatric" or "men-tal health" report in a transcript of Cruse's sentencingproceeding, a copy of which petitioner's own state habeascounsel attached to the state habeas petition he filed withthe Virginia Supreme Court. The transcript reveals thatCruse's attorney described the report with details thatshould have alerted counsel to a possible Brady claim. AsCruse's attorney said:"The psychiatric report . . . point[s] out that [Cruse] issignificantly depressed. He suffered from post traumatic stress. His symptoms include nightmares, sleep-lessness, sobbing, reddening of the face, severe depres529US2 Unit: $U47 [10-04-01 09:34:47] PAGES PGT: OPIN439Cite as: 529 U. S. 420 (2000)Opinion of the Courtsion, flash backs . . . . [T]he psychological report stateshe is overwhelmed by feelings of guilt and shame in hisactions. He is numb. He is trying to suppress his feel-ings, but when he has feelings, there is only pain andsadness." App. 424.The description accords with the contents of the psychiatricreport, which diagnosed Cruse as suffering from posttraumatic stress disorder:"[Cruse] has recurrent nightmares and visualizes theface of the woman that he killed. When attempting todescribe this nightmare, he breaks openly into tears andhis face reddens. . . . He continues to feel worthless as aperson . . . . He has no hope for his future and hasbeen thinking of suicide constantly. . . . He does describeinability to sleep, often tossing and turning, waking up,and feeling fatigued during the day. . . . He describedneurovegetative symptoms of major depression andpost-traumatic nightmares, recurrent in nature, of the[murders]." Id., at 495-499.The transcript put petitioner's state habeas counsel on noticeof the report's existence and possible materiality. The soleindication that counsel made some effort to investigate thereport is an October 30, 1995, letter to the prosecutor inwhich counsel requested "[a]ll reports of physical and mentalexaminations, scientific tests, or experiments conducted inconnection with the investigation of the offense, includingbut not limited to: . . . [a]ll psychological test or polygraphexaminations performed upon any prosecution witness andall documents referring or relating to such tests . . . ." Id.,at 346-347. After the prosecution declined the requests ab-sent a court order, id., at 353, it appears counsel made nofurther efforts to find the specific report mentioned byCruse's attorney. Given knowledge of the report's existenceand potential importance, a diligent attorney would havedone more. Counsel's failure to investigate these references529US2 Unit: $U47 [10-04-01 09:34:47] PAGES PGT: OPIN440 WILLIAMS v. TAYLOROpinion of the Courtin anything but a cursory manner triggers the opening clauseof $ 2254(e)(2).As we hold there was a failure to develop the factual basisof this Brady claim in state court, we must determine if therequirements in the balance of $ 2254(e)(2) are satisfied sothat petitioner's failure is excused. Subparagraph (B) of$ 2254(e)(2) conditions a hearing upon a showing, by clear andconvincing evidence, that no reasonable factfinder wouldhave found petitioner guilty of capital murder but for thealleged constitutional error. Petitioner concedes he cannotmake this showing, see Brief for Petitioner 25, and the casehas been presented to us on that premise. For these reasons, we affirm the Court of Appeals' judgment barring anevidentiary hearing on this claim.BWe conclude petitioner has met the burden of showing hewas diligent in efforts to develop the facts supporting hisjuror bias and prosecutorial misconduct claims in collateralproceedings before the Virginia Supreme Court.Petitioner's claims are based on two of the questions posedto the jurors by the trial judge atvoir dire. First, the judgeasked prospective jurors, "Are any of you related to the following people who may be called as witnesses?" Then heread the jurors a list of names, one of which was "DeputySheriff Claude Meinhard." Bonnie Stinnett, who wouldlater become the jury foreperson, had divorced Meinhard in1979, after a 17-year marriage with four children. Stinnettremained silent, indicating the answer was "no." Meinhard,as the officer who investigated the crime scene and interro-gated Cruse, would later become the prosecution's lead-offwitness at trial.After reading the names of the attorneys involved in thecase, including one of the prosecutors, Robert Woodson, Jr.,the judge asked, "Have you or any member of your immediate family ever been represented by any of the aforemen529US2 Unit: $U47 [10-04-01 09:34:47] PAGES PGT: OPIN441Cite as: 529 U. S. 420 (2000)Opinion of the Courttioned attorneys?" Stinnett again said nothing, despite thefact Woodson had represented her during her divorce fromMeinhard. App. 483, 485.In an affidavit she provided in the federal habeas proceedings, Stinnett claimed "[she] did not respond to the judge's[first] question because [she] did not consider [herself] `related' to Claude Meinhard in 1994 [at voir dire] . . . . Onceour marriage ended in 1979, I was no longer related to him."Id., at 627. As for Woodson's earlier representation of her,Stinnett explained as follows:"When Claude and I divorced in 1979, the divorce wasuncontested and Mr. Woodson drew up the papers sothat the divorce could be completed. Since neitherClaude nor I was contesting anything, I didn't think Mr.Woodson `represented' either one of us."Id., at 628.Woodson provided an affidavit in which he admitted "[he]was aware that Juror Bonnie Stinnett was the ex-wife ofthen Deputy Sheriff Claude Meinhard and [he] was awarethat they had been divorced for some time." Id., at 629.Woodson stated, however, "[t]o [his] mind, people who arerelated only by marriage are no longer `related' once themarriage ends in divorce." Ibid. Woodson also "had norecollection of having been involved as a private attorney inthe divorce proceedings between Claude Meinhard and Bon-nie Stinnett."Id., at 629-630. He explained that "[w]hatever [his] involvement was in the 1979 divorce, by the timeof trial in 1994 [he] had completely forgotten about it."Id.,at 630.Even if Stinnett had been correct in her technical or literalinterpretation of the question relating to Meinhard, her silence after the first question was asked could suggest to thefinder of fact an unwillingness to be forthcoming; this in turncould bear on the veracity of her explanation for not disclosing that Woodson had been her attorney. Stinnett's failureto divulge material information in response to the second529US2 Unit: $U47 [10-04-01 09:34:47] PAGES PGT: OPIN442 WILLIAMS v. TAYLOROpinion of the Courtquestion was misleading as a matter of fact because, underany interpretation, Woodson had acted as counsel to her andMeinhard in their divorce. Coupled with Woodson's ownreticence, these omissions as a whole disclose the need for anevidentiary hearing. It may be that petitioner could estab-lish that Stinnett was not impartial, seeSmith v. Phillips,455 U. S. 209, 217, 219-221 (1982), or that Woodson's silenceso infected the trial as to deny due process, see Donnelly v.DeChristoforo, 416 U. S. 637, 647-648 (1974).In ordering an evidentiary hearing on the juror bias andprosecutorial misconduct claims, the District Court concluded the factual basis of the claims was not reasonablyavailable to petitioner's counsel during state habeas proceedings. After the Court of Appeals vacated this judgment,the District Court dismissed the petition and the Court ofAppeals affirmed under the theory that state habeas counselshould have discovered Stinnett's relationship to Meinhardand Woodson. See 189 F. 3d, at 428.We disagree with the Court of Appeals on this point. Thetrial record contains no evidence which would have put areasonable attorney on notice that Stinnett's nonresponsewas a deliberate omission of material information. Statehabeas counsel did attempt to investigate petitioner's jury,though prompted by concerns about a different juror. App.388-389. Counsel filed a motion for expert services withthe Virginia Supreme Court, alleging "irregularities, improprieties and omissions exist[ed] with respect to the empaneling [sic] of the jury." Id., at 358. Based on these suspicions, counsel requested funding for an investigator "toexamine all circumstances relating to the empanelment ofthe jury and the jury's consideration of the case." Ibid.The Commonwealth opposed the motion, and the VirginiaSupreme Court denied it and dismissed the habeas petition,depriving petitioner of a further opportunity to investigate.The Virginia Supreme Court's denial of the motion is understandable in light of petitioner's vague allegations, but the529US2 Unit: $U47 [10-04-01 09:34:47] PAGES PGT: OPIN443Cite as: 529 U. S. 420 (2000)Opinion of the Courtvagueness was not the fault of petitioner. Counsel had noreason to believe Stinnett had been married to Meinhard orbeen represented by Woodson. The underdevelopment ofthese matters was attributable to Stinnett and Woodson, ifanyone. We do not suggest the State has an obligation topay for investigation of as yet undeveloped claims; but if theprisoner has made a reasonable effort to discover the claimsto commence or continue state proceedings, $ 2254(e)(2) willnot bar him from developing them in federal court.The Court of Appeals held state habeas counsel was notdiligent because petitioner's investigator on federal habeasdiscovered the relationships upon interviewing two jurorswho referred in passing to Stinnett as "Bonnie Meinhard."See Brief for Petitioner 35. The investigator later confirmed Stinnett's prior marriage to Meinhard by checkingCumberland County's public records. See 189 F. 3d, at 426("The documents supporting [petitioner's] Sixth Amendmentclaims have been a matter of public record since Stinnett'sdivorce became final in 1979. Indeed, because [petitioner's]federal habeas counsel located those documents, there is little reason to think that his state habeas counsel could nothave done so as well"). We should be surprised, to say theleast, if a district court familiar with the standards of trialpractice were to hold that in all cases diligent counsel mustcheck public records containing personal information pertaining to each and every juror. Because of Stinnett andWoodson's silence, there was no basis for an investigationinto Stinnett's marriage history. Section 2254(e)(2) does notapply to petitioner's related claims of juror bias and prosecutorial misconduct.We further note the Commonwealth has not argued thatpetitioner could have sought relief in state court once he discovered the factual bases of these claims some time betweenappointment of federal habeas counsel on July 2, 1996, andthe filing of his federal habeas petition on November 20,1996. As an indigent, petitioner had 120 days following ap529US2 Unit: $U47 [10-04-01 09:34:47] PAGES PGT: OPIN444 WILLIAMS v. TAYLOROpinion of the Courtpointment of state habeas counsel to file a petition with theVirginia Supreme Court. Va. Code Ann. $ 8.01-654.1 (1999).State habeas counsel was appointed on August 10, 1995,about a year before petitioner's investigator on federal habeas uncovered the information regarding Stinnett andWoodson. As state postconviction relief was no longeravailable at the time the facts came to light, it would havebeen futile for petitioner to return to the Virginia courts.In these circumstances, though the state courts did not havean opportunity to consider the new claims, petitioner cannotbe said to have failed to develop them in state court by reason of having neglected to pursue remedies available underVirginia law.Our analysis should suffice to establish cause for any procedural default petitioner may have committed in not presenting these claims to the Virginia courts in the first instance. Questions regarding the standard for determiningthe prejudice that petitioner must establish to obtain reliefon these claims can be addressed by the Court of Appeals orthe District Court in the course of further proceedings.These courts, in light of cases such as Smith, supra, at 215("[T]he remedy for allegations of juror partiality is a hearingin which the defendant has the opportunity to prove actualbias"), will take due account of the District Court's earlierdecision to grant an evidentiary hearing based in part onits belief that "Juror Stinnett deliberately failed to tell thetruth on voir dire." Williams v. Netherland, Civ. ActionNo. 3:96CV529 (ED Va., Apr. 13, 1998), App. 529, 557.IVPetitioner alleges the Commonwealth failed to disclose aninformal plea agreement with Cruse. The Court of Appealsrejected this claim on the merits under $ 2254(d)(1), so it isunnecessary to reach the question whether $ 2254(e)(2) wouldpermit a hearing on the claim.529US2 Unit: $U47 [10-04-01 09:34:47] PAGES PGT: OPIN445Cite as: 529 U. S. 420 (2000)Opinion of the CourtThe judgment of the Court of Appeals is affirmed in partand reversed in part, and the case is remanded for furtherproceedings consistent with this opinion. It is so ordered.529US2 Unit: $U48 [09-26-01 10:25:49] PAGES PGT: OPIN446 OCTOBER TERM, 1999SyllabusEDWARDS, WARDEN v. CARPENTERcertiorari to the united states court of appeals forthe sixth circuitNo. 98-2060. Argued February 28, 2000--Decided April 25, 2000Respondent pleaded guilty while maintaining his innocence to Ohio murder and robbery charges in exchange for the prosecutor's agreementthat the plea could be withdrawn if the death penalty was imposed.The Ohio Court of Appeals affirmed his conviction and sentence of imprisonment, and he did not appeal to the Ohio Supreme Court. Afterpursuing state postconviction relief pro se, respondent, represented bynew counsel, petitioned the Ohio Court of Appeals to reopen his directappeal, claiming that his original appellate counsel was constitutionallyineffective in failing to challenge the sufficiency of the evidence supporting his conviction and sentence. The court dismissed the application as untimely under Ohio Rule of Appellate Procedure 26(B), and theOhio Supreme Court affirmed. Respondent then filed a federal habeaspetition, raising, inter alia, the sufficiency-of-the-evidence claim, andalleging that his appellate counsel was constitutionally ineffective innot raising that claim on direct appeal. The District Court found thathis ineffective-assistance-of-counsel claim was cause excusing the procedural default of his sufficiency-of-the-evidence claim because Rule 26(B)was not an adequate procedural ground to bar federal review of theineffective-assistance claim; concluded that respondent's appellate counsel was constitutionally ineffective; and granted the writ conditioned onthe state appellate court's reopening of respondent's direct appeal of thesufficiency-of-the-evidence claim. On cross-appeals, the Sixth Circuitheld that the ineffective-assistance claim served as cause to excuse thedefault of the sufficiency-of-the-evidence claim, whether or not the former claim had been procedurally defaulted, because respondent hadexhausted the ineffective-assistance claim by presenting it to the statecourts in his application to reopen the direct appeal. Finding prejudice from counsel's failure to raise the sufficiency-of-the-evidence claimon direct appeal, it directed the District Court to issue the writ conditioned upon the state court's according respondent a new culpabilityhearing.Held: A procedurally defaulted ineffective-assistance claim can serve ascause to excuse the procedural default of another habeas claim only ifthe habeas petitioner can satisfy the "cause and prejudice" standardwith respect to the ineffective-assistance claim itself. The procedural529US2 Unit: $U48 [09-26-01 10:25:49] PAGES PGT: OPIN447Cite as: 529 U. S. 446 (2000)Syllabusdefault doctrine and its attendant "cause and prejudice" standard aregrounded in comity and federalism concerns, Coleman v. Thompson,501 U. S. 722, 730, and apply whether the default occurred at trial, onappeal, or on state collateral attack, Murray v. Carrier, 477 U. S. 478,490-492. Thus, a prisoner must demonstrate cause for his state-courtdefault of any federal claim, and prejudice therefrom, before the federal habeas court will consider that claim's merits. 501 U. S., at 750.Counsel's ineffectiveness in failing properly to preserve a claim forstate-court review will suffice as cause, but only if that ineffectivenessitself constitutes an independent constitutional claim. Carrier, supra,at 488-499. The comity and federalism principles underlying the doctrine of exhaustion of state remedies require an ineffective-assistanceclaim to be presented to the state courts as an independent claim beforeit may be used to establish cause for a procedural default. Carrier,supra, at 489. The doctrine's purposes would be frustrated if federalreview were available to a prisoner who had presented his claim in statecourt, but in such a manner that the state court could not, under itsprocedural rules, have entertained it. Pp. 450-454.163 F. 3d 938, reversed and remanded.Scalia, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which Rehnquist,C. J., and O'Connor, Kennedy, Souter, Thomas, and Ginsburg, JJ.,joined. Breyer, J., filed an opinion concurring in the judgment, in whichStevens, J., joined, post, p. 454.Edward B. Foley, State Solicitor of Ohio, argued the causefor petitioner. With him on the briefs wereBetty D. Mont-gomery, Attorney General, David M. Gormley, and StephenP. Carney.J. Joseph Bodine, Jr., argued the cause for respondent.With him on the brief were David H. Bodiker, Laurence E.Komp, and Angela Wilson Miller.**A brief of amici curiae urging reversal was filed for the State of Texaset al. by John Cornyn, Attorney General of Texas, Andy Taylor, FirstAssistant Attorney General, Shane Phelps, Deputy Attorney General forCriminal Justice, Gregory S. Coleman, Solicitor General, Idolina G. McCullough, Assistant Solicitor General, Michael E. McLachlan, SolicitorGeneral of Colorado, and John M. Bailey, Chief State's Attorney of Connecticut, and by the Attorneys General for their respective States as follows: Bill Pryor of Alabama, Bruce M. Botelho of Alaska, Mark Pryor ofArkansas, Janet Napolitano of Arizona, Bill Lockyer of California, Ken529US2 Unit: $U48 [09-26-01 10:25:49] PAGES PGT: OPIN448 EDWARDS v. CARPENTEROpinion of the CourtJustice Scalia delivered the opinion of the Court.This case presents the question whether a federal habeascourt is barred from considering an ineffective-assistanceof-counsel claim as "cause" for the procedural default of an-other claim when the ineffective-assistance claim has itselfbeen procedurally defaulted.IRespondent was indicted by an Ohio grand jury for aggra-vated murder and aggravated robbery. He entered a guiltyplea while maintaining his innocence--a procedure we heldto be constitutional inNorth Carolina v. Alford, 400 U. S.25 (1970)--in exchange for the prosecution's agreement thatthe guilty plea could be withdrawn if the three-judge panelthat accepted it elected, after a mitigation hearing, to impose the death penalty. The panel accepted respondent'splea based on the prosecution's recitation of the evidencesupporting the charges and, following a mitigation hearing,sentenced him to life imprisonment with parole eligibilityafter 30 years on the aggravated-murder count and to a con-current term of 10 to 25 years on the aggravated-robberycount. On direct appeal respondent, represented by newcounsel, assigned only the single error that the evidenceoffered in mitigation established that he should have beenSalazar of Colorado, M. Jane Brady of Delaware, Robert A. Butterworthof Florida, Thurbert E. Baker of Georgia, James E. Ryan of Illinois, Jeffrey A. Modisett of Indiana, Thomas J. Miller of Iowa, Carla J. Stovall ofKansas, Richard P. Ieyoub of Louisiana, J. Joseph Curran, Jr., of Maryland, Mike Hatch of Minnesota, Mike Moore of Mississippi, Jeremiah W.(Jay) Nixon of Missouri, Joseph P. Mazurek of Montana, Don Stenberg ofNebraska, Frankie Sue Del Papa of Nevada, Philip T. McLaughlin ofNew Hampshire, John J. Farmer, Jr., of New Jersey, Patricia A. Madridof New Mexico, W. A. Drew Edmondson of Oklahoma, Charles M. Condonof South Carolina, Mark Barnett of South Dakota, Paul G. Summers ofTennessee, Jan Graham of Utah, William H. Sorrell of Vermont, Christine O. Gregoire of Washington, Darrell V. McGraw, Jr., of West Virginia,and James E. Doyle of Wisconsin.529US2 Unit: $U48 [09-26-01 10:25:49] PAGES PGT: OPIN449Cite as: 529 U. S. 446 (2000)Opinion of the Courteligible for parole after 20 rather than 30 years. The OhioCourt of Appeals affirmed, and respondent did not appealto the Ohio Supreme Court.After unsuccessfully pursuing state postconviction reliefpro se, respondent, again represented by new counsel, filedan application in the Ohio Court of Appeals to reopen hisdirect appeal, pursuant to Ohio Rule of Appellate Proce-dure 26(B),1 on the ground that his original appellate counsel was constitutionally ineffective in failing to raise on di-rect appeal a challenge to the sufficiency of the evidence.The appellate court dismissed the application because re-spondent had failed to show, as the rule required, good causefor filing after the 90-day period allowed.2 The Ohio Su-preme Court, in a one-sentenceper curiam opinion, affirmed.State v. Carpenter, 74 Ohio St. 3d 408, 659 N. E. 2d 786 (1996).On May 3, 1996, respondent filed a petition for writ of ha-beas corpus in the United States District Court for theSouthern District of Ohio, alleging, inter alia, that the evidence supporting his plea and sentence was insufficient, inviolation of the Fifth and Fourteenth Amendments, andthat his appellate counsel was constitutionally ineffectivein failing to raise that claim on direct appeal. Concludingthat respondent's sufficiency-of-the-evidence claim was pro-cedurally defaulted, the District Court considered nextwhether the ineffective-assistance-of-counsel claim could1 Rule 26(B) provides, in relevant part:"(1) A defendant in a criminal case may apply for reopening of the appeal from the judgment of conviction and sentence, based on a claim ofineffective assistance of appellate counsel. An application for reopeningshall be filed in the court of appeals where the appeal was decided withinninety days from journalization of the appellate judgment unless the applicant shows good cause for filing at a later time."2 Respondent filed his application to reopen on July 15, 1994. AlthoughRule 26(B) did not become effective until July 1, 1993, more than two yearsafter respondent's direct appeal was completed, the Court of Appeals considered respondent's time for filing to have begun on the Rule's effectivedate and to have expired 90 days thereafter.529US2 Unit: $U48 [09-26-01 10:25:49] PAGES PGT: OPIN450 EDWARDS v. CARPENTEROpinion of the Courtserve as cause excusing that default. The District Courtacknowledged that the ineffective-assistance claim had beendismissed on procedural grounds, but concluded that Rule26(B)'s inconsistent application by the Ohio courts renderedit inadequate to bar federal habeas review. See Ford v.Georgia, 498 U. S. 411, 423-424 (1991) (state procedural default is not an "independent and adequate state ground"barring subsequent federal review unless the state rule was" `firmly established and regularly followed' " at the time itwas applied). Proceeding to the merits of the ineffectiveassistance claim, the District Court concluded that respond-ent's appellate counsel was constitutionally ineffective underthe test established in Strickland v. Washington, 466 U. S.668 (1984), and granted the writ of habeas corpus conditioned on the state appellate court's reopening of respond-ent's direct appeal of the sufficiency-of-the-evidence claim.On cross-appeals, the United States Court of Appealsfor the Sixth Circuit held that respondent's ineffectiveassistance-of-counsel claim served as "cause" to excuse theprocedural default of his sufficiency-of-the-evidence claim,whether or not the ineffective-assistance claim itself hadbeen procedurally defaulted. Carpenter v. Mohr, 163 F. 3d938 (CA6 1998). In the panel's view, it sufficed that re-spondent had exhausted the ineffective-assistance claim bypresenting it to the state courts in his application to re-open the direct appeal, even though that application might,under Ohio law, have been time barred. Finding in addi-tion prejudice from counsel's failure to raise the sufficiencyof-the-evidence claim on direct appeal, the Sixth Circuit di-rected the District Court to issue the writ of habeas corpusconditioned upon the state court's according respondent anew culpability hearing. We granted certiorari. 528 U. S.985 (1999). IIPetitioner contends that the Sixth Circuit erred in fail-ing to recognize that a procedurally defaulted ineffective529US2 Unit: $U48 [09-26-01 10:25:49] PAGES PGT: OPIN451Cite as: 529 U. S. 446 (2000)Opinion of the Courtassistance-of-counsel claim can serve as cause to excuse theprocedural default of another habeas claim only if the habeas petitioner can satisfy the "cause and prejudice" stand-ard with respect to the ineffective-assistance claim itself.We agree.The procedural default doctrine and its attendant "causeand prejudice" standard are "grounded in concerns of comityand federalism," Coleman v. Thompson, 501 U. S. 722, 730(1991), and apply alike whether the default in question occurred at trial, on appeal, or on state collateral attack, Murray v. Carrier, 477 U. S. 478, 490-492 (1986). "[A] habeaspetitioner who has failed to meet the State's procedural requirements for presenting his federal claims has deprivedthe state courts of an opportunity to address those claims inthe first instance." Coleman, 501 U. S., at 732. We therefore require a prisoner to demonstrate cause for his statecourt default of any federal claim, and prejudice therefrom,before the federal habeas court will consider the merits ofthat claim. Id., at 750. The one exception to that rule, notat issue here, is the circumstance in which the habeas petitioner can demonstrate a sufficient probability that our failure to review his federal claim will result in a fundamentalmiscarriage of justice. Ibid.Although we have not identified with precision exactlywhat constitutes "cause" to excuse a procedural default,we have acknowledged that in certain circumstances counsel's ineffectiveness in failing properly to preserve the claimfor review in state court will suffice. Carrier, 477 U. S., at488-489. Not just any deficiency in counsel's performancewill do, however; the assistance must have been so ineffective as to violate the Federal Constitution. Ibid. In otherwords, ineffective assistance adequate to establish causefor the procedural default of some other constitutional claimis itself an independent constitutional claim. And we heldin Carrier that the principles of comity and federalismthat underlie our longstanding exhaustion doctrine--then as529US2 Unit: $U48 [09-26-01 10:25:49] PAGES PGT: OPIN452 EDWARDS v. CARPENTEROpinion of the Courtnow codified in the federal habeas statute, see 28 U. S. C.$$ 2254(b), (c)--require that constitutional claim, like others,to be first raised in state court. "[A] claim of ineffectiveassistance," we said, generally must "be presented to thestate courts as an independent claim before it may be usedto establish cause for a procedural default." Carrier, supra,at 489.The question raised by the present case is whether Carrier's exhaustion requirement for claims of ineffective assistance asserted as cause is uniquely immune from theprocedural-default rule that accompanies the exhaustion requirement in all other contexts--whether, in other words, itsuffices that the ineffective-assistance claim was "presented"to the state courts, even though it was not presented in themanner that state law requires. That is not a hard question.An affirmative answer would render Carrier's exhaustionrequirement illusory.3We recognized the inseparability of the exhaustion ruleand the procedural-default doctrine in Coleman: "In theabsence of the independent and adequate state ground doctrine in federal habeas, habeas petitioners would be able toavoid the exhaustion requirement by defaulting their federalclaims in state court. The independent and adequate state3 Last Term, in a per curiam summary reversal, we clearly expressedthe view that a habeas petitioner must satisfy the "cause and prejudice"standard before his procedurally defaulted ineffective-assistance claimwill excuse the default of another claim. Stewart v. LaGrand, 526 U. S.115, 120 (1999). Respondent contends that we are not bound by LaGrandbecause in that case the habeas petitioner had waived his ineffectiveassistance claim in the District Court, thereby rendering our proceduraldefault discussion dicta, and because, in any event, per curiam opinionsdecided without the benefit of full briefing or oral argument are of littleprecedential value. Whether our procedural default analysis in LaGrandis properly characterized as dictum or as alternative holding, and whatever the precedential value of a per curiam opinion, the ease with whichwe so recently resolved this identical question reflects the degree to whichthe proper resolution flows irresistibly from our precedents.529US2 Unit: $U48 [09-26-01 10:25:49] PAGES PGT: OPIN453Cite as: 529 U. S. 446 (2000)Opinion of the Courtground doctrine ensures that the States' interest in correct-ing their own mistakes is respected in all federal habeascases." 501 U. S., at 732. We again considered the inter-play between exhaustion and procedural default last Term inO'Sullivan v. Boerckel, 526 U. S. 838 (1999), concluding thatthe latter doctrine was necessary to " `protect the integrity'of the federal exhaustion rule." Id., at 848 (quoting id., at853 (Stevens, J., dissenting)). The purposes of the exhaus-tion requirement, we said, would be utterly defeated if theprisoner were able to obtain federal habeas review simplyby " `letting the time run' " so that state remedies were nolonger available. Id., at 848. Those purposes would be noless frustrated were we to allow federal review to a prisonerwho had presented his claim to the state court, but in such amanner that the state court could not, consistent with itsown procedural rules, have entertained it. In such circumstances, though the prisoner would have "concededly exhausted his state remedies," it could hardly be said that, ascomity and federalism require, the State had been given a"fair `opportunity to pass upon [his claims].' " Id., at 854(Stevens, J., dissenting) (emphasis added) (quoting Darr v.Burford, 339 U. S. 200, 204 (1950)).To hold, as we do, that an ineffective-assistance-of-counselclaim asserted as cause for the procedural default of another claim can itself be procedurally defaulted is not to saythat that procedural default may not itself be excused ifthe prisoner can satisfy the cause-and-prejudice standardwith respect to that claim. Indeed, the Sixth Circuit maywell conclude on remand that respondent can meet thatstandard in this case (although we should note that respondent has not argued that he can, preferring instead to arguethat he does not have to). Or it may conclude, as did theDistrict Court, that Ohio Rule of Appellate Procedure 26(B)does not constitute an adequate procedural ground to barfederal habeas review of the ineffective-assistance claim.We express no view as to these issues, or on the question529US2 Unit: $U48 [09-26-01 10:25:49] PAGES PGT: OPIN454 EDWARDS v. CARPENTERBreyer, J., concurring in judgmentwhether respondent's appellate counsel was constitutionallyineffective in not raising the sufficiency-of-the-evidence claimin the first place. * * *For the foregoing reasons, the judgment of the Court ofAppeals for the Sixth Circuit is reversed, and the case is remanded for further proceedings consistent with this opinion.