For the second time in recent years we consider constitu-tional questions arising from a program designed to facilitateMyers, Attorney General, David Schuman, Deputy Attorney General, andMichael D. Reynolds, Solicitor General; for the American Civil LibertiesUnion et al. by Jon G. Furlow, Steven R. Shapiro, Elliot M. Mincberg,and Judith E. Schaeffer; for the American Council on Education et al. byStephen S. Dunham, Leonard M. Niehoff, and Sheldon E. Steinbach; forthe American Federation of Labor and Congress of Industrial Organizations by Jonathan P. Hiatt, James B. Coppess, and Laurence Gold; for theBrennan Center for Justice at New York University School of Law byScott D. Makar, Robert Bergen, Michael J. Frevola, and Burt Neuborne;for the Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, and Transgender Campus Center at UWMadison et al. by Patricia M. Logue and Ruth E. Harlow; for the NationalLegal Aid Defenders Association, Student Legal Services Section, by NedR. Jaeckle and Kathleen A. Cushing; for the National Education Association by Robert H. Chanin, Andrew D. Roth, and Michael D. Simpson; forthe New York Public Interest Research Group by Alexander R. Sussman;for the Student Press Law Center et al. by Lucy A. Dalglish; for StudentRights Law Center, Inc., by Mitchel D. Grotch; for the United States Student Association et al. by David C. Vladeck and Alan B. Morrison; forUnited Council of University of Wisconsin Students, Inc., by Mark B. Hazelbaker; for the University of California Student Association by MichaelS. Sorgen and Amy R. Levine; and for the Wisconsin Student Public Interest Research Group et al. by Daniel H. Squire, Craig Goldblatt, and Francisco Medina.Briefs of amici curiae urging affirmance were filed for the AtlanticLegal Foundation by Martin S. Kaufman and Edwin L. Lewis III; for theAmerican Center for Law and Justice by Jay Alan Sekulow, Mark NathanTroobnick, and James Matthew Henderson, Sr.; for the Christian LegalSociety by Steven T. McFarland, Samuel B. Casey, and Thomas C. Berg;for the Family Research Institute by Roy H. Nelson; for Liberty Counselby Mathew D. Staver; for the National Legal Foundation by Barry C.Hodge; for the National Right to Work Legal Defense Foundation, Inc., byRaymond J. LaJeunesse, Jr.; for the National Smokers Alliance by ReneeGiachino; for the Pacific Legal Foundation et al. by Deborah J. La Fetra;and for the Washington Legal Foundation et al. by Daniel E. Troy, DanielJ. Popeo, and Paul D. Kamenar.Briefs of amici curiae were filed for Americans United for Separationof Church and State et al. by Steven K. Green, Steven M. Freeman, andAyesha N. Khan; for First Freedoms Foundation by Michael D. Dean; for529US1 Unit: $U39 [09-26-01 13:21:31] PAGES PGT: OPIN221Cite as: 529 U. S. 217 (2000)Opinion of the Courtextracurricular student speech at a public university. Re-spondents are a group of students at the University ofWisconsin (hereinafter University). They brought a FirstAmendment challenge to a mandatory student activity feeimposed by petitioner Board of Regents of the University ofWisconsin System and used in part by the University to support student organizations engaging in political or ideologicalspeech. Respondents object to the speech and expressionof some of the student organizations. Relying upon ourprecedents which protect members of unions and bar associations from being required to pay fees used for speech themembers find objectionable, both the District Court and theCourt of Appeals invalidated the University's student feeprogram. The University contends that its mandatory student activity fee and the speech which it supports are appro-priate to further its educational mission.We reverse. The First Amendment permits a public uni-versity to charge its students an activity fee used to fund aprogram to facilitate extracurricular student speech if theprogram is viewpoint neutral. We do not sustain, however,the student referendum mechanism of the University's pro-gram, which appears to permit the exaction of fees in violation of the viewpoint neutrality principle. As to that aspectof the program, we remand for further proceedings.IThe University of Wisconsin is a public corporation of theState of Wisconsin. See Wis. Stat. $ 36.07(1) (1993-1994).State law defines the University's mission in broad terms:"to develop human resources, to discover and disseminateknowledge, to extend knowledge and its application beyondthe boundaries of its campuses and to serve and stimulatesociety by developing in students heightened intellectual,cultural and humane sensitivities . . . and a sense of purpose."the Rutherford Institute by John W. Whitehead and Steven H. Aden; andfor Owen Brennan Rounds et al. by Thomas H. Nelson.529US1 Unit: $U39 [09-26-01 13:21:31] PAGES PGT: OPIN222 BOARD OF REGENTS OF UNIV. OF WIS. SYSTEMv. SOUTHWORTHOpinion of the Court$ 36.01(2). Some 30,000 undergraduate students and 10,000graduate and professional students attend the University'sMadison campus, ranking it among the Nation's largest insti-tutions of higher learning. Students come to the renownedUniversity from all 50 States and from 72 foreign countries.Last year marked its 150th anniversary; and to celebrate itsdistinguished history, the University sponsored a series ofresearch initiatives, campus forums and workshops, histori-cal exhibits, and public lectures, all reaffirming its commitment to explore the universe of knowledge and ideas.The responsibility for governing the University of Wisconsin System is vested by law with the board of regents.$ 36.09(1). The same law empowers the students to share inaspects of the University's governance. One of those functions is to administer the student activities fee program. Bystatute the "[s]tudents in consultation with the chancellorand subject to the final confirmation of the board [of regents]shall have the responsibility for the disposition of those student fees which constitute substantial support for campusstudent activities." $ 36.09(5). The students do so, in largemeasure, through their student government, called the Associated Students of Madison (ASM), and various ASMsubcommittees. The program the University maintains tosupport the extracurricular activities undertaken by manyof its student organizations is the subject of the presentcontroversy.It seems that since its founding the University has required full-time students enrolled at its Madison campus topay a nonrefundable activity fee. App. 154. For the 1995-1996 academic year, when this suit was commenced, the activity fee amounted to $331.50 per year. The fee is segregated from the University's tuition charge. Once collected,the activity fees are deposited by the University into theaccounts of the State of Wisconsin. Id., at 9. The fees aredrawn upon by the University to support various campusservices and extracurricular student activities. In the Uni529US1 Unit: $U39 [09-26-01 13:21:31] PAGES PGT: OPIN223Cite as: 529 U. S. 217 (2000)Opinion of the Courtversity's view, the activity fees "enhance the educationalexperience" of its students by "promot[ing] extracurricularactivities," "stimulating advocacy and debate on diversepoints of view," enabling "participa[tion] in political activity,""promot[ing] student participa[tion] in campus administra-tive activity," and providing "opportunities to develop socialskills," all consistent with the University's mission. Id., at154-155.The board of regents classifies the segregated fee into allocable and nonallocable portions. The nonallocable portionapproximates 80% of the total fee and covers expenses suchas student health services, intramural sports, debt service,and the upkeep and operations of the student union facilities.Id., at 13. Respondents did not challenge the purposes towhich the University commits the nonallocable portion of thesegregated fee. Id., at 37.The allocable portion of the fee supports extracurricularendeavors pursued by the University's registered student organizations or RSO's. To qualify for RSO status studentsmust organize as a not-for-profit group, limit membershipprimarily to students, and agree to undertake activities related to student life on campus. Id., at 15. During the1995-1996 school year, 623 groups had RSO status on theMadison campus. Id., at 255. To name but a few, RSO'sincluded the Future Financial Gurus of America; the International Socialist Organization; the College Democrats; theCollege Republicans; and the American Civil Liberties UnionCampus Chapter. As one would expect, the expressive activities undertaken by RSO's are diverse in range and content, from displaying posters and circulating newslettersthroughout the campus, to hosting campus debates and guestspeakers, and to what can best be described as politicallobbying.RSO's may obtain a portion of the allocable fees in oneof three ways. Most do so by seeking funding from theStudent Government Activity Fund (SGAF), administered529US1 Unit: $U39 [09-26-01 13:21:31] PAGES PGT: OPIN224 BOARD OF REGENTS OF UNIV. OF WIS. SYSTEMv. SOUTHWORTHOpinion of the Courtby the ASM. SGAF moneys may be issued to support anRSO's operations and events, as well as travel expenses "central to the purpose of the organization." Id., at 18. As analternative, an RSO can apply for funding from the GeneralStudent Services Fund (GSSF), administered through theASM's finance committee. During the 1995-1996 academicyear, 15 RSO's received GSSF funding. These RSO's included a campus tutoring center, the student radio station, astudent environmental group, a gay and bisexual studentcenter, a community legal office, an AIDS support network,a campus women's center, and the Wisconsin Student PublicInterest Research Group (WISPIRG). Id., at 16-17. TheUniversity acknowledges that, in addition to providing campus services (e. g., tutoring and counseling), the GSSF-fundedRSO's engage in political and ideological expression. Brieffor Petitioner 10.The GSSF, as well as the SGAF, consists of moneys originating in the allocable portion of the mandatory fee. Theparties have stipulated that, with respect to SGAF andGSSF funding, "[t]he process for reviewing and approvingallocations for funding is administered in a viewpoint-neutralfashion," id., at 14-15, and that the University does not usethe fee program for "advocating a particular point of view."Id., at 39.A student referendum provides a third means for an RSOto obtain funding. Id., at 16. While the record is sparse onthis feature of the University's program, the parties informus that the student body can vote either to approve or todisapprove an assessment for a particular RSO. One referendum resulted in an allocation of $45,000 to WISPIRG during the 1995-1996 academic year. At oral argument, counselfor the University acknowledged that a referendum couldalso operate to defund an RSO or to veto a funding decisionof the ASM. In October 1996, for example, the student bodyvoted to terminate funding to a national student organizationto which the University belonged. Id., at 215. Both parties529US1 Unit: $U39 [09-26-01 13:21:31] PAGES PGT: OPIN225Cite as: 529 U. S. 217 (2000)Opinion of the Courtconfirmed at oral argument that their stipulation regardingthe program's viewpoint neutrality does not extend to thereferendum process. Tr. of Oral Arg. 19, 29.With respect to GSSF and SGAF funding, the ASM orits finance committee makes initial funding decisions. App.14-15. The ASM does so in an open session, and interestedstudents may attend meetings when RSO funding is discussed. Id., at 14. It also appears that the ASM must ap-prove the results of a student referendum. Approval appears pro forma, however, as counsel for the Universityadvised us that the student government "voluntarily viewsth[e] referendum as binding." Tr. of Oral Arg. 15. Oncethe ASM approves an RSO's funding application, it forwardsits decision to the chancellor and to the board of regents fortheir review and approval. App. 18, 19. Approximately30% of the University's RSO's received funding during the1995-1996 academic year.RSO's, as a general rule, do not receive lump-sum cashdistributions. Rather, RSO's obtain funding support on areimbursement basis by submitting receipts or invoices tothe University. Guidelines identify expenses appropriatefor reimbursement. Permitted expenditures include, in themain, costs for printing, postage, office supplies, and use ofUniversity facilities and equipment. Materials printed withstudent fees must contain a disclaimer that the views expressed are not those of the ASM. The University also reimburses RSO's for fees arising from membership in "otherrelated and non-profit organizations." Id., at 251.The University's policy establishes purposes for which feesmay not be expended. RSO's may not receive reimbursement for "[g]ifts, donations, and contributions," the costs oflegal services, or for "[a]ctivities which are politically partisan or religious in nature." Id., at 251-252. (The policydoes not give examples of the prohibited expenditures.) Aseparate policy statement on GSSF funding states that anRSO can receive funding if it "does not have a primarily529US1 Unit: $U39 [09-26-01 13:21:31] PAGES PGT: OPIN226 BOARD OF REGENTS OF UNIV. OF WIS. SYSTEMv. SOUTHWORTHOpinion of the Courtpolitical orientation (i. e. is not a registered political group)."Id., at 238. The same policy adds that an RSO "shall notuse [student fees] for any lobbying purposes." Ibid. Atone point in their brief respondents suggest that the prohibition against expenditures for "politically partisan" purposesrenders the program not viewpoint neutral. Brief for Respondents 31. In view of the fact that both parties entereda stipulation to the contrary at the outset of this litigation,which was again reiterated during oral argument in thisCourt, we do not consider respondents' challenge to this as-pect of the University's program.The University's Student Organization Handbook hasguidelines for regulating the conduct and activities of RSO's.In addition to obligating RSO's to adhere to the fee program's rules and regulations, the guidelines establish procedures authorizing any student to complain to the Universitythat an RSO is in noncompliance. An extensive investigative process is in place to evaluate and remedy violations.The University's policy includes a range of sanctions for noncompliance, including probation, suspension, or terminationof RSO status.One RSO that appears to operate in a manner distinct fromothers is WISPIRG. For reasons not clear from the record,WISPIRG receives lump-sum cash distributions from theUniversity. University counsel informed us that this distribution reduced the GSSF portion of the fee pool. Tr. of OralArg. 15. The full extent of the uses to which WISPIRG putsits funds is unclear. We do know, however, that WISPIRGsponsored on-campus events regarding homelessness and environmental and consumer protection issues. App. 348. Itcoordinated community food drives and educational programs and spent a portion of its activity fees for the lobbyingefforts of its parent organization and for student internshipsaimed at influencing legislation. Id., at 344, 347.In March 1996, respondents, each of whom attended or stillattend the University's Madison campus, filed suit in the529US1 Unit: $U39 [09-26-01 13:21:31] PAGES PGT: OPIN227Cite as: 529 U. S. 217 (2000)Opinion of the CourtUnited States District Court for the Western District of Wis-consin against members of the board of regents. Respondents alleged, inter alia, that imposition of the segregated feeviolated their rights of free speech, free association, and freeexercise under the First Amendment. They contended theUniversity must grant them the choice not to fund thoseRSO's that engage in political and ideological expression offensive to their personal beliefs. Respondents requestedboth injunctive and declaratory relief. On cross-motions forsummary judgment, the District Court ruled in their favor,declaring the University's segregated fee program invalidunder Abood v. Detroit Bd. of Ed., 431 U. S. 209 (1977), andKeller v. State Bar of Cal., 496 U. S. 1 (1990). The DistrictCourt decided the fee program compelled students "to support political and ideological activity with which they disagree" in violation of respondents' First Amendment rightsto freedom of speech and association. App. to Pet. for Cert.98a. The court did not reach respondents' free exerciseclaim. The District Court's order enjoined the board of regents from using segregated fees to fund any RSO engagingin political or ideological speech.The United States Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit affirmed in part, reversed in part, and vacated in part.Southworth v. Grebe, 151 F. 3d 717 (1998). As the DistrictCourt had done, the Court of Appeals found our compelledspeech precedents controlling. After examining the University's fee program under the three-part test outlined in Lehnert v. Ferris Faculty Assn., 500 U. S. 507 (1991), it concludedthat the program was not germane to the University's mission, did not further a vital policy of the University, and imposed too much of a burden on respondents' free speechrights. "[L]ike the objecting union members in Abood," theCourt of Appeals reasoned, the students here have a FirstAmendment interest in not being compelled to contribute toan organization whose expressive activities conflict withtheir own personal beliefs. 151 F. 3d, at 731. It added that529US1 Unit: $U39 [09-26-01 13:21:31] PAGES PGT: OPIN228 BOARD OF REGENTS OF UNIV. OF WIS. SYSTEMv. SOUTHWORTHOpinion of the Courtprotecting the objecting students' free speech rights was "ofheightened concern" following our decision in Rosenberger v.Rector and Visitors of Univ. of Va., 515 U. S. 819 (1995),because "[i]f the university cannot discriminate in the disbursement of funds, it is imperative that students not becompelled to fund organizations which engage in political andideological activities--that is the only way to protect the individual's rights." 151 F. 3d, at 730, n. 11. The Court ofAppeals extended the District Court's order and enjoinedthe board of regents from requiring objecting students topay that portion of the fee used to fund RSO's engaged inpolitical or ideological expression. Id., at 735.Three members of the Court of Appeals dissented fromthe denial of the University's motion for rehearing en banc.In their view, the panel opinion overlooked the "crucial difference between a requirement to pay money to an organization that explicitly aims to subsidize one viewpoint tothe exclusion of other viewpoints, as in Abood and Keller,and a requirement to pay a fee to a group that creates aviewpoint-neutral forum, as is true of the student activityfee here." Southworth v. Grebe, 157 F. 3d 1124, 1129 (CA71998) (D. Wood, J., dissenting).Other courts addressing First Amendment challenges tosimilar student fee programs have reached conflicting results. Compare Rounds v. Oregon State Bd. of Higher Ed.,166 F. 3d 1032, 1038-1040 (CA9 1999); Hays County Guardian v. Supple, 969 F. 2d 111, 123 (CA5 1992), cert. denied,506 U. S. 1087 (1993); Kania v. Fordham, 702 F. 2d 475, 480(CA4 1983); Good v. Associated Students of Univ. of Wash.,86 Wash. 2d 94, 105, 542 P. 2d 762, 769 (1975) (en banc), withSmith v. Regents of Univ. of Cal., 4 Cal. 4th 843, 862-863, 844P. 2d 500, 513-514, cert. denied, 510 U. S. 863 (1993). Theseconflicts, together with the importance of the issue presented, led us to grant certiorari. 526 U. S. 1038 (1999).We reverse the judgment of the Court of Appeals.529US1 Unit: $U39 [09-26-01 13:21:31] PAGES PGT: OPIN229Cite as: 529 U. S. 217 (2000)Opinion of the CourtIIIt is inevitable that government will adopt and pursue pro-grams and policies within its constitutional powers but whichnevertheless are contrary to the profound beliefs and sincereconvictions of some of its citizens. The government, as ageneral rule, may support valid programs and policies bytaxes or other exactions binding on protesting parties.Within this broader principle it seems inevitable that fundsraised by the government will be spent for speech and otherexpression to advocate and defend its own policies. See,e. g., Rust v. Sullivan, 500 U. S. 173 (1991); Regan v. Taxation With Representation of Wash., 461 U. S. 540, 548-549(1983). The case we decide here, however, does not raisethe issue of the government's right, or, to be more specific,the state-controlled University's right, to use its own fundsto advance a particular message. The University's wholejustification for fostering the challenged expression is that itsprings from the initiative of the students, who alone give itpurpose and content in the course of their extracurricularendeavors.The University having disclaimed that the speech is itsown, we do not reach the question whether traditional politi-cal controls to ensure responsible government action wouldbe sufficient to overcome First Amendment objections andto allow the challenged program under the principle that thegovernment can speak for itself. If the challenged speechhere were financed by tuition dollars and the University andits officials were responsible for its content, the case mightbe evaluated on the premise that the government itself is thespeaker. That is not the case before us.The University of Wisconsin exacts the fee at issue for thesole purpose of facilitating the free and open exchange ofideas by, and among, its students. We conclude the objecting students may insist upon certain safeguards with respectto the expressive activities which they are required to support. Our public forum cases are instructive here by close529US1 Unit: $U39 [09-26-01 13:21:31] PAGES PGT: OPIN230 BOARD OF REGENTS OF UNIV. OF WIS. SYSTEMv. SOUTHWORTHOpinion of the Courtanalogy. This is true even though the student activitiesfund is not a public forum in the traditional sense of the termand despite the circumstance that those cases most often in-volve a demand for access, not a claim to be exempt fromsupporting speech. See, e. g., Lamb's Chapel v. Center Moriches Union Free School Dist., 508 U. S. 384 (1993); Widmarv. Vincent, 454 U. S. 263 (1981). The standard of viewpointneutrality found in the public forum cases provides thestandard we find controlling. We decide that the viewpointneutrality requirement of the University program is in gen-eral sufficient to protect the rights of the objecting students.The student referendum aspect of the program for fundingspeech and expressive activities, however, appears to be inconsistent with the viewpoint neutrality requirement.We must begin by recognizing that the complaining students are being required to pay fees which are subsidies forspeech they find objectionable, even offensive. The Aboodand Keller cases, then, provide the beginning point for ouranalysis. Abood v. Detroit Bd. of Ed., 431 U. S. 209 (1977);Keller v. State Bar of Cal., 496 U. S. 1 (1990). While thoseprecedents identify the interests of the protesting students,the means of implementing First Amendment protectionsadopted in those decisions are neither applicable nor workable in the context of extracurricular student speech at auniversity.In Abood, some nonunion public school teachers challengedan agreement requiring them, as a condition of their employment, to pay a service fee equal in amount to union dues.431 U. S., at 211-212. The objecting teachers alleged thatthe union's use of their fees to engage in political speechviolated their freedom of association guaranteed by the Firstand Fourteenth Amendments. Id., at 213. The Courtagreed and held that any objecting teacher could "preventthe Union's spending a part of their required service fees tocontribute to political candidates and to express politicalviews unrelated to its duties as exclusive bargaining repre529US1 Unit: $U39 [09-26-01 13:21:31] PAGES PGT: OPIN231Cite as: 529 U. S. 217 (2000)Opinion of the Courtsentative." Id., at 234. The principles outlined in Aboodprovided the foundation for our later decision inKeller.There we held that lawyers admitted to practice in Californiacould be required to join a state bar association and to fundactivities "germane" to the association's mission of "regulat-ing the legal profession and improving the quality of legalservices." 496 U. S., at 13-14. The lawyers could not, however, be required to fund the bar association's own politicalexpression.Id., at 16.The proposition that students who attend the Universitycannot be required to pay subsidies for the speech of otherstudents without some First Amendment protection followsfrom the Abood and Keller cases. Students enroll in publicuniversities to seek fulfillment of their personal aspirationsand of their own potential. If the University conditions theopportunity to receive a college education, an opportunitycomparable in importance to joining a labor union or bar association, on an agreement to support objectionable, extracurricular expression by other students, the rights acknowledged in Abood and Keller become implicated. It infringeson the speech and beliefs of the individual to be required, bythis mandatory student activity fee program, to pay subsidies for the objectionable speech of others without any recognition of the State's corresponding duty to him or her. Yetrecognition must be given as well to the important and substantial purposes of the University, which seeks to facilitatea wide range of speech.In Abood and Keller, the constitutional rule took the formof limiting the required subsidy to speech germane to thepurposes of the union or bar association. The standard ofgermane speech as applied to student speech at a universityis unworkable, however, and gives insufficient protectionboth to the objecting students and to the University programitself. Even in the context of a labor union, whose functionsare, or so we might have thought, well known and understood by the law and the courts after a long history of gov529US1 Unit: $U39 [09-26-01 13:21:31] PAGES PGT: OPIN232 BOARD OF REGENTS OF UNIV. OF WIS. SYSTEMv. SOUTHWORTHOpinion of the Courternment regulation and judicial involvement, we have en-countered difficulties in deciding what is germane and whatis not. The difficulty manifested itself in our decision inLehnert v. Ferris Faculty Assn., 500 U. S. 507 (1991), wheredifferent Members of the Court reached varying conclusionsregarding what expressive activity was or was not germaneto the mission of the association. If it is difficult to definegermane speech with ease or precision where a union or barassociation is the party, the standard becomes all the moreunmanageable in the public university setting, particularlywhere the State undertakes to stimulate the whole universeof speech and ideas.The speech the University seeks to encourage in the program before us is distinguished not by discernable limits butby its vast, unexplored bounds. To insist upon asking whatspeech is germane would be contrary to the very goal theUniversity seeks to pursue. It is not for the Court to saywhat is or is not germane to the ideas to be pursued in aninstitution of higher learning.Just as the vast extent of permitted expression makes thetest of germane speech inappropriate for intervention, so toodoes it underscore the high potential for intrusion on theFirst Amendment rights of the objecting students. It is allbut inevitable that the fees will result in subsidies to speechwhich some students find objectionable and offensive to theirpersonal beliefs. If the standard of germane speech is inapplicable, then, it might be argued the remedy is to allow eachstudent to list those causes which he or she will or will notsupport. If a university decided that its students' FirstAmendment interests were better protected by some type ofoptional or refund system it would be free to do so. Wedecline to impose a system of that sort as a constitutionalrequirement, however. The restriction could be so disruptive and expensive that the program to support extracurricular speech would be ineffective. The First Amendment doesnot require the University to put the program at risk.529US1 Unit: $U39 [09-26-01 13:21:31] PAGES PGT: OPIN233Cite as: 529 U. S. 217 (2000)Opinion of the CourtThe University may determine that its mission is wellserved if students have the means to engage in dynamic discussions of philosophical, religious, scientific, social, and po-litical subjects in their extracurricular campus life outsidethe lecture hall. If the University reaches this conclusion,it is entitled to impose a mandatory fee to sustain an opendialogue to these ends.The University must provide some protection to its stu-dents' First Amendment interests, however. The propermeasure, and the principal standard of protection for object-ing students, we conclude, is the requirement of viewpointneutrality in the allocation of funding support. Viewpointneutrality was the obligation to which we gave substance inRosenberger v. Rector and Visitors of Univ. of Va., 515 U. S.819 (1995). There the University of Virginia feared that anyassociation with a student newspaper advancing religiousviewpoints would violate the Establishment Clause. We rejected the argument, holding that the school's adherence toa rule of viewpoint neutrality in administering its studentfee program would prevent "any mistaken impression thatthe student newspapers speak for the University." Id., at841. While Rosenberger was concerned with the rights astudent has to use an extracurricular speech program already in place, today's case considers the antecedent question, acknowledged but unresolved in Rosenberger: whethera public university may require its students to pay a feewhich creates the mechanism for the extracurricular speechin the first instance. When a university requires its students to pay fees to support the extracurricular speech ofother students, all in the interest of open discussion, it maynot prefer some viewpoints to others. There is symmetrythen in our holding here and in Rosenberger: Viewpoint neutrality is the justification for requiring the student to paythe fee in the first instance and for ensuring the integrity ofthe program's operation once the funds have been collected.We conclude that the University of Wisconsin may sustain529US1 Unit: $U39 [09-26-01 13:21:31] PAGES PGT: OPIN234 BOARD OF REGENTS OF UNIV. OF WIS. SYSTEMv. SOUTHWORTHOpinion of the Courtthe extracurricular dimensions of its programs by using man-datory student fees with viewpoint neutrality as the operational principle.The parties have stipulated that the program the University has developed to stimulate extracurricular studentexpression respects the principle of viewpoint neutrality. Ifthe stipulation is to continue to control the case, the University's program in its basic structure must be found consistentwith the First Amendment.We make no distinction between campus activities andthe off-campus expressive activities of objectionable RSO's.Those activities, respondents tell us, often bear no relationship to the University's reason for imposing the segregatedfee in the first instance, to foster vibrant campus debateamong students. If the University shares those concerns,it is free to enact viewpoint neutral rules restricting offcampus travel or other expenditures by RSO's, for it maycreate what is tantamount to a limited public forum if theprinciples of viewpoint neutrality are respected. Cf. id., at829-830. We find no principled way, however, to imposeupon the University, as a constitutional matter, a requirement to adopt geographic or spatial restrictions as a condition for RSOs' entitlement to reimbursement. Universitiespossess significant interests in encouraging students to takeadvantage of the social, civic, cultural, and religious opportunities available in surrounding communities and throughoutthe country. Universities, like all of society, are finding thattraditional conceptions of territorial boundaries are difficultto insist upon in an age marked by revolutionary changesin communications, information transfer, and the means ofdiscourse. If the rule of viewpoint neutrality is respected,our holding affords the University latitude to adjust its extracurricular student speech program to accommodate theseadvances and opportunities.Our decision ought not to be taken to imply that in otherinstances the University, its agents or employees, or--of529US1 Unit: $U39 [09-26-01 13:21:31] PAGES PGT: OPIN235Cite as: 529 U. S. 217 (2000)Opinion of the Courtparticular importance--its faculty, are subject to the FirstAmendment analysis which controls in this case. Where theUniversity speaks, either in its own name through its regentsor officers, or in myriad other ways through its diverse faculties, the analysis likely would be altogether different. SeeRust v. Sullivan, 500 U. S. 173 (1991); Regan v. TaxationWith Representation of Wash., 461 U. S. 540 (1983). TheCourt has not held, or suggested, that when the governmentspeaks the rules we have discussed come into play.When the government speaks, for instance to promote itsown policies or to advance a particular idea, it is, in the end,accountable to the electorate and the political process for itsadvocacy. If the citizenry objects, newly elected officialslater could espouse some different or contrary position. Inthe instant case, the speech is not that of the University orits agents. It is not, furthermore, speech by an instructoror a professor in the academic context, where principles applicable to government speech would have to be considered.Cf. Rosenberger, supra, at 833 (discussing the discretion universities possess in deciding matters relating to their educational mission).IIIIt remains to discuss the referendum aspect of the University's program. While the record is not well developed onthe point, it appears that by majority vote of the studentbody a given RSO may be funded or defunded. It is unclearto us what protection, if any, there is for viewpoint neutralityin this part of the process. To the extent the referendumsubstitutes majority determinations for viewpoint neutralityit would undermine the constitutional protection the program requires. The whole theory of viewpoint neutrality isthat minority views are treated with the same respect as aremajority views. Access to a public forum, for instance, doesnot depend upon majoritarian consent. That principle iscontrolling here. A remand is necessary and appropriate to529US1 Unit: $U39 [09-26-01 13:21:31] PAGES PGT: OPIN236 BOARD OF REGENTS OF UNIV. OF WIS. SYSTEMv. SOUTHWORTHSouter, J., concurring in judgmentresolve this point; and the case in all events must be reexam-ined in light of the principles we have discussed.The judgment of the Court of Appeals is reversed, and thecase is remanded for further proceedings consistent with thisopinion. In this Court, the parties shall bear their owncosts.