In this original action, we resolve another dispute amongStates that assert competing claims to abandoned intangiblepersonal property. Most of the funds at issue are unclaimedsecurities distributions held by intermediary banks, brokers,and depositories for beneficial owners who cannot be identi-fied or located. The Special Master proposed awarding theright to escheat such funds to the State in which the princi-pal executive offices of the securities issuer are located. Adhering to the rules announced in Texas v. New Jersey, 379U. S. 674 (1965), and Pennsylvania v. New York, 407 U. S.206 (1972), we hold that the State in which the intermediaryis incorporated has the right to escheat funds belonging tobeneficial owners who cannot be identified or located.*Briefs of amici curiae were filed for Midwest Securities Trust Co. etal. by Michael Fischer and Ilene Knable Gotts; and for the SecuritiesIndustry Association et al. by Judith Welcom.507us2$50N 11-30-95 08:44:24 PAGES OPINPGT495Cite as: 507 U. S. 490 (1993)Opinion of the CourtIThis case involves unclaimed dividends, interest, and otherdistributions made by issuers of securities. Such paymentsare often channeled through financial intermediaries such asbanks, brokers, and depositories before they reach their beneficial owners. By arrangement with the beneficial owners,these intermediaries frequently hold securities in their ownnames rather than in the names of the beneficial owners; as"record owners," the intermediaries are fully entitled to receive distributions based on those securities.1 This practiceof holding securities in "nominee name" or "street name" facilitates the offering of customized financial services such ascash management accounts,2 brokerage margin accounts,3discretionary trusts,4 and dividend reinvestment programs.5Street name accounts also permit changes in beneficial ownership to be effected through book entries rather than theunwieldy physical transfer of securities certificates. SeeBrown, The Shareholder Communication Rules and the Secu-rities and Exchange Commission: An Exercise in Regulatory1 An individual investor who opts to retain record ownership of a security will receive distributions directly from the issuer. This case does notconcern transactions of this sort.2 In a cash management account, the broker holds, rather than distributes, dividends and interest paid on a customer's securities. Thecustomer withdraws funds through a check-like negotiable instrumentand receives interest on held funds, typically at a rate higher than thatoffered on passbook savings accounts and negotiable-order-of-withdrawalaccounts.3 In a brokerage margin account, the broker holds the customer's securities as collateral against any margin debt generated by the customer'sstock market transactions. Dividends and other distributions may becredited against a customer's margin debt to the broker.4 In a discretionary trust, the financial institution as trustee enjoys thediscretion not to distribute current income but rather to accumulate it forfurther investment.5 In a dividend reinvestment program, the beneficial owner authorizesthe broker to use dividends to purchase additional shares and fractionalshares.507us2$50N 11-30-95 08:44:24 PAGES OPINPGT496 DELAWARE v. NEW YORKOpinion of the CourtUtility or Futility?, 13 J. Corp. L. 683, 688-691 (1988). Theeconomies of scale attained in the modern financial servicesindustry are epitomized by the securities depository, a largeinstitution that holds only the accounts of "participant" brokers and banks and serves as a clearinghouse for its partici-pants' securities transactions. Because a depository retainsrecord ownership of securities, it effectively "immobilizes"the certificates in its possession by allowing its participantsto trade securities without the physical transfer of certifi-cates. Most of the equity securities traded on the New YorkStock Exchange are immobilized in this fashion. See App.to Report of the Special Master B-2. Cf. Securities andExchange Commission, Division of Market Regulation,Progress and Prospects: Depository Immobilization of Securities and Use of Book-Entry Systems 4 (1985).The intermediaries are unable to distribute a small portionof the securities to their beneficial owners.6 When an inter-mediary claims no property interest in funds so held, theybecome escheatable.7 Between 1985 and 1989, New York es-cheated $360 million in funds of abandoned securities heldfor more than three years by intermediaries doing businessin New York, without regard to the last known address of thebeneficial owner or the intermediary's State of incorporation.N. Y. Aband. Prop. Law $ 511 (McKinney 1991). See Reportof Special Master 10, n. 9. Alleging that certain of thesesecurities were wrongfully escheated, Delaware sought leavein 1988 to initiate an original action in this Court against6 Approximately 0.02% of funds distributed through intermediaries cannot be traced to their beneficial owners. This low percentage nevertheless accounts for a very substantial amount of escheatable property. SeeReport of Special Master 10, n. 9.7 Unlike Depository Trust Company, the two other securities depositories in the United States "do claim entitlement to certain securities, interest payments, dividends and distributions that cannot be accounted for."Brief for Midwest Securities Trust Co. et al. as Amici Curiae 2. Theissue of these depositories' "entitlement to the excess funds under theirrules" is not before us. Id., at 3.507us2$50N 11-30-95 08:44:24 PAGES OPINPGT497Cite as: 507 U. S. 490 (1993)Opinion of the CourtNew York. We granted leave to file the complaint, 486 U. S.1030 (1988), and appointed a Special Master, 488 U. S. 990(1988). We granted Texas' motion to file a complaint as anintervening plaintiff, 489 U. S. 1005 (1989), and every Statenot already a party to this proceeding and the District ofColumbia sought leave to intervene.On January 28, 1992, the Master filed his report and rec-ommendation. Both Delaware and New York have lodgedexceptions to the report, as have four other parties whosemotions for leave to intervene have not been granted by thisCourt.8 We now sustain two of Delaware's exceptions intheir entirety, one of Delaware's exceptions in part, and oneof New York's exceptions. We also grant all pending mo-tions to intervene and to file briefs asamici curiae, overruleall exceptions not sustained in this opinion, and remand forfurther proceedings before the Master.IIStates as sovereigns may take custody of or assume titleto abandoned personal property as bona vacantia, a processcommonly (though somewhat erroneously) called escheat.9See, e. g., Christianson v. King County, 239 U. S. 356, 365-366 (1915); Cunnius v. Reading School Dist., 198 U. S. 458,469-476 (1905); Hamilton v. Brown, 161 U. S. 256, 263-264(1896). No serious controversy can arise between Statesseeking to escheat "tangible property, real or personal," for"it has always been the unquestioned rule in all jurisdictionsthat only the State in which the property is located may es8 In a joint brief, Michigan, Maryland, Nebraska, and the District ofColumbia filed two exceptions to the Master's report.9 "At common law, abandoned personal property was not the subject ofescheat, but was subject only to the right of appropriation by the sovereign as bona vacantia." Anderson Nat. Bank v. Luckett, 321 U. S. 233,240 (1944). See generally 7 W. Holdsworth, A History of English Law495-496 (2d ed. 1937). Our opinions, however, have understood "escheat"as encompassing the appropriation of both real and personal property, andwe use the term in that broad sense.507us2$50N 11-30-95 08:44:24 PAGES OPINPGT498 DELAWARE v. NEW YORKOpinion of the Courtcheat." Texas v. New Jersey, 379 U. S., at 677. On theother hand, intangible property "is not physical matterwhich can be located on a map," ibid., and frequently no single State can claim an uncontested right to escheat suchproperty.In Texas v. New Jersey, we discharged "our responsibilityin the exercise of our original jurisdiction" to resolve escheatdisputes that "the States separately are without constitutional power . . . to settle." Ibid.10 We adopted two rulesintended to "settle the question of which State will be allowed to escheat [abandoned] intangible property." Ibid."[S]ince a debt is property of the creditor, not of the debtor,"we reasoned, "fairness among the States requires that theright and power to escheat the debt should be accorded tothe State of the creditor's last known address as shown bythe debtor's books and records." Id., at 680-681 (footnoteomitted). This primary rule had the virtue of "involv[ing]a factual issue simple and easy to resolve," made even simpler by the Court's resort to "last known address, ratherthan technical legal concepts of residence and domicile."Id., at 681. It also achieved rough equity in that it "tend[ed]to distribute escheats among the States in the proportionof the commercial activities of their residents." Ibid. Werecognized, however, that the primary rule could not resolveescheat claims over "property owed persons (1) as to whomthere is no record of any address at all, or (2) whose lastknown address is in a State which does not provide for escheat of the property owed them." Id., at 682. For thesesituations, we adopted a secondary rule awarding the rightto escheat to the debtor's "State of corporate domicile," subject to the claims of the State with "a superior right to escheat" under the primary rule. Ibid. We characterized theTexas scheme as "the fairest, . . . easy to apply, and in the10 See also Western Union Telegraph Co. v. Pennsylvania, 368 U. S. 71,75 (1961); Standard Oil Co. v. New Jersey, 341 U. S. 428, 443 (1951).507us2$50N 11-30-95 08:44:24 PAGES OPINPGT499Cite as: 507 U. S. 490 (1993)Opinion of the Courtlong run . . . the most generally acceptable to all the States."Id., at 683.We reaffirmed Texas in Pennsylvania v. New York, 407U. S. 206 (1972).Texas had involved the relatively simplecase of a debtor that "disclaimed any interest" in "varioussmall debts . . . owed to . . . small creditors who ha[d] neverappeared to collect them."Texas, supra, at 676, 675. InPennsylvania, by contrast, the Western Union Companyheld proceeds left unclaimed because Western Union was unable to locate the payee of a money order or to make a refundto the sender or because drafts issued by Western Unionwere not negotiated. See 407 U. S., at 208-209; WesternUnion Telegraph Co. v. Pennsylvania, 368 U. S. 71, 72-73(1961). Because Western Union did not "regularly recordthe addresses of its money order creditors," the primary rulewould rarely apply, and the debtor's State of incorporation--Western Union's "corporate domicile"--would "receive amuch larger share of the unclaimed funds" under the secondary rule. Pennsylvania, 407 U. S., at 214. In response tothis perceived injustice, other States advocated a rule allowing the State of "the place of purchase" to escheat under theprimary rule. We nevertheless adhered to our decision inTexas. The "only arguable" difference between money orders and the obligations at issue in Texas lay in the fact thatmoney orders "involve a higher percentage of unknown addresses." 407 U. S., at 214. We reasoned that neither thisdistinction nor the resulting "likelihood of a `windfall' " forthe debtor's State of incorporation would justify the "carvingout [of an] exception to the Texas rule." Ibid.We therefore resolve disputes among States over the rightto escheat intangible personal property in the followingthree steps. First, we must determine the precise debtorcreditor relationship as defined by the law that creates theproperty at issue. Second, because the property interest inany debt belongs to the creditor rather than the debtor, theprimary rule gives the first opportunity to escheat to the507us2$50N 11-30-95 08:44:24 PAGES OPINPGT500 DELAWARE v. NEW YORKOpinion of the CourtState of "the creditor's last known address as shown by thedebtor's books and records." Texas, supra, at 680-681. Finally, if the primary rule fails because the debtor's recordsdisclose no address for a creditor or because the creditor'slast known address is in a State whose laws do not providefor escheat, the secondary rule awards the right to escheatto the State in which the debtor is incorporated. Theserules arise from our "authority and duty to determine for[ourselves] all questions that pertain" to a controversy be-tween States,Kentucky v. Indiana, 281 U. S. 163, 176 (1930),and no State may supersede them by purporting to prescribea different priority under state law.IIINone of the parties contests the primary rule or the Mas-ter's recommendation that "where the state of domicile of anunlocatable entitled recipient is known, through finding a lastknown address, that state may take custody of the unclaimeddistributions." Report of Special Master 56-57 (footnoteomitted).11 The bulk of the abandoned distributions atissue, however, cannot be traced to any identifiable beneficialowner, much less one with a last known address. Thesefunds thus fall out of the primary rule and into the secondaryrule. Consequently, under Texas and Pennsylvania, thedebtor's State of incorporation should be entitled to escheatthis unclaimed property. The Master's report concludes,first, that the issuer of securities is the relevant "debtor"and, second, that the State in which the debtor's "principalexecutive offices" are located should be considered the debt-or's State. We reject both of these recommendations.A"[W]here the entitled recipient's domicile is undetermin-able (no last known address), but the state of domicile of the11 New York has filed an exception to the Master's application of theprimary rule. We address this argument in Part IV below.507us2$50N 11-30-95 08:44:24 PAGES OPINPGT501Cite as: 507 U. S. 490 (1993)Opinion of the Courtoriginator of the distribution is known," the Master recom-mended that the originator's State be awarded the right toescheat, "whether or not the originator would have beenentitled to receive the funds back in its own right." Reportof Special Master 57. Because he construed the use of theterms "debtor" and "creditor" in Texas and Pennsylvaniaas a merely "descriptive . . . attempt to identify the relevantparties" rather than "prescriptive legal commands," Reportof Special Master 29, the Master defined "debtor" as "thelast owner of the funds, in the sense of the last person whohad a claim to the funds as an asset that would appropriatelybe reflected in the net worth of the entity in question," id.,at 32. In its first exception, Delaware argues that "the Report's recommendation in this regard does not comport withthe ordinary meaning of the words `debtor' and `creditor,' isinconsistent with universally-accepted state and common lawand with the principles underlying the Texas rule, andchanges the law in an area where the law should be settled."Exceptions and Brief for Plaintiff Delaware E-4. Delawarealso objects to the Master's failure to "ascrib[e] . . . legalrelevance to [intermediaries'] status as record security holders," a "fundamental factual error" that effectively treatsrecord owners "as if they were paying agents." Id., at E-5.New York's first exception likewise objects to the Master'suse of "the term `debtor' as `shorthand' to identify partieswith `debtor attributes' rather than the obligor of the debt."Exceptions of Defendant New York 52. We agree with bothStates and sustain their exceptions.We have not relied on legal definitions of "creditor" and"debtor" merely for descriptive convenience. Rather, wehave grounded the concepts of "creditor" and "debtor" inthe positive law that gives rise to the property at issue. Inframing a State's power of escheat, we must first look to thelaw that creates property and binds persons to honor property rights. "Property interests, of course, are not createdby the Constitution," but rather "by existing rules or under507us2$50N 11-30-95 08:44:24 PAGES OPINPGT502 DELAWARE v. NEW YORKOpinion of the Courtstandings that stem from an independent source such asstate law." Board of Regents of State Colleges v. Roth, 408U. S. 564, 577 (1972). Accord, e. g., Bishop v. Wood, 426 U. S.341, 344-347 (1976); Paul v. Davis, 424 U. S. 693, 710-712(1976). See also Barnhill v. Johnson, 503 U. S. 393, 398(1992) ("In the absence of any controlling federal law, `property' and `interests in property' are creatures of state law").Furthermore, law that creates property necessarily definesthe legal relationships under which certain parties ("debtors") must discharge obligations to others ("creditors").To define "debtor" as "the last person who ha[s] a claim tothe funds as an asset that would appropriately be reflectedin [his] net worth," Report of Special Master 32, would convert a term rich with prescriptive legal content into littlemore than a description of bookkeeping phenomena. Fundsheld by a debtor become subject to escheat because thedebtor has no interest in the funds--precisely the oppositeof having "a claim to the funds as an asset." We have recognized as much in cases upholding a State's power to escheatneglected bank deposits. Charters, bylaws, and contracts ofdeposit do not give a bank the right to retain abandoneddeposits, and a law requiring the delivery of such deposits tothe State affects no property interest belonging to the bank.Security Savings Bank v. California, 263 U. S. 282, 285-286(1923); Provident Institution for Savings v. Malone, 221U. S. 660, 665-666 (1911). Thus, "deposits are debtor obligations of the bank," and a State may "protect the interests ofdepositors" as creditors by assuming custody over accounts"inactive so long as to be presumptively abandoned." Anderson Nat. Bank v. Luckett, 321 U. S. 233, 241 (1944) (emphasisadded). Such "disposition of abandoned property is a function of the state," a sovereign "exercise of a regulatorypower" over property and the private legal obligations inherent in property. Standard Oil Co. v. New Jersey, 341U. S. 428, 436 (1951).507us2$50N 11-30-95 08:44:24 PAGES OPINPGT503Cite as: 507 U. S. 490 (1993)Opinion of the CourtOur rules regarding interstate disputes over competing es-cheat claims cannot be severed from the law that createsthe underlying creditor-debtor relationships. In Texas andPennsylvania, our examination of the holder's legal obligations not only defined the escheatable property at issue butalso carefully identified the relevant "debtors" and "credi-tors." SeeTexas, 379 U. S., at 675-676, n. 4; Pennsylvania,407 U. S., at 208-209, 213. In Pennsylvania, we noted thatWestern Union was a "debtor" insofar as it owed contractualduties to two separate creditors. Western Union was obli-gated not merely to deliver a negotiable draft to the sender'spayee; if Western Union could not locate the payee or if thepayee failed to claim his money order, the company wasbound to make a refund to the sender. Id., at 208-209. Correspondingly, we recognized that the relevant "creditor"might be either a payee or a sender: "the payee of an unpaiddraft, the sender of a money order entitled to a refund," ora payee or sender "whose claim has been underpaid througherror." Id., at 213 (internal quotation marks omitted).Moreover, the rules developed in Texas and Pennsylvaniareflect the traditional view of escheat as an exercise of sovereignty over persons and property owned by persons. Theprimary rule flowed from the common-law "concept of `mobilia sequuntur personam,' according to which intangible personal property is found at the domicile of its owner." Texas,supra, at 680, n. 10. Accord, Pennsylvania, supra, at 217-218 (Powell, J., dissenting). See also Blodgett v. Silberman,277 U. S. 1, 10 (1928) ("[I]ntangible personalty has . . . a situsat the domicil of the owner"). In recognizing that "a debtis property of the creditor," Texas, supra, at 680, the primaryrule permits the escheating State to protect the interest ofa creditor last known to have resided there. Reasoning that"debts owed by" a holder of unclaimed funds "are not property to it, but rather a liability," we concluded that "it wouldbe strange to convert a liability into an asset when the Statedecides to escheat." 379 U. S., at 680. Cognizant of the507us2$50N 11-30-95 08:44:24 PAGES OPINPGT504 DELAWARE v. NEW YORKOpinion of the Courtcreditor's status as owner of intangible personal property,we awarded the primary right to escheat to the creditor'sState. Conversely, when a creditor's last known addresscannot be determined or the laws of the creditor's State donot provide for escheat, the secondary rule protects the interests of the debtor's State as sovereign over the remainingparty to the underlying transaction. Unless we define theterms "creditor" and "debtor" according to positive law, wemight "permit intangible property rights to be cut off or adversely affected by state action . . . in a forum having nocontinuing relationship to any of the parties to the proceedings." Pennsylvania, supra, at 213 (internal quotationmarks omitted). Cf. Connecticut Mut. Life Ins. Co. v.Moore, 333 U. S. 541, 549-550 (1948) (upholding New York'sescheat of unclaimed insurance benefits only "as to policiesissued for delivery in New York upon the lives of personsthen resident therein where the insured continues to be aresident and the beneficiary is a resident at . . . maturity").Texas and Pennsylvania avoided this conundrum by resolving escheat disputes according to the law that creates debtorcreditor relationships; only a State with a clear connection tothe creditor or the debtor may escheat. Because the Masterfailed to identify the relevant "creditors" and "debtors" byreference to that law, we now perform this task.We hold that intermediaries who hold unclaimed securitiesdistributions in their own name are the relevant "debtors"under the secondary rule of Texas and Pennsylvania.From an issuer's perspective, the only creditors are registered shareholders, those whose names appear on the issuer's records. Issuers cannot be considered debtors oncethey pay dividends, interest, or other distributions to recordowners; payment to a record owner discharges all of an issuer's obligations. Under $ 8-207(1) of the Uniform Commercial Code, which is the law of all 50 States and the Districtof Columbia, "the issuer . . . may treat the registered owneras the person exclusively . . . to exercise all the rights and507us2$50N 11-30-95 08:44:24 PAGES OPINPGT505Cite as: 507 U. S. 490 (1993)Opinion of the Courtpowers of an owner." Payment to an intermediary that isthe record owner of securities extinguishes any liability theissuer might have to the beneficial owner. U. C. C. $ 8-207,comment 1, 2C U. L. A. 341 (1991). The Master acknowledged as much, see Report of Special Master 25, and none ofthe parties contends otherwise. Instead, an intermediaryserving as the record owner of securities is the "debtor" in-sofar as the intermediary has a contractual duty to transmitdistributions to the beneficial owner. Unlike an issuer,which discharges all liabilities upon payment to a recordowner, an intermediary remains liable should a "lost" bene-ficial owner reappear to collect distributions due under acontract with the intermediary. The Master thus erred inequating intermediary banks, brokers, and depositories withthe issuers' paying agents, who owe no duty to beneficialowners but rather bear the contractual obligation to "return. . . unclaimed distributions to the issuer after a certainperiod of time." App. to Report of Special Master B-6.Intermediaries who hold securities in street name or nom-inee name are the relevant "debtors" because they alone, andnot the issuers, are legally obligated to deliver unclaimedsecurities distributions to the beneficial owners.BThe Master's recommended disposition of this case restedon a second major premise: his proposal to locate a corporatedebtor in "the jurisdiction of the entity's principal domesticexecutive offices rather than the state of incorporation."Report of Special Master 49 (footnote omitted). In TexasandPennsylvania, however, we explicitly granted the rightto escheat under the secondary rule to the State in whichthe debtor was incorporated. Texas, supra, at 682; Pennsylvania, supra, at 210-211, 212, 223-224. By the Master'sown admission, relying on the location of a debtor's principalexecutive offices "change[s] [this Court's] longstanding prac-tice." Report of Special Master 50. The Master proposed507us2$50N 11-30-95 08:44:24 PAGES OPINPGT506 DELAWARE v. NEW YORKOpinion of the Courtthis innovation sua sponte; no party sought this alterationof our settled law. Delaware excepts to this "[d]epart[ure]from the rule of corporate domicile" as "inconsistent not onlywith this Court's precedents, but with fundamental principles of jurisprudence defining the relationship between thesovereign and its corporate citizens." Exceptions and Brieffor Plaintiff Delaware E-4 to E-5. Finding that the "heavyburden" that attends a request "to reconsider not one buttwo prior decisions" has not been borne,Walker v. ArmcoSteel Corp., 446 U. S. 740, 749 (1980), we sustain Delaware'sexception.In Texas, we considered and rejected a proposal to awardthe primary right to escheat to the State "where [the debtor's] principal offices are located." 379 U. S., at 680. Although we recognized that "this State is probably foremostin giving the benefits of its economy and laws to the companywhose business activities made the intangible property comeinto existence," we rejected the rule because its application"would raise in every case the sometimes difficult questionof where a company's `main office' or `principal place of business' or whatever it might be designated is located." Ibid.Even when we formulated the secondary rule, we looked instead to the debtor's State of incorporation. Id., at 682. Asin Texas, we find that determining the State of incorporationis the most efficient way to locate a corporate debtor. Exclusive reliance on incorporation permits the disposition ofclaims under the secondary rule upon the taking of judicialnotice. Although "a general inquiry into where the principal executive office is located [may] see[m] neither burdensome [n]or complex," Report of Special Master 49, we cannotembrace a "rule leaving so much for decision on a case-bycase basis," Texas, supra, at 680. The mere introduction ofany factual controversy over the location of a debtor's principal executive offices needlessly complicates an inquiry madeirreducibly simple by Texas' adoption of a test based on theState of incorporation.507us2$50N 11-30-95 08:44:24 PAGES OPINPGT507Cite as: 507 U. S. 490 (1993)Opinion of the CourtEven if we were to endorse the Master's redefinition of adebtor's location, we doubt that his proposal could fulfill itspromise "to distribute the funds [more] fairly among the var-ious jurisdictions." Report of Special Master 50. The Master sought to counteract the inequity he perceived in thehappenstance that "the larger, publicly-traded, enterprisesthat generate the lion's share of the securities distributions. . . are by any standard disproportionately incorporated inone state." Id., at 47. His "principal executive offices" ini-tiative, however, cannot survive independent of his erroneous decision to treat the issuers as the relevant "debtors."Because we have already decided that the intermediaries arethe proper debtors under the secondary rule, this changewould simply transfer the bulk of the disputed funds fromDelaware, where many intermediaries are incorporated, toNew York, where many intermediaries have located theirprincipal executive offices. A company's arguably arbitrarydecision to incorporate in one State bears no less on its business activities than its officers' equally arbitrary decision tolocate their principal executive offices in another State. Itmust be remembered that we refer to a debtor's State ofincorporation only when the creditor's last address is unknown or when the creditor's State does not provide for es-cheat. When the creditor's State cannot assert its predominant interest, we detect no inequity in rewarding a Statewhose laws prove more attractive to firms that wish toincorporate.Precedent, efficiency, and equity all dictate the rejectionof the Master's "principal executive offices" proposal. Weaccordingly adhere to Texas and Pennsylvania and awardthe right to escheat under the secondary rule to the State inwhich the debtor is incorporated.IVWe turn, finally, to New York's contention that many ofthe disputed funds need not be escheated under the second507us2$50N 11-30-95 08:44:24 PAGES OPINPGT508 DELAWARE v. NEW YORKOpinion of the Courtary rule at all. New York concedes that "the creditors ofunclaimed distributions" held by depositories and custodianbanks "are always unknown." Exceptions of DefendantNew York 81. It argues, however, that "reconstruct[ion]"of "the debtor brokers' transactions" will lead to "creditorbrokers that purchased the underlying securities and wereunderpaid the distributions."Id., at 80 (emphasis added).Because "the amount of time and resources that would berequired to reconstruct the overpayment transactions wouldbe very considerable," however, New York "has suggestedthe use of statistical sampling to prove that virtually all ofthe creditor brokers and banks recorded on the books ofdebtor brokers in New York have New York addresses."Ibid.We overrule New York's exception. As an initial matter,New York's proposal rests on the dubious supposition thatthe relevant "creditors" under the primary rule are otherbrokers. We have already held that "creditors" are the parties to whom the intermediaries are contractually obligatedto deliver unclaimed securities distributions. Accordingly,to the extent that beneficial owners are the relevant "creditors," New York's exception is inapposite.Even if we indulge New York's premise that most creditors of New York brokers are in fact other New Yorkbrokers, the exception must fail. As the Master correctlyobserved: "[N]othing in the Court's jurisprudence . . .suggest[s] that New York can prevail by making a statisticalshowing that `most' [creditor-brokers'] addresses are in NewYork." Report of Special Master 67. In Pennsylvania, werejected a proposal practically identical to New York's. Inthat case, because Western Union's records frequently didnot disclose a creditor's identity or last known address, thedebtor's State of incorporation stood to "receive a muchlarger share of the unclaimed funds" under the secondaryrule. 407 U. S., at 214. The plaintiff States urged us todefine the creditor's residence according to a "presumption507us2$50N 11-30-95 08:44:24 PAGES OPINPGT509Cite as: 507 U. S. 490 (1993)Opinion of the Courtbased on the place of purchase." Ibid. Like New York'sproposal, the rule advocated in Pennsylvania would use astatistical surrogate instead of the debtor's records to locatethe last known addresses of creditors. That much is clearfrom the Pennsylvania dissent's description of the rejectedrule as "a reasonable approximation."Id., at 221 (opinion ofPowell, J.). New York may object to the cost and difficultyof culling creditors' last known addresses from brokers' rec-ords,12 but in Pennsylvania, we expressly refused "to varythe application of the [primary] rule according to the ade-quacy of the debtor's records." Id., at 215. And we declineto do so here.Despite our refusal to adopt New York's proposal for statistical analysis of creditors' addresses under the primaryrule, we decline Delaware's invitation to enter judgmentagainst New York on the basis of the Master's findings. Ex-ceptions and Brief for Plaintiff Delaware 85. On remand, ifNew York can establish by reference to debtors' records thatthe creditors who were owed particular securities distributions had last known addresses in New York, New York'sright to escheat under the primary rule will supersede Delaware's right under the secondary rule. As we noted inTexas, "the State of corporate domicile should be allowed to. . . retai[n] the property for itself only until some other Statecomes forward with proof that it has a superior right to escheat." 379 U. S., at 682. Accord, Pennsylvania, 407 U. S.,at 210-211. If New York or any other claimant State failsto offer such proof on a transaction-by-transaction basis orto provide some other proper mechanism for ascertainingcreditors' last known addresses, the creditor's State will notprevail under the primary rule, and the secondary rule willcontrol. Id., at 215.12 New York and other States could have anticipated and prevented someof the difficulties stemming from incomplete debtor records, for nothing inour decisions "prohibits the States from requiring [debtors] to keep adequate address records." Pennsylvania, 407 U. S., at 215.507us2$50N 11-30-95 08:44:24 PAGES OPINPGT510 DELAWARE v. NEW YORKWhite, J., dissentingVOnly by adhering to our precedent can we resolve escheatdisputes between States in a fair and efficient manner. Wehave repeatedly declared our unwillingness "either to decideeach escheat case on the basis of its particular facts or todevise new rules of law to apply to ever-developing new cate-gories of facts."Texas, supra, at 679. Accord, Pennsylvania, supra, at 215. To craft different rules for the novelfacts of each case would generate "so much uncertainty andthreaten so much expensive litigation that the States mightfind that they would lose more in litigation expenses thanthey might gain in escheats." Texas, supra, at 679. If theStates are dissatisfied with the outcome of a particular case,they may air their grievances before Congress. That bodymay reallocate abandoned property among the States without regard to this Court's interstate escheat rules. Con-gress overrodePennsylvania by passing a specific statuteconcerning abandoned money orders and traveler's checks,$$ 601-603, 88 Stat. 1525, 12 U. S. C. $$ 2501-2503, and it mayultimately settle this dispute through similar legislation.We remand this case to the Master for further proceedingsconsistent with this opinion and for the preparation of anappropriate decree.