The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) reg-ulates the sale of electricity at wholesale in interstate commerce. 16 U. S. C. $ 824(b). In this capacity, FERC mustensure that wholesale rates are "just and reasonable,"$ 824d(a). In Nantahala Power & Light Co. v. Thornburg,476 U. S. 953 (1986), and Mississippi Power & Light Co. v.Mississippi ex rel. Moore, 487 U. S. 354 (1988) (MP&L), theCourt concluded that, under the filed rate doctrine, FERCapproved cost allocations between affiliated energy compa*Charles G. Cole, Edward H. Comer, and Barbara A. Hindin filed abrief for Edison Electric Institute as amicus curiae urging reversal.539US1 Unit: $U64 [05-03-05 18:06:27] PAGES PGT: OPIN42 ENTERGY LA., INC. v. LOUISIANA PUB. SERV. COMM'NOpinion of the Courtnies may not be subjected to reevaluation in state ratemaking proceedings. We consider today whether a FERCtariff that delegates discretion to the regulated entity to determine the precise cost allocation similarly pre-empts anorder that adjudges those costs imprudent.IPetitioner Entergy Louisiana, Inc. (ELI), is one of fivepublic utilities owned by Entergy Corporation (Entergy), amultistate holding company. ELI operates in the State ofLouisiana and shares capacity with its corporate siblings operating in Arkansas, Mississippi, and Texas (collectively, theoperating companies). This sharing arrangement allowseach operating company to access additional capacity whendemand exceeds the supply generated by that companyalone. But keeping excess capacity available for use by allis a benefit shared by the operating companies, and the costsassociated with this benefit must be allocated among them.State regulators establish the rates each operating companymay charge in its retail sales, allowing each company to recover its costs and a reasonable rate of return. Thus, thecost allocation between operating companies is critical to thesetting of retail rates.Entergy allocates costs through the system agreement, atariff approved by FERC under $ 205 of the Federal PowerAct (FPA), 41 Stat. 1063, 16 U. S. C. $ 824d. The systemagreement is administered by the Entergy operating committee, which includes one representative from each operating company and one from Entergy Services, a subsidiary ofEntergy that provides administrative services to the system.Service Schedule MSS-1, which is included as $ 10 of the system agreement, allows for cost equalization of shared capacity through a formula that dictates that those operating companies contributing less than their fair share, i. e., using morecapacity than they contribute, make payments to the others539US1 Unit: $U64 [05-03-05 18:06:27] PAGES PGT: OPIN43Cite as: 539 U. S. 39 (2003)Opinion of the Courtthat contribute more than their fair share of capacity.1Those making such payments are known as "short" companies, and those accepting the payments are known as "long"companies. Each operating company's capability is determined monthly, and payments are made on a monthly basis--a long company receives a payment equal to its average costof generating units multiplied by the number of megawattsthe company is long. Because the variables that determinethe MSS-1 cost allocation can change monthly, ServiceSchedule MSS-1 is an automatic adjustment clause under$ 205(f) of the FPA, 16 U. S. C. $ 824d(f ),2 which exempts itfrom the FPA's ordinary requirements for tariff changes.In order to determine whether an operating company islong or short in a given month, one must know how muchcapacity that operating company is making available to itssiblings. The question is not as easy as asking whether thegenerating facilities are on or off, however, because in themid-1980's the operating committee initiated the ExtendedReserve Shutdown (ERS) program. Responding to system-wide overcapacity, ERS allowed some generating units to beidentified as not immediately necessary for capacity needsand effectively mothballed. However, these units could beactivated if demand increased, meaning that the capacitythey represented was not forever placed out of reach of theoperating companies. As a result, ERS units were consid-ered "available" for purposes of calculating MSS-1 costequalization payments. Counting ERS units as available1 Where, as here, public utilities share capacity, the allocation of costs ofmaintaining capacity and generating power constitutes "the sale of electricenergy at wholesale in interstate commerce." 16 U. S. C. $ 824(b)(1).2 Section 824d(f)(4) provides the definition of "automatic adjustmentclause":"a provision of a rate schedule which provides for increases or decreases(or both), without prior hearing, in rates reflecting increases or decreases(or both) in costs incurred by an electric utility. Such term does not include any rate which takes effect subject to refund and subject to a laterdetermination of the appropriate amount of such rate."539US1 Unit: $U64 [05-03-05 18:06:27] PAGES PGT: OPIN44 ENTERGY LA., INC. v. LOUISIANA PUB. SERV. COMM'NOpinion of the Courthas generally had the effect of making ELI, already a shortcompany, even more short, thus increasing its cost equalization payments.In December 1993, FERC initiated a proceeding under$ 206 of the FPA, 16 U. S. C. $ 824e, to decide whether thesystem agreement permitted ERS units to be treated asavailable. Respondent Louisiana Public Service Commission (LPSC), which regulates ELI's retail rates in Louisiana,participated in the FERC proceeding and argued that customers of ELI were entitled to a refund as a result of MSS-1overpayments made by ELI after the alleged misclassification of ERS units as available. FERC agreed that Entergyhad violated the system agreement in its classification ofERS units as available, but determined that a refund wasnot supported by the equities because the resultant cost allocations, while violative of the tariff, were not unjust, unreasonable, or unduly discriminatory. Entergy Servs., Inc., 80FERC || 61,197, pp. 61,786-61,788 (1997) (Order No. 415).FERC also approved, over the objection of the LPSC, anamendment to the system agreement that allows an ERSunit to be treated as available under MSS-1 if the operatingcommittee determines it intends to return the unit to serviceat a future date.3 The Court of Appeals for the District of3 Section 10.02 of the system agreement, as amended on August 5, 1997,pursuant to FERC Order No. 415 provides:"A unit is considered available to the extent the capability can be demonstrated and (1) is under the control of the System Operator, or (2) is downfor maintenance or nuclear refueling, or (3) is in extended reserve shutdown (ERS) with the intent of returning the unit to service at a futuredate in order to meet Entergy System requirements. The OperatingCommittee's decision to consider an ERS unit to be available to meet future System requirements shall be evidenced in the minutes of the Operating Committee and shall be based on consideration of current and futureresource needs, the projected length of time the unit would be in ERSstatus, the projected cost of maintaining such unit, and the projected costof returning the unit to service." 80 FERC, at 61,788-61,789 (emphasisdeleted).539US1 Unit: $U64 [05-03-05 18:06:27] PAGES PGT: OPIN45Cite as: 539 U. S. 39 (2003)Opinion of the CourtColumbia Circuit denied the LPSC's petition for review ofFERC Order No. 415. Louisiana Public Service Comm'nv. FERC, 174 F. 3d 218 (1999). With respect to the amendment, the Court of Appeals found that "FERC understandably concluded that [it] set out the parameters of theoperating committee's discretion, and that discriminatoryimplementation of the amendment could be remedied in aproceeding under FPA $ 206." Id., at 231.ELI made its annual retail rate filing with the LPSC inMay 1997. One of the contested issues was "whether payments under the System Agreement for the cost of generating units in Extended Reserve Shutdown should be includedor excluded from ELI's revenue requirement." App. to Pet.for Cert. 25a. Given FERC's determination that the inclusion of ERS units as available prior to August 5, 1997 (thedate FERC Order No. 415 issued), was just and reasonable,the LPSC confined its review to MSS-1 payments made afterAugust 5, 1997. Its own staff argued before the LPSC thatafter August 5, 1997, ELI and the operating committee violated amended $ 10.02(a) of the operating agreement by continuing to count ERS units as available. The LPSC concluded, however, that it was "pre-empted from determiningwhether the terms of a FERC tariff have been met, for theissue of violation of or compliance with a FERC tariff is peculiarly within FERC's purview." Id., at 64a.Nevertheless, the LPSC held that it was not pre-emptedfrom disallowing MSS-1-related costs as imprudent subsequent to August 5, 1997:"[T]hough FERC has exclusive jurisdiction over theissue of whether the System Agreement has been violated, there currently exists no FERC order that hasfound that the Operating Committee's decision is in compliance with the System Agreement. In the absence ofsuch FERC determination, this Commission can scrutinize the prudence of the Operating Committee's decision539US1 Unit: $U64 [05-03-05 18:06:27] PAGES PGT: OPIN46 ENTERGY LA., INC. v. LOUISIANA PUB. SERV. COMM'NOpinion of the Courtwithout violating the [S]upremacy [C]lause insofar asthat decision affects retail rates." Id., at 65a.The LPSC concluded that the operating committee's treatment of ERS units after August 5, 1997, was imprudent andthat ELI's MSS-1 payments would not be considered whensetting ELI's retail rates in Louisiana. In other words,though ELI made the MSS-1 payments to its "long" corporate siblings, it would not be allowed to recoup those costsin its retail rates.4ELI petitioned for review of the LPSC's decision in StateDistrict Court. That petition was denied, and ELI appealedto the Supreme Court of Louisiana, which upheld the LPSC'sdecision. 2001-1725 (La. 4/3/02), 815 So. 2d 27. The Supreme Court of Louisiana held that the LPSC's order wasnot barred by federal pre-emption because the LPSC wasnot "attempting to regulate interstate wholesale rates" or"challeng[ing] the validity of the FERC's declination to orderrefunds of amounts paid in violation of the System Agreement prior to the amendment." Id., at 38. Further, thecourt reasoned, "FERC never ruled on the issue of whetherELI's decision to continue to include the ERS units [afterAugust 5, 1997, was] a prudent one" or made "it mandatoryfor the [operating committee] to include the ERS units in itsMSS-1 calculations." Ibid.We granted ELI's petition for writ of certiorari to addresswhether the Court's decisions in Nantahala and MP&L leadto federal pre-emption of the LPSC's order. 537 U. S. 1152(2003). We hold that Nantahala and MP&L "res[t] on afoundation that is broad enough," MP&L, 487 U. S., at 369,to require pre-emption of the order in this case.4 The MSS-1 payments that were disallowed were, in fact, those madein 1996, which were to be used in calculating 1997-1998 retail rates by theLPSC. App. to Pet. for Cert. 76a.539US1 Unit: $U64 [05-03-05 18:06:27] PAGES PGT: OPIN47Cite as: 539 U. S. 39 (2003)Opinion of the CourtIIAThe filed rate doctrine requires "that interstate powerrates filed with FERC or fixed by FERC must be givenbinding effect by state utility commissions determining intrastate rates." Nantahala, 476 U. S., at 962. When thefiled rate doctrine applies to state regulators, it does soas a matter of federal pre-emption through the SupremacyClause. Arkansas Louisiana Gas Co. v. Hall, 453 U. S. 571,581-582 (1981).In Nantahala and MP&L, the Court applied the filed ratedoctrine to hold that FERC-mandated cost allocations couldnot be second-guessed by state regulators. Nantahala involved two corporate siblings, Nantahala Power & LightCompany and Tapoco, Inc., the former of which served retailcustomers in North Carolina. Both Nantahala and Tapocoprovided power to the Tennessee Valley Authority (TVA),which in turn sold power back to them pursuant to an agreement between all three parties. But the power was not purchased at a uniform price. Low-cost power was made available to both Nantahala and Tapoco in consideration for theright to pour all of their power into the TVA grid. Thislow-cost power was apportioned 80% to Tapoco, whichserved exclusively the corporate parent of Tapoco and Nantahala, and 20% to Nantahala. Nantahala purchased the remainder of its power requirements at higher prices. FERCapproved this cost allocation with a slight modification, sothat Nantahala received 22.5% of the low-cost entitlementpower. However, the North Carolina Supreme Court upheld the North Carolina Utilities Commission's (NCUC) determination that Nantahala's share of the low-cost powerwas properly 24.5%. This resulted in a lower cost computation for Nantahala, and therefore lower rates for North Carolina retail customers, than would have obtained if FERC'scost allocation had been respected by NCUC.539US1 Unit: $U64 [05-03-05 18:06:27] PAGES PGT: OPIN48 ENTERGY LA., INC. v. LOUISIANA PUB. SERV. COMM'NOpinion of the CourtThis Court held that the state cost allocation order waspre-empted:"Nantahala must under NCUC's order calculate its re-tail rates as if it received more entitlement power thanit does under FERC's order, and as if it needed toprocure less of the more expensive purchased powerthan under FERC's order. A portion of the costs in-curred by Nantahala in procuring its power is therefore `trapped.' " 476 U. S., at 971.Trapping of costs "runs directly counter," id., at 968, to therationale for FERC approval of cost allocations, the Courtconcluded, because when costs under a FERC tariff are categorically excluded from consideration in retail rates, the reg-ulated entity "cannot fully recover its costs of purchasing atthe FERC-approved rate . . . ," id., at 970.InMP&L, the Court further defined the scope of filed ratedoctrine pre-emption in the cost allocation context. Prede-cessors of the operating companies concerned here werejointly involved in the construction of the Grand Gulf nuclearpower plant in Mississippi. The costs of the project turnedout to be significantly higher than had been originallyplanned, and as a result the wholesale cost of power gener-ated at Grand Gulf was much higher than power availablefrom other system generating units. But the high fixedcosts of building Grand Gulf had to be recouped, and theoperating companies agreed that each of them would pur-chase a specific proportion of the high-cost power generatedat Grand Gulf. The original allocation was challenged be-fore FERC, which ultimately approved a modified tariff.That tariff required Mississippi Power and Light (MP&L,now Entergy Mississippi) to purchase 33% of the powerproduced at Grand Gulf.Mississippi regulators allowed MP&L to pass along thesecosts to consumers through retail rate increases. The Mississippi Supreme Court, however, reasoned that "FERC's de539US1 Unit: $U64 [05-03-05 18:06:27] PAGES PGT: OPIN49Cite as: 539 U. S. 39 (2003)Opinion of the Courttermination that MP&L's assumption of a 33% share of thecosts associated with Grand Gulf would be fair to its sisteroperating companies did not obligate the State to approvea pass-through of those costs to state consumers withouta prudence review." MP&L, 487 U. S., at 367. The Missis-sippi Supreme Court distinguished Nantahala by limitingthe scope of its holding to "matters actually determined,whether expressly or impliedly, by the FERC."Mississippiex rel. Pittman v. Mississippi Public Service Comm'n, 506So. 2d 978, 986 (Miss. 1987) (citation omitted).This Court disagreed, holding that the state court "erredin adopting the view that the pre-emptive effect of FERCjurisdiction turned on whether a particular matter was actually determined in the FERC proceedings." MP&L, 487U. S., at 374. Although FERC had not explicitly held thatthe construction of Grand Gulf was prudent, the cost alloca-tion filed with FERC pre-empted any state prudence review,because "if the integrity of FERC regulation is to be pre-served, it obviously cannot be unreasonable for MP&L toprocure the particular quantity of high-priced Grand Gulfpower that FERC has ordered it to pay for."Ibid.BApplying Nantahala and MP&L to the facts of this case,we conclude that the LPSC's order impermissibly "traps"costs that have been allocated in a FERC tariff. Theamended system agreement differs from the tariffs inMP&L and Nantahala because it leaves the classification ofERS units to the discretion of the operating committee,whereas in Nantahala and MP&L the cost allocations werespecific mandates. The Louisiana Supreme Court concludedthat this delegated discretion provided room for the LPSC'sfinding of imprudence where a mandated cost allocationwould not. However, Congress has specifically allowed forthe use of automatic adjustment clauses in the FPA, and itis uncontested that the MSS-1 schedule constitutes such an539US1 Unit: $U64 [05-03-05 18:06:27] PAGES PGT: OPIN50 ENTERGY LA., INC. v. LOUISIANA PUB. SERV. COMM'NOpinion of the Courtautomatic adjustment clause. We see no reason to create anexception to the filed rate doctrine for tariffs of this typethat would substantially limit FERC's flexibility in approv-ing cost allocation arrangements.The Louisiana Supreme Court's other basis for upholdingthe LPSC's order was that FERC had not specifically approved the MSS-1 cost allocation after August 5, 1997, whenit issued Order No. 415. See 815 So. 2d, at 38 ("The FERCnever ruled on the issue of whether ELI's decision to continue to include the ERS units is a prudent one"). In soholding, the Louisiana Supreme Court revived precisely thesame erroneous reasoning that was advanced by the Mississippi Supreme Court in MP&L. There this Court notedthat the "view that the pre-emptive effect of FERC jurisdiction turn[s] on whether a particular matter was actually determined in the FERC proceedings" has been "long rejected." MP&L, supra, at 374. It matters not whetherFERC has spoken to the precise classification of ERS units,but only whether the FERC tariff dictates how and by whomthat classification should be made. The amended systemagreement clearly does so, and therefore the LPSC's secondguessing of the classification of ERS units is pre-empted.Finally, we address respondents' contention that the inclusion of ERS units in MSS-1 calculations was a violation ofthe amended system agreement and that, consequently, theLPSC's order is shielded from federal pre-emption. Curiously, respondents advance this argument here despite theLPSC's own prior holding that it does not have jurisdictionto determine whether the system agreement was violatedand the Louisiana Supreme Court's acceptance of that concession. See App. to Pet. for Cert. 64a; 815 So. 2d, at 35-36.ELI and the United States maintain that the LPSC was correct when it initially held that FERC has exclusive jurisdiction to determine whether a FERC tariff has been violatedand that state regulatory agencies may not, consistent withthe FPA, disallow costs based on their own assessment of539US1 Unit: $U64 [05-03-05 18:06:27] PAGES PGT: OPIN51Cite as: 539 U. S. 39 (2003)Opinion of the Courtnoncompliance with a FERC tariff. But the question beforeus is whether the LPSC's order is pre-empted under Nantahala and MP&L, and that order does not rest on a findingthat the system agreement was violated. The LPSC's express statement that it had no jurisdiction to conclude thatthere had been a violation of the system agreement confirmsthis. Consequently, we have no occasion to address thequestion of the exclusivity of FERC's jurisdiction to determine whether and when a filed rate has been violated.For the foregoing reasons, the judgment of the LouisianaSupreme Court is reversed.