In 1994, Kansas enacted the Sexually Violent PredatorAct, which establishes procedures for the civil commitmentof persons who, due to a "mental abnormality" or a "person-ality disorder," are likely to engage in "predatory acts ofsexual violence." Kan. Stat. Ann. $ 59-29a01 et seq. (1994).The State invoked the Act for the first time to commit LeroyHendricks, an inmate who had a long history of sexually mo-lesting children, and who was scheduled for release fromprison shortly after the Act became law. Hendricks chal-lenged his commitment on, inter alia, "substantive" dueprocess, double jeopardy, and ex post facto grounds. TheKansas Supreme Court invalidated the Act, holding that itsprecommitment condition of a "mental abnormality" did notsatisfy what the court perceived to be the "substantive" dueprocess requirement that involuntary civil commitment mustbe predicated on a finding of "mental illness."In re Hen-dricks, 259 Kan. 246, 261, 912 P. 2d 129, 138 (1996). TheState of Kansas petitioned for certiorari. Hendricks subse-quently filed a cross-petition in which he reasserted his federal double jeopardy and ex post facto claims. We grantedcertiorari on both the petition and the cross-petition, 518U. S. 1004 (1996), and now reverse the judgment below.IAThe Kansas Legislature enacted the Sexually ViolentPredator Act (Act) in 1994 to grapple with the problem ofmanaging repeat sexual offenders.1 Although Kansas alHailstorks, John Stuart, Eric Janus, John T. Philipsborn, and BernadetteFoley; and for the Washington State Psychiatric Association by DavidA. Summers.David B. Robbins filed a brief for the Association for the Treatment ofSexual Abusers as amicus curiae.1 Subsequent to Hendricks' commitment, the Kansas Legislatureamended the Act in ways not relevant to this action. See, e. g., Kan. Stat.521US1 Unit: $U82 [11-18-99 20:29:25] PAGES PGT: OPIN351Cite as: 521 U. S. 346 (1997)Opinion of the Courtready had a statute addressing the involuntary commitmentof those defined as "mentally ill," the legislature determinedthat existing civil commitment procedures were inadequateto confront the risks presented by "sexually violent predators." In the Act's preamble, the legislature explained:"[A] small but extremely dangerous group of sexuallyviolent predators exist who do not have a mental diseaseor defect that renders them appropriate for involuntarytreatment pursuant to the [general involuntary civilcommitment statute] . . . . In contrast to persons appropriate for civil commitment under the [general involuntary civil commitment statute], sexually violent predators generally have anti-social personality featureswhich are unamenable to existing mental illness treatment modalities and those features render them likelyto engage in sexually violent behavior. The legislaturefurther finds that sexually violent predators' likelihoodof engaging in repeat acts of predatory sexual violenceis high. The existing involuntary commitment procedure . . . is inadequate to address the risk these sexuallyviolent predators pose to society. The legislature further finds that the prognosis for rehabilitating sexuallyviolent predators in a prison setting is poor, the treatment needs of this population are very long term andthe treatment modalities for this population are verydifferent than the traditional treatment modalities forpeople appropriate for commitment under the [generalinvoluntary civil commitment statute]." Kan. Stat.Ann. $ 59-29a01 (1994).As a result, the legislature found it necessary to establish"a civil commitment procedure for the long-term care andAnn. $ 59-29a03 (Supp. 1996) (changing notification period from 60 to 90days); $ 59-29a04 (requiring state attorney general to initiate commitment proceedings).521US1 Unit: $U82 [11-18-99 20:29:25] PAGES PGT: OPIN352 KANSAS v. HENDRICKSOpinion of the Courttreatment of the sexually violent predator." Ibid. The Actdefined a "sexually violent predator" as:"any person who has been convicted of or charged witha sexually violent offense and who suffers from a mentalabnormality or personality disorder which makes theperson likely to engage in the predatory acts of sexualviolence." $ 59-29a02(a).A "mental abnormality" was defined, in turn, as a "congenital or acquired condition affecting the emotional or volitionalcapacity which predisposes the person to commit sexuallyviolent offenses in a degree constituting such person a men-ace to the health and safety of others." $ 59-29a02(b).As originally structured, the Act's civil commitment proce-dures pertained to: (1) a presently confined person who, likeHendricks, "has been convicted of a sexually violent offense"and is scheduled for release; (2) a person who has been"charged with a sexually violent offense" but has been foundincompetent to stand trial; (3) a person who has been found"not guilty by reason of insanity of a sexually violent offense"; and (4) a person found "not guilty" of a sexually vio-lent offense because of a mental disease or defect. $ 59-29a03(a), $ 22-3221 (1995).The initial version of the Act, as applied to a currentlyconfined person such as Hendricks, was designed to initiatea specific series of procedures. The custodial agency wasrequired to notify the local prosecutor 60 days before theanticipated release of a person who might have met the Act'scriteria. $ 59-29a03. The prosecutor was then obligated,within 45 days, to decide whether to file a petition in statecourt seeking the person's involuntary commitment. $ 59-29a04. If such a petition were filed, the court was to deter-mine whether "probable cause" existed to support a findingthat the person was a "sexually violent predator" and thuseligible for civil commitment. Upon such a determination,transfer of the individual to a secure facility for professionalevaluation would occur. $ 59-29a05. After that evaluation,521US1 Unit: $U82 [11-18-99 20:29:25] PAGES PGT: OPIN353Cite as: 521 U. S. 346 (1997)Opinion of the Courta trial would be held to determine beyond a reasonable doubtwhether the individual was a sexually violent predator. Ifthat determination were made, the person would then betransferred to the custody of the Secretary of Social and Rehabilitation Services (Secretary) for "control, care and treat-ment until such time as the person's mental abnormality orpersonality disorder has so changed that the person is safeto be at large." $ 59-29a07(a).In addition to placing the burden of proof upon the State,the Act afforded the individual a number of other proceduralsafeguards. In the case of an indigent person, the Statewas required to provide, at public expense, the assistance ofcounsel and an examination by mental health care profes-sionals. $ 59-29a06. The individual also received the rightto present and cross-examine witnesses, and the opportun-ity to review documentary evidence presented by the State.$ 59-29a07.Once an individual was confined, the Act required that"[t]he involuntary detention or commitment . . . shall con-form to constitutional requirements for care and treatment."$ 59-29a09. Confined persons were afforded three differentavenues of review: First, the committing court was obligatedto conduct an annual review to determine whether continueddetention was warranted. $ 59-29a08. Second, the Secretary was permitted, at any time, to decide that the confinedindividual's condition had so changed that release was appropriate, and could then authorize the person to petition forrelease. $ 59-29a10. Finally, even without the Secretary'spermission, the confined person could at any time file a re-lease petition. $ 59-29a11. If the court found that theState could no longer satisfy its burden under the initialcommitment standard, the individual would be freed fromconfinement. BIn 1984, Hendricks was convicted of taking "indecent liber-ties" with two 13-year-old boys. After serving nearly 10years of his sentence, he was slated for release to a halfway521US1 Unit: $U82 [11-18-99 20:29:25] PAGES PGT: OPIN354 KANSAS v. HENDRICKSOpinion of the Courthouse. Shortly before his scheduled release, however, theState filed a petition in state court seeking Hendricks' civilconfinement as a sexually violent predator. On August 19,1994, Hendricks appeared before the court with counsel andmoved to dismiss the petition on the grounds that the Actviolated various federal constitutional provisions. Althoughthe court reserved ruling on the Act's constitutionality, itconcluded that there was probable cause to support a findingthat Hendricks was a sexually violent predator, and therefore ordered that he be evaluated at the Larned State Secu-rity Hospital.Hendricks subsequently requested a jury trial to deter-mine whether he qualified as a sexually violent predator.During that trial, Hendricks' own testimony revealed a chilling history of repeated child sexual molestation and abuse,beginning in 1955 when he exposed his genitals to two younggirls. At that time, he pleaded guilty to indecent exposure.Then, in 1957, he was convicted of lewdness involving ayoung girl and received a brief jail sentence. In 1960, hemolested two young boys while he worked for a carnival.After serving two years in prison for that offense, he wasparoled, only to be rearrested for molesting a 7-year-old girl.Attempts were made to treat him for his sexual deviance,and in 1965 he was considered "safe to be at large," and wasdischarged from a state psychiatric hospital. App. 139-144.Shortly thereafter, however, Hendricks sexually assaultedanother young boy and girl--he performed oral sex on the8-year-old girl and fondled the 11-year-old boy. He wasagain imprisoned in 1967, but refused to participate in a sexoffender treatment program, and thus remained incarcerateduntil his parole in 1972. Diagnosed as a pedophile, Hendricks entered into, but then abandoned, a treatment program. He testified that despite having received professional help for his pedophilia, he continued to harbor sexualdesires for children. Indeed, soon after his 1972 parole,Hendricks began to abuse his own stepdaughter and stepson.He forced the children to engage in sexual activity with him521US1 Unit: $U82 [11-18-99 20:29:25] PAGES PGT: OPIN355Cite as: 521 U. S. 346 (1997)Opinion of the Courtover a period of approximately four years. Then, as notedabove, Hendricks was convicted of "taking indecent liberties" with two adolescent boys after he attempted to fondlethem. As a result of that conviction, he was once again imprisoned, and was serving that sentence when he reached hisconditional release date in September 1994.Hendricks admitted that he had repeatedly abused chil-dren whenever he was not confined. He explained thatwhen he "get[s] stressed out," he "can't control the urge" tomolest children.Id., at 172. Although Hendricks recog-nized that his behavior harms children, and he hoped hewould not sexually molest children again, he stated that theonly sure way he could keep from sexually abusing childrenin the future was "to die." Id., at 190. Hendricks readilyagreed with the state physician's diagnosis that he suffersfrom pedophilia and that he is not cured of the condition;indeed, he told the physician that "treatment is bull----."Id., at 153, 190.2The jury unanimously found beyond a reasonable doubtthat Hendricks was a sexually violent predator. The trialcourt subsequently determined, as a matter of state law, thatpedophilia qualifies as a "mental abnormality" as defined by2 In addition to Hendricks' own testimony, the jury heard from Hendricks' stepdaughter and stepson, who recounted the events surroundingtheir repeated sexual abuse at Hendricks' hands. App. 194-212. One ofthe girls to whom Hendricks exposed himself in 1955 testified as well.Id., at 191-194. The State also presented testimony from Lester Lee,a licensed clinical social worker who specialized in treating male sexualoffenders, and Dr. Charles Befort, the chief psychologist at Larned StateHospital. Lee testified that Hendricks had a diagnosis of personality traitdisturbance, passive-aggressive personality, and pedophilia. Id., at 219-220. Dr. Befort testified that Hendricks suffered from pedophilia and islikely to commit sexual offenses against children in the future if not confined. Id., at 247-248. He further opined that pedophilia qualifies as a"mental abnormality" within the Act's definition of that term. Id., at 263-264. Finally, Hendricks offered testimony from Dr. William S. Logan, aforensic psychiatrist, who stated that it was not possible to predict withany degree of accuracy the future dangerousness of a sex offender. Id.,at 328-331.521US1 Unit: $U82 [11-18-99 20:29:25] PAGES PGT: OPIN356 KANSAS v. HENDRICKSOpinion of the Courtthe Act, and thus ordered Hendricks committed to the Secre-tary's custody.Hendricks appealed, claiming, among other things, thatapplication of the Act to him violated the Federal Constitution's Due Process, Double Jeopardy, and Ex Post FactoClauses. The Kansas Supreme Court accepted Hendricks'due process claim. 259 Kan., at 261, 912 P. 2d, at 138. Thecourt declared that in order to commit a person involuntarilyin a civil proceeding, a State is required by "substantive"due process to prove by clear and convincing evidence thatthe person is both (1) mentally ill, and (2) a danger to himselfor to others. Id., at 259, 912 P. 2d, at 137. The court thendetermined that the Act's definition of "mental abnormality"did not satisfy what it perceived to be this Court's "mentalillness" requirement in the civil commitment context. As aresult, the court held that "the Act violates Hendricks' substantive due process rights." Id., at 261, 912 P. 2d, at 138.The majority did not address Hendricks'ex post facto ordouble jeopardy claims. The dissent, however, consideredeach of Hendricks' constitutional arguments and rejectedthem. Id., at 264-294, 912 P. 2d, 140-156 (Larson, J.,dissenting).IIAKansas argues that the Act's definition of "mental abnor-mality" satisfies "substantive" due process requirements.We agree. Although freedom from physical restraint "hasalways been at the core of the liberty protected by the DueProcess Clause from arbitrary governmental action," Fouchav. Louisiana, 504 U. S. 71, 80 (1992), that liberty interest isnot absolute. The Court has recognized that an individual'sconstitutionally protected interest in avoiding physical restraint may be overridden even in the civil context:"[T]he liberty secured by the Constitution of the UnitedStates to every person within its jurisdiction does not521US1 Unit: $U82 [11-18-99 20:29:25] PAGES PGT: OPIN357Cite as: 521 U. S. 346 (1997)Opinion of the Courtimport an absolute right in each person to be, at alltimes and in all circumstances, wholly free from restraint. There are manifold restraints to which everyperson is necessarily subject for the common good. Onany other basis organized society could not exist withsafety to its members."Jacobson v. Massachusetts,197 U. S. 11, 26 (1905).Accordingly, States have in certain narrow circumstancesprovided for the forcible civil detainment of people who areunable to control their behavior and who thereby pose a dan-ger to the public health and safety. See, e. g., 1788 N. Y.Laws, ch. 31 (Feb. 9, 1788) (permitting confinement of the"furiously mad"); see also A. Deutsch, The Mentally Ill inAmerica (1949) (tracing history of civil commitment in the18th and 19th centuries); G. Grob, Mental Institutions inAmerica: Social Policy to 1875 (1973) (discussing colonial andearly American civil commitment statutes). We have consistently upheld such involuntary commitment statutes pro-vided the confinement takes place pursuant to proper procedures and evidentiary standards. See Foucha, supra, at 80;Addington v. Texas, 441 U. S. 418, 426-427 (1979). It thuscannot be said that the involuntary civil confinement ofa limited subclass of dangerous persons is contrary to ourunderstanding of ordered liberty. Cf.id., at 426.The challenged Act unambiguously requires a finding ofdangerousness either to one's self or to others as a prerequi-site to involuntary confinement. Commitment proceedingscan be initiated only when a person "has been convicted ofor charged with a sexually violent offense," and "suffers froma mental abnormality or personality disorder which makesthe person likely to engage in the predatory acts of sexualviolence." Kan. Stat. Ann. $ 59-29a02(a) (1994). The stat-ute thus requires proof of more than a mere predisposition toviolence; rather, it requires evidence of past sexually violentbehavior and a present mental condition that creates a likelihood of such conduct in the future if the person is not inca521US1 Unit: $U82 [11-18-99 20:29:25] PAGES PGT: OPIN358 KANSAS v. HENDRICKSOpinion of the Courtpacitated. As we have recognized, "[p]revious instances ofviolent behavior are an important indicator of future violenttendencies." Heller v. Doe, 509 U. S. 312, 323 (1993); see alsoSchall v. Martin, 467 U. S. 253, 278 (1984) (explaining that"from a legal point of view there is nothing inherently unattainable about a prediction of future criminal conduct").A finding of dangerousness, standing alone, is ordinarilynot a sufficient ground upon which to justify indefinite invol-untary commitment. We have sustained civil commitmentstatutes when they have coupled proof of dangerousnesswith the proof of some additional factor, such as a "mentalillness" or "mental abnormality." See, e. g., Heller, supra,at 314-315 (Kentucky statute permitting commitment of"mentally retarded" or "mentally ill" and dangerous individual); Allen v. Illinois, 478 U. S. 364, 366 (1986) (Illinois statutepermitting commitment of "mentally ill" and dangerous individual); Minnesota ex rel. Pearson v. Probate Court of Ramsey Cty., 309 U. S. 270, 271-272 (1940) (Minnesota statutepermitting commitment of dangerous individual with "psy-chopathic personality"). These added statutory requirements serve to limit involuntary civil confinement to thosewho suffer from a volitional impairment rendering themdangerous beyond their control. The Kansas Act is plainlyof a kind with these other civil commitment statutes: It requires a finding of future dangerousness, and then links thatfinding to the existence of a "mental abnormality" or "personality disorder" that makes it difficult, if not impossible,for the person to control his dangerous behavior. Kan. Stat.Ann. $ 59-29a02(b) (1994). The precommitment requirement of a "mental abnormality" or "personality disorder" isconsistent with the requirements of these other statutes thatwe have upheld in that it narrows the class of persons eligible for confinement to those who are unable to control theirdangerousness.Hendricks nonetheless argues that our earlier cases dictate a finding of "mental illness" as a prerequisite for civilcommitment, citing Foucha and Addington. He then as521US1 Unit: $U82 [11-18-99 20:29:25] PAGES PGT: OPIN359Cite as: 521 U. S. 346 (1997)Opinion of the Courtserts that a "mental abnormality" is not equivalent to a"mental illness" because it is a term coined by the KansasLegislature, rather than by the psychiatric community.Contrary to Hendricks' assertion, the term "mental illness"is devoid of any talismanic significance. Not only do "psychiatrists disagree widely and frequently on what constitutesmental illness," Ake v. Oklahoma, 470 U. S. 68, 81 (1985), butthe Court itself has used a variety of expressions to describethe mental condition of those properly subject to civil confinement. See, e. g., Addington, supra, at 425-426 (usingthe terms "emotionally disturbed" and "mentally ill"); Jackson v. Indiana, 406 U. S. 715, 732, 737 (1972) (using the terms"incompetency" and "insanity"); cf. Foucha, 504 U. S., at 88(O'Connor, J., concurring in part and concurring in judgment) (acknowledging State's authority to commit a personwhen there is "some medical justification for doing so").Indeed, we have never required state legislatures to adoptany particular nomenclature in drafting civil commitmentstatutes. Rather, we have traditionally left to legislatorsthe task of defining terms of a medical nature that have legalsignificance. Cf. Jones v. United States, 463 U. S. 354, 365,n. 13 (1983). As a consequence, the States have, over theyears, developed numerous specialized terms to define mental health concepts. Often, those definitions do not fit precisely with the definitions employed by the medical community. The legal definitions of "insanity" and "competency,"for example, vary substantially from their psychiatric counterparts. See, e. g., Gerard, The Usefulness of the MedicalModel to the Legal System, 39 Rutgers L. Rev. 377, 391-394 (1987) (discussing differing purposes of legal system andthe medical profession in recognizing mental illness). Legaldefinitions, however, which must "take into account suchissues as individual responsibility . . . and competency,"need not mirror those advanced by the medical profession.American Psychiatric Association, Diagnostic and StatisticalManual of Mental Disorders xxiii, xxvii (4th ed. 1994).521US1 Unit: $U82 [11-18-99 20:29:25] PAGES PGT: OPIN360 KANSAS v. HENDRICKSOpinion of the CourtTo the extent that the civil commitment statutes we haveconsidered set forth criteria relating to an individual's inability to control his dangerousness, the Kansas Act sets forthcomparable criteria and Hendricks' condition doubtless satisfies those criteria. The mental health professionals whoevaluated Hendricks diagnosed him as suffering from pedophilia, a condition the psychiatric profession itself classifiesas a serious mental disorder. See,e. g., id., at 524-525, 527-528; 1 American Psychiatric Association, Treatments of Psychiatric Disorders 617-633 (1989); Abel & Rouleau, Male SexOffenders, in Handbook of Outpatient Treatment of Adults271 (M. Thase, B. Edelstein, & M. Hersen eds. 1990).3 Hen-dricks even conceded that, when he becomes "stressed out,"he cannot "control the urge" to molest children. App. 172.This admitted lack of volitional control, coupled with a prediction of future dangerousness, adequately distinguishesHendricks from other dangerous persons who are perhapsmore properly dealt with exclusively through criminal pro-ceedings. Hendricks' diagnosis as a pedophile, which qualifies as a "mental abnormality" under the Act, thus plainlysuffices for due process purposes.BWe granted Hendricks' cross-petiti on to determinewhether the Act violates the Constitution's double jeopardy3 We recognize, of course, that psychiatric professionals are not in complete harmony in casting pedophilia, or paraphilias in general, as "mentalillnesses." Compare Brief for American Psychiatric Association as Amicus Curiae 26 with Brief for Menninger Foundation et al. as Amici Curiae22-25. These disagreements, however, do not tie the State's hands insetting the bounds of its civil commitment laws. In fact, it is preciselywhere such disagreement exists that legislatures have been afforded thewidest latitude in drafting such statutes. Cf. Jones v. United States, 463U. S. 354, 365, n. 13 (1983). As we have explained regarding congressionalenactments, when a legislature "undertakes to act in areas fraught withmedical and scientific uncertainties, legislative options must be especiallybroad and courts should be cautious not to rewrite legislation." Id., at370 (internal quotation marks and citation omitted).521US1 Unit: $U82 [11-18-99 20:29:25] PAGES PGT: OPIN361Cite as: 521 U. S. 346 (1997)Opinion of the Courtprohibition or its ban on ex post facto lawmaking. Thethrust of Hendricks' argument is that the Act establishescriminal proceedings; hence confinement under it necessarilyconstitutes punishment. He contends that where, as here,newly enacted "punishment" is predicated upon past conductfor which he has already been convicted and forced to servea prison sentence, the Constitution's Double Jeopardy andEx Post Facto Clauses are violated. We are unpersuadedby Hendricks' argument that Kansas has established criminal proceedings.The categorization of a particular proceeding as civil orcriminal "is first of all a question of statutory construction."Allen, 478 U. S., at 368. We must initially ascertain whetherthe legislature meant the statute to establish "civil" proceedings. If so, we ordinarily defer to the legislature's statedintent. Here, Kansas' objective to create a civil proceedingis evidenced by its placement of the Act within the Kansasprobate code, Kan. Stat. Ann., Art. 29 (1994) ("Care andTreatment for Mentally Ill Persons"), instead of the criminal code, as well as its description of the Act as creating a"civil commitment procedure," $ 59-29a01 (emphasis added).Nothing on the face of the statute suggests that the legislature sought to create anything other than a civil commitmentscheme designed to protect the public from harm.Although we recognize that a "civil label is not always dispositive," Allen, supra, at 369, we will reject the legislature'smanifest intent only where a party challenging the statuteprovides "the clearest proof " that "the statutory scheme [is]so punitive either in purpose or effect as to negate [theState's] intention" to deem it "civil," United States v. Ward,448 U. S. 242, 248-249 (1980). In those limited circumstances, we will consider the statute to have establishedcriminal proceedings for constitutional purposes. Hendricks, however, has failed to satisfy this heavy burden.As a threshold matter, commitment under the Act does notimplicate either of the two primary objectives of criminal521US1 Unit: $U82 [11-18-99 20:29:25] PAGES PGT: OPIN362 KANSAS v. HENDRICKSOpinion of the Courtpunishment: retribution or deterrence. The Act's purpose isnot retributive because it does not affix culpability for priorcriminal conduct. Instead, such conduct is used solely forevidentiary purposes, either to demonstrate that a "mentalabnormality" exists or to support a finding of future dangerousness. We have previously concluded that an Illinois stat-ute was nonpunitive even though it was triggered by thecommission of a sexual assault, explaining that evidence ofthe prior criminal conduct was "received not to punish pastmisdeeds, but primarily to show the accused's mental condi-tion and to predict future behavior."Allen, supra, at 371.In addition, the Kansas Act does not make a criminal conviction a prerequisite for commitment--persons absolved ofcriminal responsibility may nonetheless be subject to confinement under the Act. See Kan. Stat. Ann. $ 59-29a03(a)(1994). An absence of the necessary criminal responsibilitysuggests that the State is not seeking retribution for a pastmisdeed. Thus, the fact that the Act may be "tied to criminal activity" is "insufficient to render the statut[e] punitive."United States v. Ursery, 518 U. S. 267 (1996).Moreover, unlike a criminal statute, no finding of scienteris required to commit an individual who is found to be a sexually violent predator; instead, the commitment determinationis made based on a "mental abnormality" or "personality disorder" rather than on one's criminal intent. The existenceof a scienter requirement is customarily an important element in distinguishing criminal from civil statutes. SeeKennedy v. Mendoza-Martinez, 372 U. S. 144, 168 (1963).The absence of such a requirement here is evidence that confinement under the statute is not intended to be retributive.Nor can it be said that the legislature intended the Act tofunction as a deterrent. Those persons committed underthe Act are, by definition, suffering from a "mental abnormality" or a "personality disorder" that prevents them fromexercising adequate control over their behavior. Such persons are therefore unlikely to be deterred by the threat of521US1 Unit: $U82 [11-18-99 20:29:25] PAGES PGT: OPIN363Cite as: 521 U. S. 346 (1997)Opinion of the Courtconfinement. And the conditions surrounding that con-finement do not suggest a punitive purpose on the State'spart. The State has represented that an individual confinedunder the Act is not subject to the more restrictive conditions placed on state prisoners, but instead experiences essentially the same conditions as any involuntarily committedpatient in the state mental institution. App. 50-56, 59-60.Because none of the parties argues that people institutional-ized under the Kansas general civil commitment statute aresubject to punitive conditions, even though they may be in-voluntarily confined, it is difficult to conclude that personsconfined under this Act are being "punished."Although the civil commitment scheme at issue here doesinvolve an affirmative restraint, "the mere fact that a personis detained does not inexorably lead to the conclusion thatthe government has imposed punishment." United Statesv. Salerno, 481 U. S. 739, 746 (1987). The State may takemeasures to restrict the freedom of the dangerously mentally ill. This is a legitimate nonpunitive governmental objective and has been historically so regarded. Cf. id., at 747.The Court has, in fact, cited the confinement of "mentallyunstable individuals who present a danger to the public" asone classic example of nonpunitive detention. Id., at 748-749. If detention for the purpose of protecting the community from harm necessarily constituted punishment, then allinvoluntary civil commitments would have to be consideredpunishment. But we have never so held.Hendricks focuses on his confinement's potentially indefinite duration as evidence of the State's punitive intent.That focus, however, is misplaced. Far from any punitiveobjective, the confinement's duration is instead linked to thestated purposes of the commitment, namely, to hold the person until his mental abnormality no longer causes him to bea threat to others. Cf. Jones, 463 U. S., at 368 (noting withapproval that "because it is impossible to predict how longit will take for any given individual to recover [from insan521US1 Unit: $U82 [11-18-99 20:29:25] PAGES PGT: OPIN364 KANSAS v. HENDRICKSOpinion of the Courtity]--or indeed whether he will ever recover--Congress haschosen . . . to leave the length of commitment indeterminate,subject to periodic review of the patient's suitability for release"). If, at any time, the confined person is adjudged"safe to be at large," he is statutorily entitled to immediaterelease. Kan. Stat. Ann. $ 59-29a07 (1994).Furthermore, commitment under the Act is only potentially indefinite. The maximum amount of time an individual can be incapacitated pursuant to a single judicial proceeding is one year. $ 59-29a08. If Kansas seeks to continuethe detention beyond that year, a court must once again determine beyond a reasonable doubt that the detainee satisfies the same standards as required for the initial confinement. Ibid. This requirement again demonstrates thatKansas does not intend an individual committed pursuant tothe Act to remain confined any longer than he suffers froma mental abnormality rendering him unable to control hisdangerousness.Hendricks next contends that the State's use of proceduralsafeguards traditionally found in criminal trials makes theproceedings here criminal rather than civil. In Allen, weconfronted a similar argument. There, the petitioner"place[d] great reliance on the fact that proceedings underthe Act are accompanied by procedural safeguards usuallyfound in criminal trials" to argue that the proceedings werecivil in name only. 478 U. S., at 371. We rejected that argument, however, explaining that the State's decision "toprovide some of the safeguards applicable in criminal trialscannot itself turn these proceedings into criminal prosecutions." Id., at 372. The numerous procedural and evidentiary protections afforded here demonstrate that the KansasLegislature has taken great care to confine only a narrowclass of particularly dangerous individuals, and then onlyafter meeting the strictest procedural standards. ThatKansas chose to afford such procedural protections does not521US1 Unit: $U82 [11-18-99 20:29:25] PAGES PGT: OPIN365Cite as: 521 U. S. 346 (1997)Opinion of the Courttransform a civil commitment proceeding into a criminalprosecution.Finally, Hendricks argues that the Act is necessarily pu-nitive because it fails to offer any legitimate "treatment."Without such treatment, Hendricks asserts, confinementunder the Act amounts to little more than disguised punishment. Hendricks' argument assumes that treatment for hiscondition is available, but that the State has failed (or refused) to provide it. The Kansas Supreme Court, however,apparently rejected this assumption, explaining:"It is clear that the overriding concern of the legisla-ture is to continue the segregation of sexually violentoffenders from the public. Treatment with the goal ofreintegrating them into society is incidental, at best.The record reflects that treatment for sexually violentpredators is all but nonexistent. The legislature concedes that sexually violent predators are not amenableto treatment under [the existing Kansas involuntarycommitment statute]. If there is nothing to treat under[that statute], then there is no mental illness. In thatlight, the provisions of the Act for treatment appearsomewhat disingenuous." 259 Kan., at 258, 912 P. 2d,at 136.It is possible to read this passage as a determination thatHendricks' condition was untreatable under the existingKansas civil commitment statute, and thus the Act's sole purpose was incapacitation. Absent a treatable mental illness,the Kansas court concluded, Hendricks could not be detainedagainst his will.Accepting the Kansas court's apparent determination thattreatment is not possible for this category of individuals doesnot obligate us to adopt its legal conclusions. We have al-ready observed that, under the appropriate circumstancesand when accompanied by proper procedures, incapacitation521US1 Unit: $U82 [11-18-99 20:29:25] PAGES PGT: OPIN366 KANSAS v. HENDRICKSOpinion of the Courtmay be a legitimate end of the civil law. See Allen, supra,at 373;Salerno, 481 U. S., at 748-749. Accordingly, the Kansas court's determination that the Act's "overriding concern"was the continued "segregation of sexually violent offenders"is consistent with our conclusion that the Act establishes civilproceedings, 259 Kan., at 258, 912 P. 2d, at 136, especiallywhen that concern is coupled with the State's ancillary goalof providing treatment to those offenders, if such is possible.While we have upheld state civil commitment statutes thataim both to incapacitate and to treat, see Allen, supra, wehave never held that the Constitution prevents a State fromcivilly detaining those for whom no treatment is available,but who nevertheless pose a danger to others. A Statecould hardly be seen as furthering a "punitive" purpose byinvoluntarily confining persons afflicted with an untreatable,highly contagious disease. Accord, Compagnie Francaisede Navigation a Vapeur v. Louisiana Bd. of Health, 186U. S. 380 (1902) (permitting involuntary quarantine of persons suffering from communicable diseases). Similarly, itwould be of little value to require treatment as a precondition for civil confinement of the dangerously insane whenno acceptable treatment existed. To conclude otherwisewould obligate a State to release certain confined individualswho were both mentally ill and dangerous simply becausethey could not be successfully treated for their afflictions.Cf. Greenwood v. United States, 350 U. S. 366, 375 (1956)("The fact that at present there may be little likelihood ofrecovery does not defeat federal power to make this initialcommitment of the petitioner"); O'Connor v. Donaldson, 422U. S. 563, 584 (1975) (Burger, C. J., concurring) ("[I]t remainsa stubborn fact that there are many forms of mental illnesswhich are not understood, some which are untreatable in thesense that no effective therapy has yet been discovered forthem, and that rates of `cure' are generally low").Alternatively, the Kansas Supreme Court's opinion can beread to conclude that Hendricks' condition is treatable, but521US1 Unit: $U82 [11-18-99 20:29:25] PAGES PGT: OPIN367Cite as: 521 U. S. 346 (1997)Opinion of the Courtthat treatment was not the State's "overriding concern," andthat no treatment was being provided (at least at the timeHendricks was committed). 259 Kan., at 258, 912 P. 2d, at136. See alsoibid. ("It is clear that the primary objectiveof the Act is to continue incarceration and not to providetreatment"). Even if we accept this determination that theprovision of treatment was not the Kansas Legislature's"overriding" or "primary" purpose in passing the Act, thisdoes not rule out the possibility that an ancillary purpose ofthe Act was to provide treatment, and it does not require usto conclude that the Act is punitive. Indeed, critical language in the Act itself demonstrates that the Secretary,under whose custody sexually violent predators are committed, has an obligation to provide treatment to individualslike Hendricks. $ 59-29a07(a) ("If the court or jury determines that the person is a sexually violent predator, theperson shall be committed to the custody of the secretaryof social and rehabilitation services for control, care andtreatment until such time as the person's mental abnormalityor personality disorder has so changed that the person is safeto be at large" (emphasis added)). Other of the Act's sections echo this obligation to provide treatment for committedpersons. See, e. g., $ 59-29a01 (establishing civil commitment procedure "for the long-term care and treatment ofthe sexually violent predator"); $ 59-29a09 (requiring theconfinement to "conform to constitutional requirements forcare and treatment"). Thus, as in Allen, "the State has astatutory obligation to provide `care and treatment for[persons adjudged sexually dangerous] designed to effectrecovery,' " 478 U. S., at 369 (quoting Ill. Rev. Stat., ch. 38,|| 105-8 (1985)), and we may therefore conclude that "theState has . . . provided for the treatment of those it commits,"478 U. S., at 370.Although the treatment program initially offered Hendricks may have seemed somewhat meager, it must be remembered that he was the first person committed under the521US1 Unit: $U82 [11-18-99 20:29:25] PAGES PGT: OPIN368 KANSAS v. HENDRICKSOpinion of the CourtAct. That the State did not have all of its treatment procedures in place is thus not surprising. What is significant,however, is that Hendricks was placed under the supervisionof the Kansas Department of Health and Social and Rehabilitative Services, housed in a unit segregated from thegeneral prison population and operated not by employeesof the Department of Corrections, but by other trained individuals.4 And, before this Court, Kansas declared "[a]bsolutely" that persons committed under the Act are nowreceiving in the neighborhood of "31-1/2 hours of treatmentper week." Tr. of Oral Arg. 14-15, 16.5Where the State has "disavowed any punitive intent"; limited confinement to a small segment of particularly dangerous individuals; provided strict procedural safeguards; directed that confined persons be segregated from the generalprison population and afforded the same status as others whohave been civilly committed; recommended treatment if suchis possible; and permitted immediate release upon a showing4 We have explained that the States enjoy wide latitude in developingtreatment regimens. Youngberg v. Romeo, 457 U. S. 307, 317 (1982) (observing that the State "has considerable discretion in determining the nature and scope of its responsibilities"). In Allen v. Illinois, 478 U. S. 364(1986), for example, we concluded that "the State serves its purpose oftreating rather than punishing sexually dangerous persons by committingthem to an institution expressly designed to provide psychiatric care andtreatment." Id., at 373 (emphasis deleted). By this measure, Kansas hasdoubtless satisfied its obligation to provide available treatment.5 Indeed, we have been informed that in an August 28, 1995, hearing onHendricks' petition for state habeas corpus relief, the trial court, overadmittedly conflicting testimony, ruled: "[T]he allegation that no treatment is being provided to any of the petitioners or other persons committed to the program designated as a sexual predator treatment programis not true. I find that they are receiving treatment." App. 453-454.Thus, to the extent that treatment is available for Hendricks' condition,the State now appears to be providing it. By furnishing such treatment,the Kansas Legislature has indicated that treatment, if possible, is at leastan ancillary goal of the Act, which easily satisfies any test for determiningthat the Act is not punitive.521US1 Unit: $U82 [11-18-99 20:29:25] PAGES PGT: OPIN369Cite as: 521 U. S. 346 (1997)Opinion of the Courtthat the individual is no longer dangerous or mentally im-paired, we cannot say that it acted with punitive intent. Wetherefore hold that the Act does not establish criminal pro-ceedings and that involuntary confinement pursuant to theAct is not punitive. Our conclusion that the Act is nonpuni-tive thus removes an essential prerequisite for both Hendricks' double jeopardy and ex post facto claims.1The Double Jeopardy Clause provides: "[N]or shall anyperson be subject for the same offence to be twice put injeopardy of life or limb." Although generally understood topreclude a second prosecution for the same offense, theCourt has also interpreted this prohibition to prevent theState from "punishing twice, or attempting a second time topunish criminally, for the same offense." Witte v. UnitedStates, 515 U. S. 389, 396 (1995) (emphasis and internal quota-tion marks omitted). Hendricks argues that, as applied tohim, the Act violates double jeopardy principles because hisconfinement under the Act, imposed after a conviction and aterm of incarceration, amounted to both a second prosecutionand a second punishment for the same offense. We disagree.Because we have determined that the Kansas Act is civilin nature, initiation of its commitment proceedings does notconstitute a second prosecution. Cf. Jones v. United States,463 U. S. 354 (1983) (permitting involuntary civil commitment after verdict of not guilty by reason of insanity).Moreover, as commitment under the Act is not tantamountto "punishment," Hendricks' involuntary detention does notviolate the Double Jeopardy Clause, even though that confinement may follow a prison term. Indeed, in Baxstrom v.Herold, 383 U. S. 107 (1966), we expressly recognized thatcivil commitment could follow the expiration of a prison termwithout offending double jeopardy principles. We reasonedthat "there is no conceivable basis for distinguishing thecommitment of a person who is nearing the end of a penal521US1 Unit: $U82 [11-18-99 20:29:25] PAGES PGT: OPIN370 KANSAS v. HENDRICKSOpinion of the Courtterm from all other civil commitments." Id., at 111-112. Ifan individual otherwise meets the requirements for involuntary civil commitment, the State is under no obligation torelease that individual simply because the detention wouldfollow a period of incarceration.Hendricks also argues that even if the Act survives the"multiple punishments" test, it nevertheless fails the "sameelements" test ofBlockburger v. United States, 284 U. S. 299(1932). Under Blockburger, "where the same act or transaction constitutes a violation of two distinct statutory provi-sions, the test to be applied to determine whether there aretwo offenses or only one, is whether each provision requiresproof of a fact which the other does not."Id., at 304. TheBlockburger test, however, simply does not apply outside ofthe successive prosecution context. A proceeding under theAct does not define an "offense," the elements of which canbe compared to the elements of an offense for which the per-son may previously have been convicted. Nor does the Actmake the commission of a specified "offense" the basis forinvoking the commitment proceedings. Instead, it uses aprior conviction (or previously charged conduct) for eviden-tiary purposes to determine whether a person suffers froma "mental abnormality" or "personality disorder" and alsoposes a threat to the public. Accordingly, we are unpersuaded by Hendricks' novel application of the Blockburgertest and conclude that the Act does not violate the DoubleJeopardy Clause. 2Hendricks' ex post facto claim is similarly flawed. The ExPost Facto Clause, which " `forbids the application of any newpunitive measure to a crime already consummated,' " hasbeen interpreted to pertain exclusively to penal statutes.California Dept. of Corrections v. Morales, 514 U. S. 499,505 (1995) (quoting Lindsey v. Washington, 301 U. S. 397, 401(1937)). As we have previously determined, the Act doesnot impose punishment; thus, its application does not raise521US1 Unit: $U82 [11-18-99 20:29:25] PAGES PGT: OPIN371Cite as: 521 U. S. 346 (1997)Kennedy, J., concurringex post facto concerns. Moreover, the Act clearly does nothave retroactive effect. Rather, the Act permits involuntary confinement based upon a determination that the personcurrently both suffers from a "mental abnormality" or "personality disorder" and is likely to pose a future danger to thepublic. To the extent that past behavior is taken into account, it is used, as noted above, solely for evidentiary pur-poses. Because the Act does not criminalize conduct legalbefore its enactment, nor deprive Hendricks of any defensethat was available to him at the time of his crimes, the Actdoes not violate the Ex Post Facto Clause.IIIWe hold that the Kansas Sexually Violent Predator Actcomports with due process requirements and neither runsafoul of double jeopardy principles nor constitutes an exer-cise in impermissibleex post facto lawmaking. Accordingly,the judgment of the Kansas Supreme Court is reversed.