Under Rose v. Lundy, 455 U. S. 509 (1982), federal districtcourts must dismiss "mixed" habeas corpus petitions--thosecontaining both unexhausted and exhausted claims. In thiscase, we decide whether the District Court erred by dismissing, pursuant to Rose, a pro se habeas petitioner's two habeaspetitions without giving him two particular advisements.Because we hold that the District Court's failure to providethese warnings did not make the dismissals improper, weneed not address the second question presented, whether re-spondent's subsequent untimely petitions relate back to his"improperly dismissed" initial petitions.*Briefs of amici curiae urging affirmance were filed for Federal Defenders in the Ninth Circuit by Maria E. Stratton, Mark R. Drozdowski, Frederic F. Kay, Quin A. Denvir, Barry J. Portman, Peter C. Wolff, Jr., Anthony R. Gallagher, Roger Peven, and Thomas W. Hillier II; and for theNational Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers by Walter Dellinger,Pamela Harris, and David M. Porter.542US1 Unit: $U66 [10-25-06 14:07:39] PAGES PGT: OPIN228 PLILER v. FORDOpinion of the CourtIOn April 19, 1997, five days before his 1-year statute oflimitations under the Antiterrorism and Effective DeathPenalty Act of 1996 (AEDPA), 110 Stat. 1214, would haverun, respondent signed and delivered to prison authoritiestwo pro se federal habeas corpus petitions. The first peti-tion related to respondent's conviction for, among otherthings, conspiring to murder John Loguercio and attemptingto murder Loguercio's wife; the second related to his conviction for the first-degree murder and conspiracy to commit themurder of Thomas Weed. Because the petitions containedunexhausted claims, respondent also filed motions to stay thepetitions so that he could return to state court to exhaustthe unexhausted claims. The Magistrate Judge gave re-spondent three options: (1) The petitions could be dismissedwithout prejudice and respondent could refile after exhaust-ing the unexhausted claims; (2) the unexhausted claims couldbe dismissed and respondent could proceed with only the ex-hausted claims; or (3) respondent could contest the Magistrate Judge's finding that some of the claims had not beenexhausted. App. 51-52; 81-82.With respect to his petition in the Loguercio case, re-spondent chose the first option. With respect to the Weedcase, respondent failed to respond to the Magistrate Judge.The District Court dismissed respondent's petitions withoutprejudice. In both cases, respondent proceeded by filing ha-beas corpus petitions in the California Supreme Court, whichwere both summarily denied. Respondent subsequently re-filed hispro se habeas petitions in Federal District Court.The District Court, in both cases, dismissed the petitionswith prejudice as untimely under AEDPA's 1-year statuteof limitations, 28 U. S. C. $ 2244(d), and denied respondent'smotions for a certificate of appealability (COA). The NinthCircuit consolidated respondent's motions for a COA, andthen granted a COA on the question whether his federal ha-beas petitions were timely under $ 2244(d). A divided panel542US1 Unit: $U66 [10-25-06 14:07:39] PAGES PGT: OPIN229Cite as: 542 U. S. 225 (2004)Opinion of the Courtconcluded that both of respondent's initial federal habeas pe-titions were timely filed and held that his later petitions related back to the initial petitions. Ford v. Hubbard, 330F. 3d 1086, 1097 (2003).Although the District Court correctly concluded that it didnot have discretion to stay respondent's mixed petitions, seeRose, supra, at 522, the Ninth Circuit determined that theDistrict Court could have acted on the stay motions if re-spondent had chosen the Magistrate Judge's second option--dismissal of the unexhausted claims--and then renewed theprematurely filed stay motions. Under the Ninth Circuit'sview, the District Court was obligated to advise respondentthat it could consider his stay motions only if he chose thisroute. 330 F. 3d, at 1099. The District Court's failure toinform respondent was, according to the Court of Appeals,prejudicial error because it deprived respondent of a "fairand informed opportunity to have his stay motions heard, toexhaust his unexhausted claims, and ultimately to have hisclaims considered on the merits." Id., at 1100.The District Court also committed prejudicial error, according to the Ninth Circuit, for failing to inform respondentthat AEDPA's 1-year statute of limitations had run on bothof his petitions and that, consequently, he would be barredfrom refiling his petitions in federal court if he failed toamend them or if he chose to dismiss the petitions withoutprejudice in order to exhaust the unexhausted claims.Under the Court of Appeals' view, the District Court "definitively, although not intentionally," misled respondent bytelling him that if he chose the first option, the dismissalwould be without prejudice. Ibid. The Court of Appealsconcluded that respondent should have been told that, because AEDPA's statute of limitations had run with respectto his claims, a dismissal without prejudice would effectivelyresult in a dismissal with prejudice unless equitable tollingapplied. Id., at 1101. According to the Court of Appeals,the District Court's error in this regard deprived respondent542US1 Unit: $U66 [10-25-06 14:07:39] PAGES PGT: OPIN230 PLILER v. FORDOpinion of the Courtof the opportunity to make a "meaningful" choice betweenthe two options. Id., at 1102.1 We granted certiorari, 540U. S. 1099 (2004). IIUnder Rose, federal district courts must dismiss mixed ha-beas petitions. 455 U. S., at 510, 522. Subsequent to theCourt's decision in Rose, Congress enacted AEDPA, whichimposed a 1-year statute of limitations for filing a federalhabeas corpus petition. See 28 U. S. C. $ 2244(d)(1). Thecombined effect of Rose and AEDPA's limitations period isthat if a petitioner comes to federal court with a mixed peti-tion toward the end of the limitations period, a dismissal ofhis mixed petition could result in the loss of all of hisclaims--including those already exhausted--because the limitations period could expire during the time a petitioner re-turns to state court to exhaust his unexhausted claims. Toaddress this, the Ninth Circuit has held that a district courtmay employ a stay-and-abeyance procedure. SeeCalderonv. United States Dist. Court for Northern Dist. of Cal. ex rel.Taylor, 134 F. 3d 981, 988 (1998). The stay-and-abeyanceprocedure involves three steps: first, dismissal of any unexhausted claims from the original mixed habeas petition; sec-ond, a stay of the remaining claims, pending exhaustion ofthe dismissed unexhausted claims in state court; and third,amendment of the original petition to add the newly ex1 Finding it impossible to put respondent in the position he had occupiedprior to the District Court's "erroneous dismissal" of his initial petitions,the Ninth Circuit concluded that Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 15(c)'samendment procedures apply to "ensure that [respondent's] rights are notunduly prejudiced as a result of the district court's errors." 330 F. 3d, at1102. Accordingly, it held that "a pro se habeas petitioner who files amixed petition that is improperly dismissed by the district court, and whothen . . . returns to state court to exhaust his unexhausted claims andsubsequently re-files a second petition without unreasonable delay," mayhave his second petition relate back to the initial timely petition. Ibid.As explained above, we need not address whether the Ninth Circuit's decision on this ground was correct.542US1 Unit: $U66 [10-25-06 14:07:39] PAGES PGT: OPIN231Cite as: 542 U. S. 225 (2004)Opinion of the Courthausted claims that then relate back to the original petition.Id., at 986.In this case, the Ninth Circuit held that if a pro se prisonerfiles a mixed petition, the district court must give two specific warnings regarding the stay-and-abeyance procedure:first, that "it would not have the power to consider [a prisoner's] motions to stay the [mixed] petitions unless he opted toamend them and dismiss the then-unexhausted claims," 330F. 3d, at 1092-1093, and, second, if applicable, "that [a prisoner's] federal claims would be time-barred, absent cause forequitable tolling, upon his return to federal court if he optedto dismiss the petitions `without prejudice' and return tostate court to exhaust all of his claims," id., at 1093.Without addressing the propriety of this stay-andabeyance procedure, we hold that federal district judges arenot required to give pro se litigants these two warnings.District judges have no obligation to act as counsel or paralegal to pro se litigants. In McKaskle v. Wiggins, 465 U. S.168, 183-184 (1984), the Court stated that "[a] defendant doesnot have a constitutional right to receive personal instruction from the trial judge on courtroom procedure" and that"the Constitution [does not] require judges to take overchores for a pro se defendant that would normally be attended to by trained counsel as a matter of course." Seealso Martinez v. Court of Appeal of Cal., Fourth AppellateDist., 528 U. S. 152, 162 (2000) ("[T]he trial judge is under noduty to provide personal instruction on courtroom procedureor to perform any legal `chores' for the defendant that counsel would normally carry out"). Explaining the details offederal habeas procedure and calculating statutes of limitations are tasks normally and properly performed by trainedcounsel as a matter of course. Requiring district courts toadvise a pro se litigant in such a manner would underminedistrict judges' role as impartial decisionmakers. And, tothe extent that respondent is concerned with a districtcourt's potential to mislead pro se habeas petitioners, the542US1 Unit: $U66 [10-25-06 14:07:39] PAGES PGT: OPIN232 PLILER v. FORDOpinion of the Courtwarnings respondent advocates run the risk of being mis-leading themselves.Specifically, the first warning could encourage the use ofstay-and-abeyance when it is not in the petitioner's best interest to pursue such a course. This could be the case, forexample, where the petitioner's unexhausted claims are particularly weak and petitioner would therefore be better offproceeding only with his exhausted claims. And it is certainly the case that not every litigant seeks to maximize judicial process.The second advisement would force upon district judgesthe potentially burdensome, time-consuming, and factintensive task of making a case-specific investigation and calculation of whether the AEDPA limitations period has already run or will have run by the time the petitioner returnsto federal court. As the dissent below recognized, districtjudges often will not be able to make these calculationsbased solely on the face of habeas petitions. 330 F. 3d, at1108. Such calculations depend upon information containedin documents that do not necessarily accompany the petitions. This is so because petitioners are not required by 28U. S. C. $ 2254 or the Rules Governing $ 2254 Cases to attachto their petitions, or to file separately, state-court records.2See 1 R. Hertz & J. Liebman, Federal Habeas Corpus Practice and Procedure $ 15.2c, p. 711 (4th ed. 2001) ("Most petitioners do not have the ability to submit the record withthe petition, and the statute and rules relieve them of anyobligation to do so and require the state to furnish the recordwith the answer"). District judges, thus, might err in their2 There is one circumstance where nonindigent petitioners must furnishthe court with portions of the record. See 28 U. S. C. $ 2254(f) ("If theapplicant challenges the sufficiency of the evidence . . . to support theState court's determination of a factual issue . . . , the applicant, if able,shall produce that part of the record pertinent to a determination of thesufficiency of the evidence"; "[i]f the applicant, because of indigency orother reason is unable to produce such part of the record," a court mustdirect the State to produce it).542US1 Unit: $U66 [10-25-06 14:07:39] PAGES PGT: OPIN233Cite as: 542 U. S. 225 (2004)Opinion of the Courtcalculation of the statute of limitations and affirmatively mis-informpro se petitioners of their options.Respondent nevertheless argues that the advisements arenecessary to ensure thatpro se petitioners make informeddecisions and do not unknowingly forfeit rights. Brief forRespondent 27-32. Respondent readsRose as mandatingthat "a prisoner be given `the choice of returning to statecourt to exhaust his claims or amending or resubmitting thehabeas petition to present only exhausted claims to the district court.' " Brief for Respondent 25-26, 27 (quoting Rose,455 U. S., at 510) (emphasis in brief). ButRose requiresonly that "a district court must dismiss . . . `mixed petitions,'leaving the prisoner with the choice" described above.Ibid.In other words, Rose requires dismissal of mixed petitions,which, as a practical matter, means that the prisoner mustfollow one of the two paths outlined in Rose if he wants toproceed with his federal habeas petition. But nothing inRose requires that both of these options be equally attrac-tive, much less suggests that district judges give specific advisements as to the availability and wisdom of these options.As such, any advisement of this additional option wouldnot "simply implement what this Courtalready requires."Brief for Respondent 27 (emphasis in original).Respondent also relies heavily upon Castro v. UnitedStates, 540 U. S. 375 (2003). In Castro, we held that a federal district court cannot sua sponte recharacterize a pro selitigant's motion as a first $ 2255 motion unless it informsthe litigant of the consequences of the recharacterization,thereby giving the litigant the opportunity to contest therecharacterization, or to withdraw or amend the motion.Id., at 377. Castro dealt with a District Court, of its ownvolition, taking away a petitioner's desired route--namely, aFederal Rule of Criminal Procedure 33 motion--and transforming it, against his will, into a $ 2255 motion. Cf. id., at386 (Scalia, J., concurring in part and concurring in judgment) ("Recharacterization . . . requires a court deliberatelyto override the pro se litigant's choice of procedural vehicle542US1 Unit: $U66 [10-25-06 14:07:39] PAGES PGT: OPIN234 PLILER v. FORDO'Connor, J., concurringfor his claim"). We recognized that although this practice isoften used to helppro se petitioners, it could also harm them.Id., at 381-382. Because of these competing considerations,we reasoned that the warning would "help thepro se litigantunderstand . . . whether he should withdraw or amend hismotion [and] whether he shouldcontest the recharacterization." Id., at 384 (emphasis in original). Castro, then, didnot address the question whether a district court is requiredto explain to apro se litigant his options before a voluntarydismissal and its reasoning sheds no light on the questionwe confront.Therefore, we hold that district courts are not required togive the particular advisements required by the Ninth Circuit before dismissing a pro se petitioner's mixed habeas pe-tition underRose. We remand the case for further proceedings given the Court of Appeals' concern that respondenthad been affirmatively misled quite apart from the DistrictCourt's failure to give the two warnings.For the foregoing reasons, the judgment of the Court ofAppeals is vacated, and the case is remanded for further proceedings consistent with this opinion.