The Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (ADA), 104Stat. 327, as amended, 42 U. S. C. $ 12101 et seq., makes itunlawful for an employer, with respect to hiring, to "discrim-inate against a qualified individual with a disability becauseof the disability of such individual." $ 12112(a). We areasked to decide in this case whether the ADA confers preferential rehire rights on disabled employees lawfully termi-nated for violating workplace conduct rules. The UnitedStates Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit held that anemployer's unwritten policy not to rehire employees who leftthe company for violating personal conduct rules contra-venes the ADA, at least as applied to employees who werelawfully forced to resign for illegal drug use but have sincebeen rehabilitated. Because the Ninth Circuit improperlyapplied a disparate-impact analysis in a disparate-treatmentcase in order to reach this holding, we vacate its judgmentand remand the case for further proceedings consistent withthis opinion. We do not, however, reach the question onwhich we granted certiorari. 537 U. S. 1187 (2003).IRespondent, Joel Hernandez, worked for Hughes MissileSystems for 25 years.1 On July 11, 1991, respondent's ap*Ann Elizabeth Reesman, Stephen A. Bokat, Robin S. Conrad, andEllen D. Bryant filed a brief for the Equal Employment Advisory Councilet al. as amici curiae urging reversal.Briefs of amici curiae urging affirmance were filed for the Betty FordCenter et al. by David T. Goldberg and Daniel N. Abrahamson; and forthe National Employment Lawyers Association et al. by Claudia Center,Brian East, Terisa E. Chaw, and Arlene Mayerson.1 Hughes has since been acquired by petitioner, Raytheon Company.For the sake of clarity, we refer to Hughes and Raytheon collectively aspetitioner or the company.540US1 Unit: $$U5 [11-01-05 11:00:47] PAGES PGT: OPIN47Cite as: 540 U. S. 44 (2003)Opinion of the Courtpearance and behavior at work suggested that he might beunder the influence of drugs or alcohol. Pursuant to company policy, respondent took a drug test, which came backpositive for cocaine. Respondent subsequently admittedthat he had been up late drinking beer and using cocainethe night before the test. Because respondent's behaviorviolated petitioner's workplace conduct rules, respondentwas forced to resign. Respondent's "Employee SeparationSummary" indicated as the reason for separation: "dischargefor personal conduct (quit in lieu of discharge)." App. 12a.More than two years later, on January 24, 1994, respondentapplied to be rehired by petitioner. Respondent stated onhis application that he had previously been employed by petitioner. He also attached two reference letters to the application, one from his pastor, stating that respondent was a"faithful and active member" of the church, and the otherfrom an Alcoholics Anonymous counselor, stating that respondent attends Alcoholics Anonymous meetings regularlyand is in recovery. Id., at 13a-15a.Joanne Bockmiller, an employee in the company's LaborRelations Department, reviewed respondent's application.Bockmiller testified in her deposition that since respondent'sapplication disclosed his prior employment with the company, she pulled his personnel file and reviewed his employeeseparation summary. She then rejected respondent's application. Bockmiller insisted that the company had a policyagainst rehiring employees who were terminated for workplace misconduct. Id., at 62a. Thus, when she reviewedthe employment separation summary and found that respondent had been discharged for violating workplace conduct rules, she rejected respondent's application. She testified, in particular, that she did not know that respondent wasa former drug addict when she made the employment decision and did not see anything that would constitute a "recordof " addiction. Id., at 63a-64a.540US1 Unit: $$U5 [11-01-05 11:00:47] PAGES PGT: OPIN48 RAYTHEON CO. v. HERNANDEZOpinion of the CourtRespondent subsequently filed a charge with the EqualEmployment Opportunity Commission (EEOC). Respondent's charge of discrimination indicated that petitioner didnot give him a reason for his nonselection, but that respondent believed he had been discriminated against in violationof the ADA.Petitioner responded to the charge by submitting a letterto the EEOC, in which George M. Medina, Sr., Manager ofDiversity Development, wrote:"The ADA specifically exempts from protection individuals currently engaging in the illegal use of drugs whenthe covered entity acts on the basis of that use. Contrary to Complainant's unfounded allegation, his nonselection for rehire is not based on any legitimate dis-ability. Rather, Complainant's application was rejectedbased on his demonstrated drug use while previouslyemployed and the complete lack of evidence indicatingsuccessful drug rehabilitation."The Company maintains it's [sic] right to deny reemployment to employees terminated for violation ofCompany rules and regulations. . . . Complainant hasprovided no evidence to alter the Company's positionthat Complainant's conduct while employed by [petitioner] makes him ineligible for rehire." Id., at19a-20a.This response, together with evidence that the letters submitted with respondent's employment application may havealerted Bockmiller to the reason for respondent's prior termination, led the EEOC to conclude that petitioner may have"rejected [respondent's] application based on his record ofpast alcohol and drug use." Id., at 94a (EEOC Determination Letter, Nov. 20, 1997). The EEOC thus found thatthere was "reasonable cause to believe that [respondent] wasdenied hire to the position of Product Test Specialist becauseof his disability." Id., at 95a. The EEOC issued a right-to540US1 Unit: $$U5 [11-01-05 11:00:47] PAGES PGT: OPIN49Cite as: 540 U. S. 44 (2003)Opinion of the Courtsue letter, and respondent subsequently filed this action al-leging a violation of the ADA.Respondent proceeded through discovery on the theorythat the company rejected his application because of hisrecord of drug addiction and/or because he was regardedas being a drug addict. See 42 U. S. C. $$ 12102(2)(B)-(C).2In response to petitioner's motion for summary judgment,respondent for the first time argued in the alternative thatif the company really did apply a neutral no-rehire policyin his case, petitioner still violated the ADA because such apolicy has a disparate impact. The District Court grantedpetitioner's motion for summary judgment with respect torespondent's disparate-treatment claim. However, the Dis-trict Court refused to consider respondent's disparate-impactclaim because respondent had failed to plead or raise the the-ory in a timely manner.The Court of Appeals agreed with the District Court thatrespondent had failed timely to raise his disparate-impactclaim. Hernandez v. Hughes Missile Systems Co., 298 F. 3d1030, 1037, n. 20 (CA9 2002). In addressing respondent'sdisparate-treatment claim, the Court of Appeals proceededunder the familiar burden-shifting approach first adopted bythis Court in McDonnell Douglas Corp. v. Green, 411 U. S.792 (1973).3 First, the Ninth Circuit found that with respect2 The ADA defines the term "disability" as:"(A) a physical or mental impairment that substantially limits one or moreof the major life activities of such individual;"(B) a record of such an impairment; or"(C) being regarded as having such an impairment. " 42 U. S. C.$ 12102(2).3 The Court in McDonnell Douglas set forth a burden-shifting schemefor discriminatory-treatment cases. Under McDonnell Douglas, a plaintiff must first establish a prima facie case of discrimination. The burdenthen shifts to the employer to articulate a legitimate, nondiscriminatoryreason for its employment action. 411 U. S., at 802. If the employermeets this burden, the presumption of intentional discrimination disappears, but the plaintiff can still prove disparate treatment by, for instance,540US1 Unit: $$U5 [11-01-05 11:00:47] PAGES PGT: OPIN50 RAYTHEON CO. v. HERNANDEZOpinion of the Courtto respondent's prima facie case of discrimination, there weregenuine issues of material fact regarding whether respondent was qualified for the position for which he sought to berehired, and whether the reason for petitioner's refusal torehire him was his past record of drug addiction.4 298 F. 3d,at 1034-1035. The Court of Appeals thus held that withrespect to respondent's prima facie case of discrimination,respondent had proffered sufficient evidence to preclude agrant of summary judgment. Id., at 1035. Because petitioner does not challenge this aspect of the Ninth Circuit'sdecision, we do not address it here.The Court of Appeals then moved to the next step of McDonnell Douglas, where the burden shifts to the defendantto provide a legitimate, nondiscriminatory reason for itsemployment action. 411 U. S., at 802. Here, petitionercontends that Bockmiller applied the neutral policy againstrehiring employees previously terminated for violatingworkplace conduct rules and that this neutral company policy constituted a legitimate and nondiscriminatory reasonoffering evidence demonstrating that the employer's explanation is pretextual. See Reeves v. Sanderson Plumbing Products, Inc., 530 U. S. 133,143 (2000). The Courts of Appeals have consistently utilized this burdenshifting approach when reviewing motions for summary judgment indisparate-treatment cases. See, e. g., Pugh v. Attica, 259 F. 3d 619, 626(CA7 2001) (applying burden-shifting approach to an ADA disparatetreatment claim).4 The Court of Appeals noted that "it is possible that a drug user maynot be `disabled' under the ADA if his drug use does not rise to the levelof an addiction which substantially limits one or more of his major lifeactivities." 298 F. 3d, at 1033-1034, n. 9. The parties do not dispute thatrespondent was "disabled" at the time he quit in lieu of discharge and thusa record of the disability exists. We therefore need not decide in thiscase whether respondent's employment record constitutes a "record of addiction," which triggers the protections of the ADA.The parties are also not disputing in this Court whether respondent wasqualified for the position for which he applied.540US1 Unit: $$U5 [11-01-05 11:00:47] PAGES PGT: OPIN51Cite as: 540 U. S. 44 (2003)Opinion of the Courtfor its decision not to rehire respondent. The Court of Appeals, although admitting that petitioner's no-rehire rulewas lawful on its face, held the policy to be unlawful "asapplied to former drug addicts whose only work-related offense was testing positive because of their addiction." 298F. 3d, at 1036. The Court of Appeals concluded that petitioner's application of a neutral no-rehire policy was not alegitimate, nondiscriminatory reason for rejecting respondent's application:"Maintaining a blanket policy against rehire of all former employees who violated company policy not onlyscreens out persons with a record of addiction who havebeen successfully rehabilitated, but may well result, as[petitioner] contends it did here, in the staff memberwho makes the employment decision remaining unawareof the `disability' and thus of the fact that she is committing an unlawful act. . . . Additionally, we hold that apolicy that serves to bar the reemployment of a drugaddict despite his successful rehabilitation violates theADA." Id., at 1036-1037.In other words, while ostensibly evaluating whether petitioner had proffered a legitimate, nondiscriminatory reasonfor failing to rehire respondent sufficient to rebut respondent's prima facie showing of disparate treatment, the Courtof Appeals held that a neutral no-rehire policy could neversuffice in a case where the employee was terminated for illegal drug use, because such a policy has a disparate impacton recovering drug addicts. In so holding, the Court ofAppeals erred by conflating the analytical framework fordisparate-impact and disparate-treatment claims. Had theCourt of Appeals correctly applied the disparate-treatmentframework, it would have been obliged to conclude that aneutral no-rehire policy is, by definition, a legitimate, non540US1 Unit: $$U5 [11-01-05 11:00:47] PAGES PGT: OPIN52 RAYTHEON CO. v. HERNANDEZOpinion of the Courtdiscriminatory reason under the ADA.5 And thus the onlyremaining question would be whether respondent could produce sufficient evidence from which a jury could concludethat "petitioner's stated reason for respondent's rejectionwas in fact pretext." McDonnell Douglas, supra, at 804.IIThis Court has consistently recognized a distinction be-tween claims of discrimination based on disparate treatmentand claims of discrimination based on disparate impact. TheCourt has said that " `[d]isparate treatment' . . . is the mosteasily understood type of discrimination. The employersimply treats some people less favorably than others becauseof their race, color, religion, sex, or [other protected char-acteristic]." Teamsters v. United States, 431 U. S. 324,335, n. 15 (1977). See also Hazen Paper Co. v. Biggins,507 U. S. 604, 609 (1993) (discussing disparate-treatmentclaims in the context of the Age Discrimination in Employ-ment Act of 1967). Liability in a disparate-treatment case"depends on whether the protected trait . . . actually moti-vated the employer's decision." Id., at 610. By contrast,disparate-impact claims "involve employment practices thatare facially neutral in their treatment of different groups butthat in fact fall more harshly on one group than anotherand cannot be justified by business necessity."Teamsters,supra, at 335-336, n. 15. Under a disparate-impact theoryof discrimination, "a facially neutral employment practicemay be deemed [illegally discriminatory] without evidence of5 This would not, of course, resolve the dispute over whether petitionerdid in fact apply such a policy in this case. Indeed, the Court of Appealsexpressed some confusion on this point, as the court first held that respondent "raise[d] a genuine issue of material fact as to whether he wasdenied re-employment because of his past record of drug addiction," id.,at 1034, but then later stated that there was "no question that [petitioner]applied this [no-rehire] policy in rejecting [respondent's] application," id.,at 1036, n. 17.540US1 Unit: $$U5 [11-01-05 11:00:47] PAGES PGT: OPIN53Cite as: 540 U. S. 44 (2003)Opinion of the Courtthe employer's subjective intent to discriminate that is re-quired in a `disparate-treatment' case."Wards Cove Packing Co. v. Atonio, 490 U. S. 642, 645-646 (1989), supersededby statute on other grounds, Civil Rights Act of 1991, $ 105,105 Stat. 1074-1075, 42 U. S. C. $ 2000e-2(k) (1994 ed.).Both disparate-treatment and disparate-impact claims arecognizable under the ADA. See 42 U. S. C. $ 12112(b) (defining "discriminate" to include "utilizing standards, criteria,or methods of administration . . . that have the effect ofdiscrimination on the basis of disability" and "using qualifi-cation standards, employment tests or other selection criteria that screen out or tend to screen out an individual witha disability"). Because "the factual issues, and thereforethe character of the evidence presented, differ when theplaintiff claims that a facially neutral employment policyhas a discriminatory impact on protected classes," TexasDept. of Community Affairs v. Burdine, 450 U. S. 248,252, n. 5 (1981), courts must be careful to distinguish between these theories. Here, respondent did not timely pursue a disparate-impact claim. Rather, the District Courtconcluded, and the Court of Appeals agreed, that respondent's case was limited to a disparate-treatment theory, thatthe company refused to rehire respondent because it regarded respondent as being disabled and/or because of respondent's record of a disability. 298 F. 3d, at 1037, n. 20.Petitioner's proffer of its neutral no-rehire policy plainlysatisfied its obligation under McDonnell Douglas to providea legitimate, nondiscriminatory reason for refusing to rehirerespondent. Thus, the only relevant question before theCourt of Appeals, after petitioner presented a neutral explanation for its decision not to rehire respondent, was whetherthere was sufficient evidence from which a jury could conclude that petitioner did make its employment decision basedon respondent's status as disabled despite petitioner's proffered explanation. Instead, the Court of Appeals concludedthat, as a matter of law, a neutral no-rehire policy was not540US1 Unit: $$U5 [11-01-05 11:00:47] PAGES PGT: OPIN54 RAYTHEON CO. v. HERNANDEZOpinion of the Courta legitimate, nondiscriminatory reason sufficient to defeat aprima facie case of discrimination.6 The Court of Appealsdid not even attempt, in the remainder of its opinion, to treatthis claim as one involving only disparate treatment. Instead, the Court of Appeals observed that petitioner's policy"screens out persons with a record of addiction," and furthernoted that the company had not raised a business necessitydefense, 298 F. 3d, at 1036-1037, and n. 19, factors that pertain to disparate-impact claims but not disparate-treatmentclaims. See, e. g., Grano v. Department of Development ofColumbus, 637 F. 2d 1073, 1081 (CA6 1980) ("In a disparateimpact situation . . . the issue is whether a neutral selectiondevice . . . screens out disproportionate numbers of [the protected class]").7 By improperly focusing on these factors,the Court of Appeals ignored the fact that petitioner's norehire policy is a quintessential legitimate, nondiscriminatory reason for refusing to rehire an employee who was6 The Court of Appeals characterized respondent's workplace misconduct as merely "testing positive because of [his] addiction." 298 F. 3d, at1036. To the extent that the court suggested that, because respondent'sworkplace misconduct is related to his disability, petitioner's refusal torehire respondent on account of that workplace misconduct violated theADA, we point out that we have rejected a similar argument in the context of the Age Discrimination in Employment Act. See Hazen PaperCo. v. Biggins, 507 U. S. 604, 611 (1993).7 Indeed, despite the fact that the Nation's antidiscrimination laws areundoubtedly aimed at "the problem of inaccurate and stigmatizing stereotypes," ibid., the Court of Appeals held that the unfortunate result ofpetitioner's application of its neutral policy was that Bockmiller may havemade the employment decision in this case "remaining unaware of [respondent's] `disability.' " 298 F. 3d, at 1036. The Court of Appeals didnot explain, however, how it could be said that Bockmiller was motivatedto reject respondent's application because of his disability if Bockmillerwas entirely unaware that such a disability existed. If Bockmiller weretruly unaware that such a disability existed, it would be impossible for herhiring decision to have been based, even in part, on respondent's disability.And, if no part of the hiring decision turned on respondent's status asdisabled, he cannot, ipso facto, have been subject to disparate treatment.540US1 Unit: $$U5 [11-01-05 11:00:47] PAGES PGT: OPIN55Cite as: 540 U. S. 44 (2003)Opinion of the Courtterminated for violating workplace conduct rules. If pe-titioner did indeed apply a neutral, generally applicableno-rehire policy in rejecting respondent's application, peti-tioner's decision not to rehire respondent can, in no way, besaid to have been motivated by respondent's disability.The Court of Appeals rejected petitioner's legitimate, nondiscriminatory reason for refusing to rehire respondentbecause it "serves to bar the re-employment of a drug addictdespite his successful rehabilitation." 298 F. 3d, at 1036-1037. We hold that such an analysis is inapplicable to adisparate-treatment claim. Once respondent had made aprima facie showing of discrimination, the next question forthe Court of Appeals was whether petitioner offered a legiti-mate, nondiscriminatory reason for its actions so as to demonstrate that its actions were not motivated by respondent'sdisability. To the extent that the Court of Appeals strayedfrom this task by considering not only discriminatory intentbut also discriminatory impact, we vacate its judgment andremand the case for further proceedings consistent withthis opinion.