Section 6501(a) of the Internal Revenue Code states that,except as otherwise provided, "the amount of any tax imposed by this title shall be assessed within 3 years after thereturn was filed . . . and no proceeding in court without assessment for the collection of such tax shall be begun afterthe expiration of such period." 26 U. S. C. $ 6501(a). If atax is properly assessed within three years, however, thestatute of limitations for the collection of the tax is extendedby 10 years from the date of assessment. $ 6502(a). Wemust decide in this case whether, in order for the UnitedStates to avail itself of the 10-year increase in the statute oflimitations for collection of a tax debt, it must assess thetaxes not only against a partnership that is directly liable forthe debt, but also against each individual partner who mightbe jointly and severally liable for the debts of the partnership. Under California law a partnership maintains a separate identity from its general partners, and the partners areonly secondarily liable for the tax debts of the partnership,as they are for any debt of the partnership. Because, in thiscase, the only relevant "taxpayer" for purposes of $$ 6501-6502 is the partnership, we hold that the proper assessmentof the tax against the partnership suffices to extend the statute of limitations for collection of the tax from the generalpartners who are liable for the payment of the partnership'sdebts. The Government's timely assessment of the taxagainst the partnership was sufficient to extend the statuteof limitations to collect the tax in a judicial proceeding,whether from the partnership itself or from those liable forits debts.541US1 Unit: $U32 [05-08-06 20:36:56] PAGES PGT: OPIN117Cite as: 541 U. S. 114 (2004)Opinion of the CourtIRespondents, Abel Cosmo Galletti, Sarah Galletti, Fran-cesco Briguglio, and Angela Briguglio, were general partners of Marina Cabrillo Company (Partnership). From 1992to 1995, the Partnership failed to pay significant federal employment tax liabilities that it had incurred. Although theInternal Revenue Service (IRS) timely assessed those taxesagainst the Partnership in 1994, 1995, and 1996, the Partner-ship never satisfied the debt.Respondents Abel and Sarah Galletti and respondentsFrancesco and Angela Briguglio filed joint petitions for reliefunder Chapter 13 of the Bankruptcy Code on October 20,1999, and February 4, 2000, respectively. In the Gallettis'proceedings, the IRS filed a proof of claim in the amount of$395,179.89 for unpaid employment taxes assessed betweenJanuary 1994 and July 1995 against the Partnership. In theBriguglios' proceedings, the IRS filed a proof of claim in theamount of $427,402.74. The proof of claim included securedclaims totaling $403,264.06 for unpaid employment taxes assessed between January 1994 and November 1996 againstthe Partnership.Respondents objected to the claims on the ground thatthey were not proven against the estates. Respondents didnot dispute that under California law they are jointly andseverally liable for the debts of the Partnership. Nor didthey dispute that the IRS had properly assessed the taxesagainst the Partnership within the 3-year statute of limita-tions, thereby extending the limitations period for collectionof the taxes by 10 years. Rather, respondents argued thatthe timely assessment of the Partnership extended the statute of limitations only against the Partnership. To extendthe 3-year statute of limitations against the general partners, respondents argued, the IRS had to separately assessthe general partners within the 3-year limitations period.Because it did not, and because the 3-year limitations period541US1 Unit: $U32 [05-08-06 20:36:56] PAGES PGT: OPIN118 UNITED STATES v. GALLETTIOpinion of the Courthad expired, respondents argued that the IRS could nolonger collect the debt from them. The Bankruptcy Courtand the District Court agreed and sustained respondents'objections to the claims.The Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit affirmed. TheGovernment argued that the Code does not require that theindividual partners be assessed within the 3-year period prescribed by $ 6501 and that the IRS made a valid assessmentof the taxpayer here because the Partnership is the only relevant "taxpayer." The Court of Appeals held that since re-spondents are "taxpayers" under $ 7701(a)(14), which defines"taxpayer" to mean "any person subject to any internal revenue tax," they are also "taxpayers" under $$ 6203 and 6501.As such, the Court of Appeals held that "[t]he assessmentagainst the Partnership extended the statute of limitationsonly with respect to the Partnership." 314 F. 3d 336, 340(2002).The Government argued in the alternative that becauserespondents conceded that they were liable for the Partnership's employment tax debts as a matter of Californialaw, the Government had a right to payment, which suffices to prove a valid claim in bankruptcy. See 11 U. S. C.$ 101(5)(A) (defining "claim" as including a "right to payment,whether or not such right is reduced to judgment, liquidated,unliquidated, fixed, contingent, matured, unmatured, disputed, undisputed, legal, equitable, secured, or unsecured").The Court of Appeals rejected this argument because, underCalifornia law, a creditor must obtain a judgment against apartner before holding that partner liable for the partnership's debt. Cal. Corp. Code Ann. $ 16307(c) (West Supp.2004). At the time the United States filed its proof of claim,it had not obtained a separate judgment against respondents,and the time for obtaining a judgment under the InternalRevenue Code against respondents had expired.We granted certiorari, 539 U. S. 940 (2003), and nowreverse.541US1 Unit: $U32 [05-08-06 20:36:56] PAGES PGT: OPIN119Cite as: 541 U. S. 114 (2004)Opinion of the CourtIISection 6501(a) of the Internal Revenue Code providesthat "the amount of any tax imposed [by the Code] shall beassessed within 3 years after the return was filed." 26U. S. C. $ 6501(a). "The assessment shall be made by recording the liability of the taxpayer in the office of the Secretary[of the Treasury] in accordance with rules or regulations prescribed by the Secretary." $ 6203. Within 60 days of theassessment, the Secretary is required to "give notice to eachperson liable for the unpaid tax, stating the amount and demanding payment thereof." $ 6303(a). If the tax is properly assessed within 3 years, the limitations period for collection of the tax is extended by 10 years from the date of theassessment. $ 6502.The dispute in this case centers on whether the UnitedStates can collect the Partnership's unpaid employmenttaxes from respondents in a judicial proceeding occurringmore than three years after the tax return was filed butwithin the 10-year extension to the 3-year limitations periodthat attached when the tax was timely assessed against thePartnership.1 Respondents insist that a valid assessment(that is, one that would trigger the 10-year increase in thestatute of limitations) must name them individually. This isso, according to respondents, because they are primarily liable for the tax debt, both because they are "the [relevant]taxpayer[s]" under $ 6203 and because they are jointly and1 Because the Government is attempting to enforce the Partnership's taxliabilities against respondents in a judicial proceeding, we do not addresswhether an assessment only against the Partnership is sufficient for theIRS to commence administrative collection of the Partnership's tax debtsby lien or levy against respondents' property.We also decline to address whether an assessment against the partnership suffices to trigger liability against the partners for interest and penalties without separate notice and demand to them.541US1 Unit: $U32 [05-08-06 20:36:56] PAGES PGT: OPIN120 UNITED STATES v. GALLETTIOpinion of the Courtseverally liable for the tax debts of the Partnership.2 Wereject both arguments in turn.ARespondents argue, and the Court of Appeals agreed, thateach partner is primarily liable for the debt and must beindividually assessed because each partner is a separate"taxpayer" under 26 U. S. C. $ 6203. The statutory definition of "taxpayer" includes "any person subject to any inter-nal revenue tax," and "person" includes both "an individual"and a "partnership," $$ 7701(a)(14), (a)(1). The Court of Ap-peals observed that although the Partnership is a "taxpayer," each individual partner is also a separate "taxpayer."As such, the Court of Appeals interpreted $ 6203's requirement that the Secretary of the Treasury record "the liabilityof the taxpayer" to require a separate assessment againsteach of the general partners.Although the Court of Appeals correctly concluded thatan individual partner can be a "taxpayer," the inquiry doesnot end there. Section 6203 speaks of "the liability of thetaxpayer" (emphasis added), which indicates that the relevant taxpayer must be determined. The liability in thiscase arose from the Partnership's failure to comply with$ 3402(a)(1) of the Code, which requires "every employer2 Respondents argue that even if we were to hold that the partners aresecondarily liable, the IRS would still be barred from collecting the taxes.Respondents contend that if partners are not "taxpayers" under $ 6203,then their liability arises only under state law, and the state 3-year statuteof limitations therefore applies. Brief for Respondents 30-34. Respondents have forfeited this argument by failing to raise it in the courts below.Indeed, the closest respondents have come to arguing that the state limitations period applies was in the Court of Appeals, when respondents argued that "under California law, any collections suit filed against a partnerto collect a partnership debt is subject to the statute limitation provisionwhich applies to the underlying debt of the partnership." Appellee'sOpening Brief in Nos. 01-55953, 01-55954 (CA9), p. 14. This argument, ofcourse, is contrary to respondents' position in this Court.541US1 Unit: $U32 [05-08-06 20:36:56] PAGES PGT: OPIN121Cite as: 541 U. S. 114 (2004)Opinion of the Courtmaking payment of wages" to deduct and withhold employ-ment taxes. Moreover, "[t]he employer shall be liable forthe payment of the tax required to be deducted and with-held." $ 3403. When an employer fails to withhold andsubmit the requisite amount of employment taxes, $ 3403makes clear that the liable taxpayer is the employer. In thiscase, the "employer" was the Partnership.3BRespondents also argue that they are primarily liable forthe Partnership's tax debt because, under California law,general partners are jointly and severally liable for the debtsof their partnership, Cal. Corp. Code Ann. $ 16306 (WestSupp. 2004). Brief for Respondents 8-16. As our prior dis-cussion demonstrates, however, respondents cannot showthat they are primarily liable for the payment of the Partner-ship's employment taxes unless they can show that they arethe "employer." However, under California's partnershipprinciples, a partnership and its general partners are separate entities. See $ 16201. Thus respondents cannot arguethat, for all intents and purposes, imposing a tax directly onthe Partnership is equivalent to imposing a tax directly onthe general partners. Respondents must instead prove thatthe tax liability was imposed both on the Partnership andrespondents as separate "employers." The fact that respondents are jointly and severally liable for the debts of thePartnership is irrelevant to this determination.IIIWe now turn to the question whether the Governmentmust make separate assessments of a single tax debt againstpersons or entities secondarily liable for that debt in order3 Our decision is consistent with this Court's holding in United States v.Williams, 514 U. S. 527, 532-536 (1995), where we interpreted "taxpayer"under 26 U. S. C. $ 6511 more broadly. Here, it is clear that we must interpret "the taxpayer" under $ 6203 with reference to the underlying liability.541US1 Unit: $U32 [05-08-06 20:36:56] PAGES PGT: OPIN122 UNITED STATES v. GALLETTIOpinion of the Courtfor $ 6502's extended statute of limitations to apply to thosepersons or entities.4 We hold that the Code contains no suchrequirement. Respondents' argument that they must beseparately assessed turns on a mistaken understanding ofthe function and nature of an assessment as identical to theinitiation of a formal collection action against any person orentity who might be liable for payment of a debt. In itsnumerous uses throughout the Code, it is clear that the term"assessment" refers to little more than the calculation or re-cording of a tax liability. See,e. g., 26 U. S. C. $ 6201 (assess-ment authority); $ 6203 (method of assessment); $ 6204 (supplemental assessments); 26 CFR $ 601.103 (2003). See alsoBlack's Law Dictionary 111 (7th ed. 1999) (defining "assessment" as the "[d]etermination of the [tax] rate or amount ofsomething, such as a tax or damages"). "The Federal taxsystem is basically one of self-assessment," whereby eachtaxpayer computes the tax due and then files the appropriateform of return along with the requisite payment. 26 CFR$ 601.103(a) (2003). In most cases, the Secretary accepts theself-assessment and simply records the liability of the tax-payer. Where the taxpayer fails to file the form of returnor miscalculates the tax due, as in this case, the Secretarycan assess "all taxes (including interest, additional amounts,additions to the tax, and assessable penalties)," 26 U. S. C.$ 6201(a), by "recording the liability of the taxpayer in theoffice of the Secretary," $ 6203. In other words, where theSecretary rejects the self-assessment of the taxpayer or discovers that the taxpayer has failed to file a return, the Secre-tary calculates the proper amount of liability and records itin the Government's books.To be sure, the assessment of a tax triggers certain consequences. After the amount of liability has been establishedand recorded, the IRS can employ administrative enforcement methods to collect the tax. $$ 6321-6327, 6331-6334.4 We use the term "secondary liability" to mean liability that is derivedfrom the original or primary liability.541US1 Unit: $U32 [05-08-06 20:36:56] PAGES PGT: OPIN123Cite as: 541 U. S. 114 (2004)Opinion of the CourtThe assessment of a tax liability also extends the period dur-ing which the Government can collect the tax. But the factthat the act of assessment has consequences does not changethe function of the assessment: to calculate and record atax liability.Under a proper understanding of the function and natureof an assessment, it is clear that it is the tax that is assessed,not the taxpayer. See $ 6501(a) ("the amount of any tax . . .shall be assessed"); $ 6502(a) ("[w]here the assessment of anytax"). And in United States v. Updike, 281 U. S. 489 (1930),the Court, interpreting a predecessor to $ 6502, held that thelimitations period resulting from a proper assessment governs "the extent of time for the enforcement of the tax liability," id., at 495. In other words, the Court held that thestatute of limitations attached to the debt as a whole. Thebasis of the liability in Updike was a tax imposed on thecorporation, and the Court held that the same limitationsperiod applied in a suit to collect the tax from the corporation as in a suit to collect the tax from the derivatively liable transferee. Id., at 494-496. See also United States v.Wright, 57 F. 3d 561, 563 (CA7 1995) (holding that, based onUpdike's principle of "all-for-one, one-for-all," the statute oflimitations governs the debt as a whole).Once a tax has been properly assessed, nothing in theCode requires the IRS to duplicate its efforts by separatelyassessing the same tax against individuals or entities whoare not the actual taxpayers but are, by reason of state law,liable for payment of the taxpayer's debt. The consequences of the assessment--in this case the extension of thestatute of limitations for collection of the debt--attach to thetax debt without reference to the special circumstances ofthe secondarily liable parties.In this case, the tax was properly assessed against thePartnership, thereby extending the statute of limitations forcollection of the debt. The United States now timely seeksto collect that debt in judicial proceedings against respond541US1 Unit: $U32 [05-08-06 20:36:56] PAGES PGT: OPIN124 UNITED STATES v. GALLETTIOpinion of the Courtents.5 We therefore reverse the judgment of the Court ofAppeals and remand the case for further proceedings consistent with this opinion. It is so ordered.5 The Court of Appeals also held that the claims were barred by California partnership law, which requires a creditor first to obtain a judgmentagainst a partnership before holding the partners liable for the partnership's debt. 314 F. 3d 336, 344 (CA9 2002). When respondents filed forbankruptcy, an automatic stay barred the Government from bringing suitoutside the Bankruptcy Court to enforce respondents' secondary liability.11 U. S. C. $ 362(a)(1). Respondents do not dispute, however, that the adjudication of a disputed claim satisfies California's requirement that therebe a "judgment against a partner." Cal. Corp. Code Ann. $ 16307(c) (WestSupp. 2004). Moreover, a claim is allowable in bankruptcy "whether ornot such right is reduced to judgment." 11 U. S. C. $ 101(5)(A).541US1 Unit: $U33 [05-08-06 20:40:06] PAGES PGT: OPIN125OCTOBER TERM, 2003SyllabusNIXON, ATTORNEY GENERAL OF MISSOURI v.MISSOURI MUNICIPAL LEAGUEet al.certiorari to the united states court of appeals forthe eighth circuitNo. 02-1238. Argued January 12, 2004--Decided March 24, 2004*After Missouri enacted a statute forbidding its "political subdivision[s to]provide or offer for sale . . . a telecommunications service or . . . facility,"the municipal respondents, including municipally owned utilities, petitioned the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) for an order declaring the statute unlawful under 47 U. S. C. $ 253, which authorizespreemption of state and local laws and regulations "that prohibit or havethe effect of prohibiting the ability of any entity" to provide telecommunications services. Relying on its earlier order resolving a challenge toa comparable Texas law and the affirming opinion of the District ofColumbia Circuit, the FCC refused to declare the Missouri statute preempted, concluding that "any entity" in $ 253(a) does not include statepolitical subdivisions, but applies only to independent entities subject tostate regulation. The FCC also adverted to the principle of Gregory v.Ashcroft, 501 U. S. 452, that Congress needs to be clear before it constrains traditional state authority to order its government. The EighthCircuit panel unanimously reversed, explaining that $ 253(a)'s word "entity," especially when modified by "any," manifested sufficiently clearcongressional attention to governmental entities to get past Gregory.Held: The class of entities contemplated by $ 253 does not include theState's own subdivisions, so as to affect the power of States and localities to restrict their own (or their political inferiors') delivery of telecommunications services. Pp. 131-141.(a) Two considerations fall short of supporting the municipal respondents. First, they argue that fencing governmental entities out of thetelecommunications business flouts the public interest in promoting competition. It does not follow, however, that preempting state or localbarriers to governmental entry into the market would be an effectiveway to draw municipalities into the business, and in any event the issuehere does not turn on the merits of municipal telecommunications serv*Together with No. 02-1386, Federal Communications Commissionet al. v. Missouri Municipal League et al., and No. 02-1405, SouthwesternBell Telephone, L. P., fka Southwestern Bell Telephone Co. v. MissouriMunicipal League et al., also on certiorari to the same court.541US1 Unit: $U33 [05-08-06 20:40:06] PAGES PGT: OPIN126 NIXON v. MISSOURI MUNICIPAL LEAGUESyllabusices. Second, concentrating on the undefined statutory phrase "any entity" does not produce a persuasive answer here. While an "entity" canbe either public or private, there is no convention of omitting the modifiers "public and private" when both are meant to be covered. Nor iscoverage of public entities reliably signaled by speaking of "any" entity;"any" can and does mean different things depending upon the setting.To get at Congress's understanding requires a broader frame of reference, and in this litigation it helps to ask how Congress could have envisioned the preemption clause actually working if the FCC applied it atthe municipal respondents' urging. See, e. g., New Jersey Realty TitleIns. Co. v. Division of Tax Appeals of N. J., 338 U. S. 665, 673. Thestrange and indeterminate results of using federal preemption to freepublic entities from state or local limitations is the key to understandingthat Congress used "any entity" with a limited reference to any privateentity. Pp. 131-133.(b) The municipal respondents' position holds sufficient promise of futility and uncertainty to keep this Court from accepting it. Pp. 133-141.(1) In familiar instances of regulatory preemption under the Supremacy Clause, a federal measure preempting state regulation of economic conduct by a private party simply leaves that party free to doanything it chooses consistent with the prevailing federal law. See,e. g., Lorillard Tobacco Co. v. Reilly, 533 U. S. 525, 540-553. But nosuch simple result would follow from federal preemption meant to unshackle local governments from entrepreneurial limitations. Such agovernment's capacity to enter an economic market turns not only onthe effect of straightforward economic regulation below the nationallevel (including outright bans), but on the authority and potential willof state or local governments to support entry into the market. Preempting a ban on government utilities would not accomplish much if thegovernment could not point to some law authorizing it to run a utilityin the first place. And preemption would make no difference to anyoneif the state regulator were left with control over funding needed for anyutility operation and declined to pay for it. In other words, when agovernment regulates itself (or the subdivision through which it acts)there is no clear distinction between the regulator and the entity regulated. Legal limits on what the government itself (including its subdivisions) may do will often be indistinguishable from choices thatexpress what the government wishes to do with the authority and resources it can command. Thus, preempting state or local governmentalself-regulation (or regulation of political inferiors) would work so differently from preempting regulation of private players that it is highlyunlikely that Congress intended to set off on such uncertain adventures. Pp. 133-134.541US1 Unit: $U33 [05-08-06 20:40:06] PAGES PGT: OPIN127Cite as: 541 U. S. 125 (2004)Syllabus(2) Several hypothetical examples illustrate the implausibility ofthe municipal respondents' reading that Congress intended $ 253 to preempt state or local governmental self-regulation. Whether a law prohibiting an entity's "ability" to provide telecommunications under $ 253means denying the entity a capacity or authority to act in the first place,or whether it means limiting or cutting back on some preexisting authority to go into the telecommunications business (under a differentlaw), the hypotheticals demonstrate that $ 253 would not work like anormal preemptive statute if it applied to a governmental unit. Itwould often accomplish nothing, it would treat States differently depending on the formal structures of their laws authorizing municipalitiesto function, and it would hold out no promise of a national consistency.That Congress meant $ 253 to start down such a road in the absence ofany clearer signal than the phrase "ability of any entity" is farfetched.See, e. g., United States v. American Trucking Assns., Inc., 310 U. S.534, 543. Pp. 134-138.(3) The practical implication of the dissent's reading of $ 253 to forbid States to withdraw municipalities' preexisting authority expresslyto enter the telecommunications business, but not withdrawals of authority that are competitively neutral in the sense of being couched ingeneral terms that do not expressly target telecommunications, is toread out of $ 253 the words "or has the effect of prohibiting." Thosewords signal Congress's willingness to preempt laws that produce theunwanted effect, even if they do not advertise their prohibitory agendaon their faces. The dissent's reading therefore disregards $ 253's plainlanguage and entails a policy consequence that Congress could not possibly have intended. Pp. 138-140.(c) A complementary principle would bring the Court to the sameconclusion even on the assumption that preemption might operatestraightforwardly to provide local choice. Section 253(a) is hardlyforthright enough to pass Gregory: "ability of any entity" is not limitedto one reading, and neither statutory structure nor legislative historypoints unequivocally to a commitment by Congress to treat governmental telecommunications providers on par with private firms. The wantof any "unmistakably clear" statement to that effect, 501 U. S., at 460,would be fatal to respondents' reading. Pp. 140-141.299 F. 3d 949, reversed.Souter, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which Rehnquist,C. J., and O'Connor, Kennedy, Ginsburg, and Breyer, JJ., joined.Scalia, J., filed an opinion concurring in the judgment, in which Thomas,J., joined, post, p. 141. Stevens, J., filed a dissenting opinion, post, p. 142.541US1 Unit: $U33 [05-08-06 20:40:06] PAGES PGT: OPIN128 NIXON v. MISSOURI MUNICIPAL LEAGUEOpinion of the CourtRonald Molteni, Assistant Attorney General of Missouri,argued the cause for petitioner in No. 02-1238. With himon the briefs were Jeremiah W. (Jay) Nixon, Attorney Gen-eral, pro se, and James R. Layton, State Solicitor. JamesA. Feldman argued the cause for the federal petitioners inNo. 02-1386. With him on the briefs were Solicitor GeneralOlson, Assistant Attorney General Pate, Deputy SolicitorGeneral Hungar, Catherine G. O'Sullivan, Andrea Lim-mer, John A. Rogovin, and Richard K. Welch. MichaelK. Kellogg, Geoffrey M. Klineberg, and Sean A. Lev filedbriefs for Southwestern Bell Telephone, L. P., petitioner inNo. 02-1405.David A. Strauss argued the cause for Missouri MunicipalLeague et al., respondents in all cases. With him on thebrief were James Baller and Richard B. Geltman.#Justice Souter delivered the opinion of the Court.Section 101(a) of the Telecommunications Act of 1996, 110Stat. 70, 47 U. S. C. $ 253, authorizes preemption of state andlocal laws and regulations expressly or effectively "prohibit-ing the ability of any entity" to provide telecommunicationsservices. The question is whether the class of entities in#A brief of amici curiae urging reversal was filed for the United StatesTelecom Association et al. by Andrew G. McBride, Helgi C. Walker, Michael E. Glover, Edward H. Shakin, Michael T. McMenamin, Carrick B.Inabnett, Marc Gary, and Dorian S. Denburg.Briefs of amici curiae urging affirmance were filed for CongressmanRick Boucher, for the town of Abingdon, Virginia, et al., and for Educauseby Steven R. Minor; for the City of Abilene, Texas, et al. by Steven A.Porter; for the Consumer Federation of America by James N. Horwoodand Scott H. Strauss; for the High Tech Broadband Coalition et al. byDeborah Brand Baum; for Knology, Inc., by David O. Stewart and ThomasB. Smith; for Lincoln Electric System by Scott Gregory Knudson, Douglas L. Curry, and William F. Austin; and for the United Telecom Councilby Jill M. Lyon and Brett Kilbourne.Briefs of amici curiae were filed for the International Municipal Lawyers Association et al. by Henry W. Underhill, Jr.; and for Sprint Corp.by David P. Murray and John G. Short.541US1 Unit: $U33 [05-08-06 20:40:06] PAGES PGT: OPIN129Cite as: 541 U. S. 125 (2004)Opinion of the Courtcludes the State's own subdivisions, so as to affect the powerof States and localities to restrict their own (or their politicalinferiors') delivery of such services. We hold it does not.IIn 1997, the General Assembly of Missouri enacted thestatute codified as $ 392.410(7) of the State's RevisedStatutes:"No political subdivision of this state shall provide oroffer for sale, either to the public or to a telecommunications provider, a telecommunications service or telecom-munications facility used to provide a telecommunications service for which a certificate of service authorityis required pursuant to this section."1On July 8, 1998, the municipal respondents, including mu-nicipalities, municipal organizations, and municipally ownedutilities, petitioned the Federal Communications Commission(FCC or Commission) for an order declaring the state statute unlawful and preempted under 47 U. S. C. $ 253:"No State or local statute or regulation, or other Stateor local legal requirement, may prohibit or have the effect of prohibiting the ability of any entity to provideany interstate or intrastate telecommunications service." $ 253(a)."If, after notice and an opportunity for public comment,the Commission determines that a State or local government has permitted or imposed any statute, regulation,or legal requirement that violates subsection (a) or (b) ofthis section, the Commission shall preempt the enforce-ment of such statute, regulation, or legal requirement to1 The provision is subject to some exceptions not pertinent here, and asoriginally enacted the law was set to expire in 2002. The assembly laterpushed the expiration date ahead to 2007. Mo. Rev. Stat. $ 392.410(7)(Supp. 2003).541US1 Unit: $U33 [05-08-06 20:40:06] PAGES PGT: OPIN130 NIXON v. MISSOURI MUNICIPAL LEAGUEOpinion of the Courtthe extent necessary to correct such violation or inconsistency." $ 253(d).After notice and comment, the FCC refused to declare theMissouri statute preempted, In re Missouri MunicipalLeague, 16 FCC Rcd. 1157 (2001), relying on its own earlierorder resolving a challenge to a comparable Texas law, In rePublic Utility Comm'n of Texas, 13 FCC Rcd. 3460 (1997),as well as the affirming opinion of the United States Courtof Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit, Abilene v.FCC, 164 F. 3d 49 (1999). The agency concluded that "theterm `any entity' in section 253(a) . . . was not intended toinclude political subdivisions of the state, but rather appearsto prohibit restrictions on market entry that apply to independent entities subject to state regulation." 2 16 FCCRcd., at 1162. Like the District of Columbia Circuit in Abilene, the FCC also adverted to the principle of Gregory v.Ashcroft, 501 U. S. 452 (1991), that Congress needs to beclear before it constrains traditional state authority to orderits government. 16 FCC Rcd., at 1169. But at the sametime the Commission rejected preemption, it also denouncedthe policy behind the Missouri statute, id., at 1162-1163, andthe Commission's order carried two appended statements(one by Chairman William E. Kennard and CommissionerGloria Tristani, id., at 1172, and one by Commissioner SusanNess, id., at 1173) to the effect that barring municipalities2 The line between "political subdivision" and "independent entity" theFCC located by reference to state law. By its terms, the FCC orderdeclined to preempt the statute as it applied to municipally owned utilitiesnot chartered as independent corporations, on the theory that under controlling Missouri law, they were subdivisions of the State. 16 FCC Rcd.,at 1158. The Commission implied an opposite view, however, regardingthe status, under $ 253, of municipal utilities that had been separately chartered. Ibid. The question whether $ 253 preempts state and municipalregulation of these types of entities is not before us, and we express noview as to its proper resolution.541US1 Unit: $U33 [05-08-06 20:40:06] PAGES PGT: OPIN131Cite as: 541 U. S. 125 (2004)Opinion of the Courtfrom providing telecommunications substantially disservedthe policy behind the Telecommunications Act.The municipal respondents appealed to the Eighth Circuit,where a panel unanimously reversed the agency disposition,299 F. 3d 949 (2002), with the explanation that the plain-vanilla "entity," especially when modified by "any," manifested sufficiently clear congressional attention to govern-mental entities to get pastGregory. 299 F. 3d, at 953-955.The decision put the Eighth Circuit at odds with the Districtof Columbia Circuit's Abilene opinion, and we granted cer-tiorari to resolve the conflict. 539 U. S. 941 (2003). Wenow reverse. IIAt the outset, it is well to put aside two considerationsthat appear in this litigation but fall short of supporting themunicipal respondents' hopes for prevailing on their gener-ous conception of preemption under $ 253. The first is public policy, on which the respondents have at the least a re-spectable position, that fencing governmental entities out ofthe telecommunications business flouts the public interest.There are, of course, arguments on the other side, againstgovernment participation: in a business substantially reg-ulated at the state level, regulation can turn into a publicprovider's weapon against private competitors, see, e. g.,Brief for Petitioner Southwestern Bell Telephone, L. P., inNo. 02-1405 et al., pp. 17-18; and (if things turn out bad)government utilities that fail leave the taxpayers with thebills. Still, the Chairman of the FCC and CommissionerTristani minced no words in saying that participation of municipally owned entities in the telecommunications businesswould "further the goal of the 1996 Act to bring the benefitsof competition to all Americans, particularly those who livein small or rural communities in which municipally-ownedutilities have great competitive potential." 16 FCC Rcd., at1172. Commissioner Ness said much the same, and a number of amicus briefs in this litigation argue the competitive541US1 Unit: $U33 [05-08-06 20:40:06] PAGES PGT: OPIN132 NIXON v. MISSOURI MUNICIPAL LEAGUEOpinion of the Courtadvantages of letting municipalities furnish telecommunica-tions services, drawing on the role of government operatorsin extending the electric power lines early in the last cen-tury. Brief for City of Abilene, Texas, et al. asAmici Curiae 14-18; Brief for Consumer Federation of America asAmicus Curiae 7. As we will try to explain, however,infra, at 133-138, it does not follow that preempting state orlocal barriers to governmental entry into the market wouldbe an effective way to draw municipalities into the business,and in any event the issue here does not turn on the meritsof municipal telecommunications services.The second consideration that fails to answer the questionposed in this litigation is the portion of the text that hasreceived great emphasis. The Eighth Circuit trained itsanalysis on the words "any entity," left undefined by the statute, with much weight being placed on the modifier "any."But concentration on the writing on the page does notproduce a persuasive answer here. While an "entity" can beeither public or private, compare, e. g., 42 U. S. C. $ 9604(k)(1)(2000 ed., Supp. I) (defining "eligible entity" as a stateor local government body or its agent) with 26 U. S. C.$ 269B(c)(1) (defining "entity" as "any corporation, partnership, trust, association, estate, or other form of carrying ona business or activity"), there is no convention of omittingthe modifiers "public and private" when both are meant tobe covered. See, e. g., 42 U. S. C. $ 2000d-7(a)(2) (exposingStates to remedies in antidiscrimination suits comparable tothose available "against any public or private entity otherthan a State"). Nor is coverage of public entities reliablysignaled by speaking of "any" entity; "any" can and doesmean different things depending upon the setting. Compare, e. g., United States v. Gonzales, 520 U. S. 1, 5 (1997)(suggesting an expansive meaning of the term " `any otherterm of imprisonment' " to include state as well as federalsentences), with Raygor v. Regents of Univ. of Minn., 534U. S. 533, 542-546 (2002) (implying a narrow interpretation541US1 Unit: $U33 [05-08-06 20:40:06] PAGES PGT: OPIN133Cite as: 541 U. S. 125 (2004)Opinion of the Courtof the phrase " `any claim asserted' " so as to exclude certainclaims dismissed on Eleventh Amendment grounds). To getat Congress's understanding, what is needed is a broaderframe of reference, and in this litigation it helps if we askhow Congress could have envisioned the preemption clauseactually working if the FCC applied it at the municipal respondents' urging. See, e. g., New Jersey Realty Title Ins.Co. v. Division of Tax Appeals of N. J., 338 U. S. 665, 673(1950) (enquiring into "the practical operation and effect" ofa state tax on federal bonds). We think that the strangeand indeterminate results of using federal preemption to freepublic entities from state or local limitations is the keyto understanding that Congress used "any entity" with alimited reference to any private entity when it cast thepreemption net.IIIAIn familiar instances of regulatory preemption under theSupremacy Clause, a federal measure preempting state regulation in some precinct of economic conduct carried on bya private person or corporation simply leaves the privateparty free to do anything it chooses consistent with the prevailing federal law. If federal law, say, preempts state regulation of cigarette advertising, a cigarette seller is left freefrom advertising restrictions imposed by a State, which isleft without the power to control on that matter. See, e. g.,Lorillard Tobacco Co. v. Reilly, 533 U. S. 525, 540-553 (2001).On the subject covered, state law just drops out.But no such simple result would follow from federal preemption meant to unshackle local governments from entrepreneurial limitations. The trouble is that a local government's capacity to enter an economic market turns not onlyon the effect of straightforward economic regulation belowthe national level (including outright bans), but on the authority and potential will of governments at the state or local541US1 Unit: $U33 [05-08-06 20:40:06] PAGES PGT: OPIN134 NIXON v. MISSOURI MUNICIPAL LEAGUEOpinion of the Courtlevel to support entry into the market. Preemption of thestate advertising restriction freed a seller who otherwisehad the legal authority to advertise and the money to doit if that made economic sense. But preempting a ban ongovernment utilities would not accomplish much if the gov-ernment could not point to some law authorizing it to run autility in the first place. And preemption would make nodifference to anyone if the state regulator were left withcontrol over funding needed for any utility operation and de-clined to pay for it. In other words, when a governmentregulates itself (or the subdivision through which it acts)there is no clear distinction between the regulator and theentity regulated. Legal limits on what may be done by thegovernment itself (including its subdivisions) will often beindistinguishable from choices that express what the govern-ment wishes to do with the authority and resources it cancommand. That is why preempting state or local govern-mental self-regulation (or regulation of political inferiors)would work so differently from preempting regulation of pri-vate players that we think it highly unlikely that Congressintended to set off on such uncertain adventures. A fewhypotheticals may bring the point home.BHypotheticals have to rest on some understanding of what$ 253 means when it describes subjects of its preemption aslaws or regulations that prohibit, expressly or in effect, "theability of any entity" to provide telecommunications. Thereference to "ability" complicates things. In customaryusage, we speak simply of prohibiting a natural or legal person from doing something. To speak in terms of prohibitingtheir ability to provide a service may mean something different: it may mean denying the entity a capacity or authorityto act in the first place. But this is not clear, and it is possible that a law prohibiting the ability to provide telecommuni-cations means a law that limits or cuts back on some pre541US1 Unit: $U33 [05-08-06 20:40:06] PAGES PGT: OPIN135Cite as: 541 U. S. 125 (2004)Opinion of the Courtexisting authority (under a different law) to go into thetelecommunications business.If the scope of law subject to preemption under $ 253 hasthe former, broader, meaning, consider how preemptionwould apply to a state statute authorizing municipalities tooperate specified utilities, to provide water and electricitybut nothing else.3 The enumeration would certainly havethe effect of prohibiting a municipally owned and operatedelectric utility from entering the telecommunications business (as Congress clearly meant private electric companiesto be able to do, see S. Rep. No. 103-367, p. 55 (1994)), andits implicit prohibition would thus be open to FCC preemption. But what if the FCC did preempt the restriction?The municipality would be free of the statute, but freedom isnot authority, and in the absence of some further, authorizinglegislation the municipality would still be powerless to enterthe telecommunications business. There is, after all, no argument that the Telecommunications Act of 1996 is itselfa source of federal authority granting municipalities localpower that state law does not.Now assume that $ 253 has the narrower construction (preempting only laws that restrict authority derived from a different legal source). Consider a State with plenary authority itself, under its constitution, to operate any variety ofutility.4 Assume that its statutes authorized a state-run3 The hypothetical city, in other words, is "general law" rather than"home rule." See City of Lockhart v. United States, 460 U. S. 125, 127(1983) (In contrast to a general law city, a home rule city has state constitutional authority to do whatever is not specifically prohibited by statelegislation).4 The Court granted certiorari solely to consider whether municipalitiesare subsumed under the rubric "any entity," and our holding reaches onlythat question. There is, nevertheless, a logical affinity between the question presented and the hypothetical situation in which a State were todecide, directly or effectively, against its own delivery of telecommunications services.541US1 Unit: $U33 [05-08-06 20:40:06] PAGES PGT: OPIN136 NIXON v. MISSOURI MUNICIPAL LEAGUEOpinion of the Courtutility to deliver electric and water services, but drew theline at telecommunications. The restrictive element of thatlimited authorization would run afoul of $ 253 as respondentswould construe it. But if, owing to preemption, the stateoperating utility authority were suddenly free to providetelecommunications and its administrators were raring toenter this new field, where would the necessary capital comefrom? Surely there is no contention that the Telecommuni-cations Act of 1996 by its own force entails a state agency'sentitlement to unappropriated funds from the state treasury,or to the exercise of state bonding authority.Or take the application of $ 253 preemption to municipalities empowered by state law to furnish services generally,but forbidden by a special statute to exercise that power forthe purpose of providing telecommunications services. Ifthe special statute were preempted, a municipality in thatState would have a real option to enter the telecommunications business if its own legislative arm so chose and fundedthe venture. But in a State next door where municipalitieslacked such general authority, a local authority would not beable to, and the result would be a national crazy quilt. Wewill presumably get a crazy quilt, of course, as a consequenceof state and local political choices arrived at in the absenceof any preemption under $ 253, but the crazy quilt of thishypothetical would result not from free political choices butfrom the fortuitous interaction of a federal preemption lawwith the forms of municipal authorization law.Finally, consider the result if a State that previously authorized municipalities to operate a number of utilities including telecommunications changed its law by narrowingthe range of authorization. Assume that a State once authorized municipalities to furnish water, electric, and communications services, but sometime after the passage of $ 253narrowed the authorization so as to leave municipalities authorized to enter only the water business. The repealingstatute would have a prohibitory effect on the prior ability541US1 Unit: $U33 [05-08-06 20:40:06] PAGES PGT: OPIN137Cite as: 541 U. S. 125 (2004)Opinion of the Courtto deliver telecommunications service and would be subjectto preemption. But that would mean that a State that oncechose to provide broad municipal authority could not reversecourse. A State next door, however, starting with a legalsystem devoid of any authorization for municipal utility oper-ation, would at the least be free to change its own course byauthorizing its municipalities to venture forth. The result,in other words, would be the federal creation of a one-wayratchet. A State or municipality could give the power, butit could not take it away later. Private counterparts couldcome and go from the market at will, for after any federalpreemption they would have a free choice to compete or notto compete in telecommunications; governmental providerscould never leave (or, at least, could not leave by a forthrightchoice to change policy), for the law expressing the government's decision to get out would be preempted.The municipal respondents' answer to the one-way ratchet,and indeed to a host of the incongruities that would followfrom preempting governmental restriction on the exercise ofits own power, is to rely on $ 253(b), which insulates certainstate actions taken "on a competitively neutral basis." Respondents contend that a State or municipality would be ableto make a competitively neutral change of mind to leave thetelecommunications market after deciding earlier to enter itor authorize entry. Tr. of Oral Arg. 32-33.But we think this is not much of an answer. The FCChas understood $ 253(b) neutrality to require a statute or regulation affecting all types of utilities in like fashion, as a lawremoving only governmental entities from telecommunications could not be. See, e. g., In re Federal-State JointBoard on Universal Service, 15 FCC Rcd. 15168, 15175-15178, |||| 19-24 (2000) (declaratory ruling). An even morefundamental weakness in respondents' answer is shown inbriefs filed by amici City of Abilene and Consumer Federation of America. We have no reason to doubt them whenthey explain how highly unlikely it is that a state decision to541US1 Unit: $U33 [05-08-06 20:40:06] PAGES PGT: OPIN138 NIXON v. MISSOURI MUNICIPAL LEAGUEOpinion of the Courtwithdraw would be "neutral" in any sense of the word.There is every reason to expect just the contrary, that legislative choices in this arena would reflect the intent behindthe intense lobbying directed to those choices, manifestlyintended to impede, not enhance, competition. See, e. g.,Chen, Legal Process and Political Economy of Telecommunications Reform, 97 Colum. L. Rev. 835, 866-868 (1997).After all, the notion that the legislative process addressinggovernmental utility authority is susceptible to capture bycompetition-averse private utilities is fully consistent with(and one reason for) the FCC's position that statutes likeMissouri's disserve the policy objects of the Telecommunications Act of 1996. Given the unlikely application of $ 253(b)to state or local choices driven by policy, not business failure,the fair conclusion is that $ 253(a), if read respondents' way,would allow governments to move solely toward authorizingtelecommunications operation, with no alternative to reversecourse deliberately later on.In sum, $ 253 would not work like a normal preemptivestatute if it applied to a governmental unit. It would oftenaccomplish nothing, it would treat States differently depend-ing on the formal structures of their laws authorizing municipalities to function, and it would hold out no promise of anational consistency. We think it farfetched that Congressmeant $ 253 to start down such a road in the absence of anyclearer signal than the phrase "ability of any entity." See,e. g., United States v. American Trucking Assns., Inc., 310U. S. 534, 543 (1940) (Court will not construe a statute in amanner that leads to absurd or futile results).CJustice Stevens contends that in our use of the hypo-thetical examples to illustrate the implausibility of the municipal respondents' reading of $ 253, we read the statutein a way that produces anomalous results unnecessarily,whereas a simpler interpretation carrying fewer unhappy541US1 Unit: $U33 [05-08-06 20:40:06] PAGES PGT: OPIN139Cite as: 541 U. S. 125 (2004)Opinion of the Courtconsequences is available. The dissent emphasizes the word"ability" in the phrase "prohibit or has the effect of prohibiting the ability of any entity" to furnish telecommunications.With its focus on this word, the dissent concludes that "$ 253prohibits States from withdrawing municipalities' pre-existing authority to enter the telecommunications business,but does not command that States affirmatively grant eitherthat authority or the means with which to carry it out."Post, at 145. Thus, if a State leaves an earlier grant of authority on the books while limiting it with a legislative banon telecommunications, the new statute would be preempted,and presumably preemption would also defeat a State's attempted withdrawal of municipalities' authority by repealingthe preexisting authorization itself.But on the very next page, Justice Stevens allows (inthe course of disagreeing about the one-way ratchet) that "[a]State may withdraw comprehensive authorization in favor ofenumerating specific municipal powers . . . ." Post, at 146.It turns out, in other words, that withdrawals of preexistingauthority are not (or not inevitably, at any rate) subject topreemption. The dissent goes on to clarify that it means todistinguish between withdrawals of authority that are competitively neutral in the sense of being couched in generalterms (and therefore not properly the subject of preemption), and those in which the repealing law expressly targetstelecommunications (and therefore properly preempted)."[T]he one thing a State may not do," the dissent explains,"is enact a statute or regulation specifically aimed at preventing municipalities or other entities from providing telecommunications services." Ibid. But the practical implication of that interpretation is to read out of $ 253 the words"or ha[s] the effect of prohibiting," by which Congress signaled its willingness to preempt laws that produce the unwanted effect, even if they do not advertise their prohibitoryagenda on their faces. Even if $ 253 permitted such a formalistic distinction between implicit and explicit repeals of541US1 Unit: $U33 [05-08-06 20:40:06] PAGES PGT: OPIN140 NIXON v. MISSOURI MUNICIPAL LEAGUEOpinion of the Courtauthority, the result would be incoherence of policy; whetherthe issue is viewed through the lens of preventing anticompetitive action or the lens of state autonomy from federalinterference, there is no justification for preempting onlythose laws that self-consciously interfere with the deliveryof telecommunications services. In short, instead of supplying a more straightforward interpretation of $ 253, the dis-sent ends up reading it in a way that disregards its plainlanguage and entails a policy consequence that Congresscould not possibly have intended.IVThe municipal respondents' position holds sufficient prom-ise of futility and uncertainty to keep us from accepting it,but a complementary principle would bring us to the sameconclusion even on the assumption that preemption could operate straightforwardly to provide local choice, as in someinstances it might. Preemption would, for example, leave amunicipality with a genuine choice to enter the telecommuni-cations business when state law provided general authorityand a newly unfettered municipality wished to fund the ef-fort. But the liberating preemption would come only by interposing federal authority between a State and its munici-pal subdivisions, which our precedents teach, "are created asconvenient agencies for exercising such of the governmentalpowers of the State as may be entrusted to them in its absolute discretion." Wisconsin Public Intervenor v. Mortier,501 U. S. 597, 607-608 (1991) (internal quotation marks, citations, and alterations omitted); Columbus v. Ours Garage &Wrecker Service, Inc., 536 U. S. 424, 433 (2002). Hence theneed to invoke our working assumption that federal legisla-tion threatening to trench on the States' arrangements forconducting their own governments should be treated withgreat skepticism, and read in a way that preserves a State'schosen disposition of its own power, in the absence of theplain statementGregory requires. What we have said al541US1 Unit: $U33 [05-08-06 20:40:06] PAGES PGT: OPIN141Cite as: 541 U. S. 125 (2004)Scalia, J., concurring in judgmentready is enough to show that $ 253(a) is hardly forthrightenough to pass Gregory: "ability of any entity" is not limitedto one reading, and neither statutory structure nor legislative history points unequivocally to a commitment by Congress to treat governmental telecommunications providerson par with private firms. The want of any "unmistakablyclear" statement to that effect, 501 U. S., at 460, would befatal to respondents' reading.The judgment of the Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit is, accordingly, reversed.