Federal Rule of Evidence 804(b)(1) states an exception tothe hearsay rule that allows a court, in certain instances, toadmit the former testimony of an unavailable witness. Wemust decide in this case whether the Rule permits a criminaldefendant to introduce the grand jury testimony of a witnesswho asserts the Fifth Amendment privilege at trial.IThe seven respondents, Anthony Salerno, Vincent DiNa-poli, Louis DiNapoli, Nicholas Auletta, Edward Halloran,Alvin O. Chattin, and Aniello Migliore, allegedly took partin the activities of a criminal organization known as the*Jed S. Rakoff filed a brief for the New York Council of Defense Lawyers as amicus curiae urging affirmance.505us1103N 07-12-96 20:08:57 PAGES OPINPGT319Cite as: 505 U. S. 317 (1992)Opinion of the CourtGenovese Family of La Cosa Nostra (Family) in New YorkCity. In 1987, a federal grand jury in the Southern Districtof New York indicted the respondents and four others on thebasis of these activities. The indictment charged the respondents with a variety of federal offenses, including 41acts constituting a "pattern of illegal activity" in violationof the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act(RICO), 18 U. S. C. $ 1962(b).Sixteen of the alleged acts involved fraud in the New Yorkconstruction industry in the 1980's. According to the indict-ment and evidence later admitted at trial, the Family usedits influence over labor unions and its control over the supplyof concrete to rig bidding on large construction projects inManhattan. The Family purportedly allocated contracts forthese projects among a so-called "Club" of six concrete companies in exchange for a share of the proceeds.Much of the case concerned the affairs of the Cedar ParkConcrete Construction Corporation (Cedar Park). Two ofthe owners of this firm, Frederick DeMatteis and PasqualeBruno, testified before the grand jury under a grant of immunity. In response to questions by the United States, theyrepeatedly stated that neither they nor Cedar Park had participated in the Club. At trial, however, the United Statesattempted to show that Cedar Park, in fact, had belonged tothe Club by calling two contractors who had taken part inthe scheme and by presenting intercepted conversationsamong the respondents. The United States also introduceddocuments indicating that the Family had an ownership interest in Cedar Park.To counter the United States' evidence, the respondentssubpoenaed DeMatteis and Bruno as witnesses in the hopethat they would provide the same exculpatory testimonythat they had presented to the grand jury. When both witnesses invoked their Fifth Amendment privilege againstself-incrimination and refused to testify, the respondentsasked the District Court to admit the transcripts of their505us1103N 07-12-96 20:08:57 PAGES OPINPGT320 UNITED STATES v. SALERNOOpinion of the Courtgrand jury testimony. Although this testimony constitutedhearsay, see Rule 801(c), the respondents argued that it fellwithin the hearsay exception in Rule 804(b)(1) for formertestimony of unavailable witnesses.The District Court refused to admit the grand jury testi-mony. It observed that Rule 804(b)(1) permits admission offormer testimony against a party at trial only when thatparty had a "similar motive to develop the testimony by direct, cross, or redirect examination." The District Courtheld that the United States did not have this motive, statingthat the "motive of a prosecutor in questioning a witnessbefore the grand jury in the investigatory stages of a case isfar different from the motive of a prosecutor in conductingthe trial." App. to Pet. for Cert. 51a. A jury subsequentlyconvicted the respondents of the RICO counts and otherfederal offenses.The United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuitreversed, holding that the District Court had erred in excluding DeMatteis' and Bruno's grand jury testimony. 937F. 2d 797 (1991). Although the Court of Appeals recognizedthat "the government may have had no motive . . . toimpeach . . . Bruno or DeMatteis" before the grand jury, itconcluded that "the government's motive in examining thewitnesses . . . was irrelevant."Id., at 806. The Court ofAppeals decided that, in order to maintain "adversarial fairness," Rule 804(b)(1)'s similar motive element should "evapo-rat[e]" when the Government obtains immunized testimonyin a grand jury proceeding from a witness who refuses totestify at trial.Ibid. We granted certiorari, 502 U. S. 1056(1992), and now reverse and remand.IIThe hearsay rule prohibits admission of certain statementsmade by a declarant other than while testifying at trial. SeeRules 801(c) (hearsay definition), 802 (hearsay rule). Theparties acknowledge that the hearsay rule, standing by itself,505us1103N 07-12-96 20:08:57 PAGES OPINPGT321Cite as: 505 U. S. 317 (1992)Opinion of the Courtwould have blocked introduction at trial of DeMatteis' andBruno's grand jury testimony. Rule 804(b)(1), however, establishes an exception to the hearsay rule for former testi-mony. This exception provides:"The following are not excluded by the hearsay ruleif the declarant is unavailable as a witness:"(1) Former Testimony.--Testimony given as a wit-ness at another hearing . . . if the party against whomthe testimony is now offered . . . had an opportunity andsimilar motive to develop the testimony by direct, cross,or redirect examination."We must decide whether the Court of Appeals properly in-terpreted Rule 804(b)(1) in this case.The parties agree that DeMatteis and Bruno were "un-available" to the defense as witnesses, provided that theyproperly invoked the Fifth Amendment privilege and re-fused to testify. See Rule 804(a)(1). They also agree thatDeMatteis' and Bruno's grand jury testimony constituted"testimony given as . . . witness[es] at another hearing."They disagree, however, about whether the "similar motive"requirement in the final clause of Rule 804(b)(1) should haveprevented admission of the testimony in this case.ANothing in the language of Rule 804(b)(1) suggests that acourt may admit former testimony absent satisfaction of eachof the Rule's elements. The United States thus asserts that,unless it had a "similar motive," we must conclude that theDistrict Court properly excluded DeMatteis' and Bruno'stestimony as hearsay. The respondents, in contrast, urge usnot to read Rule 804(b)(1) in a "slavishly literal fashion."Brief for Respondents 31. They contend that "adversarialfairness" prevents the United States from relying on thesimilar motive requirement in this case. We agree with theUnited States.505us1103N 07-12-96 20:08:57 PAGES OPINPGT322 UNITED STATES v. SALERNOOpinion of the CourtWhen Congress enacted the prohibition against admissionof hearsay in Rule 802, it placed 24 exceptions in Rule 803and 5 additional exceptions in Rule 804. Congress thus pre-sumably made a careful judgment as to what hearsay maycome into evidence and what may not. To respect its determination, we must enforce the words that it enacted. Therespondents, as a result, had no right to introduce DeMatteis'and Bruno's former testimony under Rule 804(b)(1) withoutshowing a "similar motive." This Court cannot alter evidentiary rules merely because litigants might prefer differentrules in a particular class of cases. SeeGreen v. Bock Laundry Machine Co., 490 U. S. 504, 524 (1989).The respondents' argument for a different result takesseveral forms. They first assert that adversarial fairnessrequires us to infer that Rule 804(b)(1) contains implicit limitations. They observe, for example, that the Advisory Committee Note to Rule 804 makes clear that the former testimony exception applies only to statements made under oathor affirmation, even though the Rule does not state thisrestriction explicitly. See Advisory Committee's Notes onFed. Rule Evid. 804, 28 U. S. C. App., p. 788, subd. (b), except.(1). The respondents maintain that we likewise may holdthat Rule 804(b)(1) does not require a showing of similarmotive in all instances.The respondents' example does not persuade us to changeour reading of Rule 804(b)(1). If the Rule applies only tosworn statements, it does so not because adversarial fairnessimplies a limitation, but simply because the word "testimony" refers only to statements made under oath or affirmation. See Black's Law Dictionary 1476 (6th ed. 1990).We see no way to interpret the text of Rule 804(b)(1) to meanthat defendants sometimes do not have to show "similarmotive."The respondents also assert that courts often depart fromthe Rules of Evidence to prevent litigants from presentingonly part of the truth. For example, citing United States v.505us1103N 07-12-96 20:08:57 PAGES OPINPGT323Cite as: 505 U. S. 317 (1992)Opinion of the CourtMiller, 600 F. 2d 498 (CA5 1979), the respondents maintainthat, although parties may enjoy various testimonial privileges, they can forfeit these privileges by "opening the door"to certain subjects. In the respondents' view, the UnitedStates is attempting to use the hearsay rule like a privilegeto keep DeMatteis' and Bruno's grand jury testimony awayfrom the jury. They contend, however, that adversarial fairness requires us to conclude that the United States forfeitedits right to object to admission of the testimony when it introduced contradictory evidence about Cedar Park.This argument also fails. Even assuming that we shouldtreat the hearsay rule like the rules governing testimonialprivileges, we would not conclude that a forfeiture occurredhere. Parties may forfeit a privilege by exposing privilegedevidence, but do not forfeit one merely by taking a positionthat the evidence might contradict. See 8 J. Wigmore, Evidence $ 2327, p. 636 (McNaughton rev. 1961); M. Larkin, Federal Testimonial Privileges $ 2.06, pp. 2-103, 2-104, 2-120(1991). In Miller, for example, the court held that a litigant,"after giving the jury his version of a privileged communication, [could not] prevent the cross-examiner from utilizing thecommunication itself to get at the truth." 600 F. 2d, at501 (emphasis added). In this case, by contrast, the UnitedStates never presented to the jury any version of what DeMatteis and Bruno had said in the grand jury proceedings.Instead, it attempted to show Cedar Park's participation inthe Club solely through other evidence available to the respondents. The United States never exposed the jury toanything analogous to a "privileged communication." Therespondents' argument, accordingly, fails on its own terms.The respondents finally argue that adversarial fairnessmay prohibit suppression of exculpatory evidence producedin grand jury proceedings. They note that, when this Courtrequired disclosure of a grand jury transcript in Dennis v.United States, 384 U. S. 855 (1966), it stated that "it is rarelyjustifiable for the prosecution to have exclusive access" to505us1103N 07-12-96 20:08:57 PAGES OPINPGT324 UNITED STATES v. SALERNOOpinion of the Courtrelevant facts. Id., at 873. They allege that the UnitedStates nevertheless uses the following tactics to developevidence in a one-sided manner: If a witness inculpates adefendant during the grand jury proceedings, the UnitedStates immunizes him and calls him at trial; however, if thewitness exculpates the defendant, as Bruno and DeMatteiseach did here, the United States refuses to immunize himand attempts to exclude the testimony as hearsay.* The re-spondents assert that dispensing with the "similar motive"requirement would limit these tactics.We again fail to see how we may create an exception toRule 804(b)(1). The Dennis case, unlike this one, did notinvolve a question about the admissibility of evidence.Rather, it concerned only the need to disclose a transcript tothe defendants. See 384 U. S., at 873. Moreover, in Dennis, we did not hold that adversarial fairness required theUnited States to make the grand jury transcript available.Instead, we ordered disclosure under the specific languageof Federal Rule of Criminal Procedure 6(e). See 384 U. S.,at 869-870, 872. In this case, the language of Rule 804(b)(1)does not support the respondents. Indeed, the respondentsspecifically ask us to ignore it. NeitherDennis nor anything else that the respondents have cited provides us withthis authority. BThe question remains whether the United States had a"similar motive" in this case. The United States assertsthat the District Court specifically found that it did not andthat we should not review its factual determinations. Italso argues that a prosecutor generally will not have thesame motive to develop testimony in grand jury proceedingsas he does at trial. A prosecutor, it explains, must maintain*The respondents also suggest that, in the event that a witness choosesto testify at trial without immunity, the United States can impeach himwith his grand jury testimony. See Fed. Rules Evid. 607, 801(d)(1)(A).505us1103N 07-12-96 20:08:57 PAGES OPINPGT325Cite as: 505 U. S. 317 (1992)Blackmun, J., concurringsecrecy during the investigatory stages of the criminal proc-ess and therefore may not desire to confront grand jury witnesses with contradictory evidence. It further states that aprosecutor may not know, prior to indictment, which issueswill have importance at trial and accordingly may fail to develop grand jury testimony effectively.The respondents disagree with both of the United States'arguments. They characterize the District Court's rulingas one of law, rather than fact, because the District Courtessentially ruled that a prosecutor's motives at trial alwaysdiffer from his motives in grand jury proceedings. The respondents contend further that the grand jury transcripts inthis case actually show that the United States thoroughlyattempted to impeach DeMatteis and Bruno. They add that,despite the United States' stated concern about maintainingsecrecy, the United States revealed to DeMatteis and Brunothe identity of the major witnesses who testified againstthem at trial.The Court of Appeals, as noted, erroneously concludedthat the respondents did not have to demonstrate a similarmotive in this case to make use of Rule 804(b)(1). It therefore declined to consider fully the arguments now presentedby the parties about whether the United States had sucha motive. Rather than to address this issue here in thefirst instance, we think it prudent to remand the case forfurther consideration. Cf. Denton v. Hernandez, 504 U. S.25, 32-35 (1992).