We resolve in this case whether the Export Clause of theConstitution permits the imposition of a generally applicable,nondiscriminatory federal tax on goods in export transit.We hold that it does not.ISection 4371 of the Internal Revenue Code imposes a taxon insurance premiums paid to foreign insurers that are notsubject to the federal income tax.1 26 U. S. C. $ 4371 (1982ed.). International Business Machines Corporation (IBM)ships products that it manufactures in the United States tonumerous foreign subsidiaries and insures those shipmentsagainst loss. When the foreign subsidiary makes the ship-ping arrangements, the subsidiary often places the insurancewith a foreign carrier. When it does, both IBM and the sub-sidiary are listed as beneficiaries in the policy.IBM filed federal excise tax returns for the years 1975through 1984, but reported no liability under $ 4371. TheInternal Revenue Service (IRS) audited IBM and deter-mined that the premiums paid to foreign insurers weretaxable under $ 4371 and that IBM--as a named beneficiaryof the insurance policies--was liable for the tax. The IRSassessed a tax against IBM for each of those years.IBM paid the assessments and filed refund claims, whichthe IRS denied. IBM then commenced suit in the Court of1 The tax does not apply if a policy issued by a foreign insurer is "signedor countersigned by an officer or agent of the insurer in a State, or in theDistrict of Columbia, within which such insurer is authorized to do business." 26 U. S. C. $ 4373(1) (1982 ed.).517US3$65N 02-07-99 19:38:29 PAGES OPINPGT846 UNITED STATES v. INTERNATIONAL BUSINESSMACHINES CORP.Opinion of the CourtFederal Claims, contending that application of $ 4371 topolicies insuring its export shipments violated the ExportClause. The focus of the suit was this Court's decision inThames & Mersey Marine Ins. Co. v. United States, 237 U. S.19 (1915), in which we held that a federal stamp tax onpolicies insuring marine risks could not, under the ExportClause, be constitutionally applied to policies covering ex-port shipments. The United States argued that the analysisof Thames & Mersey is no longer valid, having been super-seded by subsequent decisions interpreting the ImportExport Clause--specifically, Michelin Tire Corp. v. Wages,423 U. S. 276 (1976), andDepartment of Revenue of Wash. v.Association of Wash. Stevedoring Cos., 435 U. S. 734 (1978).The Court of Federal Claims noted that this Court has neveroverruled Thames & Mersey and ruled that application of$ 4371 to policies insuring goods in export transit violatesthe Export Clause. 31 Fed. Cl. 500 (1994). The Court ofAppeals for the Federal Circuit affirmed. 59 F. 3d 1234(1995). We agreed to hear this case to decide whether weshould overruleThames & Mersey. 516 U. S. 1021 (1995).IIThe Export Clause states simply and directly: "No Tax orDuty shall be laid on Articles exported from any State."U. S. Const., Art. I, $ 9, cl. 5. We have had few occasions tointerpret the language of the Export Clause, but our caseshave broadly exempted from federal taxation not only exportgoods, but also services and activities closely related to theexport process. At the same time, we have attempted tolimit the term "Articles exported" to permit federal taxationof pre-export goods and services.Our early cases upheld federal assessments on the manufacture of particular products ultimately intended for exportby finding that pre-export products are not "Articles exported." See Pace v. Burgess, 92 U. S. 372 (1876); Turpin v.Burgess, 117 U. S. 504 (1886); Cornell v. Coyne, 192 U. S. 418517US3$65N 02-07-99 19:38:29 PAGES OPINPGT847Cite as: 517 U. S. 843 (1996)Opinion of the Court(1904). Pace and Turpin both involved a federal excise taxon tobacco products. InPace, though tobacco intended forexport was exempted from the tax, the exemption itself wassubject to a per-package stamp charge of 25 cents. When atobacco manufacturer challenged the stamp charge, we upheld the charge on the basis that the stamps were designedto prevent fraud in the export exemption from the excise taxand did not, therefore, represent a tax on exports. 92 U. S.,at 375. When Congress later repealed the 25-cent chargefor the exemption stamp in a statute that referred to thestamp as an "export tax," another manufacturer sued to recover the money it had paid for the exemption stamps. SeeTurpin, supra. Without disturbing the prior ruling in Pacethat the stamp charge was not a tax on exports, 117 U. S., at505, we explained that the prohibition of the Export Clause"has reference to the imposition of duties on goods by reasonor because of their exportation or intended exportation, orwhilst they are being exported," id., at 507. We said thatthe plaintiffs would have had no Export Clause claim even ifthere had been no exemption from the excise because thegoods were not in the course of exportation and might neverbe exported. Ibid. Turpin broadly suggested that theExport Clause prohibits both taxes levied on goods inthe course of exportation and taxes directed specifically atexports.In Cornell, the Court addressed whether the ExportClause prohibited application of a federal excise tax on filledcheese manufactured under contract for export. Looking tothe analysis set out in Turpin, we rejected the contentionthat the Export Clause bars application of a nondiscriminatory tax imposed before the product entered the course ofexportation. "The true construction of the constitutionalprovision is that no burden by way of tax or duty can becast upon the exportation of articles, and does not mean thatarticles exported are relieved from the prior ordinary burdens of taxation which rest upon all property similarly situ517US3$65N 02-07-99 19:38:29 PAGES OPINPGT848 UNITED STATES v. INTERNATIONAL BUSINESSMACHINES CORP.Opinion of the Courtated." Cornell, supra, at 427. Pace, Turpin, and Cornellmade clear that nondiscriminatory pre-exportation assessments do not violate the Export Clause, even if the goodsare eventually exported.At the same time we were defining a domain within whichnondiscriminatory taxes could permissibly be imposed ongoods intended for export, we were also making clear thatthe Export Clause strictly prohibits any tax or duty, discrim-inatory or not, that falls on exports during the course of exportation. See Fairbank v. United States, 181 U. S. 283(1901);United States v. Hvoslef, 237 U. S. 1 (1915); Thames &Mersey Marine Ins. Co. v. United States, supra. In Fairbank, for example, we addressed a federal stamp tax on billsof lading for export shipments imposed by the War RevenueAct of 1898. The Court found that the tax was facially dis-criminatory, 181 U. S., at 290, and, though not directly imposed on the goods being exported, the tax was nevertheless"in effect a duty on the article transported,"id., at 294.Consequently, the tax fell directly into the category of forbid-den taxes on exports defined inTurpin. In striking downthe tax, we said:"The requirement of the Constitution is that exportsshould be free from any governmental burden. Thelanguage is `no tax or duty.' Whether such provision isor is not wise is a question of policy with which thecourts have nothing to do. We know historically that itwas one of the compromises which entered into andmade possible the adoption of the Constitution. It is arestriction on the power of Congress . . . ." 181 U. S.,at 290.Hvoslef and Thames & Mersey differed from Fairbank inthat the taxes imposed in those cases--on ship charters andmarine insurance, respectively--did not facially discriminateagainst exports. The Court nonetheless prohibited theapplication of those generally applicable, nondiscriminatory517US3$65N 02-07-99 19:38:29 PAGES OPINPGT849Cite as: 517 U. S. 843 (1996)Opinion of the Courttaxes to the transactions at issue because each tax was, ineffect, a tax on exports. The type of charter contract atissue in Hvoslef was "in contemplation of law a mere con-tract of affreightment," 237 U. S., at 16, and we found thatthe tax, as applied to charters for exportation, "was in substance a tax on the exportation; and a tax on the exportationis a tax on the exports,"id., at 17. Likewise, in Thames &Mersey, we found that "proper insurance during the voyageis one of the necessities of exportation" and that "the taxation of policies insuring cargoes during their transit to for-eign ports is as much a burden on exporting as if it werelaid on the charter parties, the bills of lading, or the goodsthemselves." 237 U. S., at 27.Shortly after Hvoslef and Thames & Mersey, the Courtrejected an attempt to shield from taxation the net incomeof a company engaged in the export business. William E.Peck & Co. v. Lowe, 247 U. S. 165 (1918). In accordance withthe analysis set out in Turpin, we found both that the taxwas nondiscriminatory and that "[i]t is not laid on articles incourse of exportation or on anything which inherently or bythe usages of commerce is embraced in exportation or any ofits processes." 247 U. S., at 174.Only a few years later the Court struck down the application of a tax on the export sale of certain baseball equipment.See A. G. Spalding & Bros. v. Edwards, 262 U. S. 66 (1923).Although the tax was clearly nondiscriminatory, we explained that the goods being taxed had entered the course ofexportation when they were delivered to the export carrier.Id., at 70. Because the taxable event, the transfer of title,occurred at the same moment the goods entered the courseof exportation, we held that the tax could not constitutionally be applied to the export sale. Id., at 69-70.The Court has strictly enforced the Export Clause's prohibition against federal taxation of goods in export transit, andwe have extended that protection to certain services and activities closely related to the export process. We have not,517US3$65N 02-07-99 19:38:29 PAGES OPINPGT850 UNITED STATES v. INTERNATIONAL BUSINESSMACHINES CORP.Opinion of the Courthowever, exempted pre-export goods and services from ordi-nary tax burdens; nor have we exempted from federal taxation various services and activities only tangentially relatedto the export process.IIIThe Government concedes, as it did below, that this caseis largely indistinguishable fromThames & Mersey and that,ifThames & Mersey is still good law, the tax assessedagainst IBM under $ 4371 violates the Export Clause. SeeTr. of Oral Arg. 5; 59 F. 3d, at 1237. The parties apparentlyagree that there is no legally significant distinction betweenthe insurance policies at issue in this case and those at issuein Thames & Mersey, and, accordingly, the Government asksthat we overrule Thames & Mersey.The Government asserts that the Export Clause permitsthe imposition of generally applicable, nondiscriminatorytaxes, even on goods in export transit. The Governmenturges that we have historically interpreted the Commerce,Import-Export, and Export Clauses in harmony and that wehave rejected the theory underlying Thames & Mersey inthe context of the Commerce and Import-Export Clauses.Accordingly, the Government contends that our ExportClause jurisprudence, symbolized by Thames & Mersey, hasbecome an anachronism in need of modernization. The Gov-ernment asks us to reinterpret the Export Clause to permitthe imposition of generally applicable, nondiscriminatorytaxes as we have under the Commerce Clause and, it argues,under the Import-Export Clause.AThe Government contends that our dormant CommerceClause jurisprudence has shifted dramatically and that ourtraditional understanding of the Export Clause, which isbased partly on an outmoded view of the Commerce Clause,can no longer be justified. It is true that some of our earlyExport Clause cases relied on an interpretation of the517US3$65N 02-07-99 19:38:29 PAGES OPINPGT851Cite as: 517 U. S. 843 (1996)Opinion of the CourtCommerce Clause that we have since rejected. In Fair-bank, 181 U. S., at 298-300, for example, we analogized toRobbins v. Shelby County Taxing Dist., 120 U. S. 489, 497(1887), in which we held that "[i]nterstate commerce cannotbe taxed at all [by the States], even though the same amountof tax should be laid on domestic commerce, or that which iscarried on solely within the state." Referring to the cate-gorical ban on taxation of interstate commerce declared inRobbins, we likened the scope of the Commerce Clause's banon state taxation of interstate commerce to the ExportClause's ban on federal taxation of exports. Fairbank,supra, at 300; see also Hvoslef, 237 U. S., at 15 ("The court[inFairbank] found an analogy in the construction which hadbeen given to the commerce clause in protecting interstatecommerce from state legislation imposing direct burdens").After Thames & Mersey, the Commerce Clause constructionespoused in Robbins fell out of favor, see Western Live Stockv. Bureau of Revenue, 303 U. S. 250, 254 (1938) ("It was notthe purpose of the commerce clause to relieve those engagedin interstate commerce from their just share of state tax burden even though it increases the cost of doing the business"),and we expressly disavowed that view inComplete AutoTransit, Inc. v. Brady, 430 U. S. 274, 288-289 (1977).Our rejection in Complete Auto of much of our earlydormant Commerce Clause jurisprudence did not, however,signal a similar rejection of our Export Clause cases. Ourdecades-long struggle over the meaning of the nontextualnegative command of the dormant Commerce Clause doesnot lead to the conclusion that our interpretation of the textual command of the Export Clause is equally fluid. At onetime, the Court may have thought that the dormant Commerce Clause required a strict ban on state taxation of inter-state commerce, but the text did not require that view.22 The Commerce Clause is an express grant of power to Congress to"regulate Commerce . . . among the several States." U. S. Const., Art. I,$ 8, cl. 3. It does not expressly prohibit the States from doing anything,517US3$65N 02-07-99 19:38:29 PAGES OPINPGT852 UNITED STATES v. INTERNATIONAL BUSINESSMACHINES CORP.Opinion of the CourtThe text of the Export Clause, on the other hand, expresslyprohibits Congress from laying any tax or duty on exports.These textual disparities strongly suggest that shifts in theCourt's view of the scope of the dormant Commerce Clauseshould not, and indeed cannot, govern our interpretation ofthe Export Clause. Cf. Richfield Oil Corp. v. State Bd. ofEqualization, 329 U. S. 69, 75-76 (1946) (distinguishing accommodations made under the Commerce Clause from theexpress textual prohibition of the Import-Export Clause).BThe Government's primary assertion is that modificationsin our Import-Export Clause jurisprudence require parallelmodifications in the Export Clause context. More specifi-cally, the Government argues that our decisions inMichelinTire Corp. v. Wages, 423 U. S. 276 (1976), and Department ofRevenue of Wash. v. Association of Wash. Stevedoring Cos.,435 U. S. 734 (1978), establish that States may impose generally applicable, nondiscriminatory taxes even if those taxesfall on imports or exports. The Export Clause, the Government contends, is no more restrictive.The Import-Export Clause, which is textually similar tothe Export Clause, says in relevant part, "No State shall . . .lay any Imposts or Duties on Imports or Exports." U. S.Const., Art. I, $ 10, cl. 2. Though minor textual differencesexist and the Clauses are directed at different sovereigns,historically both have been treated as broad bans on taxationof exports, and in several cases the Court has interpretedthe provisions of the two Clauses in tandem. For instance,in the Court's first decision interpreting the Import-ExportClause, Chief Justice Marshall said:though we have long recognized negative implications of the Clause thatprevent certain state taxation even when Congress has failed to legislate.See Fulton Corp. v. Faulkner, 516 U. S. 325, 330-331 (1996); Quill Corp.v. North Dakota, 504 U. S. 298, 309 (1992).517US3$65N 02-07-99 19:38:29 PAGES OPINPGT853Cite as: 517 U. S. 843 (1996)Opinion of the Court"The States are forbidden to lay a duty on exports, andthe United States are forbidden to lay a tax or duty onarticles exported from any State. There is some diver-sity in language, but none is perceivable in the act whichis prohibited." Brown v. Maryland, 12 Wheat. 419,445 (1827).See also Kosydar v. National Cash Register Co., 417 U. S.62, 67, n. 5 (1974); Hvoslef, supra, at 13-14; Cornell, 192 U. S.,at 427-428; Turpin, 117 U. S., at 506-507. The Governmentargues that our longstanding parallel interpretations of thetwo Clauses require judgment in its favor. We disagree.InMichelin, we addressed whether a State could imposea nondiscriminatory ad valorem property tax on importedgoods that were no longer in import transit. Michelin,which imported tires from Canada and France and storedthem in a warehouse, argued that Georgia could not constitu-tionally assess ad valorem property taxes against its imported tires. We explained that "[t]he Framers of the Con-stitution . . . sought to alleviate three main concerns": (i)ensuring that the Federal Government speaks with one voicewhen regulating foreign commerce; (ii) preserving importrevenues as a major source of federal revenue; and (iii) pre-venting disharmony likely to be caused if seaboard Statestaxed goods coming through their ports. Michelin, supra,at 285-286. The Court found that nondiscriminatory ad valorem taxes violate none of these policies. A century ear-lier, however, the Court had ruled that, under the "originalpackage doctrine," a State could not impose such a tax untilthe goods had lost their character as imports and had beenincorporated into the mass of property in the State. Low v.Austin, 13 Wall. 29, 34 (1872). The Michelin Court over-ruled Low and held that the nondiscriminatory property taxlevied on Michelin's inventory of imported tires did not vio-late the Import-Export Clause because it was not an impostor duty on imports. 423 U. S., at 301. See also Limbach v.Hooven & Allison Co., 466 U. S. 353 (1984) (reaffirming that517US3$65N 02-07-99 19:38:29 PAGES OPINPGT854 UNITED STATES v. INTERNATIONAL BUSINESSMACHINES CORP.Opinion of the CourtMichelin expressly overruled the original package doctrinealtogether and not merely Low on its facts).Two years later, in Washington Stevedoring, we upheldagainst an Import-Export Clause challenge a nondiscriminatory state tax assessed against the compensation receivedby stevedoring companies for services performed within theState. The Court found that Washington's stevedoring taxdid not violate the policies underlying the Import-ExportClause. Unlike the property tax at issue in Michelin, theactivity taxed by Washington occurred while imports andexports were in transit. That fact was not dispositive, how-ever, because the tax did not fall on the goods themselves:"The levy reaches only the business of loading and un-loading ships or, in other words, the business of transporting cargo within the State of Washington. Despitethe existence of the first distinction, the presence of thesecond leads to the conclusion that the Washington taxis not a prohibited `Impost or Duty' when it violatesnone of the policies [that animate the Import-ExportClause]." Washington Stevedoring, supra, at 755.Relying on Canton R. Co. v. Rogan, 340 U. S. 511 (1951),which upheld a tax on the gross receipts of a railroad thatoperated a marine terminal and transported imports and ex-ports, we ruled in Washington Stevedoring that taxation oftransportation services, whether by railroad on the docks orby stevedores loading and unloading ships, did not relate tothe value of the goods and could not be considered impostsor duties on the goods themselves. 435 U. S., at 757.1A tax on policies insuring exports is not, precisely speak-ing, the same as a tax on exports, butThames & Merseyheld that they were functionally the same under the ExportClause. We noted in Washington Stevedoring that one mayquestion the finding in Thames & Mersey that the tax was517US3$65N 02-07-99 19:38:29 PAGES OPINPGT855Cite as: 517 U. S. 843 (1996)Opinion of the Courtessentially a tax upon the exportation itself. 435 U. S., at756, n. 21. We expressed concern that "[t]he basis for distinguishing Thames & Mersey is less clear" than for FairbankorRichfield Oil, because the marine insurance policies inThames & Mersey arguably "had a value apart from thevalue of the goods." 435 U. S., at 756, n. 21. Nevertheless,the Government apparently has chosen not to challenge thataspect of Thames & Mersey in this case. Tr. of Oral Arg. 5,8-9, 40. When questioned on that implicit concession at oralargument, the Government admitted that it "chose not to"argue that $ 4371 does not impose a tax on the goods themselves. Id., at 9. It would be inappropriate for us to reex-amine in this case, without the benefit of the parties' briefing,whether the policies on which $ 4371 is assessed are soclosely connected to the goods that the tax is, in essence, atax on exports.3 See, e. g., id., at 27-28 ("[T]he recorddoesn't reveal the sort of statistical information JusticeBreyer was suggesting might be relevant" to determine"whether this is sufficiently indirect that it's not a tax on3 The Court has never held that the Export Clause prohibits only directtaxation of goods in export transit. In Brown v. Maryland, 12 Wheat.419 (1827), Chief Justice Marshall expressed in dicta his skepticism that afederal occupational tax on exporters could pass scrutiny under the Export Clause. Id., at 445 ("[W]ould government be permitted to shielditself from the just censure to which this attempt to evade the prohibitionsof the constitution would expose it, by saying that this was a tax on theperson, not on the article, and that the legislature had a right to tax occupations?"). In Fairbank, Hvoslef, and Thames & Mersey, we struck downtaxes that were not assessed directly on goods in export transit, but whichthe Court found to be so closely related as to be effectively a tax on thegoods themselves. We have never repudiated that principle, but neitherhave we ever carefully defined how we decide whether a particular federaltax is sufficiently related to the goods or their value to violate the ExportClause. To the extent the issue was raised in the petition for certiorari,the Government failed to address the issue in its brief on the merits andtherefore has abandoned it. See Posters `N' Things, Ltd. v. United States,511 U. S. 513, 527 (1994); Russell v. United States, 369 U. S. 749, 754, n. 7(1962).517US3$65N 02-07-99 19:38:29 PAGES OPINPGT856 UNITED STATES v. INTERNATIONAL BUSINESSMACHINES CORP.Opinion of the Courtexports, . . . because the Government has conceded through-out that they are not disputing that this tax, if discriminatory, is in violation of the Constitution").Stare decisis is a "principle of policy," Helvering v.Hallock, 309 U. S. 106, 119 (1940), and not "an inexorablecommand,"Payne v. Tennessee, 501 U. S. 808, 828 (1991).Applying that policy, we frequently have declined to overrule cases in appropriate circumstances because stare decisis"promotes the evenhanded, predictable, and consistent development of legal principles, fosters reliance on judicial deci-sions, and contributes to the actual and perceived integrityof the judicial process." Id., at 827. "[E]ven in constitu-tional cases, the doctrine carries such persuasive force thatwe have always required a departure from precedent tobe supported by some `special justification.' "Id., at 842(Souter, J., concurring) (quoting Arizona v. Rumsey, 467U. S. 203, 212 (1984)).Though from time to time we have overruled governingdecisions that are "unworkable or are badly reasoned,"Payne, supra, at 827; see Smith v. Allwright, 321 U. S. 649,665 (1944), we have rarely done so on grounds not advancedby the parties. Thames & Mersey has been controllingprecedent for over 80 years, and the Government does not,indeed could not, argue that the rule established there is"unworkable." Despite the dissent's speculative protestations to the contrary, post, at 871-872, there is simply noevidence thatThames & Mersey has caused or will causeuncertainty in commercial export transactions. The principles that animate our policy of stare decisis caution againstoverruling a longstanding precedent on a theory not arguedby the parties, and we decline to do so in this case.44 The dissent suggests that "the Court assumes the statute to be invalidrather than deciding it to be so." Post, at 864. We make no such assumptions. Rather, we begin with a longstanding decision that, by all accounts, controls this case. Even the Government agrees that Congressenacted a law whose application in this case directly contravenes our hold517US3$65N 02-07-99 19:38:29 PAGES OPINPGT857Cite as: 517 U. S. 843 (1996)Opinion of the Court2What the Government does argue is that our Import-Export Clause cases require us to overruleThames &Mersey.5 We have good reason to hesitate before adoptingthe analysis of our recent Import-Export Clause cases intoour Export Clause jurisprudence. Though we have frequently interpreted the Clauses together, see supra, at 852-854, our more recent Import-Export Clause cases, on whichthe Government relies, caution that meaningful textual dif-ferences exist and should not be overlooked. The ExportClause prohibits Congress from laying any "Tax or Duty" onexports, while the Import-Export Clause prevents theStates from laying any "Imposts or Duties" on imports orexports. In bothMichelin and Washington Stevedoring, weleft open the possibility that a particular state assessmentmight not properly be called an impost or duty, and thuswould be beyond the reach of the Import-Export Clause,while an identical federal assessment might properly becalled a tax and would be subject to the Export Clause.Though we found in Michelin that a nondiscriminatory stateproperty tax does not transgress the policy dictates of theImport-Export Clause, we also recognized that the Import-Export Clause is "not written in terms of a broad prohibitionof every `tax,' " and that impost and duty are narrower termsthan tax. 423 U. S., at 290-293. In Washington Stevedoring, we likewise rejected the assertion that the Import-Export Clause absolutely prohibits all taxation of importsand exports. 435 U. S., at 759. We said that "the term `Im-post or Duty' is not self-defining and does not necessarilyencompass all taxes" and that the respondents' argument toing in Thames & Mersey. We sit not to condemn $ 4371, but rather todetermine whether it is to be saved by overruling binding precedent.5 The dissent suggests that we make a "serious mistake" in decidingwhether a nondiscriminatory tax on goods violates the Export Clause,post, at 881. We do not agree that it is a mistake to address the arguments actually advanced by the parties.517US3$65N 02-07-99 19:38:29 PAGES OPINPGT858 UNITED STATES v. INTERNATIONAL BUSINESSMACHINES CORP.Opinion of the Courtthe contrary ignored "the central holding of Michelin thatthe absolute ban is only of `Imposts or Duties' and not of alltaxes." Ibid.The distinction between imposts or duties and taxes isespecially pertinent in light of the peculiar definitional analy-sis we chose inMichelin. Finding substantial ambiguity inthe phrase "Imposts or Duties," we "decline[d] to presumeit was intended to embrace taxation that does not createthe evils the Clause was specifically intended to eliminate."423 U. S., at 293-294. We entirely bypassed the etymologi-cal inquiry into the proper meaning of the terms "impost"and "duty," and instead created a regime in which thoseterms are conclusions to be drawn from an examination intowhether a particular assessment "was the type of exactionthat was regarded as objectionable by the Framers of theConstitution."Id., at 286. We are not prepared to say thatthe word "Tax" is "sufficiently ambiguous," id., at 293, thatwe may ignore its common, and usually expansive,6 meaningin favor of an Export Clause decisional rule in which a taxis not a "Tax" unless it discriminates against exports. Consequently, Michelin and Washington Stevedoring, whichheld that the assessments in question were not "Imposts orDuties" at all, do not logically validate the assessment atissue in this case, which, by all accounts, remains a "Tax."It is not intuitively obvious that Michelin's three-prongedanalysis of the Framers' concerns is really just another wayof stating a nondiscrimination principle. But even if it were,the Government cannot reasonably rely on Michelin to gov-ern the Export Clause becauseMichelin drew its analysisaround the phrase "Imposts or Duties" and expressly ex6 Though Michelin discusses "taxes" in terms of "every exaction," 423U. S., at 290, it also suggests that at the time of the founding "probablyonly capitation, land, and general property exactions were known by theterm `tax' rather than the term `duty,' " id., at 291. In any event, theMichelin Court understood that the terms used in the Export Clause werebroader than those used in the Import-Export Clause.517US3$65N 02-07-99 19:38:29 PAGES OPINPGT859Cite as: 517 U. S. 843 (1996)Opinion of the Courtcluded the broader term "Tax" that appears in the ExportClause.Michelin marked a more permissive approach tostate taxation under the Import-Export Clause only by dis-tinguishing the presumptively stricter language of the Export Clause. We agree with the Government that Michelininforms our decision in this case, but not in a way that sup-ports the Government's position. It is simply no longer truethat the Court perceives no substantive difference betweenthe two Clauses.We are similarly hesitant to adopt the Import-ExportClause's policy-based analysis without some indication thatthe Export Clause was intended to alleviate the same "evils"to which the Import-Export Clause was directed. Unlikethe Import-Export Clause, which was intended to protectfederal supremacy in international commerce, to preservefederal revenue from import duties and imposts, and to prevent coastal States with ports from taking unfair advantageof inland States, see Michelin, supra, at 285-286, the ExportClause serves none of those goals. Indeed, textually, theExport Clause does quite the opposite. It specifically prohibits Congress from regulating international commercethrough export taxes, disallows any attempt to raise federalrevenue from exports, and has no direct effect on the waythe States treat imports and exports.As a purely historical matter, the Export Clause was originally proposed by delegates to the Federal Convention fromthe Southern States, who feared that the Northern Stateswould control Congress and would use taxes and duties onexports to raise a disproportionate share of federal revenuesfrom the South. See 2 M. Farrand, The Records of the Federal Convention of 1787, pp. 95, 305-308, 359-363 (rev. ed.1966). The Government argues that this "narrow historicalpurpose" justifies a narrow interpretation of the text andthat application of $ 4371 to policies insuring exports doesnot conflict with the policies embodied in the Clause. Brieffor United States 32-34. While the original impetus may517US3$65N 02-07-99 19:38:29 PAGES OPINPGT860 UNITED STATES v. INTERNATIONAL BUSINESSMACHINES CORP.Opinion of the Courthave had a narrow focus, the remedial provision that ulti-mately became the Export Clause does not, and there is substantial evidence from the Debates that proponents of theClause fully intended the breadth of scope that is evident inthe language. See, e. g., 2 Farrand, Records of the FederalConvention, supra, at 220 (Mr. King: "In two great pointsthe hands of the Legislature were absolutely tied. The importation of slaves could not be prohibited--exports couldnot be taxed");id., at 305 ("Mr. Mason urged the necessityof connecting with the power of levying taxes . . . that notax should be laid on exports");id., at 360 (Mr. Elseworth[sic]: "There are solid reasons agst. Congs taxing exports");ibid. ("Mr. Butler was strenuously opposed to a power overexports"); id., at 361 (Mr. Sherman: "It is best to prohibit theNational legislature in all cases"); id., at 362 ("Mr. Gerry wasstrenuously opposed to the power over exports").The Government argued for a different narrow interpreta-tion of the Export Clause inFairbank. See 181 U. S., at292-293. Arguing that the Debates expressed a primary interest in diffusing sectional conflicts, the Government urgedthe Fairbank Court to interpret the Export Clause to permittaxation of "the act of exportation or the document evidencing the receipt of goods for export, for these exist with substantial uniformity throughout the country." Id., at 292.We rejected that argument:"If mere discrimination between the States was all thatwas contemplated, it would seem to follow that an advalorem tax upon all exports would not be obnoxiousto this constitutional prohibition. But surely under thislimitation Congress can impose an export tax neither onone article of export, nor on all articles of export."Ibid.As in Fairbank, we think the text of the constitutional provision provides a better decisional guide than that offered by517US3$65N 02-07-99 19:38:29 PAGES OPINPGT861Cite as: 517 U. S. 843 (1996)Opinion of the Courtthe Government. The Government's policy argument--thatthe Framers intended the Export Clause to narrowly alleviate the fear of northern repression through taxation ofsouthern exports by prohibiting only discriminatory taxes--cannot be squared with the broad language of the Clause.The better reading, that adopted by our earlier cases, is thatthe Framers sought to alleviate their concerns by completelydenying to Congress the power to tax exports at all.3Even assuming that Michelin and Washington Stevedoring govern our Export Clause inquiry in this case, the Gov-ernment's argument falls short of its goal. Our holdings inMichelin and Washington Stevedoring do not reach the factsof this case and, more importantly, do not interpret theImport-Export Clause to permit assessment of nondiscrimi-natory taxes on imports and exports in transit.Michelininvolved a tax on goods, but the goods were no longer intransit. The tax in Washington Stevedoring burdened im-ports and exports while they were still in transit, but it didnot fall directly on the goods themselves. This case, as itcomes to us, is a hybrid in which the tax both burdens exports during transit and--as the Government concedes andour earlier cases held--is essentially a tax on the goodsthemselves. The Government argues that Michelin andWashington Stevedoring by analogy permit Congress to im-pose generally applicable, nondiscriminatory taxes that falldirectly on exports in transit. Brief for United States 32(Michelin and Washington Stevedoring "demonstrate that,when a generally applicable, nondiscriminatory tax is atissue, the mere fact that the tax applies also to goods thatare in the export or import process does not provide a constitutional immunity from taxation"). If this contention is tosucceed, the Government at the very least must show thatour Import-Export Clause jurisprudence now permits a517US3$65N 02-07-99 19:38:29 PAGES OPINPGT862 UNITED STATES v. INTERNATIONAL BUSINESSMACHINES CORP.Opinion of the CourtState to impose a nondiscriminatory tax directly on goods inimport or export transit. We think the Government hasfailed to make that showing.The Court has never upheld a state tax assessed directlyon goods in import or export transit. In Michelin, we suggested that the Import-Export Clause would invalidate ap-plication of a nondiscriminatory property tax to goods stillin import or export transit. 423 U. S., at 290 (compliancewith the Import-Export Clause may be secured "by prohibiting the assessment of even nondiscriminatory property taxeson [import or export] goods which are merely in transitthrough the State when the tax is assessed"). See alsoVirginia Indonesia Co. v. Harris County Appraisal Dist.,910 S. W. 2d 905, 915 (Tex. 1995) (invalidating applicationof a nondiscriminatory ad valorem property tax to goods inexport transit).We also declined to endorse the Government's theory inWashington Stevedoring. After reciting that the Court inCanton R. Co. had distinguished Thames & Mersey, Fairbank, and Richfield Oil, we pointed out that in those cases"the State [or Federal Government] had taxed either thegoods or activity so connected with the goods that the levyamounted to a tax on the goods themselves." WashingtonStevedoring, 435 U. S., at 756, n. 21. We expressly declinedto "reach the question of the applicability of the Michelinapproach when a State directly taxes imports or exports intransit," id., at 757, n. 23, because, although the goods in thatcase were in transit, the tax fell on "a service distinct fromthe goods and their value," id., at 757. Thus, contrary to theGovernment's contention, this Court's Import-Export Clausecases have not upheld the validity of generally applicable,nondiscriminatory taxes that fall on imports or exports intransit. We think those cases leave us free to follow theexpress textual command of the Export Clause to prohibitthe application of any tax "laid on Articles exported fromany State."517US3$65N 02-07-99 19:38:29 PAGES OPINPGT863Cite as: 517 U. S. 843 (1996)Kennedy, J., dissenting* * *We conclude that the Export Clause does not permitassessment of nondiscriminatory federal taxes on goods inexport transit. Reexamination of the question whether aparticular assessment on an activity or service is so closelyconnected to the goods as to amount to a tax on the goodsthemselves must await another day. We decline to overruleThames & Mersey. The judgment of the Court of Appealsfor the Federal Circuit is affirmed.