

Job: 528BV$ Take: SPN3 05-24-01 16:51:40

The dashed line indicates the top edge of the book.- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

UNITED STATES

REPORTS

528
OCT. TERM 1999

In Memoriam
JUSTICE HARRY A. BLACKMUN

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -The dashed line indicates the bottom edge of the book.

This layout was established for the maximum spine width. It shouldbe centered on the spine (left and right) to full width of the spine.
The excess (left and right) is to be omitted.

528BV$TITL 05-25-01 09:42:40

UNITED STATES REPORTS

VOLUME 528

CASES ADJUDGED

IN

THE SUPREME COURT

AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1999

Beginning of Term
October 4, 1999, Through February 28, 2000

FRANK D. WAGNER

reporter of decisions

WASHINGTON : 2001
Printed on Uncoated Permanent Printing Paper
For sale by the U. S. Government Printing Office
Superintendent of Documents, Mail Stop: SSOP, Washington, DC 20402-9328

528BV$ Unit: $UII [06-06-01 15:25:39] PGT: FRT

Errata
511 U. S. 265, line 21: Insert "human" between "universal" and "appeal".
520 U. S. 681, 697, line 4: "Pharoah" should be "Pharaoh".
526 U. S. 629, 637, line 11: "(1998)" should be "(1997)".
526 U. S. 629, 638, line 1: "(1998)" should be "(1997)".

ii

528BV$ Unit: UIII [05-25-01 09:41:25] PGT: FRT

J U S T I C E S

of the
S U P R E M E C O U R T
during the time of these reports

WILLIAM H. REHNQUIST, Chief Justice.
JOHN PAUL STEVENS, Associate Justice.
SANDRA DAY O'CONNOR, Associate Justice.
ANTONIN SCALIA, Associate Justice.
ANTHONY M. KENNEDY, Associate Justice.
DAVID H. SOUTER, Associate Justice.
CLARENCE THOMAS, Associate Justice.
RUTH BADER GINSBURG, Associate Justice.
STEPHEN BREYER, Associate Justice.

retired
BYRON R. WHITE, Associate Justice.

officers of the court
JANET RENO, Attorney General.SETH P. WAXMAN,

Solicitor General.
WILLIAM K. SUTER, Cler-.FRANK D. WAGNER,

Reporter of Decisions.DALE E. BOSLEY,
Marshal.SHELLEY L. DOWLING,

Librarian.

iii

528BV$ Unit: $UIV [05-25-01 09:41:03] PGT: FRT

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

Allotment of Justices
It is ordered that the following allotment be made of the ChiefJustice and Associate Justices of this Court among the circuits,

pursuant to Title 28, United States Code, Section 42, and that suchallotment be entered of record, effective September 30, 1994, viz.:

For the District of Columbia Circuit, William H. Rehnquist,Chief Justice.
For the First Circuit, David H. Souter, Associate Justice.
For the Second Circuit, Ruth Bader Ginsburg, AssociateJustice.

For the Third Circuit, David H. Souter, Associate Justice.
For the Fourth Circuit, William H. Rehnquist, Chief Justice.
For the Fifth Circuit, Antonin Scalia, Associate Justice.
For the Sixth Circuit, John Paul Stevens, Associate Justice.
For the Seventh Circuit, John Paul Stevens, Associate Justice.
For the Eighth Circuit, Clarence Thomas, Associate Justice.
For the Ninth Circuit, Sandra Day O'Connor, AssociateJustice.

For the Tenth Circuit, Stephen Breyer, Associate Justice.
For the Eleventh Circuit, Anthony M. Kennedy, AssociateJustice.

For the Federal Circuit, William H. Rehnquist, Chief Justice.
September 30, 1994.

(For next previous allotment, and modifications, see 502 U. S.,p. vi, 509 U. S., p. v, and 512 U. S., p. v.)

iv

528BV$ Unit: $$UV [05-26-01 14:38:10] PGT: FRT
PROCEEDINGS IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THEUNITED STATES IN MEMORY OF

JUSTICE BLACKMUN*
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 27, 1999

Present: Chief Justice Rehnquist, Justice Stevens,
Justice O'Connor, Justice Scalia, Justice Souter, Jus-
tice Thomas, Justice Ginsburg, and Justice Breyer.

The Chief Justice said:
The Court is in special session this afternoon to receivethe Resolutions of the Bar of the Supreme Court in tribute to

our former colleague and friend, Justice Harry A. Blackmun.The Court recognizes the Solicitor General.

The Solicitor General addressed the Court as follows:

and may it please the Court:
At a meeting today of the Bar of this Court, Resolutionsmemorializing our deep respect and affection for Justice

Blackmun were unanimously adopted. With the Court'sleave, I shall summarize the Resolutions and ask that they
be set forth in their entirety in the records of the Court.

RESOLUTION
Justice Harry A. Blackmun often joked that he came tothe Supreme Court as "Old Number Three," having been the

third nominee proposed by President Richard M. Nixon for

*Justice Blackmun, who retired from the Court effective August 3, 1994
(512 U. S. vii), died in Arlington, Virginia, on March 4, 1999 (526 U. S. v).

v

528BV$ Unit: $$UV [05-26-01 14:38:10] PGT: FRT
vi JUSTICE BLACKMUN

the fabled seat once held by Justices Joseph Story, Oliver
Wendell Holmes, Jr., Benjamin Cardozo, and Felix Frankfurter. At his confirmation hearings, he was asked by Senator James O. Eastland, the chairman of the Senate Judiciary
Committee, whether he thought judges ought to be required
to take senior status at the age of seventy. He replied that
he was concerned that "[a]n arbitrary age limit can lead
to some unfortunate consequences. I think of Mr. Justice
Holmes and many others who have performed great service
for the country after age 70. So much depends on the individual. I think some of us are old at a younger age than
others are." 1

The Justice was prescient. When he lef t the seat
twenty-four years later, he was "Old Number Three" in a
different sense: the third oldest Justice ever to serve on the
Court. And much of his legacy is the product of his years
on the Court after he turned 70: his opinions for the Court
in Santosky v. Kramer, 455 U. S. 745 (1982), Garcia v. San
Antonio Metropolitan Transit Authority, 469 U. S. 528
(1985), Daubert v. Merrell Dow Pharmaceuticals, 509 U. S.
579 (1993), and J. E. B. v. Alabama, 511 U. S. 127 (1994); his
concurrences in Planned Parenthood v. Casey, 505 U. S. 833
(1992), and Lee v. Weisman, 505 U. S. 577 (1992); and his dissents in Bowers v. Hardwick, 478 U. S. 186 (1986), McCleskey
v. Kemp, 481 U. S. 279 (1987), and Callins v. Collins, 510
U. S. 1141 (1994). If some men are old at a younger age than
others, Justice Blackmun remained young to an older age,
retaining until he died the intellectual curiosity, passion for
hard work, and openness to new ideas and people that had
been the hallmarks of his life.

The future Justice was born in Nashville, Illinois, on November 12, 1908. His family soon moved to St. Paul, Minnesota, where his father owned a grocery and hardware store
in a blue-collar neighborhood. The Justice's early life, during which he experienced or observed economic, social, and

1 Harry A. Blackmun: Hearing Before the Sen. Comm. on the Judiciary, 91st Cong., 2d Sess., 53 (1970).

528BV$ Unit: $$UV [05-26-01 14:38:10] PGT: FRT

viiJUSTICE BLACKMUN
familial hardships, proved a source of empathy in recognizingthat "[t]here is another world `out there,' "

Beal v. Doe, 432
U. S. 438, 463 (1977) (Blackmun, J., dissenting), a world in-habited by the poor, the powerless, and the oppressed, the

"frightened and forlorn." Ohio v. Akron Center for Reproductive Health, 497 U. S. 502, 541 (1990) (Blackmun, J.,
dissenting).In 1925, one of his high school teachers, who recognized an

intellectual spark in her pupil, persuaded Blackmun to seekhis fortunes in the wider world, and he won a scholarship
from the Minnesota Harvard Club to Harvard College. But
because the scholarship paid only his tuition, the future Jus-tice worked as a janitor and a milkman, painted handball

courts, ran a motor launch for the coach of the Harvard crewteam, and graded math papers to make ends meet. Despite
this grueling schedule, he received his A.B. summa cum
laude in mathematics in 1929. Although he had long
planned on going to medical school, he decided instead toattend Harvard Law School. At the law school, his future

colleague William J. Brennan, Jr., was a class ahead of him,and he counted his predecessor Felix Frankfurter among his
professors. During his final year at law school, his teamwon the prestigious Ames Moot Court competition.

After graduation, Blackmun returned to Minnesota to
clerk for Judge John B. Sanborn of the United States Courtof Appeals for the Eighth Circuit. His year and a half with

Judge Sanborn gave him a model for his own career as anappellate judge, and also gave him exposure to some of the
problems that occupied his judicial career.In 1934, having finished his clerkship, Blackmun joined the
prestigious firm of Dorsey, Colman, Barker, Scott & Barberin Minneapolis. Fortuitously, the new associate was assigned to the firm's tax department, where he soon found hisniche and had his first brush with the institution where he
would spend more than a quarter century.

On October 14, 1935, this Court convened for the first time
to hear oral argument in the magnificent building where it
now sits. The first case on the docket was Douglas v. Will528BV$ Unit: $$UV [05-26-01 14:38:10] PGT: FRT
viii JUSTICE BLACKMUN
cuts, 296 U. S. 1 (1935). The litigation involved the questionwhether income from a trust established by a soon-to-be exhusband in lieu of paying alimony was taxable to the grantorrather than to the recipient. Down in the lower left-hand
corner of the taxpayer's reply brief was the name of anew associate, who had apparently joined the litigation team
after the opening merits brief had been filed. It was HarryBlackmun. Less than a month after the argument--and
on the day before the future Justice's twenty-seventh birth-day--Chief Justice Hughes delivered a unanimous opinion
rejecting the position taken by Blackmun's client.

On Midsummer's Day 1941, Blackmun married "Miss
Clark," his beloved wife Dottie. They had three daughters:
Nancy, Sally, and Susie. Blackmun's sixteen years at the
Dorsey firm ended when he was named the first resident
counsel of the famed Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota.
He remembered his time there as the happiest decade of his
life. Not only was he able to make connections between law
and medicine but he and Mrs. Blackmun also cemented
friendships that were to last for a lifetime.

In 1959, when Judge Sanborn decided to take senior status, he decided that his former law clerk, Harry Blackmun,
should succeed him. He then wrote to Deputy Attorney
General Lawrence E. Walsh, saying "I sincerely hope, as I
know you do, that political considerations will not offensively
enter into the selection of a successor. If they should, there
might be no vacancy to fill." 2 According to Judge Richard
S. Arnold of the Eighth Circuit, "[t]he story is that Judge
Sanborn really meant this: `Appoint Harry Blackmun, or
there will be no appointment to make.' " 3 The hint worked,
and President Eisenhower appointed Blackmun to fill Judge

2 Letter from the Honorable John B. Sanborn to Lawrence E. Walsh
(Feb. 21, 1959) (on file in John B. Sanborn file, Department of Justice appointment files, Federal Personnel Records Center, St. Louis, Missouri),
quoted in Theodore J. Fetter, A History of the United States Court of
Appeals for the Eighth Circuit 73 (1977).

3 Richard S. Arnold, A Tribute to Justice Harry A. Blackmun, 108 Harv.

L. Rev. 6, 7 (1994).

528BV$ Unit: $$UV [05-26-01 14:38:10] PGT: FRT

ixJUSTICE BLACKMUN
Sanborn's seat. Judge Blackmun took office on November4, 1959.

Judge Blackmun wrote over 200 signed opinions during histime on the Eighth Circuit.

4 In light of his experience in

practice, it is hardly surprising that over a quarter were
tax-related; his taste for, and expertise in, intricate questions involving the Internal Revenue Code were well known.
But the opinion he later described as the one of which he
was proudest, Jackson v. Bishop, 404 F. 2d 571 (8th Cir.
1968), reflected a very different side of the judge's temperament. The case harkened back to his time clerking for
Judge Sanborn, when he brought a petition from an inmate
protesting cruel prison conditions to his judge's attention.
"I know, Harry," Judge Sanborn said, "but we can't do anything about it." This time, Judge Blackmun could do something about the problem: Jackson was one of the first appellate opinions to hold prison practices unconstitutional under
the Eighth Amendment. Jackson was a pioneering decision
under the Eighth Amendment. Three inmates challenged
the Arkansas prison system's essentially unregulated practice of whipping prisoners. In one of the first, if not the
first, appellate opinions applying the Eighth Amendment to
state prison conditions (rather than simply to the types of
punishment for crime), Judge Blackmun declared that the
prisoners were entitled to an injunction barring further use
of corporal punishment. His scholarly and measured opinion powerfully conveyed Judge Blackmun's commitment to
the inherent dignity of all people:

"[W]e glean a recognition of, and a reliance in part upon,
attitudes of contemporary society and comparative law.
And the emphasis is on man's basic dignity, on civilized
precepts, and on flexibility and improvement in standards of decency as society progresses and matures. . . .

4 For a thorough discussion of the Justice's career on the Court of Appeals, see Chief Judge Donald Lay, The Cases of Blackmun, J., on the
United States Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit 1959-1970, 8 Hamline L. Rev. 2 (1985).

528BV$ Unit: $$UV [05-26-01 14:38:10] PGT: FRT
x JUSTICE BLACKMUN

[T]he limits of the Eighth Amendment's proscription arenot easily or exactly defined, and we also have clear indications that the applicable standards are flexible, thatdisproportion, both among punishments and between
punishment and crime, is a factor to be considered, andthat broad and idealistic concepts of dignity, civilized
standards, humanity, and decency are useful and us-able." Jackson, 404 F. 2d, at 579.

At the same time, although he was prepared for bold doc-trinal innovation when he saw support in the existing Supreme Court precedent, Judge Blackmun understood theconstrained role of court of appeals judges. At the 1968 investiture of his colleague, Judge Myron H. Bright, JudgeBlackmun reflected:

"The concern [of a judge] is with what is proper law andwith what is the proper result for each case. . . . There's
always some uncertainty in the law and for you, . . .there will be periods of uncertainty in your work.
There will be moments of struggle in trying to ascertainthe correct from the incorrect. . . . There will be the
awareness of the awfulness of judicial power, and al-though you will be on a multiple-judge court, you will
experience the loneliness of decision. And there will be
the embarrassment which occasionally comes when youhave to conclude that a fine District Judge just might

be wrong in his decision, and there will be the greaterembarrassment which inevitably comes when the Supreme Court concludes that after all the District Judgewas right and we were wrong. . . . And there will be
the realization that an individual Circuit Judge is notimportant after all, that he is lost in the library, and that
it does take two, not one, to make a decision. JudgeSanborn, John B., reminded me, not once but many
times, that a United States Circuit Judge is just aboutas unimportant as an honorary pallbearer. . . . But there
also will be--and I say this genuinely and seriously--
the inner satisfaction and the inner reward which one

528BV$ Unit: $$UV [05-26-01 14:38:10] PGT: FRT

xiJUSTICE BLACKMUN
possesses in being permitted to work on matters of realsubstance, in feeling that one's decision, at least in his

own conscience, is right, and in knowing that hard workand hard thought and practical and positive scholarship
are about all and about the best that anyone can offer.I'm certain that no part of the legal field is capable of
providing any higher sense of satisfaction in its workand in its spirit than is the federal bench."

5

This combination of humility and insight is illustratedby Jones v. Alfred H. Mayer Co., 379 F. 2d 33 (8th Cir.

1967), which was later reversed by this Court. 392 U. S. 409(1968). The case concerned the question whether 42 U. S. C.

$ 1982 outlawed private racial discrimination in the saleof real property. The existing Supreme Court precedent,
Judge Blackmun felt, barred using $ 1982 to reach purely pri-vate conduct: "It is not for our court, as an inferior one, to
give full expression to any personal inclination any of usmight have and to take the lead in expanding constitutional
precepts when we are faced with a limiting Supreme Courtdecision which, so far as we are told directly, remains good
law." 379 F. 2d, at 43. Nonetheless, Judge Blackmun es-sentially invited the Supreme Court to revisit the question--
"It would not be too surprising if the Supreme Court oneday were to hold that a court errs when it dismisses a complaint of this kind," id., at 44--and he laid out the differentanalyses that might support such a result. Finally, Judge
Blackmun expressed a desire for political solutions to press-ing social problems:

"Relief for the plaintiffs lies, we think, in fair housinglegislation which will be tempered by the policy and
exemption considerations which enter into thought-fully considered statutes. Recent cases indicate that, if
properly drawn, such legislation would encounter littleconstitutional objection. The power exists but its exercise is absent. The matter, thus, is one of policy, to be
5 Judge Myron H. Bright, Justice Harry A. Blackmun: Some Personal
Recollections, 71 N. D. L. Rev. 7, 8-9 (1995).

528BV$ Unit: $$UV [05-26-01 14:38:10] PGT: FRT
xii JUSTICE BLACKMUN

implemented in the customary manner by appropriate
statutes directed to the need. If we are wrong in this
conclusion, the Supreme Court will tell us so and in so
doing surely will categorize and limit those of its prior
decisions, cited herein, which we feel are restrictive
upon us." Id., at 45 (citations omitted).

The meticulousness and modesty of Judge Blackmun's approach to difficult questions made him an appealing prospect
for elevation to the Supreme Court when President Richard
M. Nixon's first two attempts to fill the seat left vacant by
Justice Abe Fortas' resignation failed in the Senate.

The most striking thing about the future Justice's confirmation hearings--which lasted only one day and at which he
was the only witness--was the virtual absence of pointed
consideration of any of the issues with which he would become most closely identified during his time on the Court,
save for a few questions about whether he could apply the
death penalty given his personal opposition.

Nonetheless, the reported comments presaged some significant characteristics of Justice Blackmun's approach to
his work. The Report of the Senate Judiciary Committee,
which unanimously recommended his confirmation, described
him as a "man of learning and humility." 6 And the letter
from the American Bar Association's Standing Committee
on the Federal Judiciary, which also unanimously endorsed
Blackmun's nomination, described him as "one who conscientiously and with open mind weighs every reasonable argument with careful knowledge of the record, the arguments
and the law." 7 It also reported the comments of a district
court judge from the Eighth Circuit that Blackmun was "a
gifted, scholarly judge who has an unusual capacity for the
production of opinions . . . which present learned treatises of
the factual and legal questions involved. And coupled with
all of his erudition, he is unassuming, kind and considerate

6 S. Exec. Rep. No. 18, 91st Cong., 2d Sess., 2 (1970).
7 Hearing, supra, note 1, at 9.

528BV$ Unit: $$UV [05-26-01 14:38:10] PGT: FRT

xiiiJUSTICE BLACKMUN
in all of his associations with the Bar and the public." 8 TheSenate unanimously confirmed the nomination on May 12,

1970, and Justice Blackmun took the oath of office on June9, 1970.

Justice Blackmun served on this Court for twenty-fouryears. Perhaps more than any other Justice in modern
times, he became identified in the popular mind with a singledecision: his opinion for the Court in

Roe v. Wade, 410 U. S.
113 (1973). In Roe, this Court held that the Due ProcessClause of the Fourteenth Amendment protects, under certain circumstances, a woman's decision whether to carry a
pregnancy to term. Throughout his service on the Court,the Justice vigorously defended the principles laid out in

Roe. His last opinion for the Court in an abortion case,
Thornburgh v. American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists, 476 U. S. 747, 772 (1986) (citations omitted), offereda particularly eloquent expression of this commitment to individual freedom:

"Our cases long have recognized that the Constitution
embodies a promise that a certain private sphere of indi-vidual liberty will be kept largely beyond the reach of

government. That promise extends to women as wellas to men. Few decisions are more personal and intimate, more properly private, or more basic to individualdignity and autonomy, than a woman's decision--with
the guidance of her physician and within the limits speci-fied in

Roe--whether to end her pregnancy. A woman's
right to make that choice freely is fundamental. Any
other result, in our view, would protect inadequately a
central part of the sphere of liberty that our law guarantees equally to all."

Justice Blackmun and his family paid a heavy price for his
commitment to a constitutionally protected zone of privacy
for others: he was the subject of fierce protests, hate mail,
repeated picketing, death threats, and a bullet fired through

8 Id., at 10.

528BV$ Unit: $$UV [05-26-01 14:38:10] PGT: FRT
xiv JUSTICE BLACKMUN
his living room window into a chair in which his wife hadrecently been sitting.

The Justice often referred to Roe as a landmark in theemancipation of women. This view was borne out by the
joint opinion of three of his colleagues who joined the Courtafter Roe,

Justices O'Connor, Kennedy, and Souter, in
Planned Parenthood v. Casey, 505 U. S. 833, 856 (1992) (cita-tion omitted):

"[F]or two decades of economic and social developments,people have organized intimate relationships and made
choices that define their views of themselves and theirplaces in society, in reliance on the availability of abortion in the event that contraception should fail. Theability of women to participate equally in the economic
and social life of the Nation has been facilitated by theirability to control their reproductive lives. The Constitution serves human values, and while the effect of reli-ance on

Roe cannot be exactly measured, neither canthe certain cost of overruling Roe for people who have

ordered their thinking and living around that case bedismissed."

Near the beginning of his opinion for the Court in Roe,Justice Blackmun quoted Justice Holmes' statement that the
Constitution "is made for people of fundamentally differingviews," 410 U. S., at 117 (quoting Lochner v. New York, 198
U. S. 45, 76 (1905) (Holmes, J., dissenting)). That imagina-tive empathy informed far more than the Justice's abortion
jurisprudence. In his dissent in Bowers v. Hardwick, 478U. S. 186 (1986), for example, the Justice argued that the
liberty guaranteed by the Due Process Clause protected theintimate decisions of gays and lesbians:

"The fact that individuals define themselves in a signifi-cant way through their intimate sexual relationships
with others suggests, in a Nation as diverse as ours, thatthere may be many "right" ways of conducting those
relationships, and that much of the richness of a relation528BV$ Unit: $$UV [05-26-01 14:38:10] PGT: FRT

xvJUSTICE BLACKMUN
ship will come from the freedom an individual has to
choose the form and nature of these intensely personal
bonds. . . . [A] necessary corollary of giving individualsfreedom to choose how to conduct their lives is acceptance of the fact that different individuals will make dif-ferent choices."

Id., at 205-206 (citation omitted; emphasis in original).

He ended the dissent by maintaining that "depriving individuals of the right to choose for themselves how to conducttheir intimate relationships poses a far greater threat to the

values most deeply rooted in our Nation's history than toler-ance of nonconformity could ever do,"

id., at 214, echoing a
point he had made once in paraphrasing Pogo: " `We havemet the enemy and he is us,'

he is us." 9
This recognition that the true measure of the Constitutionlies "in the way we treat those who are not exactly like us,

in the way we treat those who do not behave as we do, in theway we treat each other,"

10 was a hallmark of the Justice's

thinking. In the Justice's first Term on the Court, he wrote
the Court's pathbreaking opinion in Graham v. Richardson,403 U. S. 365 (1971). The case involved challenges to several

state welfare programs that either excluded aliens alto-gether or severely restricted their eligibility for benefits.
Justice Blackmun saw that aliens presented "a prime example of a `discrete and insular' minority for whom . . . heightened judicial solicitude is appropriate." 403 U. S., at 372
(quoting United States v. Carolene Products Co., 304 U. S.
144, 152-153, n. 4 (1938)). The Justice's opinion for the
Court was the first to invoke the now-famous and influential,
but then obscure, "footnote four" from Carolene Products to
explain the reason for heightened judicial scrutiny of discrete
and insular groups. But just as significant as the Justice's

9 Harry A. Blackmun, Some Goals for Legal Education, 1 Ohio N. U. L.
Rev. 403, 405 (1974) (emphasis supplied by Justice Blackmun).

10 Harry A. Blackmun, John Jay and the Federalist Papers, 8 Pace L.

Rev. 237, 247 (1988).

528BV$ Unit: $$UV [05-26-01 14:38:10] PGT: FRT
xvi JUSTICE BLACKMUN
recognition of aliens' need for judicial protection was hiscelebration of the special contributions aliens can make to

American life: they represent "some of the diverse elementsthat are available, competent, and contributory to the richness of our society." Ambach v. Norwick, 441 U. S. 68, 88(1979) (Blackmun, J., dissenting).

Similarly, the Justice's many opinions regarding the rightsof Native Americans illustrate his view that judgment requires both knowledge and empathy. Perhaps in no otherarea did the Justice's longstanding interest in American history intersect so completely with his judicial approach. The
Justice's opinion for the Court in United States v. Sioux Nation of Indians, 448 U. S. 371 (1980), for example, set out in
scrupulous detail how the Sioux had been stripped of theBlack Hills of South Dakota and of their way of life. Strictly

speaking, the detail might have been unnecessary to resolv-ing the technical issues of congressional intent, Court of
Claims jurisdiction, and principles of claim and issue preclu-sion that determined the outcome of the case. But it was
critical nonetheless to the Justice's central mission: ground-ing the judgment for the Sioux in the "moral debt" arising
out of the dependence to which the United States had re-duced a proud and self-reliant people.

Id., at 397.
This sense of promises betrayed was even more pointed in
the elegiac tone of the Justice's dissent in South Carolina v.
Catawba Indian Tribe, Inc., 476 U. S. 498 (1986), which
rested on the premise that statutory ambiguities should beresolved in favor of Native Americans' claims because of "an

altogether proper reluctance by the judiciary to assume thatCongress has chosen further to disadvantage a people whom
our Nation long ago reduced to a state of dependency." Id.,at 520 (Blackmun, J., dissenting). The Justice argued that
interpretation of the statute should take into account how"

the Indians would have understood" it. Id., at 527 (emphasis added). By moving from the abstract principle to the
concrete inclusion of the Catawbas' perspective, Justice
Blackmun moved from a sympathetic to an empathetic viewpoint. As Judge Richard Arnold has remarked, the Justice's

528BV$ Unit: $$UV [05-26-01 14:38:10] PGT: FRT

xviiJUSTICE BLACKMUN
writing reflects "a struggle to put oneself in other people'sshoes."

11

The Justice's concern with prison conditions continuedalong the path on which he first set out as a law clerk and

then as a judge on the court of appeals in Jackson v. Bishop.In his last Term on the Court, the Justice summed up his
approach in his concurrence in Farmer v. Brennan, 511 U. S.825 (1994):

"Although formally sentenced to a term of incarceration,many inmates discover that their punishment . . . degenerates into a reign of terror unmitigated by the protec-tion supposedly afforded by prison officials.

"The fact that our prisons are badly overcrowded andunderstaffed may well explain many of the shortcomings
of our penal systems. But our Constitution sets mini-mal standards governing the administration of punishment in this country, and thus it is no answer to thecomplaints of the brutalized inmate that the resources
are unavailable to protect him from what, in reality, isnothing less than torture. I stated in dissent in

UnitedStates v. Bailey: "It is society's responsibility to protect

the life and health of its prisoners. `[W]hen a sheriff ora marshall [sic] takes a man from the courthouse in a
prison van and transports him to confinement for two orthree or ten years, this is our act. We have tolled the
bell for him. And whether we like it or not, we havemade him our collective responsibility. We are free to
do something about him; he is not." Id., at 853-854(Blackmun, J., concurring) (citations omitted; emphasis
in original).
The Justice's jurisprudential sense of connection with andresponsibility towards prisoners was accompanied, as was

so characteristic of him, by a personal sense of connectionas well. He regularly received, and read, a prison newspaper--the Stillwater (Minn.) Prison Mirror. Indeed, the

11 Richard S. Arnold, Mr. Justice Blackmun: An Appreciation, 8 Hamline L. Rev. 20, 24 (1985).

528BV$ Unit: $$UV [05-26-01 14:38:10] PGT: FRT
xviii JUSTICE BLACKMUN
Justice traveled to Minnesota to present an award to Robert
Morgan, the inmate-editor of the Mirror. And the Justice
also included prison administrators and officials in the Justice
and Society seminar he and Norval Morris led for nearly
twenty summers at the Aspen Institute. He hoped both
that these officials would educate the other participants
about the concerns of the world inside the walls and that the
seminar would press them to think critically about their
work and its relationship to broad issues of justice and
decency.

Finally, the Justice was a pioneer in thinking about the
constitutional rights of the mentally ill and mentally disabled. In Jackson v. Indiana, 406 U. S. 715, 738 (1972), his
opinion for the Court advanced the proposition that "[a]t the
least, due process requires that the nature and duration of
[an involuntary] commitment [to a mental institution] bear
some reasonable relation to the purpose for which the individual is committed." He elaborated on this theme in his
concurrence in Youngberg v. Romeo, 457 U. S. 307, 326 (1982):

"If a state court orders a mentally retarded person committed for "care and treatment," however, I believe that
due process might well bind the State to ensure that
the conditions of his commitment bear some reasonable
relation to each of those goals. In such a case, commitment without any "treatment" whatsoever would not
bear a reasonable relation to the purposes of the person's confinement."

Thus, if a mentally disabled person lost his minimal self-care
skills because of the State's failure to provide him with training, he might suffer "a loss of liberty quite distinct from--
and as serious as--the loss of safety and freedom from unreasonable restraints. For many mentally retarded people, the
difference between the capacity to do things for themselves
within an institution and total dependence on the institution
for all of their needs is as much liberty as they ever will
know." Id., at 327.

528BV$ Unit: $$UV [05-26-01 14:38:10] PGT: FRT

xixJUSTICE BLACKMUN
One of the Justice's most widely quoted images evoked the
presence of "another world out there," that an overly comfortable Court might either "ignore or fea[r] to recognize."
Ohio v. Akron Center for Reproductive Health, 497 U. S. 502,
541-542 (1990) (Blackmun, J., dissenting); Harris v. McRae,
448 U. S. 297, 346 (1980) (Blackmun, J., dissenting); Beal v.
Doe, 432 U. S. 438, 463 (1977) (Blackmun, J., dissenting).
While he used this precise phrase only in his dissents in
abortion rights cases, it reflected a broader commitment to
learning about, and facing, facts in the world. For example,
in his separate opinion in Regents of the Univ. of California
v. Bakke, 438 U. S. 265, 407 (1978), the Justice expressed his
support for race-conscious affirmative action in higher education with these words: "The sooner we get down the road
toward accepting and being a part of the real world, and
not shutting it out and away from us, the sooner will these
difficulties vanish from the scene." Similarly, in his dissent
in City of Richmond v. J. A. Croson Co., 488 U. S. 469 (1989),
the Justice chided the Court for ignoring the historical context in which the city's affirmative action plan had been
developed:

"I never thought that I would live to see the day when
the city of Richmond, Virginia, the cradle of the Old Confederacy, sought on its own, within a narrow confine, to
lessen the stark impact of persistent discrimination.
But Richmond, to its great credit, acted. Yet this
Court, the supposed bastion of equality, strikes down
Richmond's efforts as though discrimination had never
existed or was not demonstrated in this particular
litigation. . . . History is irrefutable . . . So the Court
today regresses. I am confident, however, that, given
time, it one day again will do its best to fulfill the great
promises of the Constitution's Preamble and of the guarantees embodied in the Bill of Rights--a fulfillment that
would make this Nation very special." 488 U. S., at
561-562 (1989) (Blackmun, J., dissenting).

528BV$ Unit: $$UV [05-26-01 14:38:10] PGT: FRT
xx JUSTICE BLACKMUN
This understanding of the Constitution as a living documentwas also powerfully expressed in the Justice's dissent in Lassiter v. Department of Social Services, 452 U. S. 18, 58-59(1981), where the Justice argued that the Due Process Clause
required the State to provide counsel to indigent parents be-fore terminating their parental rights:

"Ours, supposedly, is "a maturing society," Trop v.
Dulles, 356 U. S. 86, 101 (1958) (plurality opinion), and
our notion of due process is, "perhaps, the least frozenconcept of our law."

Griffin v. Illinois, 351 U. S. 12, 20
(1956) (opinion concurring in judgment). If the Courtin

Boddie v. Connecticut, 401 U. S. 371 (1971), was able
to perceive as constitutionally necessary the access tojudicial resources required to dissolve a marriage at the

behest of private parties, surely it should perceive assimilarly necessary the requested access to legal resources when the State itself seeks to dissolve the intimate and personal family bonds between parent andchild. It will not open the "floodgates" that, I suspect,

the Court fears. On the contrary, we cannot constitu-tionally afford the closure that the result in this sad case
imposes upon us all."
The Justice had a special wisdom and sensitivity about the
relationship among history, race, and gender. He knewwhen the law ought to take account of race or gender: consider his often-quoted statement in Bakke, that "[i]n orderto get beyond racism, we must first take account of race.
There is no other way. And in order to treat some personsequally, we must treat them differently. We cannot--we
dare not--let the Equal Protection Clause perpetuate racialsupremacy," 438 U. S., at 407 (separate opinion of Blackmun,
J.). But he also knew when the continued use of race orgender would serve only "to ratify and perpetuate invidious,
archaic, and overbroad stereotypes about the relative abili-ties of men and women."

J. E. B. v. Alabama, 511 U. S. 127,
131 (1994).

528BV$ Unit: $$UV [05-26-01 14:38:10] PGT: FRT

xxiJUSTICE BLACKMUN
In a related vein, it was the Justice's exposure to the actualoperation of the capital punishment system that prompted

his conclusion, expressed in his dissent in Callins v. Collins,510 U. S. 1141 (1994), that "[e]xperience has taught us that
the constitutional goal of eliminating arbitrariness and dis-crimination from the administration of death . . . can never
be achieved without compromising an equally essential com-ponent of fundamental fairness--individualized sentencing."
Id., at 1144:

"From this day forward, I no longer shall tinker with
the machinery of death. For more than 20 years I haveendeavored--indeed, I have struggled--along with a

majority of this Court, to develop procedural and sub-stantive rules that would lend more than the mere appearance of fairness to the death penalty endeavor.Rather than continue to coddle the Court's delusion that
the desired level of fairness has been achieved and the
need for regulation eviscerated, I feel morally and intel-lectually obligated simply to concede that the death penalty experiment has failed. It is virtually self-evidentto me now that no combination of procedural rules or
substantive regulations ever can save the death penaltyfrom its inherent constitutional deficiencies. The basic
question--does the system accurately and consistentlydetermine which defendants "deserve" to die?--cannot
be answered in the affirmative. . . . The problem is thatthe inevitability of factual, legal, and moral error gives
us a system that we know must wrongly kill some defendants, a system that fails to deliver the fair, consist-ent, and reliable sentences of death required by the Constitution." Id., at 1145-1146.
On a more abstract level, the Justice's commitment tolearning about and facing the facts was expressed by his

widely praised and influential opinion for the Court in Daubert v. Merrell Dow Pharmaceuticals, Inc., 509 U. S. 579
(1993). In Daubert, the Justice addressed one of the central

528BV$ Unit: $$UV [05-26-01 14:38:10] PGT: FRT
xxii JUSTICE BLACKMUN
issues in contemporary litigation: the standard of admissibility for expert testimony. Federal Rule of Evidence 702
provides that "[i]f scientific, technical, or other specialized
knowledge will assist the trier of fact to understand the evidence or to determine a fact in issue, a witness qualified as
an expert . . . may testify thereto . . . ." The Justice interpreted this rule to require that the content of the expert's
testimony be "scientific" in the sense that it be "ground[ed]
in the methods and procedures of science," 509 U. S., at 590,
and that it concern "knowledge," not merely "subjective belief or unsupported speculation," ibid. The Justice understood that science is a method or a procedure rather than
simply a body of facts. Daubert's discussion of the factors
that make knowledge "scientific"--falsifiability, peer review,
error rates, and general acceptance within the relevant scientific community, id., at 592-594--reflected the Justice's
longstanding comfort with and receptivity to scientific and
social scientific ways of understanding complex events.
Other examples of his approach include Barefoot v. Estelle,
463 U. S. 880, 920-929 (1983) (Blackmun, J., dissenting) (discussing the validity of predictions regarding future dangerousness); Ballew v. Georgia, 435 U. S. 223, 230-239 (1978)
(opinion of Blackmun, J.) (discussing studies of jury size); and
Castaneda v. Partida, 430 U. S. 482, 496-497, and n. 17 (1977)
(discussing models of statistical probability and standard
deviations).

No account of the Justice's time on the Supreme Court
would be complete without a discussion of his tax opinions.
Many observers, including the Justice himself, remarked on
the large number of tax cases he was assigned. The Justice
sometimes joked that these opinions were the result of his
being "in the doghouse with the Chief," but in fact he retained both an interest and an expertise in taxation throughout his judicial tenure.

One recent study concluded that during his time on the
Court Justice Blackmun wrote majority opinions in thirtythree federal tax cases and concurring or dissenting opinions

528BV$ Unit: $$UV [05-26-01 14:38:10] PGT: FRT

xxiiiJUSTICE BLACKMUN
in an additional twenty-six federal tax cases.12 The Justicealso wrote many significant opinions in cases involving state

taxation schemes, the Commerce Clause, and the Due Proc-ess Clause.

13 As Robert Green, one of the Justice's former

clerks and a prominent tax scholar has noted, "[m]any of Jus-tice Blackmun's tax opinions are legendary among tax lawyers and academics. It is no coincidence that law schoolcasebooks in federal income taxation typically include more
cases written by Justice Blackmun than by any other Su-preme Court Justice."

14 For example, the Justice wrote a

series of influential opinions on the Internal Revenue Code's
treatment of capital expenditures and its connection to the
matching principle: Commissioner v. Lincoln Savings and
Loan Association, 403 U. S. 345 (1971); Commissioner v.
Idaho Power Co., 418 U. S. 1 (1974); Thor Power Tool Co. v.
Commissioner, 439 U. S. 522 (1979); INDOPCO, Inc. v. Commissioner, 503 U. S. 79 (1992); and Newark Morning Ledger
Co. v. United States, 507 U. S. 546 (1993).

His opinions reflected a pragmatic, yet economically sophisticated, approach to the issue and drew on a broad range
of sources: the text of the Code provisions involved and their
legislative history, the broader legislative purpose of the
Code, post-enactment developments, including the Internal
Revenue Service's interpretations, and the practical effects
different decisions would have. They employed a perceptive
"tax logic," which interpreted the Internal Revenue Code
in a sensible and coherent way. As with so many areas of
the Justice's jurisprudence, his approach to tax law was
beautifully summarized in the eulogy delivered at his memorial service by his former minister, the Reverend William
Holmes:

12 Robert A. Green, Justice Blackmun's Federal Tax Jurisprudence, 26
Hastings Const. L. Q. 109 (1998).

13 See Dan T. Coenen, Justice Blackmun, Federalism and Separation of

Powers, 97 Dick. L. Rev. 541 (1993); Karen Nelson Moore, Justice Blackmun's Contributions on the Court: The Commercial Speech and State
Taxation Examples, 8 Hamline L. Rev. 29 (1985).

14 Green, supra, note 12, at 110.

528BV$ Unit: $$UV [05-26-01 14:38:10] PGT: FRT
xxiv JUSTICE BLACKMUN

"Harry Blackmun excelled at math, and he knew the difference between mathematics and the law. What he
brought to both the law and Scripture was neither an
absolute subjectivism nor an absolute relativism, but
creative fidelity marked by humility, with a twinkle in
his eye."

That twinkle in the Justice's eye occasionally made its way
into the pages of the United States Reports. For example,
in his opinion for the Court in Flood v. Kuhn, 407 U. S. 258,
260-264 (1972), the Justice took his readers for a tour
through his beloved game of baseball, complete with a list of
notable players--he apparently forgot to include Mel Ott, for
which his clerks repeatedly teased him. But the twinkle
was especially familiar to the many people whose lives he
touched personally: his colleagues on the Eighth Circuit,
whom he delighted with his annual appearance at the Circuit
Conference; his law clerks, who became members of his family and whose professional lives were changed forever by
their year with the Justice; the police officers, staff in the
clerk's office, and other Court personnel, whom he treated
with an affection and respect they returned twofold; his secretaries and messengers, who became close professional and
personal companions; and, most of all, his family--his wife
Dottie, his daughters Nancy, Sally, and Susie, and his
grandchildren.

Justice Blackmun had a deep and abiding passion for
American history. Above his desk, he kept a copy of a statement by his hero, Abraham Lincoln:

"If I were to try to read, much less answer, all the attacks made on me, this shop might as well be closed for
any other business. I do the very best I know how--
the very best I can; and I mean to keep doing so until
the end. If the end brings me out all right, what is said
against me won't amount to anything. If the end brings
me out wrong, ten angels swearing I was right would
make no difference."

528BV$ Unit: $$UV [05-26-01 14:38:10] PGT: FRT

xxvJUSTICE BLACKMUN
Through his commitment to a living Constitution and to care-ful interpretation of the law, Justice Blackmun gave voice to

what Lincoln called, in his First Inaugural Address, "the bet-ter angels of our nature." We will miss him.

Wherefore, it is accordingly
RESOLVED that we, the Bar of the Supreme Court of theUnited States, express our admiration and respect for Justice Harry A. Blackmun, our sadness at his death, and ourcondolences to his family; and it is further

RESOLVED that the Solicitor General be asked to pre-sent these Resolutions to the Court and that the Attorney
General be asked to move that they be inscribed on theCourt's permanent records.

The Chief Justice said:
I recognize the Attorney General of the United States.

Attorney General Reno addressed the Court as follows:

and may it please the Court:
The Bar of the Court met today to honor the memory ofHarry A. Blackmun, Associate Justice of the Supreme Court

from 1970 to 1994. Justice Blackmun was best known forhis opinion for the Court in Roe v. Wade. Throughout his
tenure, Justice Blackmun continued to write frequently, bothfor the Court and in dissent, reaffirming his belief in the
correctness and the importance of the Roe decision. As theSolicitor General's description of the Bar Resolution reminds
us, Justice Blackmun also made significant contributions tothe law in a variety of other areas, in fields as diverse as
Indian law and tax law.Justice Blackmun's tenure on the Court reflected his
strong, midwestern work ethic. It can be traced to the val-ues he developed during his childhood in Minnesota. In528BV$ Unit: $$UV [05-26-01 14:38:10] PGT: FRT
xxvi JUSTICE BLACKMUN
deed, that work ethic characterized his entire academic andprofessional career.

During his early years of law practice, Justice Blackmunmet and married his beloved wife, Dottie, with whom he
spent the remainder of his life. They had three daughters,Nancy, Sally, and Susie, whose success in school, careers, and
families no doubt served as early support for the Justice'scommitment to equality of opportunity for women. That
commitment was reflected in many of his opinions for thisCourt involving, for example, sex discrimination in employment, state law limitations on child support recipients, jury
selection, eligibility for AFDC benefits and, of course, theregulation of abortion at issue in

Roe v. Wade.
The Roe v. Wade decision also reflected Justice Blackmun'sbelief that the Constitution protects a range of intimate and

personal choices from intrusion by the state. That beliefwas at the core of his dissenting opinion in

Bowers v. Hardwick, in which the Justice argued that the Constitution af-fords protection of a right to engage in consensual homosexual activity. Justice Blackmun's jurisprudence oftenreflected a distrust of abstractions and absolutes. That judicial attitude took various forms. Perhaps most importantly,it was manifested in his careful attention to the facts and the
records of individual cases and in a conviction that the Supreme Court was obligated to resolve fairly the claims ofparticular litigants rather than simply announce broad legal

principles to guide future adjudication.Justice Blackmun's pragmatic approach underlay this concurring opinion in Regents of the University of Californiav.

Bakke, in which as the Solicitor General has noted, the
Justice expressed his commitment to the ultimate goal of arace-blind society. He concluded that the achievement of

that goal required the temporary use of race-conscious meas-ures. His statement, quoted by the Solicitor General, `in
order to get beyond racism, we must first take account of
race,' is reflective of his view that the just solution of constitutional problems may depend less upon abstract theorizing
than on a dispassionate assessment of the world as it is, and

528BV$ Unit: $$UV [05-26-01 14:38:10] PGT: FRT

xxviiJUSTICE BLACKMUN
emphasizing that the Court must take account of facts on theground. Justice Blackmun stressed in particular the need

to appreciate the circumstances of persons who often seeminvisible to judges and lawyers.

From the outset, Justice Blackmun spoke for the Court ingiving meaning to the guarantee of equal protection in cases
involving aliens and the mentally ill. He also discussed thegratuitous suffering sometimes visited upon prison inmates
and cautioned that society as a whole bears responsibility fortheir humane treatment.

At the same time, however, Justice Blackmun's real world
approach led him to recognize the deference due prison offi-cials in implementing legitimate prison interests to insure

prison security and order. Justice Blackmun's FourthAmendment jurisprudence similarly recognized that intrusions on personal privacy that are not unduly onerous area necessary cost of living in a safe and orderly society. In
a related vein, it was the Justice's exposure for more than20 years to the actual operation of the capital punishment
system that prompted him to conclude, as expressed in hisdissent in

Callins v. Collins, that the constitutional goal of
eliminating arbitrariness and discrimination from the admin-istration of death can never be achieved without compromising an equally essential component of fundamental fairness,
individualized sentencing.Most people strongly disagree with his conclusion, but no

one who watched Justice Blackmun move from dissent in
Furman v. Georgia to dissent in Callins can doubt the sincerity or effort this dedicated jurist made to reconcile hisown views about the death penalty with his responsibilities

as a judge.Many of Justice Blackmun's notable opinions for the Court
in areas as diverse as federal and state taxation, expert evi-dence, separation of powers, due process, and the Commerce
Clause are discussed in the Resolution. One area in which
the Justice's opinions has had a particularly lasting impact is
the sphere of commercial speech. Justice Blackmun wrote
the opinions for the Court in Bigelow v. Virginia, Virginia

528BV$ Unit: $$UV [05-26-01 14:38:10] PGT: FRT
xxviii JUSTICE BLACKMUN
State Board of Pharmacy v. Virginia State Consumers
Council, and Bates v. State Bar of Arizona. These decisions marked this Court's first recognition that speech proposing a commercial transaction is entitled to First Amendment protection and they have provided the foundation for
the Court's commercial speech jurisprudence.

Characteristically, Justice Blackmun did not ground his
analysis in abstract theory or in an absolutist conception of
the First Amendment. Rather, his opinions for the Court
emphasized the substantial practical interest of ordinary citizens in making informed choices concerning possible uses of
their money.

Justice Blackmun was a human being of deep and great
kindness and compassion, who remained always aware of the
profound impact of the law upon the community and the consequent responsibilities of judges to the litigants who appear
before them and to the community at large. In his performance of those responsibilities, he epitomized the highest ideals of public service.

, on behalf of the lawyers of this Nation, and in particular, of the Bar of this Court, I respectfully
request that the Resolutions presented to you in honor and
in celebration of the memory of Justice Harry A. Blackmun
be accepted by the Court and that they, together with the
chronicle of these proceedings, be ordered kept for all time
in the records of this Court.

The Chief Justice said:
Thank you, Attorney General Reno and Solicitor General
Waxman, for your presentations today in memory of our late
colleague and friend, Justice Harry A. Blackmun. We also
extend to Chairman Pamela S. Karlan and the members of
the Committee on Resolutions, Chairman David W. Odgen,
and members of the Arrangements Committee, and Harold
H. Koh, Chairman of today's meeting of the Bar our appreciation for these appropriate Resolutions.

528BV$ Unit: $$UV [05-26-01 14:38:10] PGT: FRT

xxixJUSTICE BLACKMUN
Your motion that these Resolutions be made a part of thepermanent records of the Court is granted.

Harry Blackmun's service on this Court and his contribu-tion to American law will long be remembered. He was
born in Illinois in 1908 and grew up in St. Paul, Minnesota.He was known when he first came here along with Chief
Justice Burger as the Minnesota twins, but Bill Douglas al-ways said they had the wrong people as the Minnesota twins,
because he was born in Minnesota so that he and Chief Jus-tice Burger should have been the Minnesota twins.

Harry Blackmun received a scholarship to Harvard University where he majored in mathematics and graduated
summa cum laude. He began his legal career serving as a
clerk to Judge John Sanborn on the Court of Appeals forthe Eighth Circuit. He practiced law for 16 years with the

Dorsey firm in Minneapolis, and then he went to the MayoClinic, became the first resident counsel there, where he combined his love for both law and medicine.In 1959, President Eisenhower nominated him to serve on
the Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit filling, appro-priate enough, the vacant seat of Judge Sanborn, for whom
he had clerked 26 years earlier. After serving nine yearson the Eighth Circuit, he was appointed by President Nixon
to a seat on the Supreme Court in 1970. He was the 98th
Justice to serve on the Court and served for nearly a quarterof a century. He was a worthy successor, as pointed out by

the Solicitor General, to the predecessors in the seat whichhe occupied, Joseph Story, Oliver Wendell Holmes, Benjamin
Cardozo, and Felix Frankfurter.During his years on the bench, Justice Blackmun spoke for
the Court in more than 250 opinions. The publicity whichattended the

Roe v. Wade opinion, overshadowed some of
the other important decisions which he authored. Theseincluded

Mistretta v. United States, in which the sentencing guidelines were held to be constitutional, Daubert v.
Merrell Dow Pharmaceuticals, which you mentioned, Solicitor General, concerned the admissibility of scientific evidence
in federal courts, and Virginia State Board of Pharmacy v.

528BV$ Unit: $$UV [05-26-01 14:38:10] PGT: FRT
xxx JUSTICE BLACKMUN
Virginia Citizens Consumer Council--you mentioned that,Attorney General Reno--which was a very seminal opinion

dealing with commercial speech. And in Complete Auto
Transit v. Brady, he enunciated for the Court the modern
rule that the Commerce Clause of the Constitution doesn'tprevent interstate commerce from being required to bear its

fair share of state taxation.His legacy also includes

Flood v. Kuhn which both held
fast to baseball's antitrust exemption and demonstrated Jus-tice Blackmun's knowledge of the game and all its accompanying lore.

Moving to Washington from Minnesota in 1970 in no waydiminished his enthusiasm for the Minnesota Twins or the

Minnesota Vikings, even when they were playing the Wash-ington Redskins.

Justice Blackmun was cautious and methodical in his judi-cial work. He was the statistician for the conference, telling
us at the close of each meeting how many cases we hadgranted certiorari on in the present Term compared to the
number we had granted in the preceding Term. He alsobrought a practical eye to the Court, as his many opinions
interpreting the Fourth Amendment illustrate, and in
Wyman v. James, which is one of his first opinions, in fact,
it was his first majority opinion on the Court, he rejected a
challenge on behalf of the Court of a Fourth Amendmentchallenge to a New York law conditioning welfare benefits

on in-home visits by caseworkers. Non-adversarial visits,he wrote, were minimally intrusive and were designed to
benefit dependent children. In 1987, he authored the opin-ion for the Court of

New York v. Burger, in which a Fourth
Amendment challenge to New York's law authorizing war-rantless inspections of junkyards was rejected. And in

California v. Acevedo, Justice Blackmun wrote for the Courtthat police may search a bag found in an automobile without

a warrant.

Justice Blackmun's opinions convey only a part of his legacy. He will also be remembered for the personal qualities
he brought to the Court during his 24 years of service. He

528BV$ Unit: $$UV [05-26-01 14:38:10] PGT: FRT

xxxiJUSTICE BLACKMUN
was a pensive and a compassionate man. He will be remem-bered for this integrity, his high sense of justice, and his

exemplification of decency, modesty, and civility.His friends here and on the Court and throughout the judiciary and indeed, throughout the country, will continue tomiss him.

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:21] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)

TABLE OF CA SES REPORTED
Note: All undesignated references herein to the United States Code
are to the 1994 edition.

Cases reported before page 801 are those decided with opinions of the
Court or decisions per curiam. Cases reported on page 801 et seq. are
those in which orders were entered.

Page
Abbott; Aguilar v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 844
Abbott v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1196
Abbott Laboratories v. Geneva Pharmaceuticals, Inc. . . . . . . . . . 1078
Abbott Laboratories v. Mylan Pharmaceuticals, Inc. . . . . . . . . . . 1181
Abbott Laboratories, Inc.; Free v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1018
A. B. Chance Co. v. Enfield . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 922
Abdelgani v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1094
Abdus-Sabir v. Hightower . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 947
Abidekun v. Department of Ed. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1148
Abraham; Richland Parish Hospital Service Dist. 1-B v. . . . . . . . 964
Abraham; Richland Parish Medical Center v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 964
Abrams; Jenkins v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 896
Abrams; Lawson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 823
ABTCO, Inc.; Sloop v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 930
Abu-Jamal v. Pennsylvania . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 810
Accrediting Council for Continuing Ed. & Training; Armstrong v. 1073
Ace Auto Body & Towing, Ltd. v. New York City . . . . . . . . . . . . 868
Acevedo; Barrett v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 846
ACF Industries, Inc.; Carrillo v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1077
Achebe v. Chicago Bd. of Ed. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 819
Acker v. U. S. District Court . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 954
Ackerley v. Lambert . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1116
Ackerman v. Coca-Cola Enterprises, Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1145
Ackerman v. Northwestern Mut. Life Ins. Co. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 874
Acosta-Torres v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 917
Acri v. Vanderveen . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 813
Ada; Gutierrez v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 250
Adams v. Arizona . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1172
Adams; Chapa v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 839
Adams v. Commissioner . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1117

xxxiii

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:21] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)
xxxiv TABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageAdams v. Delta Air Lines, Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 877
Adams v. Harvard . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 975,1067
Adams v. Inman . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 936
Adams v. Michigan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 874
Adams v. Moore . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 916
Adams v. North Carolina . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1022
Adams v. Presley . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1089
Adams v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 911,1179
Adams USA, Inc.; Nelson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1018
Adarand Constructors, Inc. v. Slater . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 216
Adcock v. Chrysler Corp. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 816
Ademaj v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 887
Adeniji v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1093
Adkins v. Seiter . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 882
Adkism v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 907
Administrative Comm., Sea Ray Employees' Plan; Robinson v. 804,1114
Administrator, Bonneville Power; Columbia Falls Aluminum v. . . 1138
Administrator of Veterans Administration Hospital; Rogers v. . . . 1079
Adofo-Kissi v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 875
A. D. T. Security System; Fisher v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 846
Adusumilli v. Chicago . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 988
Advanced Micro-Devices, Inc.; Constant v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 820
Advocacy Org. for Patients and Providers v. Auto Club Ins. Assn. 871
Aenk v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 890
Aetna Life Ins. & Annuity Co.; Asbury v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1092
Aetna Life Ins. & Annuity Co.; Fisher v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 816
Agard; Portuondo v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 926
Agee v. Morse . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1047
Agudelo v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 907
Aguilar v. Abbott . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 844
Aguilar v. California . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 971
Aguilar v. Johnson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 849
Aguilar v. Texas Dept. of Criminal Justice, Institutional Division 851
Aguilar v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 843
Aguilera-Gomez v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 979
Agusta v. Paramount Aviation Corp. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 878
Ahmad v. Lamanna . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 989
Ahmad v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 861
A. H. Robbins Co.; Wilbanks v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1139
Aiken v. Memphis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1157
Air Force; Parker v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1020
Airports Council Int'l-North America v. Department of Transp. . . . 1074
Ajiwoju v. Gronneman . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1050
Ajiwoju v. Housing Authority of Kansas City . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 954

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:21] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)

xxxvTABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageAjiwoju v. Kunce . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1165
Akinkoye v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1177
Akintobi v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 927
AKS Daks Communications, Inc. v. Arizona Corporations Comm'n 932
Akselrad v. Philadelphia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1081
Alabama; Alabama Municipal Ins. Corp. v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 823
Alabama; Baker v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1121
Alabama; Cobb v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 851
Alabama; Hockaday v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1062
Alabama; Johnson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1120
Alabama; Leach v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 937
Alabama; Mack v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1006
Alabama; Phillips v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1078
Alabama; Roberts v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 939,1084
Alabama; Scott v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 831,1007
Alabama; Smith v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 833
Alabama; Stewart v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 846
Alabama; Tarver v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1183
Alabama Dept. of Corrections; Conners v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 831
Alabama Dept. of Corrections; Loyd v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1061
Alabama Dept. of Revenue; Robertson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 876
Alabama Disability Determination Service; Marshall v. . . . . . . . . 896
Alabama Municipal Ins. Corp. v. Alabama . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 823
Alabama State Univ.; Tompkins v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 816
Alaffa-Flores v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 958
Alameda County; Julien v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1156
Alamo Heights Independent School Dist.; Valdespino v. . . . . . . 804,1114
Alaniz-Alaniz v. California . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 909
Alaska; Alaska Civil Liberties Union v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1153
Alaska; Ross v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1155
Alaska; Thompson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 904
Alaska; Wallace v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 987
Alaska; White v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 898,1040
Alaska Civil Liberties Union v. Alaska . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1153
Albanese; Strout v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 931
Albany; Pravda v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 953,1108
Albany Ins. Co. v. Banco Mexicano, S. A. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1080
Albaugh v. Ohio . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 941
Albers v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1126
Albert v. Sparks . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 968,1132
Albertson's, Inc. v. Food and Commercial Workers . . . . . . . . . . . . 809
Albright; Middleton v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 874
Alcan Aluminum Corp. v. Prudential Assurance Co. Ltd. . . . . . . . 1077
Alcoa Building Products; Arbogast v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 805

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:21] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)
xxxvi TABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageAlejado v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1163
Aleman v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1054
Alexander v. Catoe . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 830,1066
Alexander v. Doe . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 830,1183
Alexander; Laborers v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1043,1154
Alexander v. Merit Systems Protection Bd. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 809
Alexander v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1161
Alford v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1027
Alford v. U. S. Court of Appeals . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 861
Alford v. Wilkinson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 847
Ali v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 982
Allah v. California . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1008
Allah v. Stachelek . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1141
Allegree v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 958
Allen v. California . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 853
Allen v. Entergy Corp. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1063
Allen v. Frazier . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 938
Allen; Mikel v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 929
Allen; Pennsylvania v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 922
Allen; Steele v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1171
Allen v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 943,979,1041,1094,1142
Allen v. West Virginia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 938
Allender v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 873,1040
Allied Conveyor, Inc.; Furlow v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 823
Allied Systems, Ltd. v. Teamsters . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 965
Allison v. Pacific Bell . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 821
Allred's Produce v. Department of Agriculture . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1021
Allstate Ins. Co.; Chen-Li Pang v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 930
Almacenes Rodriguez; New York Dept. Stores de Puerto Rico v. . . 1116
Almeida; Florida v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1181,1182
Al-Muqsit v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1029
Aloupis v. Roop . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 824
Alsbrook v. Arkansas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1146
Alston v. Brown . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 883,1040
Alston v. GTE Directories Corp. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1022
Alston v. New Jersey . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1093
Alston v. New York . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 908,1040
Alta; Haik v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 868
Altec International Ltd. Partnership; Spangler v. . . . . . . . . . . . . 813
Althoff v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1047
Altschul, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 806
Alusuisse Flexible Packaging, Inc.; Brierly v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1076
Alvarez v. Aponte de la Torre . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 819
Alvarez v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1094

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:21] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)

xxxviiTABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageAlvarez-Rodriguez v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 908
Alverson v. Oklahoma . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1089
Al-Wahhab v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 988
Amalgamated. For labor union, see name of trade.
Amati v. Woodstock . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 985
Ambort v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1190
Ambriz v. Pliler . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1172
Amelkin; McClure v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1059
American Airlines, Inc.; Piamba Cortes v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1136
American Automatic Sprinkler Systems, Inc.; Plumbers v. . . . . . . 821
American Broadcasting Cos.; Sussman v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1131
American Commerce Nat. Bank v. Office of Comp. of Currency . . 876
American Cyanamid Co.; Hollander v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 965,1107
American Grain Trimmers v. Office of Workers' Comp. Programs 1187
American Home Products Corp. v. Oregon . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1136
American Honda Motor Co.; Geier v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1001
American Lung Assn. v. Environmental Protection Agency . . . . . 818
American Motorists Ins. Co. v. Montrose Chemical Corp. of Cal. 875
American Motorists Ins. Co. v. Superior Court of Cal., L. A. Cty. 875
American Nat. Bank & Tr. of Chicago; Laborers Nat. Pens. Fd. v. 967
American National Watermattress Corp.; Classic Corp. v. . . . . . . 1139
American Stores Co. v. Commissioner . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 875
American Telephone & Telegraph Co. v. Security Watch, Inc. . . . 1181
AmeriSource Corp.; HJB, Inc. v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1181
Ameritech Corp.; Metro Communications Co. v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1077
Amerson v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1029
Ames, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1152
Amezcua v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 859
Amoco Oil Co.; Manufacturers Bank v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 922
Amoia v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1161
AMTRAK; Shiplett v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1078
Amuso v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1159
Anaeme v. Diagnostek, Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 814
Anaheim v. California Credit Union League . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1154
Anatian v. Coutts Bank (Switzerland) Ltd. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1188
Anchorage School Dist.; Bickford v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 803
Anchorage School Dist.; McGinnis v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 812,1038
Anderson, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 808,1002
Anderson v. Ault . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1051
Anderson; Borgmann v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 920
Anderson v. Colorado Dept. of Corrections . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1165
Anderson v. Dallas Area Rapid Transit . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1062,1183
Anderson v. Dormire . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1089
Anderson; Fleenor v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 891,1058

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:21] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)
xxxviii TABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageAnderson v. Ford Motor Co. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1156
Anderson v. General Motors Corp. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 976
Anderson; Hawaii County v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 928
Anderson v. Johnson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 860,908
Anderson; King v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 986
Anderson; Moore v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1027
Anderson v. North Carolina . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 973
Anderson; Splunge v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 833
Anderson; State Univ. of N. Y., College at New Paltz v. . . . . . . . . 1111
Anderson v. Stubblefield . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 908
Anderson v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 851,

903,945,1023,1054,1056,1066,1091,1093,1096,1180
Anderson v. Walker . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1194
Andrews; Jefferies v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 830
Andrews v. Vermont Dept. of Ed. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1066
Andrews; Zuker v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1048,1145
Andrews-Bartlett & Associates, Inc.; MCM Partners, Inc. v. . . . . 810
Andrews-Bartlett Exposition Services; MCM Partners, Inc. v. . . . 810
Angehrn v. Washington . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 833
Angelone; Beck v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 880
Angelone; Chapman v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1124
Angelone; Cruz v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1087
Angelone; Felix v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1193
Angelone; Graham v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1058
Angelone; Guilfoyle v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 955
Angelone; Hylton v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1092
Angelone; Joseph v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 959
Angelone; Kokoszka v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1088
Angelone; McManus v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 884,1067
Angelone; Ramdass v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1015,1068,1152
Angelone; Roach v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 965
Angelone; Sexton v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1053
Angelone; Smith v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 901
Angelone; Swinson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1142
Angelone; Wagener v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 956
Angelone; Weeks v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 225,807
Angelone; Winslow v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1084
Angiano v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 912
Angulo Alvarez v. Aponte de la Torre . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 819
Anh Tuan Hoang v. Johnson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 938
Anker Energy Corp. v. U. M. W. A. Combined Benefit Fund . . . . 1003
ANR Coal Co. v. Cogentrix of N. C., Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 877
Anthony v. Department of Justice . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1127
Anthony Y. v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 897

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:21] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)

xxxixTABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageAntonelli v. Caridine . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
Antonelli v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
Antonio Sanchez v. California . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 829
Antwine; Lett v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1169
Apampa v. Layng . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 908
Apfel; Brown v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 853,915
Apfel; Charles v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 934
Apfel; Gibson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 856,1198
Apfel; Griffin v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 936
Apfel; Guillory v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1051
Apfel; Mims v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1122
Apfel; Mitchell v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 944
Apfel; Osburn v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1191
Apfel; Sims v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1018
Apfel; Wenzel v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 870
Aponte de la Torre; Angulo Alvarez v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 819
Apple v. Glenn . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1198
Apprendi v. New Jersey . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1018
Arabella's Landing v. Gig Harbor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1155
Araujo v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 921
Arbogast v. Alcoa Building Products . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 805
Arboleda v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1033
Archuleta; LaCuesta v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1117
Arctic Alaska Fisheries Corp. v. Hoddevik . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1155
Arctic Orion Fisheries; Lantz v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1064
Area Plan Comm'n of Evansville and Vanderburgh Cty.; Wilson v. 1019
Argueta v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1131
Ariza-Salazar v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 886
Arizona; Adams v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1172
Arizona; Burns v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 820
Arizona v. California . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 803,1147
Arizona; Chaney v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1147
Arizona; Conlon v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 988
Arizona v. Flannigan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1074
Arizona; Kayer v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1196
Arizona; Mance v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 938
Arizona; Martinez-Villareal v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 834
Arizona; Ortiz v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 960
Arizona; Ponce v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1089
Arizona; Ravesloot v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1008
Arizona; Root v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1161
Arizona v. Sanders . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 982
Arizona; Sharp v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 936
Arizona; Smith v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 880

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:21] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)
xl TABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageArizona; Sprunk v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 971
Arizona Corporations Comm'n; AKS Daks Communications, Inc. v. 932
Arizona Dept. of Economic Security; Melendez v. . . . . . . . . . . . 935,1107
Arizona Dept. of Transportation; Pike v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 823
Arizona Registrar of Contractors; Sherrill v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 925
Arkansas; Alsbrook v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1146
Arkansas; Martin v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1129
Arkansas v. Mazepink . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 927
Arkansas; McFarland v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 933
Arkansas; McGuire v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1123
Arkansas; Pennington v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 831
Arkansas; Weaver v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 913
Arkansas Hwy. Police v. Crittenden Cty. Prosecuting Attorney . . 877
Armetta v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1142
Armontrout; Lawrence v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 897
Armstrong v. Accrediting Council for Continuing Ed. & Training 1073
Armstrong County v. Clark . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1118
Armstrong County Memorial Hosp.; Armstrong Surgical Center v. 1151
Armstrong Surgical Center v. Armstrong County Memorial Hosp. 1151
Arnaiz; Flanagan v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 973,1067
Arnett; California Public Employees' Retirement System v. . . . . 1111
Arnett v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 932
Arnold, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1016,1149
Arnold; Kuplen v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 970
Arnold v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 906,915
Arpaio; Hirschfeld v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 966
Arreguin v. Prunty . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1165
Arriola, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 949
Arroyo v. California . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1051,1089
Arroyo v. Johnson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 862
Arroyo-Gorrostieta v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1034
Arvidson v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1195
Asbury v. Aetna Life Ins. & Annuity Co. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1092
A. S. Goldmen & Co. v. New Jersey Bureau of Securities . . . . . . . 868
Asher v. Kemna . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 954
Asher v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 944
Ashley v. Kemna . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 908
Ashworth v. Ohio . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 908
Askanazi v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1149
Aspelmeier v. Gilmore . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 802
Assa'ad-Faltas v. Attorney General of Va. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 922
Assa'ad-Faltas v. University of S. C. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 922
Assaf; Fields v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 951
Associates Leasing, Inc.; Mulligan v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 923,1040

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:21] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)

xliTABLE OF CASES REPORTED
PageAssociation. For labor union, see name of trade.
Atayants v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 856
Atchison, T. & S. F. R. Co.; California State Bd. of Equalization v. 1114
AT Entertainment, Inc.; Clark v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1141,1198
Athens-Clarke County; Cherry v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 803
Athmer v. Hill . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 936
Atlanta; Williams v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1152
Atlantic City; Fioriglio v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1075
Atlantic City Police Dept. v. Hurley . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1074
Atondo v. California . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 841
A to Z Auto Recycler; Kreager v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 849
ATR Marketing, Inc.; Jobe v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 825
AT&T Corp.; Excel Communications, Inc. v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 946
Attorney General v. Bossier Parish School Bd. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 320
Attorney General v. Condon . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 141
Attorney General; Friend v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1072,1163
Attorney General v. Kim Ho Ma . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1000
Attorney General; LaGuerre v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1153
Attorney General; Moore v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1178
Attorney General; Ntakirutimana v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1135
Attorney General; Perelman v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 835,943,1009,1010
Attorney General v. Pryor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1111
Attorney General; Wisconsin Dept. of Transportation v. . . . . . . . 1114
Attorney General of Ala.; McClain v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 937
Attorney General of Ala.; Reno v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1111
Attorney General of Cal.; Henry v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 963
Attorney General of Fla.; Freund v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 817
Attorney General of Ill.; Stagman v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 986
Attorney General of Ind.; Castor v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 972
Attorney General of Iowa v. Planned Parenthood of Greater Iowa 1113
Attorney General of La.; Muhleisen v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 828
Attorney General of Mass.; Landry v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1073
Attorney General of Minn. v. Minnesota Twins Partnership . . . . . 1013
Attorney General of Mo.; Radley v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 891
Attorney General of Mo. v. Shrink Mo. Government PAC . . . . . . 377
Attorney General of Mo.; Stevenson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 939
Attorney General of Neb.; Stenberg v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1110
Attorney General of N. M.; Lopez v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1009
Attorney General of N. C.; Barnes v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1031
Attorney General of N. C.; Chappell v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 862,1039
Attorney General of N. C.; Hooks v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1030
Attorney General of N. C.; Johnston v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 931
Attorney General of Okla.; Walker v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 987
Attorney General of S. C.; Reno v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 141

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:21] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)
xlii TABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageAttorney General of Tex.; Estrada v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 955
Attorney General of Tex.; Howland v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 970
Attorney General of Va.; Assa'ad-Faltas v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 922
Attorney General of Wash.; Young v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 930
Auchmuty v. Florida . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1084
Auglaize; Overholt v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1123
Augman v. LeBlanc . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1085
August v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 920
Ault; Anderson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1051
Austin v. Department of Treasury . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 905
Austin v. Harper Hospital . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1162
Auto Club Ins. Assn.; Advocacy Org. for Patients and Providers v. 871
Autodie International, Inc. v. National Labor Relations Bd. . . . . . 802
Auto Workers Credit Union; Weeden v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1076
AutoZone, Inc.; Shaw v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1076
Avalos v. Hunter . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 951
Avalos-Cervantes v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1030
Avelar v. Idaho . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1022
Avery v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 865
Aviles v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 848
Avilez-Reyes v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1174
Awofolu, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1002
Ayala v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 957
Ayala-Mendez v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 889
Ayele v. Simkins Industries, Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 904,1107
Ayers v. Fordice . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1163
Ayers v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 900,917
Aylward v. Bamberg . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1158
Ayres v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 880
Aysisayh v. Moore . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 909
Azamber v. Franchise Tax Bd. of Cal. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 924
Aztec General Agency v. Federal Deposit Ins. Corp. . . . . . . . . . . 927
B. v. Connecticut . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 967
B. v. Pennsylvania . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1060
Baah v. California Bureau of State Audits . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 901
Baba v. Japan Travel Bureau International, Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1016
Baba v. New York State Div. of Housing & Community Renewal 1042
Baba v. Warren Management Consultants, Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . . 806,1017
Babbitt; Marathon Oil Co. v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 819
Babbitt; Nakamura v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1004
Babbitt; Public Lands Council v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 926,1017
Babcock v. Manchester . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 814
Baca v. Cambra . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 862
Baca; Sanchez v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1076

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:21] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)

xliiiTABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageBacchus v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 861
Bach v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 950
Bacon v. North Carolina . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1125
Baddour v. Birkenbach . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 866
Bado v. New Jersey . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1021
Baez v. Breslin . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 805
Baez v. Pennsylvania . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 827
Bagby v. Oklahoma . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 971
Bagley v. Cuniff . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1096
Bagley v. Raymond School Dept. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 947
Bailey; Sidberry v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 889
Bailey v. Texas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 936
Bailey v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 806,1033
Baja v. DuCharme . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1079
Baker v. Alabama . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1121
Baker v. Barbo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 911
Baker v. Hadley . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 813
Baker v. John . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1182
Baker v. Johnson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 851
Baker; Norfolk Southern R. Co. v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1021
Baker v. Pitzer . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 905
Baker v. Toledo Bd. of Ed. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1010,1132
Baker v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 883,917,1107,1197
Baker Hughes Oilfield Operations, Inc.; Robinson v. . . . . . . . . . . . 849
Bakst; Hemmerle v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1049,1087,1184
Balawajder v. Scott . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 805
Baldwin; Burgess v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1069,1187
Baldwin v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 978,1033
Ballard; Barlow v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1024
Ballek v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 853
Ballew; Hoffman v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 822
Balliet v. Heydt . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 877
Balogh v. Ramos . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 822
Baltimore City Police Dept. v. Fraternal Order of Police, Lodge 3 812
Bamberg; Aylward v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1158
Banco Mexicano, S. A.; Albany Ins. Co. v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1080
Banda v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1179
Bandido's, Inc. v. Journal-Gazette Co. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1005
Bane v. Robinson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 906,1000
Bangor; Kirkpatrick v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1004
Bankers Trust Co.; Kinney v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 885
Bankhead Enterprises, Inc.; Sandage v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1019
Bankhead Transportation Equipment Co.; Sandage v. . . . . . . . . . 1019
Bank of America Corp. v. Herman . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1045

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:21] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)
xliv TABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageBank of America, NT&SA; Robert Bogetti & Sons v. . . . . . . . . . . 966
Bank of America NT&SA; Vessel Owners & Marine Ways, Inc. v. 872
Bank of N. Y.; Holywell Corp. v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 951
Banks v. Grier . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1124
Banks v. New York Life Ins. Co. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1158
Banks v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1130,1144
Bannum, Inc. v. Fort Lauderdale . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 822
B. A. Properties, Inc.; Ioane v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1174
Barajas-Chavez v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 826
Baral v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 431,962
Barbee v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 914
Barber v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 864
Barbo; Baker v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 911
Barbo; Cabrera v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 886
Barbo; Nelson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 989
Barbo; Rabah v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1140
Barbo; Senger v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 915
Barbour; Trun Minh Le v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1085
Barclay v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 957
Barfield v. Ormet Primary Aluminum Corp. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1154
Barker v. Florida Parole Comm'n . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 935
Barkman, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1005
Barksdale v. Nevada . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 833
Barlow v. Ballard . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1024
Barnes v. Easley . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1031
Barnes v. Johnson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 974
Barnes v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 861,909
Barnett; Rhoads v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1178
Barone v. Oregon . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1086,1135
Barram; Bonneville Associates, Ltd. Partnership v. . . . . . . . . . . . 809
Barraza v. Texas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 825
Barreno v. Johnson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 847
Barrett v. Acevedo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 846
Barrett v. Barrett . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1053
Barrett; Bradford v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1176
Barrett v. Bross . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1085
Barrett v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 958,977,1176
Barrios v. Goux Enterprises, Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 925
Barrios v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1178
Barris v. Los Angeles County . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 868
Barron Salazar v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 977
Bartel, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 808
Bartel v. Fletcher . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 890
Bartels v. Riley . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1074

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:21] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)

xlvTABLE OF CASES REPORTED
PageBartlett; North Carolina Right to Life, Inc. v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1153
Barton v. Missouri . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1121
Basilio v. Camray Development & Construction Co. . . . . . . . . . 975,1108
Baskerville; Gardner v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1193
Basket v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1011
Bass v. Thomas Jefferson Univ. Hospital . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1026,1184
Bast v. Prudential Ins. Co. of America . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 870
Basta v. Farner . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 806
Bastian v. Teamsters . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1189
Baston v. Ohio . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1049
Bastrop Independent School Dist.; DeShay v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 930
Bates v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 841
B. A. T. Industries v. North Coast Trust Fund . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1158
B. A. T. Industries v. Superior Court of Cal., San Diego County 1158
Batiste v. Island Records, Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1076
Batterman v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 865
Battle v. Bruton . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 934,1040
Battle v. Moore . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 900
Battle v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 898,1056
Bauer, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
Baumer v. Melton . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1052
Bautista v. Johnson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 859
Bautista De La Cruz v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 944
Baxter Healthcare Corp.; Luckey v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1038
Bay Area Pipe Trades Pension Trust Fund; Pettit v. . . . . . . . . . . 1156
Bayer; Cline v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 887
Bayer; McIntyre v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 858
Baylis v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1195
Baylor Univ.; D'Annunzio v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1189
Baynerd; Crenshaw v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 952
Baynes, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 807
Bayramoglu v. Gomez . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1167
B. C. Rogers Poultry, Inc.; Webb v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 964
Beach v. McCormick . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1194
Bean, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 808
Bean; Calderon v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 922
Bean v. Texas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1165
Beard v. Florida . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1007
Beathard v. Johnson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 954
Beatty v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1174
Beaven v. Indiana . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1171
Beck v. Angelone . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 880
Beck v. Prupis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 804,949
Beckham v. Cain . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1166

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:21] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)
xlvi TABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageBeeler; Kelly v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 889
Beem, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 961,1149
Beets v. Johnson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1121
Beets v. Kautzky . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 825,1039
Beets v. Texas Bd. of Pardons & Paroles . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1185
Begala v. PNC Bank, Ohio, National Assn. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 868
Began; Wilson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 965
Beghtel v. Bowersox . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 859
Bekederemo v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1181
Bekovich v. Coyle . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 902
Belasquez v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 893
Belcher v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1130
Belei v. California . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1009
Bell; Coe v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 842,1039
Bell v. Day . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 841
Bell v. Kansas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 905
Bell v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 826,839,976
Bell; Workman v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 913,1041
Bell Atlantic; Skibinski v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 838,1183
Bell-El v. Pitcher . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 902
Belleview; Gunter v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 951
Belli v. Immigration and Naturalization Service . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 963
Bello v. University of Dayton School of Law . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1156
BellSouth Telecommunications, Inc.; Sutton v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1188
Belser v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 989
Beltran v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 881
Beltran-Garcia v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1097
Bender v. Illinois . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1176
Benedict v. Eau Claire Public Schools . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1159
Beneficial Cal., Inc.; Viray v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 974,1108
Benefit Plan of Exxon Corp.; Shelton v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1136
Benin v. Home Savings of America, FSB . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1048
Benitez-Villafuerte v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1097
Benito v. New York . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 810
Benjamin v. Kerik . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 824
Benju Corp. v. Peters . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 961
Benn v. Louisiana . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1140
Bennett v. Conrail Matched Savings Plan Administrative Comm. 871
Bennett v. Johnson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 806
Bennett; Joiner v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 829
Bennett v. Stewart . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 844
Bennett v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 819,1096
Benson v. Benson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 816,1183
Bentley v. Burns . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1134

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:21] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)

xlviiTABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageBerg v. Norand Corp. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 872
Bergen County Superintendent of Elections; Sank v. . . . . . . . . . . 816
Bergendahl v. Massachusetts Electric Co. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 929
Berger v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1065
Berger & Montague; Greene v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1160
Berkeley Rent Stabilization Bd.; Jones v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 811
Berkovich v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 849
Berman, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1150
Bernardino v. Merit Systems Protection Bd. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 902
Bernhardt v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1195
Bernofsky, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 962
Berrios Quinones v. New York . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1007
Berry; Valence Technology, Inc. v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1019
Berryman Products, Inc.; Nationwide Mut. Ins. Co. v. . . . . . . . . . 1158
Bertrand; Luedtke v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1169
Bessey, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 983,1071
Bestfoods v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 810
Best Temps; Crump v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1155
Betancour-Echeverry v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1032
Betancourt v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 979
Beuke v. Ohio . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 934
Beverlin v. Moore . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 971
Beverly Enterprises, Inc. v. Trump . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1078
Beverly Hills Unified School Dist.; Bland v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 938
Bews v. Morgan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1031
Bey v. New York City Dept. of Correction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 860,1145
Bey v. Ohio . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1049
B. F. I. Waste Systems; Torres v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 899
Bhutani v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1161
Bianchi v. Walker . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 814
Bianco v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1162
Bible; Romano v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 816
Bicaksiz v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1161
Bickford v. Anchorage School Dist. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 803
Bieri v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 968,1107
Biggins v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 839
Biggins v. Withers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1049
Big River Minerals Corp. v. Holland . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1117
Big 3 Industries; Lennix v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1112
Bilbray; Franklin v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 863,1014
Bilderbeck v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 844
Biles v. Smith . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 854
Bilis v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 911
Billman v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1029

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:21] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)
xlviii TABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageBillups v. Woodard . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 955
Bilow; Ross v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 972
Binder v. Wilson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1154
Bio-Rad Laboratories, Inc.; Hamann v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1077
Birch v. Illinois . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 867
Birkenbach; Baddour v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 866
Birmingham; Franklin v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 820
Birnie; Buchanan v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 935,1107
Bisby v. Johnson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 849
Bischoff v. Bischoff . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 872
Bishop v. Romer . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 844,1039
Bishop v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 839
Bittenbender; Rodriguez-Rodriguez v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 854
Bivens v. Moore . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1049
Black v. Kelly . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1167
Black v. Tennessee . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1192
Black v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 891,1096
Blackburn v. New Mexico Dept. of Corrections . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 862
Blackfeet National Bank v. Nelson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1004
Blackley v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 868
Blackshear v. Russell . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 848
Blake v. Wright . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1136
Blanche v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 986
Bland v. Beverly Hills Unified School Dist. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 938
Bland v. Mitchem . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 956
Bland v. Turner . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 860
Blankenship v. McDonald . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1153
Blanton v. Elo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1050
Blastoff, Inc. v. Los Angeles Rams Football Co. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1188
Blatz v. Seabold . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 902
Bleam v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 859
Bleecker, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1070
Block; Onossian v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1004
Blockbuster Entertainment Group; Herman v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1020
Blocker; Hodges v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 836
Blondheim v. Morgan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1162
Blount v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1083
Blountt v. Glickman . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 822
Blue v. New Mexico . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 869
Blumberg v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 941
Blunt v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 855
Board of Comm'rs of Kansas City Police Dept.; Spencer v. . . . . . . 1157
Board of Coop. Ed. Servs. of Albany, etc., Counties; Marchi v. . . . 869
Board of Ed., Buffalo; Tobin v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 911

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:21] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)

xlixTABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageBoard of Ed. of Montgomery County; Williams v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1151
Board of Ed. of New York City; Sovak v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 940
Board of Fire Comm'rs, Farmingville Fire Dist. v. Pietras . . . . . 948
Board of Regents of Univ. of N. M. v. Migneault . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1110
Board of Regents of Univ. of Wis. System v. Southworth . . . . . . . 804
Board of Regents of Univ. System of Ga.; Tiwari v. . . . . . . . . . 879,1040
Board of Review, Dept. of Labor; Lerro v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1126
Board of Trustees for Okolona Municipal School Dist.; Smith v. . . 1077
Board of Trustees for Okolona Municipal School Dist.; Trice v. . . 1019
Board of Trustees of Southern Ill. Univ. v. Wichmann . . . . . . . . . 1111
Board of Trustees of Univ. of Ala.; Kim v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 965
Board of Trustees of Univ. of Conn. v. Davis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1110
Bob-Boyd Lincoln Mercury, Inc.; McBroom v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 934,1040
Bob Evans Farms, Inc.; Konkel v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 877
Bob's Distributing Co.; Finch v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1157
Bocalbos v. National Western Life Ins. Co. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 872
Bockhorst, Ehrlich & Kaminskee; Kalan v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1139
Boddie v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1055
Bodwell; Brooks v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 930
Boeing Co.; Brentwood v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 917,1057
Bogan v. Hodgkins . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1019
Bogard v. California . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 834
Bogetti & Sons v. Bank of America, N. T. & S. A. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 966
Boggia v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 932
Boggs v. Summers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 811
Boggs v. Treadway . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 832
Bohannan v. Johnson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 989
Bolanos Portillo v. Immigration and Naturalization Service . . . . . 802
Boles v. Bradley . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 848
Bolinger v. Ridge . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 819
Bolton; Lassan v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1048
Bomar v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1174
Bond v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 927
Bonilla; Torres v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1004
Bonilla v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1029
Bonnell v. Ohio . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 842
Bonner v. Department of Air Force . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1173
Bonnet, LM; Walker v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 971,1057
Bonneville Associates, Ltd. Partnership v. Barram . . . . . . . . . . . 809
Bonta; Palomar Pomerado Health System v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1074
Booher; Bridges v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1167
Booker; Clark v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 862
Booker; Coffey v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 861
Booker; Flint v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 988

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:21] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)
l TABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageBooker v. Oklahoma . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 862
Booker; Walton v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 859
Booker; Wash v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 956
Boone v. Charlie Obaugh Pontiac Buick, Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 806,1003
Boone; Osborne v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 987
Boone; Rhine v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1084
Boone; Tyson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 975
Boone v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 945
Borg; Irvin v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1089
Borgmann v. Anderson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 920
Bornfield v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1139
Borough. See name of borough.
Bossier Parish School Bd.; Price v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 320
Bossier Parish School Bd.; Reno v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 320
Botero v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 849
Boulanger v. Cohen . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1030
Bouthot v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 945
Boutin v. Hvass . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 973
Bouyea v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 904
Bowen v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 850,879,961
Bowersox; Beghtel v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 859
Bowersox; Browner v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 861
Bowersox v. Chambers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1000
Bowersox; Chambers v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 969,1034,1057,1067
Bowersox; Clemmons v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1011
Bowersox; Dunn v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 955
Bowersox; Griffin v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 863,1039
Bowersox; Harris v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1097
Bowersox; Hunter v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1140
Bowersox; James v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1143
Bowersox; Joliff v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 913
Bowersox; Lomax v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 839,999
Bowersox; Mallett v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 853,1039
Bowersox; Pounders v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 901
Bowersox; Roll v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1025
Bowersox; Shurn v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1010
Bowersox; Smith v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 883,1128
Bowersox; Williamson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 896
Bowersox; Young v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 880
Bowler v. Massachusetts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 911
Bowling v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1126
Bowman v. Cain . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1087,1088
Boyajian v. California . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 965
Boyd v. Gibson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1167

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:21] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)

liTABLE OF CASES REPORTED
PageBoyd v. North Carolina . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 959
Boyd v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 851,1098
Boyd v. Waterfront Employers-I. L. A. Pens. Plan, Ports of S. C. 1136
Boykin v. Entergy Operations, Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 968
Boyle v. Internal Revenue Service . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1119
Boy Scouts of America v. Dale . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1109
Boysiewick v. Schriro . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1141
Bradbury v. Manor Healthcare Corp. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 975
Bradford v. Barrett . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1176
Bradford v. Texas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 950
Bradley; Boles v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 848
Bradley v. Hofbauer . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1123
Bradley v. Kelly . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1137
Bradley v. Taylor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 893
Bradley v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1193
"Bradley Books" v. Servacek . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1155
Brady; McCall-Bey v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 836
Brady v. Prison Health Care Services, Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 864
Bramblett v. Virginia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 952
Bramlett v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1190
Bramwell v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 851
Brancato v. Gunn . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,1017
Branch v. Minnesota . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1025
Brannan, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 808
Brannon v. Tarlov . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 837
Branson; Lockheed Martin IMS v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1115
Branson v. Los Angeles . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1115
Brant v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 863
Braswell v. Texas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 860
Braswell v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1160
Braun v. Bureau of State Audits . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 818
Braun v. Department of Justice . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 805,1017
Braun v. Flowers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 849,999
Braver v. Parker Real Estate, Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1005
Brawley v. Colorado . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 877
Braxton v. Cain . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 833
Braxton v. Maryland . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 908,1087
Bray; Cohea v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 805
Bray v. Shrink Mo. Government PAC . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1148
Breakiron v. Pennsylvania . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1169
Brennan; Grinnell v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1166
Brennan; Matteo v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 824
Brentwood v. Boeing Co. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 917,1057
Brentwood Academy v. Tennessee Secondary School Ath. Assn. . 1153

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:21] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)
lii TABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageBreslin; Baez v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 805
Brewer, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 808
Brewer v. Johnson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 902,1124
Brewer v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1164
Brian v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 821
Brice v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 906
Bridgeforth v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1031
Bridges v. Booher . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1167
Brierly v. Alusuisse Flexible Packaging, Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1076
Brigaerts v. U. S. District Court . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 861
Brigano; Frederick v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 918
Brigano; Pollock v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 906
Brigano; Roy v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 881,1014
Brigano; Smith v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1029
Briggs v. Dalkon Shield Claimants Trust . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 949,1082
Briggs; Jonas v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 923
Bright v. Norshipco . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1138
Briick; Brown v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 908
Brill; O'Donnell v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1065
Britt v. Martin . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 860
Broadway v. Sinex . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 932,1040
Brock v. Johnson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 976
Brock v. Myers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 882
Brockman v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1080
Broeske v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 914
Bronco Wine Co. v. Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms . . . 950
Brooke; Freight Handlers v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 966
Brooks v. Bodwell . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 930
Brooks v. Bunch . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 908,1014
Brooks v. Cain . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 851
Brooks v. Mikkelsen . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1167
Brooks; Prunty v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
Brooks v. Texas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 956,1089
Brooks v. The Gas Co. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 816
Brooks v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 980,1031,1119
Bross; Barrett v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1085
Brotherhood. For labor union, see name of trade.
Broughton v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 867
Brown, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 983,1014,1060,1071,1152
Brown; Alston v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 883,1040
Brown v. Apfel . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 853,915
Brown v. Briick . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 908
Brown v. Cain . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 908
Brown v. California . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 904

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:22] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)

liiiTABLE OF CASES REPORTED
PageBrown v. Carey . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1141
Brown v. Commissioner . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 967
Brown v. Conley . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 850
Brown; Cook v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 861
Brown v. Davis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 935
Brown v. Diercks . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1028
Brown v. Ellis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1051
Brown v. Federal Trade Comm'n . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 915
Brown v. Hickman . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 956
Brown v. Johnson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 935,1171
Brown v. Kaltenbach . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1123
Brown; McCarty v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 947
Brown v. McCaughtry . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 974
Brown v. Michigan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 934
Brown v. Missouri . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 979
Brown v. Money . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1130
Brown v. New York . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 860
Brown v. North Carolina . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1014
Brown v. Ohio . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 837,847
Brown v. Pacific Bell Directory . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 952
Brown v. Shalala . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 969
Brown; Shaner v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 966
Brown v. Thompson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1010
Brown v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 825,

839, 855, 883, 963, 981, 1012, 1013, 1066, 1091, 1130, 1151, 1176-
1178,1181
Brown; Waters v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 881
Browne v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1116
Browner v. Bowersox . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 861
Browning v. Family Fitness Center . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 806
Browning v. Liberty Mut. Ins. Co. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1050
Browning v. Weichert . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 805
Browning Mfg.; Mims v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1117
Bruce v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 916
Brummitt v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1034
Bruton; Battle v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 934,1040
Bryan, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1185
Bryan v. Florida . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1185
Bryan v. Kansas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 939
Bryan v. Moore . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 960,1133
Bryan v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1027
Bryan R. v. Watchtower Bible and Tract Society of N. Y. . . . . . . . 1189
Bryant v. Golden Flake Snack Foods, Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 951
Bryant v. Johnson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 912

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:22] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)
liv TABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageBryant v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1126,1142
Bryant v. Virginia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1087
Bryant v. Waltham School Committee . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 868
Brzonkala v. Morrison . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 807,1044
Bubenchik v. Ohio . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1064
Buchanan v. Birnie . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 935,1107
Buchanan v. South Carolina . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1121
Buchanan v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 887
Buchanan v. Washington . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1154
Buchanan; Washington v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1154
Buchholz v. California . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 842
Buckhana v. Roe . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 867
Buckhorn Rubber Products, Inc.; Mole v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 821
Buckley, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 925,1042
Buckley v. California Coastal Comm'n . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 816,1038
Buckman Co. v. Plaintiffs' Legal Committee . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 804
Buckner v. Franco, Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 956
Buddensick; State Line Hotel, Inc. v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 928
Budget Rent-A-Car of Columbus v. Columbus Mun. Airport Auth. 1047
Budoff; Fordjour v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 970
Buffalo; Morris v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 850,1039
Buffalo; Omega Homes, Inc. v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 874
Buffelen Woodworking Co. v. Washington Dept. of Revenue . . . . 950
Buggs v. Tisdale . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 820,1039
Bulger v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1031
Bull v. Illinois . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 827
Bunch; Brooks v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 908,1014
Bunn v. Grimes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 867
Burdeau v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 958
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms; Bronco Wine Co. v. . . . 950
Bureau of Engraving, Inc.; Graphic Communications Union v. . . . 821
Bureau of Land Management; Camp v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1190
Bureau of Prisons; Rudd v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1032
Bureau of State Audits; Braun v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 818
Burger King Corp.; Weaver v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 948
Burgess v. Baldwin . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1069,1187
Burgess v. Cook . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1141
Burgess v. Kitzhaber . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1042,1135
Burgess v. Montana . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1149
Burgess v. Oregon Bd. of Parole and Post-Prison Supervision . . . 912
Burke; Rincher v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 889
Burke v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1056
Burkes v. Florida . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 829
Burlington Northern R. Co.; Judds Brothers Contruction Co. v. . 1118

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:22] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)

lvTABLE OF CASES REPORTED
PageBurnett v. Roe . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 894
Burnett v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1053
Burnette v. CACI, Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1028
Burnette v. Grove Isle Club, Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 818,1108
Burnette v. Signet/Capital One Bank . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 869
Burnette v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 908
Burns v. Arizona . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 820
Burns; Bentley v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1134
Burns v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 839
Burral v. Maryland . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 832
Burrell v. Norris . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 834
Burrows v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 867
Burson; Polyak v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 875,1014
Burtner; Gleason v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 836
Burton v. Charles . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 879
Burton v. Hill . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1027
Burton v. West . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 900
Busby v. Texas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1081
Bush; Rosenberg v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 926
Bush; Thomas v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1123
Bustamante Tobon v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 945
Bustos v. West . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 967
Butler v. California . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 865
Butler; Cooper v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 903
Butler v. Orangeburg County . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 951
Butler v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 886
Butterman & Associates; Cavalieri v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 847
Butterman & Associates; Cavalieri-Conway v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 847
Butterworth; Freund v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 817
B. Willis, C. P. A., Inc. v. Public Service Co. of Okla. . . . . . . . . . . 1003
Bykofsky, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 925
Byrd v. Johnson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 833
Byrd v. Society National Bank . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1090
Byrd v. Texas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 910,1040
Cabel v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 911
Cable News Network, Inc.; Wenc v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1063
Cabrera v. Barbo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 886
CACI, Inc.; Burnette v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1028
Cadian v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1031
Cadwell; Smith v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1176
Caesar; Woods v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 937
Caicedo Pineda v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 842
Cain; Beckham v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1166
Cain; Bowman v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1087,1088

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:22] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)
lvi TABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageCain; Braxton v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 833
Cain; Brooks v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 851
Cain; Brown v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 908
Cain; Calloway v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 880
Cain; Carter v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 970
Cain; Conrad v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1091
Cain; Cotton v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 971
Cain; Dickerson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 955
Cain; Dupard v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 940
Cain; Gray v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1087
Cain; James v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 886,1048
Cain; Kennedy v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 975
Cain; Killion v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1009
Cain; King v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 832
Cain; Lambert v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 903
Cain; London v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 956
Cain; Mitchell v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1171
Cain; Powell v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 972
Cain; Prevost v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 862
Cain; Rayford v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1167
Cain; Scott v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1025
Cain; Smith v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 835,1088,1140
Cain; Stewart v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1064
Cain; Thibodeaux v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1026
Cain; Tucker v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 882,1057
Cain v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 905,1055
Cain; Williams v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1064,1086,1168
Cain; Wright v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 973
Cain; Yancy v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1050
Cain; Young v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1084
Caldera; Cowhig v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1072
Caldera; Gilland v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 932
Caldera; Thomas v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 846,1014
Caldera; Tichenor v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 932
Calderon v. Bean . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 922
Calderon v. Dugan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 802
Calderon; Kukes v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1008
Caldwell v. Phillips . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1084
Caldwell v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 912,917
California; Aguilar v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 971
California; Alaniz-Alaniz v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 909
California; Allah v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1008
California; Allen v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 853
California; Antonio Sanchez v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 829

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:22] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)

lviiTABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageCalifornia; Arizona v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 803,1147
California; Arroyo v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1051,1089
California; Atondo v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 841
California; Belei v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1009
California; Bogard v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 834
California; Boyajian v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 965
California; Brown v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 904
California; Buchholz v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 842
California; Butler v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 865
California; Carmelo Jimenez v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1064
California; Carroll v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 860
California; Cooper v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 801,897
California; Cosmano v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1194
California; Crippen v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 842
California; Crist v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1124
California; Cross v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 801
California; Crump v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 972
California; Daniels v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1090
California; Davis v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 831
California; Downs v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1124
California; Estep v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 885
California; Fane v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 836
California; Fink v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1121
California; French v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1176
California; Galloway v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 805
California; Goodrich v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 941
California; Gray v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 936
California; Guido v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1112
California; Hansbrough v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 970
California; Hart v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1085
California; Hassan v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 865
California; Jared W. v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1142
California; Johnson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 973
California; Jones v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 895,934,1123,1169
California; Kampmann v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 974
California; Karim-Panahi v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1111
California; Kimbrough v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1024
California; Lancaster v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 936
California; Ledford v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 974
California; Lichtig v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1076,1198
California; Lopez v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1064
California; Louis v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1192
California; Macon v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 889
California; Martinez v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1008

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:22] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)
lviii TABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageCalifornia; Matthews v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1123
California; McQuillion v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 840
California; Mendoza v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1194
California; Montoya v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 839
California; Mosley v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 857
California; Nottingham v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1123
California; Ochoa v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 862
California; Padgett v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 838
California; Pairis v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 828
California; Parchue v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 903
California; Pennucci v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1025
California; Pierce v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 884
California; Price v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1052
California; Ray v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1187
California; Reliford v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 828
California; Ricotta v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 864
California; Rivera v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1088
California; Robertson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 956
California; Roybal v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 832
California; Sanders v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 881
California; Sarvey v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 830
California; Scott v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1114
California; Seward v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1008
California; Shabazz v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 901
California; Smith v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 844
California; Sons v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1013
California; Soriano v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 826
California; Sorton v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 827
California; Starz v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 886
California; Stewart v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 828
California; Thompson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1090
California; Tyabaji v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 849
California; Valdez v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1082
California; Valentino v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1166
California; Vo v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 936
California; Ware v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 866
California v. Webb . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 875
California; Weiss v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1158
California; Welch v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1154
California; Williams v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1166
California; Wilson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1081,1198
California; Wolff v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 902
California; Ybarra Villagrana v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 939
California; Young v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 831

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:22] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)

lixTABLE OF CASES REPORTED
PageCalifornia; Yu v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1138
California Bureau of State Audits; Baah v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 901
California Coastal Comm'n; Buckley v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 816,1038
California Credit Union League; Anaheim v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1154
California Democratic Party v. Jones . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1133
California Dept. of Rehabilitation; Webb v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 814
California Dept. of Social Services; Steele v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1148
California Franchise Tax Bd.; Hoffman v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1049
California Public Employees' Retirement System v. Arnett . . . . . 1111
California State Bar; Willis v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1079
California State Bd. of Equal. v. Atchison, T. & S. F. R. Co. . . . . . 1114
California State Bd. of Equal. v. So. Pacific Transp. Co. . . . . . . . 1114
California Workers' Compensation Appeals Bd.; La Velle v. . . . . . 869
Callahan v. Suffolk County Dept. of Social Services . . . . . . . . . . . 928
Calloway v. Cain . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 880
Calvin v. Johnson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 905
Camarena-Perales v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1181
Cambra; Baca v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 862
Cambra; Davis v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 955
Cambra; Funtanilla v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 852
Cambridge Hospital v. Shalala . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1048
Cameron v. Garraghty . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1065,1184
Cameron v. Texas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1166
Camp v. Bureau of Land Management . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1190
Campbell, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1060,1073
Campbell; Hamm v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 856
Campbell; Johnson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1122
Campbell v. Plymouth . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 817
Campbell v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 882,1032,1142
Campbell v. Upland . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 893
Camray Development & Construction Co.; Basilio v. . . . . . . . . 975,1108
Cannoy v. Lakeland Police Dept. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1165
Canterbury v. West . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1088
Cantrell v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 849
Cantu v. Johnson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 960
Cantu v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 818
Canty, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1073
Canty v. LaRhette . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1076
Capaldi v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 916
Cape May County Courthouse; Fleming v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 845
Capers v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 941
Capital Cities/ABC, Inc.; Levan v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1198
Capital Leasing of Ohio v. Columbus Municipal Airport Auth. . . . 1047
Caplinger; Dass v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 876,1040

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:22] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)
lx TABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageCapton; Niagara Falls v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 964
Caraway v. Texas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1048
Card; Ehnes v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1092
Cardales v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 838
Cardenas v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1065
CareAmerica Health Plans, Inc.; Ross v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1191
Carella v. New Jersey Dept. of Treasury . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 815
Carey; Brown v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1141
Carey; Krueger v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1008
Cargill, Inc.; Hopper v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1159
Carhart; Stenberg v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1110
Caribbean Petroleum Corp.; Coastal Fuels of P. R., Inc. v. . . . . . . 931
Caridine; Antonelli v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
Carl v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1032
Carleton v. Tulsa . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 809
Carlin v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 917
Carlisle v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 979
Carlsbad; Glass v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1166
Carlson, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1151
Carlson v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 818,1009
Carlson v. Woods . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 936
Carlton v. Henderson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 986
Carmell v. Texas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1001
Carmelo Jimenez v. California . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1064
Carniglia v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1029
Carpenter; Edwards v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 985,1060
Carpenter v. Federal National Mortgage Assn. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 823,876
Carpenter v. Lutheran Social Services . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 851
Carpenter v. White . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 925
Carr v. Dormire . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1009
Carr v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 879
Carr v. West Virginia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1124
Carr; Winward v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1141
Carrillo v. ACF Industries, Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1077
Carrillo v. Salmon . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1186
Carrillo v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 841
Carrillo-Rodriguez v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 881
Carroll v. California . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 860
Carroll v. Coyle . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1179
Carroll v. Grand Casino Mille Lacs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 890
Carson v. U. S. Court of Appeals . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1178
Carter v. Cain . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 970
Carter; Galloway v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1194
Carter; Giberna v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1136

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:22] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)

lxiTABLE OF CASES REPORTED
PageCarter v. Hernandez . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 935
Carter; Hester v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1095
Carter v. Michigan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 851
Carter; Powell v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1088
Carter; Roe v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1005
Carter v. Tennessee . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 857
Carter v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 802,865,931,1056,1060,1196
Carter v. Wright . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 860
Carthane v. Florida . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 844,1056
Cartwright v. Texas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 972
Caruso; Preston v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1024
Carver v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 957
Carver State Bank; Green v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 885,1057
Casapini v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 905
Case Western Reserve Univ.; Chandler v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 970
Casey; Dominguez v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 802
Casey v. Retirement Bd. of R. I. Employees' Retirement System 929
Casey v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 844
Cash v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 946
Casimier v. U. S. Postal Service . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 858,1056
Casino Ventures, Inc. v. Stewart . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1077
Cason v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 853
Casso v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1023
Castellon v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1126
Castillo v. Round Rock . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1019
Castillo v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1109
Castillo-Chavez v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 855
Castleberry v. Louisiana . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 893
Caston v. Michigan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 897
Castor v. Modisett . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 972
Castro v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 827,1034
Cataldo v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 879
Catapult Entertainment, Inc. v. Perlman . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 924
Cathey v. Texas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1082
Cato, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 983,1149
Catoe; Alexander v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 830,1066
Catoe; Drayton v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 857
Catoe; Johnson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1032
Catoe v. Miller . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 893
Catoe; Rocheville v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 953
Catoe; Wilson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 880
Caudillo v. Continental Bank/Bank of America Ill. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1048
Caudle v. Hightower . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 833
Cauley v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 979

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:22] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)
lxii TABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageCavalieri v. L. Butterman & Associates . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 847
Cavalieri-Conway v. L. Butterman & Associates . . . . . . . . . . . . . 847
Cavallaro v. Gallant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1005
Cavano v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 989
Cave v. Florida . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 841
Cavender v. Miller . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 833
Caver v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 942
Caviness v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 865
Cawley v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1195
Cayetano; Hou Hawaiians v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1059
Cayetano; Rice v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 495
C & C Building Co. v. Michigan Dept. of Consumer & Ind. Affairs 1005
Cecil; Singleton v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 966
Ceglarek v. John Crane, Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1051,1145
Cendejas v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1027
Centra Benefit Services, Inc.; Smith v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 929
Central Intelligence Agency; Tavakoli-Nouri v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 882
Central Maine Power Co. v. Maine Public Utilities Comm'n . . . . . 1077
Central Newspapers, Inc. v. Johnson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 963
Central States S. E. & S. W. Pens. Fd.; Midwest Motor Express v. 1004
Cervantes v. Jones . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1154
Cervantes; Jones v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1154
Chacon v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1144
Chacon Morales v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1177
Chaidez v. Weir . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1171
Chalmers Motors, Inc. v. Gulf States Toyota, Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1156
Chamberlain v. Texas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1082
Chambers v. Bowersox . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 969,1034,1057,1067
Chambers; Bowersox v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1000
Chambers v. McClenney . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 818
Chambley v. Pike County . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1156
Champion; Jackson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 883,1123
Champion v. Johnson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 905
Champion v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1128
Champion International Corp.; Keyerleber v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 923
Chance Co. v. Enfield . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 922
Chandler v. Case Western Reserve Univ. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 970
Chandler; Cook County v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 931
Chaney, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1147
Chaney v. Arizona . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1147
Chaney v. Stewart . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 802
Chapa v. Adams . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 839
Chapin; Townsend v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1170
Chapman v. Angelone . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1124

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:22] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)

lxiiiTABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageChapman; Rogers v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1085
Chappell v. Easley . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 862,1039
Chappell v. Meese . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1189
Chappell v. Nevada . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 853
Chappell v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 942
Charles v. Apfel . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 934
Charles; Burton v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 879
Charles Schwab Corp. v. Commissioner . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 822
Charleston; Ferguson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1187
Charley v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1098
Charlie Obaugh Pontiac Buick, Inc.; Boone v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 806,1003
Charter Property Management Co., Inc.; Mangrum v. . . . . . . . . . 806
Chase; Polsby v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 870
Chase Manhattan Bank v. Gavin . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 965
Chase Manhattan Bank, N. A.; LOT$OFF Corp. v. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1078
Chaudhry v. Gallerizzo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 891
Chaves v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1048
Chavez v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1131
Chavez-Galvan v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 986
Chavis v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 923
Chee v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 909
Cheeks; Jones v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1007
Cheminor Drugs, Ltd. v. Ethyl Corp. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 871
Chen v. Raz . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1056
Chen-Li Pang v. Allstate Ins. Co. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 930
Cherrix v. Virginia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 873
Cherry v. Athens-Clarke County . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 803
Chesnel v. Maine . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1126
Chester v. Louisiana . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 826,999
Cheuk-Yan Fung v. Stewart . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 900
Chevron U. S. A. Inc. v. OXY USA Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1014
Chew v. New Jersey . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1052
Chhim v. Houston . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 835,1039
Chicago; Adusumilli v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 988
Chicago; Mann v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1160
Chicago; Towers v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 874
Chicago Bd. of Ed.; Achebe v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 819
Chicago Transit Authority; Williamson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1076
Chief Justice, Supreme Court of Ind.; Crenshaw v. . . . . . . . . . . . 871
Chiingirian v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1070
Chimblo v. Commissioner . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1154
Chin v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 919
Chinn v. Ohio . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1120
Chiropractic America v. LaVecchia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 930

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:22] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)
lxiv TABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageChisolm v. New York . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 971
Chmiel; Pennsylvania v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1131
Cho v. Hawaii . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 974
Chong Ling Dan v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 844
Choong Chin v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 919
Choudhary v. Equal Employment Opportunity Comm'n . . . . . . . . 1113
Chrispen v. Feiner . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 805
Christensen v. Harris County . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 926,1134
Christian County Planning and Zoning; Olson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 830
Christoferson v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1178
Christopher; Johnson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 909
Chrysler Corp.; Adcock v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 816
Chu v. Holland . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1091
Chukwuezi v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 893
Chung Wu Ho; Feldman v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 928
Chun Ting v. College of Podiatric Medicine and Surgery . . . . . . . 1151
Cicero v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1128
Cigna Property; Polaris Pictures Corp. v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 815
Cimino v. Pittsburgh Corning Corp. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1156
Circle Industries USA, Inc. v. Parke Construction Group, Inc. . . 1062
Circuit Court for Milwaukee County; Gulley v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 862
Ciriaco-Gomez v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 977
Cisar; Murray v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1028
Cisco v. Leonardo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1171
Citibank, Inc.; Pedraglio Loli v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1168
City. See name of city.
City Univ. of N. Y.; Willett v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 967
Clagett; Thomas v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 954
Clair v. Harris Trust and Savings Bank . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1157
Clancy, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 803
Clancy v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 942
Clark; Armstrong County v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1118
Clark v. AT Entertainment, Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1141,1198
Clark v. Booker . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 862
Clark; Hawks v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1052,1184
Clark v. Land . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1064
Clark v. Mitchem . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 849
Clark v. Nassau County . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 940,1057
Clark v. Texas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1162
Clark; Williams v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1053
Clarke; Gaffin v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 837
Clarke v. Sikes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 833
Clarkson v. Illinois . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 905
Classic Corp. v. American National Watermattress Corp. . . . . . . 1139

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:22] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)

lxvTABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageClawson v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 849
Clayton; Hansboro v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 857
Clayton v. Missouri . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1027
Clayton v. Tennessee . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 904
Clearman v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 847
Cleary v. Waldman . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 870
Clements v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 867
Clemmons v. Bowersox . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1011
Clemmons v. O'Brien . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1142
Clemons v. Wisconsin . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1086
Clerks of Circuit Courts, Anne Arundel County; NVR Homes v. 1117
Cleveland v. Frazier . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1173
Cleveland v. Middleton . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 916
Clifton v. Moore . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 817
Clincy, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 807
Cline v. Bayer . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 887
Clinton; Martin v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1192
Clinton; Walker v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1145
Clock Tower Place Investments, Ltd.; Robinson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . 927
Cloer v. Gynecology Clinic, Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1099
Cloer v. Palmetto State Medical Center . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1099
Closson v. Pitcher . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 834
CMS/Data Corp.; Morgan v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 802
Coach, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 807
Coalla v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1030
Coastal Fuels of P. R., Inc. v. Caribbean Petroleum Corp. . . . . . . 931
Cobb v. Alabama . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 851
Cobbs v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 853
Coca-Cola Enterprises, Inc.; Ackerman v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1145
Cocke v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1140
Cockrell v. Southaven . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 817
Coe v. Bell . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 842,1039
Coe v. Prunty . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 861
Coffey v. Booker . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 861
Coffield; Stancliff v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 938
Cogentrix of N. C., Inc.; ANR Coal Co. v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 877
Coger; Tennessee Bd. of Regents v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1110
Coggins v. District of Columbia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 822
Cohea v. Bray . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 805
Cohen; Boulanger v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1030
Cohen v. Recreation & Park Comm'n, East Baton Rouge (BREC) 813
Cohn; Israel v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 892
Cohn; O'Neill v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1085
Colbert v. Corcoran . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 848

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:22] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)
lxvi TABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageColbert v. Workers' Compensation Appeals Bd. . . . . . . . . . . . . 866,1107
Cole; Rayas Mejia v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 830
Cole v. Tully . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 964
Cole v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 843,906,977
Cole v. Yearwood . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 843
Coleman, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 807
Coleman v. Johnson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1164
Coleman v. Ohio . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 954
Coleman v. Tennessee . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 935
Coleman v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 909,957,958,1143
Colen v. Global Investments, LLC . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1169
Coles v. Supervalu, Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 866
Collazo; Pennsylvania v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1078
College of Podiatric Medicine and Surgery; Hing Chun Ting v. . . 1151
Collier v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1098
Collins v. Michigan Parole Bd. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1165
Collins v. Montgomery County Bd. of Prison Inspectors . . . . . . . 1115
Collins v. Terhune . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 860
Collins v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1096
Collins; Virginia v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1073
Collins; Walker v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 844
Collins v. Warner-Lambert Co. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1134
Colon v. Department of State . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1003,1107
Colorado; Brawley v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 877
Colorado; Dunlap v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 893
Colorado; Hill v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1017,1059
Colorado; Nordic v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1085
Colorado; Wardell v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1195
Colorado Dept. of Corrections; Anderson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1165
Colorado National Bank; Vento v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 951
Columbia Falls Aluminum Co. v. Administrator, Bonneville Power 1138
Columbus Mun. Airport Auth.; Budget Rent-A-Car, Columbus v. . . 1047
Columbus Mun. Airport Auth.; Capital Leasing of Ohio, Inc. v. . . . . 1047
Colyar v. Gilman . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 942,1057
Combustion Engineering, Inc. v. McGill . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 931
Commerce Bancshares, Inc.; Dick v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1189
Commercial Credit Corp.; Mendez v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1118
Commercial Energies, Inc. v. Danzig . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 820
Commissioner; American Stores Co. v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 875
Commissioner; Brown v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 967
Commissioner; Charles Schwab Corp. v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 822
Commissioner; Chimblo v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1154
Commissioner; Connecticut General Life Ins. Co. v. . . . . . . . . . . . 1003
Commissioner; Finnegan v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 933

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:22] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)

lxviiTABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageCommissioner; Goins v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 980
Commissioner; Lippincott Adams v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1117
Commissioner; Louis v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1115
Commissioner; Patrick v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 878
Commissioner; Seaworth v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1141
Commissioner; Southwell v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1048
Commissioner; Tolbert v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1043
Commissioner; Williams v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1112
Commissioner of Internal Revenue. See Commissioner.
Commodity Futures Trading Comm'n; Dunn v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 825
Commonwealth. See also name of Commonwealth.
Commonwealth Edison Co.; Topink v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 873
Community Bank/NationsBank; Williams v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 955,1057
Community First Bank of Neb.; Gordon v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 814
Community Hospital; McCloud v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 949,1082
Comptroller General; Bianchi v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 814
Comptroller of Currency; American Commerce National Bank v. 876
Comptroller of Public Accounts of Tex.; Shepherd v. . . . . . . . . . . 963
Comptroller of Treasury of Md.; Robertson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 879
Conard v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 867
Conboy; Tipp-It, Inc. v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1116
Condon; Reno v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 141
Conk v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 816
Conley; Brown v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 850
Conley v. Pitney Bowes, Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1136
Conlon v. Arizona . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 988
Connecticut; Eady v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1030
Connecticut; Fernandez v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 939
Connecticut; Hodge v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 969
Connecticut; Jason B. v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 967
Connecticut; Kruelski v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1168
Connecticut; Malave v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1170
Connecticut; Mitchell v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1171
Connecticut; Schiappa v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 862
Connecticut General Life Ins. Co. v. Commissioner . . . . . . . . . . . 1003
Connelly v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 958
Conner; Nagib v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1125
Conners v. Alabama Dept. of Corrections . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 831
Connick v. Hudson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1004
Connors, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 961
Conrad v. Cain . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1091
Conrail Matched Savings Plan Administrative Comm.; Bennett v. 871
Conseco Annuity Assurance Co. v. Trostel . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 922
Consolidated Freightways Corp.; Shannon v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1019

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:22] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)
lxviii TABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageConsolidated Freightways of Del., Inc.; Lowe v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1088
Consolidated Rail Corp.; Dent v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1188
Constant v. Advanced Micro-Devices, Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 820
Constant v. Ray . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 966
Constructora Lluch v. Puerto Rico Aqueduct and Sewer Auth. . . 872
Contech Division, SPX Corp. v. National Labor Relations Bd. . . . 821
Continental Bank/Bank of America Ill.; Caudillo v. . . . . . . . . . . . 1048
Contreras v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 904
Contreras-Cardenas v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 841
Conyers v. Maryland . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 910
Cook v. Brown . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 861
Cook; Burgess v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1141
Cook v. Florida . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1028
Cook v. Georgia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 974,1108
Cook v. Moore . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 844
Cook; Sheppard v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1115
Cook v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . 833,846,942,943,1013,1126,1195,1196
Cook County v. Chandler . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 931
Cook County; Harris v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1175
Cook County; United States v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1019
Cooks, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1041
Cooks v. Ward . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 834
Coolidge v. U. S. District Court . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 955
Coolsaet Construction Co.; Operating Engineers v. . . . . . . . . . . . 1004
Coombs; Grine v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1160
Cooper v. Butler . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 903
Cooper v. California . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 801,897
Cooper v. Johnson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 908,1057
Cooper v. Moore . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1141
Cooper v. New Jersey . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1084
Cooper v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 886,1019,1098
Cooperman v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 850
Cooper Natural Resources, Inc.; Operating Engineers v. . . . . . . . 812
Copeland v. Pastrano . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 987
Copenhaver v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1097
Copenhefer v. Pennsylvania . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 830
Corcoran; Colbert v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 848
Corcoran v. Croixland Properties Ltd. Partnership . . . . . . . . . . . 1021
Corcoran; Jones v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1010
Corcoran; Mason v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 914,1041
Corcoran; Shaw v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1179
Corcoran; Tibbs v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1120
Cordero-Godinez v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 849
Corley v. Longview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 823

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:22] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)

lxixTABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageCornell, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 926,1113
Cornwell v. Ohio . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1172
Cornyn; Estrada v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 955
Cornyn; Howland v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 970
Corona v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 893
Coronado v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1004
Corporate Property Associates; New Valley Corp. v. . . . . . . . . . . 1138
Corpuz v. Walter . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1007,1184
Corrections Commissioner. See name of commissioner.
Corsini v. U-Haul International, Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1061
Cortez Escamilla v. Prunty . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 836
Cosmair, Inc. v. Michigan Dept. of Treasury . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1139
Cosmano v. California . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1194
Costa v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1139
Costley v. Maryland . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1169
Cotner, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 807,1057
Cotton v. Cain . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 971
Couch v. Georgia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 924
Couch v. Oregon Dept. of Fish and Wildlife . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 869
Coughlin; Horne v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1052
Coulibaly v. Immigration and Naturalization Service . . . . . . . . . . 1027
Counce v. U. S. District Court . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 913
Council v. South Carolina . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 803,1050
Council v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 924
Counterman v. Pennsylvania . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 836
Country Brook Estates; Taylor v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 854
County. See name of county.
Courtney v. Holmes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 863
Court of Appeal of Cal., Fourth Appellate Dist.; Martinez v. . . . . 152
Court of Appeal of Cal., Fourth Appellate Dist., Div. One; Mora v. 1121
Court of Appeals. See U. S. Court of Appeals.
Court of Appeals of Wis., Dist. III; Pesek v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 832
Court of Indian Offenses of Choctaw Nation v. Dry . . . . . . . . . . . 815
Cousino v. Nowicki . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1042
Coutts Bank (Switzerland) Ltd.; Anatian v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1188
Covington; New York City v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 946
Cowan; Freeman v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 914
Cowen; Lewis v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 823
Cowen v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1178
Cowhig v. Caldera . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1072
Cox v. Florida . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1028
Cox v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 855,861,932
Coyle; Bekovich v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 902
Coyle; Carroll v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1179

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:22] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)
lxx TABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageCoyle v. Mapes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 946
Crabtree; McLean v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1086
Craig v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 981
Crandall v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1098
Crandall v. Wagner . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1056
Crandon v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 855
Crane v. Johnson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 947
Crane, Inc.; Ceglarek v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1051,1145
Crawford v. Signet Bank . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1145
Crawford v. Texas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 835
Crea v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 933
Credit Bureau of Placer County; Mahon v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 803
Crefisa Inc. v. Washington Mut. Bank, F. A. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1139
Crenshaw v. Baynerd . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 952
Crenshaw v. Disciplinary Comm'n of Supreme Court of Ind. . . . . 877
Crenshaw v. Shepard . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 871
Crenshaw v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 865
Crews v. Department of Army . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1182
Criollo v. Johnson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 972
Crippen v. California . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 842
Crist v. California . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1124
Crist; King v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 858
Crittenden County Prosecuting Attorney; Ark. Hwy. Police v. . . . 877
Critton v. Moore . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 918
Croen & Barr; Morters v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1046
Crofts v. Dallas County Hospital Dist. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1188
Crofts v. Parkland Memorial Hospital . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1188
Croixland Properties Ltd. Partnership; Corcoran v. . . . . . . . . . . . 1021
Cromartie v. Georgia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 974,1108
Cromer v. Smith . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 826
Cross v. California . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 801
Cross v. Michigan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1170
Cross v. Murphy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 805
Cross; National Federation of Blind, Inc. v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1022
Crowder, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 807
Crowe v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 839
Crowley; Walls v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 957
Crump v. Best Temps . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1155
Crump v. California . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 972
Crump; McSheffrey v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 834
Cruthird v. Texas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 935
Cruz v. Angelone . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1087
Cruz v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 855,875,896
Cruz-Mendoza v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1013

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:22] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)

lxxiTABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageCryne; Tyler v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 805
CSC Consulting, Inc. v. Tingley Systems, Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1187
Cuevas-Zavala v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1143
Cullen, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 984,1071
Cullington; McGlothlin v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1062
Culp v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1195
Culpeper County; Smith v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1157
Cumberland; Green v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 935
Cumberland Farms, Inc.; Patillo v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 961
Cummings v. Michigan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 937
Cummins v. Pepsi-Cola Co. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 932
Cuneo v. Cuneo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 878
Cuneo v. Pennsylvania . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 966
Cuniff; Bagley v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1096
Cunigan v. Shamaeizadeh . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1021
Cunningham v. Moreno . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1059
Cunningham v. Poppell . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 805
Cuozzo v. Waynick . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1085
Cupit v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 860,1039
Cureton v. Sharpe . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 812
Curro v. Kelly . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 936,1041
Curry; Griesenbeck v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1087
Curry v. Illinois . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 902
Curry v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 903,1095
Cygan v. Michigan Dept. of Treasury . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1079
Czeck v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 904
Dade County School Bd.; Gomez v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1158
Daft v. West Virginia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1122
Dain v. Ventura County . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1136
Dakota County Housing Redevelopment Authorities; Eaton v. . . . 1131
Dale; Boy Scouts of America v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1109
Dale County Dept. of Human Resources; Reliford v. . . . . . . . . . . 955
Dalkon Shield Claimants Trust; Briggs v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 949,1082
Dallas; Dickerson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 931
Dallas Area Rapid Transit; Anderson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1062,1183
Dallas County Hospital Dist.; Crofts v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1188
Dallas Independent School Dist.; Jewell v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1062
Dalton v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 875
Dan v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 844
Danco, Inc.; Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1105
Daniel v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 896
Daniels v. California . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1090
Daniels v. Lindsey . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 955
Daniels v. Pennsylvania Public Utility Comm'n . . . . . . . . . . . 1006,1107

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:22] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)
lxxii TABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageDaniels v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1030,1178
Danielson v. Hawaii . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 932
Danks v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1091
D'Annunzio v. Baylor Univ. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1189
Danzey v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 866
Danzig; Commercial Energies, Inc. v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 820
Da Ping Huang v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1011
Darby v. Johnson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 888
Darity v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1128
Darnbush v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1197
Dass v. Caplinger . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 876,1040
D'Auria v. Pennsylvania . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 879
Davage, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1187
Davage v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1093
David v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 944,1032,1092
Davidson v. Detroit Free Press, Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 932
Davidson v. Johnson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 894
Davidson v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1180
Davies v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 942
Davis, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 807
Davis; Board of Trustees of Univ. of Conn. v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1110
Davis; Brown v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 935
Davis v. California . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 831
Davis v. Cambra . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 955
Davis v. Davis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 822
Davis v. Earhart . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 937
Davis v. Hillside . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1138
Davis v. Hopper . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 804,1114
Davis v. International Management Group . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 910
Davis; Kramer v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1133
Davis v. Lauria . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 814
Davis v. Malden Bd. of Assessors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 931
Davis v. Murov . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1039
Davis v. Nunez . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1115
Davis; Roberts v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 905
Davis v. Scott . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 863
Davis v. Tabachnick . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 822
Davis v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1082,1095,1140,1175,1180,1196
Davis; Washington v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 858,1039
Davis; Wright v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1168
Davis, Reno & Courtney v. Westminster . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1061
Dawavendewa; Salt River Project Ag. Imp. and Power Dist. v. . . . . 1098
Dawodu v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1144
Dawson v. Lovell . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 818

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:22] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)

lxxiiiTABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageDawson v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 865
Day; Bell v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 841
Day; Jackson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 883
Dayton Hudson Corp.; Sheren v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 815
Dayton Newspapers, Inc. v. Truckdrivers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1137
Dean; Langworthy v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 945,1014
Dean; Ports v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1140
Dean v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 845,1053,1184
DeAngelis v. Widener Univ. School of Law . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1053
de Aza-Paez v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1031
Deck v. Missouri . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1009
Decker v. Urrutia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1021
DeCorso v. Utah . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1164
Deering v. Reich . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1021
Deering v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 945
Deerwester v. Illinois . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 811
Dees; Fortner v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1087
Dees; Taylor v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 953,1108
Degen v. Louisiana . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 827
Deiter; Newman v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 931
De La Mata v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 985
Del-Carmen v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 863
DeLeon v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 863,1030
Delgado; Lewis v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 924,1133
Delgado v. Texas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 939
Delgado Medrano v. Johnson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1049
Delgenio v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1098
Dellamonica v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 886
DeLoach; Dial v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 937
DeLoach; Johnson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 893
DeLozier v. Oklahoma . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1023
del Pilar Marin v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1010
Del Pilar Reynoso v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 945
Delpit v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 900
Del Rio v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1176
Delta Air Lines, Inc.; Adams v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 877
Delta Airlines, Inc.; Emerson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1022,1132
Delta Airlines, Inc.; Vincent v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1076
Demasse v. ITT Cannon . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 930
Demasse v. ITT Corp. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 930
De Mendoza v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1012
Dempsey v. Martin . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
Dempster v. Waste Management, Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 872
Dempster v. Waste Management of Pittsburgh . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 872

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:22] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)
lxxiv TABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageDena' Nena' Henash v. Ipalook . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 964
Dennis v. Scott . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 975,1108
Den Norske Bank; Esperance, Ltd. v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 814
Dent v. Consolidated Rail Corp. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1188
Denver; Hawkins v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 871
Department of Agriculture; Allred's Produce v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1021
Department of Agriculture; Griffith v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1175
Department of Agriculture; McFall v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 806,1003
Department of Air Force; Bonner v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1173
Department of Army; Crews v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1182
Department of Army; Smith v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 961
Department of Army; Youngs v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 889
Department of Army, Engineers; Water Works of Birmingham v. 951
Department of Ed.; Abidekun v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1148
Department of Ed.; Ruiz Rivera v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1047,1183
Department of Health and Human Services; Gulley v. . . . . . . . . . 890
Department of Interior, Nat. Park Serv.; Moody Hill Farms v. . . 874
Department of Justice; Anthony v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1127
Department of Justice; Braun v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 805,1017
Department of Labor; Lynn v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 898
Department of Labor; Rasten v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1124
Department of Labor; Theede v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 961
Department of Labor, Administrative Review Bd.; Fields v. . . . . 1115
Department of Labor, Benefits Review Bd.; Porter v. . . . . . . 1052,1184
Department of Navy; Viray v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 916,1107
Department of Personnel Administration; Opong-Mensah v. . . . . . 867
Department of State; Lozada Colon v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1003,1107
Department of Transportation; Airports Council Int'l-N. A. v. . . . 1074
Department of Transportation; Los Angeles v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1074
Department of Treasury; Austin v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 905
Department of Treasury; Hobson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 835
Department of Treasury; Kostmayer v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 928
Department of Veterans Affairs; Huron v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 885
Department of Veterans Affairs; Richardson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 967
DePiero; Macedonia v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1105
Derryberry v. Tennessee Valley Authority . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1047
DeShay v. Bastrop Independent School Dist. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 930
DesRosiers; Spiegel v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1080
Desselle v. Eidson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 872
Detroit Auto Auction v. National Labor Relations Bd. . . . . . . . . . 1074
Detroit Free Press, Inc.; Davidson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 932
DeVerney v. Minnesota . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 974
Devillasee v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1197
Dewberry v. Oklahoma . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 825

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:22] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)

lxxvTABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageDeWitt v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 919,1066
Diagnostek, Inc.; Anaeme v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 814
Dial v. DeLoach . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 937
Diamond Club v. Port Chester . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1187
Diaz v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 915,1163,1180,1197
Dick v. Commerce Bancshares, Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1189
Dick v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1176
Dickerson v. Cain . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 955
Dickerson v. Dallas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 931
Dickerson v. Johnson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1193
Dickerson v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 918,1045,1072
Dickson; Florida Dept. of Corrections v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1132,1184
Diercks; Brown v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1028
Diettrich v. Northwest Airlines, Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 813,1132
Digital Equipment Corp.; SMS Systems Maintenance Services v. 1188
Dillard v. Kentucky . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1009
Dillibe v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1093
Dillingham Ship Repair; Siler v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1166
Director, OWCP; Sea-Land Service, Inc. v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 809
Director of penal or correctional institution. See name or title

of director.
Dirnfeld & Zelner; Eells v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 878,1014
Disciplinary Comm'n of Supreme Court of Ind.; Crenshaw v. . . . . 877
Disessa; Romney v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1007,1132
Disney Concert Hall No. 1; Wojciechowski v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 819,1039
District Court. See U. S. District Court.
District Judge. See U. S. District Judge.
District of Columbia; Coggins v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 822
District of Columbia; Ekandem v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 845
District of Columbia; Rogers v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 879
District of Columbia Bd. of Zoning Adjustment; Robinson v. . . . . 1112
Dittler v. Robey . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 824,1039
Dixmoor; Sanders v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1020
Dixon v. Louisiana . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 857
Dixon v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 920,986
Djelilate v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1098
Dlugosz v. Scarano . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1079
D&M Contracting Co. v. Jacksonville . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1158
D & M Contracting Co. v. Jacksonville . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1062
Dobkin v. Johns Hopkins Univ. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 875
Dobson v. Moore . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1123
Dobucki; Snyder v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 977,1028
Dodge City; Hartnett v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 953
Dodson v. Leonard . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 937

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:22] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)
lxxvi TABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageDoe; Alexander v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 830,1183
Doe v. Marshall . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1038
Doe v. Mutual of Omaha Ins. Co. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1106
Doe; Santa Fe Independent School Dist. v. . . . . . . . 1002,1113,1134,1187
Doe v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 978,1112
Doherty v. Pacific West Cable Television . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 813
Doherty v. Wireless Broadcasting Systems of Sacramento, Inc. . . 813
Doke v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 907
Domalakes; Minford v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 949,1044
Dombeck; Oregon Natural Desert Assn. v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 964
Dome Sheet Metal, Inc.; Muldoon v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1084
Domingues v. Nevada . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 963
Dominguez v. Casey . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 802
Dominguez-Carmona v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 831
Donaldson v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 863,1130
Dong Soo Kim v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 857
Donley v. Illinois . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1193
Donofrio; Jancuk v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1072
Donohue v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 888
Don Vicente Macias, Inc. v. Texas Gulf Trawling Co. . . . . . . . . . . 986
Dooling; Hudson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1090
Dormire; Anderson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1089
Dormire; Carr v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1009
Dormire; Harris v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 886
Dormire; Hill v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 940
Dormire; Hooker v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 899
Dormire; Lemons v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 954
Dormire; Mayes v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 913
Dormire; Raine v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 941
Dormire; Scott v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1086
Dormire; Sineus v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 898
Dormire; Sours v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 956
Dormire; Tatum v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1065
Dormire; Young v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 899
Dorrough, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1017
Dorsey v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 885
Doty v. Whalen . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 891
Douglas v. Lehman . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 937
Douglas v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 856
Douros v. Sharon Savings Bank . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 824
Dow Chemical Co.; Long v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1141
Dow Jones & Co.; Scheffler v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 986
Downs v. California . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1124
Downs v. Taylor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 887

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:22] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)

lxxviiTABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageDragon Textile Mills; Stinnett Enterprises, Inc. v. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1137
Drake v. Kentucky . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1009
Drake v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1143
Drayer v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1176
Drayton v. Catoe . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 857
Dresser Rand Co.; Kennedy v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1190
Dreyfoos; Mergens v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 820
Driskill v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1098
Drucker v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1139
Dry; Court of Indian Offenses of Choctaw Nation v. . . . . . . . . . . 815
Dryclean U. S. A. Franchise Co.; Nieman v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1118
Drye v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49
DSC Communications Corp.; Pulse Communications, Inc. v. . . . . . 923
Dua v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 864,1132
Dual Drilling Co.; Fontenot v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1062
DuCharme; Baja v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1079
DuCharme; Gardner v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1024
DuCharme; Lewis v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 900
DuCharme v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1144
Duckworth v. French . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1045
Duckworth; Isby v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 905
Duffus v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 866
Dufrain; Torres v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 975
Dufrain; Vazquez v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1121
Dugan; Calderon v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 802
Duke v. Johnson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1121
Duncan; Lavi v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1190
Duncan v. Tennessee . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 830
Dung Hoang Le v. Lambert . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 851
Dunkins v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1172
Dunlap v. Colorado . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 893
Dunlap v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1175
Dunmore v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1066
Dunn v. Bowersox . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 955
Dunn v. Commodity Futures Trading Comm'n . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 825
Dunn v. Gordon . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1093
Dunn v. Johnson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1122
Dupard v. Cain . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 940
Du Pont de Nemours & Co.; Lay v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 921
Du Pont de Nemours & Co. v. Matsuura . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1067
Du Pont de Nemours & Co. v. Orchid Isle Nursery . . . . . . . . . . . 1067
Du Pont de Nemours & Co.; Wintergreen Nurseries v. . . . . . . . . 921
Dura-Corp., Inc.; Rothbury Investments v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 823
Durand v. Johnson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1091

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:22] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)
lxxviii TABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageDurbin, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1060
Duren v. Haley . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 940
Durfee v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 827
Durham v. Stubblefield . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 888
Durham; Thomas v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 856
Durham v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1033
Durie, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 925
Duron v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 852
Dutch v. Texas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 831
Duval; Englehart v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1122
Eades v. Kentucky . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 988
Eady v. Connecticut . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1030
Eagle, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 801,1016
Eagle Tail v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 845
E. A. Miller, Inc.; Johnson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1004
Earhart; Davis v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 937
Early v. Toledo Blade Co. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 964
Earthman v. Ingram . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 986
Easley; Barnes v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1031
Easley; Chappell v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 862,1039
Easley; Hooks v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1030
Easley; Johnston v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 931
East Coast Truck Lines; Williams v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1072
East Lake Methodist Episcopal Church, Inc. v. Trustees of

Peninsula-Del. Annual Conference of United Methodist Church 1138
East Lampeter Township; King v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 951
Eastman Kodak Co. v. Thomas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1161
Eastman Kodak Co.; Vallimont v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1191
Easton v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 907
Eaton v. Dakota County Housing Redevelopment Authorities . . . 1131
Eaton v. Weber . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 865
Eau Claire Public Schools; Benedict v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1159
EBI Medical Systems, Inc.; Orthofix S. R. L. v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1076
Edmon v. McDaniel . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1122
Edmond; Peterson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1153
Edmondson v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 845
Edmondson; Walker v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 987
Edwards, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1017
Edwards v. Carpenter . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 985,1060
Edwards v. Illinois . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 857
Edwards v. Louisiana . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1026
Edwards v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 815,825,886,907,919,1130
Eells v. Dirnfeld & Zelner . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 878,1014
Eesley v. Wisconsin . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 909

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:22] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)

lxxixTABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageEfron v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 987
Egeolu v. University of Tex. at San Antonio . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 835
Ehnes, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1135
Ehnes v. Card . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1092
Eible v. Houstoun . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 878
Eichelberger; McClintock v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 876
Eidson; Desselle v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 872
E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Co.; Lay v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 921
E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Co. v. Matsuura . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1067
E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Co. v. Orchid Isle Nursery . . . . . . . . 1067
E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Co.; Wintergreen Nurseries v. . . . . . 921
EIE Guam Corp. v. Long-Term Credit Bank of Japan, Ltd. . . . . . 1137
EIE Guam Corp. v. Supreme Court of Guam . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1137
Eimers v. New York . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1189
Ekandem v. District of Columbia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 845
Elam v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1012
El-Amin, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 948,1070
Elder; Hart v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 953
El Dorado County; Prescott v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1111
Eldridge v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1082,1198
Elections Bd. of Wis. v. Wisconsin Mfrs. & Commerce . . . . . . . . . 969
Electrical Workers; Lewis v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1080
Electrical Workers v. Utilities Dist., W. Ind. Rural Electric Coop. 819
Electronic Data Systems v. Sposato . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1189
Eleventh Ave. Medical Group; Parker v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1122
Elhassan v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1094
Eljack v. Hammound . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1187
Elk Corp. of Dallas v. GAF Building Materials Corp. . . . . . . . . . . 873
Elkins, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 961,1070
Ellington v. Prunty . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1122
Elliott v. Hanks . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 887
Ellis; Brown v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1051
Ellis v. Illinois . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 883
Ellison v. Smith . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1122
Elo; Blanton v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1050
Elo; Northington v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 837
Elo; Sirbaugh v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1165
El-Ramly v. University of Haw. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1159
Emerick v. United Technologies Corp. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1005
Emerson v. Delta Airlines, Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1022,1132
Emery v. Toledo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 929
Emery v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1130
Empson; Waite v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 816
Enciso Del-Carmen v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 863

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:22] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)
lxxx TABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageEndicott; Flynn v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 836
Endicott; Peters v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 880
Enfield; A. B. Chance Co. v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 922
England v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1124
Engle v. Million . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 887
Engle v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1023
Englehart v. Duval . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1122
English v. Shell . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 887
English v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 878
E. N. O.; L. M. M. v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1005
Enoch v. Illinois . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1121
Enriquez v. Texas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 899
Enron Power Marketing, Inc. v. Northern States Power Co. . . . . 1182
ENSCO Offshore Co. v. Smith . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1074
Entergy Corp.; Allen v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1063
Entergy Operations, Inc.; Boykin v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 968
Environmental Protection Agency; American Lung Assn. v. . . . . 818
Environmental Protection Agency; Fernandes v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 869
Epix, Inc.; Interstellar Starship Services, Ltd. v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1155
Epstein v. Matsushita Electric Industrial Co. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1004
Equal Employment Opportunity Comm'n; Choudhary v. . . . . . . . 1113
Equal Employment Opportunity Comm'n; Newsome v. . . . . . . . . 917
Equifax Credit Information Services, Inc.; Tinsley v. . . . . . . . . . . 1047
Equitable Life Assurance Society of U. S.; Luntao v. . . . . . . . . . . 836
Erickson v. Wisconsin . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1140
Ericson v. IDC Services, Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1090,1198
Erie v. "Kandyland" . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 803,948,962
Erie v. Pap's A. M. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 803,948,962
Ernest v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 907
Escalanti v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1054
Escamilla v. Prunty . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 836
Escobar-De Jesus v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1176
Esparza v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1054
Esperance, Ltd. v. Den Norske Bank . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 814
Espinoza v. Wyoming . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 818
Espinoza Angiano v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 912
Espinoza Betancourt v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 979
Espinoza-Hernandez v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1098
Espy v. Roaring Spring . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1138
Esquivel v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 852
Essex County; Hathaway v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 894,1107
Estate. See name of estate.
Estep v. California . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 885
Estevez v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1055

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:22] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)

lxxxiTABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageEstrada v. Cornyn . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 955
Estrada v. Terhune . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1083
Ethyl Corp.; Cheminor Drugs, Ltd. v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 871
Evans v. Hicks . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 864
Evans v. Illinois . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 965
Evans v. Lederle Laboratories . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 929
Evans v. Maryland . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 833
Evans; Moosavi v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 911
Evans; Rogan v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1062
Evans; Shepler v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1077
Evans v. Tohono O'Odham Nation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 811
Evans v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1197
Evans v. Victorville . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 802
Evans Farms, Inc.; Konkel v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 877
Everett; Rickerby v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 897,1040
Everett v. US Airways Group, Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 815
Everett; Weldon v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 912,1014
Evergreen Media Corp.; Van Horne v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 811
Evins; Hay v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1045
Excel Communications, Inc. v. AT&T Corp. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 946
F. v. Pennsylvania . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 814
Fabian v. Paradise Park Apartments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 806
Fabian v. Progressive American Ins. Co. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1069
Fabiano v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 852
Fairfull v. U. S. District Court . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 898
Falbaum v. Leslie Fay Cos. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1075
Fallin, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 808
Fallon; Hull v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1189
Faloni v. Freeh . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1010
Family Fitness Center; Browning v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 806
Fane v. California . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 836
Fanello; Jordan v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1008
Fanello; Kost v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1126
Far Lee v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1054
Farm Bureau Ins. Agency; Turner v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 866
Farmers AG Center, Inc. v. Lebanon Chemical Corp. . . . . . . . . . . 1079
Farmers AG Center, Inc. v. Lebanon Seaboard Corp. . . . . . . . . . . 1079
Farmon; Hanna v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1080
Farner; Basta v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 806
Farquharson; Omosefunmi v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1051
Farr v. NC Machinery Co. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1117
Farr v. U S WEST, Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1116
Farr; U S WEST, Inc. v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1116
Farr v. Wisconsin . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 906

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:22] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)
lxxxii TABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageFarrell, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 808
Farrell v. Grievance Committee for Southern Dist. of N. Y. . . . . . 971
Faucheux; Smith v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1156
Faulkner v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 912
F. B. v. Pennsylvania . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1060
F. C. Johnson Construction Co. v. Herman . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1153
Fedee v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1092
Federal Aviation Administration; Taylor v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 877
Federal Bureau of Investigation; Thompson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 806
FCC; Floyd v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1080
FCC; Hoskins v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 838
FCC; U S WEST Communications, Inc. v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1188
Federal Deposit Ins. Corp.; Aztec General Agency v. . . . . . . . . . . 927
Federal Deposit Ins. Corp.; Ferguson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 819
Federal Deposit Ins. Corp.; Noel v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1116
Federal Energy Regulatory Comm'n; Rainsong Co. v. . . . . . . . . . 811
Federal Ins. Co.; Xomox Corp. v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 967
Federal National Mortgage Assn.; Carpenter v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 823,876
Federal National Mortgage Assn. v. Martini . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1147
Federal National Mortgage Assn.; Martini v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1147
Federal Trade Comm'n; Brown v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 915
Feiner; Chrispen v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 805
Felder v. Johnson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1067
Feldman v. Chung Wu Ho . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 928
Feliciano v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 897
Felix v. Angelone . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1193
Feliz v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1119
Fellows v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 852
Felton; Koenick v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1118
Fent v. Oklahoma Capitol Improvement Authority . . . . . . . . . . . . 1021
Fenton v. Unihealth America, Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 923
Ferebe v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1144
Ferguson v. Charleston . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1187
Ferguson v. Federal Deposit Ins. Corp. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 819
Ferm v. U. S. Trustee . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1189
Fermin v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 933,1014
Fernandes v. Environmental Protection Agency . . . . . . . . . . . . . 869
Fernandez v. Connecticut . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 939
Fernandez v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1094
Fernsler v. Two Men and a Truck International, Inc. . . . . . . . . . . 874
Ferraro Montesdeoca v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 842
Ferreras v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1130
Ferrusca v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 865
FHP, Inc.; Mir v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 811

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:22] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)

lxxxiiiTABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageFHP, Inc.; O'Neal v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 877
Ficklin v. Hatcher . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 941
Fields v. Assaf . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 951
Fields v. Department of Labor, Administrative Review Bd. . . . . . 1115
Fields v. Johnson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 886
Fields v. Pool Co. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1155
Fielitz v. Fielitz . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1072
Figg v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1032
Figueroa v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1128
Filiaggi v. Ohio . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 923,1040,1090
Filippi v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 846
Finch v. Bob's Distributing Co. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1157
Finch; Washington v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 922
Fink v. California . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1121
Fink v. Terhune . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1169
Finley v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1094
Finn; Lumbef v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 858
Finnegan v. Commissioner . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 933
Fiorani v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1179
Fiore v. White . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
Fiorentino v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1041
Fioriglio v. Atlantic City . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1075
Fireman v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1153
First Healthcare Corp.; Kratzer v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 860,1107
Fischer; Scarborough v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 931
Fischer v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 962
Fisher v. A. D. T. Security System . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 846
Fisher v. Aetna Life Ins. & Annuity Co. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 816
Fisher v. Sunkist Growers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 924
Fisher v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1022,1169
Fisher v. Varner . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1092
Fishing Vessel Owners & Marine Ways, Inc. v. Bank of America 872
Fist; White v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 868
Fitzgerald v. Stalder . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1020
Fitzpatrick v. Perrin . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 888
Flanagan v. Arnaiz . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 973,1067
Flanders; Pennsylvania v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1158
Flannigan; Arizona v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1074
Fleenor v. Anderson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 891,1058
Fleming v. Cape May County Courthouse . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 845
Fleming v. North Carolina . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 941
Fleming v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1128
Fletcher; Bartel v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 890
Fletcher v. Johnson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 888

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:22] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)
lxxxiv TABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageFletcher v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 886,919
Flint v. Booker . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 988
Flippo v. West Virginia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Flores v. Johnson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1122
Flores v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 845,879,886,1191
Flores-Ortega; Roe v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 470,804
Flores Sanchez v. Stewart . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1023
Florida; Achumuty v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1084
Florida v. Almeida . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1181,1182
Florida; Beard v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1007
Florida; Bryan v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1185
Florida; Burkes v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 829
Florida; Carthane v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 844,1056
Florida; Cave v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 841
Florida; Cook v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1028
Florida; Cox v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1028
Florida; Gilbert v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 970,1132
Florida; Hildwin v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 856
Florida; Hill v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 860
Florida; Hinson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 940,970
Florida; Holland v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 899
Florida v. J. L. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 963,1060,1134
Florida; Knight v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 990
Florida; Lages v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1191
Florida; Lee v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 828
Florida; Monroe v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 890
Florida; Moore v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 864
Florida; Moss v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1125
Florida; Muhammad v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 990
Florida; Nelson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1123
Florida v. Ramirez . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1131
Florida; Robinson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 847
Florida v. Rodriguez . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 802
Florida; Roseman v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 847
Florida; Shannon v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1173
Florida; Shavers v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1172
Florida; Sims v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1183
Florida; Snipes v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1063
Florida; Stubbs v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 936
Florida; Taylor v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1007
Florida; Valdes v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1123
Florida; Vega v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 838
Florida; Williams v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 827
Florida Bar; Sayler v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 890

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:22] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)

lxxxvTABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageFlorida Bd. of Regents; Kimel v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 62
Florida Bd. of Regents; United States v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 62
Florida Dept. of Children and Families; Pagan v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 878
Florida Dept. of Corrections v. Dickson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1132,1184
Florida Dept. of Corrections v. Gomez . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 822
Florida Dept. of Corrections; Jackson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1168
Florida Dept. of Corrections; Moore v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1064
Florida Dept. of Revenue; Nemeth v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 871
Florida Parole Comm'n; Barker v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 935
Florida Public Employees Relations Comm'n; Kridel v. . . . . . . . . 1079
Flowers; Braun v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 849,999
Flowers v. Seki . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1046
Floyd v. Federal Communications Comm'n . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1080
Floyd v. Waiters . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 891
Flucas v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1033
Flynn v. Endicott . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 836
Flynn v. Thomas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 935
Fofana v. Landtech Engineering . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 932
Fogarty v. Georgia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 852
Fogg v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1139
Folck v. Maschner . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 834
Fontenot v. Dual Drilling Co. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1062
Food and Commercial Workers; Albertson's, Inc. v. . . . . . . . . . . . 809
Food and Commercial Workers v. K. V. Mart Co. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 872
Food and Commercial Workers v. Top Valu Markets . . . . . . . . . . 872
Ford v. Superior Court of Cal., Los Angeles County . . . . . . . . . . 1083
Ford v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 913,1161
Fordham v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1175
Fordice; Ayers v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1163
Fordjour v. Budoff . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 970
Ford Motor Co.; Anderson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1156
Ford Motor Co.; McFadden v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1192
Ford Motor Credit; Marion v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 953,1057
Forgac v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1093
Forman v. Regal Ins. Co. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1078
Foroglou v. Immigration and Naturalization Service . . . . . . . . . . 819
Fort Lauderdale; Bannum, Inc. v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 822
Fort Lauderdale; Smith v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 966
Fortner v. Dees . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1087
Fortt v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 919
Foster v. Johnson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 940,1183
Foster v. North Carolina . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1022
Foster v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1030,1095
Fowle v. Michigan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 892

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:22] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)
lxxxvi TABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageFowler v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 845
Fox v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1098
Franchise Tax Bd.; F. W. Woolworth Co. v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1186
Franchise Tax Bd. of Cal.; Azamber v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 924
Franchise Tax Bd. of Cal.; Hunt-Wesson, Inc. v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 458
Francies v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1097
Francis, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 808
Francis v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 901
Francisco de la Fuente v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1095
Franco; Nebraska v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 968
Franco, Inc.; Buckner v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 956
Frank v. Orange County Social Services Agency . . . . . . . . . . . 871,1040
Frankenmuth Mut. Ins. Co.; Zahran v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1020
Frankies v. Messer . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1118
Franklin v. Bilbray . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 863,1014
Franklin v. Birmingham . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 820
Franklin v. Goodwin . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 835,1145
Franklin; Hartnett v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 953
Franklin v. Stainer . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1160
Franklin v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 816,852,863,1014,1094,1128
Franklin v. West . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 819
Franklin Savings Corp. v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 964
Franks v. Thomas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 836,856,1106
Fraternal Order of Police v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 928
Fraternal Order of Police, Lodge 3; Baltimore City Police Dept. v. 812
Fraternal Order of Police Newark Lodge No. 12; Newark v. . . . . 817
Frazier; Allen v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 938
Frazier; Cleveland v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1173
Frazier v. Lea County District Court . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1175
Frazier v. Montana State Prison . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 937
Frazier v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 838,1092
Frederick v. Brigano . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 918
Frederick v. Gudmanson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1069
Frederick v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1154
Frederick v. Wisconsin . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 866
Free v. Abbott Laboratories, Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1018
Freedman v. McCandless . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 930
Freeh; Faloni v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1010
Freeman v. Cowan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 914
Freeman v. Johnson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 951
Freeman v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 845,1012
Frega v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1191
Freight Handlers v. Brooke . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 966
French v. California . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1176

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:22] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)

lxxxviiTABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageFrench; Duckworth v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1045
French v. Johnson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 835
French; Sexton v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 855
French; United States v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1045
French v. U. S. District Court . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 892
Freund v. Butterworth . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 817
Friend v. Reno . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1072,1163
Friends v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 944
Friends of Earth, Inc. v. Laidlaw Environmental Services (TOC) 167
Frith v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 967
Frogge v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1181
Frost v. Louisiana . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 831
Frye v. North Carolina . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 897
Fuentes v. Texas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1026
Fuller v. Tidwell . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 864
Fuller v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 826,901
Fullerton v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1127
Fung v. Stewart . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 900
Funtanilla v. Cambra . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 852
Furlong; Haynie v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 865
Furlow v. Allied Conveyor, Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 823
F. W. Woolworth Co. v. Franchise Tax Bd. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1186
G A B Robins; Scarbrough v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1026
Gadson v. Levitt . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1083
GAF Building Materials Corp.; Elk Corp. of Dallas v. . . . . . . . . . 873
Gaffin v. Clarke . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 837
Gagliano v. Storage Technology Corp. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 814
Gaia; Rockwood Bank v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 968
Gail M. v. Jerome E. M. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1080
Galanos; Livingston v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1094
Galaza; Venegas v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1025
Galaza; Williams v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 842
Galaza; Wills v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 883
Galbreath v. Wear . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 907
Galetka; Straley v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1168
Gallant; Cavallaro v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1005
Gallardo v. U. S. Parole Comm'n . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1180
Gallerizzo; Chaudhry v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 891
Galloway v. California . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 805
Galloway v. Carter . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1194
Galloway v. Ohio . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1023
Galluzzi v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1048
Galvan v. Johnson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 939
Galvan Rodriguez v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 837

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:22] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)
lxxxviii TABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageGambrell v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 920
Gammon; Gibson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1095
Gammon; Hall v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1128
Gammon; Jacobs v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1008
Gammon; Jennings v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 898
Ganey, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 806
Ganus v. Illinois . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 829
Garay v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1011
Garces-Garcia v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1179
Garcia v. McCaughtry . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 943
Garcia v. Moore . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 852
Garcia v. New York . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 845
Garcia v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 845,987,1022,1194
Garcia v. Vanyur . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1092
Garcia v. Ylst . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1024
Garcia-Acuna v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1030
Garcia Ambriz v. Pliler . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1172
Garcia-Beltran, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1152
Garcia Delgado; Lewis v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 924,1133
Garcia Gonzalez v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 976
Garcia Sanchez v. Texas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1021
Garcia-Sosa v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1090
Gardiner v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 852
Gardner v. Baskerville . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1193
Gardner v. DuCharme . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1024
Gardner v. Moore . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 906
Gardner v. Nissan Motor Acceptance Corp. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1064,1184
Garner v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1119
Garnett v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 885
Garraghty; Cameron v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1065,1184
Garraghty; Thomas v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1106
Garrett v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 851,899,918,978
Garrick v. Thibodeaux . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 815
Garrison; Phillips v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1084
Garrison v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1162
Garza; Kansas v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 929
Garza v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 885,888,1006
Gas Co.; Brooks v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 816
Gaskins; Weaver v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1010
Gaston v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 967
Gatlin v. Madding . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1087
Gauvin v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 906
Gavin; Chase Manhattan Bank v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 965
Geary & Spencer, P. C.; Milbank v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 876

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:22] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)

lxxxixTABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageGebman v. Pataki . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1005,1107
Gee v. Oregon . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 970
Gehl Co. v. Kinser . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1139
Geier v. American Honda Motor Co. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1001
Gelbwaks, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 984
Gencarelli v. Massachusetts Dept. of Environmental Protection . . 869
Genco, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1152
Genco v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1065
Genco v. U. S. District Court . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1090
General Accounting Office; Levy v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 876
General Electric Co.; Magic v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 974
General Motors Corp.; Anderson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 976
General Motors Corp.; Oglesby v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1004
General Motors Corp.; R. M. Taylor, Inc. v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1159
General Motors Corp.; Young v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1158
General Nutrition Corp.; Perez v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 898
Geneva Pharmaceuticals, Inc.; Abbott Laboratories v. . . . . . . . . . 1078
George v. Letter Carriers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1156
George v. Morro Bay . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1016,1135
George; Perelman v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 973
George Mason Univ. v. Litman . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1181
Georgetown Univ. Medical Center; MacLeod v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1188
Georgia; Cook v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 974,1108
Georgia; Couch v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 924
Georgia; Cromartie v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 974,1108
Georgia; Fogarty v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 852
Georgia; Gilchrist v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 888
Georgia; Gulley v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1172
Georgia; Harris v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 873
Georgia; Henderson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1083
Georgia; James v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 823
Georgia; Johnson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1172
Georgia; Kin Siu Tam v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 931
Georgia; Lee v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1006,1145
Georgia; Palmer v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1051,1184
Georgia; Pruitt v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1006,1108
Georgia; Salem v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 965
Georgia; Scanlon v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1078
Georgia; Sears v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 934,1040
Georgia; Singleton v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 842
Georgia; Sorrow v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 811
Georgia; Speed v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 855,1039
Georgia Power Co. v. National Labor Relations Bd. . . . . . . . . . . . 1061
Gereighty, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1112

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:22] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)
xc TABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageGermany v. Pennsylvania . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 941
Germosen v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1065
Gerth v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 918
GFI, Inc.; Hamil America, Inc. v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1160
Ghianda; Greenwood v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1023
Ghianda; Grimes v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1023
Gibbs v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 920,981,1051,1131
Giberna v. Carter . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1136
Gibson v. Apfel . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 856,1198
Gibson; Boyd v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1167
Gibson v. Gammon . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1095
Gibson v. Head . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 946
Gibson; Johnson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 972
Gibson; Kelley v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 971
Gibson v. Pennsylvania . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 852
Gibson; Roberts v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1147
Gibson; Rogers v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1120
Gibson; Ross v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 887
Gibson v. Slater . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 924
Gibson v. Sondalle . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1122
Gibson; Thierry v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 904
Gibson v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 812,855
Gibson; West v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 803
Gibson; White v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 927
Gigante v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1114
Gig Harbor; Arabella's Landing v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1155
Gig Harbor; Gig Harbor Marina, Inc. v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1155
Gig Harbor; Stearns v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1155
Gig Harbor Marina, Inc. v. Gig Harbor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1155
Gila River Indian Community; Johnson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 875
Gilbert v. Florida . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 970,1132
Gilbert v. Moody . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1166
Gilbert v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 856,857,909,1097
Gilchrist v. Georgia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 888
Giles v. Sons of Confederate Veterans, Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 871,1001
Giles v. Texas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 878
Gillam v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 900
Gilland v. Caldera . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 932
Gillard v. Ohio . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1024
Gillespie v. Indianapolis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1116
Gilliam v. Mitchell . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1120
Gilliam v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 845
Gillis v. McCaughtry . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 887
Gillis v. O'Brien . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 899

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:22] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)

xciTABLE OF CASES REPORTED
PageGilman; Colyar v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 942,1057
Gilmore; Aspelmeier v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 802
Gines v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 899
Gipson v. Kajima Engineering & Construction Co. . . . . . . . . . . . . 815
Gipson v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1033
Givens v. Roulain . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 856
Gladfelter v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 886
Glasper v. Rice . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 974
Glass v. Carlsbad . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1166
Glavan v. OMI Corp. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1022
Glazer, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1150
Gleason v. Burtner . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 836
Glenn; Apple v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1198
Glenn v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 921
Glickman; Blountt v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 822
Glickman; Nature's Dairy v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1074
Global Investments, LLC; Colen v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1169
Glover v. Memphis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1005
Glover; South Carolina Law Enforcement Division v. . . . . . . . . . . 1146
GMA Accessories, Inc. v. Gootnick Enterprises, Inc. . . . . . . . . . . 1076
GMA Accessories, Inc. v. It's All Greek To Me Corp. . . . . . . . . . . 1076
Gnazzo; Votta v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1007
Godfrey; Lynas v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 847
Godinez; White v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1127
Goines v. McAninch . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 866
Goins v. Commissioner . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 980
Golden Flake Snack Foods, Inc.; Bryant v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 951
Goldin; Kennedy v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1081
Goldmen & Co. v. New Jersey Bureau of Securities . . . . . . . . . . . 868
Goldstein; Nagy v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1195
Gomez; Bayramoglu v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1167
Gomez v. Dade County School Bd. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1158
Gomez; Florida Dept. of Corrections v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 822
Gomez v. Hart . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 929
Gomez; Shaw v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 847
Gomez; Spiteri v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1087
Gomez v. Texas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1157
Gomez v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 827,907,943,1197
Gomez-Jaramillo v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1030
Gonzalez v. Illinois . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 825
Gonzalez; Keys v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1010
Gonzalez v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 976,1090,1094,1144
Gonzalez-Almaraz v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 826
Gonzalez-Hernandez v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 910

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:22] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)
xcii TABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageGonzalez-Lozoya v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 846
Gonzalez-Vasquez v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 980
Good v. Hilltop House . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1026
Goode v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 921
Gooden v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1098
Goodley v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1144
Goodman v. Johnson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 891,1131
Goodman v. Temple Shir Ami, Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1075
Goodman v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 874
Goodpaster; Willis v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1046
Goodrich v. California . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 941
Goodson v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1033
Goodwin; Franklin v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 835,1145
Goodwin v. Ohio . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 846
Goodyear Tire & Rubber Co. v. Vinson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1046
Goosby; Hempstead Town Bd. v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1138
Gootnick Enterprises, Inc.; GMA Accessories, Inc. v. . . . . . . . . . . 1076
Gorden v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 945
Gordon v. Community First Bank of Neb. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 814
Gordon; Dunn v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1093
Gordon v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 866,886,1055
Gorham v. Texas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 864
Gosier v. Page . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1006
Goss v. Johnson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1185
Gough v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 852
Gourley v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 824
Goux Enterprises, Inc.; Barrios v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 925
Governor of Colo.; Bishop v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 844,1039
Governor of Haw.; Hou Hawaiians v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1059
Governor of Haw.; Rice v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 495
Governor of Ill.; Outlaw v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 847
Governor of Ind.; Snyder v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1078
Governor of Minn.; Savior v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 938,1057
Governor of Miss.; Ayers v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1163
Governor of N. Y.; Gebman v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1005,1107
Governor of N. Y. v. Grumet . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 946
Governor of N. Y.; Ospina v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 840
Governor of Okla.; Shabazz v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 806
Governor of Ore.; Milligan v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1170
Governor of Pa. v. Powell . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1046
Governor of Pa.; Ridge v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 819
Governor of Pa.; Vey v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 818,999
Governor of Wash.; Tanker Owners (Intertanko) v. . . . . . . . . 1015,1043
Governor of Wash.; United States v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1015,1043

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:22] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)

xciiiTABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageGrace v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 900
Grace & Co.-Conn. v. Washington Dept. of Revenue . . . . . . . . . . . 950
Grace & Co.-Conn.; Washington Dept. of Revenue v. . . . . . . . . . . 950
Grady, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 808
Graham v. Angelone . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1058
Graham v. Green . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 899,1198
Graham v. Lewis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 865
Graham v. Texas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 974
Graham v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 845,907,945
Gramley; Sanders v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 803
Gramley; Synek v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1119
Granberry v. Islay Investments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1117
Grand Casino Mille Lacs; Carroll v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 890
Grant; Louis v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1077
Grant v. New York . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1162
Granville; Troxel v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1044,1151
Graphic Communications Union v. Bureau of Engraving, Inc. . . . 821
Grate v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 887
Gray v. Cain . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1087
Gray v. California . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 936
Gray v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 852,909,1175
Grayer v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1128
Grayson; Key v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1120
Green v. Carver State Bank . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 885,1057
Green v. Cumberland . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 935
Green; Graham v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 899,1198
Green v. Illinois Power Co. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1159
Green v. Levis Mitsubishi . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1020
Green v. Levis Motors, Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1020
Green v. Merit Systems Protection Bd. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 912
Green v. New Jersey . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1122
Green v. North Carolina . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 846
Green v. Selsky . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 891
Green v. Sommers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1026,1121
Green v. Terhune . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 813
Green v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 852,1054
Green v. U. S. Postal Service . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 938
Greene v. Berger & Montague . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1160
Greene v. Ham . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 929
Greene v. Montgomery . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 824,1041
Greenleaf v. Minnesota . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 863
Greenwood v. Ghianda . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1023
Greer v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1197
Gregg v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1176

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:22] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)
xciv TABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageGregoire; Young v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 930
Gresham v. Henderson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 820
Gribble v. Johnson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1173
Grider v. Louisville . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1020
Grier; Banks v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1124
Grier v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 865
Griesenbeck v. Curry . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1087
Grievance Committee for Southern Dist. of N. Y.; Farrell v. . . . . . 971
Griffin v. Apfel . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 936
Griffin v. Bowersox . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 863,1039
Griffith v. Department of Agriculture . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1175
Griffith v. Texas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 826
Grigger v. New York . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 914,1057
Griggs v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 980
Grimes; Bunn v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 867
Grimes v. Ghianda . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1023
Grimmett; Lewis v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1027
Grindle, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1071
Grine v. Coombs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1160
Grinnell v. Brennan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1166
Grisso v. Leary . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1175
Gronneman; Ajiwoju v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1050
Gronquist v. Washington . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1009
Groskin, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1072
Gross-Bey v. Sizer . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 918
Grove Isle Club, Inc.; Burnette v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 818,1108
Grumet; Pataki v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 946
Gruppo Agusta v. Paramount Aviation Corp. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 878
GTE Directories Corp.; Alston v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1022
Guanipa v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 919,1145
Guardian Life Ins. Co. of America v. Unibell Anesthesia, P. C. . . . 930
Guarino v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 963
Gudmanson; Frederick v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1069
Guenther v. Holt . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1085
Guidish v. White . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 824
Guido v. California . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1112
Guilfoyle v. Angelone . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 955
Guillory v. Apfel . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1051
Gulf States Toyota, Inc.; Hugh Chalmers Motors, Inc. v. . . . . . . . 1156
Gulley v. Circuit Court for Milwaukee County . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 862
Gulley v. Department of Health and Human Services . . . . . . . . . . 890
Gulley v. Georgia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1172
Gullion, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1152
Gunn; Brancato v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,1017

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:22] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)

xcvTABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageGunter v. Belleview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 951
Gurney; Irving v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1025
Gutierrez v. Ada . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 250
Gutierrez v. U. S. Postal Service . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 826
Gutierrez-Gallegos v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1193
Gutierrez-Gonzalez v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1011
Gutierrez-Orozco v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1144
Guzman v. Texas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1161
Guzman Resendez v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 976
Gwin v. Tennessee . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 915
Gwynn v. Mazurkiewicz . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1026
Gwynn v. Pennsylvania . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 969
Gynecology Clinic, Inc.; Cloer v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1099
H., In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 817
Hackett v. Pennsylvania . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1163
Haddad v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1176
Hadley; Baker v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 813
Haefling v. United Parcel Service, Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 820
Hafemeister v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 894
Hagerstown Police Dept.; Mason v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 934
Haggard v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 879
Haggerty v. Mountain View . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1005
Hagy; Koenig v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 893,1057
Hahn; Valdes v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 902
Haik v. Alta . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 868
Halas v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 984
Haley; Duren v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 940
Haley v. Senkowski . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 918
Haley; Tarver v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 803,1000
Haley; Wright v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 934
Hall v. Gammon . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1128
Hall v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 884,888,899,911,1144
Hall v. Wella Corp. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 900
Hallahan; Nillo v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 884
Hallman Chevrolet v. Nash-Holmes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 870
Hallman Chevrolet; Nash-Holmes v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 870
Hall Regional Medical Center; Taylor v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1115
Halter Marine Group; Mosley v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1078
Ham; Greene v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 929
Hamann v. Bio-Rad Laboratories, Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1077
Hames v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 919
Hamil America, Inc. v. GFI, Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1160
Hamilton v. Lehman . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 888
Hamilton v. Roe . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 831,864

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:22] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)
xcvi TABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageHamilton v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1128
Hamm v. Campbell . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 856
Hamm v. Rhone-Poulenc Rorer Pharmaceuticals, Inc. . . . . . . . . . 1117
Hammer v. Immigration and Naturalization Service . . . . . . . . . . 1191
Hammound; Eljack v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1187
Hampton v. Louisiana . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1007,1108
Hampton-El v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1094
Hanbery, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1043,1149
Hand v. Mensh and MacIntosh, P. A. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 829
Hang Chen v. Raz . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1056
Hangs v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1197
Hanks; Elliott v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 887
Hanks; Higgason v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 806
Hanks; James v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1027
Hanks; Luhr Bros., Inc. v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 966
Hanks; Morse v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 851
Hanks; Turpin v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 825
Hanks; Ward v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 802
Hanley v. Houston . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 938,1107
Hanna v. Farmon . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1080
Hanna v. Michigan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1131
Hannigan; Taylor v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 893
Hanousek v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1102
Hansboro v. Clayton . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 857
Hansbrough v. California . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 970
Hansel v. Ohio . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 920
Hanslmaier; Quartararo v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1170
Hanson v. South Dakota . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 835
Happel v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 978
Harcros Chemicals, Inc. v. Tuscaloosa . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 812
Hardin v. S. C. Johnson & Son, Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 874
Harding; Oriakhi v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 806
Hardy; Kuplen v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 885
Hare v. Johnson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 887
Harel v. Lawrence . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1117
Hargett; Mahan v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 832
Hargett; Sherrill v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1009
Hargett; Singleton v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1168
Hargrove v. North Carolina . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1047
Harilall v. University Health System Development Corp. . . . . . . . 879
Harilall v. University Hospital . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 879
Harilall v. University Hospital System . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 879
Haro; Maguna-Celaya v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 969
Harper v. Ratelle . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1049

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:22] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)

xcviiTABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageHarper v. Sparkman . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1087
Harper Hospital; Austin v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1162
Harple v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1054
Harrell v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 913
Harris, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 961,1017,1184
Harris v. Bowersox . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1097
Harris v. Cook County . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1175
Harris v. Dormire . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 886
Harris v. Georgia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 873
Harris v. Henderson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 900
Harris v. Johnson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 836,940
Harris v. Kansas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 957
Harris v. Lee . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1091
Harris; Moore v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1093
Harris v. United States . . . . . . . . . . 820,830,845,871,1030,1055,1142,1197
Harris; Victoria Independent School Dist. v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1022
Harris County; Christensen v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 926
Harrison v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 988
Harris Trust and Savings Bank; Clair v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1157
Harris Trust and Savings Bank v. Salomon Smith Barney Inc. . . 1068
Harrold v. Nebraska . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1142
Hart v. California . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1085
Hart v. Elder . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 953
Hart; Gomez v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 929
Hart v. Superior Court of Cal., Alameda County . . . . . . . . . . . . . 901
Hart v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 945
Hart; Wilson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 872
Hartey v. Vaughn . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1138
Hartford Underwriters Ins. Co. v. Union Planters Bank, N. A. . . 985
Hartline v. Orange County Corrections Division . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1166
Hartnett v. Dodge City . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 953
Hartnett v. Franklin . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 953
Harvard; Adams v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 975,1067
Harvard; Wilborn v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 975,1067
Harvey v. New Jersey . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1085
Hassan v. California . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 865
Hastings v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 987
Hatch v. Minnesota Twins Partnership . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1013
Hatcher; Ficklin v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 941
Hatcher; Montes-Campos v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1165
Hatcher v. Office of Compliance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1065
Hatcher v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1143
Hathaway v. Essex County . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 894,1107
Hathcock v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 852

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:22] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)
xcviii TABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageHatley v. McCarter . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1156
Hatter v. New York City Housing Authority . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 936,1183
Haver; R. M. S. Titanic, Inc. v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 825
Hawaii; Cho v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 974
Hawaii; Danielson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 932
Hawaii; Lee v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 821,1039
Hawaii; Masouka v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 895,1040
Hawaii; Ruiz v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1168
Hawaii; Turner v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 899
Hawaii County v. Anderson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 928
Hawk; Shakur v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 896
Hawkins v. Denver . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 871
Hawkins v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 907,981
Hawks v. Clark . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1052,1184
Hay v. Evins . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1045
Hay v. Lazaroff . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 933
Hayden v. Morgan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 837
Hayes v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 910,1033
Haynes v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 957,1033
Haynie v. Furlong . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 865
Hayward Manor Apartments; Jarrett v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 973,1184
Hazani v. Oki Electric Industry Co. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 951
Hazeem v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 884
Hazel v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1175
Head; Gibson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 946
Head v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1094,1198
Health Cost Controls of Ill., Inc.; Washington v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1136
Heard v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1097
Hedges v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 913
Hedrick v. Virginia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 952
Heidelberg v. Illinois Prisoner Review Bd. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 955
Heine; Southerland v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 853
Heinemann v. Mid-State Trust IV . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 803
Heiselbetz, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1109
Heiselbetz v. Johnson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1109
Heit; Syvertson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1179
Helem v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1053
Helman; Howell v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1093
Helms; Mitchell v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 962
Hemmerle v. Bakst . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1049,1087,1184
Hempstead Town Bd. v. Goosby . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1138
Hencke, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1112
Henderson; Carlton v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 986
Henderson v. Georgia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1083

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:22] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)

xcixTABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageHenderson; Gresham v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 820
Henderson; Harris v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 900
Henderson; Jones v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 933
Henderson; Lopez v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1047
Henderson; Outland v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 939
Henderson; Robinson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 848
Henderson; Rucker v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 916,1014
Henderson; Sanchez v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1173
Henderson v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1159
Henderson; Woods v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1031
Henley v. State Bar of Ga. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 926,1023
Henning v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1162
Henry; Kernan v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1198
Henry; Lisenbee v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 829
Henry v. Lockyer . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 963
Henry; Lyons v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 988
Henry; McSheffrey v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 834
Henry; Sellers v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1010
Henry; Wyatt v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 976
Henson v. Religious Technology Center . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1105
Herb Hallman Chevrolet v. Nash-Holmes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 870
Herb Hallman Chevrolet; Nash-Holmes v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 870
Herbin v. Virginia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 837
Herdrich; Pegram v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1112
Herman; Bank of America Corp. v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1045
Herman v. Blockbuster Entertainment Group . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1020
Herman; F. C. Johnson Construction Co. v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1153
Herman; Johnson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1153
Herman; Kooritzky v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1154
Herman; Lawrence Aviation Industries, Inc. v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1153
Herman; National Engineering & Contracting Co. v. . . . . . . . . . . 1045
Herman Miller, Inc.; Worth Capital, Inc. v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 821
Hernandez, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1016
Hernandez; Carter v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 935
Hernandez v. Johnson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 888,940
Hernandez v. Texas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1157
Hernandez v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1127,1130
Hernandez v. Yearwood . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 866
Hernandez-Corona v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1177
Hernandez-Rocha v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1095
Hernandez-Soto v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 910
Hernandez-Villanueva v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 831
Herndon v. SunService . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1074
Herr; Westminster v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1061

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:22] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)
c TABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageHerrera v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 844
Herrera v. Utah . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1049
Hester v. Carter . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1095
Heydt; Balliet v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 877
Hickman; Brown v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 956
Hickman v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 978
Hickox v. MLA, Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 962,1063
Hicks; Evans v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 864
Hicks v. Johnson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1132
Hicks v. Kentucky . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1166
Hicks v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 852,876,918
Higgason v. Hanks . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 806
Higham v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 968
Hightower; Abdus-Sabir v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 947
Hightower; Caudle v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 833
Hightower v. Kendall Co. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1022
Hightower; Lovell v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1138
Hightower v. South Carolina . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 863
Hildwin v. Florida . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 856
Hill, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 805
Hill; Athmer v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 936
Hill; Burton v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1027
Hill v. Colorado . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1017,1059
Hill v. Dormire . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 940
Hill v. Florida . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 860
Hill v. Kansas City Area Transportation Authority . . . . . . . . . . . 1137
Hill; Mohemmed v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 903
Hill v. Moore . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1087
Hill; New York v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 110
Hill v. Pennsylvania . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 805
Hill; Ponder v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1051
Hill v. Rumbles . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1074
Hill v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 872,884,918,1125,1175,1176
Hill; Vasquez v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 887
Hillside; Davis v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1138
Hilltop House; Good v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1026
Hilton v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 844,1033
Hindenlang v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 810
Hindi v. Tosco Corp. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1061
Hines, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 984
Hines; Jones v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1007
Hines v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 885
Hing Chun Ting v. College of Podiatric Medicine and Surgery . . . 1151
Hinson v. Florida . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 940,970

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:22] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)

ciTABLE OF CASES REPORTED
PageHirschfeld, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1152
Hirschfeld v. Arpaio . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 966
HJB, Inc. v. AmeriSource Corp. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1181
H. J. Wilson Co. v. Mississippi Tax Comm'n . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 869
H. J. Wilson Co.; Mississippi Tax Comm'n v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 869
Ho; Feldman v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 928
Hoang v. Johnson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 938
Hoang Le v. Lambert . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 851
Hoard v. Reddy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 970
Hobbs v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 914
Hobson v. Department of Treasury . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 835
Hock v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 913
Hockaday v. Alabama . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1062
Hodge v. Connecticut . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 969
Hodges v. Blocker . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 836
Hodgkins; Bogan v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1019
Hofbauer; Bradley v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1123
Hofbauer; Johnson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 955
Hofbauer; Reed-Bey v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1025
Hoffman v. Ballew . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 822
Hoffman v. California Franchise Tax Bd. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1049
Hoffman v. New York . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 863
Hoffmann v. Twamley . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 929,1056
Holick v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1094
Holiday Inn; Parrish v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 902
Holland; Big River Minerals Corp. v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1117
Holland; Chu v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1091
Holland v. Florida . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 899
Holland; Keeper v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1094
Holland; Vernatter v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 854
Hollander v. American Cyanamid Co. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 965,1107
Holley v. West . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1080
Holliday v. Johnson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 937
Hollie v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1197
Hollingsworth & Vose Co. v. Ruckstuhl . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1019
Hollis v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1176
Holloman v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 885
Holman v. North Carolina . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 909
Holmes; Courtney v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 863
Holmes; Schreibman v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1179
Holmes v. Texas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1083
Holmes v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 856
Holstick v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 886
Holston, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 807

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:22] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)
cii TABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageHolt; Guenther v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1085
Holt; Weldon v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1193
Holywell Corp. v. Bank of N. Y. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 951
Ho Ma; Reno v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1000
Home Savings of America, FSB; Benin v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1048
Hommrich v. Marinette County . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 838
Honeywell International, Inc.; Tomeo v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1161
Honken v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1056
Hood v. Illinois . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1090
Hood v. U. S. District Court . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 856
Hooker v. Dormire . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 899
Hooks v. Easley . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1030
Hooper v. Cargill, Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1159
Hooper v. Stringfellow . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 864
Hooper v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1130
Hoover; Oliver & Wright Motors, Inc. v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 868
Hopewell Center, Inc.; Muchen v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1051
Hopkins; Keithley v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 892
Hopper; Davis v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 804,1114
Hopson v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1093
Horn, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1071
Horn; Rusch v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 898
Horne v. Coughlin . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1052
Horry County; Restaurant Row Associates v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1020
Horton v. Houston . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1021
Horton v. McCaughtry . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1140
Hoskins v. Federal Communications Comm'n . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 838
Hoskins v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 846
Hoskins v. U S WEST, Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 857
Hospital Serv. Dist. 1, Tangipahoa Parish v. Surgical Care Ctr. . . 964
Hossain v. Immigration and Naturalization Service . . . . . . . . . . . 1019
Hou Hawaiians v. Cayetano . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1059
House v. New Mexico . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 894
House v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1162
Houser v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 890
Housing Authority of Kansas City; Ajiwoju v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 954
Houston; Chhim v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 835,1039
Houston; Hanley v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 938,1107
Houston; Horton v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1021
Houston; Jackson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 842
Houston; Mikkilineni v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 972
Houston v. Roe . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1159
Houston v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1094
Houston County Bd. of Ed.; Jackson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 816

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:22] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)

ciiiTABLE OF CASES REPORTED
PageHoustoun; Eible v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 878
Howard v. Louisiana . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 974
Howard v. New York Times Co. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1080
Howard v. Oakwood Homes Corp. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1155
Howard v. Pennsylvania . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1192
Howard v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 857,1095
Howell v. Helman . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1093
Howell v. Oklahoma . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 834
Howerin v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1083
Howington v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 894
Howland v. Cornyn . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 970
Howland v. Texas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 887
Howser v. Long Beach . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 875
Hoy v. Simpson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1076
Hoyos v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 885,1047
H & R Block, Inc.; Rezzonico v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1189
Hsia v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1136
Huang v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1011
Hubbard; Randon v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1167
Hubbard; Shanks v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1192
Hubbard v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 945
Hubbell; United States v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 926,1113
Hubert v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1180
Hucks v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 907
Hudson; Connick v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1004
Hudson v. Dooling . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1090
Hudson; Karls v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 987
Hudson v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1098
Hudson; Unity Real Estate Co. v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 963
Huerta v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1191
Huettl v. Wisconsin . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 900,1040
Huff v. Northwest Savings Bank . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1190
Huffman; Pennsylvania v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1158
Huggins v. Sauaris . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 888
Huggins v. South Carolina . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1172
Hugh Chalmers Motors, Inc. v. Gulf States Toyota, Inc. . . . . . . . . 1156
Hughes v. Johnson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1145
Hughes v. Mississippi . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1083
Hughes v. North Dakota . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 846,1106
Hughes; Preston v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 906
Hughes, Inc.; Lescs v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1119
Hull v. Fallon . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1189
Hullum v. Maloney . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1169
Humphrey v. Johnson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 901,1107

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:22] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)
civ TABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageHuneycutt v. Suffolk . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 817
Hunt v. Hunt . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 813
Hunt v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 918
Hunte v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1128
Hunter; Avalos v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 951
Hunter v. Bowersox . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1140
Hunter v. Pennsylvania . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 987
Hunter; Perdue v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1004
Huntington National Bank; Metzenbaum v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1017
Hunt-Wesson, Inc. v. Franchise Tax Bd. of Cal. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 458
Hurley; Atlantic City Police Dept. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1074
Huron v. Department of Veterans Affairs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 885
Hurt v. Tennessee . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 980
Hurtado Moreno v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 942
Hussey v. Norris . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1166
Hutcherson v. New York City . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 933
Hutching v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 856
Hutchins v. Linahan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1166
Hutchinson v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 968
Hutchinson; Williams v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1124
Hvass; Boutin v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 973
Hvass; Morrow v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1013
Hylton v. Angelone . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1092
Hyundai Merchant Marine Co. v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 963
Ibida v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 981
Ibrahim v. New York State Dept. of Health . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 873
Ibrahim v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1180
Icelandair, Inc.; Pittman v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 818
Ida v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 987
Idaho; Avelar v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1022
Idaho; Mathews v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1168
Idaho; Small v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 843
IDC Services, Inc.; Ericson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1090,1198
Ieyoub; Muhleisen v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 828
Iglesias v. Mutual Life Ins. Co. of N. Y. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 812
Ignacio; Maresca v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1052
Ihu v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 934
Ihuboye v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 934
Illinois; Bender v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1176
Illinois; Birch v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 867
Illinois; Bull v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 827
Illinois; Clarkson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 905
Illinois; Curry v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 902
Illinois; Deerwester v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 811

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:22] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)

cvTABLE OF CASES REPORTED
PageIllinois; Donley v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1193
Illinois; Edwards v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 857
Illinois; Ellis v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 883
Illinois; Enoch v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1121
Illinois; Evans v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 965
Illinois; Ganus v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 829
Illinois; Gonzalez v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 825
Illinois; Hood v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1090
Illinois; Karall v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1053
Illinois; Kliner v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 831
Illinois; Luczak v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1164
Illinois; Macri v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 829
Illinois; Plummer v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1169
Illinois; Robinson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1024,1170
Illinois; Santa Cruz v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 971
Illinois; Simental v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 956
Illinois; Simpson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 905
Illinois; Smith v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 941
Illinois; Taube v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 870
Illinois; Terrell v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 881
Illinois; Turks v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1127,1198
Illinois; Turner v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 840
Illinois v. Wardlow . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 119
Illinois; Ward v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 942,1193
Illinois; Williams v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 884
Illinois; Wilson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1168
Illinois; Young v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1010
Illinois; Zelazek v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 968
Illinois Council on Long Term Care, Inc.; Shalala v. . . . . . . . . . . . 984
Illinois Dept. of Revenue; Raleigh v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1068,1151
Illinois Ed. Labor Relations Bd.; Sharif-Johnson v. . . . . . . . . . . 806,1003
Illinois Power Co.; Green v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1159
Illinois Prisoner Review Bd.; Heidelberg v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 955
Illinois State Treasurer v. Commonwealth Edison Co. . . . . . . . . . 873
Illinois State Univ. v. Varner . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1110
Immigration and Naturalization Service; Belli v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 963
Immigration and Naturalization Service; Bolanos Portillo v. . . . . 802
Immigration and Naturalization Service; Coulibaly v. . . . . . . . . . 1027
Immigration and Naturalization Service; Foroglou v. . . . . . . . . . . 819
Immigration and Naturalization Service; Hammer v. . . . . . . . . . . 1191
Immigration and Naturalization Service; Hossain v. . . . . . . . . . . . 1019
Immigration and Naturalization Service; Mahmoud v. . . . . . . . . . 837
Immigration and Naturalization Service; Witter v. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1075
Indiana; Beaven v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1171

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:22] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)
cvi TABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageIndiana; Miller v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1083
Indiana; Minnick v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1006
Indiana; Williams v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1170
Indiana; Woods v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 861
Indiana High School Athletic Assn., Inc. v. Washington . . . . . . . . 1046
Indianapolis; Gillespie v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1116
Industrial Accident Bd. of Del.; Joyner v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1050
Industrial Chemicals, Inc. v. Tuscaloosa . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 812
Ingle; Soltero v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 846
Ingram; Earthman v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 986
Ingrati v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 919
Inman; Adams v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 936
Inova Alexandria Hospital; Nguyen v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1188
In re. See name of party.
Insurance Consultants of Knox, Inc. v. United States . . . . . . . . . 1081
Intelogic Trace, Inc.; Sachs v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 931
Interactive Technologies, Inc. v. Pittway Corp. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1046
Intercontinental Bulktank Corp. v. Selico . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1188
Internal Revenue Service; Boyle v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1119
Internal Revenue Service; Turner v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1069,1151
International. For labor union, see name of trade.
International Bank of Commerce v. Int'l En. Dev. Corp. . . . . . . . 1137
International Business Machines; Phonometrics, Inc. v. . . . . . . . . 922
International Business Machines Corp.; Smyly v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 982
International Business Machines Corp.; Wenzel v. . . . . . . . . . . 952,1067
International Energy Dev. Corp.; Int'l Bank of Commerce v. . . . . 1137
International Immunology Corp.; Lai v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 806,985,1106
International Management Group; Davis v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 910
International Monetary Fund; Kahre v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 823,1039
International Trade Comm'n; San Huan Materials High Tech v. . . 959
Interstate Brands Corp. v. Teamsters . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 822
Interstellar Starship Services, Ltd. v. Epix, Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1155
Intertanko v. Locke . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1015,1043
Ioane, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1002
Ioane v. B. A. Properties, Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1174
Iowa; Swartz v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1167
Iowa; Trobaugh v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 836
Ipalook; Dena' Nena' Henash v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 964
Ipalook; Tanana Chiefs Conference, Inc. v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 964
Iran; Soudavar v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1157
Irvin v. Borg . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1089
Irvin; Minigan v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1089
Irvine v. Murad Skin Research Laboratories, Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1041
Irving v. Gurney . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1025

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:22] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)

cviiTABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageIrving v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 812
Isby v. Duckworth . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 905
Ischy v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 958
Islamic Republic of Iran; Soudavar v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1157
Island Records, Inc.; Batiste v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1076
Islay Investments; Granberry v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1117
Israel v. Cohn . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 892
It's All Greek To Me Corp.; GMA Accessories, Inc. v. . . . . . . . . . 1076
ITT Cannon; Demasse v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 930
ITT Corp.; Demasse v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 930
Ivanhoe Citrus Assn.; Reed v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 976
Ivester v. Missouri . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 809
Ivy v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1128
Izquierdo v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 907
Jacko v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1031
Jackson, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 808,961,1043,1071,1149
Jackson v. Champion . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 883,1123
Jackson v. Day . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 883
Jackson v. Florida Dept. of Corrections . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1168
Jackson v. Houston . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 842
Jackson v. Houston County Bd. of Ed. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 816
Jackson v. Johnson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 858,973,1039
Jackson v. Jonesboro . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 830
Jackson; Lavine v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 973
Jackson v. Louisiana . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1008
Jackson v. Massachusetts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1194
Jackson v. McManamon . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 943
Jackson; Morrissey v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 821
Jackson v. New York . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1123
Jackson v. Sacchet . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 943
Jackson v. Texas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 930,1040
Jackson v. Texas Electric Utility Service Co. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1053,1198
Jackson v. The Right Stuff, Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 824
Jackson; Trust v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1085
Jackson v. United States 828,845,911,917,919,945,978,979,1012,1066,1162
Jackson County; Redler v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1160
Jacksonville; D&M Contracting Co. v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1062,1158
Jacksonville; McDuffie v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1062,1158
Jacobs, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 801,1149
Jacobs v. Gammon . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1008
Jacobs v. Jacobs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1024
Jacobs v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1055
Jaffe v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1191
Jain v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 889

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:22] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)
cviii TABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageJames v. Bowersox . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1143
James v. Cain . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 886,1048
James v. Georgia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 823
James v. Hanks . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1027
James v. Johnson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 829
James; Melof v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 986
James; Murdock v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 988
James v. Oklahoma . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1120
James v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 982,1065,1196
Jamison v. Thomas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 892
Jancuk v. Donofrio . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1072
Jandu v. National Science Foundation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 819
Japan Travel Bureau International, Inc.; Baba v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1016
Jared W. v. California . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1142
Jarrett v. Hayward Manor Apartments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 973,1184
Jarvis; Williams v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1024
Jasin v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1139
Jason B. v. Connecticut . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 967
Jaworowski v. New York City Transit Authority . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1046
Jean-Pierre v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 909
Jefferies v. Andrews . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 830
Jefferson v. Johnson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 975,977
Jefferson v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 824,1039
Jefferson Univ.; Michelfelder v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1158
Jefferson Univ. Hospital; Bass v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1026,1184
Jenkins v. Abrams . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 896
Jenkins v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 893,913,958,978
Jennings v. Gammon . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 898
Jennings v. Johnson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 849
Jennings v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 918,1014
Jeremiah; McBurney v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1078
Jerome v. Ohio . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 848
Jerome E. M.; Gail M. v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1080
Jewell v. Dallas Independent School Dist. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1062
J. F. v. Pennsylvania . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 814
Jiles v. Sparkman . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1064
Jiles v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 892
Jimenez v. California . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1064
Jimenez v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1183
Jimenez-Arreguin v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1143
Jimenez-Roman v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 861
Jiricko v. Moser & Marsalek, P. C. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1020
J. L.; Florida v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 963,1060,1134
Jobe v. ATR Marketing, Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 825

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:22] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)

cixTABLE OF CASES REPORTED
PageJohn; Baker v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1182
John; Knighten v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 972
John v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1034
John Crane, Inc.; Ceglarek v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1051,1145
John Mezzalingua Associates, Inc.; LRC Electronics, Inc. v. . . . . 1075
Johnny Blastoff, Inc. v. Los Angeles Rams Football Co. . . . . . . . . 1188
Johns Hopkins Univ.; Dobkin v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 875
Johns Hopkins Univ.; Smart-Davis v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1170
Johnson, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 807,808,1002,1068
Johnson; Aguilar v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 849
Johnson v. Alabama . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1120
Johnson; Anderson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 860,908
Johnson; Anh Tuan Hoang v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 938
Johnson; Arroyo v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 862
Johnson; Baker v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 851
Johnson; Barnes v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 974
Johnson; Barreno v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 847
Johnson; Bautista v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 859
Johnson; Beathard v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 954
Johnson; Beets v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1121
Johnson; Bennett v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 806
Johnson; Bisby v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 849
Johnson; Bohannan v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 989
Johnson; Brewer v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 902,1124
Johnson; Brock v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 976
Johnson; Brown v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 935,1171
Johnson; Bryant v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 912
Johnson; Byrd v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 833
Johnson v. California . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 973
Johnson; Calvin v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 905
Johnson v. Campbell . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1122
Johnson; Cantu v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 960
Johnson v. Catoe . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1032
Johnson; Central Newspapers, Inc. v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 963
Johnson; Champion v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 905
Johnson v. Christopher . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 909
Johnson; Coleman v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1164
Johnson; Cooper v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 908,1057
Johnson; Crane v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 947
Johnson; Criollo v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 972
Johnson; Darby v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 888
Johnson; Davidson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 894
Johnson; Delgado Medrano v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1049
Johnson v. DeLoach . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 893

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:22] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)
cx TABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageJohnson; Dickerson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1193
Johnson; Duke v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1121
Johnson; Dunn v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1122
Johnson; Durand v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1091
Johnson v. E. A. Miller, Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1004
Johnson; Felder v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1067
Johnson; Fields v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 886
Johnson; Fletcher v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 888
Johnson; Foster v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 940,1183
Johnson; Freeman v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 951
Johnson; French v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 835
Johnson; Galvan v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 939
Johnson v. Georgia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1172
Johnson v. Gibson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 972
Johnson v. Gila River Indian Community . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 875
Johnson; Goodman v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 891,1131
Johnson; Goss v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1185
Johnson; Gribble v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1173
Johnson; Hare v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 887
Johnson; Harris v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 836,940
Johnson; Heiselbetz v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1109
Johnson v. Herman . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1153
Johnson; Hernandez v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 888,940
Johnson; Hicks v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1132
Johnson v. Hofbauer . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 955
Johnson; Holliday v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 937
Johnson; Hughes v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1145
Johnson; Humphrey v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 901,1107
Johnson; Jackson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 858,973,1039
Johnson; James v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 829
Johnson; Jefferson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 975,977
Johnson; Jennings v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 849
Johnson v. Johnson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1089
Johnson; Jones v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 892,904,1167,1183
Johnson; Joseph v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1169
Johnson; Kelly v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1093
Johnson; Knighten v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 953
Johnson; Lamb v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1013
Johnson; Lee v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 828
Johnson; Leggett v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 937
Johnson v. Letter Carriers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1075
Johnson; Lofton v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1170
Johnson; Long v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1058

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:22] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)

cxiTABLE OF CASES REPORTED
PageJohnson; Mack v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1049
Johnson; Maners v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1164
Johnson; Mark v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 859
Johnson; Martinez v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1164
Johnson; Matthews v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1177
Johnson; Mayabb v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 969
Johnson; McFadden v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 947
Johnson; McGinnis v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1125
Johnson; McGinn v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1163
Johnson; Medina v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 843
Johnson; Mesa v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 897
Johnson; Mitchell v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1170
Johnson; Moore v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 903
Johnson; Moreland v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 937,1041
Johnson; Morin v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1177
Johnson v. North Carolina . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1124
Johnson; O'Donnell v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1086,1173
Johnson v. Ohio . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 837
Johnson v. Oklahoma . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 819,1170
Johnson; Patterson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1063
Johnson v. Pennsylvania . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1163
Johnson; Preston v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1003
Johnson v. Reynolds . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1140
Johnson; Robbins v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 838
Johnson; Rowe v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 972
Johnson v. San Bernardino County . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 832,1039
Johnson; Sanchez v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 897
Johnson; Shed v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 988,1184
Johnson; Simmons v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 939
Johnson; Sisk v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 837
Johnson; Slaughter v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1166
Johnson; Smith v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 891,1026
Johnson; Sosa v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1173
Johnson; Stancliff v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1164
Johnson v. Stubblefield . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 830
Johnson v. Summers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 816
Johnson v. Super Fresh Food Markets, Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 936
Johnson v. Supreme Court of Ill. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 916
Johnson; Templeton v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1052
Johnson v. Texas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 835
Johnson v. Thaler . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1171
Johnson v. Thomas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1125
Johnson; Turner v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1007

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:22] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)
cxii TABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageJohnson v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 857,
864, 880, 884, 889, 895, 909, 915, 916, 950, 968, 1031, 1055, 1097,
1144,1145
Johnson; United States v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 962
Johnson; Valenzuela Flores v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1122
Johnson v. Walker . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1165
Johnson; Watson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 837
Johnson; Watts v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1166
Johnson; Wells v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 955
Johnson; Wiley v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1089
Johnson; Wilkerson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1124
Johnson; Williams v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 828,882,1192
Johnson v. Wing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1162
Johnson; Woods v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 881
Johnson; Wright v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 865
Johnson; Yarbrough v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 866
Johnson Construction Co. v. Herman . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1153
Johnson & Son, Inc.; Hardin v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 874
Johnston v. Easley . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 931
Johnston v. Moore . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 883
Johnston v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1034
Joiner v. Bennett . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 829
Jolliff v. Bowersox . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 913
Jonas v. Briggs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 923
Jones, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 807,1112
Jones v. Berkeley Rent Stabilization Bd. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 811
Jones v. California . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 895,934,1123,1169
Jones; California Democratic Party v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1133
Jones v. Cervantes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1154
Jones; Cervantes v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1154
Jones v. Cheeks . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1007
Jones v. Corcoran . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1010
Jones v. Henderson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 933
Jones v. Hines . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1007
Jones v. Johnson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 892,904,1167,1183
Jones v. Jones . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 895
Jones; McWilliams v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1027
Jones v. Minnesota Mining & Mfg. Co. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 934
Jones v. North Carolina . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1086
Jones v. Suthers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1172
Jones v. Texas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 985
Jones v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 840,

850,853,861,892,916,933,943,1002,1032,1124,1127,1180,1194
Jones; Willars v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1046

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:22] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)

cxiiiTABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageJones v. Wisconsin . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1143
Jonesboro; Jackson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 830
Jonston v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 886
Jordan v. Fanello . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1008
Jordan v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 883,942
Josenhans, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 962
Josenhans v. Sherwood Medical Corp. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 822
Joseph v. Angelone . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 959
Joseph v. Johnson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1169
Joseph v. New York City Bd. of Ed. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 876
Joseph v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 914
Joseph v. U. S. District Court . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1055
Josephine County; Ockenden v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 931
Journal-Gazette Co.; Bandido's, Inc. v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1005
Joyner v. Industrial Accident Bd. of Del. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1050
Joyner v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1180
Juan v. Tennessee . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 956
Judd v. U. S. District Court . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Judds Brothers Construction Co. v. Burlington Northern R. Co. 1118
Judge, Circuit Court of Ill., Cook County; Dooling v. . . . . . . . . . . 1090
Judge, Circuit Court of Ill., Cook County; McCall-Bey v. . . . . . . . 836
Judge, Circuit Court of Ky., Simpson County; Moore v. . . . . . . . . 1093
Judge, Circuit Court of Ky., Wolfe County; Cavender v. . . . . . . . . 833
Judge, Circuit Court of Md., Calvert County; Thomas v. . . . . . . . 954
Judge, Circuit Court of Mo., St. Louis; Tyler v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 804
Judge, Circuit Court of Mo., St. Louis County; Tyler v. . . . . . . . . 1166
Judge, Court of Common Pleas of Ohio, Columbiana Cty.; Rodgers v. 831
Judge, Court of Common Pleas of Pa., Schuylkill Cty.; Minford v. 949,1044
Judge, Piedmont Judicial Circuit; Smith v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 975
Judge, Saratoga County Court; Dlugosz v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1079
Judge, 73rd District Court; Griesenbeck v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1087
Judges, U. S. Court of Appeals for Fourth Circuit; Kimberlin v. . . 976
Judge, Superior Court of Ariz., Maricopa County; Fordjour v. . . . 970
Judge, Superior Court of Cal., Del Norte County; Chaidez v. . . . . 1171
Judge, Superior Court of Ga., Jasper County; Moore v. . . . . . . 831,1106
Julien v. Alameda County . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1156
Juntunen v. Wagner . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1191
Justesen v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1179
Justin; Krajicek v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1046
K. v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 840
KABC-TV Inc.; Sussman v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1131
Kabede v. Marshall . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 898
Kaferly v. U S WEST Technologies . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1112
Kahre v. International Monetary Fund . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 823,1039

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:22] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)
cxiv TABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageKaiser; Ridgeway v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1167
Kaiser; Scoggin v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 953
Kajima Engineering & Construction Co.; Gipson v. . . . . . . . . . . . 815
Kalan v. Bockhorst, Ehrlich & Kaminskee . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1139
Kallin v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 859
Kaloroumakis; Miller v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1186
Kaltenbach; Brown v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1123
Kalway v. Moody . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1177
Kamasinski v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 822
Kam Far Lee v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1054
Kamoga v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 942
Kampmann v. California . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 974
Kanazeh v. Sandground, Barondess & West . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1140,1198
"Kandyland"; Erie v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 803,948,962
Kanikaynar v. Sisneros . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1090
Kansas; Bell v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 905
Kansas; Bryan v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 939
Kansas v. Garza . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 929
Kansas; Harris v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 957
Kansas v. Nebraska . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1001,1151
Kansas City; Kline v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1155
Kansas City Area Transportation Authority; Hill v. . . . . . . . . . . . 1137
Kansas City Southern R. Co. v. Rushing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1160
Kansas Dept. of Revenue; Kaul v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 812
Kansas Public Employees Ret. Sys. v. Reimer & Koger Assoc. . . 1185
Kaplan v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 928
Karagounis v. University of Tex. Health Center at San Antonio . . . 986
Karall v. Illinois . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1053
Karam v. New Jersey Dept. of Environmental Protection . . . . . . 814
Karanicolas v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1172
Karavan Trailers, Inc. v. Midwest Industries, Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1019
Karim-Panahi v. California . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1111
Karls v. Hudson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 987
Kaschenbach v. Maryland . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 907
Katy Industries, Inc.; Papa v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1019
Kaul v. Kansas Dept. of Revenue . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 812
Kautzky; Beets v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 825,1039
Kay v. Smyser . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1063
Kayer v. Arizona . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1196
Kaylo; McGlothurn v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1086
Kaylo; Puckett v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 896
Kearney; Standard Ins. Co. v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 964
Keating; Shabazz v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 806
Keaton v. Pennsylvania . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1163

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:22] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)

cxvTABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageKeeley; Loomis Fargo & Co. v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1138
Keenan; Malley v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 929
Keenan v. Michigan Dept. of Corrections . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 957
Keeper v. Holland . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1094
Kehler v. Workers' Compensation Appeal Bd. (Dept. of Public Welf.) 1120
Keithley v. Hopkins . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 892
Kellenberg Mem. H. S. v. Section VIII, N. Y. Pub. H. S. Ath. Assn. 1155
Keller v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 896
Kelley v. Gibson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 971
Kelley v. Kelley . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 880
Kellogg v. Washington . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1083
Kelly v. Beeler . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 889
Kelly; Black v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1167
Kelly; Bradley v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1137
Kelly; Curro v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 936,1041
Kelly v. Johnson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1093
Kelly; Martinez v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 840
Kelly; Miller v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 892
Kelly; Nieves v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 913
Kelly v. Ohio . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 973
Kelly; Rooney v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1064
Kelly v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 943,1012,1143,1177
Kemna; Asher v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 954
Kemna; Ashley v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 908
Kemna; Owens v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 864
Kemna; Ramsey v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 829
Kenan; Woods v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 878
Kendall v. Reid . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1026
Kendall Co.; Hightower v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1022
Kennedy, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1113
Kennedy v. Cain . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 975
Kennedy v. Dresser Rand Co. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1190
Kennedy v. Goldin . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1081
Kennedy v. National Juvenile Detention Assn. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1159
Kent v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1116
Kentucky; Dillard v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1009
Kentucky; Drake v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1009
Kentucky; Eades v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 988
Kentucky; Hicks v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1166
Kentucky; Long v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 972,1184
Kentucky; Mills v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1164
Kentucky; Moore v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 842
Kentucky; Pletcher v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 931
Kentucky; Rogers v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 988

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:22] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)
cxvi TABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageKentucky; Slaughter v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1192
Kentucky; Taylor v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 901
Kentucky; Thomas v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1064
Kentucky; Voit v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1137
Kerik; Benjamin v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 824
Kerley; Lenoir v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1026
Kernan v. Henry . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1198
Kerrisons Dry Goods Co.; Kreischer v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 817
Key v. Grayson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1120
Key v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 889
Keyerleber v. Champion International Corp. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 923
Keys v. Gonzalez . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1010
Keys v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 900
Khallafalla v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1094
Khiem Tran, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 807
Kibbe v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1172
Kidwell v. Shawnee County Bd. of County Comm'rs . . . . . . . . . . 1064
Kieffer v. Riske . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 975,1050
Kiel v. Scott . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1115
Kiel v. Select Artificials, Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 818
Killian; Kotterman v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 921
Killian; Rhodes v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 810
Killion v. Cain . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1009
Kim v. Board of Trustees of Univ. of Ala. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 965
Kim v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 809,857
Kimberlin v. Judges, U. S. Court of Appeals for Fourth Circuit . . 976
Kimble v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1083
Kimbrough v. California . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1024
Kimel v. Florida Bd. of Regents . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 62
Kim Ho Ma; Reno v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1000
Kinane, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1043,1149
Kind v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1180
King v. Anderson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 986
King v. Cain . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 832
King v. Crist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 858
King v. East Lampeter Township . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 951
King v. Love . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 858,999
King v. MTA Bridges and Tunnels . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1025,1184
King v. Pennsylvania . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1119
King v. Smith . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 938
King v. Tennessee . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 875,1007
King v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 892,941,958,1040,1055
King v. U. S. Court of Appeals . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 920
King v. Washington Adventist Hospital . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 933,1040

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:22] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)

cxviiTABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageKinnell v. West . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1111
Kinney v. Bankers Trust Co. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 885
Kinser; Gehl Co. v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1139
Kin Siu Tam v. Georgia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 931
Kirchman; Mantz v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 870
Kirkman v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 857
Kirkpatrick v. Bangor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1004
Kirtman v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 838
Kitchell; Sheldon v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1007
Kitzhaber; Burgess v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1042,1135
Kitzhaber; Milligan v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1170
Klat v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1056
Klein v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 850
Kline v. Kansas City . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1155
Kliner v. Illinois . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 831
Klingler; Woods v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 859
Kmart Corp.; Lewis v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1136
Kmart Corp.; Pack v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 811
Knickerbocker v. Ovako-Ajax, Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1161
Knight v. Florida . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 990
Knighten v. John . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 972
Knighten v. Johnson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 953
Knipfer v. Pitzer . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 858
Knox v. Louisiana . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 911
Knox County Bd. of Ed.; Knox County Ed. Assn. v. . . . . . . . . . . . 812
Knox County Ed. Assn. v. Knox County Bd. of Ed. . . . . . . . . . . . 812
Knutson; Stewart v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 906
Koehler v. Koehler . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 972
Koenick v. Felton . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1118
Koenig v. Hagy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 893,1057
Kokoszka v. Angelone . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1088
Konkel v. Bob Evans Farms, Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 877
Kooistra; Sutton v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1172
Kooritzky v. Herman . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1154
Korotka v. Sondalle . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1140
Kost v. Fanello . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1126
Koster v. Trans World Airlines, Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1021
Kostmayer v. Department of Treasury . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 928
Kotterman v. Killian . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 921
Koury v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1060
Koveleskie v. SBC Capital Markets, Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 811
Koveleskie v. SBC Warburg, Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 811
Koziol v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 969
Krajicek v. Justin . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1046

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:22] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)
cxviii TABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageKramer, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 869,948,1149
Kramer v. Davis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1133
Kramer; Newman v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 880
Kratz v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1128
Kratzer v. First Healthcare Corp. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 860,1107
Kraus Investments; Wilson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1164
Kreager v. A to Z Auto Recycler . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 849
Kreager v. Struble . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 828
Kreischer v. Kerrisons Dry Goods Co. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 817
Kridel v. Florida Public Employees Relations Comm'n . . . . . . . . . 1079
Krilich v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 810
Krueger v. Carey . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1008
Krueger v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1142
Kruelski v. Connecticut . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1168
Kuehnoel v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1097
Kuemmerlin v. Nevada Dept. of Motor Vehicles and Public Safety 1159
Kuhlman, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1072
Kuhlmann; Thomas v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1121
Kukes v. Calderon . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1008
Kulas v. U. S. District Court . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 848
Kulas v. Valdez . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1167
Kunce; Ajiwoju v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1165
Kunin v. Sears, Roebuck & Co. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 964
Kuplen v. Arnold . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 970
Kuplen v. Hardy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 885
Kurtzman & Haspel; Terio v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 840,999
K. V. Mart Co.; Food and Commercial Workers v. . . . . . . . . . . . . 872
Kwasigroch, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 926
L.; Florida v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 963,1060,1134
Laborers v. Alexander . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1043,1154
Laborers Local 17 Health and Benefit Fund v. Philip Morris, Inc. 1080
Laborers Nat. Pens. Fd. v. American Nat. Bank & Tr. Co., Chicago 967
Labor Union. See name of trade.
Lacey v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1142
LaChance; White v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1153
LaCoille; Macri v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 828
LaCuesta v. Archuleta . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1117
Lacy; Philippe v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1121
L. A. Development v. Sherwood . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1075
Ladner v. New York City . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 807,1006
LaFaver v. Prager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 967
Lafayette; McCain v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1118
LaFevers v. Ward . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1151
LaFond v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1142

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:22] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)

cxixTABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageLaFortune v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1129
Lage v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1163
Lages v. Florida . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1191
LaGrua v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 952
LaGuerre v. Reno . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1153
Lai v. International Immunology Corp. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 806,985,1106
Lai v. Pitzer . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1176
Laidlaw Environmental Services (TOC); Friends of Earth v. . . . . 167
Laird v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1092
Lakeland Police Dept.; Cannoy v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1165
Lam v. Moody . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 803
Lamanna; Ahmad v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 989
Lamb v. Johnson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1013
Lambert; Ackerley v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1116
Lambert v. Cain . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 903
Lambert; Dung Hoang Le v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 851
Lambert v. Lord . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1198
Lambert v. Oklahoma . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1087
Lambert v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 890,1190
Lambert; Welch v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 840,1145
LaMontagne v. St. Louis Development Corp. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 873
Lamson & Sessions Co.; Wells v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1064
Lancaster v. California . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 936
Lancaster v. Stubblefield . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 854
Land; Clark v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1064
Landry v. Reilly . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1073
Landry v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1180
Landtech Engineering; Fofana v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 932
Lane v. Russell . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 901
Lang v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1091
Lange; Orleans Levee Dist. v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 802
Langford v. Makita Corp. of America . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1045
Langley; Schouster v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 936
Langworthy v. Dean . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 945,1014
Lanning; Southeastern Pa. Transportation Authority v. . . . . . . . . 1131
Lantz v. Arctic Orion Fisheries . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1064
Lapense v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1097
Lappin; Nagy v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1193
Lara v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 979
Lara-Aceves v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1095
LaRhette; Canty v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1076
Lark v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 897
Larkin v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 883
LaRoche v. Vose . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 869

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:22] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)
cxx TABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageLarry v. Texas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1120
Larson; Pennsylvania v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1079
Lassan v. Bolton . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1048
Laszczynski v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1012
Lathan v. Stubblefield . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 907
Latino Officers Assn.; New York City v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1159
Latona Trucking, Inc.; S & R Co. of Kingston v. . . . . . . . . . . 1017,1058
LaTrieste Restaurant & Cabaret, Inc. v. Port Chester . . . . . . . . . 1187
Lau v. Moore . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1166
Lau v. Sullivan County District Attorney . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1192
Laughlin v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 847,958
Lauria; Davis v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 814
LaVecchia; Chiropractic America v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 930
La Velle v. California Workers' Compensation Appeals Bd. . . . . . 869
Lavertu, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1018,1184
Lavi v. Duncan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1190
Lavine v. Jackson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 973
Lawrence v. Armontrout . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 897
Lawrence; Harel v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1117
Lawrence v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1091,1096
Lawrence Aviation Industries, Inc. v. Herman . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1153
Lawson v. Abrams . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 823
Lawson v. Mississippi Dept. of Corrections . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 905
Lawson v. New York . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1080
Lawson v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 909
Lawwell v. Ohio . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1194
Lay v. E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Co. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 921
Lay v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 979
Layng; Apampa v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 908
Lazaroff; Hay v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 933
Lazaroff; Skibinski v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 867,1183
Lazich v. Westchester County . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 962
Lazo v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 982
Lazy Oil Co. v. Witco Corp. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 874
L. Butterman & Associates; Cavalieri v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 847
L. Butterman & Associates; Cavalieri-Conway v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 847
Le v. Barbour . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1085
Le v. Lambert . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 851
Leach v. Alabama . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 937
Lea County District Court; Frazier v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1175
Leader v. Livingston Parish School Bd. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 815
Leaf v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 978
Leary; Grisso v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1175
Lebanon Chemical Corp.; Farmers AG Center, Inc. v. . . . . . . . . . 1079

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:22] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)

cxxiTABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageLebanon Chemical Corp.; United Farmers Plant Food, Inc. v. . . . 1079
Lebanon Seaboard Corp.; Farmers AG Center, Inc. v. . . . . . . . . . 1079
Lebanon Seaboard Corp.; United Farmers Plant Food, Inc. v. . . . 1079
LeBlanc; Augman v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1085
LeBlanc v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1129
LeCureux; O'Brien v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 970
Lederle Laboratories; Evans v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 929
Ledet, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 985
Ledford v. California . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 974
Lee v. Florida . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 828
Lee v. Georgia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1006,1145
Lee; Harris v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1091
Lee v. Hawaii . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 821,1039
Lee v. Johnson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 828
Lee v. Minnesota . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1141
Lee v. Rancho Palos Verdes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1077,1198
Lee; Rawlins v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1069
Lee; Roberts v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1009
Lee v. Taylor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1197
Lee v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 910,990,1014,1054,1143
Leese v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 914
Lefkowitz v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1190
LeForce v. Szmutko . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 939
Legette v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1096
Leggett v. Johnson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 937
Leggett v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 868,1011
LeGrande, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1113
Lehman; Douglas v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 937
Lehman; Hamilton v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 888
Lehman v. Maine . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1154
Leininger v. Washington . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1085
LeMaster; Tapia v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 880
Lemley v. Lemley . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 833
Lemons v. Dormire . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 954
Lennix v. Big 3 Industries . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1112
Lenoir v. Kerley . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1026
Lensing; Martinez v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 895
Lensing; Williams v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 890
Lensing; Winzy v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 867,1039
Leonard; Dodson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 937
Leonard v. Nevada . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 828
Leonard; Taylor v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 899
Leonard v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1095
Leonardo; Cisco v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1171

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:22] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)
cxxii TABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageLeonberger; Smith v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 895
Leong v. Washington . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 892
Leon Zuniga v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1175
Leppo v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1006
Lerma-Lerma v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 842
Lerro v. Board of Review, Dept. of Labor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1126
Lesage; Texas v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
Lescs v. William R. Hughes, Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1119
Leser; Mosseri v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1086
Leslie v. Litscher . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 954,1041
Leslie Fay Cos.; Falbaum v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1075
Lester v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1011
Lett v. Antwine . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1169
Letter Carriers; George v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1156
Letter Carriers; Johnson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1075
Levan v. Capital Cities/ABC, Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1198
Leverette v. Louisville Ladder Co. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1138
Levesque v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 979
Levis Mitsubishi; Green v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1020
Levis Motors, Inc.; Green v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1020
Levitan v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 939
Levitt; Gadson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1083
Levy v. General Accounting Office . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 876
Levy v. Superintendent of Public Schools, Fairfax County . . . . . . 902
Lewis, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 924
Lewis v. Cowen . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 823
Lewis v. DuCharme . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 900
Lewis v. Electrical Workers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1080
Lewis v. Garcia Delgado . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 924,1133
Lewis; Graham v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 865
Lewis v. Grimmett . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1027
Lewis v. Kmart Corp. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1136
Lewis v. Moore . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1089
Lewis v. Ohio . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 889,1174
Lewis v. Oklahoma . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 892
Lewis v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . 866,921,958,1090,1095,1163,1184
Lewis County v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1018
Lewitzke v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 914
Li-Ann Lee v. Rancho Palos Verdes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1077,1198
Libby v. Nevada . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1119
Liberty Mut. Ins. Co.; Browning v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1050
Liberty Mut. Ins. Co.; Lumbermens Mut. Casualty Co. v. . . . . . . 873
Lichtig v. California . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1076,1198
Liddy v. Wells . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1118

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:22] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)

cxxiiiTABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageLiggins v. McDonnell Douglas Corp. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 967
Lightfoot v. Union Carbide Corp. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 817
Lilliock v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 888
Lin v. Lin . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1137
Linahan; Hutchins v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1166
Linahan; Vargas v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1141
Lindsay v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 981
Lindsey; Daniels v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 955
Lindsey; Shaw v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 839
Lindsey; Soun v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1052
Lindsey v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 945
Lindstedt v. Missouri Libertarian Party . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 850
Lineberger v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1028,1145
Linehan v. Minnesota . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1049
Ling Dan v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 844
Linville v. Ricks . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1091
Lions v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 903
Lipari v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1092
Lippincott Adams v. Commissioner . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1117
Lippitt v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 958
Lisenbee v. Henry . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 829
Litman; George Mason Univ. v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1181
Litscher; Leslie v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 954,1041
Litscher; Pischke v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 954
Little; Winchester v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1026
Liu v. Silverman . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 815,1038
Livingston v. Galanos . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1094
Livingston Parish School Bd.; Leader v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 815
Llamas v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 989
Llampallas v. Mini-Circuits Lab., Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 930
Lloyd v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 858,990,1056
L. M. K. v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 840
L. M. M. v. E. N. O. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1005
Local. For labor union, see name of trade.
LoCascio v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 823
Lock; Vernor v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1096
Locke; Tanker Owners (Intertanko) v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1015,1043
Locke; United States v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1015,1043
Lockheed Martin IMS v. Branson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1115
Locklear v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 894
Lockyer; Henry v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 963
Locskai v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1177
Loera v. Roe . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 895
Lofley v. Moore . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1169

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:22] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)
cxxiv TABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageLoftin v. New Jersey . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 897
Lofton v. Johnson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1170
Loftus v. Southeastern Pa. Transportation Authority . . . . . . . . . 1047
Logan v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1126
Loli v. Citibank, Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1168
Lomas v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 917
Lomax v. Bowersox . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 839,999
London v. Cain . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 956
Lonergan v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1060
Long v. Dow Chemical Co. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1141
Long v. Johnson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1058
Long v. Kentucky . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 972,1184
Long v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 850,907,921,933,1032,1195
Long Beach; Howser v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 875
Longoria v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 892
Longstreth v. Montana . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1167
Long-Term Credit Bank of Japan, Ltd.; EIE Guam Corp. v. . . . . 1137
Longview; Corley v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 823
Loomis; Pennsylvania v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1077
Loomis Fargo & Co. v. Keeley . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1138
Lopez v. California . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1064
Lopez v. Henderson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1047
Lopez v. Udall . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1009
Lopez v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 859,916,946,1034,1119,1173
Lopez Cantu v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 818
Lopez-Carvajal v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 915
Lopez-Gamez v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 847
Lopez-Garcia v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1028
Lopez-Gonzalez v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1126
Lopez-Llerenas v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 889
Lopez-Lukis v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 985
Loral Fairchild Corp. v. Sony Corp. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1075
Lord; Lambert v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1198
Lorefice v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1190
Los Angeles; Branson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1115
Los Angeles v. Department of Transportation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1074
Los Angeles; Ruvalcaba v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1003
Los Angeles County; Barris v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 868
Los Angeles County; Mahon v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1121
Los Angeles County; Ortiz v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1077
Los Angeles Police Dept. v. United Reporting Publishing Corp. 32
Los Angeles Rams Football Co.; Johnny Blastoff, Inc. v. . . . . . . . 1188
Los Fresnos; Martinez v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 812
Loss v. U. S. District Court . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 895

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:22] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)

cxxvTABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageLoss v. Ward . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 895
LOT$OFF Corp. v. Chase Manhattan Bank, N. A. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1078
Loudermilk v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 915
Louis v. California . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1192
Louis v. Commissioner . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1115
Louis v. Grant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1077
Louisiana; Benn v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1140
Louisiana; Castleberry v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 893
Louisiana; Chester v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 826,999
Louisiana; Degen v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 827
Louisiana; Dixon v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 857
Louisiana; Edwards v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1026
Louisiana; Frost v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 831
Louisiana; Hampton v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1007,1108
Louisiana; Howard v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 974
Louisiana; Jackson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1008
Louisiana; Knox v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 911
Louisiana; Neacsu v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 850
Louisiana; Odle v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 953
Louisiana; Omoike v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 881
Louisiana; Petta v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1125
Louisiana; Pizzo v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1148
Louisiana; Premier Games, Inc. v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1062
Louisiana; Roque v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 839
Louisiana; Thibodeaux v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 936
Louisiana; Wessinger v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1050,1145
Louisiana Dept. of Transportation and Development; Rodriguez v. 817
Louisiana Seafood Mgmt. Council v. Louisiana Wildlife Comm'n . . . 868
Louisiana State Univ. Bd. of Supervisors; Omoike v. . . . . . . . . . . 1148
Louisiana Wildlife Comm'n; Louisiana Seafood Mgmt. Council v. . . 868
Louisville; Grider v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1020
Louisville Country Club v. Watts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1061
Louisville Ladder Co.; Leverette v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1138
Love; King v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 858,999
Love v. North Carolina . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 944
Lovell; Dawson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 818
Lovell v. Hightower . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1138
Lovell v. Utah . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1083
Lovelock v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 853
Lowe v. Consolidated Freightways of Del., Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1088
Lowenschuss v. Selnick . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 877
Lowenschuss; Sun International North America, Inc. v. . . . . . . . . 1021
Lowery v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 889,982
Loyd v. Alabama Dept. of Corrections . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1061

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:22] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)
cxxvi TABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageLozada Colon v. Department of State . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1003,1107
Lozano v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 946
LRC Electronics, Inc. v. John Mezzalingua Associates, Inc. . . . . . 1075
LRV Acquisition Corp.; York Products, Inc. v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1079
Lucent Information Management v. Lucent Technologies . . . . . . 1106
Lucent Technologies; Lucent Information Management v. . . . . . . . 1106
Lucero; Setser v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 970
Luckey v. Baxter Healthcare Corp. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1038
Luczak v. Illinois . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1164
Luedtke v. Bertrand . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1169
Luedtke v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1027
Luhr Bros., Inc. v. Hanks . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 966
Lukacs v. Shalala . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 933,952,1081
Lukens v. Oregon State Office for Services to Children and Families 1052
Lumbef v. Finn . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 858
Lumbermens Mut. Casualty Co. v. Liberty Mut. Ins. Co. . . . . . . . 873
Luna v. San Bernardino County . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1161
Luna Vasquez v. Neal . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 987
Lundell v. Watkins . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 928
Lundy v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1129
Luntao v. Equitable Life Assurance Society of U. S. . . . . . . . . . . 836
Lusk v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 844
Luther v. Minnesota Comm'r of Revenue . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 821
Lutheran Social Services; Carpenter v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 851
Luz Lucio de la Cruz v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1180
Lyle v. Thompson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1069
Lyle v. U. S. District Court . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 805,806
Lynas v. Godfrey . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 847
Lynch; Matassarin v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1116
Lynes v. Massachusetts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 830
Lynn v. Department of Labor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 898
Lyons v. Henry . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 988
Lyons v. North Carolina . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1124
M. v. E. N. O. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1005
M.; Gail M. v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1080
M. v. Jerome E. M. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1080
Ma; Reno v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1000
Ma v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 990
Maass Monsebroten v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 975
MacAllister v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 853
Macaro v. New York . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1118
Macedonia v. DePiero . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1105
Macholl v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 922
Macias, Inc. v. Texas Gulf Trawling Co. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 986

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:22] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)

cxxviiTABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageMaciel v. Terhune . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1120
Mack v. Alabama . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1006
Mack v. Johnson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1049
Mack v. Mohr . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 840
Mack v. U. S. Postal Service . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 914
Mackay v. Weiner . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1025
MacLeod v. Georgetown Univ. Medical Center . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1188
Macon v. California . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 889
Macri v. Illinois . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 829
Macri v. LaCoille . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 828
Madasci v. Moore . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 938
Madden v. Madden . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1170
Madding; Gatlin v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1087
Maden v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 853
Madigan; Wronke v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 881,1000,1171
Maestas v. Texas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 834
Magana-Cardona v. Papac . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 833
Maggard v. Moore . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 903
Magic v. General Electric Co. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 974
Maguna-Celaya v. Haro . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 969
Mahan v. Hargett . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 832
Mahique v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 840
Mahmoud v. Immigration and Naturalization Service . . . . . . . . . . 837
Mahon v. Credit Bureau of Placer County . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 803
Mahon v. Los Angeles County . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1121
Maidak v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1032
Maile v. Trippett . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 903
Maine; Chesnel v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1126
Maine; Lehman v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1154
Maine Public Utilities Comm'n; Central Maine Power Co. v. . . . . 1077
Mainini, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1150
Major v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 945,1097
Makita Corp. of America; Langford v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1045
Makoka v. Tennessee Dept. of Human Services . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 894
Malave v. Connecticut . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1170
Malcolm v. Pennsylvania . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1191
Malden Bd. of Assessors; Davis v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 931
Malerba, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1071,1149
Malik v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1085
Malkus v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1191
Mallard, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 807
Mallett v. Bowersox . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 853,1039
Malley v. Keenan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 929
Mallory v. Ohio . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 951

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:22] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)
cxxviii TABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageMalone; Messere v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 974
Maloney; Hullum v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1169
Maloney; Torres v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 898
Mance v. Arizona . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 938
Manchester; Babcock v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 814
Mancillas-Zarate v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 826
Mancini v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 864
Mandina v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1031
Maners v. Johnson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1164
Maney, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 801,1042
Mangrum v. Charter Property Management Co., Inc. . . . . . . . . . . 806
Mangrum v. Reddy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 805
Manley, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1060
Manley v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 878
Mann v. Chicago . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1160
Mann; Smith v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 884
Mann v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 915
Mannatt v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1138
Manning v. Michigan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 857
Manning v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1196
Manor Healthcare Corp.; Bradbury v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 975
Mantz v. Kirchman . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 870
Manufacturers Bank v. Amoco Oil Co. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 922
Mapes; Coyle v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 946
Maple Lanes, Inc. v. Messer . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1118
Mapp v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 901
Marathon Oil Co. v. Babbitt . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 819
Marathon Oil Co. v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1002
Marbled Murrelet; Pacific Lumber Co. v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1115
Marcello v. Stetson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 943,1057
Marchi v. Board of Coop. Ed. Servs. of Albany, etc., Counties . . . 869
Marcicky v. Michigan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1049
Marcinkowsky v. Union Carbide Corp. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1126
Maresca v. Ignacio . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1052
Margolis; Washington v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 938
Maricopa County Medical Center; Springer v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1120
Marinette County; Hommrich v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 838
Marion v. Ford Motor Credit . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 953,1057
Marion; Zora Enterprises, Inc. v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 952
Mark v. Johnson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 859
Mark v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 864
Markiewicz v. Washington . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 978
Marley Co.; Weisgram v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 440,982
Marquez-Flores v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 891

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:22] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)

cxxixTABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageMarroquin v. Prunty . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1135
Marsack v. Michigan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 957
Marsh; Spears v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 955,1145
Marsh v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 912
Marshall v. Alabama Disability Determination Service . . . . . . . . 896
Marshall; Doe v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1038
Marshall; Kabede v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 898
Marshall v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 861,896,1011,1055
Martin v. Arkansas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1129
Martin; Britt v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 860
Martin v. Clinton . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1192
Martin; Dempsey v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
Martin; Metcalf v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1182
Martin v. Pennsylvania . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1120
Martin v. Roe . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1193
Martin v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 857,1053,1097
Martines v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 977
Martinez v. California . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1008
Martinez v. Court of Appeal of Cal., Fourth Appellate Dist. . . . . 152
Martinez v. Johnson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1164
Martinez v. Kelly . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 840
Martinez v. Lensing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 895
Martinez v. Los Fresnos . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 812
Martinez v. Texas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 825,1039
Martinez v. United States . . . . . . . . 850,907,916,944,1048,1106,1127,1144
Martinez-Gill v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1098
Martinez-Salazar; United States v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 304
Martinez-Villareal v. Arizona . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 834
Martini v. Federal National Mortgage Assn. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1147
Martini; Federal National Mortgage Assn. v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1147
Martinos v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 977
Martinson v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 920
Marulanda-Velasquez v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1194
Marx v. Texas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1034
Maryland; Braxton v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 908,1087
Maryland; Burral v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 832
Maryland; Conyers v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 910
Maryland; Costley v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1169
Maryland; Evans v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 833
Maryland; Kaschenbach v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 907
Maryland; Morgan v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1032
Maryland; Patrick v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 903
Maryland; Resper v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1027
Maryland; Sykes-Bey v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 833

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:22] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)
cxxx TABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageMaryland; Wade v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1086
Maryland; Wiggins v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 832
Maryland Division of Correction; Tatum v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 863
Maschner; Folck v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 834
Masciandaro v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1196
Mason v. Corcoran . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 914,1041
Mason v. Hagerstown Police Dept. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 934
Mason v. St. Francis Health System . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1088
Mason v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 978
Mason v. Westminster Investments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 805,1003
Massachusetts; Bowler v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 911
Massachusetts; Jackson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1194
Massachusetts; Lynes v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 830
Massachusetts; Oliver v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 848
Massachusetts; Pagano v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1089
Massachusetts; Shockett v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1087,1184
Massachusetts; Snell v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1106
Massachusetts; Zimbovsky v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1125
Massachusetts; Zora Enterprises, Inc. v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1047
Massachusetts Dept. of Environmental Protection; Gencarelli v. . . . 869
Massachusetts Electric Co.; Bergendahl v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 929
Massachusetts Labor Relations Comm'n; Wareham Ed. Assn. v. . . . 1062
Masuoka v. Hawaii . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 895,1040
Matassarin v. Lynch . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1116
Matesanz; Simpson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1082
Mathews v. Idaho . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1168
Mathis v. Ratelle . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 862,976,1108
Mathis v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 920,1032
Matiaz Juan v. Tennessee . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 956
Matic v. Meissner . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1171
Matsurra; E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Co. v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1067
Matsushita Electric Industrial Co.; Epstein v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1004
Matteo v. Brennan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 824
Matthews v. California . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1123
Matthews v. Johnson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1177
Matthews v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 944
Mattison v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 963
Maxwell, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 808,1057
Maxwell v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1065
May v. Washington Dept. of Social and Health Services . . . . . . . . 973
Mayabb v. Johnson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 969
Mayberry v. Stoner . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1192
Mayberry v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1178
Maydak v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1032

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:22] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)

cxxxiTABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageMayes, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1073
Mayes v. Dormire . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 913
Mayes v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 884
Mayfield-El v. Schottey . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 829
Mayor and City Council of Baltimore v. One 1995 Corvette . . . . . 927
Mays v. Texas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 927
Mazepink; Arkansas v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 927
Mazurkiewicz; Gwynn v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1026
Mazurkiewicz; Price v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1008
Mazzaglia v. Mazzaglia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 854
Mazzarella v. U. S. Postal Service . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 905,1107
McAninch; Goines v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 866
McBride; Scruggs v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 906
McBroom v. Bob-Boyd Lincoln Mercury, Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 934,1040
McBroom v. Techneglas, Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 832,999
McBurney v. Jeremiah . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1078
McCain v. Lafayette . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1118
McCall-Bey v. Brady . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 836
McCandless; Freedman v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 930
McCants v. Moore . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 837
McCarter; Hatley v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1156
McCarthy; Reliford v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 889
McCarthy v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 968
McCarty, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 962
McCarty v. Brown . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 947
McCarty v. Oklahoma . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1009
McCarty v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 865
McCaughan v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 883
McCaughtry; Brown v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 974
McCaughtry; Garcia v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 943
McCaughtry; Gillis v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 887
McCaughtry; Horton v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1140
McCausland; Zubiate v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1024
McClain v. Pryor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 937
McClain v. Scharrer . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 814
McClain v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 895
McClaine v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 896
McClenney; Chambers v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 818
McClintock v. Eichelberger . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 876
McCloud v. Community Hospital . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 949,1082
McClure v. Amelkin . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1059
McColl v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1143
McCormick; Beach v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1194
McCowin, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 808

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:22] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)
cxxxii TABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageMcCoy v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 980,1033,1144
McCray v. National Labor Relations Bd. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 968,1067
McCray v. Warden, Md. House of Correction Annex . . . . . . . . . . 916
McCrowskey; Moody v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1140
McCullough v. Norris . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 920
McCullough v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 891
McCurvin v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1013
McDaniel; Edmon v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1122
McDaniel; Slack v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 949,1113
McDaniel v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 963,1107,1179
McDaniel; Wentzell v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1093
McDaniel; Ybarra v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1191
McDaniel-Ortega v. Williams . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 836
McDonald; Blankenship v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1153
McDonald; Potts v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 970
McDonald v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 847,873,1126
McDonnell Douglas Corp.; Liggins v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 967
McDonnell Douglas Corp.; Sepe v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1062
McDowell v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1163
McDuffie v. Jacksonville . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1062,1158
McEachin v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1125
McFadden v. Ford Motor Co. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1192
McFadden v. Johnson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 947
McFadden v. Mississippi State Bd. of Medical Licensure . . . . . . . 873
McFall v. Department of Agriculture . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 806,1003
McFarland v. Arkansas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 933
McFarland; Steinhilber v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1118,1157
McGee v. Orange County . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 824
McGee v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 859,1129
McGeorge v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 850
McGill, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1150
McGill; Combustion Engineering, Inc. v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 931
McGinn v. Johnson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1163
McGinnis v. Anchorage School Dist. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 812,1038
McGinnis v. Johnson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1125
McGinnis; McLean v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1050
McGinnis; Parker v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 953
McGinnis v. Texas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1146
McGlamry v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 981
McGlone v. Pennsylvania . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 932
McGlothlin v. Cullington . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1062
McGlothurn v. Kaylo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1086
McGrady v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 855
McGuinness v. Regents of Univ. of N. M. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 932

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:22] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)

cxxxiiiTABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageMcGuire v. Arkansas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1123
McHone v. North Carolina . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1095
McHorse v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 944
McIntosh; Slick v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1061
McIntyre v. Bayer . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 858
McIver v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1177
McKee, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 807
McKee v. Stewart . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1008
McKendrick v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1163
McKenith v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1124
McKenna v. Nevada . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 937
McKenzie v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1196
McKimble v. Oklahoma . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1025
McKinley v. Northern Telecom . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1157
McKinley v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1012
McKinney v. State Employees' Retirement System . . . . . . . . . . . 1175
McKinney v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1174
McLaughlin v. North Carolina . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1025
McLaugnlin; Torres v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1079
McLean v. Crabtree . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1086
McLean v. McGinnis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1050
McLilly v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 979
McMahon v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1023
McManamon; Jackson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 943
McManus v. Angelone . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 884,1067
McMaster v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1118
McMillan; Renoir v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1086
MCM Partners, Inc. v. Andrews-Bartlett & Associates, Inc. . . . . 810
MCM Partners, Inc. v. Andrews-Bartlett Exposition Services . . . 810
McNally, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1135
McNaughton v. United Healthcare Services, Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 818
McNeil v. Utah, Medicaid Section . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 810
McNeil v. Vaughn . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 890
McNeill v. North Carolina . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 838
McQuay v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1196
McQueen v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 823,1013
McQuiddy v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 878
McQuillion v. California . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 840
McSheffrey, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1152
McSheffrey v. Crump . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 834
McSheffrey v. Henry . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 834
McSheffrey v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 834
McWilliams v. Jones . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1027
Meachum v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1056

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:22] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)
cxxxiv TABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageMeadows; Mills v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1105
Medina v. Johnson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 843
Medina v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 872,966,967
Medlock; Ortho Biotech, Inc. v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 813
Medrano v. Johnson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1049
Medusa Aggregates Co.; Wainscott v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 869
Medvecky v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 957
Meek; Wojcik v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1005
Meese; Chappell v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1189
Meinhardt v. Unisys Corp. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 950
Meissner; Matic v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1171
Mejia v. Cole . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 830
Mejia-Duarte v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1127
Mejia-Sanchez v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 982
Mekalonis v. Workers' Compensation Appeal Bd. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1164
Melendez, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1152
Melendez v. Arizona Dept. of Economic Security . . . . . . . . . . . 935,1107
Melo v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1129
Melof v. James . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 986
Melton; Baumer v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1052
Melton v. Vasquez . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1064
Memphis; Aiken v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1157
Memphis; Glover v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1005
Memphis & Shelby Cty. Bd. of Adjust.; Rainey Bros. Constr. v. . . 871,1040
Menchaca v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 977
Mendez v. Commercial Credit Corp. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1118
Mendez v. Singletary . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 836
Mendez v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 919,1129
Mendez-Garcia v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1028
Mendlow v. University of Wash. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 937
Mendoza v. California . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1194
Mendoza v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 945
Mendoza; White v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1051
Mendoza-Perez v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 840
Menjivar v. Wiles . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 875
Menlo Club v. Pacific West Cable Television . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 813
Menlo Club v. Wireless Broadcasting Systems of Sacramento, Inc. 813
Mensah v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 875,1054,1183
Mensh and MacIntosh, P. A.; Hand v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 829
Mercury Print Production, Inc.; Talyansky v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1118
Meredyth v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 982
Mergens v. Dreyfoos . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 820
Merit Systems Protection Bd.; Alexander v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 809
Merit Systems Protection Bd.; Bernardino v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 902

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:22] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)

cxxxvTABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageMerit Systems Protection Bd.; Green v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 912
Merit Systems Protection Bd.; Smalley v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1171
Merit Systems Protection Bd.; Sumner v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 807,1082
Merit Systems Protection Bd.; Wilhoite v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1032
Merola v. New Jersey Dept. of Corrections . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 971
Mesa v. Johnson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 897
Meschner; Sysouvong v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 988
Mesquite; Walker v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1131
Messer; Frankies v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1118
Messer; Maple Lanes, Inc. v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1118
Messere v. Maloney . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 974
Messina v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 861
Metcalf v. Martin . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1182
Metro Communications Co. v. Ameritech Corp. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1077
Metropolitan Transportation Authority; Supreme Oil Co. v. . . . . . 868
Metts; Robinson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1157
Metzenbaum v. Huntington National Bank . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1017
Meyers; Thomas v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 866
Mezzalingua Associates, Inc.; LRC Electronics, Inc. v. . . . . . . . . . 1075
Miccosukee Tribe of Indians of Fla. v. United States . . . . . . . . . . 810
Michaels v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 941
Michelfelder v. Thomas Jefferson Univ. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1158
Michigan; Adams v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 874
Michigan; Brown v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 934
Michigan; Carter v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 851
Michigan; Caston v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 897
Michigan; Cross v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1170
Michigan; Cummings v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 937
Michigan; Fowle v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 892
Michigan; Hanna v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1131
Michigan; Manning v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 857
Michigan; Marcicky v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1049
Michigan; Marsack v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 957
Michigan; Neilson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 969
Michigan; Renusch v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1169
Michigan; Stevens v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1072,1164
Michigan; Weiner v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1165
Michigan; Young v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 970
Michigan Dept. of Consumer & Ind. Affairs; C & C Building Co. v. 1005
Michigan Dept. of Corrections; Keenan v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 957
Michigan Dept. of Corrections; Willman v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1062,1183
Michigan Dept. of Treasury; Cosmair, Inc. v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1139
Michigan Dept. of Treasury; Cygan v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1079
Michigan Parole Bd.; Collins v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1165

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:22] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)
cxxxvi TABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageMickle v. Moore . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 874
Microsoft Corp. v. Vizcaino . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1105
MidAmerican Energy Holdings Co.; North Star Steel Co. v. . . . . 1046
Middleton v. Albright . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 874
Middleton; Cleveland v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 916
Middleton v. Missouri . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1054,1167
Middleton v. Nevada . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 927
Middleton v. Ray . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 840
Mid-State Trust IV; Heinemann v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 803
Midwest Industries, Inc.; Karavan Trailers, Inc. v. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1019
Midwest Motor Express, Inc. v. Central States Pension Fund . . . 1004
Midwest Pride IV v. Ohio . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 965
Migneault; Board of Regents of Univ. of N. M. v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1110
Mike v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 840
Mikel v. Allen . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 929
Mikkelsen; Brooks v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1167
Mikkilineni v. Houston . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 972
Milbank v. Geary & Spencer, P. C. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 876
Milburn v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 943
Milburn v. West Virginia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 832
Miles v. Ugast . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 828
Miles v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 848
Milette v. Rhode Island . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1157
Miller, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1072,1113
Miller; Catoe v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 893
Miller; Cavender v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 833
Miller v. Indiana . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1083
Miller v. Kaloroumakis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1186
Miller v. Kelly . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 892
Miller v. Miller . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1050
Miller v. Oklahoma . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 897
Miller v. Pennsylvania . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 903
Miller v. Planned Parenthood of Greater Iowa, Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . 1113
Miller v. Pugh . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1051
Miller v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 850,853,897,1144
Miller v. Walter . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 907
Miller County Sheriff's Dept.; Turner v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 832
Miller, Inc.; Johnson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1004
Miller, Inc.; Worth Capital, Inc. v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 821
Millet v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 875
Millhouse; Wilson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 854
Milligan v. Kitzhaber . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1170
Million; Engle v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 887
Millis v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 903,1040

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:22] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)

cxxxviiTABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageMills v. Kentucky . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1164
Mills v. Meadows . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1105
Mills v. Moore . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1082
Mims v. Apfel . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1122
Mims v. Browning Mfg. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1117
Minarik, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 807
Miner v. Schriro . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1121
Minford v. Domalakes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 949,1044
Mingtai Fire & Marine Ins. Co. v. United Parcel Service, Inc. . . . 951
Minh Le v. Barbour . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1085
Mini-Circuits Lab., Inc.; Llampallas v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 930
Minigan v. Irvin . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1089
Minnesota; Branch v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1025
Minnesota; DeVerney v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 974
Minnesota; Greenleaf v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 863
Minnesota; Lee v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1141
Minnesota; Linehan v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1049
Minnesota; Profit v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 862
Minnesota; Ritt v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1165
Minnesota; Tenerelli v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1165
Minnesota; Williams v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 874
Minnesota Comm'r of Revenue; Luther v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 821
Minnesota Dept. of Revenue v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1075
Minnesota Mining & Mfg. Co.; Jones v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 934
Minnesota Twins Partnership; Hatch v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1013
Minnick v. Indiana . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1006
Minske v. Sondalle . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1164
Mir v. FHP, Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 811
Miranda; Seals v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1165
Miranda v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1012
Mississippi; Hughes v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1083
Mississippi; Tenner v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 878
Mississippi; Turner v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 969
Mississippi Dept. of Corrections; Lawson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 905
Mississippi State Bd. of Medical Licensure; McFadden v. . . . . . . . 873
Mississippi Tax Comm'n v. H. J. Wilson Co. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 869
Mississippi Tax Comm'n; H. J. Wilson Co. v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 869
Missouri; Barton v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1121
Missouri; Brown v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 979
Missouri; Clayton v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1027
Missouri; Deck v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1009
Missouri; Ivester v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 809
Missouri; Middleton v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1054,1167
Missouri; Planned Parenthood of Mid-Mo. & Eastern Kansas, Inc. v. 1006

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:22] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)
cxxxviii TABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageMissouri; Reynolds v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1120
Missouri; Smith v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1096
Missouri; Storey v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 895
Missouri; Thompson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 849
Missouri; Winfield v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1130
Missouri Dept. of Agriculture; Tuttle v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 877
Missouri Libertarian Party; Lindstedt v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 850
Mitchell v. Apfel . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 944
Mitchell v. Cain . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1171
Mitchell v. Connecticut . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1171
Mitchell; Gilliam v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1120
Mitchell v. Helms . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 962
Mitchell v. Johnson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1170
Mitchell v. Total Action Against Poverty in Roanoke Valley . . . . 1117
Mitchell v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 917,946,1056
Mitchem; Bland v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 956
Mitchem; Clark v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 849
Mitchem; Walker v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 972
Mixon v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1066
Mize; Parrett v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 930
MLA, Inc.; Hickox v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 962,1063
Mmahat, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 961
Mobil Oil Exploration & Producing Southeast, Inc. v. United States 1002
Mobley v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1129,1197
Moceo v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 880
Modisett; Castor v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 972
Modoc Indian Health Project, Inc.; Pink v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 877
Mohemmed v. Hill . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 903
Mohler v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 943
Mohr; Mack v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 840
Mole v. Buckhorn Rubber Products, Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 821
Molina v. Spanos . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1192
Money; Brown v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1130
Monfils; Taylor v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 810
Monjaras-Castaneda v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1194
Monroe v. Florida . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 890
Monroe v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1010
Monsebroten v. Maass . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 975
Monson v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 857
Montalvo v. Radcliffe . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 813
Montana; Burgess v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1149
Montana; Longstreth v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1167
Montana v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1033
Montana Rail Link, Inc. v. Watts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1020

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:22] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)

cxxxixTABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageMontana State Prison; Frazier v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 937
Montefusco v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 862
Montes-Campos v. Hatcher . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1165
Montesdeoca v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 842
Montes-Escalera v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1091
Montevideo Partnership; Wojciechowski v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 817,1038
Montgomery; Greene v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 824,1041
Montgomery City Council; Young v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 879,1040
Montgomery County Bd. of Prison Inspectors; Collins v. . . . . . . . 1115
Montoya v. California . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 839
Montrose Chemical Corp. of Cal.; American Motorists Ins. Co. v. 875
Moody; Gilbert v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1166
Moody; Kalway v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1177
Moody; Lam v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 803
Moody v. McCrowskey . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1140
Moody v. Moody . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 803
Moody v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1173
Moody Hill Farms Ltd. P'ship v. National Park Service . . . . . . . . 874
Moore, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1150
Moore; Adams v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 916
Moore v. Anderson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1027
Moore; Aysisayh v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 909
Moore; Battle v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 900
Moore; Beverlin v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 971
Moore; Bivens v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1049
Moore; Bryan v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 960,1133
Moore; Clifton v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 817
Moore; Cook v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 844
Moore; Cooper v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1141
Moore; Critton v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 918
Moore; Dobson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1123
Moore v. Florida . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 864
Moore v. Florida Dept. of Corrections . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1064
Moore; Garcia v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 852
Moore; Gardner v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 906
Moore v. Harris . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1093
Moore; Hill v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1087
Moore v. Johnson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 903
Moore; Johnston v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 883
Moore v. Kentucky . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 842
Moore; Lau v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1166
Moore; Lewis v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1089
Moore; Lofley v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1169
Moore; Madasci v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 938

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:22] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)
cxl TABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageMoore; Maggard v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 903
Moore; McCants v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 837
Moore; Mickle v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 874
Moore; Mills v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1082
Moore v. Nebraska . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 990
Moore v. Owens-Corning . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1005
Moore v. Parrott . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 831,1106
Moore v. Payless Shoe Source, Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1050
Moore; Pettway v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1049
Moore v. Ponte . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1053
Moore; Provenzano v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1182
Moore v. Reno . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1178
Moore; Rodriguez v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 971,1172
Moore; Rogers v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1065
Moore; Shaara v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1165
Moore; Sims v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 959,1148
Moore; Smith v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 896
Moore; Sosa v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 826
Moore; Spaziano v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1023
Moore v. Texas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1151
Moore; Thomas v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 884,1040
Moore; Thompson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 939
Moore v. Time Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 932
Moore v. United States . . . . . . . . . 860,883,901,917,943,974,977,1161,1195
Moore; Wallis v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1010
Moore; Weeks v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1171
Moore v. White . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 850
Moore; Williams v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 971
Moore; Wilson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 953
Moore; Wright v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1087
Moore; Zaetler v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1024
Moore; Zwicker v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 802
Moore Equipment Co.; Riggan v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 814
Moosavi v. Evans . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 911
Moosavi v. Zook . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 911
Mora v. Court of Appeal of Cal., Fourth App. Dist., Division One 1121
Morales v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 875,1177
Mora-Peralta v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 977
Mora-Rodriguez v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1081
Morcillo-Vidal v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 842
Morel v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1181
Moreland, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1146
Moreland v. Johnson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 937,1041
Morelli v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 820

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:22] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)

cxliTABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageMoreno; Cunningham v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1059
Moreno v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 942,977,1095,1142,1143
Moreton Rolleston, Jr., Living Trust v. Simms' Estate . . . . . . 1046,1183
Morgan; Bews v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1031
Morgan; Blondheim v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1162
Morgan v. CMS/Data Corp. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 802
Morgan; Hayden v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 837
Morgan v. Maryland . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1032
Morgenstern, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 948,1070
Moriarty; Tyler v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 804
Morin v. Johnson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1177
Morris v. Buffalo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 850,1039
Morris v. Red Bank . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1049
Morris v. Tennessee . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 828
Morris v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1118
Morris v. Virginia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 888
Morris, Inc.; Laborers Local 17 Health and Benefit Fund v. . . . . . 1080
Morris, Inc.; Oregon Laborers-Emp. Health and Welfare Fund v. 1075
Morris, Inc.; Steamfitters Local Union No. 420 Welfare Fund v. . . 1105
Morrison; Brzonkala v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 807,1044
Morrison; United States v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 807,1044
Morrissey v. Jackson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 821
Morro Bay; George v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1016,1135
Morrow v. Hvass . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1013
Morrow v. State Bar of Cal. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1156
Morse; Agee v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1047
Morse v. Hanks . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 851
Morters v. Croen & Barr . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1046
Mortgage Investors, Inc.; Pace v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 816
Mortham v. Walker . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 809
Mosby, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1113
Mosby v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1196
Moser & Marsalek, P. C.; Jiricko v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1020
Moses v. North Carolina . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1124
Mosley v. California . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 857
Mosley v. Halter Marine Group . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1078
Mosley; Reed v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1088,1120
Mosley v. Texas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1083
Mosquera-Lopez v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1178
Moss v. Florida . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1125
Moss v. Stinnes Corp. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 879
Mosseri v. Leser . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1086
Motes; Smith v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 975
Mothershed, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1062

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:23] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)
cxlii TABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageMotorola, Inc.; Sims v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 953
Mott v. Robinson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 878
Moundsville; Semple v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1189
Mountain City; Welch v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 820
Mountain City Club; Slayton v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 802
Mountain View; Haggerty v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1005
Movsesyants v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 856
Mroch, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1073
MTA Bridges and Tunnels; King v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1025,1184
Muchen v. Hopewell Center, Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1051
Muhammad v. Florida . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 990
Muhammad v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 839
Muhammed, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1014
Muhammed v. North Carolina . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1014
Muhleisen v. Ieyoub . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 828
Muhlenberg Hospital Center; Rodriguez v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1020
Muldoon v. Dome Sheet Metal, Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1084
Mullen; Treasure Chest Casino v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1159
Mulligan v. Associates Leasing, Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 923,1040
Mullin v. Raytheon Co. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 811
Mullin v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 990
Multi-Flow Dispensers of Ohio, Inc.; Smith v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 965
Munera-Uribe v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1065
Muniz v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1178
Muniz-Herrera v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 838
Munoz v. Texas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 925
Munoz v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1112
Munsterman v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 919
Murad Skin Research Laboratories, Inc.; Irvine v. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1041
Murdock v. James . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 988
Murillo v. North Carolina . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 838
Murlin-Gardner v. Pennsylvania Dept. of Revenue . . . . . . . . . . . . 1139
Murov; Davis v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1039
Murphy; Cross v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 805
Murphy v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 884,1129
Murray v. Cisar . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1028
Murray v. Stubblefield . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1053
Murray v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 917,1193
Murry v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1094
Musgrove v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 895
Mutual Life Ins. Co. of N. Y.; Iglesias v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 812
Mutual of Omaha Ins. Co.; Doe v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1106
M/V Harbel Tapper; Sabah Shipyard Sdn. Bhd. v. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1048
Myers; Brock v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 882

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:23] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)

cxliiiTABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageMylan Pharmaceuticals, Inc.; Abbott Laboratories v. . . . . . . . . . . 1181
Myles v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 896
M/Y Maridome; Warn v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 874
Nagel v. Osborne . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1006
Nagib v. Conner . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1125
Nagorniuk v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 856
Nagy v. Goldstein . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1195
Nagy v. Lappin . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1193
Nagy v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 840,1066
Najiy v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1012
Nakamura v. Babbitt . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1004
Nance, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1073
Napier v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1028
Napoli v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1162
Nash v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 888
Nash-Holmes v. Herb Hallman Chevrolet . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 870
Nash-Holmes; Herb Hallman Chevrolet v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 870
N. A. S. Holdings, Inc. v. Pafundi . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1079
Nashua Corp. v. Ricoh Co. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 815
Nason v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 848
Nassau County; Clark v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 940,1057
Natale v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 842
Nathan, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1002
National Aeronautics and Space Administration; Thompson v. . . . 824
National American Ins. Co. v. Ruppert Landscape Co. . . . . . . . . . 1156
National Engineering & Contracting Co. v. Herman . . . . . . . . . . 1045
National Federation of Blind, Inc. v. Cross . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1022
National Foreign Trade Council; Natsios v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1018
National Juvenile Detention Assn.; Kennedy v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1159
NLRB; Autodie International, Inc. v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 802
NLRB; Contech Division, SPX Corp. v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 821
NLRB; Detroit Auto Auction v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1074
NLRB; Georgia Power Co. v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1061
NLRB; McCray v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 968,1067
NLRB; Visiting Nurse Services of Western Mass., Inc. v. . . . . . . 1074
National Railroad Passenger Corp.; Shiplett v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1078
National Railroad Passenger Corp.; Sullivan v. . . . . . . . . . . . . 966,1107
National Science Foundation; Jandu v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 819
National Western Life Ins. Co.; Bocalbos v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 872
Nationwide Mut. Ins. Co. v. Berryman Products, Inc. . . . . . . . . . 1158
Natsios v. National Foreign Trade Council . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1018
Nature's Dairy v. Glickman . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1074
Natwest Markets Group, Inc.; Reilly v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1119
Nauton v. Newland . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 950

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:23] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)
cxliv TABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageNavarro v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 845
NC Machinery Co.; Farr v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1117
Neacsu v. Louisiana . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 850
Neal; Luna Vasquez v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 987
Neal v. Page . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1162
Neal v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1080
Nealy v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 900
Nebraska v. Franco . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 968
Nebraska; Harrold v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1142
Nebraska; Kansas v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1001,1151
Nebraska; Moore v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 990
Nebraska; Palmer v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1192
Nebraska; Parrish v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 802
Nebraska v. Wyoming . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1059
Necochea v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 910
Neff, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1045
Neilsen; Walker v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1086
Neilson v. Michigan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 969
Nelms v. Texas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 954
Nelson v. Adams USA, Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1018
Nelson v. Barbo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 989
Nelson; Blackfeet National Bank v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1004
Nelson v. Florida . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1123
Nelson; Rivera v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 832
Nelson v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 892,1029,1197
Nelson v. Walker . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1169
Nemeth v. Florida Dept. of Revenue . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 871
Neo Gen Screening, Inc. v. N. Eng. Newborn Screening Program 1061
Neptune v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 821
Nervil v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 850
Network Solutions; Thomas v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1115
Neumann v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 981
Nevada; Barksdale v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 833
Nevada; Chappell v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 853
Nevada; Domingues v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 963
Nevada; Leonard v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 828
Nevada; Libby v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1119
Nevada; McKenna v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 937
Nevada; Middleton v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 927
Nevada; Shelton v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1190
Nevada; Smith v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1192
Nevada; Thomas v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 830
Nevada Dept. of Motor Vehicles and Public Safety; Kuemmerlin v. 1159
Nevarez-Gonzales v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1119

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:23] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)

cxlvTABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageNewark v. Fraternal Order of Police Newark Lodge No. 12 . . . . . 817
New Coleman Holdings Inc.; Shepley v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 870
New Eng. Newborn Screening Program; Neo Gen Screening v. . . 1061
New Hampshire; Rondeau v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 854,1106
Newhard; Philadelphia, B. & N. E. R. Co. v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 812
New Jersey; Alston v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1093
New Jersey; Apprendi v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1018
New Jersey; Bado v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1021
New Jersey; Chew v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1052
New Jersey; Cooper v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1084
New Jersey; Green v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1122
New Jersey; Harvey v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1085
New Jersey; Loftin v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 897
New Jersey; Rainey v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 988
New Jersey; Roncone v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 945
New Jersey; Spann v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1088
New Jersey; Theresa v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 952
New Jersey Bureau of Securities; A. S. Goldmen & Co. v. . . . . . . 868
New Jersey Dept. of Corrections; Merola v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 971
New Jersey Dept. of Environmental Protection; Karam v. . . . . . . 814
New Jersey Dept. of Treasury; Carella v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 815
Newland; Nauton v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 950
Newland v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 920
Newman v. Deiter . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 931
Newman v. Kramer . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 880
Newman; Pennsylvania Dept. of Revenue v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 929
Newman v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1126
New Mexico; Blue v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 869
New Mexico; House v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 894
New Mexico; Re v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1051,1184
New Mexico; Texas v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 925
New Mexico Dept. of Corrections; Blackburn v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 862
New Mexico Tax. and Rev. Dept. v. Ramah Navajo School Bd. 928
New Mexico Tax. and Rev. Dept.; Ramah Navajo School Bd. v. . . 928
Newsome v. Equal Employment Opportunity Comm'n . . . . . . . . . 917
Newspaper and Mail Deliverers v. New York . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1081
Newton v. Virginia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1025
New Valley Corp. v. Corporate Property Associates . . . . . . . . . . 1138
New York; Alston v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 908,1040
New York; Benito v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 810
New York; Berrios Quinones v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1007
New York; Brown v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 860
New York; Chisolm v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 971
New York; Eimers v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1189

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:23] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)
cxlvi TABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageNew York; Garcia v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 845
New York; Grant v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1162
New York; Grigger v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 914,1057
New York v. Hill . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 110
New York; Hoffman v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 863
New York; Jackson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1123
New York; Lawson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1080
New York; Macaro v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1118
New York; Newspaper and Mail Deliverers v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1081
New York; Ocasio v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1063
New York; Palmer v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1051
New York v. Seneca Nation of Indians . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1073
New York; Thomas v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1026
New York; Tocco v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 968
New York; Tortorici v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 834
New York; Wade v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1028
New York; Walker v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 911
New York; Zirkind v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1190
New York City; Ace Auto Body & Towing, Ltd. v. . . . . . . . . . . . . 868
New York City v. Covington . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 946
New York City; Hutcherson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 933
New York City; Ladner v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 807,1006
New York City v. Latino Officers Assn. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1159
New York City; Nieblas v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1008
New York City; Perini Corp. v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1061
New York City; Sudarsky v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 813
New York City; Townes v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 964
New York City v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1115
New York City Bd. of Ed.; Joseph v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 876
New York City Dept. of Correction; Bey v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 860,1145
New York City Housing Authority; Hatter v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 936,1183
New York City Transit Authority; Jaworowski v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1046
New York City Transit Authority; Spencer v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1190
New York Dept. Stores de Puerto Rico v. Almacenes Rodriguez 1116
New York Life Ins. Co.; Banks v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1158
New York State Dept. of Health; Ibrahim v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 873
New York State Div. of Housing & Community Renewal; Baba v. 1042
New York Times Co.; Howard v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1080
Nguyen v. Inova Alexandria Hospital . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1188
Nha Khiem Tran, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 807
Niagara Falls v. Capton . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 964
Nichols v. Presley . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1120
Nichols v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 934
Nicholson-El, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 808

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:23] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)

cxlviiTABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageNickelson v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1143
Nieblas v. New York City . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1008
Niehaus; Transit Union v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 986
Nieman v. Dryclean U. S. A. Franchise Co. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1118
Nieves v. Kelly . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 913
Nigro; Pennsylvania Dept. of Environmental Protection v. . . . . . . 1075
Nike, Inc. v. Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 946
Nikolits; Parrish v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 929
Nillo v. Hallahan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 884
Nissan Motor Acceptance Corp.; Gardner v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1064,1184
Nix v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1180
Nixon; Radley v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 891
Nixon v. Shrink Mo. Government PAC . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 377
Nixon; Stevenson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 939
Nixon v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 899,1098,1175
Noble v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 945
Noble; Widmer v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 975
Noel v. Federal Deposit Ins. Corp. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1116
Nogueras v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 910
Norand Corp.; Berg v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 872
Nordic v. Colorado . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1085
Norfolk Southern R. Co. v. Baker . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1021
Norfolk Southern R. Co. v. Shanklin . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 949,1134,1148
Norko; Zigmund v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 835
Normington v. Wisconsin . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1013
Norred v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1028
Norris; Burrell v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 834
Norris; Hussey v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1166
Norris; McCullough v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 920
Norris; Singleton v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1084
Norris; Sysco Food Services of San Francisco, Inc. v. . . . . . . . . . . 1182
Norris; Tidwell v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 856,1106
Norshipco; Bright v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1138
North Broward Hospital Dist. v. Shalala . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1022
North Carolina; Adams v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1022
North Carolina; Anderson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 973
North Carolina; Bacon v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1125
North Carolina; Boyd v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 959
North Carolina; Brown v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1014
North Carolina; Fleming v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 941
North Carolina; Foster v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1022
North Carolina; Frye v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 897
North Carolina; Green v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 846
North Carolina; Hargrove v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1047

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:23] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)
cxlviii TABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageNorth Carolina; Holman v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 909
North Carolina; Johnson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1124
North Carolina; Jones v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1086
North Carolina; Love v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 944
North Carolina; Lyons v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1124
North Carolina; McHone v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1095
North Carolina; McLaughlin v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1025
North Carolina; McNeill v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 838
North Carolina; Moses v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1124
North Carolina; Muhammed v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1014
North Carolina; Murillo v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 838
North Carolina; Parker v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1084
North Carolina; Peterson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1164
North Carolina; Quintero v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 957
North Carolina; Robinson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1191
North Carolina; Rose v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 851
North Carolina; Speller v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 884
North Carolina; Taylor v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1164
North Carolina; Thomas v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1006
North Carolina; Trull v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 835
North Carolina; U'Allah v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 846
North Carolina; Williams v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 880
North Carolina Baptist Hospitals, Inc.; Trivette v. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1045
North Carolina Dept. of Correction; Richardson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . 831
North Carolina Right to Life, Inc. v. Bartlett . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1153
North Coast Trust Fund; B. A. T. Industries v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1158
North Dakota; Hughes v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 846,1106
North Dakota; Syvertson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 954,956,1108
North Dakota; Wamre v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1084
North Dakota; Weatherspoon v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 920
Northeast Ill. Regional Commuter Railroad Corp.; Pawlowski v. 1117
Northern States Power Co.; Enron Power Marketing, Inc. v. . . . . 1182
Northern Telecom; McKinley v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1157
Northern Telecom Inc.; Turrentine v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1024
Northfield v. 10280 Northfield Road, LLC . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 873
Northington v. Elo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 837
North Star Steel Co. v. MidAmerican Energy Holdings Co. . . . . . 1046
Northwest Airlines, Inc.; Diettrich v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 813,1132
Northwestern Mut. Life Ins. Co.; Ackerman v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 874
Northwest Savings Bank; Huff v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1190
Norton v. Orinda Union School Dist. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 825
Norville v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1047
Nosair v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 982
Nosker; Owens v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 903

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:23] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)

cxlixTABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageNottingham v. California . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1123
Nowicki; Cousino v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1042
Ntakirutimana v. Reno . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1135
Nubine v. U. S. District Court . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 954
Nufio-Ortiz v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1023
Null v. Pennsylvania Bd. of Probation and Parole . . . . . . . . . . . . 858
Nunes, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 801,1187
Nunez; Davis v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1115
Nurse v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1012
Nussbeck v. Nussbeck . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 817
NVR Homes v. Clerks of Circuit Courts, Anne Arundel County . . . 1117
O.; L. M. M. v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1005
Oakley v. Wilson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 822
Oakwood Homes Corp.; Howard v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1155
Oates v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 890
O'Bannon; Snyder v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1078
Obaugh Pontiac Buick, Inc.; Boone v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 806,1003
O'Brien; Clemmons v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1142
O'Brien; Gillis v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 899
O'Brien v. LeCureux . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 970
O'Brien v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 987
Ocasio v. New York . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1063
Ochoa v. California . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 862
Ochoa v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1030
Ockenden v. Josephine County . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 931
O'Connor; Prestia v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1025
O'Connor v. State Mut. Life Assurance Co. of America . . . . . . . . 956
Odle v. Louisiana . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 953
Odom v. Stubblefield . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1052
O'Donnell v. Brill . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1065
O'Donnell v. Johnson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1086,1173
Office of Compliance; Hatcher v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1065
Office of Patents and Trademarks; Teacherson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1027
Office of Workers' Comp. Programs; American Grain Trimmers v. 1187
Oforha v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1065
Ogbonna v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1055
Oglesby v. General Motors Corp. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1004
Ogunde, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 808
Ohaegbu v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 893
Ohio; Albaugh v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 941
Ohio; Ashworth v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 908
Ohio; Baston v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1049
Ohio; Beuke v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 934
Ohio; Bey v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1049

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:23] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)
cl TABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageOhio; Bonnell v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 842
Ohio; Brown v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 837,847
Ohio; Bubenchik v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1064
Ohio; Chinn v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1120
Ohio; Coleman v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 954
Ohio; Cornwell v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1172
Ohio; Filiaggi v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 923,1040,1090
Ohio; Galloway v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1023
Ohio; Gillard v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1024
Ohio; Goodwin v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 846
Ohio; Hansel v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 920
Ohio; Jerome v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 848
Ohio; Johnson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 837
Ohio; Kelly v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 973
Ohio; Lawwell v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1194
Ohio; Lewis v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 889,1174
Ohio; Mallory v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 951
Ohio; Midwest Pride IV v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 965
Ohio; O'Neal v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 843
Ohio; Peeples v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 852
Ohio; Pirtle v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 935
Ohio; Powell v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 940
Ohio; Pryor v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 981
Ohio; Roberts v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1074
Ohio; Rodgers v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 973
Ohio; Schachner v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1006
Ohio; Sergent v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 941
Ohio; Sheppard v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1059,1168
Ohio; Sleppy v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1192
Ohio; Stojetz v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 999
Ohio; Stringer v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 988
Ohio; Tisdale v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1027,1184
Ohio; White v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 938
Ohio; Woods v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 831
Ohio; Young v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 982
Ohio; Zander v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1171
Ohio Casualty Ins. Co.; Pulliam v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1157
Ohio State Dental Bd.; Sohi v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1119
Ohler v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 950,984
Oiknine v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 818
Okafor v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 918
O'Kane v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 980
Okeezie v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 843
Okereke v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1197

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:23] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)

cliTABLE OF CASES REPORTED
PageOki Electric Industry Co.; Hazani v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 951
Oklahoma; Alverson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1089
Oklahoma; Bagby v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 971
Oklahoma; Booker v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 862
Oklahoma; DeLozier v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1023
Oklahoma; Dewberry v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 825
Oklahoma; Howell v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 834
Oklahoma; James v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1120
Oklahoma; Johnson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 819,1170
Oklahoma; Lambert v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1087
Oklahoma; Lewis v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 892
Oklahoma; McCarty v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1009
Oklahoma; McKimble v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1025
Oklahoma; Miller v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 897
Oklahoma; Parker v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 972,1108
Oklahoma; Patton v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 939
Oklahoma; Phillips v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 972
Oklahoma; Salazar v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 895
Oklahoma; Scholz v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 876
Oklahoma; Short v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1085
Oklahoma; Welch v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 829
Oklahoma; Wilkins v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1086
Oklahoma; Wilson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 904
Oklahoma; Young v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 837
Oklahoma Bd. of Embalmers; Stone Casket Co. of Okla. City v. . . 811
Oklahoma Capitol Improvement Authority; Fent v. . . . . . . . . . . . 1021
Oklahoma Dept. of Mental Health; Simms v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 815
Oklahoma Dept. of Public Safety v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . 1114
Okunieff v. Skomorossky . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1144
Olech; Willowbrook v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 562,1059
Olguini v. Stewart . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1090
Oliveira v. White . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1174
Oliver v. Massachusetts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 848
Oliverio v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1196
Oliver & Wright Motors, Inc. v. Hoover . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 868
Olmstead v. Social and Rehabilitative Services, Wyandotte Cty. . . . 827
Olson v. Christian County Planning and Zoning . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 830
Omega Homes, Inc. v. Buffalo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 874
OMH Medical Center, Inc.; Patel v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1188
OMI Corp.; Glavan v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1022
Omlin v. Ursetti . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1021
Omoike v. Louisiana . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 881
Omoike v. Louisiana State Univ. Bd. of Supervisors . . . . . . . . . . . 1148
Omosefunmi v. Farquharson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1051

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:23] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)
clii TABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageOndeck, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 925
O'Neal v. FHP, Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 877
O'Neal v. Ohio . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 843
O'Neal v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 980
O'Neill v. Cohn . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1085
O'Neill; Tyler v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1137
One 1995 Corvette; Mayor and City Council of Baltimore v. . . . . 927
Onossian v. Block . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1004
Operating Engineers v. Cooper Natural Resources, Inc. . . . . . . . 812
Operating Engineers v. R. L. Coolsaet Construction Co. . . . . . . . 1004
Opong-Mensah v. Department of Personnel Administration . . . . . 867
Orangeburg County; Butler v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 951
Orange County; McGee v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 824
Orange County v. Wehrli . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1004
Orange County Corrections Division; Hartline v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1166
Orange County Dept. of Probation v. Warner . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1003
Orange County Social Services Agency; Frank v. . . . . . . . . . . . 871,1040
Orchid Isle Nursery; E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Co. v. . . . . . . . 1067
Oregon; American Home Products Corp. v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1136
Oregon; Barone v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1086,1135
Oregon; Gee v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 970
Oregon; Simonsen v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1090
Oregon; Stone v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 939
Oregon; Sullivan v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1192
Oregon Bd. of Parole and Post-Prison Supervision; Burgess v. . . . 912
Oregon Dept. of Fish and Wildlife; Couch v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 869
Oregon Laborers-Emp. Health and Welfare Fund v. Philip Morris 1075
Oregon Natural Desert Assn. v. Dombeck . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 964
Oregon State Bd. of Parole; Wright v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 966,1108
Oregon State Office, Services to Children and Families; Lukens v. 1052
Oriakhi v. Harding . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 806
Oriakhi v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1070,1091
Orinda Union School Dist.; Norton v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 825
Orleans Levee Dist. v. Lange . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 802
Orlov v. Palmateer . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1053
Ormet Primary Aluminum Corp.; Barfield v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1154
Orozco v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 944,1082
Orrelien v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1174
Ortega-Franco v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 882
Ortega-Torres v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 911
Ortegon-Uvalde v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 979
Ortho Biotech, Inc. v. Medlock . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 813
Orthofix S. R. L. v. EBI Medical Systems, Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1076
Ortiz, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 959

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:23] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)

cliiiTABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageOrtiz v. Arizona . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 960
Ortiz v. Los Angeles County . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1077
Ortiz v. Stewart . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 960
Ortiz v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 884,944,975,1041
Osborne v. Boone . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 987
Osborne; Nagel v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1006
Osborne v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1031
Osburn v. Apfel . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1191
O'Shea v. Pennsylvania . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1119
O'Shell v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1158
Osorio de Escobar v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1030
Ospina v. Pataki . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 840
O'Sullivan; Perez v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1073
Oswald v. Pitcher . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1140
Otero v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1012
Otero-Estupinan v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 842
Otis Elevator Co.; Skaggs v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 811
Outland v. Henderson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 939
Outlaw v. Ryan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 847
Ovako-Ajax, Inc.; Knickerbocker v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1161
Overholt v. Auglaize County . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1123
Owens v. Kemna . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 864
Owens v. Nosker . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 903
Owens v. Ray . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 938
Owens v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 817,894,1191
Owens-Corning; Moore v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1005
OXY USA Inc.; Chevron U. S. A. Inc. v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1014
Pace v. Mortgage Investors, Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 816
Pace v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1034
Pacheco-Camacho v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1129
Pacific Bell; Allison v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 821
Pacific Bell Directory; Brown v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 952
Pacific Lumber Co. v. Marbled Murrelet . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1115
Pacific West Cable Television; Doherty v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 813
Pacific West Cable Television; Menlo Club v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 813
Pack v. Kmart Corp. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 811
Pack v. Union Station Terminal . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 959
Padgett v. California . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 838
Padgett v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1011
Padilla v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1129
Pafundi; N. A. S. Holdings, Inc. v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1079
Pagan v. Florida Dept. of Children and Families . . . . . . . . . . . . . 878
Pagano v. Massachusetts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1089
Page; Gosier v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1006

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:23] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)
cliv TABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PagePage; Neal v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1162
Page v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 855,1003
Page-Bey v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 906
Paintsville Hospital Co.; Taylor v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1115
Pairis v. California . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 828
Palacio v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1127
Palacios v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 867
Palma-Robayo v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 842
Palmateer; Orlov v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1053
Palmer v. Georgia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1051,1184
Palmer v. Nebraska . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1192
Palmer v. New York . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1051
Palmer v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 921,1054
Palmetto State Medical Center; Cloer v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1099
Palomar Pomerado Health System v. Bonta . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1074
Panchal v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1163
Pang v. Allstate Ins. Co. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 930
Paniagua v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1011
Papa v. Katy Industries, Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1019
Papac; Magana-Cardona v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 833
Pap's A. M.; Erie v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 803,948,962
Paradise Park Apartments; Fabian v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 806
Paradissiotis v. Summers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 928
Paramount Aviation Corp.; Gruppo Augusta v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 878
Parchue v. California . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 903
Paredes-Ravelo v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 820
Paresi v. Portland . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 874
Parish. See name of parish.
Park v. San Mateo County . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 834
Parke Construction Group, Inc.; Circle Industries USA, Inc. v. . . 1062
Parker, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1018,1108
Parker v. Air Force . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1020
Parker v. Eleventh Ave. Medical Group . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1122
Parker v. McGinnis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 953
Parker v. North Carolina . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1084
Parker v. Oklahoma . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 972,1108
Parker v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 838,881
Parker v. U. S. Air Force . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1132
Parker; White v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 865
Parker Real Estate, Inc.; Braver v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1005
Parkland Memorial Hospital; Crofts v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1188
Parks v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1190
Parrett v. Mize . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 930
Parrish v. Holiday Inn . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 902

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:23] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)

clvTABLE OF CASES REPORTED
PageParrish v. Nebraska . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 802
Parrish v. Nikolits . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 929
Parrish; Simmons v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1050
Parrish v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 941,1174
Parrott; Moore v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 831,1106
Parsee v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 988
Parson v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 912
Pasadena Independent School Dist.; Perez v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 804,1114
Pasquarell; Renteria-Prado v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 810
Passalacqua, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 925,1070
Passee v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 856
Pastrana v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1065
Pastrano; Copeland v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 987
Pataki; Gebman v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1005,1107
Pataki v. Grumet . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 946
Pataki; Ospina v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 840
Patel v. OMH Medical Center, Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1188
Patel; Sherwood v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 878
Patel v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1161
Patillo v. Cumberland Farms, Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 961
Patino v. Smith . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1168
Patrick v. Commissioner . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 878
Patrick v. Maryland . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 903
Patt, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 801
Patterson v. Johnson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1063
Patterson v. Premier Bank . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 813
Patterson v. Rivers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1089,1184
Patterson v. Texas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 826
Patterson v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 887,891,1097,1125,1161
Patton v. Oklahoma . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 939
Patton; Stroud v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 832
Patton v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 943
Paul v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1023
Paul B. Hall Regional Medical Center; Taylor v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1115
Paulson v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 817
Paveletz v. U. S. Court of Appeals . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1044,1119
Pawlowski v. Northeast Ill. Regional Commuter Railroad Corp. 1117
Payan v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 942
Payan-Solis v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 842
Payless Shoe Source, Inc.; Moore v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1050
Payton v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 843,978,1178
Paz-Aguilar v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1119
Peachlum v. Pennsylvania . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1123
Peaks v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1028

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:23] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)
clvi TABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PagePedraglio Loli v. Citibank, Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1168
Peek, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 924
Peek v. Peek . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 815
Peeples v. Ohio . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 852
Pegram v. Herdrich . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1112
Pegues v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 901
Pelaez Melo v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1129
Pelullo v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 824,1081,1096
Pennington v. Arkansas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 831
Pennsylvania; Abu-Jamal v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 810
Pennsylvania v. Allen . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 922
Pennsylvania; Baez v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 827
Pennsylvania; Breakiron v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1169
Pennsylvania v. Chmiel . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1131
Pennsylvania v. Collazo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1078
Pennsylvania; Copenhefer v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 830
Pennsylvania; Counterman v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 836
Pennsylvania; Cuneo v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 966
Pennsylvania; D'Auria v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 879
Pennsylvania; F. B. v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1060
Pennsylvania v. Flanders . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1158
Pennsylvania; Germany v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 941
Pennsylvania; Gibson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 852
Pennsylvania; Gwynn v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 969
Pennsylvania; Hackett v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1163
Pennsylvania; Hill v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 805
Pennsylvania; Howard v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1192
Pennsylvania v. Huffman . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1158
Pennsylvania; Hunter v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 987
Pennsylvania; J. F. v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 814
Pennsylvania; Johnson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1163
Pennsylvania; Keaton v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1163
Pennsylvania; King v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1119
Pennsylvania v. Larson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1079
Pennsylvania v. Loomis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1077
Pennsylvania; Malcolm v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1191
Pennsylvania; Martin v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1120
Pennsylvania; McGlone v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 932
Pennsylvania; Miller v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 903
Pennsylvania; O'Shea v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1119
Pennsylvania; Peachlum v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1123
Pennsylvania; Pirela v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1082
Pennsylvania; Pursell v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 975
Pennsylvania; Rathfon v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 894

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:23] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)

clviiTABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PagePennsylvania; Rios Romero v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 952
Pennsylvania; Robbins v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1125
Pennsylvania; Robinson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1082
Pennsylvania; Scott v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 973
Pennsylvania; Stiver v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1026
Pennsylvania; Thomas v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 827
Pennsylvania; Wayne v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 834
Pennsylvania; Whethers v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 957
Pennsylvania v. Williams . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1077
Pennsylvania Bd. of Finance and Revenue; Wilson Partners v. . . 1159
Pennsylvania Bd. of Probation and Parole; Null v. . . . . . . . . . . . . 858
Pennsylvania Dept. of Corrections; Roblyer v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 902,1057
Pennsylvania Dept. of Environmental Protection v. Nigro . . . . . . 1075
Pennsylvania Dept. of Revenue; Murlin-Gardner v. . . . . . . . . . . . 1139
Pennsylvania Dept. of Revenue v. Newman . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 929
Pennsylvania Hosp. Ins. Co.; United States Healthcare Systems v. 804
Pennsylvania Public Util. Comm'n; Daniels v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1006,1107
Pennsylvania Public Util. Comm'n v. Wheeling & Lake Erie R. Co. 928
Pennsylvania Public Util. Comm'n; Wheeling & Lake Erie R. Co. v. 928
Pennucci v. California . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1025
Peoples v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 977
Pepe; Vieux v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1163
Pepsi-Cola Co.; Cummins v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 932
Perdue v. Hunter . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1004
Perelman v. George . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 973
Perelman v. Reno . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 835,943,1009,1010
Perez v. General Nutrition Corp. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 898
Perez v. O'Sullivan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1073
Perez v. Pasadena Independent School Dist. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 804,1114
Perez v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 854,879,919,1107
Perez-Ayon v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1032
Perini Corp. v. New York City . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1061
Perkins v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 848,944,1097
Perlman; Catapult Entertainment, Inc. v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 924
Perrin; Fitzpatrick v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 888
Perry v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 932,1040,1127
Perry v. U. S. District Court . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 941
Perry v. Zaentz . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1024,1184
Persico v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 870
Pesek v. Court of Appeals of Wis., Dist. III . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 832
Pesek v. Wisconsin Dept. of Health and Family Services . . . . . . . 934
Peters; Benju Corp. v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 961
Peters v. Endicott . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 880
Peters; Smith v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 829

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:23] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)
clviii TABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PagePeters v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1174
Peterson v. Edmond . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1153
Peterson v. North Carolina . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1164
Peterson v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 904
Petta v. Louisiana . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1125
Petties v. U. S. Postal Service . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1194
Pettit v. Bay Area Pipe Trades Pension Trust Fund . . . . . . . . . . 1156
Pettus v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 958
Pettway v. Moore . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1049
Pewenofkit v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 881
Peyton v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1011
Pfau v. Reed . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 813
Pfeil v. Wyoming . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 988
Phavong v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1125
Philadelphia; Akselrad v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1081
Philadelphia, B. & N. E. R. Co. v. Newhard . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 812
Philip Morris; Laborers Local 17 Health and Benefit Fund v. . . . 1080
Philip Morris; Oregon Laborers-Emp. Health and Welfare Fund v. 1075
Philip Morris; Steamfitters Local Union No. 420 Welfare Fund v. 1105
Philippe v. Lacy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1121
Phillips v. Alabama . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1078
Phillips; Caldwell v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1084
Phillips v. Garrison . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1084
Phillips v. Oklahoma . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 972
Phillips; Reed v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 893,1107
Phillips; Reedy v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1008
Phillips v. Reyes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1086
Phillips; Takahashi v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1078
Philomena, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1071
Phipps; Yurtis v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 942,1057
Phonometrics, Inc. v. International Business Machines . . . . . . . . 922
Physicians Ins. Co. of Wis. v. Schreiber . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 869
Pi v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 825
Piamba Cortes v. American Airlines, Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1136
Pickering v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 979
Pico; Sherrill v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 854,925
Pierce v. California . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 884
Pierson v. Wilshire Terrace Corp. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 925
Pietras; Board of Fire Comm'rs, Farmingville Fire Dist. v. . . . . . 948
Pike v. Arizona Dept. of Transportation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 823
Pike County; Chambley v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1156
Pillow v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1177
Pinchak; Zakhia v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 890
Pineda v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 842,1179

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:23] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)

clixTABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PagePineiro v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 982
Pinet v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1029
Ping Huang v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1011
Pink v. Modoc Indian Health Project, Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 877
Pink v. U. S. Postal Service . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 940,1108
Pinkley Inc. v. Servacek . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1155
Pinnock v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 854
Pino-Dor v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1091
Pino-Noriega v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 989
Pipes, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 925,1070
Pippen v. Sheraton Operating Corp. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 883
Pirela v. Pennsylvania . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1082
Pirtle v. Ohio . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 935
Pischke v. Litscher . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 954
Pitcher; Bell-El v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 902
Pitcher; Closson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 834
Pitcher; Oswald v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1140
Pitney Bowes, Inc.; Conley v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1136
Pittman v. Icelandair, Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 818
Pitts v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 911,915
Pittsburgh; Schwartz v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 882,1040
Pittsburgh Corning Corp.; Cimino v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1156
Pittway Corp.; Interactive Technologies, Inc. v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1046
Pitzer; Baker v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 905
Pitzer; Knipfer v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 858
Pitzer; Lai v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1176
Pizzo v. Louisiana . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1148
Plaintiffs' Legal Committee; Buckman Co. v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 804
Planned Parenthood of Greater Iowa, Inc.; Miller v. . . . . . . . . . . . 1113
Planned Parenthood of Mid-Mo. & Eastern Kansas v. Missouri 1006
Plante v. Surpitski . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1063
Pleasants v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 977
Pletcher v. Kentucky . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 931
Pliler; Garcia Ambriz v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1172
Pliler; Starr v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1137
Plumbers v. American Automatic Sprinkler Systems, Inc. . . . . . . 821
Plummer v. Illinois . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1169
Pluta v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 906
Plymouth; Campbell v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 817
PNC Bank, Ohio, National Assn.; Begala v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 868
Poe, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 807
Poland v. Stewart . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 845
Polaris Pictures Corp. v. Cigna Property . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 815
Polk v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 952

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:23] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)
clx TABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PagePollack v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 858
Pollock v. Brigano . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 906
Polo v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1125
Polsby v. Chase . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 870
Polyak v. Burson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 875,1014
Ponce v. Arizona . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1089
Ponder v. Hill . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1051
Ponder v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1194
Ponte; Moore v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1053
Ponzini, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 802
Pool Co.; Fields v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1155
Poppell; Cunningham v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 805
Popper; Townsend v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1170
Pornes-Garcia v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 880
Port Chester; LaTrieste Restaurant & Cabaret, Inc. v. . . . . . . . . 1187
Port Chester; The Diamond Club v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1187
Porter v. Department of Labor, Benefits Review Bd. . . . . . . . 1052,1184
Porter v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 809,988
Portillo v. Immigration and Naturalization Service . . . . . . . . . . . 802
Portland; Paresi v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 874
Portley-El v. Zavaras . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1088
Ports v. Dean . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1140
Portuondo v. Agard . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 926
Posey v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1127
Postmaster General; Carlton v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 986
Postmaster General; Gresham v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 820
Postmaster General; Harris v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 900
Postmaster General; Jones v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 933
Postmaster General; Lopez v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1047
Postmaster General; Outland v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 939
Postmaster General; Rucker v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 916,1014
Postmaster General; Sanchez v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1173
Postmaster General; Woods v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1031
Potts v. McDonald . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 970
Potts v. Texas Dept. of Criminal Justice, Institutional Division . . 1007
Potts v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 822
Poullard; Turner v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 966
Pounders v. Bowersox . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 901
Powell v. Cain . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 972
Powell v. Carter . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1088
Powell v. Ohio . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 940
Powell v. Powell . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 802,1000
Powell; Ridge v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1046
Powell; Ryan v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1046

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:23] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)

clxiTABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PagePowell v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 850,1195
Powers v. Shanks . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 850
Powers v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 945
Prager; LaFaver v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 967
Pratt v. Texas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1167
Pratt v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 848
Pravda v. Albany . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 953,1108
Pravda v. Saratoga County . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1063
Premier Bank; Patterson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 813
Premier Games, Inc. v. Louisiana . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1062
Prescott v. El Dorado County . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1111
Prescott; Stone v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 870
President of U. S.; Martin v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1192
President of U. S.; Walker v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1145
Presley; Adams v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1089
Presley; Nichols v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1120
Press; Smith v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 846
Prestia v. O'Connor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1025
Preston v. Caruso . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1024
Preston v. Hughes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 906
Preston v. Johnson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1003
Prevost v. Cain . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 862
Price v. Bossier Parish School Bd. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 320
Price v. California . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1052
Price v. Mazurkiewicz . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1008
Price v. Ryder System, Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 912,1107
Price v. Texas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1050
Price v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 891,944
Pri-Har v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 918
Primeaux v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1154
Prince v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1085
Prince George Center, Inc.; Prudential Ins. Co. of America v. . . . 810
Prins v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 906
Prison Health Care Services, Inc.; Brady v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 864
Probate Proceeding, Will of Warsaski; Spiegel v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1066
Proctor, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 808
Professional Divers of New Orleans v. Wisner . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 922
Profit v. Minnesota . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 862
Progressive American Ins. Co.; Fabian v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1069
Prosser v. Ross . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 858
Provenzano v. Moore . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1182
Prudential Assurance Co. Ltd.; Alcan Aluminum Corp. v. . . . . . . 1077
Prudential Ins. Co. of America; Bast v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 870
Prudential Ins. Co. of America v. Prince George Center, Inc. . . . 810

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:23] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)
clxii TABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PagePruitt v. Georgia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1006,1108
Prunty; Arreguin v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1165
Prunty v. Brooks . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
Prunty; Coe v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 861
Prunty; Cortez Escamilla v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 836
Prunty; Ellington v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1122
Prunty; Marroquin v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1135
Prunty; Travis v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1084
Prupis; Beck v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 804,949
Pryor; McClain v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 937
Pryor v. Ohio . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 981
Pryor; Reno v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1111
Pryor v. Westmoreland Coal Co. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1072
Public Lands Council v. Babbitt . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 926,1017
Public Service Co. of Okla.; B. Willis, C. P. A., Inc. v. . . . . . . . . . . 1003
Puckett v. Kaylo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 896
Puerto Rico Aqueduct and Sewer Auth.; Constructora Lluch v. . . 872
Pueschel v. Slater . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 814
Puga v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 885
Pugh; Miller v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1051
Pulliam v. Ohio Casualty Ins. Co. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1157
Pullman v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1081
Pulse Communications, Inc. v. DSC Communications Corp. . . . . . 923
Purnell v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 895
Pursell v. Pennsylvania . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 975
Purvis, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 984
Putney v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1181
Quadros v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 911
Qualia v. Qualia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 873
Quartararo v. Hanslmaier . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1170
Quary v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1033
Quidgley v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 978
Quinones v. New York . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1007
Quinones v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 942
Quintana-Garcia v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1063
Quintanilla v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1011
Quintero v. North Carolina . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 957
Quintero v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 963
Quintero-Loaiza v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 981
R. v. Watchtower Bible and Tract Society of N. Y. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1189
Rabah v. Barbo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1140
Rabb v. West Virginia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 935
Radcliffe; Montalvo v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 813
Radillo-Contreras v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1186

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:23] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)

clxiiiTABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageRadley v. Nixon . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 891
Radloff; Vasquez del Rosario v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 837,1039
Rahim v. Texas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 810
Rahman v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1094
Raine v. Dormire . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 941
Raines v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 924
Rainey v. New Jersey . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 988
Rainey Bros. Constr. v. Memphis & Shelby Cty. Bd. of Adjust. . . 871,1040
Rainsong Co. v. Federal Energy Regulatory Comm'n . . . . . . . . . 811
Raleigh v. Illinois Dept. of Revenue . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1068,1151
Ramah Navajo School Bd. v. New Mexico Tax. and Rev. Dept. . . 928
Ramah Navajo School Bd.; New Mexico Tax. and Rev. Dept. v. . . 928
Ramdass v. Angelone . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1015,1068,1152
Ramirez; Florida v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1131
Ramirez v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1083
Ramirez-Gamez v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 881
Ramirez Vela, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1073
Ramiro Muniz v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1178
Ramos; Balogh v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 822
Ramos v. Rogers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 847
Ramos-Torres v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1055
Ramsey v. Kemna . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 829
Ramsey v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 894
Rancho Palos Verdes; Teng Li-Ann Lee v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1077,1198
Randall v. Wass . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1043
Randolph v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 851
Randon v. Hubbard . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1167
Rangel-Rodriguez v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1032
Rangel-Silva v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 910
Ranglin v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1053
Raphael, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 924
Raphael v. Texas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 836,1056
Raposo v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1126
Rardin v. Ricardo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1047
Rash v. Rash . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1077
Rashed v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 853
Rashid v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1178
Rasten v. Department of Labor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1124
Ratelle; Harper v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1049
Ratelle; Mathis v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 862,976,1108
Rather v. Suthers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 834
Rathfon v. Pennsylvania . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 894
Ratigan v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1012
Raulerson v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 989,1108

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:23] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)
clxiv TABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageRaulston v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1130
Raven v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1161
Ravesloot v. Arizona . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1008
Rawlins v. Lee . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1069
Ray v. California . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1187
Ray; Constant v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 966
Ray; Middleton v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 840
Ray; Owens v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 938
Ray v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1128
Rayas Mejia v. Cole . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 830
Rayford v. Cain . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1167
Raymond v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1143
Raymond School Dept.; Bagley v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 947
Raytheon Co.; Mullin v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 811
Raz; Xin Hang Chen v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1056
RCK Properties, Inc. v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 951
Re v. New Mexico . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1051,1184
Reading & Bates Corp. v. Stier . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1075
Reading & Bates Corp.; Stier v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1075
Reaves v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1178
Recinos v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 919
Reclusado v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1031
Recreation & Park Comm'n, East Baton Rouge (BREC); Cohen v. 813
Red Bank; Morris v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1049
Reddy; Hoard v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 970
Reddy; Mangrum v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 805
Redler v. Jackson County . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1160
Redwood City; WuChang v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1141
Redwood Empire Life Support v. Sonoma County . . . . . . . . . . . . 1116
Reed v. Ivanhoe Citrus Assn. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 976
Reed v. Mosley . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1088,1120
Reed; Pfau v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 813
Reed v. Phillips . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 893,1107
Reed; Robi v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 952
Reed v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 897,917,1163
Reed-Bey v. Hofbauer . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1025
Reeder v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 872
Reedy v. Phillips . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1008
Reeves v. Sanderson Plumbing Products, Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 985
Reeves v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 858
Regal Ins. Co.; Forman v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1078
Regents of Univ. of Cal.; Washington v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 971
Regents of Univ. of Minn.; United States v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1114
Regents of Univ. of N. M.; McGuinness v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 932

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:23] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)

clxvTABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageReich; Deering v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1021
Reid; Kendall v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1026
Reid v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1092
Reid v. Virginia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 833
Reidt, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1018
Reilly; Landry v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1073
Reilly v. Natwest Markets Group, Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1119
Reiman v. Wagstaff . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 926
Reimer & Koger Assoc.; Kansas Public Employees Ret. Sys. v. . . 1185
Reliance National Ins. Co.; Tucker v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 966
Reliford v. California . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 828
Reliford v. Dale County Dept. of Human Resources . . . . . . . . . . . 955
Reliford v. McCarthy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 889
Reliford v. South Carolina . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1087
Reliford v. Wantland . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1172
Religious Technology Center; Henson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1105
Reneau v. Texas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 987
Reno v. Bossier Parish School Bd. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 320
Reno v. Condon . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 141
Reno; Friend v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1072,1163
Reno v. Kim Ho Ma . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1000
Reno; LaGuerre v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1153
Reno; Moore v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1178
Reno; Ntakirutimana v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1135
Reno; Perelman v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 835,943,1009,1010
Reno v. Pryor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1111
Reno; Wisconsin Dept. of Transportation v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1114
Renoir v. McMillan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1086
Renteria v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 842
Renteria-Prado v. Pasquarell . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 810
Renusch v. Michigan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1169
Resendez v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 976
Resper v. Maryland . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1027
Restaurant Row Associates v. Horry County . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1020
Retirement Bd. of R. I. Employees' Retirement System; Casey v. 929
Reyes; Phillips v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1086
Reyes v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 910
Reyes-Valencia v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1174
Reynolds; Johnson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1140
Reynolds v. Missouri . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1120
Reynolds v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 957
Reynolds; Wilson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 844
Rezzonico v. H & R Block, Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1189
Rhine v. Boone . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1084

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:23] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)
clxvi TABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageRhoads v. Barnett . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1178
Rhode Island; Milette v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1157
Rhodes v. Killian . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 810
Rhodes v. Washington . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 898
Rhone-Poulenc Rorer Pharmaceuticals, Inc.; Hamm v. . . . . . . . . . 1117
Ricardo; Rardin v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1047
Rice, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1183
Rice v. Cayetano . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 495
Rice; Glasper v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 974
Rice v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 933,1186
Rich v. Woodford . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1092
Richards v. Trustees of Univ. of Mass. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1171
Richards v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1136
Richardson v. Department of Veterans Affairs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 967
Richardson v. North Carolina Dept. of Correction . . . . . . . . . . . . 831
Richardson v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 895,1096
Richardson v. West Virginia Dept. of Health and Human Services 973
Richland Parish Hospital Service Dist. 1-B v. Abraham . . . . . . . . 964
Richland Parish Medical Center v. Abraham . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 964
Rickard v. Sanchez . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1000
Rickerby v. Everett . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 897,1040
Rickertsen; Sanders v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 900
Rickett v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 958
Ricks; Linville v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1091
Ricoh Co.; Nashua Corp. v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 815
Ricotta v. California . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 864
Riddick v. Wright . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 854,1025
Ridge; Bolinger v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 819
Ridge v. Powell . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1046
Ridge; Vey v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 818,999
Ridgeway v. Kaiser . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1167
Ridgeway v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 977
Riemer v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 958
Ries v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1163
Riggan v. R. W. Moore Equipment Co. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 814
Right Stuff, Inc.; Jackson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 824
Rigsby v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1173
Riley; Bartels v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1074
Riley v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1174
Rincher v. Burke . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 889
Ringling Bros.-Barnum & Bailey v. Utah Div. of Travel Dev. . . . . 923
Ringo v. Washington State Liquor Control Bd. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1155
Rios v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 902
Rios-Garza v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 896

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:23] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)

clxviiTABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageRios Romero v. Pennsylvania . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 952
Riske; Kieffer v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 975,1050
Rith v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 827
Ritt v. Minnesota . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1165
Rivas v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1028
Rivas-Lerma v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 842
Rivera, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 985
Rivera v. California . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1088
Rivera v. Department of Ed. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1047,1183
Rivera v. Nelson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 832
Rivera v. Sistrunk . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 827,1106
Rivera v. Texas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1168
Rivera v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 875,968,1130
Rivera v. U. S. District Court . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1193
Rivera-Romero v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 989
Rivers; Patterson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1089,1184
River Valley School Bd.; Sullivan v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1019
R. L. Coolsaet Construction Co.; Operating Engineers v. . . . . . . . 1004
R. M. S. Titanic, Inc. v. Haver . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 825
R. M. Taylor, Inc. v. General Motors Corp. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1159
RNJ Interstate Corp. v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 967
Roach v. Angelone . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 965
Roach v. Roach . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1078
Roach v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1144
Roaring Spring; Espy v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1138
Robbins v. Johnson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 838
Robbins v. Pennsylvania . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1125
Robbins; Smith v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 259,803
Robbins Co.; Wilbanks v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1139
Robbio v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1056
Roberson v. Shrael . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1170
Roberson v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 855
Robert Bogetti & Sons v. Bank of America, N. T. & S. A. . . . . . . 966
Roberts v. Alabama . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 939,1084
Roberts v. Davis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 905
Roberts v. Gibson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1147
Roberts v. Lee . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1009
Roberts v. Ohio . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1074
Roberts v. Slater . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1160
Roberts v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 859
Roberts v. Ward . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1050,1132
Roberts v. Wooton . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1117
Robertson v. Alabama Dept. of Revenue . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 876
Robertson v. California . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 956

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:23] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)
clxviii TABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageRobertson v. Comptroller of Treasury of Md. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 879
Robertson v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1095
Robey; Dittler v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 824,1039
Robi v. Reed . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 952
Robins, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 801
Robinson, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 807,1152
Robinson v. Administrative Comm., Sea Ray Employees' Plan . . 804,1114
Robinson v. Baker Hughes Oilfield Operations, Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . 849
Robinson; Bane v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 906,1000
Robinson v. Clock Tower Place Investments, Ltd. . . . . . . . . . . . . 927
Robinson v. District of Columbia Bd. of Zoning Adjustment . . . . 1112
Robinson v. Florida . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 847
Robinson v. Henderson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 848
Robinson v. Illinois . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1024,1170
Robinson v. Metts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1157
Robinson; Mott v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 878
Robinson v. North Carolina . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1191
Robinson v. Pennsylvania . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1082
Robinson v. Sheriff of Cook County . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 824
Robinson; Smith v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 839
Robinson v. United States . . . . 846,848,890,909,914,1066,1093,1096,1174
Robledo-Robledo v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 855
Roblyer v. Pennsylvania Dept. of Corrections . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 902,1057
Rocheville v. Catoe . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 953
Rockwood v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1160
Rockwood Bank v. Gaia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 968
Rodgers v. Ohio . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 973
Rodgers v. Tobin . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 831
Rodgers v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 977
Rodime PLC; Seagate Technology, Inc. v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1115
Rodriguez; Florida v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 802
Rodriguez v. Louisiana Dept. of Transportation and Development 817
Rodriguez v. Moore . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 971,1172
Rodriguez v. Muhlenberg Hospital Center . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1020
Rodriguez v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 837,864,882,1129,1195
Rodriguez-De La Cruz v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 958
Rodriguez de Varon v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 976
Rodriguez-Estupinan v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1065
Rodriguez, Inc.; New York Dept. Stores de Puerto Rico, Inc. v. . . 1116
Rodriguez Mendoza; White v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1051
Rodriguez-Ortiz v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1083
Rodriguez-Rodriguez v. Bittenbender . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 854
Rodriguez-Varela v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 912
Roe; Buckhana v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 867

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:23] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)

clxixTABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageRoe; Burnett v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 894
Roe v. Carter . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1005
Roe v. Flores-Ortega . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 470,804
Roe; Hamilton v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 831,864
Roe; Houston v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1159
Roe; Loera v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 895
Roe; Martin v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1193
Roe; Wilson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 841
Roe; Woody v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1092
Roeder; Tiffany v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 914
Rogan v. Evans . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1062
Rogers v. Administrator of Veterans Administration Hospital . . . 1079
Rogers v. Chapman . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1085
Rogers v. District of Columbia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 879
Rogers v. Gibson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1120
Rogers v. Kentucky . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 988
Rogers v. Moore . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1065
Rogers v. Texas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1167
Rogers v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 850,1126
Rogers Poultry, Inc.; Webb v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 964
Rohlsen v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 976
Rojas-Ortiz v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 855
Rojas Renteria v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 842
Rojas Rivera v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 968
Roll v. Bowersox . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1025
Rollack v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 842
Rolleston, Jr., Living Trust v. Simms' Estate . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1046,1183
Roman v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 957,1055,1127
Romanelli v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 826
Romano v. Bible . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 816
Romer; Bishop v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 844,1039
Romero v. Pennsylvania . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 952
Romm, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1042,1149
Romney v. Disessa . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1007,1132
Roncone v. New Jersey . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 945
Rondeau v. New Hampshire . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 854,1106
Rooks v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 881
Rooney v. Kelly . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1064
Roop; Aloupis v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 824
Root v. Arizona . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1161
Roque v. Louisiana . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 839
Rosales-Lizalde v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 976
Rosario v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 978
Rosbottom; Shelton v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 869

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:23] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)
clxx TABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageRose v. North Carolina . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 851
Roseman v. Florida . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 847
Rosenbaum v. Rosenbaum . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1161
Rosenberg v. Bush . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 926
Rosenthal v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 876,1040
Ross, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 808,1057
Ross v. Alaska . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1155
Ross v. Bilow . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 972
Ross v. CareAmerica Health Plans, Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1191
Ross v. Gibson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 887
Ross; Prosser v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 858
Ross v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 879,1033
Roston v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 843
Rotella v. Wood . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 549
Rothbury Investments v. Dura-Corp., Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 823
Rotzinger v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 803
Roulain; Givens v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 856
Round Rock; Castillo v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1019
Rowe v. Johnson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 972
Rowland v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1129
Rowles v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 947
Roy, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 808
Roy v. Brigano . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 881,1014
Royal v. Taylor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1000
Roybal v. California . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 832
Rrapi v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 912
Rubio-Loya v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 831
Rubio-Ramos v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 982
Rucker v. Henderson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 916,1014
Rucker v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 957,976
Ruckstuhl; Hollingsworth & Vose Co. v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1019
Rudd v. Bureau of Prisons . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1032
Rudd v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 882
Ruiz v. Hawaii . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1168
Ruiz v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 897
Ruiz Coronado v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1004
Ruiz Rivera v. Department of Ed. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1047,1183
Rumbles; Hill v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1074
Rumler v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 882
Ruocchio; Transportation Union v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1154
Ruppert Landscape Co.; National American Ins. Co. v. . . . . . . . . 1156
Rusch v. Horn . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 898
Rushing; Kansas City Southern R. Co. v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1160
Rushing v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 839

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:23] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)

clxxiTABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageRussel v. Unknown Federal Dist. Court Judges . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1175
Russell; Blackshear v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 848
Russell; Lane v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 901
Russell; Washington v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1051
Russell; Wilkinson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1155
Ruvalcaba v. Los Angeles . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1003
Ruvalcaba v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 982
R. W. Moore Equipment Co.; Riggan v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 814
Ryan; Outlaw v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 847
Ryan v. Powell . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1046
Ryan; Stagman v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 986
Ryan v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 915
Ryden; Wardell v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1008
Ryder System, Inc.; Price v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 912,1107
Sabah Shipyard Sdn. Bhd. v. M/V Harbel Tapper . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1048
Sablan; Torres v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1110
Sacchet; Jackson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 943
Sachs v. Intelogic Trace, Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 931
Sadeghi v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1030
Saffle; Vann v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 969
Saffle; Walker v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 882
Sager; Wilson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1085
St. Fleur v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 863
St. Francis Health System; Mason v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1088
St. Louis Development Corp.; LaMontagne v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 873
St. Marys Health Center; Sugarbaker v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1137
Sainz-Ibarra v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 917
Salais-Perea v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 981
Salazar v. Oklahoma . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 895
Salazar v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 977
Salcedo-Castro v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1091
Saldana Sanchez v. Vega Sosa . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1046
Saleem, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1152
Saleem v. U. S. Court of Appeals . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 914
Salem v. Georgia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 965
Salgado Roman v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1055
Salmon; Carrillo v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1186
Salomon Smith Barney Inc.; Harris Trust & Savings Bank v. . . . 1068
Salt River Ag. Improve. & Power Dist. v. Dawavendewa . . . . . . . 1098
Salvatori v. Westinghouse Electric Corp. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1160
Samara Brothers, Inc.; Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. v. . . . . . . . . . . . . 808,1060
Samples v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 894
Sams v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1135
Sanapaw v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 860

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:23] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)
clxxii TABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageSan Bernardino County; Johnson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 832,1039
San Bernardino County; Luna v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1161
Sanchez v. Baca . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1076
Sanchez v. California . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 829
Sanchez v. Henderson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1173
Sanchez v. Johnson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 897
Sanchez; Rickard v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1000
Sanchez v. Stewart . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1023
Sanchez v. Texas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1021
Sanchez v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1094
Sanchez v. Vega Sosa . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1046
Sanchez v. Wyoming . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 978
Sanchez-Mendoza v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 855
Sandage v. Bankhead Enterprises, Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1019
Sandage v. Bankhead Transportation Equipment Co. . . . . . . . . . . 1019
Sandberg v. State Farm Mut. Automobile Ins. Co. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1118
Sanders, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 926
Sanders; Arizona v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 982
Sanders v. California . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 881
Sanders v. Dixmoor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1020
Sanders v. Gramley . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 803
Sanders v. Rickertsen . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 900
Sanders v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1125
Sanderson Plumbing Products, Inc.; Reeves v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 985
Sandground, Barondess & West; Kanazeh v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1140,1198
San Diego Sheet Metal Works, Inc.; Wahl v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1006
San Huan Materials High Tech v. International Trade Comm'n . . 959
Sanjurjo v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 918
Sank v. Bergen County Superintendent of Elections . . . . . . . . . . 816
San Mateo County; Tong Park v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 834
Santa v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 943
Santa Cruz v. Illinois . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 971
Santa Fe Independent School Dist. v. Doe . . . . . . . 1002,1113,1134,1187
Santiago-Guadarrama; Soto-Rivera v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1189
Santobello v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1063
Santo-Garcia, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 808
Santos-Riviera v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1054
Sapp v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 823
Saratoga County; Pravda v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1063
Sarroca v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1186
Sarvey v. California . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 830
Sauaris; Huggins v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 888
Saucedo Mendoza v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 945
Saumani v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1054

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:23] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)

clxxiiiTABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageSaunders v. Taylor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1008
Saunders v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 918
Savior v. Ventura . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 938,1057
Sawyer v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1126
Sayakhom v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1179
Saybolt, Inc.; Sumter v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 835
Sayler v. Florida Bar . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 890
SBC Capital Markets, Inc.; Koveleskie v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 811
SBC Warburg, Inc.; Koveleskie v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 811
Scanlon v. Georgia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1078
Scarano; Dlugosz v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1079
Scarborough v. Fischer . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 931
Scarbrough v. G A B Robins . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1026
Scardelletti; Thornton v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1141,1198
Schachner v. Ohio . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1006
Scharrer; McClain v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 814
Scheets v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1096
Scheffler v. Dow Jones & Co. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 986
Schell v. Stewart . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 827
Scherf v. Washington . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 956
Scherping v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1162
Schiano, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1113
Schiappa v. Connecticut . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 862
Schlosser v. Woodside . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 823
Schluneger v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1080,1198
Schmidt; Zahran v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1182
Scholl v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 873
Scholz v. Oklahoma . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 876
Schomaker v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1065
Schomig; Tenner v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1052
Schottey; Mayfield-El v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 829
Schouster v. Langley . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 936
Schreiber; Physicians Ins. Co. of Wis. v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 869
Schreibman v. Holmes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1179
Schriro; Boysiewick v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1141
Schriro; Miner v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1121
Schriro; Tyler v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 915,1014
Schriro; Williams v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 841,1039
Schriro; Wilson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 867
Schuetzle; Syvertson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1088
Schulte v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 914
Schultz v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 839
Schuster v. U. S. Postal Service . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 978
Schwab Corp. v. Commissioner . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 822

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:23] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)
clxxiv TABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageSchwartz v. Pittsburgh . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 882,1040
Schwyhart v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 895
S. C. Johnson & Son, Inc.; Hardin v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 874
Scoggin v. Kaiser . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 953
Scott v. Alabama . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 831,1007
Scott; Balawajder v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 805
Scott v. Cain . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1025
Scott v. California . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1114
Scott; Davis v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 863
Scott; Dennis v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 975,1108
Scott v. Dormire . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1086
Scott; Kiel v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1115
Scott v. Pennsylvania . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 973
Scott; Stewart v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 940
Scott; Thannisch v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 954
Scott v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 903,1160
Scottsdale Justice Court; Solivan v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 802
Scruggs v. McBride . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 906
Scully, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1150
Seabold; Blatz v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 902
Seabrookes v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1092
Seagate Technology, Inc. v. Rodime PLC . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1115
Sea-Land Service, Inc. v. Director, OWCP . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 809
Sealed Petitioner v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 915,989
Seals v. Miranda . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1165
Searcy v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 842
Sears v. Georgia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 934,1040
Sears, Roebuck & Co.; Kunin v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 964
Seaworth v. Commissioner . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1141
Secretary of Agriculture; Blountt v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 822
Secretary of Agriculture; Nature's Dairy v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1074
Secretary of Air Force; Benju Corp. v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 961
Secretary of Army; Cowhig v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1072
Secretary of Army; Gilland v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 932
Secretary of Army; Thomas v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 846,1014
Secretary of Army; Tichenor v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 932
Secretary of Defense; Boulanger v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1030
Secretary of Ed.; Bartels v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1074
Secretary of HHS; Brown v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 969
Secretary of HHS; Cambridge Hospital v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1048
Secretary of HHS v. Illinois Council on Long Term Care, Inc. . . . 984
Secretary of HHS; Lukacs v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 933,952,1081
Secretary of HHS; North Broward Hospital Dist. v. . . . . . . . . . . 1022
Secretary of HHS; Silo v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1128

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:23] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)

clxxvTABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageSecretary of Interior; Marathon Oil Co. v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 819
Secretary of Interior; Nakamura v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1004
Secretary of Interior; Public Lands Council v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 926,1017
Secretary of Labor; Bank of America Corp. v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1045
Secretary of Labor; F. C. Johnson Construction Co. v. . . . . . . . . . 1153
Secretary of Labor; Johnson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1153
Secretary of Labor; Kooritzky v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1154
Secretary of Labor; Lawrence Aviation Industries, Inc. v. . . . . . . 1153
Secretary of Labor; National Engineering & Contracting Co. v. . . . 1045
Secretary of Navy; Commercial Energies, Inc. v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 820
Secretary of State; Middleton v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 874
Secretary of State of Cal.; California Democratic Party v. . . . . . . 1133
Secretary of State of Fla. v. Walker . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 809
Secretary of Transportation; Adarand Constructors, Inc. v. . . . . . 216
Secretary of Transportation; Gibson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 924
Secretary of Transportation; Pueschel v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 814
Secretary of Transportation; Roberts v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1160
Secretary of Treasury; Boggs v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 811
Secretary of Treasury; Johnson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 816
Secretary of Treasury; Paradissiotis v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 928
Secretary of Veterans Affairs; Burton v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 900
Secretary of Veterans Affairs; Bustos v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 967
Secretary of Veterans Affairs; Canterbury v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1088
Secretary of Veterans Affairs; Franklin v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 819
Secretary of Veterans Affairs v. Gibson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 803
Secretary of Veterans Affairs; Holley v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1080
Secretary of Veterans Affairs; Kinnell v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1111
Secretary of Veterans Affairs; Siewert v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1190
Secretary of Veterans Affairs; Staten v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 876
Secretary of Veterans Affairs; Webb v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 912,1041
Secretary of Veterans Affairs; Willard v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1124
Secretary of Veterans Affairs; Winsett v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1193
Section VIII, N. Y. Pub. H. S. Ath. Assn.; Kellenberg H. S. v. . . . 1155
Securities and Exchange Comm'n; Taylor v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 867,1039
Securities and Exchange Comm'n; Tuschner & Co. v. . . . . . . . . . . 950
Securities and Exchange Comm'n; Woods v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1009
Security Pacific Financial Services, Inc.; White v. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1160
Security Watch, Inc.; American Telephone & Telegraph Co. v. . . . 1181
Seiter; Adkins v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 882
Seki; Flowers v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1046
Select Artificials, Inc.; Kiel v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 818
Selico; Intercontinental Bulktank Corp. v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1188
Sellers v. Henry . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1010
Sellner v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 843

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:23] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)
clxxvi TABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageSelnick; Lowenschuss v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 877
Selsky; Green v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 891
Semple v. Moundsville . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1189
Sena v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1130
Seneca Nation of Indians; New York v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1073
Senger v. Barbo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 915
Senkowski; Haley v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 918
Sentinel Communications; Steele v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1050
Sepe v. McDonnell Douglas Corp. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1062
Sepulveda v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1127
Sequeira v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1174
Sergent v. Ohio . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 941
Serra-Navas v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 855
Serrano v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1196
Serratos Beltran v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 881
Servacek; "Bradley Books" v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1155
Servacek; Pinkley Inc. v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1155
Setser v. Lucero . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 970
Settle v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 885
Seward v. California . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1008
Sexton v. Angelone . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1053
Sexton v. French . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 855
S. H., In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 817
Shaara v. Moore . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1165
Shabazz v. California . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 901
Shabazz v. Keating . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 806
Shakoor v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1095
Shakur v. Hawk . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 896
Shalala; Brown v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 969
Shalala; Cambridge Hospital v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1048
Shalala v. Illinois Council on Long Term Care, Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . 984
Shalala; Lukacs v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 933,952,1081
Shalala; North Broward Hospital Dist. v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1022
Shalala; Silo v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1128
Shamaeizadeh; Cunigan v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1021
Shaner v. Brown . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 966
Shanklin; Norfolk Southern R. Co. v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 949,1134,1148
Shanks v. Hubbard . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1192
Shanks; Powers v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 850
Shanks; Soper v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1125
Shannon v. Consolidated Freightways Corp. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1019
Shannon v. Florida . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1173
Sharif-Johnson v. Illinois Ed. Labor Relations Bd. . . . . . . . . . . 806,1003
Sharon Savings Bank; Douros v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 824

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:23] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)

clxxviiTABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageSharp v. Arizona . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 936
Sharpe; Cureton v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 812
Sharpe v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1173
Sharrow v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 843
Shavers v. Florida . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1172
Shaw v. AutoZone, Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1076
Shaw v. Corcoran . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1179
Shaw v. Gomez . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 847
Shaw v. Lindsey . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 839
Shaw v. Shivers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 818
Shaw v. Texas Bd. of Pardons . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1122
Shawnee County Bd. of County Comm'rs; Kidwell v. . . . . . . . . . . 1064
Shea v. Wisconsin . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1122
Shearer v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 827
Shed v. Johnson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 988,1184
Sheets v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 843
Sheldon v. Kitchell . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1007
Shell; English v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 887
Shelton v. Benefit Plan of Exxon Corp. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1136
Shelton v. Nevada . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1190
Shelton v. Rosbottom . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 869
Shemonsky v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 956,1041
Shepard; Crenshaw v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 871
Shepardson v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1196
Shepherd v. Comptroller of Public Accounts of Tex. . . . . . . . . . . . 963
Shepler v. Evans . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1077
Shepley v. New Coleman Holdings Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 870
Sheppard v. Cook . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1115
Sheppard v. Ohio . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1059,1168
Sheppard v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 825,977
Sheraton Operating Corp.; Pippen v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 883
Sherbak v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 921
Sheren v. Dayton Hudson Corp. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 815
Sheriff of Cook County; Robinson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 824
Sherman Park Apartments v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 820
Sherrill v. Arizona Registrar of Contractors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 925
Sherrill v. Hargett . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1009
Sherrill v. Pico . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 854,925
Sherrill v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 901
Sherwood; L. A. Development v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1075
Sherwood v. Patel . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 878
Sherwood Medical Corp.; Josenhans v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 822
Shields v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 839
Shiplett v. AMTRAK . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1078

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:23] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)
clxxviii TABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageShiplett v. National Railroad Passenger Corp. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1078
Shirosaki v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1081
Shisinday v. Texas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1066
Shivers; Shaw v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 818
Shockett v. Massachusetts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1027,1184
Shoen v. Shoen . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1075
Shores v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1056
Short v. Oklahoma . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1085
Short v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1091,1105
Shorter v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1011
Shrael; Roberson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1170
Shriner v. Wiley . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1123
Shrink Mo. Government PAC; Bray v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1148
Shrink Mo. Government PAC; Nixon v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 377
Shurn v. Bowersox . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1010
Sidberry v. Bailey . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 889
Siegel, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1152
Siemens Rolm Communications, Inc.; Torain v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 925
Sierra-Hernandez v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1178
Siewert v. West . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1190
Signet Bank; Crawford v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1145
Signet Bank/Virginia v. Yu . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 965
Signet/Capital One Bank; Burnette v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 869
Sikes; Clarke v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 833
Sikes; Simpson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 864
Siler v. Dillingham Ship Repair . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1166
Silo v. Shalala . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1128
Silva v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 941
Silverman; Liu v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 815,1038
Simental v. Illinois . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 956
Simkins Industries, Inc.; Ayele v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 904,1107
Simmons v. Johnson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 939
Simmons v. Parrish . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1050
Simmons v. Taylor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1194
Simmons v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1143
Simmons v. Unocal Corp. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1061
Simmons-Harris; Zelman v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 983
Simms v. Oklahoma Dept. of Mental Health Services . . . . . . . . . . 815
Simms' Estate; Moreton Rolleston, Jr., Living Trust v. . . . . . 1046,1183
Simon, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1135
Simon v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 844
Simonsen v. Oregon . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1090
Simpson; Hoy v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1076
Simpson v. Illinois . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 905

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:23] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)

clxxixTABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageSimpson v. Matesanz . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1082
Simpson v. Sikes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 864
Simpson v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1193
Simpson v. Yukins . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1089
Sims, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1152
Sims v. Apfel . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1018
Sims v. Florida . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1183
Sims v. Moore . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 959,1148
Sims v. Motorola, Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 953
Sindram v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1186
Sineus v. Dormire . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 898
Sinex; Broadway v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 932,1040
Singletary; Mendez v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 836
Singleton v. Cecil . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 966
Singleton v. Georgia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 842
Singleton v. Hargett . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1168
Singleton v. Norris . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1084
Singleton v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 860
Sirbaugh v. Elo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1165
Sisk v. Johnson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 837
Sisneros; Kanikaynar v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1090
Sistrunk; Rivera v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 827,1106
Siu Tam v. Georgia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 931
Sizer; Gross-Bey v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 918
Skaggs v. Otis Elevator Co. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 811
Skaggs v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 902
Skibinski v. Bell Atlantic . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 838,1183
Skibinski v. Lazaroff . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 867,1183
Skomorossky; Okunieff v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1144
Slack v. McDaniel . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 949,1113
Slate v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1011
Slater; Adarand Constructors, Inc. v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 216
Slater; Gibson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 924
Slater; Pueschel v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 814
Slater; Roberts v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1160
Slaughter v. Johnson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1166
Slaughter v. Kentucky . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1192
Slaughter v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 901
Slayton v. Mountain City Club . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 802
Sleppy v. Ohio . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1192
Slick v. McIntosh . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1061
Slick; Taylor v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1079
Sloop v. ABTCO, Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 930
Slovak v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1093

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:23] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)
clxxx TABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageSmall v. Idaho . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 843
Small v. Tennessee . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 891
Small v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 821
Smalley v. Merit Systems Protection Bd. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1171
Smallwood v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1129
Smart v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 904
Smart-Davis v. Johns Hopkins Univ. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1170
Smiley v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 989,1177
SMI of Pattison Ave., L. P.; White v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1079
Smith v. Alabama . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 833
Smith v. Angelone . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 901
Smith v. Arizona . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 880
Smith; Biles v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 854
Smith v. Board of Trustees for Okolona Municipal School Dist. . . 1077
Smith v. Bowersox . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 883,1128
Smith v. Brigano . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1029
Smith v. Cadwell . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1176
Smith v. Cain . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 835,1088,1140
Smith v. California . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 844
Smith v. Centra Benefit Services, Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 929
Smith; Cromer v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 826
Smith v. Culpeper County . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1157
Smith v. Department of Army . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 961
Smith; Ellison v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1122
Smith; ENSCO Offshore Co. v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1074
Smith v. Faucheux . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1156
Smith v. Fort Lauderdale . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 966
Smith v. Illinois . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 941
Smith v. Johnson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 891,1026
Smith; King v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 938
Smith v. Leonberger . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 895
Smith v. Mann . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 884
Smith v. Missouri . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1096
Smith v. Moore . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 896
Smith v. Motes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 975
Smith v. Multi-Flow Dispensers of Ohio, Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 965
Smith v. Nevada . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1192
Smith; Patino v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1168
Smith v. Peters . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 829
Smith v. Press . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 846
Smith v. Robbins . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 259,803
Smith v. Robinson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 839
Smith v. Snyder . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 954
Smith; Snydor v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1116

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:23] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)

clxxxiTABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageSmith v. South Carolina . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1063
Smith v. Tennessee . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1023
Smith v. Texas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1088
Smith v. United States . . . 857,877,898,910,947,980,981,987,989,1034,1143
Smith v. Walker . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 853
Smith; Woosley v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1159
Smith v. Zlaket . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 887
SMS Systems Maintenance Services v. Digital Equipment Corp. 1188
Smyly v. International Business Machines Corp. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 982
Smyser; Kay v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1063
Snell v. Massachusetts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1106
Snipes v. Florida . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1063
Snipes v. Warden, Caddo Correctional Center . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 938
Snyder v. Dobucki . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 977,1028
Snyder v. O'Bannon . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1078
Snyder; Smith v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 954
Snyder v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 968,1097
Snyder v. Upjohn Co. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 986
Snyder; Walker v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 881
Snydor; Spiers v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 821
Social and Rehabilitative Services of Wyandotte Cty.; Olmstead v. 827
Social Security Administration; Wood v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1033
Society National Bank; Byrd v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1090
Sohi v. Ohio State Dental Bd. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1119
Solis v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 843,920,921
Solivan v. Scottsdale Justice Court . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 802
Solnit; Zigmund v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 854
Soltero v. Ingle . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 846
Sommers; Green v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1026,1121
Sondalle; Gibson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1122
Sondalle; Korotka v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1140
Sondalle; Minske v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1164
Sonoma County; Redwood Empire Life Support v. . . . . . . . . . . . 1116
Sonoma County Social Services Dept.; Zubiate v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 889
Sons v. California . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1013
Sons of Confederate Veterans, Inc.; Giles v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 871,1001
Sony Corp.; Loral Fairchild Corp. v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1075
Soo Kim v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 857
Soper v. Shanks . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1125
Soriano v. California . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 826
Sorrow v. Georgia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 811
Sorton v. California . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 827
Sosa v. Johnson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1173
Sosa v. Moore . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 826

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:23] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)
clxxxii TABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageSosa; Saldana Sanchez v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1046
Sosa v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 880
Sosa-Martinez v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1011
Soto-Rivera v. Santiago-Guadarrama . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1189
Soto Zamarripa v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1096
Soudavar v. Islamic Republic of Iran . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1157
Soun v. Lindsey . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1052
Sours v. Dormire . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 956
Sours v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 901
Southaven; Cockrell v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 817
South Carolina; Buchanan v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1121
South Carolina; Council v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 803,1050
South Carolina; Hightower v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 863
South Carolina; Huggins v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1172
South Carolina; Reliford v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1087
South Carolina; Smith v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1063
South Carolina Law Enforcement Division v. Glover . . . . . . . . . . 1146
South Dakota; Hanson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 835
South Dakota; Wright v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1001,1060
Southeastern Pa. Transportation Authority v. Lanning . . . . . . . . 1131
Southeastern Pa. Transportation Authority; Loftus v. . . . . . . . . . 1047
Southerland v. Heine . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 853
Southern Cal. Permanente Medical Group; Uribe v. . . . . . . . . . . . 1190
Southern Pacific Transp. Co.; California Bd. of Equalization v. . . . 1114
Southwell v. Commissioner . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1048
Southwestern Bell Telephone; Taylor Communications Group v. . . . 930
Southworth; Board of Regents of Univ. of Wis. System v. . . . . . . 804
Sovak v. Board of Ed. of New York City . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 940
Span v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 862
Spangler v. Altec International Ltd. Partnership . . . . . . . . . . . . . 813
Spann v. New Jersey . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1088
Spanos; Molina v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1192
Sparkman; Harper v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1087
Sparkman; Jiles v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1064
Sparks; Albert v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 968,1132
Spaulding v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1095
Spaziano v. Moore . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1023
Spearman v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1033
Spears v. Marsh . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 955,1145
Spears v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 896,1054
Speed v. Georgia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 855,1039
Speller v. North Carolina . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 884
Spence v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1130,1162
Spencer, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1073

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:23] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)

clxxxiiiTABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageSpencer v. Board of Comm'rs of Kansas City Police Dept. . . . . . . 1157
Spencer v. New York City Transit Authority . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1190
Spiegel v. DesRosiers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1080
Spiegel v. Probate Proceeding, Will of Warsaski . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1066
Spiers v. Sydnor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 821
Spina, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1150
Spires v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 837
Spiteri v. Gomez . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1087
Spitzauer v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 921
Splunge v. Anderson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 833
Sposato; Electronic Data Systems v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1189
Sprecher v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 874
Springer v. Maricopa County Medical Center . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1120
Springer v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 915
Sprunk v. Arizona . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 971
Spruth v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1096
Spry v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1130
S & R Co. of Kingston v. Latona Trucking, Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . 1017,1058
SSM Healthcare; Sugarbaker v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1137
Stachelek; Allah v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1141
Stackhouse v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1033
Stadler; Fitzgerald v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1020
Stadther v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 979
Stagman v. Ryan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 986
Stainer; Franklin v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1160
Stalder; Taylor v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1088
Stancliff v. Coffield . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 938
Stancliff v. Johnson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1164
Standard Ins. Co. v. Kearney . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 964
Standing Rock v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1178
Stanley v. University of Southern Cal. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1022
Starling v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1168
Starr v. Pliler . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1137
Starz v. California . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 886
State. See also name of State.
State Bar of Cal.; Morrow v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1156
State Bar of Cal.; Weiss v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1173
State Bar of Ga.; Henley v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 926,1023
State Employees' Retirement System; McKinney v. . . . . . . . . . . . 1175
State Farm Mut. Automobile Ins. Co.; Sandberg v. . . . . . . . . . . . 1118
State Line Hotel, Inc. v. Buddensick . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 928
State Mut. Life Assurance Co. of America; O'Connor v. . . . . . . . . 956
Staten v. West . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 876
State Univ. of N. Y., College at New Paltz v. Anderson . . . . . . . . 1111

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:23] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)
clxxxiv TABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageStatland v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1155
Steamfitters Local Union No. 420 Welfare Fund v. Philip Morris 1105
Stearns v. Gig Harbor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1155
Stedman v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 893,1067
Steele v. Allen . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1171
Steele v. California Dept. of Social Services . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1148
Steele v. Sentinel Communications . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1050
Steele v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 933,944
Stefonek v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1162
Steindler v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 892
Steinhardt v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1136
Steinhilber v. McFarland . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1118,1157
Stenberg v. Carhart . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1110
Stephen v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 862
Stephenson v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1013
Stetson; Marcello v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 943,1057
Stevens v. Michigan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1072,1164
Stevens v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 975
Stevens; Vermont Agency of Natural Resources v. . . 1001,1015,1044,1112
Stevens v. Wingard . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 832
Stevenson v. Nixon . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 939
Steward v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 830
Stewart v. Alabama . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 846
Stewart; Bennett v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 844
Stewart v. Cain . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1064
Stewart v. California . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 828
Stewart; Casino Ventures, Inc. v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1077
Stewart; Chaney v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 802
Stewart; Cheuk-Yan Fung v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 900
Stewart; Flores Sanchez v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1023
Stewart v. Knutson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 906
Stewart; McKee v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1008
Stewart; Olguini v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1090
Stewart; Ortiz v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 960
Stewart; Poland v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 845
Stewart; Schell v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 827
Stewart v. Scott . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 940
Stewart v. Stubblefield . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 859
Stewart v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1063
Stewart v. Wallace . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1105
Stewart v. Whitley . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1151
Stiehl; Wallace v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 934
Stier v. Reading & Bates Corp. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1075
Stier; Reading & Bates Corp. v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1075

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:23] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)

clxxxvTABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageStinnes; Moss v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 879
Stinnett Enterprises, Inc. v. Dragon Textile Mills . . . . . . . . . . . . 1137
Stiver v. Pennsylvania . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1026
Stojetz v. Ohio . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 999
Stokes v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 858
Stone, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 808,962,1018
Stone v. Oregon . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 939
Stone v. Prescott . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 870
Stone v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 915,1095
Stone Casket Co. of Oklahoma City v. Oklahoma Bd. of Embalmers 811
Stoner; Mayberry v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1192
Stonner v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 917
Storage Technology Corp.; Gagliano v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 814
Storey v. Missouri . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 895
Stotts v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1127,1144
Stradwick v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1196
Straley v. Galetka . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1168
Strauss v. Taylor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 900
Stringer v. Ohio . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 988
Stringfellow; Hooper v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 864
Strippit, Inc.; Weber v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1078
Stroble v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 896
Strother v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 843
Stroud v. Patton . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 832
Stroupe v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 906
Strout v. Albanese . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 931
Strozier v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 976
Struble; Kreager v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 828
Stubblefield; Anderson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 908
Stubblefield; Durham v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 888
Stubblefield; Johnson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 830
Stubblefield; Lancaster v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 854
Stubblefield; Lathan v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 907
Stubblefield; Murray v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1053
Stubblefield; Odom v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1052
Stubblefield; Stewart v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 859
Stubbs v. Florida . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 936
Stucky v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1196
Suarez v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1195
Sudarsky v. New York City . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 813
Suffolk; Huneycutt v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 817
Suffolk County; Sullivan v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 950
Suffolk County Dept. of Social Services; Callahan v. . . . . . . . . . . 928
Suffolk County Police Dept.; Wimmer v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 964

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:23] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)
clxxxvi TABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageSugarbaker v. St. Marys Health Center . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1137
Sugarbaker v. SSM Healthcare . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1137
Sullivan v. National Railroad Passenger Corp. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 966,1107
Sullivan v. Oregon . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1192
Sullivan v. River Valley School Bd. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1019
Sullivan v. Suffolk County . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 950
Sullivan County District Attorney; Lau v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1192
Sum v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1032
Summers; Boggs v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 811
Summers; Johnson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 816
Summers; Paradissiotis v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 928
Sumner, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 961,1149
Sumner v. Merit Systems Protection Bd. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 807,1082
Sumpter v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 957
Sumter v. Saybolt, Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 835
Sun International North America, Inc. v. Lowenschuss . . . . . . . . 1021
Sunkist Growers; Fisher v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 924
SunService; Herndon v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1074
Super Fresh Food Markets, Inc.; Johnson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 936
Superintendent of penal or correctional institution. See name or

title of superintendent.
Superintendent of Public Schools, Fairfax County; Levy v. . . . . . 902
Superior Court of Cal., Alameda County; Hart v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 901
Superior Court of Cal., L. A. County; American Motorists Ins. Co. v. 875
Superior Court of Cal., L. A. County; Ford v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1083
Superior Court of Cal., San Diego County; B. A. T. Industries v. 1158
Super Sulky, Inc. v. United States Trotting Assn. . . . . . . . . . . . . 871
Supervalu, Inc.; Coles v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 866
Supreme Court of Guam; EIE Guam Corp. v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1137
Supreme Court of Ill.; Johnson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 916
Supreme Court of Wash.; Trapp v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1179
Supreme Oil Co. v. Metropolitan Transportation Authority . . . . . 868
Surface Transportation Bd.; Western Coal Traffic League v. . . . . 950
Surgical Care Ctr., Hammond; Hosp. Serv. Dist., Tangipahoa v. . . 964
Surpitski; Plante v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1063
Surratt v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 910
Sussman v. American Broadcasting Cos. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1131
Sussman v. KABC-TV Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1131
Suthers; Jones v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1172
Suthers; Rather v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 834
Sutton v. BellSouth Telecommunications, Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1188
Sutton v. Kooistra . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1172
Sutton; Wedgeworth v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 858
Swainston v. Turnipseed . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 821

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:23] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)

clxxxviiTABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageSwan v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1180
Swanks; Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority v. . . . 1061
Swanson v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 893
Swartz v. Iowa . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1167
Swedzinski v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 846
Swillings v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 977
Swinson v. Angelone . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1142
Swisher v. Virginia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 812
Sydnor v. Smith . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1116
Sykes-Bey v. Maryland . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 833
Synek v. Gramley . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1119
Syracuse Language Systems, Inc.; Talyansky v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1118
Sysco Food Services of San Francisco, Inc. v. Norris . . . . . . . . . . 1182
Sysouvong v. Meschner . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 988
Syvertson v. Heit . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1179
Syvertson v. North Dakota . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 954,956,1108
Syvertson v. Schuetzle . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1088
Szabo v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 912
Szenay v. Yukins . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 820
Szmutko; LeForce v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 939
Tabachnick; Davis v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 822
Tafolla-Carrillo v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 942
Takahashi v. Phillips . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1078
Tal v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1030
Talley v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1180
Talyansky v. Mercury Print Production, Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1118
Talyansky v. Syracuse Language Systems, Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1118
Talyansky v. Xerox Corp. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1020,1132
Tam v. Georgia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 931
Tamayo-Navarro v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 980
Tanana Chiefs Conference, Inc. v. Ipalook . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 964
Tanker Owners (Intertanko) v. Locke . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1015,1043
Tanner v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 969
Tapia v. LeMaster . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 880
Tapia-Ortiz, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1135
Tarintino v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 882
Tarlov; Brannon v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 837
Tarver, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1146,1152
Tarver v. Alabama . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1183
Tarver v. Haley . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 803,1000
Tatum v. Dormire . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1065
Tatum v. Maryland Division of Correction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 863
Taube v. Illinois . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 870
Tavakoli-Nouri v. Central Intelligence Agency . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 882

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:23] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)
clxxxviii TABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageTax Appeals Tribunal of N. Y.; 31/32 Lexington Associates v. . . . 1137
Taylor, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1017,1045
Taylor; Bradley v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 893
Taylor v. Country Brook Estates . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 854
Taylor v. Dees . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 953,1108
Taylor; Downs v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 887
Taylor v. Federal Aviation Administration . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 877
Taylor v. Florida . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1007
Taylor v. Hannigan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 893
Taylor v. Kentucky . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 901
Taylor; Lee v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1197
Taylor v. Leonard . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 899
Taylor v. Monfils . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 810
Taylor v. North Carolina . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1164
Taylor v. Paintsville Hospital Co. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1115
Taylor v. Paul B. Hall Regional Medical Center . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1115
Taylor; Royal v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1000
Taylor; Saunders v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1008
Taylor v. Securities and Exchange Comm'n . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 867,1039
Taylor; Simmons v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1194
Taylor v. Slick . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1079
Taylor v. Stalder . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1088
Taylor; Strauss v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 900
Taylor v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 863,

904,909,914,969,987,1012,1093,1140,1142,1174
Taylor v. Veigas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 935,1107
Taylor v. Virginia Union Univ. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1189
Taylor v. Wall . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 935
Taylor; Williams v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 804,960,1044,1113
Taylor v. Winnebago County Jail . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 806
Taylor Communications Group v. Southwestern Bell Telephone Co. 930
Taylor, Inc. v. General Motors Corp. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1159
Teacherson v. Office of Patents and Trademarks . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1027
Teagne v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1082
Teal v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 913
Teamsters; Allied Systems, Ltd. v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 965
Teamsters; Bastian v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1189
Teamsters; Interstate Brands Corp. v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 822
Tearfie v. Whittlesea Blue Cab Co. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1168
Techneglas, Inc.; McBroom v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 832,999
Tejeda v. Texas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 986
Telemaque v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 920
Tellier v. U. S. District Court . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1025
Temple Shir Ami, Inc.; Goodman v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1075

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:23] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)

clxxxixTABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageTempleton v. Johnson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1052
Tenerelli v. Minnesota . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1165
Teng Li-Ann Lee v. Rancho Palos Verdes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1077,1198
Tenner v. Mississippi . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 878
Tenner v. Schomig . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1052
Tennessee; Black v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1192
Tennessee; Carter v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 857
Tennessee; Clayton v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 904
Tennessee; Coleman v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 935
Tennessee; Duncan v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 830
Tennessee; Gwin v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 915
Tennessee; Hurt v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 980
Tennessee; King v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 875,1007
Tennessee; Matiaz Juan v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 956
Tennessee; Morris v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 828
Tennessee; Small v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 891
Tennessee; Smith v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1023
Tennessee; Thompson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1157
Tennessee; Treadwell v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 889
Tennessee; Wright v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 828
Tennessee; Zagorski v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 829
Tennessee Bd. of Regents v. Coger . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1110
Tennessee Dept. of Human Services; Makoka v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 894
Tennessee Secondary School Athletic Assn.; Brentwood Academy v. 1153
Tennessee Valley Authority; Derryberry v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1047
Tennille, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 807
10280 Northfield Rd., LLC; Northfield v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 873
Terhune; Collins v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 860
Terhune; Estrada v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1083
Terhune; Fink v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1169
Terhune; Green v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 813
Terhune; Maciel v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1120
Terio v. Kurtzman & Haspel . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 840,999
Terreforte Quidgley v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 978
Terrell v. Illinois . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 881
Terrero v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 981
Terry v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 841,853,1195
Tesseyman, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1043,1149
Texas; Bailey v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 936
Texas; Barraza v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 825
Texas; Bean v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1165
Texas; Bradford v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 950
Texas; Braswell v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 860
Texas; Brooks v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 956,1089

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:23] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)
cxc TABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageTexas; Busby v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1081
Texas; Byrd v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 910,1040
Texas; Cameron v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1166
Texas; Caraway v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1048
Texas; Carmell v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1001
Texas; Cartwright v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 972
Texas; Cathey v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1082
Texas; Chamberlain v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1082
Texas; Clark v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1162
Texas; Crawford v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 835
Texas; Cruthird v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 935
Texas; Delgado v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 939
Texas; Dutch v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 831
Texas; Enriquez v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 899
Texas; Fuentes v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1026
Texas; Garcia Sanchez v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1021
Texas; Giles v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 878
Texas; Gomez v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1157
Texas; Gorham v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 864
Texas; Graham v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 974
Texas; Griffith v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 826
Texas; Guzman v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1161
Texas; Hernandez v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1157
Texas; Holmes v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1083
Texas; Howland v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 887
Texas; Jackson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 930,1040
Texas; Johnson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 835
Texas; Jones v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 985
Texas; Larry v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1120
Texas v. Lesage . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
Texas; Maestas v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 834
Texas; Martinez v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 825,1039
Texas; Marx v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1034
Texas; Mays v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 927
Texas; McGinnis v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1146
Texas; Moore v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1151
Texas; Mosley v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1083
Texas; Munoz v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 925
Texas; Nelms v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 954
Texas v. New Mexico . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 925
Texas; Patterson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 826
Texas; Pratt v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1167
Texas; Price v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1050
Texas; Rahim v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 810

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:23] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)

cxciTABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageTexas; Raphael v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 836,1056
Texas; Reneau v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 987
Texas; Rivera v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1168
Texas; Rogers v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1167
Texas; Shisinday v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1066
Texas; Smith v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1088
Texas; Tejeda v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 986
Texas; Truax v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 910
Texas; Weaver v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 830
Texas; Wheat v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 952
Texas; Whitfield v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 805
Texas; Williams v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 908
Texas; Wippert v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 927
Texas; Young v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1063
Texas; Ysleta del Sur Pueblo v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1156
Texas; Zubia v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1168
Texas Bd. of Pardons; Shaw v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1122
Texas Bd. of Pardons & Paroles; Beets v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1185
Texas Dept. of Criminal Justice, Institutional Division; Aguilar v. 851
Texas Dept. of Criminal Justice, Institutional Division; Potts v. . . 1007
Texas Electric Utility Service Co.; Jackson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1053,1198
Texas Gulf Trawling Co.; Don Vincente Macias, Inc. v. . . . . . . . . . 986
Thaler; Johnson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1171
Than v. University of Tex. Medical School at Houston . . . . . . . . . 1160
Thannisch v. Scott . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 954
Thayer; Trivedi v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 968
Theede v. Department of Labor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 961
Theresa v. New Jersey . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 952
Thibodeaux v. Cain . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1026
Thibodeaux; Garrick v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 815
Thibodeaux v. Louisiana . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 936
Thierry v. Gibson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 904
31/32 Lexington Associates v. Tax Appeals Tribunal of N. Y. . . . . 1137
Thomas, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1043,1073
Thomas v. Bush . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1123
Thomas v. Caldera . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 846,1014
Thomas v. Clagett . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 954
Thomas v. Durham . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 856
Thomas; Eastman Kodak Co. v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1161
Thomas; Flynn v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 935
Thomas; Franks v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 836,856,1106
Thomas v. Garraghty . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1106
Thomas; Jamison v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 892
Thomas; Johnson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1125

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:23] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)
cxcii TABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageThomas v. Kentucky . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1064
Thomas v. Kuhlmann . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1121
Thomas v. Meyers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 866
Thomas v. Moore . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 884,1040
Thomas v. Network Solutions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1115
Thomas v. Nevada . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 830
Thomas v. New York . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1026
Thomas v. North Carolina . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1006
Thomas v. Pennsylvania . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 827
Thomas v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 914,918,1066,1177
Thomas; West Haven v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1017,1187
Thomas Jefferson Univ.; Michelfelder v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1158
Thomas Jefferson Univ. Hospital; Bass v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1026,1184
Thompson, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1152
Thompson v. Alaska . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 904
Thompson; Brown v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1010
Thompson v. California . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1090
Thompson v. Federal Bureau of Investigation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 806
Thompson; Lyle v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1069
Thompson v. Missouri . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 849
Thompson v. Moore . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 939
Thompson v. National Aeronautics and Space Administration . . . 824
Thompson v. Tennessee . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1157
Thompson v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 904,942,978
Thornsbury v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 885
Thornton v. Scardelletti . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1141,1198
Threadgill v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 871
Thurston v. U. S. District Court . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1010,1108
Tibbs v. Corcoran . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1120
Tichenor v. Caldera . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 932
Tidwell; Fuller v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 864
Tidwell v. Norris . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 856,1106
Tidwell v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1023
Tiffany, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 807
Tiffany v. Roeder . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 914
Tillman v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 878
Tilmon v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1031
Time Inc.; Moore v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 932
Timley v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 916
Tineo v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 920
Ting v. College of Podiatric Medicine and Surgery . . . . . . . . . . . . 1151
Tingle v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1048
Tingley Systems, Inc.; CSC Consulting, Inc. v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1187
Tinsley v. Equifax Credit Information Services, Inc. . . . . . . . . . . 1047

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:23] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)

cxciiiTABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageTipp-It, Inc. v. Conboy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1116
Tisdale; Buggs v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 820,1039
Tisdale v. Ohio . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1027,1184
Tiwari v. Board of Regents of Univ. System of Ga. . . . . . . . . . . 879,1040
Tobin v. Board of Ed., Buffalo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 911
Tobin; Rodgers v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 831
Tobon v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 945
Tocco v. New York . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 968
Tohono O'Odham Nation; Evans v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 811
Tolbert v. Commissioner . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1043
Toledo; Emery v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 929
Toledo Blade Co.; Early v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 964
Toledo Bd. of Ed.; Baker v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1010,1132
Toledo-Castaneda v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 980
Tolley v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 898
Tomas v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1093
Tomeo v. Honeywell International, Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1161
Tompkins v. Alabama State Univ. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 816
Tong Park v. San Mateo County . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 834
Topink v. Commonwealth Edison Co. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 873
Top Valu Markets; Food and Commercial Workers v. . . . . . . . . . . 872
Torain v. Siemens Rolm Communications, Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 925
Torres v. B. F. I. Waste Systems . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 899
Torres v. Bonilla . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1004
Torres v. Dufrain . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 975
Torres v. Maloney . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 898
Torres v. McLaughlin . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1079
Torres v. Sablan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1110
Torres v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 891,1180
Tortorici v. New York . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 834
Tosco Corp.; Hindi v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1061
Total Action Against Poverty in Roanoke Valley; Mitchell v. . . . . 1117
Towers v. Chicago . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 874
Town. See name of town.
Townes v. New York City . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 964
Townsend, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 807
Townsend v. Chapin . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1170
Townsend v. Popper . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1170
Tracy Federal Bank; Tsu v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1135
Tran, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 807
Transit Union v. Niehaus . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 986
Transportation Union v. Ruocchio . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1154
Trans World Airlines, Inc.; Koster v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1021
Trapp v. Supreme Court of Wash. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1179

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:23] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)
cxciv TABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageTravis v. Prunty . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1084
Traylor, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1152
Traylor v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 919
Traynham v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 980
Treadway; Boggs v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 832
Treadwell v. Tennessee . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 889
Treasure Chest Casino v. Mullen . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1159
Trent v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1127,1196
Trevino v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1162
Trevino-Garcia v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1177
Trice v. Board of Trustees for Okolona Municipal School Dist. . . . 1019
Trippett; Maile v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 903
Tristani; U S WEST, Inc. v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1106
Trivedi v. Thayer . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 968
Trivette v. North Carolina Baptist Hospitals, Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1045
Trobaugh v. Iowa . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 836
Trobaugh v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1131
Trostel; Conseco Annuity Assurance Co. v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 922
Trout v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 933
Troxel v. Granville . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1044,1151
Truax v. Texas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 910
Truckdrivers; Dayton Newspapers, Inc. v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1137
True v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 976,1108
Truesdale v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 899
Trujillo Martinez v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1144
Trull v. North Carolina . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 835
Trump; Beverly Enterprises, Inc. v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1078
Trun Minh Le v. Barbour . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1085
Trust v. Jackson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1085
Trustees of Peninsula-Del. Annual Conference of United Methodist

Church, Inc.; East Lake Methodist Episcopal Church, Inc. v. . . 1138
Trustees of Univ. of Mass.; Richards v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1171
Tsakopoulos Investments; Williams v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1052
Tsu v. Tracy Federal Bank . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1135
Tuan Hoang v. Johnson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 938
Tucker, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 808
Tucker v. Cain . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 882,1057
Tucker v. Reliance National Ins. Co. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 966
Tucker v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 848
Tugwell v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1181
Tully; Cole v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 964
Tulsa; Carleton v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 809
Turcio-Salmeron v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 942
Turks v. Illinois . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1127,1198

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:23] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)

cxcvTABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageTurner; Bland v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 860
Turner v. Farm Bureau Ins. Agency . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 866
Turner v. Hawaii . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 899
Turner v. Illinois . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 840
Turner v. Internal Revenue Service . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1069,1151
Turner v. Johnson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1007
Turner v. Miller County Sheriff's Dept. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 832
Turner v. Mississippi . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 969
Turner v. Poullard . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 966
Turner v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 854,1111,1127,1177,1195
Turner v. Virginia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1134
Turner Broadcasting Inc.; Wenc v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1063
Turnipseed; Swainston v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 821
Turpin v. Hanks . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 825
Turrentine v. Northern Telecom Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1024
Turtletaub, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 924
Tuscaloosa; Harcros Chemicals, Inc. v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 812
Tuscaloosa; Industrial Chemicals, Inc. v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 812
Tuschner & Co. v. Securities and Exchange Comm'n . . . . . . . . . . 950
Tuttle v. Missouri Department of Agriculture . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 877
Twamley; Hoffmann v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 929,1056
Two Men and a Truck International, Inc.; Fernsler v. . . . . . . . . . 874
Tyabji v. California . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 849
Tyler, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 983,984,1017,1072,1135
Tyler v. Cryne . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 805
Tyler v. Moriarty . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 804
Tyler v. O'Neill . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1137
Tyler v. Schriro . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 915,1014
Tyler v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 841
Tyler v. Wiesman . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1166
Tyrone v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 899
Tyson v. Boone . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 975
U'Allah v. North Carolina . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 846
Udall; Lopez v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1009
Ugast; Miles v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 828
U-Haul International, Inc.; Corsini v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1061
Ukositkul v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 944
UMLIC-Nine Corp.; Waring v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1005
Unibell Anesthesia, P. C.; Guardian Life Ins. Co. of America v. . . 930
Unihealth America, Inc.; Fenton v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 923
Union. For labor union, see name of trade.
Union Carbide Corp.; Lightfoot v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 817
Union Carbide Corp.; Marcinkowsky v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1126
Union Planters Bank, N. A.; Hartford Underwriters Ins. Co. v. . . 985

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:23] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)
cxcvi TABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageUnion Station Terminal; Pack v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 959
Unisys Corp.; Meinhardt v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 950
United. For labor union, see name of trade.
United Farmers Plant Food, Inc. v. Lebanon Chemical Corp. . . . . 1079
United Farmers Plant Food, Inc. v. Lebanon Seaboard Corp. . . . . 1079
United Healthcare Services, Inc.; McNaughton v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 818
United Mine Workers Benefit Fund; Anker Energy Corp. v. . . . . 1003
United Parcel Service, Inc.; Haefling v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 820
United Parcel Service, Inc.; Mingtai Fire & Marine Ins. Co. v. . . 951
United Reporting Publishing Corp.; Los Angeles Police Dept. v. 32
United States. See name of other party.
U. S. Air Force; Parker v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1132
U. S. Court of Appeals; Alford v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 861
U. S. Court of Appeals; Carson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1178
U. S. Court of Appeals; King v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 920
U. S. Court of Appeals; Paveletz v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1044,1119
U. S. Court of Appeals; Saleem v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 914
U. S. Court of Appeals; White v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1052
U. S. District Court; Acker v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 954
U. S. District Court; Brigaerts v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 861
U. S. District Court; Coolidge v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 955
U. S. District Court; Counce v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 913
U. S. District Court; Fairfull v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 898
U. S. District Court; French v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 892
U. S. District Court; Genco v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1090
U. S. District Court; Hood v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 856
U. S. District Court; Joseph v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1055
U. S. District Court; Judd v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
U. S. District Court; Kulas v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 848
U. S. District Court; Loss v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 895
U. S. District Court; Lyle v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 805,806
U. S. District Court; Nubine v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 954
U. S. District Court; Perry v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 941
U. S. District Court; Rivera v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1193
U. S. District Court; Tellier v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1025
U. S. District Court; Thurston v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1010,1108
U. S. District Court; Washington v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 843,999
U. S. District Court; Woods v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 883,1107
U. S. District Judge; Blankenship v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1153
U. S. District Judge; Malley v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 929
U. S. District Judge; Sherwood v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 878
U. S. District Judge; Wallace v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 934
U. S. District Judge; Wilson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 872
United States Fidelity and Guaranty Co.; Zharn v. . . . . . . . . . . . 1086

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:23] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)

cxcviiTABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageUnited States Healthcare of Pa. v. Pennsylvania Hospital Ins. Co. 804
U. S. Magistrate; Kay v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1063
U. S. Parole Comm'n; Gallardo v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1180
U. S. Postal Service; Casimier v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 858,1056
U. S. Postal Service; Green v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 938
U. S. Postal Service; Gutierrez v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 826
U. S. Postal Service; Mack v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 914
U. S. Postal Service; Mazzarella v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 905,1107
U. S. Postal Service; Petties v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1194
U. S. Postal Service; Pink v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 940,1108
U. S. Postal Service; Schuster v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 978
United States Trotting Assn.; Super Sulky, Inc. v. . . . . . . . . . . . . 871
U. S. Trustee; Ferm v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1189
United Technologies Corp.; Emerick v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1005
Unity Real Estate Co. v. Hudson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 963
Universal Mortgage Corp.; Wright v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 894
Universe; Vey v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1081,1183
University Health System Development Corp.; Harilall v. . . . . . . 879
University Hospital; Harilall v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 879
University Hospital System; Harilall v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 879
University of Dayton School of Law; Bello v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1156
University of Haw.; El-Ramly v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1159
University of S. C.; Assa'ad-Faltas v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 922
University of Southern Cal.; Stanley v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1022
University of Tex. at San Antonio; Egeolu v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 835
University of Tex. Health Center, San Antonio; Karagounis v. . . . 986
University of Tex. Medical School at Houston; Than v. . . . . . . . . . 1160
University of Wash.; Mendlow v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 937
Unknown Federal Dist. Court Judges; Russel v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1175
Unocol Corp.; Simmons v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1061
Unser v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 809
UNUM Life Ins. of America; Wolk v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1076
Upjohn Co.; Snyder v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 986
Upland; Campbell v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 893
Uribe v. Southern Cal. Permanente Medical Group . . . . . . . . . . . 1190
Urrutia; Decker v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1021
Ursetti; Omlin v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1021
US Airways Group, Inc.; Everett v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 815
U S WEST Communications, Inc. v. FCC . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1188
U S WEST, Inc. v. Farr . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1116
U S WEST, Inc.; Farr v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1116
U S WEST, Inc.; Hoskins v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 857
U S WEST, Inc. v. Tristani . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1106
U S WEST Technologies; Kaferly v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1112

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:23] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)
cxcviii TABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageUtah; DeCorso v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1164
Utah; Herrera v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1049
Utah; Lovell v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1083
Utah Div. of Travel Dev.; Ringling Bros.-Barnum & Bailey v. . . . 923
Utah, Medicaid Section; McNeil v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 810
Utilities Dist. of W. Ind. Rural Elec. Coop.; Electrical Workers v. 819
Vaca-Hernandez v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1163
Vail v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 827
Vaile v. Walter . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1142
Valadez-Camarena v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1143
Valance v. Walker . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1173
Valdes v. Florida . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1123
Valdes v. Hahn . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 902
Valdes v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 910,1014
Valdespino v. Alamo Heights Independent School Dist. . . . . . . 804,1114
Valdez v. California . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1082
Valdez; Kulas v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1167
Valence Technology, Inc. v. Berry . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1019
Valencia-Gonzales v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 894
Valentino v. California . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1166
Valenzuela Flores v. Johnson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1122
Vallimont v. Eastman Kodak Co. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1191
Vanderveen; Acri v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 813
Vandross v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 981
Van Hoorelbeke v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1179
Van Horne v. Evergreen Media Corp. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 811
Vann v. Saffle . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 969
Vanoli v. Washington . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 919
VanSickel v. White . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 965
VanSickel; White v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 965
Vanyur; Garcia v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1092
Vardanega v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 872
Vargas v. Linahan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1141
Vargas-Mejias v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1011
Vargas-Molina v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1028
Vargas Navarro v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 845
Varner; Fisher v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1092
Varner; Illinois State Univ. v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1110
Vasquez v. Hill . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 887
Vasquez; Melton v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1064
Vasquez v. Neal . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 987
Vasquez-Alvarez v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 913
Vasquez-Bernal v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1130
Vasquez-Chamorro v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1081

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:23] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)

cxcixTABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageVasquez del Rosario v. Radloff . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 837,1039
Vassell v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1129
Vaughn; Hartey v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1138
Vaughn; McNeil v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 890
Vazquez v. Dufrain . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1121
Vee Choong Chin v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 919
Vega v. Florida . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 838
Vega Sosa; Saldana Sanchez v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1046
Veigas; Taylor v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 935,1107
Vela, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1073
Velazquez v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1028
Velez v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1030
Velez-Velasquez v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1034
Venegas v. Galaza . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1025
Veneri, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 926,1001
Vento v. Colorado National Bank . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 951
Ventura; Savior v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 938,1057
Ventura County; Dain v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1136
Ventura Group LLC; Ventura Marina and Landing v. . . . . . . . . . 870
Ventura Group LLC; Weeren v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 870
Ventura Marina and Landing v. Ventura Group LLC . . . . . . . . . . 870
Verdone, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 807
Vermont Agcy., Nat. Res. v. United States ex rel. Stevens . . . . . . 1001,

1015,1044,1112
Vermont Dept. of Ed.; Andrews v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1066
Vernatter v. Holland . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 854
Vernor v. Lock . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1096
Vest v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1029
Vey v. Ridge . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 818,999
Vey v. The Universe . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1081,1183
Victoria Independent School Dist. v. Harris . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1022
Victorville; Evans v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 802
Vidimos, Inc.; Wysong Laser Co. v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1061
Vidro v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 875
Vieux v. Pepe . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1163
Vig v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 859
Vigneau v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1172
Vild v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1181
Village. See name of village.
Villagrana v. California . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 939
Villaman-Rodriguez v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 917
Villareal-Gonzalez v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 980
Villarreal-Fuentes v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 840
Vincent v. Delta Airlines, Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1076

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:23] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)
cc TABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageVincent v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 848
Vineyard v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1029
Vinson, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1152
Vinson; Goodyear Tire & Rubber Co. v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1046
Viray v. Beneficial Cal., Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 974,1108
Viray v. Department of Navy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 916,1107
Virginia; Bramblett v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 952
Virginia; Bryant v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1087
Virginia; Cherrix v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 873
Virginia v. Collins . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1073
Virginia; Hedrick v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 952
Virginia; Herbin v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 837
Virginia; Morris v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 888
Virginia; Newton v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1025
Virginia; Reid v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 833
Virginia; Swisher v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 812
Virginia; Turner v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1134
Virginia; Walker v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1125
Virginia; Wallace v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 890
Virginia Mortgage Co. v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 876
Virginia Union Univ.; Taylor v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1189
Visiting Nurse Services of Western Mass., Inc. v. NLRB . . . . . . . 1074
Vizcaino; Microsoft Corp. v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1105
Vo v. California . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 936
Voigt v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1158
Voit v. Kentucky . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1137
Vosburgh v. Welch . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 871
Vose; LaRoche v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 869
Votta v. Gnazzo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1007
W. v. California . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1142
Wade v. Maryland . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1086
Wade v. New York . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1028
Wade v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 916
Wagener v. Angelone . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 956
Wagenheim v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1135
Wagner; Crandall v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1056
Wagner; Juntunen v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1191
Wagstaff; Reiman v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 926
Wahl v. San Diego Sheet Metal Works, Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1006
Wainscott v. Medusa Aggregates Co. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 869
Waite v. Empson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 816
Waiters; Floyd v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 891
Waldman; Cleary v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 870
Walker, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 808,1039

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:23] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)

cciTABLE OF CASES REPORTED
PageWalker; Anderson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1194
Walker; Bianchi v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 814
Walker v. Bonnet, LM . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 971,1057
Walker v. Clinton . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1145
Walker v. Collins . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 844
Walker v. Edmondson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 987
Walker; Johnson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1165
Walker v. Mesquite . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1131
Walker v. Mitchem . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 972
Walker; Mortham v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 809
Walker v. Neilsen . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1086
Walker; Nelson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1169
Walker v. New York . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 911
Walker v. Saffle . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 882
Walker; Smith v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 853
Walker v. Snyder . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 881
Walker v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 853,980,1029,1108
Walker; Valance v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1173
Walker v. Virginia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1125
Wall; Taylor v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 935
Wall v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1091
Wallace, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 808
Wallace v. Alaska . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 987
Wallace; Stewart v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1105
Wallace v. Stiehl . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 934
Wallace v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1141,1197
Wallace v. Virginia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 890
Wallis v. Moore . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1010
Walls v. Crowley . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 957
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. v. Danco, Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1105
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.; Nike, Inc. v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 946
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. v. Samara Brothers, Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . . 808,1060
Walsh; Wilhelmsen v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1048
Walt Disney Concert Hall No. 1; Wojciechowski v. . . . . . . . . . . 819,1039
Walter; Corpuz v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1007,1184
Walter; Miller v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 907
Walter; Vaile v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1142
Waltham School Committee; Bryant v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 868
Walton v. Booker . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 859
Wamre v. North Dakota . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1084
Wangboje v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 904
Wantland; Reliford v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1172
Ward; Cooks v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 834
Ward v. Hanks . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 802

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:23] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)
ccii TABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageWard v. Illinois . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 942,1193
Ward; LaFevers v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1151
Ward; Loss v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 895
Ward; Roberts v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1050,1132
Ward v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 855,866,958,1039
Ward; Wisdom v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1020
Wardell v. Colorado . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1195
Wardell v. Ryden . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1008
Warden. See also name of warden.
Warden, Caddo Correctional Center; Snipes v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 938
Warden, Md. House of Correction Annex; McCray v. . . . . . . . . . . 916
Wardlow; Illinois v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 119
Ware v. California . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 866
Wareham Ed. Assn. v. Massachusetts Labor Relations Comm'n . . 1062
Waring v. UMLIC-Nine Corp. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1005
Warmsley v. West . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1024
Warn v. M/Y Maridome . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 874
Warner; Orange County Dept. of Probation v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1003
Warner-Lambert Co.; Collins v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1134
Warren, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 802,808,1042,1073,1184
Warren Management Consultants, Inc.; Baba v. . . . . . . . . . . . . 806,1017
Wash v. Booker . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 956
Washington, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 962,1107
Washington; Angehrn v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 833
Washington v. Buchanan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1154
Washington; Buchanan v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1154
Washington v. Davis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 858,1039
Washington v. Finch . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 922
Washington; Gronquist v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1009
Washington v. Health Cost Controls of Ill., Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1136
Washington; Indiana High School Athletic Assn., Inc. v. . . . . . . . 1046
Washington; Kellogg v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1083
Washington; Leininger v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1085
Washington; Leong v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 892
Washington v. Margolis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 938
Washington; Markiewicz v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 978
Washington v. Regents of Univ. of Cal. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 971
Washington; Rhodes v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 898
Washington v. Russell . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1051
Washington; Scherf v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 956
Washington v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 916,943
Washington v. U. S. District Court . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 843,999
Washington; Vanoli v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 919
Washington Adventist Hospital; King v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 933,1040

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:23] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)

cciiiTABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageWashington Dept. of Revenue; Buffelen Woodworking Co. v. . . . . 950
Washington Dept. of Revenue v. W. R. Grace & Co.-Conn. . . . . . . 950
Washington Dept. of Revenue; W. R. Grace & Co.-Conn. v. . . . . . 950
Washington Dept. of Revenue; Yakama Indian Nation v. . . . . . . . 1116
Washington Dept. of Social and Health Services; May v. . . . . . . . 973
Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority v. Swanks . . . . 1061
Washington Mut. Bank, F. A.; Crefisa Inc. v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1139
Washington State Liquor Control Bd.; Ringo v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1155
Waskom v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1028
Wass; Randall v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1043
Waste Management, Inc.; Dempster v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 872
Waste Management of Pittsburgh; Dempster v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 872
Watchtower Bible and Tract Society of N. Y.; Bryan R. v. . . . . . . 1189
Waterfront Employers-I. L. A. Pens. Plan, Ports of S. C.; Boyd v. 1136
Waterhouse v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1179
Waterman S. S. Co. v. Weeks Marine, Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 933
Waters v. Brown . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 881
Waters; Williams v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1106
Water Works and Sewer Bd. of Birmingham v. Corps of Engs. . . 951
Watkins; Lundell v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 928
Watkins v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1034
Watkis, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 808
Watson v. Johnson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 837
Watson v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 826
Watts v. Johnson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1166
Watts; Louisville Country Club v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1061
Watts; Montana Rail Link, Inc. v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1020
Watts v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 980,1128
Wayne v. Pennsylvania . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 834
Wear; Galbreath v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 907
Weaselhead v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 829
Weatherhead; United States v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1042
Weathers v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 838
Weatherspoon v. North Dakota . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 920
Weatherspoon v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1141
Weaver, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1113
Weaver v. Arkansas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 913
Weaver v. Burger King Corp. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 948
Weaver v. Gaskins . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1010
Weaver v. Texas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 830
Webb v. B. C. Rogers Poultry, Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 964
Webb; California v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 875
Webb v. California Dept. of Rehabilitation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 814
Webb v. West . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 912,1041

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:23] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)
cciv TABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageWebb; Yuille v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 953
Webb-El, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 807
Weber; Eaton v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 865
Weber v. Strippit, Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1078
Webster v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 829
Wechsler, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 984,1071
Wedgeworth v. Sutton . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 858
Weed v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 942
Weeden v. Auto Workers Credit Union . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1076
Weeks v. Angelone . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 225,807
Weeks v. Moore . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1171
Weeks Marine, Inc.; Waterman S. S. Co. v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 933
Weeren v. Ventura Group LLC . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 870
Wehrli; Orange County v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1004
Weichert; Browning v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 805
Weiner; Mackay v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1025
Weiner v. Michigan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1165
Weir; Chaidez v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1171
Weir v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1029
Weisgram v. Marley Co. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 440,982
Weiss v. California . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1158
Weiss v. State Bar of Cal. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1173
Weisser, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 801,1016
Welch v. California . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1154
Welch v. Lambert . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 840,1145
Welch v. Mountain City . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 820
Welch v. Oklahoma . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 829
Welch; Vosburgh v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 871
Weldon v. Everett . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 912,1014
Weldon v. Holt . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1193
Weldon v. Wyoming . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 834,1013
Wella Corp.; Hall v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 900
Wellington v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1083
Wells v. Johnson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 955
Wells v. Lamson & Sessions Co. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1064
Wells; Liddy v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1118
Wells v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 841,1047
Wenc v. Cable News Network, Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1063
Wenc v. Turner Broadcasting Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1063
Wentzell v. McDaniel . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1093
Wenzel v. Apfel . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 870
Wenzel v. International Business Machines Corp. . . . . . . . . . . . 952,1067
Wesley v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 841
Wessinger v. Louisiana . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1050,1145

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:23] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)

ccvTABLE OF CASES REPORTED
PageWest; Burton v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 900
West; Bustos v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 967
West; Canterbury v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1088
West; Franklin v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 819
West v. Gibson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 803
West; Holley v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1080
West; Kinnell v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1111
West; Siewert v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1190
West; Staten v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 876
West v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 802,1055
West; Warmsley v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1024
West; Webb v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 912,1041
West; Willard v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1124
West; Winsett v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1193
Westchester County; Lazich v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 962
Western Coal Traffic League v. Surface Transportation Bd. . . . . 950
West Haven v. Thomas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1017,1187
Westinghouse Electric Corp.; Salvatori v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1160
Westminster; Davis, Reno & Courtney v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1061
Westminster v. Herr . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1061
Westminster Investments; Mason v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 805,1003
Westmoreland Coal Co.; Pryor v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1072
West Virginia; Allen v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 938
West Virginia; Carr v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1124
West Virginia; Daft v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1122
West Virginia; Flippo v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
West Virginia; Milburn v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 832
West Virginia; Rabb v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 935
West Virginia Dept. of Health and Human Services; Richardson v. 973
Whalen; Doty v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 891
Wheat v. Texas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 952
Wheeler v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 841,1029
Wheeling & Lake Erie R. Co. v. Pennsylvania Public Util. Comm'n 928
Wheeling & Lake Erie R. Co.; Pennsylvania Public Util. Comm'n v. 928
Whethers v. Pennsylvania . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 957
White v. Alaska . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 898,1040
White; Carpenter v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 925
White; Fiore v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
White v. Fist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 868
White v. Gibson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 927
White v. Godinez . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1127
White; Guidish v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 824
White v. LaChance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1153
White; Moore v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 850

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:23] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)
ccvi TABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageWhite v. Ohio . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 938
White; Oliveira v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1174
White v. Parker . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 865
White v. Rodriguez Mendoza . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1051
White v. Security Pacific Financial Services, Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1160
White v. SMI of Pattison Ave., L. P. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1079
White v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 841,894,990,1012,1029,1055
White v. U. S. Court of Appeals . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1052
White v. VanSickel . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 965
White; VanSickel v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 965
White v. Wilkinson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1026,1108
Whitfield v. Texas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 805
Whitley; Stewart v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1151
Whitmer v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1092
Whittlesea Blue Cab Co.; Tearfie v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1168
Wichmann; Board of Trustees of Southern Ill. Univ. v. . . . . . . . . . 1111
Widener Univ. School of Law; DeAngelis v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1053
Widmer v. Noble . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 975
Wiener v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1139
Wiesman; Tyler v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1166
Wiesner v. Willkie, Farr & Gallagher . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1139
Wiggins v. Maryland . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 832
Wilbanks v. A. H. Robbins Co. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1139
Wilborn v. Harvard . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 975,1067
Wilburn v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1081
Wilder v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1007,1054
Wiles; Menjivar v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 875
Wiley v. Johnson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1089
Wiley; Shriner v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1123
Wiley v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1006,1132
Wilhelmsen v. Walsh . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1048
Wilhoite v. Merit Systems Protection Bd. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1032
Wilkerson v. Johnson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1124
Wilkerson v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 859,927
Wilkes, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 925
Wilkins v. Oklahoma . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1086
Wilkinson; Alford v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 847
Wilkinson v. Russell . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1155
Wilkinson; White v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1026,1108
Willard v. West . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1124
Willars v. Jones . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1046
Willett v. City Univ. of N. Y. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 967
William v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1054
William R. Hughes, Inc.; Lescs v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1119

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:23] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)

ccviiTABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageWilliams, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1073
Williams v. Atlanta . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1152
Williams v. Board of Ed. of Montgomery County . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1151
Williams v. Cain . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1064,1086,1168
Williams v. California . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1166
Williams v. Clark . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1053
Williams v. Commissioner . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1112
Williams v. Community Bank/NationsBank . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 955,1057
Williams v. East Coast Truck Lines . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1072
Williams v. Florida . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 827
Williams v. Galaza . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 842
Williams v. Hutchison . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1124
Williams v. Illinois . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 884
Williams v. Indiana . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1170
Williams v. Jarvis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1024
Williams v. Johnson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 828,882,1192
Williams v. Lensing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 890
Williams; McDaniel-Ortega v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 836
Williams v. Minnesota . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 874
Williams v. Moore . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 971
Williams v. North Carolina . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 880
Williams; Pennsylvania v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1077
Williams v. Schriro . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 841,1039
Williams v. Taylor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 804,960,1044,1113
Williams v. Texas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 908
Williams v. Tsakopoulos Investments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1052
Williams v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 826,

842, 854, 867, 902, 921, 940, 945, 958, 981, 1040, 1054, 1096, 1129,
1141,1176,1179,1180
Williams v. Waters . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1106
Williamson v. Bowersox . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 896
Williamson v. Chicago Transit Authority . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1076
Willis v. California State Bar . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1079
Willis v. Goodpaster . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1046
Willis v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 976,1032
Willis, C. P. A., Inc. v. Public Service Co. of Okla. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1003
Willkie, Farr & Gallagher; Weisner v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1139
Willman v. Michigan Dept. of Corrections . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1062,1183
Willowbrook v. Olech . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 562,1059
Wills v. Galaza . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 883
Wilshire Terrace Corp.; Pierson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 925
Wilson v. Area Plan Comm'n of Evansville and Vanderburgh County 1019
Wilson v. Began . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 965
Wilson; Binder v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1154

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:23] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)
ccviii TABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageWilson v. California . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1081,1198
Wilson v. Catoe . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 880
Wilson v. Hart . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 872
Wilson v. Illinois . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1168
Wilson v. Kraus Investments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1164
Wilson v. Millhouse . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 854
Wilson v. Moore . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 953
Wilson; Oakley v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 822
Wilson v. Oklahoma . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 904
Wilson v. Reynolds . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 844
Wilson v. Roe . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 841
Wilson v. Sager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1085
Wilson v. Schriro . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 867
Wilson v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 828,841,979,981,1174
Wilson Co. v. Mississippi Tax Comm'n . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 869
Wilson Co.; Mississippi Tax Comm'n v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 869
Wilson Partners v. Pennsylvania Bd. of Finance and Revenue . . . 1159
Wimbush v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1029
Wimmer v. Suffolk County Police Dept. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 964
Winchester v. Little . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1026
Winestock v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 980
Winfield v. Missouri . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1130
Wing; Johnson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1162
Wingard; Stevens v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 832
Winnebago County Jail; Taylor v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 806
Winsett v. West . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1193
Winslow v. Angelone . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1084
Wintergreen Nurseries v. E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Co. . . . . . 921
Winters v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 969
Winward v. Carr . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1141
Winzy v. Lensing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 867,1039
Wippert v. Texas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 927
Wireless Broadcasting Systems of Sacramento, Inc.; Doherty v. 813
Wireless Broadcasting Systems of Sacramento, Inc.; Menlo Club v. 813
Wisconsin; Clemons v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1086
Wisconsin; Eesley v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 909
Wisconsin; Erickson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1140
Wisconsin; Farr v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 906
Wisconsin; Frederick v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 866
Wisconsin; Huettl v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 900,1040
Wisconsin; Jones v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1143
Wisconsin; Normington v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1013
Wisconsin; Shea v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1122
Wisconsin Dept. of Health and Family Services; Pesek v. . . . . . . . 934

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:23] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)

ccixTABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageWisconsin Dept. of Transportation v. Reno . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1114
Wisconsin Mfrs. & Commerce; Elections Bd. of Wis. v. . . . . . . . . 969
Wisdom v. Ward . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1020
Wiseman v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 889
Wisner; Professional Divers of New Orleans v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 922
Witco Corp.; Lazy Oil Co. v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 874
Withers; Biggins v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1049
Withrow v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 950
Witter v. Immigration and Naturalization Service . . . . . . . . . . . . 1075
Wofford v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 910
Wojciechowski v. Montevideo Partnership . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 817,1038
Wojciechowski v. Walt Disney Concert Hall No. 1 . . . . . . . . . . 819,1039
Wojcik v. Meek . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1005
Wolff v. California . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 902
Wolk v. UNUM Life Ins. of America . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1076
Wolmarans v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 989
Wood; Rotella v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 549
Wood v. Social Security Administration . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1033
Woodard, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1152
Woodard; Billups v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 955
Woodard v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 890,921
Wooderts v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1034
Woodford; Rich v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1092
Woodley v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 882
Woodress v. Woodress . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1084
Woods, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 807
Woods v. Caesar . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 937
Woods; Carlson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 936
Woods v. Henderson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1031
Woods v. Indiana . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 861
Woods v. Johnson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 881
Woods v. Kenan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 878
Woods v. Klingler . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 859
Woods v. Ohio . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 831
Woods v. Securities and Exchange Comm'n . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1009
Woods v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 881,1029,1067
Woods v. U. S. District Court . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 883,1107
Woodside; Schlosser v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 823
Woodstock; Amati v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 985
Woody, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 808
Woody v. Roe . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1092
Woolley v. Zimmerman . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1038
Woolworth Co. v. Franchise Tax Bd. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1186
Woosley v. Smith . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1159

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:23] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)
ccx TABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageWooton; Roberts v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1117
Word v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 913
Workers' Compensation Appeal Bd.; Mekalonis v. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1164
Workers' Compensation Appeal Bd. (Dept. of Pub.Welf.); Kehler v. 1120
Workers' Compensation Appeals Bd.; Colbert v. . . . . . . . . . . . . 866,1107
Workman v. Bell . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 913,1041
Worth Capital, Inc. v. Herman Miller, Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 821
W. R. Grace & Co.-Conn. v. Washington Dept. of Revenue . . . . . . 950
W. R. Grace & Co.-Conn.; Washington Dept. of Revenue v. . . . . . 950
Wright; Blake v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1136
Wright v. Cain . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 973
Wright; Carter v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 860
Wright v. Davis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1168
Wright v. Haley . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 934
Wright v. Johnson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 865
Wright v. Moore . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1087
Wright v. Oregon State Bd. of Parole . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 966,1108
Wright; Riddick v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 854,1025
Wright v. South Dakota . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1001,1060
Wright v. Tennessee . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 828
Wright v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 893,901,919
Wright v. Universal Mortgage Corp. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 894
Wronke v. Madigan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 881,1000,1171
WuChang v. Redwood City . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1141
Wu Ho; Feldman v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 928
Wyatt v. Henry . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 976
Wyoming; Espinoza v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 818
Wyoming; Nebraska v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1059
Wyoming; Pfeil v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 988
Wyoming; Sanchez v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 978
Wyoming; Weldon v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 834,1013
Wysong Laser Co. v. Vidimos, Inc. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1061
Xerox Corp.; Talyansky v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1020,1132
Xin Hang Chen v. Raz . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1056
Xomox Corp. v. Federal Ins. Co. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 967
Y. v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 897
Yakama Indian Nation v. Washington Dept. of Revenue . . . . . . . . 1116
Yancy v. Cain . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1050
Yankton Sioux Tribe v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 928
Yarbrough v. Johnson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 866
Yasin v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 902
Ybarra v. McDaniel . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1191
Ybarra Villagrana v. California . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 939
Yearwood; Cole v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 843

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:23] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)

ccxiTABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageYearwood; Hernandez v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 866
Yelverton v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1195
Ylst; Garcia v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1024
York Products, Inc. v. LRV Acquisition Corp. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1079
Young v. Bowersox . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 880
Young v. Cain . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1084
Young v. California . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 831
Young v. Dormire . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 899
Young v. General Motors Corp. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1158
Young v. Gregoire . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 930
Young v. Illinois . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1010
Young v. Michigan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 970
Young v. Montgomery City Council . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 879,1040
Young v. Ohio . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 982
Young v. Oklahoma . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 837
Young v. Texas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1063
Young v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 890,979,1040,1055
YoungBear, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1073
Youngs v. Department of Army . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 889
Ysleta del Sur Pueblo v. Texas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1156
Yu v. California . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1138
Yu; Signet Bank/Virginia v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 965
Yuille v. Webb . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 953
Yukins; Simpson v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1089
Yukins; Szenay v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 820
Yurtis v. Phipps . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 942,1057
Zaentz; Perry v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1024,1184
Zaetler v. Moore . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1024
Zagorski v. Tennessee . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 829
Zahran v. Frankenmuth Mut. Ins. Co. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1020
Zahran v. Schmidt . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1182
Zakhia v. Pinchak . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 890
Zamarripa v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1096
Zander v. Ohio . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1171
Zanghi v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1097
Zapata-Robles v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1066
Zarate v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 882,884
Zavaras; Portley-El v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1088
Zeegers, In re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1071
Zelaya-Amaya v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 920
Zelazek v. Illinois . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 968
Zelman v. Simmons-Harris . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 983
Zharn v. United States Fidelity and Guaranty Co. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1086
Zigmund v. Norko . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 835

Job: 528REP Unit: $UBV [06-06-01 15:35:23] PGT: TCRBV (Bound Volume)
ccxii TABLE OF CASES REPORTED

PageZigmund v. Solnit . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 854
Zimbovsky v. Massachusetts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1125
Zimmerman; Woolley v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1038
Zirkind v. New York . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1190
Zlaket; Smith v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 887
Zook; Moosavi v. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 911
Zora Enterprises, Inc. v. Marion . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 952
Zora Enterprises, Inc. v. Massachusetts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1047
Zubia v. Texas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1168
Zubiate v. McCausland . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1024
Zubiate v. Sonoma County Social Services Dept. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 889
Zuker v. Andrews . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1048,1145
Zukowski v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1031
Zuniga v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1097,1175
Zvi v. United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 872
Zwicker v. Moore . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 802

528US1 Unit: $$U1 [08-17-00 07:59:09] PAGES PGT: OPIN

CASES ADJUDGED

IN THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

AT
OCTOBER TERM, 1999

BRANCATO v. GUNN et al.
on motion for leave to proceed in forma pauperis

No. 98-9913. Decided October 12, 1999
Held: Abusive filer of frivolous petitions is denied leave to proceed in

forma pauperis under this Court's Rule 39.8 and barred from filing

further certiorari petitions in noncriminal matters unless he first pays
the docketing fee required by Rule 38 and submits his petitions in compliance with Rule 33.1. See Martin v. District of Columbia Court of
Appeals, 506 U. S. 1.

Motion denied.

Per Curiam.
Pro se petitioner Brancato seeks leave to proceed in forma
pauperis under Rule 39 of this Court. We deny this request
as frivolous pursuant to Rule 39.8. Brancato is allowed untilNovember 2, 1999, within which to pay the docketing fees

required by Rule 38 and to submit his petition in compliancewith this Court's Rule 33.1. We also direct the Clerk not to
accept any further petitions for certiorari from Brancato in
noncriminal matters unless he first pays the docketing fee
required by Rule 38 and submits his petitions in compliance
with Rule 33.1.

Brancato has abused this Court's certiorari process. On
June 7, 1999, we invoked Rule 39.8 to deny Brancato in

1

528US1 Unit: $$U1 [08-17-00 07:59:09] PAGES PGT: OPIN
2 BRANCATO v. GUNN

Stevens, J., dissenting
forma pauperis status with respect to a petition for certio-rari. See Brancato v. Connecticut Gen. Life Ins. Co., 526

U. S. 1157. Prior to the Rule 39.8 denial, Brancato had filedsix petitions for certiorari, all of which were both frivolous
and had been denied without recorded dissent. The instantpetition for certiorari thus brings Brancato's total number of
frivolous filings to eight.We enter the order barring prospective filings for the reasons discussed in Martin v. District of Columbia Court of
Appeals, 506 U. S. 1 (1992) (per curiam). Brancato's abuseof the writ of certiorari has been in noncriminal cases, and

we limit our sanction accordingly. The order therefore willnot prevent Brancato from petitioning to challenge criminal
sanctions which might be imposed on him. The order will,however, allow this Court to devote its limited resources to
the claims of petitioners who have not abused our processes.

It is so ordered.
Justice Stevens, dissenting.
For reasons previously stated, see Martin v. District ofColumbia Court of Appeals, 506 U. S. 1, 4 (1992) (

Stevens,J., dissenting), and cases cited, I respectfully dissent.

528US1 Unit: $$U2 [08-17-00 07:59:13] PAGES PGT: OPIN

3OCTOBER TERM, 1999
Per Curiam

ANTONELLI v. CARIDINE et al.
on motion for leave to proceed in forma pauperis

No. 98-9933. Decided October 12, 1999*
Held: Abusive filer of frivolous petitions is denied leave to proceed in

forma pauperis under this Court's Rule 39.8 and barred from filing further petitions in noncriminal matters unless he first pays the docketing
fee required by Rule 38 and submits his petitions in compliance with
Rule 33.1. See Martin v. District of Columbia Court of Appeals, 506
U. S. 1.

Motions denied.

Per Curiam.
Pro se petitioner Antonelli seeks leave to proceed informa pauperis under Rule 39 of this Court. We deny these

requests as frivolous pursuant to Rule 39.8. Antonelli is al-lowed until November 2, 1999, within which to pay the docketing fees required by Rule 38 and to submit his petitions incompliance with this Court's Rule 33.1. We also direct the
Clerk not to accept any further petitions for certiorari orpetitions for extraordinary writs from Antonelli in noncriminal matters unless he first pays the docketing fee requiredby Rule 38 and submits his petitions in compliance with
Rule 33.1.Antonelli has abused this Court's certiorari and extraordinary writ processes. On June 21, 1993, and November 29,1993, we invoked Rule 39.8 to deny Antonelli

in forma pau-peris status with respect to two petitions for certiorari.

See Antonelli v. Illinois, 509 U. S. 902, Antonelli v. O'Mal-ley, 510 U. S. 988. Prior to the two Rule 39.8 denials, Antonelli had filed 34 petitions for certiorari and 2 petitions forextraordinary writs, all of which were both frivolous and had
been denied without recorded dissent. Since the two Rule

*Together with No. 99-5445, Antonelli v. United States, also on motion
for leave to proceed in forma pauperis.

528US1 Unit: $$U2 [08-17-00 07:59:13] PAGES PGT: OPIN
4 ANTONELLI v. CARIDINE

Stevens, J., dissenting
39.8 denials, Antonelli has filed 17 petitions for certiorari, allof which were also frivolous and denied without recorded

dissent. The instant 2 petitions for certiorari thus bringAntonelli's total number of frivolous filings to 57.

We enter the order barring prospective filings for the rea-sons discussed in Martin v. District of Columbia Court of
Appeals, 506 U. S. 1 (1992) (per curiam). Antonelli's abuseof the writ of certiorari and of the extraordinary writs has
been in noncriminal cases, and we limit our sanction accord-ingly. The order therefore will not prevent Antonelli from
petitioning to challenge criminal sanctions which might beimposed on him. The order will, however, allow this Court
to devote its limited resources to the claims of petitionerswho have not abused our processes.

It is so ordered.
Justice Stevens, dissenting.
For reasons previously stated, see Martin v. District of
Columbia Court of Appeals, 506 U. S. 1, 4 (1992) (Stevens,J., dissenting), and cases cited, I respectfully dissent.

528US1 Unit: $$U3 [06-14-01 18:14:48] PAGES PGT: OPIN

5OCTOBER TERM, 1999
Per Curiam

JUDD v. UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE

WESTERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS et al.

on motion for leave to proceed in forma pauperis

No. 99-5260. Decided October 12, 1999
Held: Abusive filer of frivolous petitions is denied leave to proceed in

forma pauperis under this Court's Rule 39.8 and barred from filing further petitions in noncriminal matters unless he first pays the docketing
fee required by Rule 38 and submits his petitions in compliance with
Rule 33.1. See Martin v. District of Columbia Court of Appeals, 506
U. S. 1.

Motion denied.

Per Curiam.
Pro se petitioner Judd seeks leave to proceed in forma
pauperis under Rule 39 of this Court. We deny this request
as frivolous pursuant to Rule 39.8. Judd is allowed until
November 2, 1999, within which to pay the docketing fees
required by Rule 38 and to submit his petition in compliance
with this Court's Rule 33.1. We also direct the Clerk not to
accept any further petitions for certiorari or petitions for
extraordinary writs from Judd in noncriminal matters unless
he first pays the docketing fee required by Rule 38 and submits his petitions in compliance with Rule 33.1.

Judd has abused this Court's certiorari and extraordinary
writ processes. On May 30, 1995, we invoked Rule 39.8 to
deny Judd in forma pauperis status with respect to a petition for an extraordinary writ. See In re Judd, 515 U. S.
1101. Prior to this Rule 39.8 denial, Judd had filed six petitions for certiorari, all of which were both frivolous and had
been denied without recorded dissent. Since the Rule 39.8
denial, Judd has filed four petitions for certiorari, all of which
were also frivolous and denied without recorded dissent.
The instant petition for certiorari thus brings Judd's total
number of frivolous filings to 12.

528US1 Unit: $$U3 [06-14-01 18:14:48] PAGES PGT: OPIN
6 JUDD v. UNITED STATES DIST. COURT FOR

WESTERN DIST. OF TEX.

Stevens, J., dissenting

We enter the order barring prospective filings for the rea-sons discussed in Martin v. District of Columbia Court of

Appeals, 506 U. S. 1 (1992) (per curiam). Judd's abuse ofthe writ of certiorari and of the extraordinary writs has been
in noncriminal cases, and we limit our sanction accordingly.The order therefore will not prevent Judd from petitioning
to challenge criminal sanctions which might be imposed onhim. The order will, however, allow this Court to devote
its limited resources to the claims of petitioners who havenot abused our processes.

It is so ordered.
Justice Stevens, dissenting.
For reasons previously stated, see Martin v. District ofColumbia Court of Appeals, 506 U. S. 1, 4 (1992) (

Stevens,J., dissenting), and cases cited, I respectfully dissent.

528US1 Unit: $$U4 [08-17-00 07:59:19] PAGES PGT: OPIN

7OCTOBER TERM, 1999
Per Curiam

DEMPSEY v. MARTIN, DISTRICT ATTORNEY FOR

SUFFOLK COUNTY

on motion for leave to proceed in forma pauperis

No. 99-5283. Decided October 12, 1999
Held: Abusive filer of frivolous petitions is denied leave to proceed in

forma pauperis under this Court's Rule 39.8 and barred from filing further petitions in noncriminal matters unless he first pays the docketing
fee required by Rule 38 and submits his petitions in compliance with
Rule 33.1. See Martin v. District of Columbia Court of Appeals, 506
U. S. 1.

Motion denied.

Per Curiam.
Pro se petitioner Dempsey seeks leave to proceed in
forma pauperis under Rule 39 of this Court. We deny this
request as frivolous pursuant to Rule 39.8. Dempsey is allowed until November 2, 1999, within which to pay the docketing fees required by Rule 38 and to submit his petition in
compliance with this Court's Rule 33.1. We also direct the
Clerk not to accept any further petitions for certiorari or
petitions for extraordinary writs from Dempsey in noncriminal matters unless he first pays the docketing fee required
by Rule 38 and submits his petitions in compliance with
Rule 33.1.

Dempsey has abused this Court's certiorari and extraordinary writ processes. On October 5, 1992, we invoked Rule
39.8 to deny Dempsey in forma pauperis status with respect
to a petition for certiorari. See Dempsey v. Sears, Roebuck & Co., 506 U. S. 810. At that time, Dempsey had filed
11 petitions for certiorari and 1 petition for an extraordinary
writ, all of which were both frivolous and had been denied
without recorded dissent. Since that time, Dempsey has
filed five petitions for certiorari, all of which were also frivolous and denied without recorded dissent. The instant peti528US1 Unit: $$U4 [08-17-00 07:59:19] PAGES PGT: OPIN
8 DEMPSEY v. MARTIN

Stevens, J., dissenting
tion for certiorari thus brings Dempsey's total number offrivolous filings to 19.

We enter the order barring prospective filings for the rea-sons discussed in Martin v. District of Columbia Court of
Appeals, 506 U. S. 1 (1992) (per curiam). Dempsey's abuseof the writ of certiorari and of the extraordinary writs has
been in noncriminal cases, and we limit our sanction accord-ingly. The order therefore will not prevent Dempsey from
petitioning to challenge criminal sanctions which might beimposed on him. The order will, however, allow this Court
to devote its limited resources to the claims of petitionerswho have not abused our processes.

It is so ordered.
Justice Stevens, dissenting.
For reasons previously stated, see Martin v. District ofColumbia Court of Appeals, 506 U. S. 1, 4 (1992) (

Stevens,J., dissenting), and cases cited, I respectfully dissent.

528US1 Unit: $$U5 [08-17-00 07:59:22] PAGES PGT: OPIN

9OCTOBER TERM, 1999
Per Curiam

PRUNTY v. BROOKS et al.
on motion for leave to proceed in forma pauperis

No. 99-5316. Decided October 12, 1999
Held: Abusive filer of frivolous petitions is denied leave to proceed in

forma pauperis under this Court's Rule 39.8 and barred from filing

further certiorari petitions in noncriminal matters unless he first pays
the docketing fee required by Rule 38 and submits his petitions in compliance with Rule 33.1. See Martin v. District of Columbia Court of
Appeals, 506 U. S. 1.

Motion denied.

Per Curiam.
Pro se petitioner Prunty seeks leave to proceed in formapauperis under Rule 39 of this Court. We deny this request

as frivolous pursuant to Rule 39.8. Prunty is allowed untilNovember 2, 1999, within which to pay the docketing fees
required by Rule 38 and to submit his petition in compliancewith this Court's Rule 33.1. We also direct the Clerk not to
accept any further petitions for certiorari from Prunty innoncriminal matters unless he first pays the docketing fee
required by Rule 38 and submits his petitions in compliancewith Rule 33.1.

Prunty has abused this Court's certiorari process. OnApril 19, 1999, we invoked Rule 39.8 to deny Prunty

informa pauperis status with respect to a petition for certiorari. See Prunty v. Holschuh, 526 U. S. 1063. At thattime, Prunty had filed eight petitions for certiorari, all of
which were both frivolous and had been denied without re-corded dissent. The instant petition for certiorari thus
brings Prunty's total number of frivolous filings to 10.We enter the order barring prospective filings for the reasons discussed in Martin v. District of Columbia Court ofAppeals, 506 U. S. 1 (1992) (per curiam). Prunty's abuse of
the writ of certiorari has been in noncriminal cases, and welimit our sanction accordingly. The order therefore will not

528US1 Unit: $$U5 [08-17-00 07:59:22] PAGES PGT: OPIN
10 PRUNTY v. BROOKS

Stevens, J., dissenting
prevent Prunty from petitioning to challenge criminal sanc-tions which might be imposed on him. The order will, however, allow this Court to devote its limited resources to theclaims of petitioners who have not abused our processes.

It is so ordered.
Justice Stevens, dissenting.
For reasons previously stated, see Martin v. District of
Columbia Court of Appeals, 506 U. S. 1, 4 (1992) (Stevens,J., dissenting), and cases cited, I respectfully dissent.

528US1 Unit: $$U6 [08-17-00 07:59:25] PAGES PGT: OPIN

11OCTOBER TERM, 1999
Per Curiam

FLIPPO v. WEST VIRGINIA
on petition for writ of certiorari to the circuitcourt of west virginia, fayette county*

No. 98-8770. Decided October 18, 1999
After petitioner was indicted for murdering his wife, he moved to suppress evidence that the police discovered in a closed briefcase during a
warrantless search of the secured crime scene, a cabin where the couple
was vacationing. A West Virginia trial court denied his motion on the
ground that the police were entitled to search any crime scene and the
objects found there. The State Supreme Court of Appeals denied discretionary review.

Held: The trial court's position squarely conflicts with this Court's holding in Mincey v. Arizona, 437 U. S. 385, that there is no "murder scene
exception" to the Fourth Amendment's Warrant Clause. While the police may make warrantless entries onto premises if they reasonably believe a person needs immediate aid and may make prompt warrantless
searches of a homicide scene for possible other victims or a killer, a
search is not constitutionally permissible simply because a homicide has
recently occurred on the premises. Id., at 395. On remand, if properly
raised, matters such as the State's contention that the search was consensual, the applicability of any other exception to the warrant rule, or
the harmlessness vel non of any error in receiving this evidence may
be resolved.

Certiorari granted; reversed and remanded.

Per Curiam.
Petitioner's motion to suppress evidence seized in a
warrantless search of a "homicide crime scene" was denied
on the ground that the police were entitled to make a
thorough search of any crime scene and the objects found

*Petitioner sought a writ directed to the West Virginia Supreme Court
of Appeals. That court, however, merely declined to exercise discretionary review. The last state court to rule on the merits of this case was
the Circuit Court of West Virginia, Fayette County, to which the writ is
therefore addressed.

528US1 Unit: $$U6 [08-17-00 07:59:25] PAGES PGT: OPIN
12 FLIPPO v. WEST VIRGINIA

Per Curiam
there. Because the rule applied directly conflicts with Mincey v. Arizona, 437 U. S. 385 (1978), we reverse.

One night in 1996, petitioner and his wife were vacationingat a cabin in a state park. After petitioner called 911 to

report that they had been attacked, the police arrived to find
petitioner waiting outside the cabin, with injuries to his head
and legs. After questioning him, an officer entered the
building and found the body of petitioner's wife, with fatal
head wounds. The officers closed off the area, took petitioner to the hospital, and searched the exterior and environs
of the cabin for footprints or signs of forced entry. When a
police photographer arrived at about 5:30 a.m., the officers
reentered the building and proceeded to "process the crime
scene." Brief in Opposition 5. For over 16 hours, they took
photographs, collected evidence, and searched through the
contents of the cabin. According to the trial court, "[a]t the
crime scene, the investigating officers found on a table in
Cabin 13, among other things, a briefcase, which they, in the
ordinary course of investigating a homicide, opened, wherein
they found and seized various photographs and negatives."
Indictment No. 96-F-119 (Cir. Ct. Fayette County, W. Va.,
May 28, 1997), App. A to Pet. for Cert., p. 2.

Petitioner was indicted for the murder of his wife and
moved to suppress the photographs and negatives discovered
in an envelope in the closed briefcase during the search.1
He argued that the police had obtained no warrant, and that
no exception to the warrant requirement justified the search
and seizure.

1 The photographs included several taken of a man who appears to be
taking off his jeans. He was later identified as Joel Boggess, a friend
of petitioner and a member of the congregation of which petitioner was
the minister. At trial, the prosecution introduced the photographs as evidence of petitioner's relationship with Mr. Boggess and argued that the
victim's displeasure with this relationship was one of the reasons that
petitioner may have been motivated to kill her.

528US1 Unit: $$U6 [08-17-00 07:59:25] PAGES PGT: OPIN

13Cite as: 528 U. S. 11 (1999)
Per Curiam
In briefs to the trial court, petitioner contended that
Mincey v. Arizona, supra, rejects a "crime scene exception" to the warrant requirement of the Fourth Amendment.
The State also cited Mincey; it argued that the police may
conduct an immediate investigation of a crime scene to preserve evidence from intentional or accidental destruction,
id., at 394, and characterized the police activity in this case
as "crime scene search and inventory," Brief in Opposition 12. The State also relied on the "plain view" exception, Mincey, supra, at 393 (citing Michigan v. Tyler, 436
U. S. 499, 509-510 (1978)), noting only, however, that the
briefcase was unlocked.

In denying the motion, the trial court said nothing about
inventory or plain view, but instead approved the search as
one of a "homicide crime scene":

"The Court also concludes that investigating officers,
having secured, for investigative purposes, the homicide
crime scene, were clearly within the law to conduct a
thorough investigation and examination of anything and
everything found within the crime scene area. The examination of [the] briefcase found on the table near the
body of a homicide victim in this case is clearly something an investigating officer could lawfully examine."
App. A to Pet. for Cert., at 3.

After hearing an oral presentation of petitioner's petition for
appeal of this ruling, and with the full record before it, the
Supreme Court of Appeals of West Virginia denied discretionary review. No. 982196 (Jan. 13, 1999), App. B to Pet.
for Cert.

A warrantless search by the police is invalid unless it falls
within one of the narrow and well-delineated exceptions to
the warrant requirement, Katz v. United States, 389 U. S.
347, 357 (1967), none of which the trial court invoked

528US1 Unit: $$U6 [08-17-00 07:59:25] PAGES PGT: OPIN
14 FLIPPO v. WEST VIRGINIA

Per Curiam
here.2 It simply found that after the homicide crime scene
was secured for investigation, a search of "anything and
everything found within the crime scene area" was "within
the law." App. A to Pet. for Cert., at 3.

This position squarely conflicts with Mincey v. Arizona,
supra, where we rejected the contention that there is a
"murder scene exception" to the Warrant Clause of the
Fourth Amendment. We noted that police may make warrantless entries onto premises if they reasonably believe a
person is in need of immediate aid and may make prompt
warrantless searches of a homicide scene for possible other
victims or a killer on the premises, id., at 392, but we rejected any general "murder scene exception" as "inconsistent with the Fourth and Fourteenth Amendments-- . . . the
warrantless search of Mincey's apartment was not constitutionally permissible simply because a homicide had recently occurred there." Id., at 395; see also Thompson v.
Louisiana, 469 U. S. 17, 21 (1984) (per curiam). Mincey
controls here.

Although the trial court made no attempt to distinguish
Mincey, the State contends that the trial court's ruling is
supportable on the theory that petitioner's direction of the
police to the scene of the attack implied consent to search as

2 The State suggests that the trial court's finding that the search was
"within the law" could be read as premised on the theories of plain
view, exigent circumstances, and inventory that the State advanced below.
No trace of this reasoning appears in the trial court's opinion, which instead appears to undermine the State's interpretation. It seems implausible that the court found that there was a risk of intentional or accidental
destruction of evidence at a "secured" crime scene or that the authorities
were performing a mere inventory search when the premises had been
secured for "investigative purposes" and the officers opened the briefcase
"in the ordinary course of investigating a homicide." Nor does the court's
validation of "investiga[ting] and examin[ing] . . . anything and everything
found within the crime scene area," including photographs inside a closed
briefcase, apparently rest on the plain-view exception. App. A to Pet. for
Cert., at 2, 3.

528US1 Unit: $$U6 [08-17-00 07:59:25] PAGES PGT: OPIN

15Cite as: 528 U. S. 11 (1999)
Per Curiam
they did. As in Thompson v. Louisiana, supra, at 23, how-ever, we express no opinion on whether the search here

might be justified as consensual, as "the issue of consent isordinarily a factual issue unsuitable for our consideration in
the first instance." Nor, of course, do we take any positionon the applicability of any other exception to the warrant
rule, or the harmlessness vel non of any error in receivingthis evidence. Any such matters, properly raised, may be
resolved on remand. 469 U. S., at 21; see also United Statesv.

Matlock, 415 U. S. 164 (1974).The motion for leave to proceed in forma pauperis and

the petition for a writ of certiorari are granted, the judgmentof the Circuit Court of West Virginia, Fayette County, is reversed, and the case is remanded for further proceedings notinconsistent with this opinion.

It is so ordered.

528US1 Unit: $$U7 [09-08-00 09:52:21] PAGES PGT: OPIN
16 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

Per Curiam

IN RE BAUER
on motion for leave to proceed in forma pauperis

No. 99-5440. Decided October 18, 1999
Held: Abusive filer of frivolous petitions is denied leave to proceed in

forma pauperis under this Court's Rule 39.8 and barred from filing further petitions in noncriminal matters unless he first pays the docketing
fee required by Rule 38 and submits his petitions in compliance with
Rule 33.1. See Martin v. District of Columbia Court of Appeals, 506
U. S. 1.

Motion denied.

Per Curiam.
Pro se petitioner Bauer seeks leave to proceed in forma
pauperis under Rule 39 of this Court. We deny this request
as frivolous pursuant to Rule 39.8. Bauer is allowed until
November 8, 1999, within which to pay the docketing fees
required by Rule 38 and to submit his petition in compliance
with this Court's Rule 33.1. We also direct the Clerk not to
accept any further petitions for certiorari or petitions for
extraordinary writs from Bauer in noncriminal matters unless he first pays the docketing fee required by Rule 38 and
submits his petitions in compliance with Rule 33.1.

Bauer has repeatedly abused this Court's certiorari and
extraordinary writ processes. On October 4, 1993, we invoked Rule 39.8 to deny Bauer in forma pauperis status
with respect to a petition for an extraordinary writ. See
In re Bauer, 510 U. S. 807. Prior to the Rule 39.8 denial,
Bauer had filed three petitions for certiorari and five petitions for extraordinary writs, all of which were both frivolous and had been denied without recorded dissent. Since
the Rule 39.8 denial, Bauer has filed two petitions for certiorari, both of which were also frivolous and denied without
recorded dissent. The instant petition for mandamus thus
brings Bauer's total number of frivolous filings to 12.

528US1 Unit: $$U7 [09-08-00 09:52:21] PAGES PGT: OPIN

17Cite as: 528 U. S. 16 (1999)
Stevens, J., dissenting
We enter the order barring prospective filings for the rea-sons discussed in Martin v. District of Columbia Court of

Appeals, 506 U. S. 1 (1992) (per curiam). Bauer's abuse ofthe writ of certiorari and of the extraordinary writs has been
in noncriminal cases, and we limit our sanction accordingly.The order therefore will not prevent Bauer from petitioning
to challenge criminal sanctions which might be imposed onhim. The order will, however, allow this Court to devote
its limited resources to the claims of petitioners who havenot abused our processes.

It is so ordered.
Justice Stevens, dissenting.
For reasons previously stated, see Martin v. District ofColumbia Court of Appeals, 506 U. S. 1, 4 (1992) (

Stevens,
J., dissenting), and cases cited, I respectfully dissent.

528US1 Unit: $$U8 [06-14-01 18:19:53] PAGES PGT: OPIN
18 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

Syllabus

TEXAS et al. v. LESAGE et al.
on petition for writ of certiorari to the unitedstates court of appeals for the fifth circuit

No. 98-1111. Decided November 29, 1999
Respondent Lesage, an African immigrant of Caucasian descent, was denied admission to a Ph.D. program at the University of Texas, which
considered applicants' race during the review process. He filed suit
seeking money damages and injunctive relief, alleging that, by establishing and maintaining a race-conscious admissions process, the school
had violated the Fourteenth Amendment's Equal Protection Clause and
42 U. S. C. $$ 1981, 1983, and 2000d. The District Court granted summary judgment for petitioners, who offered evidence that, even if the
school's admissions process had been completely colorblind, Lesage
would not have been admitted. The Fifth Circuit reversed.

Held: The Fifth Circuit's holding that summary judgment was inappropriate on Lesage's $ 1983 damages claim even if petitioners conclusively
established that he would have been rejected under a race-neutral policy is inconsistent with this Court's well-established framework for analyzing such claims. Under Mt. Healthy City Bd. of Ed. v. Doyle, 429
U. S. 274, 287, when the government has considered an impermissible
criterion in making a decision adverse to the plaintiff, it can nonetheless
avoid liability by proving that it would have made the same decision
absent the forbidden consideration. It is immaterial that the Court's
previous decisions on this point have typically involved alleged retaliation for protected First Amendment activity rather than racial discrimination. Of course, a plaintiff challenging an ongoing race-conscious program and seeking forward-looking relief need only show "the inability
to compete on an equal footing." Northeastern Fla. Chapter, Associated Gen. Contractors of America v. Jacksonville, 508 U. S. 656, 666.
But where there is no allegation of an ongoing or imminent constitutional violation to support such a claim, the government's conclusive
demonstration that it would have made the same decision absent the
alleged discrimination precludes any liability finding. Whether Lesage's claims under $$ 1981 and 2000d remain, and whether he has abandoned his claim for injunctive relief, are matters open on remand.

Certiorari granted; 158 F. 3d 213, reversed and remanded.

528US1 Unit: $$U8 [06-14-01 18:19:53] PAGES PGT: OPIN

19Cite as: 528 U. S. 18 (1999)
Per Curiam
Per Curiam.
Respondent Franc,ois Daniel Lesage, an African immigrantof Caucasian descent, applied for admission to the Ph.D.

program in counseling psychology at the University of Texas'Department of Education for the 1996-1997 academic year.
In the year Lesage applied, the school received 223 ap-plications for the program and offered admission to roughly
20 candidates. App. to Pet. for Cert. A-22. It is undis-puted that the school considered the race of its applicants at
some stage during the review process. The school rejectedLesage's application and offered admission to at least one
minority candidate. Lesage filed suit seeking money dam-ages and injunctive relief. He alleged that, by establishing
and maintaining a race-conscious admissions process, theschool had violated the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment and Rev. Stat. $ 1977, 42 U. S. C. $ 1981,Rev. Stat. $ 1979, as amended, 42 U. S. C. $ 1983 (1994 ed.,
Supp. III), and 78 Stat. 252, 42 U. S. C. $ 2000d.Petitioners sought summary judgment, offering evidence
that, even if the school's admissions process had been com-pletely colorblind, Lesage would not have been admitted.
At least 80 applicants had higher undergraduate grade pointaverages (GPA's) than Lesage, 152 applicants had higher
Graduate Record Examination (GRE) scores, and 73 applicants had both higher GPA's and higher GRE scores. App.to Pet. for Cert. A-23. In an affidavit, Professor Ricardo

Ainslie, one of two members of the school's admissions com-mittee, stated that Lesage's personal statement indicated
that he had " `a rather superficial interest in the field with alimited capacity to convey his interests and ideas,' " and that
his letters of recommendation were "weak." Id., at A-24.Ainslie stated that Lesage's application was rejected early
in the review process, when the committee was winnowingthe full application pool to a list of 40.

Ibid. The District
Court concluded that "any consideration of race had no effect

528US1 Unit: $$U8 [06-14-01 18:19:53] PAGES PGT: OPIN
20 TEXAS v. LESAGE

Per Curiam
on this particular individual's rejection," and that there was"uncontested evidence that the students ultimately admitted

to the program ha[d] credentials that the committee con-sidered superior to Plaintiff 's."

Id., at A-26 to A-27. It
therefore granted summary judgment for petitioners withrespect to all of Lesage's claims for relief.

The Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit reversed. 158
F. 3d 213 (1998). The court did not review the DistrictCourt's conclusion that there was no genuine issue as to

whether the school would have rejected Lesage under acolorblind admissions process. Instead, it held that such
a determination was "irrelevant to the pertinent issue on
summary judgment, namely, whether the state violated
Lesage's constitutional rights by rejecting his application
in the course of operating a racially discriminatory admissions program." Id., at 222. An applicant who was rejected at a stage of the review process that was race conscious, the court reasoned, has "suffered an implied injury"--
the inability to compete on an equal footing. Ibid. Because
there remained a factual dispute as to whether the stage
of review during which Lesage's application was eliminated
was in some way race conscious, the court held that summary judgment was inappropriate and remanded the case for
trial. Ibid.

Insofar as the Court of Appeals held that summary judgment was inappropriate on Lesage's $ 1983 action seeking damages for the school's rejection of his application for
the 1996-1997 academic year even if petitioners conclusively established that Lesage would have been rejected
under a race-neutral policy, its decision is inconsistent with
this Court's well-established framework for analyzing such
claims. Under Mt. Healthy City Bd. of Ed. v. Doyle, 429
U. S. 274 (1977), even if the government has considered an
impermissible criterion in making a decision adverse to
the plaintiff, it can nonetheless defeat liability by demonstrating that it would have made the same decision ab528US1 Unit: $$U8 [06-14-01 18:19:53] PAGES PGT: OPIN

21Cite as: 528 U. S. 18 (1999)
Per Curiam
sent the forbidden consideration. See id., at 287. See also
Crawford-El v. Britton, 523 U. S. 574, 593 (1998); Board
of Comm'rs, Wabaunsee Cty. v. Umbehr, 518 U. S. 668, 675(1996). Our previous decisions on this point have typically

involved alleged retaliation for protected First Amendmentactivity rather than racial discrimination, but that distinction
is immaterial. The underlying principle is the same: The
government can avoid liability by proving that it would havemade the same decision without the impermissible motive.

Simply put, where a plaintiff challenges a discrete govern-mental decision as being based on an impermissible criterion
and it is undisputed that the government would have made
the same decision regardless, there is no cognizable injury
warranting relief under $ 1983.

Of course, a plaintiff who challenges an ongoing raceconscious program and seeks forward-looking relief need
not affirmatively establish that he would receive the benefit
in question if race were not considered. The relevant injury
in such cases is "the inability to compete on an equal footing." Northeastern Fla. Chapter, Associated Gen. Contractors of America v. Jacksonville, 508 U. S. 656, 666 (1993).
See also Adarand Constructors, Inc. v. Pen~ a, 515 U. S. 200,
211 (1995). But where there is no allegation of an ongoing
or imminent constitutional violation to support a claim for
forward-looking relief, the government's conclusive demonstration that it would have made the same decision absent
the alleged discrimination precludes any finding of liability.

Lesage's second amended complaint sought injunctive relief and alleged that petitioners "have established and are
maintaining, under color of the laws of the State of Texas,
an affirmative action admissions program at the College
of Education that classifies applicants on the basis of race
and ethnicity." App. to Pet. for Cert. A-22 (emphasis
added). But in deciding that summary judgment was improper, the Court of Appeals did not distinguish between
Lesage's retrospective claim for damages and his forward528US1 Unit: $$U8 [06-14-01 18:19:53] PAGES PGT: OPIN
22 TEXAS v. LESAGE

Per Curiam
looking claim for injunctive relief based on continuing dis-crimination. Further, in their petition for certiorari, petitioners assert that "[t]he case at bar differs from Ada-rand because there is no allegation that the department of
counseling psychology continues to use race-based admis-sions subsequent to the Fifth Circuit's Hopwood v. State
of Texas[, 78 F. 3d 932, cert. denied, 518 U. S. 1033 (1996),]decision." Pet. for Cert. 13. The brief in opposition does
not contest this statement. It therefore appears, althoughwe do not decide, that Lesage has abandoned any claim that
the school is presently administering a discriminatory admis-sions process.

Insofar as the Court of Appeals held that petitioners werenot entitled to summary judgment on Lesage's $ 1983 claim
for damages relating to the rejection of his application forthe 1996-1997 academic year even if he would have been
denied admission under a race-neutral policy, its decisioncontradicts our holding in

Mt. Healthy. We therefore grantthe petition for writ of certiorari and reverse the judgment

of the Court of Appeals in this respect.Lesage also asserted claims under 42 U. S. C. $$ 1981
and 2000d. Whether these claims remain, and whetherLesage has abandoned his claim for injunctive relief on the
ground that petitioners are continuing to operate a discrimi-natory admissions process, are matters open on remand.
The case is remanded for further proceedings consistent withthis opinion.

It is so ordered.

528US1 Unit: $$U9 [06-14-01 18:21:13] PAGES PGT: OPIN

23OCTOBER TERM, 1999
Syllabus

FIORE v. WHITE, WARDEN, et al.
certiorari to the united states court of appeals forthe third circuit

No. 98-942. Argued October 12, 1999--Decided November 30, 1999
Petitioner Fiore and his codefendant Scarpone were convicted of "operat[ing] a hazardous waste" facility without a "permit," Pa. Stat. Ann.,
Tit. 35, $ 6018.401(a), because their operation deviated significantly from
the terms of the permit they possessed. Fiore appealed his conviction
to the Pennsylvania Superior Court, which affirmed; but Scarpone appealed his conviction to the Pennsylvania Commonwealth Court, which
reversed. The Pennsylvania Supreme Court denied further review of
Fiore's case, and his conviction became final. However, it subsequently
affirmed the Commonwealth Court's decision in Scarpone's case, finding
that $ 6018.401(a) does not apply to those who possess a permit but deviate radically from the permit's terms. After the Pennsylvania courts
refused to reconsider Fiore's identical conviction, he sought federal habeas relief, arguing, inter alia, that the Federal Constitution required
that his conviction be set aside because his conduct was not criminal
under $ 6018.401(a). The District Court granted his petition, but the
Third Circuit reversed, primarily because it believed that state courts
have no obligation to apply their decisions retroactively.

Held: To help determine the proper state-law predicate for this Court's

determination of the federal constitutional questions raised here, the
Court certifies to the Pennsylvania Supreme Court the question
whether the interpretation of $ 6018.401(a) set forth in Commonwealth
v. Scarpone, 535 Pa. 273, 279, 634 A. 2d 1109, 1112, states the correct
interpretation of Pennsylvania law at the date Fiore's conviction became
final. Scarpone marked the first time that the Pennsylvania Supreme
Court had interpreted the statute. Because that authoritative interpretation came only after Fiore's conviction became final, this Court
must know whether the Scarpone construction stated the statute's correct understanding at the time Fiore's conviction became final, or
whether it changed the interpretation then applicable. Judgment and
further proceedings in this case are reserved pending receipt of the
Pennsylvania Supreme Court's response. Pp. 28-30.

149 F. 3d 221, question certified.

Breyer, J., delivered the opinion for a unanimous Court.

528US1 Unit: $$U9 [06-14-01 18:21:13] PAGES PGT: OPIN
24 FIORE v. WHITE

Opinion of the Court
James Brandon Lieber argued the cause for petitioner.With him on the briefs were M. Jean Clickner and Harold

Gondelman.Robert A. Graci, Assistant Executive Deputy Attorney
General of Pennsylvania, argued the cause for respondents.With him on the brief were D. Michael Fisher, Attorney
General, pro se, and Andrea F. McKenna, Senior Deputy At-torney General.*

Justice Breyer delivered the opinion of the Court.
The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania convicted codefend-ants William Fiore and David Scarpone of violating a provision of Pennsylvania law forbidding any person to "operatea hazardous waste" facility without a "permit." Pa. Stat.
Ann., Tit. 35, $ 6018.401(a) (Purdon 1993) (reprinted at Ap-pendix A,

infra). Each codefendant appealed to a differentintermediate state court, one of which affirmed Fiore's conviction, the other of which reversed Scarpone's. The Penn-sylvania Supreme Court denied further review of Fiore's
case, and his conviction became final. However, that courtagreed to review Scarpone's case, and it subsequently held
that the statutory provision did not apply to those who, likeScarpone and Fiore, possessed a permit but deviated radi*Saul M. Pilchen, Peter Goldberger, and Lisa Bondareff Kemler filed a
brief for the National Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers urging
reversal.

A brief of amici curiae urging affirmance was filed for the State of
Alabama et al. by Bill Pryor, Attorney General of Alabama, Michael
B. Billingsley, Assistant Attorney General, Dan Schweitzer, and Thomas
R. Keller, Acting Attorney General of Hawaii, and by the Attorneys General for their respective States as follows: Bruce M. Botelho of Alaska,
Janet Napolitano of Arizona, Mark Pryor of Arkansas, M. Jane Brady of
Delaware, Robert A. Butterworth of Florida, James E. Ryan of Illinois,
Thomas J. Miller of Iowa, Carla J. Stovall of Kansas, Don Stenberg of
Nebraska, Frankie Sue Del Papa of Nevada, W. A. Drew Edmondson of
Oklahoma, Hardy Myers of Oregon, Sheldon Whitehouse of Rhode Island,
Charles M. Condon of South Carolina, Mark L. Earley of Virginia, and
Christine O. Gregoire of Washington.

528US1 Unit: $$U9 [06-14-01 18:21:13] PAGES PGT: OPIN

25Cite as: 528 U. S. 23 (1999)
Opinion of the Court
cally from the permit's terms. Consequently, it set asideScarpone's conviction.

In light of the Pennsylvania Supreme Court's decision inCommonwealth v. Scarpone, 535 Pa. 273, 634 A. 2d 1109
(1993), Fiore asked the Pennsylvania courts to reconsiderhis identical conviction. They denied his request. He then
brought a federal habeas corpus petition in which he argued,among other things, that Pennsylvania's courts, either as a
matter of Pennsylvania law or as a matter of federal con-stitutional law, must apply the

Scarpone interpretation ofthe statute to his identical case. If this proposition of law

is correct, he asserted, it would follow that the Common-wealth failed to produce any evidence at all with respect
to one essential element of the crime (namely, the lack of apermit). On this reasoning, Fiore concluded that the Federal Constitution requires his release. See Jackson v. Vir-ginia, 443 U. S. 307, 316 (1979); In re Winship, 397 U. S. 358,
364 (1970).The Federal District Court granted the habeas petition,
but the Court of Appeals reversed that decision. We agreedto review the appellate court's rejection of Fiore's claim.
Before deciding whether the Federal Constitution requiresthat Fiore's conviction be set aside in light of

Scarpone,we first must know whether Pennsylvania itself considers

Scarpone to have explained what Pa. Stat. Ann., Tit. 35,$ 6018.401(a) (Purdon 1993), always meant, or whether Pennsylvania considers Scarpone to have changed the law. Weinvoke the Pennsylvania Supreme Court's certification procedure in order to obtain that court's view of the matter. SeeAppendix B, infra.

I
The relevant background circumstances include thefollowing:

1. Fiore owned and operated a hazardous waste disposalfacility in Pennsylvania. Scarpone was the facility's general
manager. Pennsylvania authorities, while conceding that

528US1 Unit: $$U9 [06-14-01 18:21:13] PAGES PGT: OPIN
26 FIORE v. WHITE

Opinion of the Court
Fiore and Scarpone possessed a permit to operate the facil-ity, claimed that their deliberate alteration of a monitoring

pipe to hide a leakage problem went so far beyond the termsof the permit that the operation took place without a permit
at all. A jury convicted them both of having "operate[d]a hazardous waste storage, treatment or disposal facility"
without a "permit." Pa. Stat. Ann., Tit. 35, $ 6018.401(a)(Purdon 1993); see

Commonwealth v. Fiore, CC No. 8508740(Ct. Common Pleas, Allegheny Cty., Pa., Jan. 19, 1988), p. 2,

App. 6 (marking date of conviction as Feb. 18, 1986). Thetrial court upheld the conviction, despite the existence of
a permit, for, in its view, the "alterations of the . . . piperepresented such a significant departure from the terms
of the existing permit that the operation of the hazardouswaste facility was `un-permitted' after the alterations were
undertaken . . . ." Id., at 48, App. 44.2. Fiore appealed his conviction to the Pennsylvania Superior Court. See 42 Pa. Cons. Stat. $ 742 (1998) (grantingthe Superior Court jurisdiction over all appeals from a final
order of a court of common pleas). That court affirmed theconviction "on the basis of the opinion of the court below."
Commonwealth v. Fiore, No. 00485 PGH 1988 (May 12, 1989),pp. 2-3, App. 99-100. The Pennsylvania Supreme Court denied Fiore leave to appeal on March 13, 1990; shortly there-after, Fiore's conviction became final.

3. Fiore's codefendant, Scarpone, appealed his convictionto the Pennsylvania Commonwealth Court. See 42 Pa.
Cons. Stat. $ 762(a)(2)(ii) (1998) (granting the CommonwealthCourt jurisdiction over appeals in regulatory criminal cases).
That court noted the existence of a "valid permit," foundthe Commonwealth's interpretation of the statute "strained
at best," and set Scarpone's conviction aside. Scarpone v.Commonwealth, 141 Pa. Commw. 560, 567, 596 A. 2d 892, 895
(1991). The court wrote:

"The alteration of the monitoring pipe was clearly a vio-lation of the conditions of the permit. But to say that

528US1 Unit: $$U9 [06-14-01 18:21:13] PAGES PGT: OPIN

27Cite as: 528 U. S. 23 (1999)
Opinion of the Court
the alteration resulted in the operation of a new facilitywhich had not been permitted is to engage in a semantic

exercise which we cannot accept. . . . [W]e will not let[the provision's] language be stretched to include activities which clearly fall in some other subsection." Ibid.
The Pennsylvania Supreme Court affirmed the Common-wealth Court's conclusion. It wrote:

"[T]he Commonwealth did not make out the crime ofoperating a waste disposal facility without a permit . . . .
Simply put, Mr. Scarpone did have a permit. . . . [T]oconclude that the alteration constituted the operation
of a new facility without a permit is a bald fiction wecannot endorse. . . . The Commonwealth Court was right
in reversing Mr. Scarpone's conviction of operating with-out a permit when the facility clearly had one."

Com-monwealth v. Scarpone, 535 Pa., at 279, 634 A. 2d, at

1112.
4. Fiore again asked the Pennsylvania Supreme Court toreview his case, once after that court agreed to review

Scarpone's case and twice more after it decided Scarpone.See Appellee's Supplemental App. in No. 97-3288 (CA3),
pp. 59, 61 (including docket sheets reflecting Fiore's filingson Jan. 30, 1992, Jan. 24, 1994, and Oct. 18, 1994). The court
denied those requests.5. Fiore then sought collateral relief in the state courts.
The Court of Common Pleas of Allegheny County, Pa., re-fused to grant Fiore's petition for collateral relief--despite
Scarpone--because "at the time of . . . conviction and directappeals, the interpretation of the law was otherwise," and
"[t]he petitioner is not entitled to a retroactive applicationof the interpretation of the law set forth in Scarpone."
Commonwealth v. Fiore, CC No. 8508740 (Aug. 18, 1994),p. 6. On appeal, the Superior Court affirmed, both because
Fiore had previously litigated the claim and because Fiore's"direct appeal was no longer pending when the Supreme

528US1 Unit: $$U9 [06-14-01 18:21:13] PAGES PGT: OPIN
28 FIORE v. WHITE

Opinion of the Court
Court made the ruling which [Fiore] now seeks to have ap-plied to his case." Commonwealth v. Fiore, 445 Pa. Super.

401, 416, 665 A. 2d 1185, 1193 (1995).6. Fiore sought federal habeas corpus relief. As we previously pointed out, supra, at 25, he argued that Pennsyl-vania had imprisoned him "for conduct which was not criminal under the statutory section charged." App. 194. TheFederal District Court, acting on a Magistrate's recommendation, granted the petition. The Court of Appeals for theThird Circuit reversed, however, primarily because it believed that "state courts are under no constitutional obliga-tion to apply their decisions retroactively." 149 F. 3d 221,
222 (1998).7. We subsequently granted Fiore's petition for certiorari
to consider whether the Fourteenth Amendment's Due Proc-ess Clause requires that his conviction be set aside.

II
Fiore essentially claims that Pennsylvania produced noevidence whatsoever of one element of the crime, namely,

that he lacked "a permit." The validity of his federal claimmay depend upon whether the interpretation of the Pennsylvania Supreme Court in Scarpone was always the stat-ute's meaning, even at the time of Fiore's trial.

Scarponemarked the first time the Pennsylvania Supreme Court had

interpreted the statute; previously, Pennsylvania's lowercourts had been divided in their interpretation. Fiore's and
Scarpone's trial court concluded that $ 6018.401(a)'s "permit"requirement prohibited the operation of a hazardous waste
facility in a manner that deviates from the permit's terms,and the Superior Court, in adjudicating Fiore's direct appeal,
accepted the trial court's interpretation in a summary un-published memorandum. Then, the Commonwealth Court,
in Scarpone's direct appeal, specifically rejected the inter-pretation adopted by the Superior Court in Fiore's case.
And the Pennsylvania Supreme Court in Scarpone set forth

528US1 Unit: $$U9 [06-14-01 18:21:13] PAGES PGT: OPIN

29Cite as: 528 U. S. 23 (1999)
Opinion of the Court
its authoritative interpretation of the statute, affirming theCommonwealth Court only after Fiore's conviction became

final. For that reason, we must know whether the Penn-sylvania Supreme Court's construction of the statute in
Scarpone stated the correct understanding of the statuteat the time Fiore's conviction became final, or whether it
changed the interpretation then applicable. Compare, e. g.,
Buradus v. General Cement Prods. Co., 52 A. 2d 205, 208(Pa. 1947) (stating that "[i]n general, the construction placed

upon a statute by the courts becomes a part of the act, fromthe very beginning"), with Commonwealth v. Fiore, supra,
at 416-417, 665 A. 2d, at 1193; Commonwealth v. Fiore,CC No. 8508740 (Aug. 18, 1994), at 6 (refusing to apply the
Scarpone interpretation because "at the time of [Fiore's]conviction and direct appeals, the interpretation of the law
was otherwise"). III

We certify the following question to the PennsylvaniaSupreme Court pursuant to that court's Rules Regarding
Certification of Questions of Pennsylvania law:

Does the interpretation of Pa. Stat. Ann., Tit. 35,$ 6018.401(a) (Purdon 1993), set forth in

Commonwealthv. Scarpone, 535 Pa. 273, 279, 634 A. 2d 1109, 1112 (1993),

state the correct interpretation of the law of Pennsylva-nia at the date Fiore's conviction became final?

We respectfully request that the Pennsylvania SupremeCourt accept our certification petition because, in our view,
the answer to this question will help determine the properstate-law predicate for our determination of the federal constitutional questions raised in this case.We recommend that the Pennsylvania Supreme Court designate William Fiore (the petitioner here) as appellant andboth Gregory White, Warden, and the Attorney General of
the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania (the respondents here)as appellees.

528US1 Unit: $$U9 [06-14-01 18:21:13] PAGES PGT: OPIN
30 FIORE v. WHITE

Appendix A to opinion of the Court
The Clerk of this Court is directed to transmit to theSupreme Court of Pennsylvania a copy of this opinion and

the briefs and records filed with this Court in this case.Judgment and further proceedings in this case are reserved
pending our receipt of a response from the Supreme Courtof Pennsylvania.

It is so ordered.

APPENDIX A TO OPINION OF THE COURT
Pennsylvania Stat. Ann. $ 6018.401(a) (Purdon 1993)provides:

"No person or municipality shall store, transport, treat,or dispose of hazardous waste within this Commonwealth unless such storage, transportation, treatment,or disposal is authorized by the rules and regulations
of the department; no person or municipality shallown or operate a hazardous waste storage, treatment
or disposal facility unless such person or municipalityhas first obtained a permit for the storage, treatment
and disposal of hazardous waste from the department;and, no person or municipality shall transport hazardous
waste within the Commonwealth unless such person ormunicipality has first obtained a license for the transportation of hazardous waste from the department."(Emphasis added.)

Section 6018.606(f ) establishes criminal penalties for aviolation of $ 6018.401 and provides:

"Any person who stores, transports, treats, or disposesof hazardous waste within the Commonwealth in violation of [$ 6018.401] . . . shall be guilty of a felony of thesecond degree and, upon conviction, shall be sentenced
to pay a fine of not less than $2,500 but not more than$100,000 per day for each violation or to imprisonment
for not less than two years but not more than ten years,or both." (Footnote omitted.)

528US1 Unit: $$U9 [06-14-01 18:21:13] PAGES PGT: OPIN

31Cite as: 528 U. S. 23 (1999)
Appendix B to opinion of the Court
APPENDIX B TO OPINION OF THE COURT

"RULES REGARDING CERTIFICATION OFQUESTIONS OF PENNSYLVANIA LAW

"1. This Court will accept Certification Petitions, on a trialbasis, from January 1, 1999 to January 1, 2000.
"2. Any of the following courts may file a CertificationPetition with this Court:

"a. The United States Supreme Court; or"b. Any United States Court of Appeals.
"3. A court may file a Certification Petition either on themotion of a party or sua sponte.
"4. A Certification Petition shall contain the following:

"a. A brief statement of the nature and stage of theproceedings in the petitioning court;

"b. A brief statement of the material facts of the case;"c. A statement of the question or questions of Pennsylvania law to be determined;"d. A statement of the particular reasons why this
Court should accept certification; and"e. A recommendation about which party should be
designated Appellant and which Appellee in subsequentpleadings filed with this Court.

"f. The petitioning court shall attach to the Certifica-tion Petition copies of any papers filed by the parties
regarding certification, e. g., a Motion for Certification,a Response thereto, a Stipulation of Facts, etc." Pa.
Rules of Court, p. 745 (1999).

528US1 Unit: $U10 [06-15-01 20:27:54] PAGES PGT: OPIN
32 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

Syllabus

LOS ANGELES POLICE DEPARTMENT v. UNITEDREPORTING PUBLISHING CORP.
certiorari to the united states court of appeals forthe ninth circuit

No. 98-678. Argued October 13, 1999--Decided December 7, 1999
Respondent publishing company provides the names and addresses of recently arrested individuals to its customers, who include attorneys, insurance companies, drug and alcohol counselors, and driving schools. It
received this information from petitioner and other California state and
local law enforcement agencies until the State amended Cal. Govt. Code
Ann. $ 6254(f)(3) to require that a person requesting an arrestee's address declare that the request is being made for one of five prescribed
purposes and that the address will not be used directly or indirectly to
sell a product or service. Respondent sought declaratory and injunctive relief to hold the amendment unconstitutional under the First

and Fourteenth Amendments. The Federal District Court ultimately
granted respondent summary judgment, having construed respondent's
claim as presenting a facial challenge to amended $ 6254(f). In affirming, the Ninth Circuit concluded that the statute unconstitutionally restricts commercial speech.

Held: Respondent was not, under this Court's cases, entitled to prevail on

a "facial attack" on $ 6254(f)(3). The allowance of a First Amendment
overbreadth challenge to a statute is an exception to the traditional rule
that "a person to whom a statute may constitutionally be applied may
not challenge that statute on the ground that it may conceivably be
applied unconstitutionally to others in situations not before the Court."
New York v. Ferber, 458 U. S. 747, 767. The overbreadth doctrine
is strong medicine that should be employed only as a last resort. At
least for the purposes of facial invalidation, petitioner is correct that

$ 6254(f)(3) is not an abridgment of anyone's right to engage in speech,
but simply a law regulating access to information in the government's
hands. This is not a case in which the government is prohibiting a
speaker from conveying information that the speaker already possesses.
California law merely requires respondent to qualify under the statute
if it wishes to obtain arrestees' addresses. California could decide not
to give out arrestee information at all without violating the First
Amendment. Cf. Houchins v. KQED, Inc., 438 U. S. 1, 14. To the extent that respondent's "facial challenge" seeks to rely on the statute's
effect on parties not before the court--respondent's potential customers,

528US1 Unit: $U10 [06-15-01 20:27:54] PAGES PGT: OPIN

33Cite as: 528 U. S. 32 (1999)
Syllabus
for example--its claim does not fall within the case law allowing courts
to entertain facial challenges. No threat of prosecution, see Gooding v.
Wilson, 405 U. S. 518, 520-521, or cut off of funds, see National Endowment for Arts v. Finley, 524 U. S. 569, hangs over their heads. The
alternative bases for affirmance urged by respondent will remain open
on remand if properly presented and preserved in the Ninth Circuit.
Pp. 37-41.

146 F. 3d 1133, reversed.

Rehnquist, C. J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which O'Con-
nor, Scalia, Souter, Thomas, Ginsburg, and Breyer, JJ., joined.
Scalia, J., filed a concurring opinion, in which Thomas, J., joined, post,
p. 41. Ginsburg, J., filed a concurring opinion, in which O'Connor, Sou-
ter, and Breyer, JJ., joined, post, p. 42. Stevens, J., filed a dissenting
opinion, in which Kennedy, J., joined, post, p. 44.

Thomas C. Goldstein argued the cause for petitioner.With him on the briefs were David Boies, James K. Hahn,

and Frederick N. Merkin.Edward C. DuMont argued the cause for the United
States as amicus curiae urging reversal. With him on thebrief were Solicitor General Waxman, Acting Assistant Attorney General Ogden, Deputy Solicitor General Kneedler,Leonard Schaitman, and John S. Koppel.

Bruce J. Ennis argued the cause for respondent. On thebrief were Guylyn R. Cummins and Marcelle E. Mihaila.*

*A brief of amici curiae urging reversal was filed for the State of
New York et al. by Eliot Spitzer, Attorney General of New York, Preeta
D. Bansal, Solicitor General, Peter H. Schiff, Deputy Solicitor General,
and Daniel Smirlock, Assistant Attorney General, and by the Attorneys
General for their respective States as follows: Bill Lockyer of California,
Ken Salazar of Colorado, M. Jane Brady of Delaware, Margery S. Bronster of Hawaii, Alan G. Lance of Idaho, Thomas J. Miller of Iowa, Richard
P. Ieyoub of Louisiana, Frankie Sue Del Papa of Nevada, Betty D. Montgomery of Ohio, Charles M. Condon of South Carolina, and Christine O.
Gregoire of Washington.

Briefs of amici curiae urging affirmance were filed for the Direct Marketing Association by Robert L. Sherman; for the Individual Reference
Services Group et al. by Ronald L. Plesser, James J. Halpert, and Emilio
W. Cividanes; for Investigative Reporters and Editors, Inc., by David

528US1 Unit: $U10 [06-15-01 20:27:54] PAGES PGT: OPIN
34 LOS ANGELES POLICE DEPT. v. UNITED REPORTING

PUBLISHING CORP.

Opinion of the Court

Chief Justice Rehnquist delivered the opinion of the
Court.

California Govt. Code Ann. $ 6254(f )(3) (West Supp. 1999)
places two conditions on public access to arrestees' addresses--that the person requesting an address declare that
the request is being made for one of five prescribed purposes,
and that the requester also declare that the address will not
be used directly or indirectly to sell a product or service.

The District Court permanently enjoined enforcement of
the statute, and the Court of Appeals affirmed, holding that
the statute was facially invalid because it unduly burdens
commercial speech. We hold that the statutory section in
question was not subject to a "facial" challenge.

Petitioner, the Los Angeles Police Department, maintains
records relating to arrestees. Respondent, United Reporting Publishing Corporation, is a private publishing service
that provides the names and addresses of recently arrested
individuals to its customers, who include attorneys, insurance companies, drug and alcohol counselors, and driving
schools.

Before July 1, 1996, respondent received arrestees' names
and addresses under the old version of $ 6254, which generally required state and local law enforcement agencies to
make public the name, address, and occupation of every individual arrested by the agency. Cal. Govt. Code Ann.

$ 6254(f) (West 1995). Effective July 1, 1996, the state legislature amended $ 6254(f) to limit the public's access to arrestees' and victims' current addresses. The amended statute
provides that state and local law enforcement agencies shall
make public:

Brian Smallman; for the Newsletter Publishers Association by James E.
Grossberg and Jay Ward Brown; for the Reporters Committee for Freedom of the Press et al. by Jane E. Kirtley, Samuel P. Spencer, Richard
M. Schmidt, and Xenia M. Boone; and for the Washington Legal Foundation by David H. Remes, Daniel J. Popeo, and Richard A. Samp.

528US1 Unit: $U10 [06-15-01 20:27:54] PAGES PGT: OPIN

35Cite as: 528 U. S. 32 (1999)
Opinion of the Court
"[T]he current address of every individual arrested bythe agency and the current address of the victim of a

crime, where the requester declares under penalty ofperjury that the request is made for a scholarly, journalistic, political, or governmental purpose, or that the re-quest is made for investigation purposes by a licensed
private investigator . . . except that the address of thevictim of [certain crimes] shall remain confidential. Address information obtained pursuant to this paragraphshall not be used directly or indirectly to sell a product or service to any individual or group of individuals,and the requester shall execute a declaration to that
effect under penalty of perjury." Cal. Govt. Code Ann.$ 6254(f )(3) (West Supp. 1999).

Sections 6254(f)(1) and (2) require that state and local lawenforcement agencies make public,

inter alia, the name, oc-cupation, and physical description, including date of birth,

of every individual arrested by the agency, as well as thecircumstances of the arrest.

1 Thus, amended $ 6254(f) limits

access only to the arrestees' addresses.

1 Section 6254(f) provides, in pertinent part:
"Other provisions of this subdivision notwithstanding, state and local
law enforcement agencies shall make public the following information, except to the extent that disclosure of a particular item of information would
endanger the safety of a person involved in an investigation or would
endanger the successful completion of the investigation or a related
investigation:

"(1) The full name and occupation of every individual arrested by the
agency, the individual's physical description including date of birth, color
of eyes and hair, sex, height and weight, the time and date of arrest, the
time and date of booking, the location of the arrest, the factual circumstances surrounding the arrest, the amount of bail set, the time and manner of release or the location where the individual is currently being held,
and all charges the individual is being held upon, including any outstanding warrants from other jurisdictions and parole or probation holds.

"(2) Subject to the restrictions imposed by Section 841.5 of the Penal
Code, the time, substance, and location of all complaints or requests for
assistance received by the agency and the time and nature of the response

528US1 Unit: $U10 [06-15-01 20:27:54] PAGES PGT: OPIN
36 LOS ANGELES POLICE DEPT. v. UNITED REPORTING

PUBLISHING CORP.

Opinion of the Court

Before the effective date of the amendment, respondentsought declaratory and injunctive relief pursuant to Rev.

Stat. $ 1979, 42 U. S. C. $ 1983, to hold the amendment uncon-stitutional under the First and Fourteenth Amendments to
the United States Constitution. On the effective date of thestatute, petitioner and other law enforcement agencies denied respondent access to the address information because,according to respondent, "[respondent's] employees could
not sign section 6254(f)(3) declarations." Brief for Respond-ent 5. Respondent did not allege, and nothing in the record
before this Court indicates, that it ever "declar[ed] underpenalty of perjury" that it was requesting information
for one of the prescribed purposes and that it would not usethe address information to "directly or indirectly . . . sell a
product or service," as would have been required by thestatute. See $ 6254(f)(3).

Respondent then amended its complaint and sought a tem-porary restraining order. The District Court issued a temporary restraining order, and, a few days later, issued a pre-liminary injunction. Respondent then filed a motion for
summary judgment, which was granted. In granting themotion, the District Court construed respondent's claim as

thereto, including, to the extent the information regarding crimes alleged
or committed or any other incident investigated is recorded, the time, date,
and location of occurrence, the time and date of the report, the name and
age of the victim, the factual circumstances surrounding the crime or incident, and a general description of any injuries, property, or weapons involved. The name of a victim of any crime defined by Section 220, 261,
262, 264, 264.1, 273a, 273d, 273.5, 286, 288, 288a, 289, 422.6, 422.7, 422.75,
or 646.9 of the Penal Code may be withheld at the victim's request, or at
the request of the victim's parent or guardian if the victim is a minor.
When a person is the victim of more than one crime, information disclosing
that the person is a victim of a crime defined by Section 220, 261, 262, 264,
264.1, 273a, 273d, 286, 288, 288a, 289, 422.6, 422.7, 422.75, or 646.9 of the
Penal Code may be deleted at the request of the victim, or the victim's
parent or guardian if the victim is a minor, in making the report of the
crime, or of any crime or incident accompanying the crime, available to
the public in compliance with the requirements of this paragraph."

528US1 Unit: $U10 [06-15-01 20:27:54] PAGES PGT: OPIN

37Cite as: 528 U. S. 32 (1999)
Opinion of the Court
presenting a facial challenge to amended $ 6254(f ). United
Reporting Publishing Corp. v. Lungren, 946 F. Supp. 822,
823 (SD Cal. 1996). The court held that the statute was
facially invalid under the First Amendment.

The Court of Appeals affirmed the District Court's facial
invalidation. United Reporting Publishing Corp. v. California Highway Patrol, 146 F. 3d 1133 (CA9 1998). The
court concluded that the statute restricted commercial
speech, and, as such, was entitled to " `a limited measure of
protection, commensurate with its subordinate position in
the scale of First Amendment values.' " Ibid. (quoting
Ohralik v. Ohio State Bar Assn., 436 U. S. 447, 456 (1978)).
The court applied the test set out in Central Hudson Gas &
Elec. Corp. v. Public Serv. Comm'n of N. Y., 447 U. S. 557,
566 (1980), and found that the asserted governmental interest in protecting arrestees' privacy was substantial. But,
the court held that "the numerous exceptions to $ 6254(f)(3)
for journalistic, scholarly, political, governmental, and investigative purposes render the statute unconstitutional under
the First Amendment." 146 F. 3d, at 1140. The court
noted that "[h]aving one's name, crime, and address printed
in the local paper is a far greater affront to privacy than
receiving a letter from an attorney, substance abuse counselor, or driving school eager to help one overcome his
present difficulties (for a fee, naturally)," and thus that the
exceptions "undermine and counteract" the asserted governmental interest in preserving arrestees' privacy. Ibid.
Thus, the Court of Appeals affirmed the District Court's
grant of summary judgment in favor of respondent and upheld the injunction against enforcement of $ 6254(f )(3). We
granted certiorari. 525 U. S. 1121 (1999).

We hold that respondent was not, under our cases, entitled
to prevail on a "facial attack" on $ 6254(f )(3).

Respondent's primary argument in the District Court and
the Court of Appeals was that $ 6254(f)(3) was invalid on its

528US1 Unit: $U10 [06-15-01 20:27:54] PAGES PGT: OPIN
38 LOS ANGELES POLICE DEPT. v. UNITED REPORTING

PUBLISHING CORP.

Opinion of the Court

face, and respondent maintains that position here. But we
believe that our cases hold otherwise.

The traditional rule is that "a person to whom a statute
may constitutionally be applied may not challenge that statute on the ground that it may conceivably be applied unconstitutionally to others in situations not before the Court."
New York v. Ferber, 458 U. S. 747, 767 (1982) (citing Broadrick v. Oklahoma, 413 U. S. 601, 610 (1973)).

Prototypical exceptions to this traditional rule are First
Amendment challenges to statutes based on First Amendment overbreadth. "At least when statutes regulate or proscribe speech . . . the transcendent value to all society of
constitutionally protected expression is deemed to justify
allowing `attacks on overly broad statutes with no requirement that the person making the attack demonstrate that
his own conduct could not be regulated by a statute drawn
with the requisite narrow specificity.' " Gooding v. Wilson,
405 U. S. 518, 520-521 (1972) (quoting Dombrowski v. Pfister,
380 U. S. 479, 486 (1965)). "This is deemed necessary because persons whose expression is constitutionally protected
may well refrain from exercising their right for fear of criminal sanctions provided by a statute susceptible of application to protected expression." Gooding v. Wilson, supra,
at 520-521. See also Thornhill v. Alabama, 310 U. S. 88
(1940).

In Gooding, for example, the defendant was one of a group
that picketed an Army headquarters building carrying signs
opposing the Vietnam war. A confrontation with the police
occurred, as a result of which Gooding was charged with
" `using opprobrious words and abusive language . . . tending
to cause a breach of the peace.' " 405 U. S., at 518-519. In
Thornhill, the defendant was prosecuted for violation of a
statute forbidding any person to " `picket the works or place
of business of such other persons, firms, corporations, or
associations of persons, for the purpose of hindering, delay528US1 Unit: $U10 [06-15-01 20:27:54] PAGES PGT: OPIN

39Cite as: 528 U. S. 32 (1999)
Opinion of the Court
ing, or interfering with or injuring any lawful business orenterprise . . . .' " 310 U. S., at 91.

This is not to say that the threat of criminal prosecutionis a necessary condition for the entertainment of a facial challenge. We have permitted such attacks on statutes in ap-propriate circumstances where no such threat was present.
See, e. g., National Endowment for Arts v. Finley, 524 U. S.
569 (1998) (entertaining a facial challenge to a public fundingscheme);

Suitum v. Tahoe Regional Planning Agency, 520
U. S. 725 (1997) (entertaining a landowner's facial challengeto a local redevelopment plan);

Anderson v. Edwards, 514
U. S. 143 (1995) (entertaining a facial challenge to a state
regulation restructuring the disbursal of welfare benefits).

But the allowance of a facial overbreadth challenge to a
statute is an exception to the traditional rule that "a person
to whom a statute may constitutionally be applied may not
challenge that statute on the ground that it may conceivably
be applied unconstitutionally to others in situations not before the Court." Ferber, supra, at 767 (citing Broadrick,
supra, at 610). This general rule reflects two "cardinal
principles" of our constitutional order: the personal nature of
constitutional rights and the prudential limitations on constitutional adjudication. 458 U. S., at 767. "By focusing on
the factual situation before us, and similar cases necessary
for development of a constitutional rule, we face `flesh and
blood' legal problems with data `relevant and adequate to an
informed judgment.' " Id., at 768 (footnotes omitted).

Even though the challenge be based on the First Amendment, the overbreadth doctrine is not casually employed.
"Because of the wide-reaching effects of striking down a
statute on its face at the request of one whose own conduct
may be punished despite the First Amendment, we have recognized that the overbreadth doctrine is `strong medicine'
and have employed it with hesitation, and then `only as a
last resort.' " Id., at 769 (citing Broadrick, supra, at 613).
" `[F]acial overbreadth adjudication is an exception to our

528US1 Unit: $U10 [06-15-01 20:27:54] PAGES PGT: OPIN
40 LOS ANGELES POLICE DEPT. v. UNITED REPORTING

PUBLISHING CORP.

Opinion of the Court

traditional rules of practice and . . . its function, a limitedone at the outset, attenuates as the otherwise unprotected

behavior that it forbids the State to sanction moves from"pure speech" toward conduct and that conduct--even if expressive--falls within the scope of otherwise valid criminallaws . . . .' " 458 U. S., at 770 (quoting Broadrick, supra, at
615). See also Board of Airport Comm'rs of Los Angeles v.
Jews for Jesus, Inc., 482 U. S. 569 (1987).The Court of Appeals held that $ 6254(f )(3) was facially

invalid under the First Amendment. Petitioner contendsthat the section in question is not an abridgment of anyone's
right to engage in speech, be it commercial or otherwise, butsimply a law regulating access to information in the hands
of the police department.We believe that, at least for purposes of facial invalidation,
petitioner's view is correct. This is not a case in which thegovernment is prohibiting a speaker from conveying information that the speaker already possesses. See Rubin v.
Coors Brewing Co., 514 U. S. 476 (1995). The Californiastatute in question merely requires that if respondent wishes

to obtain the addresses of arrestees it must qualify underthe statute to do so. Respondent did not attempt to qualify
and was therefore denied access to the addresses. For pur-poses of assessing the propriety of a facial invalidation, what
we have before us is nothing more than a governmental de-nial of access to information in its possession. California
could decide not to give out arrestee information at all with-out violating the First Amendment.

2 Cf. Houchins v.

KQED, Inc., 438 U. S. 1, 14 (1978).To the extent that respondent's "facial challenge" seeks to

rely on the effect of the statute on parties not before theCourt--its potential customers, for example--its claim does
not fit within the case law allowing courts to entertain facial

2 Respondent challenged the statute as a violation of equal protection
under the Fourteenth Amendment, but the Court of Appeals did not pass
on that challenge, nor do we.

528US1 Unit: $U10 [06-15-01 20:27:54] PAGES PGT: OPIN

41Cite as: 528 U. S. 32 (1999)
Scalia, J., concurring
challenges. No threat of prosecution, for example, seeGooding, or cutoff of funds, see NEA, hangs over their heads.

They may seek access under the statute on their own just asrespondent did, without incurring any burden other than the
prospect that their request will be denied. Resort to a fa-cial challenge here is not warranted because there is "[no]
possibility that protected speech will be muted." Bates v.
State Bar of Ariz., 433 U. S. 350, 380 (1977).The Court of Appeals was therefore wrong to facially invalidate $ 6254(f)(3). Respondent urges several grounds asalternative bases for affirmance, but none of them were
passed on by the Court of Appeals and they will remain openon remand if properly presented and preserved there.

The judgment of the Court of Appeals is accordingly

Reversed.
Justice Scalia, with whom Justice Thomas joins,concurring.
I join the Court's opinion because I agree that, insofar asthis case presents a facial challenge to the statute, the fact
that it is formally nothing but a restriction upon access togovernment information is determinative. As the Court
says, that fact eliminates any "chill" upon speech that wouldallow a plaintiff to complain about the application of the statute to someone other than himself.I understand the Court's opinion as not addressing the asapplied challenge to the statute, and as leaving that questionopen upon remand. That seems to me a permissible course,
since the Court of Appeals' judgment here affirmed withoutqualification the judgment of the District Court, which
rested exclusively upon the facial unconstitutionality of thestatute and hence purported to invalidate it in all its applications. Though there are portions of the Court of Appeals'opinion that address the particular circumstances of this respondent, I do not read it as narrowing the facial invalida528US1 Unit: $U10 [06-15-01 20:27:54] PAGES PGT: OPIN
42 LOS ANGELES POLICE DEPT. v. UNITED REPORTING

PUBLISHING CORP.

Ginsburg, J., concurring

tion, nor as offering as-applied invalidation as an alternativeground for affirmance.

I do not agree with Justice Ginsburg that what rendersthis statute immune from a facial challenge necessarily renders it immune from an as-applied challenge as well. A lawthat is formally merely a restriction upon access to information subjects no speaker to the risk of prosecution, and hence
there is no need to protect such speakers by allowing some-one else to raise their challenges to the law. But it is an

entirely different question whether a restriction upon accessthat

allows access to the press (which in effect makes the
information part of the public domain), but at the same time
denies access to persons who wish to use the information for
certain speech purposes, is in reality a restriction upon
speech rather than upon access to government information.
That question--and the subsequent question whether, if it is
a restriction upon speech, its application to this respondent
is justified--is not addressed in the Court's opinion.

Justice Ginsburg, with whom Justice O'Connor, Jus-
tice Souter, and Justice Breyer join, concurring.

I join the Court's opinion, which recognizes that California
Government Code $ 6254(f )(3) is properly analyzed as a restriction on access to government information, not as a restriction on protected speech. See ante, at 40. That is
sufficient reason to reverse the Ninth Circuit's judgment.

As the Court observes, see ibid., the statute at issue does
not restrict speakers from conveying information they already possess. Anyone who comes upon arrestee address
information in the public domain is free to use that information as she sees fit. It is true, as Justice Scalia suggests,
ante this page (concurring opinion), that the information
could be provided to and published by journalists, and

$ 6254(f)(3) would indeed be a speech restriction if it then
prohibited people from using that published information to
speak to or about arrestees. But the statute contains no

528US1 Unit: $U10 [06-15-01 20:27:54] PAGES PGT: OPIN

43Cite as: 528 U. S. 32 (1999)
Ginsburg, J., concurring
such prohibition. Once address information is in the publicdomain, the statute does not restrict its use in any way.

California could, as the Court notes, constitutionally de-cide not to give out arrestee address information at all. See
ante, at 40. It does not appear that the selective disclosureof address information that California has chosen instead impermissibly burdens speech. To be sure, the provision of
address information is a kind of subsidy to people who wishto speak to or about arrestees, and once a State decides to

make such a benefit available to the public, there are nodoubt limits to its freedom to decide how that benefit will be
distributed. California could not, for example, release address information only to those whose political views were
in line with the party in power. Cf. Board of Comm'rs, Wabaunsee Cty. v. Umbehr, 518 U. S. 668 (1996) (local officials
may not terminate an independent contractor for criticizing
government policy). But if the award of the subsidy is not
based on an illegitimate criterion such as viewpoint, California is free to support some speech without supporting other
speech. See Regan v. Taxation With Representation of
Wash., 461 U. S. 540 (1983).

Throughout its argument, respondent assumes that

$ 6254(f)(3)'s regime of selective disclosure burdens speech

in the sense of reducing the total flow of information.
Whether that is correct is far from clear and depends on the
point of comparison. If California were to publish the
names and addresses of arrestees for everyone to use freely,
it would indeed be easier to speak to and about arrestees
than it is under the present system. But if States were required to choose between keeping proprietary information to
themselves and making it available without limits, States
might well choose the former option. In that event, disallowing selective disclosure would lead not to more speech
overall but to more secrecy and less speech. As noted
above, this consideration could not justify limited disclosures
that discriminated on the basis of viewpoint or some other

528US1 Unit: $U10 [06-15-01 20:27:54] PAGES PGT: OPIN
44 LOS ANGELES POLICE DEPT. v. UNITED REPORTING

PUBLISHING CORP.

Stevens, J., dissenting

proscribed criterion. But it does suggest that society's interest in the free flow of information might argue for upholding laws like the one at issue in this case rather than imposing an all-or-nothing regime under which "nothing" could be
a State's easiest response.

Justice Stevens, with whom Justice Kennedy joins,
dissenting.

The majority's characterization of this case as an improper
facial challenge is misguided. Even a brief look at the complaint reveals that respondent unequivocally advanced both
a facial and an "as applied" challenge to the constitutionality of California Government Code $ 6254(f)(3) (hereinafter
Amendment). In each of the six counts of its complaint, respondent explicitly challenged the Amendment on its face
"and as applied." Complaint |||| 29, 32, 35, 38, 41, 43. Respondent also alleged that it "will be and has already been
injured in a serious way by the Amendment"; specifically, it
claimed that it "has lost prospective clients and sales, and
will ultimately be put out of business." Id., || 23. Finally,
respondent has maintained before us that it continues to
challenge the Amendment "on its face and as applied."
Brief for Respondent 15.1 It is, therefore, perfectly clear

1 The majority suggests that respondent was denied the information
simply because it "did not attempt to qualify" under the statute. Ante,
at 40. This suggestion assumes that respondent's publication might qualify as "journalistic" even though it serves primarily as a mere conduit of
data to prospective commercial users. The Amendment provides, however, that even a "journalistic" publication must sign, under risk of criminal prosecution for perjury, an affidavit stating that the information will
"not be used directly or indirectly to sell a product or service to any individual or group of individuals." Cal. Govt. Code Ann. $ 6254(f)(3) (West
Supp. 1999). Not coincidentally, that is precisely how respondent uses the
information. Accordingly, not only is the belief that respondent would
have qualified under the statute unrealistic, but the notion that respondent
must put itself at risk of 2-to-4 years' imprisonment in order to raise a
constitutional challenge to a state statute is alarming, to say the least.

528US1 Unit: $U10 [06-15-01 20:27:54] PAGES PGT: OPIN

45Cite as: 528 U. S. 32 (1999)
Stevens, J., dissenting
that respondent's allegations of direct injury justified the de-cision of the District Court and the Court of Appeals to pass

on the validity of the Amendment.2To determine whether the Amendment is valid as applied
to respondent, it is similarly not necessary to invoke theoverbreadth doctrine. That doctrine is only relevant if the
challenger needs to rely on the possibility of invalid applica-tions to third parties. In this case, it is the application of
the Amendment to respondent itself that is at issue. Nor,in my opinion, is it necessary to do the four-step

CentralHudson dance, because I agree with the majority that the

Amendment is really a restriction on access to governmentinformation rather than a direct restriction on protected
speech. For this reason, the majority is surely correct inobserving that "California could decide not to give out arrestee information at all without violating the First Amend-ment." Ante, at 40. Moreover, I think it equally clear that
California could release the information on a selective basisto a limited group of users who have a special, and legitimate, need for the information.A different, and more difficult, question is presented when
the State makes information generally available, but deniesaccess to a small disfavored class. In this case, the State is
making the information available to scholars, news media,politicians, and others, while denying access to a narrow
category of persons solely because they intend to use theinformation for a constitutionally protected purpose. As

2 The majority's characterization of both the lower court decisions
as simple facial invalidations is perplexing. See ante, at 36-37. The
District Court explicitly phrased the issue presented as whether "the
amendment to Cal. Gov. Code $ 6254 [is] an unconstitutional limitation on
plaintiff's commercial speech." United Reporting Publishing Corp. v.
Lungren, 946 F. Supp. 822, 824 (SD Cal. 1996) (emphasis added). Similarly, the Ninth Circuit concluded its opinion by stating that it need not
reach respondent's "overbreadth arguments," United Reporting Publishing Corp. v. California Highway Patrol, 146 F. 3d 1133, 1140, n. 6 (1998),
clearly indicating that it was not deciding the case as a facial challenge.

528US1 Unit: $U10 [06-15-01 20:27:54] PAGES PGT: OPIN
46 LOS ANGELES POLICE DEPT. v. UNITED REPORTING

PUBLISHING CORP.

Stevens, J., dissenting

Justice Ginsburg points out, if the State identified the dis-favored persons based on their viewpoint, or political affiliation, for example, the discrimination would clearly be invalid.See

ante, at 43 (concurring opinion).
What the State did here, in my opinion, is comparable tothat obviously unconstitutional discrimination. In this case,

the denial of access is based on the fact that respondent plans
to publish the information to others who, in turn, intend touse it for a commercial speech purpose that the State finds

objectionable. Respondent's proposed publication of the in-formation is indisputably lawful--petitioner concedes that
if respondent independently acquires the data, the First
Amendment protects its right to communicate it to others.
Brief for Petitioner 27; see also Cox Broadcasting Corp. v.
Cohn, 420 U. S. 469, 496 (1975). Similarly, the First Amendment supports the third parties' use of it for commercial
speech purposes. See Shapero v. Kentucky Bar Assn., 486
U. S. 466, 472 (1988). Thus, because the State's discrimination is based on its desire to prevent the information from
being used for constitutionally protected purposes, I think it
must assume the burden of justifying its conduct.

The only justification advanced by the State is an asserted
interest in protecting the privacy of victims and arrestees.
Although that interest would explain a total ban on access,
or a statute narrowly limiting access, it is insufficient when
the data can be published in the news media and obtained
by private investigators or others who meet the Amendment's vague criteria. This Amendment plainly suffers
from the same "overall irrationality" that undermined the
statutes at issue in Rubin v. Coors Brewing Co., 514 U. S.
476, 488 (1995), and Greater New Orleans Broadcasting
Assn., Inc. v. United States, 527 U. S. 173 (1999). By allowing such widespread access to the information, the State has
eviscerated any rational basis for believing that the Amendment will truly protect the privacy of these persons. See
Cox Broadcasting Corp., 420 U. S., at 493-495.

528US1 Unit: $U10 [06-15-01 20:27:54] PAGES PGT: OPIN

47Cite as: 528 U. S. 32 (1999)
Stevens, J., dissenting
A different, and more likely, rationale that might ex-plain the restriction is the State's desire to prevent lawyers

from soliciting law business from unrepresented defendants.3This interest is arguably consistent with trying to uphold the
ethics of the legal profession. Also at stake here, however,are the important interests of allowing lawyers to engage in
protected speech and potentially giving criminal defendants
better access to needed professional assistance. See Batesv.

State Bar of Ariz., 433 U. S. 350, 376 (1977). Ultimately,
this state interest must fail because at its core it relies ondiscrimination against disfavored speech.

4

That the State might simply withhold the informationfrom all persons does not insulate its actions from constitutional scrutiny. For even though government may withhold

3 While there is no direct evidence that the State is acting with intended
animus toward respondent and others' speech, see Brief for Petitioner 13,
n. 5, we have expressly rejected the argument that "discriminatory . . .
treatment is suspect under the First Amendment only when the legislature intends to suppress certain ideas," Simon & Schuster, Inc. v. Members of N. Y. State Crime Victims Bd., 502 U. S. 105, 117 (1991).

4 Our cases have repeatedly frowned on regulations that discriminate

based on the content of the speech or the identity of the speaker. See,
e. g., Greater New Orleans Broadcasting Assn., Inc. v. United States, 527
U. S. 173, 190 (1999) (Government cannot restrict advertising for private
casinos while allowing the advertising for tribal casinos); Simon & Schuster, Inc., 502 U. S., at 116 (government cannot "singl[e] out income derived from expressive activity for a burden the State places on no other
income"); Arkansas Writers' Project, Inc. v. Ragland, 481 U. S. 221, 229
(1987) (a tax that applies to some magazines but not to others "is particularly repugnant to First Amendment principles: a magazine's tax status
depends entirely on its content" (emphasis deleted)); Regan v. Time, Inc.,
468 U. S. 641, 648-649 (1984) ("Regulations which permit the Government
to discriminate on the basis of the content of the message cannot be tolerated under the First Amendment"); Minneapolis Star & Tribune Co. v.
Minnesota Comm'r of Revenue, 460 U. S. 575, 582 (1983) (a tax that "single[s] out the press for special treatment" is unconstitutional); Police Dept.
of Chicago v. Mosley, 408 U. S. 92, 96 (1972) ("[W]e have frequently
condemned . . . discrimination among different users of the same medium
for expression").

528US1 Unit: $U10 [06-15-01 20:27:54] PAGES PGT: OPIN
48 LOS ANGELES POLICE DEPT. v. UNITED REPORTING

PUBLISHING CORP.

Stevens, J., dissenting

a particular benefit entirely, it "may not deny a benefit to aperson on a basis that infringes his constitutionally protected

interests--especially his interest in freedom of speech."Perry v. Sindermann, 408 U. S. 593, 597 (1972). A contrary view would impermissibly allow the government to" `produce a result which [it] could not command directly.' "
Ibid. It is perfectly clear that California could not directlycensor the use of this information or the resulting speech.
It follows, I believe, that the State's discriminatory ban onaccess to information--in an attempt to prohibit persons
from exercising their constitutional rights to publish it in atruthful and accurate manner--is equally invalid.

Accordingly, I respectfully dissent.

528US1 Unit: $U11 [08-17-00 09:17:18] PAGES PGT: OPIN

49OCTOBER TERM, 1999
Syllabus

DRYE et al. v. UNITED STATES
certiorari to the united states court of appeals forthe eighth circuit

No. 98-1101. Argued November 8, 1999--Decided December 7, 1999
In 1994, Irma Drye died intestate, leaving a $233,000 estate in Pulaski

County, Arkansas. Petitioner Rohn Drye, her son, was sole heir to the
estate under Arkansas law. Drye was insolvent at the time of his mother's death and owed the Federal Government some $325,000 on unpaid
tax assessments. The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) had valid tax
liens against all of Drye's "property and rights to property" pursuant to
26 U. S. C. $ 6321. Drye petitioned the Pulaski County Probate Court
for appointment as administrator of his mother's estate and was so appointed. Several months after his mother's death, Drye resigned as
administrator after filing in the Probate Court and county land records
a written disclaimer of all interests in the estate. Under Arkansas law,
such a disclaimer creates the legal fiction that the disclaimant predeceased the decedent; consequently, the disclaimant's share of the estate
passes to the person next in line to receive that share. The disavowing
heir's creditors, Arkansas law provides, may not reach property thus
disclaimed. Here, Drye's disclaimer caused the estate to pass to his
daughter, Theresa Drye, who succeeded her father as administrator and
promptly established the Drye Family 1995 Trust (Trust). The Probate
Court declared Drye's disclaimer valid and accordingly ordered final distribution of the estate to Theresa, who then used the estate's proceeds
to fund the Trust, of which she and, during their lifetimes, her parents
are the beneficiaries. Under the Trust's terms, distributions are at the
discretion of the trustee, Drye's counsel, and may be made only for the
health, maintenance, and support of the beneficiaries. The Trust is
spendthrift, and under state law, its assets are therefore shielded from
creditors seeking to satisfy the debts of the Trust's beneficiaries. After
Drye revealed to the IRS his beneficial interest in the Trust, the
IRS filed with the county a notice of federal tax lien against the Trust
as Drye's nominee, served a notice of levy on accounts held in the
Trust's name by an investment bank, and notified the Trust of the levy.
The Trust filed a wrongful levy action against the United States in
the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Arkansas.
The Government counterclaimed against the Trust, the trustee, and the
trust beneficiaries, seeking to reduce to judgment the tax assessments
against Drye, confirm its right to seize the Trust's assets in collection

528US1 Unit: $U11 [08-17-00 09:17:18] PAGES PGT: OPIN
50 DRYE v. UNITED STATES

Syllabus
of those debts, foreclose on its liens, and sell the Trust property. On
cross-motions for summary judgment, the District Court ruled in the
Government's favor. The Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit affirmed, reading this Court's precedents to convey that state law determines whether a given set of circumstances creates a right or interest,
but federal law dictates whether that right or interest constitutes "property" or the "righ[t] to property" under $ 6321.

Held: Drye's disclaimer did not defeat the federal tax liens. The Internal

Revenue Code's prescriptions are most sensibly read to look to state
law for delineation of the taxpayer's rights or interests in the property
the Government seeks to reach, but to leave to federal law the determination whether those rights or interests constitute "property" or "rights
to property" under $ 6321. Once it has been determined that state law
creates sufficient interests in the taxpayer to satisfy the requirements
of the federal tax lien provision, state law is inoperative to prevent the
attachment of the federal liens. United States v. Bess, 357 U. S. 51,
56-57. Pp. 55-61.

(a) To satisfy a tax deficiency, the Government may impose a lien on
any "property" or "rights to property" belonging to the taxpayer.

$$ 6321, 6331(a). When Congress so broadly uses the term "property,"
this Court recognizes that the Legislature aims to reach every species
of right or interest protected by law and having an exchangeable value.
E. g., Jewett v. Commissioner, 455 U. S. 305, 309. Section 6334(a), which
lists items exempt from levy, is corroborative. Section 6334(a)'s list is
rendered exclusive by $ 6334(c), which provides that no other "property
or rights to property shall be exempt." Inheritances or devises disclaimed under state law are not included in $ 6334(a)'s catalog of exempt
property. See, e. g., Bess, 357 U. S., at 57. The absence of any recognition of disclaimers in $$ 6321, 6322, 6331(a), and 6334(a) and (c), the relevant tax collection provisions, contrasts with $ 2518(a), which renders
qualifying state-law disclaimers "with respect to any interest in property" effective for federal wealth-transfer tax purposes and for those
purposes only. Although this Court's decisions in point have not been
phrased so meticulously as to preclude the argument that state law is
the proper guide to the critical determination whether Drye's interest
constituted "property" or "rights to property" under $ 6321, the Court
is satisfied that the Code and interpretive case law place under federal, not state, control the ultimate issue whether a taxpayer has a beneficial interest in any property subject to levy for unpaid federal taxes.
Pp. 55-57.

(b) The question whether a state-law right constitutes "property" or
"rights to property" under $ 6321 is a matter of federal law. United

528US1 Unit: $U11 [08-17-00 09:17:18] PAGES PGT: OPIN

51Cite as: 528 U. S. 49 (1999)
Syllabus
States v. National Bank of Commerce, 472 U. S. 713, 727. This Court
looks initially to state law to determine what rights the taxpayer has in
the property the Government seeks to reach, then to federal law to
determine whether the taxpayer's state-delineated rights qualify as
"property" or "rights to property" within the compass of the federal tax
lien legislation. Cf. Morgan v. Commissioner, 309 U. S. 78, 80. Just
as exempt status under state law does not bind the federal collector,
United States v. Mitchell, 403 U. S. 190, 204, so federal tax law is not
struck blind by a disclaimer, United States v. Irvine, 511 U. S. 224,
240. Pp. 58-59.

(c) The Eighth Circuit, with fidelity to the relevant Code provisions
and this Court's case law, determined first what rights state law accorded Drye in his mother's estate. The Court of Appeals observed
that under Arkansas law Drye had, at his mother's death, a valuable,
transferable, legally protected right to the property at issue, and noted,
for example, that a prospective heir may effectively assign his expectancy in an estate under Arkansas law, and the assignment will be
enforced when the expectancy ripens into a present estate. Drye emphasizes his undoubted right under Arkansas law to disclaim the
inheritance, a right that is indeed personal and not marketable. But
Arkansas law primarily gave him a right of considerable value--the
right either to inherit or to channel the inheritance to a close family
member (the next lineal descendant). That right simply cannot be
written off as a mere personal right to accept or reject a gift. In pressing the analogy to a rejected gift, Drye overlooks this crucial distinction. A donee who declines an inter vivos gift restores the status quo
ante, leaving the donor to do with the gift what she will. The disclaiming heir or devisee, in contrast, does not restore the status quo, for the
decedent cannot be revived. Thus the heir inevitably exercises dominion over the property. He determines who will receive the property--
himself if he does not disclaim, a known other if he does. This power
to channel the estate's assets warrants the conclusion that Drye held
"property" or a "righ[t] to property" subject to the Government's liens
under $ 6321. Pp. 59-61.

152 F. 3d 892, affirmed.

Ginsburg, J., delivered the opinion for a unanimous Court.

Daniel M. Traylor argued the cause and filed a brief forpetitioners.
Kent L. Jones argued the cause for the United States.With him on the brief were

Solicitor General Waxman, As528US1 Unit: $U11 [08-17-00 09:17:18] PAGES PGT: OPIN
52 DRYE v. UNITED STATES

Opinion of the Court
sistant Attorney General Argrett, Deputy Solicitor GeneralWallace, David I. Pincus, and Anthony T. Sheehan.

Justice Ginsburg delivered the opinion of the Court.
This case concerns the respective provinces of state andfederal law in determining what is property for purposes of

federal tax lien legislation. At the time of his mother'sdeath, petitioner Rohn F. Drye, Jr., was insolvent and owed
the Federal Government some $325,000 on unpaid tax assess-ments for which notices of federal tax liens had been filed.
His mother died intestate, leaving an estate with a totalvalue of approximately $233,000 to which he was sole heir.
After the passage of several months, Drye disclaimed hisinterest in his mother's estate, which then passed by operation of state law to his daughter. This case presents thequestion whether Drye's interest as heir to his mother's estate constituted "property" or a "righ[t] to property" towhich the federal tax liens attached under 26 U. S. C. $ 6321,
despite Drye's exercise of the prerogative state law accordedhim to disclaim the interest retroactively.

We hold that the disclaimer did not defeat the federal taxliens. The Internal Revenue Code's prescriptions are most
sensibly read to look to state law for delineation of the tax-payer's rights or interests, but to leave to federal law the
determination whether those rights or interests constitute"property" or "rights to property" within the meaning of

$ 6321. "[O]nce it has been determined that state law cre-ates sufficient interests in the [taxpayer] to satisfy the requirements of [the federal tax lien provision], state law isinoperative to prevent the attachment of liens created by
federal statutes in favor of the United States." United
States v. Bess, 357 U. S. 51, 56-57 (1958).

I
A

The relevant facts are not in dispute. On August 3, 1994,Irma Deliah Drye died intestate, leaving an estate worth

528US1 Unit: $U11 [08-17-00 09:17:18] PAGES PGT: OPIN

53Cite as: 528 U. S. 49 (1999)
Opinion of the Court
approximately $233,000, of which $158,000 was personaltyand $75,000 was realty located in Pulaski County, Arkansas.

Petitioner Rohn F. Drye, Jr., her son, was sole heir to theestate under Arkansas law. See Ark. Code Ann. $ 28-9-214
(1987) (intestate interest passes "[f]irst, to the children ofthe intestate"). On the date of his mother's death, Drye was
insolvent and owed the Government approximately $325,000,
representing assessments for tax deficiencies in years 1988,1989, and 1990. The Internal Revenue Service (IRS or

Service) had made assessments against Drye in November1990 and May 1991 and had valid tax liens against all of
Drye's "property and rights to property" pursuant to 26U. S. C. $ 6321.

Drye petitioned the Pulaski County Probate Court for ap-pointment as administrator of his mother's estate and was so
appointed on August 17, 1994. Almost six months later, onFebruary 4, 1995, Drye filed in the Probate Court and land
records of Pulaski County a written disclaimer of all inter-ests in his mother's estate. Two days later, Drye resigned
as administrator of the estate.

Under Arkansas law, an heir may disavow his inheritanceby filing a written disclaimer no later than nine months after

the death of the decedent. Ark. Code Ann. $$ 28-2-101, 28-
2-107 (1987). The disclaimer creates the legal fiction that
the disclaimant predeceased the decedent; consequently, the
disclaimant's share of the estate passes to the person next in
line to receive that share. The disavowing heir's creditors,
Arkansas law provides, may not reach property thus disclaimed. $ 28-2-108. In the case at hand, Drye's disclaimer caused the estate to pass to his daughter, Theresa
Drye, who succeeded her father as administrator and
promptly established the Drye Family 1995 Trust (Trust).

On March 10, 1995, the Probate Court declared valid
Drye's disclaimer of all interest in his mother's estate and
accordingly ordered final distribution of the estate to Theresa Drye. Theresa Drye then used the estate's proceeds to
fund the Trust, of which she and, during their lifetimes, her

528US1 Unit: $U11 [08-17-00 09:17:18] PAGES PGT: OPIN
54 DRYE v. UNITED STATES

Opinion of the Court
parents are the beneficiaries. Under the Trust's terms, distributions are at the discretion of the trustee, Drye's counsel
Daniel M. Traylor, and may be made only for the health,
maintenance, and support of the beneficiaries. The Trust
is spendthrift, and under state law, its assets are therefore
shielded from creditors seeking to satisfy the debts of the
Trust's beneficiaries.

Also in 1995, the IRS and Drye began negotiations regarding Drye's tax liabilities. During the course of the negotiations, Drye revealed to the Service his beneficial interest in
the Trust. Thereafter, on April 11, 1996, the IRS filed with
the Pulaski County Circuit Clerk and Recorder a notice of
federal tax lien against the Trust as Drye's nominee. The
Service also served a notice of levy on accounts held in the
Trust's name by an investment bank and notified the Trust
of the levy.

B

On May 1, 1996, invoking 26 U. S. C. $ 7426(a)(1), the Trust
filed a wrongful levy action against the United States in the
United States District Court for the Eastern District of Arkansas. The Government counterclaimed against the Trust,
the trustee, and the trust beneficiaries, seeking to reduce to
judgment the tax assessments against Drye, confirm its right
to seize the Trust's assets in collection of those debts, foreclose on its liens, and sell the Trust property. On crossmotions for summary judgment, the District Court ruled in
the Government's favor.

The United States Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit
affirmed the District Court's judgment. Drye Family 1995
Trust v. United States, 152 F. 3d 892 (1998). The Court of
Appeals understood our precedents to convey that "state law
determines whether a given set of circumstances creates a
right or interest; federal law then dictates whether that
right or interest constitutes `property' or the `right to property' under $ 6321." Id., at 898.

528US1 Unit: $U11 [08-17-00 09:17:18] PAGES PGT: OPIN

55Cite as: 528 U. S. 49 (1999)
Opinion of the Court
We granted certiorari, 526 U. S. 1063 (1999), to resolve aconflict between the Eighth Circuit's holding and decisions

of the Fifth and Ninth Circuits.1 We now affirm.

II
Under the relevant provisions of the Internal RevenueCode, to satisfy a tax deficiency, the Government may impose

a lien on any "property" or "rights to property" belonging tothe taxpayer. Section 6321 provides: "If any person liable
to pay any tax neglects or refuses to pay the same afterdemand, the amount . . . shall be a lien in favor of the United
States upon all property and rights to property, whether realor personal, belonging to such person." 26 U. S. C. $ 6321.
A complementary provision, $ 6331(a), states:

"If any person liable to pay any tax neglects or refusesto pay the same within 10 days after notice and demand,

it shall be lawful for the Secretary to collect such tax . . .by levy upon all property and rights to property (except
such property as is exempt under section 6334) belong-ing to such person or on which there is a lien provided
in this chapter for the payment of such tax." 2
1 In the view of those courts, state law holds sway. Under their approach, in a State adhering to an acceptance-rejection theory, under which
a property interest vests only when the beneficiary accepts the inheritance
or devise, the disclaiming taxpayer prevails and the federal liens do not
attach. If, instead, the State holds to a transfer theory, under which the
property is deemed to vest in the beneficiary immediately upon the death
of the testator or intestate, the taxpayer loses and the federal lien runs
with the property. See Leggett v. United States, 120 F. 3d 592, 594 (CA5
1997); Mapes v. United States, 15 F. 3d 138, 140 (CA9 1994); accord, United
States v. Davidson, 55 F. Supp. 2d 1152, 1155 (Colo. 1999). Drye maintains that Arkansas adheres to the acceptance-rejection theory.

2 The Code further provides:

"Unless another date is specifically fixed by law, the lien imposed by
section 6321 shall arise at the time the assessment is made and shall continue until the liability for the amount so assessed (or a judgment against
the taxpayer arising out of such liability) is satisfied or becomes unenforceable by reason of lapse of time." 26 U. S. C. $ 6322.

528US1 Unit: $U11 [08-17-00 09:17:18] PAGES PGT: OPIN
56 DRYE v. UNITED STATES

Opinion of the Court
The language in $$ 6321 and 6331(a), this Court has observed, "is broad and reveals on its face that Congress meant
to reach every interest in property that a taxpayer might
have." United States v. National Bank of Commerce, 472
U. S. 713, 719-720 (1985) (citing 4 B. Bittker, Federal Taxation of Income, Estates and Gifts || 111.5.4, p. 111-100 (1981));
see also Glass City Bank v. United States, 326 U. S. 265, 267
(1945) ("Stronger language could hardly have been selected
to reveal a purpose to assure the collection of taxes.").
When Congress so broadly uses the term "property," we recognize, as we did in the context of the gift tax, that the
Legislature aims to reach " `every species of right or interest
protected by law and having an exchangeable value.' " Jewett v. Commissioner, 455 U. S. 305, 309 (1982) (quoting
S. Rep. No. 665, 72d Cong., 1st Sess., 39 (1932); H. R. Rep.
No. 708, 72d Cong., 1st Sess., 27 (1932)).

Section 6334(a) of the Code is corroborative. That provision lists property exempt from levy. The list includes 13
categories of items; among the enumerated exemptions are
certain items necessary to clothe and care for one's family,
unemployment compensation, and workers' compensation
benefits. $$ 6334(a)(1), (2), (4), (7). The enumeration contained in $ 6334(a), Congress directed, is exclusive: "Notwithstanding any other law of the United States . . . , no property
or rights to property shall be exempt from levy other than
the property specifically made exempt by subsection (a)."

$ 6334(c). Inheritances or devises disclaimed under state
law are not included in $ 6334(a)'s catalog of property exempt
from levy. See Bess, 357 U. S., at 57 ("The fact that . . .
Congress provided specific exemptions from distraint is evidence that Congress did not intend to recognize further exemptions which would prevent attachment of [federal tax]
liens[.]"); United States v. Mitchell, 403 U. S. 190, 205 (1971)
("Th[e] language [of $ 6334] is specific and it is clear and there
is no room in it for automatic exemption of property that

528US1 Unit: $U11 [08-17-00 09:17:18] PAGES PGT: OPIN

57Cite as: 528 U. S. 49 (1999)
Opinion of the Court
happens to be exempt from state levy under state law.").The absence of any recognition of disclaimers in $$ 6321,

6322, 6331(a), and 6334(a) and (c), the relevant tax collectionprovisions, contrasts with $ 2518(a) of the Code, which renders qualifying state-law disclaimers "with respect to any
interest in property" effective for federal wealth-transfer tax
purposes and for those purposes only.3

Drye nevertheless refers to cases indicating that state law
is the proper guide to the critical determination whether his
interest in his mother's estate constituted "property" or
"rights to property" under $ 6321. His position draws support from two recent appellate opinions: Leggett v. United
States, 120 F. 3d 592, 597 (CA5 1997) ("Section 6321 adopts
the state's definition of property interest."); and Mapes v.
United States, 15 F. 3d 138, 140 (CA9 1994) ("For the answer
to th[e] question [whether taxpayer had the requisite interest in property], we must look to state law, not federal law.").
Although our decisions in point have not been phrased so
meticulously as to preclude Drye's argument,4 we are satisfied that the Code and interpretive case law place under federal, not state, control the ultimate issue whether a taxpayer
has a beneficial interest in any property subject to levy for
unpaid federal taxes.

3 See Pennell, Recent Wealth Transfer Tax Developments, in Sophisticated Estate Planning Techniques 69, 117-118 (ALI-ABA Continuing
Legal Ed. 1997) ("The fact that a qualified disclaimer by an estate beneficiary is deemed to relate back to the decedent's death for state property
law or federal gift tax purposes is not sufficient to preclude a federal tax
lien for the disclaimant's delinquent taxes from attaching to the disclaimed
property as of the moment of the decedent's death. . . . [T]he qualified
disclaimer provision in $ 2518 only applies for purposes of Subtitle B and
the lien provisions are in Subtitle F.").

4 See, e. g., United States v. National Bank of Commerce, 472 U. S. 713,

722 (1985) ("[T]he federal statute `creates no property rights but merely
attaches consequences, federally defined, to rights created under state
law.' ") (quoting United States v. Bess, 357 U. S. 51, 55 (1958)).

528US1 Unit: $U11 [08-17-00 09:17:18] PAGES PGT: OPIN
58 DRYE v. UNITED STATES

Opinion of the Court

III
As restated in National Bank of Commerce: "The ques-tion whether a state-law right constitutes `property' or

`rights to property' is a matter of federal law." 472 U. S., at727. We look initially to state law to determine what rights
the taxpayer has in the property the Government seeks toreach, then to federal law to determine whether the taxpayer's state-delineated rights qualify as "property" or "rightsto property" within the compass of the federal tax lien legislation. Cf. Morgan v. Commissioner, 309 U. S. 78, 80 (1940)("State law creates legal interests and rights. The federal
revenue acts designate what interests or rights, so created,shall be taxed.").

In line with this division of competence, we held that ataxpayer's right under state law to withdraw the whole of
the proceeds from a joint bank account constitutes "prop-erty" or the "righ[t] to property" subject to levy for unpaid
federal taxes, although state law would not allow ordinarycreditors similarly to deplete the account. National Bank
of Commerce, 472 U. S., at 723-727. And we earlier heldthat a taxpayer's right under a life insurance policy to compel his insurer to pay him the cash surrender value qualifiesas "property" or a "righ[t] to property" subject to attachment
for unpaid federal taxes, although state law shielded the cashsurrender value from creditors' liens.

Bess, 357 U. S., at 56-57.
5 By contrast, we also concluded, again as a matter of

5 Accord, Bank One Ohio Trust Co. v. United States, 80 F. 3d 173, 176
(CA6 1996) ("Federal law did not create [the taxpayer's] equitable income
interest [in a spendthrift trust], but federal law must be applied in determining whether the interest constitutes `property' for purposes of

$ 6321."); 21 West Lancaster Corp. v. Main Line Restaurant, Inc., 790 F. 2d
354, 357-358 (CA3 1986) (although a liquor license did not constitute "property" and could not be reached by creditors under state law, it was nevertheless "property" subject to federal tax lien); W. Plumb, Federal Tax
Liens 27 (3d ed. 1972) ("[I]t is not material that the economic benefit to
which the [taxpayer's local law property] right pertains is not characterized as `property' by local law.").

528US1 Unit: $U11 [08-17-00 09:17:18] PAGES PGT: OPIN

59Cite as: 528 U. S. 49 (1999)
Opinion of the Court
federal law, that no federal tax lien could attach to policyproceeds unavailable to the insured in his lifetime. Id., at

55-56 ("It would be anomalous to view as `property' subjectto lien proceeds never within the insured's reach to enjoy.").

6

Just as "exempt status under state law does not bind thefederal collector," Mitchell, 403 U. S., at 204, so federal tax

law "is not struck blind by a disclaimer," United States v.
Irvine, 511 U. S. 224, 240 (1994). Thus, in Mitchell, theCourt held that, although a wife's renunciation of a marital

interest was treated as retroactive under state law, thatstate-law disclaimer did not determine the wife's liability for
federal tax on her share of the community income realizedbefore the renunciation. See 403 U. S., at 204 (right to renounce does not indicate that taxpayer never had a rightto property).

IV
The Eighth Circuit, with fidelity to the relevant Code pro-visions and our case law, determined first what rights state

law accorded Drye in his mother's estate. It is beyond de-bate, the Court of Appeals observed, that under Arkansas

6 Compatibly, in Aquilino v. United States, 363 U. S. 509 (1960), we held
that courts should look first to state law to determine " `the nature of the
legal interest' " a taxpayer has in the property the Government seeks to
reach under its tax lien. Id., at 513 (quoting Morgan v. Commissioner,
309 U. S. 78, 82 (1940)). We then reaffirmed that federal law determines
whether the taxpayer's interests are sufficient to constitute "property"
or "rights to property" subject to the Government's lien. 363 U. S., at
513-514. We remanded in Aquilino for a determination whether the
contractor-taxpayer held any beneficial interest, as opposed to "bare legal
title," in the funds at issue. Id., at 515-516; see also Note, Property Subject to the Federal Tax Lien, 77 Harv. L. Rev. 1485, 1491 (1964) ("Aquilino
supports the view that the Court has chosen to apply a federal test of
classification, for the contractor concededly had legal title to the funds and
yet in remanding the Court indicated that this state-created incident of
ownership was not a sufficient `right to property' in the contract proceeds
to allow the tax lien to attach. In this sense Aquilino follows Bess in
requiring that the taxpayer must have a beneficial interest in any property
subject to the lien." (footnote omitted)).

528US1 Unit: $U11 [08-17-00 09:17:18] PAGES PGT: OPIN
60 DRYE v. UNITED STATES

Opinion of the Court
law Drye had, at his mother's death, a valuable, transferable,legally protected right to the property at issue. See 152

F. 3d, at 895 (although Code does not define "property" or"rights to property," appellate courts read those terms to
encompass "state-law rights or interests that have pecuniaryvalue and are transferable"). The court noted, for example,
that a prospective heir may effectively assign his expectancyin an estate under Arkansas law, and the assignment will be
enforced when the expectancy ripens into a present estate.See

id., at 895-896 (citing several Arkansas Supreme Courtdecisions, including: Clark v. Rutherford, 227 Ark. 270, 270-

271, 298 S. W. 2d 327, 330 (1957); Bradley Lumber Co. of Ark.v. Burbridge, 213 Ark. 165, 172, 210 S. W. 2d 284, 288 (1948);
Leggett v. Martin, 203 Ark. 88, 94, 156 S. W. 2d 71, 74-75(1941)).

7

Drye emphasizes his undoubted right under Arkansas lawto disclaim the inheritance, see Ark. Code Ann. $ 28-2-101

(1987), a right that is indeed personal and not marketable.See Brief for Petitioners 13 (right to disclaim is not transferable and has no pecuniary value). But Arkansas law pri-marily gave Drye a right of considerable value--the right
either to inherit or to channel the inheritance to a close fam-ily member (the next lineal descendant). That right simply
cannot be written off as a mere "personal right . . . to acceptor reject [a] gift."

Ibid.In pressing the analogy to a rejected gift, Drye overlooks

this crucial distinction. A donee who declines an inter vivos

7 In recognizing that state-law rights that have pecuniary value and are
transferable fall within $ 6321, we do not mean to suggest that transferability is essential to the existence of "property" or "rights to property"
under that section. For example, although we do not here decide the
matter, we note that an interest in a spendthrift trust has been held to
constitute " `property' for purposes of $ 6321" even though the beneficiary
may not transfer that interest to third parties. See Bank One, 80 F. 3d,
at 176. Nor do we mean to suggest that an expectancy that has pecuniary
value and is transferable under state law would fall within $ 6321 prior to
the time it ripens into a present estate.

528US1 Unit: $U11 [08-17-00 09:17:18] PAGES PGT: OPIN

61Cite as: 528 U. S. 49 (1999)
Opinion of the Court
gift generally restores the status quo ante, leaving the donorto do with the gift what she will. The disclaiming heir or

devisee, in contrast, does not restore the status quo, for thedecedent cannot be revived. Thus the heir inevitably exercises dominion over the property. He determines who willreceive the property--himself if he does not disclaim, a
known other if he does. See Hirsch, The Problem of theInsolvent Heir, 74 Cornell L. Rev. 587, 607-608 (1989). This
power to channel the estate's assets warrants the conclusionthat Drye held "property" or a "righ[t] to property" subject
to the Government's liens.

* * *
In sum, in determining whether a federal taxpayer'sstate-law rights constitute "property" or "rights to property," "[t]he important consideration is the breadth of thecontrol the [taxpayer] could exercise over the property."
Morgan, 309 U. S., at 83. Drye had the unqualified right toreceive the entire value of his mother's estate (less administrative expenses), see National Bank of Commerce, 472U. S., at 725 (confirming that unqualified "right to receive
property is itself a property right" subject to the tax collec-tor's levy), or to channel that value to his daughter. The
control rein he held under state law, we hold, rendered theinheritance "property" or "rights to property" belonging to
him within the meaning of $ 6321, and hence subject to thefederal tax liens that sparked this controversy.

For the reasons stated, the judgment of the Court ofAppeals for the Eighth Circuit is

Affirmed.

528US1 Unit: $U12 [06-14-01 18:42:22] PAGES PGT: OPIN
62 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

Syllabus

KIMEL et al. v. FLORIDA BOARD OF REGENTS et al.
certiorari to the united states court of appeals forthe eleventh circuit

No. 98-791. Argued October 13, 1999--Decided January 11, 2000*
The Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967 (ADEA or Act),

as amended, makes it unlawful for an employer, including a State, "to
fail or refuse to hire or to discharge any individual or otherwise discriminate against any individual . . . because of such individual's age."
29 U. S. C. $ 623(a)(1). Petitioners, three sets of plaintiffs, filed suit
under the ADEA against respondents, their state employers. Petitioners' suits sought money damages for respondents' alleged discrimination on the basis of age. Respondents in all three cases moved to dismiss the suits on the basis of the Eleventh Amendment. The District
Court in one case granted the motion to dismiss, while in each of the
remaining cases the District Court denied the motion. All three decisions were appealed and consolidated before the Eleventh Circuit.
Petitioner United States intervened on appeal to defend the constitutionality of the ADEA's abrogation of the States' Eleventh Amendment immunity. In a divided panel opinion, the Eleventh Circuit held
that the ADEA does not abrogate the States' Eleventh Amendment
immunity.

Held: Although the ADEA does contain a clear statement of Congress'

intent to abrogate the States' immunity, that abrogation exceeded Congress' authority under $ 5 of the Fourteenth Amendment. Pp. 72-92.

(a) The ADEA satisfies the simple but stringent test this Court uses
to determine whether a federal statute properly subjects States to suits
by individuals: Congress made its intention to abrogate the States' immunity unmistakably clear in the language of the statute. Dellmuth v.
Muth, 491 U. S. 223, 228. The ADEA states that its provisions "shall
be enforced in accordance with the powers, remedies, and procedures
provided in sections 211(b), 216 (except for subsection (a) thereof), and
217 of this title, and subsection (c) of this section." 29 U. S. C. $ 626(b).
Section 216(b), in turn, authorizes employees to maintain actions for
backpay "against any employer (including a public agency) in any Federal or State court of competent jurisdiction . . . ." Section 203(x) defines "public agency" to include "the government of a State or political

*Together with No. 98-796, United States v. Florida Board of Regents
et al., also on certiorari to the same court.

528US1 Unit: $U12 [06-14-01 18:42:22] PAGES PGT: OPIN

63Cite as: 528 U. S. 62 (2000)
Syllabus
subdivision thereof," and "any agency of . . . a State, or a political subdivision of a State." The text of $ 626(b) forecloses respondents' claim
that the existence of an enforcement provision in the ADEA itself
renders Congress' intent to incorporate $ 216(b)'s clear statement of
abrogation ambiguous. Congress' use of the phrase "court of competent jurisdiction" in $ 216(b) also does not render its intent to abrogate
less than clear. Finally, because the clear statement inquiry focuses on
what Congress did enact, not when it did so, the Court will not infer
ambiguity from the sequence in which a clear textual statement is added
to a statute. Pp. 73-78.

(b) This Court held in EEOC v. Wyoming, 460 U. S. 226, 243, that the
ADEA constitutes a valid exercise of Congress' Article I Commerce
Clause power. Congress' powers under Article I, however, do not include the power to subject States to suit at the hands of private individuals. Seminole Tribe of Fla. v. Florida, 517 U. S. 44, 72-73. Section 5 of the Fourteenth Amendment does grant Congress the authority
to abrogate the States' sovereign immunity. Fitzpatrick v. Bitzer, 427
U. S. 445, 456. Pp. 78-80.

(c) Section 5 of the Fourteenth Amendment is an affirmative grant of
power to Congress. City of Boerne v. Flores, 521 U. S. 507, 517. That
power includes the authority both to remedy and to deter the violation
of rights guaranteed thereunder by prohibiting a somewhat broader
swath of conduct, including that which is not itself forbidden by the
Amendment's text. Congress cannot, however, decree the substance
of the Fourteenth Amendment's restrictions on the States. Id., at 519.
The ultimate interpretation and determination of the Amendment's
substantive meaning remains the province of the Judicial Branch. This
Court has held that for remedial legislation to be appropriate under $ 5,
"[t]here must be a congruence and proportionality between the injury
to be prevented or remedied and the means adopted to that end." Id.,
at 520. Pp. 80-82.

(d) The ADEA is not "appropriate legislation" under $ 5 of the Fourteenth Amendment. The ADEA's purported abrogation of the States'
sovereign immunity is accordingly invalid. Pp. 82-91.

(1) The substantive requirements the ADEA imposes on state
and local governments are disproportionate to any unconstitutional conduct that conceivably could be targeted by the Act. Age is not a suspect classification under the Equal Protection Clause. See, e. g., Gregory v. Ashcroft, 501 U. S. 452, 470. States therefore may discriminate
on the basis of age without offending the Fourteenth Amendment if the
age classification in question is rationally related to a legitimate state
interest. The rationality commanded by the Equal Protection Clause
does not require States to match age distinctions and the legitimate

528US1 Unit: $U12 [06-14-01 18:42:22] PAGES PGT: OPIN
64 KIMEL v. FLORIDA BD. OF REGENTS

Syllabus
interests they serve with razorlike precision. Rather, a State may rely
on age as a proxy for other qualities, abilities, or characteristics that
are relevant to the State's legitimate interests. That age proves to be
an inaccurate proxy in any individual case is irrelevant. Judged against
the backdrop of this Court's equal protection jurisprudence, it is clear
that the ADEA is "so out of proportion to a supposed remedial or preventive object that it cannot be understood as responsive to, or designed
to prevent, unconstitutional behavior." City of Boerne, supra, at 532.
The Act, through its broad restriction on the use of age as a discriminating factor, prohibits substantially more state employment decisions
and practices than would likely be held unconstitutional under the applicable equal protection, rational basis standard. Petitioners' reliance on
the "bona fide occupational qualification" defense of $ 623(f)(1) is misplaced. This Court's decision in Western Air Lines, Inc. v. Criswell,
472 U. S. 400, conclusively demonstrates that the defense is a far cry
from the rational basis standard the Court applies to age discrimination
under the Equal Protection Clause. Although it is true that the existence of the defense makes the ADEA's prohibition of age discrimination
less than absolute, the Act's substantive requirements nevertheless
remain at a level akin to the Court's heightened scrutiny cases under
the Equal Protection Clause. The exception in $ 623(f)(1) that permits
employers to engage in conduct otherwise prohibited by the Act "where
the differentiation is based on reasonable factors other than age" confirms, rather than disproves, the conclusion that the ADEA extends beyond the requirements of the Equal Protection Clause. That exception
makes clear that the employer cannot rely on age as a proxy for an
employee's characteristics, Hazen Paper Co. v. Biggins, 507 U. S. 604,
611, whereas the Constitution permits such reliance, see, e. g., Gregory,
supra, at 473. Pp. 82-88.

(2) That the ADEA prohibits very little conduct likely to be held
unconstitutional, while significant, does not alone provide the answer
to the $ 5 inquiry. Difficult and intractable problems often require
powerful remedies, and this Court has never held that $ 5 precludes
Congress from enacting reasonably prophylactic legislation. One
means by which the Court has determined the difference between a
statute that constitutes an appropriate remedy and one that attempts
to substantively redefine the States' legal obligations is by examining
the legislative record containing the reasons for Congress' action. See,
e. g., City of Boerne, supra, at 530-531. A review of the ADEA's legislative record as a whole reveals that Congress had virtually no reason
to believe that state and local governments were unconstitutionally discriminating against their employees on the basis of age. Congress
never identified any pattern of age discrimination by the States, much
less any discrimination whatsoever that rose to the level of constitu528US1 Unit: $U12 [06-14-01 18:42:22] PAGES PGT: OPIN

65Cite as: 528 U. S. 62 (2000)
Syllabus
tional violation. That failure confirms that Congress had no reason to
believe that broad prophylactic legislation was necessary in this field.
Pp. 88-91.

(e) Today's decision does not signal the end of the line for employees
who find themselves subject to age discrimination at the hands of their
state employers. Those employees are protected by state age discrimination statutes, and may recover money damages from their state employers, in almost every State of the Union. Pp. 91-92.

139 F. 3d 1426, affirmed.

O'Connor, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, Parts I, II, and IV of
which were joined by Rehnquist, C. J., and Scalia, Kennedy, and
Thomas, JJ., and Part III of which was joined by Rehnquist, C. J., and
Stevens, Scalia, Souter, Ginsburg, and Breyer, JJ. Stevens, J.,
filed an opinion dissenting in part and concurring in part, in which Sou-
ter, Ginsburg, and Breyer, JJ., joined, post, p. 92. Thomas, J., filed an
opinion concurring in part and dissenting in part, in which Kennedy, J.,
joined, post, p. 99.

Jeremiah A. Collins argued the cause for petitioners inNo. 98-791, and respondents under this Court's Rule 12.6 in

support of petitioner in No. 98-796. With him on the briefwere Robert H. Chanin, Laurence Gold, David Arendall,
Thomas W. Brooks, and Gerald J. Houlihan.Barbara D. Underwood argued the cause for the United
States, as petitioner in No. 98-796, and respondent underthis Court's Rule 12.6 in support of petitioners in No. 98-791.
With her on the briefs were Solicitor General Waxman, Act-ing Assistant Attorney General Lee, Patricia A. Millett,
Jessica Dunsay Silver, and Seth M. Galanter.Jeffrey S. Sutton argued the cause for state respondents in
both cases. With him on the brief were Gregory G. Katsas,
Robert A. Butterworth, Attorney General of Florida, LouisF. Hubener and Amelia Beisner, Assistant Attorneys General, Bill Pryor, Attorney General of Alabama, and AliceAnn Byrne and Jack Park, Assistant Attorneys General.#

#Laurie A. McCann and Melvin Radowitz filed a brief for the American
Association of Retired Persons et al. as amici curiae urging reversal.

Briefs of amici curiae urging affirmance were filed for the State of Ohio
et al. by Betty D. Montgomery, Attorney General of Ohio, Edward B.

528US1 Unit: $U12 [06-14-01 18:42:22] PAGES PGT: OPIN
66 KIMEL v. FLORIDA BD. OF REGENTS

Opinion of the Court
Justice O'Connor delivered the opinion of the Court.
The Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967(ADEA or Act), 81 Stat. 602, as amended, 29 U. S. C. $ 621

et seq. (1994 ed. and Supp. III), makes it unlawful for anemployer, including a State, "to fail or refuse to hire or to
discharge any individual or otherwise discriminate againstany individual . . . because of such individual's age." 29
U. S. C. $ 623(a)(1). In these cases, three sets of plaintiffsfiled suit under the Act, seeking money damages for their
state employers' alleged discrimination on the basis of age.In each case, the state employer moved to dismiss the suit
on the basis of its Eleventh Amendment immunity. TheDistrict Court in one case granted the motion to dismiss,
while in each of the remaining cases the District Court de-nied the motion. Appeals in the three cases were consolidated before the Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit,which held that the ADEA does not validly abrogate the
States' Eleventh Amendment immunity. In these cases, weare asked to consider whether the ADEA contains a clear

Foley, State Solicitor, Stephen P. Carney, Associate Solicitor, and Matthew
J. Lampke, Assistant Solicitor, Paul G. Summers, Attorney General of
Tennessee, and Michael E. Moore, Solicitor General, and by the Attorneys
General for their respective States as follows: Richard Blumenthal of
Connecticut, M. Jane Brady of Delaware, Thurbert E. Baker of Georgia,
Earl I. Anzai of Hawaii, Alan G. Lance of Idaho, Carla J. Stoval of Kansas,
Richard P. Ieyoub of Louisiana, Andrew Ketterer of Maine, Jennifer M.
Granholm of Michigan, Mike Moore of Mississippi, Joseph P. Mazurek of
Montana, Don Stenberg of Nebraska, Frankie Sue Del Papa of Nevada,
John J. Farmer, Jr., of New Jersey, W. A. Drew Edmondson of Oklahoma,
Hardy Myers of Oregon, D. Michael Fisher of Pennsylvania, Sheldon
Whitehouse of Rhode Island, Jan Graham of Utah, William H. Sorrell of
Vermont, and Mark L. Earley of Virginia; for the Pennsylvania House of
Representatives, Republican Caucus, by David R. Fine and John P. Krill,
Jr.; and for the Pacific Legal Foundation by Robin L. Rivett and Frank
A. Shepherd.

Briefs of amici curiae were filed for the Coalition for Local Sovereignty
by Kenneth B. Clark; and for the English Language Advocates by Barnaby W. Zall.

528US1 Unit: $U12 [06-14-01 18:42:22] PAGES PGT: OPIN

67Cite as: 528 U. S. 62 (2000)
Opinion of the Court
statement of Congress' intent to abrogate the States' Eleventh Amendment immunity and, if so, whether the ADEA
is a proper exercise of Congress' constitutional authority.
We conclude that the ADEA does contain a clear statement
of Congress' intent to abrogate the States' immunity, but
that the abrogation exceeded Congress' authority under $ 5
of the Fourteenth Amendment.

I
A

The ADEA makes it unlawful for an employer "to fail
or refuse to hire or to discharge any individual or otherwise
discriminate against any individual with respect to his compensation, terms, conditions, or privileges of employment,
because of such individual's age." 29 U. S. C. $ 623(a)(1).
The Act also provides several exceptions to this broad prohibition. For example, an employer may rely on age where
it "is a bona fide occupational qualification reasonably necessary to the normal operation of the particular business."

$ 623(f)(1). The Act also permits an employer to engage
in conduct otherwise prohibited by $ 623(a)(1) if the employer's action "is based on reasonable factors other than
age," $ 623(f)(1), or if the employer "discharge[s] or otherwise discipline[s] an individual for good cause," $ 623(f)(3).
Although the Act's prohibitions originally applied only to
individuals "at least forty years of age but less than sixtyfive years of age," 81 Stat. 607, 29 U. S. C. $ 631 (1964 ed.,
Supp. III), Congress subsequently removed the upper age
limit, and the Act now covers individuals age 40 and over,
29 U. S. C. $ 631(a). Any person aggrieved by an employer's
violation of the Act "may bring a civil action in any court
of competent jurisdiction" for legal or equitable relief.

$ 626(c)(1). Section 626(b) also permits aggrieved employees to enforce the Act through certain provisions of the
Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 (FLSA), and the ADEA

528US1 Unit: $U12 [06-14-01 18:42:22] PAGES PGT: OPIN
68 KIMEL v. FLORIDA BD. OF REGENTS

Opinion of the Court
specifically incorporates $ 16(b) of the FLSA, 29 U. S. C.$ 216(b).

Since its enactment, the ADEA's scope of coverage hasbeen expanded by amendment. Of particular importance
to these cases is the Act's treatment of state employers andemployees. When first passed in 1967, the ADEA applied
only to private employers. See 29 U. S. C. $ 630(b) (1964
ed., Supp. III) (defining term "employer" to exclude "theUnited States, a corporation wholly owned by the Government of the United States, or a State or political sub-division thereof "). In 1974, in a statute consisting primarily
of amendments to the FLSA, Congress extended application
of the ADEA's substantive requirements to the States. Fair
Labor Standards Amendments of 1974 (1974 Act), $ 28, 88
Stat. 74. Congress accomplished that expansion in scope by
a simple amendment to the definition of "employer" contained in 29 U. S. C. $ 630(b): "The term [employer] also
means . . . a State or political subdivision of a State and
any agency or instrumentality of a State or a political subdivision of a State . . . ." Congress also amended the
ADEA's definition of "employee," still defining the term to
mean "an individual employed by any employer," but excluding elected officials and appointed policymakers at the
state and local levels. $ 630(f ). In the same 1974 Act, Congress amended 29 U. S. C. $ 216(b), the FLSA enforcement
provision incorporated by reference into the ADEA. 88
Stat. 61. Section 216(b) now permits an individual to bring
a civil action "against any employer (including a public
agency) in any Federal or State court of competent jurisdiction." Section 203(x) defines "[p]ublic agency" to include
"the government of a State or political subdivision thereof,"
and "any agency of . . . a State, or a political subdivision
of a State." Finally, in the 1974 Act, Congress added a provision prohibiting age discrimination generally in employment at the Federal Government. 88 Stat. 74, 29 U. S. C.

$ 633a (1994 ed. and Supp. III). Under the current ADEA,

528US1 Unit: $U12 [06-14-01 18:42:22] PAGES PGT: OPIN

69Cite as: 528 U. S. 62 (2000)
Opinion of the Court
mandatory age limits for law enforcement officers and fire-fighters--at federal, state, and local levels--are exempted

from the statute's coverage. 5 U. S. C. $$ 3307(d), (e); 29U. S. C. $ 623( j) (1994 ed., Supp. III).

B
In December 1994, Roderick MacPherson and MarvinNarz, ages 57 and 58 at the time, filed suit under the ADEA

against their employer, the University of Montevallo, in theUnited States District Court for the Northern District of
Alabama. In their complaint, they alleged that the univer-sity had discriminated against them on the basis of their
age, that it had retaliated against them for filing discrimi-nation charges with the Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission (EEOC), and that its College of Business, atwhich they were associate professors, employed an evaluation system that had a disparate impact on older facultymembers. MacPherson and Narz sought declaratory and
injunctive relief, backpay, promotions to full professor,and compensatory and punitive damages. App. 21-25. The
University of Montevallo moved to dismiss the suit for lackof subject matter jurisdiction, contending it was barred
by the Eleventh Amendment. No party disputes the Dis-trict Court's holding that the university is an instrumentality of the State of Alabama. On September 9, 1996, the Dis-trict Court granted the university's motion. MacPherson
v. University of Montevallo, Civ. Action No. 94-AR-2962-S(ND Ala., Sept. 9, 1996), App. to Pet. for Cert. in No. 98-796,

pp. 63a-71a. The court determined that, although theADEA contains a clear statement of Congress' intent to abrogate the States' Eleventh Amendment immunity, Congressdid not enact or extend the ADEA under its Fourteenth
Amendment $ 5 enforcement power. Id., at 67a, 69a-70a.The District Court therefore held that the ADEA did not
abrogate the States' Eleventh Amendment immunity. Id.,at 71a.

528US1 Unit: $U12 [06-14-01 18:42:22] PAGES PGT: OPIN
70 KIMEL v. FLORIDA BD. OF REGENTS

Opinion of the Court
In April 1995, a group of current and former faculty andlibrarians of Florida State University, including J. Daniel

Kimel, Jr., the named petitioner in one of today's cases, filedsuit against the Florida Board of Regents in the United
States District Court for the Northern District of Florida.Complaint and Demand for Jury Trial in No. 95-CV-40194,
1 Record, Doc. No. 2. The complaint was subsequently
amended to add as plaintiffs current and former faculty andlibrarians of Florida International University. App. 41.

The plaintiffs, all over age 40, alleged that the Florida Boardof Regents refused to require the two state universities to
allocate funds to provide previously agreed upon market
adjustments to the salaries of eligible university employees.
The plaintiffs contended that the failure to allocate the
funds violated both the ADEA and the Florida Civil Rights
Act of 1992, Fla. Stat. $ 760.01 et seq. (1997 and Supp. 1998),
because it had a disparate impact on the base pay of employees with a longer record of service, most of whom were
older employees. App. 42-45. The plaintiffs sought backpay, liquidated damages, and permanent salary adjustments
as relief. Id., at 46. The Florida Board of Regents moved
to dismiss the suit on the grounds of Eleventh Amendment
immunity. On May 17, 1996, the District Court denied the
motion, holding that Congress expressed its intent to abrogate the States' Eleventh Amendment immunity in the
ADEA, and that the ADEA is a proper exercise of congressional authority under the Fourteenth Amendment.
No. TCA 95-40194-MMP (ND Fla.), App. to Pet. for Cert. in
No. 98-796, pp. 57a-62a.

In May 1996, Wellington Dickson filed suit against his
employer, the Florida Department of Corrections, in the
United States District Court for the Northern District of
Florida. Dickson alleged that the state employer failed to
promote him because of his age and because he had filed
grievances with respect to the alleged acts of age discrimination. Dickson sought injunctive relief, backpay, and com528US1 Unit: $U12 [06-14-01 18:42:22] PAGES PGT: OPIN

71Cite as: 528 U. S. 62 (2000)
Opinion of the Court
pensatory and punitive damages. App. 83-109. The Flor-ida Department of Corrections moved to dismiss the suit on

the grounds that it was barred by the Eleventh Amendment.The District Court denied that motion on November 5, 1996,
holding that Congress unequivocally expressed its intent toabrogate the States' Eleventh Amendment immunity in the
ADEA, and that Congress had authority to do so under $ 5
of the Fourteenth Amendment. Dickson v. Florida Dept.
of Corrections, No. 5:96cv207-RH (ND Fla.), App. to Pet. for
Cert. in No. 98-796, pp. 72a-76a.The plaintiffs in the

MacPherson case, and the state defendants in the Kimel and Dickson cases, appealed to the
Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit. The United
States also intervened in all three cases to defend the
ADEA's abrogation of the States' Eleventh Amendment immunity. The Court of Appeals consolidated the appeals
and, in a divided panel opinion, held that the ADEA does
not abrogate the States' Eleventh Amendment immunity.
139 F. 3d 1426, 1433 (1998). Judge Edmondson, although
stating that he believed "good reason exists to doubt that
the ADEA was (or could have been properly) enacted pursuant to the Fourteenth Amendment," id., at 1430, rested his
opinion on the ADEA's lack of unmistakably clear language
evidencing Congress' intent to abrogate the States' sovereign immunity. Ibid. He noted that the ADEA lacks any
reference to the Eleventh Amendment or to the States'
sovereign immunity and does not contain, in one place, a
plain statement that States can be sued by individuals in
federal court. Id., at 1430-1431. Judge Cox concurred in
Judge Edmondson's ultimate conclusion that the States are
immune from ADEA suits brought by individuals in federal court. Id., at 1444. Judge Cox, however, chose not
to address "the thorny issue of Congress's intent," id., at
1445, but instead found that Congress lacks the power under

$ 5 of the Fourteenth Amendment to abrogate the States'
Eleventh Amendment immunity under the ADEA. Ibid.

528US1 Unit: $U12 [06-14-01 18:42:22] PAGES PGT: OPIN
72 KIMEL v. FLORIDA BD. OF REGENTS

Opinion of the Court
He concluded that "the ADEA confers rights far more ex-tensive than those the Fourteenth Amendment provides,"

id., at 1446, and that "Congress did not enact the ADEA asa proportional response to any widespread violation of the
elderly's constitutional rights." Id., at 1447. Chief JudgeHatchett dissented from both grounds. Id., at 1434.

We granted certiorari, 525 U. S. 1121 (1999), to resolvea conflict among the Federal Courts of Appeals on the question whether the ADEA validly abrogates the States' Elev-enth Amendment immunity. Compare

Cooper v. New YorkState Office of Mental Health, 162 F. 3d 770 (CA2 1998)

(holding that the ADEA does validly abrogate the States'Eleventh Amendment immunity), cert. pending, No. 98-1524;
Migneault v. Peck, 158 F. 3d 1131 (CA10 1998) (same), cert.pending, No. 98-1178; Coger v. Board of Regents of State
of Tenn., 154 F. 3d 296 (CA6 1998) (same), cert. pending,No. 98-821; Keeton v. University of Nev. System, 150 F.
3d 1055 (CA9 1998) (same); Scott v. University of Miss.,148 F. 3d 493 (CA5 1998) (same); and

Goshtasby v. Boardof Trustees of Univ. of Ill., 141 F. 3d 761 (CA7 1998) (same),

with Humenansky v. Regents of Univ. of Minn., 152 F. 3d822 (CA8 1998) (holding that the ADEA does not validly abrogate the States' Eleventh Amendment immunity), cert.pending, No. 98-1235; and 139 F. 3d 1426 (CA11 1998) (case
below). II

The Eleventh Amendment states:

"The Judicial power of the United States shall not beconstrued to extend to any suit in law or equity, commenced or prosecuted against one of the United Statesby Citizens of another State, or by Citizens or Subjects
of any Foreign State."
Although today's cases concern suits brought by citizensagainst their own States, this Court has long " `understood

the Eleventh Amendment to stand not so much for what it

528US1 Unit: $U12 [06-14-01 18:42:22] PAGES PGT: OPIN

73Cite as: 528 U. S. 62 (2000)
Opinion of the Court
says, but for the presupposition . . . which it confirms.' "Seminole Tribe of Fla. v. Florida, 517 U. S. 44, 54 (1996)

(quoting Blatchford v. Native Village of Noatak, 501 U. S.775, 779 (1991)). Accordingly, for over a century now, we
have made clear that the Constitution does not provide forfederal jurisdiction over suits against nonconsenting States.
College Savings Bank v. Florida Prepaid Postsecondary Ed.
Expense Bd., 527 U. S. 666, 669-670 (1999); Seminole Tribe,supra, at 54; see Hans v. Louisiana, 134 U. S. 1, 15 (1890).

Petitioners nevertheless contend that the States of Alabamaand Florida must defend the present suits on the merits because Congress abrogated their Eleventh Amendment im-munity in the ADEA. To determine whether petitioners
are correct, we must resolve two predicate questions: first,whether Congress unequivocally expressed its intent to abrogate that immunity; and second, if it did, whether Congressacted pursuant to a valid grant of constitutional authority.
Seminole Tribe, supra, at 55.

III
To determine whether a federal statute properly subjectsStates to suits by individuals, we apply a "simple but stringent test: `Congress may abrogate the States' constitution-ally secured immunity from suit in federal court only by
making its intention unmistakably clear in the language ofthe statute.' " Dellmuth v. Muth, 491 U. S. 223, 228 (1989)
(quoting Atascadero State Hospital v. Scanlon, 473 U. S.234, 242 (1985)). We agree with petitioners that the ADEA
satisfies that test. The ADEA states that its provisions"shall be enforced in accordance with the powers, remedies,
and procedures provided in sections 211(b), 216 (except forsubsection (a) thereof), and 217 of this title, and subsection
(c) of this section." 29 U. S. C. $ 626(b). Section 216(b), inturn, clearly provides for suits by individuals against States.
That provision authorizes employees to maintain actions forbackpay "against any employer (including a public agency)

528US1 Unit: $U12 [06-14-01 18:42:22] PAGES PGT: OPIN
74 KIMEL v. FLORIDA BD. OF REGENTS

Opinion of the Court
in any Federal or State court of competent jurisdiction . . . ."Any doubt concerning the identity of the "public agency" defendant named in $ 216(b) is dispelled by looking to $ 203(x),which defines the term to include "the government of a
State or political subdivision thereof," and "any agencyof . . . a State, or a political subdivision of a State." Read
as a whole, the plain language of these provisions clearly
demonstrates Congress' intent to subject the States to suitfor money damages at the hands of individual employees.

Respondents maintain that these statutory sections areless than "unmistakably clear" for two reasons. Brief for
Respondents 15. First, they note that the ADEA already
contains its own enforcement provision, $ 626(c)(1), which
provides in relevant part that "[a]ny person aggrieved may
bring a civil action in any court of competent jurisdiction for
such legal or equitable relief as will effectuate the purposes
of this chapter." Respondents claim that the existence of

$ 626(c)(1) renders Congress' intent to incorporate the clear
statement of abrogation in $ 216(b), the FLSA's enforcement
provision, ambiguous. The text of the ADEA forecloses respondents' argument. Section 626(b) clearly states that the
ADEA "shall be enforced in accordance with the powers,
remedies, and procedures provided in [section 216(b)] and
subsection (c) of this section." $ 626(b) (emphasis added).
In accord with that statutory language, we have explained
repeatedly that $ 626(b) incorporates the FLSA's enforcement provisions, and that those remedial options operate together with $ 626(c)(1). See McKennon v. Nashville Banner
Publishing Co., 513 U. S. 352, 357 (1995) ("[The ADEA's] remedial provisions incorporate by reference the provisions of
the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938"); Hoffmann-La Roche
Inc. v. Sperling, 493 U. S. 165, 167 (1989) ("[T]he ADEA incorporates enforcement provisions of the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938, and provides that the ADEA shall be enforced using certain of the powers, remedies, and procedures
of the FLSA" (citation omitted)); Lorillard v. Pons, 434 U. S.

528US1 Unit: $U12 [06-14-01 18:42:22] PAGES PGT: OPIN

75Cite as: 528 U. S. 62 (2000)
Opinion of the Court
575, 582 (1978) ("[B]ut for those changes Congress expresslymade [in the ADEA], it intended to incorporate fully the

remedies and procedures of the FLSA"). Respondents' ar-gument attempts to create ambiguity where, according to
the statute's text and this Court's repeated interpretationsthereof, there is none.

Respondents next point to the phrase "court of competent
jurisdiction" in $ 216(b), and contend that it makes Congress'intent to abrogate less than clear. Relying on our decision

in the distinct context of a state waiver of sovereign im-munity,

Kennecott Copper Corp. v. State Tax Comm'n, 327
U. S. 573 (1946), respondents maintain that perhaps Congress simply intended to permit an ADEA suit against a
State only in those cases where the State previously has
waived its Eleventh Amendment immunity to suit. We disagree. Our decision in Kennecott Copper must be read in
context. The petitioner there contended that Utah had
waived its Eleventh Amendment immunity to suit in federal
court through a state statute that authorized taxpayers to
pay their taxes under protest and " `thereafter bring an
action in any court of competent jurisdiction for the return
thereof . . . .' " Id., at 575, n. 1 (quoting Utah Code Ann.

$ 80-5-76 (1943)). Although the statute undoubtedly provided for suit against the State of Utah in its own courts,
we held that the statute fell short of the required "clear
declaration by a State of its consent to be sued in the federal courts." 327 U. S., at 579-580 (emphasis added). Section 216(b) contains no such ambiguity. The statute authorizes employee suits against States "in any Federal or State
court of competent jurisdiction." $ 216(b) (emphasis added).
That language eliminates the ambiguity identified in Kennecott Copper--whether Utah intended to permit suits
against the sovereign in state court only, or in state and
federal court. Under $ 216(b), the answer to that question is
clear--actions may be maintained in federal and state court.
That choice of language sufficiently indicates Congress' in528US1 Unit: $U12 [06-14-01 18:42:22] PAGES PGT: OPIN
76 KIMEL v. FLORIDA BD. OF REGENTS

Opinion of the Court
tent, in the ADEA, to abrogate the States' Eleventh Amend-ment immunity to suits by individuals.

Although Justice Thomas concedes in his opinion thatour cases have never required that Congress make its clear
statement in a single section or in statutory provisionsenacted at the same time,

post, at 104-105 (opinion concurring in part and dissenting in part), he concludes that the
ADEA lacks the requisite clarity because of the "sequenceof events" surrounding the enactment and amendment of

$$ 216(b) and 626(b), post, at 102. Justice Thomas statesthat he is unwilling to assume that when Congress amended

$ 216(b) in 1974, it recognized the consequences that amendment would have for the ADEA. Ibid. We respectfully
disagree. The fact that Congress amended the ADEA itself
in the same 1974 Act makes it more than clear that Congress
understood the consequences of its actions. Indeed, Congress amended $ 216(b) to provide for suits against States
in precisely the same Act in which it extended the ADEA's
substantive requirements to the States. See 1974 Act,

$ 6(d)(1), 88 Stat. 61 (amending $ 216(b)); $ 28(a), 88 Stat. 74
(extending ADEA to the States). Those provisions confirm
for us that the effect on the ADEA of the $ 216(b) amendment was not mere happenstance. In any event, we have
never held that Congress must speak with different gradations of clarity depending on the specific circumstances of
the relevant legislation (e. g., amending incorporated provisions as opposed to enacting a statute for the first time).
The clear statement inquiry focuses on what Congress did
enact, not when it did so. We will not infer ambiguity from
the sequence in which a clear textual statement is added to
a statute.

We also disagree with Justice Thomas' remaining points,
see post, at 105-109. Although the ADEA does contain its
own enforcement provision in $ 626(c)(1), the text of $ 626(b)
acknowledges $ 626(c)(1)'s existence and makes clear that
the ADEA also incorporates $ 216(b), save as indicated

528US1 Unit: $U12 [06-14-01 18:42:22] PAGES PGT: OPIN

77Cite as: 528 U. S. 62 (2000)
Opinion of the Court
otherwise in $ 626(b)'s proviso. See $ 626(b) ("The provi-sions of this chapter shall be enforced in accordance with the

powers, remedies, and procedures provided in sectio[n] . . .216 (except for subsection (a) thereof) . . .

and subsection (c)
of this section" (emphasis added)). We fail to see how theinterpretation suggested by

Justice Thomas, under which

$ 626(b) would carry over only those $ 216(b) "embellishments" not already provided for in $ 626(c)(1) except for theauthorization of suits against States, see

post, at 106, could
be a permissible one. To accept that interpretation, for ex-ample, one would have to conclude that Congress intended

to incorporate only the portion of $ 216(b)'s third sentence
that provides for collective actions, but not the part of the
very same sentence that authorizes suits against States.
See $ 216(b) ("An action to recover the liability prescribed in
either of the preceding sentences may be maintained against
any employer (including a public agency) in any Federal or
State court of competent jurisdiction by any one or more
employees for and in behalf of himself or themselves and
other employees similarly situated").

Justice Thomas also concludes that $ 216(b) itself fails
the clear statement test. Post, at 108-109. As we have
already explained, the presence of the word "competent"
in $ 216(b) does not render that provision less than "unmistakably clear." See supra, at 75-76. Justice Thomas'
reliance on a single phrase from our decision in Employees
of Dept. of Public Health and Welfare of Mo. v. Department of Public Health and Welfare of Mo., 411 U. S. 279
(1973), see post, at 108, as support for the contrary proposition is puzzling, given his separate argument with respect to

$ 6(d)(2)(A) of the 1974 Act. Crucial to Justice Thomas'
argument on that front is his acknowledgment that Congress
did intend in the 1974 amendments to permit "FLSA plaintiffs who had been frustrated by state defendants' invocation
of Eleventh Amendment immunity under Employees to avail
themselves of the newly amended $ 216(b)." Post, at 103;

528US1 Unit: $U12 [06-14-01 18:42:22] PAGES PGT: OPIN
78 KIMEL v. FLORIDA BD. OF REGENTS

Opinion of the Court
see also post, at 108-109. We agree with the implication of
that statement: In response to Employees, Congress clearly
intended through "the newly amended $ 216(b)" to abrogate
the States' sovereign immunity. In light of our conclusion that Congress unequivocally expressed its intent to
abrogate the States' Eleventh Amendment immunity, we
now must determine whether Congress effectuated that

abrogation pursuant to a valid exercise of constitutional
authority.

IV

A

This is not the first time we have considered the constitutional validity of the 1974 extension of the ADEA to state
and local governments. In EEOC v. Wyoming, 460 U. S.
226, 243 (1983), we held that the ADEA constitutes a valid
exercise of Congress' power "[t]o regulate Commerce . . .
among the several States," Art. I, $ 8, cl. 3, and that the Act
did not transgress any external restraints imposed on the
commerce power by the Tenth Amendment. Because we
found the ADEA valid under Congress' Commerce Clause
power, we concluded that it was unnecessary to determine
whether the Act also could be supported by Congress' power
under $ 5 of the Fourteenth Amendment. 460 U. S., at 243.
But see id., at 259-263 (Burger, C. J., dissenting). Resolution of today's cases requires us to decide that question.

In Seminole Tribe, we held that Congress lacks power
under Article I to abrogate the States' sovereign immunity.
517 U. S., at 72-73. "Even when the Constitution vests in
Congress complete lawmaking authority over a particular
area, the Eleventh Amendment prevents congressional authorization of suits by private parties against unconsenting
States." Id., at 72. Last Term, in a series of three decisions, we reaffirmed that central holding of Seminole Tribe.
See College Savings Bank, 527 U. S., at 672; Florida Prepaid
Postsecondary Ed. Expense Bd. v. College Savings Bank,

528US1 Unit: $U12 [06-14-01 18:42:22] PAGES PGT: OPIN

79Cite as: 528 U. S. 62 (2000)
Opinion of the Court
527 U. S. 627, 636 (1999); Alden v. Maine, 527 U. S. 706, 712(1999). Indeed, in

College Savings Bank, we rested our decision to overrule the constructive waiver rule of Parden v.
Terminal R. Co. of Ala. Docks Dept., 377 U. S. 184 (1964), in
part, on our Seminole Tribe holding. See College Savings
Bank, supra, at 683 ("Recognizing a congressional power to
exact constructive waivers of sovereign immunity through
the exercise of Article I powers would also, as a practicalmatter, permit Congress to circumvent the antiabrogation

holding of Seminole Tribe"). Under our firmly establishedprecedent then, if the ADEA rests solely on Congress' Article I commerce power, the private petitioners in today's
cases cannot maintain their suits against their state
employers.

Justice Stevens disputes that well-established precedent again. Compare post, p. 92 (opinion dissenting in part
and concurring in part), with Alden, supra, p. 760 (Souter,
J., dissenting); College Savings Bank, 527 U. S., at 692, n. 2
(Stevens, J., dissenting); id., at 699-705 (Breyer, J., dissenting); Florida Prepaid, supra, at 664-665 (Stevens, J.,
dissenting); Seminole Tribe, 517 U. S., at 76-100 (Stevens,
J., dissenting); id., at 100-185 (Souter, J., dissenting). In
Alden, we explained that, "[a]lthough the sovereign immunity of the States derives at least in part from the commonlaw tradition, the structure and history of the Constitution
make clear that the immunity exists today by constitutional
design." 527 U. S., at 733. For purposes of today's decision, it is sufficient to note that we have on more than one
occasion explained the substantial reasons for adhering to
that constitutional design. See id., at 712-754; College
Savings Bank, supra, at 669-670, 687-691; Seminole Tribe,
supra, at 54-55, 59-73; Pennsylvania v. Union Gas Co., 491
U. S. 1, 30-42 (1989) (Scalia, J., concurring in part and dissenting in part). Indeed, the present dissenters' refusal to
accept the validity and natural import of decisions like Hans,
rendered over a full century ago by this Court, makes it dif528US1 Unit: $U12 [06-14-01 18:42:22] PAGES PGT: OPIN
80 KIMEL v. FLORIDA BD. OF REGENTS

Opinion of the Court
ficult to engage in additional meaningful debate on the placeof state sovereign immunity in the Constitution. Compare

Hans, 134 U. S., at 10, 14-16, with post, at 97 (Stevens, J.,dissenting in part and concurring in part). Today we adhere
to our holding in Seminole Tribe: Congress' powers underArticle I of the Constitution do not include the power to subject States to suit at the hands of private individuals.Section 5 of the Fourteenth Amendment, however, does
grant Congress the authority to abrogate the States' sov-ereign immunity. In

Fitzpatrick v. Bitzer, 427 U. S. 445(1976), we recognized that "the Eleventh Amendment, and

the principle of state sovereignty which it embodies, arenecessarily limited by the enforcement provisions of $ 5 of
the Fourteenth Amendment." Id., at 456 (citation omitted).Since our decision in Fitzpatrick, we have reaffirmed the
validity of that congressional power on numerous occasions.See, e. g., College Savings Bank, supra, at 670; Florida Prepaid, supra, at 636-637; Alden, supra, at 756; Seminole
Tribe, supra, at 59. Accordingly, the private petitioners inthese cases may maintain their ADEA suits against the

States of Alabama and Florida if, and only if, the ADEA isappropriate legislation under $ 5.

B
The Fourteenth Amendment provides, in relevant part:

"Section 1. . . . No State shall make or enforce anylaw which shall abridge the privileges or immunities of

citizens of the United States; nor shall any State de-prive any person of life, liberty, or property, without due
process of law; nor deny to any person within its juris-diction the equal protection of the laws."

. . . . .
"Section 5. The Congress shall have power to enforce,by appropriate legislation, the provisions of this article."

As we recognized most recently in City of Boerne v. Flores,521 U. S. 507, 517 (1997), $ 5 is an affirmative grant of power
to Congress. "It is for Congress in the first instance to

528US1 Unit: $U12 [06-14-01 18:42:22] PAGES PGT: OPIN

81Cite as: 528 U. S. 62 (2000)
Opinion of the Court
`determin[e] whether and what legislation is needed to se-cure the guarantees of the Fourteenth Amendment,' and

its conclusions are entitled to much deference." Id., at 536(quoting

Katzenbach v. Morgan, 384 U. S. 641, 651 (1966)).
Congress' $ 5 power is not confined to the enactment of legis-lation that merely parrots the precise wording of the Fourteenth Amendment. Rather, Congress' power "to enforce"
the Amendment includes the authority both to remedy andto deter violation of rights guaranteed thereunder by prohibiting a somewhat broader swath of conduct, includingthat which is not itself forbidden by the Amendment's text.
521 U. S., at 518.Nevertheless, we have also recognized that the same
language that serves as the basis for the affirmative grantof congressional power also serves to limit that power. For
example, Congress cannot "decree the substance of the Four-teenth Amendment's restrictions on the States. . . . It has
been given the power `to enforce,' not the power to de-termine

what constitutes a constitutional violation." Id.,
at 519 (emphases added). The ultimate interpretation and
determination of the Fourteenth Amendment's substantivemeaning remains the province of the Judicial Branch.

Id.,
at 536. In City of Boerne, we noted that the determination whether purportedly prophylactic legislation constitutes
appropriate remedial legislation, or instead effects a substantive redefinition of the Fourteenth Amendment right at
issue, is often difficult. Id., at 519-520. The line between
the two is a fine one. Accordingly, recognizing that "Congress must have wide latitude in determining where [that
line] lies," we held that "[t]here must be a congruence and
proportionality between the injury to be prevented or remedied and the means adopted to that end." Id., at 520.

In City of Boerne, we applied that "congruence and proportionality" test and held that the Religious Freedom
Restoration Act of 1993 (RFRA) was not appropriate legislation under $ 5. We first noted that the legislative record
contained very little evidence of the unconstitutional conduct

528US1 Unit: $U12 [06-14-01 18:42:22] PAGES PGT: OPIN
82 KIMEL v. FLORIDA BD. OF REGENTS

Opinion of the Court
purportedly targeted by RFRA's substantive provisions.Rather, Congress had uncovered only "anecdotal evidence"

that, standing alone, did not reveal a "widespread patternof religious discrimination in this country." Id., at 531.
Second, we found that RFRA is "so out of proportion to asupposed remedial or preventive object that it cannot be
understood as responsive to, or designed to prevent, un-constitutional behavior."

Id., at 532.Last Term, we again had occasion to apply the "congruence and proportionality" test. In Florida Prepaid, weconsidered the validity of the Eleventh Amendment abrogation provision in the Patent and Plant Variety ProtectionRemedy Clarification Act (Patent Remedy Act). We held
that the statute, which subjected States to patent infringe-ment suits, was not appropriate legislation under $ 5 of the
Fourteenth Amendment. The Patent Remedy Act failed tomeet our congruence and proportionality test first because
"Congress identified no pattern of patent infringement by
the States, let alone a pattern of constitutional violations."527 U. S., at 640 (emphasis added). Moreover, because it

was unlikely that many of the acts of patent infringementaffected by the statute had any likelihood of being unconstitutional, we concluded that the scope of the Act was out ofproportion to its supposed remedial or preventive objectives.
Id., at 647. Instead, "[t]he statute's apparent and more basicaims were to provide a uniform remedy for patent infringement and to place States on the same footing as private par-ties under that regime." Id., at 647-648. While we acknowledged that such aims may be proper congressionalconcerns under Article I, we found them insufficient to
support an abrogation of the States' Eleventh Amendmentimmunity after

Seminole Tribe. Florida Prepaid, supra,at 648.

C
Applying the same "congruence and proportionality" testin these cases, we conclude that the ADEA is not "appro528US1 Unit: $U12 [06-14-01 18:42:22] PAGES PGT: OPIN

83Cite as: 528 U. S. 62 (2000)
Opinion of the Court
priate legislation" under $ 5 of the Fourteenth Amendment.Initially, the substantive requirements the ADEA imposes

on state and local governments are disproportionate toany unconstitutional conduct that conceivably could be targeted by the Act. We have considered claims of unconstitu-tional age discrimination under the Equal Protection Clause
three times. See Gregory v. Ashcroft, 501 U. S. 452 (1991);
Vance v. Bradley, 440 U. S. 93 (1979); Massachusetts Bd.
of Retirement v. Murgia, 427 U. S. 307 (1976) (per curiam).
In all three cases, we held that the age classifications at issuedid not violate the Equal Protection Clause. See

Gregory,
supra, at 473; Bradley, supra, at 102-103, n. 20, 108-112;
Murgia, supra, at 317. Age classifications, unlike governmental conduct based on race or gender, cannot be characterized as "so seldom relevant to the achievement of any
legitimate state interest that laws grounded in such considerations are deemed to reflect prejudice and antipathy."
Cleburne v. Cleburne Living Center, Inc., 473 U. S. 432, 440
(1985). Older persons, again, unlike those who suffer discrimination on the basis of race or gender, have not been
subjected to a " `history of purposeful unequal treatment.' "
Murgia, supra, at 313 (quoting San Antonio Independent
School Dist. v. Rodriguez, 411 U. S. 1, 28 (1973)). Old age
also does not define a discrete and insular minority because
all persons, if they live out their normal life spans, will experience it. 427 U. S., at 313-314. Accordingly, as we recognized in Murgia, Bradley, and Gregory, age is not a suspect classification under the Equal Protection Clause. See,
e. g., Gregory, supra, at 470; Bradley, supra, at 97; Murgia,
supra, at 313-314.

States may discriminate on the basis of age without offending the Fourteenth Amendment if the age classification
in question is rationally related to a legitimate state interest.
The rationality commanded by the Equal Protection Clause
does not require States to match age distinctions and the
legitimate interests they serve with razorlike precision. As

528US1 Unit: $U12 [06-14-01 18:42:22] PAGES PGT: OPIN
84 KIMEL v. FLORIDA BD. OF REGENTS

Opinion of the Court
we have explained, when conducting rational basis review"we will not overturn such [government action] unless the

varying treatment of different groups or persons is so un-related to the achievement of any combination of legitimate
purposes that we can only conclude that the [government's]actions were irrational."

Bradley, supra, at 97. In contrast, when a State discriminates on the basis of race or
gender, we require a tighter fit between the discriminatorymeans and the legitimate ends they serve. See,

e. g., Adarand Constructors, Inc. v. Pen~ a, 515 U. S. 200, 227 (1995)("[Racial] classifications are constitutional only if they are

narrowly tailored measures that further compelling governmental interests"); Mississippi Univ. for Women v. Hogan,
458 U. S. 718, 724 (1982) (holding that gender classifications
are constitutional only if they serve " `important governmental objectives and . . . the discriminatory means
employed' are `substantially related to the achievement
of those objectives' " (citation omitted)). Under the Fourteenth Amendment, a State may rely on age as a proxy for
other qualities, abilities, or characteristics that are relevant
to the State's legitimate interests. The Constitution does
not preclude reliance on such generalizations. That age
proves to be an inaccurate proxy in any individual case is
irrelevant. "[W]here rationality is the test, a State `does
not violate the Equal Protection Clause merely because the
classifications made by its laws are imperfect.' " Murgia,
supra, at 316 (quoting Dandridge v. Williams, 397 U. S. 471,
485 (1970)). Finally, because an age classification is presumptively rational, the individual challenging its constitutionality bears the burden of proving that the "facts on which
the classification is apparently based could not reasonably be
conceived to be true by the governmental decisionmaker."
Bradley, supra, at 111; see Gregory, supra, at 473.

Our decisions in Murgia, Bradley, and Gregory illustrate
these principles. In all three cases, we held that the States'
reliance on broad generalizations with respect to age did

528US1 Unit: $U12 [06-14-01 18:42:22] PAGES PGT: OPIN

85Cite as: 528 U. S. 62 (2000)
Opinion of the Court
not violate the Equal Protection Clause. In Murgia, we up-held against an equal protection challenge a Massachusetts

statute requiring state police officers to retire at age 50.The State justified the provision on the ground that the age
classification assured the State of the physical preparednessof its officers. 427 U. S., at 314-315. Although we acknowledged that Officer Murgia himself was in excellent physical
health and could still perform the duties of a state policeofficer, we found that the statute clearly met the requirements of the Equal Protection Clause. Id., at 311, 314-317."That the State chooses not to determine fitness more precisely through individualized testing after age 50 [does not
prove] that the objective of assuring physical fitness is not
rationally furthered by a maximum-age limitation." Id., at
316. In Bradley, we considered an equal protection challenge to a federal statute requiring Foreign Service officers
to retire at age 60. We explained: "If increasing age brings
with it increasing susceptibility to physical difficulties, . . .
the fact that individual Foreign Service employees may be
able to perform past age 60 does not invalidate [the statute]
any more than did the similar truth undercut compulsory
retirement at age 50 for uniformed state police in Murgia."
440 U. S., at 108. Finally, in Gregory, we upheld a provision
of the Missouri Constitution that required judges to retire
at age 70. Noting that the Missouri provision was based
on a generalization about the effect of old age on the ability
of individuals to serve as judges, we acknowledged that
"[i]t is far from true that all judges suffer significant deterioration in performance at age 70," "[i]t is probably not
true that most do," and "[i]t may not be true at all." 501
U. S., at 473. Nevertheless, because Missouri's age classification was subject only to rational basis review, we held that
the State's reliance on such imperfect generalizations was
entirely proper under the Equal Protection Clause. Ibid.
These decisions thus demonstrate that the constitutionality
of state classifications on the basis of age cannot be deter528US1 Unit: $U12 [06-14-01 18:42:22] PAGES PGT: OPIN
86 KIMEL v. FLORIDA BD. OF REGENTS

Opinion of the Court
mined on a person-by-person basis. Our Constitution per-mits States to draw lines on the basis of age when they have

a rational basis for doing so at a class-based level, even if it"is probably not true" that those reasons are valid in the
majority of cases.Judged against the backdrop of our equal protection jurisprudence, it is clear that the ADEA is "so out of proportion
to a supposed remedial or preventive object that it cannotbe understood as responsive to, or designed to prevent, unconstitutional behavior." City of Boerne, 521 U. S., at 532.The Act, through its broad restriction on the use of age as a
discriminating factor, prohibits substantially more state
employment decisions and practices than would likely be
held unconstitutional under the applicable equal protection,
rational basis standard. The ADEA makes unlawful, in
the employment context, all "discriminat[ion] against any individual . . . because of such individual's age." 29 U. S. C.

$ 623(a)(1). Petitioners, relying on the Act's exceptions,
dispute the extent to which the ADEA erects protections
beyond the Constitution's requirements. They contend that
the Act's prohibition, considered together with its exceptions, applies only to arbitrary age discrimination, which in
the majority of cases corresponds to conduct that violates
the Equal Protection Clause. We disagree.

Petitioners stake their claim on $ 623(f)(1). That section
permits employers to rely on age when it "is a bona fide
occupational qualification reasonably necessary to the normal operation of the particular business." Petitioners' reliance on the "bona fide occupational qualification" (BFOQ)
defense is misplaced. Our interpretation of $ 623(f)(1) in
Western Air Lines, Inc. v. Criswell, 472 U. S. 400 (1985),
conclusively demonstrates that the defense is a far cry from
the rational basis standard we apply to age discrimination
under the Equal Protection Clause. The petitioner in that
case maintained that, pursuant to the BFOQ defense, employers must be permitted to rely on age when such reliance

528US1 Unit: $U12 [06-14-01 18:42:22] PAGES PGT: OPIN

87Cite as: 528 U. S. 62 (2000)
Opinion of the Court
has a "rational basis in fact." Id., at 417. We rejected thatargument, explaining that "[t]he BFOQ standard adopted

in the statute is one of `reasonable necessity,' not reason-ableness,"

id., at 419, and that the ADEA standard and the
rational basis test are "significantly different," id., at 421.Under the ADEA, even with its BFOQ defense, the

State's use of age is prima facie unlawful. See 29 U. S. C.

$ 623(a)(1); Western Air Lines, 472 U. S., at 422 ("Under theAct, employers are to evaluate employees . . . on their

merits and not their age"). Application of the Act there-fore starts with a presumption in favor of requiring the employer to make an individualized determination. See ibid.
In Western Air Lines, we concluded that the BFOQ defense,
which shifts the focus from the merits of the individual employee to the necessity for the age classification as a whole, is
" `meant to be an extremely narrow exception to the general
prohibition' of age discrimination contained in the ADEA."
Id., at 412 (citation omitted). We based that conclusion on
both the restrictive language of the statutory BFOQ provision itself and the EEOC's regulation interpreting that exception. See 29 CFR $ 1625.6(a) (1998) ("It is anticipated
that this concept of a [BFOQ] will have limited scope and
application. Further, as this is an exception to the Act it
must be narrowly construed"). To succeed under the BFOQ
defense, we held that an employer must demonstrate either
"a substantial basis for believing that all or nearly all employees above an age lack the qualifications required for the
position," or that reliance on the age classification is necessary because "it is highly impractical for the employer to
insure by individual testing that its employees will have
the necessary qualifications for the job." 472 U. S., at 422-
423 (emphases added). Measured against the rational basis
standard of our equal protection jurisprudence, the ADEA
plainly imposes substantially higher burdens on state employers. Thus, although it is true that the existence of the
BFOQ defense makes the ADEA's prohibition of age dis528US1 Unit: $U12 [06-14-01 18:42:22] PAGES PGT: OPIN
88 KIMEL v. FLORIDA BD. OF REGENTS

Opinion of the Court
crimination less than absolute, the Act's substantive require-ments nevertheless remain at a level akin to our heightened

scrutiny cases under the Equal Protection Clause.Petitioners also place some reliance on the next clause in

$ 623(f)(1), which permits employers to engage in conductotherwise prohibited by the Act "where the differentiation
is based on reasonable factors other than age." This exception confirms, however, rather than disproves, the con-clusion that the ADEA's protection extends beyond the requirements of the Equal Protection Clause. The exceptionsimply makes clear that "[t]he employer cannot rely on age
as a proxy for an employee's remaining characteristics, such
as productivity, but must instead focus on those factors
directly." Hazen Paper Co. v. Biggins, 507 U. S. 604, 611
(1993). Under the Constitution, in contrast, States may rely
on age as a proxy for other characteristics. See Gregory,
501 U. S., at 473 (generalization about ability to serve as
judges at age 70); Bradley, 440 U. S., at 108-109, 112 (generalization about ability to serve as Foreign Service officer at
age 60); Murgia, 427 U. S., at 314-317 (generalization about
ability to serve as state police officer at age 50). Section
623(f )(1), then, merely confirms that Congress, through the
ADEA, has effectively elevated the standard for analyzing
age discrimination to heightened scrutiny.

That the ADEA prohibits very little conduct likely to be
held unconstitutional, while significant, does not alone provide the answer to our $ 5 inquiry. Difficult and intractable
problems often require powerful remedies, and we have
never held that $ 5 precludes Congress from enacting reasonably prophylactic legislation. Our task is to determine
whether the ADEA is in fact just such an appropriate remedy or, instead, merely an attempt to substantively redefine
the States' legal obligations with respect to age discrimination. One means by which we have made such a determination in the past is by examining the legislative record
containing the reasons for Congress' action. See, e. g., Flor528US1 Unit: $U12 [06-14-01 18:42:22] PAGES PGT: OPIN

89Cite as: 528 U. S. 62 (2000)
Opinion of the Court
ida Prepaid, 527 U. S., at 640-647; City of Boerne, 521 U. S.,at 530-531. "The appropriateness of remedial measures

must be considered in light of the evil presented. Strongmeasures appropriate to address one harm may be an unwarranted response to another, lesser one." Id., at 530 (citing
South Carolina v. Katzenbach, 383 U. S. 301, 308 (1966)).

Our examination of the ADEA's legislative record confirms that Congress' 1974 extension of the Act to the Stateswas an unwarranted response to a perhaps inconsequential

problem. Congress never identified any pattern of age dis-crimination by the States, much less any discrimination
whatsoever that rose to the level of constitutional violation.
The evidence compiled by petitioners to demonstrate such
attention by Congress to age discrimination by the States
falls well short of the mark. That evidence consists almost
entirely of isolated sentences clipped from floor debates and
legislative reports. See, e. g., S. Rep. No. 93-846, p. 112
(1974); S. Rep. No. 93-690, p. 56 (1974); H. R. Rep. No. 93-
913, pp. 40-41 (1974); S. Rep. No. 93-300, p. 57 (1973); Senate
Special Committee on Aging, Improving the Age Discrimination Law, 93d Cong., 1st Sess., 14 (Comm. Print 1973); 113
Cong. Rec. 34742 (1967) (remarks of Rep. Steiger); id., at
34749 (remarks of Rep. Donohue); 110 Cong. Rec. 13490
(1964) (remarks of Sen. Smathers); id., at 9912 (remarks of
Sen. Sparkman); id., at 2596 (remarks of Rep. Beckworth).
The statements of Senator Bentsen on the floor of the Senate
are indicative of the strength of the evidence relied on by
petitioners. See, e. g., 118 Cong. Rec. 24397 (1972) (stating

that "there is ample evidence that age discrimination is
broadly practiced in government employment," but relying
on newspaper articles about federal employees); id., at 7745
("Letters from my own State have revealed that State and
local governments have also been guilty of discrimination
toward older employees"); ibid. ("[T]here are strong indications that the hiring and firing practices of governmental
units discriminate against the elderly . . .").

528US1 Unit: $U12 [06-14-01 18:42:22] PAGES PGT: OPIN
90 KIMEL v. FLORIDA BD. OF REGENTS

Opinion of the Court
Petitioners place additional reliance on Congress' consideration of a 1966 report prepared by the State of California
on age discrimination in its public agencies. See Hearings
on H. R. 3651 et al. before the Subcommittee on Labor of
the House of Representatives Committee on Education and
Labor, 90th Cong., 1st Sess., pp. 161-201 (1967) (Hearings)
(reprinting State of California, Citizens' Advisory Committee on Aging, Age Discrimination in Public Agencies (1966)).
Like the assorted sentences petitioners cobble together from
a decade's worth of congressional reports and floor debates,
the California study does not indicate that the State had engaged in any unconstitutional age discrimination. In fact,
the report stated that the majority of the age limits uncovered in the state survey applied in the law enforcement and firefighting occupations. Hearings 168. Those
age limits were not only permitted under California law at
the time, see ibid., but are also currently permitted under
the ADEA. See 5 U. S. C. $$ 3307(d), (e); 29 U. S. C. $ 623( j)
(1994 ed., Supp. III). Even if the California report had uncovered a pattern of unconstitutional age discrimination in
the State's public agencies at the time, it nevertheless would
have been insufficient to support Congress' 1974 extension
of the ADEA to every State of the Union. The report simply does not constitute "evidence that [unconstitutional age
discrimination] had become a problem of national import."
Florida Prepaid, supra, at 641.

Finally, the United States' argument that Congress found
substantial age discrimination in the private sector, see Brief
for United States 38, is beside the point. Congress made
no such findings with respect to the States. Although we
also have doubts whether the findings Congress did make
with respect to the private sector could be extrapolated to
support a finding of unconstitutional age discrimination in
the public sector, it is sufficient for these cases to note that
Congress failed to identify a widespread pattern of age dis528US1 Unit: $U12 [06-14-01 18:42:22] PAGES PGT: OPIN

91Cite as: 528 U. S. 62 (2000)
Opinion of the Court
crimination by the States. See Florida Prepaid, 527 U. S.,at 640.

A review of the ADEA's legislative record as a whole,then, reveals that Congress had virtually no reason to believe that state and local governments were unconstitution-ally discriminating against their employees on the basis of
age. Although that lack of support is not determinative ofthe $ 5 inquiry,

id., at 646; City of Boerne, supra, at 531-532,Congress' failure to uncover any significant pattern of unconstitutional discrimination here confirms that Congresshad no reason to believe that broad prophylactic legislation
was necessary in this field. In light of the indiscriminatescope of the Act's substantive requirements, and the lack
of evidence of widespread and unconstitutional age discrimi-nation by the States, we hold that the ADEA is not a
valid exercise of Congress' power under $ 5 of the Four-teenth Amendment. The ADEA's purported abrogation of
the States' sovereign immunity is accordingly invalid.

D
Our decision today does not signal the end of the line foremployees who find themselves subject to age discrimination at the hands of their state employers. We hold onlythat, in the ADEA, Congress did not validly abrogate the
States' sovereign immunity to suits by private individuals.State employees are protected by state age discrimination
statutes, and may recover money damages from their stateemployers, in almost every State of the Union.* Those ave*See Alaska Stat. Ann. $ 18.80.010 et seq. (1998); Ariz. Rev. Stat. Ann.

$ 41-1401 et seq. (1999); Ark. Code Ann. $$ 21-3-201, 21-3-203 (1996); Cal.
Govt. Code Ann. $ 12900 et seq. (West 1992 and Supp. 1999); Colo. Rev.
Stat. $ 24-34-301 et seq. (1998); Conn. Gen. Stat. $ 46a-51 et seq. (1999);
Del. Code Ann., Tit. 19, $ 710 et seq. (Supp. 1998); Fla. Stat. $$ 112.044,
760.01 et seq. (1997 and 1998 Supp.); Ga. Code Ann. $ 45-19-21 et seq. (1990
and Supp. 1996); Haw. Rev. Stat. $ 378-1 et seq. (1993 and Cum. Supp.
1998); Idaho Code $ 67-5901 et seq. (1995 and Supp. 1999); Ill. Comp. Stat.,
ch. 775, $ 5/1-101 et seq. (1998); Ind. Code $ 22-9-2-1 et seq. (1993); Iowa

528US1 Unit: $U12 [06-14-01 18:42:22] PAGES PGT: OPIN
92 KIMEL v. FLORIDA BD. OF REGENTS

Opinion of Stevens, J.
nues of relief remain available today, just as they were beforethis decision.

Because the ADEA does not validly abrogate the States'sovereign immunity, however, the present suits must be dismissed. Accordingly, the judgment of the Court of Appealsis affirmed.

It is so ordered.
Justice Stevens, with whom Justice Souter, Justice
Ginsburg, and Justice Breyer join, dissenting in part andconcurring in part.

Congress' power to regulate the American economy in-cludes the power to regulate both the public and the private

Code $ 216.1 et seq. (1994 and Supp. 1999); Kan. Stat. Ann. $ 44-1111 et seq.
(1993 and Cum. Supp. 1998); Ky. Rev. Stat. Ann. $ 344.010 et seq. (Michie
1997 and Supp. 1998); La. Rev. Stat. Ann. $ 23:311 et seq. (West 1998); id.,

$ 51:2231 et seq. (West Supp. 1999); Me. Rev. Stat. Ann., Tit. 5, $ 4551 et seq.
(1998-1999 Supp.); Md. Ann. Code, Art. 49B, $ 1 et seq. (1998 and Supp.
1999); Mass. Gen. Laws $ 151:1 et seq. (1997 and 1997 Supp.); Mich. Comp.
Laws $ 37.2101 et seq. (West 1985 and Supp. 1999); Minn. Stat. $ 363.01
et seq. (1991 and Supp. 1999); Miss. Code Ann. $ 25-9-149 (1991); Mo. Rev.
Stat. $ 213.010 et seq. (1994 and Cum. Supp. 1998); Mont. Code Ann. $ 49-1-
101 et seq. (1997); Neb. Rev. Stat. $ 48-1001 et seq. (1998); Nev. Rev. Stat.

$ 613.310 et seq. (1995); N. H. Rev. Stat. Ann. $ 354-A:1 et seq. (1995 and
Supp. 1998); N. J. Stat. Ann. $$ 10:3-1, 10:5-1 et seq. (West 1993 and Supp.
1999); N. M. Stat. Ann. $ 28-1-1 et seq. (1996); N. Y. Exec. Law $ 290 et seq.
(McKinney 1993 and Supp. 1999); N. C. Gen. Stat. $ 126-16 et seq. (1999);
N. D. Cent. Code $ 14-02.4-01 et seq. (1997 and Supp. 1999); Ohio Rev.
Code Ann. $ 4112.01 et seq. (1998); Okla. Stat., Tit. 25, $ 1101 et seq. (1991
and Supp. 1999); Ore. Rev. Stat. $ 659.010 et seq. (1997); 43 Pa. Cons. Stat.

$ 951 et seq. (1991 and Supp. 1999); R. I. Gen. Laws $ 28-5-1 et seq. (1995
and Supp. 1997); S. C. Code Ann. $ 1-13-10 et seq. (1986 and Cum. Supp.
1998); Tenn. Code Ann. $ 4-21-101 et seq. (1998); Tex. Lab. Code Ann.

$ 21.001 et seq. (1996 and Supp. 1999); Utah Code Ann. $ 34A-5-101 et seq.
(Supp. 1999); Vt. Stat. Ann., Tit. 21, $ 495 et seq. (1987 and Supp. 1999); Va.
Code Ann. $ 2.1-116.10 et seq. (1995 and Supp. 1999); Wash. Rev. Code

$ 49.60.010 et seq. (1994); W. Va. Code $ 5-11-1 et seq. (1999); Wis. Stat.
Ann. $ 111.01 et seq. (West 1997 and Supp. 1998); Wyo. Stat. Ann. $ 27-9-
101 et seq. (1999).

528US1 Unit: $U12 [06-14-01 18:42:22] PAGES PGT: OPIN

93Cite as: 528 U. S. 62 (2000)
Opinion of Stevens, J.
sectors of the labor market. Federal rules outlawing dis-crimination in the workplace, like the regulation of wages

and hours or health and safety standards, may be enforcedagainst public as well as private employers. In my opinion,
Congress' power to authorize federal remedies against stateagencies that violate federal statutory obligations is coextensive with its power to impose those obligations on the Statesin the first place. Neither the Eleventh Amendment nor
the doctrine of sovereign immunity places any limit on thatpower. See

Seminole Tribe of Fla. v. Florida, 517 U. S. 44,165-168 (1996) (

Souter, J., dissenting); EEOC v. Wyoming,460 U. S. 226, 247-248 (1983) (

Stevens, J., concurring).The application of the ancient judge-made doctrine of

sovereign immunity in cases like these is supposedly justi-fied as a freestanding limit on congressional authority, a limit
necessary to protect States' "dignity and respect" from im-pairment by the National Government. The Framers did
not, however, select the Judicial Branch as the constitu-tional guardian of those state interests. Rather, the Framers designed important structural safeguards to ensure thatwhen the National Government enacted substantive law
(and provided for its enforcement), the normal operationof the legislative process itself would adequately defend
state interests from undue infringement. See generallyWechsler, The Political Safeguards of Federalism: The Role
of the States in the Composition and Selection of the Na-tional Government, 54 Colum. L. Rev. 543 (1954).

It is the Framers' compromise giving each State equalrepresentation in the Senate that provides the principal
structural protection for the sovereignty of the severalStates. The composition of the Senate was originally determined by the legislatures of the States, which would guaran-tee that their interests could not be ignored by Congress.

1

1 The Federalist No. 45, p. 291 (C. Rossiter ed. 1961) (J. Madison) ("The
State governments may be regarded as constituent and essential parts of
the federal government . . . . The Senate will be elected absolutely and

528US1 Unit: $U12 [06-14-01 18:42:22] PAGES PGT: OPIN
94 KIMEL v. FLORIDA BD. OF REGENTS

Opinion of Stevens, J.
The Framers also directed that the House be composed of
Representatives selected by voters in the several States, the
consequence of which is that "the states are the strategic
yardsticks for the measurement of interest and opinion, the
special centers of political activity, the separate geographical
determinants of national as well as local politics." Id., at
546.

Whenever Congress passes a statute, it does so against
the background of state law already in place; the propriety
of taking national action is thus measured by the metric of
the existing state norms that Congress seeks to supplement or supplant.2 The persuasiveness of any justification for overcoming legislative inertia and taking national
action, either creating new federal obligations or providing
for their enforcement, must necessarily be judged in reference to state interests, as expressed in existing state laws.
The precise scope of federal laws, of course, can be shaped
with nuanced attention to state interests. The Congress
also has the authority to grant or withhold jurisdiction in
lower federal courts. The burden of being haled into a
federal forum for the enforcement of federal law, thus, can
be expanded or contracted as Congress deems proper, which
decision, like all other legislative acts, necessarily contemplates state interests. Thus, Congress can use its broad
range of flexible legislative tools to approach the delicate
issue of how to balance local and national interests in the

exclusively by the State legislatures. . . . Thus, [it] will owe its existence
more or less to the favor of the State governments, and must consequently
feel a dependence, which is much more likely to beget a disposition too
obsequious than too overbearing towards them").

2 When Congress expanded the Age Discrimination in Employment Act

of 1967 (ADEA) in 1974 to apply to public employers, all 50 States had
some form of age discrimination law, but 24 of them did not extend their
own laws to public employers. See App. to Brief for Respondents 1a-25a.

528US1 Unit: $U12 [06-14-01 18:42:22] PAGES PGT: OPIN

95Cite as: 528 U. S. 62 (2000)
Opinion of Stevens, J.
most responsive and careful manner.3 It is quite evident,therefore, that the Framers did not view this Court as the

ultimate guardian of the States' interest in protecting theirown sovereignty from impairment by "burdensome" federal
laws.4

3 Thus, the present majority's view does more than simply aggrandize
the power of the Judicial Branch. It also limits Congress' options for
responding with precise attention to state interests when it takes national
action. The majority's view, therefore, does not bolster the Framers' plan
of structural safeguards for state interests. Rather, it is fundamentally
at odds with that plan. Indeed, as Justice Breyer has explained, forbidding private remedies may necessitate the enlargement of the federal
bureaucracy and make it more difficult "to decentralize governmental decisionmaking and to provide individual citizens, or local communities, with
a variety of enforcement powers." College Savings Bank v. Florida Prepaid Postsecondary Ed. Expense Bd., 527 U. S. 666, 705 (1999) (dissenting
opinion); see also Printz v. United States, 521 U. S. 898, 976-978 (1997)
(Breyer, J., dissenting).

4 The President also plays a role in the enactment of federal law, and

the Framers likewise provided structural safeguards to protect state interests in the selection of the President. The electors who choose the
President are appointed in a manner directed by the state legislatures.
Art. II, $ 1, cl. 2. And if a majority of electors do not cast their vote for
one person, then the President is chosen by the House of Representatives.
"But in chusing the President" by this manner, the Constitution directs
that "the Votes shall be taken by States, the Representatives from each
State having one Vote." Art. II, $ 1, cl. 3 (emphasis added); see also
Amdt. 12.

Moreover, the Constitution certainly protects state interests in other
ways as well, as in the provisions of Articles IV, V, and VII. My concern
here, however, is with the respect for state interests safeguarded by the
ordinary legislative process. The balance between national and local interests reflected in other constitutional provisions may vary, see, e. g., U. S.
Term Limits, Inc. v. Thornton, 514 U. S. 779 (1995), but insofar as Congress' legislative authority is concerned, the relevant constitutional provisions were crafted to ensure that the process itself adequately accounted
for local interests.

I also recognize that the Judicial Branch sometimes plays a role in limiting the product of the legislative process. It may do so, for example,
when the exercise of legislative authority runs up against some other con528US1 Unit: $U12 [06-14-01 18:42:22] PAGES PGT: OPIN
96 KIMEL v. FLORIDA BD. OF REGENTS

Opinion of Stevens, J.
Federalism concerns do make it appropriate for Congress
to speak clearly when it regulates state action. But when
it does so, as it has in these cases,5 we can safely presume
that the burdens the statute imposes on the sovereignty of
the several States were taken into account during the deliberative process leading to the enactment of the measure.
Those burdens necessarily include the cost of defending
against enforcement proceedings and paying whatever penalties might be incurred for violating the statute. In my
judgment, the question whether those enforcement proceedings should be conducted exclusively by federal agencies, or
may be brought by private parties as well, is a matter of
policy for Congress to decide. In either event, once Congress has made its policy choice, the sovereignty concerns of
the several States are satisfied, and the federal interest in
evenhanded enforcement of federal law, explicitly endorsed
in Article VI of the Constitution, does not countenance further limitations. There is not a word in the text of the Constitution supporting the Court's conclusion that the judgemade doctrine of sovereign immunity limits Congress' power
to authorize private parties, as well as federal agencies, to
enforce federal law against the States. The importance of
respecting the Framers' decision to assign the business of
lawmaking to the Congress dictates firm resistance to the
present majority's repeated substitution of its own views of
federalism for those expressed in statutes enacted by the
Congress and signed by the President.

stitutional command. See Seminole Tribe of Fla. v. Florida, 517 U. S. 44,
166-167 (1996) (Souter, J., dissenting). But in those instances, courts
are not crafting wholly judge-made doctrines unrelated to any constitutional text, nor are they doing so solely under the guise of the necessity
of safeguarding state interests.

5 Because Congress has clearly expressed its intention to subject States

to suits by private parties under the ADEA, I join Part III of the opinion
of the Court.

528US1 Unit: $U12 [06-14-01 18:42:22] PAGES PGT: OPIN

97Cite as: 528 U. S. 62 (2000)
Opinion of Stevens, J.
The Eleventh Amendment simply does not support theCourt's view. As has been stated before, the Amendment

only places a textual limitation on the diversity jurisdictionof the federal courts. See Atascadero State Hospital v.
Scanlon, 473 U. S. 234, 286-289 (1985) (Brennan, J., dissent-ing). Because the Amendment is a part of the Constitution,
I have never understood how its limitation on the diversityjurisdiction of federal courts defined in Article III could
be "abrogated" by an Act of Congress. Seminole Tribe, 517U. S., at 93 (

Stevens, J., dissenting). Here, however, pri-vate petitioners did not invoke the federal courts' diversity

jurisdiction; they are citizens of the same State as the de-fendants and they are asserting claims that arise under
federal law. Thus, today's decision (relying as it does onSeminole Tribe) rests entirely on a novel judicial interpretation of the doctrine of sovereign immunity,6 which theCourt treats as though it were a constitutional precept. It
is nevertheless clear to me that if Congress has the powerto create the federal rights that these petitioners are asserting, it must also have the power to give the federal courtsjurisdiction to remedy violations of those rights, even if it is
necessary to "abrogate" the Court's "Eleventh Amendment"version of the common-law defense of sovereign immunity to
do so. That is the essence of the Court's holding in Pennsylvania v. Union Gas Co., 491 U. S. 1, 13-23 (1989).I remain convinced that Union Gas was correctly decided

and that the decision of five Justices in Seminole Tribe tooverrule that case was profoundly misguided. Despite my
respect for stare decisis, I am unwilling to accept Seminole
Tribe as controlling precedent. First and foremost, thereasoning of that opinion is so profoundly mistaken and so

6 Under the traditional view, the sovereign immunity defense was recognized only as a matter of comity when asserted in the courts of another sovereign, rather than as a limitation on the jurisdiction of that
forum. See Schooner Exchange v. McFaddon, 7 Cranch 116, 136 (1812)
(Marshall, C. J.); Nevada v. Hall, 440 U. S. 410, 414-418 (1979).

528US1 Unit: $U12 [06-14-01 18:42:22] PAGES PGT: OPIN
98 KIMEL v. FLORIDA BD. OF REGENTS

Opinion of Stevens, J.
fundamentally inconsistent with the Framers' conception ofthe constitutional order that it has forsaken any claim to the

usual deference or respect owed to decisions of this Court.
Stare decisis, furthermore, has less force in the area of constitutional law. See, e. g., Burnet v. Coronado Oil & Gas
Co., 285 U. S. 393, 406-410 (1932) (Brandeis, J., dissenting).
And in this instance, it is but a hollow pretense for any
State to seek refuge in stare decisis' protection of relianceinterests. It cannot be credibly maintained that a State's

ordering of its affairs with respect to potential liabilityunder federal law requires adherence to

Seminole Tribe,
as that decision leaves open a State's liability upon enforce-ment of federal law by federal agencies. Nor can a State

find solace in the stare decisis interest of promoting "theevenhanded . . . and consistent development of legal principles." Payne v. Tennessee, 501 U. S. 808, 827 (1991). Thatprinciple is perverted when invoked to rely on sovereign
immunity as a defense to deliberate violations of settled
federal law. Further, Seminole Tribe is a case that will unquestionably have serious ramifications in future cases; indeed, it has already had such an effect, as in the Court's
decision today and in the equally misguided opinion of Alden
v. Maine, 527 U. S. 706 (1999). Further still, the Seminole
Tribe decision unnecessarily forces the Court to resolve
vexing questions of constitutional law respecting Congress'

$ 5 authority. Finally, by its own repeated overruling of
earlier precedent, the majority has itself discounted the importance of stare decisis in this area of the law.7 The kind
of judicial activism manifested in cases like Seminole Tribe,

7 See, e. g., College Savings Bank v. Florida Prepaid Postsecondary
Ed. Expense Bd., 527 U. S., at 675-683 (overruling Parden v. Terminal R.
Co. of Ala. Docks Dept., 377 U. S. 184 (1964)); Seminole Tribe, 517 U. S.,
at 63-73 (overruling Pennsylvania v. Union Gas Co., 491 U. S. 1 (1989));
Pennhurst State School and Hospital v. Halderman, 465 U. S. 89, 127,
132-137 (1984) (Stevens, J., dissenting) ("[T]he Court repudiates at least
28 cases, spanning well over a century of this Court's jurisprudence").

528US1 Unit: $U12 [06-14-01 18:42:22] PAGES PGT: OPIN

99Cite as: 528 U. S. 62 (2000)
Opinion of Thomas, J.
Alden v. Maine, Florida Prepaid Postsecondary Ed. Ex-pense Bd. v. College Savings Bank, 527 U. S. 627 (1999), and

College Savings Bank v. Florida Prepaid Postsecondary Ed.Expense Bd., 527 U. S. 666 (1999), represents such a radical
departure from the proper role of this Court that it shouldbe opposed whenever the opportunity arises.

Accordingly, I respectfully dissent.
Justice Thomas, with whom Justice Kennedy joins,concurring in part and dissenting in part.

In Atascadero State Hospital v. Scanlon, 473 U. S. 234(1985), this Court, cognizant of the impact of an abrogation
of the States' Eleventh Amendment immunity from suit infederal court on "the usual constitutional balance between
the States and the Federal Government," reaffirmed that"Congress may abrogate . . . only by making its intention
unmistakably clear in the language of the statute." Id., at242. This rule " `assures that the legislature has in fact
faced, and intended to bring into issue, the critical mattersinvolved in the judicial decision.' " Will v. Michigan Dept.
of State Police, 491 U. S. 58, 65 (1989) (quoting United Statesv. Bass, 404 U. S. 336, 349 (1971)). And it is especially applicable when this Court deals with a statute like the Age Dis-crimination in Employment Act of 1967 (ADEA), whose substantive mandates extend to "elevator operators, janitors,charwomen, security guards, secretaries, and the like in
every office building in a State's governmental hierarchy."Employees of Dept. of Public Health and Welfare of Mo. v.
Department of Public Health and Welfare of Mo., 411 U. S.279, 285 (1973). Because I think that Congress has not
made its intention to abrogate "unmistakably clear" in thetext of the ADEA, I respectfully dissent from Part III of the
Court's opinion.1

1 I concur in Parts I, II, and IV of the Court's opinion because I agree
that the purported abrogation of the States' Eleventh Amendment immunity in the ADEA falls outside Congress' $ 5 enforcement power.

528US1 Unit: $U12 [06-14-01 18:42:22] PAGES PGT: OPIN
100 KIMEL v. FLORIDA BD. OF REGENTS

Opinion of Thomas, J.

I
It is natural to begin the clear statement inquiry by ex-amining those provisions that reside within the four corners

of the Act in question. Private petitioners and the govern-ment correctly observe that the ADEA's substantive provisions extend to the States as employers, see 29 U. S. C.$ 623(a) (providing that "[i]t shall be unlawful for an employer" to engage in certain age discriminatory practices);$ 630(b) (defining "employer" to include "a State or a political
subdivision of a State"); $ 630(f) (defining "employee" as "anindividual employed by any employer"), and that the ADEA
establishes an individual right-of-action provision for "ag-grieved" persons, see $ 626(c)(1) ("Any person aggrieved may
bring a civil action in any court of competent jurisdiction forsuch legal or equitable relief as will effectuate the purposes
of this chapter"). Since, in the case of a state employee,the only possible defendant is the State, it is submitted that
Congress clearly expressed its intent that a state employeemay qualify as a "person aggrieved" under $ 626(c)(1) and
bring suit against his state employer in federal court.While the argument may have some logical appeal, it
is squarely foreclosed by precedent--which explains theCourt's decision to employ different reasoning in finding a
clear statement, see ante, at 73. In Employees, we con-fronted the pre-1974 version of the Fair Labor Standards
Act of 1938 (FLSA), which clearly extended as a substantivematter to state employers, and included the following private
right-of-action provision: " `Action to recover such liabilitymay be maintained in any court of competent jurisdiction.' "
Employees, supra, at 283 (quoting 29 U. S. C. $ 216(b) (1970ed.)). We held that this language fell short of a clear statement of Congress' intent to abrogate. The FLSA's substan-tive coverage of state employers could be given meaning
through enforcement by the Secretary of Labor, which wouldraise no Eleventh Amendment issue, 411 U. S., at 285-286,
and we were "reluctant to believe that Congress in pursuit

528US1 Unit: $U12 [06-14-01 18:42:22] PAGES PGT: OPIN

101Cite as: 528 U. S. 62 (2000)
Opinion of Thomas, J.
of a harmonious federalism desired to treat the States soharshly" by abrogating their Eleventh Amendment immunity, id., at 286. See also, e. g., Dellmuth v. Muth, 491 U. S.223, 228 (1989) (holding that Congress had not clearly stated
its intent to abrogate in a statute that authorized "partiesaggrieved . . . to `bring a civil action . . . in any State court
of competent jurisdiction or in a district court of the UnitedStates without regard to the amount in controversy' ") (quoting 20 U. S. C. $ 1415(e)(2) (1982 ed.)).The ADEA is no different from the version of the FLSA
we examined in Employees. It unquestionably extends as asubstantive matter to state employers, but does not mention
States in its right-of-action provision: "Any person aggrievedmay bring a civil action in any court of competent jurisdiction for such legal or equitable relief as will effectuate thepurposes of this chapter." 29 U. S. C. $ 626(c)(1). This provision simply does not reveal Congress' attention to theaugmented liability and diminished sovereignty concomitant
to an abrogation of Eleventh Amendment immunity. "Con-gress, acting responsibly, would not be presumed to take
such action silently." Employees, supra, at 284-285.

II
Perhaps recognizing the obstacle posed by Employees,private petitioners and the Government contend that the

ADEA incorporates a clear statement from the FLSA. TheADEA's incorporating reference, which has remained constant since the enactment of the ADEA in 1967, provides:"The provisions of this chapter shall be enforced in accordance with the powers, remedies, and procedures pro-vided in sections 211(b), 216 (except for subsection (a)
thereof), and 217 of this title, and subsection (c) of this sec-tion." 29 U. S. C. $ 626(b). It is argued that $ 216(b)--one
of the incorporated provisions from the FLSA--unequivo-cally abrogates the States' immunity from suit in federal
court. That section states in relevant part that "[a]n action

528US1 Unit: $U12 [06-14-01 18:42:22] PAGES PGT: OPIN
102 KIMEL v. FLORIDA BD. OF REGENTS

Opinion of Thomas, J.
to recover the liability prescribed in either of the precedingsentences may be maintained against any employer (including a public agency) in any Federal or State court of compe-tent jurisdiction." 29 U. S. C. $ 216(b).

But, as noted in the above discussion of Employees,$ 216(b) was not always so worded. At the time the ADEA
was enacted in 1967, a relatively sparse version of $ 216(b)--
which Employees held insufficient to abrogate the States'immunity--provided that an "[a]ction to recover such liability may be maintained in any court of competent jurisdic-tion." 29 U. S. C. $ 216(b) (1964 ed.). It was not until 1974
that Congress modified $ 216(b) to its current formulation.
Fair Labor Standards Amendments of 1974 (1974 Amendments), $ 6(d)(1), 88 Stat. 61.

This sequence of events suggests, in my view, that we
should approach with circumspection any theory of "clear
statement by incorporation." Where Congress amends an
Act whose provisions are incorporated by other Acts, the
bill under consideration does not necessarily mention the
incorporating references in those other Acts, and so fails to
inspire confidence that Congress has deliberated on the consequences of the amendment for the other Acts. That is the
case here. The legislation that amended $ 216(b), $ 6(d)(1) of
the 1974 Amendments, did not even acknowledge $ 626(b).
And, given the purpose of the clear statement rule to " `assur[e] that the legislature has in fact faced' " the issue of
abrogation, Will, 491 U. S., at 65 (quoting Bass, 404 U. S., at
349), I am unwilling to indulge the fiction that Congress,
when it amended $ 216(b), recognized the consequences for a
separate Act (the ADEA) that incorporates the amended
provision.

To be sure, $ 28 of the 1974 Amendments, 88 Stat. 74, did
modify certain provisions of the ADEA, which might suggest
that Congress understood the impact of $ 6(d)(1) on the
ADEA. See ante, at 76. But $ 6(d)(2)(A), another of the
1974 Amendments, suggests just the opposite. Section

528US1 Unit: $U12 [06-14-01 18:42:22] PAGES PGT: OPIN

103Cite as: 528 U. S. 62 (2000)
Opinion of Thomas, J.
6(d)(2)(A) added to the statute of limitations provision of theFLSA, 29 U. S. C. $ 255, a new subsection (d), which suspended the running of the statutory periods of limitation on"any cause of action brought under section 16(b) of the
[FLSA, 29 U. S. C. $ 216(b)] . . . on or before April 18, 1973,"the date Employees was decided, until "one hundred and
eighty days after the effective date of [the 1974 Amend-ments]." The purpose of this new subsection--revealed not
only by its reference to the date Employees was decided,but also by its exception for actions in which "judgment
has been entered for the defendant on the grounds otherthan State immunity from Federal jurisdiction"--was to
allow FLSA plaintiffs who had been frustrated by statedefendants' invocation of Eleventh Amendment immunity
under Employees to avail themselves of the newly amended

$ 216(b).2 It appears, however, that Congress was obliviousto the impact of $ 6(d)(2)(A) on the ADEA. The new

$ 255(d), by operation of $ 7(e) of the ADEA, 29 U. S. C.

$ 626(e) (1988 ed.) ("Sectio[n] 255 . . . of this title shall applyto actions under this chapter"),

3 automatically became part

of the ADEA in 1974. And yet the new $ 255(d) could haveno possible application to the ADEA because, as the Court

observes, ante, at 76 (citing $ 28(a) of the 1974 Amendments),the ADEA's substantive mandates did not even apply to
the States until the 1974 Amendments. Thus, before 1974,

2 That Congress had this purpose in mind as to the FLSA does not mean
that the product of Congress' efforts--the amended $ 216(b)--qualifies as a
clear statement. The amended $ 216(b)'s description of the forum as "any
Federal . . . court of competent jurisdiction," 29 U. S. C. $ 216(b) (emphasis
added), is ambiguous insofar as a federal court might not be "competent"
unless the state defendant consents to suit. See infra, at 108-109. My
present point is simply that, even assuming the amended $ 216(b) qualifies
as a clear statement, the 1974 Congress likely did not contemplate the
impact of the new $ 216(b) on the ADEA.

3 The ADEA was amended in 1991 to remove the incorporating reference. See Civil Rights Act of 1991, $ 115, 105 Stat. 1079, 29 U. S. C.

$ 626(e).

528US1 Unit: $U12 [06-14-01 18:42:22] PAGES PGT: OPIN
104 KIMEL v. FLORIDA BD. OF REGENTS

Opinion of Thomas, J.
there were no ADEA suits against States that could beaffected by $ 255(d)'s tolling provision. If Congress had

recognized this "overinclusiveness" problem, it likely wouldhave amended $ 626(e) to incorporate only $$ 255(a)-(c). Cf.

$ 626(b) (incorporating "the powers, remedies, and proce-dures provided in sectio[n] . . . 216

(except for subsection (a)
thereof ") (emphasis added)). But since Congress did not do
so, we are left to conclude that Congress did not clearly focuson the impact of $ 6(d)(2)(A) on the ADEA. And Congress'

insouciance with respect to the impact of $ 6(d)(2)(A) sug-gests that Congress was similarly inattentive to the impact
of $ 6(d)(1).

Insofar as $ 6(d)(2)(A) is closer to $ 6(d)(1) in terms of
space and purpose than is $ 28, the implication I would draw
from $ 6(d)(2)(A) almost certainly outweighs the inference
the Court would draw from $ 28. In any event, the notion
that $ 28 of the 1974 Amendments evidences Congress'
awareness of every last ripple those amendments might
cause in the ADEA is at best a permissible inference, not
"the unequivocal declaration which . . . is necessary before
we will determine that Congress intended to exercise its
powers of abrogation." Dellmuth, 491 U. S., at 232.

The Court advances a more general critique of my approach, explaining that "we have never held that Congress
must speak with different gradations of clarity depending on
the specific circumstances of the relevant legislation . . . ."
Ante, at 76. But that descriptive observation, with which I
agree, is hardly probative in light of the fact that a "clear
statement by incorporation" argument has not to date been
presented to this Court. I acknowledge that our previous
cases have not required a clear statement to appear within
a single section or subsection of an Act. Pennsylvania v.
Union Gas Co., 491 U. S. 1, 7-10 (1989), overruled on other
grounds, Seminole Tribe of Fla. v. Florida, 517 U. S. 44
(1996); see also id., at 56-57 (confirming clear statement in
one statutory subsection by looking to provisions in other

528US1 Unit: $U12 [06-14-01 18:42:22] PAGES PGT: OPIN

105Cite as: 528 U. S. 62 (2000)
Opinion of Thomas, J.
subsection). Nor have our cases required that such separatesections or subsections of an Act be passed at the same time.

Union Gas, supra, at 7-13, and n. 2 (consulting originalprovisions of the Comprehensive Environmental Response,
Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 and 1986 amend-ments to that Act). But, even accepting Union Gas to be
correctly decided, I do not think the situation where Con-gress amends an incorporated provision is analogous to
Union Gas. In the Union Gas setting, where the later Con-gress actually amends the earlier enacted Act, it is reasonable to assume that the later Congress focused on each ofthe various provisions, whether new or old, that combine to
express an intent to abrogate.

III
Even if a clarifying amendment to an incorporated provi-sion might sometimes provide a clear statement to abrogate

for purposes of the Act into which the provision is incorpo-rated, this is not such a case for two reasons. First, $ 626(b)
does not clearly incorporate the part of $ 216(b) that estab-lishes a private right of action against employers. Second,
even assuming $ 626(b) incorporates $ 216(b) in its entirety,$ 216(b) itself falls short of an "unmistakably clear" expression of Congress' intent to abrogate the States' EleventhAmendment immunity from suit in federal court.

A
I do not dispute that $ 626(b) incorporates into the ADEAsome provisions of $ 216(b). But it seems to me at least open

to debate whether $ 626(b) incorporates the portion of$ 216(b) that creates an individual private right of action, for
the ADEA already contains its own private right-of-actionprovision--$ 626(c)(1). See

McKennon v. Nashville BannerPublishing Co., 513 U. S. 352, 358 (1995) ("The ADEA . . .

contains a vital element found in both Title VII and theFair Labor Standards Act: It grants an injured employee a

528US1 Unit: $U12 [06-14-01 18:42:22] PAGES PGT: OPIN
106 KIMEL v. FLORIDA BD. OF REGENTS

Opinion of Thomas, J.
right of action to obtain the authorized relief. 29 U. S. C.$ 626(c)"); 1 B. Lindemann & P. Grossman, Employment Discrimination Law 573-574 (3d ed. 1996) ("The ADEA grantsany aggrieved person the right to sue for legal or equitable
relief that will effectuate the purposes of the Act" (citing$ 626(c)(1)) (footnote omitted)). While the right-of-action
provisions in $$ 626(c) and 216(b) are not identically phrased,compare $ 626(c)(1) ("Any person aggrieved may bring a civil
action in any court of competent jurisdiction for such legalor equitable relief as will effectuate the purposes of this
chapter"), with $ 216(b) ("An action to recover the liabilityprescribed in either of the preceding sentences may be maintained against any employer (including a public agency) inany Federal or State court of competent jurisdiction . . ."),
they are certainly similar in function.Indeed, if $ 216(b)'s private right-of-action provision were
incorporated by $ 626(b) and hence available to ADEA plain-tiffs, the analogous right of action established by $ 626(c)(1)
would be wholly superfluous--an interpretive problem theCourt does not even pause to acknowledge. To avoid the
overlap, one might read the ADEA to create an exclusiveprivate right of action in $ 626(c)(1), and then to add various
embellishments, whether from elsewhere in the ADEA, see$ 626(c)(2) (trial by jury), or from the incorporated parts of
the FLSA, see, e. g., $ 216(b) (collective actions); ibid. (attor-ney's fees); ibid. (liquidated damages).

4

Of course the Court's interpretation--that an ADEAplaintiff may choose $ 626(c)(1) or $ 216(b) as the basis for

his private right of action--is also plausible. "But such apermissible inference, whatever its logical force, would remain just that: a permissible inference. It would not bethe unequivocal declaration which . . . is necessary before we
will determine that Congress intended to exercise its powers

4 The ADEA expressly limits this last remedy to "cases of willful violations." 29 U. S. C. $ 626(b); see Lorillard v. Pons, 434 U. S. 575, 581
(1978).

528US1 Unit: $U12 [06-14-01 18:42:22] PAGES PGT: OPIN

107Cite as: 528 U. S. 62 (2000)
Opinion of Thomas, J.
of abrogation." Dellmuth, 491 U. S., at 232. Apparentlycognizant of this rule, the Court resorts to extrinsic evidence: our prior decisions. See, e. g., ante, at 74 (" `[T]heADEA incorporates enforcement provisions of the Fair
Labor Standards Act of 1938, and provides that the ADEAshall be enforced using certain of the powers, remedies, and
procedures of the FLSA' " (alteration in original)) (quoting
Hoffmann-La Roche Inc. v. Sperling, 493 U. S. 165, 167(1989) (citations omitted)). But judicial opinions, especially

those issued subsequent to the enactments in question,have no bearing on whether Congress has clearly stated its
intent to abrogate in the text of the statute. How couldthey, given that legislative history--which at least antedates
the enactments under review--is "irrelevant to a judicialinquiry into whether Congress intended to abrogate the
Eleventh Amendment"? Dellmuth, supra, at 230. In anyevent, Hoffmann-La Roche, which did not present the
question of a State's Eleventh Amendment immunity,5 isperfectly consistent with the view that the ADEA incorporates only "extras" from the FLSA, not overlapping pro-visions.

Hoffmann-La Roche involved the ADEA's incorpo-ration of the FLSA's authorization of collective actions, which

follows $ 216(b)'s individual private right-of-action provision,see $ 216(b) ("An action to recover the liability prescribed
in either of the preceding sentences may be maintainedagainst any employer (including a public agency) in any Federal or State court of competent jurisdiction by any one

5 That the Hoffmann-La Roche Court did not consider $ 216(b)'s implications for the Eleventh Amendment clear statement rule is apparent
from its selective quotation of $ 216(b)--omitting the words "(including a
public agency)." See 493 U. S., at 167-168 ("This controversy centers
around one of the provisions the ADEA incorporates, which states, in
pertinent part, that an action `may be maintained against any employer . . .
in any Federal or State court of competent jurisdiction by any one or more
employees for and in behalf of himself or themselves and other employees
similarly situated' " (alteration in original)) (quoting 29 U. S. C. $ 216(b)
(1982 ed.)).

528US1 Unit: $U12 [06-14-01 18:42:22] PAGES PGT: OPIN
108 KIMEL v. FLORIDA BD. OF REGENTS

Opinion of Thomas, J.
or more employees for and in behalf of himself or them-selves and other employees similarly situated" (emphasis

added)), and so may be viewed as falling outside the overlapdescribed above.

6

B

Even if $ 626(b) incorporates $ 216(b)'s individual right-of-action provision, that provision itself falls short of "unmistakable" clarity insofar as it describes the forum for suitas "any Federal or State court of

competent jurisdiction."$ 216(b) (emphasis added). For it may be that a federal

court is not "competent" under the Eleventh Amendment toadjudicate a suit by a private citizen against a State unless
the State consents to the suit. As we explained in Employees, "[t]he history and tradition of the Eleventh Amend-ment indicate that by reason of that barrier a federal court

is not competent to render judgment against a noncon-senting State." 411 U. S., at 284 (emphasis added). The
Court suggests, ante, at 76-77, that its ability to distinguisha single precedent, ante, at 75-76 (discussing Kennecott Copper Corp. v. State Tax Comm'n, 327 U. S. 573 (1946)), illumi-nates this aspect of $ 216(b). But the Court neither acknowledges what Employees had to say on this point norexplains why it follows from the modern $ 216(b)'s clarity relative to the old $ 216(b) that the modern $ 216(b) is clearenough as an

absolute matter to satisfy the Atascadero rule,which requires "unmistakable" clarity.

That is not to say that the FLSA as a whole lacks a clearstatement of Congress' intent to abrogate. Section 255(d)

6 The other two cases upon which the Court relies, see ante, at 74-75
(citing McKennon v. Nashville Banner Publishing Co., 513 U. S. 352, 357
(1995), and Lorillard v. Pons, supra, at 582), are also consistent with the
view that the ADEA incorporates only "extras" from the FLSA, not overlapping provisions. In neither case did we consider whether the ADEA
incorporates the part of $ 216(b) that creates a private action "against any
employer (including a public agency) in any Federal or State court of competent jurisdiction."

528US1 Unit: $U12 [06-14-01 18:42:22] PAGES PGT: OPIN

109Cite as: 528 U. S. 62 (2000)
Opinion of Thomas, J.
elucidates the ambiguity within $ 216(b). Section 255(d), itwill be recalled, suspended the running of the statute of

limitations on actions under $ 216(b) brought against aState or political subdivision on or before April 18, 1973
(the date Employees was decided) until "one hundred andeighty days after the effective date of the [1974 Amendments], except that such suspension shall not be applicableif in such action judgment has been entered for the defendant on the grounds other than State immunity from Federal
jurisdiction." $ 255(d) (emphasis added). As I explained inPart II,

7 however, not only does $ 255(d) on its face apply

only to the FLSA, but Congress' failure to amend theADEA's general incorporation of $ 255, 29 U. S. C. $ 626(e)

(1988 ed.), strongly suggests that Congress paid scant atten-tion to the impact of $ 255(d) upon the ADEA. Accordingly,
I cannot accept the notion that $ 255(d) furnishes clarifyingguidance in interpreting $ 216(b) for ADEA purposes, whatever assistance it might provide to a construction of $ 216(b)for FLSA purposes.

8

* * *
For these reasons, I respectfully dissent from Part III ofthe Court's opinion.

7 Supra, at 101-105.
8 While $ 255 once was incorporated by the ADEA, see $ 7(e), 81 Stat.

605, 29 U. S. C. $ 626(e) (1988 ed.), the ADEA was amended in 1991 to
remove the incorporating reference, see Civil Rights Act of 1991, $ 115,
105 Stat. 1079, 29 U. S. C. $ 626(e). The current "unavailability" of $ 255(d)
for ADEA purposes perhaps explains why the Court, which purports to
examine only the statute in its current form, ante, at 76, does not rely on

$ 255(d). But, as I have explained, without the light $ 255(d) sheds on

$ 216(b), $ 216(b) falls short of a clear statement of Congress' intent to
abrogate.

528US1 Unit: $U13 [06-14-01 18:45:58] PAGES PGT: OPIN
110 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

Syllabus

NEW YORK v. HILL
certiorari to the court of appeals of new york
No. 98-1299. Argued November 2, 1999--Decided January 11, 2000
New York lodged a detainer against respondent, an Ohio prisoner, under

the Interstate Agreement on Detainers (IAD). Respondent signed a
request for disposition of the detainer pursuant to IAD Article III and
was returned to New York to face murder and robbery charges. Article III(a) provides, inter alia, that, upon such a request, the prisoner
must be brought to trial within 180 days, "provided that for good cause
shown . . . , the prisoner or his counsel being present, the court . . .
may grant any necessary or reasonable continuance." Although respondent's counsel initially agreed to a trial date set beyond the 180-
day period, respondent subsequently moved to dismiss the indictment,
arguing that the IAD's time limit had expired. In denying the motion,
the trial court concluded that defense counsel's explicit agreement to
the trial date constituted a waiver or abandonment of respondent's IAD
rights. After respondent was convicted of both charges, the New York
Supreme Court, Appellate Division, affirmed the trial court's refusal to
dismiss for lack of a timely trial. The State Court of Appeals, however,
reversed and ordered that the indictment be dismissed; counsel's agreement to a later trial date, it held, did not waive respondent's IAD speedy
trial rights.

Held: Defense counsel's agreement to a trial date outside the IAD period

bars the defendant from seeking dismissal on the ground that trial did
not occur within that period. This Court has articulated a general rule
that presumes the availability of waiver, United States v. Mezzanatto,
513 U. S. 196, 200-201, and has recognized that the most basic rights
of criminal defendants are subject to waiver, Peretz v. United States,
501 U. S. 923, 936. For certain fundamental rights, the defendant must
personally make an informed waiver, but scheduling matters are plainly
among those for which agreement by counsel generally controls. Requiring the defendant's express assent for routine and often repetitive
scheduling determinations would consume time to no apparent purpose.
The text of the IAD, by allowing the court to grant "good-cause continuances" when either "prisoner or his counsel" is present, contemplates that scheduling questions may be left to counsel. Art. III(a)
(emphasis added). The Court rejects respondent's arguments for affirmance: (1) that the IAD's provision for "good-cause continuances" is
the sole means for extending the time period; (2) that the defendant

528US1 Unit: $U13 [06-14-01 18:45:58] PAGES PGT: OPIN

111Cite as: 528 U. S. 110 (2000)
Opinion of the Court
should not be allowed to waive the time limits given that they benefit
not only the defendant but society generally; and (3) that waiver of the
IAD's time limits can be effected only by an affirmative request for
treatment contrary to, or inconsistent with, those limits. Pp. 114-118.

92 N. Y. 2d 406, 704 N. E. 2d 542, reversed.

Scalia, J., delivered the opinion for a unanimous Court.

Robert Mastrocola argued the cause for petitioner. Withhim on the briefs was Howard R. Relin.
Lisa Schiavo Blatt argued the cause for the United Statesas amicus curiae urging reversal. With her on the brief
were Solicitor General Waxman, Assistant Attorney Gen-eral Robinson, and Deputy Solicitor General Dreeben.

Brian Shiffrin argued the cause for respondent. Withhim on the brief were Edward John Nowak, by appointment
of the Court, 527 U. S. 1002, and Stephen J. Bird.

Justice Scalia delivered the opinion of the Court.
This case presents the question whether defense counsel'sagreement to a trial date outside the time period required

by Article III of the Interstate Agreement on Detainersbars the defendant from seeking dismissal because trial did
not occur within that period.

I
The Interstate Agreement on Detainers (IAD) is a com-pact entered into by 48 States, the United States, and the

District of Columbia to establish procedures for resolution ofone State's outstanding charges against a prisoner of another
State. See N. Y. Crim. Proc. Law $ 580.20 (McKinney 1995);18 U. S. C. App. $ 2; 11A U. L. A. 48 (1995) (listing jurisdictions). As "a congressionally sanctioned interstate com-pact" within the Compact Clause of the United States Constitution, Art. I, $ 10, cl. 3, the IAD is a federal law subjectto federal construction.

Carchman v. Nash, 473 U. S. 716,719 (1985);
Cuyler v. Adams, 449 U. S. 433, 442 (1981).

528US1 Unit: $U13 [06-14-01 18:45:58] PAGES PGT: OPIN
112 NEW YORK v. HILL

Opinion of the Court
A State seeking to bring charges against a prisoner in an-other State's custody begins the process by filing a detainer,

which is a request by the State's criminal justice agency thatthe institution in which the prisoner is housed hold the
prisoner for the agency or notify the agency when release isimminent. Fex v. Michigan, 507 U. S. 43, 44 (1993). After
a detainer has been lodged against him, a prisoner may filea "request for a final disposition to be made of the indictment, information, or complaint." Art. III(a). Upon sucha request, the prisoner "shall be brought to trial within one
hundred eighty days," "provided that for good cause shownin open court, the prisoner or his counsel being present, the
court having jurisdiction of the matter may grant any neces-sary or reasonable continuance."

Ibid. Resolution of thecharges can also be triggered by the charging jurisdiction,

which may request temporary custody of the prisoner forthat purpose. Art. IV(a). In such a case, "trial shall be
commenced within one hundred twenty days of the arrivalof the prisoner in the receiving state," subject again to continuances for good cause shown in open court. Art. IV(c).If a defendant is not brought to trial within the applicable
statutory period, the IAD requires that the indictment bedismissed with prejudice. Art. V(c).

In this case, New York lodged a detainer against respond-ent, who was a prisoner in Ohio. Respondent signed a request for disposition of the detainer pursuant to Article III
of the IAD, and was returned to New York to face murderand robbery charges. Defense counsel filed several motions,

which, it is uncontested, tolled the time limits during theirpendency.

On January 9, 1995, the prosecutor and defense counsel
appeared in court to set a trial date. The following collo-quy ensued:

"[Prosecutor]: Your Honor, [the regular attorney] from
our office is engaged in a trial today. He told me that

528US1 Unit: $U13 [06-14-01 18:45:58] PAGES PGT: OPIN

113Cite as: 528 U. S. 110 (2000)
Opinion of the Court
the Court was to set a trial date today. I believe the
Court may have preliminarily discussed a May 1st date,
and [the regular attorney] says that would fit in his
calendar.

"The Court: How is that with the defense counsel?
"[Defense Counsel]: That will be fine, Your Honor."
164 Misc. 2d 1032, 1035, 627 N. Y. S. 2d 234, 236 (Cty.
Ct., Monroe County 1995).

The court scheduled trial to begin on May 1.

On April 17, 1995, respondent moved to dismiss the indictment, arguing that the IAD's time limit had expired.
The trial court found that as of January 9, 1995, when the
trial date was set, 167 nonexcludable days had elapsed, so
that if the subsequent time period was chargeable to the
State, the 180-day time period had indeed expired. However, the trial court concluded that "[d]efense counsel's explicit agreement to the trial date set beyond the 180 day
statutory period constituted a waiver or abandonment of defendant's rights under the IAD." Id., at 1036, 627 N. Y. S.
2d, at 237. Accordingly, the court denied respondent's motion to dismiss.

Respondent was subsequently convicted, following a jury
trial, of murder in the second degree and robbery in the
first degree. On appeal, respondent argued that the trial
court erred in declining to dismiss the indictment for lack
of a timely trial under the IAD. The New York Supreme
Court, Appellate Division, affirmed the decision of the trial
court. 244 App. Div. 2d 927, 668 N. Y. S. 2d 126 (1997). The
New York Court of Appeals, however, reversed and ordered
that the indictment against respondent be dismissed; defense counsel's agreement to a later trial date, it held, did
not waive respondent's speedy trial rights under the IAD.
92 N. Y. 2d 406, 704 N. E. 2d 542 (1998). We granted certiorari. 526 U. S. 1111 (1999).

528US1 Unit: $U13 [06-14-01 18:45:58] PAGES PGT: OPIN
114 NEW YORK v. HILL

Opinion of the Court

II
No provision of the IAD prescribes the effect of a defend-ant's assent to delay on the applicable time limits. We have,

however, "in the context of a broad array of constitutionaland statutory provisions," articulated a general rule that
presumes the availability of waiver, United States v. Mezzanatto, 513 U. S. 196, 200-201 (1995), and we have recognizedthat "[t]he most basic rights of criminal defendants are . . .

subject to waiver," Peretz v. United States, 501 U. S. 923,936 (1991). In accordance with these principles, courts have
agreed that a defendant may, at least under some circum-stances, waive his right to object to a given delay under the
IAD, although they have disagreed on what is necessary toeffect a waiver. See

, e. g., People v. Jones, 197 Mich. App.76, 80, 495 N. W. 2d 159, 160 (1992) (waiver if prisoner "either

expressly or impliedly, agrees or requests to be treated in amanner contrary to the terms of the IAD"); Brown v. Wolff,
706 F. 2d 902, 907 (CA9 1983) (waiver if prisoner "affirma-tively requests to be treated in a manner contrary to the
procedures prescribed by the IAD"); Drescher v. SuperiorCt., 218 Cal. App. 3d 1140, 1148, 267 Cal. Rptr. 661, 666 (1990)
(waiver if there is a "showing of record that the defendantor his attorney freely acquiesced in a trial date beyond the
speedy trial period" (internal quotation marks omitted)).What suffices for waiver depends on the nature of the right
at issue. "[W]hether the defendant must participate person-ally in the waiver; whether certain procedures are required
for waiver; and whether the defendant's choice must be par-ticularly informed or voluntary, all depend on the right at
stake." United States v. Olano, 507 U. S. 725, 733 (1993).For certain fundamental rights, the defendant must personally make an informed waiver. See, e. g., Johnson v. Zerbst,304 U. S. 458, 464-465 (1938) (right to counsel);

Brookhart v.Janis, 384 U. S. 1, 7-8 (1966) (right to plead not guilty). For

other rights, however, waiver may be effected by action ofcounsel. "Although there are basic rights that the attorney

528US1 Unit: $U13 [06-14-01 18:45:58] PAGES PGT: OPIN

115Cite as: 528 U. S. 110 (2000)
Opinion of the Court
cannot waive without the fully informed and publicly ac-knowledged consent of the client, the lawyer has--and must

have--full authority to manage the conduct of the trial."
Taylor v. Illinois, 484 U. S. 400, 417-418 (1988). As to many
decisions pertaining to the conduct of the trial, the defend-ant is "deemed bound by the acts of his lawyer-agent and

is considered to have `notice of all facts, notice of which
can be charged upon the attorney.' " Link v. Wabash R. Co.,370 U. S. 626, 634 (1962) (quoting

Smith v. Ayer, 101 U. S.
320, 326 (1880)). Thus, decisions by counsel are generallygiven effect as to what arguments to pursue, see

Jones v.
Barnes, 463 U. S. 745, 751 (1983), what evidentiary objections
to raise, see Henry v. Mississippi, 379 U. S. 443, 451 (1965),
and what agreements to conclude regarding the admission
of evidence, see United States v. McGill, 11 F. 3d 223, 226-
227 (CA1 1993). Absent a demonstration of ineffectiveness,
counsel's word on such matters is the last.

Scheduling matters are plainly among those for which
agreement by counsel generally controls. This case does
not involve a purported prospective waiver of all protection of the IAD's time limits or of the IAD generally, but
merely agreement to a specified delay in trial. When that
subject is under consideration, only counsel is in a position
to assess the benefit or detriment of the delay to the defendant's case. Likewise, only counsel is in a position to assess
whether the defense would even be prepared to proceed any
earlier. Requiring express assent from the defendant himself for such routine and often repetitive scheduling determinations would consume time to no apparent purpose. The
text of the IAD, moreover, confirms what the reason of the
matter suggests: In allowing the court to grant "good-cause
continuances" when either "prisoner or his counsel" is present, it contemplates that scheduling questions may be left to
counsel. Art. III(a) (emphasis added).

Respondent offers two arguments for affirmance, both
of which go primarily to the propriety of allowing waiver of

528US1 Unit: $U13 [06-14-01 18:45:58] PAGES PGT: OPIN
116 NEW YORK v. HILL

Opinion of the Court
any sort, not to the specifics of the waiver here. First, heargues that by explicitly providing for the grant of "goodcause continuances," the IAD seeks to limit the situationsin which delay is permitted, and that permitting other extensions of the time period would override those limitations.It is of course true that waiver is not appropriate when it
is inconsistent with the provision creating the right sought
to be secured. E. g., Crosby v. United States, 506 U. S. 255,258-259 (1993);

Smith v. United States, 360 U. S. 1, 9 (1959).
That is not, however, the situation here. To be sure, the"necessary or reasonable continuance" provision is, by clear

implication, the sole means by which the prosecution canobtain an extension of the time limits over the defendant's
objection. But the specification in that provision that the"prisoner or his counsel" must be present suggests that it
is directed primarily, if not indeed exclusively, to prosecu-tion requests that have not explicitly been agreed to by the
defense. As applied to agreed-upon extensions, we think its
negative implication is dubious--and certainly not clear
enough to constitute the "affirmative indication" required to
overcome the ordinary presumption that waiver is available.
Mezzanatto, supra, at 201.1

Second, respondent argues that the IAD benefits not only
the defendant but society generally, and that the defendant
may not waive society's rights. It is true that a "right conferred on a private party, but affecting the public interest,
may not be waived or released if such waiver or release
contravenes the statutory policy." Brooklyn Savings Bank
v. O'Neil, 324 U. S. 697, 704 (1945) (emphasis added). The

1 It was suggested at oral argument that agreement in open court to a
trial date outside the allowable time period can itself be viewed as a "necessary or reasonable continuance" for "good cause shown in open court."
Although an agreed-upon trial date might sometimes merit this description, it is far from clear that it always does so, or that it does so here.
Because we find waiver, we do not consider under what circumstances an
agreed-upon delay could fit within the good-cause provision.

528US1 Unit: $U13 [06-14-01 18:45:58] PAGES PGT: OPIN

117Cite as: 528 U. S. 110 (2000)
Opinion of the Court
conditional clause is essential, however: It is not true that
any private right that also benefits society cannot be waived.
In general, "[i]n an adversary system of criminal justice,
the public interest in the administration of justice is protected by the participants in the litigation." Gannett Co. v.
DePasquale, 443 U. S. 368, 383 (1979). We allow waiver of
numerous constitutional protections for criminal defendants
that also serve broader social interests. See, e. g., Adams v.
United States ex rel. McCann, 317 U. S. 269, 275 (1942)
(waiver of right to jury trial); Johnson, 304 U. S., at 464
(waiver of right to counsel).

Society may well enjoy some benefit from the IAD's time
limits: Delay can lead to a less accurate outcome as witnesses
become unavailable and memories fade. See, e. g., Sibron v.
New York, 392 U. S. 40, 56-57 (1968). On the other hand,
some social interests served by prompt trial are less relevant
here than elsewhere. For example, because the would-be
defendant is already incarcerated in another jurisdiction,
society's interests in assuring the defendant's presence at
trial and in preventing further criminal activity (or avoiding
the costs of pretrial detention) are simply not at issue.
Cf. Barker v. Wingo, 407 U. S. 514, 519 (1972). In any case,
it cannot be argued that society's interest in the prompt resolution of outstanding charges is so central to the IAD that
it is part of the unalterable "statutory policy," Brooklyn
Savings Bank, supra, at 704. In fact, the time limits do
not apply at all unless either the prisoner or the receiving
State files a request.2 Thus, the IAD "contemplate[s] a de2 This feature, among others, makes respondent's analogy to the federal Speedy Trial Act of 1974, 18 U. S. C. $ 3161 et seq., inapt. The time
limits of the Speedy Trial Act begin to run automatically rather than upon
request, $$ 3161(a), (b); dismissal may sometimes be without prejudice,

$$ 3162(a)(1), (2), United States v. Taylor, 487 U. S. 326, 332-333 (1988); and
waiver is expressly allowed in certain limited circumstances, 18 U. S. C.

$ 3162(a)(2). In any event, the question of waiver under the Speedy Trial
Act is not before us today, and we express no view on the subject.

528US1 Unit: $U13 [06-14-01 18:45:58] PAGES PGT: OPIN
118 NEW YORK v. HILL

Opinion of the Court
gree of party control that is consonant with the backgroundpresumption of waivability." Mezzanatto, 513 U. S., at 206.

3

Finally, respondent argues that even if waiver of the IAD'stime limits is possible, it can be effected only by affirmative

conduct not present here. The New York Court of Appealsadopted a similar view, stating that the speedy trial rights
guaranteed by the IAD may be waived either "explicitly orby an affirmative request for treatment that is contrary to
or inconsistent with those speedy trial rights." 92 N. Y. 2d,at 411, 704 N. E. 2d, at 545. The court concluded that defense counsel's agreement to the trial date here was not an"affirmative request" and therefore did not constitute a
waiver. Id., at 412, 704 N. E. 2d, at 546. We agree withthe State that this makes dismissal of the indictment turn
on a hypertechnical distinction that should play no part. Asillustrated by this case, such an approach would enable defendants to escape justice by willingly accepting treatmentinconsistent with the IAD's time limits, and then recanting
later on. Nothing in the IAD requires or even suggests adistinction between waiver proposed and waiver agreed to.
In light of its potential for abuse--and given the harsh rem-edy of dismissal with prejudice--we decline to adopt it.

* * *
The judgment of the New York Court of Appeals isreversed.

It is so ordered.

3 In concluding that objection to a specified delay may be waived, we are
mindful that the sending State may have interests distinct from those of
the prisoner and the receiving State. This case does not involve any objection from the sending State, and we do not address what recourse the
sending State might have under the IAD when the receiving State and
prisoner agree to, and the court allows, an inordinate delay. Cf. Article
V(e) ("At the earliest practicable time consonant with the purposes of this
agreement, the prisoner shall be returned to the sending State").

528US1 Unit: $U14 [06-14-01 18:51:05] PAGES PGT: OPIN

119OCTOBER TERM, 1999
Syllabus

ILLINOIS v. WARDLOW
certiorari to the supreme court of illinois
No. 98-1036. Argued November 2, 1999--Decided January 12, 2000
Respondent Wardlow fled upon seeing a caravan of police vehicles converge on an area of Chicago known for heavy narcotics trafficking.
When Officers Nolan and Harvey caught up with him on the street,
Nolan stopped him and conducted a protective patdown search for weapons because in his experience there were usually weapons in the vicinity
of narcotics transactions. Discovering a handgun, the officers arrested
Wardlow. The Illinois trial court denied his motion to suppress, finding
the gun was recovered during a lawful stop and frisk. He was convicted of unlawful use of a weapon by a felon. In reversing, the State
Appellate Court found that Nolan did not have reasonable suspicion to
make the stop under Terry v. Ohio, 392 U. S. 1. The State Supreme
Court affirmed, determining that sudden flight in a high crime area does
not create a reasonable suspicion justifying a Terry stop because flight
may simply be an exercise of the right to "go on one's way," see Florida
v. Royer, 460 U. S. 491.

Held: The officers' actions did not violate the Fourth Amendment. This

case, involving a brief encounter between a citizen and a police officer
on a public street, is governed by Terry, under which an officer who has
a reasonable, articulable suspicion that criminal activity is afoot may
conduct a brief, investigatory stop. While "reasonable suspicion" is a
less demanding standard than probable cause, there must be at least
a minimal level of objective justification for the stop. An individual's
presence in a "high crime area," standing alone, is not enough to support
a reasonable, particularized suspicion of criminal activity, but a location's characteristics are relevant in determining whether the circumstances are sufficiently suspicious to warrant further investigation,
Adams v. Williams, 407 U. S. 143, 144, 147-148. In this case, moreover,
it was also Wardlow's unprovoked flight that aroused the officers' suspicion. Nervous, evasive behavior is another pertinent factor in determining reasonable suspicion, e. g., United States v. Brignoni-Ponce, 422
U. S. 873, 885, and headlong flight is the consummate act of evasion. In
reviewing the propriety of an officer's conduct, courts do not have available empirical studies dealing with inferences from suspicious behavior,
and this Court cannot reasonably demand scientific certainty when none
exists. Thus, the reasonable suspicion determination must be based on
commonsense judgments and inferences about human behavior. See

528US1 Unit: $U14 [06-14-01 18:51:05] PAGES PGT: OPIN
120 ILLINOIS v. WARDLOW

Syllabus
United States v. Cortez, 449 U. S. 411, 418. Officer Nolan was justified
in suspecting that Wardlow was involved in criminal activity, and, therefore, in investigating further. Such a holding is consistent with the decision in Florida v. Royer, supra, at 498, that an individual, when approached, has a right to ignore the police and go about his business.
Unprovoked flight is the exact opposite of "going about one's business."
While flight is not necessarily indicative of ongoing criminal activity,
Terry recognized that officers can detain individuals to resolve ambiguities in their conduct, 392 U. S., at 30, and thus accepts the risk that
officers may stop innocent people. If they do not learn facts rising to
the level of probable cause, an individual must be allowed to go on his
way. But in this case the officers found that Wardlow possessed a handgun and arrested him for violating a state law. The propriety of that
arrest is not before the Court. Pp. 123-126.

183 Ill. 2d 306, 701 N. E. 2d 484, reversed and remanded.

Rehnquist, C. J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which O'Con-
nor, Scalia, Kennedy, and Thomas, JJ., joined. Stevens, J., filed an
opinion concurring in part and dissenting in part, in which Souter, Gins-
burg, and Breyer, JJ., joined, post, p. 126.

Richard A. Devine argued the cause for petitioner. Withhim on the briefs were James E. Ryan, Attorney General

of Illinois, Joel D. Bertocchi, Solicitor General, Renee G.Goldfarb, Theodore Fotios Burtzos, and Veronica Ximena
Calderon.

Malcolm L. Stewart argued the cause for the UnitedStates as amicus curiae urging reversal. With him on the

brief were Solicitor General Waxman, Assistant AttorneyGeneral Robinson, Deputy Solicitor General Dreeben, and
Deborah Watson.James B. Koch argued the cause for respondent. With
him on the brief were Lynn N. Weisberg and Thomas G.Gardiner.*

*Briefs of amici curiae urging reversal were filed for the State of Ohio
et al. by Betty D. Montgomery, Attorney General of Ohio, Edward B.
Foley, State Solicitor, Robert C. Maier and Alejandro Almaguer, Assistant Solicitors, and Thomas R. Keller, Acting Attorney General of Hawaii,
and by the Attorneys General for their respective States as follows: Bill
Pryor of Alabama, Ken Salazar of Colorado, M. Jane Brady of Delaware,

528US1 Unit: $U14 [06-14-01 18:51:05] PAGES PGT: OPIN

121Cite as: 528 U. S. 119 (2000)
Opinion of the Court
Chief Justice Rehnquist delivered the opinion of the
Court.

Respondent Wardlow fled upon seeing police officers patrolling an area known for heavy narcotics trafficking. Two
of the officers caught up with him, stopped him, and conducted a protective patdown search for weapons. Discovering a .38-caliber handgun, the officers arrested Wardlow.
We hold that the officers' stop did not violate the Fourth
Amendment to the United States Constitution.

On September 9, 1995, Officers Nolan and Harvey were
working as uniformed officers in the special operations section of the Chicago Police Department. The officers were
driving the last car of a four-car caravan converging on an
area known for heavy narcotics trafficking in order to investigate drug transactions. The officers were traveling together because they expected to find a crowd of people in
the area, including lookouts and customers.

As the caravan passed 4035 West Van Buren, Officer Nolan
observed respondent Wardlow standing next to the building

Alan G. Lance of Idaho, Carla J. Stovall of Kansas, Richard P. Ieyoub
of Louisiana, Mike Hatch of Minnesota, Michael C. Moore of Mississippi,
Don Stenberg of Nebraska, Frankie Sue Del Papa of Nevada, Michael P.
Easley of North Carolina, W. A. Drew Edmondson of Oklahoma, Charles
M. Condon of South Carolina, Mark L. Barnett of South Dakota, and Mark
L. Earley of Virginia; for the Wayne County Prosecuting Attorney by
John D. O'Hair, pro se, Timothy A. Baughman, and Jeffrey Caminsky;
for Americans for Effective Law Enforcement, Inc., et al. by Wayne
W. Schmidt, James P. Manak, and Richard Weintraub; for the Criminal
Justice Legal Foundation by Kent S. Scheidegger and Charles L. Hobson;
and for the National Association of Police Organizations et al. by Stephen
R. McSpadden.

Briefs of amici curiae urging affirmance were filed for the American
Civil Liberties Union et al. by Tracey Maclin, Steven R. Shapiro, Harvey
Grossman, and Barbara E. Bergman; for the NAACP Legal Defense &
Educational Fund, Inc., by Elaine R. Jones, Theodore M. Shaw, George H.
Kendall, and Laura E. Hankins; and for the Rutherford Institute by John
W. Whitehead and Steven H. Aden.

528US1 Unit: $U14 [06-14-01 18:51:05] PAGES PGT: OPIN
122 ILLINOIS v. WARDLOW

Opinion of the Court
holding an opaque bag. Respondent looked in the direction
of the officers and fled. Nolan and Harvey turned their car
southbound, watched him as he ran through the gangway
and an alley, and eventually cornered him on the street.
Nolan then exited his car and stopped respondent. He immediately conducted a protective patdown search for weapons because in his experience it was common for there to be
weapons in the near vicinity of narcotics transactions. During the frisk, Officer Nolan squeezed the bag respondent was
carrying and felt a heavy, hard object similar to the shape of
a gun. The officer then opened the bag and discovered a
.38-caliber handgun with five live rounds of ammunition.
The officers arrested Wardlow.

The Illinois trial court denied respondent's motion to suppress, finding the gun was recovered during a lawful stop
and frisk. App. 14. Following a stipulated bench trial,
Wardlow was convicted of unlawful use of a weapon by a
felon. The Illinois Appellate Court reversed Wardlow's conviction, concluding that the gun should have been suppressed
because Officer Nolan did not have reasonable suspicion sufficient to justify an investigative stop pursuant to Terry v.
Ohio, 392 U. S. 1 (1968). 287 Ill. App. 3d 367, 678 N. E. 2d
65 (1997).

The Illinois Supreme Court agreed. 183 Ill. 2d 306, 701
N. E. 2d 484 (1998). While rejecting the Appellate Court's
conclusion that Wardlow was not in a high crime area, the
Illinois Supreme Court determined that sudden flight in such
an area does not create a reasonable suspicion justifying a
Terry stop. 183 Ill. 2d, at 310, 701 N. E. 2d, at 486. Relying
on Florida v. Royer, 460 U. S. 491 (1983), the court explained
that although police have the right to approach individuals
and ask questions, the individual has no obligation to respond. The person may decline to answer and simply go on
his or her way, and the refusal to respond, alone, does not
provide a legitimate basis for an investigative stop. 183 Ill.

528US1 Unit: $U14 [06-14-01 18:51:05] PAGES PGT: OPIN

123Cite as: 528 U. S. 119 (2000)
Opinion of the Court
2d, at 311-312, 701 N. E. 2d, at 486-487. The court then
determined that flight may simply be an exercise of this
right to "go on one's way," and, thus, could not constitute
reasonable suspicion justifying a Terry stop. 183 Ill. 2d, at
312, 701 N. E. 2d, at 487.

The Illinois Supreme Court also rejected the argument
that flight combined with the fact that it occurred in a high
crime area supported a finding of reasonable suspicion because the "high crime area" factor was not sufficient standing alone to justify a Terry stop. Finding no independently
suspicious circumstances to support an investigatory detention, the court held that the stop and subsequent arrest violated the Fourth Amendment. We granted certiorari, 526
U. S. 1097 (1999), and now reverse.1

This case, involving a brief encounter between a citizen
and a police officer on a public street, is governed by the
analysis we first applied in Terry. In Terry, we held that
an officer may, consistent with the Fourth Amendment, conduct a brief, investigatory stop when the officer has a reasonable, articulable suspicion that criminal activity is afoot.
392 U. S., at 30. While "reasonable suspicion" is a less demanding standard than probable cause and requires a showing considerably less than preponderance of the evidence,
the Fourth Amendment requires at least a minimal level of
objective justification for making the stop. United States
v. Sokolow, 490 U. S. 1, 7 (1989). The officer must be able

1 The state courts have differed on whether unprovoked flight is sufficient grounds to constitute reasonable suspicion. See, e. g., State v. Anderson, 155 Wis. 2d 77, 454 N. W. 2d 763 (1990) (flight alone is sufficient);
Platt v. State, 589 N. E. 2d 222 (Ind. 1992) (same); Harris v. State, 205 Ga.
App. 813, 423 S. E. 2d 723 (1992) (flight in high crime area sufficient); State
v. Hicks, 241 Neb. 357, 488 N. W. 2d 359 (1992) (flight is not enough); State
v. Tucker, 136 N. J. 158, 642 A. 2d 401 (1994) (same); People v. Shabaz, 424
Mich. 42, 378 N. W. 2d 451 (1985) (same); People v. Wilson, 784 P. 2d 325
(Colo. 1989) (same).

528US1 Unit: $U14 [06-14-01 18:51:05] PAGES PGT: OPIN
124 ILLINOIS v. WARDLOW

Opinion of the Court
to articulate more than an "inchoate and unparticularizedsuspicion or `hunch' " of criminal activity. Terry, supra,

at 27.2Nolan and Harvey were among eight officers in a four-car
caravan that was converging on an area known for heavynarcotics trafficking, and the officers anticipated encountering a large number of people in the area, including drug cus-tomers and individuals serving as lookouts. App. 8. It was
in this context that Officer Nolan decided to investigateWardlow after observing him flee. An individual's presence
in an area of expected criminal activity, standing alone, isnot enough to support a reasonable, particularized suspicion
that the person is committing a crime. Brown v. Texas, 443U. S. 47 (1979). But officers are not required to ignore the
relevant characteristics of a location in determining whetherthe circumstances are sufficiently suspicious to warrant further investigation. Accordingly, we have previously notedthe fact that the stop occurred in a "high crime area" among
the relevant contextual considerations in a Terry analysis.Adams v. Williams, 407 U. S. 143, 144, 147-148 (1972).

In this case, moreover, it was not merely respondent'spresence in an area of heavy narcotics trafficking that
aroused the officers' suspicion, but his unprovoked flight uponnoticing the police. Our cases have also recognized that nervous, evasive behavior is a pertinent factor in determiningreasonable suspicion. United States v. Brignoni-Ponce, 422
U. S. 873, 885 (1975); Florida v. Rodriguez, 469 U. S. 1, 6(1984) (per curiam); United States v. Sokolow, supra, at 8-9.
Headlong flight--wherever it occurs--is the consummate actof evasion: It is not necessarily indicative of wrongdoing, but
it is certainly suggestive of such. In reviewing the propri-ety of an officer's conduct, courts do not have available empirical studies dealing with inferences drawn from suspicious

2 We granted certiorari solely on the question whether the initial stop
was supported by reasonable suspicion. Therefore, we express no opinion
as to the lawfulness of the frisk independently of the stop.

528US1 Unit: $U14 [06-14-01 18:51:05] PAGES PGT: OPIN

125Cite as: 528 U. S. 119 (2000)
Opinion of the Court
behavior, and we cannot reasonably demand scientific cer-tainty from judges or law enforcement officers where none

exists. Thus, the determination of reasonable suspicionmust be based on commonsense judgments and inferences
about human behavior. See United States v. Cortez, 449U. S. 411, 418 (1981). We conclude Officer Nolan was justified in suspecting that Wardlow was involved in criminal
activity, and, therefore, in investigating further.Such a holding is entirely consistent with our decision in

Florida v. Royer, 460 U. S. 491 (1983), where we held thatwhen an officer, without reasonable suspicion or probable
cause, approaches an individual, the individual has a right to
ignore the police and go about his business. Id., at 498.
And any "refusal to cooperate, without more, does not furnish the minimal level of objective justification needed for a
detention or seizure." Florida v. Bostick, 501 U. S. 429, 437
(1991). But unprovoked flight is simply not a mere refusal
to cooperate. Flight, by its very nature, is not "going about
one's business"; in fact, it is just the opposite. Allowing officers confronted with such flight to stop the fugitive and
investigate further is quite consistent with the individual's
right to go about his business or to stay put and remain
silent in the face of police questioning.

Respondent and amici also argue that there are innocent
reasons for flight from police and that, therefore, flight is not
necessarily indicative of ongoing criminal activity. This fact
is undoubtedly true, but does not establish a violation of the
Fourth Amendment. Even in Terry, the conduct justifying
the stop was ambiguous and susceptible of an innocent explanation. The officer observed two individuals pacing back
and forth in front of a store, peering into the window and
periodically conferring. 392 U. S., at 5-6. All of this conduct was by itself lawful, but it also suggested that the individuals were casing the store for a planned robbery. Terry
recognized that the officers could detain the individuals to
resolve the ambiguity. Id., at 30.

528US1 Unit: $U14 [06-14-01 18:51:05] PAGES PGT: OPIN
126 ILLINOIS v. WARDLOW

Opinion of Stevens, J.
In allowing such detentions, Terry accepts the risk thatofficers may stop innocent people. Indeed, the Fourth

Amendment accepts that risk in connection with more dras-tic police action; persons arrested and detained on probable
cause to believe they have committed a crime may turn outto be innocent. The

Terry stop is a far more minimal intrusion, simply allowing the officer to briefly investigate further. If the officer does not learn facts rising to the level ofprobable cause, the individual must be allowed to go on his

way. But in this case the officers found respondent in pos-session of a handgun, and arrested him for violation of an
Illinois firearms statute. No question of the propriety of thearrest itself is before us.

The judgment of the Supreme Court of Illinois is reversed,and the cause is remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion. It is so ordered.

Justice Stevens, with whom Justice Souter, Justice
Ginsburg, and Justice Breyer join, concurring in part and
dissenting in part.

The State of Illinois asks this Court to announce a
"bright-line rule" authorizing the temporary detention ofanyone who flees at the mere sight of a police officer. Brief

for Petitioner 7-36. Respondent counters by asking us toadopt the opposite

per se rule--that the fact that a person
flees upon seeing the police can never, by itself, be sufficientto justify a temporary investigative stop of the kind authorized by Terry v. Ohio, 392 U. S. 1 (1968). Brief for Respond-ent 6-31.

The Court today wisely endorses neither per se rule. In-stead, it rejects the proposition that "flight is . . . necessarily
indicative of ongoing criminal activity," ante, at 125, adher-ing to the view that "[t]he concept of reasonable suspicion
. . . is not readily, or even usefully, reduced to a neat set
of legal rules," but must be determined by looking to "the

528US1 Unit: $U14 [06-14-01 18:51:05] PAGES PGT: OPIN

127Cite as: 528 U. S. 119 (2000)
Opinion of Stevens, J.
totality of the circumstances--the whole picture," UnitedStates v. Sokolow, 490 U. S. 1, 7-8 (1989) (internal quotation

marks and citation omitted). Abiding by this framework,the Court concludes that "Officer Nolan was justified in suspecting that Wardlow was involved in criminal activity."Ante, at 125.

Although I agree with the Court's rejection of the per serules proffered by the parties, unlike the Court, I am persuaded that in this case the brief testimony of the officer whoseized respondent does not justify the conclusion that he had
reasonable suspicion to make the stop. Before discussingthe specific facts of this case, I shall comment on the parties'
requests for a per se rule. I

In Terry v. Ohio, we first recognized "that a police officermay in appropriate circumstances and in an appropriate
manner approach a person for purposes of investigating pos-sibly criminal behavior even though there is no probable
cause to make an arrest," 392 U. S., at 22, an authority per-mitting the officer to "stop and briefly detain a person for
investigative purposes," Sokolow, 490 U. S., at 7. We ap-proved as well "a reasonable search for weapons for the protection of the police officer, where he has reason to believethat he is dealing with an armed and dangerous individual,
regardless of whether he has probable cause to arrest theindividual for a crime." Terry, 392 U. S., at 27. Cognizant
that such police intrusion had never before received constitu-tional imprimatur on less than probable cause, id., at 11-12,
20, we reflected upon the magnitude of the departure wewere endorsing. "Even a limited search," we said, "constitutes a severe, though brief, intrusion upon cherished per-sonal security, and it must be an annoying, frightening, and
perhaps humiliating experience." Id., at 24-25.1

1 We added that a Terry frisk "is a serious intrusion upon the sanctity
of the person, which may inflict great indignity and arouse strong resentment, and is not to be undertaken lightly." 392 U. S., at 17. The resent528US1 Unit: $U14 [06-14-01 18:51:05] PAGES PGT: OPIN
128 ILLINOIS v. WARDLOW

Opinion of Stevens, J.
Accordingly, we recognized only a "narrowly drawn au-thority" that is "limited to that which is necessary for the

discovery of weapons." Id., at 27, 26. An officer conduct-ing an investigatory stop, we further explained, must articulate "a particularized and objective basis for suspecting theparticular person stopped of criminal activity." United
States v. Cortez, 449 U. S. 411, 417-418 (1981). That deter-mination, we admonished, "becomes meaningful only when it
is assured that at some point the conduct of those chargedwith enforcing the laws can be subjected to the more detached, neutral scrutiny of a judge who must evaluate thereasonableness of a particular search or seizure in light of
the particular circumstances." Terry, 392 U. S., at 21. Inundertaking that neutral scrutiny "based on all of the circumstances," a court relies on "certain commonsense conclu-sions about human behavior."

Cortez, 449 U. S., at 418; seealso ante, at 125. "[T]he relevant inquiry" concerning the

inferences and conclusions a court draws "is not whetherparticular conduct is `innocent' or `guilty,' but the degree of
suspicion that attaches to particular types of noncriminalacts."

Sokolow, 490 U. S., at 10.The question in this case concerns "the degree of suspicion

that attaches to" a person's flight--or, more precisely, what"commonsense conclusions" can be drawn respecting the motives behind that flight. A pedestrian may break into a runfor a variety of reasons--to catch up with a friend a block or
two away, to seek shelter from an impending storm, to arriveat a bus stop before the bus leaves, to get home in time for

ment engendered by that intrusion is aggravated, not mitigated, if the
officer's entire justification for the stop is the belief that the individual is
simply trying to avoid contact with the police or move from one place to
another--as he or she has a right to do (and do rapidly). See Chicago v.
Morales, 527 U. S. 41, 53 (1999) (plurality opinion) ("We have expressly
identified this `right to remove from one place to another according to
inclination' as `an attribute of personal liberty' protected by the Constitution" (citation omitted)); Florida v. Bostick, 501 U. S. 429, 437 (1991); Florida v. Royer, 460 U. S. 491, 497-498 (1983) (plurality opinion); Terry, 392
U. S., at 32-33 (Harlan, J., concurring); see also ante, at 125.

528US1 Unit: $U14 [06-14-01 18:51:05] PAGES PGT: OPIN

129Cite as: 528 U. S. 119 (2000)
Opinion of Stevens, J.
dinner, to resume jogging after a pause for rest, to avoidcontact with a bore or a bully, or simply to answer the call

of nature--any of which might coincide with the arrival ofan officer in the vicinity. A pedestrian might also run because he or she has just sighted one or more police officers.In the latter instance, the State properly points out "that
the fleeing person may be, inter alia, (1) an escapee fromjail; (2) wanted on a warrant; (3) in possession of contraband,
(i. e. drugs, weapons, stolen goods, etc.); or (4) someone whohas just committed another type of crime." Brief for Petitioner 9, n. 4.2 In short, there are unquestionably circum-stances in which a person's flight is suspicious, and undeniably instances in which a person runs for entirely innocentreasons.

3

Given the diversity and frequency of possible motivationsfor flight, it would be profoundly unwise to endorse either

per se rule. The inference we can reasonably draw aboutthe motivation for a person's flight, rather, will depend on a
number of different circumstances. Factors such as thetime of day, the number of people in the area, the character
of the neighborhood, whether the officer was in uniform, theway the runner was dressed, the direction and speed of the

2 If the fleeing person exercises his or her right to remain silent after
being stopped, only in the third of the State's four hypothetical categories
is the stop likely to lead to probable cause to make an arrest. And even
in the third category, flight does not necessarily indicate that the officer is
"dealing with an armed and dangerous individual." Terry v. Ohio, 392
U. S. 1, 27 (1968).

3 Compare, e. g., Proverbs 28:1 ("The wicked flee when no man pursueth:

but the righteous are as bold as a lion") with Proverbs 22:3 ("A shrewd
man sees trouble coming and lies low; the simple walk into it and pay
the penalty").

I have rejected reliance on the former proverb in the past, because
its "ivory-towered analysis of the real world" fails to account for the experiences of many citizens of this country, particularly those who are
minorities. See California v. Hodari D., 499 U. S. 621, 630, n. 4 (1991)
(Stevens, J., dissenting). That this pithy expression fails to capture the
total reality of our world, however, does not mean it is inaccurate in all
instances.

528US1 Unit: $U14 [06-14-01 18:51:05] PAGES PGT: OPIN
130 ILLINOIS v. WARDLOW

Opinion of Stevens, J.
flight, and whether the person's behavior was otherwise un-usual might be relevant in specific cases. This number of

variables is surely sufficient to preclude either a bright-linerule that always justifies, or that never justifies, an investigative stop based on the sole fact that flight began after apolice officer appeared nearby.

4

Still, Illinois presses for a per se rule regarding "unpro-voked flight upon seeing a clearly identifiable police officer."

Id., at 7. The phrase "upon seeing," as used by Illinois, ap-parently assumes that the flight is motivated by the presence
of the police officer.5 Illinois contends that unprovokedflight is "an extreme reaction,"

id., at 8, because innocentpeople simply do not "flee at the mere sight of the police,"

id., at 24. To be sure, Illinois concedes, an innocent per-son--even one distrustful of the police--might "avoid eye
contact or even sneer at the sight of an officer," and that

4 Of course, Terry itself recognized that sometimes behavior giving rise
to reasonable suspicion is entirely innocent, but it accepted the risk that
officers may stop innocent people. 392 U. S., at 30. And as the Court
correctly observes, it is "undoubtedly true" that innocent explanations for
flight exist, but they do not "establish a violation of the Fourth Amendment." Ante, at 125. It is equally true, however, that the innocent explanations make the single act of flight sufficiently ambiguous to preclude
the adoption of a per se rule.

In Terry, furthermore, reasonable suspicion was supported by a concatenation of acts, each innocent when viewed in isolation, that when considered collectively amounted to extremely suspicious behavior. See 392
U. S., at 5-7, 22-23. Flight alone, however, is not at all like a "series of
acts, each of them perhaps innocent in itself, but which taken together
warran[t] further investigation." Id., at 22. Nor is flight similar to evidence which in the aggregate provides "fact on fact and clue on clue afford[ing] a basis for the deductions and inferences," supporting reasonable
suspicion. United States v. Cortez, 449 U. S. 411, 419 (1981).

5 Nowhere in Illinois' briefs does it specify what it means by "unprovoked." At oral argument, Illinois explained that if officers precipitate a
flight by threats of violence, that flight is "provoked." But if police officers in a patrol car--with lights flashing and siren sounding--descend
upon an individual for the sole purpose of seeing if he or she will run, the
ensuing flight is "unprovoked." Tr. of Oral Arg. 17-18, 20.

528US1 Unit: $U14 [06-14-01 18:51:05] PAGES PGT: OPIN

131Cite as: 528 U. S. 119 (2000)
Opinion of Stevens, J.
would not justify a Terry stop or any sort of per se inference.Id., at 8-9. But, Illinois insists, unprovoked flight is altogether different. Such behavior is so "aberrant" and "ab-normal" that a per se inference is justified. Id., at 8-9, and
n. 4.Even assuming we know that a person runs because he
sees the police, the inference to be drawn may still vary fromcase to case. Flight to escape police detection, we have said,
may have an entirely innocent motivation:

"[I]t is a matter of common knowledge that men who areentirely innocent do sometimes fly from the scene of a

crime through fear of being apprehended as the guiltyparties, or from an unwillingness to appear as witnesses.
Nor is it true as an accepted axiom of criminal law that`the wicked flee when no man pursueth, but the righteous are as bold as a lion.' Innocent men sometimeshesitate to confront a jury--not necessarily because
they fear that the jury will not protect them, but be-cause they do not wish their names to appear in connection with criminal acts, are humiliated at being obligedto incur the popular odium of an arrest and trial, or because they do not wish to be put to the annoyance orexpense of defending themselves."

Alberty v. UnitedStates, 162 U. S. 499, 511 (1896).

In addition to these concerns, a reasonable person may con-clude that an officer's sudden appearance indicates nearby
criminal activity. And where there is criminal activitythere is also a substantial element of danger--either from
the criminal or from a confrontation between the criminaland the police. These considerations can lead to an innocent and understandable desire to quit the vicinity with allspeed.

6

6 Statistical studies of bystander victimization are rare. One study attributes this to incomplete recordkeeping and a lack of officially compiled
data. See Sherman, Steele, Laufersweiler, Hooper, & Julian, Stray Bul528US1 Unit: $U14 [06-14-01 18:51:05] PAGES PGT: OPIN
132 ILLINOIS v. WARDLOW

Opinion of Stevens, J.
Among some citizens, particularly minorities and those residing in high crime areas, there is also the possibility that
the fleeing person is entirely innocent, but, with or without
justification, believes that contact with the police can itself
be dangerous, apart from any criminal activity associated
with the officer's sudden presence.7 For such a person,

lets and "Mushrooms": Random Shootings of Bystanders in Four Cities,
1977-1988, 5 J. of Quantitative Criminology 297, 303 (1989). Nonetheless,
that study, culling data from newspaper reports in four large cities over
an 11-year period, found "substantial increases in reported bystander
killings and woundings in all four cities." Id., at 306. From 1986 to 1988,
for example, the study identified 250 people who were killed or wounded
in bystander shootings in the four survey cities. Id., at 306-311. Most
significantly for the purposes of the present case, the study found that
such incidents "rank at the top of public outrage." Id., at 299. The saliency of this phenomenon, in turn, "violate[s] the routine assumptions" of
day-to-day affairs, and, "[w]ith enough frequency . . . it shapes the conduct
of daily life." Ibid.

7 See Johnson, Americans' Views on Crime and Law Enforcement: Survey Findings, Nat. Institute of Justice J. 13 (Sept. 1997) (reporting study
by the Joint Center for Political and Economic Studies in April 1996, which
found that 43% of African-Americans consider "police brutality and harassment of African-Americans a serious problem" in their own community); President's Comm'n on Law Enforcement and Administration of Justice, Task Force Report: The Police 183-184 (1967) (documenting the belief,
held by many minorities, that field interrogations are conducted "indiscriminately" and "in an abusive . . . manner," and labeling this phenomenon a "principal problem" causing "friction" between minorities and the
police) (cited in Terry, 392 U. S., at 14, n. 11); see also Casimir, Minority
Men: We Are Frisk Targets, N. Y. Daily News, Mar. 26, 1999, p. 34 (informal survey of 100 young black and Hispanic men living in New York City;
81 reported having been stopped and frisked by police at least once; none
of the 81 stops resulted in arrests); Brief for NAACP Legal Defense &
Educational Fund as Amicus Curiae 17-19 (reporting figures on disproportionate street stops of minority residents in Pittsburgh and Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, and St. Petersburg, Florida); U. S. Dept. of Justice,
Bureau of Justice Statistics, S. Smith, Criminal Victimization and Perceptions of Community Safety in 12 Cities 25 (June 1998) (African-American
residents in 12 cities are more than twice as likely to be dissatisfied with
police practices than white residents in same community).

528US1 Unit: $U14 [06-14-01 18:51:05] PAGES PGT: OPIN

133Cite as: 528 U. S. 119 (2000)
Opinion of Stevens, J.
unprovoked flight is neither "aberrant" nor "abnormal." 8Moreover, these concerns and fears are known to the police

officers themselves,9 and are validated by law enforcementinvestigations into their own practices.

10 Accordingly, the

8 See, e. g., Kotlowitz, Hidden Casualties: Drug War's Emphasis on Law
Enforcement Takes a Toll on Police, Wall Street Journal, Jan. 11, 1991,
p. A2, col. 1 ("Black leaders complained that innocent people were picked
up in the drug sweeps . . . . Some teen-agers were so scared of the task
force they ran even if they weren't selling drugs").

Many stops never lead to an arrest, which further exacerbates the perceptions of discrimination felt by racial minorities and people living in
high crime areas. See Goldberg, The Color of Suspicion, N. Y. Times
Magazine, June 20, 1999, p. 85 (reporting that in 2-year period, New York
City Police Department Street Crimes Unit made 45,000 stops, only 9,500,
or 20%, of which resulted in arrest); Casimir, supra n. 7 (reporting that
in 1997, New York City's Street Crimes Unit conducted 27,061 stop-andfrisks, only 4,647 of which, 17%, resulted in arrest). Even if these data
were race neutral, they would still indicate that society as a whole is paying a significant cost in infringement on liberty by these virtually random
stops. See also n. 1, supra.

9 The Chief of the Washington, D. C., Metropolitan Police Department,

for example, confirmed that "sizeable percentages of Americans today--
especially Americans of color--still view policing in the United States to
be discriminatory, if not by policy and definition, certainly in its day-to-day
application." P. Verniero, Attorney General of New Jersey, Interim Report of the State Police Review Team Regarding Allegations of Racial
Profiling 46 (Apr. 20, 1999) (hereinafter Interim Report). And a recent
survey of 650 Los Angeles Police Department officers found that 25% felt
that " `racial bias (prejudice) on the part of officers toward minority citizens currently exists and contributes to a negative interaction between
police and the community.' " Report of the Independent Comm'n on the
Los Angeles Police Department 69 (1991); see also 5 United States
Comm'n on Civil Rights, Racial and Ethnic Tensions in American Communities: Poverty, Inequality and Discrimination, The Los Angeles Report
26 (June 1999).

10 New Jersey's Attorney General, in a recent investigation into allegations of racial profiling on the New Jersey Turnpike, concluded that "minority motorists have been treated differently [by New Jersey State
Troopers] than non-minority motorists during the course of traffic stops
on the New Jersey Turnpike." "[T]he problem of disparate treatment is
real--not imagined," declared the Attorney General. Not surprisingly,

528US1 Unit: $U14 [06-14-01 18:51:05] PAGES PGT: OPIN
134 ILLINOIS v. WARDLOW

Opinion of Stevens, J.
evidence supporting the reasonableness of these beliefs is toopervasive to be dismissed as random or rare, and too persuasive to be disparaged as inconclusive or insufficient.11 In
the report concluded that this disparate treatment "engender[s] feelings
of fear, resentment, hostility, and mistrust by minority citizens." See Interim Report 4, 7. Recently, the United States Department of Justice,
citing this very evidence, announced that it would appoint an outside monitor to oversee the actions of the New Jersey State Police and ensure that
it enacts policy changes advocated by the Interim Report, and keeps records on racial statistics and traffic stops. See Kocieniewski, U. S. Will
Monitor New Jersey Police on Race Profiling, N. Y. Times, Dec. 23, 1999,
p. A1, col. 6.

Likewise, the Massachusetts Attorney General investigated similar allegations of egregious police conduct toward minorities. The report stated:

"We conclude that Boston police officers engaged in improper, and unconstitutional, conduct in the 1989-90 period with respect to stops and
searches of minority individuals . . . . Although we cannot say with precision how widespread this illegal conduct was, we believe that it was sufficiently common to justify changes in certain Department practices.

"Perhaps the most disturbing evidence was that the scope of a number
of Terry searches went far beyond anything authorized by that case and
indeed, beyond anything that we believe would be acceptable under the
federal and state constitutions even where probable cause existed to conduct a full search incident to an arrest. Forcing young men to lower their
trousers, or otherwise searching inside their underwear, on public streets
or in public hallways, is so demeaning and invasive of fundamental precepts of privacy that it can only be condemned in the strongest terms.
The fact that not only the young men themselves, but independent witnesses complained of strip searches, should be deeply alarming to all members of this community." J. Shannon, Attorney General of Massachusetts,
Report of the Attorney General's Civil Rights Division on Boston Police
Department Practices 60-61 (Dec. 18, 1990).

11 Taking into account these and other innocent motivations for unprovoked flight leads me to reject Illinois' requested per se rule in favor of
adhering to a totality-of-the-circumstances test. This conclusion does not,
as Illinois suggests, "establish a separate Terry analysis based on the individual characteristics of the person seized." Reply Brief for Petitioner
14. My rejection of a per se rule, of course, applies to members of all
races.

It is true, as Illinois points out, that Terry approved of the stop and
frisk procedure notwithstanding "[t]he wholesale harassment by certain

528US1 Unit: $U14 [06-14-01 18:51:05] PAGES PGT: OPIN

135Cite as: 528 U. S. 119 (2000)
Opinion of Stevens, J.
any event, just as we do not require "scientific certainty"for our commonsense conclusion that unprovoked flight can

sometimes indicate suspicious motives, see ante, at 124-125,neither do we require scientific certainty to conclude that
unprovoked flight can occur for other, innocent reasons.12The probative force of the inferences to be drawn from
flight is a function of the varied circumstances in which itoccurs. Sometimes those inferences are entirely consistent
with the presumption of innocence, sometimes they justifyfurther investigation, and sometimes they justify an immediate stop and search for weapons. These considerations haveled us to avoid categorical rules concerning a person's flight
and the presumptions to be drawn therefrom:

"Few things . . . distinguish an enlightened system ofjudicature from a rude and barbarous one more than the

manner in which they deal with evidence. The formerweighs testimony, whilst the latter, conscious perhaps of
its inability to do so or careless of the consequences oferror, at times rejects whole portions en masse, and at
others converts pieces of evidence into rules of law byinvesting with conclusive effect some whose probative
force has been found to be in general considerable. . . .Our ancestors, observing that guilty persons usually fled
from justice, adopted the hasty conclusion that it wasonly the guilty who did so . . . so that under the old law,
a man who fled to avoid being tried for felony forfeited
elements of the police community, of which minority groups, particularly
Negroes, frequently complain." 392 U. S., at 14. But in this passage,
Terry simply held that such concerns would not preclude the use of the
stop and frisk procedure altogether. See id., at 17, n. 14. Nowhere did
Terry suggest that such concerns cannot inform a court's assessment of
whether reasonable suspicion sufficient to justify a particular stop existed.

12 As a general matter, local courts often have a keener and more informed sense of local police practices and events that may heighten these
concerns at particular times or locations. Thus, a reviewing court may
accord substantial deference to a local court's determination that fear of
the police is especially acute in a specific location or at a particular time.

528US1 Unit: $U14 [06-14-01 18:51:05] PAGES PGT: OPIN
136 ILLINOIS v. WARDLOW

Opinion of Stevens, J.
all his goods even though he were acquitted . . . . Inmodern times more correct views have prevailed, and

the evasion of or flight from justice seems now nearlyreduced to its true place in the administration of the
criminal law, namely, that of a circumstance--a factwhich it is always of importance to take into consideration, and combined with others may afford strong evi-dence of guilt, but which, like any other piece of presumptive evidence, it is equally absurd and dangerousto invest with infallibility."

Hickory v. United States,160 U. S. 408, 419-420 (1896) (internal quotation marks

omitted).
"Unprovoked flight," in short, describes a category of ac-tivity too broad and varied to permit a

per se reasonableinference regarding the motivation for the activity. While

the innocent explanations surely do not establish that theFourth Amendment is always violated whenever someone is
stopped solely on the basis of an unprovoked flight, neitherdo the suspicious motivations establish that the Fourth
Amendment is never violated when a Terry stop is predi-cated on that fact alone. For these reasons, the Court is
surely correct in refusing to embrace either per se rule advo-cated by the parties. The totality of the circumstances, as
always, must dictate the result.13

13 Illinois' reliance on the common law as a conclusive answer to the issue
at hand is mistaken. The sources from which it gleans guidance focus
either on flight following an accusation of criminal activity, see 4 W. Blackstone, Commentaries *387 ("For flight . . . on an accusation of treason,
felony, or even petit larceny . . . is an offence carrying with it a strong
presumption of guilt" (emphasis added in part)), or are less dogmatic than
Illinois contends, compare Brief for Petitioner 15 ("[A] person's flight was
considered . . . conclusive proof of guilt") with A. Burrill, Circumstantial
Evidence 472 (1856) ("So impressed was the old common law with considerations of this kind, that it laid down the rule, which passed into a
maxim,--that flight from justice was equivalent to confession of guilt . . . .
But this maxim . . . was undoubtedly expressed in too general and sweeping terms").

528US1 Unit: $U14 [06-14-01 18:51:05] PAGES PGT: OPIN

137Cite as: 528 U. S. 119 (2000)
Opinion of Stevens, J.

II
Guided by that totality-of-the-circumstances test, theCourt concludes that Officer Nolan had reasonable suspicion

to stop respondent. Ante, at 125. In this respect, my viewdiffers from the Court's. The entire justification for the stop
is articulated in the brief testimony of Officer Nolan. Somefacts are perfectly clear; others are not. This factual insufficiency leads me to conclude that the Court's judgment ismistaken.

Respondent Wardlow was arrested a few minutes afternoon on September 9, 1995. 183 Ill. 2d 306, 308, n. 1, 701
N. E. 2d 484, 485, n. 1 (1998).14 Nolan was part of an eight-officer, four-car caravan patrol team. The officers were
headed for "one of the areas in the 11th District [of Chicago]that's high [in] narcotics traffic." App. 8.

15 The reason why

four cars were in the caravan was that "[n]ormally in thesedifferent areas there's an enormous amount of people, sometimes lookouts, customers." Ibid. Officer Nolan testifiedthat he was in uniform on that day, but he did not recall
whether he was driving a marked or an unmarked car.Id., at 4.

Officer Nolan and his partner were in the last of the fourpatrol cars that "were all caravaning eastbound down Van
Buren." Id., at 8. Nolan first observed respondent "infront of 4035 West Van Buren."

Id., at 7. Wardlow "lookedin our direction and began fleeing." Id., at 9. Nolan then

"began driving southbound down the street observing [re-spondent] running through the gangway and the alley southbound," and observed that Wardlow was carrying a white,

14 At the suppression hearing, the State failed to present testimony as
to the time of respondent's arrest. The Illinois Supreme Court, however,
took notice of the time recorded in Officer Nolan's arrest report. See 183
Ill. 2d, at 308, n. 1, 701 N. E. 2d, at 485, n. 1.

15 The population of the 11th district is over 98,000 people. See Brief

for the National Association of Police Organizations et al. as Amici
Curiae App. II.

528US1 Unit: $U14 [06-14-01 18:51:05] PAGES PGT: OPIN
138 ILLINOIS v. WARDLOW

Opinion of Stevens, J.
opaque bag under his arm. Id., at 6, 9. After the carturned south and intercepted respondent as he "ran right

towards us," Officer Nolan stopped him and conducted a"protective search," which revealed that the bag under respondent's arm contained a loaded handgun. Id., at 9-11.This terse testimony is most noticeable for what it fails
to reveal. Though asked whether he was in a marked orunmarked car, Officer Nolan could not recall the answer.
Id., at 4. He was not asked whether any of the other threecars in the caravan were marked, or whether any of the other
seven officers were in uniform. Though he explained thatthe size of the caravan was because "[n]ormally in these different areas there's an enormous amount of people, some-times lookouts, customers," Officer Nolan did not testify as
to whether anyone besides Wardlow was nearby 4035 WestVan Buren. Nor is it clear that that address was the intended destination of the caravan. As the Appellate Courtof Illinois interpreted the record, "it appears that the officers
were simply driving by, on their way to some unidentifiedlocation, when they noticed defendant standing at 4035 West
Van Buren." 287 Ill. App. 3d 367, 370-371, 678 N. E. 2d 65,67 (1997).

16 Officer Nolan's testimony also does not reveal

how fast the officers were driving. It does not indicatewhether he saw respondent notice the other patrol cars.

And it does not say whether the caravan, or any part of it,had already passed Wardlow by before he began to run.

Indeed, the Appellate Court thought the record was even"too vague to support the inference that . . . defendant's
flight was related to his expectation of police focus on him."
Id., at 371, 678 N. E. 2d, at 67. Presumably, respondent didnot react to the first three cars, and we cannot even be sure

that he recognized the occupants of the fourth as police offi-cers. The adverse inference is based entirely on the officer's

16 Of course, it would be a different case if the officers had credible information respecting that specific street address which reasonably led them
to believe that criminal activity was afoot in that narrowly defined area.

528US1 Unit: $U14 [06-14-01 18:51:05] PAGES PGT: OPIN

139Cite as: 528 U. S. 119 (2000)
Opinion of Stevens, J.
statement: "He looked in our direction and began fleeing."
App. 9.17

No other factors sufficiently support a finding of reasonable suspicion. Though respondent was carrying a white,
opaque bag under his arm, there is nothing at all suspicious
about that. Certainly the time of day--shortly after noon--
does not support Illinois' argument. Nor were the officers
"responding to any call or report of suspicious activity in the
area." 183 Ill. 2d, at 315, 701 N. E. 2d, at 488. Officer
Nolan did testify that he expected to find "an enormous
amount of people," including drug customers or lookouts,
App. 8, and the Court points out that "[i]t was in this context
that Officer Nolan decided to investigate Wardlow after observing him flee," ante, at 124. This observation, in my
view, lends insufficient weight to the reasonable suspicion
analysis; indeed, in light of the absence of testimony that
anyone else was nearby when respondent began to run, this
observation points in the opposite direction.

The State, along with the majority of the Court, relies as
well on the assumption that this flight occurred in a high
crime area. Even if that assumption is accurate, it is insufficient because even in a high crime neighborhood unprovoked flight does not invariably lead to reasonable suspicion.
On the contrary, because many factors providing innocent
motivations for unprovoked flight are concentrated in high
crime areas, the character of the neighborhood arguably
makes an inference of guilt less appropriate, rather than
more so. Like unprovoked flight itself, presence in a high
crime neighborhood is a fact too generic and susceptible to
innocent explanation to satisfy the reasonable suspicion inquiry. See Brown v. Texas, 443 U. S. 47, 52 (1979); see also
n. 15, supra.

17 Officer Nolan also testified that respondent "was looking at us," App.
5 (emphasis added), though this minor clarification hardly seems sufficient
to support the adverse inference.

528US1 Unit: $U14 [06-14-01 18:51:05] PAGES PGT: OPIN
140 ILLINOIS v. WARDLOW

Opinion of Stevens, J.
It is the State's burden to articulate facts sufficient to sup-port reasonable suspicion. Brown v. Texas, 443 U. S., at 52;

see also Florida v. Royer, 460 U. S. 491, 500 (1983) (pluralityopinion). In my judgment, Illinois has failed to discharge
that burden. I am not persuaded that the mere fact thatsomeone standing on a sidewalk looked in the direction of a
passing car before starting to run is sufficient to justify aforcible stop and frisk.

I therefore respectfully dissent from the Court's judgmentto reverse the court below.

528US1 Unit: $U15 [06-14-01 19:02:24] PAGES PGT: OPIN

141OCTOBER TERM, 1999
Syllabus

RENO, ATTORNEY GENERAL, et al. v. CONDON, ATTORNEY GENERAL OF SOUTH CAROLINA, et al.

certiorari to the united states court of appeals forthe fourth circuit

No. 98-1464. Argued November 10, 1999--Decided January 12, 2000
State departments of motor vehicles (DMVs) require drivers and automobile owners to provide personal information, which may include a
person's name, address, telephone number, vehicle description, Social Security number, medical information, and photograph, as a condition of
obtaining a driver's license or registering an automobile. Finding that
many States sell this information to individuals and businesses for significant revenues, Congress enacted the Driver's Privacy Protection Act
of 1994 (DPPA), which establishes a regulatory scheme that restricts
the States' ability to disclose a driver's personal information without
the driver's consent. South Carolina law conflicts with the DPPA's provisions. Following the DPPA's enactment, South Carolina and its Attorney General filed this suit, alleging that the DPPA violates the Tenth
and Eleventh Amendments to the United States Constitution. Concluding that the DPPA is incompatible with the principles of federalism
inherent in the Constitution's division of power between the States and
the Federal Government, the District Court granted summary judgment for the State and permanently enjoined the DPPA's enforcement
against the State and its officers. The Fourth Circuit affirmed, concluding that the DPPA violates constitutional principles of federalism.

Held: In enacting the DPPA, Congress did not run afoul of the federalism principles enunciated in New York v. United States, 505 U. S. 144,
and Printz v. United States, 521 U. S. 898. The Federal Government
correctly asserts that the DPPA is a proper exercise of Congress' authority to regulate interstate commerce under the Commerce Clause,
U. S. Const., Art. I, $ 8, cl. 3. The motor vehicle information, which the
States have historically sold, is used by insurers, manufacturers, direct
marketers, and others engaged in interstate commerce to contact drivers with customized solicitations. The information is also used in the
stream of interstate commerce by various public and private entities
for matters related to interstate motoring. Because drivers' personal,
identifying information is, in this context, an article of commerce, its
sale or release into the interstate stream of business is sufficient to

528US1 Unit: $U15 [06-14-01 19:02:24] PAGES PGT: OPIN
142 RENO v. CONDON

Syllabus
support congressional regulation. See United States v. Lopez, 514 U. S.
549, 558-559. This does not conclusively resolve the DPPA's constitutionality because in New York and Printz the Court held that federal
statutes were invalid, not because Congress lacked legislative authority
over the subject matter, but because those statutes violated Tenth
Amendment federalism principles. However, the DPPA does not violate those principles. This case is instead governed by South Carolina
v. Baker, 485 U. S. 505, in which a statute prohibiting States from issuing unregistered bonds was upheld because it regulated state activities,
rather than seeking to control or influence the manner in which States
regulated private parties, id., at 514-515. Like that statute, the DPPA
does not require the States in their sovereign capacity to regulate their
own citizens; rather, it regulates the States as the owners of data bases.
It does not require the South Carolina Legislature to enact any laws or
regulations, as did the statute at issue in New York, and it does not
require state officials to assist in the enforcement of federal statutes
regulating private individuals, as did the law considered in Printz.
Thus, the DPPA is consistent with the principles set forth in those cases.
The Court need not address South Carolina's argument that the DPPA
unconstitutionally regulates the States exclusively rather than by
means of a generally applicable law. The DPPA is generally applicable
because it regulates the universe of entities that participate as suppliers to the market for motor vehicle information--the States as initial
suppliers of the information in interstate commerce and private resellers or redisclosers of that information in commerce. Pp. 148-151.

155 F. 3d 453, reversed.

Rehnquist, C. J., delivered the opinion for a unanimous Court.

Solicitor General Waxman argued the cause for petition-ers. With him on the briefs were Acting Assistant Attorney General Ogden, Deputy Solicitor General Kneedler,Paul R. Q. Wolfson, Mark B. Stern, and Alisa B. Klein.

Charlie Condon, pro se, Attorney General of South Caro-lina, argued the cause for respondents. With him on the
briefs were Treva Ashworth, Deputy Attorney General,and

Kenneth P. Woodington, Senior Assistant AttorneyGeneral.*

*Briefs of amici curiae urging reversal were filed for the Electronic
Privacy Information Center by Marc Rotenberg; for the Feminist Majority

528US1 Unit: $U15 [06-14-01 19:02:24] PAGES PGT: OPIN

143Cite as: 528 U. S. 141 (2000)
Opinion of the Court
Chief Justice Rehnquist delivered the opinion of theCourt.

The Driver's Privacy Protection Act of 1994 (DPPA orAct), 18 U. S. C. $$ 2721-2725 (1994 ed. and Supp. IV), regulates the disclosure of personal information contained in therecords of state motor vehicle departments (DMVs). We
hold that in enacting this statute Congress did not run afoulof the federalism principles enunciated in New York v.
United States, 505 U. S. 144 (1992), and Printz v. United
States, 521 U. S. 898 (1997).The DPPA regulates the disclosure and resale of personal

information contained in the records of state DMVs. StateDMVs require drivers and automobile owners to provide
personal information, which may include a person's name, ad-dress, telephone number, vehicle description, Social Security
number, medical information, and photograph, as a conditionof obtaining a driver's license or registering an automobile.
Congress found that many States, in turn, sell this personalinformation to individuals and businesses. See, e. g., 139
Cong. Rec. 29466, 29468, 29469 (1993); 140 Cong. Rec. 7929
Foundation et al. by Erwin Chemerinsky; and for the Screen Actors
Guild et al.

Briefs of amici curiae urging affirmance were filed for the State of
Alabama et al. by Bill Pryor, Attorney General of Alabama, John J. Park,
Jr., Assistant Attorney General, and Thomas H. Odom, and by the Attorneys General for their respective States as follows: Ken Salazar of Colorado, Joseph P. Mazurek of Montana, Don Stenberg of Nebraska, Philip
T. McLaughlin of New Hampshire, Michael F. Easley of North Carolina,
W. A. Drew Edmondson of Oklahoma, D. Michael Fisher of Pennsylvania,
Sheldon Whitehouse of Rhode Island, Jan Graham of Utah, Mark L.
Earley of Virginia, and James E. Doyle of Wisconsin; for the Home School
Legal Defense Association by Michael P. Farris; for the National Conference of State Legislatures et al. by Richard Ruda and Charles A.
Rothfeld; for the Pacific Legal Foundation by Anne M. Hayes and Deborah
J. La Fetra; for the Washington Legal Foundation by Daniel J. Popeo and
R. Shawn Gunnarson; and for the Reporters Committee for Freedom of
the Press et al. by Gregg P. Leslie.

528US1 Unit: $U15 [06-14-01 19:02:24] PAGES PGT: OPIN
144 RENO v. CONDON

Opinion of the Court
(1994) (remarks of Rep. Goss). These sales generate sig-nificant revenues for the States. See

Travis v. Reno, 163
F. 3d 1000, 1002 (CA7 1998) (noting that the Wisconsin De-partment of Transportation receives approximately $8 million each year from the sale of motor vehicle information).The DPPA establishes a regulatory scheme that restricts
the States' ability to disclose a driver's personal information
without the driver's consent. The DPPA generally prohib-its any state DMV, or officer, employee, or contractor thereof,

from "knowingly disclos[ing] or otherwise mak[ing] availableto any person or entity personal information about any individual obtained by the department in connection with a
motor vehicle record." 18 U. S. C. $ 2721(a). The DPPA defines "personal information" as any information "that identifies an individual, including an individual's photograph, social
security number, driver identification number, name, address
(but not the 5-digit zip code), telephone number, and medical
or disability information," but not including "information on
vehicular accidents, driving violations, and driver's status."

$ 2725(3). A "motor vehicle record" is defined as "any record that pertains to a motor vehicle operator's permit, motor
vehicle title, motor vehicle registration, or identification card
issued by a department of motor vehicles." $ 2725(1).

The DPPA's ban on disclosure of personal information does
not apply if drivers have consented to the release of their
data. When we granted certiorari in this case, the DPPA
provided that a DMV could obtain that consent either on a
case-by-case basis or could imply consent if the State provided drivers with an opportunity to block disclosure of their
personal information when they received or renewed their
licenses and drivers did not avail themselves of that opportunity. $$ 2721(b)(11), (13), and (d). However, Public Law
106-69, 113 Stat. 986, which was signed into law on October
9, 1999, changed this "opt-out" alternative to an "opt-in"
requirement. Under the amended DPPA, States may not
imply consent from a driver's failure to take advantage of a

528US1 Unit: $U15 [06-14-01 19:02:24] PAGES PGT: OPIN

145Cite as: 528 U. S. 141 (2000)
Opinion of the Court
state-afforded opportunity to block disclosure, but mustrather obtain a driver's affirmative consent to disclose the

driver's personal information for use in surveys, marketing,solicitations, and other restricted purposes. See Pub. L.
106-69, 113 Stat. 986 $$ 350(c), (d), and (e), App. to Supp.Brief for Petitioners 1(a), 2(a).

The DPPA's prohibition of nonconsensual disclosures isalso subject to a number of statutory exceptions. For example, the DPPA requires disclosure of personal information"for use in connection with matters of motor vehicle or
driver safety and theft, motor vehicle emissions, motor vehi-cle product alterations, recalls, or advisories, performance
monitoring of motor vehicles and dealers by motor vehiclemanufacturers, and removal of non-owner records from the
original owner records of motor vehicle manufacturers tocarry out the purposes of titles I and IV of the Anti Car
Theft Act of 1992, the Automobile Information DisclosureAct, the Clean Air Act, and chapters 301, 305, and 321-331 of
title 49." 18 U. S. C. $ 2721(b) (1994 ed., Supp. III) (citationsomitted). The DPPA permits DMVs to disclose personal

information from motor vehicle records for a number ofpurposes.

1

1 Disclosure is permitted for use "by any government agency" or by "any
private person or entity acting on behalf of a Federal, State or local agency
in carrying out its functions." 18 U. S. C. $ 2721(b)(1) (1994 ed. and
Supp. III). The Act also allows States to divulge drivers' personal information for any state-authorized purpose relating to the operation of a
motor vehicle or public safety, $ 2721(b)(14); for use in connection with car
safety, prevention of car theft, and promotion of driver safety, $ 2721(b)(2);
for use by a business to verify the accuracy of personal information submitted to that business and to prevent fraud or pursue legal remedies if
the information that the individual submitted to the business is revealed
to have been inaccurate, $ 2721(b)(3); in connection with court, agency, or
self-regulatory body proceedings, $ 2721(b)(4); for research purposes so
long as the information is not further disclosed or used to contact the
individuals to whom the data pertain, $ 2721(b)(5); for use by insurers in
connection with claims investigations, antifraud activities, rating or underwriting, $ 2721(b)(6); to notify vehicle owners that their vehicle has been

528US1 Unit: $U15 [06-14-01 19:02:24] PAGES PGT: OPIN
146 RENO v. CONDON

Opinion of the Court
The DPPA's provisions do not apply solely to States. TheAct also regulates the resale and redisclosure of drivers' personal information by private persons who have obtained thatinformation from a state DMV. 18 U. S. C. $ 2721(c) (1994
ed. and Supp. III). In general, the Act allows private per-sons who have obtained drivers' personal information for one
of the aforementioned permissible purposes to further dis-close that information for any one of those purposes.

Ibid.If a State has obtained drivers' consent to disclose their personal information to private persons generally and a privateperson has obtained that information, the private person
may redisclose the information for any purpose. Ibid. Ad-ditionally, a private actor who has obtained drivers' information from DMV records specifically for direct-marketing pur-poses may resell that information for other direct-marketing
uses, but not otherwise. Ibid. Any person who redisclosesor resells personal information from DMV records must, for
five years, maintain records identifying to whom the recordswere disclosed and the permitted purpose for the resale or
redisclosure. Ibid.The DPPA establishes several penalties to be imposed on
States and private actors that fail to comply with its require-ments. The Act makes it unlawful for any "person" knowingly to obtain or disclose any record for a use that is notpermitted under its provisions, or to make a false representation in order to obtain personal information from a motorvehicle record. $$ 2722(a) and (b). Any person who knowingly violates the DPPA may be subject to a criminal fine,$$ 2723(a), 2725(2). Additionally, any person who knowingly
obtains, discloses, or uses information from a state motorvehicle record for a use other than those specifically permitted by the DPPA may be subject to liability in a civil action
towed or impounded, $ 2721(b)(7); for use by licensed private investigative
agencies or security services for any purpose permitted by the DPPA,

$ 2721(b)(8); and in connection with private toll transportation services,

$ 2721(b)(10).

528US1 Unit: $U15 [06-14-01 19:02:24] PAGES PGT: OPIN

147Cite as: 528 U. S. 141 (2000)
Opinion of the Court
brought by the driver to whom the information pertains.

$ 2724. While the DPPA defines "person" to exclude States
and state agencies, $ 2725(2), a state agency that maintains a
"policy or practice of substantial noncompliance" with the
Act may be subject to a civil penalty imposed by the United
States Attorney General of not more than $5,000 per day of
substantial noncompliance. $ 2723(b).

South Carolina law conflicts with the DPPA's provisions.
Under that law, the information contained in the State's
DMV records is available to any person or entity that fills
out a form listing the requester's name and address and stating that the information will not be used for telephone solicitation. S. C. Code Ann. $$ 56-3-510 to 56-3-540 (Supp.
1998). South Carolina's DMV retains a copy of all requests
for information from the State's motor vehicle records, and
it is required to release copies of all requests relating to a
person upon that person's written petition. $ 56-3-520.
State law authorizes the South Carolina DMV to charge a
fee for releasing motor vehicle information, and it requires
the DMV to allow drivers to prohibit the use of their motor
vehicle information for certain commercial activities. $$ 56-
3-530, 56-3-540.

Following the DPPA's enactment, South Carolina and its
Attorney General, respondent Condon, filed suit in the
United States District Court for the District of South Carolina, alleging that the DPPA violates the Tenth and Eleventh
Amendments to the United States Constitution. The District Court concluded that the Act is incompatible with the
principles of federalism inherent in the Constitution's division of power between the States and the Federal Government. The court accordingly granted summary judgment
for the State and permanently enjoined the Act's enforcement against the State and its officers. See 972 F. Supp.
977, 979 (1997). The Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit
affirmed, concluding that the Act violates constitutional prin528US1 Unit: $U15 [06-14-01 19:02:24] PAGES PGT: OPIN
148 RENO v. CONDON

Opinion of the Court
ciples of federalism. See 155 F. 3d 453 (1998). We granted
certiorari, 526 U. S. 1111 (1999), and now reverse.

We of course begin with the time-honored presumption
that the DPPA is a "constitutional exercise of legislative
power." Close v. Glenwood Cemetery, 107 U. S. 466, 475
(1883); see also INS v. Chadha, 462 U. S. 919, 944 (1983).

The United States asserts that the DPPA is a proper exercise of Congress' authority to regulate interstate commerce
under the Commerce Clause, U. S. Const., Art. I, $ 8, cl. 3.2
The United States bases its Commerce Clause argument on
the fact that the personal, identifying information that the
DPPA regulates is a "thin[g] in interstate commerce," and
that the sale or release of that information in interstate commerce is therefore a proper subject of congressional regulation. United States v. Lopez, 514 U. S. 549, 558-559 (1995).
We agree with the United States' contention. The motor
vehicle information which the States have historically sold
is used by insurers, manufacturers, direct marketers, and
others engaged in interstate commerce to contact drivers
with customized solicitations. The information is also used
in the stream of interstate commerce by various public and
private entities for matters related to interstate motoring.
Because drivers' information is, in this context, an article of
commerce, its sale or release into the interstate stream of
business is sufficient to support congressional regulation.
We therefore need not address the Government's alternative
argument that the States' individual, intrastate activities in
gathering, maintaining, and distributing drivers' personal

2 In the lower courts, the United States also asserted that the DPPA was
lawfully enacted pursuant to Congress' power under $ 5 of the Fourteenth
Amendment. See 155 F. 3d 453, 463-465 (1998); 972 F. Supp. 977-979,
986-992 (1997). The District Court and Court of Appeals rejected that
argument. See 155 F. 3d, at 465; 972 F. Supp., at 992. The United States'
petition for certiorari and briefs to this Court do not address the $ 5 issue
and, at oral argument, the Solicitor General expressly disavowed any reliance on it.

528US1 Unit: $U15 [06-14-01 19:02:24] PAGES PGT: OPIN

149Cite as: 528 U. S. 141 (2000)
Opinion of the Court
information have a sufficiently substantial impact on inter-state commerce to create a constitutional base for federal

legislation.But the fact that drivers' personal information is, in the
context of this case, an article in interstate commerce doesnot conclusively resolve the constitutionality of the DPPA.
In New York and Printz, we held federal statutes invalid,not because Congress lacked legislative authority over the
subject matter, but because those statutes violated the prin-ciples of federalism contained in the Tenth Amendment. In
New York, Congress commandeered the state legislativeprocess by requiring a state legislature to enact a particular
kind of law. We said:

"While Congress has substantial powers to govern theNation directly, including in areas of intimate concern

to the States, the Constitution has never been under-stood to confer upon Congress the ability to require the
States to govern according to Congress' instructions.See Coyle v. Smith, 221 U. S. 559, 565 (1911)." 505 U. S.,
at 162.
In Printz, we invalidated a provision of the Brady Actwhich commanded "state and local enforcement officers to

conduct background checks on prospective handgun pur-chasers." 521 U. S., at 902. We said:

"We held in New York that Congress cannot compelthe States to enact or enforce a federal regulatory program. Today we hold that Congress cannot circumventthat prohibition by conscripting the States' officers directly. The Federal Government may neither issue di-rectives requiring the States to address particular problems, nor command the States' officers, or those of theirpolitical subdivisions, to administer or enforce a federal
regulatory program." Id., at 935.
South Carolina contends that the DPPA violates the TenthAmendment because it "thrusts upon the States all of the

528US1 Unit: $U15 [06-14-01 19:02:24] PAGES PGT: OPIN
150 RENO v. CONDON

Opinion of the Court
day-to-day responsibility for administering its complex pro-visions," Brief for Respondents 10, and thereby makes "state

officials the unwilling implementors of federal policy," id., at11.

3 South Carolina emphasizes that the DPPA requires the

State's employees to learn and apply the Act's substantiverestrictions, which are summarized above, and notes that

these activities will consume the employees' time and thus
the State's resources. South Carolina further notes that theDPPA's penalty provisions hang over the States as a potential punishment should they fail to comply with the Act.We agree with South Carolina's assertion that the DPPA's
provisions will require time and effort on the part of state
employees, but reject the State's argument that the DPPA
violates the principles laid down in either New York or
Printz. We think, instead, that this case is governed by our
decision in South Carolina v. Baker, 485 U. S. 505 (1988).
In Baker, we upheld a statute that prohibited States from
issuing unregistered bonds because the law "regulate[d]
state activities," rather than "seek[ing] to control or influence the manner in which States regulate private parties."
Id., at 514-515. We further noted:

"The [National Governor's Association] nonetheless contends that $ 310 has commandeered the state legislative
and administrative process because many state legislatures had to amend a substantial number of statutes in
order to issue bonds in registered form and because
state officials had to devote substantial effort to determine how best to implement a registered bond system.
Such `commandeering' is, however, an inevitable consequence of regulating a state activity. Any federal regulation demands compliance. That a State wishing to en3 South Carolina has not asserted that it does not participate in the interstate market for personal information. Rather, South Carolina asks
that the DPPA be invalidated in its entirety, even as it is applied to the
States acting purely as commercial sellers.

528US1 Unit: $U15 [06-14-01 19:02:24] PAGES PGT: OPIN

151Cite as: 528 U. S. 141 (2000)
Opinion of the Court
gage in certain activity must take administrative andsometimes legislative action to comply with federal

standards regulating that activity is a commonplace thatpresents no constitutional defect." Ibid.

Like the statute at issue in Baker, the DPPA does notrequire the States in their sovereign capacity to regulate
their own citizens. The DPPA regulates the States as theowners of data bases. It does not require the South Carolina Legislature to enact any laws or regulations, and it doesnot require state officials to assist in the enforcement of federal statutes regulating private individuals. We accord-ingly conclude that the DPPA is consistent with the constitutional principles enunciated in New York and Printz.As a final matter, we turn to South Carolina's argument
that the DPPA is unconstitutional because it regulates theStates exclusively. The essence of South Carolina's argument is that Congress may only regulate the States bymeans of "generally applicable" laws, or laws that apply to
individuals as well as States. But we need not address thequestion whether general applicability is a constitutional requirement for federal regulation of the States, because theDPPA is generally applicable. The DPPA regulates the universe of entities that participate as suppliers to the marketfor motor vehicle information--the States as initial suppliers
of the information in interstate commerce and private resell-ers or redisclosers of that information in commerce.

The judgment of the Court of Appeals is therefore

Reversed.

528US1 Unit: $U16 [06-15-01 20:31:31] PAGES PGT: OPIN
152 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

Syllabus

MARTINEZ v. COURT OF APPEAL OF CALIFORNIA,FOURTH APPELLATE DISTRICT

certiorari to the supreme court of california
No. 98-7809. Argued November 9, 1999--Decided January 12, 2000
Accused of converting a client's money to his own use while employed as

a paralegal, petitioner Martinez was charged by California with grand
theft and the fraudulent appropriation of another's property. He chose
to represent himself at trial before a jury, which acquitted him of theft
but convicted him of embezzlement. He then filed a timely notice of
appeal, a motion to represent himself, and a waiver of counsel. The
California Court of Appeal denied his motion to represent himself based
on its prior holding that there is no constitutional right to selfrepresentation on direct appeal under Faretta v. California, 422 U. S.
806, in which this Court held that a criminal defendant has a constitutional right to conduct his own defense at trial when he voluntarily and
intelligently elects to proceed without counsel, id., at 807, 836. The
state court had explained that the right to counsel on appeal stems from
the Due Process and Equal Protection Clauses of the Fourteenth
Amendment, not from the Sixth Amendment on which Faretta was
based, and held that the denial of self-representation at this level does
not violate due process or equal protection. The California Supreme
Court denied Martinez' application for a writ of mandate.

Held: Neither Faretta's holding nor its reasoning requires a State to recognize a constitutional right to self-representation on direct appeal from
a criminal conviction. Although some of Faretta's reasoning is applicable to appellate proceedings as well as to trials, there are significant
distinctions. First, the historical evidence Faretta relied on as identifying a right of self-representation, 422 U. S., at 812-817, is not useful
here because it pertained to times when lawyers were scarce, often mistrusted, and not readily available to the average person accused of
crime, whereas it has since been recognized that every indigent defendant in a criminal trial has a constitutional right to the assistance of
appointed counsel, see Gideon v. Wainwright, 372 U. S. 335. Moreover,
unlike the right recognized in Faretta, the historical evidence does not
provide any support for an affirmative constitutional right to appellate
self-representation. Second, Faretta's reliance on the Sixth Amendment's structure interpreted in light of its English and colonial background, 422 U. S., at 818-832, is not relevant here. Because the Amend528US1 Unit: $U16 [06-15-01 20:31:31] PAGES PGT: OPIN

153Cite as: 528 U. S. 152 (2000)
Syllabus
ment deals strictly with trial rights and does not include any right to
appeal, see Abney v. United States, 431 U. S. 651, 656, it necessarily
follows that the Amendment itself does not provide any basis for finding
a right to appellate self-representation. Faretta's inquiries into historical English practices, 422 U. S., at 821-824, do not provide a basis for
extending that case to the appellate process because there was no appeal
from a criminal conviction in England until 1907. Third, although Faretta's conclusion that a knowing and intelligent waiver of the right to
trial counsel must be honored out of respect for individual autonomy,
id., at 834, is also applicable in the appellate context, this Court has
recognized that the right is not absolute, see id., at 835. Given the
Court's conclusion that the Sixth Amendment does not apply to appellate proceedings, any individual right to self-representation on appeal
based on autonomy principles must be grounded in the Due Process
Clause. Under the practices prevailing in the Nation today, the Court
is entirely unpersuaded that the risk of disloyalty by a court-appointed
attorney, or the suspicion of such disloyalty, that underlies the constitutional right of self-representation at trial, see id., at 834, is a sufficient
concern to conclude that such a right is a necessary component of a fair
appellate proceeding. The States are clearly within their discretion to
conclude that the government's interests in ensuring the integrity and
efficiency of the appellate process outweigh an invasion of the appellant's
interest in self-representation, although the Court's narrow holding does
not preclude the States from recognizing a constitutional right to appellate self-representation under their own constitutions. Pp. 156-164.

Affirmed.

Stevens, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which Rehnquist,
C. J., and O'Connor, Kennedy, Souter, Thomas, Ginsburg, and
Breyer, JJ., joined. Kennedy, J., post, p. 164, and Breyer, J., post,
p. 164, filed concurring opinions. Scalia, J., filed an opinion concurring
in the judgment, post, p. 165.

Ronald D. Maines, by appointment of the Court, 526 U. S.
1110, argued the cause and filed briefs for petitioner.

Robert M. Foster, Supervising Deputy Attorney General
of California, argued the cause for respondent. With him
on the brief were Bill Lockyer, Attorney General, David
P. Druliner, Chief Assistant Attorney General, Gary W.

528US1 Unit: $U16 [06-15-01 20:31:31] PAGES PGT: OPIN
154 MARTINEZ v. COURT OF APPEAL OF CAL.,

FOURTH APPELLATE DIST.

Opinion of the Court

Schons, Senior Assistant Attorney General, and LauraWhitcomb Halgren, Supervising Deputy Attorney General.*

Justice Stevens delivered the opinion of the Court.
The Sixth and Fourteenth Amendments of our Constitu-tion guarantee that a person brought to trial in any state or

federal court must be afforded the right to the assistance ofcounsel before he can be validly convicted and punished by
imprisonment.1 In Faretta v. California, 422 U. S. 806(1975), we decided that the defendant also "has a constitutional right to proceed without counsel when he voluntarilyand intelligently elects to do so."

Id., at 807. Althoughthat statement arguably embraces the entire judicial proceeding, we also phrased the question as whether a Statemay "constitutionally hale a person into its criminal courts
and there force a lawyer upon him, even when he insists thathe wants to conduct his own defense." Ibid. Our conclusion in Faretta extended only to a defendant's "constitutionalright to conduct his own defense."

Id., at 836. Accord-ingly, our specific holding was confined to the right to defend

oneself at trial. We now address the different questionwhether the reasoning in support of that holding also applies
when the defendant becomes an appellant and assumes theburden of persuading a reviewing court that the conviction
should be reversed. We have concluded that it does not.

I
Martinez describes himself as a self-taught paralegal with25 years' experience at 12 different law firms. See App. 13.

*Kent S. Scheidegger and Charles L. Hobson filed a brief for the Criminal Justice Legal Foundation as amicus curiae urging affirmance.

Barbara E. Bergman and Ephraim Margolin filed a brief for the National Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers as amicus curiae.

1 See, e. g., Powell v. Alabama, 287 U. S. 45 (1932); Johnson v. Zerbst, 304

U. S. 458 (1938); Gideon v. Wainwright, 372 U. S. 335 (1963); Argersinger v.
Hamlin, 407 U. S. 25 (1972).

528US1 Unit: $U16 [06-15-01 20:31:31] PAGES PGT: OPIN

155Cite as: 528 U. S. 152 (2000)
Opinion of the Court
While employed as an office assistant at a firm in Santa Ana,California, Martinez was accused of converting $6,000 of a

client's money to his own use. He was charged in a two-count information with grand theft and the fraudulent appropriation of the property of another. He chose to representhimself at trial before a jury, because he claimed " `there
wasn't an attorney on earth who'd believe me once he sawmy past [criminal record].' "

Id., at 15. The jury acquittedhim on Count 1, grand theft, but convicted him on Count 2,

embezzlement. The jury also found that he had three priorconvictions; accordingly, under California's "three strikes"
law, the court imposed a mandatory sentence of 25-years-to-life in prison. See Cal. Penal Code Ann. $$ 667(d) and (e)(2)
(West 1999). Martinez filed a timely notice of appeal as wellas a motion to represent himself and a waiver of counsel.
The California Court of Appeal denied his motion, and theCalifornia Supreme Court denied his application for a writ
of mandate. While the California Supreme Court did notissue an opinion in this case, the Court of Appeal previously
had explained:

"There is no constitutional right to self-representationon the initial appeal as of right. The right to counsel on

appeal stems from the due process and equal protectionclauses of the Fourteenth Amendment, not from the
Sixth Amendment, which is the foundation on whichFaretta is based. The denial of self-representation at
this level does not violate due process or equal protec-tion guarantees." People v. Scott, 64 Cal. App. 4th 550,
554, 75 Cal. Rptr. 2d 315, 318 (1998).
We granted certiorari because Martinez has raised a ques-tion on which both state and federal courts have expressed

conflicting views.2 526 U. S. 1064 (1999). We now affirm.

2 Compare Myers v. Collins, 8 F. 3d 249, 252 (CA5 1993) (finding right
of self-representation extends to appeals); Campbell v. Blodgett, 940 F. 2d
549 (CA9 1991) (same); Chamberlain v. Ericksen, 744 F. 2d 628, 630

528US1 Unit: $U16 [06-15-01 20:31:31] PAGES PGT: OPIN
156 MARTINEZ v. COURT OF APPEAL OF CAL.,

FOURTH APPELLATE DIST.

Opinion of the Court

II
The Faretta majority based its conclusion on three inter-related arguments. First, it examined historical evidence

identifying a right of self-representation that had been pro-tected by federal and state law since the beginning of our
Nation, 422 U. S., at 812-817. Second, it interpreted thestructure of the Sixth Amendment, in the light of its English
and colonial background, id., at 818-832. Third, it concludedthat even though it "is undeniable that in most criminal
prosecutions defendants could better defend with counsel'sguidance than by their own unskilled efforts," a knowing and
intelligent waiver "must be honored out of `that respect forthe individual which is the lifeblood of the law.' Illinois v.
Allen, 397 U. S. 337, 350-351 [(1970)]." Id., at 834. Someof the Court's reasoning is applicable to appellate proceedings as well as to trials. There are, however, significantdistinctions.

The historical evidence relied upon by Faretta as identify-ing a right of self-representation is not always useful because
it pertained to times when lawyers were scarce, often mis-trusted, and not readily available to the average person accused of crime.3 For one who could not obtain a lawyer,
(CA8 1984) (same); Commonwealth v. Rogers, 537 Pa. 581, 583, 645 A. 2d
223, 224 (1994) (same); State v. Van Pelt, 305 Ark. 125, 127, 810 S. W. 2d
27, 28 (1991) (same); Webb v. State, 274 Ind. 540, 542, 412 N. E. 2d 790, 792
(1980) (same); Webb v. State, 533 S. W. 2d 780, 784 (Tex. Crim. App. 1976)
(same), with United States v. Gillis, 773 F. 2d 549, 560 (CA4 1985) (finding
no right of self-representation on appeal); Lumbert v. Finley, 735 F. 2d
239, 246 (CA7 1984) (same); Hill v. State, 656 So. 2d 1271, 1272 (Fla. 1995)
(same); State v. Gillespie, 898 S. W. 2d 738 (Tenn. Crim. App. 1994) (same).

3 "The colonists brought with them an appreciation of the virtues of selfreliance and a traditional distrust of lawyers. When the Colonies were
first settled, `the lawyer was synonymous with the cringing AttorneysGeneral and Solicitors-General of the Crown and the arbitrary Justices of
the King's Court, all bent on the conviction of those who opposed the
King's prerogatives, and twisting the law to secure convictions.' This
prejudice gained strength in the Colonies where `distrust of lawyers became an institution.' Several Colonies prohibited pleading for hire in the

528US1 Unit: $U16 [06-15-01 20:31:31] PAGES PGT: OPIN

157Cite as: 528 U. S. 152 (2000)
Opinion of the Court
self-representation was the only feasible alternative to asserting no defense at all. Thus, a government's recognition
of an indigent defendant's right to represent himself was
comparable to bestowing upon the homeless beggar a "right"
to take shelter in the sewers of Paris. Not surprisingly,
early precedent demonstrates that this "right" was not always used to the defendant's advantage as a shield, but
rather was often employed by the prosecution as a sword.
The principal case cited in Faretta is illustrative. In Adams
v. United States ex rel. McCann, 317 U. S. 269 (1942), the
Cour t rel i ed on the exi stence of the r ight of self representation as the basis for finding that an unrepresented
defendant had waived his right to a trial by jury.4

17th century. The prejudice persisted into the 18th century as `the lower
classes came to identify lawyers with the upper class.' The years of Revolution and Confederation saw an upsurge of antilawyer sentiment, a `sudden revival, after the War of the Revolution, of the old dislike and distrust
of lawyers as a class.' " Faretta, 422 U. S., at 826-827 (footnotes omitted).

4 Similarly, in the state cases cited by the Court in Faretta, see 422

U. S., at 813, n. 9, the defendant's right to represent himself was often
the predicate for upholding the waiver of an important right. See, e. g.,
Mackreth v. Wilson, 31 Ala. App. 191, 193, 15 So. 2d 112, 113 (1943) (failure
of the defendant to request counsel equaled an "election" to proceed pro
se); Lockard v. State, 92 Idaho 813, 822, 451 P. 2d 1014, 1023 (1969) (court
relied on defendant's right of self-representation to uphold an uncounseled
guilty plea, despite claims that it was coerced); People v. Nelson, 47 Ill. 2d
570, 268 N. E. 2d 2, 3 (1971) (defendant's pro se status is predicate for
upholding waiver of indictment and jury trial and also to uphold guilty
plea); Allen v. Commonwealth, 324 Mass. 558, 562-563, 87 N. E. 2d 192,
195 (1949) (life sentence upheld despite fact that indigent defendant was
unable to procure counsel); Westberry v. State, 254 A. 2d 44, 46 (Me. 1969)
(guilty plea upheld because defendant failed to claim indigency or to request counsel); State v. Hollman, 232 S. C. 489, 499, 102 S. E. 2d 873, 878
(1958) (right of defendant to represent himself used as basis for finding he
had no right to appointed counsel). But see State v. Thomlinson, 78 S. D.
235, 237, 100 N. W. 2d 121, 122 (1960) (vacating conviction based on court's
failure to allow defendant to represent himself); State v. Penderville, 2
Utah 2d 281, 287, 272 P. 2d 195, 199 (1954) (same); Cappetta v. State, 204
So. 2d 913, 918 (Fla. App. 1967) (same), rev'd, State v. Cappetta, 216 So. 2d

528US1 Unit: $U16 [06-15-01 20:31:31] PAGES PGT: OPIN
158 MARTINEZ v. COURT OF APPEAL OF CAL.,

FOURTH APPELLATE DIST.

Opinion of the Court

It has since been recognized, however, that an indigentdefendant in a criminal trial has a constitutional right to the

assistance of appointed counsel, see Gideon v. Wainwright,372 U. S. 335 (1963). Thus, an individual's decision to represent himself is no longer compelled by the necessity of choos-ing self-representation over incompetent or nonexistent representation; rather, it more likely reflects a genuine desireto " `conduct his own cause in his own words.' "

Faretta, 422U. S., at 823 (footnote omitted). Therefore, while Faretta

is correct in concluding that there is abundant support forthe proposition that a right to self-representation has been
recognized for centuries, the original reasons for protectingthat right do not have the same force when the availability of competent counsel for every indigent defendant hasdisplaced the need--although not always the desire--for
self-representation.The scant historical evidence pertaining to the issue of
self-representation on appeal is even less helpful. TheCourt in

Faretta relied upon the description of the right in$ 35 of the Judiciary Act of 1789, 1 Stat. 92, which states

that "the parties may plead and manage their own causespersonally or by the assistance of such counsel . . . ." 422
U. S., at 812. It is arguable that this language encompassesappeals as well as trials. Assuming it does apply to appellate proceedings, however, the statutory right is expresslylimited by the phrase "as by the rules of the said courts." 1
Stat. 92. Appellate courts have maintained the discretionto allow litigants to "manage their own causes"--and some
such litigants have done so effectively.5 That opportunity,however, has been consistently subject to each court's own
rules.
749, 750 (Fla. 1968) (finding voluntary and intelligent waiver of right to
proceed pro se).

5 See, e. g., SEC v. Sloan, 436 U. S. 103 (1978) (pro se respondent argued,

briefed, and prevailed in the Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit and
this Court).

528US1 Unit: $U16 [06-15-01 20:31:31] PAGES PGT: OPIN

159Cite as: 528 U. S. 152 (2000)
Opinion of the Court
We are not aware of any historical consensus establishinga right of self-representation on appeal. We might, nonetheless, paraphrase Faretta and assert: No State or Colony everforced counsel upon a convicted appellant, and no spokesman
ever suggested that such a practice would be tolerable oradvisable. 422 U. S., at 832. Such negative historical evidence was meaningful to the Faretta Court, because the factthat the "[dog] had not barked"

6 arguably demonstrated that

early lawmakers intended to preserve the "long-respectedright of self-representation" at trial.

Ibid. Historical si-lence, however, has no probative force in the appellate context because there simply was no long-respected right ofself-representation on appeal. In fact, the right of appeal
itself is of relatively recent origin.Appeals as of right in federal courts were nonexistent for
the first century of our Nation, and appellate review of anysort was "rarely allowed." Abney v. United States, 431 U. S.
651, 656, n. 3 (1977). The States, also, did not generally rec-ognize an appeal as of right until Washington became the
first to constitutionalize the right explicitly in 1889.7 Therewas similarly no right to appeal in criminal cases at common
law, and appellate review of any sort was "limited" and"rarely used."

8 Thus, unlike the inquiry in Faretta, the historical evidence does not provide any support for an affirma-tive constitutional right to appellate self-representation.

The Faretta majority's reliance on the structure of theSixth Amendment is also not relevant. The Sixth Amendment identifies the basic rights that the accused shall enjoy

6 A. Conan Doyle, Silver Blaze, in The Complete Sherlock Holmes 383,
400 (1938).

7 See Lobsenz, A Constitutional Right to An Appeal: Guarding Against

Unacceptable Risks of Erroneous Conviction, 8 U. Puget Sound L. Rev.
375, 376 (1985). Although Washington was the first State to constitutionalize an appeal as of right, almost all of the States historically had some
form of discretionary appellate review. See generally L. Orfield, Criminal
Appeals in America 215-231 (1939).

8 1 J. Stephen, A History of the Criminal Law of England 308-310 (1883).

528US1 Unit: $U16 [06-15-01 20:31:31] PAGES PGT: OPIN
160 MARTINEZ v. COURT OF APPEAL OF CAL.,

FOURTH APPELLATE DIST.

Opinion of the Court

in "all criminal prosecutions." They are presented strictly
as rights that are available in preparation for trial and at the
trial itself. The Sixth Amendment does not include any
right to appeal. As we have recognized, "[t]he right of appeal, as we presently know it in criminal cases, is purely a
creature of statute." Abney, 431 U. S., at 656. It necessarily follows that the Amendment itself does not provide any
basis for finding a right to self-representation on appeal.

The Faretta majority's nontextual interpretation of the
Sixth Amendment also included an examination of British
criminal jurisprudence and a reference to the opprobrious
trial practices before the Star Chamber. 422 U. S., at 821-
824. These inquiries into historical English practices, however, again do not provide a basis for extending Faretta to
the appellate process, because there was no appeal from a
criminal conviction in England until 1907. See Griffin v. Illinois, 351 U. S. 12, 21 (1956) (Frankfurter, J., concurring in
judgment); 7 Edw. VII, ch. 23 (1907). Indeed, none of our
many cases safeguarding the rights of an indigent appellant
has placed any reliance on either the Sixth Amendment or
on Faretta. See, e. g., Douglas v. California, 372 U. S. 353,
356-358 (1963); Griffin, 351 U. S., at 12.

Finally, the Faretta majority found that the right to selfrepresentation at trial was grounded in part in a respect for
individual autonomy. See 422 U. S., at 834. This consideration is, of course, also applicable to an appellant seeking to
manage his own case. As we explained in Faretta, at the
trial level "[t]o force a lawyer on a defendant can only lead
him to believe that the law contrives against him." Ibid.
On appellate review, there is surely a similar risk that the
appellant will be skeptical of whether a lawyer, who is employed by the same government that is prosecuting him, will
serve his cause with undivided loyalty. Equally true on appeal is the related observation that it is the appellant personally who will bear the consequences of the appeal. See ibid.

528US1 Unit: $U16 [06-15-01 20:31:31] PAGES PGT: OPIN

161Cite as: 528 U. S. 152 (2000)
Opinion of the Court
In light of our conclusion that the Sixth Amendment doesnot apply to appellate proceedings, any individual right to

self-representation on appeal based on autonomy principlesmust be grounded in the Due Process Clause. Under the
practices that prevail in the Nation today, however, we areentirely unpersuaded that the risk of either disloyalty or suspicion of disloyalty is a sufficient concern to conclude that
a constitutional right of self-representation is a necessarycomponent of a fair appellate proceeding. We have no doubt

that instances of disloyal representation are rare. In bothtrials and appeals there are, without question, cases in which
counsel's performance is ineffective. Even in those cases,however, it is reasonable to assume that counsel's performance is more effective than what the unskilled appellantcould have provided for himself.

No one, including Martinez and the Faretta majority, at-tempts to argue that as a rule

pro se representation is wise,
desirable, or efficient.9 Although we found in Faretta that
the right to defend oneself at trial is "fundamental" in nature, id., at 817, it is clear that it is representation by counsel
that is the standard, not the exception. See Patterson v.
Illinois, 487 U. S. 285, 307 (1988) (noting the "strong presumption against" waiver of right to counsel). Our experience has taught us that "a pro se defense is usually a bad
defense, particularly when compared to a defense provided
by an experienced criminal defense attorney." 10

As the Faretta opinion recognized, the right to selfrepresentation is not absolute. The defendant must " `voluntarily and intelligently' " elect to conduct his own defense,

9 Some critics argue that the right to proceed pro se at trial in certain
cases is akin to allowing the defendant to waive his right to a fair trial.
See, e. g., United States v. Farhad, 190 F. 3d 1097, 1106-1107 (CA9 1999)
(Reinhardt, J., concurring specially), cert. pending, No. 99-7127.

10 Decker, The Sixth Amendment Right to Shoot Oneself in the Foot: An

Assessment of the Guarantee of Self-Representation Twenty Years after
Faretta, 6 Seton Hall Const. L. J. 483, 598 (1996).

528US1 Unit: $U16 [06-15-01 20:31:31] PAGES PGT: OPIN
162 MARTINEZ v. COURT OF APPEAL OF CAL.,

FOURTH APPELLATE DIST.

Opinion of the Court

422 U. S., at 835 (quoting Johnson v. Zerbst, 304 U. S. 458,464-465 (1938)), and most courts require him to do so in a

timely manner.11 He must first be "made aware of the dan-gers and disadvantages of self-representation." 422 U. S.,
at 835. A trial judge may also terminate self-representationor appoint "standby counsel"--even over the defendant's objection--if necessary. Id., at 834, n. 46. We have furtherheld that standby counsel may participate in the trial proceedings, even without the express consent of the defendant,as long as that participation does not "seriously undermin[e]"
the "appearance before the jury" that the defendant is repre-senting himself.

McKaskle v. Wiggins, 465 U. S. 168, 187(1984). Additionally, the trial judge is under no duty to provide personal instruction on courtroom procedure or to per-form any legal "chores" for the defendant that counsel would
normally carry out. Id., at 183-184. Even at the trial level,therefore, the government's interest in ensuring the integrity and efficiency of the trial at times outweighs the defend-ant's interest in acting as his own lawyer.

In the appellate context, the balance between the two com-peting interests surely tips in favor of the State. The status
of the accused defendant, who retains a presumption of in-nocence throughout the trial process, changes dramatically
when a jury returns a guilty verdict. We have recognizedthis shifting focus and noted:

"[T]here are significant differences between the trialand appellate stages of a criminal proceeding. The purpose of the trial stage from the State's point of view isto convert a criminal defendant from a person presumed
innocent to one found guilty beyond a reasonabledoubt. . . .

"By contrast, it is ordinarily the defendant, ratherthan the State, who initiates the appellate process, seeking not to fend off the efforts of the State's prosecutor
11 See id., at 544-550 (collecting cases).

528US1 Unit: $U16 [06-15-01 20:31:31] PAGES PGT: OPIN

163Cite as: 528 U. S. 152 (2000)
Opinion of the Court
but rather to overturn a finding of guilt made by a judgeor a jury below." Ross v. Moffitt, 417 U. S. 600, 610

(1974).
In the words of the Faretta majority, appellate proceedingsare simply not a case of "hal[ing] a person into its criminal

courts." 422 U. S., at 807.The requirement of representation by trained counsel implies no disrespect for the individual inasmuch as it tends tobenefit the appellant as well as the court. Courts, of course,
may still exercise their discretion to allow a lay person toproceed

pro se. We already leave to the appellate courts'discretion, keeping "the best interests of both the prisoner

and the government in mind," the decision whether to allowa

pro se appellant to participate in, or even to be present at,oral argument. Price v. Johnston, 334 U. S. 266, 284 (1948).

Considering the change in position from defendant to appel-lant, the autonomy interests that survive a felony conviction
are less compelling than those motivating the decision inFaretta. Yet the overriding state interest in the fair and
efficient administration of justice remains as strong as at thetrial level. Thus, the States are clearly within their discretion to conclude that the government's interests outweigh aninvasion of the appellant's interest in self-representation.

III
For the foregoing reasons, we conclude that neither theholding nor the reasoning in

Faretta requires California torecognize a constitutional right to self-representation on direct appeal from a criminal conviction. Our holding is, ofcourse, narrow. It does not preclude the States from recognizing such a right under their own constitutions. Its im-pact on the law will be minimal, because a lay appellant's
rights to participate in appellate proceedings have long beenlimited by the well-established conclusions that he has no
right to be present during appellate proceedings, Schwab v.
Berggren, 143 U. S. 442 (1892), or to present oral argument,

528US1 Unit: $U16 [06-15-01 20:31:31] PAGES PGT: OPIN
164 MARTINEZ v. COURT OF APPEAL OF CAL.,

FOURTH APPELLATE DIST.

Breyer, J., concurring

Price, 334 U. S., at 285-286. Meanwhile the rules governing
appeals in California, and presumably those in other States
as well, seem to protect the ability of indigent litigants to
make pro se filings. See, e. g., People v. Wende, 25 Cal. 3d
436, 440, 600 P. 2d 1071, 1074 (1979); see also Anders v. California, 386 U. S. 738 (1967). In requiring Martinez, under
these circumstances, to accept against his will a stateappointed attorney, the California courts have not deprived
him of a constitutional right. Accordingly, the judgment of
the California Supreme Court is affirmed.

It is so ordered.

Justice Kennedy, concurring.
To resolve this case it is unnecessary to cast doubt upon
the rationale of Faretta v. California, 422 U. S. 806 (1975).
Faretta can be accepted as quite sound, yet it does not follow that a convicted person has a similar right of selfrepresentation on appeal. Different considerations apply in
the appellate system, and the Court explains why this is so.
With these observations, I join the opinion of the Court.

Justice Breyer, concurring.
I agree with the Court and join its opinion. Because
Justice Scalia writes separately to underscore the continuing constitutional validity of Faretta v. California, 422 U. S.
806 (1975), I note that judges closer to the firing line have
sometimes expressed dismay about the practical consequences of that holding. See, e. g., United States v. Farhad,
190 F. 3d 1097, 1107 (CA9 1999) (concurring opinion) (right of
self-representation "frequently, though not always, conflicts
squarely and inherently with the right to a fair trial").
I have found no empirical research, however, that might help
determine whether, in general, the right to represent oneself
furthers, or inhibits, the Constitution's basic guarantee of
fairness. And without some strong factual basis for believing that Faretta's holding has proved counterproductive in

528US1 Unit: $U16 [06-15-01 20:31:31] PAGES PGT: OPIN

165Cite as: 528 U. S. 152 (2000)
Scalia, J., concurring in judgment
practice, we are not in a position to reconsider the constitu-tional assumptions that underlie that case.

Justice Scalia, concurring in the judgment.
I do not share the apparent skepticism of today's opinionconcerning the judgment of the Court (often curiously described as merely the judgment of "the majority") in Faretta
v. California, 422 U. S. 806 (1975). I have no doubt that theFramers of our Constitution, who were suspicious enough

of governmental power--including judicial power--that theyinsisted upon a citizen's right to be judged by an independent jury of private citizens, would not have found acceptablethe compulsory assignment of counsel

by the government
to plead a criminal defendant's case. While I might haverested the decision upon the Due Process Clause rather than

the Sixth Amendment, I believe it was correct.

That asserting the right of self-representation may often,
or even usually, work to the defendant's disadvantage is no
more remarkable--and no more a basis for withdrawing the
right--than is the fact that proceeding without counsel in
custodial interrogation, or confessing to the crime, usually
works to the defendant's disadvantage. Our system of laws
generally presumes that the criminal defendant, after being
fully informed, knows his own best interests and does not
need them dictated by the State. Any other approach is
unworthy of a free people. As Justice Frankfurter eloquently put it for the Court in Adams v. United States ex
rel. McCann, 317 U. S. 269 (1942), to require the acceptance
of counsel "is to imprison a man in his privileges and call it
the Constitution." Id., at 280.

In any event, Faretta is relevant to the question before us
only to the limited extent that we must decide whether its
holding applies to self-representation on appeal. It seems
to me that question is readily answered by the fact that there
is no constitutional right to appeal. See McKane v. Durston, 153 U. S. 684, 687-688 (1894). Since a State could, as

528US1 Unit: $U16 [06-15-01 20:31:31] PAGES PGT: OPIN
166 MARTINEZ v. COURT OF APPEAL OF CAL.,

FOURTH APPELLATE DIST.

Scalia, J., concurring in judgment

far as the Federal Constitution is concerned, subject itstrial-court determinations to no review whatever, it could

a fortiori subject them to review which consists of a nonad-versarial reexamination of convictions by a panel of government experts. Adversarial review with counsel appointedby the State is even less questionable than that.

For these reasons, I concur in the judgment of the Court.

528US1 Unit: $U17 [06-15-01 20:45:42] PAGES PGT: OPIN

167OCTOBER TERM, 1999
Syllabus

FRIENDS OF THE EARTH, INC., et al. v. LAIDLAW

ENVIRONMENTAL SERVICES (TOC), INC.

certiorari to the united states court of appeals forthe fourth circuit

No. 98-822. Argued October 12, 1999--Decided January 12, 2000
Defendant-respondent Laidlaw Environmental Services (TOC), Inc.,

bought a facility in Roebuck, South Carolina, that included a wastewater
treatment plant. Shortly thereafter, the South Carolina Department of
Health and Environmental Control (DHEC), acting under the Clean
Water Act (Act), 33 U. S. C. $ 1342(a)(1), granted Laidlaw a National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit. The permit
authorized Laidlaw to discharge treated water into the North Tyger
River, but limited, among other things, the discharge of pollutants into
the waterway. Laidlaw began to discharge various pollutants into the
waterway; these discharges, particularly of mercury, an extremely toxic
pollutant, repeatedly exceeded the limits set by the permit.

On April 10, 1992, plaintiff-petitioners Friends of the Earth and Citizens Local Environmental Action Network, Inc. (referred to collectively
here, along with later joined plaintiff-petitioner Sierra Club, as "FOE"),
notified Laidlaw of their intention to file a citizen suit against it under
the Act, 33 U. S. C. $ 1365(a), after the expiration of the requisite 60-day
notice period. DHEC acceded to Laidlaw's request to file a lawsuit
against the company. On the last day before FOE's 60-day notice period expired, DHEC and Laidlaw reached a settlement requiring Laidlaw to pay $100,000 in civil penalties and to make "every effort" to comply with its permit obligations.

On June 12, 1992, FOE filed this citizen suit against Laidlaw, alleging
noncompliance with the NPDES permit and seeking declaratory and
injunctive relief and an award of civil penalties. Laidlaw moved for
summary judgment on the ground that FOE lacked Article III standing
to bring the lawsuit. After examining affidavits and deposition testimony from members of the plaintiff organizations, the District Court
denied the motion, finding that the plaintiffs had standing. The District Court also denied Laidlaw's motion to dismiss on the ground that
the citizen suit was barred under $ 1365(b)(1)(B) by DHEC's prior action
against the company. After FOE initiated this suit, but before the District Court rendered judgment on January 22, 1997, Laidlaw violated
the mercury discharge limitation in its permit 13 times and committed
13 monitoring and 10 reporting violations. In issuing its judgment, the

528US1 Unit: $U17 [06-15-01 20:45:42] PAGES PGT: OPIN
168 FRIENDS OF EARTH, INC. v. LAIDLAW ENVIRONMENTAL SERVICES (TOC), INC.

Syllabus

District Court found that Laidlaw had gained a total economic benefit
of $1,092,581 as a result of its extended period of noncompliance with
the permit's mercury discharge limit; nevertheless, the court concluded
that a civil penalty of $405,800 was appropriate. In particular, the District Court found that the judgment's "total deterrent effect" would be
adequate to forestall future violations, given that Laidlaw would have
to reimburse the plaintiffs for a significant amount of legal fees and had
itself incurred significant legal expenses. The court declined to order
injunctive relief because Laidlaw, after the lawsuit began, had achieved
substantial compliance with the terms of its permit.

FOE appealed as to the amount of the District Court's civil penalty
judgment, but did not appeal the denial of declaratory or injunctive
relief. The Fourth Circuit vacated the District Court's order and remanded with instructions to dismiss the action. Assuming, arguendo,
that FOE initially had standing, the appellate court held that the case
had become moot once Laidlaw complied with the terms of its permit
and the plaintiffs failed to appeal the denial of equitable relief. Citing
Steel Co. v. Citizens for Better Environment, 523 U. S. 83, the court
reasoned that the only remedy currently available to FOE, civil penalties payable to the Government, would not redress any injury FOE had
suffered. The court added that FOE's failure to obtain relief on the
merits precluded recovery of attorneys' fees or costs because such an
award is available only to a "prevailing or substantially prevailing
party" under $ 1365(d). According to Laidlaw, the entire Roebuck facility has since been permanently closed, dismantled, and put up for sale,
and all discharges from the facility have permanently ceased.

Held: The Fourth Circuit erred in concluding that a citizen suitor's claim

for civil penalties must be dismissed as moot when the defendant, after
commencement of the litigation, has come into compliance with its
NPDES permit. Pp. 180-195.

(a) The Constitution's case-or-controversy limitation on federal judicial authority, Art. III, $ 2, underpins both standing and mootness doctrine, but the two inquiries differ in crucial respects. Because the
Fourth Circuit was persuaded that the case had become moot, it simply
assumed that FOE had initial standing. See Arizonans for Official
English v. Arizona, 520 U. S. 43, 66-67. But because this Court concludes that the Court of Appeals erred as to mootness, this Court has
an obligation to assure itself that FOE had Article III standing at the
outset of the litigation. P. 180.

(b) FOE had Article III standing to bring this action. This Court
has held that to satisfy Article III's standing requirements, a plaintiff
must show "injury in fact," causation, and redressability. Lujan v. De528US1 Unit: $U17 [06-15-01 20:45:42] PAGES PGT: OPIN

169Cite as: 528 U. S. 167 (2000)
Syllabus
fenders of Wildlife, 504 U. S. 555, 560-561. An association has standing
to bring suit on behalf of its members when its members would have
standing to sue in their own right, the interests at stake are germane
to the organization's purpose, and neither the claim asserted nor the
relief requested requires individual members' participation in the lawsuit. Hunt v. Washington State Apple Advertising Comm'n, 432 U. S.
333, 343. The relevant showing for Article III standing is not injury to
the environment but injury to the plaintiff. To insist on the former
rather than the latter is to raise the standing hurdle higher than the
necessary showing for success on the merits in a citizen's NPDES permit enforcement suit. Here, injury in fact was adequately documented
by the affidavits and testimony of FOE members asserting that Laidlaw's pollutant discharges, and the affiants' reasonable concerns about
the effects of those discharges, directly affected those affiants' recreational, aesthetic, and economic interests. See, e. g., Sierra Club v.
Morton, 405 U. S. 727, 735. These submissions present dispositively
more than the mere "general averments" and "conclusory allegations"
found inadequate in Lujan v. National Wildlife Federation, 497 U. S.
871, 888, or the " `some day' intentions" to visit endangered species halfway around the world held insufficient in Defenders of Wildlife. 504
U. S., at 564. Pp. 180-185.

(c) Laidlaw argues that FOE lacked standing to seek civil penalties
payable to the Government, because such penalties offer no redress to
citizen plaintiffs. For a plaintiff who is injured or threatened with injury due to illegal conduct ongoing at the time of suit, a sanction that
effectively abates that conduct and prevents its recurrence provides a
form of redress. Civil penalties can fit that description. Insofar as
they encourage defendants to discontinue current violations and deter
future ones, they afford redress to citizen plaintiffs injured or threatened with injury as a result of ongoing unlawful conduct. The Court
need not explore the outer limits of the principle that civil penalties
provide sufficient deterrence to support redressability, because the civil
penalties sought here carried a deterrent effect that made it likely, as
opposed to merely speculative, that the penalties would redress FOE's
injuries--as the District Court reasonably found when it assessed a penalty of $405,800. Steel Co. is not to the contrary. That case held that
private plaintiffs may not sue to assess penalties for wholly past violations, 523 U. S., at 106-107, but did not address standing to seek penalties for violations ongoing at the time of the complaint that could continue into the future if undeterred, see id., at 108. Pp. 185-188.

(d) FOE's civil penalties claim did not automatically become moot
once the company came into substantial compliance with its permit. A
defendant's voluntary cessation of a challenged practice ordinarily does

528US1 Unit: $U17 [06-15-01 20:45:42] PAGES PGT: OPIN
170 FRIENDS OF EARTH, INC. v. LAIDLAW ENVIRONMENTAL SERVICES (TOC), INC.

Syllabus

not deprive a federal court of its power to determine the legality of the
practice. City of Mesquite v. Aladdin's Castle, Inc., 455 U. S. 283, 289.
If it did, courts would be compelled to leave the defendant free to return
to its old ways. Thus, the standard for determining whether a case has
been mooted by the defendant's voluntary conduct is stringent: A case
might become moot if subsequent events make it absolutely clear that
the allegedly wrongful behavior could not reasonably be expected to
recur. United States v. Concentrated Phosphate Export Assn., Inc.,
393 U. S. 199, 203. The heavy burden of persuading the court that the
challenged conduct cannot reasonably be expected to recur lies with
the party asserting mootness. Ibid. The Court of Appeals incorrectly
conflated this Court's case law on initial standing, see, e. g., Steel Co.,
with its case law on mootness, see, e. g., City of Mesquite. Such confusion is understandable, given this Court's repeated description of mootness as "the doctrine of standing set in a time frame: The requisite
personal interest that must exist at the commencement of the litigation
(standing) must continue throughout its existence (mootness)." E. g.,
Arizonans, 520 U. S., at 68, n. 22. Careful reflection, however, reveals
that this description of mootness is not comprehensive. For example,
a defendant claiming that its voluntary compliance moots a case bears a
formidable burden. By contrast, it is the plaintiff's burden, in a lawsuit
brought to force compliance, to establish standing by demonstrating
that, if unchecked by the litigation, the defendant's allegedly wrongful
behavior will likely occur or continue and that the threatened injury is
certainly impending. Whitmore v. Arkansas, 495 U. S. 149, 158. The
plain lesson is that there are circumstances in which the prospect that
a defendant will engage in (or resume) harmful conduct may be too
speculative to support standing, but not too speculative to overcome
mootness. Further, if mootness were simply "standing set in a time
frame," the exception to mootness for acts that are "capable of repetition, yet evading review" could not exist. See, e. g., Olmstead v. L. C.,
527 U. S. 581, 594, n. 6. Standing admits of no similar exception; if a
plaintiff lacks standing at the time the action commences, the fact that
the dispute is capable of repetition yet evading review will not entitle
the complainant to a federal judicial forum. See, e. g., Steel Co., 523
U. S., at 109. Standing doctrine ensures, among other things, that the
resources of the federal courts are devoted to disputes in which the
parties have a concrete stake. Yet by the time mootness is an issue,
abandonment of the case may prove more wasteful than frugal. Courts
have no license to retain jurisdiction over cases in which one or both of
the parties plainly lacks a continuing interest, see, e. g., Arizonans, 520
U. S., at 67, but the foregoing examples highlight an important differ528US1 Unit: $U17 [06-15-01 20:45:42] PAGES PGT: OPIN

171Cite as: 528 U. S. 167 (2000)
Syllabus
fence between the two doctrines, see generally Honig v. Doe, 484 U. S.
305, 329-332 (Rehnquist, C. J., concurring).

Laidlaw's argument that FOE doomed its own civil penalty claim to
mootness by failing to appeal the denial of injunctive relief misconceives
the statutory scheme. Under $ 1365(a), the district court has discretion
to determine which form of relief is best suited to abate current violations and deter future ones. See Weinberger v. Romero-Barcelo, 456
U. S. 305, 313. Denial of injunctive relief does not necessarily mean
that the district court has concluded there is no prospect of future violations to deter. Indeed, it meant no such thing in this case; the District
Court denied injunctive relief, but expressly based its award of civil
penalties on the need for deterrence. A district court properly may
conclude that an injunction would be too intrusive, because it could entail continuing and burdensome superintendence of the permit holder's
activities by a federal court. See City of Mesquite, 455 U. S., at 289.
Both Laidlaw's permit compliance and the facility closure might moot
this case, but only if one or the other event made it absolutely clear that
violations could not reasonably be expected to recur. Concentrated
Phosphate Export Assn., 393 U. S., at 203. These are disputed factual
matters that have not been aired in the lower courts; they remain open
for consideration on remand. Pp. 189-194.

(e) This Court does not resolve FOE's argument that it is entitled to
attorneys' fees on the theory that a plaintiff can be a "prevailing party"
under $ 1365(d) if it was the "catalyst" that triggered a favorable outcome. Although the Circuits have divided as to the continuing validity
of the catalyst theory following Farrar v. Hobby, 506 U. S. 103, it would
be premature for this Court to address the question here. The District
Court stayed the time for a petition for attorneys' fees until the time
for appeal had expired or until any appeal was resolved. Thus, when
the Fourth Circuit addressed the availability of counsel fees, no order
was before it either denying or awarding fees. It is for the District
Court, not this Court, to address in the first instance any request for
reimbursement of costs, including fees. Pp. 194-195.

149 F. 3d 303, reversed and remanded.

Ginsburg, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which Rehnquist,
C. J., and Stevens, O'Connor, Kennedy, Souter, and Breyer, JJ.,
joined. Stevens, J., post, p. 195, and Kennedy, J., post, p. 197, filed concurring opinions. Scalia, J., filed a dissenting opinion, in which Thomas,
J., joined, post, p. 198.

528US1 Unit: $U17 [06-15-01 20:45:42] PAGES PGT: OPIN
172 FRIENDS OF EARTH, INC. v. LAIDLAW ENVIRONMENTAL SERVICES (TOC), INC.

Counsel

Bruce J. Terris argued the cause for petitioners. Withhim on the briefs were Carolyn Smith Pravlik and James

S. Chandler, Jr.Jeffrey P. Minear argued the cause for the United States
as amicus curiae in support of petitioners. With him on thebrief were Solicitor General Waxman, Assistant Attorney
General Schiffer, Deputy Solicitor General Wallace, and
David C. Shilton.Donald A. Cockrill argued the cause for respondent.

With him on the briefs were Stuart H. Newberger, CliftonS. Elgarten, Scott E. Gant, Henry H. Taylor, and Barbara
J. Hamilton.*

*Briefs of amici curiae urging reversal were filed for the State of California et al. by Jeremiah W. (Jay) Nixon, Attorney General of Missouri,
James R. Layton, State Solicitor, Joseph P. Bindbeutel and William
J. Bryan, Assistant Attorneys General, Bill Lockyer, Attorney General
of California, Roderick E. Walston, Chief Assistant Attorney General,
Richard M. Frank, Assistant Attorney General, and Linus Masouredis,
Deputy Attorney General, and by the Attorneys General for their respective States as follows: Mark Pryor of Arkansas, M. Jane Brady of Delaware, James E. Ryan of Illinois, Jennifer M. Granholm of Michigan, Mike
Moore of Mississippi, Patricia A. Madrid of New Mexico, Eliot Spitzer of
New York, Michael F. Easley of North Carolina, Sheldon Whitehouse of
Rhode Island, Paul G. Summers of Tennessee, and Christine O. Gregoire
of Washington; for Americans for the Environment by John D. Echeverria;
and for Public Citizen et al. by Colette G. Matzzie, Brian Wolfman, and
Steven R. Shapiro.

Briefs of amici curiae urging affirmance were filed for the State
of South Carolina by Charles M. Condon, Attorney General, and Kenneth
P. Woodington, Senior Assistant Attorney General; for the Alliance of
Automobile Manufacturers et al. by Scott M. DuBoff, Kenneth S. Kaufman, Robin S. Conrad, David R. Case, J. Walker Henry, Jan Amundson,
and Deborah Ann Hottel; for the California Association of Sanitation
Agencies by Louis F. Claiborne and John Briscoe; for Hercules Inc., by
Joel Schneider and Peter L. Frattarelli; and for the Washington Legal
Foundation et al. by Daniel J. Popeo and Paul D. Kamenar.

Briefs of amici curiae were filed for 40 California Cities et al. by
Rick W. Jarvis; for the Natural Resources Defense Council, Inc., et al.
by Michael Axline and David A. Nicholas; and for the Pacific Legal Foundation et al. by Robin L. Rivett and M. Reed Hopper.

528US1 Unit: $U17 [06-15-01 20:45:42] PAGES PGT: OPIN

173Cite as: 528 U. S. 167 (2000)
Opinion of the Court
Justice Ginsburg delivered the opinion of the Court.
This case presents an important question concerning the
operation of the citizen-suit provisions of the Clean Water
Act. Congress authorized the federal district courts to
entertain Clean Water Act suits initiated by "a person or
persons having an interest which is or may be adversely
affected." 33 U. S. C. $$ 1365(a), (g). To impel future compliance with the Act, a district court may prescribe injunctive relief in such a suit; additionally or alternatively, the
court may impose civil penalties payable to the United States
Treasury. $ 1365(a). In the Clean Water Act citizen suit
now before us, the District Court determined that injunctive
relief was inappropriate because the defendant, after the institution of the litigation, achieved substantial compliance
with the terms of its discharge permit. 956 F. Supp. 588,
611 (SC 1997). The court did, however, assess a civil penalty of $405,800. Id., at 610. The "total deterrent effect"
of the penalty would be adequate to forestall future violations, the court reasoned, taking into account that the
defendant "will be required to reimburse plaintiffs for a
significant amount of legal fees and has, itself, incurred
significant legal expenses." Id., at 610-611.

The Court of Appeals vacated the District Court's order.
149 F. 3d 303 (CA4 1998). The case became moot, the appellate court declared, once the defendant fully complied with
the terms of its permit and the plaintiff failed to appeal the
denial of equitable relief. "[C]ivil penalties payable to the
government," the Court of Appeals stated, "would not redress any injury Plaintiffs have suffered." Id., at 307. Nor
were attorneys' fees in order, the Court of Appeals noted,
because absent relief on the merits, plaintiffs could not qualify as prevailing parties. Id., at 307, n. 5.

We reverse the judgment of the Court of Appeals. The
appellate court erred in concluding that a citizen suitor's
claim for civil penalties must be dismissed as moot when the

528US1 Unit: $U17 [06-15-01 20:45:42] PAGES PGT: OPIN
174 FRIENDS OF EARTH, INC. v. LAIDLAW ENVIRONMENTAL SERVICES (TOC), INC.

Opinion of the Court

defendant, albeit after commencement of the litigation, hascome into compliance. In directing dismissal of the suit on

grounds of mootness, the Court of Appeals incorrectly con-flated our case law on initial standing to bring suit, see, e. g.,
Steel Co. v. Citizens for Better Environment, 523 U. S. 83(1998), with our case law on postcommencement mootness,
see, e. g., City of Mesquite v. Aladdin's Castle, Inc., 455 U. S.283 (1982). A defendant's voluntary cessation of allegedly
unlawful conduct ordinarily does not suffice to moot a case.The Court of Appeals also misperceived the remedial potential of civil penalties. Such penalties may serve, as an al-ternative to an injunction, to deter future violations and
thereby redress the injuries that prompted a citizen suitorto commence litigation.

I
A
In 1972, Congress enacted the Clean Water Act (Act), alsoknown as the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, 86 Stat.

816, as amended, 33 U. S. C. $ 1251 et seq. Section 402 ofthe Act, 33 U. S. C. $ 1342, provides for the issuance, by the
Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency(EPA) or by authorized States, of National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permits. NPDESpermits impose limitations on the discharge of pollutants,
and establish related monitoring and reporting require-ments, in order to improve the cleanliness and safety of the
Nation's waters. Noncompliance with a permit constitutesa violation of the Act. $ 1342(h).

Under $ 505(a) of the Act, a suit to enforce any limitationin an NPDES permit may be brought by any "citizen," defined as "a person or persons having an interest which isor may be adversely affected." 33 U. S. C. $$ 1365(a), (g).
Sixty days before initiating a citizen suit, however, thewould-be plaintiff must give notice of the alleged violation
to the EPA, the State in which the alleged violation oc528US1 Unit: $U17 [06-15-01 20:45:42] PAGES PGT: OPIN

175Cite as: 528 U. S. 167 (2000)
Opinion of the Court
curred, and the alleged violator. $ 1365(b)(1)(A). "[T]hepurpose of notice to the alleged violator is to give it an opportunity to bring itself into complete compliance with theAct and thus . . . render unnecessary a citizen suit." Gwaltney of Smithfield, Ltd. v. Chesapeake Bay Foundation,Inc., 484 U. S. 49, 60 (1987). Accordingly, we have held
that citizens lack statutory standing under $ 505(a) to suefor violations that have ceased by the time the complaint
is filed. Id., at 56-63. The Act also bars a citizen fromsuing if the EPA or the State has already commenced,
and is "diligently prosecuting," an enforcement action. 33U. S. C. $ 1365(b)(1)(B).

The Act authorizes district courts in citizen-suit proceed-ings to enter injunctions and to assess civil penalties, which
are payable to the United States Treasury. $ 1365(a). Indetermining the amount of any civil penalty, the district
court must take into account "the seriousness of the violationor violations, the economic benefit (if any) resulting from
the violation, any history of such violations, any good-faithefforts to comply with the applicable requirements, the economic impact of the penalty on the violator, and such othermatters as justice may require." $ 1319(d). In addition, the
court "may award costs of litigation (including reasonableattorney and expert witness fees) to any prevailing or substantially prevailing party, whenever the court determinessuch award is appropriate." $ 1365(d).

B
In 1986, defendant-respondent Laidlaw EnvironmentalServices (TOC), Inc., bought a hazardous waste incinerator

facility in Roebuck, South Carolina, that included a waste-water treatment plant. (The company has since changed
its name to Safety-Kleen (Roebuck), Inc., but for simplicitywe will refer to it as "Laidlaw" throughout.) Shortly after
Laidlaw acquired the facility, the South Carolina Department

528US1 Unit: $U17 [06-15-01 20:45:42] PAGES PGT: OPIN
176 FRIENDS OF EARTH, INC. v. LAIDLAW ENVIRONMENTAL SERVICES (TOC), INC.

Opinion of the Court

of Health and Environmental Control (DHEC), acting under
33 U. S. C. $ 1342(a)(1), granted Laidlaw an NPDES permit
authorizing the company to discharge treated water into the
North Tyger River. The permit, which became effective on
January 1, 1987, placed limits on Laidlaw's discharge of several pollutants into the river, including--of particular relevance to this case--mercury, an extremely toxic pollutant.
The permit also regulated the flow, temperature, toxicity,
and pH of the effluent from the facility, and imposed monitoring and reporting obligations.

Once it received its permit, Laidlaw began to discharge
various pollutants into the waterway; repeatedly, Laidlaw's
discharges exceeded the limits set by the permit. In particular, despite experimenting with several technological fixes,
Laidlaw consistently failed to meet the permit's stringent 1.3
ppb (parts per billion) daily average limit on mercury discharges. The District Court later found that Laidlaw had
violated the mercury limits on 489 occasions between 1987
and 1995. 956 F. Supp., at 613-621.

On April 10, 1992, plaintiff-petitioners Friends of the
Earth (FOE) and Citizens Local Environmental Action Network, Inc. (CLEAN) (referred to collectively in this opinion,
together with later joined plaintiff-petitioner Sierra Club, as
"FOE") took the preliminary step necessary to the institution of litigation. They sent a letter to Laidlaw notifying
the company of their intention to file a citizen suit against it
under $ 505(a) of the Act after the expiration of the requisite
60-day notice period, i. e., on or after June 10, 1992. Laidlaw's lawyer then contacted DHEC to ask whether DHEC
would consider filing a lawsuit against Laidlaw. The District Court later found that Laidlaw's reason for requesting that DHEC file a lawsuit against it was to bar FOE's
proposed citizen suit through the operation of 33 U. S. C.

$ 1365(b)(1)(B). 890 F. Supp. 470, 478 (SC 1995). DHEC
agreed to file a lawsuit against Laidlaw; the company's law528US1 Unit: $U17 [06-15-01 20:45:42] PAGES PGT: OPIN

177Cite as: 528 U. S. 167 (2000)
Opinion of the Court
yer then drafted the complaint for DHEC and paid the filing
fee. On June 9, 1992, the last day before FOE's 60-day notice period expired, DHEC and Laidlaw reached a settlement requiring Laidlaw to pay $100,000 in civil penalties and
to make " `every effort' " to comply with its permit obligations. Id., at 479-481.

On June 12, 1992, FOE filed this citizen suit against Laidlaw under $ 505(a) of the Act, alleging noncompliance with
the NPDES permit and seeking declaratory and injunctive
relief and an award of civil penalties. Laidlaw moved for
summary judgment on the ground that FOE had failed to
present evidence demonstrating injury in fact, and therefore
lacked Article III standing to bring the lawsuit. Record,
Doc. No. 43. In opposition to this motion, FOE submitted
affidavits and deposition testimony from members of the
plaintiff organizations. Record, Doc. No. 71 (Exhs. 41-51).
The record before the District Court also included affidavits
from the organizations' members submitted by FOE in support of an earlier motion for preliminary injunctive relief.
Record, Doc. No. 21 (Exhs. 5-10). After examining this evidence, the District Court denied Laidlaw's summary judgment motion, finding--albeit "by the very slimmest of margins"--that FOE had standing to bring the suit. App. in
No. 97-1246 (CA4), pp. 207-208 (Tr. of Hearing 39-40 (June
30, 1993)).

Laidlaw also moved to dismiss the action on the ground
that the citizen suit was barred under 33 U. S. C.

$ 1365(b)(1)(B) by DHEC's prior action against the company.
The United States, appearing as amicus curiae, joined FOE
in opposing the motion. After an extensive analysis of the
Laidlaw-DHEC settlement and the circumstances under
which it was reached, the District Court held that DHEC's
action against Laidlaw had not been "diligently prosecuted";
consequently, the court allowed FOE's citizen suit to pro528US1 Unit: $U17 [06-15-01 20:45:42] PAGES PGT: OPIN
178 FRIENDS OF EARTH, INC. v. LAIDLAW ENVIRONMENTAL SERVICES (TOC), INC.

Opinion of the Court

ceed. 890 F. Supp., at 499.1 The record indicates that after
FOE initiated the suit, but before the District Court rendered judgment, Laidlaw violated the mercury discharge
limitation in its permit 13 times. 956 F. Supp., at 621. The
District Court also found that Laidlaw had committed 13
monitoring and 10 reporting violations during this period.
Id., at 601. The last recorded mercury discharge violation
occurred in January 1995, long after the complaint was filed
but about two years before judgment was rendered. Id.,
at 621.

On January 22, 1997, the District Court issued its judgment. 956 F. Supp. 588 (SC). It found that Laidlaw had
gained a total economic benefit of $1,092,581 as a result of its
extended period of noncompliance with the mercury discharge limit in its permit. Id., at 603. The court concluded,
however, that a civil penalty of $405,800 was adequate in
light of the guiding factors listed in 33 U. S. C. $ 1319(d). 956
F. Supp., at 610. In particular, the District Court stated
that the lesser penalty was appropriate taking into account
the judgment's "total deterrent effect." In reaching this
determination, the court "considered that Laidlaw will be
required to reimburse plaintiffs for a significant amount of
legal fees." Id., at 610-611. The court declined to grant
FOE's request for injunctive relief, stating that an injunction
was inappropriate because "Laidlaw has been in substantial
compliance with all parameters in its NPDES permit since
at least August 1992." Id., at 611.

1 The District Court noted that "Laidlaw drafted the state-court complaint and settlement agreement, filed the lawsuit against itself, and paid
the filing fee." 890 F. Supp., at 489. Further, "the settlement agreement
between DHEC and Laidlaw was entered into with unusual haste, without
giving the Plaintiffs the opportunity to intervene." Ibid. The court
found "most persuasive" the fact that "in imposing the civil penalty of
$100,000 against Laidlaw, DHEC failed to recover, or even to calculate,
the economic benefit that Laidlaw received by not complying with its permit." Id., at 491.

528US1 Unit: $U17 [06-15-01 20:45:42] PAGES PGT: OPIN

179Cite as: 528 U. S. 167 (2000)
Opinion of the Court
FOE appealed the District Court's civil penalty judg-ment, arguing that the penalty was inadequate, but did not

appeal the denial of declaratory or injunctive relief. Laid-law cross-appealed, arguing, among other things, that FOE
lacked standing to bring the suit and that DHEC's actionqualified as a diligent prosecution precluding FOE's litigation. The United States continued to participate as amicus
curiae in support of FOE.On July 16, 1998, the Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit issued its judgment. 149 F. 3d 303. The Court of Ap-peals assumed without deciding that FOE initially had
standing to bring the action, id., at 306, n. 3, but went on to
hold that the case had become moot. The appellate court
stated, first, that the elements of Article III standing--injury, causation, and redressability--must persist at every
stage of review, or else the action becomes moot. Id., at
306. Citing our decision in Steel Co., the Court of Appeals
reasoned that the case had become moot because "the only
remedy currently available to [FOE]--civil penalties payable
to the government--would not redress any injury [FOE has]
suffered." 149 F. 3d, at 306-307. The court therefore vacated the District Court's order and remanded with instructions to dismiss the action. In a footnote, the Court of Appeals added that FOE's "failure to obtain relief on the merits
of [its] claims precludes any recovery of attorneys' fees or
other litigation costs because such an award is available only
to a `prevailing or substantially prevailing party.' " Id., at
307, n. 5 (quoting 33 U. S. C. $ 1365(d)).

According to Laidlaw, after the Court of Appeals issued
its decision but before this Court granted certiorari, the entire incinerator facility in Roebuck was permanently closed,
dismantled, and put up for sale, and all discharges from
the facility permanently ceased. Respondent's Suggestion of
Mootness 3.

We granted certiorari, 525 U. S. 1176 (1999), to resolve the
inconsistency between the Fourth Circuit's decision in this

528US1 Unit: $U17 [06-15-01 20:45:42] PAGES PGT: OPIN
180 FRIENDS OF EARTH, INC. v. LAIDLAW ENVIRONMENTAL SERVICES (TOC), INC.

Opinion of the Court

case and the decisions of several other Courts of Appeals,
which have held that a defendant's compliance with its permit after the commencement of litigation does not moot
claims for civil penalties under the Act. See, e. g., Atlantic
States Legal Foundation, Inc. v. Stroh Die Casting Co., 116
F. 3d 814, 820 (CA7), cert. denied, 522 U. S. 981 (1997); Natural Resources Defense Council, Inc. v. Texaco Rfg. and
Mktg., Inc., 2 F. 3d 493, 503-504 (CA3 1993); Atlantic States
Legal Foundation, Inc. v. Pan American Tanning Corp., 993
F. 2d 1017, 1020-1021 (CA2 1993); Atlantic States Legal
Foundation, Inc. v. Tyson Foods, Inc., 897 F. 2d 1128, 1135-
1136 (CA11 1990).

II

A

The Constitution's case-or-controversy limitation on federal judicial authority, Art. III, $ 2, underpins both our
standing and our mootness jurisprudence, but the two inquiries differ in respects critical to the proper resolution of
this case, so we address them separately. Because the
Court of Appeals was persuaded that the case had become
moot and so held, it simply assumed without deciding that
FOE had initial standing. See Arizonans for Official English v. Arizona, 520 U. S. 43, 66-67 (1997) (court may assume
without deciding that standing exists in order to analyze
mootness). But because we hold that the Court of Appeals
erred in declaring the case moot, we have an obligation to
assure ourselves that FOE had Article III standing at the
outset of the litigation. We therefore address the question
of standing before turning to mootness.

In Lujan v. Defenders of Wildlife, 504 U. S. 555, 560-561
(1992), we held that, to satisfy Article III's standing requirements, a plaintiff must show (1) it has suffered an "injury in
fact" that is (a) concrete and particularized and (b) actual or
imminent, not conjectural or hypothetical; (2) the injury is
fairly traceable to the challenged action of the defendant; and

528US1 Unit: $U17 [06-15-01 20:45:42] PAGES PGT: OPIN

181Cite as: 528 U. S. 167 (2000)
Opinion of the Court
(3) it is likely, as opposed to merely speculative, that theinjury will be redressed by a favorable decision. An association has standing to bring suit on behalf of its memberswhen its members would otherwise have standing to sue in
their own right, the interests at stake are germane to theorganization's purpose, and neither the claim asserted nor
the relief requested requires the participation of individual
members in the lawsuit. Hunt v. Washington State Apple
Advertising Comm'n, 432 U. S. 333, 343 (1977).

Laidlaw contends first that FOE lacked standing from theoutset even to seek injunctive relief, because the plaintiff

organizations failed to show that any of their members had
sustained or faced the threat of any "injury in fact" from
Laidlaw's activities. In support of this contention Laidlaw
points to the District Court's finding, made in the course of
setting the penalty amount, that there had been "no demonstrated proof of harm to the environment" from Laidlaw's
mercury discharge violations. 956 F. Supp., at 602; see also
ibid. ("[T]he NPDES permit violations at issue in this citizen
suit did not result in any health risk or environmental
harm.").

The relevant showing for purposes of Article III standing,
however, is not injury to the environment but injury to the
plaintiff. To insist upon the former rather than the latter
as part of the standing inquiry (as the dissent in essence
does, post, at 199-200) is to raise the standing hurdle higher
than the necessary showing for success on the merits in an
action alleging noncompliance with an NPDES permit. Focusing properly on injury to the plaintiff, the District Court
found that FOE had demonstrated sufficient injury to establish standing. App. in No. 97-1246 (CA4), at 207-208 (Tr. of
Hearing 39-40). For example, FOE member Kenneth Lee
Curtis averred in affidavits that he lived a half-mile from
Laidlaw's facility; that he occasionally drove over the North
Tyger River, and that it looked and smelled polluted; and
that he would like to fish, camp, swim, and picnic in and near

528US1 Unit: $U17 [06-15-01 20:45:42] PAGES PGT: OPIN
182 FRIENDS OF EARTH, INC. v. LAIDLAW ENVIRONMENTAL SERVICES (TOC), INC.

Opinion of the Court

the river between 3 and 15 miles downstream from the facil-ity, as he did when he was a teenager, but would not do so

because he was concerned that the water was polluted byLaidlaw's discharges. Record, Doc. No. 71 (Exhs. 41, 42).
Curtis reaffirmed these statements in extensive depositiontestimony. For example, he testified that he would like to
fish in the river at a specific spot he used as a boy, but that he
would not do so now because of his concerns about Laidlaw'sdischarges.

Ibid. (Exh. 43, at 52-53; Exh. 44, at 33).
Other members presented evidence to similar effect.CLEAN member Angela Patterson attested that she lived

two miles from the facility; that before Laidlaw operated the
facility, she picnicked, walked, birdwatched, and waded in
and along the North Tyger River because of the natural
beauty of the area; that she no longer engaged in these activities in or near the river because she was concerned about
harmful effects from discharged pollutants; and that she and
her husband would like to purchase a home near the river
but did not intend to do so, in part because of Laidlaw's discharges. Record, Doc. No. 21 (Exh. 10). CLEAN member
Judy Pruitt averred that she lived one-quarter mile from
Laidlaw's facility and would like to fish, hike, and picnic along
the North Tyger River, but has refrained from those activities because of the discharges. Ibid. (Exh. 7). FOE
member Linda Moore attested that she lived 20 miles from
Roebuck, and would use the North Tyger River south of
Roebuck and the land surrounding it for recreational purposes were she not concerned that the water contained
harmful pollutants. Record, Doc. No. 71 (Exhs. 45, 46). In
her deposition, Moore testified at length that she would hike,
picnic, camp, swim, boat, and drive near or in the river were
it not for her concerns about illegal discharges. Ibid. (Exh.
48, at 29, 36-37, 62-63, 72). CLEAN member Gail Lee attested that her home, which is near Laidlaw's facility, had a
lower value than similar homes located farther from the facility, and that she believed the pollutant discharges accounted

528US1 Unit: $U17 [06-15-01 20:45:42] PAGES PGT: OPIN

183Cite as: 528 U. S. 167 (2000)
Opinion of the Court
for some of the discrepancy. Record, Doc. No. 21 (Exh. 9).Sierra Club member Norman Sharp averred that he had

canoed approximately 40 miles downstream of the Laidlawfacility and would like to canoe in the North Tyger River
closer to Laidlaw's discharge point, but did not do so becausehe was concerned that the water contained harmful pollutants. Ibid. (Exh. 8).

These sworn statements, as the District Court deter-mined, adequately documented injury in fact. We have held

that environmental plaintiffs adequately allege injury in factwhen they aver that they use the affected area and are persons "for whom the aesthetic and recreational values of the
area will be lessened" by the challenged activity. Sierra
Club v. Morton, 405 U. S. 727, 735 (1972). See also Defenders of Wildlife, 504 U. S., at 562-563 ("Of course, the desire
to use or observe an animal species, even for purely esthetic
purposes, is undeniably a cognizable interest for purposes
of standing.").

Our decision in Lujan v. National Wildlife Federation,
497 U. S. 871 (1990), is not to the contrary. In that case an
environmental organization assailed the Bureau of Land
Management's "land withdrawal review program," a program covering millions of acres, alleging that the program
illegally opened up public lands to mining activities. The
defendants moved for summary judgment, challenging the
plaintiff organization's standing to initiate the action under
the Administrative Procedure Act, 5 U. S. C. $ 702. We held
that the plaintiff could not survive the summary judgment
motion merely by offering "averments which state only that
one of [the organization's] members uses unspecified portions
of an immense tract of territory, on some portions of which
mining activity has occurred or probably will occur by virtue
of the governmental action." 497 U. S., at 889.

In contrast, the affidavits and testimony presented by
FOE in this case assert that Laidlaw's discharges, and the
affiant members' reasonable concerns about the effects of

528US1 Unit: $U17 [06-15-01 20:45:42] PAGES PGT: OPIN
184 FRIENDS OF EARTH, INC. v. LAIDLAW ENVIRONMENTAL SERVICES (TOC), INC.

Opinion of the Court

those discharges, directly affected those affiants' recreational, aesthetic, and economic interests. These submissions present dispositively more than the mere "general
averments" and "conclusory allegations" found inadequate
in National Wildlife Federation. Id., at 888. Nor can the
affiants' conditional statements--that they would use the
nearby North Tyger River for recreation if Laidlaw were not
discharging pollutants into it--be equated with the speculative " `some day' intentions" to visit endangered species halfway around the world that we held insufficient to show injury in fact in Defenders of Wildlife. 504 U. S., at 564.

Los Angeles v. Lyons, 461 U. S. 95 (1983), relied on by the
dissent, post, at 199, does not weigh against standing in this
case. In Lyons, we held that a plaintiff lacked standing to
seek an injunction against the enforcement of a police chokehold policy because he could not credibly allege that he faced
a realistic threat from the policy. 461 U. S., at 107, n. 7. In
the footnote from Lyons cited by the dissent, we noted that
"[t]he reasonableness of Lyons' fear is dependent upon the
likelihood of a recurrence of the allegedly unlawful conduct,"
and that his "subjective apprehensions" that such a recurrence would even take place were not enough to support
standing. Id., at 108, n. 8. Here, in contrast, it is undisputed that Laidlaw's unlawful conduct--discharging pollutants in excess of permit limits--was occurring at the time
the complaint was filed. Under Lyons, then, the only "subjective" issue here is "[t]he reasonableness of [the] fear" that
led the affiants to respond to that concededly ongoing conduct by refraining from use of the North Tyger River and
surrounding areas. Unlike the dissent, post, at 200, we see
nothing "improbable" about the proposition that a company's
continuous and pervasive illegal discharges of pollutants into
a river would cause nearby residents to curtail their recreational use of that waterway and would subject them to
other economic and aesthetic harms. The proposition is en528US1 Unit: $U17 [06-15-01 20:45:42] PAGES PGT: OPIN

185Cite as: 528 U. S. 167 (2000)
Opinion of the Court
tirely reasonable, the District Court found it was true in thiscase, and that is enough for injury in fact.

Laidlaw argues next that even if FOE had standing toseek injunctive relief, it lacked standing to seek civil penalties. Here the asserted defect is not injury but redressabil-ity. Civil penalties offer no redress to private plaintiffs,
Laidlaw argues, because they are paid to the Government,
and therefore a citizen plaintiff can never have standing toseek them.

Laidlaw is right to insist that a plaintiff must demonstratestanding separately for each form of relief sought. See,

e. g.,
Lyons, 461 U. S., at 109 (notwithstanding the fact that plaintiff had standing to pursue damages, he lacked standing to
pursue injunctive relief); see also Lewis v. Casey, 518 U. S.
343, 358, n. 6 (1996) ("[S]tanding is not dispensed in gross.").
But it is wrong to maintain that citizen plaintiffs facing ongoing violations never have standing to seek civil penalties.

We have recognized on numerous occasions that "all civil
penalties have some deterrent effect." Hudson v. United
States, 522 U. S. 93, 102 (1997); see also, e. g., Department of
Revenue of Mont. v. Kurth Ranch, 511 U. S. 767, 778 (1994).
More specifically, Congress has found that civil penalties in
Clean Water Act cases do more than promote immediate
compliance by limiting the defendant's economic incentive to
delay its attainment of permit limits; they also deter future
violations. This congressional determination warrants judicial attention and respect. "The legislative history of the
Act reveals that Congress wanted the district court to consider the need for retribution and deterrence, in addition to
restitution, when it imposed civil penalties. . . . [The district
court may] seek to deter future violations by basing the penalty on its economic impact." Tull v. United States, 481
U. S. 412, 422-423 (1987).

It can scarcely be doubted that, for a plaintiff who is injured or faces the threat of future injury due to illegal conduct ongoing at the time of suit, a sanction that effectively

528US1 Unit: $U17 [06-15-01 20:45:42] PAGES PGT: OPIN
186 FRIENDS OF EARTH, INC. v. LAIDLAW ENVIRONMENTAL SERVICES (TOC), INC.

Opinion of the Court

abates that conduct and prevents its recurrence provides a
form of redress. Civil penalties can fit that description. To
the extent that they encourage defendants to discontinue
current violations and deter them from committing future
ones, they afford redress to citizen plaintiffs who are injured
or threatened with injury as a consequence of ongoing unlawful conduct.

The dissent argues that it is the availability rather than
the imposition of civil penalties that deters any particular
polluter from continuing to pollute. Post, at 207-208. This
argument misses the mark in two ways. First, it overlooks
the interdependence of the availability and the imposition; a
threat has no deterrent value unless it is credible that it will
be carried out. Second, it is reasonable for Congress to conclude that an actual award of civil penalties does in fact bring
with it a significant quantum of deterrence over and above
what is achieved by the mere prospect of such penalties. A
would-be polluter may or may not be dissuaded by the existence of a remedy on the books, but a defendant once hit in
its pocketbook will surely think twice before polluting again.2

We recognize that there may be a point at which the deterrent effect of a claim for civil penalties becomes so insubstantial or so remote that it cannot support citizen standing.
The fact that this vanishing point is not easy to ascertain
does not detract from the deterrent power of such penalties
in the ordinary case. Justice Frankfurter's observations for

2 The dissent suggests that there was little deterrent work for civil penalties to do in this case because the lawsuit brought against Laidlaw by
DHEC had already pushed the level of deterrence to "near the top of the
graph." Post, at 208. This suggestion ignores the District Court's specific finding that the penalty agreed to by Laidlaw and DHEC was far too
low to remove Laidlaw's economic benefit from noncompliance, and thus
was inadequate to deter future violations. 890 F. Supp. 470, 491-494, 497-
498 (SC 1995). And it begins to look especially farfetched when one recalls that Laidlaw itself prompted the DHEC lawsuit, paid the filing fee,
and drafted the complaint. See supra, at 176-177, 178, n. 1.

528US1 Unit: $U17 [06-15-01 20:45:42] PAGES PGT: OPIN

187Cite as: 528 U. S. 167 (2000)
Opinion of the Court
the Court, made in a different context nearly 60 years ago,hold true here as well:

"How to effectuate policy--the adaptation of means tolegitimately sought ends--is one of the most intractable
of legislative problems. Whether proscribed conduct isto be deterred by qui tam action or triple damages or
injunction, or by criminal prosecution, or merely by de-fense to actions in contract, or by some, or all, of these
remedies in combination, is a matter within the legisla-ture's range of choice. Judgment on the deterrent effect of the various weapons in the armory of the law canlay little claim to scientific basis."

Tigner v. Texas, 310U. S. 141, 148 (1940).
3

In this case we need not explore the outer limits of the prin-ciple that civil penalties provide sufficient deterrence to support redressability. Here, the civil penalties sought by FOEcarried with them a deterrent effect that made it likely, as
opposed to merely speculative, that the penalties would re-dress FOE's injuries by abating current violations and preventing future ones--as the District Court reasonably foundwhen it assessed a penalty of $405,800. 956 F. Supp., at
610-611.Laidlaw contends that the reasoning of our decision in
Steel Co. directs the conclusion that citizen plaintiffs have nostanding to seek civil penalties under the Act. We disagree.
Steel Co. established that citizen suitors lack standing to seekcivil penalties for violations that have abated by the time of
suit. 523 U. S., at 106-107. We specifically noted in thatcase that there was no allegation in the complaint of any
continuing or imminent violation, and that no basis for suchan allegation appeared to exist.

Id., at 108; see also Gwalt-ney, 484 U. S., at 59 ("the harm sought to be addressed by

3 In Tigner the Court rejected an equal protection challenge to a statutory provision exempting agricultural producers from the reach of the
Texas antitrust laws.

528US1 Unit: $U17 [06-15-01 20:45:42] PAGES PGT: OPIN
188 FRIENDS OF EARTH, INC. v. LAIDLAW ENVIRONMENTAL SERVICES (TOC), INC.

Opinion of the Court

the citizen suit lies in the present or the future, not in the
past"). In short, Steel Co. held that private plaintiffs, unlike
the Federal Government, may not sue to assess penalties for
wholly past violations, but our decision in that case did not
reach the issue of standing to seek penalties for violations
that are ongoing at the time of the complaint and that could
continue into the future if undeterred.4

4 In insisting that the redressability requirement is not met, the dissent
relies heavily on Linda R. S. v. Richard D., 410 U. S. 614 (1973). That
reliance is sorely misplaced. In Linda R. S., the mother of an out-ofwedlock child filed suit to force a district attorney to bring a criminal
prosecution against the absentee father for failure to pay child support.
Id., at 616. In finding that the mother lacked standing to seek this extraordinary remedy, the Court drew attention to "the special status of
criminal prosecutions in our system," id., at 619, and carefully limited its
holding to the "unique context of a challenge to [the nonenforcement of] a
criminal statute," id., at 617. Furthermore, as to redressability, the relief
sought in Linda R. S.--a prosecution which, if successful, would automatically land the delinquent father in jail for a fixed term, id., at 618, with
predictably negative effects on his earning power--would scarcely remedy
the plaintiff's lack of child support payments. In this regard, the Court
contrasted "the civil contempt model whereby the defendant `keeps the
keys to the jail in his own pocket' and may be released whenever he complies with his legal obligations." Ibid. The dissent's contention, post, at
204, that "precisely the same situation exists here" as in Linda R. S. is, to
say the least, extravagant.

Putting aside its mistaken reliance on Linda R. S., the dissent's broader
charge that citizen suits for civil penalties under the Act carry "grave
implications for democratic governance," post, at 202, seems to us overdrawn. Certainly the Federal Executive Branch does not share the dissent's view that such suits dissipate its authority to enforce the law. In
fact, the Department of Justice has endorsed this citizen suit from the
outset, submitting amicus briefs in support of FOE in the District Court,
the Court of Appeals, and this Court. See supra, at 177, 179. As we
have already noted, supra, at 175, the Federal Government retains the
power to foreclose a citizen suit by undertaking its own action. 33
U. S. C. $ 1365(b)(1)(B). And if the Executive Branch opposes a particular
citizen suit, the statute allows the Administrator of the EPA to "intervene
as a matter of right" and bring the Government's views to the attention
of the court. $ 1365(c)(2).

528US1 Unit: $U17 [06-15-01 20:45:42] PAGES PGT: OPIN

189Cite as: 528 U. S. 167 (2000)
Opinion of the Court

B
Satisfied that FOE had standing under Article III to bringthis action, we turn to the question of mootness.

The only conceivable basis for a finding of mootness in thiscase is Laidlaw's voluntary conduct--either its achievement
by August 1992 of substantial compliance with its NPDESpermit or its more recent shutdown of the Roebuck facility.
It is well settled that "a defendant's voluntary cessation of achallenged practice does not deprive a federal court of its
power to determine the legality of the practice." City of
Mesquite, 455 U. S., at 289. "[I]f it did, the courts wouldbe compelled to leave `[t]he defendant . . . free to return to

his old ways.' " Id., at 289, n. 10 (citing United States v.
W. T. Grant Co., 345 U. S. 629, 632 (1953)). In accordancewith this principle, the standard we have announced for determining whether a case has been mooted by the defend-ant's voluntary conduct is stringent: "A case might become
moot if subsequent events made it absolutely clear that theallegedly wrongful behavior could not reasonably be expected to recur." United States v. Concentrated PhosphateExport Assn., Inc., 393 U. S. 199, 203 (1968). The "heavy
burden of persua[ding]" the court that the challenged con-duct cannot reasonably be expected to start up again lies
with the party asserting mootness. Ibid.The Court of Appeals justified its mootness disposition by
reference to Steel Co., which held that citizen plaintiffs lackstanding to seek civil penalties for wholly past violations.
In relying on Steel Co., the Court of Appeals confused moot-ness with standing. The confusion is understandable, given
this Court's repeated statements that the doctrine of moot-ness can be described as "the doctrine of standing set in a
time frame: The requisite personal interest that must existat the commencement of the litigation (standing) must continue throughout its existence (mootness)." Arizonans for
Official English, 520 U. S., at 68, n. 22 (quoting United States
Parole Comm'n v. Geraghty, 445 U. S. 388, 397 (1980), in turn

528US1 Unit: $U17 [06-15-01 20:45:42] PAGES PGT: OPIN
190 FRIENDS OF EARTH, INC. v. LAIDLAW ENVIRONMENTAL SERVICES (TOC), INC.

Opinion of the Court

quoting Monaghan, Constitutional Adjudication: The Whoand When, 82 Yale L. J. 1363, 1384 (1973)) (internal quotation

marks omitted).Careful reflection on the long-recognized exceptions to
mootness, however, reveals that the description of mootnessas "standing set in a time frame" is not comprehensive. As
just noted, a defendant claiming that its voluntary compliance moots a case bears the formidable burden of showingthat it is absolutely clear the allegedly wrongful behavior

could not reasonably be expected to recur. Concentrated
Phosphate Export Assn., 393 U. S., at 203. By contrast, in
a lawsuit brought to force compliance, it is the plaintiff 's
burden to establish standing by demonstrating that, if unchecked by the litigation, the defendant's allegedly wrongful
behavior will likely occur or continue, and that the "threatened injury [is] certainly impending." Whitmore v. Arkansas, 495 U. S. 149, 158 (1990) (citations and internal quotation
marks omitted). Thus, in Lyons, as already noted, we held
that a plaintiff lacked initial standing to seek an injunction
against the enforcement of a police chokehold policy because
he could not credibly allege that he faced a realistic threat
arising from the policy. 461 U. S., at 105-110. Elsewhere
in the opinion, however, we noted that a citywide moratorium on police chokeholds--an action that surely diminished
the already slim likelihood that any particular individual
would be choked by police--would not have mooted an otherwise valid claim for injunctive relief, because the moratorium
by its terms was not permanent. Id., at 101. The plain lesson of these cases is that there are circumstances in which
the prospect that a defendant will engage in (or resume)
harmful conduct may be too speculative to support standing,
but not too speculative to overcome mootness.

Furthermore, if mootness were simply "standing set in a
time frame," the exception to mootness that arises when the
defendant's allegedly unlawful activity is "capable of repetition, yet evading review," could not exist. When, for exam528US1 Unit: $U17 [06-15-01 20:45:42] PAGES PGT: OPIN

191Cite as: 528 U. S. 167 (2000)
Opinion of the Court
ple, a mentally disabled patient files a lawsuit challengingher confinement in a segregated institution, her postcomplaint transfer to a community-based program will not mootthe action,

Olmstead v. L. C., 527 U. S. 581, 594, n. 6 (1999),
despite the fact that she would have lacked initial standinghad she filed the complaint after the transfer. Standing admits of no similar exception; if a plaintiff lacks standing at
the time the action commences, the fact that the dispute iscapable of repetition yet evading review will not entitle the

complainant to a federal judicial forum. See Steel Co., 523U. S., at 109 (" `the mootness exception for disputes capable
of repetition yet evading review . . . will not revive a disputewhich became moot before the action commenced' ") (quoting
Renne v. Geary, 501 U. S. 312, 320 (1991)).We acknowledged the distinction between mootness and
standing most recently in Steel Co.:

"The United States . . . argues that the injunctive
relief does constitute remediation because `there is apresumption of [future] injury when the defendant

has voluntarily ceased its illegal activity in responseto litigation,' even if that occurs before a complaint is
filed. . . . This makes a sword out of a shield. The `pre-sumption' the Government refers to has been applied to
refute the assertion of mootness by a defendant who,
when sued in a complaint that alleges present or threat-ened injury, ceases the complained-of activity. . . . It is

an immense and unacceptable stretch to call the pre-sumption into service as a substitute for the allegation of
present or threatened injury upon which initial standing
must be based." 523 U. S., at 109.

Standing doctrine functions to ensure, among other things,
that the scarce resources of the federal courts are devoted
to those disputes in which the parties have a concrete stake.
In contrast, by the time mootness is an issue, the case has
been brought and litigated, often (as here) for years. To

528US1 Unit: $U17 [06-15-01 20:45:42] PAGES PGT: OPIN
192 FRIENDS OF EARTH, INC. v. LAIDLAW ENVIRONMENTAL SERVICES (TOC), INC.

Opinion of the Court

abandon the case at an advanced stage may prove more
wasteful than frugal. This argument from sunk costs 5 does
not license courts to retain jurisdiction over cases in which
one or both of the parties plainly lack a continuing interest,
as when the parties have settled or a plaintiff pursuing a
nonsurviving claim has died. See, e. g., DeFunis v. Odegaard, 416 U. S. 312 (1974) (per curiam) (non-class-action
challenge to constitutionality of law school admissions process mooted when plaintiff, admitted pursuant to preliminary
injunction, neared graduation and defendant law school conceded that, as a matter of ordinary school policy, plaintiff
would be allowed to finish his final term); Arizonans, 520
U. S., at 67 (non-class-action challenge to state constitutional
amendment declaring English the official language of the
State became moot when plaintiff, a state employee who
sought to use her bilingual skills, left state employment).
But the argument surely highlights an important difference
between the two doctrines. See generally Honig v. Doe, 484
U. S. 305, 329-332 (1988) (Rehnquist, C. J., concurring).

In its brief, Laidlaw appears to argue that, regardless of
the effect of Laidlaw's compliance, FOE doomed its own civil
penalty claim to mootness by failing to appeal the District
Court's denial of injunctive relief. Brief for Respondent 14-
17. This argument misconceives the statutory scheme.
Under $ 1365(a), the district court has discretion to determine which form of relief is best suited, in the particular
case, to abate current violations and deter future ones. "[A]
federal judge sitting as chancellor is not mechanically obligated to grant an injunction for every violation of law."

5 Of course we mean sunk costs to the judicial system, not to the litigants. Lewis v. Continental Bank Corp., 494 U. S. 472 (1990) (cited by
the dissent, post, at 213), dealt with the latter, noting that courts should
use caution to avoid carrying forward a moot case solely to vindicate a
plaintiff's interest in recovering attorneys' fees.

528US1 Unit: $U17 [06-15-01 20:45:42] PAGES PGT: OPIN

193Cite as: 528 U. S. 167 (2000)
Opinion of the Court
Weinberger v. Romero-Barcelo, 456 U. S. 305, 313 (1982).
Denial of injunctive relief does not necessarily mean that the
district court has concluded there is no prospect of future
violations for civil penalties to deter. Indeed, it meant no
such thing in this case. The District Court denied injunctive relief, but expressly based its award of civil penalties on
the need for deterrence. See 956 F. Supp., at 610-611. As
the dissent notes, post, at 205, federal courts should aim to
ensure " `the framing of relief no broader than required by
the precise facts.' " Schlesinger v. Reservists Comm. to
Stop the War, 418 U. S. 208, 222 (1974). In accordance with
this aim, a district court in a Clean Water Act citizen suit
properly may conclude that an injunction would be an excessively intrusive remedy, because it could entail continuing
superintendence of the permit holder's activities by a federal
court--a process burdensome to court and permit holder
alike. See City of Mesquite, 455 U. S., at 289 (although the
defendant's voluntary cessation of the challenged practice
does not moot the case, "[s]uch abandonment is an important
factor bearing on the question whether a court should exercise its power to enjoin the defendant from renewing the
practice").

Laidlaw also asserts, in a supplemental suggestion of
mootness, that the closure of its Roebuck facility, which took
place after the Court of Appeals issued its decision, mooted
the case. The facility closure, like Laidlaw's earlier achievement of substantial compliance with its permit requirements,
might moot the case, but--we once more reiterate--only if
one or the other of these events made it absolutely clear that
Laidlaw's permit violations could not reasonably be expected
to recur. Concentrated Phosphate Export Assn., 393 U. S.,
at 203. The effect of both Laidlaw's compliance and the facility closure on the prospect of future violations is a disputed factual matter. FOE points out, for example--and
Laidlaw does not appear to contest--that Laidlaw retains its

528US1 Unit: $U17 [06-15-01 20:45:42] PAGES PGT: OPIN
194 FRIENDS OF EARTH, INC. v. LAIDLAW ENVIRONMENTAL SERVICES (TOC), INC.

Opinion of the Court

NPDES permit. These issues have not been aired in thelower courts; they remain open for consideration on remand.

6

C
FOE argues that it is entitled to attorneys' fees on thetheory that a plaintiff can be a "prevailing party" for purposes of 33 U. S. C. $ 1365(d) if it was the "catalyst" that trig-gered a favorable outcome. In the decision under review,
the Court of Appeals noted that its Circuit precedent con-strued our decision in Farrar v. Hobby, 506 U. S. 103 (1992),
to require rejection of that theory. 149 F. 3d, at 307, n. 5(citing

S-1 & S-2 v. State Bd. of Ed. of N. C., 21 F. 3d 49, 51(CA4 1994) (en banc)). Cf. Foreman v. Dallas County, 193

F. 3d 314, 320 (CA5 1999) (stating, in dicta, that "[a]fterFarrar . . . the continuing validity of the catalyst theory is
in serious doubt").Farrar acknowledged that a civil rights plaintiff awarded
nominal damages may be a "prevailing party" under 42U. S. C. $ 1988. 506 U. S., at 112. The case involved no catalytic effect. Recognizing that the issue was not presentedfor this Court's decision in Farrar, several Courts of Appeals
have expressly concluded that Farrar did not repudiate thecatalyst theory. See Marbley v. Bane, 57 F. 3d 224, 234
(CA2 1995); Baumgartner v. Harrisburg Housing Authority,21 F. 3d 541, 546-550 (CA3 1994);

Zinn v. Shalala, 35 F. 3d273, 276 (CA7 1994); Little Rock School Dist. v. Pulaski

County Special Sch. Dist., #1, 17 F. 3d 260, 263, n. 2 (CA81994); Kilgour v. Pasadena, 53 F. 3d 1007, 1010 (CA9 1995);

6 We note that it is far from clear that vacatur of the District Court's
judgment would be the appropriate response to a finding of mootness on
appeal brought about by the voluntary conduct of the party that lost
in the District Court. See U. S. Bancorp Mortgage Co. v. Bonner Mall
Partnership, 513 U. S. 18 (1994) (mootness attributable to a voluntary act
of a nonprevailing party ordinarily does not justify vacatur of a judgment
under review); see also Walling v. James V. Reuter, Inc., 321 U. S. 671
(1944).

528US1 Unit: $U17 [06-15-01 20:45:42] PAGES PGT: OPIN

195Cite as: 528 U. S. 167 (2000)
Stevens, J., concurring
Beard v. Teska, 31 F. 3d 942, 951-952 (CA10 1994); Morris v.West Palm Beach, 194 F. 3d 1203, 1207 (CA11 1999). Other

Courts of Appeals have likewise continued to apply the cata-lyst theory notwithstanding Farrar. Paris v. United States
Dept. of Housing and Urban Development, 988 F. 2d 236,238 (CA1 1993); Citizens Against Tax Waste v. Westerville
City School, 985 F. 2d 255, 257 (CA6 1993).It would be premature, however, for us to address the continuing validity of the catalyst theory in the context of thiscase. The District Court, in an order separate from the one
in which it imposed civil penalties against Laidlaw, stayedthe time for a petition for attorneys' fees until the time for
appeal had expired or, if either party appealed, until the ap-peal was resolved. See 149 F. 3d, at 305 (describing order
staying time for attorneys' fees petition). In the opinion ac-companying its order on penalties, the District Court stated
only that "this court has considered that Laidlaw will be re-quired to reimburse plaintiffs for a significant amount of
legal fees," and referred to "potential fee awards." 956F. Supp., at 610-611. Thus, when the Court of Appeals addressed the availability of counsel fees in this case, no orderwas before it either denying or awarding fees. It is for the
District Court, not this Court, to address in the first instanceany request for reimbursement of costs, including fees.

* * *
For the reasons stated, the judgment of the United StatesCourt of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit is reversed, and the

case is remanded for further proceedings consistent withthis opinion.

It is so ordered.
Justice Stevens, concurring.
Although the Court has identified a sufficient reason forrejecting the Court of Appeals' mootness determination, it

is important also to note that the case would not be moot

528US1 Unit: $U17 [06-15-01 20:45:42] PAGES PGT: OPIN
196 FRIENDS OF EARTH, INC. v. LAIDLAW ENVIRONMENTAL SERVICES (TOC), INC.

Stevens, J., concurring

even if it were absolutely clear that respondent had gone outof business and posed no threat of future permit violations.

The District Court entered a valid judgment requiring re-spondent to pay a civil penalty of $405,800 to the United
States. No postjudgment conduct of respondent could ret-roactively invalidate that judgment. A record of voluntary
postjudgment compliance that would justify a decision that
injunctive relief is unnecessary, or even a decision that anyclaim for injunctive relief is now moot, would not warrant

vacation of the valid money judgment.Furthermore, petitioners' claim for civil penalties would
not be moot even if it were absolutely clear that respondent'sviolations could not reasonably be expected to recur because
respondent achieved substantial compliance with its permitrequirements after petitioners filed their complaint but before the District Court entered judgment. As the Courts ofAppeals (other than the court below) have uniformly concluded, a polluter's voluntary postcomplaint cessation of analleged violation will not moot a citizen-suit claim for civil
penalties even if it is sufficient to moot a related claim for
injunctive or declaratory relief.* This conclusion is consist-ent with the structure of the Clean Water Act, which attaches liability for civil penalties at the time a permit viola-tion occurs. 33 U. S. C. $ 1319(d) ("Any person who violates

*Comfort Lake Assn. v. Dresel Contracting, Inc., 138 F. 3d 351, 356
(CA8 1998); Atlantic States Legal Foundation, Inc. v. Stroh Die Casting
Co., 116 F. 3d 814, 820 (CA7), cert. denied, 522 U. S. 981 (1997); Natural
Resources Defense Council v. Texaco Refining & Mktg., Inc., 2 F. 3d 493,
502-503 (CA3 1993); Atlantic States Legal Foundation, Inc. v. Pan Am.
Tanning Corp., 993 F. 2d 1017, 1020-1021 (CA2 1993); Atlantic States
Legal Foundation, Inc. v. Tyson Foods, Inc., 897 F. 2d 1128, 1134-1137
(CA11 1990); Chesapeake Bay Foundation, Inc. v. Gwaltney of Smithfield,
Ltd., 890 F. 2d 690, 696-697 (CA4 1989). Cf. Powell v. McCormack, 395
U. S. 486, 496, n. 8 (1969) ("Where several forms of relief are requested
and one of these requests subsequently becomes moot, the Court has still
considered the remaining requests").

528US1 Unit: $U17 [06-15-01 20:45:42] PAGES PGT: OPIN

197Cite as: 528 U. S. 167 (2000)
Kennedy, J., concurring
[certain provisions of the Act or certain permit conditionsand limitations] shall be subject to a civil penalty . . ."). It

is also consistent with the character of civil penalties, which,for purposes of mootness analysis, should be equated with
punitive damages rather than with injunctive or declaratory
relief. See Tull v. United States, 481 U. S. 412, 422-423
(1987). No one contends that a defendant's postcomplaint
conduct could moot a claim for punitive damages; civil penalties should be treated the same way.

The cases cited by the Court in its discussion of the mootness issue all involved requests for injunctive or declaratory
relief. In only one, Los Angeles v. Lyons, 461 U. S. 95
(1983), did the plaintiff seek damages, and in that case the
opinion makes it clear that the inability to obtain injunctive
relief would have no impact on the damages claim. Id., at
105, n. 6, 109. There is no precedent, either in our jurisprudence, or in any other of which I am aware, that provides
any support for the suggestion that postcomplaint factual developments that might moot a claim for injunctive or declaratory relief could either moot a claim for monetary relief or
retroactively invalidate a valid money judgment.

Justice Kennedy, concurring.
Difficult and fundamental questions are raised when we
ask whether exactions of public fines by private litigants, and
the delegation of Executive power which might be inferable
from the authorization, are permissible in view of the responsibilities committed to the Executive by Article II of the
Constitution of the United States. The questions presented
in the petition for certiorari did not identify these issues
with particularity; and neither the Court of Appeals in deciding the case nor the parties in their briefing before this
Court devoted specific attention to the subject. In my view
these matters are best reserved for a later case. With this
observation, I join the opinion of the Court.

528US1 Unit: $U17 [06-15-01 20:45:42] PAGES PGT: OPIN
198 FRIENDS OF EARTH, INC. v. LAIDLAW ENVIRONMENTAL SERVICES (TOC), INC.

Scalia, J., dissenting

Justice Scalia, with whom Justice Thomas joins,dissenting.

The Court begins its analysis by finding injury in facton the basis of vague affidavits that are undermined by the
District Court's express finding that Laidlaw's dischargescaused no demonstrable harm to the environment. It then
proceeds to marry private wrong with public remedy in aunion that violates traditional principles of federal standing--thereby permitting law enforcement to be placed in thehands of private individuals. Finally, the Court suggests
that to avoid mootness one needs even less of a stake in theoutcome than the Court's watered-down requirements for
initial standing. I dissent from all of this.

I
Plaintiffs, as the parties invoking federal jurisdiction, havethe burden of proof and persuasion as to the existence of

standing. Lujan v. Defenders of Wildlife, 504 U. S. 555, 561(1992) (hereinafter Lujan); FW/PBS, Inc. v. Dallas, 493 U. S.
215, 231 (1990). The plaintiffs in this case fell far short ofcarrying their burden of demonstrating injury in fact. The
Court cites affiants' testimony asserting that their enjoy-ment of the North Tyger River has been diminished due to
"concern" that the water was polluted, and that they "be-lieved" that Laidlaw's mercury exceedances had reduced the
value of their homes. Ante, at 181-183. These avermentsalone cannot carry the plaintiffs' burden of demonstrating
that they have suffered a "concrete and particularized" in-jury,

Lujan, 504 U. S., at 560. General allegations of injurymay suffice at the pleading stage, but at summary judgment

plaintiffs must set forth "specific facts" to support theirclaims. Id., at 561. And where, as here, the case has proceeded to judgment, those specific facts must be " `supportedadequately by the evidence adduced at trial,' " ibid. (quoting
Gladstone, Realtors v. Village of Bellwood, 441 U. S. 91, 115,n. 31 (1979)). In this case, the affidavits themselves are

528US1 Unit: $U17 [06-15-01 20:45:42] PAGES PGT: OPIN

199Cite as: 528 U. S. 167 (2000)
Scalia, J., dissenting
woefully short on "specific facts," and the vague allegationsof injury they do make are undermined by the evidence adduced at trial.Typically, an environmental plaintiff claiming injury due
to discharges in violation of the Clean Water Act argues thatthe discharges harm the environment, and that the harm to
the environment injures him. This route to injury is barred
in the present case, however, since the District Court con-cluded after considering all the evidence that there had been

"no demonstrated proof of harm to the environment," 956F. Supp. 588, 602 (SC 1997), that the "permit violations at
issue in this citizen suit did not result in any health risk or
environmental harm," ibid., that "[a]ll available data . . . fail
to show that Laidlaw's actual discharges have resulted in
harm to the North Tyger River," id., at 602-603, and that
"the overall quality of the river exceeds levels necessary to
support . . . recreation in and on the water," id., at 600.

The Court finds these conclusions unproblematic for standing, because "[t]he relevant showing for purposes of Article
III standing . . . is not injury to the environment but injury
to the plaintiff." Ante, at 181. This statement is correct,
as far as it goes. We have certainly held that a demonstration of harm to the environment is not enough to satisfy the
injury-in-fact requirement unless the plaintiff can demonstrate how he personally was harmed. E. g., Lujan, supra,
at 563. In the normal course, however, a lack of demonstrable harm to the environment will translate, as it plainly does
here, into a lack of demonstrable harm to citizen plaintiffs.
While it is perhaps possible that a plaintiff could be harmed
even though the environment was not, such a plaintiff would
have the burden of articulating and demonstrating the nature of that injury. Ongoing "concerns" about the environment are not enough, for "[i]t is the reality of the threat of
repeated injury that is relevant to the standing inquiry, not
the plaintiff 's subjective apprehensions," Los Angeles v.
Lyons, 461 U. S. 95, 107, n. 8 (1983). At the very least, in

528US1 Unit: $U17 [06-15-01 20:45:42] PAGES PGT: OPIN
200 FRIENDS OF EARTH, INC. v. LAIDLAW ENVIRONMENTAL SERVICES (TOC), INC.

Scalia, J., dissenting

the present case, one would expect to see evidence support-ing the affidavits' bald assertions regarding decreasing

recreational usage and declining home values, as well asevidence for the improbable proposition that Laidlaw's
violations, even though harmless to the environment, aresomehow responsible for these effects. Cf.

Gladstone,
supra, at 115 (noting that standing could be established by
"convincing evidence" that a decline in real estate values wasattributable to the defendant's conduct). Plaintiffs here

have made no attempt at such a showing, but rely entirelyupon unsupported and unexplained affidavit allegations of
"concern."

Indeed, every one of the affiants deposed by Laidlaw
cast into doubt the (in any event inadequate) proposition
that subjective "concerns" actually affected their conduct.
Linda Moore, for example, said in her affidavit that she
would use the affected waterways for recreation if it were
not for her concern about pollution. Record, Doc. No. 71
(Exhs. 45, 46). Yet she testified in her deposition that she
had been to the river only twice, once in 1980 (when she
visited someone who lived by the river) and once after this
suit was filed. Record, Doc. No. 62 (Moore Deposition 23-
24). Similarly, Kenneth Lee Curtis, who claimed he was injured by being deprived of recreational activity at the river,
admitted that he had not been to the river since he was "a
kid," ibid. (Curtis Deposition, pt. 2, p. 38), and when asked
whether the reason he stopped visiting the river was because
of pollution, answered "no," id., at 39. As to Curtis's claim
that the river "looke[d] and smell[ed] polluted," this condition, if present, was surely not caused by Laidlaw's discharges, which according to the District Court "did not
result in any health risk or environmental harm." 956
F. Supp., at 602. The other affiants cited by the Court were
not deposed, but their affidavits state either that they would
use the river if it were not polluted or harmful (as the court
subsequently found it is not), Record, Doc. No. 21 (Exhs. 7,

528US1 Unit: $U17 [06-15-01 20:45:42] PAGES PGT: OPIN

201Cite as: 528 U. S. 167 (2000)
Scalia, J., dissenting
8, and 9), or said that the river looks polluted (which is alsoincompatible with the court's findings),

ibid. (Exh. 10).
These affiants have established nothing but "subjectiveapprehensions."

The Court is correct that the District Court explicitlyfound standing--albeit "by the very slimmest of margins,"
and as "an awfully close call." App. in No. 97-1246 (CA4),
pp. 207-208 (Tr. of Hearing 39-40 (June 30, 1993)). Thatcautious finding, however, was made in 1993, long before the

court's 1997 conclusion that Laidlaw's discharges did notharm the environment. As we have previously recognized,
an initial conclusion that plaintiffs have standing is subject
to reexamination, particularly if later evidence proves inconsistent with that conclusion. Gladstone, 441 U. S., at 115,
and n. 31; Wyoming v. Oklahoma, 502 U. S. 437, 446 (1992).
Laidlaw challenged the existence of injury in fact on appeal
to the Fourth Circuit, but that court did not reach the question. Thus no lower court has reviewed the injury-in-fact
issue in light of the extensive studies that led the District
Court to conclude that the environment was not harmed by
Laidlaw's discharges.

Inexplicably, the Court is untroubled by this, but proceeds
to find injury in fact in the most casual fashion, as though it
is merely confirming a careful analysis made below. Although we have previously refused to find standing based on
the "conclusory allegations of an affidavit," Lujan v. National Wildlife Federation, 497 U. S. 871, 888 (1990), the
Court is content to do just that today. By accepting plaintiffs' vague, contradictory, and unsubstantiated allegations of
"concern" about the environment as adequate to prove injury
in fact, and accepting them even in the face of a finding that
the environment was not demonstrably harmed, the Court
makes the injury-in-fact requirement a sham. If there are
permit violations, and a member of a plaintiff environmental
organization lives near the offending plant, it would be difficult not to satisfy today's lenient standard.

528US1 Unit: $U17 [06-15-01 20:45:42] PAGES PGT: OPIN
202 FRIENDS OF EARTH, INC. v. LAIDLAW ENVIRONMENTAL SERVICES (TOC), INC.

Scalia, J., dissenting

II
The Court's treatment of the redressability requirement--
which would have been unnecessary if it resolved the
injury-in-fact question correctly--is equally cavalier. As
discussed above, petitioners allege ongoing injury consisting
of diminished enjoyment of the affected waterways and decreased property values. They allege that these injuries
are caused by Laidlaw's continuing permit violations. But
the remedy petitioners seek is neither recompense for their
injuries nor an injunction against future violations. Instead, the remedy is a statutorily specified "penalty" for past
violations, payable entirely to the United States Treasury.
Only last Term, we held that such penalties do not redress
any injury a citizen plaintiff has suffered from past violations. Steel Co. v. Citizens for Better Environment, 523
U. S. 83, 106-107 (1998). The Court nonetheless finds the
redressability requirement satisfied here, distinguishing
Steel Co. on the ground that in this case petitioners allege
ongoing violations; payment of the penalties, it says, will
remedy petitioners' injury by deterring future violations by
Laidlaw. Ante, at 185-186. It holds that a penalty payable
to the public "remedies" a threatened private harm, and suffices to sustain a private suit.

That holding has no precedent in our jurisprudence, and
takes this Court beyond the "cases and controversies" that
Article III of the Constitution has entrusted to its resolution.
Even if it were appropriate, moreover, to allow Article III's
remediation requirement to be satisfied by the indirect private consequences of a public penalty, those consequences
are entirely too speculative in the present case. The new
standing law that the Court makes--like all expansions of
standing beyond the traditional constitutional limits--has
grave implications for democratic governance. I shall discuss these three points in turn.

528US1 Unit: $U17 [06-15-01 20:45:42] PAGES PGT: OPIN

203Cite as: 528 U. S. 167 (2000)
Scalia, J., dissenting

A
In Linda R. S. v. Richard D., 410 U. S. 614 (1973), the plain-tiff, mother of an illegitimate child, sought, on behalf of herself, her child, and all others similarly situated, an injunctionagainst discriminatory application of Art. 602 of the Texas
Penal Code. Although that provision made it a misde-meanor for "any parent" to refuse to support his or her minor
children under 18 years of age, it was enforced only againstmarried parents. That refusal, the plaintiff contended, deprived her and her child of the equal protection of the lawby denying them the deterrent effect of the statute upon the
father's failure to fulfill his support obligation. The Courtheld that there was no Article III standing. There was no
" `direct' relationship," it said, "between the alleged injuryand the claim sought to be adjudicated," since "[t]he prospect
that prosecution will, at least in the future, result in paymentof support can, at best, be termed only speculative." Id., at
618. "[Our cases] demonstrate that, in American jurispru-dence at least, a private citizen lacks a judicially cognizable
interest in the prosecution or nonprosecution of another."
Id., at 619.Although the Court in Linda R. S. recited the "logical

nexus" analysis of Flast v. Cohen, 392 U. S. 83 (1968), whichhas since fallen into desuetude, "it is clear that standing was
denied . . . because of the unlikelihood that the relief re-quested would redress appellant's claimed injury." Duke
Power Co. v. Carolina Environmental Study Group, Inc.,438 U. S. 59, 79, n. 24 (1978). There was no "logical nexus"
between nonenforcement of the statute and Linda R. S.'s fail-ure to receive support payments because "[t]he prospect that
prosecution will . . . result in payment of support" was "spec-ulative," Linda R. S., supra, at 618--that is to say, it was
uncertain whether the relief would prevent the injury.1 Of

1 The decision in Linda R. S. did not turn, as today's opinion imaginatively suggests, on the father's short-term inability to pay support if imprisoned. Ante, at 188, n. 4. The Court's only comment upon the impris528US1 Unit: $U17 [06-15-01 20:45:42] PAGES PGT: OPIN
204 FRIENDS OF EARTH, INC. v. LAIDLAW ENVIRONMENTAL SERVICES (TOC), INC.

Scalia, J., dissenting

course precisely the same situation exists here. The princi-ple that "in American jurisprudence . . . a private citizen

lacks a judicially cognizable interest in the prosecution ornonprosecution of another" applies no less to prosecution for
civil penalties payable to the State than to prosecution forcriminal penalties owing to the State.

The Court's opinion reads as though the only purpose andeffect of the redressability requirement is to assure that the
plaintiff receive some of the benefit of the relief that a courtorders. That is not so. If it were, a federal tort plaintiff
fearing repetition of the injury could ask for tort damages tobe paid not only to himself but to other victims as well, on
the theory that those damages would have at least some de-terrent effect beneficial to him. Such a suit is preposterous
because the "remediation" that is the traditional businessof Anglo-American courts is relief specifically tailored to the
plaintiff 's injury, and not any sort of relief that has someincidental benefit to the plaintiff. Just as a "generalized
grievance" that affects the entire citizenry cannot satisfy theinjury-in-fact requirement even though it aggrieves the
plaintiff along with everyone else, see Lujan, 504 U. S., at573-574, so also a generalized remedy that deters all future
unlawful activity against all persons cannot satisfy the re-mediation requirement, even though it deters (among other
things) repetition of this particular unlawful activity againstthese particular plaintiffs.

Thus, relief against prospective harm is traditionally af-forded by way of an injunction, the scope of which is limited
by the scope of the threatened injury. Lewis v. Casey, 518U. S. 343, 357-360 (1996); Lyons, 461 U. S, at 105-107, and
n. 7. In seeking to overturn that tradition by giving an indionment was that, unlike imprisonment for civil contempt, it would not
condition the father's release upon payment. The Court then continued:
"The prospect that prosecution will, at least in the future"--i. e., upon
completion of the imprisonment--"result in payment of support can, at
best, be termed only speculative." Linda R. S., 410 U. S., at 618.

528US1 Unit: $U17 [06-15-01 20:45:42] PAGES PGT: OPIN

205Cite as: 528 U. S. 167 (2000)
Scalia, J., dissenting
vidual plaintiff the power to invoke a public remedy, Con-gress has done precisely what we have said it cannot do:

convert an "undifferentiated public interest" into an "indi-vidual right" vindicable in the courts. Lujan, supra, at 577;
Steel Co., 523 U. S., at 106. The sort of scattershot redressapproved today makes nonsense of our statement in Schlesinger v. Reservists Comm. to Stop the War, 418 U. S. 208,222 (1974), that the requirement of injury in fact "insures
the framing of relief no broader than required by the precisefacts." A claim of particularized future injury has today
been made the vehicle for pursuing generalized penalties forpast violations, and a threshold showing of injury in fact has
become a lever that will move the world.

B
As I have just discussed, it is my view that a plaintiff 'sdesire to benefit from the deterrent effect of a public penalty

for past conduct can never suffice to establish a case or con-troversy of the sort known to our law. Such deterrent effect
is, so to speak, "speculative as a matter of law." Even ifthat were not so, however, the deterrent effect in the present
case would surely be speculative as a matter of fact.The Court recognizes, of course, that to satisfy Article III,
it must be "likely," as opposed to "merely speculative," thata favorable decision will redress plaintiffs' injury,

Lujan,supra, at 561. See ante, at 180-181. Further, the Court

recognizes that not all deterrent effects of all civil penaltieswill meet this standard--though it declines to "explore the
outer limits" of adequate deterrence, ante, at 187. It con-cludes, however, that in the present case "the civil penalties
sought by FOE carried with them a deterrent effect" thatsatisfied the "likely [rather than] speculative" standard.
Ibid. There is little in the Court's opinion to explain why itbelieves this is so.

The Court cites the District Court's conclusion that thepenalties imposed, along with anticipated fee awards, pro528US1 Unit: $U17 [06-15-01 20:45:42] PAGES PGT: OPIN
206 FRIENDS OF EARTH, INC. v. LAIDLAW ENVIRONMENTAL SERVICES (TOC), INC.

Scalia, J., dissenting

vided "adequate deterrence." Ante, at 178, 187; 956 F.Supp., at 611. There is absolutely no reason to believe, however, that this meant "deterrence adequate to prevent an in-jury to these plaintiffs that would otherwise occur." The
statute does not even mention deterrence in general (muchless deterrence of future harm to the particular plaintiff) as
one of the elements that the court should consider in fixing
the amount of the penalty. (That element can come in, if atall, under the last, residual category of "such other matters

as justice may require." 33 U. S. C. $ 1319(d).) The statutedoes require the court to consider "the seriousness of the
violation or violations, the economic benefit (if any) resulting
from the violation, any history of such violations, any goodfaith efforts to comply with the applicable requirements,
[and] the economic impact of the penalty on the violator . . . ."
Ibid.; see 956 F. Supp., at 601. The District Court meticulously discussed, in subsections (a) through (e) of the portion
of its opinion entitled "Civil Penalty," each one of those specified factors, and then--under subsection (f) entitled "Other
Matters As Justice May Require," it discussed "1. Laidlaw's
Failure to Avail Itself of the Reopener Clause," "2. Recent
Compliance History," and "3. The Ever-Changing Mercury
Limit." There is no mention whatever--in this portion of
the opinion or anywhere else--of the degree of deterrence
necessary to prevent future harm to these particular plaintiffs. Indeed, neither the District Court's final opinion
(which contains the "adequate deterrence" statement) nor
its earlier opinion dealing with the preliminary question
whether South Carolina's previous lawsuit against Laidlaw
constituted "diligent prosecution" that would bar citizen suit,
see 33 U. S. C. $ 1365(b)(1)(B), displayed any awareness that
deterrence of future injury to the plaintiffs was necessary
to support standing.

The District Court's earlier opinion did, however, quote
with approval the passage from a District Court case which
began: " `Civil penalties seek to deter pollution by discourag528US1 Unit: $U17 [06-15-01 20:45:42] PAGES PGT: OPIN

207Cite as: 528 U. S. 167 (2000)
Scalia, J., dissenting
ing future violations. To serve this function, the amount ofthe civil penalty must be high enough to insure that polluters

cannot simply absorb the penalty as a cost of doing busi-ness.' " App. 122, quoting

PIRG v. Powell Duffryn Terminals, Inc., 720 F. Supp. 1158, 1166 (NJ 1989). When the Dis-trict Court concluded the "Civil Penalty" section of its

opinion with the statement that "[t]aken together, this court
believes the above penalty, potential fee awards, and Laid-law's own direct and indirect litigation expenses provide adequate deterrence under the circumstances of this case," 956F. Supp., at 611, it was obviously harking back to this general
statement of what the statutorily prescribed factors (and the
"as justice may require" factors, which in this case did not
include particularized or even generalized deterrence) were
designed to achieve. It meant no more than that the court
believed the civil penalty it had prescribed met the statutory standards.

The Court points out that we have previously said " `all
civil penalties have some deterrent effect,' " ante, at 185
(quoting Hudson v. United States, 522 U. S. 93, 102 (1997)).
That is unquestionably true: As a general matter, polluters
as a class are deterred from violating discharge limits by the
availability of civil penalties. However, none of the cases
the Court cites focused on the deterrent effect of a single
imposition of penalties on a particular lawbreaker. Even
less did they focus on the question whether that particularized deterrent effect (if any) was enough to redress the injury of a citizen plaintiff in the sense required by Article III.
They all involved penalties pursued by the government, not
by citizens. See id., at 96; Department of Revenue of Mont.
v. Kurth Ranch, 511 U. S. 767, 773 (1994); Tull v. United
States, 481 U. S. 412, 414 (1987).

If the Court had undertaken the necessary inquiry into
whether significant deterrence of the plaintiffs' feared injury
was "likely," it would have had to reason something like this:
Strictly speaking, no polluter is deterred by a penalty for

528US1 Unit: $U17 [06-15-01 20:45:42] PAGES PGT: OPIN
208 FRIENDS OF EARTH, INC. v. LAIDLAW ENVIRONMENTAL SERVICES (TOC), INC.

Scalia, J., dissenting

past pollution; he is deterred by the fear of a penalty for
future pollution. That fear will be virtually nonexistent if
the prospective polluter knows that all emissions violatorsare given a free pass; it will be substantial under an emissions program such as the federal scheme here, which is reg-ularly and notoriously enforced; it will be even higher when
a prospective polluter subject to such a regularly enforced
program has, as here, been the object of public charges ofpollution and a suit for injunction; and it will surely be near

the top of the graph when, as here, the prospective polluterhas already been subjected to

state penalties for the past
pollution. The deterrence on which the plaintiffs must rely
for standing in the present case is the marginal increase in
Laidlaw's fear of future penalties that will be achieved by
adding federal penalties for Laidlaw's past conduct.

I cannot say for certain that this marginal increase is zero;
but I can say for certain that it is entirely speculative
whether it will make the difference between these plaintiffs'
suffering injury in the future and these plaintiffs' going unharmed. In fact, the assertion that it will "likely" do so is
entirely farfetched. The speculativeness of that result is
much greater than the speculativeness we found excessive in
Simon v. Eastern Ky. Welfare Rights Organization, 426
U. S. 26, 43 (1976), where we held that denying $ 501(c)(3)
charitable-deduction tax status to hospitals that refused to
treat indigents was not sufficiently likely to assure future
treatment of the indigent plaintiffs to support standing.
And it is much greater than the speculativeness we found
excessive in Linda R. S. v. Richard D., discussed supra, at
203-204, where we said that "[t]he prospect that prosecution
[for nonsupport] will . . . result in payment of support can,
at best, be termed only speculative," 410 U. S., at 618.

In sum, if this case is, as the Court suggests, within the
central core of "deterrence" standing, it is impossible to
imagine what the "outer limits" could possibly be. The
Court's expressed reluctance to define those "outer limits"

528US1 Unit: $U17 [06-15-01 20:45:43] PAGES PGT: OPIN

209Cite as: 528 U. S. 167 (2000)
Scalia, J., dissenting
serves only to disguise the fact that it has promulgated arevolutionary new doctrine of standing that will permit the

entire body of public civil penalties to be handed over toenforcement by private interests.

C
Article II of the Constitution commits it to the Presidentto "take Care that the Laws be faithfully executed," Art. II,

$ 3, and provides specific methods by which all persons ex-ercising significant executive power are to be appointed,
Art. II, $ 2. As Justice Kennedy's concurrence correctlyobserves, the question of the conformity of this legislation
with Article II has not been argued--and I, like the Court,do not address it. But Article III, no less than Article II,
has consequences for the structure of our government, see
Schlesinger, 418 U. S., at 222, and it is worth noting thechanges in that structure which today's decision allows.

By permitting citizens to pursue civil penalties payable tothe Federal Treasury, the Act does not provide a mechanism
for individual relief in any traditional sense, but turns overto private citizens the function of enforcing the law. A
Clean Water Act plaintiff pursuing civil penalties acts as aself-appointed mini-EPA. Where, as is often the case, the
plaintiff is a national association, it has significant discretionin choosing enforcement targets. Once the association is
aware of a reported violation, it need not look long for aninjured member, at least under the theory of injury the
Court applies today. See supra, at 198-201. And once thetarget is chosen, the suit goes forward without meaningful
public control.2 The availability of civil penalties vastly dis2 The Court points out that the Government is allowed to intervene in a
citizen suit, see ante, at 188, n. 4; 33 U. S. C. $ 1365(c)(2), but this power

to "bring the Government's views to the attention of the court," ante, at
188, n. 4, is meager substitute for the power to decide whether prosecution
will occur. Indeed, according the Chief Executive of the United States
the ability to intervene does no more than place him on a par with John

528US1 Unit: $U17 [06-15-01 20:45:43] PAGES PGT: OPIN
210 FRIENDS OF EARTH, INC. v. LAIDLAW ENVIRONMENTAL SERVICES (TOC), INC.

Scalia, J., dissenting

proportionate to the individual injury gives citizen plaintiffsmassive bargaining power--which is often used to achieve

settlements requiring the defendant to support environmen-tal projects of the plaintiffs' choosing. See Greve, The Private Enforcement of Environmental Law, 65 Tulane L. Rev.339, 355-359 (1990). Thus is a public fine diverted to a private interest.To be sure, the EPA may foreclose the citizen suit by itself
bringing suit. 33 U. S. C. $ 1365(b)(1)(B). This allows pub-lic authorities to avoid private enforcement only by accepting
private direction as to when enforcement should be under-taken--which is no less constitutionally bizarre. Elected officials are entirely deprived of their discretion to decide thata given violation should not be the object of suit at all, or
that the enforcement decision should be postponed.3 See$ 1365(b)(1)(A) (providing that citizen plaintiff need only wait
60 days after giving notice of the violation to the governmentbefore proceeding with action). This is the predictable and
inevitable consequence of the Court's allowing the use ofpublic remedies for private wrongs.

III
Finally, I offer a few comments regarding the Court's dis-cussion of whether FOE's claims became moot by reason of

Laidlaw's substantial compliance with the permit limits.I do not disagree with the conclusion that the Court reaches.
Assuming that the plaintiffs had standing to pursue civil pen-alties in the first instance (which they did not), their claim

Q. Public, who can intervene--whether the Government likes it or not--
when the United States files suit. $ 1365(b)(1)(B).

3 The Court observes that "the Federal Executive Branch does not share

the dissent's view that such suits dissipate its authority to enforce the
law," since it has "endorsed this citizen suit from the outset." Ante, at
188, n. 4. Of course, in doubtful cases a long and uninterrupted history
of Presidential acquiescence and approval can shed light upon the constitutional understanding. What we have here--acquiescence and approval by
a single administration--does not deserve passing mention.

528US1 Unit: $U17 [06-15-01 20:45:43] PAGES PGT: OPIN

211Cite as: 528 U. S. 167 (2000)
Scalia, J., dissenting
might well not have been mooted by Laidlaw's voluntarycompliance with the permit, and leaving this fact-intensive

question open for consideration on remand, as the Courtdoes, ante, at 193-194, seems sensible.

4 In reaching this disposition, however, the Court engages in a troubling discus-sion of the purported distinctions between the doctrines of

standing and mootness. I am frankly puzzled as to why thisdiscussion appears at all. Laidlaw's claimed compliance is
squarely within the bounds of our "voluntary cessation" doc-trine, which is the basis for the remand.

Ante, at 193.5

4 In addition to the compliance and plant-closure issues, there also remains open on remand the question whether the current suit was foreclosed because the earlier suit by the State was "diligently prosecuted."
See 33 U. S. C. $ 1365(b)(1)(B). Nothing in the Court's opinion disposes of
the issue. The opinion notes the District Court's finding that Laidlaw
itself played a significant role in facilitating the State's action. Ante, at
178, n. 1, 186, n. 2. But there is no incompatibility whatever between
a defendant's facilitation of suit and the State's diligent prosecution--as
prosecutions of felons who confess their crimes and turn themselves in
regularly demonstrate. Laidlaw was entirely within its rights to prefer
state suit to this private enforcement action; and if it had such a preference it would have been prudent--given that a State must act within 60
days of receiving notice of a citizen suit, see $ 1365(b)(1)(A), and given the
number of cases state agencies handle--for Laidlaw to make sure its case
did not fall through the cracks. South Carolina's interest in the action
was not a feigned last minute contrivance. It had worked with Laidlaw
in resolving the problem for many years, and had previously undertaken
an administrative enforcement action resulting in a consent order. 890
F. Supp. 470, 476 (SC 1995). South Carolina has filed an amicus brief
arguing that allowing citizen suits to proceed despite ongoing state enforcement efforts "will provide citizens and federal judges the opportunity
to relitigate and second-guess the enforcement and permitting actions of
South Carolina and other States." Brief for South Carolina as Amicus
Curiae 6.

5 Unlike Justice Stevens' concurrence, the opinion for the Court appears to recognize that a claim for civil penalties is moot when it is clear
that no future injury to the plaintiff at the hands of the defendant can
occur. The concurrence suggests that civil penalties, like traditional damages remedies, cannot be mooted by absence of threatened injury. The
analogy is inapt. Traditional money damages are payable to compensate

528US1 Unit: $U17 [06-15-01 20:45:43] PAGES PGT: OPIN
212 FRIENDS OF EARTH, INC. v. LAIDLAW ENVIRONMENTAL SERVICES (TOC), INC.

Scalia, J., dissenting

There is no reason to engage in an interesting academic ex-cursus upon the differences between mootness and standing

in order to invoke this obviously applicable rule.6Because the discussion is not essential--indeed, not even
relevant--to the Court's decision, it is of limited significance.Nonetheless, I am troubled by the Court's too-hasty retreat
from our characterization of mootness as "the doctrine ofstanding set in a time frame."

Arizonans for Official Eng-lish v. Arizona, 520 U. S. 43, 68, n. 22 (1997). We have repeatedly recognized that what is required for litigation tocontinue is essentially identical to what is required for litigation to begin: There must be a justiciable case or controversyas required by Article III. "Simply stated, a case is moot
when the issues presented are no longer `live' or the partieslack a legally cognizable interest in the outcome." Powell
v. McCormack, 395 U. S. 486, 496 (1969). A court may not
for the harm of past conduct, which subsists whether future harm is
threatened or not; civil penalties are privately assessable (according to the
Court) to deter threatened future harm to the plaintiff. Where there is
no threat to the plaintiff, he has no claim to deterrence. The proposition
that impossibility of future violation does not moot the case holds true, of
course, for civil-penalty suits by the government, which do not rest upon
the theory that some particular future harm is being prevented.

6 The Court attempts to frame its exposition as a corrective to the

Fourth Circuit, which it claims "confused mootness with standing." Ante,
at 189. The Fourth Circuit's conclusion of nonjusticiability rested upon
the belief (entirely correct, in my view) that the only remedy being pursued on appeal, civil penalties, would not redress FOE's claimed injury.
149 F. 3d 303, 306 (1998). While this might be characterized as a conclusion that FOE had no standing to pursue civil penalties from the outset,
it can also be characterized, as it was by the Fourth Circuit, as a conclusion
that, when FOE declined to appeal denial of the declaratory judgment and
injunction, and appealed only the inadequacy of the civil penalties (which
it had no standing to pursue) the case as a whole became moot. Given
the Court's erroneous conclusion that civil penalties can redress private
injury, it of course rejects both formulations--but neither of them necessitates the Court's academic discourse comparing the mootness and standing doctrines.

528US1 Unit: $U17 [06-15-01 20:45:43] PAGES PGT: OPIN

213Cite as: 528 U. S. 167 (2000)
Scalia, J., dissenting
proceed to hear an action if, subsequent to its initiation, the
dispute loses "its character as a present, live controversy of
the kind that must exist if [the court is] to avoid advisory
opinions on abstract propositions of law." Hall v. Beals, 396
U. S. 45, 48 (1969) (per curiam). See also Preiser v. Newkirk, 422 U. S. 395, 401 (1975); Steffel v. Thompson, 415 U. S.
452, 459, n. 10 (1974). Because the requirement of a continuing case or controversy derives from the Constitution, Liner
v. Jafco, Inc., 375 U. S. 301, 306, n. 3 (1964), it may not be
ignored when inconvenient, United States v. Alaska S. S. Co.,
253 U. S. 113, 116 (1920) (moot question cannot be decided,
"[h]owever convenient it might be"), or, as the Court suggests, to save "sunk costs," compare ante, at 192, with Lewis
v. Continental Bank Corp., 494 U. S. 472, 480 (1990) ("[R]easonable caution is needed to be sure that mooted litigation is
not pressed forward . . . solely in order to obtain reimbursement of sunk costs").

It is true that mootness has some added wrinkles that
standing lacks. One is the "voluntary cessation" doctrine to
which the Court refers. Ante, at 189. But it is inaccurate
to regard this as a reduction of the basic requirement for
standing that obtained at the beginning of the suit. A genuine controversy must exist at both stages. And just as the
initial suit could be brought (by way of suit for declaratory
judgment) before the defendant actually violated the plaintiff 's alleged rights, so also the initial suit can be continued
even though the defendant has stopped violating the plaintiff 's alleged rights. The "voluntary cessation" doctrine is
nothing more than an evidentiary presumption that the controversy reflected by the violation of alleged rights continues
to exist. Steel Co., 523 U. S., at 109. Similarly, the fact that
we do not find cases moot when the challenged conduct is
"capable of repetition, yet evading review" does not demonstrate that the requirements for mootness and for standing
differ. "Where the conduct has ceased for the time being

528US1 Unit: $U17 [06-15-01 20:45:43] PAGES PGT: OPIN
214 FRIENDS OF EARTH, INC. v. LAIDLAW ENVIRONMENTAL SERVICES (TOC), INC.

Scalia, J., dissenting

but there is a demonstrated probability that it will recur, a
real-life controversy between parties with a personal stake
in the outcome continues to exist." Honig v. Doe, 484 U. S.
305, 341 (1988) (Scalia, J., dissenting) (emphasis deleted).

Part of the confusion in the Court's discussion is engendered by the fact that it compares standing, on the one hand,
with mootness based on voluntary cessation, on the other
hand. Ante, at 190. The required showing that it is "absolutely clear" that the conduct "could not reasonably be expected to recur" is not the threshold showing required for
mootness, but the heightened showing required in a particular category of cases where we have sensibly concluded that
there is reason to be skeptical that cessation of violation
means cessation of live controversy. For claims of mootness
based on changes in circumstances other than voluntary cessation, the showing we have required is less taxing, and the
inquiry is indeed properly characterized as one of " `standing
set in a time frame.' " See Arizonans, supra, at 67, 68, n. 22
(case mooted where plaintiff 's change in jobs deprived case
of "still vital claim for prospective relief "); Spencer v.
Kemna, 523 U. S. 1, 7 (1998) (case mooted by petitioner's
completion of his sentence, since "throughout the litigation,
the plaintiff must have suffered, or be threatened with, an
actual injury traceable to the defendant and likely to be redressed by a favorable judicial decision" (internal quotation
marks omitted)); Lewis, supra, at 478-480 (case against State
mooted by change in federal law that eliminated parties'
"personal stake" in the outcome).

In sum, while the Court may be correct that the parallel
between standing and mootness is imperfect due to realistic
evidentiary presumptions that are by their nature applicable
only in the mootness context, this does not change the underlying principle that " `[t]he requisite personal interest that
must exist at the commencement of the litigation . . . must
continue throughout its existence . . . .' " Arizonans, supra,

528US1 Unit: $U17 [06-15-01 20:45:43] PAGES PGT: OPIN

215Cite as: 528 U. S. 167 (2000)
Scalia, J., dissenting
at 68, n. 22 (quoting United States Parole Comm'n v.Geraghty, 445 U. S. 388, 397 (1980)).

* * *
By uncritically accepting vague claims of injury, the Courthas turned the Article III requirement of injury in fact into

a "mere pleading requirement," Lujan, 504 U. S., at 561;and by approving the novel theory that public penalties can
redress anticipated private wrongs, it has come close to"mak[ing] the redressability requirement vanish,"

Steel Co.,supra, at 107. The undesirable and unconstitutional consequence of today's decision is to place the immense power ofsuing to enforce the public laws in private hands. I respectfully dissent.

528US1 Unit: $U18 [06-15-01 20:47:25] PAGES PGT: OPIN
216 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

Syllabus

ADARAND CONSTRUCTORS, INC. v. SLATER, SECRETARY OF TRANSPORTATION, et al.

on petition for writ of certiorari to the unitedstates court of appeals for the tenth circuit

No. 99-295. Decided January 12, 2000
The Department of Transportation (DOT) favors contracting with companies that employ so-called "disadvantaged business enterprises" that are
certified by, inter alios, a state highway agency as owned and controlled
by socially and economically disadvantaged individuals. Federal regulations require that the certifying entity presume members of specified
minority groups to be socially disadvantaged and allow others to be
certified if they can demonstrate social disadvantage. Both third parties and DOT may challenge such findings. Petitioner, whose principal
is a white man, submitted the low bid on a portion of a federal highway
project, but the prime contractor awarded the subcontract to a company
certified by the Colorado Department of Transportation (CDOT) as a
disadvantaged enterprise. Petitioner sued various federal officials, alleging that a Subcontractor Compensation Clause required by the Federal Government--which clause rewards prime contractors for subcontracting with enterprises certified as disadvantaged by a State's
highway or transportation department--and in particular the racebased presumption that forms its foundation, violated petitioner's Fifth
Amendment equal protection right. Ultimately, under Adarand Constructors, Inc. v. Pen~ a, 515 U. S. 200, the District Court held that the
clause and the presumption failed strict scrutiny because they were not
narrowly tailored. Adarand Constructors, Inc. v. Pen~ a, 965 F. Supp.
1556 (Adarand II). While respondents' appeal was pending, petitioner
filed a second suit in District Court challenging (on the same grounds)
the State's use of the federal certification guidelines. Shortly thereafter the State altered its certification program, substituting for the social
disadvantage presumption a requirement that all applicants certify on
their own account that each of the firm's minority owners has experienced social disadvantage based on the effects of racial, ethnic, or gender discrimination. Taking judicial notice of its holding in Adarand II
that the Federal Government had discriminated against petitioner's
owner by applying unconstitutional rules and regulations, the District
Court reasoned that petitioner likely was eligible for disadvantaged
business status under Colorado's system. Petitioner then requested
and received that status from CDOT. Upon learning that CDOT had
given petitioner disadvantaged business status, the Tenth Circuit held

528US1 Unit: $U18 [06-15-01 20:47:25] PAGES PGT: OPIN

217Cite as: 528 U. S. 216 (2000)
Per Curiam
that the cause of action was moot and vacated the District Court's Adarand II judgment.

Held: Petitioner's cause of action is not moot because, under the circumstances of this case, it is impossible to conclude that respondents have
borne their burden of establishing that the challenged conduct could not
reasonably be expected to recur. Friends of Earth, Inc. v. Laidlaw
Environmental Services (TOC), Inc., ante, at 189. If this case is moot,
it is because the Federal Government has accepted CDOT's certification
of petitioner as a disadvantaged business enterprise, and has thereby
ceased its offending conduct. But DOT accepts only valid certifications
from state agencies, and it has yet to approve--as it must--CDOT's
procedure. Because there are material differences (not to say incompatibility) between that procedure and DOT's regulations, it is not at all
clear that CDOT's certification is valid, and hence not at all clear that
the Subcontractor Compensation Clause requires its acceptance. It is
also far from clear that there will be no third-party or DOT challenge
to petitioner's certification. Indeed, such challenges seem quite probable now that the Tenth Circuit, by vacating Adarand II, has eliminated
the sole basis for petitioner's certification in the first place.

Certiorari granted; 169 F. 3d 1292, reversed and remanded.

Per Curiam.

I

Congress has adopted a policy that favors contracting withsmall businesses owned and controlled by the socially and

economically disadvantaged. See $ 8(d)(1) of the Small Business Act, as added by $ 7 of Pub. L. 87-305, 75 Stat. 667, and
as amended, 15 U. S. C. $ 637(d)(1) (1994 ed., Supp. IV). Toeffectuate that policy, the Intermodal Surface Transportation Efficiency Act of 1991 (ISTEA), Pub. L. 102-240,$ 1003(b), 105 Stat. 1919, which is an appropriations measure
for the Department of Transportation (DOT), seeks to direct10 percent of the contracting funds expended on projects
funded in whole or in part by the appropriated funds totransportation projects employing so-called disadvantaged
business enterprises.1 ISTEA $ 1003(b)(1).

1 Congress recently enacted the Transportation Equity Act for the 21st
Century, Pub. L. 105-178, Tit. I, $ 1101(b), 112 Stat. 113, the successor
appropriations measure to ISTEA. Although the new Act contains simi528US1 Unit: $U18 [06-15-01 20:47:25] PAGES PGT: OPIN
218 ADARAND CONSTRUCTORS, INC. v. SLATER

Per Curiam
To qualify for that status, the small business must be certified as owned and controlled by socially and economically
disadvantaged individuals. DOT does not itself conduct certifications, but relies on certifications from two main sources:
the Small Business Administration, which certifies businesses for all types of federal procurement programs, and
state highway agencies, which certify them for purposes of
federally assisted highway projects. The federal regulations governing these certification programs, see 13 CFR
pt. 124 (1999) (Small Business Administration); 64 Fed. Reg.
5096-5148 (1999) (to be codified in 49 CFR pt. 26) (DOT for
state highway agencies), require that the certifying entity
presume to be socially disadvantaged persons who are black,
Hispanic, Asian Pacific, Subcontinent Asian, Native Americans, or members of other groups designated from time to
time by the Small Business Administration. See 13 CFR

$ 124.103(b); 64 Fed. Reg. 5136 ($ 26.67). State highway
agencies must in addition presume that women are socially
disadvantaged. Ibid. Small businesses owned and controlled by persons who are not members of the preferred
groups may also be certified, but only if they can demonstrate social disadvantage. See 13 CFR $ 124.103(c); 64 Fed.
Reg. 5136-5137 ($ 26.67(d)); id., at 5147-5148 (pt. 26, subpt. D,
App. E). Third parties, as well as DOT, may challenge findings of social disadvantage. See 13 CFR $ 124.1017(a); 64
Fed. Reg. 5142 ($ 26.87).

II

In 1989, DOT awarded the prime contract for a federal
highway project in Colorado to Mountain Gravel & Construction Company. The contract included a Subcontractor Compensation Clause--which the Small Business Act requires all

lar provisions, it is technically the provisions of ISTEA that apply to funding obligated in prior fiscal years but not yet expended.

528US1 Unit: $U18 [06-15-01 20:47:25] PAGES PGT: OPIN

219Cite as: 528 U. S. 216 (2000)
Per Curiam
federal agencies to include in their prime contracts, see 15
U. S. C. $ 637(d)--rewarding the prime contractor for subcontracting with disadvantaged business enterprises, see

$ 637(d)(4)(E). Petitioner, whose principal is a white man,
submitted the low bid on a portion of the project, but Mountain Gravel awarded the subcontract to a company that
had previously been certified by the Colorado Department
of Transportation (CDOT) as a disadvantaged business
enterprise.

Petitioner brought suit against various federal officials, alleging that the Subcontractor Compensation Clause, and in
particular the race-based presumption that forms its foundation, violated petitioner's Fifth Amendment right to equal
protection. The Tenth Circuit, applying the so-called intermediate scrutiny approved in some of our cases involving
classifications on a basis other than race, see Mississippi
Univ. for Women v. Hogan, 458 U. S. 718 (1982); Craig v.
Boren, 429 U. S. 190 (1976), upheld the use of the clause and
the presumption. Adarand Constructors, Inc. v. Pen~ a, 16
F. 3d 1537 (1994). Because DOT's use of race-based measures should have been subjected to strict scrutiny, we reversed and remanded for the application of that standard.
Adarand Constructors, Inc. v. Pen~ a, 515 U. S. 200, 237-239
(1995) (Adarand I).

On remand, the District Court for the District of Colorado held that the clause and the presumption failed strict
scrutiny because they were not narrowly tailored. Adarand Constructors, Inc. v. Pen~ a, 965 F. Supp. 1556 (1997)
(Adarand II). Specifically, the court held the presumption
that members of the enumerated racial groups are socially
disadvantaged to be both overinclusive and underinclusive,
because it includes members of those groups who are not
disadvantaged and excludes members of other groups who
are. Id., at 1580. The District Court enjoined DOT from

528US1 Unit: $U18 [06-15-01 20:47:25] PAGES PGT: OPIN
220 ADARAND CONSTRUCTORS, INC. v. SLATER

Per Curiam
using the clause and its presumption.2 Id., at 1584. Re-spondents appealed to the Tenth Circuit.

Shortly thereafter, and while respondents' appeal was stillpending, petitioner filed a second suit in the District Court,
this time naming as defendants certain Colorado officials,and challenging (on the same grounds) the State's use of the
federal guidelines in certifying disadvantaged business en-terprises for federally assisted projects.

Adarand Con-structors, Inc. v. Romer, Civ. No. 97-K-1351 (June 26, 1997).

Shortly after this suit was filed, however, Colorado alteredits certification program in response to the District Court's
decision in Adarand II. Specifically, the State did awaywith the presumption of social disadvantage for certain minorities and women, App. to Pet. for Cert. 109-111, and inits place substituted a requirement that all applicants certify
on their own account that each of the firm's majority owners"has experienced social disadvantage based upon the effects
of racial, ethnic or gender discrimination," id., at 110. Colo-rado requires no further showing of social disadvantage by
any applicant.A few days after Colorado amended its certification procedure, the District Court held a hearing on petitioner's motionfor a preliminary injunction in

Romer. The District Courttook judicial notice of its holding in Adarand II that the Federal Government had discriminated against petitioner'sowner "by the application of unconstitutional rules and regulations." App. to Pet. for Cert. 136. As a result of thatrace-based discrimination, the District Court reasoned, petitioner likely was eligible for disadvantaged business statusunder Colorado's system for certifying businesses for federally assisted projects--the system at issue in Romer. App.to Pet. for Cert. 137. The District Court therefore denied

2 Before the Tenth Circuit, the parties disagreed as to whether the scope
of the District Court's remedial order was appropriate. In characterizing
that order as we do here, we do not intend to take a position in that
dispute.

528US1 Unit: $U18 [06-15-01 20:47:25] PAGES PGT: OPIN

221Cite as: 528 U. S. 216 (2000)
Per Curiam
petitioner's request for a preliminary injunction. Id., at 138.Petitioner then requested and received disadvantaged business status from CDOT.Meanwhile, respondents' appeal from the District Court's
decision in Adarand II was pending before the Tenth Cir-cuit. Upon learning that CDOT had given petitioner
disadvantaged business status, the Tenth Circuit held thatthe cause of action was moot, and vacated the District
Court's judgment favorable to petitioner in Adarand II.169 F. 3d 1292, 1296-1297, 1299 (CA10 1999). Petitioner
filed a petition for certiorari.

III
In dismissing the case as moot, the Tenth Circuit reliedon the language of the Subcontractor Compensation Clause,

which provides that "[a] small business concern will be con-sidered a [disadvantaged business enterprise] after it has
been certified as such by . . . any State's Department ofHighways/Transportation." Id., at 1296. Because CDOT
had certified petitioner as a disadvantaged business enter-prise, the court reasoned, the language of the clause indicated that the Federal Government also had accepted peti-tioner's certification for purposes of federal projects. As a
result, petitioner could no longer demonstrate " `an invasionof a legally protected interest' that is sufficiently `concrete
and particularized' and `actual or imminent' " to establishstanding.

Arizonans for Official English v. Arizona, 520U. S. 43, 64 (1997) (quoting Lujan v. Defenders of Wildlife,

504 U. S. 555, 560 (1992)). Because, the court continued,petitioner could not demonstrate such an invasion, its cause
of action was moot. 169 F. 3d, at 1296-1297.In so holding, the Tenth Circuit "confused mootness with
standing," Friends of Earth, Inc. v. Laidlaw EnvironmentalServices (TOC), Inc., ante, at 189, and as a result placed the
burden of proof on the wrong party. If this case is moot,it is because the Federal Government has accepted CDOT's

528US1 Unit: $U18 [06-15-01 20:47:25] PAGES PGT: OPIN
222 ADARAND CONSTRUCTORS, INC. v. SLATER

Per Curiam
certification of petitioner as a disadvantaged business enter-prise, and has thereby ceased its offending conduct. Voluntary cessation of challenged conduct moots a case, however,only if it is "

absolutely clear that the allegedly wrongful behavior could not reasonably be expected to recur." United
States v. Concentrated Phosphate Export Assn., Inc., 393
U. S. 199, 203 (1968) (emphasis added). And the " `heavy
burden of persua[ding]' the court that the challenged conductcannot reasonably be expected to start up again

lies with the
party asserting mootness." Friends of Earth, ante, at 189(emphasis added) (quoting

Concentrated Phosphate Export
Assn., supra, at 203).

Because respondents cannot satisfy this burden, the Tenth
Circuit's error was a crucial one. As common sense would
suggest, and as the Tenth Circuit itself recognized, DOT accepts only "valid certification[s]" from state agencies. 169
F. 3d, at 1298. As respondents concede, however, see Brief
in Opposition 13-14, n. 6, DOT has yet to approve--as it
must--CDOT's procedure for certifying disadvantaged business enterprises, see 64 Fed. Reg. 5129 (1999) (49 CFR

$ 26.21(b)(1)) ("[The State] must submit a [disadvantaged
business enterprise] program conforming to this part by August 31, 1999 to the concerned operating administration").

DOT has promulgated regulations outlining the procedure
state highway agencies must follow in certifying firms as disadvantaged business enterprises. See 64 Fed. Reg. 5096-
5148 (pt. 26). As described earlier, those regulations
require the agency to presume that "women, Black Americans, Hispanic Americans, Native Americans, Asian-Pacific
Americans, Subcontinent Asian Americans, or other minorities found to be disadvantaged by the [Small Business Administration]" are socially disadvantaged. Id., at 5136
($ 26.67(a)(1)). Before individuals not members of those
groups may be certified, the state agency must make individual determinations as to disadvantage. See id., at 5136-
5137 ($ 26.67(d)) ("In such a proceeding, the applicant firm

528US1 Unit: $U18 [06-15-01 20:47:25] PAGES PGT: OPIN

223Cite as: 528 U. S. 216 (2000)
Per Curiam
has the burden of demonstrating to [the state highwayagency], by a preponderance of the evidence, that the individuals who own and control it are socially and economicallydisadvantaged");

id., at 5147-5148 (pt. 26, subpt. D, App. E)
(providing list of "elements" that highway agencies mustconsider in making individualized determinations of social

disadvantage). CDOT's new procedure under which petitioner was certified applies no presumption in favor of minor-ity groups, and accepts without investigation a firm's selfcertification of entitlement to disadvantaged business status.See App. to Pet. for Cert. 109-111. Given the material differences (not to say incompatibility) between that procedure
and the requirements of the DOT regulations, it is not at all
clear that CDOT's certification is a "valid certification," and
hence not at all clear that the Subcontractor Compensation
Clause requires its acceptance.

Before the Tenth Circuit, respondents took pains to "expres[s] no opinion regarding the correctness of Colorado's determination that [petitioner] is entitled to [disadvantaged
business] status." Motion by the Federal Appellants to
Dismiss Appeal as Moot and to Vacate the District Court
Judgment in No. 97-1304, p. 3, n. 2. Instead, they stated
flatly that "in the event there is a third-party challenge to
[petitioner's] certification as a [disadvantaged business enterprise] and the decision on the challenge is appealed to
DOT, DOT may review the decision to determine whether
the certification was proper." Id., at 3-4, n. 2. In addition,
DOT itself has the power to require States to initiate proceedings to withdraw a firm's disadvantaged status if there
is "reasonable cause to believe" that the firm "does not meet
the eligibility criteria" set forth in the federal regulations.
64 Fed. Reg. 5142 ($ 26.87(c)(1)). Given the patent incompatibility of the certification with the federal regulations, it is
far from clear that these possibilities will not become reality.
Indeed, challenges to petitioner's disadvantaged business
status seem quite probable now that the Tenth Circuit, by

528US1 Unit: $U18 [06-15-01 20:47:25] PAGES PGT: OPIN
224 ADARAND CONSTRUCTORS, INC. v. SLATER

Per Curiam
vacating Adarand II, has eliminated the sole basis for peti-tioner's certification in the first place.

The Tenth Circuit dismissed these possibilities as insuffi-ciently particular and concrete to grant standing and therefore "too conjectural and speculative to avoid a finding ofmootness." 169 F. 3d, at 1298 (internal quotation marks
omitted). As we recently noted in Friends of the Earth,however, "[t]he plain lesson of [our precedents] is that there
are circumstances in which the prospect that a defendantwill engage in (or resume) harmful conduct may be too speculative to support standing, but not too speculative to over-come mootness."

Ante, at 190. Because, under the cir-cumstances of this case, it is impossible to conclude that

respondents have borne their burden of establishing that itis "absolutely clear that the allegedly wrongful behavior
could not reasonably be expected to recur," ante, at 189, peti-tioner's cause of action remains alive.

* * *
It is no small matter to deprive a litigant of the rewardsof its efforts, particularly in a case that has been litigated up

to this Court and back down again. Such action on groundsof mootness would be justified only if it were absolutely clear
that the litigant no longer had any need of the judicial protec-tion that it sought. Because that is not the case here, the
petition for writ of certiorari is granted, the judgment ofthe United States Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit is
reversed, and the case is remanded for further proceedingsconsistent with this opinion.

It is so ordered.

528US2 Unit: $U19 [06-14-01 20:17:10] PAGES PGT: OPIN

225OCTOBER TERM, 1999
Syllabus

WEEKS v. ANGELONE, DIRECTOR, VIRGINIADEPARTMENT OF CORRECTIONS
certiorari to the united states court of appeals forthe fourth circuit

No. 99-5746. Argued December 6, 1999--Decided January 19, 2000
After a Virginia jury found petitioner Weeks guilty of capital murder,

the prosecution sought to prove two aggravating circumstances in the
penalty phase, and the defense presented 10 witnesses in mitigation.
During deliberations, the jurors sent the trial judge a note asking
whether, if they believed Weeks guilty of at least one of the aggravating circumstances, it was their duty to issue the death penalty, or
whether they must decide whether to issue the death penalty or a life
sentence. The judge responded by directing them to a paragraph in
their instructions stating: " `If you find from the evidence that the
Commonwealth has proved, beyond a reasonable doubt, either of the
two [aggravating circumstances], and as to that alternative, you are
unanimous, then you may fix the punishment . . . at death, or if you
believe from all the evidence that the death penalty is not justified,
then you shall fix the punishment . . . at [life] imprisonment.' " Over
two hours later, the jury returned its verdict, which read: "[H]aving
unanimously found that [Weeks'] conduct in committing the offense
[satisfied one of the aggravating circumstances], and having considered the evidence in mitigation . . . , [we] unanimously fix his punishment at death." The jurors were polled and all responded affirmatively that the foregoing was their verdict. In his direct appeal to the
Virginia Supreme Court, Weeks' assignment of error respecting the
judge's answering the jury's question about mitigating circumstances
was number 44. That court affirmed Weeks' conviction and sentence
on direct appeal and later dismissed his state habeas petition. The Federal District Court denied him federal habeas relief, and the Fourth
Circuit denied a certificate of appealability and dismissed his petition.

Held:

1. The Constitution is not violated when a trial judge directs a capital
jury's attention to a specific paragraph of a constitutionally sufficient
instruction in response to a question regarding the proper consideration
of mitigating evidence. Weeks misplaces his reliance on Bollenbach v.
United States, 326 U. S. 607, 611, and Eddings v. Oklahoma, 455 U. S.
104, 114, both of which are inapposite in this case. Here, the trial judge
gave precisely the same Virginia capital instruction that was upheld in

528US2 Unit: $U19 [06-14-01 20:17:10] PAGES PGT: OPIN
226 WEEKS v. ANGELONE

Syllabus
Buchanan v. Angelone, 522 U. S. 269, 277, as being sufficient to allow
the jury to consider mitigating evidence. The judge also gave a specific
instruction on mitigating evidence that was not given in Buchanan.
The Constitution does not require anything more, as a jury is presumed
both to follow its instructions, Richardson v. Marsh, 481 U. S. 200, 211,
and to understand a judge's answer to its question, see, e. g., Armstrong
v. Toler, 11 Wheat. 258, 279. To presume otherwise would require
reversal every time a jury inquires about a matter of constitutional
significance, regardless of the judge's answer. Here, the presumption
gains additional support from empirical factors, including that each of
the jurors affirmed the verdict in open court, they deliberated for more
than two hours after receiving the judge's answer to their question, and
defense counsel specifically explained to them during closing argument
that they could find both aggravating factors proven and still not sentence petitioner to death. At best, Weeks has demonstrated only that
there exists a slight possibility that the jury considered itself precluded
from considering mitigating evidence. Such a demonstration is insufficient to prove a constitutional violation under Boyde v. California, 494
U. S. 370, 380, which requires the showing of a reasonable likelihood
that the jury felt so restrained. It also appears that Weeks' attorney
did not view the judge's answer to the jury's question as a serious flaw
in the trial at that time, since he made an oral motion to set aside the
death sentence and did not even mention this incident. And the low
priority and space which counsel assigned to the point on direct appeal
suggests that the present emphasis was an afterthought. Pp. 231-237.

2. Federal habeas relief is barred by 28 U. S. C. $ 2254(d). For the
foregoing reasons, it follows a fortiori that the adjudication of the State
Supreme Court's affirmance of Weeks' sentence and conviction was neither "contrary to," nor involved an "unreasonable application of," any of
this Court's decisions as the statute requires. P. 237.

176 F. 3d 249, affirmed.

Rehnquist, C. J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which O'Con-
nor, Scalia, Kennedy, and Thomas, JJ., joined. Stevens, J., filed a
dissenting opinion, in which Ginsburg and Breyer, JJ., joined, and in
which Souter, J., joined with respect to all but Part I, post, p. 237.

Mark Evan Olive argued the cause for petitioner. With
him on the briefs were Glen A. Huff, Timothy M. Richardson, and Sterling H. Weaver.

528US2 Unit: $U19 [06-14-01 20:17:10] PAGES PGT: OPIN

227Cite as: 528 U. S. 225 (2000)
Opinion of the Court
Robert H. Anderson III, Assistant Attorney General ofVirginia, argued the cause for respondent. With him on the

brief was Mark L. Earley, Attorney General.*

Chief Justice Rehnquist delivered the opinion of theCourt.

This case presents the question whether the Constitutionis violated when a trial judge directs a capital jury's attention to a specific paragraph of a constitutionally sufficientinstruction in response to a question regarding the proper
consideration of mitigating circumstances. We hold that itis not and that habeas relief is barred by 28 U. S. C. $ 2254(d)
(1994 ed., Supp. III).Petitioner Lonnie Weeks, Jr., was riding from Washington,
D. C., to Richmond, Virginia, as a passenger in a car drivenby his uncle, Lewis Dukes. Petitioner had stolen the vehicle
in a home burglary earlier in the month. The two spedpast the marked car of Virginia State Trooper Jose Cavazos,
who was monitoring traffic. Trooper Cavazos activatedhis emergency lights and took chase. After passing other
vehicles on the highway shoulder, Dukes stopped on anexit ramp. Trooper Cavazos approached the driver's side
of the stolen vehicle on foot. Upon the trooper's request,Dukes alighted and stood near the rear of the car. Trooper
Cavazos, still standing near the driver's side, asked peti-tioner to step out as well. As Weeks stepped out on the
passenger's side, he carried a 9-millimeter semiautomaticpistol loaded with hollow-point bullets. Petitioner proceeded to fire six bullets at the trooper, two of which en-tered his body near the right and left shoulder straps of his
protective vest, and four of which entered his forearms andleft wrist. Trooper Cavazos died within minutes.

Petitioner was arrested the next morning. During rou-tine questioning about his physical and mental state by clas*Kent S. Scheidegger filed a brief for the Criminal Justice Legal Foundation as amicus curiae urging affirmance.

528US2 Unit: $U19 [06-14-01 20:17:10] PAGES PGT: OPIN
228 WEEKS v. ANGELONE

Opinion of the Court
sification officers, petitioner confessed, indicating that he wasconsidering suicide because he shot the trooper. Petitioner

also voluntarily wrote a letter to a jail officer admitting thekilling and expressing remorse.

Petitioner was tried in the Circuit Court for Prince Wil-liam County, Virginia, in October 1993. After the jury had
found him guilty of capital murder, a 2-day penalty phasefollowed. In this proceeding the prosecution sought to
prove two aggravating circumstances: that Weeks "wouldcommit criminal acts of violence that would constitute a
continuing serious threat to society" and that his conductwas "outrageously or wantonly vile, horrible or inhuman, in
that it involved depravity of mind or aggravated battery."App. 192. During the penalty phase, the defense presented
10 witnesses, including petitioner, in mitigation.

The jury retired at 10:40 a.m. on the second day to begindeliberations. At around noon, the judge informed counsel

that the jury had asked the following question:

"Does the sentence of life imprisonment in the State of
Virginia have the possibility of parole, and if so, underwhat conditions must be met to receive parole?" App.

to Pet. for Cert. 90.
The judge responded to the jury's question as follows:

"You should impose such punishment as you feel is just
under the evidence, and within the instructions of the
Court. You are not to concern yourselves with whatmay happen afterwards."

Ibid.

The prosecution agreed with the judge's response and defense counsel objected. At 12:40 p.m., court reconvenedand the judge told the jurors that there would be a 1-hour

luncheon recess and that they could go to lunch or continuedeliberations, as a juror had apparently informed the bailiff
that they might be interested in working through lunch. At
12:45 p.m., the jury retired from the courtroom. At 3:15

528US2 Unit: $U19 [06-14-01 20:17:10] PAGES PGT: OPIN

229Cite as: 528 U. S. 225 (2000)
Opinion of the Court
p.m., the judge informed counsel that he had received thefollowing written question from the jury:

"If we believe that Lonnie Weeks, Jr. is guilty of at least1 of the alternatives, then is it our duty as a jury to issue
the death penalty? Or must we decide (even though heis guilty of one of the alternatives) whether or not to
issue the death penalty, or one of the life sentences?What is the Rule? Please clarify?"

Id., at 91 (emphasis in original).

The judge wrote the following response: "See second paragraph of Instruction #2 (Beginning with `If you findfrom . . .')."

Ibid. The judge explained to counsel his answer to the jury's question:

"In instruction number 2 that was given to them, in the
second paragraph, it reads, `If you find from the evidencethat the Commonwealth has proved, beyond a reasonable doubt, either of the two alternatives, and as to thatalternative, you are unanimous, then you may fix the
punishment of the defendant at death, or if you believefrom all the evidence that the death penalty is not justified, then you shall fix the punishment of the defendantat imprisonment for life, or imprisonment for life with a
fine not to exceed $100,000.'
"I don't believe I can answer the question any clearer
than the instruction, so what I have done is referredthem to the second paragraph of instruction number 2,

and I told them beginning with, `if you find from,' et
cetera, et cetera, for them to reread that paragraph." 1
App. 222-223.

1 Instruction No. 2, in its entirety, read:
"You have convicted the defendant of an offense which may be punished
by death. You must decide whether the defendant shall be sentenced to
death or to imprisonment for life or to imprisonment for life and a fine of
a specific amount, but not more than $100,000.00. Before the penalty can

528US2 Unit: $U19 [06-14-01 20:17:10] PAGES PGT: OPIN
230 WEEKS v. ANGELONE

Opinion of the Court
The prosecution stated that the judge's solution was ap-propriate. Defense counsel disagreed, and stated:

"Your Honor, we would ask that Your Honor instruct thejury that even if they find one or both of the mitigating
factors--I'm sorry, the factors that have been provedbeyond a reasonable doubt, that they still may impose a
life sentence, or a life sentence plus a fine." Id., at 223.
Defense counsel asked that his objection be noted.More than two hours later, the jury returned. The clerk

read its verdict:

"[W]e the jury, on the issue joined, having found thedefendant Lonnie Weeks, Jr., guilty of capital murder,

and having unanimously found that his conduct in com-mitting the offense is outrageously or wantonly vile, horrible or inhumane, in that it involved depravity of mindand or aggravated battery, and having considered the
evidence in mitigation of the offense, unanimously fix
be fixed at death, the Commonwealth must prove beyond a reasonable
doubt at least one of the following two alternatives:

"1. That, after consideration of his history and background, there is a
probability that he would commit criminal acts of violence that would constitute a continuing serious threat to society; or

"2. That his conduct in committing the offense was outrageously or
wantonly vile, horrible or inhuman, in that it involved depravity of mind
or aggravated battery to the victim beyond the minimum necessary to
accomplish the act of murder.

"If you find from the evidence that the Commonwealth has proved beyond a reasonable doubt either of the two alternatives, and as to that
alternative you are unanimous, then you may fix the punishment of the
defendant at death or if you believe from all the evidence that the death
penalty is not justified, then you shall fix the punishment of the defendant
at life imprisonment or imprisonment for live [sic] and a fine of a specific
amount, but not more than $100,000.00.

"If the Commonwealth has failed to prove beyond a reasonable doubt at
least one of the alternatives, then you shall fix the punishment of the
defendant at life imprisonment or imprisonment for live [sic] and a fine
of a specific amount, but not more than $100,000.00." App. 192-193.

528US2 Unit: $U19 [06-14-01 20:17:10] PAGES PGT: OPIN

231Cite as: 528 U. S. 225 (2000)
Opinion of the Court
his punishment at death . . . ." Id., at 225 (emphasisadded).

The jurors were polled and all responded affirmatively thatthe foregoing was their verdict in the case.

Petitioner presented 47 assignments of error in his directappeal to the Virginia Supreme Court, and the assignment
of error respecting the judge's answering the jury's questionabout mitigating circumstances was number 44. The Virginia Supreme Court affirmed petitioner's conviction andsentence, holding that the claims petitioner advances here
lack merit. Weeks v. Virginia, 248 Va. 460, 465-466, 476-477, 450 S. E. 2d 379, 383, 390 (1994), cert. denied, 516 U. S.
829 (1995). The Virginia Supreme Court dismissed petition-er's state habeas petition as jurisdictionally barred on timeliness grounds. The District Court denied petitioner's re-quest for federal habeas relief, and the Court of Appeals for
the Fourth Circuit denied a certificate of appealability anddismissed his petition. 176 F. 3d 249 (1999). We granted
certiorari, 527 U. S. 1060 (1999), and now affirm.Petitioner relies heavily on our decisions in

Bollenbach v.United States, 326 U. S. 607 (1946), and Eddings v. Oklahoma, 455 U. S. 104 (1982). Bollenbach involved a supple-mental instruction by the trial court following an inquiry
from the jury--in that respect it is like the present case--but the instruction given by the trial court in

Bollenbachwas palpably erroneous. 326 U. S., at 611. In this respect

it is quite unlike the present case. Eddings arose out of abench trial in a capital case, and this Court reversed a sentence of death because the trial judge had refused to considermitigating evidence: "[I]t was as if the trial judge had instructed a jury to disregard the mitigating evidence Eddingsproffered on his behalf." 455 U. S., at 114.

Here the trial judge gave no such instruction. On thecontrary, he gave the instruction that we upheld in Buchanan v. Angelone, 522 U. S. 269 (1998), as being sufficientto allow the jury to consider mitigating evidence. And in

528US2 Unit: $U19 [06-14-01 20:17:10] PAGES PGT: OPIN
232 WEEKS v. ANGELONE

Opinion of the Court
addition, he gave a specific instruction on mitigating evidence--an instruction that was not given in Buchanan--in
which he told the jury that "[y]ou must consider a mitigating
circumstance if you find there is evidence to support it." 2
Even the dissenters in Buchanan said that the ambiguity
that they found in the instruction there given would have
been cleared up by "some mention of mitigating evidence
anywhere in the instructions." Id., at 283.

In Buchanan, we considered whether the Eighth Amendment required that a capital jury be instructed on particular mitigating factors. Buchanan's jury was given precisely
the same Virginia pattern capital instruction that was given
to Weeks' jury. See id., at 272, and n. 1. We noted that
our cases have established that the sentencer may not be
precluded from considering, and may not refuse to consider,
any constitutionally relevant mitigating evidence, and that
the State may structure the jury's consideration of mitigation so long as it does not preclude the jury from giving
effect to it. Id., at 276. We further noted that the "standard for determining whether jury instructions satisfy these
principles was `whether there is a reasonable likelihood that
the jury has applied the challenged instruction in a way that
prevents the consideration of constitutionally relevant evi2 That instruction was titled "EVIDENCE IN MITIGATION" and
stated in full:

"Mitigation evidence is not evidence offered as an excuse for the crime
of which you have found defendant guilty. Rather, it is any evidence
which in fairness may serve as a basis for a sentence less than death. The
law requires your consideration of more than the bare facts of the crime.

"Mitigating circumstances may include, but not be limited to, any facts
relating to defendant's age, character, education, environment, life and
background, or any aspect of the crime itself which might be considered
extenuating or tend to reduce his moral culpability or make him less deserving of the extreme punishment of death.

"You must consider a mitigating circumstance if you find there is evidence to support it. The weight which you accord a particular mitigating
circumstance is a matter of your judgment." Id., at 195.

528US2 Unit: $U19 [06-14-01 20:17:10] PAGES PGT: OPIN

233Cite as: 528 U. S. 225 (2000)
Opinion of the Court
dence.' " Ibid. (quoting Boyde v. California, 494 U. S. 370,380 (1990)). But we stated that we have never held that the

State must structure in a particular way the manner inwhich juries consider mitigating evidence. 522 U. S., at 276.
We concluded that the Virginia pattern jury instruction atissue there, and again at issue here, did not violate those
principles:

"The instruction did not foreclose the jury's consider-ation of any mitigating evidence. By directing the jury

to base its decision on `all the evidence,' the instruc-tion afforded jurors an opportunity to consider mitigating evidence. The instruction informed the jurors thatif they found the aggravating factor proved beyond a
reasonable doubt then they `may fix' the penalty atdeath, but directed that if they believed that all the evidence justified a lesser sentence then they `shall' imposea life sentence. The jury was thus allowed to impose a
life sentence even if it found the aggravating factorproved." Id., at 277.

But, as noted above, the jury in this case also received anexplicit direction to consider mitigating evidence--an instruction that was not given to the jury in Buchanan.Thus, so far as the adequacy of the jury instructions is
concerned, their sufficiency here follows a fortiori from
Buchanan.3

3 Justice Stevens attempts to distinguish the instruction given here
from that given in Buchanan v. Angelone, 522 U. S., at 272, n. 1, on the
basis that the first paragraph of the "Weeks instructions contain[s] a
longer description" of the aggravating circumstances. Post, at 239 (dissenting opinion). The first paragraph is longer here because the prosecution in Buchanan sought to prove only one aggravating circumstance.
See 522 U. S., at 271. The mere addition of the description of another
aggravating circumstance in the first paragraph, however, does not at all
affect the second clause of the second paragraph of the instruction--the
clause that Justice Stevens finds "ambiguous." Post, at 241.

More importantly, Justice Stevens, after stating that his "point is
best made by quoting the instruction itself," post, at 239, fails to quote

528US2 Unit: $U19 [06-14-01 20:17:10] PAGES PGT: OPIN
234 WEEKS v. ANGELONE

Opinion of the Court
Given that petitioner's jury was adequately instructed,
and given that the trial judge responded to the jury's question by directing its attention to the precise paragraph of
the constitutionally adequate instruction that answers its
inquiry, the question becomes whether the Constitution requires anything more. We hold that it does not.

A jury is presumed to follow its instructions. Richardson
v. Marsh, 481 U. S. 200, 211 (1987). Similarly, a jury is presumed to understand a judge's answer to its question. See,
e. g., Armstrong v. Toler, 11 Wheat. 258, 279 (1826) (opinion
of Marshall, C. J.). Weeks' jury did not inform the court
that after reading the relevant paragraph of the instruction,
it still did not understand its role. See ibid. ("Had the jury
desired further information, they might, and probably would,
have signified their desire to the court. The utmost willingness was manifested to gratify them, and it may fairly be
presumed that they had nothing further to ask"). To presume otherwise would require reversal every time a jury
inquires about a matter of constitutional significance, regardless of the judge's answer.

Here the presumption gains additional support from
several empirical factors. First and foremost, each of the
jurors affirmed in open court the verdict which included a
finding that they had "considered the evidence in mitigathe third paragraph of the instruction, post, at 239-240. That paragraph
expressly applies when the jury finds that the prosecution failed to prove
either aggravating circumstance. Specifically, it instructs that if the jury
finds no aggravating circumstances, then it must impose a life sentence.
See n. 1, supra. The third paragraph stands in contrast to the second
paragraph, which expressly applies when the jury finds that the prosecution proved one or both of the aggravating circumstances. The second
paragraph offers the jury the option of imposing whichever sentence--
death or life imprisonment--it feels is justified in that situation. The existence of the third paragraph makes the function of the second paragraph
even clearer.

528US2 Unit: $U19 [06-14-01 20:17:10] PAGES PGT: OPIN

235Cite as: 528 U. S. 225 (2000)
Opinion of the Court
tion of the offense." 4 App. 225. It is also significant, wethink, that the jurors deliberated for more than two hours

after receiving the judge's answer to their question. Over4

1/2 hours after the jury retired to begin deliberations, the

jury asked the question at issue. Again, the question was:

"If we believe that Lonnie Weeks, Jr. is guilty of atleast 1 of the alternatives, then is it our duty as a jury

to issue the death penalty? Or must we decide (eventhough he is guilty of one of the alternatives) whether
or not to issue the death penalty, or one of the life sen-tences? What is the Rule? Please clarify?" App. to
Pet. for Cert. 91 (emphasis in original).
The question indicates that at the time it was asked, the juryhad determined that the prosecution had proved one of the

two aggravating factors beyond a reasonable doubt. Morethan two hours passed between the judge directing the jury's
attention to the appropriate paragraph of the instructionthat answered its question and the jury returning its verdict.
We cannot, of course, know for certain what transpired dur-ing those two hours. But the most likely explanation is that
the jury was doing exactly what it was instructed to do: thatis, weighing the mitigating circumstances against the aggravating circumstance that it found to be proved beyond a rea-sonable doubt. If, after the judge's response to its question,
the jury thought that it was required to give the death pen-alty upon finding of an aggravating circumstance, it is unlikely that the jury would have consumed two more hours indeliberation. This particular jury demonstrated that it was

4 Justice Stevens' arguments concerning the lack of a jury verdict
form stating that the jury finds one or both aggravating circumstances
and sentences the petitioner to life imprisonment miss the mark. The life
sentence verdict forms do not suggest that a prerequisite for their use is
that the jury found no aggravating circumstances. See post, at 246, n. 8.
In any event, the claim here is that the trial judge's response to the jury's
question was constitutionally insufficient, not that the jury verdict forms
were unconstitutionally ambiguous.

528US2 Unit: $U19 [06-14-01 20:17:10] PAGES PGT: OPIN
236 WEEKS v. ANGELONE

Opinion of the Court
not too shy to ask questions, suggesting that it would haveasked another if it felt the judge's response unsatisfactory.

Finally, defense counsel specifically explained to the juryduring closing argument that it could find both aggravating
factors proven and still not sentence Weeks to death. Thus,once the jury received the judge's response to its question,
it had not only the text of the instruction we approved in
Buchanan, but also the additional instruction on mitigation,see n. 2,

supra, and its own recollection of defense counsel's
closing argument for guidance. At best, petitioner has dem-onstrated only that there exists a slight

possibility that the
jury considered itself precluded from considering mitigatingevidence. Such a demonstration is insufficient to prove a

constitutional violation under Boyde, which requires theshowing of a reasonable

likelihood that the jury felt so restrained.5 See 494 U. S., at 380.It also appears that petitioner's attorneys did not view

the judge's answer to the jury's question as a serious flaw
in the trial at that time. Petitioner's attorney made an oral

5 Justice Stevens states that the record establishes a "virtual certainty" that the jury did not understand that it could find an aggravating circumstance and still impose a life sentence. Post, at 238. In
view of the different conclusion reached not only by this Court, but by the
Virginia trial judge, seven justices of the Supreme Court of Virginia, a
federal habeas District Judge, and three judges of the Court of Appeals
for the Fourth Circuit, this statement can only be described as extravagant hyperbole.

The dissent also interprets the evidence of the jurors being in tears at
the time of the verdict as resulting from having performed what they
thought to be their "duty under the law" despite their "strong desire" to
impose the life sentence. Post, at 249. It is difficult enough to speculate
with confidence about the deliberations of jurors in a case such as this,
and still more difficult to speculate about their emotions at the time they
render a verdict. But if we were to join in this speculation, it is every
bit as plausible--if not more so--to think that the reason that jurors were
in tears was because they had just been through an exhausting, soulsearching process that led to a conclusion that petitioner, despite the mitigating evidence he presented, still deserved the death sentence.

528US2 Unit: $U19 [06-14-01 20:17:10] PAGES PGT: OPIN

237Cite as: 528 U. S. 225 (2000)
Stevens, J., dissenting
motion to set aside the sentence after the verdict of deathwas received, and did not even mention this incident in his

motion. And the low priority and space which his counselassigned to the point on his appeal to the Supreme Court of
Virginia suggests that the present emphasis has some of theearmarks of an afterthought.

Because petitioner seeks a federal writ of habeas corpusfrom a state sentence, we must determine whether 28
U. S. C. $ 2254(d) (1994 ed., Supp. III) precludes such relief.The Court of Appeals below held that it did. 176 F. 3d, at
261. We agree. Section 2254(d) prohibits federal habeasrelief on any claim "adjudicated on the merits in State court
proceedings," unless that adjudication resulted in a decisionthat was "contrary to, or involved an unreasonable application of, clearly established Federal law, as determined by theSupreme Court of the United States." 28 U. S. C. $$ 2254(d)
and (1) (1994 ed., Supp. III). For the reasons stated above,it follows

a fortiori that the adjudication of the SupremeCourt of Virginia affirming petitioner's conviction and sentence neither was "contrary to," nor involved an "unreason-able application of," any of our decisions.

The judgment of the Court of Appeals is

Affirmed.

Justice Stevens, with whom Justice Ginsburg and
Justice Breyer join, and with whom Justice Souterjoins with respect to all but Part I, dissenting.

Congress has directed us to apply "clearly establishedFederal law" in the exercise of our habeas corpus jurisdiction.1 The clearly established rule that should govern thedisposition of this case also emphasizes the importance of

1 The habeas statute, as amended in 1996, authorizes the issuance of
the writ if a state-court decision "was contrary to, or involved an unreasonable application of, clearly established Federal law, as determined
by the Supreme Court of the United States." 28 U. S. C. $ 2254(d)(1) (1994
ed., Supp. III).

528US2 Unit: $U19 [06-14-01 20:17:10] PAGES PGT: OPIN
238 WEEKS v. ANGELONE

Stevens, J., dissenting
clarity--clarity in the judge's instructions when there is areasonable likelihood that the jury may misunderstand the

governing rule of law. In this case, as in Boyde v. California, 494 U. S. 370, 380 (1990), we are confronted with a
claim that an instruction, though not erroneous, is suffi-ciently ambiguous to be "subject to an erroneous interpretation." In Boyde, we held that "the proper inquiry in such
a case is whether there is a reasonable likelihood that thejury has applied the challenged instruction in a way that

prevents the consideration of constitutionally relevant evi-dence."

Ibid.
The record in this case establishes, not just a "reasonable likelihood" of jury confusion, but a virtual certainty that
the jury did not realize that there were two distinct legal
bases for concluding that a death sentence was not "justified." The jurors understood that such a sentence would
not be justified unless they found at least one of the two
alleged aggravating circumstances. Despite their specific
request for enlightenment, however, the judge refused to tell
them that even if they found one of those circumstances, they
did not have a "duty as a jury to issue the death penalty."
App. 217.

Because the Court creatively suggests that petitioner's
claim has "the earmarks of an afterthought," ante, at 237,
it is appropriate to note that his trial counsel specifically
and repeatedly argued that both the instructions and the
verdict forms were inadequate because " `the jury has to be
instructed that . . . even if they find the aggravating factors
beyond a reasonable doubt, . . . they can still give effect to
the evidence in mitigation by sentencing the defendant to
life, as opposed to death.' " App. 178. See also id., at 179,
180, 185-186, 223.

Four different aspects of the record cumulatively provide compelling support for the conclusion that this jury
did not understand that the law authorized it "not to issue
the death penalty" even though it found petitioner "guilty

528US2 Unit: $U19 [06-14-01 20:17:10] PAGES PGT: OPIN

239Cite as: 528 U. S. 225 (2000)
Stevens, J., dissenting
of at least 1" aggravating circumstance. Id., at 217. Eachof these points merits separate comment: (1) the text of the

instructions; (2) the judge's responses to the jury's inquiries;(3) the verdict forms given to the jury; and (4) the court
reporter's transcription of the polling of the jury.

I
Because the prosecutor in this case relied on two separateaggravating circumstances, the critical instruction given in

this case differed from that given and upheld by this Courtin Buchanan v. Angelone, 522 U. S. 269 (1998). The Weeks
instructions contain a longer description of the ways inwhich the jury would be justified in imposing the death
penalty; this made it especially unlikely that the jury wouldunderstand that it could lawfully impose a life sentence by
either (1) refusing to find an aggravator, or (2) concludingthat even if it found an aggravator, the mitigating evidence
warranted a life sentence. The point is best made by quot-ing the instruction itself:

" `Before the penalty can be fixed at death, the Com-monwealth must prove beyond a reasonable doubt, at
least one of the following two alternatives: one, that,after consideration of his history and background, there
is a probability that he would commit criminal acts ofviolence that would constitute a continuing serious
threat to society, or two; that his conduct in committingthe offense was outrageously or wantonly vile, horrible,
or inhumane, in that it involved depravity of mind andaggravated battery to the victim, beyond the minimum
necessary to accomplish the act of murder." `If you find from the evidence that the Commonwealth has proved beyond a reasonable doubt, either ofthe two alternatives, and as to that alternative you are
unanimous, then you may fix the punishment of the de-fendant at death; or, if you believe from all the evidence
that the death penalty is not justified, then you shall fix

528US2 Unit: $U19 [06-14-01 20:17:10] PAGES PGT: OPIN
240 WEEKS v. ANGELONE

Stevens, J., dissenting
the punishment of the defendant at life imprisonment,or imprisonment for life and a fine of a specific amount,

but not more than $100,000.' " App. 199-200.
The first paragraph and the first half of the second areperfectly clear. They unambiguously tell the jury: "In order

to justify the death penalty, you must find an aggravatingcircumstance."

2 The second clause in the second paragraph

is, however, ambiguous. It could mean either:

(1) "even if you find one of the two aggravating alterna-tives, if you believe from all the evidence that the death

penalty is not justified because the mitigating evidenceoutweighs the aggravating evidence, then you shall fix
the punishment [at life]"; or
(2) "if you believe from all the evidence that the deathpenalty is not justified because neither of the aggravating circumstances has been proven beyond a reasonabledoubt, then you shall fix the punishment [at life]."

It is not necessary to reiterate Justice Breyer's reasonsfor believing that the latter message is the one a nonlawyer
would be most likely to receive. See Buchanan, 522 U. S.,at 281-284 (dissenting opinion). Nor is it necessary to disagree with the Court's view in Buchanan that trained law-yers and logicians could create a "simple decisional tree" that
would enable them to decipher the intended meaning of theinstruction, see

id., at 277-278, n. 4, to identify a serious riskthat this jury failed to do so.

That risk was magnified by the fact that the instructionsdid not explain that there were two reasons why mitigating
evidence was relevant to its penalty determination. The in-structions did make it clear that mitigating evidence concerning the history and background of the defendant should

2 That message was reiterated later in the instructions, see ante, at 229-
230, n. 1; ante, at 233-234, n. 3. Reiterating what has already been clearly
stated does not serve to clarify an ambiguous statement.

528US2 Unit: $U19 [06-14-01 20:17:10] PAGES PGT: OPIN

241Cite as: 528 U. S. 225 (2000)
Stevens, J., dissenting
be considered when deciding whether either aggravating cir-cumstance had been proved. The instructions did not, however, explain that mitigating evidence could serve anotherpurpose--to provide a lawful justification for a life sentence
even if the jury found at least one aggravating circumstance.Indeed, given the fact that the first task assigned to the jury
was to decide whether "after consideration of his history
and background, there is a probability that he would commitcriminal acts of violence that would constitute a continuing

serious threat to society," App. 192-193 (emphasis added), itwould have been reasonable for the jury to infer that his
history and background were only relevant to the thresholdquestion whether an aggravator had been proved. It is of
critical importance in understanding the jury's confusion thatthe instructions failed to inform the jury that mitigating evidence serves this dual purpose.

II
The jurors had a written copy of the judge's instructionswith them in the jury room during their deliberations. The

fact that the jurors submitted the following written inquiryto the trial judge after they had been deliberating for several
hours demonstrates both that they were uncertain about themeaning of the ambiguous clause that I have identified, and
that their uncertainty had not been dissipated by their recol-lection of anything said by counsel.

"If we believe that Lonnie Weeks, Jr., is guilty of atleast 1 of the alternatives, then is it our duty as a jury
to issue the death penalty? Or must we decide (eventhough he is guilty of one of the alternatives) whether
or not to issue the death penalty, or one of the lifesentences? What is the Rule? Please clarify." Id.,
at 217.
The only portion of the written instructions that could pos-sibly have prompted this inquiry is the second half of the

528US2 Unit: $U19 [06-14-01 20:17:10] PAGES PGT: OPIN
242 WEEKS v. ANGELONE

Stevens, J., dissenting
second paragraph of the instruction quoted above. The fact
that the jurors asked this question about that instruction
demonstrates beyond peradventure that the instruction had
confused them. There would have been no reason to ask the
question if they had understood the instruction to authorize
a life sentence even though they found that an aggravator
had been proved.

Although it would have been easy to do so, the judge did
not give the jurors a straightforward categorical answer to
their simple question; he merely told them to reexamine
the portion of the instructions that they, in effect, had already said they did not understand. The text of their question indicates that they believed that they had a duty "to
issue the death penalty" if they believed that "Weeks . . . is
guilty of at least 1 of the alternatives." Ibid. Without a
simple, clear-cut statement from the judge that that belief
was incorrect, there was surely a reasonable likelihood that
they would act on that belief.3

Instead of accepting a commonsense interpretation of the
colloquy between the jury and the judge, the Court first relies on a presumption that the jury understood the instruction (a presumption surely rebutted by the question itself),

3 The Court suggests this likelihood is impossible in part because, even
if the jury were confused by the judge's response, it had not only the text
of the instruction but also the benefit of defense counsel's oral argument,
in which counsel averred that the jury could award a life sentence even
if it found an aggravating factor. See ante, at 236. But this statement by counsel, coming as it did, of course, before the jury began deliberations, apparently did not prevent the jury from asking the question in
the first place. Moreover, as this Court wisely noted in Boyde v. California, 494 U. S. 370, 384 (1990): "[A]rguments of counsel generally carry less
weight with a jury than do instructions from the court. The former are
usually billed in advance to the jury as matters of argument, not evidence,
and are likely viewed as the statements of advocates; the latter, we have
often recognized, are viewed as definitive and binding statements of the
law." (Citing cases; citation omitted.)

528US2 Unit: $U19 [06-14-01 20:17:10] PAGES PGT: OPIN

243Cite as: 528 U. S. 225 (2000)
Stevens, J., dissenting
ante, at 234-236, and then presumes that the jury must haveunderstood the judge's answer because it did not repeat its

question after re-reading the relevant paragraph, and contin-ued to deliberate for another two hours. But if the jurors
found it necessary to ask the judge what that paragraphmeant in the first place, why should we presume that they
would find it any less ambiguous just because the judge toldthem to read it again? It seems to me far more likely that
the reason they did not ask the same question a second timeis that the jury believed that it would be disrespectful to
repeat a simple, unambiguous question that the judge hadalready refused to answer directly. The fact that it had previously asked the judge a different question--also related tothe effect of a sentencing decision, App. 217--that he had
also refused to answer would surely have tended to discour-age a repetition of the question about the meaning of his
instructions.4By the Court's logic, a rather exceptionally assertive jury
would have to question the judge at least twice and maybemore on precisely the same topic before one could find it no
more than "reasonably likely" that the jury was confused.5

4 The Court relies on Chief Justice Marshall's opinion in Armstrong v.
Toler, 11 Wheat. 258, 279 (1826), as support for its presumption that the
jury's failure to repeat its question indicates that it understood the judge's
answer. In that case, however, it was the jury's question that was arguably unclear; the Court merely assumed that "the jury could not have intended to put a question which had been already answered." In this case,
in contrast, there is no mystery about what the jury wanted to know;
the mystery is why the trial judge was unable or unwilling to give it a
direct answer.

5 The Court seeks to justify its reliance on the improbable presumption

that the jury correctly deciphered the judge's ambiguous answer to its
straightforward question by pronouncing: "To presume otherwise would
require reversal every time a jury inquires about a matter of constitutional
significance, regardless of the judge's answer." Ante, at 234. For two
obvious reasons that is not so. First, a simple, direct answer to the jury's
question would have avoided the error. Second, clearly established law

528US2 Unit: $U19 [06-14-01 20:17:10] PAGES PGT: OPIN
244 WEEKS v. ANGELONE

Stevens, J., dissenting
But given the Court's apt recognition that we cannot, of
course, actually know what occupied the jury during its
final deliberations, ante, at 235, and in light of the explanation I have just offered, it is at the very least equally likely
that the two hours of deliberation following the judge's
answer were devoted to continuing debate about the same
instruction, as they were to weighing aggravating and mitigating evidence (having been magically satisfied by the repetition of the instruction that had not theretofore answered
its question).

When it comes to the imposition of the death penalty,
we have held repeatedly that justice and " `the fundamental
respect for humanity underlying the Eighth Amendment' "
require jurors to give full effect to their assessment of the
defendant's character, circumstances, and individual worth.
Eddings v. Oklahoma, 455 U. S. 104, 112 (1982). In this context, even if one finds the explanations of the jury's conduct
here in equipoise, a 50-50 chance that the jury has not carried out this mandate seems to me overwhelming grounds
for reversal.

Other than the Court's reliance on inapplicable presumptions and speculation, there is no reason to believe that the
jury understood the judge's answer to its question. As we
squarely held in Boyde, the "defendant need not establish
that the jury was more likely than not to have been impermissibly inhibited by the instruction" to satisfy the
clearly established "reasonable likelihood" standard. 494
U. S., at 380. The Court's application of that standard in
this case effectively drains it of meaning.

requires that the issue be resolved, not on the basis of a presumption that
flows from the positing of any single question, but by deciding whether,
under all of the circumstances, there was a "reasonable likelihood" that
the jury was confused as to the relevance of mitigating evidence in its
decision. The Court's fear of constant reversal in this regard is thus
vastly overstated.

528US2 Unit: $U19 [06-14-01 20:17:10] PAGES PGT: OPIN

245Cite as: 528 U. S. 225 (2000)
Stevens, J., dissenting

III
The judge provided the jury with five verdict forms, threeof which provided for the death penalty and two for a life

sentence. Three death forms were appropriate because thedeath penalty might be justified by a finding that the first,
the second, or both aggravating circumstances had beenproved. One would expect the two life forms to cover the
two alternatives, first that no aggravator had been proved,and second that despite proof of at least one aggravator, the
mitigating circumstances warranted a life sentence. Butthat is not why there were two forms; neither referred to
the possibility of a life sentence if an aggravator had beenproved. Rather, the two life alternatives merely presented
the jury with a choice between life plus a fine and a lifesentence without a fine.

The first form read as follows:

"We, the jury, on the issue joined, having found thedefendant, LONNIE WEEKS, JR., GUILTY of CAPITAL MURDER and having unanimously found afterconsideration of his history and background that there
is a probability that he would commit criminal acts ofviolence that would constitute a continuing serious
threat to society, and having considered the evidence inmitigation of the offense, unanimously fix his punishment at death." App. 196.
The jury ultimately refused to select this first form, whichwould have indicated a finding that there was a probability

that petitioner would commit additional crimes that wouldconstitute a serious threat to society. In doing so, it unquestionably gave weight to the unusually persuasive miti-gating evidence offered by the defense--evidence that included not only petitioner's personal history but his owntestimony describing the relevant events and his extreme
remorse. As I explained above, the fact that the jury recog-nized the relevance of the mitigating "history and back528US2 Unit: $U19 [06-14-01 20:17:10] PAGES PGT: OPIN
246 WEEKS v. ANGELONE

Stevens, J., dissenting
ground" evidence to the question whether the aggravatorhad been proved sheds no light on the question whether it

understood that such evidence would also be relevant onthe separate question whether a life sentence would be
appropriate even if Weeks was "guilty of at least 1 of thealternatives." Id., at 217.

The jury's refusal to find that petitioner would constitutea continuing threat to society also explains why it did not
use the second form, which covered the option of a deathpenalty supported by both aggravators.

6 The choice then,

was between the third alternative, which included a findingthat the second aggravator had been proved,

7 and the fourth

or fifth alternatives, neither of which included any suchfinding.

8 Despite the fact that trial counsel had expressly

6 That form read as follows: "We, the jury, on the issue joined, having
found the defendant, LONNIE WEEKS, JR., GUILTY of CAPITAL
MURDER and having unanimously found after consideration of his history and background that there is a probability that he would commit
criminal acts of violence that would constitute a continuing serious treat
[sic] to society, and having unanimously found that his conduct in committing the offense is outrageously or wantonly vile, horrible or inhuman in
that it involved depravity of mind and/or aggravated battery and having
considered the evidence in mitigation of the offense, unanimously fix his
punishment at death." App. 196-197.

7 This form, the one ultimately filed by the jury, read: "We, the jury,

on the issue joined, having found the defendant, LONNIE WEEKS, JR.,
GUILTY of CAPITAL MURDER and having unanimously found that his
conduct in committing the offense is outrageously or wantonly vile, horrible or inhuman in that it involved depravity of mind and/or aggravated
battery and having considered the evidence in mitigation of the offense,
unanimously fix his punishment at death." Id., at 228.

8 The fourth form read: "We, the jury, on the issue joined, having found

the defendant, LONNIE WEEKS, JR., GUILTY of CAPITAL MURDER
and having considered all of the evidence in aggravation and mitigation of
such offense, fix his punishment at imprisonment for life." Id., at 197-198.
The fifth form was identical except for providing that Weeks' punishment
was to be fixed "at imprisonment for life and a fine" for an amount to be
filled in by the jury. Id., at 198.

528US2 Unit: $U19 [06-14-01 20:17:10] PAGES PGT: OPIN

247Cite as: 528 U. S. 225 (2000)
Stevens, J., dissenting
objected to the verdict forms because they "do not expressly
provide for a sentence of life imprisonment, upon finding
beyond a reasonable doubt, on one or both of the aggravating
factors," id., at 185-186, the judge failed to use forms that
would have answered the question that the jury asked during its deliberations.

The ambiguity of the forms also helps further explain why
the Court is wrong in its speculation as to the jury's final
hours of deliberation following the judge's response to its
question. The Court postulates that before the jury asked
whether it had a duty to issue the death penalty "[i]f we
believe that Lonnie Weeks, Jr. is guilty of at least 1 of the
alternatives," the jury had already so decided. Thus, the
remaining hours of deliberation must have been spent weighing the mitigating circumstances against the aggravating
circumstance. Ante, at 235. Of course, the text of the
question, which used the word "if " rather than the word
"since," does not itself support that speculation. More important, however--inasmuch as we cannot know for certain
what transpired during those deliberations--is the fact that
after it eliminated the first two verdict options, the remaining forms identified a choice between a death sentence based
on a guilty finding on "1 of the alternatives" and a life sentence without any such finding. In my judgment, it is thus
far more likely that the conscientious jurors were struggling with the question whether the mitigating evidence not
only precluded a finding that petitioner was a continuing
threat to society, but also precluded a finding "that his
conduct in committing the offense is outrageously or wantonly vile, horrible or inhuman in that it involved depravity
of mind and/or aggravated battery." App. 228. And that
question was answered neither by the instruction itself, nor
by the judge's reference to the instruction again, nor, we now
see, by the text of the jury forms with which the jury was
finally faced.

528US2 Unit: $U19 [06-14-01 20:17:10] PAGES PGT: OPIN
248 WEEKS v. ANGELONE

Stevens, J., dissenting

IV
The Court repeatedly emphasizes the facts that the jurywas told to consider the mitigating evidence and that the

verdict forms expressly recite that the jury had given con-sideration to such evidence. As its refusal to find the first
aggravator indicates, the jury surely did consider that evi-dence and presumably credited the testimony of petitioner
and the other defense witnesses. But, as I have explained,
see supra, at 240-241, there is a vast difference between con-sidering that evidence as relevant to the question whether

either aggravator had been established, and assuming thatthe jurors were sufficiently sophisticated to understand that
it would be lawful for them to rely on that evidence as a
basis for a life sentence even if they found the defendant"guilty of at least 1 of the alternatives." For that reason,

the Court's reliance, ante, at 234-235, on the fact that thejurors affirmed their verdict when polled in open court is
misplaced.The most significant aspect of the polling of the jury is
a notation by the court reporter that is unique. (At leastI do not recall seeing a comparable notation in any of the
transcripts of capital sentencing proceedings that I havereviewed during the past 24-plus years.) The transcript
states that, as they were polled, "a majority of the jury members [were] in tears." App. 225. Given the unusually per-suasive character of the mitigating evidence including petitioner's own testimony,9 it is at least "reasonable" to infer

9 The evidence showed, among other things, that before this incident
Weeks had been a well-behaved student and a star high school athlete,
id., at 130-133, who lived in a poor community, id., at 131-132, and who
was raised by a well-meaning grandmother because of his mother's drug
addiction, id., at 143, 167; that Weeks fell in with a bad crowd, id., at 150,
153, missing his chance for college when his girlfriend became pregnant
and when he decided to stay and help her raise the child, id., at 109; and,
as the jury learned in Weeks' own words, that he was extremely remorseful, id., at 127-128.

528US2 Unit: $U19 [06-14-01 20:17:10] PAGES PGT: OPIN

249Cite as: 528 U. S. 225 (2000)
Stevens, J., dissenting
that the conscientious jury members performed what theyregarded as their duty under the law, notwithstanding a

strong desire to spare the life of Lonnie Weeks. Tragically,there is a "reasonable likelihood" that they acted on the basis
of a misunderstanding of that duty.I respectfully dissent.

528US2 Unit: $U20 [06-14-01 20:20:15] PAGES PGT: OPIN
250 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

Syllabus

GUTIERREZ et al. v. ADA et al.
certiorari to the united states court of appeals forthe ninth circuit

No. 99-51. Argued December 6, 1999--Decided January 19, 2000
The Organic Act of Guam, 48 U. S. C. $ 1422, provides, inter alia, that "[i]f

no [slate of] candidates [for Governor and Lieutenant Governor of Guam]
receive[s] a majority of the votes cast in any election, . . . a runoff election shall be held." Petitioners, candidates running on one slate for
Governor and Lieutenant Governor, received a majority of the votes
cast for gubernatorial slates in the 1998 Guam general election, but did
not receive a majority of the total number of ballots that voters cast.
Respondents, petitioners' opponents, sought a writ of mandamus ordering a runoff election. The District Court issued the writ, and the Ninth
Circuit ultimately affirmed, interpreting the statutory phrase "majority
of the votes cast in any election" to require that a slate receive a majority of the total number of ballots cast in the general election.

Held: The Guam Organic Act does not require a runoff election when a

candidate slate has received a majority of the votes cast for Governor
and Lieutenant Governor of the Territory, but not a majority of the
number of ballots cast in the simultaneous general election. Section
1422 contains six express references to an election for those offices, two
of them preceding the phrase "in any election," and four following. So
surrounded, "any election" can only refer to an election for Governor
and Lieutenant Governor, for words are known by their companions.
See, e. g., Gustafson v. Alloyd Co., 513 U. S. 561, 575. This reading is
confirmed by the fact that, later in $ 1422, Congress varied the specific
modifier when it spoke of the "general election" at which the gubernatorial election would occur. Congress would hardly have used "any election" to mean "general election," only to mention "general election" a
few lines further on. It would be equally odd to think that after repeatedly using "votes" or "vote" to mean an expression of choice for the
gubernatorial slate, Congress suddenly used "votes cast in any election"
to mean "ballots cast," as respondents suggest. Congress, indeed, has
shown that it recognizes the difference between ballots and votes in
the very context of Guamanian elections: From 1972 until 1998, $ 1712
expressly required that the Guam Delegate be elected "by separate ballot and by a majority of the votes cast for . . . Delegate." To accept
respondents' reading would also impute to Congress a strange preference for making it hard to select a Governor, because a runoff would be

528US2 Unit: $U20 [06-14-01 20:20:15] PAGES PGT: OPIN

251Cite as: 528 U. S. 250 (2000)
Opinion of the Court
required even though one slate already had a majority of all those who
cared to choose among gubernatorial candidates. Requiring a majority
of the total number of voters on election day would also be in some
tension with $ 1422a, which provides for removal of a Governor or Lieutenant Governor upon the vote of at least two-thirds of the total number
of persons who actually voted for such office, not the total number who
went to the polls. Respondents' two considerations pointing to a contrary reading--that because $ 1712 specifically states that "a majority
of the votes cast for . . . Delegate" is necessary to elect a Delegate,

$ 1422 would require a comparably clear modifier to refer to sufficient votes to elect gubernatorial slates; and that this Court's reading
of "any election" would render that phrase a nullity and thus offend
the rule against attributing redundancy to Congress--are rejected.
Pp. 254-258.

179 F. 3d 672, reversed and remanded.

Souter, J., delivered the opinion for a unanimous Court.

Seth M. Hufstedler argued the cause for petitioners.With him on the briefs were Shirley M. Hufstedler, Diane

E. Pritchard, and F. Philip Carbullido.

Dennis P. Riordan argued the cause for respondents.With him on the brief were Donald M. Horgan, Dylan L.

Schaffer, Robert H. Bork, and Curtis Charles Van De Veld.*

Justice Souter delivered the opinion of the Court.
The question here is whether the statute governing elec-tions for Governor and Lieutenant Governor of the Territory

of Guam compels a runoff election when a candidate slatehas received a majority of the votes cast for Governor and
Lieutenant Governor, but not a majority of the number ofballots cast in the simultaneous general election. We hold
that the statute requires no runoff.

I
In the November 3, 1998, Guam general election, petition-ers Carl T. C. Gutierrez and Madeleine Z. Bordallo were can*William J. Carter and M. Miller Baker filed a brief for the Voting
Integrity Project as amicus curiae urging reversal.

528US2 Unit: $U20 [06-14-01 20:20:15] PAGES PGT: OPIN
252 GUTIERREZ v. ADA

Opinion of the Court
didates running on one slate for Governor and LieutenantGovernor, opposed by the slate of respondents Joseph F. Ada

and Felix P. Camacho. Gutierrez received 24,250 votes, asagainst 21,200 for Ada. Ada v. Guam, 179 F. 3d 672, 675
(CA9 1999); App. 16. One thousand two hundred andninety-four voted for write-in candidates; 1,313 persons who
cast ballots did not vote for either slate or any write-in candi-date; and 609 voted for both slates. 179 F. 3d, at 675; App.
16. The total number of ballots cast in the general electionwas thus 48,666, and the Gutierrez slate's votes represented
49.83 percent of that total. The Guam Election Commissioncertified the Gutierrez slate as the winner, finding it had received 51.21 percent of the vote, as calculated by deductingthe 1,313 ballots left blank as to the gubernatorial election
from the total number of ballots cast. 179 F. 3d, at 675.Respondents Ada and Camacho sued in the United States
District Court for a writ of mandamus ordering a runoffelection, contending that Gutierrez and Bordallo had not
received a majority of the votes cast, as required by theOrganic Act of Guam, 64 Stat. 384, as amended, 48 U. S. C.

$ 1421 et seq. (1994 ed. and Supp. III).So far as relevant, the Organic Act provides that:

"[t]he executive power of Guam shall be vested in anexecutive officer whose official title shall be the `Governor of Guam'. The Governor of Guam, together withthe Lieutenant Governor, shall be elected by a majority
of the votes cast by the people who are qualified to votefor the members of the Legislature of Guam. The Governor and Lieutenant Governor shall be chosen jointly,by the casting by each voter of a single vote applicable
to both offices. If no candidates receive a majority ofthe votes cast in any election, on the fourteenth day
thereafter a runoff election shall be held between thecandidates for Governor and Lieutenant Governor receiving the highest and second highest number of votescast. The first election for Governor and Lieutenant

528US2 Unit: $U20 [06-14-01 20:20:15] PAGES PGT: OPIN

253Cite as: 528 U. S. 250 (2000)
Opinion of the Court
Governor shall be held on November 3, 1970. There-after, beginning with the year 1974, the Governor and

Lieutenant Governor shall be elected every four yearsat the general election. The Governor and Lieutenant
Governor shall hold office for a term of four years anduntil their successors are elected and qualified." 48
U. S. C. $ 1422.
Respondents' position boils down to the claim that the phrase"majority of the votes cast in any election" requires that a

slate of candidates for Governor and Lieutenant Governorreceive a majority of the total number of ballots cast in the
general election, regardless of the number of votes for allgubernatorial slates by those casting ballots. If this is the
correct reading of the phrase, the parties agree that a runoffwas required. If, however, the phrase refers only to votes
cast for gubernatorial slates, no runoff was in order, andpetitioners were elected Governor and Lieutenant Governor.

The United States District Court for the District of Guamread the statute to require a majority of the total number of
voters casting ballots in the general election and so ruledthat the Gutierrez slate had not received "a majority of the
votes cast in any election." The court accordingly issued awrit of mandamus for a runoff election to be held on December 19, 1998, Ada v. Guam, No. Civ. 98-00066 (Dec. 9, 1998),App. to Pet. for Cert. A-25, A-55.

Although the Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit issuedan emergency stay of the District Court's order pending appeal, 179 F. 3d, at 676, it ultimately affirmed. The Court ofAppeals understood the reference to "majority of the votes
cast" as meaning "all votes cast at the general election, forCongress presumably would not have included the phrase `in
any election,' if it meant to refer only to the votes cast in thesingle election for governor and lieutenant governor."

Id.,at 677. The court thought that any other reading would

render the phrase "in any election" a "nullity." Ibid. TheCourt of Appeals also relied on a comparison of $ 1422 with

528US2 Unit: $U20 [06-14-01 20:20:15] PAGES PGT: OPIN
254 GUTIERREZ v. ADA

Opinion of the Court
48 U. S. C. $ 1712, which provides that a candidate for Guam'sDelegate to Congress must receive "a majority of the votes

cast for the office of Delegate" in order to be elected. TheNinth Circuit reasoned that Congress could have used similar language of limitation if it had intended the election of aGovernor and Lieutenant Governor to require only a majority of votes cast for gubernatorial slates. 179 F. 3d, at 678.The Ninth Circuit stayed its mandate pending disposition of
petitioners' petition for a writ of certiorari.We granted certiorari, 527 U. S. 1063 (1999), to resolve a
split between the Ninth Circuit's interpretation of the Or-ganic Act of Guam and the Third Circuit's reading of identical
language in the Revised Organic Act of the Virgin Islands.See 68 Stat. 503, as amended, 48 U. S. C. $ 1591 (providing
for a runoff election for Governor and Lieutenant Governorof the Virgin Islands "[i]f no candidates receive a majority of
the votes cast in any election"); Todman v. Boschulte, 694F. 2d 939 (CA3 1982). We reverse.

II
The key to understanding what the phrase "in any elec-tion" means is also the most salient feature of the provision

in which it occurs. The section contains six express refer-ences to an election for Governor and Lieutenant Governor:
"The Governor of Guam, together with the Lieutenant Gov-ernor, shall be elected . . ."; "[t]he Governor and Lieutenant
Governor shall be chosen jointly, by the casting by each voterof a single vote . . ."; "a runoff election shall be held between
the candidates for Governor and Lieutenant Governor . . .";"[t]he first election for Governor and Lieutenant Governor
shall be held . . ."; "the Governor and Lieutenant Governorshall be elected every four years . . ."; "[t]he Governor and
Lieutenant Governor shall hold office . . . until their succes-sors are elected . . . ." 48 U. S. C. $ 1422. The reference to
"any election" is preceded by two references to gubernato-rial election and followed by four. With "any election" so

528US2 Unit: $U20 [06-14-01 20:20:15] PAGES PGT: OPIN

255Cite as: 528 U. S. 250 (2000)
Opinion of the Court
surrounded, what could it refer to except an election for Gov-ernor and Lieutenant Governor, the subject of such relentless repetition? To ask the question is merely to apply aninterpretive rule as familiar outside the law as it is within,
for words and people are known by their companions. See
Gustafson v. Alloyd Co., 513 U. S. 561, 575 (1995) ("[A] word
is known by the company it keeps"); Jarecki v. G. D. Searle
& Co., 367 U. S. 303, 307 (1961) ("The maxim noscitur a
sociis, . . . while not an inescapable rule, is often wisely applied where a word is capable of many meanings in order toavoid the giving of unintended breadth to the Acts of Congress"). Cf. Foster v. Love, 522 U. S. 67, 71 (1997) ("When
the federal statutes speak of `the election' of a Senator or
Representative, they plainly refer to the combined actions
of voters and officials meant to make a final selection of
an officeholder (subject only to the possibility of a later
run-off . . . )").

Other clues confirm that Congress did not shift its attention when it used "any election" unadorned by a gubernatorial reference or other definite modifier. Later on in the
same provision, Congress did vary the specific modifier when
it spoke of the "general election" at which the gubernatorial
election would occur; it is thus significant that Congress did
not peg the majority-vote requirement to "votes cast in any
[general] election." Congress would hardly have used "any
election" to mean "general election," only to mention "general election" a few lines further on.

It would be equally odd to think that after repeatedly
using "votes" or "vote" to mean an expression of choice for
the gubernatorial slate, Congress suddenly used "votes cast
in any election" to mean "ballots cast." And yet that is just
what would be required if we were to treat the phrase
respondents' way, for they read "votes cast in any election"
as referring to "ballots containing a vote for any office."
Surely a Congress that meant to refer to ballots, midway
through a statute repeatedly referring to "votes" for guber528US2 Unit: $U20 [06-14-01 20:20:15] PAGES PGT: OPIN
256 GUTIERREZ v. ADA

Opinion of the Court
natorial slates, would have said "ballots." To argue other-wise is to tag Congress with an extravagant preference for

the opaque when the use of a clear adjective or noun wouldhave worked nicely. But even aside from that, Congress has
shown that it recognizes the difference between ballots andvotes in the very context of Guamanian elections. From
1972 until 1998, 48 U. S. C. $ 1712 expressly required that the
Guam Delegate be elected "by separate ballot and by a ma-jority of the votes cast for the office of Delegate." There is

simply no reason to think that Congress meant "ballots"when it said "votes" in $ 1422.

To accept respondents' reading would also impute to the
Congress a strange preference for making it hard to select a
Governor. On respondents' reading the statute could require a runoff (as it would in this case) even though one slate
already had a majority of all those who cared to make any
choice among gubernatorial candidates. Respondents try to
counter the unreality of their position by emphasizing state
cases holding that passing a referendum requires a majority
of voters going to the polls, not a mere majority of persons
voting on a particular referendum issue. Cf. Allen v. Burkhart, 377 P. 2d 821 (Okla. 1963); Thurston County Farm Bureau v. Thurston County, 136 Neb. 575, 287 N. W. 180 (1939);
Missouri v. Winkelmeier, 35 Mo. 103 (1864). But there is
no uniform rule, see, e. g., Wooley v. Sterrett, 387 S. W. 2d
734, 739-740 (Tex. Civ. App. 1965); Munce v. O'Hara, 340 Pa.
209, 16 A. 2d 532 (1940); State ex rel. Short v. Clausen, 72
Wash. 409, 130 P. 479 (1913), and even if there were, treatment of referendums would not be a plausible model for elections of officials. Referendums are exceptions to the normal
legislative process, and passage of a referendum is not itself
essential to the functioning of government. If a ballotmajority requirement makes it impossible to pass a referendum measure, nothing need be done except record the failure. The same requirement to elect an official, on the other
hand, would necessitate further action, the trouble and ex528US2 Unit: $U20 [06-14-01 20:20:15] PAGES PGT: OPIN

257Cite as: 528 U. S. 250 (2000)
Opinion of the Court
pense of which would not make any apparent sense whenthose who expressed any preference among candidates had

already given a majority to one of them.As a final confirmation of the obvious reading, we note that
requiring a majority of the total number of voters on electionday would be in some tension with $ 1422a, which provides
for recall elections for Governor and Lieutenant Governor.
Section 1422a(b) provides that "[a]ny Governor, LieutenantGovernor, or member of the legislature of Guam may be removed from office by a referendum election in which at leasttwo-thirds of the number of persons voting for such official
in the last preceding general election at which such official
was elected vote in favor of recall and in which those so
voting constitute a majority of all those participating in such
referendum election." The recall provision thus looks to the
total number of persons who actually voted for Governor,
not the total number who went to the polls. In a rational
world, we would not expect the vote required to oust a Governor to be pegged to a lower number than it would take to
elect one.

If all these considerations confirm the reading according to
the rule of meaning by association, respondents nevertheless
emphasize two considerations said to point the other way.
First, as we noted before, $ 1712 includes a specific statement
that "a majority of the votes cast for the office of Delegate"
is necessary and presumably sufficient to elect a Delegate.
Without a comparably clear modifier in $ 1422 referring to
votes sufficient to elect gubernatorial slates, respondents
argue, "a majority of the votes cast in any election" must
refer to a majority of all those voting for any office. But
the drafting difference supports no such inference. Congress adopted the language in $ 1712 four years after enacting the phrase at issue in this case, and there is no affirmative indication in $ 1712 that Congress gave any thought to
differentiating the terms of Delegate and gubernatorial elections. Hence, as we have said before, later laws that "do not

528US2 Unit: $U20 [06-14-01 20:20:15] PAGES PGT: OPIN
258 GUTIERREZ v. ADA

Opinion of the Court
seek to clarify an earlier enacted general term" and "do notdepend for their effectiveness upon clarification, or a change

in the meaning of an earlier statute," are "beside the point"in reading the first enactment. Almendarez-Tor res v.
United States, 523 U. S. 224, 237 (1998). Congress may havespoken with explicit clarity when it passed $ 1712, but we
can say no more than that.The second argument supposedly undermining the meaning naturally suggested by association was stressed by theCourt of Appeals, which thought that reading "any election"
to mean gubernatorial election would render the phrase anullity and thus offend the rule against attributing redundancy to Congress, see Kungys v. United States, 485 U. S.759, 778 (1988). The fact is that this argument has some
force, but not enough. There is no question that the statutewould be read as we read it even if the phrase were missing.
But as one rule of construction among many, albeit an impor-tant one, the rule against redundancy does not necessarily
have the strength to turn a tide of good cause to come outthe other way. Besides, there is even a reason for thinking
the phrase in question has some clarifying value. Section1422 provides specifically for an initial gubernatorial election
in 1970, and generally for successive elections every fouryears thereafter. "[A]ny election," therefore, may be read
to make it clear that the runoff requirement applies equallyto the initial election and to those periodically scheduled in
the future. That may not be very heavy work for the phraseto perform, but a job is a job, and enough to bar the rule
against redundancy from disqualifying an otherwise sensi-ble reading.

The judgment of the Court of Appeals is reversed, andthe case is remanded for proceedings consistent with this
opinion.

It is so ordered.

528US2 Unit: $U21 [06-14-01 20:45:18] PAGES PGT: OPIN

259OCTOBER TERM, 1999
Syllabus

SMITH, WARDEN v. ROBBINS
certiorari to the united states court of appeals forthe ninth circuit

No. 98-1037. Argued October 5, 1999--Decided January 19, 2000
An attorney appointed to represent an indigent defendant on appeal may

conclude that an appeal would be frivolous and request that the appellate court allow him to withdraw or that the court dispose of the case
without the filing of merits briefs. In Anders v. California, 386 U. S.
738, this Court found that, in order to protect a defendant's constitutional right to appellate counsel, courts must safeguard against the risk
of granting such requests where an appeal is not actually frivolous;
found California's procedure for evaluating such requests inadequate;
and set forth an acceptable procedure. California adopted a new procedure in People v. Wende, 25 Cal. 3d 436, 600 P. 2d 1071. Unlike under
the Anders procedure, counsel under Wende neither explicitly states
that his review has led him to conclude that an appeal would be frivolous
nor requests to withdraw; instead he is silent on the merits of the case
and offers to brief issues at the court's direction. A California statecourt jury convicted respondent Robbins of second-degree murder and
grand theft. His appointed counsel on appeal concluded that appeal
would be frivolous and filed with the State Court of Appeal a brief that
complied with the Wende procedure. Agreeing with counsel's assessment, the Court of Appeal affirmed. The California Supreme Court
denied review. After exhausting his state postconviction remedies,
Robbins sought federal habeas relief, arguing, inter alia, that he had
been denied effective assistance of appellate counsel because his counsel's Wende brief did not comply with the Anders requirement that the
brief refer "to anything in the record that might arguably support the
appeal," 386 U. S., at 744. The District Court agreed, concluding that
there were at least two issues that might arguably have supported Robbins' appeal and finding that his counsel's failure to include them in his
brief deviated from the Anders procedure and thus amounted to deficient performance by counsel. Rather than requiring Robbins to prove
prejudice from this deficiency, the court applied a presumption of prejudice. The Ninth Circuit agreed, concluding that Anders, together with
Douglas v. California, 372 U. S. 353--which held that States must provide appointed counsel to indigent criminal defendants on appeal--set
forth the exclusive procedure by which appointed counsel's performance
could be constitutional, and that counsel's brief failed to comply with

528US2 Unit: $U21 [06-14-01 20:45:18] PAGES PGT: OPIN
260 SMITH v. ROBBINS

Syllabus
that procedure. The court, however, remanded the case for the District
Court to consider other trial errors raised by Robbins.

Held:

1. The Anders procedure is only one method of satisfying the Constitution's requirements for indigent criminal appeals; the States are free
to adopt different procedures, so long as those procedures adequately
safeguard a defendant's right to appellate counsel. Pp. 269-276.

(a) In finding that the California procedure at issue in Anders--
which permitted appellate counsel to withdraw upon filing a conclusory
letter stating that the appeal had "no merit" and permitted the appellate
court to affirm the conviction upon reaching the same conclusion following a review of the record--did not comport with fair procedure and
lacked the equality that the Fourteenth Amendment requires, this
Court placed the case within a line of precedent beginning with Griffin
v. Illinois, 351 U. S. 12, and continuing with Douglas v. California, 372
U. S. 353, that imposed constitutional constraints on those States choosing to create appellate review. Comparing the California procedure to
other procedures that this Court had found invalid and to statutory requirements in the federal courts governing appeals by indigents with
appointed counsel, the Court concluded that the finding that the appeal
had "no merit" was inadequate because it did not mean that the appeal
was so lacking in prospects as to be frivolous. The Court, in a final,
separate section, set out what would be an acceptable procedure for
treating frivolous appeals. Pp. 269-272.

(b) The Ninth Circuit erred in finding that Anders' final section,
though unnecessary to the holding in that case, was obligatory upon the
States. This Court has never so held; its precedents suggest otherwise;
and the Ninth Circuit's view runs contrary to this Court's established
practice. In McCoy v. Court of Appeals of Wis., Dist. 1, 486 U. S. 429,
this Court rejected a challenge to Wisconsin's variation on the Anders
procedure, even though that variation, in at least one respect, provided
less effective advocacy for an indigent. In Pennsylvania v. Finley, 481
U. S. 551, the Court explained that the Anders procedure is not an independent constitutional command, but rather a prophylactic framework;
it did not say that this was the only framework that could adequately
vindicate the right to appellate counsel announced in Douglas. Similarly, in Penson v. Ohio, 488 U. S. 75, the Court described Anders as
simply erecting safeguards. Finally, any view of the procedure described in Anders' last section that converted it from a suggestion into
a straitjacket would contravene this Court's established practice of
allowing the States wide discretion, subject to the minimum require528US2 Unit: $U21 [06-14-01 20:45:18] PAGES PGT: OPIN

261Cite as: 528 U. S. 259 (2000)
Syllabus
ments of the Fourteenth Amendment, to experiment with solutions to
difficult policy problems. See, e. g., Griffin, supra. The Court, because of its status as a court--particularly a court in a federal system--
avoids imposing a single solution on the States from the top down
and instead evaluates state procedures one at a time, while leaving
"the more challenging task of crafting appropriate procedures . . . to
the laboratory of the States . . . in the first instance," Cruzan v. Director, Mo. Dept. of Health, 497 U. S. 261 (O'Connor, J., concurring).
Pp. 272-276.

2. California's Wende procedure does not violate the Fourteenth
Amendment. Pp. 276-284.

(a) The precise rationale for the Griffin and Douglas line of cases
has never been explicitly stated, but this Court's case law reveals that
the Equal Protection and Due Process Clauses of the Fourteenth
Amendment largely converge to require that a State's procedure "afford
adequate and effective appellate review to indigent defendants," Griffin,
supra, at 20 (plurality opinion). A State's procedure provides such review so long as it reasonably ensures that an indigent's appeal will be
resolved in a way that is related to the merit of that appeal. In determining whether a particular procedure satisfies this standard, it is important to focus on the underlying goals that the procedure should
serve--to ensure that those indigents whose appeals are not frivolous
receive the counsel and merits brief required by Douglas, and also to
enable the State to "protect itself so that frivolous appeals are not subsidized and public moneys not needlessly spent," Griffin, supra, at 24
(Frankfurter, J., concurring in judgment). For an indigent's right to
counsel on direct appeal does not include the right to bring a frivolous appeal and, concomitantly, does not include the right to counsel
for bringing a frivolous appeal. Anders' obvious goal was to prevent
this limitation on the right to appellate counsel from swallowing
the right itself, and the Court does not retreat from that goal here.
Pp. 276-278.

(b) The Wende procedure reasonably ensures that an indigent's appeal will be resolved in a way that is related to the appeal's merit. A
comparison of that procedure to those evaluated in this Court's chief
cases demonstrates that it affords indigents the adequate and effective
appellate review required by the Fourteenth Amendment. The Wende
procedure is undoubtedly far better than those procedures the Court
has found inadequate. A significant fact in finding the old California
procedure inadequate in Anders, and also in finding inadequate the
procedures that the Court reviewed in Eskridge v. Washington Bd. of
Prison Terms and Paroles, 357 U. S. 214, and Lane v. Brown, 372 U. S.

528US2 Unit: $U21 [06-14-01 20:45:18] PAGES PGT: OPIN
262 SMITH v. ROBBINS

Syllabus
477, two of the precedents on which the Anders Court relied, was that
those procedures required only a determination that the defendant was
unlikely to prevail on appeal, not that the appeal was frivolous. Wende,
by contrast, requires both counsel and the court to find the appeal to be
lacking in arguable issues, i. e., frivolous. An additional problem with
the old California procedure was that it apparently permitted an appellate court to allow counsel to withdraw and then decide the appeal without appointing new counsel. Such a procedure was struck down in Penson v. Ohio, supra, because it permitted a basic violation of the Douglas
right to have counsel until a case is determined to be frivolous and to
receive a merits brief for a nonfrivolous appeal. Under Wende, by contrast, Douglas violations do not occur, both because counsel does not
move to withdraw and because the court orders briefing if it finds arguable issues. The procedure disapproved in Anders also only required
counsel to file a one-paragraph "bare conclusion" that the appeal had no
merit, while Wende requires that counsel provide a summary of the
case's procedural and factual history, with citations of the record, in
order to ensure that a trained legal eye has searched the record for
arguable issues and to assist the reviewing court in its own evaluation.
Finally, by providing at least two tiers of review, the Wende procedure
avoids the additional flaw, found in the Eskridge, Lane, and Douglas
procedures, of having only one such tier. Pp. 278-281.

(c) The Wende procedure is also at least comparable to those procedures the Court has approved. By neither requiring the Wende brief
to raise legal issues nor requiring counsel to explicitly describe the case
as frivolous, California has made a good-faith effort to mitigate one of
the problems that critics have found with Anders, namely, the requirement that counsel violate his ethical duty as an officer of the court (by
presenting frivolous arguments) as well as his duty to further his client's
interests (by characterizing the client's claims as frivolous). Wende
also attempts to resolve another Anders problem--that it apparently
adopts gradations of frivolity and uses two different meanings for the
phrase "arguable issue"--by drawing the line at frivolity and by defining arguable issues as those that are not frivolous. Finally, the Wende
procedure appears to be, in some ways, better than the one approved in
McCoy, and in other ways, worse. On balance, the Court cannot say
that the latter, assuming, arguendo, that they outweigh the former, do
so sufficiently to make the Wende procedure unconstitutional, and the
Court's purpose under the Constitution is not to resolve such arguments. The Court addresses not what is prudent or appropriate, but
what is constitutionally compelled. United States v. Cronic, 466 U. S.
648, 665, n. 38. It is enough to say that the Wende procedure, like the

528US2 Unit: $U21 [06-14-01 20:45:18] PAGES PGT: OPIN

263Cite as: 528 U. S. 259 (2000)
Syllabus
Anders and McCoy procedures, and unlike the ones in, e. g., Douglas
and Penson, affords adequate and effective appellate review for criminal
indigents. Pp. 281-284.

3. This case is remanded for the Ninth Circuit to evaluate Robbins'
ineffective-assistance claim. It may be that his appeal was not frivolous and that he was thus entitled to a merits brief. Both the District
Court and the Ninth Circuit found that there were two arguable issues
on direct appeal, but it is unclear how they used the phrase "arguable
issues." It is therefore necessary to clarify how strong those issues
are. The proper standard for evaluating Robbins' claim on remand is
that enunciated in Strickland v. Washington, 466 U. S. 668: He must
first show that his counsel was objectively unreasonable, id., at 687-691,
in failing to find arguable issues to appeal, and, if Robbins succeeds in
such a showing, he then has the burden of demonstrating prejudice, id.,
at 694. He must satisfy both prongs of the Strickland test to prevail,
for his claim does not warrant a presumption of prejudice. He has received appellate counsel who has complied with a valid state procedure
for determining whether his appeal is frivolous, and the State has not
left him without counsel on appeal. Thus, it is presumed that the result
of the proceedings is reliable, and Robbins must prove the presumption
incorrect. Further, his claim does not fall within any of the three categories of cases in which prejudice is presumed, for it does not involve
the complete denial of counsel on appeal, state interference with counsel's assistance, or an actual conflict of interest on his counsel's part.
Id., at 692, 694. Pp. 284-289.

152 F. 3d 1062, reversed and remanded.

Thomas, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which Rehnquist,
C. J., and O'Connor, Scalia, and Kennedy, JJ., joined. Stevens, J.,
filed a dissenting opinion, in which Ginsburg, J., joined, post, p. 289.
Souter, J., filed a dissenting opinion, in which Stevens, Ginsburg, and
Breyer, JJ., joined, post, p. 292.

Carol Frederick Jorstad, Deputy Attorney General of
California, argued the cause for petitioner. With her on the
briefs were Bill Lockyer, Attorney General, David P. Druliner, Chief Assistant Attorney General, Carol Wendelin
Pollack, Senior Assistant Attorney General, and Donald
E. De Nicola, Deputy Attorney General.

528US2 Unit: $U21 [06-14-01 20:45:18] PAGES PGT: OPIN
264 SMITH v. ROBBINS

Opinion of the Court
Ronald J. Nessim, by appointment of the Court, 526 U. S.1109, argued the cause for respondent. With him on the

brief were Thomas R. Freeman and Elizabeth A. Newman.*

Justice Thomas delivered the opinion of the Court.
Not infrequently, an attorney appointed to represent an
indigent defendant on appeal concludes that an appeal would
be frivolous and requests that the appellate court allow himto withdraw or that the court dispose of the case without the

filing of merits briefs. In Anders v. California, 386 U. S.738 (1967), we held that, in order to protect indigent defendants' constitutional right to appellate counsel, courts mustsafeguard against the risk of granting such requests in cases
where the appeal is not actually frivolous. We found inade-quate California's procedure--which permitted appellate
counsel to withdraw upon filing a conclusory letter statingthat the appeal had "no merit" and permitted the appellate
court to affirm the conviction upon reaching the same conclu-sion following a review of the record. We went on to set

*Briefs of amici curiae urging reversal were filed for the State of Arizona et al. by Janet Napolitano, Attorney General of Arizona, Colleen L.
French, Assistant Attorney General, and Paul J. McMurde; and by the
Attorneys General for their respective States as follows: Bill Pryor of
Alabama, M. Jane Brady of Delaware, Thurbert E. Baker of Georgia, Mike
Moore of Mississippi, Frankie Sue Del Papa of Nevada, D. Michael Fisher
of Pennsylvania, Paul G. Summers of Tennessee, Ken Salazar of Colorado,
Robert A. Butterworth of Florida, Richard P. Ieyoub of Louisiana, Don
Stenberg of Nebraska, Patricia A. Madrid of New Mexico, Charles M.
Condon of South Carolina, and Mark L. Earley of Virginia; for the California Academy of Appellate Lawyers by Robert S. Gerstein, Jay-Allen
Eisen, Michael M. Berger, Peter W. Davis, Rex S. Heinke, Wendy C.
Lascher, Gerald Z. Marer, and Jonathan B. Steiner; and for the Criminal
Justice Legal Foundation by Kent S. Scheidegger and Charles L. Hobson.

Briefs of amici curiae urging affirmance were filed for the National
Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers by Leon Friedman; and for
Jesus Garcia Delgado by Michael B. Dashjian.

Gregory R. Smith filed a brief for retired Justice Armand Arabian et al.
as amici curiae.

528US2 Unit: $U21 [06-14-01 20:45:18] PAGES PGT: OPIN

265Cite as: 528 U. S. 259 (2000)
Opinion of the Court
forth an acceptable procedure. California has since adopted
a new procedure, which departs in some respects from the
one that we delineated in Anders. The question is whether
that departure is fatal. We hold that it is not. The procedure we sketched in Anders is a prophylactic one; the States
are free to adopt different procedures, so long as those procedures adequately safeguard a defendant's right to appellate
counsel.

I

A

Under California's new procedure, established in People v.
Wende, 25 Cal. 3d 436, 441-442, 600 P. 2d 1071, 1074-1075
(1979), and followed in numerous cases since then, see, e. g.,
People v. Rowland, 75 Cal. App. 4th 61, 63, 88 Cal. Rptr. 2d
900, 901 (1999), counsel, upon concluding that an appeal
would be frivolous, files a brief with the appellate court that
summarizes the procedural and factual history of the case,
with citations of the record. He also attests that he has reviewed the record, explained his evaluation of the case to his
client, provided the client with a copy of the brief, and informed the client of his right to file a pro se supplemental
brief. He further requests that the court independently examine the record for arguable issues. Unlike under the Anders procedure, counsel following Wende neither explicitly
states that his review has led him to conclude that an appeal
would be frivolous (although that is considered implicit, see
Wende, 25 Cal. 3d, at 441-442, 600 P. 2d, at 1075) nor requests
leave to withdraw. Instead, he is silent on the merits of the
case and expresses his availability to brief any issues on
which the court might desire briefing. See generally id., at
438, 441-442, 600 P. 2d, at 1072, 1074-1075.

The appellate court, upon receiving a "Wende brief," must
"conduct a review of the entire record," regardless of
whether the defendant has filed a pro se brief. Id., at 441-
442, 600 P. 2d, at 1074-1075. The California Supreme Court

528US2 Unit: $U21 [06-14-01 20:45:18] PAGES PGT: OPIN
266 SMITH v. ROBBINS

Opinion of the Court
in Wende required such a thorough review notwithstandinga dissenting Justice's argument that it was unnecessary and

exceeded the review that a court performs under Anders.See 25 Cal. 3d, at 444-445, 600 P. 2d, at 1077 (Clark, J., concurring in judgment and dissenting in part); see also id., at444, 600 P. 2d, at 1076 ("The precise holding in Anders was
that a `no merit' letter . . . `was not enough.' . . . Just whatis `enough' is not clear, but the majority of the court in that
case did not require an appellate court to function as co-counsel"). If the appellate court, after its review of the record pursuant to Wende, also finds the appeal to be frivolous,it may affirm. See

id., at 443, 600 P. 2d, at 1076 (majorityopinion). If, however, it finds an arguable (

i. e., nonfrivolous) issue, it orders briefing on that issue. Id., at 442, n. 3,600 P. 2d, at 1075, n. 3.

1

B

In 1990, a California state-court jury convicted respondent
Lee Robbins of second-degree murder (for fatally shootinghis former roommate) and of grand theft of an automobile

(for stealing a truck that he used to flee the State after com-mitting the murder). Robbins was sentenced to 17 years to
life. He elected to represent himself at trial, but on appeal

1 In addition to this double review and double determination of frivolity,
California affords a third layer of review, through the California Appellate
Projects, described in a recent opinion by the California Court of Appeal
for the First District:

"[The appellate projects] are under contract to the court; their contractual duties include review of the records to assist court-appointed counsel
in identifying issues to brief. If the court-appointed counsel can find no
meritorious issues to raise and decides to file a Wende brief, an appellate
project staff attorney reviews the record again to determine whether a
Wende brief is appropriate. Thus, by the time the Wende brief is filed in
the Court of Appeal, the record in the case has been reviewed both by the
court-appointed counsel (who is presumably well qualified to handle the
case) and by an experienced attorney on the staff of [the appellate project]." People v. Hackett, 36 Cal. App. 4th 1297, 1311, 43 Cal. Rptr. 2d 219,
228 (1995).

528US2 Unit: $U21 [06-14-01 20:45:18] PAGES PGT: OPIN

267Cite as: 528 U. S. 259 (2000)
Opinion of the Court
he received appointed counsel. His appointed counsel, con-cluding that an appeal would be frivolous, filed with the California Court of Appeal a brief that complied with the Wendeprocedure.

2 Robbins also availed himself of his right under

Wende to file a pro se supplemental brief, filing a brief inwhich he contended that there was insufficient evidence to

support his conviction and that the prosecutor violated
Brady v. Maryland, 373 U. S. 83 (1963), by failing to discloseexculpatory evidence.

The California Court of Appeal, agreeing with counsel'sassessment of the case, affirmed. The court explained that
it had "examined the entire record" and had, as a result,concluded both that counsel had fully complied with his responsibilities under Wende and that "no arguable issuesexist." App. 39. The court added that the two issues that
Robbins raised in his supplemental brief had no support inthe record.

Ibid. The California Supreme Court denied
Robbins' petition for review.

After exhausting state postconviction remedies, Robbins
filed in the United States District Court for the Central District of California the instant petition for a writ of habeas
corpus pursuant to 28 U. S. C. $ 2254.3 Robbins renewed his
Brady claim, argued that the state trial court had erred by
not allowing him to withdraw his waiver of his right to trial
counsel, and added nine other claims of trial error. In addition, and most importantly for present purposes, he claimed
that he had been denied effective assistance of appellate
counsel because his appellate counsel's Wende brief failed to
comply with Anders v. California, 386 U. S., at 744. Anders

2 Before filing his Wende brief, counsel consulted with the California
Appellate Project for the Second District Court of Appeal and received
its permission to file such a brief. App. 43.

3 The Antiterrorism and Effective Death Penalty Act of 1996, 110 Stat.

1214, which amended $ 2254 and related provisions, does not apply to respondent's habeas petition, since he filed his petition before that Act's effective date of April 24, 1996. See Lindh v. Murphy, 521 U. S. 320 (1997).

528US2 Unit: $U21 [06-14-01 20:45:18] PAGES PGT: OPIN
268 SMITH v. ROBBINS

Opinion of the Court
set forth a procedure for an appellate counsel to follow inseeking permission to withdraw from the representation

when he concludes that an appeal would be frivolous; thatprocedure includes the requirement that counsel file a brief
"referring to anything in the record that might arguably sup-port the appeal,"

ibid.
The District Court agreed with Robbins' last claim, concluding that there were at least two issues that, pursuant to
Anders, counsel should have raised in his brief (in a Wende
brief, as noted above, counsel is not required to raise issues):first, whether the prison law library was adequate for Robbins' needs in preparing his defense after he elected to dismiss his appointed counsel and proceed pro se at trial, and,
second, whether the trial court erred in refusing to allow
him to withdraw his waiver of counsel. The District Court
did not attempt to determine the likelihood that either of
these two issues would have prevailed in an appeal. Rather,
it simply concluded that, in the language of the Anders procedure, these issues "might arguably" have "support[ed]
the appeal," App. 51, n. 6 (citing Anders), and thus that Robbins' appellate counsel, by not including them in his brief,
deviated from the procedure set forth in Anders. The court
concluded that such a deviation amounted to deficient performance by counsel. In addition, rather than requiring
Robbins to show that he suffered prejudice from this deficient performance, the District Court applied a presumption
of prejudice. App. 49. Thus, based simply on a finding that
appellate counsel's brief was inadequate under Anders, the
District Court ordered California to grant respondent a new
appeal within 30 days or else release him from custody.

The United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit
agreed with the District Court on the Anders issue. In the
Ninth Circuit's view, Anders, together with Douglas v. California, 372 U. S. 353 (1963), which held that States must provide appointed counsel to indigent criminal defendants on
appeal, "set forth the exclusive procedure through which ap528US2 Unit: $U21 [06-14-01 20:45:18] PAGES PGT: OPIN

269Cite as: 528 U. S. 259 (2000)
Opinion of the Court
pointed counsel's performance can pass constitutional mus-ter." 152 F. 3d 1062, 1066 (1998). Rejecting petitioner's argument that counsel's brief was sufficient because it compliedwith Wende, the Ninth Circuit concluded that the brief was
deficient because it did not, as the Anders procedure re-quires, identify any legal issues that arguably could have
supported the appeal. 152 F. 3d, at 1066-1067.4 The courtdid not decide whether a counsel's deviation from

Anders,standing alone, would warrant a new appeal, see 152 F. 3d,

at 1066-1067, but rather concluded that the District Court'saward of relief was proper because counsel had failed to brief
the two arguable issues that the District Court identified.The Ninth Circuit remanded, however, for the District Court
to consider respondent's 11 claims of trial error. Id., at 1069.The court reasoned that if Robbins prevailed on any of these
claims, it would be unnecessary to order the California Courtof Appeal to grant a new direct appeal. We granted certiorari. 526 U. S. 1003 (1999).

II

A
In Anders, we reviewed an earlier California procedure forhandling appeals by convicted indigents. Pursuant to that

procedure, Anders' appointed appellate counsel had filed aletter stating that he had concluded that there was "no merit
to the appeal," 386 U. S., at 739-740. Anders, in response,sought new counsel; the State Court of Appeal denied the
request, and Anders filed a pro se appellate brief. Thatcourt then issued an opinion that reviewed the four claims in
his pro se brief and affirmed, finding no error (or no prejudi-cial error).

People v. Anders, 167 Cal. App. 2d 65, 333 P. 2d

4 In subsequent cases, the Ninth Circuit has reiterated its view that the
Wende procedure is unconstitutional because it differs from the Anders
procedure. See Delgado v. Lewis, 181 F. 3d 1087, 1090, 1093, stay granted
pending disposition of pet. for cert., 527 U. S. 1066 (1999); Davis v. Kramer,
167 F. 3d 494, 496, 497-498 (1999), cert. pending, No. 98-1427.

528US2 Unit: $U21 [06-14-01 20:45:18] PAGES PGT: OPIN
270 SMITH v. ROBBINS

Opinion of the Court
854 (1959). Anders thereafter sought a writ of habeas cor-pus from the State Court of Appeal, which denied relief, explaining that it had again reviewed the record and had foundthe appeal to be " `without merit.' " Anders, 386 U. S., at
740 (quoting unreported memorandum opinion).We held that "California's action does not comport with
fair procedure and lacks that equality that is required by theFourteenth Amendment."

Id., at 741. We placed the casewithin a line of precedent beginning with Griffin v. Illinois,

351 U. S. 12 (1956), and continuing with Douglas, supra, thatimposed constitutional constraints on States when they
choose to create appellate review.5 In finding the Californiaprocedure to have breached these constraints, we compared
it to other procedures we had found invalid and to statutoryrequirements in the federal courts governing appeals by indigents with appointed counsel. Anders, supra, at 741-743.We relied in particular on Ellis v. United States, 356 U. S.
674 (1958) (per curiam), a case involving federal statutoryrequirements, and quoted the following passage from it:

" `If counsel is convinced, after conscientious investiga-tion, that the appeal is frivolous, of course, he may ask
to withdraw on that account. If the court is satisfiedthat counsel has diligently investigated the possible
grounds of appeal, and agrees with counsel's evaluationof the case, then leave to withdraw may be allowed and
leave to appeal may be denied.' " Anders, supra, at741-742 (quoting

Ellis, supra, at 675).

In Anders, neither counsel, the state appellate court on di-rect appeal, nor the state habeas courts had made any finding

of frivolity.6 We concluded that a finding that the appeal

5 The Constitution does not, however, require States to create appellate
review in the first place. See, e. g., Ross v. Moffitt, 417 U. S. 600, 606
(1974) (citing McKane v. Durston, 153 U. S. 684, 687 (1894)).

6 The same was true in Ellis itself. See Ellis v. United States, 249

F. 2d 478, 480-481 (CADC 1957) (Washington, J., dissenting) ("Counsel . . .
concluded that the rulings of the District Court were not `so clearly erro528US2 Unit: $U21 [06-14-01 20:45:18] PAGES PGT: OPIN

271Cite as: 528 U. S. 259 (2000)
Opinion of the Court
had "no merit" was not adequate, because it did not meanthat the appeal was so lacking in prospects as to be "frivolous": "We cannot say that there was a finding of frivolity byeither of the California courts or that counsel acted in any
greater capacity than merely as amicus curiae which wascondemned in Ellis." 386 U. S., at 743.

Having rejected the California procedure, we proceeded,in a final, separate section, to set out what would be an acceptable procedure for treating frivolous appeals:

"[I]f counsel finds his case to be wholly frivolous, aftera conscientious examination of it, he should so advise the

court and request permission to withdraw. That re-quest must, however, be accompanied by a brief referring to anything in the record that might arguably sup-port the appeal. A copy of counsel's brief should be
furnished the indigent and time allowed him to raise anypoints that he chooses; the court--not counsel--then
proceeds, after a full examination of all the proceedings,to decide whether the case is wholly frivolous. If it so
finds it may grant counsel's request to withdraw and dis-miss the appeal insofar as federal requirements are concerned, or proceed to a decision on the merits, if statelaw so requires. On the other hand, if it finds any of
the legal points arguable on their merits (and thereforenot frivolous) it must, prior to decision, afford the indigent the assistance of counsel to argue the appeal." Id.,at 744.

We then concluded by explaining how this procedure wouldbe better than the California one that we had found deficient.
Among other things, we thought that it would "induce thecourt to pursue all the more vigorously its own review because of the ready references not only to the record but also
neous as to constitute probable error.' . . . Where, as here, there was a
fairly arguable question, counsel should have proceeded to present argument"), vacated and remanded, 356 U. S. 674 (1958) (per curiam).

528US2 Unit: $U21 [06-14-01 20:45:18] PAGES PGT: OPIN
272 SMITH v. ROBBINS

Opinion of the Court
to the legal authorities as furnished it by counsel." Id., at745.

B
The Ninth Circuit ruled that this final section of Anders,even though unnecessary to our holding in that case, was

obligatory upon the States. We disagree. We have neverso held; we read our precedents to suggest otherwise; and
the Ninth Circuit's view runs contrary to our establishedpractice of permitting the States, within the broad bounds
of the Constitution, to experiment with solutions to difficultquestions of policy.

In McCoy v. Court of Appeals of Wis., Dist. 1, 486 U. S.429 (1988), we rejected a challenge to Wisconsin's variation
on the Anders procedure. Wisconsin had departed fromAnders by requiring Anders briefs to discuss why each issue
raised lacked merit. The defendant argued that this rulewas contrary to Anders and forced counsel to violate his ethical obligations to his client. We, however, emphasized thatthe right to appellate representation does not include a right
to present frivolous arguments to the court, 486 U. S., at 436,and, similarly, that an attorney is "under an ethical obligation to refuse to prosecute a frivolous appeal," ibid. (footnoteomitted). Anders, we explained, merely aims to "assure the
court that the indigent defendant's constitutional rights havenot been violated." 486 U. S., at 442. Because the Wisconsin procedure adequately provided such assurance, we foundno constitutional violation, notwithstanding its variance from
Anders. See 486 U. S., at 442-444. We did, in McCoy, de-scribe the procedure at issue as going "one step further"
than Anders, McCoy, supra, at 442, thus suggesting that Anders might set a mandatory minimum, but we think this de-scription of the Wisconsin procedure questionable, since it

provided less effective advocacy for an indigent--in at leastone respect--than does the Anders procedure. The Wisconsin procedure, by providing for one-sided briefing by counselagainst his own client's best claims, probably made a court

528US2 Unit: $U21 [06-14-01 20:45:18] PAGES PGT: OPIN

273Cite as: 528 U. S. 259 (2000)
Opinion of the Court
more likely to rule against the indigent than if the court hadsimply received an

Anders brief.
In Pennsylvania v. Finley, 481 U. S. 551 (1987), we ex-plained that the

Anders procedure is not "an independent
constitutional command," but rather is just "a prophylacticframework" that we established to vindicate the constitutional right to appellate counsel announced in Douglas. 481
U. S., at 555. We did not say that our Anders procedurewas the

only prophylactic framework that could adequately
vindicate this right; instead, by making clear that the Consti-tution itself does not compel the

Anders procedure, we suggested otherwise. Similarly, in Penson v. Ohio, 488 U. S. 75
(1988), we described Anders as simply erecting "safeguards."
488 U. S., at 80.

It is true that in Penson we used some language suggesting that Anders is mandatory upon the States, see 488 U. S.,
at 80-82, but that language was not necessary to the decision
we reached. We had no reason in Penson to determine
whether the Anders procedure was mandatory, because the
procedure at issue clearly failed under Douglas, see infra, at
280. Further, counsel's action in Penson was closely analogous to the action of counsel that we found invalid in Anders,
see Penson, supra, at 77-78, so there was no need to rely on
the Anders procedure, as opposed to just the Anders holding,
to find counsel's action improper. See 488 U. S., at 77 ("The
question presented by this case is remarkably similar [to the
one presented in Anders] and therefore requires a similar
answer").

Finally, any view of the procedure we described in the last
section of Anders that converted it from a suggestion into
a straitjacket would contravene our established practice,
rooted in federalism, of allowing the States wide discretion,
subject to the minimum requirements of the Fourteenth
Amendment, to experiment with solutions to difficult problems of policy. In Griffin v. Illinois, 351 U. S. 12 (1956),
which we invoked as the foundational case for our holding

528US2 Unit: $U21 [06-14-01 20:45:18] PAGES PGT: OPIN
274 SMITH v. ROBBINS

Opinion of the Court
in Anders, see Anders, 386 U. S., at 741, we expressly dis-claimed any pretensions to rulemaking authority for the

States in the area of indigent criminal appeals. We imposedno broad rule or procedure but merely held unconstitutional
Illinois' requirement that indigents pay a fee to receive atrial transcript that was essential for bringing an appeal.
Justice Frankfurter, who provided the necessary fifth votefor the holding in

Griffin, emphasized that it was not for thisCourt "to tell Illinois what means are open to the indigent

and must be chosen. Illinois may prescribe any means thatare within the wide area of its constitutional discretion" and
"may protect itself so that frivolous appeals are not subsi-dized and public moneys not needlessly spent." 351 U. S.,
at 24 (opinion concurring in judgment). He added that whilea State could not "bolt the door to equal justice," it also was
not obliged to "support a wasteful abuse of the appellateprocess." Ibid. The Griffin plurality shared this view, explaining that the Court was not holding "that Illinois mustpurchase a stenographer's transcript in every case where a
defendant cannot buy it. The Supreme Court [of Illinois]may find other means of affording adequate and effective
appellate review to indigent defendants." Id., at 20.In a related context, we stated this basic principle of federalism in the very Term in which we decided Anders. Weemphatically reaffirmed that the Constitution "has never
been thought [to] establish this Court as a rule-making organfor the promulgation of state rules of criminal procedure."
Spencer v. Texas, 385 U. S. 554, 564 (1967) (citing, inter alia,
Griffin, supra). Accord, Medina v. California, 505 U. S.437, 443-444, 447-448 (1992). Justice Stewart, concurring in

Spencer, explained further:

"If the Constitution gave me a roving commission toimpose upon the criminal courts of Texas my own notions of enlightened policy, I would not join the Court'sopinion. . . . [But] [t]he question is whether those procedures fall below the minimum level the Fourteenth

528US2 Unit: $U21 [06-14-01 20:45:18] PAGES PGT: OPIN

275Cite as: 528 U. S. 259 (2000)
Opinion of the Court
Amendment will tolerate. Upon that question, I amconstrained to join the opinion and judgment of the

Court." 385 U. S., at 569.
We have continued to reiterate this principle in recent years.See

Finley, 481 U. S., at 559 (refusing to accept the premisethat "when a State chooses to offer help to those seeking

relief from convictions, the Federal Constitution dictates theexact form such assistance must assume"); ibid. (explaining
that States have "substantial discretion to develop and im-plement programs to aid prisoners seeking to secure postconviction review"); Murray v. Giarratano, 492 U. S. 1, 13(1989) (

O'Connor, J., concurring) ("[N]or does it seem to methat the Constitution requires the States to follow any particular federal model in [postconviction] proceedings. . . .States [have] considerable discretion"); id., at 14 (

Kennedy,J., concurring in judgment) ("[J]udicial imposition of a categorical remedy . . . might pretermit other responsible solu-tions being considered in Congress and state legislatures").
Although Finley and Murray involved postconviction pro-ceedings (in which there is no constitutional right to counsel)
rather than direct appeal, we think, as the language of Griffin suggests, that the principle is the same in both contexts.For in Griffin, as here, there was an underlying constitutional right at issue.In short, it is more in keeping with our status as a court,
and particularly with our status as a court in a federal sys-tem, to avoid imposing a single solution on the States from
the top down. We should, and do, evaluate state proceduresone at a time, as they come before us, see

Murray, supra,at 14, while leaving "the more challenging task of crafting

appropriate procedures . . . to the laboratory of the States inthe first instance," Cruzan v. Director, Mo. Dept. of Health,
497 U. S. 261, 292 (1990) (O'Connor, J., concurring) (citationand internal quotation marks omitted). We will not cavalierly "imped[e] the States' ability to serve as laboratoriesfor testing solutions to novel legal problems."

Arizona v.

528US2 Unit: $U21 [06-14-01 20:45:18] PAGES PGT: OPIN
276 SMITH v. ROBBINS

Opinion of the Court
Evans, 514 U. S. 1, 24 (1995) (Ginsburg, J., dissenting). Ac-cordingly, we hold that the Anders procedure is merely one

method of satisfying the requirements of the Constitution forindigent criminal appeals. States may--and, we are confident, will--craft procedures that, in terms of policy, are su-perior to, or at least as good as, that in Anders. The Constitution erects no barrier to their doing so.7

III
Having determined that California's Wende procedure isnot unconstitutional merely because it diverges from the Anders procedure, we turn to consider the Wende procedure onits own merits. We think it clear that California's system
does not violate the Fourteenth Amendment, for it provides"a criminal appellant pursuing a first appeal as of right [the]
minimum safeguards necessary to make that appeal `ade-quate and effective,' " Evitts v. Lucey, 469 U. S. 387, 392
(1985) (quoting Griffin, 351 U. S., at 20 (plurality opinion)).

A
As we have admitted on numerous occasions, " `[t]he pre-cise rationale for the Griffin and Douglas lines of cases has

never been explicitly stated, some support being derivedfrom the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment and some from the Due Process Clause of that Amend-ment.' " Evitts, supra, at 403 (quoting Ross v. Moffitt, 417
U. S. 600, 608-609 (1974) (footnote omitted)). But our caselaw reveals that, as a practical matter, the two Clauses
largely converge to require that a State's procedure "affor[d]adequate and effective appellate review to indigent defendants," Griffin, 351 U. S., at 20 (plurality opinion). A State'sprocedure provides such review so long as it reasonably en7 States have, in fact, already been doing this to some degree. See
Warner, Anders in the Fifty States: Some Appellants' Equal Protection is
More Equal Than Others', 23 Fla. St. U. L. Rev. 625, 642-662 (1996); Arizona v. Clark, 196 Ariz. 530, 536-539, 2 P. 3d 89, 95-98 (App. 1999).

528US2 Unit: $U21 [06-14-01 20:45:18] PAGES PGT: OPIN

277Cite as: 528 U. S. 259 (2000)
Opinion of the Court
sures that an indigent's appeal will be resolved in a way that
is related to the merit of that appeal.8 See id., at 17-18 (plurality opinion) (state law regulating indigents' appeals bore
"no rational relationship to a defendant's guilt or innocence");
id., at 22 (Frankfurter, J., concurring in judgment) (law imposed "differentiations . . . that have no relation to a rational
policy of criminal appeal"); Douglas, 372 U. S., at 357 (decision of first appeal "without benefit of counsel, . . . no matter
how meritorious [an indigent's] case may turn out to be,"
discriminates between rich and poor rather than between
"possibly good and obviously bad cases" (internal quotation
marks omitted)); Rinaldi v. Yeager, 384 U. S. 305, 310 (1966)
(state appellate system must be "free of unreasoned distinctions"); Evitts, supra, at 404 (law in Griffin "decided the
appeal in a way that was arbitrary with respect to the issues
involved"). Compare Finley, supra, at 556 ("The equal protection guarantee . . . only . . . assure[s] the indigent defendant an adequate opportunity to present his claims fairly in
the context of the State's appellate process" (quoting Ross,
supra, at 616)), with Evitts, supra, at 405 ("[D]ue process . . .
[requires] States . . . to offer each defendant a fair opportunity to obtain an adjudication on the merits of his appeal"
(discussing Griffin and Douglas)).9

In determining whether a particular state procedure satisfies this standard, it is important to focus on the underlying
goals that the procedure should serve--to ensure that those
indigents whose appeals are not frivolous receive the counsel
and merits brief required by Douglas, and also to enable the

8 Of course, no procedure can eliminate all risk of error. E. g., Walters
v. National Assn. of Radiation Survivors, 473 U. S. 305, 320-321 (1985).

9 Although we have said that an indigent must receive "substantial

equality" compared to the legal assistance that a defendant with paid counsel would receive, McCoy v. Court of Appeals of Wis., Dist. 1, 486 U. S.
429, 438 (1988), we have also emphasized that "[a]bsolute equality is not
required; lines can be and are drawn and we often sustain them," Douglas
v. California, 372 U. S. 353, 357 (1963).

528US2 Unit: $U21 [06-14-01 20:45:19] PAGES PGT: OPIN
278 SMITH v. ROBBINS

Opinion of the Court
State to "protect itself so that frivolous appeals are not sub-sidized and public moneys not needlessly spent," Griffin,

supra, at 24 (Frankfurter, J., concurring in judgment). Foralthough, under Douglas, indigents generally have a right to
counsel on a first appeal as of right, it is equally true thatthis right does not include the right to bring a frivolous appeal and, concomitantly, does not include the right to counselfor bringing a frivolous appeal.

10 See McCoy, 486 U. S., at

436-438; Douglas, supra, at 357; see also United States v.
Cronic, 466 U. S. 648, 656, n. 19 (1984) ("Of course, the SixthAmendment does not require that [trial] counsel do what is

impossible or unethical"); cf. Nix v. Whiteside, 475 U. S. 157,175 (1986) (no violation of Sixth Amendment right to the effective assistance of counsel when trial counsel refuses toviolate ethical duty not to assist his client in presenting perjured testimony). To put the point differently, an indigentdefendant who has his appeal dismissed because it is frivolous has not been deprived of "a fair opportunity" to bringhis appeal,

Evitts, supra, at 405; see Finley, 481 U. S., at 556,for fairness does not require either counsel or a full appeal

once it is properly determined that an appeal is frivolous.The obvious goal of Anders was to prevent this limitation on
the right to appellate counsel from swallowing the right it-self, see Penson, 488 U. S., at 83-84; McCoy, supra, at 444,
and we do not retreat from that goal today.

B
We think the Wende procedure reasonably ensures that anindigent's appeal will be resolved in a way that is related to

10 This distinction gives meaning to our previous emphasis on an indigent appellant's right to "advocacy." Although an indigent whose appeal
is frivolous has no right to have an advocate make his case to the appellate
court, such an indigent does, in all cases, have the right to have an attorney, zealous for the indigent's interests, evaluate his case and attempt to
discern nonfrivolous arguments. See Ellis, 356 U. S., at 675; Anders v.
California, 386 U. S. 738, 741-743 (1967).

528US2 Unit: $U21 [06-14-01 20:45:19] PAGES PGT: OPIN

279Cite as: 528 U. S. 259 (2000)
Opinion of the Court
the merit of that appeal. Whatever its strengths or weak-nesses as a matter of policy, we cannot say that it fails to

afford indigents the adequate and effective appellate reviewthat the Fourteenth Amendment requires. A comparison of
the Wende procedure to the procedures evaluated in ourchief cases in this area makes this evident.

The Wende procedure is undoubtedly far better than those
procedures we have found inadequate. Anders itself, in dis-approving the former California procedure, chiefly relied on

three precedents: Ellis v. United States, 356 U. S. 674 (1958)
(per curiam), Eskridge v. Washington Bd. of Prison Terms
and Paroles, 357 U. S. 214 (1958) (per curiam), and Lane v.
Brown, 372 U. S. 477 (1963). See Anders, 386 U. S., at 741-
743. Although we did not, in Anders, explain in detail why
the California procedure was inadequate under each of these
precedents, our particularly heavy reliance on Ellis makes
clear that a significant factor was that the old California procedure did not require either counsel or the court to determine that the appeal was frivolous; instead, the procedure
required only that they determine that the defendant was
unlikely to prevail on appeal. Compare Anders, supra, at
741-742 (" `If counsel is convinced, after conscientious investigation, that the appeal is frivolous, of course, he may ask
to withdraw . . . . If the court . . . agrees with counsel's
evaluation of the case, then leave to withdraw may be allowed and leave to appeal may be denied' " (quoting Ellis,
supra, at 675)), with Anders, supra, at 743 ("We cannot say
that there was a finding of frivolity"). See also McCoy,
supra, at 437 (quoting same passage from Ellis that we
quoted in Anders). This problem also appears to have been
one of the flaws in the procedures at issue in Eskridge and
Lane. The former involved a finding only that there had
been " `no grave or prejudicial errors' " at trial, Anders,
supra, at 742 (quoting Eskridge, supra, at 215), and the latter, a finding only that the appeal " `would be unsuccessful,' "
Anders, supra, at 743 (quoting Lane, supra, at 482). Wende,

528US2 Unit: $U21 [06-14-01 20:45:19] PAGES PGT: OPIN
280 SMITH v. ROBBINS

Opinion of the Court
by contrast, requires both counsel and the court to find theappeal to be lacking in arguable issues, which is to say, frivolous. See 25 Cal. 3d, at 439, 441-442, 600 P. 2d, at 1073, 1075;see

id., at 441, 600 P. 2d, at 1074 (reading Anders as finding
old California procedure deficient largely "because the courtitself did not make an express finding that the appeal was

frivolous").

An additional problem with the old California procedurewas that it apparently permitted an appellate court to allow

counsel to withdraw and thereafter to decide the appealwithout appointing new counsel. See

Anders, supra, at 740,
n. 2. We resolved any doubt on this point in Penson, where
we struck down a procedure that allowed counsel to withdraw before the court had determined whether counsel's
evaluation of the case was accurate, 488 U. S., at 82-83, and,
in addition, allowed a court to decide the appeal without
counsel even if the court found arguable issues, id., at 83
(stating that this latter flaw was the "[m]ost significan[t]"
one). Thus, the Penson procedure permitted a basic violation of the Douglas right to have counsel until a case is determined to be frivolous and to receive a merits brief for a
nonfrivolous appeal. See 488 U. S., at 88 ("[I]t is important
to emphasize that the denial of counsel in this case left petitioner completely without representation during the appellate court's actual decisional process"); ibid. (defendant was
"entirely without the assistance of counsel on appeal"). Cf.
McCoy, supra, at 430-431, n. 1 (approving procedure under
which appellate court first finds appeal to be frivolous and
affirms, then relieves counsel). Under Wende, by contrast,
Douglas violations do not occur, both because counsel does
not move to withdraw and because the court orders briefing
if it finds arguable issues. See Wende, supra, at 442, n. 3,
600 P. 2d, at 1075, n. 3; see also, e. g., Rowland, 75 Cal. App.
3d, at 61-62, 88 Cal. Rptr. 2d, at 900-901.

In Anders, we also disapproved the old California procedure because we thought that a one-paragraph letter from

528US2 Unit: $U21 [06-14-01 20:45:19] PAGES PGT: OPIN

281Cite as: 528 U. S. 259 (2000)
Opinion of the Court
counsel stating only his "bare conclusion" that the appeal had
no merit was insufficient. 386 U. S., at 742. It is unclear
from our opinion in Anders how much our objection on this
point was severable from our objection to the lack of a finding of frivolity, because we immediately followed our description of counsel's "no merit" letter with a discussion of Ellis,
Eskridge, and Lane, and the lack of such a finding. See 386
U. S., at 742-743. In any event, the Wende brief provides
more than a one-paragraph "bare conclusion." Counsel's
summary of the case's procedural and factual history, with
citations of the record, both ensures that a trained legal eye
has searched the record for arguable issues and assists the
reviewing court in its own evaluation of the case.

Finally, an additional flaw with the procedures in Eskridge
and Lane was that there was only one tier of review--by
the trial judge in Eskridge (who understandably had little
incentive to find any error warranting an appeal) and by the
public defender in Lane. See Anders, supra, at 742-743.
The procedure in Douglas itself was, in part, flawed for the
same reason. See 372 U. S., at 354-355. The Wende procedure, of course, does not suffer from this flaw, for it provides
at least two tiers of review.

Not only does the Wende procedure far exceed those procedures that we have found invalid, but it is also at least comparable to those procedures that we have approved. Turning first to the procedure we set out in the final section of
Anders, we note that it has, from the beginning, faced " `consistent and severe criticism.' " In re Sade C., 13 Cal. 4th
952, 979, n. 7, 920 P. 2d 716, 731, n. 7 (1996) (quoting Note, 67
Texas L. Rev. 181, 212 (1988)). One of the most consistent
criticisms, one with which we wrestled in McCoy, is that Anders is in some tension both with counsel's ethical duty as an
officer of the court (which requires him not to present frivolous arguments) and also with his duty to further his client's
interests (which might not permit counsel to characterize his

528US2 Unit: $U21 [06-14-01 20:45:19] PAGES PGT: OPIN
282 SMITH v. ROBBINS

Opinion of the Court
client's claims as frivolous).11 California, through the Wende
procedure, has made a good-faith effort to mitigate this problem by not requiring the Wende brief to raise legal issues
and by not requiring counsel to explicitly describe the case
as frivolous. See Wende, 25 Cal. 3d, at 441-442, 600 P. 2d,
at 1074-1075.

Another criticism of the Anders procedure has been that
it is incoherent and thus impossible to follow. Those making
this criticism point to our language in Anders suggesting
that an appeal could be both "wholly frivolous" and at the
same time contain arguable issues, even though we also said
that an issue that was arguable was "therefore not frivolous." Anders, supra, at 744.12 In other words, the Anders
procedure appears to adopt gradations of frivolity and to use
two different meanings for the phrase "arguable issue."
The Wende procedure attempts to resolve this problem as
well, by drawing the line at frivolity and by defining arguable issues as those that are not frivolous.13

11 As one former public defender has explained, "an attorney confronted
with the Anders situation has to do something that the Code of Professional Responsibility describes as unethical; the only choice is as to which
canon he or she prefers to violate." Pengilly, Never Cry Anders: The
Ethical Dilemma of Counsel Appointed to Pursue a Frivolous Criminal
Appeal, 9 Crim. Justice J. 45, 64 (1986). See also, e. g., Commonwealth v.
Moffett, 383 Mass. 201, 206, 418 N. E. 2d 585, 590 (1981) (Anders requires
a "Janus-faced approach" by counsel); Hermann, Frivolous Criminal Appeals, 47 N. Y. U. L. Rev. 701, 711 (1972).

12 Justice Stewart, in his dissent in Anders, was the first to make this

criticism of the procedure set out by the Anders majority: "[I]f the record
did present any such `arguable' issues, the appeal would not be frivolous."
386 U. S., at 746; see id., at 746, n. See also, e. g., C. Wolfram, Modern
Legal Ethics 817 (1986) ("The Anders directives are confusing, if not
contradictory").

13 See supra, at 279-280. A further criticism of Anders has been that

it is unjust. More particularly, critics have claimed that, in setting out
the Anders procedure, we were oblivious to the problem of scarce resources (with regard to both counsel and courts) and, as a result, crafted
a rule that diverts attention from meritorious appeals of indigents and
ensures poor representation for all indigents. See, e. g., Pritchard, Auc528US2 Unit: $U21 [06-14-01 20:45:19] PAGES PGT: OPIN

283Cite as: 528 U. S. 259 (2000)
Opinion of the Court
Finally, the Wende procedure appears to be, in some ways,
better than the one we approved in McCoy and, in other
ways, worse. On balance, we cannot say that the latter,
assuming, arguendo, that they outweigh the former, do so
sufficiently to make the Wende procedure unconstitutional.
The Wisconsin procedure we evaluated in McCoy, which
required counsel filing an Anders brief to explain why the
issues he raised in his brief lacked merit, arguably exacerbated the ethical problem already present in the Anders
procedure. The Wende procedure, as we have explained, attempts to mitigate that problem. Further, it appears that
in the McCoy scheme counsel discussed--and the appellate
court reviewed--only the parts of the record cited by counsel
in support of the "arguable" issues he raised. See 486 U. S.,
at 440, 442. The Wende procedure, by contrast, requires a
more thorough treatment of the record by both counsel and
court. See 25 Cal. 3d, at 440-441, 600 P. 2d, at 1074-1075;
id., at 445, 600 P. 2d, at 1077 (Clark, J., concurring in judgtioning Justice: Legal and Market Mechanisms for Allocating Criminal Appellate Counsel, 34 Am. Crim. L. Rev. 1161, 1167-1168 (1997) (Anders has
created a "tragedy of the commons" that, "far from guaranteeing adequate
appellate representation for all criminal defendants, instead ensures that
indigent criminal defendants will receive mediocre appellate representation, whether their claims are good or bad" (footnote omitted)); Pritchard,
supra, at 1169 (noting Anders' similar effect on appellate courts); Pritchard, supra, at 1162 ("[J]udicial fiat cannot cure scarcity; it merely disguises
the symptoms of the disease"); Doherty, Wolf! Wolf!--The Ramifications
of Frivolous Appeals, 59 J. Crim. L., C. & P. S. 1, 2 (1968) ("[T]he people
who will suffer the most are the indigent prisoners who have been unjustly convicted; they will languish in prison while lawyers devote time
and energy to hopeless causes on a first come-first served basis" (footnote
omitted)). We cannot say whether the Wende procedure is better or
worse than the Anders procedure in this regard (although we are aware
of policy-based arguments that it is worse as to appellate courts, see People v. Williams, 59 Cal. App. 4th 1202, 1205-1206, 69 Cal. Rptr. 2d 690,
692 (1997); Brief for Retired Justice Armand Arabian et al. as Amici Curiae), but it is clear that, to the extent this criticism has merit, our holding
today that the Anders procedure is not exclusive will enable States to
continue to experiment with solutions to this problem.

528US2 Unit: $U21 [06-14-01 20:45:19] PAGES PGT: OPIN
284 SMITH v. ROBBINS

Opinion of the Court
ment and dissenting in part). On the other hand, the McCoyprocedure, unlike the Wende procedure, does assist the reviewing court by directing it to particular legal issues; as tothose issues, this is presumably a good thing. But it is also
possible that bad judgment by the attorney in selecting theissues to raise might divert the court's attention from more
meritorious, unmentioned, issues. This criticism is, ofcourse, equally applicable to the

Anders procedure. More-over, as to the issues that counsel does raise in a McCoy

brief, the one-sided briefing on why those issues are frivolousmay predispose the court to reach the same conclusion. The
Wende procedure reduces these risks, by omitting from thebrief signals that may subtly undermine the independence
and thoroughness of the second review of an indigent's case.Our purpose is not to resolve any of these arguments.
The Constitution does not resolve them, nor does it requireus to do so. "We address not what is prudent or appropriate, but only what is constitutionally compelled."
Cronic, 466 U. S., at 665, n. 38. It is enough to say that theWende procedure, like the Anders and McCoy procedures,

and unlike the ones in Ellis, Eskridge, Lane, Douglas, andPenson, affords adequate and effective appellate review for
criminal indigents. Thus, there was no constitutional viola-tion in this case simply because the Wende procedure was
used. IV

Since Robbins' counsel complied with a valid procedurefor determining when an indigent's direct appeal is frivolous,
we reverse the Ninth Circuit's judgment that the Wende pro-cedure fails adequately to serve the constitutional principles
we identified in Anders. But our reversal does not neces-sarily mean that Robbins' claim that his appellate counsel
rendered constitutionally ineffective assistance fails. For itmay be, as Robbins argues, that his appeal was not frivolous
and that he was thus entitled to a merits brief rather thanto a

Wende brief. Indeed, both the District Court and the

528US2 Unit: $U21 [06-14-01 20:45:19] PAGES PGT: OPIN

285Cite as: 528 U. S. 259 (2000)
Opinion of the Court
Ninth Circuit found that there were two arguable issues ondirect appeal. The meaning of "arguable issue" as used in

the opinions below, however, is far from clear. The courtsbelow most likely used the phrase in the unusual way that
we used it in Anders--an issue arguably supporting the ap-peal even though the appeal was wholly frivolous. See 152
F. 3d, at 1067 (discussing arguable issues in context of requirements of Anders); App. 48 (District Court opinion)(same). Such an issue does not warrant a merits brief. But

the courts below may have used the term to signify issuesthat were "arguable" in the more normal sense of being nonfrivolous and thus warranting a merits brief. See id., at 49,
and n. 3 (District Court, considering arguable issues to determine "whether Anders was violated," but also defining
arguable issue as one that counsel could argue "in good faith
with some potential for prevailing"). Further, the courts
below, in determining whether there were arguable issues,
did not address petitioner's argument that, at least with regard to the adequacy of the prison law library, Robbins
waived the issue for appeal by failing to object at trial.
Thus, it will be necessary on remand to clarify just how
strong these two issues are.

On remand, the proper standard for evaluating Robbins'
claim that appellate counsel was ineffective in neglecting to

file a merits brief is that enunciated in Strickland v. Washington, 466 U. S. 668 (1984). See Smith v. Murray, 477 U. S.
527, 535-536 (1986) (applying Strickland to claim of attorney
error on appeal). Respondent must first show that his counsel was objectively unreasonable, see Strickland, 466 U. S.,
at 687-691, in failing to find arguable issues to appeal--that
is, that counsel unreasonably failed to discover nonfrivolous
issues and to file a merits brief raising them. If Robbins
succeeds in such a showing, he then has the burden of demonstrating prejudice. That is, he must show a reasonable
probability that, but for his counsel's unreasonable failure to
file a merits brief, he would have prevailed on his appeal.

528US2 Unit: $U21 [06-14-01 20:45:19] PAGES PGT: OPIN
286 SMITH v. ROBBINS

Opinion of the Court
See id., at 694 (defendant must show "a reasonable probabil-ity that, but for counsel's unprofessional errors, the result of

the proceeding would have been different").14The applicability of Strickland's actual-prejudice prong to
Robbins' claim of ineffective assistance follows from Pen-son, where we distinguished denial of counsel altogether on
appeal, which warrants a presumption of prejudice, frommere ineffective assistance of counsel on appeal, which does
not. See 488 U. S., at 88-89. The defendant in Pensonfaced a denial of counsel because, as we have discussed,
supra, at 280, not only was an invalid state procedure fol-lowed, but that procedure was clearly invalid insofar as it
denied the defendant his right to appellate counsel under
Douglas, see 488 U. S., at 83, 88. Our holding in Pensonwas consistent with Strickland itself, where we said that we

would presume prejudice when a defendant had suffered an"[a]ctual or constructive denial of the assistance of counsel
altogether." 466 U. S., at 692; see also Cronic, supra, at 659,and n. 25. In other words, while we normally apply a
"strong presumption of reliability" to judicial proceedingsand require a defendant to overcome that presumption,
Strickland, supra, at 696, when, as in Penson, there has beena complete denial of counsel, we understandably presume the
opposite, see Strickland, supra, at 692.But where, as here, the defendant has received appellate
counsel who has complied with a valid state procedure fordetermining whether the defendant's appeal is frivolous, and
the State has not at any time left the defendant withoutcounsel on appeal, there is no reason to presume that the
defendant has been prejudiced. In Penson, we worried thatrequiring the defendant to establish prejudice would leave
him "without any of the protections afforded by Anders."

14 The performance component need not be addressed first. "If it is
easier to dispose of an ineffectiveness claim on the ground of lack of sufficient prejudice, which we expect will often be so, that course should be
followed." Strickland v. Washington, 466 U. S., at 697.

528US2 Unit: $U21 [06-14-01 20:45:19] PAGES PGT: OPIN

287Cite as: 528 U. S. 259 (2000)
Opinion of the Court
488 U. S., at 86. Here, by contrast, counsel followed a proce-dure that is constitutional under Anders and our other precedents in this area, and Robbins therefore received all theprocedural protection that the Constitution requires. We
thus presume that the result of the proceedings on appeal isreliable, and we require Robbins to prove the presumption
incorrect in his particular case. See Strickland, 466 U. S.,at 694.

Further, the ineffective-assistance claim that Robbinspresses does not fall within any of the three categories of
cases, described in Strickland, in which we presume preju-dice rather than require a defendant to demonstrate it.
First, as noted, we presume prejudice in a case of denial ofcounsel. Second, "various kinds of state interference with
counsel's assistance" can warrant a presumption of prejudice.
Id., at 692; see Cronic, 466 U. S., at 659, and n. 25. Third,"prejudice is presumed when counsel is burdened by an actual conflict of interest," Strickland, 466 U. S., at 692, al-though in such a case we do require the defendant to show
that the conflict adversely affected his counsel's performance,
ibid. None of these three categories applies to a case suchas Robbins'. Nor does the policy reason that we offered in

Strickland for the first two categories apply here, for it isnot the case that, if an attorney unreasonably chooses to follow a procedure such as Anders or Wende instead of filing amerits brief, prejudice "is so likely that case-by-case inquiry
into prejudice is not worth the cost." 466 U. S., at 692; seeCronic, supra, at 658.

15 On the contrary, in most cases in

which a defendant's appeal has been found, pursuant to avalid state procedure, to be frivolous, it will in fact be

frivolous.It is no harder for a court to apply

Strickland in this areathan it is when a defendant claims that he received ineffec15 Moreover, such an error by counsel is neither "easy to identify" (since
it is necessary to evaluate a defendant's case in order to find the error)
nor attributable to the prosecution. See Strickland, supra, at 692.

528US2 Unit: $U21 [06-14-01 20:45:19] PAGES PGT: OPIN
288 SMITH v. ROBBINS

Opinion of the Court
tive assistance of appellate counsel because his counsel, al-though filing a merits brief, failed to raise a particular claim.

It will likely be easier to do so. In Jones v. Barnes, 463U. S. 745 (1983), we held that appellate counsel who files a
merits brief need not (and should not) raise every nonfrivo-lous claim, but rather may select from among them in order
to maximize the likelihood of success on appeal. Notwith-standing

Barnes, it is still possible to bring a Stricklandclaim based on counsel's failure to raise a particular claim,

but it is difficult to demonstrate that counsel was incompe-tent. See, e. g., Gray v. Greer, 800 F. 2d 644, 646 (CA7 1986)
("Generally, only when ignored issues are clearly strongerthan those presented, will the presumption of effective assistance of counsel be overcome"). With a claim that counselerroneously failed to file a merits brief, it will be easier for
a defendant-appellant to satisfy the first part of the Strick-land test, for it is only necessary for him to show that a
reasonably competent attorney would have found one non-frivolous issue warranting a merits brief, rather than showing that a particular nonfrivolous issue was clearly strongerthan issues that counsel did present. In both cases, however, the prejudice analysis will be the same.16

16 Federal judges are, of course, fully capable of assessing prejudice in
this area, including for the very sorts of claims that Robbins has raised.
See, e. g., Duhamel v. Collins, 955 F. 2d 962, 967 (CA5 1992) (defendant
not prejudiced by appellate counsel's failure to challenge sufficiency of the
evidence); Banks v. Reynolds, 54 F. 3d 1508, 1515-1516 (CA10 1995) (finding both parts of Strickland test satisfied where appellate counsel failed
to raise claim of violation of Brady v. Maryland, 373 U. S. 83 (1963)); Cross
v. United States, 893 F. 2d 1287, 1290-1291, 1292 (CA11) (rejecting challenge to appellate counsel's failure to raise claim of violation of Faretta v.
California, 422 U. S. 806 (1975), by determining that there was no prejudice), cert. denied, 498 U. S. 849 (1990). Since Robbins was convicted in
state court, we have no occasion to consider whether a per se prejudice
approach, in lieu of Strickland's actual-prejudice requirement, might be
appropriate in the context of challenges to federal convictions where counsel was deficient in failing to file a merits brief on direct appeal. See
Goeke v. Branch, 514 U. S. 115, 119 (1995) (per curiam) (distinguishing

528US2 Unit: $U21 [06-14-01 20:45:19] PAGES PGT: OPIN

289Cite as: 528 U. S. 259 (2000)
Stevens, J., dissenting
In sum, Robbins must satisfy both prongs of the Strick-land test in order to prevail on his claim of ineffective assistance of appellate counsel. The judgment of the Court ofAppeals is reversed, and the case is remanded for further
proceedings consistent with this opinion. It is so ordered.

Justice Stevens, with whom Justice Ginsburg joins,dissenting.
While I join Justice Souter's cogent dissent withoutqualification, I write separately to emphasize two points that
are obscured by the Court's somewhat meandering explana-tion of its sharp departure from settled law.

First, despite its failure to say so directly, the Court haseffectively overruled both Anders v. California, 386 U. S.
738 (1967), and Penson v. Ohio, 488 U. S. 75 (1988). Second,its unexplained rejection of the reasoning underlying our
decision in McCoy v. Court of Appeals of Wis., Dist. 1, 486U. S. 429 (1988), see

ante, at 272-273, illustrates the extentof today's majority's disregard for accepted precedent.

To make my first point it is only necessary to quote theCourt's new standard for determining whether a State's
appellate procedure affords adequate review for indigentdefendants:

"A State's procedure provides such review so long asit reasonably ensures that an indigent's appeal will be
resolved in a way that is related to the merit of thatappeal." Ante, at 276-277.

The California procedure reviewed in Anders and the Ohioprocedure reviewed in Penson--both found inadequate by
this Court--would easily have satisfied that standard. Yetthe Court today accepts California's current procedure berules established pursuant to this Court's supervisory power to administer
federal court system from constitutional rules applicable to States);
United States v. Cronic, 466 U. S. 648, 665, n. 38 (1984) (same).

528US2 Unit: $U21 [06-14-01 20:45:19] PAGES PGT: OPIN
290 SMITH v. ROBBINS

Stevens, J., dissenting
cause it "requires both counsel and the court to find the ap-peal to be lacking in arguable issues." Ante, at 280. But

in defense of its position in Anders, California relied heavilyon those very same requirements, i. e., "the additional feature of the [State's] system where the court also reads thefull record." Brief for Respondent in Anders v. California,
O. T. 1966, No. 98, pp. 30-31; see also id., at 12-13, 19, 23,
28-29. Our Anders decision held, however, that this "ad-ditional feature" was insufficient to safeguard the indigent

appellant's rights.To make my second point I shall draw on my own experience as a practicing lawyer and as a judge. On a good manyoccasions I have found that the task of writing out the reasons that support an initial opinion on a question of law--whether for the purpose of giving advice to my client or for
the purpose of explaining my vote as an appellate judge--leads to a conclusion that was not previously apparent. Colleagues who shared that view of the importance of givingreasons, as opposed to merely announcing conclusions, joined
the opinions that I authored in McCoy, Penson, and Nickols
v. Gagnon, 454 F. 2d 467 (CA7 1971).1 In its casual rejectionof the reasoning in

McCoy, the Court simply ignores this
portion of the opinion:

"Wisconsin's Rule merely requires that the attorney go
one step further. Instead of relying on an unexplainedassumption that the attorney has discovered law or facts

that completely refute the arguments identified in the
1 "The danger that a busy or inexperienced lawyer might opt in favor of
a one sentence letter instead of an effective brief in an individual marginal
case is real, notwithstanding the dedication that typifies the profession.
If, however, counsel's ultimate evaluation of the case must be supported by
a written opinion `referring to anything in the record that might arguably
support the appeal,' the temptation to discharge an obligation in summary
fashion is avoided, and the reviewing court is provided with meaningful
assistance." Nickols, 454 F. 2d, at 470 (citation and footnotes omitted)
(quoting Anders v. California, 386 U. S. 738, 744 (1967)).

528US2 Unit: $U21 [06-14-01 20:45:19] PAGES PGT: OPIN

291Cite as: 528 U. S. 259 (2000)
Stevens, J., dissenting
brief, the Wisconsin court requires additional evidenceof counsel's diligence. This requirement furthers the

same interests that are served by the minimum require-ments of Anders. Because counsel may discover previously unrecognized aspects of the law in the processof preparing a written explanation for his or her conclusion, the discussion requirement provides an additionalsafeguard against mistaken conclusions by counsel that
the strongest arguments he or she can find are frivolous.Just like the references to favorable aspects of the record required by Anders, the discussion requirement mayforestall some motions to withdraw and will assist the
court in passing on the soundness of the lawyer's conclu-sion that the appeal is frivolous."

McCoy, 486 U. S., at442; see also Penson, 488 U. S., at 81-82.

In short, "simply putting pen to paper can often shed newlight on what may at first appear to be an open-and-shut
issue." Id., at 82, n. 4. For this reason, the Court is quitewrong to say that requiring counsel to articulate reasons for
its conclusion results in "less effective advocacy." Ante, at272.

2

An appellate court that employed a law clerk to review thetrial transcripts in all indigent appeals in search of arguable

error could be reasonably sure that it had resolved all ofthose appeals "in a way that is related" to their merits. It
would not, however, provide the indigent appellant with any-thing approaching representation by a paid attorney. Like

2 The Wende procedure at issue in this case requires a "summary of the
proceedings and facts," but does not require counsel to raise any legal
issues. People v. Wende, 25 Cal. 3d 436, 438, 600 P. 2d 1071, 1072 (1979);
see also ante, at 265. This procedure plainly does not serve the above
purpose, since it does not force counsel to "put pen to paper" regarding
those things most relevant to an appeal--legal issues. Accordingly, and
contrary to the Court's assertion, ante, at 280-281, this summary does not
improve upon the procedure rejected in Anders--a "bare conclusion" by
the attorney that an appeal is without merit. 386 U. S., at 742.

528US2 Unit: $U21 [06-14-01 20:45:19] PAGES PGT: OPIN
292 SMITH v. ROBBINS

Souter, J., dissenting
California's so-called Wende procedure, it would violate the
"principle of substantial equality" that was described in Anders and McCoy and has been a part of our law for decades.
McCoy, 486 U. S., at 438; Anders, 386 U. S., at 744.

Justice Souter, with whom Justice Stevens, Justice
Ginsburg, and Justice Breyer join, dissenting.

A defendant's right to representation on appeal is limited
by the prohibition against frivolous litigation, and I realize
that when a lawyer's corresponding obligations are at odds
with each other, there is no perfect place to draw the line
between them. But because I believe the procedure
adopted in People v. Wende, 25 Cal. 3d 436, 600 P. 2d 1071
(1979), fails to assure representation by counsel with the
adversarial character demanded by the Constitution, I
respectfully dissent.

I

Although the Sixth Amendment guarantees trial counsel
to a felony defendant, see Gideon v. Wainwright, 372 U. S.
335 (1963), the Constitution contains no similarly freestanding, unconditional right to counsel on appeal, there being no
obligation to provide appellate review at all, see Ross v. Moffitt, 417 U. S. 600, 606 (1974). When a State elects to provide
appellate review, however, the terms on which it does so are
subject to constitutional notice. See, e. g., Griffin v. Illinois,
351 U. S. 12, 18 (1956); Rinaldi v. Yeager, 384 U. S. 305, 310
(1966); Evitts v. Lucey, 469 U. S. 387, 393 (1985).

In a line of cases beginning with Griffin, this Court examined appellate procedural schemes under the principle that
justice may not be conditioned on ability to pay, see generally
Ross, supra, at 605-609. Even though "[a]bsolute equality
is not required," Douglas v. California, 372 U. S. 353, 357
(1963), we held in Douglas that when state criminal defendants are free to retain counsel for a first appeal as of right,

528US2 Unit: $U21 [06-14-01 20:45:19] PAGES PGT: OPIN

293Cite as: 528 U. S. 259 (2000)
Souter, J., dissenting
the Fourteenth Amendment 1 requires that indigent appel-lants be placed on a substantially equal footing through the

appointment of counsel at the State's expense. See McCoyv.

Court of Appeals of Wis., Dist. 1, 486 U. S. 429, 438 (1988)
(referring to "principle of substantial equality").Two services of appellate counsel are on point here. Appellate counsel examines the trial record with an advocate's
eye, identifying and weighing potential issues for appeal.This is review not by a dispassionate legal mind but by a

committed representative, pledged to his client's interests,primed to attack the conviction on any ground the record
may reveal. If counsel's review reveals arguable trial error,he prepares and submits a brief on the merits and argues
the appeal.The right to the first of these services, a partisan scrutiny
of the record and assessment of potential issues, goes to theirreducible core of the lawyer's obligation to a litigant in an
adversary system, and we have consistently held it essential
to substantial equality of representation by assigned counsel.
"The paramount importance of vigorous representation follows from the nature of our adversarial system of justice."
Penson v. Ohio, 488 U. S. 75, 84 (1988). See, e. g., Ellis v.
United States, 356 U. S. 674, 675 (1958) (per curiam); Douglas, supra, at 357-358; McCoy, supra, at 438. The right is
unqualified when a defendant has retained counsel, and I can
imagine no reason that it should not be so when counsel has
been appointed.

Because the right to the second service, merits briefing, is
not similarly unqualified, however, the issue we address

1 The Griffin line of cases has roots in both due process and equal protection, see M. L. B. v. S. L. J., 519 U. S. 102, 120 (1996), but we have noted
that "[m]ost decisions in this area have rested on an equal protection
framework . . . ," Bearden v. Georgia, 461 U. S. 660, 665 (1983). See
also Ross v. Moffitt, 417 U. S. 600, 611 (1974) (noting that right to appellate counsel "is more profitably considered under an equal protection
analysis").

528US2 Unit: $U21 [06-14-01 20:45:19] PAGES PGT: OPIN
294 SMITH v. ROBBINS

Souter, J., dissenting
today arises. The limitation on the right to a merits briefis that no one has a right to a wholly frivolous appeal, see

Anders v. California, 386 U. S. 738, 742 (1967), against whichthe judicial system's first line of defense is its lawyers.
Being officers of the court, members of the bar are bound"not to clog the courts with frivolous motions or appeals,"
Polk County v. Dodson, 454 U. S. 312, 323 (1981); see also
McCoy, supra, at 436, and this is of course true regardlessof a lawyer's retained or appointed status in a given case.

The problem to which Anders responds arises when counselviews his client's appeal as frivolous, leaving him duty
barred from pressing it upon a court.2The rub is that although counsel may properly refuse to
brief a frivolous issue and a court may just as properly denyleave to take a frivolous appeal, there needs to be some reasonable assurance that the lawyer has not relaxed his parti-san instinct prior to refusing,

3 in which case the court's

review could never compensate for the lawyer's failure of
advocacy. A simple statement by counsel that an appeal has
no merit, coupled with an appellate court's endorsement of
counsel's conclusion, gives no affirmative indication that anyone has sought out the appellant's best arguments or championed his cause to the degree contemplated by the adversary
system. Nor do such conclusions acquire any implicit per2 Anders addressed the problem as confronted by assigned counsel,
though in theory it can be equally acute when counsel is retained. It is
unlikely to show up in practice, however. Paying clients generally can
fire a lawyer expressing unsatisfying conclusions and will often find a replacement with a keener eye for arguable issues or a duller nose for frivolous ones. As a practical matter, the States may find it too difficult or
costly to prevent moneyed appellants from wasting their own resources,
and those of the judicial system, by bringing frivolous appeals. This does
not mean, however, that the States are obligated to subsidize such efforts
by indigents.

3 An assurance, that is, that he has not become what is known around

the Los Angeles County Jail as a " `dumptruck.' " Reply Brief for Petitioner 1.

528US2 Unit: $U21 [06-14-01 20:45:19] PAGES PGT: OPIN

295Cite as: 528 U. S. 259 (2000)
Souter, J., dissenting
suasiveness through exposure to an interested opponent'sreadiness to mount a challenge. The government is unlikely

to dispute or even test counsel's evaluation; one does not be-rate an opponent for giving up. To guard against the possibility, then, that counsel has not done the advocate's work oflooking hard for potential issues, there must be some prod
to find any reclusive merit in an ostensibly unpromising case
and some process to assess the lawyer's efforts after the fact.A judicial process that renders constitutional error invisible

is, after all, itself an affront to the Constitution. See Penson, supra, at 81-82.

In Anders, we devised such a mechanism to ensure respect
for an appellant's rights. See Penson, supra, at 80. A lawyer's request to withdraw on the ground that an appeal is
frivolous "must . . . be accompanied by a brief referring to
anything in the record that might arguably support the appeal." Anders, 386 U. S., at 744. This simply means that
counsel must do his partisan best, short of calling black
white, to flag the points that come closest to being appealable; the lawyer's job is to state the issues that give the
defendant his best chances to prevail, even if the best comes
up short under the rule against trifling with the court.
"[T]he court--not counsel--," we continued, "then proceeds,
after a full examination of all the proceedings, to decide
whether the case is wholly frivolous." Ibid.

Anders thus contemplates two reviews of the record, each
of a markedly different character. First comes review by
the advocate, the defendant's interested representative.
His job is to identify the best issues the partisan eye can
spot. Then comes judicial review from a disinterested
judge, who asks two questions: whether the lawyer really
did function as a committed advocate, and whether he misjudged the legitimate appealability of any issue. In reviewing the advocate's work, the court is responsible for assuring
that counsel has gone as far as advocacy will take him with
the best issues undiscounted. We have repeatedly de528US2 Unit: $U21 [06-14-01 20:45:19] PAGES PGT: OPIN
296 SMITH v. ROBBINS

Souter, J., dissenting
scribed the task of an appellate court in terms of this dualresponsibility. " `First, [the court] must satisfy itself that

the attorney has provided the client with a diligent and thor-ough search of the record for any arguable claim that might
support the client's appeal. Second, it must determinewhether counsel has correctly concluded that the appeal is
frivolous.' " Penson, 488 U. S., at 83 (quoting McCoy, 486U. S., at 442).

Griffin and Anders thus require significantly more thanthe abstract evaluation of the merits of conceivably appealable points. Without the assurance that assigned counselhas done his best as a partisan, his substantial equality to a
lawyer retained at a defendant's expense cannot be assumed.And without the benefit of the lawyer's statement of strongest claims, the appellate panel cannot act as a reviewingcourt, but is relegated to an inquisitorial role.

It is owing to the importance of assuring that an adversar-ial, not an inquisitorial, system is at work that I disagree
with the Court's statement today that our cases approve ofany state procedure that "reasonably ensures that an indigent's appeal will be resolved in a way that is related to themerit of that appeal." Ante, at 276-277. A purely inquisitorial system could satisfy that criterion, and so could onethat appoints counsel only if the appellate court deems it
useful. But we have rejected the former and have explicitlyheld the latter unconstitutional, see Douglas, 372 U. S., at
355, the reason in each case being that the Constitution looksto the means as well as to the ends.

4 See Singer v. United

States, 380 U. S. 24, 36 (1965) ("The Constitution recognizesan adversary system as the proper method of determining

guilt . . ."). See also, e. g., Penson, supra, at 87 ("A criminalappellant is entitled to a single-minded advocacy . . .");

4 Of course, if appellate review is not constitutionally required, States
may well be able to impose nonadversarial review on all appellants. They
may not, however, reserve the adversary system for those able to afford
counsel.

528US2 Unit: $U21 [06-14-01 20:45:19] PAGES PGT: OPIN

297Cite as: 528 U. S. 259 (2000)
Souter, J., dissenting
Strickland v. Washington, 466 U. S. 668, 685 (1984) ("TheSixth Amendment recognizes the right to the assistance of

counsel because it envisions counsel's playing a role that iscritical to the ability of the adversarial system to reach just
results"); United States v. Cronic, 466 U. S. 648, 656 (1984)("Thus, the adversarial process protected by the Sixth
Amendment requires that the accused have `counsel actingin the role of an advocate' ") (quoting

Anders, supra, at 743).

II
We have not held the details of Anders to be exclusive,but it does make sense to read the case as exemplifying what

substantial equality requires on behalf of indigent appellantsentitled to an advocate's review and to reasonable certainty
that arguable issues will be briefed on their merits. With
Anders thus as a benchmark, California's Wende procedurefails to measure up. Its primary failing is in permitting

counsel to refrain as a matter of course from mentioning pos-sibly arguable issues in a no-merit brief; its second deficiency
is a correlative of the first, in obliging an appellate court tosearch the record for arguable issues without benefit of an
issue-spotting, no-merit brief to review. See 25 Cal. 3d, at440-442, 600 P. 2d, at 1074-1075.

Although Wende assumes that counsel will act as an advo-cate, see

id., at 441-442, 600 P. 2d, at 1075, it fails to assure,or even promote, the partisan attention that the Constitution

requires. While the lawyer must summarize the proceduraland factual history of the case with citations to the record,
nothing in the Wende scheme requires counsel to show af-firmatively, subject to evaluation, that he has made the committed search for issues and the advocate's assessment oftheir merits that go to the heart of appellate representation
in our adversary system. It begs the question to say that"[c]ounsel's inability to find any arguable issues may readily
be inferred from his failure to raise any," id., at 442, 600P. 2d, at 1075, and it misses the point to argue that the

528US2 Unit: $U21 [06-14-01 20:45:19] PAGES PGT: OPIN
298 SMITH v. ROBBINS

Souter, J., dissenting
indigent appellant is adequately protected because the law-yer assigned to a case under California's assigned counsel

scheme may not file a Wende brief without the approval of asupervisor. The point is the need for some affirmative and
express indicator that an advocate has been at work, in theform of a product that an appellate court can specifically review.5 Thus Anders requires counsel to flag the best issuesfor the sake of keeping counsel on his toes and giving focus
to judicial review of his judgment. Wende on the other handrequires no indication of conceivable issues and hence nothing specifically reviewable by a court bound to preserve thesystem's adversary character.

Wende does no more to pro-tect the indigent's right to advocacy than the no-merit letter

condemned in Anders, or the conclusory statement disap-proved in Penson.

On like reasoning, Wende is deficient in relying on a judge'snonpartisan review to assure that a defendant suffers no
prejudice at the hands of a lawyer who has failed to docu-ment his best effort at partisan review. Exactly because
our system assumes that a lawyer committed to a client isthe most dependable guardian of the client's interest, see
supra, at 296-297, we have consistently rejected proceduresleaving the determination of frivolousness to the court in the
first instance, see Douglas, supra, at 355-356, or to the courtfollowing a conclusory declaration by counsel, see

Penson,supra, at 81-82, or to the court assisted by counsel in the role

of amicus curiae, see Ellis, 356 U. S., at 675. The defect inthese procedures is their entire reliance on review by a detached magistrate who does not apply the partisan scrutinyin the first instance that defendants with paid lawyers get as
a matter of course.

5 Since the state petitioner's claims that the lawyer's unrevealing and
conclusory certification has been approved by a superior are neither here
nor there on my analysis, I need not evaluate assertions by amicus Delgado that there is no scheme of assigned representation uniform throughout the State, see Brief for Jesus Garcia Delgado as Amicus Curiae 8.

528US2 Unit: $U21 [06-14-01 20:45:19] PAGES PGT: OPIN

299Cite as: 528 U. S. 259 (2000)
Souter, J., dissenting
It goes without saying, too, that Wende's reliance onjudges to start from scratch in seeking arguable issues adds

substantially to the burden on the judicial shoulders. WhileI have no need to decide whether this drawback of the Wende
scheme is of constitutional significance, it raises questionsthat certainly underscore the constitutional failing of relying
on judicial scrutiny uninformed by counsel's partisan analy-sis. In an

amicus brief filed in this case, 13 retired justicesof the Supreme Court or Courts of Appeal of California have

pointed out the "risk that the review of the cold record[under the Wende scheme] will be more perfunctory without
the issue-spotting guidance, and associated record citations,of counsel." Brief for Retired Justice Armand Arabian et al.
as Amici Curiae 5. The amici have candidly representedthat "[w]hen a California appellate court receives a Wende
brief, it assigns the case to a staff attorney who prepares amemorandum analyzing all possible legal issues in the case.
Typically, the staff attorney then makes an oral presentationto the appellate panel . . . ."

Id., at 6. When the responsi-bility of counsel is thrown onto the court, the court gives

way to a staff attorney; it could not be clearer that Wende isseriously at odds with the respective obligations of counsel
and the courts as contemplated by the Constitution.

III
Unlike the Court, I reach the question of appropriate re-lief. With respect to respondent's

Anders claim, the Courtof Appeals premised its disposition on finding that two potentially meritorious issues showed that Robbins had beenprejudiced by the failure of the Wende scheme to result in
their litigation. I think it unnecessary to invoke such find-ings, however, and would hold for Robbins simply because of
the failure to provide an advocate's analysis of issues as apredicate of court review. Without more, I would, in effect,
require the state courts to reinstate the appeal for treatmentconsistent with the

Anders application of Griffin.

528US2 Unit: $U21 [06-14-01 20:45:19] PAGES PGT: OPIN
300 SMITH v. ROBBINS

Souter, J., dissenting
It is true, of course, that before relief is normally grantedfor want of adequate assistance of trial counsel, a defendant

must show not only his lawyer's failure to represent himwith reasonable competence (demonstrated here by the failure to file an advocate's issue-spotting brief), but also a "rea-sonable probability" that competent representation would
have produced a different result in his case, see Strickland,
466 U. S., at 694. But the assumption behind Strickland'sprejudice requirement is that the defendant had a lawyer

who was representing him as his advocate at least at somelevel, whereas that premise cannot be assumed when a defendant receives the benefit of nothing more than a Wende
brief. In a Wende situation, nominal counsel is functioning
merely as a friend of the court, helping the judge to grasp
the structure of the record but not even purporting to highlight the record's nearest approach to supporting his client's
hope to appeal. Counsel under Wende is doing less than the
judge's law clerk (or a staff attorney) might do, and he is
doing nothing at all in the way of advocacy. When a lawyer
abandons the role of advocate and adopts that of amicus curiae, he is no longer functioning as counsel or rendering assistance within the meaning of the Sixth Amendment. See
Cronic, 466 U. S., at 654-655. Since the apparently missing
ingredient of the advocate's analysis goes to the very essence
of the right to counsel, a lawyer who does nothing more than
file a Wende brief is closer to being no counsel at all than to
being subpar counsel under Strickland.

This, I think, is the answer to any suggestion that a specific assessment of prejudice need be shown in order to get
relief from Wende. A complete absence of counsel is a reversible violation of the constitutional right to representation, even when there is no question that at the end of the
day the smartest lawyer in the world would have watched
his client being led off to prison. See Cronic, supra, at 658-
659; cf. Rodriquez v. United States, 395 U. S. 327 (1969). We
do not ask how the defendant would have fared if he had

528US2 Unit: $U21 [06-14-01 20:45:19] PAGES PGT: OPIN

301Cite as: 528 U. S. 259 (2000)
Souter, J., dissenting
been given counsel, and we should not look to what sort ofappeal might have ensued if an appellant's lawyer had

flagged the points that came closest to appealable issues.Such a result is equally consistent with our cases holding a
violation of due process to be complete when a defendant isdenied a right to the appeal he is otherwise entitled to pursue. See Peguero v. United States, 526 U. S. 23, 30-31 (1999)(

O'Connor, J., concurring); Rodriquez, supra, at 330.6This conclusion was anticipated in Penson, in which we

dealt with the violation of Anders standards when counselwas allowed to withdraw without supplying the court with
his best effort to identify appealable weaknesses, and priorto any judicial determination that counsel had missed nothing in finding no arguable appellate issues in the record.The appellate court in Penson subsequently identified arguable issues but thought the appointment of new counsel un-necessary after finding that any legitimately appealable issues would be losers. This Court recognized a presumptionof prejudice without more, for purposes of both

Stricklandand Chapman v. California, 386 U. S. 18 (1967). See Penson, 488 U. S., at 85-86. Although the state court's failureto appoint counsel after identifying issues made Penson an
egregious case, id., at 83, the failure of advocacy and conse-quent constructive absence of counsel was clear even at the
point at which the lawyer withdrew, id., at 82, and the pre-sumption of prejudice applicable then is applicable in this
case now.There is practical sense as well as good theory behind this
presumption of prejudice, for any requirement to demon-strate prejudice specifically would often place federal judges
on habeas in highly precarious positions calling for judg-ments that state judges are generally better qualified to

6 Although this habeas proceeding began on February 24, 1994, and is
therefore not governed by the Antiterrorism and Effective Death Penalty
Act of 1996 (AEDPA), see Lindh v. Murphy, 521 U. S. 320 (1997), the result
should be no different in a post-AEDPA case. See infra, at 303.

528US2 Unit: $U21 [06-14-01 20:45:19] PAGES PGT: OPIN
302 SMITH v. ROBBINS

Souter, J., dissenting
make. Since there will have been no advocate's help in ana-lyzing the record on the direct state appeal, and since counsel

may well have been absent formally as well as constructivelyin any state postconviction proceedings, the federal judge
would be looking for (among other things) previously uniden-tified state-law issues not previously waived. One could not
ask for a more certain guarantee of inefficient and time consuming judicial effort.7What remains is only to say a word about the State's argument that relief in this case is barred under Teague v. Lane,489 U. S. 288 (1989), as requiring application of a new rule of
law not clearly entailed by our prior holdings. The argu-ment seems to be that California has relied on

Wende for so
long that any disapproval from a federal court at this junc-ture is some sort of novelty (resulting from the failure of

other state defendants to reach the federal courts earlierwith

Wende objections). The obvious answer is that the application of Douglas and Griffin standards to meritless appeals has been subject to repeated explanation starting with
Anders and echoed in McCoy and Penson. Once general
rules are announced they do not become "new" again with
every particular violation that may subsequently occur. See
Saffle v. Parks, 494 U. S. 484, 491-492 (1990) (discussing application of the rule of Jurek v. Texas, 428 U. S. 262 (1976),

7 Since a Wende case is like a denial of counsel, it would make no more
sense to give the State an option to demonstrate no prejudice under Chapman v. California, 386 U. S. 18 (1967), or Brecht v. Abrahamson, 507 U. S.
619 (1993), than it would to require a defendant to show it under Strickland v. Washington, 466 U. S. 668 (1984). The presumption of prejudice
does not, however, promise relief to every California defendant whose appeal was dismissed as frivolous and against whom the statute of limitations has not run, see 28 U. S. C. $ 2244(d)(1) (1994 ed., Supp. III). One
submission before us claims that the Wende scheme has not supplanted
Anders v. California, 386 U. S. 738 (1967), throughout California. See
Brief for Jesus Garcia Delgado as Amicus Curiae 9-10. Briefs that measure up according to the standards adumbrated in Anders would of course
receive standard Strickland analysis.

528US2 Unit: $U21 [06-14-01 20:45:19] PAGES PGT: OPIN

303Cite as: 528 U. S. 259 (2000)
Souter, J., dissenting
in Penry v. Lynaugh, 492 U. S. 302 (1989)). The same point,of course, would answer any objection under the AEDPA

that an Anders petitioner was seeking to go beyond "clearlyestablished Federal law, as determined by the Supreme
Court of the United States," 28 U. S. C. $ 2254(d)(1) (1994 ed.,Supp. III).

* * *
The Wende procedure does not assure even the most mini-mal assistance of counsel in an adversarial role. The Constitution demands such assurances, and I would hold Robbinsentitled to an appeal that provides them.

528US2 Unit: $U22 [06-18-01 18:02:56] PAGES PGT: OPIN
304 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

Syllabus

UNITED STATES v. MARTINEZ-SALAZAR
certiorari to the united states court of appeals forthe ninth circuit

No. 98-1255. Argued November 29, 1999--Decided January 19, 2000
Respondent Martinez-Salazar and a codefendant were charged with a variety of federal offenses. As the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure
instruct, the District Court allotted them 10 peremptory challenges exercisable jointly in the selection of 12 jurors, Rule 24(b), and another
such challenge exercisable in the selection of an alternate juror, Rule
24(c). Because prospective juror Don Gilbert indicated several times
that he would favor the prosecution, the codefendants challenged him
for cause, but the District Court declined to excuse him. After twice
objecting, unsuccessfully, to the for-cause ruling, Martinez-Salazar used
a peremptory challenge to remove Gilbert. The codefendants subsequently exhausted all of their peremptory challenges. At the close of
jury selection, the District Court read the names of the jurors to be
seated and asked if the prosecutor or defense counsel had any objections
to any of those jurors. Martinez-Salazar's counsel responded: "None
from us." At the conclusion of the trial, Martinez-Salazar was convicted on all counts. On appeal, the Ninth Circuit agreed with him (and
the Government here does not contest) that the District Court's refusal
to strike Gilbert for cause was an abuse of discretion. This error, the
Ninth Circuit held, did not violate the Sixth Amendment, because Gilbert was removed and the impartiality of the jury eventually seated
was not challenged. But the Court of Appeals further concluded that
the District Court's mistake resulted in a violation of Martinez-Salazar's
Fifth Amendment due process rights because it forced him to use a
peremptory challenge curatively, thereby impairing his right to the full
complement of peremptory challenges to which federal law entitled him.
Such an error, the Court of Appeals held, requires automatic reversal.

Held: A defendant's exercise of peremptory challenges pursuant to Rule

24 is not denied or impaired when the defendant chooses to use such a
challenge to remove a juror who should have been excused for cause.
Pp. 311-317.

(a) Although the peremptory challenge plays an important role in reinforcing a defendant's constitutional right to trial by an impartial jury,
see, e. g., Swain v. Alabama, 380 U. S. 202, 212-213, 218-219, this Court
has long recognized that such challenges are auxiliary; unlike the right
to an impartial jury guaranteed by the Sixth Amendment, peremptory

528US2 Unit: $U22 [06-18-01 18:02:56] PAGES PGT: OPIN

305Cite as: 528 U. S. 304 (2000)
Syllabus
challenges are not of federal constitutional dimension, see, e. g., Ross v.
Oklahoma, 487 U. S. 81, 88. Peremptory challenges in federal criminal
trials are governed by Rule 24 of the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure. Rule 24(b) prescribes, inter alia, that for offenses "punishable
by imprisonment for more than one year, . . . the defendant or defendants [are] jointly [entitled] to 10 peremptory challenges." Rule 24(c)
further provides that when, as in this case, an alternate juror is to
be selected, each side is entitled to one peremptory challenge in selecting that juror. The question to which the Court turns is whether
Martinez-Salazar was denied any right for which Rule 24 provides.
Pp. 311-313.

(b) Ross dealt with a state-law question resembling the one presented
here. This Court first rejected the Ross defendant's position that,
without more, the loss of a peremptory challenge constitutes a violation
of the constitutional right to an impartial jury. 487 U. S., at 88. So
long as the jury that sits is impartial, the Court held, the fact that the
defendant had to use a peremptory challenge to achieve that result does
not mean the Sixth Amendment was violated. Ibid. The Court then
rejected the defendant's due process objection that forced use of a peremptory challenge to cure a trial court's error in denying a challenge
for cause arbitrarily deprived him of the full complement of peremptory
challenges allowed under Oklahoma law. Id., at 89. An Oklahoma
statute accorded the defendant nine such challenges. Oklahoma courts
had read into that grant a requirement that a defendant who disagreed
with the trial court's ruling on a for-cause challenge must, in order to
preserve the claim that the ruling deprived him of a fair trial, exercise
a peremptory challenge to remove the juror. Ibid. Even then, under
state law, the error was grounds for reversal only if the defendant exhausted all peremptory challenges, and an incompetent juror therefore
was forced upon him. Ibid. The defendant in Ross, the Court concluded, did not lose any state-law right when he used one of his nine
challenges to remove a juror who should have been excused for cause;
rather, he received all that state law allowed him, and the fair trial that
the Federal Constitution guaranteed. Id., at 90-91. Pp. 313-314.

(c) This Court rejects the Government's contention that federal law,
like the Oklahoma statute considered in Ross, should be read to require
a defendant to use a peremptory challenge to strike a juror who should
have been removed for cause, in order to preserve the claim that the
for-cause ruling impaired the defendant's right to a fair trial. Although
this Court has sanctioned various limitations on the exercise of peremptory challenges that could be viewed as effectively reducing the number
of challenges available to a defendant, see, e. g., Stilson v. United States,
250 U. S. 583, 586, these cases address procedures under which such

528US2 Unit: $U22 [06-18-01 18:02:56] PAGES PGT: OPIN
306 UNITED STATES v. MARTINEZ-SALAZAR

Syllabus
challenges are exercised. None of them demands that a defendant use
or refrain from using a challenge on a particular basis or when a particular set of facts is present. To date this Court has recognized only one
substantive control over a federal criminal defendant's choice of whom
to challenge peremptorily. Under the Equal Protection Clause, a defendant may not exercise a challenge to remove a potential juror solely
on the basis of the juror's gender, ethnic origin, or race. See, e. g., Batson v. Kentucky, 476 U. S. 79. The Court declines to read into Rule 24,
or otherwise impose, the further control advanced by the Government.
Pp. 314-315.

(d) However, the Court agrees with the Government's narrower
contention that Rule 24(b) was not violated in this case. The Ninth
Circuit erred in concluding that the District Court's mistake compelled
Martinez-Salazar to challenge Gilbert peremptorily, thereby reducing
his allotment of peremptory challenges by one. A hard choice is not
the same as no choice. Martinez-Salazar received and exercised 11 peremptory challenges. That is all he is entitled to under the Rule.
After objecting to the District Court's denial of his for-cause challenge,
he had the option of letting Gilbert sit on the petit jury and, upon conviction, pursuing a Sixth Amendment challenge on appeal. Instead, he
elected to use a challenge to remove Gilbert. In choosing to remove
Gilbert rather than taking his chances on appeal, Martinez-Salazar did
not lose a peremptory challenge. Rather, he used the challenge in line
with a principal reason for peremptories: to help secure the constitutional guarantee of trial by an impartial jury. See, e. g., J. E. B. v. Alabama ex rel. T. B., 511 U. S. 127, 137, n. 8. Moreover, the immediate
choice he confronted comports with the reality of the jury selection process. Challenges for cause and rulings upon them are fast paced, made
on the spot and under pressure. Counsel as well as court in that process must be prepared promptly to decide, often between shades of
gray. Pp. 315-317.

(e) Martinez-Salazar and his codefendant were accorded the exact
number of peremptory challenges that federal law allowed; he cannot
tenably assert any violation of his Fifth Amendment due process right.
See Ross, 487 U. S., at 91. P. 317.

146 F. 3d 653, reversed.

Ginsburg, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which Rehnquist,
C. J., and Stevens, O'Connor, Souter, Thomas, and Breyer, JJ., joined.
Souter, J., filed a concurring opinion, post, p. 317. Scalia, J., filed an
opinion concurring in the judgment, in which joined, post,
p. 318.

528US2 Unit: $U22 [06-18-01 18:02:56] PAGES PGT: OPIN

307Cite as: 528 U. S. 304 (2000)
Opinion of the Court
Deputy Solicitor General Dreeben argued the cause for
the United States. With him on the briefs were Solicitor
General Waxman, Assistant Attorney General Robinson,
David C. Frederick, and Richard A. Friedman.

Michael D. Gordon, by appointment of the Court, 527 U. S.
1054, argued the cause and filed a brief for respondent.*

Justice Ginsburg delivered the opinion of the Court.
In Ross v. Oklahoma, 487 U. S. 81 (1988), this Court reaffirmed that "peremptory challenges [to prospective jurors]
are not of constitutional dimension," id., at 88; rather, they
are one means to achieve the constitutionally required end
of an impartial jury. We address in this case a problem in
federal jury selection left open in Ross. See id., at 91, n. 4.
We focus on this sequence of events: the erroneous refusal of
a trial judge to dismiss a potential juror for cause, followed
by the defendant's exercise of a peremptory challenge to remove that juror. Confronting that order of events, the
United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit ruled
that the Due Process Clause of the Fifth Amendment requires automatic reversal of a conviction whenever the defendant goes on to exhaust his peremptory challenges during
jury selection. 146 F. 3d 653 (1998).

We reverse the Ninth Circuit's judgment. We reject the
Government's contention that under federal law, a defendant
is obliged to use a peremptory challenge to cure the judge's
error. We hold, however, that if the defendant elects to cure
such an error by exercising a peremptory challenge, and is
subsequently convicted by a jury on which no biased juror
sat, he has not been deprived of any rule-based or constitutional right.

*David A. Reiser and Barbara Bergman filed a brief for the National
Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers et al. as amici curiae urging
affirmance.

528US2 Unit: $U22 [06-18-01 18:02:56] PAGES PGT: OPIN
308 UNITED STATES v. MARTINEZ-SALAZAR

Opinion of the Court

I
Respondent Abel Martinez-Salazar and a codefendantwere tried by a jury in the United States District Court for

the District of Arizona for a variety of narcotics and weaponsoffenses. As Rule 24(b) of the Federal Rules of Criminal
Procedure instructs, the District Court allotted the co-defendants 10 peremptory challenges exercisable jointly in
the selection of 12 jurors. Martinez-Salazar and his co-defendant also received an additional peremptory challenge
exercisable in the selection of an alternate juror. See Fed.Rule Crim. Proc. 24(c).

Prior to jury selection, the District Court gave the pro-spective jurors a written questionnaire to complete. See
146 F. 3d, at 654-655. A potential juror, Don Gilbert, indi-cated on his questionnaire that he would favor the prosecution. Id., at 655. In a discussion with the trial judge, Gil-bert restated: "[A]ll things being equal, I would probably
tend to favor the prosecution." Ibid. The judge explainedthat the burden of proving a person guilty rests with the
Government. Gilbert said he would not disagree with thatproposition. The judge next asked Gilbert whether, if
he were a defendant facing jurors with backgrounds andopinions similar to his own, he thought he would get a fair
trial. Gilbert answered: "I think that's a difficult question.I don't think I know the answer to that."

Ibid. Martinez-Salazar's counsel then inquired whether Gilbert would feel

more comfortable erring on the side of the prosecution orthe defense. Gilbert responded: "I would probably be more
favorable to the prosecution. I suppose most people are. Imean, they're predisposed. You assume that people are on
trial because they did something wrong." Ibid. The judgethen told Gilbert that his response was "contrary to our
whole system of justice. When people are accused of acrime, there's no presumption . . . of guil[t]. The presumption is the other way." Ibid. Gilbert replied, "I understandthat in theory."

Ibid.

528US2 Unit: $U22 [06-18-01 18:02:56] PAGES PGT: OPIN

309Cite as: 528 U. S. 304 (2000)
Opinion of the Court
At the completion of this colloquy, Martinez-Salazar andhis codefendant challenged Gilbert for cause. The Government opposed the challenge. The District Court declined toexcuse Gilbert for cause, stating: "You know about him and
know his opinions. He said . . . he could follow the instruc-tions, and he said . . . `I don't think I know what I would do,'
et cetera. So I think you have reasons to challenge him[,]
. . . strike him if you choose to do that." Ibid.After twice objecting, unsuccessfully, to the for-cause ruling, Martinez-Salazar used a peremptory challenge to re-move Gilbert. Martinez-Salazar and his codefendant subsequently exhausted all of their peremptory challenges. The
codefendants did not request an additional peremptory challenge for selection of the petit jury (a request Rule 24(b)
expressly permits a district court to grant when there are
multiple defendants). See Tr. of Oral Arg. 34-35. At the
close of jury selection, the District Court read out the names
of the jurors to be seated and asked if the prosecutor or
defense counsel had any objections to any of those jurors.
Martinez-Salazar's counsel responded: "None from us."
App. 182. At the conclusion of the trial, Martinez-Salazar
was convicted on all counts.

On appeal, Martinez-Salazar contended that the District
Court abused its discretion in refusing to strike Gilbert for
cause and that this error forced Martinez-Salazar to use a
peremptory challenge on Gilbert. The Ninth Circuit agreed
(and the Government here does not contest) that the District
Court's refusal to strike Gilbert for cause was an abuse of
discretion. 146 F. 3d, at 656. This error, the Court of Appeals held, did not violate the Sixth Amendment, because
Gilbert was removed and the impartiality of the jury eventually seated was not challenged. Id., at 657. But the Court
of Appeals further concluded that the District Court's mistake resulted in a violation of Martinez-Salazar's Fifth
Amendment due process rights. According to the Ninth
Circuit, the District Court's error in denying the for-cause

528US2 Unit: $U22 [06-18-01 18:02:56] PAGES PGT: OPIN
310 UNITED STATES v. MARTINEZ-SALAZAR

Opinion of the Court
challenge forced Martinez-Salazar to use a peremptory chal-lenge curatively, thereby impairing his right to the full complement of peremptory challenges to which federal law enti-tled him. Such an error, the Court of Appeals held, requires
automatic reversal. Id., at 659.Judge Rymer dissented in part. She observed that nothing in the text of Rule 24(b) suggests that the exercise of
peremptory challenges is impaired if the defendant uses achallenge to remove a juror who should have been excused

for cause. Id., at 659-660. Martinez-Salazar, she empha-sized, never asserted in the District Court that he wished to
strike some other juror with the peremptory challenge he
used to remove Gilbert, nor did he question the impartiality
of the jury as finally composed. Id., at 660. Assuming,
arguendo, that there was a violation of Rule 24(b), Judge
Rymer "would not engraft [onto the Due Process Clause] a
common law remedy of per se reversal for a Rule violation."
Id., at 661. The court's decision "[c]onstitutionalizing the
impairment of peremptory challenges," she underscored, ran
counter to this Court's decision in Ross and was hardly "inconsequential" in view of the reality that "[t]rial courts, state
and federal, rule on cause challenges by the minute." Id.,
at 659, 661.

The Courts of Appeals have divided on the question
whether a defendant's peremptory challenge right is impaired when he peremptorily challenges a potential juror
whom the district court erroneously refused to excuse for
cause, and the defendant thereafter exhausts his peremptory
challenges. The First and Fifth Circuits have indicated
agreement with the Ninth Circuit that this circumstance constitutes an abridgment of the right to exercise peremptory
challenges. See United States v. Cambara, 902 F. 2d 144,
147-148 (CA1 1990); United States v. Hall, 152 F. 3d 381, 408
(CA5 1998). The Tenth and Eleventh Circuits, on the other
hand, have found in this situation no impairment of the right
to peremptory challenges. See United States v. Brooks, 161

528US2 Unit: $U22 [06-18-01 18:02:56] PAGES PGT: OPIN

311Cite as: 528 U. S. 304 (2000)
Opinion of the Court
F. 3d 1240, 1245-1246 (CA10 1998); United States v. Farmer,923 F. 2d 1557, 1566 (CA11 1991).

1 We granted certiorari,

527 U. S. 1021 (1999), and now reverse the Ninth Circuit'sjudgment.

II
The peremptory challenge is part of our common-lawheritage. Its use in felony trials was already venerable in

Blackstone's time. See 4 W. Blackstone, Commentaries 346-348 (1769). We have long recognized the role of the peremptory challenge in reinforcing a defendant's right to trial byan impartial jury. See,

e. g., Swain v. Alabama, 380 U. S.202, 212-213, 218-219 (1965);

Pointer v. United States, 151U. S. 396, 408 (1894). But we have long recognized, as well,

that such challenges are auxiliary; unlike the right to an im-partial jury guaranteed by the Sixth Amendment, peremptory challenges are not of federal constitutional dimension.Ross, 487 U. S., at 88; see Stilson v. United States, 250 U. S.
583, 586 (1919) ("There is nothing in the Constitution of theUnited States which requires the Congress to grant peremptory challenges.").Legislative provision for peremptory challenges in federal
criminal trials dates from 1790. See Act of Apr. 30, 1790,ch. 9, $ 30, 1 Stat. 119. Since 1946, Rule 24 of the Federal
Rules of Criminal Procedure has provided the governinginstructions. That Rule, reproduced in its entirety below,

2

1 There is a corresponding conflict among the Circuits in civil cases.
Compare Kirk v. Raymark Industries, Inc., 61 F. 3d 147, 157 (CA3 1995)
(right to peremptory challenge is impaired when a party exercises such a
challenge to strike a prospective juror who should have been removed for
cause), with Getter v. Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., 66 F. 3d 1119, 1122-1123
(CA10 1995) (no impairment).

2 Rule 24. Trial Jurors.

"(a) Examination. The court may permit the defendant or the defendant's attorney and the attorney for the government to conduct the examination of prospective jurors or may itself conduct the examination. In
the latter event the court shall permit the defendant or the defendant's
attorney and the attorney for the government to supplement the examina528US2 Unit: $U22 [06-18-01 18:02:56] PAGES PGT: OPIN
312 UNITED STATES v. MARTINEZ-SALAZAR

Opinion of the Court
prescribes that for offenses "punishable by imprisonment formore than one year, the government is entitled to 6 peremptory challenges and the defendant or defendants jointly to 10peremptory challenges." Fed. Rule Crim. Proc. 24(b). In
a multiple-defendant case, the district court "may allow thedefendants additional peremptory challenges and permit
them to be exercised separately or jointly." Ibid. TheRule also provides for further peremptory challenges when
alternate jurors are to be impanelled; when, as in Martinez-Salazar's case, an alternate is to be selected, each side is
entitled to one peremptory challenge in selecting that juror.
tion by such further inquiry as it deems proper or shall itself submit to
the prospective jurors such additional questions by the parties or their
attorneys as it deems proper.

"(b) If the offense charged is punishable
by death, each side is entitled to 20 peremptory challenges. If the offense
charged is punishable by imprisonment for more than one year, the government is entitled to 6 peremptory challenges and the defendant or defendants jointly to 10 peremptory challenges. If the offense charged is
punishable by imprisonment for not more than one year or by fine or both,
each side is entitled to 3 peremptory challenges. If there is more than
one defendant, the court may allow the defendants additional peremptory
challenges and permit them to be exercised separately or jointly.

"(c) Alternate Jurors. The court may direct that not more than 6
jurors in addition to the regular jury be called and impanelled to sit as
alternate jurors. Alternate jurors in the order in which they are called
shall replace jurors who, prior to the time the jury retires to consider its
verdict, become or are found to be unable or disqualified to perform their
duties. Alternate jurors shall be drawn in the same manner, shall have
the same qualifications, shall be subject to the same examination and challenges, shall take the same oath and shall have the same functions, powers,
facilities and privileges as the regular jurors. An alternate juror who
does not replace a regular juror shall be discharged after the jury retires
to consider its verdict. Each side is entitled to 1 peremptory challenge
in addition to those otherwise allowed by law if 1 or 2 alternate jurors are
to be impanelled, 2 peremptory challenges if 3 or 4 alternate jurors are to
be impanelled, and 3 peremptory challenges if 5 or 6 alternate jurors are
to be impanelled. The additional peremptory challenges may be used
against an alternate jury only, and the other peremptory challenges allowed by these rules may not be used against an alternate juror."

528US2 Unit: $U22 [06-18-01 18:02:56] PAGES PGT: OPIN

313Cite as: 528 U. S. 304 (2000)
Opinion of the Court
Fed. Rule Crim. Proc. 24(c). The question to which we nowturn is whether Martinez-Salazar was denied any right for

which Rule 24 provides. III

Our most recent decision in point is Ross v. Oklahoma.That 1988 decision dealt with a question resembling the one
presented here, although the issue in Ross arose in a state-law setting. The defendant in Ross exercised a peremptory
challenge to cure the trial court's error in denying a chal-lenge for cause. We first rejected, as the Ninth Circuit
rightly did in the decision under review, the position that,without more, "the loss of a peremptory challenge constitutes a violation of the constitutional right to an impartialjury." 487 U. S., at 88. "So long as the jury that sits is
impartial," we held, "the fact that the defendant had to usea peremptory challenge to achieve that result does not mean
the Sixth Amendment was violated." Ibid. We then tookup the defendant's due process objection. He argued that
forced use of a peremptory challenge to cure a trial court'serror in denying a challenge for cause "arbitrarily depriv[ed]
him of the full complement of . . . peremptory challengesallowed under Oklahoma law."

Id., at 89. An Oklahomastatute accorded the defendant nine peremptory challenges.

Oklahoma courts had read into that grant a requirement that"a defendant who disagrees with the trial court's ruling on a
for-cause challenge must, in order to preserve the claim thatthe ruling deprived him of a fair trial, exercise a peremptory
challenge to remove the juror." Ibid. Even then, underOklahoma law, "the error [was] grounds for reversal only if
the defendant exhaust[ed] all peremptory challenges and anincompetent juror [was] forced upon him."

Ibid. The de-fendant in Ross, we therefore concluded, did not lose any

right conferred by state law when he used one of his ninechallenges to remove a juror who should have been excused
for cause. Because the defendant received all that state lawallowed him, and the fair trial that the Federal Constitution

528US2 Unit: $U22 [06-18-01 18:02:56] PAGES PGT: OPIN
314 UNITED STATES v. MARTINEZ-SALAZAR

Opinion of the Court
guaranteed, we rejected his due process challenge. Id., at90-91.

Underlying the Court of Appeals holding in this case wasthe notion that the District Court's error in denying the challenge for cause "forced" Martinez-Salazar to use a peremp-tory challenge to remove the objectionable venire member.
146 F. 3d, at 659. Starting from this premise, the Court
of Appeals reasoned that Rule 24(b) was violated becauseMartinez-Salazar could effectively exercise only nine of the

ten initial peremptory challenges for which the Rule pro-vided. The Court of Appeals further concluded that "due
process is violated when a defendant is forced to exercise
a peremptory challenge to cure an erroneous for-cause refusal." Id., at 658.

The Government urges us to reverse the Court of Appeals
judgment on the ground that federal law, like the Oklahoma
statute considered in Ross, should be read to require a defendant to use a peremptory challenge to strike a juror who
should have been removed for cause, in order to preserve
the claim that the for-cause ruling impaired the defendant's
right to a fair trial. Brief for United States 19-22. In support of its position, the Government points to various limitations on the exercise of peremptory challenges that this
Court has sanctioned--limitations that could be viewed as
effectively reducing the number of challenges available to a
defendant. See Reply Brief 3 (citing Stilson, 250 U. S., at
586 (sharing of peremptories among codefendants); St. Clair
v. United States, 154 U. S. 134, 147-148 (1894) (requirement
that parties exercise or waive peremptory strike as each potential juror is selected at random and qualified); Pointer,
151 U. S., at 409, 412 (simultaneous defense and prosecution
strikes)). The cases on which the Government relies address procedures under which peremptory challenges are
exercised. None of them demands that a defendant use or
refrain from using a peremptory challenge on a particular
basis or when a particular set of facts is present. To date

528US2 Unit: $U22 [06-18-01 18:02:56] PAGES PGT: OPIN

315Cite as: 528 U. S. 304 (2000)
Opinion of the Court
this Court has recognized only one substantive control overa federal criminal defendant's choice of whom to challenge

peremptorily. Under the Equal Protection Clause, a de-fendant may not exercise a peremptory challenge to remove
a potential juror solely on the basis of the juror's gender,ethnic origin, or race. See, e. g., J. E. B. v. Alabama ex rel.
T. B., 511 U. S. 127 (1994) (gender); Hernandez v. New York,500 U. S. 352 (1991) (ethnic origin);

Batson v. Kentucky, 476U. S. 79 (1986) (race). We decline to read into Rule 24,

or otherwise impose, the further control advanced by theGovernment.

We agree, however, with the Government's narrower con-tention that Rule 24(b) was not violated in this case. Reply
Brief 2-3. The Court of Appeals erred in concluding thatthe District Court's for-cause mistake compelled MartinezSalazar to challenge Gilbert peremptorily, thereby reduc-ing his allotment of peremptory challenges by one. 146 F.
3d, at 659. A hard choice is not the same as no choice.Martinez-Salazar, together with his codefendant, received
and exercised 11 peremptory challenges (10 for the petit jury,1 in selecting an alternate juror). That is all he is entitled
to under the Rule.After objecting to the District Court's denial of his forcause challenge, Martinez-Salazar had the option of lettingGilbert sit on the petit jury and, upon conviction, pursuing a
Sixth Amendment challenge on appeal. Instead, Martinez-Salazar elected to use a challenge to remove Gilbert because he did not want Gilbert to sit on his jury. Thiswas Martinez-Salazar's choice.

3 The District Court did not

demand--and Rule 24(b) did not require--that Martinez-Salazar use a peremptory challenge curatively.

In choosing to remove Gilbert rather than taking hischances on appeal, Martinez-Salazar did not lose a peremp3 The choice would be less hard, of course, if, as Justice Scalia hypothesizes, the "defendant had plenty of peremptories left." See post, at 319
(opinion concurring in judgment).

528US2 Unit: $U22 [06-18-01 18:02:56] PAGES PGT: OPIN
316 UNITED STATES v. MARTINEZ-SALAZAR

Opinion of the Court
tory challenge. Rather, he used the challenge in line with aprincipal reason for peremptories: to help secure the constitutional guarantee of trial by an impartial jury. See, e. g.,
J. E. B., 511 U. S., at 137, n. 8 (purpose of peremptory challenges " `is to permit litigants to assist the government inthe selection of an impartial trier of fact' ") (quoting

Edmonson v. Leesville Concrete Co., 500 U. S. 614, 620 (1991)); Georgia v. McCollum, 505 U. S. 42, 57 (1992) (peremptory chal-lenges are "one state-created means to the constitutional end

of an impartial jury and a fair trial"); Frazier v. United
States, 335 U. S. 497, 505 (1948) ("the right [to peremptory
challenges] is given in aid of the party's interest to secure a
fair and impartial jury"). Moreover, the immediate choice
Martinez-Salazar confronted--to stand on his objection to
the erroneous denial of the challenge for cause or to use a
peremptory challenge to effect an instantaneous cure of the
error--comports with the reality of the jury selection process. Challenges for cause and rulings upon them, as Judge
Rymer observed, see supra, at 310, are fast paced, made on
the spot and under pressure. Counsel as well as court, in
that setting, must be prepared to decide, often between
shades of gray, "by the minute." 146 F. 3d, at 661.

In conclusion, we note what this case does not involve. It
is not asserted that the trial court deliberately misapplied
the law in order to force the defendants to use a peremptory
challenge to correct the court's error. See Ross, 487 U. S.,
at 91, n. 5. Accordingly, no question is presented here
whether such an error would warrant reversal. Nor did the
District Court's ruling result in the seating of any juror who
should have been dismissed for cause. As we have recognized, that circumstance would require reversal. See id., at
85 ("Had [the biased juror] sat on the jury that ultimately
sentenced petitioner to death, and had petitioner properly
preserved his right to challenge the trial court's failure to
remove [the juror] for cause, the sentence would have to be
overturned."); see also Parker v. Gladden, 385 U. S. 363, 366

528US2 Unit: $U22 [06-18-01 18:02:56] PAGES PGT: OPIN

317Cite as: 528 U. S. 304 (2000)
Souter, J., concurring
(1966) (per curiam) (a defendant is "entitled to be tried by12, not 9 or even 10, impartial and unprejudiced jurors").

4

* * *
We answer today the question left open in Ross and holdthat a defendant's exercise of peremptory challenges pursuant to Rule 24(b) is not denied or impaired when the defend-ant chooses to use a peremptory challenge to remove a juror
who should have been excused for cause. Martinez-Salazarand his codefendant were accorded 11 peremptory challenges, the exact number Rule 24(b) and (c) allowed in thiscase. Martinez-Salazar received precisely what federal law
provided; he cannot tenably assert any violation of his FifthAmendment right to due process. See

Ross, 487 U. S., at91. For the reasons stated, the judgment of the Court of

Appeals for the Ninth Circuit is

Reversed.

Justice Souter, concurring.
I concur in the opinion of the Court. I write only to sug-gest that this case does not present the issue whether it is

reversible error to refuse to afford a defendant a peremptorychallenge beyond the maximum otherwise allowed, when he
has used a peremptory challenge to cure an erroneous denialof a challenge for cause and when he shows that he would

4 Relying on language in Swain v. Alabama, 380 U. S. 202 (1965), as did
the Court of Appeals in the decision below, Martinez-Salazar urges the
Court to adopt a remedy of automatic reversal whenever a defendant's
right to a certain number of peremptory challenges is substantially impaired. Brief for Respondent 29 (a " `denial or impairment of the right
[to exercise peremptory challenges] is reversible error without a showing
of prejudice' ") (quoting Swain, 380 U. S., at 219). Because we find no
impairment, we do not decide in this case what the appropriate remedy
for a substantial impairment would be. We note, however, that the oftquoted language in Swain was not only unnecessary to the decision in that
case--because Swain did not address any claim that a defendant had been
denied a peremptory challenge--but was founded on a series of our early
cases decided long before the adoption of harmless-error review.

528US2 Unit: $U22 [06-18-01 18:02:56] PAGES PGT: OPIN
318 UNITED STATES v. MARTINEZ-SALAZAR

Scalia, J., concurring in judgment
otherwise use his full complement of peremptory challengesfor the noncurative purposes that are the focus of the peremptory right. Martinez-Salazar did not show that, if hehad not used his peremptory challenge curatively, he would
have used it peremptorily against another juror. He did notask for a makeup peremptory or object to any juror who sat.
Martinez-Salazar simply made a choice to use his peremptory
challenge curatively.

Justice Scalia, with whom Justice Kennedy joins,concurring in the judgment.

I agree with the Court's analysis of the issue before us:Respondent has been accorded the full number of peremptory challenges to which he was entitled. The fact that hevoluntarily chose to expend one of them upon a venireman
who should have been stricken for cause makes no difference.

I do not join the opinion of the Court because it unnecessarily pronounces upon the question whether, had respondent not expended his peremptory challenge, he would have
been able to complain about the seating of the biased juror.
See ante, at 315 ("Martinez-Salazar had the option of letting
Gilbert sit on the petit jury and, upon conviction, pursuing
a Sixth Amendment challenge on appeal"). Since he did
expend the challenge, that issue is simply not before us.

I am far from certain, moreover, that the Court's suggested resolution of the issue is correct. It is easy enough
to agree that we have no warrant "to read into Rule 24,"
ibid., a requirement that peremptories be used to remove
veniremen properly challenged for cause. The difficult
question, however, is not whether Federal Rule of Criminal
Procedure 24(b) requires exercise of the peremptory, but
whether normal principles of waiver (not to say the even
more fundamental principle of volenti non fit injuria) disable a defendant from objecting on appeal to the seating of
a juror he was entirely able to prevent. I would not find it
easy to overturn a conviction where, to take an extreme ex528US2 Unit: $U22 [06-18-01 18:02:56] PAGES PGT: OPIN

319Cite as: 528 U. S. 304 (2000)
Scalia, J., concurring in judgment
ample, a defendant had plenty of peremptories left but choseinstead to allow to be placed upon the jury a person to whom

he had registered an objection for cause, and whose presencehe believed would nullify any conviction.

The resolution of juror-bias questions is never clear cut,and it may well be regarded as one of the very purposes
of peremptory challenges to enable the defendant to correctjudicial error on the point. Indeed, that

must have been oneof their purposes in earlier years, when there was no appeal

from a criminal conviction, see Bessette v. W. B. Conkey Co.,194 U. S. 324, 335-336 (1904)--so that if the defendant did
not correct the error by using one of his peremptories, theerror would not be corrected at all. It is certainly not clear
to me that the institution of appeals exempted defendantsfrom using peremptories for this original purpose, thereby
giving them (in effect) additional challenges.Because the question is not presented (and hence cannot
be authoritatively resolved), I would leave it unaddressed.

528US2 Unit: $U23 [06-27-01 14:26:55] PAGES PGT: OPIN
320 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

Syllabus

RENO, ATTORNEY GENERAL v. BOSSIER PARISH

SCHOOL BOARD

appeal from the united states district court for thedistrict of columbia

No. 98-405. Argued April 26, 1999--Reargued October 6, 1999--Decided

January 24, 2000*

Bossier Parish, Louisiana, a jurisdiction covered by $ 5 of the Voting

Rights Act of 1965, is thereby prohibited from enacting any change in
a "voting qualification[,] prerequisite[,] standard, practice, or procedure" without first obtaining preclearance from either the Attorney
General or the District Court. When, following the 1990 census, the
Bossier Parish School Board (Board) submitted a proposed redistricting
plan to the Attorney General, she denied preclearance. The Board then
filed this preclearance action in the District Court. Section 5 authorizes preclearance of a proposed voting change that "does not have the
purpose and will not have the effect of denying or abridging the right
to vote on account of race or color." Appellants conceded that the
Board's plan did not have a prohibited "effect" under $ 5, since it was
not "retrogressive," i. e., did not worsen the position of minority voters,
see Beer v. United States, 425 U. S. 130, but claimed that it violated $ 5
because it was enacted for a discriminatory "purpose." The District
Court granted preclearance. On appeal, this Court disagreed with the
District Court's proposition that all evidence of a dilutive (but nonretrogressive) effect forbidden by $ 2 was irrelevant to whether the
Board enacted the plan with a retrogressive purpose forbidden by $ 5.
Reno v. Bossier Parish School Bd., 520 U. S. 471, 486-487 (Bossier
Parish I). This Court vacated and remanded for further proceedings
as to the Board's purpose in adopting its plan, id., at 486, leaving for the
District Court the question whether the $ 5 purpose inquiry ever extends beyond the search for retrogressive intent, ibid. On remand, the
District Court again granted preclearance. Concluding, inter alia, that
there was no evidence of discriminatory but nonretrogressive purpose,
the court left open the question whether $ 5 prohibits preclearance of a
plan enacted with such a purpose.

*Together with No. 98-406, Price et al. v. Bossier Parish School Bd.,
also on appeal from the same court.

528US2 Unit: $U23 [06-27-01 14:26:55] PAGES PGT: OPIN

321Cite as: 528 U. S. 320 (2000)
Syllabus
Held:

1. The Court rejects the Board's contention that these cases are
mooted by the fact that the 1992 plan will never again be used because
the next scheduled election will occur in 2002, when the Board will have
a new plan in place based upon data from the 2000 census. In at least
one respect, the 1992 plan will have probable continuing effect: It will
serve as the baseline against which appellee's next voting plan will be
evaluated for preclearance purposes. Pp. 327-328.

2. In light of $ 5's language and Beer's holding, $ 5 does not prohibit
preclearance of a redistricting plan enacted with a discriminatory but
nonretrogressive purpose. Pp. 328-341.

(a) In order to obtain preclearance, a covered jurisdiction must
establish that the proposed change "does not have the purpose and will
not have the effect of denying or abridging the right to vote on account of race or color." The covered jurisdiction bears the burden of
persuasion on both points. See, e. g., Bossier Parish I, supra, at 478.
In Beer, the Court concluded that, in the context of a $ 5 vote-dilution
claim, the phrase "abridging the right to vote on account of race or
color" limited the term "effect" to retrogressive effects. 425 U. S., at
141. Appellants' contention that in qualifying the term "purpose," the
very same phrase does not impose a limitation to retrogression, but
means discrimination more generally, is untenable. See BankAmerica
Corp. v. United States, 462 U. S. 122, 129. Richmond v. United States,
422 U. S. 358, 378-379, distinguished. Appellants argue that subjecting both prongs to the same limitation produces a purpose prong with
a trivial reach, covering only "incompetent retrogressors." If this
were true--and if it were adequate to justify giving the very same
words different meanings when qualifying "purpose" and "effect"--
there would be instances in which this Court applied such a construction
to the innumerable statutes barring conduct with a particular "purpose
or effect," yet appellants are unable to cite a single case. Moreover,
the purpose prong has value and effect even when it does not cover
conduct additional to that of a so-called incompetent retrogressor: The
Government need only refute a jurisdiction's prima facie showing that
a proposed voting change does not have a retrogressive purpose, and
need not counter the jurisdiction's evidence regarding actual retrogressive effect. Although virtually identical language in $ 2(a) and the
Fifteenth Amendment has been read to refer not only to retrogression,
but to discrimination more generally, giving the language different
meaning in $ 5 is faithful to the different context in which the term
"abridging" is used. Appellants' reading would exacerbate the "substantial" federalism costs that the preclearance procedure already exacts, Lopez v. Monterey County, 525 U. S. 266, 282, perhaps to the extent

528US2 Unit: $U23 [06-27-01 14:26:55] PAGES PGT: OPIN
322 RENO v. BOSSIER PARISH SCHOOL BD.

Opinion of the Court
of raising concerns about $ 5's constitutionality, see Miller v. Johnson,
515 U. S. 900, 926-927. The Court's resolution of this issue renders
it unnecessary to address appellants' challenge to the District Court's
factual conclusion that there was no evidence of discriminatory but nonretrogressive intent. Pp. 328-336.

(b) The Court rejects appellants' contention that, notwithstanding that Bossier Parish I explicitly "le[ft] open for another day" the
question whether $ 5 extends to discriminatory but nonretrogressive intent, 520 U. S., at 486, two of this Court's prior decisions have already
reached the conclusion that it does. Dictum in Beer, supra, at 141,
and holding of Pleasant Grove v. United States, 479 U. S. 462, distinguished. Pp. 337-341.

7 F. Supp. 2d 29, affirmed.

Scalia, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, Part II of which was
unanimous, and Parts I, III, and IV of which were joined by Rehnquist,
C. J., and O'Connor, Kennedy, and Thomas, JJ. Thomas, J., filed a
concurring opinion, post, p. 341. Souter, J., filed an opinion concurring
in part and dissenting in part, in which Stevens, Ginsburg, and Breyer,
JJ., joined, post, p. 341. Stevens, J., filed a dissenting opinion, in which
Ginsburg, J., joined, post, p. 373. Breyer, J., filed a dissenting opinion,
post, p. 374.

Paul R. Q. Wolfson reargued the cause for appellant inNo. 98-405. On the briefs on reargument was Solicitor

General Waxman. With Mr. Wolfson on the briefs on theoriginal argument were Mr. Waxman, Acting Assistant Attorney General Lee, Deputy Solicitor General Underwood,
Mark L. Gross, and Louis E. Peraertz.Patricia A. Brannan reargued the cause for appellants

in No. 98-406. With her on the briefs were John W. Bor-kowski, Barbara R. Arnwine, Thomas J. Henderson, and
Edward Still.Michael A. Carvin reargued the cause for appellee in both
cases. With him on the brief were David H. Thompson,Craig S. Lerner, and Michael E. Rosman.

Justice Scalia delivered the opinion of the Court.
These cases present the question whether $ 5 of the VotingRights Act of 1965, 79 Stat. 439, as amended, 42 U. S. C.

528US2 Unit: $U23 [06-27-01 14:26:55] PAGES PGT: OPIN

323Cite as: 528 U. S. 320 (2000)
Opinion of the Court

$ 1973c, prohibits preclearance of a redistricting plan enactedwith a discriminatory but nonretrogressive purpose.

I
This is the second time the present cases are before us,and we thus recite the facts and procedural history only in

brief. Like every other political subdivision of the State ofLouisiana, Bossier Parish, because of its history of discriminatory voting practices, is a jurisdiction covered by $ 5 of theVoting Rights Act. See 42 U. S. C. $$ 1973c, 1973b(a), (b); 30
Fed. Reg. 9897 (1965). It is therefore prohibited from en-acting any change in a "voting qualification or prerequisite
to voting, or standard, practice, or procedure with respect tovoting," without first obtaining either administrative preclearance from the Attorney General or judicial preclearancefrom the United States District Court for the District of
Columbia. 42 U. S. C. $ 1973c.Bossier Parish is governed by a 12-member Police Jury
elected from single-member districts for 4-year terms. Inthe early 1990's, the Police Jury set out to redraw its electoral districts in order to account for demographic changesreflected in the decennial census. In 1991, it adopted a redistricting plan which, like the plan then in effect, con-tained no majority-black districts, although blacks made up
approximately 20% of the parish's population. On May 28,1991, the Police Jury submitted its new districting plan to
the Attorney General; two months later, the Attorney Gen-eral granted preclearance.

The Bossier Parish School Board (Board) is constitutedin the same fashion as the Police Jury, and it too undertook
to redraw its districts after the 1990 census. During thecourse of that redistricting, appellant-intervenor George
Price, president of the local chapter of the National As-sociation for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP),
proposed that the Board adopt a plan with majority-blackdistricts. In the fall of 1992, amid some controversy, the

528US2 Unit: $U23 [06-27-01 14:26:55] PAGES PGT: OPIN
324 RENO v. BOSSIER PARISH SCHOOL BD.

Opinion of the Court
Board rejected Price's suggestion and adopted the Police
Jury's 1991 redistricting plan as its own.

On January 4, 1993, the Board submitted its redistricting
plan to the Attorney General for preclearance. Although
the Attorney General had precleared the identical plan when
submitted by the Police Jury, she interposed a formal objection to the Board's plan, asserting that "new information"--specifically, the NAACP plan proposed by appellantintervenor Price--demonstrated that "black residents are
sufficiently numerous and geographically compact so as to
constitute a majority in two single-member districts." App.
to Juris. Statement in No. 98-405, p. 235a. The Attorney
General disclaimed any attempt to compel the Board to
"adopt any particular plan," but maintained that the Board
was "not free to adopt a plan that unnecessarily limits the
opportunity for minority voters to elect their candidates of
choice." Ibid.

After the Attorney General denied the Board's request for
reconsideration, the Board filed the present action for judicial preclearance of the 1992 plan in the United States District Court for the District of Columbia. Section 5 of the
Voting Rights Act authorizes preclearance of a proposed
voting change that "does not have the purpose and will not
have the effect of denying or abridging the right to vote on
account of race or color." 42 U. S. C. $ 1973c. Before the
District Court, appellants conceded that the Board's plan
did not have a prohibited "effect" under $ 5, since it did not
worsen the position of minority voters. (In Beer v. United
States, 425 U. S. 130 (1976), we held that a plan has a prohibited "effect" only if it is retrogressive.) Instead, appellants made two distinct claims. First, they argued that preclearance should be denied because the Board's plan, by
not creating as many majority-black districts as it should
create, violated $ 2 of the Voting Rights Act, which bars discriminatory voting practices. Second, they contended that,

528US2 Unit: $U23 [06-27-01 14:26:55] PAGES PGT: OPIN

325Cite as: 528 U. S. 320 (2000)
Opinion of the Court
although the Board's plan would have no retrogressive effect,
it nonetheless violated $ 5 because it was enacted for a discriminatory "purpose."

The District Court granted preclearance. Bossier Parish
School Bd. v. Reno, 907 F. Supp. 434 (DC 1995). As to the
first of appellants' two claims, the District Court held that it
could not deny preclearance of a proposed voting change
under $ 5 simply because the change violated $ 2. Moreover,
in order to prevent the Government "[from doing] indirectly
what it cannot do directly," the District Court stated that
it would "not permit section 2 evidence to prove discriminatory purpose under section 5." Id., at 445. As to the second of appellants' claims, the District Court concluded that
the Board had borne its burden of proving that the 1992 plan
was adopted for two legitimate, nondiscriminatory purposes:
to assure prompt preclearance (since the identical plan had
been precleared for the Police Jury), and to enable easy implementation (since the adopted plan, unlike the NAACP's
proposed plan, required no redrawing of precinct lines).
Id., at 447. Appellants filed jurisdictional statements in this
Court, and we noted probable jurisdiction. Reno v. Bossier
Parish School Bd., 517 U. S. 1232 (1996).

On appeal, we agreed with the District Court that a proposed voting change cannot be denied preclearance simply
because it violates $ 2, but disagreed with the proposition
that all evidence of a dilutive (but nonretrogressive) effect
forbidden by $ 2 was irrelevant to whether the Board enacted the plan with a retrogressive purpose forbidden by $ 5.
Reno v. Bossier Parish School Bd., 520 U. S. 471, 486-487
(1997) (Bossier Parish I). Since some language in the District Court's opinion left us uncertain whether the court had
in fact applied that proposition in its decision, we vacated
and remanded for further proceedings as to the Board's purpose in adopting the 1992 plan. Id., at 486. In light of our
disposition, we left open the additional question "whether

528US2 Unit: $U23 [06-27-01 14:26:55] PAGES PGT: OPIN
326 RENO v. BOSSIER PARISH SCHOOL BD.

Opinion of the Court
the $ 5 purpose inquiry ever extends beyond the search forretrogressive intent."

Ibid. "The existence of such a purpose," we said, "and its relevance to $ 5, are issues to bedecided on remand."

Ibid.
On remand, the District Court, in a comparatively briefopinion relying on, but clarifying, its extensive earlier opinion, again granted preclearance. 7 F. Supp. 2d 29 (DC 1998).
First, in response to our invitation to address the existenceof a discriminatory but nonretrogressive purpose, the District Court summarily concluded that "the record will notsupport a conclusion that extends beyond the presence or
absence of retrogressive intent." Id., at 31. It noted that
one could "imagine a set of facts that would establish a `nonretrogressive, but nevertheless discriminatory, purpose,' but
those imagined facts are not present here." Ibid. The District Court therefore left open the question that we had ourselves left open on remand: namely, whether the $ 5 purpose
inquiry extends beyond the search for retrogressive intent.

Second, the District Court considered, at greater length,
how any dilutive impact of the Board's plan bore on the question whether the Board enacted the plan with a retrogressive
intent. It concluded, applying the multifactor test we articulated in Arlington Heights v. Metropolitan Housing Development Corp., 429 U. S. 252 (1977), that allegations of dilutive effect and of discriminatory animus were insufficient to
establish retrogressive intent. 7 F. Supp. 2d, at 31-32.

In their jurisdictional statements in this Court, appellants contended, first, that the District Court's conclusion
that there was no evidence of discriminatory but nonretrogressive purpose was clearly erroneous, and second, that $ 5
of the Voting Rights Act prohibits preclearance of a redistricting plan enacted with a discriminatory but nonretrogressive purpose. Appellants did not challenge the District
Court's determination that there was no evidence of retrogressive intent. We again noted probable jurisdiction. 525
U. S. 1118 (1999).

528US2 Unit: $U23 [06-27-01 14:26:55] PAGES PGT: OPIN

327Cite as: 528 U. S. 320 (2000)
Opinion of the Court

II
Before proceeding to the merits, we must dispose of a chal-lenge to our jurisdiction. The Board contends that these

cases are now moot, since its 1992 plan "will never againbe used for any purpose." Motion to Dismiss or Affirm 9.
Under Louisiana law, school board members are electedto serve 4-year terms. La. Rev. Stat. Ann. $ 17:52(A) (West
1995). One month after appellants filed the jurisdictionalstatements for this appeal, the scheduled 1998 election for
the Board took place. The next scheduled election will notoccur until 2002, by which time, as appellants concede, the
data from the upcoming decennial census will be availableand the Board will be required by our "one-man-one-vote"
precedents to have a new apportionment plan in place. Ac-cordingly, appellee argues, the District Court's declaratory
judgment with respect to the 1992 plan is no longer of anymoment and the dispute no longer presents a live "case or
controversy" for purposes of Article III of the Constitution.Preiser v. Newkirk, 422 U. S. 395, 401 (1975); Mills v. Green,
159 U. S. 651, 653 (1895).Appellants posit several contingencies in which the
Board's 1992 plan would be put to use--including resigna-tion or death of one of the 12 Board members before 2002,
and failure to agree upon a replacement plan for the 2002election. They also assert that, if we were to hold preclearance improper, they "could seek" an injunction voiding theelections held under the 1992 plan and ordering a special
election, Brief for Appellants Price et al. Opposing Motionto Dismiss or Affirm 3, and "might be entitled" to such an
injunction, Brief for Appellant Reno in Opposition to Motionto Dismiss or Affirm 2. We need not pause to consider
whether the possibility of these somewhat speculative anduncertain events suffices to keep these cases alive, since in at
least one respect the 1992 plan will have probable continuingeffect: Absent a successful subsequent challenge under $ 2, it,
rather than the 1980 predecessor plan--which contains quite

528US2 Unit: $U23 [06-27-01 14:26:55] PAGES PGT: OPIN
328 RENO v. BOSSIER PARISH SCHOOL BD.

Opinion of the Court
different voting districts--will serve as the baseline againstwhich appellee's next voting plan will be evaluated for the

purposes of preclearance. Whether (and precisely how) thatfuture plan represents a change from the baseline, and, if so,
whether it is retrogressive in effect, will depend on whetherpreclearance of the 1992 plan was proper.

We turn, then, to the merits.

III
Appellants press the two claims initially raised in theirjurisdictional statements: first, that the District Court's factual conclusion that there was no evidence of discrimina-tory but nonretrogressive intent was clearly erroneous, and
second, that $ 5 of the Voting Rights Act prohibits pre-clearance of a redistricting plan enacted with a discriminatory but nonretrogressive purpose. Our resolution ofthe second claim renders it unnecessary to address the first.
When considered in light of our longstanding interpretationof the "effect" prong of $ 5 in its application to vote-dilution
claims, the language of $ 5 leads to the conclusion that the"purpose" prong of $ 5 covers only retrogressive dilution.

As noted earlier, in order to obtain preclearance under $ 5,a covered jurisdiction must demonstrate that the proposed
change "does not have the purpose and will not have theeffect of denying or abridging the right to vote on account
of race or color." 42 U. S. C. $ 1973c. A covered jurisdic-tion, therefore, must make two distinct showings: first, that
the proposed change "does not have the purpose . . . of deny-ing or abridging the right to vote on account of race or
color," and second, that the proposed change "will not havethe effect of denying or abridging the right to vote on account of race or color." The covered jurisdiction bears the
burden of persuasion on both points. See Bossier Parish I,520 U. S., at 478 ( judicial preclearance); 28 CFR $ 51.52(a)

(1999) (administrative preclearance).

528US2 Unit: $U23 [06-27-01 14:26:55] PAGES PGT: OPIN

329Cite as: 528 U. S. 320 (2000)
Opinion of the Court
In Beer v. United States, 425 U. S. 130 (1976), this Court
addressed the meaning of the no-effect requirement in the
context of an allegation of vote dilution. The case presented the question whether a reapportionment plan that
would have a discriminatory but nonretrogressive effect on
the rights of black voters should be denied preclearance.
Reasoning that $ 5 must be read in light of its purpose of
"insur[ing] that no voting-procedure changes would be made
that would lead to a retrogression in the position of racial
minorities with respect to their effective exercise of the electoral franchise," we held that "a legislative reapportionment
that enhances the position of racial minorities with respect
to their effective exercise of the electoral franchise can
hardly have the `effect' of diluting or abridging the right
to vote on account of race within the meaning of $ 5." Id.,
at 141. In other words, we concluded that, in the context
of a $ 5 challenge, the phrase "denying or abridging the right
to vote on account of race or color"--or more specifically, in
the context of a vote-dilution claim, the phrase "abridging
the right to vote on account of race or color"--limited the
term it qualified, "effect," to retrogressive effects.

Appellants contend that in qualifying the term "purpose,"
the very same phrase does not impose a limitation to retrogression--i. e., that the phrase "abridging the right to vote
on account of race or color" means retrogression when it
modifies "effect," but means discrimination more generally
when it modifies "purpose." We think this is simply an untenable construction of the text, in effect recasting the
phrase "does not have the purpose and will not have the
effect of x" to read "does not have the purpose of y and will
not have the effect of x." As we have in the past, we refuse
to adopt a construction that would attribute different meanings to the same phrase in the same sentence, depending
on which object it is modifying. See BankAmerica Corp. v.
United States, 462 U. S. 122, 129 (1983) (declining to give

528US2 Unit: $U23 [06-27-01 14:26:55] PAGES PGT: OPIN
330 RENO v. BOSSIER PARISH SCHOOL BD.

Opinion of the Court
different meanings to the phrase "other than" when it modi-fied "banks" and "common carriers" in the same clause).

Appellants point out that we did give the purpose prongof $ 5 a broader meaning than the effect prong in

Richmond
v. United States, 422 U. S. 358 (1975). That case involvedrequested preclearance for a proposed annexation that would

have reduced the black population of the city of Richmond,
Virginia, from 52% to 42%. We concluded that, althoughthe annexation may have had the effect of creating a political

unit with a lower percentage of blacks, so long as it "fairlyreflect[ed] the strength of the Negro community as it exist[ed] after the annexation" it did not violate $ 5. Id., at371. We reasoned that this interpretation of the effect
prong of $ 5 was justified by the peculiar circumstances pre-sented in annexation cases:

"To hold otherwise would be either to forbid all suchannexations or to require, as the price for approval of
the annexation, that the black community be assignedthe same proportion of council seats as before, hence
perhaps permanently overrepresenting them and under-representing other elements in the community, including
the nonblack citizens in the annexed area. We are un-willing to hold that Congress intended either consequence in enacting $ 5." Ibid.
We refused, however, to impose a similar limitation on $ 5's
purpose prong, stating that preclearance could be deniedwhen the jurisdiction was acting with the purpose of effecting a percentage reduction in the black population, eventhough it could not be denied when the jurisdiction's action
merely had that effect. Id., at 378-379.

It must be acknowledged that Richmond created a discontinuity between the effect and purpose prongs of $ 5. We
regard that, however, as nothing more than an ex necessitate
limitation upon the effect prong in the particular context of
annexation--to avoid the invalidation of all annexations of

528US2 Unit: $U23 [06-27-01 14:26:55] PAGES PGT: OPIN

331Cite as: 528 U. S. 320 (2000)
Opinion of the Court
areas with a lower proportion of minority voters than theannexing unit. The case certainly does not stand for the

proposition that the purpose and effect prongs have fun-damentally different meanings--the latter requiring retrogression, and the former not--which is what is urged here.The approved

effect of the redistricting in Richmond, and
the hypothetically disapproved purpose, were both retrogressive. We found it necessary to make an exception tonormal retrogressiveeffect principles, but not to normal
retrogressive-purpose principles, in order to permit routineannexation. That sheds little light upon the issue before

us here.

Appellants' only textual justification for giving the purpose and effect prongs different meanings is that to do
otherwise "would reduce the purpose prong of Section 5 to
a trivial matter," Brief for Federal Appellant on Reargument 13; would "effectively delet[e] the `purpose' prong,"
Reply Brief for Appellants Price et al. on Reargument 3;
and would give the purpose prong "a trivial reach, limited
to the case of the incompetent retrogressor," Reply Brief
for Federal Appellant 9. If this were true--and if it were
adequate to justify giving the very same words a different
meaning when qualifying "purpose" than when qualifying
"effect"--one would expect appellants to cite at least some
instances in which this Court applied such muscular construction to the innumerable statutes barring conduct with
a particular "purpose or effect." See, e. g., 7 U. S. C. $ 192(d)
(prohibiting sale of any article "for the purpose or with
the effect of manipulating or controlling prices" in the
meatpacking industry); 12 U. S. C. $ 1467a(c)(1)(A) (barring
savings and loan holding companies from engaging in any
activity on behalf of a savings association subsidiary "for
the purpose or with the effect of evading any law or regulation applicable to such savings association"); 47 U. S. C.

$ 541(b)(3)(B) (1994 ed., Supp. III) (prohibiting cable franchising authorities from imposing any requirement that "has

528US2 Unit: $U23 [06-27-01 14:26:55] PAGES PGT: OPIN
332 RENO v. BOSSIER PARISH SCHOOL BD.

Opinion of the Court
the purpose or effect of prohibiting, limiting, restricting, orconditioning the provision of a telecommunications service

by a cable operator or an affiliate thereof "). They cite nota single one, and we are aware of none.

It is true enough that, whenever Congress enacts a statutethat bars conduct having "the purpose or effect of x," the
purpose prong has application entirely separate from that ofthe effect prong only with regard to unlikely conduct that
has "the purpose of x" but fails to have "the effect of x"--in the present context, the conduct of a so-called "incompetent retrogressor." The purpose prong has value and effect,however, even when it does not cover additional conduct.
With regard to conduct that has both "the purpose of x" and"the effect of

x," the Government need only prove that theconduct at issue has "the purpose of x" in order to prevail.

In the specific context of $ 5, where the covered jurisdictionhas the burden of persuasion, the Government need only refute the covered jurisdiction's prima facie showing that aproposed voting change does not have a retrogressive purpose in order for preclearance to be denied. When it cando so, it is spared the necessity of countering the jurisdiction's evidence regarding actual retrogressive effect--which,in vote-dilution cases, is often a complex undertaking. This
advantage, plus the ability to reach malevolent incompe-tence, may not represent a massive addition to the effect
prong, but it is enough to justify the separate existence ofthe purpose prong in this statute, and is no less than what
justifies the separate existence of such a provision in manyother laws.

1

1 Justice Souter criticizes us for "assum[ing] that purpose is easier to
prove than effect . . . in voting rights cases." Post, at 358, n. 10 (opinion
concurring in part and dissenting in part). As is obvious from our discussion in text, we do not suggest that purpose is always easier to prove, but
simply that it may sometimes be (which suffices to give force to the "purpose" prong without the necessity of doing violence to the English language). Indeed, Justice Souter acknowledges that "intent to dilute is
conceptually simple, whereas a dilutive abridgment-in-fact is not readily
defined and identified independently of dilutive intent." Post, at 367.

528US2 Unit: $U23 [06-27-01 14:26:55] PAGES PGT: OPIN

333Cite as: 528 U. S. 320 (2000)
Opinion of the Court
At bottom, appellants' disagreement with our reading of$ 5 rests not upon textual analysis, but upon their opposition to our holding in Beer. Although they do not explicitlycontend that Beer should be overruled, they all but do so
by arguing that it would be "untenable" to conclude (as wedid in Beer) that the phrase "abridging the right to vote on
account of race or color" refers only to retrogression in $ 5,Reply Brief for Federal Appellant on Reargument 1, in light
of the fact that virtually identical language elsewhere in theVoting Rights Act--and indeed, in the Fifteenth Amendment--has never been read to refer only to retrogression.
See $ 2(a) of the Voting Rights Act, 42 U. S. C. $ 1973(a) ("Novoting [practice] shall be imposed or applied by any State

or political subdivision in a manner which results in a de-nial or abridgement of the right of any citizen of the United
States to vote on account of race or color . . ."); U. S. Const.,Amdt. 15, $ 1 ("The right of citizens of the United States to
vote shall not be denied or abridged by the United Statesor by any State on account of race, color, or previous condition of servitude").2 The term "abridge," however--whose

2 Appellants also cite $ 3(c) of the Voting Rights Act, which provides,
with regard to a court that has found a violation of the right to vote
guaranteed by the Fourteenth or Fifteenth Amendment, that "the
court . . . shall retain jurisdiction for such period as it may deem appropriate and during such period no voting [practice] different from that
in force or effect at the time the proceeding was commenced shall be enforced unless and until the court finds that such [practice] does not have
the purpose and will not have the effect of denying or abridging the right
to vote on account of race or color . . . ." 42 U. S. C. $ 1973a(c). This
provision does not assist appellants' case because it is not at all clear that
it confers the power to deny approval to nonretrogressive redistricting.
That is to say, it may well contemplate that, once a court has struck down
an unconstitutional practice and granted relief with regard to that practice, it may assume for that jurisdiction a function identical to that of the
District Court for the District of Columbia in $ 5 preclearance proceedings.
This is suggested by the fact that the State may avoid the court's jurisdiction in this regard by obtaining preclearance from the Attorney General;
and that $ 3(c), like $ 5, explicitly leaves open the possibility that a proposed change approved by the court can be challenged as unconstitutional

528US2 Unit: $U23 [06-27-01 14:26:55] PAGES PGT: OPIN
334 RENO v. BOSSIER PARISH SCHOOL BD.

Opinion of the Court
core meaning is "shorten," see Webster's New InternationalDictionary 7 (2d ed. 1950); American Heritage Dictionary 6

(3d ed. 1992)--necessarily entails a comparison. It makesno sense to suggest that a voting practice "abridges" the
right to vote without some baseline with which to com-pare the practice. In $ 5 preclearance proceedings--which
uniquely deal only and specifically with changes in votingprocedures--the baseline is the status quo that is proposed
to be changed: If the change "abridges the right to vote"relative to the status quo, preclearance is denied, and the
status quo (however discriminatory it may be) remains ineffect. In $ 2 or Fifteenth Amendment proceedings, by contrast, which involve not only changes but (much more com-monly) the status quo itself, the comparison must be made
with a hypothetical alternative: If the status quo "re-sults in [an] abridgement of the right to vote" or "abridge[s]
[the right to vote]" relative to what the right to vote ought
to be, the status quo itself must be changed. Our readingof "abridging" as referring only to retrogression in $ 5, but

to discrimination more generally in $ 2 and the FifteenthAmendment, is faithful to the differing contexts in which the
term is used.3
in a "subsequent action." Ibid. We of course intimate no holding on this
point, but limit our conclusion to the nonprobative character of $ 3(c) with
regard to the issue in the present cases.

3 Even if $ 5 did not have a different baseline than the Fifteenth Amendment, appellants' argument that $ 5 should be read in parallel with the
Fifteenth Amendment would fail for the simple reason that we have
never held that vote dilution violates the Fifteenth Amendment. See
Voinovich v. Quilter, 507 U. S. 146, 159 (1993) (citing Beer v. United States,
425 U. S. 130, 142-143, n. 14 (1976)). Indeed, contrary to Justice Sou-
ter's assertion, post, at 360, n. 11 (opinion concurring in part and dissenting in part), we have never even "suggested" as much. Gomillion v.
Lightfoot, 364 U. S. 339 (1960), involved a proposal to redraw the boundaries of Tuskegee, Alabama, so as to exclude all but 4 or 5 of its 400
black voters without excluding a single white voter. See id., at 341. Our
conclusion that the proposal would deny black voters the right to vote in
municipal elections, and therefore violated the Fifteenth Amendment, had
nothing to do with racial vote dilution, a concept that does not appear in

528US2 Unit: $U23 [06-27-01 14:26:55] PAGES PGT: OPIN

335Cite as: 528 U. S. 320 (2000)
Opinion of the Court
In another argument that applies equally to our holdingin Beer, appellants object that our reading of $ 5 would require the District Court or Attorney General to preclearproposed voting changes with a discriminatory effect or
purpose, or even with both. That strikes appellants as aninconceivable prospect only because they refuse to accept
the limited meaning that we have said preclearance has inthe vote-dilution context. It does

not represent approvalof the voting change; it is nothing more than a determination that the voting change is no more dilutive than whatit replaces, and therefore cannot be stopped in advance
under the extraordinary burden-shifting procedures of $ 5,but must be attacked through the normal means of a $ 2
action. As we have repeatedly noted, in vote-dilution cases$ 5 prevents nothing but backsliding, and preclearance under

$ 5 affirms nothing but the absence of backsliding. BossierParish I, 520 U. S., at 478; Miller v. Johnson, 515 U. S. 900,
926 (1995); Beer, 425 U. S., at 141.4 This explains why the
our voting-rights opinions until nine years later. See Allen v. State Bd.
of Elections, 393 U. S. 544, 569 (1969). As for the other case relied upon
by Justice Souter, the plurality opinion in Mobile v. Bolden, 446 U. S.
55 (1980), not only does that not suggest that the Fifteenth Amendment
covers vote dilution, it suggests the opposite, rejecting the appellees'
vote-dilution claim in the following terms: "The answer to the appellees'
argument is that . . . their freedom to vote has not been denied or abridged
by anyone. The Fifteenth Amendment does not entail the right to have
Negro candidates elected . . . . Having found that Negroes in Mobile
`register and vote without hindrance,' the District Court and Court of
Appeals were in error in believing that the appellants invaded the protection of that Amendment in the present case." Id., at 65; see also
id., at 84, n. 3 (Stevens, J., concurring in judgment) (characterizing plurality opinion as concluding that "the Fifteenth Amendment applies only
to practices that directly affect access to the ballot").

4 In search of support for the argument that $ 5 prevents not just backsliding on vote dilution but all forms of vote dilution, Justice Souter
embarks upon a lengthy expedition into legislative history. Post, at 362-
367 (opinion concurring in part and dissenting in part). He returns emptyhanded, since he can point to nothing suggesting that the Congress
thought $ 5 covered both retrogressive and nonretrogressive dilution.
Indeed, it is doubtful whether the Congress that passed the 1965 Voting

528US2 Unit: $U23 [06-27-01 14:26:55] PAGES PGT: OPIN
336 RENO v. BOSSIER PARISH SCHOOL BD.

Opinion of the Court
sole consequence of failing to obtain preclearance is con-tinuation of the status quo. To deny preclearance to a plan

that is not retrogressive--no matter how unconstitutionalit may be--would risk leaving in effect a status quo that is
even worse. For example, in the case of a voting changewith a discriminatory but nonretrogressive purpose and a
discriminatory but ameliorative effect, the result of denyingpreclearance would be to preserve a status quo with more
discriminatory effect than the proposed change.In sum, by suggesting that $ 5 extends to discriminatory
but nonretrogressive vote-dilutive purposes, appellants askus to do what we declined to do in

Bossier Parish I: toblur the distinction between $ 2 and $ 5 by "shift[ing] the

focus of $ 5 from nonretrogression to vote dilution, and . . .chang[ing] the $ 5 benchmark from a jurisdiction's existing
plan to a hypothetical, undiluted plan." 520 U. S., at 480.Such a reading would also exacerbate the "substantial"
federalism costs that the preclearance procedure alreadyexacts,

Lopez v. Monterey County, 525 U. S. 266, 282 (1999),perhaps to the extent of raising concerns about $ 5's constitutionality, see Miller, supra, at 926-927. Most impor-tantly, however, in light of our holding in Beer, appellants'
reading finds no support in the language of $ 5.5
Rights Act even had the practice of racial vote dilution in mind. As Jus-
tice Souter acknowledges, this Court did not address the concept until
1969, see post, at 364, n. 13, and the legislative history of the 1969 extension of the Act, quoted by Justice Souter, see post, at 364-365, refers
to at-large elections and consolidation of counties as "new, unlawful ways
to diminish the Negroes' franchise" developed since passage of the Act.
H. R. Rep. No. 91-397, pp. 6-7 (1969).

5 Justice Souter asserts that "[t]he Justice Department's longstanding

practice of refusing to preclear changes that it determined to have an
unconstitutionally discriminatory purpose, both before and after Beer," is
entitled to deference. Post, at 368 (opinion concurring in part and dissenting in part); accord, post, at 373 (Stevens, J., dissenting). But of
course before Beer the Justice Department took the position that even
the effects prong was not limited, in redistricting cases, to retrogression.
Indeed, that position had been the basis for its denial of preclearance in

528US2 Unit: $U23 [06-27-01 14:26:55] PAGES PGT: OPIN

337Cite as: 528 U. S. 320 (2000)
Opinion of the Court

IV
Notwithstanding the fact that Bossier Parish I explicitly"le[ft] open for another day" the question whether $ 5 extends to discriminatory but nonretrogressive intent, see520 U. S., at 486, appellants contend that two of this Court's
prior decisions have already reached the conclusion that itdoes. First, appellants note that, in

Beer, this Court statedthat "an ameliorative new legislative apportionment cannot

violate $ 5 unless the new apportionment itself so discrimi-nates on the basis of race or color as to violate the Constitution." 425 U. S., at 141. Appellants contend that this sug-gests that, at least in some cases in which the covered
jurisdiction acts with a discriminatory but nonretrogressivedilutive purpose, the covered jurisdiction should be denied
preclearance because it is acting unconstitutionally.We think that a most implausible interpretation. At the
time Beer was decided, it had not been established thatdiscriminatory purpose as well as discriminatory effect was
necessary for a constitutional violation, compare White v.
Regester, 412 U. S. 755, 765-766 (1973), with Washington v.Davis, 426 U. S. 229, 238-245 (1976). If the statement in

Beer had meant what appellants suggest, it would eitherhave been anticipating (without argument) that later holding, or else would have been gutting Beer's holding (sincea showing of discriminatory but nonretrogressive effect
would have been a constitutional violation and would, de-spite the holding of

Beer, have sufficed to deny preclearance).A much more plausible explanation of the statement is that

it referred to a constitutional violation other than vote diluBeer, see 425 U. S., at 136, and was argued in its brief before us as the
basis for sustaining the District Court's denial, see Brief for United States
in Beer v. United States, O. T. 1975, No. 73-1869, pp. 17-18. We rejected
that position as to the effects prong, and there is even more reason to
reject it in the present cases, whose outcomes depend as much upon the
implication of one of our prior cases (as to which we owe the Department
no deference) as upon a raw interpretation of the statute.

528US2 Unit: $U23 [06-27-01 14:26:55] PAGES PGT: OPIN
338 RENO v. BOSSIER PARISH SCHOOL BD.

Opinion of the Court
tion--and, more specifically, a violation consisting of a "de-nial" of the right to vote, rather than an "abridgement." Although in the context of denial claims, no less than in thecontext of abridgment claims, the antibacksliding rationale
for $ 5 (and its effect of avoiding preservation of an evenworse status quo) suggests that retrogression should again
be the criterion, arguably in that context the word "deny"(unlike the word "abridge") does not import a comparison
with the status quo.6In any event, it is entirely clear that the statement in
Beer was pure dictum: The Government had made no con-tention that the proposed reapportionment at issue was
unconstitutional. 425 U. S., at 142, n. 14. And though wehave quoted the dictum in subsequent cases, we have never
actually applied it to deny preclearance. See Bossier
Parish I, supra, at 481; Shaw v. Hunt, 517 U. S. 899, 912(1996) (Shaw II); Miller, 515 U. S., at 924. We have made

clear, on the other hand, what we reaffirm today: that pro-ceedings to preclear apportionment schemes and proceedings
to consider the constitutionality of apportionment schemesare entirely distinct.

"Although the Court concluded that the redistrict-ing scheme at issue in

Beer was nonretrogressive, it

6 Justice Breyer suggests that "[i]t seems obvious . . . that if Mississippi had enacted its `moral character' requirement in 1966 (after enactment of the Voting Rights Act), a court applying $ 5 would have found `the
purpose . . . of denying or abridging the right to vote on account of
race,' even if Mississippi had intended to permit, say, 0.4%, rather than
0.3%, of the black voting age population of Forrest County to register."
Post, at 376 (dissenting opinion). As we note above, however, our holding today does not extend to violations consisting of an outright "denial"
of an individual's right to vote, as opposed to an "abridgement" as in
dilution cases. In any event, if Mississippi had attempted to enact a
"moral character" requirement in 1966, it would have been precluded
from doing so under $ 4, which bars certain types of voting tests and devices altogether, and the issue of $ 5 preclearance would therefore never
have arisen. See 42 U. S. C. $$ 1973b(a)(1), (c).

528US2 Unit: $U23 [06-27-01 14:26:55] PAGES PGT: OPIN

339Cite as: 528 U. S. 320 (2000)
Opinion of the Court
did not hold that the plan, for that reason, was immunefrom constitutional challenge. . . . Indeed, the Voting

Rights Act and our case law make clear that a reappor-tionment plan that satisfies $ 5 still may be enjoined
as unconstitutional." Shaw v. Reno, 509 U. S. 630, 654(1993) (Shaw I) (emphasis added).

See also City of Lockhart v. United States, 460 U. S. 125,134 (1983) (describing the holding of Beer as follows: "Although the new plan may have remained discriminatory, itnevertheless was not a regressive change. . . . Since the new
plan did not increase the degree of discrimination againstblacks, it was entitled to $ 5 preclearance");

Allen v. StateBd. of Elections, 393 U. S. 544, 549-550 (1969) ("Once the

State has successfully complied with the $ 5 approvalrequirements, private parties may enjoin the enforcement
of the new enactment only in traditional suits attacking itsconstitutionality . . ."). As we noted in Shaw I, $ 5 explicitly
states that neither administrative nor judicial preclearance" `shall bar a subsequent action to enjoin enforcement' of
[a change in voting practice]." 509 U. S., at 654 (quoting 42U. S. C. $ 1973c). That fully available remedy leaves us untroubled by the possibility that $ 5 could produce preclear-ance of an unconstitutionally dilutive redistricting plan.

Second, appellants contend that we denied preclearanceon the basis of a discriminatory but nonretrogressive purpose in Pleasant Grove v. United States, 479 U. S. 462 (1987).That case involved an unusual fact pattern. The city of
Pleasant Grove, Alabama--which, at the time of the Dis-trict Court's decision, had 32 black inhabitants, none of
whom was registered to vote and of whose existence cityofficials appear to have been unaware,

id., at 465, n. 2--sought to annex two parcels of land, one inhabited by a

few whites, and the other vacant but likely to be inhabited bywhites in the near future. We upheld the District Court's
conclusion that the city acted with a discriminatory pur-pose in annexing the land, rejecting the city's contention

528US2 Unit: $U23 [06-27-01 14:26:55] PAGES PGT: OPIN
340 RENO v. BOSSIER PARISH SCHOOL BD.

Opinion of the Court
that it could not have done so because it was unaware of theexistence of any black voters against whom it could have

intended to discriminate:

"[The city's] argument is based on the incorrect assumption that an impermissible purpose under $ 5 canrelate only to present circumstances. Section 5 looks

not only to the present effects of changes, but to theirfuture effects as well . . . . Likewise, an impermissible
purpose under $ 5 may relate to anticipated as well aspresent circumstances.

"It is quite plausible to see [the annexation] as mo-tivated, in part, by the impermissible purpose of minimizing future black voting strength. . . . This is just
as impermissible a purpose as the dilution of presentblack voting strength."

Id., at 471-472 (citations and
footnotes omitted).

Appellants assert that we must have viewed the city'spurpose as discriminatory but nonretrogressive because, as

the city noted in contending that it lacked even a dis-criminatory purpose, the city could not have been acting to
worsen the voting strength of any present black residents,
since there were no black voters at the time. However, asthe above quoted passage suggests, we did not hold that the

purpose prong of $ 5 extends beyond retrogression, butrather held that a jurisdiction with no minority voters can
have a retrogressive purpose, at the present time, by in-tending to worsen the voting strength of

future minority
voters. Put another way, our holding in Pleasant Grove hadnothing to do with the question whether, to justify the denial of preclearance on the basis of the purpose prong, the
purpose must be retrogressive; instead, it involved the
question whether the purpose must be to achieve retrogression at once or could include, in the case of a jurisdiction with no present minority voters, retrogression with regard to operation of the proposed plan (as compared with

528US2 Unit: $U23 [06-27-01 14:26:55] PAGES PGT: OPIN

341Cite as: 528 U. S. 320 (2000)
Opinion of Souter, J.
operation of the status quo) against new minority voters inthe future. Like the dictum from Beer, therefore, Pleasant

Grove is simply inapposite here.

* * *
In light of the language of $ 5 and our prior holding inBeer, we hold that $ 5 does not prohibit preclearance of a

redistricting plan enacted with a discriminatory but non-retrogressive purpose. Accordingly, the judgment of the
District Court is affirmed. It is so ordered.

Justice Thomas, concurring.
The Bossier Parish School Board first sought preclearanceof the redistricting plan at issue in this litigation almost

seven years ago. The Justice Department and private ap-pellants opposed that effort, arguing throughout this litigation that a "safe" majority-minority district is necessary toensure the election of a black school board member. Ironically, while this litigation was pending, three blacks wereelected from majority-white districts to serve on the Bossier
Parish School Board. Although these election results arenot part of the record, they vividly illustrate the fact that
the federal intervention that spawned this litigation wasunnecessary.

Justice Souter, with whom Justice Stevens, Justice
Ginsburg, and Justice Breyer join, concurring in partand dissenting in part.

Under $ 5 of the Voting Rights Act of 1965, 42 U. S. C.$ 1973c, a jurisdiction required to obtain preclearance of
changes to its voting laws must show that a proposed amend-ment will not have the effect, and does not reflect a purpose,
to deny or abridge the vote on account of race. I respect-fully dissent

1 from the Court's holding that $ 5 is indifferent

1 I agree with the Court's conclusion on the matter of mootness.

528US2 Unit: $U23 [06-27-01 14:26:55] PAGES PGT: OPIN
342 RENO v. BOSSIER PARISH SCHOOL BD.

Opinion of Souter, J.
to a racially discriminatory purpose so long as a change invoting law is not meant to diminish minority voting strength

below its existing level. It is true that today's decision hasa precursor of sorts in

Beer v. United States, 425 U. S. 130
(1976), which holds that the only anticipated redistrictingeffect sufficient to bar preclearance is retrogression in minority voting strength, however dilutive of minority voting
power a redistricting plan may otherwise be. But if today'sdecision achieves a symmetry with

Beer, the achievement is
merely one of well-matched error. The Court was mistakenin

Beer when it restricted the effect prong of $ 5 to retrogression, and the Court is even more wrong today when it limits
the clear text of $ 5 to the corresponding retrogressive purpose. Although I adhere to the strong policy of respecting
precedent in statutory interpretation and so would not reexamine Beer, that policy does not demand that recognized
error be compounded indefinitely, and the Court's prior mistake about the meaning of the effects requirement of $ 5
should not be expanded by an even more erroneous interpretation of the scope of the section's purpose prong.

The Court's determination that Congress intended preclearance of a plan not shown to be free of dilutive intent
(let alone a plan shown to be intentionally discriminatory)
is not, however, merely erroneous. It is also highly unconvincing. The evidence in these very cases shows that the
Bossier Parish School Board (School Board or Board) acted
with intent to dilute the black vote, just as it acted with
that same intent through decades of resistance to a judicial
desegregation order. The record illustrates exactly the sort
of relentless bad faith on the part of majority-white voters in
covered jurisdictions that led to the enactment of $ 5. The
evidence all but poses the question why Congress would ever
have meant to permit preclearance of such a plan, and it all
but invites the answer that Congress could hardly have intended any such thing. While the evidence goes substantially unnoticed on the Court's narrow reading of the purpose

528US2 Unit: $U23 [06-27-01 14:26:55] PAGES PGT: OPIN

343Cite as: 528 U. S. 320 (2000)
Opinion of Souter, J.
prong of $ 5, it is not only crucial to my resolution of thesecases, but insistent in the way it points up the implausibility

of the Court's reading of purpose under $ 5.

I
In Arlington Heights v. Metropolitan Housing Development Corp., 429 U. S. 252 (1977), this Court set out a check-list of considerations for assessing evidence going to discriminatory intent: the historical background of a challengeddecision, its relative impact on minorities, specific antecedent
events, departures from normal procedures, and contempo-rary statements of decisionmakers.

Id., at 266-268. Wedirected the District Court to follow that checklist in enquiring into discriminatory intent following remand in thesecases, Reno v. Bossier Parish School Bd., 520 U. S. 471, 488
(1997) (Bossier Parish I). The Arlington Heights enquiryreveals the following account of the School Board's redistricting activity and of the character of the parish in whichit occurred.

The parish's institution of general governance is knownas the Police Jury, a board of representatives chosen from
districts within the parish. After the 1990 census showeda numerical malapportionment among those districts, the
Police Jurors prepared a revised districting plan, which theysubmitted to the Attorney General of the United States with
a request for the preclearance necessary under $ 5 of theVoting Rights Act before the parish, a covered jurisdiction,
could modify its voting district lines. Based on informationthen available to the Department of Justice, the Attorney
General understood the parish to have shown that the newplan would not have the effect and did not have the purpose of abridging the voting rights of the parish's 20% blackpopulation, and the revised Police Jury plan received preclearance in the summer of 1991. In fact, as the parish'sSchool Board has now admitted, the Police Jury plan thus
approved dilutes the voting strength of the minority popula528US2 Unit: $U23 [06-27-01 14:26:55] PAGES PGT: OPIN
344 RENO v. BOSSIER PARISH SCHOOL BD.

Opinion of Souter, J.
tion, Plaintiff 's Brief on Remand 12; that is, the plan discriminates by abridging the rights of minority voters to participate in the political process and elect candidates of their
choice. Thornburg v. Gingles, 478 U. S. 30, 46-47 (1986).

The same population shifts that required the Police Jury
to reapportion required the elected School Board to do the
same. Although the Board had approached the Police Jury
about the possibility of devising a joint plan of districts common to both Board and jury, the jury rebuffed the Board,
see App. to Juris. Statement 172a (Stipulations 83-84), and
the Board was forced to go it alone. History provides a
good indication of what might have been expected from this
endeavor.

As the parties have stipulated, the School Board had applied its energies for decades in an effort to "limit or evade"
its obligation to desegregate the parish schools. Id., at 216a
(Stipulation 237). When the Board first received a court
order to desegregate the parish's schools in the mid-1960's,
it responded with the flagrantly defiant tactics of that era,
see id., at 216a-217a (Stipulations 236-237), and the record
discloses the Board's continuing obstructiveness down to the
time covered by these cases. During the 1980's, the degree
of racial polarization in the makeup of the parish's schools
rose, id., at 218a (Stipulations 241-243), and the disproportionate assignment of black faculty to predominantly black
schools increased, id., at 217a-218a (Stipulation 240). While
the parish's superintendent testified that the assignment
of black faculty to predominantly black schools came in
response to black parents' requests for positive black examples for their children, see App. 289, the black leaders who
testified in these cases uniformly rejected that claim and insisted that, in accord with the parish's desegregation decree,
black faculty were to be distributed throughout the parish's
schools, to serve as models for white, as well as black, students, see id., at 326-327; 2 Tr. 126-128.

528US2 Unit: $U23 [06-27-01 14:26:55] PAGES PGT: OPIN

345Cite as: 528 U. S. 320 (2000)
Opinion of Souter, J.
Other evidence of the Board's intransigence on race cen-ters on the particular terms of the integration decree that

since 1970 has required the Board to maintain a "Bi-RacialAdvisory Review Committee" made up of an equal number
of black and white members in order to " `recommend tothe . . . Board ways to attain and maintain a unitary system
and to improve education in the parish.' " App. to Juris.
Statement in No. 98-405, p. 182a (Stipulation 111) (herein-after App. to Juris. Statement). Although the Board represented to the District Court overseeing desegregationthat the committee was in place, see 2 Tr. 16 (testimony of
Superintendent William T. Lewis), the committee actually
met only two or three times in the mid-1970's and then with
only its black members in attendance, see App. to Juris.
Statement 183a (Stipulation 112). In 1993, the Board set
up a short-lived "Community Affairs Committee" to replace
the "Bi-Racial Committee." Despite the Board's resolution
charging the committee " `with the responsibility of investigating, consulting and advising the court and school
board periodically with respect to all matters pertinent to
the retention [sic] of a unitary school system,' " ibid. (Stipulation 114), the Board disbanded the committee after only
three months because, as a leading Board member put it,
" `the tone of the committee made up of the minority members of the committee quickly turned toward becoming involved in policy,' " id., at 184a (Stipulation 116). "Policy,"
however, was inevitably implicated by the committee's purpose, and the subjects of its recommendations (such as methods for more effective recruitment of black teachers and
their placement throughout the school system in accord with
the terms of the desegregation decree, see id., at 183a-184a
(Stipulation 115)) fell squarely within its mandate. It is
thus unsurprising that the Board has not achieved a unitary
school system and remains under court order to this day.
See id., at 217a (Stipulation 239); App. 139 (testimony of
S. P. Davis).

528US2 Unit: $U23 [06-27-01 14:26:55] PAGES PGT: OPIN
346 RENO v. BOSSIER PARISH SCHOOL BD.

Opinion of Souter, J.
About the time the Board appointed its "Community Affairs Committee," it sought preclearance under $ 5 from the
Attorney General for the redistricting plan before us now.
The course of the Board's redistricting efforts tell us much
about what it had in mind when it proposed its plan. Following the rebuff from the Police Jury, the Board was able
to follow a relaxed redistricting timetable, there being no
Board elections scheduled before 1994. While the Board
could simply have adopted the Police Jury plan once the Attorney General had precleared it, the Board did not do so,
App. to Juris. Statement 147a (Stipulation 11), despite just
such a proposal from one Board member at the Board's September 5, 1991, meeting. No action was then taken on the
proposal, id., at 174a (Stipulations 89-90), and although the
Board issued no explanation for its inaction, it is noteworthy
that the jury plan ignored some of the Board's customary
districting concerns. Whereas one of those concerns was incumbency protection, see App. 251; cf. App. to Juris. Statement 152a (Stipulation 26), the jury plan would have pitted
two pairs of incumbents against each other and created two
districts in which no incumbent resided, id., at 181a-182a
(Stipulation 109).2 The jury plan disregarded school attendance zones, and even included two districts containing no
schools. Id., at 174a, 151a, 191a (Stipulations 88, 24, 141).
The jury plan, moreover, called for a total variation in district populations exceeding the standard normally used to
gauge satisfaction of the "one person, one vote" principle, see
id., at 162a-163a (Stipulation 58); App. 231-232; 1 Tr. 147,
four of its districts failed the standard measure of compactness used by the Board's own cartographer, id., at 174-176,

2 While two of the incumbents were considering stepping down by the
time the Board subsequently adopted the plan, at least one of those decisions was anything but firm. See App. 103; 4 Record, Doc. No. 72, in
Civ. Action No. 94-1495 (D. D. C.), pp. 60-61 (joint designations of portions
of deposition of David Harvey); 1 Tr. 85.

528US2 Unit: $U23 [06-27-01 14:26:55] PAGES PGT: OPIN

347Cite as: 528 U. S. 320 (2000)
Opinion of Souter, J.
and one of its districts contained noncontiguous elements,App. 234-235.

In addressing the need to devise a plan of its own, theBoard hired the same redistricting consultant who had
advised the Police Jury, Gary Joiner. Joiner and the Boardmembers (according to Joiner's testimony) were perfectly
aware of their responsibility to avoid vote dilution in accordance with the Voting Rights Act, see Record, Doc. No. 38(direct testimony of Joiner 5), and he estimated that it would

take him between 200 to 250 hours to devise a plan for theBoard. The Board then spent nearly a year doing little in
public about redistricting, while its members met in private with Joiner to consider alternatives. In March 1992,
George Price, president of the parish's branch of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People
(NAACP), wrote to the superintendent of parish schools
asking for a chance to play some role in the redistricting
process. App. 184. Although the superintendent passed
the letter on to the Board, the Board took no action, and
neither the superintendent nor the Board even responded
to Price's request. App. to Juris. Statement 175a (Stipulation 93). In August, Price wrote again, this time in concert
with a number of leaders of black community organizations,
again seeking an opportunity to express views about the
redistricting process, as well as about a number of Board
policies bearing on school desegregation. App. 187-189; see
also App. to Juris. Statement 175a (Stipulation 94). Once
again the Board made no response.

Being frustrated by the Board's lack of responsiveness,
Price then asked for help from the national NAACP's Redistricting Project, which sent him a map showing how two
compact majority-black districts might be drawn in the
parish. Id., at 177a (Stipulation 98). When Price showed
the map to a school district official, he was told it was unacceptable because it failed to show all 12 districts. At
Price's request, the Redistricting Project then provided a

528US2 Unit: $U23 [06-27-01 14:26:55] PAGES PGT: OPIN
348 RENO v. BOSSIER PARISH SCHOOL BD.

Opinion of Souter, J.
plan showing all 12 districts, which Price presented to theBoard at its September 3, 1992, meeting, explaining that it

showed the possibility of drawing majority-black districts.Id., at 177a-178a (Stipulations 99-100). Several Board
members said they could not consider the NAACP planunless it was presented on a larger map, id., at 178a (Stipulation 100), and both the Board's cartographer and its legaladvisor, the parish district attorney, dismissed the plan out
of hand because it required precinct splits, id., at 179a (Stipu-lation 102).

There is evidence that other implications of the NAACPproposal were objectionable to the Board. According to one
black leader, Board member Henry Burns told him thatwhile he personally favored black representation on the
Board, a number of other Board members opposed the idea.3
App. 142. According to George Price, Board member BarryMusgrove told him that the Board was hostile to the creation

of a majority-black district. Id., at 182.4

Although the NAACP plan received no further public con-sideration, the pace of public redistricting activity suddenly

speeded up. At the Board's September 17, 1992, meeting,without asking Joiner to address the possibility of creating
any majority-black district, the Board abruptly passed astatement of intent to adopt the Police Jury plan. App. to
Juris. Statement 179a-180a (Stipulation 106). At a public

3 One other Board member, Marguerite Hudson, when asked to explain why two of the schools in Plain Dealing, one of the parish's towns,
were predominantly black, stated: "[T]hose people love to live in Plain
Dealing. . . . And most of them don't want to get a big job, they would just
rather stay out there in the country, and stay on Welfare, and stay in Plain
Dealing." App. 118.

4 Musgrove denied making the statement. See 1 Tr. 56. If, as the

District Court majority suggested, the significance of the latter statement
is uncertain, see Bossier Parish School Bd. v. Reno, 907 F. Supp. 434,
448 (DC 1995) (Bossier Parish I), it was tantamount to opposition to the
most obvious cure for the admitted dilution; there was in any event nothing ambiguous about the Burns statement.

528US2 Unit: $U23 [06-27-01 14:26:55] PAGES PGT: OPIN

349Cite as: 528 U. S. 320 (2000)
Opinion of Souter, J.
hearing on the plan one week later, attended by an over-flow crowd, a number of black voters spoke against the plan,

and Price presented the Board with a petition bearing over500 signatures urging consideration of minority concerns.
No one spoke in favor of the plan, Bossier Parish I, 907F. Supp. 434, 439 (DC 1995), and Price explained to the Board
that preclearance of the jury plan for use by the Police Jurywas no guarantee of preclearance of the same plan for the
Board. App. to Juris. Statement 180a-181a (Stipulation108). Nonetheless, at its October 1 meeting, the voting
members of the Board unanimously adopted the Police Juryplan, with one member absent and the Board's only black
member (who had been appointed just two weeks earlier tofill a vacancy) abstaining.

Id., at 181a-182a (Stipulation109). The Board did not submit the plan for preclearance

by the Attorney General until January 4, 1993. Id., at 182a(Stipulation 110).

II
The significance of the record under $ 5 is enhanced byexamining in more detail several matters already mentioned

as free from dispute, by testing some of the Board's statedreasons for refusing to consider any NAACP plan, and by
looking critically at the District Court's reasons for resolvingdisputed issues in the School Board's favor.

A
The parties stipulate that for decades before this redis-tricting the Board had sought to "limit or evade" its obligation to end segregation in its schools, an obligationspecifically imposed by Court order nearly 35 years ago and
not yet fulfilled. The Board has also conceded the discrimi-natory impact of the Police Jury plan in falling "more heavily
on blacks than on whites," Plaintiff 's Brief on Remand in Civ.Action No. 94-1495 (D. D. C.), p. 12, and in diluting "black
voting strength," id., at 21. Even without the stipulatedhistory, the conceded dilution would be evidence of a corre528US2 Unit: $U23 [06-27-01 14:26:55] PAGES PGT: OPIN
350 RENO v. BOSSIER PARISH SCHOOL BD.

Opinion of Souter, J.
spondingly discriminatory intent. With the history, the implication of intent speaks louder, and it grows more forceful
still after a closer look at two aspects of the dilutive impact
of the Police Jury plan.

First, the plan includes no majority-black districts even
though residential and voting patterns in Bossier Parish
meet the three conditions we identified in Thornburg v.
Gingles, 478 U. S., at 50-51, as opening the door to drawing
majority-minority districts to put minority voters on an
equal footing with others. The first Gingles condition is
that "the minority group must be able to demonstrate that
it is sufficiently large and geographically compact to constitute a majority in a single-member district." Id., at 50.
The Board does not dispute that black voters in Bossier Parish satisfy this criterion. The Board joined in a stipulation
of the parties that in 1991, "it was obvious that a reasonably
compact black-majority district could be drawn within Bossier City," App. to Juris. Statement 154a-155a (Stipulation
36); see also 1 Tr. 60 (statement of Board member Barry
Musgrove), and that the NAACP plan demonstrated that two
such districts could have been drawn in the parish, see App.
to Juris. Statement 192a (Stipulation 143).5 As to the second and third Gingles conditions, that the minority population be politically cohesive and that the majority-white block
voting be enough to defeat the minority's preferred candidate, see Gingles, supra, at 51, the Government introduced
expert testimony showing such polarization in Bossier Parish's voting patterns. See App. to Juris. Statement 201a-

5 While the cartographer hired by the Board stated during the redistricting process that the parish's black population was too dispersed
to draw a majority-black district, he later acknowledged that in fact
two such districts could be drawn, see App. to Juris. Statement 160a-
161a (Stipulations 52, 53), and not only the original NAACP plans but
also the Cooper Plans, two alternative plans developed by an expert for
the defendant-intervenors, demonstrated as much, see App. 238 (Cooper
Plans); App. to Juris. Statement 193a (Stipulation 147).

528US2 Unit: $U23 [06-27-01 14:26:55] PAGES PGT: OPIN

351Cite as: 528 U. S. 320 (2000)
Opinion of Souter, J.
207a (Stipulations 181-196); App. 163-173 (declaration of
Dr. Richard Engstrom). While acknowledging the somewhat limited data available for analysis, the expert concluded
that "African American voters are likely to have a realistic
opportunity to elect candidates of their choice to the . . .
Board only in districts in which they constitute a majority
of the voting age population." Id., at 174.6

Second, the Police Jury plan diluted black votes by dividing neighboring black communities with common interests
in and around at least two of the Parish's municipalities,
thereby avoiding the creation of a majority-black district.7
See id., at 154-156 (declaration of George J. Castille III); id.,
at 141 (testimony of S. P. Davis). Even the Board's own
cartographer conceded that one of these instances " `appear[ed]' " to constitute " `fracturing,' " App. to Juris. Statement 191a (Stipulation 138), which he defined as "divid[ing]
a `population that has a traditional cohesiveness, lives in the
same general area, [and] has a lot of commonalties' . . . with
`[the] intent to . . . fracture that population into adjoining
white districts,' " id., at 189a-190a (Stipulation 133).

6 The parties agreed that black candidates for other offices have been
able to win from majority-white districts in the parish, see id., at 201a
(Stipulation 180), but those instances all involved districts in which the
presence of an Air Force base, see id., at 206a-207a (Stipulation 196),
meant both that the effective percentage of black voters was considerably
higher than the raw figures suggested and, in the view of all the successful
black candidates, that the degree of hostility to black candidates among
white voters was lower than in the rest of the parish, see App. 131-132
(statement of Jeff Darby), 133-134 (statement of Jerome Darby), 143-144
(statement of Johnny Gipson).

7 Counsel for the Board suggested in cross-examining one of the Government's experts that one of the instances of dividing black communities arose from a state-law prohibition on the Board's "split[ting] existing
corporate lines." 2 Tr. 189. He offered no authority for that proposition.
But in any case, the example the expert gave did not involve dividing a
municipality, but including in a single district areas both within the municipality and outside it.

528US2 Unit: $U23 [06-27-01 14:26:55] PAGES PGT: OPIN
352 RENO v. BOSSIER PARISH SCHOOL BD.

Opinion of Souter, J.

B
The Board's cartographer and lawyer objected that the
NAACP plan was unacceptable because it split precincts in
violation of state law. And yet the Board concedes that
school boards were free to seek precinct changes from the
police juries of their parishes, as they often successfully did.
See id., at 150a-151a (Stipulations 22-23). One of the Government's experts, see App. 214, 217, 354, and the Board's
own cartographic consultant, see App. to Juris. Statement
151a (Stipulation 23), acknowledged this practice. Indeed,
the parties agree that Joiner advised the Board about the
option of going to the Police Jury for precinct changes, see
id., at 174a (Stipulation 89); see also id., at 179a (Stipulation
102), but that the Board never asked him to pursue that possibility, see id., at 188a (Stipulation 128).8 Judge Kessler in
the District Court was therefore surely correct that the
Board's claimed inability to divide precincts was no genuine
obstacle to a plan with a majority-black district. See Bossier Parish I, 907 F. Supp., at 460-461 (opinion concurring in
part and dissenting in part).

8 The District Court majority stated that it was not merely the fact
that the NAACP plan required precinct splits, but that it required a large
number of splits that made it unappealing. This claim is untenable for
several reasons. First, again it assumes that the act to be explained is
the rejection of the NAACP plan rather than the adoption of the Police
Jury plan. While the NAACP plan required 46 precinct splits, see App.
to Juris. Statement 194a-195a (Stipulation 151), the Cooper II plan,
which also included two majority-black districts meeting traditional districting criteria, required only 27, ibid., and the establishment of a single
majority-black district would have required just 14, see App. 269-270, 277.
Second, and more importantly, the Board's cartographer and lawyer stated
that they told the Board the NAACP plan was unacceptable because it
split any precincts at all, not because it split lots of them, see App. to
Juris. Statement 179a (Stipulation 102), and a leading supporter of the
Police Jury plan on the Board, see 1 Tr. 129, and the Board's interim black
member at the time of redistricting, see App. 130, agree on that score.

528US2 Unit: $U23 [06-27-01 14:26:55] PAGES PGT: OPIN

353Cite as: 528 U. S. 320 (2000)
Opinion of Souter, J.
It becomes all the clearer that the prospect of splittingprecincts was no genuine reason to reject the NAACP plan

(or otherwise to refuse to consider creating any majority-black districts) when one realizes that from early on in the
Board's redistricting process it gave serious thought toadopting a plan that would have required just such precinct splits. When the Board hired Joiner as its cartogra-pher in May 1991, his estimate of 200 to 250 hours to prepare a plan for the Board, see App. to Juris. Statement 173a(Stipulation 86), indicated that there was no intent simply to
borrow the recently devised Police Jury plan or to build onthe precincts established by the Police Jury, a possibility that
Joiner thought could be explored in "[s]everal hours at least,"App. 271. It seems obvious that from the start the Board
expected its plan to require precinct splitting, and Joineracknowledged in his testimony that any plan "as strong as"
the Police Jury plan in terms of traditional districting cri-teria would require precinct splits.

Ibid. Splitting pre-cincts only became an insuperable obstacle once the NAACP

made its proposal to create majority-black districts.

C

1

Despite its stated view that the record would not sup-port a conclusion of nonretrogressive discriminatory intent,

the District Court majority listed a series of "allegedly dilu-tive impacts" said to point to discriminatory intent: "[t]hat
some of the new districts have no schools, that the planignores attendance boundaries, that it does not respect communities of interest, that there is one outlandishly largedistrict, that several of them are not compact, that there is
a lack of contiguity, and that the population deviations re-sulting from the jury plan are greater than the limits (+- 5%)
imposed by Louisiana law." 7 F. Supp. 2d 29, 32 (DC 1998)
(Bossier Parish II). The District Court found this evidence

528US2 Unit: $U23 [06-27-01 14:26:55] PAGES PGT: OPIN
354 RENO v. BOSSIER PARISH SCHOOL BD.

Opinion of Souter, J.
"too theoretical, and too attenuated," to be probative ofretrogressive intent in the absence of corroborating evidence of a "deliberate attempt." Ibid. But whatever theforce of such evidence may be on the issue of intent to cause
retrogression, there is nothing "theoretical" or "attenuated"in its significance as showing intent to dilute generally.

2
If we take the District Court opinions in Bossier ParishI and Bossier Parish II together and treat the court's $ 5

discussions as covering nonretrogressive discriminatory in-tent, it is clear that the court rested on two reasons for
finding that the plan's dilutive effect could not support aninference of nonretrogressive discriminatory intent. First,
the court thought any such inference inconsistent with theview expressed in

Miller v. Johnson, 515 U. S. 900, 924(1995), that a refusal to adopt a plan to maximize the number

of majority-minority districts is insufficient alone to supportan inference of intentional discrimination. Miller is not on
point, however. In Miller, Georgia had already adopted aplan that clearly improved the position of minority voters
by establishing two majority-black districts. The questionwas simply whether the State's refusal to create a third
betrayed discriminatory intent. Id., at 906-908, 923-924.In these cases, the issue of inferred intent did not arise
upon rejection of a plan maximizing the number of majority-black districts after a concededly ameliorative plan had
already been adopted; the issue arose on the Board's refusalto consider a plan with any majority-black districts when
more than one such district was possible under Gingles.The issue here is not whether Bossier Parish betrayed a
discriminatory purpose in refusing to create the maximumnumber of majority-black districts, see

Bossier Parish II,supra, at 33 (Silberman, J., concurring), but simply whether

it was significant that the parish refused to consider creatinga majority-black district at all. The refusal points to a dis528US2 Unit: $U23 [06-27-01 14:26:55] PAGES PGT: OPIN

355Cite as: 528 U. S. 320 (2000)
Opinion of Souter, J.
criminatory intent that the refusal to maximize in Miller v.Johnson did not show.

The District Court's second ground for discounting theevidence of intent inherent in the Police Jury plan's dilutive
effect was its finding that the Board had legitimate, nondis-criminatory reasons for approving the plan. The evidence,
however, is powerful in showing that the Board had nosuch reasons. As I have already noted, the Board's respect
for existing precinct lines was apparently pretextual. Theother supposedly legitimate reason for the Board's choice,
that the Police Jury was a safe harbor under $ 5, is equallyunlikely. If the Police Jury plan was a safe harbor, it had
been safe from the day the Attorney General precleared itfor the Police Jury, whereas the Board ignored it for more
than a year after that preclearance. Interest in the PoliceJury plan developed only after pressure from Price and the
NAACP had intensified to the point that the redistrictingprocess would have to be concluded promptly if the minority
proposals were not to be considered. The Police Jury, there-fore, became an attractive harbor only when it seemed to
offer safety from demands for a fair reflection of minorityvoting strength. It was chosen by a Board, described by
the District Court majority as possessing a "tenacious deter-mination to maintain the status quo," Bossier Parish II,
supra, at 32, and the only fair inference is that when theBoard suddenly embraced the Police Jury plan it was running true to form.9

9 My conclusion indicates my disagreement with Justice Thomas's concurring opinion. The factual predicate for raising and resolving the issue
of the scope of discriminatory intent relevant under $ 5 is a subject of the
Board's obligation to produce evidence and the District Court's obligation
to make findings, and nothing in the conduct of the Justice Department
has impeded either the Board or the court from addressing this evidentiary issue. The fact that black members have been elected to the Board
is outside the record and is no more before us than evidence showing the
extent to which the particular members were the choices of the minority
voters who have suffered the conceded dilution.

528US2 Unit: $U23 [06-27-01 14:26:55] PAGES PGT: OPIN
356 RENO v. BOSSIER PARISH SCHOOL BD.

Opinion of Souter, J.

D
In sum, for decades the School Board manifested sedulousresistance to the constitutional obligation to desegregate

parish schools, which have never attained unitary status andare still subject to court order. When faced with the need
to act alone in redrawing its voting districts, the Boardshowed no interest in the Police Jury plan, which made no
sense for school purposes and was at odds with normal dis-tricting principles applied by the Board. The Board hired
a cartographer in anticipation of drawing district lines sig-nificantly different from the Police Jury lines, and the Attorney General's preclearance of the Police Jury plan for thejury's use produced no apparent Board interest in adopting that same plan. When minority leaders sought a role inproposing a plan, the Board ignored them and when they
produced concrete proposals prepared by the NAACP, theBoard sidestepped with successive technical reasons culminating in a patently pretextual objection. It was onlythen, as its pretexts for resisting the NAACP were wearing thin, that the Board evidently scrapped its intention toobtain an original plan tailored to school district concerns
and acted with unwonted haste on the year-old proposal toadopt the manifestly unsuitable Police Jury plan. The proposal received no public hearing support and nothing butobjection from minority voters, who pointed out what the
Board now agrees, that the Police Jury plan dilutes minorityvoting strength. The objections were unavailing and the
Board adopted the dilutive plan.There is no reasonable doubt on this record that the Board
chose the Police Jury plan for no other reason than to squelchrequests to adopt the NAACP plan or any other plan reflecting minority voting strength, and it would be incredible tosuggest that the resulting submergence of the minority voters was unintended by the Board whose own expert testifiedthat it understood the illegality of dilution. If, as I conclude
below, see Part III, infra, dilutive but nonretrogressive in528US2 Unit: $U23 [06-27-01 14:26:55] PAGES PGT: OPIN

357Cite as: 528 U. S. 320 (2000)
Opinion of Souter, J.
tent behind a redistricting plan disqualifies it from $ 5 pre-clearance, then preclearance is impossible on this record.

Since the burden to negate such intent (like the burden tonegate retrogressive intent and effect) rests on the voting
district asking for preclearance, nothing more is required toshow the impossibility of preclearance. See, e. g., Pleasant
Grove v. United States, 479 U. S. 462, 469 (1987). It is worthnoting, however, that the parish should likewise lose even
if we assume, as the District Court majority seems to havedone at one point, that the burden to show disqualifying intent is on the Government and the intervenors. Bossier
Parish II, 7 F. Supp. 2d, at 31 ("We can imagine a set of factsthat would establish a `non-retrogressive, but nevertheless

discriminatory purpose,' but those imagined facts are notpresent here"). It is not only that Judge Kessler was correct in her conclusion that dilutive but nonretrogressive in-tent was shown; the contrary view of the District Court majority raises " `the definite and firm conviction that a mistake[has] been committed,' "

Concrete Pipe & Products of Cal.,Inc. v. Construction Laborers Pension Trust for Southern

Cal., 508 U. S. 602, 622 (1993) (quoting United States v.United States Gypsum Co., 333 U. S. 364, 395 (1948)). Regardless of the burden of persuasion, therefore, the parishshould lose under the intent prong of $ 5, if the purpose that
disqualifies under $ 5 includes an intent to dilute minorityvoting strength regardless of retrogression.

III

A

The legal issue here is the meaning of "abridging" inthe provision of $ 5 that preclearance of a districting change

in a covered jurisdiction requires a showing that the newplan does not "have the purpose . . . of denying or abridging
the right to vote on account of race or color . . . ." Thelanguage tracks that of the Fifteenth Amendment's guarantee that "[t]he right of citizens . . . to vote shall not be

528US2 Unit: $U23 [06-27-01 14:26:55] PAGES PGT: OPIN
358 RENO v. BOSSIER PARISH SCHOOL BD.

Opinion of Souter, J.
denied or abridged . . . on account of race [or] color . . . ."Since the Act is an exercise of congressional power under $ 2

of that Amendment, South Carolina v. Katzenbach, 383 U. S.301, 325-327 (1966), the choice to follow the Amendment's
terminology is most naturally read as carrying the meaningof the constitutional terms into the statute. United States
v. Kozminski, 487 U. S. 931, 945 (1988) ("By employing theconstitutional language, Congress apparently was focusing
on the prohibition of comparable conditions"); cf. Morissettev.

United States, 342 U. S. 246, 263 (1952) ("[W]here Con-gress borrows terms of art in which are accumulated the

legal tradition and meaning of centuries of practice, it pre-sumably knows and adopts the cluster of ideas that were
attached to each borrowed word in the body of learning fromwhich it was taken and the meaning its use will convey to
the judicial mind unless otherwise instructed"). Any con-struction of the statute, therefore, carries an implication
about the meaning of the Amendment, absent some good rea-son to treat the parallel texts differently on some particular
point, and a reading of the statute that would not fit theConstitution is presumptively wrong.

10

10 The majority argues that we should construe purpose and effect uniformly, as we would in laws regulating price discrimination, savings and
loans, and cable franchises. See ante, at 331-332. I find the Fifteenth
Amendment more relevant in interpreting $ 5; the constitutional language
provides a reason to give purpose its full breadth. The majority also
claims that its reading leaves the purpose prong with some meaning because the Government need only refute a jurisdiction's claim that a change
lacks retrogressive purpose in order to deny preclearance, without countering the jurisdiction's evidence regarding actual retrogressive effect.
Ante, at 332. This assumes that purpose is easier to prove than effect.
While that may be true in price-fixing cases, it is not true in voting rights
cases (even though purpose is conceptually simpler than effect under $ 5,
see infra, at 367-368). Here, as in many other race discrimination cases,
the parties agreed about the effects of the proposed changes while hotly
disputing the reasons for them. The majority limits the purpose prong
to the few cases in which attempted retrogression fails of its goal, a rather

528US2 Unit: $U23 [06-27-01 14:26:55] PAGES PGT: OPIN

359Cite as: 528 U. S. 320 (2000)
Opinion of Souter, J.
In each context, it is clear that abridgment necessarily
means something more subtle and less drastic than the complete denial of the right to cast a ballot, denial being separately forbidden. Abridgment therefore must be a condition
in between complete denial, on the one hand, and complete
enjoyment of voting power, on the other. The principal concept of diminished voting strength recognized as actionable
under our cases is vote dilution, defined as a regime that
denies to minority voters the same opportunity to participate
in the political process and to elect representatives of their
choice that majority voters enjoy. See, e. g., Thornburg v.
Gingles, 478 U. S., at 46-47; 42 U. S. C. $ 1973. The benchmark of dilution pure and simple is thus a system in which
every minority voter has as good a chance at political participation and voting effectiveness as any other voter. Our
cases have also recognized retrogression as a subspecies of
dilution, the consequence of a scheme that not only gives a
minority voter a lesser practical chance to participate and
elect than a majority voter enjoys, but even reduces the minority voter's practical power from what a preceding scheme
of electoral law provided. See Beer v. United States, 425
U. S., at 141. Although our cases have dealt with vote dilution only under the Fourteenth Amendment, see, e. g., Shaw
v. Reno, 509 U. S. 630, 645 (1993), I know of no reason in
text or history that dilution is not equally violative of the
Fifteenth Amendment guarantee against abridgment. And
while there has been serious dispute in the past over the
Fourteenth Amendment's coverage of voting rights, see, e. g.,
Oregon v. Mitchell, 400 U. S. 112, 154 (1970) (Harlan, J., concurring in part and dissenting in part), I know of no reason
to doubt that "abridg[e]" in the Fifteenth Amendment includes dilutive discrimination. See Bossier Parish I, 520

paltry coverage given that it is discriminatory purpose, not discriminatory
effect, that is at the heart of the Fifteenth Amendment.

528US2 Unit: $U23 [06-27-01 14:26:55] PAGES PGT: OPIN
360 RENO v. BOSSIER PARISH SCHOOL BD.

Opinion of Souter, J.
U. S., at 494-495 (Breyer, J., concurring in part and concur-ring in judgment).

11

The Court has never held (save in Beer) that the conceptof voting abridgment covers only retrogressive dilution, and

any such reading of the Fifteenth Amendment would be out-landish. The Amendment contains no textual limitation on
abridgment, and when it was adopted, the newly emanci-pated citizens would have obtained practically nothing from
a mere guarantee that their electoral power would not befurther reduced. Since $ 5 of the Act is likewise free of any

11 We have suggested, but have never explicitly decided, that the Fifteenth Amendment applies to dilution claims. See Mobile v. Bolden, 446
U. S. 55, 62-63 (1980) (plurality opinion); Gomillion v. Lightfoot, 364
U. S. 339, 346 (1960) (singling out racial minority for discriminatory treatment in voting violates Fifteenth Amendment, which prohibits municipal
boundaries drawn to exclude blacks). But see Mobile, supra, at 84, n. 3
(Stevens, J., concurring in judgment) (suggesting that Mobile plurality
said that Fifteenth Amendment does not reach vote dilution); Voinovich
v. Quilter, 507 U. S. 146, 159 (1993) (reserving the question); Shaw v. Reno,
509 U. S. 630, 645 (1993) (endorsing the practice of considering dilution
claims under the Fourteenth Amendment); Beer v. United States, 425 U. S.
130, 142, n. 14 (1976).

The majority claims that Gomillion was not about dilution because it
involved the exclusion of black voters from municipal elections. Ante, at
334-335, n. 3. The voters excluded from the gerrymandered Tuskegee
were left in unincorporated areas, where they could, at most, vote for
county and state officials. Changing political boundaries to affect minority voting power would be called dilution today. Gomillion shows that
the physical image evoked by the term "dilution" does not encompass all
the ways in which participation in the political process can be made unequal. That the Court did not use the word "dilution" in its modern sense
in Gomillion does not diminish the force of its Fifteenth Amendment
analysis.

The majority also suggests, ante, at 334-335, n. 3, that the Mobile plurality explicitly rejected reliance on the Fifteenth Amendment. But the
same plurality recognized that " `deny or abridge' " in $ 2 of the Voting
Rights Act mirrored the cognate language of the Fifteenth Amendment,
Mobile, supra, at 60-61, and we have since held that the language of $ 2
includes nonretrogressive dilution claims. See, e. g., Voinovich v. Quilter,
supra, at 157.

528US2 Unit: $U23 [06-27-01 14:26:55] PAGES PGT: OPIN

361Cite as: 528 U. S. 320 (2000)
Opinion of Souter, J.
language qualifying or limiting the terms of abridgmentwhich it shares with the Amendment, abridgment under

$ 5 presumably covers any vote dilution, not retrogressionalone, and no redistricting scheme should receive preclearance without a showing that it is nondilutive. See Bossier
Parish I, supra, at 493 (Breyer, J., concurring in part and
concurring in judgment) (use in $ 5 of Fifteenth Amendment
language indicates that $ 5 prohibits new plans with dilutivepurposes). Such, in fact, was apparently just what Congress

had in mind when it addressed $ 5 to the agility of coveredjurisdictions in keeping one step ahead of dilution challenges
under the Constitution (and previous versions of the VotingRights Act) by adopting successive voting schemes, each
with a distinctive feature that perpetuated the abridgmentof the minority vote:

"Congress had found that case-by-case litigation wasinadequate to combat widespread and persistent discrimination in voting, because of the inordinate amountof time and energy required to overcome the obstructionist tactics invariably encountered in these lawsuits.After enduring nearly a century of systematic resistance
to the Fifteenth Amendment, Congress might well de-cide to shift the advantage of time and inertia from the
perpetrators of the evil to its victims." South Carolina
v. Katzenbach, 383 U. S., at 328 (footnote omitted).

This evil in Congress's sights was discrimination, abridg-ment of the right to vote, not merely discrimination that

happens to cause retrogression, and Congress's intent tofrustrate the unconstitutional evil by barring a replacement scheme of discrimination from being put into effect was
not confined to any one subset of discriminatory schemes.
The School Board's purpose thus seems to lie at the very
center of what Congress meant to counter by requiring preclearance, and the Court's holding that any nonretrogressive
purpose survives $ 5 is an exceedingly odd conclusion.

528US2 Unit: $U23 [06-27-01 14:26:55] PAGES PGT: OPIN
362 RENO v. BOSSIER PARISH SCHOOL BD.

Opinion of Souter, J.

B
The majority purports to shoulder its burden to justify
a limited reading of "abridging" by offering an argument
from the "context" of $ 5. Since $ 5 covers only changes in
voting practices, this fact is said to be a reason to think
that "abridging" as used in the statute is narrower than its
cognate in the Fifteenth Amendment, which covers both
changes and continuing systems. Ante, at 329-330, 333-334.
In other words, on the majority's reading, the baseline in a

$ 5 challenge is the status quo that is to be changed, while
the baseline in a Fifteenth Amendment challenge (or one
under $ 2 of the Voting Rights Act) is a nondiscriminatory
regime, whether extant or not. From the fact that $ 5
applies only when a voting change is proposed, however, it
does not follow that the baseline of abridgment is the status
quo; Congress could perfectly well have decided that when a
jurisdiction is forced to change its voting scheme (because of
malapportionment shown by a new census, say), it ought to
show that the replacement is constitutional. This, of course,
is just what the unqualified language and its Fifteenth
Amendment parallel would suggest.

In fact, the majority's principal reason for reading intent
to abridge as covering only intent to cause retrogression is
not the peculiar context of changes in the law, but Beer v.
United States, 425 U. S. 130 (1976), which limited the sort
of "effect" that would be an abridgment to retrogressive
effect. The strength of the majority's position, then, depends on the need for parallel limitations on the purpose
and effect prongs of $ 5. The need, however, is very much
to the contrary.

1

Insofar as Beer is authority for defining the "effect" of a
redistricting plan that would bar preclearance under $ 5,
I will of course respect it as precedent. The policy of stare
decisis is at its most powerful in statutory interpretation

528US2 Unit: $U23 [06-27-01 14:26:55] PAGES PGT: OPIN

363Cite as: 528 U. S. 320 (2000)
Opinion of Souter, J.
(which Congress is always free to supersede with new legis-lation), see

Hilton v. South Carolina Public Railways
Comm'n, 502 U. S. 197, 202 (1991), and $ 5 presents no ex-ception to the rule that when statutory language is construed it should stay construed. But it is another thingentirely to ignore error in extending discredited reasoning
to previously unspoiled statutory provisions. That, however, is just what the Court does in extending Beer from $ 5effects to $ 5 purpose.

Beer was wrongly decided, and its error should not be com-pounded in derogation of clear text and equally clear congressional purpose. The provision in $ 5 barring preclear-ance of a districting plan portending an abridging effect is
unconditional (and just as uncompromising as the bar toplans resting on a purpose to abridge). The

Beer Court
nonetheless sought to justify the imposition of a nontextuallimitation on the forbidden abridging effect to retrogression

by relying on a single fragment of legislative history, a statement from a House Report that $ 5 would prevent covered
jurisdictions from " `undo[ing] or defeat[ing] the rights recently won' " by blacks. Beer, supra, at 140 (quoting H. R.
Rep. No. 91-397, p. 8 (1969)).12 Relying on this one statement, however, was an act of distorting selectivity, for the
legislative history is replete with references to the need to
block changes in voting practices that would perpetuate existing discrimination and stand in the way of truly nondiscriminatory alternatives. In the House of Representatives,
the Judiciary Committee noted that "even after apparent defeat[s] resisters seek new ways and means of discriminating.

12 Section 5 was promulgated by the 89th Congress, but Congress's
attention has repeatedly returned to it as the duration of the Voting
Rights Act has been extended and the Act has been amended. See, e. g.,
Bossier Parish I, 520 U. S. 471, 505-506 (1997) (Stevens, J., dissenting in
part and concurring in part) (discussing 1982 amendments); Voting Rights
Act of 1965, Amendments of 1975, 89 Stat. 400; Voting Rights Act Amendments of 1970, 84 Stat. 315.

528US2 Unit: $U23 [06-27-01 14:26:55] PAGES PGT: OPIN
364 RENO v. BOSSIER PARISH SCHOOL BD.

Opinion of Souter, J.
Barring one contrivance too often has caused no change inresult, only in methods," H. R. Rep. No. 439, 89th Cong.,

1st Sess., 10 (1965), and the House Report described howjurisdictions had used changes in voting practices to stave
off reform. By making trifling changes in registration re-quirements, for example, Dallas County, Alabama, was able
to terminate litigation against it without registering morethan a handful of minority voters, see

id., at 10-11, and newpractices were similarly effective devices for perpetuating

discrimination in other jurisdictions as well, see S. Rep.No. 162, pt. 3, pp. 8-9 (1965) (Joint Statement of Individual
Views by Sens. Dodd, Hart, Long, Kennedy, Bayh, Burdick,Tydings, Dirksen, Hruska, Fong, Scott, and Javits). After
losing voting rights cases, jurisdictions would adopt new vot-ing requirements " `as a means for continuing the rejection
of qualified Negro applicants.' " Id., at 12 (quoting UnitedStates v. Parker, 236 F. Supp. 511, 517 (MD Ala. 1964)).
Thanks to the discriminatory traditions of the jurisdictionscovered by $ 5, these new practices often avoided retrogression 13 even as they stymied improvements. In the daysbefore $ 5, the ongoing litigation would become moot and
minority litigants would be back at square one, shoulderingthe burden of new challenges with the prospect of further dodges to come. Beer, supra, at 152, n. 9 (Marshall, J.,dissenting).

The intent of Congress to address the frustration ofrunning to stay in place was manifest when it extended the
Voting Rights Act in 1969:

"Prior to the enactment of the 1965 act, new votingrules of various kinds were resorted to in several States

in order to perpetuate discrimination in the face of
13 The legislative history did not use the terms "retrogression" and
"dilution" to describe discriminatory regimes. In the Voting Rights Act
context, the former appears for the first time in a federal case in Beer,
425 U. S., at 141; the latter made its first appearance in Allen v. State Bd.
of Elections, 393 U. S. 544 (1969).

528US2 Unit: $U23 [06-27-01 14:26:55] PAGES PGT: OPIN

365Cite as: 528 U. S. 320 (2000)
Opinion of Souter, J.
adverse Federal court decrees and enactments by theCongress. . . . In order to preclude such future State

or local circumvention of the remedies and policies ofthe 1965 act, [$ 5 was enacted]. . . .

"The record before the committee indicates that asNegro voter registration has increased under the Voting
Rights Act, several jurisdictions have undertaken new,
unlawful ways to diminish the Negroes' franchise andto defeat Negro and Negro-supported candidates. The

U. S. Commission on Civil Rights has reported thatthese measures have taken the form of switching to
at-large elections where Negro voting strength is con-centrated in particular election districts and facilitating the consolidation of predominently [sic] Negroand predominently

[sic] white counties. Other changes
in rules or practices affecting voting have included in-creasing filing fees in elections where Negro candidates

were running; abolishing or making appointive officessought by Negro candidates; extending the term of office
of incumbent white officials, and withholding information about qualifying for office from Negro candidates."H. R. Rep. No. 91-397, at 6-7.

See also 115 Cong. Rec. 38486 (1969) (remarks of Rep. McCulloch) (listing "new methods by which the South achievesan old goal" of maintaining white control of the political

process).Congress again expressed its views in 1975:

"In recent years the importance of [$ 5] has becomewidely recognized as a means of promoting and preserving minority political gains in covered jurisdictions. . . .. . . . .

". . . As registration and voting of minority citizens
increases, other measures may be resorted to which
would dilute increasing minority voting strength. Such
other measures may include switching to at-large elec528US2 Unit: $U23 [06-27-01 14:26:55] PAGES PGT: OPIN
366 RENO v. BOSSIER PARISH SCHOOL BD.

Opinion of Souter, J.
tions, annexations of predominantly white areas, or theadoption of discriminatory redistricting plans." S. Rep.

No. 94-295, pp. 15-17 (citation omitted).
Congress thus referred to $ 5 as a way to make the situationbetter ("promoting"), not merely as a stopgap to keep it from

getting worse ("preserving").It is all the more difficult to understand how the majority
in Beer could have been so oblivious to this clear congres-sional objective, when a decade before

Beer the Court hadrealized that modifying legal requirements was the way discriminatory jurisdictions stayed one jump ahead of the Con-stitution. In United States v. Mississippi, 380 U. S. 128
(1965), the Court described a series of ingenious devicespreventing minority registration, and in

South Carolina v.Katzenbach, 383 U. S. 301 (1966), the Court said that

"Congress knew that some of the States . . . had resortedto the extraordinary stratagem of contriving new rules
of various kinds for the sole purpose of perpetuatingvoting discrimination in the face of adverse federal
court decrees. Congress had reason to suppose thatthese States might try similar maneuvers in the future
in order to evade the remedies for voting discrimina-tion contained in the Act itself." Id., at 335 (footnote
omitted); see also id., at 314-315.
Likewise, well before Beer, our nascent dilution jurispru-dence addressed practices mentioned in the congressional

lists of tactics targeted by $ 5. See, e. g., White v. Regester,412 U. S. 755, 765-766, 768-769 (1973).

In fine, the full legislative history shows beyond any doubtjust what the unqualified text of $ 5 provides. The statute
contains no reservation in favor of customary abridgmentgrown familiar after years of relentless discrimination, and
the preclearance requirement was not enacted to authorizecovered jurisdictions to pour old poison into new bottles.
See post, at 374-376 (Breyer, J., dissenting). Beer was

528US2 Unit: $U23 [06-27-01 14:26:55] PAGES PGT: OPIN

367Cite as: 528 U. S. 320 (2000)
Opinion of Souter, J.
wrong, and while it is entitled to stand under our traditionalstare decisis in statutory interpretation, stare decisis does

not excuse today's decision to compound Beer's error.14

2
Giving purpose-to-abridge the broader, intended readingwhile preserving the erroneously truncated interpretation of

effect would not even result in a facially irrational scheme.This is so because intent to dilute is conceptually simple,
whereas a dilutive abridgment-in-fact is not readily definedand identified independently of dilutive intent. A purpose
to dilute simply means to subordinate minority voting power;exact calibration is unnecessary to identify what is intended.
Any purpose to give less weight to minority participation inthe electoral process than to majority participation is a purpose to discriminate and thus to "abridge" the right to vote.No further baseline is needed because the enquiry goes to
the direction of the majority's aim, without reference todetails of the existing system.

Dilutive effect, for the reason the majority points out, isdifferent. Dilutive effect requires a baseline against which
to compare a proposed change. While the baseline is intheory the electoral effectiveness of majority voters, dilution
is not merely a lack of proportional representation, see Davisv.

Bandemer, 478 U. S. 109, 131 (1986) (opinion of White, J.),and we have held that the maximum number of possible

majority-minority districts cannot be the standard, see, e. g.,Miller v. Johnson, 515 U. S., at 925-926. Thus we have
held that an enquiry into dilutive effect must rest on some

14 The Court says this "lengthy expedition into legislative history"
leaves me "emptyhanded" for the reason that nothing shows that today's
notions of vote dilution were particularly in the congressional mind.
Ante, at 335, n. 4. But the whole point of the legislative history is that
Congress meant to guard against just those discriminatory devices that
were as yet untried. Congress did not know what the covered jurisdictions would think up next.

528US2 Unit: $U23 [06-27-01 14:26:55] PAGES PGT: OPIN
368 RENO v. BOSSIER PARISH SCHOOL BD.

Opinion of Souter, J.
idea of a reasonable allocation of power between minorityand majority voters; this requires a court to compare a

challenged voting practice with a reasonable alternativepractice. See Holder v. Hall, 512 U. S. 874, 880 (1994) (opinion of Kennedy, J.); id., at 887-888 (O'Connor, J., concur-ring in part and concurring in judgment); see also Johnson
v. De Grandy, 512 U. S. 997, 1018 (1994). Looking only toretrogression in effect, while looking to any dilutive or other
abridgment in purpose, avoids the difficulty of baseline deri-vation. The distinction was not intended by Congress, but
such a distinction is not irrational.Indeed, the Justice Department has always taken the
position that Beer is limited to the effect prong and putsno limitation on discriminatory purpose in $ 5. See Brief
for Federal Appellant 32-33. The Justice Department'slongstanding practice of refusing to preclear changes that
it determined to have an unconstitutionally discriminatorypurpose, both before and after

Beer, is entitled to "particu-lar deference" in light of the Department's "central role" in

administering $ 5. Dougherty County Bd. of Ed. v. White,439 U. S. 32, 39 (1978); see also

United States v. SheffieldBd. of Comm'rs, 435 U. S. 110, 131-132 (1978); Perkins v.

Matthews, 400 U. S. 379, 390-391 (1971). Most significanthere, the fact that the Justice Department has for decades
understood Beer to be limited to effect demonstrates thatsuch a position is entirely consistent and coherent with the
law as declared in Beer, even though it may not have beenwhat Congress intended.

3
Giving wider scope to purpose than to effect under $ 5would not only preserve the capacity of $ 5 to bar preclearance to all intended violations of the Fifteenth Amend-ment,

15 it would also enjoy the virtue of consistency with

15 Justice Breyer developed this justification for giving full effect to
the "purpose" prong in his opinion in Bossier Parish I, 520 U. S., at 493-
497 (opinion concurring in part and concurring in judgment). Section 2,

528US2 Unit: $U23 [06-27-01 14:26:56] PAGES PGT: OPIN

369Cite as: 528 U. S. 320 (2000)
Opinion of Souter, J.
prior decisions apart from Beer. In Richmond v. UnitedStates, 422 U. S. 358 (1975), the Court held that a city's territorial annexation reducing the percentage of black voterscould not be recognized as a legal wrong under the effect
prong of $ 5, but remanded for further consideration of dis-criminatory purpose. The majority distinguishes Richmond
as "nothing more than an ex necessitate limitation upon theeffect prong in the particular context of annexation."

Ante,at 330. But in fact, Richmond laid down no eccentric effect

rule and is squarely at odds with the majority's position thatonly an act taken with intent to produce a forbidden effect
is forbidden under the intent prong.As to forbidden effect, the Richmond Court said this:

"As long as the ward system fairly reflects the strengthof the Negro community as it exists after the annexation, we cannot hold, without more specific legislativedirection, that such an annexation is nevertheless barred
by $ 5. It is true that the black community, if there isracial bloc voting, will command fewer seats on the city
council; and the annexation will have effected a decline
as amended, now invalidates facially neutral practices with discriminatory effects even in the absence of purposeful discrimination, and is thus
no longer coextensive with our understanding of the Constitution. The
effects-only standard was added after the Court made clear, after years
of uncertainty, that the Constitution prohibited only purposeful discrimination, not neutral action with a disparate impact on minorities.

The Court has divided on the effect of this change on $ 5. Compare
id., at 484, with id., at 505-506 (Stevens, J., dissenting in part and concurring in part). As Justice Breyer explained, that the effects prong
now goes beyond the Constitution has no bearing on whether we should
limit the meaning of the purpose prong, which does no more than repeat what the Constitution requires. Id., at 493-494. Both retrogressive and nonretrogressive discriminatory purposes violate the Constitution. As I have said already, I agree with Justice Breyer that there is
no evidence that Congress intended to include in $ 5 only part of what
the Constitution prohibits. See id., at 494. The tides of constitutional
interpretation have buffeted both $ 2 and $ 5, but have never ebbed so low
as to approve of discriminatory, dilutive purpose.

528US2 Unit: $U23 [06-27-01 14:26:56] PAGES PGT: OPIN
370 RENO v. BOSSIER PARISH SCHOOL BD.

Opinion of Souter, J.
in the Negroes' relative influence in the city. But a different city council and an enlarged city are involved
after the annexation. Furthermore, Negro power in
the new city is not undervalued, and Negroes will not
be underrepresented on the council.

"As long as this is true, we cannot hold that the effect
of the annexation is to deny or abridge the right to
vote." 422 U. S., at 371.

As Richmond's references to "undervaluation" and "underrepresentation" make clear, the case involves application
of standard Fifteenth Amendment principles to the annexation context, not an annexation exception. As long as the
postannexation city allowed black voters to participate on
equal terms with white voters, the annexation did not
"abridge" their voting rights even if they thereafter made
up a smaller proportion of the voting population. The Court
also held, however, that in adopting the very plan whose
effect had been held to be outside the scope of legal wrong,
the city could have acted with an unlawful, discriminatory
intent that would have rendered the annexation unlawful and
barred approval under $ 5:

"[I]t may be asked how it could be forbidden by $ 5 to
have the purpose and intent of achieving only what is a
perfectly legal result under that section and why we
need remand for further proceedings with respect to
purpose alone. The answer is plain, and we need not
labor it. An official action, whether an annexation or
otherwise, taken for the purpose of discriminating
against Negroes on account of their race has no legitimacy at all under our Constitution or under the statute.
Section 5 forbids voting changes taken with the purpose
of denying the vote on the grounds of race or color."
Id., at 378.

528US2 Unit: $U23 [06-27-01 14:26:56] PAGES PGT: OPIN

371Cite as: 528 U. S. 320 (2000)
Opinion of Souter, J.
It follows from Richmond that a plan lacking any underlying
purpose to cause disqualifying retrogression may be barred
by a discriminatory intent.

The majority's attempt to distinguish Pleasant Grove v.
United States, 479 U. S. 462 (1987), is equally vain. Whereas
Richmond dealt with the argument that law and logic barred
finding a disqualifying intent when effect was lawful, Pleasant Grove dealt with the argument that finding a disqualifying intent was impossible in fact. The Court in Pleasant
Grove denied preclearance to an annexation that added white
voters to the city's electorate, despite the fact that at the
time of the annexation minority voting strength was nonexistent and officials of the city seeking the annexation were
unaware of any black voters whose votes could be diluted.
One thing is clear beyond peradventure: the annexation in
that case could not have been intended to cause retrogression. No one could have intended to cause retrogression because no one knew of any minority voting strength from
which retrogression was possible. 479 U. S., at 465, n. 2.
The fact that the annexation was nonetheless barred under
the purpose prong of $ 5, 11 years after Beer, means that
today's majority cannot hold as they do without overruling
Pleasant Grove.

The majority seeks to avoid Pleasant Grove by describing
it as barring "future retrogression" by nipping any such
future contingency even before the bud had formed. This
gymnastic, however, not only overlooks the contradiction
between Pleasant Grove's holding that a voting change without possible retrogressive intent could fail under the purpose
prong and the majority's reasoning today that the baseline
for the purpose prong is the status quo; it even ignores what
the Court actually said. While the Pleasant Grove Court
said that impermissible purpose could relate to anticipated
circumstances, 479 U. S., at 471-472, it said nothing about
anticipated retrogression (a concept familiar to the Court

528US2 Unit: $U23 [06-27-01 14:26:56] PAGES PGT: OPIN
372 RENO v. BOSSIER PARISH SCHOOL BD.

Opinion of Souter, J.
since the time of Beer). The Court found it "plausible" that
the city had simply acted with "the impermissible purpose
of minimizing future black voting strength." 479 U. S., at
471-472 (footnote omitted). The Court spoke of "minimizing," not "causing retrogression to." But there is more:

"One means of thwarting [integration] is to provide for
the growth of a monolithic white voting block, thereby
effectively diluting the black vote in advance. This is
just as impermissible a purpose as the dilution of present black voting strength. Cf. City of Richmond, [422
U. S.,] at 378." Id., at 472.

That is, a nonretrogressive dilutive purpose is just as impermissible under $ 5 as a retrogressive one. Today's holding
contradicts that. The majority is overruling Pleasant Grove.

The majority proffers no justification for denying the precedential value of Pleasant Grove. Instead it observes that
reading the purpose prong of $ 5 as covering more than retrogression (as Richmond and Pleasant Grove read it) would
"exacerbate the `substantial' federalism costs that the preclearance procedure already exacts." Ante, at 336. But
my reading, like the Court's own prior reading, would not
raise the cost of federalism one penny above what the Congress meant it to be. The behavior of Bossier Parish is a
plain effort to deny the voting equality that the Constitution
just as plainly guarantees. The point of $ 5 is to thwart the
ingenuity of the School Board's effort to stay ahead of challenges under $ 2. Its object is to bring the country closer
to transcending a history of intransigence to enforcement
of the Fifteenth Amendment. Now, however, the promise
of $ 5 is substantially diminished. Now executive and judicial officers of the United States will be forced to preclear
illegal and unconstitutional voting schemes patently intended to perpetuate discrimination. The appeal to federalism is no excuse. I respectfully dissent.

528US2 Unit: $U23 [06-27-01 14:26:56] PAGES PGT: OPIN

373Cite as: 528 U. S. 320 (2000)
Stevens, J., dissenting
Justice Stevens, with whom Justice Ginsburg joins,dissenting.

In its administration of the voting rights statute for thepast quarter century, the Department of Justice has consistently employed a construction of the Voting Rights Actof 1965 contrary to that imposed upon the Act by the Court
today. Apart from the deference such constructions arealways afforded, the Department's reading points us directly
to the necessary starting point of any exercise in statutoryinterpretation--the plain language of the statute.

It is not impossible that language alone would lead oneto think that the phrase "will not have the effect" includes
some temporal measure; the noun "effect" and the verb tense"will have" could imaginably give rise to a reading that requires a comparison between what is and what will be. Butthere is simply nothing in the word "purpose" or the entire
phrase "does not have the purpose" that would lead anyoneto think that Congress had anything in mind but a presenttense, intentional effort to "den[y] or abridg[e] the right tovote on account of race." See,

e. g., Webster's Third NewInternational Dictionary 1847 (1966). Ergo, if a municipality intends to deny or abridge voting rights because of race,
it may not obtain preclearance.Like

Justice Souter, I am persuaded that the dissenting opinions of Justices White and Marshall were more faith-ful to the intent of the Congress that enacted the Voting

Rights Act of 1965 than that of the majority in Beer v. United
States, 425 U. S. 130 (1976). One need not, however, disavow that precedent in order to explain my profound dis-agreement with the Court's holding today. The reading

above makes clear that there is no necessary tension be-tween the

Beer majority's interpretation of the word "effect"
in $ 5 and the Department's consistent interpretation of theword "purpose." For even if retrogression is an acceptable standard for identifying prohibited effects, that assumption does not justify an interpretation of the word

528US2 Unit: $U23 [06-27-01 14:26:56] PAGES PGT: OPIN
374 RENO v. BOSSIER PARISH SCHOOL BD.

Breyer, J., dissenting
"purpose" that is at war with both controlling precedentand the plain meaning of the statutory text.

Accordingly, for these reasons and for those stated atgreater length by

Justice Souter, I respectfully dissent.

Justice Breyer, dissenting.
I agree with Justice Souter, with one qualification.
I would not reconsider the correctness of the Court's deci-sion in

Beer v. United States, 425 U. S. 130 (1976)--an "effects" case--because, regardless, $ 5 of the Voting Rights Actof 1965 prohibits preclearance of a voting change that has

the purpose of unconstitutionally depriving minorities of theright to vote.

As Justice Souter points out, ante, at 360-361 (opinionconcurring in part and dissenting in part), Congress enacted

$ 5 in 1965 in part to prevent certain jurisdictions from limiting the number of black voters through "the extraordinary
stratagem of contriving new rules of various kinds for the
sole purpose of perpetuating voting discrimination in the
face of adverse federal court decrees." South Carolina
v. Katzenbach, 383 U. S. 301, 335 (1966). This "stratagem"
created a moving target with a consequent risk of judicial
runaround. See, e. g., Perkins v. Matthews, 400 U. S. 379,
395-396 (1971). And this "stratagem" could prove similarly
effective where the State's "new rules" were intended to retrogress and where they were not. Indeed, since at the time,
in certain places, historical discrimination had left the number of black voters at close to zero, retrogression would have
proved virtually impossible where $ 5 was needed most.

An example drawn from history makes the point clear. In
Forrest County, Mississippi, as of 1962, precisely threetenths of 1% of the voting age black population was registered to vote. United States v. Mississippi, 229 F. Supp.
925, 994, n. 86 (SD Miss. 1964) (dissenting opinion), rev'd, 380
U. S. 128 (1965). This number was due in large part to the
county registrar's discriminatory application of the State's

528US2 Unit: $U23 [06-27-01 14:26:56] PAGES PGT: OPIN

375Cite as: 528 U. S. 320 (2000)
Breyer, J., dissenting
voter registration requirements. Prior to 1961, the regis-trar had simply refused to accept voter registration forms

from black citizens. See United States v. Lynd, 301 F. 2d818, 821 (CA5 1962). After 1961, those blacks who were
allowed to apply to register had been subjected to a moredifficult test than whites, while whites had been offered
assistance with their less taxing applications. And the registrar, upon denying the applications of black citizens, hadrefused to supply them with an explanation.

Id., at 822.
The Government attacked these practices, and the FifthCircuit enjoined the registrar from "[f]ailing to process applications for registrations submitted by Negro applicants
on the same basis as applications submitted by white applicants." Id., at 823.

Mississippi's "immediate response" to this injunction was
to impose a "good moral character requirement," Mississippi, supra, at 997, a standard this Court has characterized as "an open invitation to abuse at the hands of voting
officials," Katzenbach, supra, at 313. One federal judge
believed that this change was designed to avoid the Fifth
Circuit's injunction by "defy[ing] a Federal Appellate Court
determination that particular applicants were qualified
[to vote]." Mississippi, supra, at 997. Such defiance would
result in maintaining--though not, in light of the absence of
blacks from the Forrest County voting rolls, in increasing--
white political supremacy.

This is precisely the kind of activity for which $ 5 was designed, and the purpose of $ 5 would have demanded its application in such a case. See, e. g., Perkins, supra, at 395-
396 (Congress knew that the "Department of Justice d[id]
not have the resources to police effectively all the States . . .
covered by the Act," and $ 5 was intended to ensure that
States not institute "new laws with respect to voting that
might have a racially discriminatory purpose"); Katzenbach,
supra, at 314 (Prior to 1965, "[e]ven when favorable decisions
ha[d] finally been obtained, some of the States affected ha[d]

528US2 Unit: $U23 [06-27-01 14:26:56] PAGES PGT: OPIN
376 RENO v. BOSSIER PARISH SCHOOL BD.

Breyer, J., dissenting
merely switched to discriminatory devices not covered bythe federal decrees").

And nothing in the Act's language or its history suggeststhe contrary. See, e. g., H. R. Rep. No. 439, 89th Cong., 1st
Sess., 10 (1965) ("Barring one contrivance too often hascaused no change in result, only in methods"); S. Rep.
No. 162, 89th Cong., 1st Sess., pt. 3, p. 12 (1965) ( joint viewsof 12 members of Senate Judiciary Committee, describing
United States v. Parker, 236 F. Supp. 511, 517 (MD Ala.1964), in which a jurisdiction responded to an injunction by
instituting various means for "the rejection of qualifiedNegro applicants"); Hearings on H. R. 6400 before Subcommittee No. 5 of the House Committee on the Judiciary,89th Cong., 1st Sess., 5 (1965) (testimony of Attorney General Katzenbach) (discussing those jurisdictions that are"able, even after apparent defeat in the courts, to devise
whole new methods of discrimination"); Hearings on S. 1564before the Senate Committee on the Judiciary, 89th Cong.,
1st Sess., pt. 1, p. 11 (1965) (testimony of Attorney GeneralKatzenbach) (similar).

It seems obvious, then, that if Mississippi had enactedits "moral character" requirement in 1966 (after enactment
of the Voting Rights Act), a court applying $ 5 would havefound "the purpose . . . of denying or abridging the right
to vote on account of race," even if Mississippi had in-tended to permit, say, 0.4%, rather than 0.3%, of the black
voting age population of Forrest County to register. Andif so, then irrespective of the complexity surrounding the
administration of an "effects" test, the answer to today'spurpose question is "yes."

528US2 Unit: $U24 [06-27-01 14:28:22] PAGES PGT: OPIN

377OCTOBER TERM, 1999
Syllabus

NIXON, ATTORNEY GENERAL OF MISSOURI, et al.

v. SHRINK MISSOURI GOVERNMENT PAC et al.

certiorari to the united states court of appeals forthe eighth circuit

No. 98-963. Argued October 5, 1999--Decided January 24, 2000
Respondents Shrink Missouri Government PAC, a political action committee, and Zev David Fredman, a candidate for the 1998 Republican nomination for Missouri state auditor, filed suit, alleging that a Missouri statute imposing limits ranging from $275 to $1,075 on contributions to
candidates for state office violated their First and Fourteenth Amendment rights. Shrink Missouri gave Fredman $1,025 in 1997, and $50 in
1998, and represented that, without the statutory limitation, it would
contribute more. Fredman alleged he could campaign effectively only
with more generous contributions than the statute allowed. On crossmotions for summary judgment, the District Court sustained the statute. Applying Buckley v. Valeo, 424 U. S. 1 (per curiam), the court
found adequate support for the law in the proposition that large contributions raise suspicions of influence peddling tending to undermine citizens' confidence in government integrity. The court rejected respondents' contention that inflation since Buckley's approval of a federal
$1,000 restriction meant that the state limit of $1,075 for a statewide
office could not be constitutional today. In reversing, the Eighth Circuit found that Buckley had articulated and applied a strict scrutiny
standard of review, and held that Missouri had to demonstrate that it
had a compelling interest and that the contribution limits at issue were
narrowly drawn to serve that interest. Treating Missouri's claim of
a compelling interest in avoiding the corruption or the perception of
corruption caused by candidates' acceptance of large campaign contributions as insufficient by itself to satisfy strict scrutiny, the court required
demonstrable evidence that genuine problems resulted from contributions in amounts greater than the statutory limits. It ruled that the
State's evidence was inadequate for this purpose.

Held: Buckley is authority for comparable state limits on contributions to

state political candidates, and those limits need not be pegged to the
precise dollar amounts approved in Buckley. Pp. 385-398.

(a) The Buckley Court held, inter alia, that a Federal Election Campaign Act provision placing a $1,000 annual ceiling on independent
expenditures linked to specific candidates for federal office infringed
speech and association guarantees of the First Amendment and the

528US2 Unit: $U24 [06-27-01 14:28:22] PAGES PGT: OPIN
378 NIXON v. SHRINK MISSOURI GOVERNMENT PAC

Syllabus
Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth, but upheld other provisions
limiting contributions by individuals to any single candidate to $1,000
per election. P. 385.

(b) In addressing the speech claim, the Buckley Court explicitly rejected both intermediate scrutiny for communicative action, see United
States v. O'Brien, 391 U. S. 367, and the similar standard applicable to
merely time, place, and manner restrictions, see, e. g., Adderley v. Florida, 385 U. S. 39, and instead referred generally to "the exacting scrutiny required by the First Amendment," 424 U. S., at 16. The Court
then drew a line between expenditures and contributions, treating expenditure restrictions as direct restraints on speech, id., at 19, but saying, in effect, that limiting contributions left communication significantly
unimpaired, id., at 20-21. The Court flagged a similar difference between the impacts of expenditure and contribution limits on association
rights, id., at 22; see also id., at 28, and later made that distinction
explicit, e. g., Federal Election Comm'n v. Massachusetts Citizens for
Life, Inc., 479 U. S. 238, 259-260. Thus, under Buckley's standard of
scrutiny, a contribution limit involving significant interference with associational rights could survive if the Government demonstrated that
regulating contributions was a means "closely drawn" to match a "sufficiently important interest," 424 U. S., at 25, though the dollar amount
of the limit need not be "fine tun[ed]," id., at 30. While Buckley did
not attempt to parse distinctions between the speech and associational
standards of scrutiny for contribution limits, the Court made clear that
such restrictions bore more heavily on associational rights than on
speech rights, and thus proceeded on the understanding that a contribution limitation surviving a claim of associational abridgment would survive a speech challenge as well. The Court found the prevention of
corruption and the appearance of corruption to be a constitutionally sufficient justification for the contribution limits at issue. Id., at 25-28.
Pp. 386-389.

(c) In defending its statute, Missouri espouses those same interests of
preventing corruption and the appearance of it. Even without Buckley,
there would be no serious question about the legitimacy of these interests, which underlie bribery and antigratuity statutes. Rather, respondents take the State to task for failing to justify the invocation of
those interests with empirical evidence of actually corrupt practices or
of a perception among Missouri voters that unrestricted contributions
must have been exerting a covertly corrosive influence. The state statute is not void, however, for want of evidence. The quantum of empirical evidence needed to satisfy heightened judicial scrutiny of legislative
judgments will vary up or down with the novelty and plausibility of the
justification raised. Buckley demonstrates that the dangers of large,

528US2 Unit: $U24 [06-27-01 14:28:22] PAGES PGT: OPIN

379Cite as: 528 U. S. 377 (2000)
Syllabus
corrupt contributions and the suspicion that large contributions are corrupt are neither novel nor implausible. See 424 U. S., at 27, and n. 28.
Respondents are wrong in arguing that this Court has "supplemented"
its Buckley holding with a new requirement that governments enacting
contribution limits must demonstrate that the recited harms are real,
not merely conjectural, a contention for which respondents rely principally on Colorado Republican Federal Campaign Comm. v. Federal
Election Comm'n, 518 U. S. 604. This Court has never accepted mere
conjecture as adequate to carry a First Amendment burden, and Colorado Republican deals not with a government's burden to justify contribution limits, but with limits on independent expenditures by political
parties, which the principal opinion expressly distinguished from contribution limits. Id., at 615-618. In any event, this case does not present
a close call requiring further definition of whatever the State's evidentiary obligation may be. Although the record does not show that the
Missouri Legislature relied on the evidence and findings accepted in
Buckley, the evidence introduced by petitioners or cited by the lower
courts in this action and a prior case involving a related ballot initiative
is enough to show that the substantiation of the congressional concerns
reflected in Buckley has its counterpart in support of the Missouri law.
Moreover, although majority votes do not, as such, defeat First Amendment protections, the statewide vote adopting the initiative attested to
the public perception that contribution limits are necessary to combat
corruption and the appearance thereof. A more extensive evidentiary
documentation might be necessary if respondents had made any showing of their own to cast doubt on the apparent implications of Buckley's
evidence and the record here. However, the nearest they come to challenging these conclusions is their invocation of academic studies that are
contradicted by other studies. Pp. 390-395.

(d) There is no support for respondents' various arguments that the
Missouri limitations are so different in kind from those sustained in
Buckley as to raise essentially a new issue about the adequacy of the
Missouri statute's tailoring to serve its purposes. Here, as in Buckley,
supra, at 21, there is no indication that those limits have had any dramatic adverse effect on the funding of campaigns and political associations, and thus there is no showing that the limitations prevented candidates from amassing the resources necessary for effective advocacy.
Indeed, the District Court found that since the Missouri limits became
effective, candidates for state office have been able to raise funds sufficient to run effective campaigns, and that candidates are still able to
amass impressive campaign war chests. The plausibility of these conclusions is buttressed by petitioners' evidence that in the last election
before the contributions became effective, 97.62 percent of all contribu528US2 Unit: $U24 [06-27-01 14:28:22] PAGES PGT: OPIN
380 NIXON v. SHRINK MISSOURI GOVERNMENT PAC

Syllabus
tors to candidates for state auditor made contributions of $2,000 or less.
Even assuming that the contribution limits affected respondent
Fredman's ability to wage a competitive campaign, a showing of one
affected individual does not point up a system of suppressed political
advocacy that would be unconstitutional under Buckley. The District
Court's conclusions and the supporting evidence also suffice to answer
respondents' variant claim that the Missouri limits today differ in kind
from Buckley's owing to inflation since that case was decided. Respondents' assumption that Buckley set a minimum constitutional
threshold for contribution limits, which in dollars adjusted for loss of
purchasing power are now well above the lines drawn by Missouri, is a
fundamental misunderstanding of that case. The Court there specifically rejected the contention that $1,000, or any other amount, was a
constitutional minimum, and instead asked whether the contribution
limitation was so low as to impede the ability of candidates to amass the
resources necessary for effective advocacy. 424 U. S., at 21. Such
being the test, the issue in subsequent cases cannot be truncated to a
narrow question about the power of the dollar. Pp. 395-397.

161 F. 3d 519, reversed and remanded.

Souter, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which Rehnquist,
C. J., and Stevens, O'Connor, Ginsburg, and Breyer, JJ., joined.
Stevens, J., filed a concurring opinion, post, p. 398. Breyer, J., filed a
concurring opinion, in which Ginsburg, J., joined, post, p. 399. Kennedy,
J., filed a dissenting opinion, post, p. 405. Thomas, J., filed a dissenting
opinion, in which Scalia, J., joined, post, p. 410.

Jeremiah W. Nixon, Attorney General of Missouri, pro se,argued the cause for petitioners. With him on the briefs
were James R. Layton, State Solicitor, Paul R. Maguffee,Assistant Attorney General,

Carter G. Phillips, Virginia A.Seitz, and Joseph R. Guerra.

Solicitor General Waxman argued the cause for theUnited States as amicus curiae urging reversal. With him
on the brief were Acting Assistant Attorney General Ogden,Deputy Solicitor General Underwood, Malcolm L. Stewart,
Douglas N. Letter, and Michael Jay Singer.D. Bruce La Pierre argued the cause for respondents.
With him on the briefs for respondents Shrink Missouri Gov-ernment PAC et al. was

Patric Lester. Deborah Goldberg,

528US2 Unit: $U24 [06-27-01 14:28:22] PAGES PGT: OPIN

381Cite as: 528 U. S. 377 (2000)
Opinion of the Court
Burt Neuborne, and Gerald P. Greiman filed briefs for JoanBray as respondent under this Court's Rule 12.6.*

Justice Souter delivered the opinion of the Court.
The principal issues in this case are whether Buckley v.Valeo, 424 U. S. 1 (1976) (per curiam), is authority for state

limits on contributions to state political candidates and

*Briefs of amici curiae urging reversal were filed for the State of Ohio
et al. by Betty D. Montgomery, Attorney General of Ohio, Edward B.
Foley, State Solicitor, David M. Gormley, Iver A. Stridiron, Acting Attorney General of the U. S. Virgin Islands, and by the Attorneys General
for their respective States as follows: Barbara Ritchie of Alaska, Janet
Napolitano of Arizona, Mark Pryor of Arkansas, Ken Salazar of Colorado, Richard Blumenthal of Connecticut, M. Jane Brady of Delaware,
Robert A. Butterworth of Florida, Margery S. Bronster of Hawaii, Alan
G. Lance of Idaho, Jeffrey A. Modisett of Indiana, Thomas J. Miller of
Iowa, Carla J. Stovall of Kansas, Albert B. Chandler III of Kentucky,
Richard P. Ieyoub of Louisiana, Andrew Ketterer of Maine, J. Joseph Curran, Jr., of Maryland, Thomas F. Reilly of Massachusetts, Mike Hatch of
Minnesota, Joseph P. Mazurek of Montana, Patricia A. Madrid of New
Mexico, Eliot Spitzer of New York, Michael F. Easley of North Carolina,
W. A. Drew Edmondson of Oklahoma, Sheldon Whitehouse of Rhode Island, Paul G. Summers of Tennessee, Jan Graham of Utah, William H.
Sorrell of Vermont, and Christine O. Gregoire of Washington; for Common
Cause et al. by Roger M. Witten, Daniel H. Squire, Donald J. Simon, and
Fred Wertheimer; for Public Citizen by Alan B. Morrison and David C.
Vladeck; for the Secretary of State of Arkansas et al. by Gregory Luke,
John C. Bonifaz, and Brenda Wright; for Senator John F. Reed et al. by
Donald B. Verrilli, Jr., Deanne E. Maynard, and Gregory P. Magarian;
for Paul Allen Beck et al. by Evan A. Davis; and for Norman Dorsen et al.
by Charles S. Sims.

Briefs of amici curiae urging affirmance were filed for the American
Civil Liberties Union et al. by Joel M. Gora and Steven R. Shapiro; for
the First Amendment Project of the Americans Back in Charge Foundation et al. by Cleta D. Mitchell and Paul E. Sullivan; for Gun Owners of
America et al. by William J. Olson and John S. Miles; for the James
Madison Center for Free Speech by James Bopp, Jr.; for the National
Right to Life PAC State Fund et al. by Mr. Bopp; for the Pacific Legal
Foundation et al. by Sharon L. Browne; for Senator Mitch McConnell et al.
by Bobby R. Burchfield; and for U. S. Term Limits, Inc., by Stephen J.
Safranek.

528US2 Unit: $U24 [06-27-01 14:28:22] PAGES PGT: OPIN
382 NIXON v. SHRINK MISSOURI GOVERNMENT PAC

Opinion of the Court
whether the federal limits approved in Buckley, with orwithout adjustment for inflation, define the scope of permissible state limitations today. We hold Buckley to be author-ity for comparable state regulation, which need not be
pegged to Buckley's dollars.

I
In 1994, the Legislature of Missouri enacted Senate Bill650 to restrict the permissible amounts of contributions to

candidates for state office. Mo. Rev. Stat. $ 130.032 (1994).Before the statute became effective, however, Missouri voters approved a ballot initiative with even stricter contribu-tion limits, effective immediately. The United States Court
of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit then held the initiative'scontribution limits unconstitutional under the First Amendment, Carver v. Nixon, 72 F. 3d 633, 645 (CA8 1995), cert.denied, 518 U. S. 1033 (1996), with the upshot that the previously dormant 1994 statute took effect. Shrink MissouriGovernment PAC v. Adams, 161 F. 3d 519, 520 (CA8 1998).

As amended in 1997, that statute imposes contribution lim-its ranging from $250 to $1,000, depending on specified state
office or size of constituency. See Mo. Rev. Stat. $ 130.032.1(1998 Cum. Supp.); 161 F. 3d, at 520. The particular provision challenged here reads that

"[t]o elect an individual to the office of governor, lieuten-ant governor, secretary of state, state treasurer, state

auditor or attorney general, [[t]he amount of contribu-tions made by or accepted from any person other than
the candidate in any one election shall not exceed] onethousand dollars." Mo. Rev. Stat. $ 130.032.1(1) (1998
Cum. Supp.).
The statutory dollar amounts are baselines for an adjust-ment each even-numbered year, to be made "by multiplying

the base year amount by the cumulative consumer price

528US2 Unit: $U24 [06-27-01 14:28:22] PAGES PGT: OPIN

383Cite as: 528 U. S. 377 (2000)
Opinion of the Court
index . . . and rounded to the nearest twenty-five-dollar
amount, for all years since January 1, 1995." $ 130.032.2.
When this suit was filed, the limits ranged from a high of
$1,075 for contributions to candidates for statewide office (including state auditor) and for any office where the population
exceeded 250,000, down to $275 for contributions to candidates for state representative or for any office for which
there were fewer than 100,000 people represented. 161
F. 3d, at 520; App. 37.

Respondents Shrink Missouri Government PAC, a political
action committee, and Zev David Fredman, a candidate for
the 1998 Republican nomination for state auditor, sought to
enjoin enforcement of the contribution statute 1 as violating
their First and Fourteenth Amendment rights (presumably
those of free speech, association, and equal protection, although the complaint did not so state). Shrink Missouri
gave $1,025 to Fredman's candidate committee in 1997, and
another $50 in 1998. Shrink Missouri represented that,
without the limitation, it would contribute more to the
Fredman campaign. Fredman alleged he could campaign
effectively only with more generous contributions than

$ 130.032.1 allowed. Shrink Missouri Government PAC v.
Adams, 5 F. Supp. 2d 734, 737 (ED Mo. 1998).

On cross-motions for summary judgment, the District
Court sustained the statute. Id., at 742. Applying Buckley v. Valeo, supra, the court found adequate support for the
law in the proposition that large contributions raise suspicions of influence peddling tending to undermine citizens'
confidence "in the integrity of . . . government." 5 F. Supp.
2d, at 738. The District Court rejected respondents' con1 Respondents sued members of the Missouri Ethics Commission, the
Missouri attorney general, and the St. Louis County prosecuting attorney.
Shrink Missouri Government PAC v. Adams, 5 F. Supp. 2d 734, 737 (ED
Mo. 1998).

528US2 Unit: $U24 [06-27-01 14:28:22] PAGES PGT: OPIN
384 NIXON v. SHRINK MISSOURI GOVERNMENT PAC

Opinion of the Court
tention that inflation since Buckley's approval of a federal$1,000 restriction meant that the state limit of $1,075 for a

statewide office could not be constitutional today. 5 F. Supp.2d, at 740.

The Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit nonethelessenjoined enforcement of the law pending appeal, 151 F. 3d
763, 765 (1998), and ultimately reversed the District Court,
161 F. 3d, at 520. Finding that Buckley had " `articulatedand applied a strict scrutiny standard of review,' " the Court

of Appeals held that Missouri was bound to demonstrate"that it has a compelling interest and that the contribution
limits at issue are narrowly drawn to serve that interest."161 F. 3d, at 521 (quoting

Carver v. Nixon, supra, at 637).
The appeals court treated Missouri's claim of a compellinginterest "in avoiding the corruption or the perception of corruption brought about when candidates for elective office ac-cept large campaign contributions" as insufficient by itself to
satisfy strict scrutiny. 161 F. 3d, at 521-522. Relying onCircuit precedent, see

Russell v. Burris, 146 F. 3d 563, 568
(CA8), cert. denied, 525 U. S. 1001 (1998); Carver v. Nixon,
supra, at 638, the Court of Appeals required

"some demonstrable evidence that there were genuineproblems that resulted from contributions in amounts

greater than the limits in place. . . .

"[T]he Buckley Court noted the perfidy that had beenuncovered in federal campaign financing in 1972. . . .

But we are unwilling to extrapolate from those exam-ples that in Missouri at this time there is corruption or
a perception of corruption from `large' campaign contributions, without some evidence that such problems
really exist." 161 F. 3d, at 521-522 (citations omitted).

The court thought that the only evidence presented by the
State, an affidavit from the cochairman of the state legislature's Interim Joint Committee on Campaign Finance Reform when the statute was passed, was inadequate to raise

528US2 Unit: $U24 [06-27-01 14:28:22] PAGES PGT: OPIN

385Cite as: 528 U. S. 377 (2000)
Opinion of the Court
a genuine issue of material fact about the State's allegedinterest in limiting campaign contributions. Ibid.

2

Given the large number of States that limit political con-tributions, see generally Federal Election Commission, E.

Feigenbaum & J. Palmer, Campaign Finance Law 98 (1998),we granted certiorari to review the congruence of the Eighth
Circuit's decision with Buckley. 525 U. S. 1121 (1999). Wereverse.

II
The matters raised in Buckley v. Valeo, 424 U. S. 1 (1976)
(per curiam), included claims that federal campaign financelegislation infringed speech and association protections of

the First Amendment and the equal protection guarantee ofthe Fifth. The Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971, 86
Stat. 3, as amended by the Federal Election Campaign ActAmendments of 1974, 88 Stat. 1263, limited (and still limits)
contributions by individuals to any single candidate for fed-eral office to $1,000 per election. 18 U. S. C. $$ 608(b)(1), (3)
(1970 ed., Supp. IV); Buckley v. Valeo, supra, at 13. Until
Buckley struck it down, the law also placed a $1,000 annualceiling on independent expenditures linked to specific candidates. 18 U. S. C. $ 608(e) (1970 ed., Supp. IV); 424 U. S.,at 13. We found violations of the First Amendment in the
expenditure regulations, but held the contribution restric-tions constitutional.

Buckley v. Valeo, supra.

2 Chief Judge Bowman also would have found the law invalid because
the contribution limits were severely tailored beyond any need to serve
the State's interest. Comparing the Missouri limits with those considered
in Buckley, the Chief Judge said that "[a]fter inflation, limits of $1,075,
$525, and $275 cannot compare with the $1,000 limit approved in Buckley
twenty-two years ago," and "can only be regarded as `too low to allow
meaningful participation in protected political speech and association.' "
161 F. 3d, at 522-523 (quoting Day v. Holahan, 34 F. 3d 1356, 1366 (CA8
1994), cert. denied, 513 U. S. 1127 (1995)). Judge Ross, concurring in the
judgment, did not join this portion of Chief Judge Bowman's opinion. 161
F. 3d, at 523.

Judge Gibson dissented from the panel's decision. Ibid.

528US2 Unit: $U24 [06-27-01 14:28:22] PAGES PGT: OPIN
386 NIXON v. SHRINK MISSOURI GOVERNMENT PAC

Opinion of the Court

A
Precision about the relative rigor of the standard to review
contribution limits was not a pretense of the Buckley per
curiam opinion. To be sure, in addressing the speech claim,
we explicitly rejected both O'Brien intermediate scrutiny
for communicative action, see United States v. O'Brien, 391
U. S. 367 (1968), and the similar standard applicable to
merely time, place, and manner restrictions, see Adderley v.
Florida, 385 U. S. 39 (1966); Cox v. Louisiana, 379 U. S. 536
(1965); Kovacs v. Cooper, 336 U. S. 77 (1949). In distinguishing these tests, the discussion referred generally to "the exacting scrutiny required by the First Amendment," Buckley
v. Valeo, 424 U. S., at 16, and added that " `the constitutional
guarantee has its fullest and most urgent application precisely to the conduct of campaigns for political office,' " id.,
at 15 (quoting Monitor Patriot Co. v. Roy, 401 U. S. 265,
272 (1971)).

We then, however, drew a line between expenditures and
contributions, treating expenditure restrictions as direct
restraints on speech, 424 U. S., at 19, which nonetheless suffered little direct effect from contribution limits:

"[A] limitation upon the amount that any one person or
group may contribute to a candidate or political committee entails only a marginal restriction upon the contributor's ability to engage in free communication. A contribution serves as a general expression of support for the
candidate and his views, but does not communicate the
underlying basis for the support. The quantity of communication by the contributor does not increase perceptibly with the size of his contribution, since the expression rests solely on the undifferentiated symbolic act of
contributing. At most, the size of the contribution provides a very rough index of the intensity of the contributor's support for the candidate. A limitation on the
amount of money a person may give to a candidate or

528US2 Unit: $U24 [06-27-01 14:28:22] PAGES PGT: OPIN

387Cite as: 528 U. S. 377 (2000)
Opinion of the Court
campaign organization thus involves little direct re-straint on his political communication, for it permits the

symbolic expression of support evidenced by a contribu-tion but does not in any way infringe the contributor's
freedom to discuss candidates and issues." Id., at 20-21(footnote omitted).

We thus said, in effect, that limiting contributions left com-munication significantly unimpaired.

We flagged a similar difference between expenditure andcontribution limitations in their impacts on the association
right. While an expenditure limit "precludes most associa-tions from effectively amplifying the voice of their adherents," id., at 22 (thus interfering with the freedom of theadherents as well as the association,

ibid.), the contributionlimits "leave the contributor free to become a member of any

political association and to assist personally in the associa-tion's efforts on behalf of candidates," ibid.; see also id., at
28. While we did not then say in so many words that differ-ent standards might govern expenditure and contribution
limits affecting associational rights, we have since then saidso explicitly in Federal Election Comm'n v. Massachusetts
Citizens for Life, Inc., 479 U. S. 238, 259-260 (1986): "Wehave consistently held that restrictions on contributions require less compelling justification than restrictions on inde-pendent spending." It has, in any event, been plain ever
since Buckley that contribution limits would more readilyclear the hurdles before them. Cf.

Colorado RepublicanFederal Campaign Comm. v. Federal Election Comm'n, 518

U. S. 604, 610 (1996) (opinion of Breyer, J.) (noting that incampaign finance case law, "[t]he provisions that the Court
found constitutional mostly imposed contribution limits"(emphasis in original)). Thus, under Buckley's standard of
scrutiny, a contribution limit involving "significant interfer-ence" with associational rights, 424 U. S., at 25 (internal quotation marks omitted), could survive if the Government dem-onstrated that contribution regulation was "closely drawn"

528US2 Unit: $U24 [06-27-01 14:28:22] PAGES PGT: OPIN
388 NIXON v. SHRINK MISSOURI GOVERNMENT PAC

Opinion of the Court
to match a "sufficiently important interest," ibid., though thedollar amount of the limit need not be "fine tun[ed]," id.,

at 30.3While we did not attempt to parse distinctions between
the speech and association standards of scrutiny for contribu-tion limits, we did make it clear that those restrictions bore
more heavily on the associational right than on freedom tospeak.

Id., at 24-25. We consequently proceeded on theunderstanding that a contribution limitation surviving a

claim of associational abridgment would survive a speechchallenge as well, and we held the standard satisfied by the
contribution limits under review."[T]he prevention of corruption and the appearance of
corruption" was found to be a "constitutionally sufficientjustification," id., at 25-26:

"To the extent that large contributions are given to se-cure a political quid pro quo from current and potential
office holders, the integrity of our system of representa-tive democracy is undermined. . . .

"Of almost equal concern as the danger of actual quidpro quo arrangements is the impact of the appearance
of corruption stemming from public awareness of the op-portunities for abuse inherent in a regime of large individual financial contributions. . . . Congress could legiti3 The quoted language addressed the correlative overbreadth challenge.
On the point of classifying the standard of scrutiny, compare Roberts v.
United States Jaycees, 468 U. S. 609, 623 (1984) ("Infringements on [the
right to associate for expressive purposes] may be justified by regulations
adopted to serve compelling state interests, unrelated to the suppression
of ideas, that cannot be achieved through means significantly less restrictive of associational freedoms"); NAACP v. Button, 371 U. S. 415, 438
(1963) ("The decisions of this Court have consistently held that only a
compelling state interest in the regulation of a subject within the State's
constitutional power to regulate can justify limiting First Amendment
freedoms"); NAACP v. Alabama ex rel. Patterson, 357 U. S. 449, 460-461
(1958) ("[S]tate action which may have the effect of curtailing the freedom
to associate is subject to the closest scrutiny").

528US2 Unit: $U24 [06-27-01 14:28:22] PAGES PGT: OPIN

389Cite as: 528 U. S. 377 (2000)
Opinion of the Court
mately conclude that the avoidance of the appearance ofimproper influence `is also critical . . . if confidence in

the system of representative Government is not to beeroded to a disastrous extent.' " Id., at 26-27 (quoting
Civil Service Comm'n v. Letter Carriers, 413 U. S. 548,565 (1973)).

See also Federal Election Comm'n v. National ConservativePolitical Action Comm., 470 U. S. 480, 497 (1985) ("Corruption is a subversion of the political process. Elected officialsare influenced to act contrary to their obligations of office by
the prospect of financial gain to themselves or infusions ofmoney into their campaigns");

Federal Election Comm'n v.National Right to Work Comm., 459 U. S. 197, 208 (1982)

(noting that Government interests in preventing corruptionor the appearance of corruption "directly implicate `the integrity of our electoral process, and, not less, the responsibil-ity of the individual citizen for the successful functioning of
that process' " (quoting United States v. Automobile Work-ers, 352 U. S. 567, 570 (1957))); First Nat. Bank of Boston v.
Bellotti, 435 U. S. 765, 788, n. 26 (1978) ("The importance ofthe governmental interest in preventing [corruption] has
never been doubted").In speaking of "improper influence" and "opportunities for
abuse" in addition to "quid pro quo arrangements," we rec-ognized a concern not confined to bribery of public officials,
but extending to the broader threat from politicians too com-pliant with the wishes of large contributors. These were
the obvious points behind our recognition that the Congresscould constitutionally address the power of money "to influence governmental action" in ways less "blatant and specific"than bribery.

Buckley v. Valeo, 424 U. S., at 28.4

4 In arguing that the Buckley standard should not be relaxed, respondents Shrink Missouri and Fredman suggest that a candidate like Fredman
suffers because contribution limits favor incumbents over challengers.
Brief for Respondents Shrink Missouri Government PAC et al. 23-24.
This is essentially an equal protection claim, which Buckley squarely

528US2 Unit: $U24 [06-27-01 14:28:22] PAGES PGT: OPIN
390 NIXON v. SHRINK MISSOURI GOVERNMENT PAC

Opinion of the Court

B
In defending its own statute, Missouri espouses thosesame interests of preventing corruption and the appearance

of it that flows from munificent campaign contributions.Even without the authority of

Buckley, there would be noserious question about the legitimacy of the interests

claimed, which, after all, underlie bribery and antigratuitystatutes. While neither law nor morals equate all political
contributions, without more, with bribes, we spoke in Buck-ley of the perception of corruption "inherent in a regime of
large individual financial contributions" to candidates forpublic office,

id., at 27, as a source of concern "almost equal"to quid pro quo improbity, ibid. The public interest in countering that perception was, indeed, the entire answer to theoverbreadth claim raised in the Buckley case. Id., at 30.
This made perfect sense. Leave the perception of impropri-ety unanswered, and the cynical assumption that large donors call the tune could jeopardize the willingness of votersto take part in democratic governance. Democracy works
"only if the people have faith in those who govern, and thatfaith is bound to be shattered when high officials and their
appointees engage in activities which arouse suspicions ofmalfeasance and corruption."

United States v. MississippiValley Generating Co., 364 U. S. 520, 562 (1961).

Although respondents neither challenge the legitimacy ofthese objectives nor call for any reconsideration of Buckley,
they take the State to task, as the Court of Appeals did,for failing to justify the invocation of those interests with
empirical evidence of actually corrupt practices or of a perfaced. We found no support for the proposition that an incumbent's advantages were leveraged into something significantly more powerful by
contribution limitations applicable to all candidates, whether veterans or
upstarts, 424 U. S., at 31-35. Since we do not relax Buckley's standard,
no more need be said about respondents' argument, though we note that
nothing in the record here gives respondents a stronger argument than
the Buckley petitioners made.

528US2 Unit: $U24 [06-27-01 14:28:22] PAGES PGT: OPIN

391Cite as: 528 U. S. 377 (2000)
Opinion of the Court
ception among Missouri voters that unrestricted contribu-tions must have been exerting a covertly corrosive influence.

The state statute is not void, however, for want of evidence.The quantum of empirical evidence needed to satisfy
heightened judicial scrutiny of legislative judgments willvary up or down with the novelty and plausibility of the justification raised. Buckley demonstrates that the dangers oflarge, corrupt contributions and the suspicion that large contributions are corrupt are neither novel nor implausible.The opinion noted that "the deeply disturbing examples surfacing after the 1972 election demonstrate that the problem[of corruption] is not an illusory one." 424 U. S., at 27, and
n. 28. Although we did not ourselves marshal the evidencein support of the congressional concern, we referred to "a
number of the abuses" detailed in the Court of Appeals'sdecision,

ibid., which described how corporations, well-financed interest groups, and rich individuals had made large

contributions, some of which were illegal under existing law,others of which reached at least the verge of bribery. See
Buckley v. Valeo, 519 F. 2d 821, 839-840, and nn. 36-38(CADC 1975). The evidence before the Court of Appeals
described public revelations by the parties in question morethan sufficient to show why voters would tend to identify a
big donation with a corrupt purpose.While

Buckley's evidentiary showing exemplifies a suffi-cient justification for contribution limits, it does not speak to

what may be necessary as a minimum.5 As to that, respond5 Cf. Federal Election Comm'n v. National Right to Work Comm., 459
U. S. 197, 210 (1982) ("Nor will we second-guess a legislative determination as to the need for prophylactic measures where corruption is the evil
feared"); First Nat. Bank of Boston v. Bellotti, 435 U. S. 765, 788, n. 26
(1978); California Medical Assn. v. Federal Election Comm'n, 453 U. S.
182, 194-195 (1981) (noting that Buckley held that contribution limits
"served the important governmental interests in preventing the corruption or appearance of corruption of the political process that might result if
such contributions were not restrained"); Citizens Against Rent Control/
Coalition for Fair Housing v. Berkeley, 454 U. S. 290, 296-297 (1981)

528US2 Unit: $U24 [06-27-01 14:28:22] PAGES PGT: OPIN
392 NIXON v. SHRINK MISSOURI GOVERNMENT PAC

Opinion of the Court
ents are wrong in arguing that in the years since Buckley
came down we have "supplemented" its holding with a new
requirement that governments enacting contribution limits
must " `demonstrate that the recited harms are real, not
merely conjectural,' " Brief for Respondents Shrink Missouri
Government PAC et al. 26 (quoting United States v. Treasury Employees, 513 U. S. 454, 475 (1995) (in turn quoting
Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. v. FCC, 512 U. S. 622, 664
(1994))), a contention for which respondents rely principally
on Colorado Republican Federal Campaign Comm. v. Federal Election Comm'n, 518 U. S. 604 (1996). We have never
accepted mere conjecture as adequate to carry a First
Amendment burden, and Colorado Republican did not deal
with a government's burden to justify limits on contributions. Although the principal opinion in that case charged
the Government with failure to show a real risk of corruption, id., at 616 (opinion of Breyer, J.), the issue in question
was limits on independent expenditures by political parties,
which the principal opinion expressly distinguished from
contribution limits: "limitations on independent expenditures are less directly related to preventing corruption" than
contributions are, id., at 615. In that case, the "constitutionally significant fact" that there was no "coordination between
the candidate and the source of the expenditure" kept the
principal opinion "from assuming, absent convincing evidence to the contrary, that [a limitation on expenditures] is
necessary to combat a substantial danger of corruption of the

("Buckley identified a single narrow exception to the rule that limits on
political activity were contrary to the First Amendment. The exception
relates to the perception of undue influence of large contributors to a candidate"); see also Federal Election Comm'n v. National Conservative Political Action Comm., 470 U. S. 480, 500 (1985) (observing that Buckley
upheld contribution limits as constitutional, and noting the Court's "deference to a congressional determination of the need for a prophylactic rule
where the evil of potential corruption had long been recognized").

528US2 Unit: $U24 [06-27-01 14:28:22] PAGES PGT: OPIN

393Cite as: 528 U. S. 377 (2000)
Opinion of the Court
electoral system." Id., at 617-618. Colorado Republicanthus goes hand in hand with Buckley, not toe to toe.

In any event, this case does not present a close call requir-ing further definition of whatever the State's evidentiary obligation may be. While the record does not show that theMissouri Legislature relied on the evidence and findings accepted in Buckley,6 the evidence introduced into the recordby petitioners or cited by the lower courts in this action and
the action regarding Proposition A is enough to show thatthe substantiation of the congressional concerns reflected in
Buckley has its counterpart supporting the Missouri law.
Although Missouri does not preserve legislative history, 5F. Supp. 2d, at 738, the State presented an affidavit from

State Senator Wayne Goode, the co-chair of the state legisla-ture's Interim Joint Committee on Campaign Finance Reform at the time the State enacted the contribution limits,who stated that large contributions have " `the real potential
to buy votes,' " ibid.; App. 47. The District Court citednewspaper accounts of large contributions supporting inferences of impropriety. 5 F. Supp. 2d, at 738, n. 6. One report questioned the state treasurer's decision to use a cer-tain bank for most of Missouri's banking business after that

institution contributed $20,000 to the treasurer's campaign.Editorial, The Central Issue is Trust, St. Louis PostDispatch, Dec. 31, 1993, p. 6C. Another made much of thereceipt by a candidate for state auditor of a $40,000 contribution from a brewery and one for $20,000 from a bank. J.Mannies, Auditor Race May Get Too Noisy to be Ignored,
St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Sept. 11, 1994, at 4B. In Carver v.
Nixon, 72 F. 3d 633 (1995), the Eighth Circuit itself, while

6 Cf. Renton v. Playtime Theatres, Inc., 475 U. S. 41, 51-52 (1986) ("The
First Amendment does not require a city, before enacting . . . an ordinance,
to conduct new studies or produce evidence independent of that already
generated by other cities, so long as whatever evidence the city relies
upon is reasonably believed to be relevant to the problem that the city
addresses").

528US2 Unit: $U24 [06-27-01 14:28:22] PAGES PGT: OPIN
394 NIXON v. SHRINK MISSOURI GOVERNMENT PAC

Opinion of the Court
invalidating the limits Proposition A imposed, identified a$420,000 contribution to candidates in northern Missouri

from a political action committee linked to an investmentbank, and three scandals, including one in which a state representative was "accused of sponsoring legislation in ex-change for kickbacks," and another in which Missouri's former attorney general pleaded guilty to charges of conspiracy
to misuse state property, id., at 642, and n. 10, after beingindicted for using a state workers' compensation fund to benefit campaign contributors. And although majority votes donot, as such, defeat First Amendment protections, the statewide vote on Proposition A certainly attested to the perception relied upon here: "[A]n overwhelming 74 percent of the
voters of Missouri determined that contribution limits are
necessary to combat corruption and the appearance thereof."
Carver v. Nixon, 882 F. Supp. 901, 905 (WD Mo.), rev'd, 72
F. 3d 633 (CA8 1995); see also 5 F. Supp. 2d, at 738, n. 7.

There might, of course, be need for a more extensive evidentiary documentation if respondents had made any showing of their own to cast doubt on the apparent implications
of Buckley's evidence and the record here, but the closest
respondents come to challenging these conclusions is their
invocation of academic studies said to indicate that large contributions to public officials or candidates do not actually result in changes in candidates' positions. Brief for Respondents Shrink Missouri Government PAC et al. 41; Smith,
Money Talks: Speech, Corruption, Equality, and Campaign
Finance, 86 Geo. L. J. 45, 58 (1997); Smith, Faulty Assumptions and Undemocratic Consequences of Campaign Finance
Reform, 105 Yale L. J. 1049, 1067-1068 (1995). Other studies, however, point the other way. Reply Brief for Respondent Bray 4-5; F. Sorauf, Inside Campaign Finance 169 (1992);
Hall & Wayman, Buying Time: Moneyed Interests and the
Mobilization of Bias in Congressional Committees, 84 Am.
Pol. Sci. Rev. 797 (1990); D. Magleby & C. Nelson, The Money
Chase 78 (1990). Given the conflict among these publica528US2 Unit: $U24 [06-27-01 14:28:22] PAGES PGT: OPIN

395Cite as: 528 U. S. 377 (2000)
Opinion of the Court
tions, and the absence of any reason to think that public per-ception has been influenced by the studies cited by respondents, there is little reason to doubt that sometimes largecontributions will work actual corruption of our political
system, and no reason to question the existence of a corre-sponding suspicion among voters.

C
Nor do we see any support for respondents' various argu-ments that in spite of their striking resemblance to the limitations sustained in Buckley, those in Missouri are so differ-ent in kind as to raise essentially a new issue about the
adequacy of the Missouri statute's tailoring to serve its pur-poses.

7 Here, as in Buckley, "[t]here is no indication . . .

that the contribution limitations imposed by the [law] wouldhave any dramatic[ally] adverse effect on the funding of campaigns and political associations," and thus no showing that

7 Two of respondents' amici raise the different argument, that contribution limits are insufficiently narrow, in the light of disclosure requirements
and bribery laws as less restrictive mechanisms for dealing with quid pro
quo threats and apprehensions. Brief for Pacific Legal Foundation et al.
as Amici Curiae 23-29. We specifically rejected this notion in Buckley
v. Valeo, 424 U. S. 1 (1976) (per curiam), where we said that antibribery
laws "deal with only the most blatant and specific attempts of those with
money to influence government action," and that "Congress was surely
entitled to conclude that disclosure was only a partial measure, and that
contribution ceilings were a necessary legislative concomitant to deal with
the reality or appearance of corruption inherent in a system permitting
unlimited financial contributions, even when the identities of the contributors and the amounts of their contributions are fully disclosed." Id., at
28. We understood contribution limits, on the other hand, to "focu[s] precisely on the problem of large campaign contributions--the narrow aspect
of political association where the actuality and potential for corruption
have been identified--while leaving persons free to engage in independent
political expression, to associate actively through volunteering their services, and to assist to a limited but nonetheless substantial extent in supporting candidates and committees with financial resources." Ibid.
There is no reason to view contribution limits any differently today.

528US2 Unit: $U24 [06-27-01 14:28:22] PAGES PGT: OPIN
396 NIXON v. SHRINK MISSOURI GOVERNMENT PAC

Opinion of the Court
"the limitations prevented candidates and political commit-tees from amassing the resources necessary for effective advocacy." 424 U. S., at 21. The District Court found herethat in the period since the Missouri limits became effective,
"candidates for state elected office [have been] quite able toraise funds sufficient to run effective campaigns," 5 F. Supp.
2d, at 740, and that "candidates for political office in the stateare still able to amass impressive campaign war chests,"

id.,at 741.
8 The plausibility of these conclusions is buttressed

by petitioners' evidence that in the 1994 Missouri elections(before any relevant state limitations went into effect), 97.62

percent of all contributors to candidates for state auditormade contributions of $2,000 or less.

Ibid.; App. 34-36.9
Even if we were to assume that the contribution limits af-fected respondent Fredman's ability to wage a competitive

campaign (no small assumption given that Fredman onlyidentified one contributor, Shrink Missouri, that would have
given him more than $1,075 per election), a showing of one
affected individual does not point up a system of suppressedpolitical advocacy that would be unconstitutional under

Buckley.These conclusions of the District Court and the supporting
evidence also suffice to answer respondents' variant claimthat the Missouri limits today differ in kind from

Buckley's
owing to inflation since 1976. Respondents seem to assumethat

Buckley set a minimum constitutional threshold for contribution limits, which in dollars adjusted for loss of purchas-ing power are now well above the lines drawn by Missouri.

But this assumption is a fundamental misunderstanding ofwhat we held.

8 This case does not, however, involve any claim that the Missouri law
has restricted access to the ballot in any election other than that for
state auditor.

9 Similarly, data showed that less than 1.5 percent of the contributors to

candidates in the 1992 election for Missouri secretary of state made aggregate contributions in excess of $2,000. 5 F. Supp. 2d, at 741; App. 35.

528US2 Unit: $U24 [06-27-01 14:28:22] PAGES PGT: OPIN

397Cite as: 528 U. S. 377 (2000)
Opinion of the Court
In Buckley, we specifically rejected the contention that$1,000, or any other amount, was a constitutional minimum

below which legislatures could not regulate. As indicatedabove, we referred instead to the outer limits of contribution
regulation by asking whether there was any showing thatthe limits were so low as to impede the ability of candidates
to "amas[s] the resources necessary for effective advocacy,"424 U. S., at 21. We asked, in other words, whether the contribution limitation was so radical in effect as to render polit-ical association ineffective, drive the sound of a candidate's
voice below the level of notice, and render contributionspointless. Such being the test, the issue in later cases cannot be truncated to a narrow question about the power ofthe dollar, but must go to the power to mount a campaign
with all the dollars likely to be forthcoming. As Judge Gib-son put it, the dictates of the First Amendment are not mere
functions of the Consumer Price Index. 161 F. 3d, at 525(dissenting opinion).

D
The dissenters in this case think our reasoning evades thereal issue.

Justice Thomas chides us for "hiding behind"
Buckley, post, at 422, and Justice Kennedy faults us forseeing this case as "a routine application of our analysis" in

Buckley instead of facing up to what he describes as theconsequences of

Buckley, post, at 405. Each dissenterwould overrule Buckley and thinks we should do the same.

The answer is that we are supposed to decide this case.Shrink and Fredman did not request that Buckley be overruled; the furthest reach of their arguments about the lawwas that subsequent decisions already on the books had enhanced the State's burden of justification beyond what Buck-ley required, a proposition we have rejected as mistaken.

III
There is no reason in logic or evidence to doubt the suffi-ciency of

Buckley to govern this case in support of the Mis528US2 Unit: $U24 [06-27-01 14:28:22] PAGES PGT: OPIN
398 NIXON v. SHRINK MISSOURI GOVERNMENT PAC

Stevens, J., concurring
souri statute. The judgment of the Court of Appeals is,accordingly, reversed, and the case is remanded for proceedings consistent with this opinion. It is so ordered.

Justice Stevens, concurring.
Justice Kennedy suggests that the misuse of soft moneytolerated by this Court's misguided decision in

ColoradoRepublican Federal Campaign Comm. v. Federal Election

Comm'n, 518 U. S. 604 (1996), demonstrates the need for afresh examination of the constitutional issues raised by Congress' enactment of the Federal Election Campaign Acts of1971 and 1974 and this Court's resolution of those issues in
Buckley v. Valeo, 424 U. S. 1 (1976) (per curiam). In re-sponse to his call for a new beginning, therefore, I make one
simple point. Money is property; it is not speech.Speech has the power to inspire volunteers to perform a
multitude of tasks on a campaign trail, on a battleground, oreven on a football field. Money, meanwhile, has the power
to pay hired laborers to perform the same tasks. It doesnot follow, however, that the First Amendment provides the
same measure of protection to the use of money to accom-plish such goals as it provides to the use of ideas to achieve
the same results.*Our Constitution and our heritage properly protect the individual's interest in making decisions about the use of hisor her own property. Governmental regulation of such decisions can sometimes be viewed either as "deprivations of lib*Unless, of course, the prohibition entirely forecloses a channel of communication, such as the use of paid petition circulators. See, e. g., Meyer
v. Grant, 486 U. S. 414, 424 (1988) ("Colorado's prohibition of paid petition circulators restricts access to the most effective, fundamental, and
perhaps economical avenue of political discourse, direct one-on-one
communication. . . . The First Amendment protects appellees' right not
only to advocate their cause but also to select what they believe to be the
most effective means for so doing").

528US2 Unit: $U24 [06-27-01 14:28:22] PAGES PGT: OPIN

399Cite as: 528 U. S. 377 (2000)
Breyer, J., concurring
erty" or as "deprivations of property," see, e. g., Moore v.
East Cleveland, 431 U. S. 494, 513 (1977) (Stevens, J., concurring in judgment). Telling a grandmother that she maynot use her own property to provide shelter to a grandchild--or to hire mercenaries to work in that grandchild's
campaign for public office--raises important constitutional
concerns that are unrelated to the First Amendment. Because I did not participate in the Court's decision in Buckley,
I did not have the opportunity to suggest then that those
property and liberty concerns adequately explain the Court's
decision to invalidate the expenditure limitations in the
1974 Act.

Reliance on the First Amendment to justify the invalidation of campaign finance regulations is the functional equivalent of the Court's candid reliance on the doctrine of substantive due process as articulated in the two prevailing opinions
in Moore v. East Cleveland. The right to use one's own
money to hire gladiators, or to fund "speech by proxy," certainly merits significant constitutional protection. These
property rights, however, are not entitled to the same protection as the right to say what one pleases.

Justice Breyer, with whom Justice Ginsburg joins,
concurring.

The dissenters accuse the Court of weakening the First
Amendment. They believe that failing to adopt a "strict
scrutiny" standard "balance[s] away First Amendment freedoms." Post, at 410 (opinion of Thomas, J.). But the principal dissent oversimplifies the problem faced in the campaign finance context. It takes a difficult constitutional
problem and turns it into a lopsided dispute between political
expression and government censorship. Under the cover of
this fiction and its accompanying formula, the dissent would
make the Court absolute arbiter of a difficult question best
left, in the main, to the political branches. I write sepa528US2 Unit: $U24 [06-27-01 14:28:22] PAGES PGT: OPIN
400 NIXON v. SHRINK MISSOURI GOVERNMENT PAC

Breyer, J., concurring
rately to address the critical question of how the Court oughtto review this kind of problem, and to explain why I believe

the Court's choice here is correct.If the dissent believes that the Court diminishes the importance of the First Amendment interests before us, it iswrong. The Court's opinion does not question the constitutional importance of political speech or that its protection
lies at the heart of the First Amendment. Nor does it ques-tion the need for particularly careful, precise, and independent judicial review where, as here, that protection is at issue.But this is a case where constitutionally protected interests
lie on both sides of the legal equation. For that reason there
is no place for a strong presumption against constitutionality,
of the sort often thought to accompany the words "strict
scrutiny." Nor can we expect that mechanical application
of the tests associated with "strict scrutiny"--the tests of
"compelling interests" and "least restrictive means"--will
properly resolve the difficult constitutional problem that
campaign finance statutes pose. Cf. Kovacs v. Cooper, 336
U. S. 77, 96 (1949) (Frankfurter, J., concurring) (objecting, in
the First Amendment context, to "oversimplified formulas");
see also Eu v. San Francisco County Democratic Central
Comm., 489 U. S. 214, 233-234 (1989) (Stevens, J., concurring); Illinois Bd. of Elections v. Socialist Workers Party,
440 U. S. 173, 188-189 (1979) (Blackmun, J., concurring)
(same).

On the one hand, a decision to contribute money to a campaign is a matter of First Amendment concern--not because
money is speech (it is not); but because it enables speech.
Through contributions the contributor associates himself
with the candidate's cause, helps the candidate communicate
a political message with which the contributor agrees, and
helps the candidate win by attracting the votes of similarly
minded voters. Buckley v. Valeo, 424 U. S. 1, 24-25 (1976)
(per curiam). Both political association and political communication are at stake.

528US2 Unit: $U24 [06-27-01 14:28:22] PAGES PGT: OPIN

401Cite as: 528 U. S. 377 (2000)
Breyer, J., concurring
On the other hand, restrictions upon the amount any oneindividual can contribute to a particular candidate seek to

protect the integrity of the electoral process--the meansthrough which a free society democratically translates political speech into concrete governmental action. See id., at26-27;

Burroughs v. United States, 290 U. S. 534, 545 (1934)
(upholding 1925 Federal Corrupt Practices Act by emphasizing constitutional importance of safeguarding the electoralprocess); see also

Burson v. Freeman, 504 U. S. 191, 199
(1992) (plurality opinion) (recognizing compelling interestin preserving integrity of electoral process). Moreover, by

limiting the size of the largest contributions, such restrictions aim to democratize the influence that money itself may
bring to bear upon the electoral process. Cf. Reynolds v.
Sims, 377 U. S. 533, 565 (1964) (in the context of apportionment, the Constitution "demands" that each citizen have "an
equally effective voice"). In doing so, they seek to build
public confidence in that process and broaden the base of
a candidate's meaningful financial support, encouraging the
public participation and open discussion that the First
Amendment itself presupposes. See Mills v. Alabama, 384
U. S. 214, 218-219 (1966); Whitney v. California, 274 U. S.
357, 375-376 (1927) (Brandeis, J., concurring); A. Meiklejohn,
Free Speech and Its Relation to Self-Government 24-27
(1948).

In service of these objectives, the statute imposes restrictions of degree. It does not deny the contributor the opportunity to associate with the candidate through a contribution,
though it limits a contribution's size. Nor does it prevent
the contributor from using money (alone or with others) to
pay for the expression of the same views in other ways. Instead, it permits all supporters to contribute the same
amount of money, in an attempt to make the process fairer
and more democratic.

Under these circumstances, a presumption against constitutionality is out of place. I recognize that Buckley used

528US2 Unit: $U24 [06-27-01 14:28:22] PAGES PGT: OPIN
402 NIXON v. SHRINK MISSOURI GOVERNMENT PAC

Breyer, J., concurring
language that could be interpreted to the contrary. It said,for example, that it rejected "the concept that government

may restrict the speech of some elements of our society inorder to enhance the relative voice of others." 424 U. S.,
at 48-49. But those words cannot be taken literally. TheConstitution often permits restrictions on the speech of some
in order to prevent a few from drowning out the many--
in Congress, for example, where constitutionally protecteddebate, Art. I, $ 6, is limited to provide every Member an

equal opportunity to express his or her views. Or in elec-tions, where the Constitution tolerates numerous restrictions on ballot access, limiting the political rights of some so
as to make effective the political rights of the entire electorate. See, e. g., Storer v. Brown, 415 U. S. 724, 736 (1974).
Regardless, as the result in Buckley made clear, the statement does not automatically invalidate a statute that seeks
a fairer electoral debate through contribution limits, nor
should it forbid the Court to take account of the competing
constitutional interests just mentioned.

In such circumstances--where a law significantly implicates competing constitutionally protected interests in complex ways--the Court has closely scrutinized the statute's
impact on those interests, but refrained from employing a
simple test that effectively presumes unconstitutionality.
Rather, it has balanced interests. And in practice that has
meant asking whether the statute burdens any one such interest in a manner out of proportion to the statute's salutary
effects upon the others (perhaps, but not necessarily, because
of the existence of a clearly superior, less restrictive alternative). Where a legislature has significantly greater institutional expertise, as, for example, in the field of election regulation, the Court in practice defers to empirical legislative
judgments--at least where that deference does not risk such
constitutional evils as, say, permitting incumbents to insulate
themselves from effective electoral challenge. This approach is that taken in fact by Buckley for contributions, and

528US2 Unit: $U24 [06-27-01 14:28:22] PAGES PGT: OPIN

403Cite as: 528 U. S. 377 (2000)
Breyer, J., concurring
is found generally where competing constitutional interestsare implicated, such as privacy, see,

e. g., Frisby v. Schultz,
487 U. S. 474, 485-488 (1988) (balancing rights of privacy andexpression);

Rowan v. Post Office Dept., 397 U. S. 728, 736
(1970) (same), First Amendment interests of listeners orviewers, see,

e. g., Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. v. FCC,
520 U. S. 180, 192-194 (1997) (recognizing the speech interests of both viewers and cable operators); Columbia Broadcasting System, Inc. v. Democratic National Committee,
412 U. S. 94, 102-103 (1973) ("Balancing the various FirstAmendment interests involved in the broadcast media . . . is

a task of a great delicacy and difficulty"); Red Lion Broadcasting Co. v. FCC, 395 U. S. 367, 389-390 (1969) (First
Amendment permits the Federal Communications Commission to restrict the speech of some to enable the speech of
others), and the integrity of the electoral process, see, e. g.,
Burson, supra, at 198-211 (weighing First Amendment
rights against electoral integrity necessary for right to vote);
Anderson v. Celebrezze, 460 U. S. 780, 788-790 (1983) (same);
Storer v. Brown, supra, at 730 ("[T]here must be a substantial regulation of elections if they are to be fair and honest").
The approach taken by these cases is consistent with that of
other constitutional courts facing similarly complex constitutional problems. See, e. g., Bowman v. United Kingdom, 26
Eur. Ct. H. R. 1 (European Comm'n of Human Rights 1998)
(demanding proportionality in the campaign finance context);
Libman v. Quebec (Attorney General), 151 D. L. R. (4th) 385
(Canada 1997) (same). For the dissenters to call the approach "sui generis," post, at 410 (opinion of Thomas, J.),
overstates their case.

Applying this approach to the present case, I would uphold
the statute essentially for the reasons stated by the Court.
I agree that the legislature understands the problem--the
threat to electoral integrity, the need for democratization--
better than do we. We should defer to its political judgment
that unlimited spending threatens the integrity of the

528US2 Unit: $U24 [06-27-01 14:28:22] PAGES PGT: OPIN
404 NIXON v. SHRINK MISSOURI GOVERNMENT PAC

Breyer, J., concurring
electoral process. But we should not defer in respectto whether its solution, by imposing too low a contribution limit, significantly increases the reputation-related ormedia-related advantages of incumbency and thereby insulates legislators from effective electoral challenge. Thestatutory limit here, $1,075 (or 378, 1976 dollars), is low
enough to raise such a question. But given the empirical
information presented--the type of election at issue; the rec-ord of adequate candidate financing postreform; and the fact

that the statute indexes the amount for inflation--I agreewith the Court that the statute does not work disproportionate harm. The limit may have prevented the plaintiff, Zev
David Fredman, from financing his own campaign for office,
for Fredman's support among potential contributors was not
sufficiently widespread. But any contribution statute (like
any statute setting ballot eligibility requirements, see, e. g.,
Jenness v. Fortson, 403 U. S. 431, 442 (1971)) will narrow
the field of conceivable challengers to some degree. Undue
insulation is a practical matter, and it cannot be inferred automatically from the fact that the limit makes ballot access
more difficult for one previously unsuccessful candidate.

The approach I have outlined here is consistent with the
approach this Court has taken in many complex First
Amendment cases. See supra, at 402-403. The Buckley
decision, as well, might be interpreted as embodying sufficient flexibility for the problem at hand. After all, Buckley's holding seems to leave the political branches broad authority to enact laws regulating contributions that take the
form of "soft money." It held public financing laws constitutional, 424 U. S., at 57, n. 65, 85-109. It says nothing one
way or the other about such important proposed reforms as
reduced-price media time. And later cases presuppose that
the Federal Election Commission has the delegated authority to interpret broad statutory provisions in light of the
campaign finance law's basic purposes, despite disagreements over whether the Commission has exercised that au528US2 Unit: $U24 [06-27-01 14:28:22] PAGES PGT: OPIN

405Cite as: 528 U. S. 377 (2000)
Kennedy, J., dissenting
thority in a particular case. See Colorado Republican Federal Campaign Comm. v. Federal Election Comm'n, 518
U. S. 604, 619-621 (1996) (whether claimed "independentexpenditure" is a "coordinated expenditure"); accord,

id., at
648-650 (Stevens, J., dissenting). Alternatively, it mightprove possible to reinterpret aspects of

Buckley in light of
the post-Buckley experience stressed by Justice Kennedy,
post, at 406-409 (dissenting opinion), making less absolutethe contribution/expenditure line, particularly in respect

to independently wealthy candidates, whose expendituresmight be considered contributions to their own campaigns.

But what if I am wrong about Buckley? Suppose Buckley denies the political branches sufficient leeway to enact
comprehensive solutions to the problems posed by campaign
finance. If so, like Justice Kennedy, I believe the Constitution would require us to reconsider Buckley. With that
understanding I join the Court's opinion.

Justice Kennedy, dissenting.
The Court's decision has lasting consequences for political
speech in the course of elections, the speech upon which democracy depends. Yet in defining the controlling standard
of review and applying it to the urgent claim presented, the
Court seems almost indifferent. Its analysis would not be
acceptable for the routine case of a single protester with a
hand-scrawled sign, see City of Ladue v. Gilleo, 512 U. S. 43
(1994), a few demonstrators on a public sidewalk, see United
States v. Grace, 461 U. S. 171 (1983), or a driver who taped
over the motto on his license plate because he disagreed with
its message, see Wooley v. Maynard, 430 U. S. 705 (1977).
Surely the Court's approach is unacceptable for a case announcing a rule that suppresses one of our most essential
and prevalent forms of political speech.

It would be no answer to say that this is a routine application of our analysis in Buckley v. Valeo, 424 U. S. 1 (1976)
(per curiam), to a similar set of facts, so that a cavalier dis528US2 Unit: $U24 [06-27-01 14:28:22] PAGES PGT: OPIN
406 NIXON v. SHRINK MISSOURI GOVERNMENT PAC

Kennedy, J., dissenting
missal of respondents' claim is appropriate. The justifica-tions for the case system and stare decisis must rest upon

the Court's capacity, and responsibility, to acknowledge itsmissteps. It is our duty to face up to adverse, unintended
consequences flowing from our own prior decisions. Withall respect, I submit the Court does not accept this obligation
in the case before us. Instead, it perpetuates and com-pounds a serious distortion of the First Amendment resulting from our own intervention in Buckley. The Court isconcerned about voter suspicion of the role of money in politics. Amidst an atmosphere of skepticism, however, ithardly inspires confidence for the Court to abandon the rigors of our traditional First Amendment structure.

I
Zev David Fredman asks us to evaluate his speech claimin the context of a system which favors candidates and officeholders whose campaigns are supported by soft money,usually funneled through political parties. The Court pays
him no heed. The plain fact is that the compromise theCourt invented in Buckley set the stage for a new kind of
speech to enter the political system. It is covert speech.The Court has forced a substantial amount of political speech
underground, as contributors and candidates devise evermore elaborate methods of avoiding contribution limits, limits which take no account of rising campaign costs. The pre-ferred method has been to conceal the real purpose of the
speech. Soft money may be contributed to political partiesin unlimited amounts, see

Colorado Republican FederalCampaign Comm. v. Federal Election Comm'n, 518 U. S.

604, 616 (1996), and is used often to fund so-called issue advo-cacy, advertisements that promote or attack a candidate's positions without specifically urging his or her election or de-feat. Briffault, Issue Advocacy: Redrawing the Elections/
Politics Line, 77 Texas L. Rev. 1751, 1752-1753 (1999). Issueadvocacy, like soft money, is unrestricted, see

Buckley,

528US2 Unit: $U24 [06-27-01 14:28:22] PAGES PGT: OPIN

407Cite as: 528 U. S. 377 (2000)
Kennedy, J., dissenting
supra, at 42-44, while straightforward speech in the form offinancial contributions paid to a candidate, speech subject to

full disclosure and prompt evaluation by the public, is not.Thus has the Court's decision given us covert speech. This
mocks the First Amendment. The current system would beunfortunate, and suspect under the First Amendment, had it
evolved from a deliberate legislative choice; but its unhappy
origins are in our earlier decree in Buckley, which by accept-ing half of what Congress did (limiting contributions) but

rejecting the other (limiting expenditures) created a mis-shapen system, one which distorts the meaning of speech.

The irony that we would impose this regime in the name of
free speech ought to be sufficient ground to reject Buckley's
wooden formula in the present case. The wrong goes
deeper, however. By operation of the Buckley rule, a candidate cannot oppose this system in an effective way without
selling out to it first. Soft money must be raised to attack
the problem of soft money. In effect, the Court immunizes
its own erroneous ruling from change. Rulings of this
Court must never be viewed with more caution than when
they provide immunity from their own correction in the political process and in the forum of unrestrained speech. The
melancholy history of campaign finance in Buckley's wake
shows what can happen when we intervene in the dynamics
of speech and expression by inventing an artificial scheme of
our own.

The case in one sense might seem unimportant. It appears that Mr. Fredman was an outsider candidate who may
not have had much of a chance. Yet, by binding him to the
outdated limit of $1,075 per contribution in a system where
parties can raise soft money without limitation and a powerful press faces no restrictions on use of its own resources to
back its preferred candidates, the Court tells Mr. Fredman
he cannot challenge the status quo unless he first gives into
it. This is not the First Amendment with which I am
familiar.

528US2 Unit: $U24 [06-27-01 14:28:22] PAGES PGT: OPIN
408 NIXON v. SHRINK MISSOURI GOVERNMENT PAC

Kennedy, J., dissenting
To defend its extension of Buckley to present times, theCourt, of course, recites the dangers of corruption, or the

appearance of corruption, when an interested person contrib-utes money to a candidate. What the Court does not do is
examine and defend the substitute it has encouraged, covertspeech funded by unlimited soft money. In my view that
system creates dangers greater than the one it has replaced.
The first danger is the one already mentioned: that we re-quire contributors of soft money and its beneficiaries to mask

their real purpose. Second, we have an indirect system ofaccountability that is confusing, if not dispiriting, to the
voter. The very disaffection or distrust that the Court cites
as the justification for limits on direct contributions has now
spread to the entire political discourse. Buckley has not
worked.

My colleagues in the majority, in my respectful submission, do much disservice to our First Amendment jurisprudence by failing to acknowledge or evaluate the whole operation of the system that we ourselves created in Buckley.
Our First Amendment principles surely tell us that an interest thought to be the compelling reason for enacting a law is
cast into grave doubt when a worse evil surfaces in the law's
actual operation. And our obligation to examine the operation of the law is all the more urgent when the new evil is
itself a distortion of speech. By these measures the law before us cannot pass any serious standard of First Amendment review.

Among the facts the Court declines to take into account is
the emergence of cyberspace communication by which political contributions can be reported almost simultaneously with
payment. The public can then judge for itself whether the
candidate or the officeholder has so overstepped that we no
longer trust him or her to make a detached and neutral judgment. This is a far more immediate way to assess the integrity and the performance of our leaders than through the
hidden world of soft money and covert speech.

528US2 Unit: $U24 [06-27-01 14:28:22] PAGES PGT: OPIN

409Cite as: 528 U. S. 377 (2000)
Kennedy, J., dissenting
Officeholders face a dilemma inherent in the democraticprocess and one that has never been easy to resolve: how to

exercise their best judgment while soliciting the continuedsupport and loyalty of constituents whose interests may not
always coincide with that judgment. Edmund Burke cap-tured the tension in his Speeches at Bristol. "Your representative owes you, not his industry only, but his judgment;and he betrays instead of serving you, if he sacrifices it to
your opinion." E. Burke, Speeches of the Right Hon. Ed-mund Burke 130 (J. Burke ed. 1867). Whether our officeholders can discharge their duties in a proper way when theyare beholden to certain interests both for reelection and for
campaign support is, I should think, of constant concern notalone to citizens but to conscientious officeholders themselves. There are no easy answers, but the Constitution re-lies on one: open, robust, honest, unfettered speech that the
voters can examine and assess in an ever-changing and morecomplex environment.

II
To this point my view may seem to be but a reflection ofwhat

Justice Thomas has written, and to a large extent Iagree with his insightful and careful discussion of our precedents. If an ensuing chapter must be written, I may wellcome out as he does, for his reasoning and my own seem to
point to the conclusion that the legislature can do little byway of imposing limits on political speech of this sort. For
now, however, I would leave open the possibility that Con-gress, or a state legislature, might devise a system in which
there are some limits on both expenditures and contribu-tions, thus permitting officeholders to concentrate their time
and efforts on official duties rather than on fundraising. Forthe reasons I have sought to express, there are serious constitutional questions to be confronted in enacting any suchscheme, but I would not foreclose it at the outset. I would
overrule Buckley and then free Congress or state legisla-tures to attempt some new reform, if, based upon their own

528US2 Unit: $U24 [06-27-01 14:28:22] PAGES PGT: OPIN
410 NIXON v. SHRINK MISSOURI GOVERNMENT PAC

Thomas, J., dissenting
considered view of the First Amendment, it is possible todo so. Until any reexamination takes place, however, the

existing distortion of speech caused by the halfway housewe created in Buckley ought to be eliminated. The First
Amendment ought to be allowed to take its own course with-out further obstruction from the artificial system we have
imposed. It suffices here to say that the law in questiondoes not come even close to passing any serious scrutiny.

For these reasons, though I am in substantial agreementwith what

Justice Thomas says in his opinion, I havethought it necessary to file a separate dissent.

Justice Thomas, with whom Justice Scalia joins,dissenting.
In the process of ratifying Missouri's sweeping repressionof political speech, the Court today adopts the analytic fallacies of our flawed decision in Buckley v. Valeo, 424 U. S. 1(1976)

(per curiam). Unfortunately, the Court is not con-tent to merely adhere to erroneous precedent. Under the

guise of applying Buckley, the Court proceeds to weakenthe already enfeebled constitutional protection that

Buckleyafforded campaign contributions. In the end, the Court employs a sui generis test to balance away First Amendmentfreedoms.

Because the Court errs with each step it takes, I dissent.As I indicated in Colorado Republican Federal Campaign
Comm. v. Federal Election Comm'n, 518 U. S. 604, 635-644(1996) (opinion concurring in judgment and dissenting in
part), our decision in Buckley was in error, and I would over-rule it. I would subject campaign contribution limitations
to strict scrutiny, under which Missouri's contribution limitsare patently unconstitutional.

I
I begin with a proposition that ought to be unassailable:Political speech is the primary object of First Amendment

528US2 Unit: $U24 [06-27-01 14:28:22] PAGES PGT: OPIN

411Cite as: 528 U. S. 377 (2000)
Thomas, J., dissenting
protection. See, e. g., Mills v. Alabama, 384 U. S. 214, 218(1966);

Whitney v. California, 274 U. S. 357, 375 (1927)
(Brandeis, J., concurring); T. Cooley, Constitutional Limita-tions *422; Z. Chafee, Free Speech in the United States 28

(1954); Bork, Neutral Principles and Some First AmendmentProblems, 47 Ind. L. J. 1, 20 (1971); Sunstein, Free Speech
Now, in The Bill of Rights in the Modern State 304-307 (G.
Stone, R. Epstein, & C. Sunstein eds. 1992). The Founderssought to protect the rights of individuals to engage in political speech because a self-governing people depends upon thefree exchange of political information. And that free exchange should receive the most protection when it matters
the most--during campaigns for elective office. "The value
and efficacy of [the right to elect the members of government] depends on the knowledge of the comparative merits
and demerits of the candidates for public trust, and on the
equal freedom, consequently, of examining and discussing
these merits and demerits of the candidates respectively."
Madison, Report on the Resolutions (1799), in 6 Writings of
James Madison 397 (G. Hunt ed. 1906).

I do not start with these foundational principles because
the Court openly disagrees with them--it could not, for they
are solidly embedded in our precedents. See, e. g., Eu v.
San Francisco County Democratic Central Comm., 489 U. S.
214, 223 (1989) ("[T]he First Amendment `has its fullest and
most urgent application' to speech uttered during a campaign for political office" (quoting Monitor Patriot Co. v.
Roy, 401 U. S. 265, 272 (1971))); Brown v. Hartlage, 456 U. S.
45, 53 (1982) ("The free exchange of ideas provides special
vitality to the process traditionally at the heart of American
constitutional democracy--the political campaign"); Garrison v. Louisiana, 379 U. S. 64, 74-75 (1964) ("[S]peech concerning public affairs is . . . the essence of self-government").
Instead, I start with them because the Court today abandons
them. For nearly half a century, this Court has extended
First Amendment protection to a multitude of forms of

528US2 Unit: $U24 [06-27-01 14:28:22] PAGES PGT: OPIN
412 NIXON v. SHRINK MISSOURI GOVERNMENT PAC

Thomas, J., dissenting
"speech," such as making false defamatory statements, filinglawsuits, dancing nude, exhibiting drive-in movies with nudity, burning flags, and wearing military uniforms.1 Notsurprisingly, the Courts of Appeals have followed our lead
and concluded that the First Amendment protects, for exam-ple, begging, shouting obscenities, erecting tables on a sidewalk, and refusing to wear a necktie.2 In light of the manycases of this sort, today's decision is a most curious anomaly.
Whatever the proper status of such activities under the FirstAmendment, I am confident that they are less integral to
the functioning of our Republic than campaign contributions.Yet the majority today, rather than going out of its way to
protect political speech, goes out of its way to avoid protect-ing it. As I explain below, contributions to political campaigns generate essential political speech. And contributioncaps, which place a direct and substantial limit on core
speech, should be met with the utmost skepticism and shouldreceive the strictest scrutiny.

II
At bottom, the majority's refusal to apply strict scrutinyto contribution limits rests upon Buckley's discounting of the

First Amendment interests at stake. The analytic founda-tion of Buckley, however, was tenuous from the very beginning and has only continued to erode in the interveningyears. What remains of Buckley fails to provide an adequate justification for limiting individual contributions to po-litical candidates.

1 New York Times Co. v. Sullivan, 376 U. S. 254 (1964); NAACP v. Button, 371 U. S. 415 (1963); Barnes v. Glen Theatre, Inc., 501 U. S. 560 (1991)
(plurality opinion); Erznoznik v. Jacksonville, 422 U. S. 205 (1975); United
States v. Eichman, 496 U. S. 310 (1990); Schacht v. United States, 398 U. S.
58 (1970).

2 Loper v. New York City Police Dept., 999 F. 2d 699 (CA2 1993); Sandul

v. Larion, 119 F. 3d 1250 (CA6 1997); One World One Family Now v.
Miami Beach, 175 F. 3d 1282 (CA11 1999); East Hartford Education
Assoc. v. Board of Ed. of East Hartford, 562 F. 2d 838 (CA2 1977).

528US2 Unit: $U24 [06-27-01 14:28:22] PAGES PGT: OPIN

413Cite as: 528 U. S. 377 (2000)
Thomas, J., dissenting

A
To justify its decision upholding contribution limitations
while striking down expenditure limitations, the Court in
Buckley explained that expenditure limits "represent substantial rather than merely theoretical restraints on the
quantity and diversity of political speech," 424 U. S., at 19,
while contribution limits "entai[l] only a marginal restriction
upon the contributor's ability to engage in free communication," id., at 20-21 (quoted ante, at 386). In drawing this
distinction, the Court in Buckley relied on the premise that
contributing to a candidate differs qualitatively from directly
spending money. It noted that "[w]hile contributions may
result in political expression if spent by a candidate or an
association to present views to the voters, the transformation of contributions into political debate involves speech by
someone other than the contributor." 424 U. S., at 21. See
also California Medical Assn. v. Federal Election Comm'n,
453 U. S. 182, 196 (1981) (plurality opinion) ("[T]he `speech
by proxy' that [a contributor] seeks to achieve through its
contributions . . . is not the sort of political advocacy that
this Court in Buckley found entitled to full First Amendment protection").

But this was a faulty distinction ab initio because it ignored the reality of how speech of all kinds is disseminated:

"Even in the case of a direct expenditure, there is usually some go-between that facilitates the dissemination
of the spender's message--for instance, an advertising
agency or a television station. To call a contribution
`speech by proxy' thus does little to differentiate it from
an expenditure. The only possible difference is that
contributions involve an extra step in the proxy chain.
But again, that is a difference in form, not substance."
Colorado Republican, 518 U. S., at 638-639 (Thomas, J.,
concurring in judgment and dissenting in part) (citations omitted).

528US2 Unit: $U24 [06-27-01 14:28:22] PAGES PGT: OPIN
414 NIXON v. SHRINK MISSOURI GOVERNMENT PAC

Thomas, J., dissenting
And, inasmuch as the speech-by-proxy argument was disconnected from the realities of political speech to begin with, it
is not surprising that we have firmly rejected it since Buckley. In Federal Election Comm'n v. National Conservative
Political Action Comm., 470 U. S. 480 (1985), we cast aside
the argument that a contribution does not represent the constitutionally protected speech of a contributor, recognizing
"that the contributors obviously like the message they are
hearing from these organizations and want to add their
voices to that message; otherwise they would not part with
their money." Id., at 495. Though in that case we considered limitations on expenditures made by associations, our
holding that the speech-by-proxy argument fails to diminish
contributors' First Amendment rights is directly applicable
to this case. In both cases, donors seek to disseminate information by giving to an organization controlled by others.
Through contributing, citizens see to it that their views on
policy and politics are articulated. In short, "they are
aware that however great the confidence they may justly feel
in their own good sense, their interests can be more effectually promoted by [another] than by themselves." The Federalist No. 35, p. 214 (C. Rossiter ed. 1961) (A. Hamilton).

Without the assistance of the speech-by-proxy argument,
the remainder of Buckley's rationales founder. Those rationales--that the "quantity of communication by the contributor does not increase perceptibly with the size of his
contribution," Buckley v. Valeo, supra, at 21 (quoted ante, at
386), that "the size of the contribution provides a very rough
index of the intensity of the contributor's support for the
candidate," 424 U. S., at 21 (quoted ante, at 386), and that
"[a] contribution serves as a general expression of support
for the candidate and his views, but does not communicate
the underlying basis for the support," 424 U. S., at 21 (quoted
ante, at 386)--still rest on the proposition that speech by
proxy is not fully protected. These contentions simply ig528US2 Unit: $U24 [06-27-01 14:28:22] PAGES PGT: OPIN

415Cite as: 528 U. S. 377 (2000)
Thomas, J., dissenting
nore that a contribution, by amplifying the voice of the candi-date, helps to ensure the dissemination of the messages that

the contributor wishes to convey. Absent the ability to reston the denigration of contributions as mere "proxy speech,"
the arguments fall apart.3

The decision of individuals to speak through contributions
rather than through independent expenditures is entirely
reasonable.4 Political campaigns are largely candidate fo3 If one were to accept the speech-by-proxy point and consider a contribution a mere symbolic gesture, Buckley's auxiliary arguments still falter.
The claim that a large contribution receives less protection because it only
expresses the "intensity of the contributor's support for the candidate,"
Buckley v. Valeo, 424 U. S. 1, 21 (1976) (per curiam) (quoted ante, at 386),
fails under our jurisprudence because we have accorded full First Amendment protection to expressions of intensity. See Cohen v. California, 403
U. S. 15, 25-26 (1971) (protecting the use of an obscenity to stress a point).
Equally unavailing is the claim that a contribution warrants less protection because it "does not communicate the underlying basis for the support." Buckley v. Valeo, supra, at 21 (quoted ante, at 386). We regularly
hold that speech is protected when the underlying basis for a position is
not given. See, e. g., City of Ladue v. Gilleo, 512 U. S. 43, 46 (1994) (sign
reading "For Peace in the Gulf"); Tinker v. Des Moines Independent Community School Dist., 393 U. S. 503, 510-511 (1969) (black armband signifying opposition to Vietnam war). See also Colorado Republican Federal
Campaign Comm. v. Federal Election Comm'n, 518 U. S. 604, 640 (1996)
(Thomas, J., concurring in judgment and dissenting in part) ("Even a pure
message of support, unadorned with reasons, is valuable to the democratic
process"). Cf. Hurley v. Irish-American Gay, Lesbian and Bisexual
Group of Boston, Inc., 515 U. S. 557, 569 (1995) (opinion of the Court by
Souter, J.) ("[A] narrow, succinctly articulable message is not a condition
of constitutional protection").

4 Justice Stevens asserts that "[m]oney is property; it is not speech,"

ante, at 398 (concurring opinion), and contends that there is no First
Amendment right "to hire mercenaries" and "to hire gladiators," ante, at
399. These propositions are directly contradicted by many of our precedents. For example, in Meyer v. Grant, 486 U. S. 414 (1988) (opinion of
the Court by Stevens, J.), this Court confronted a state ban on payments
to petition circulators. The District Court upheld the law, finding that
the ban on monetary payments did not restrain expression and that the

528US2 Unit: $U24 [06-27-01 14:28:22] PAGES PGT: OPIN
416 NIXON v. SHRINK MISSOURI GOVERNMENT PAC

Thomas, J., dissenting
cused and candidate driven. Citizens recognize that the
best advocate for a candidate (and the policy positions he
supports) tends to be the candidate himself. And candidate
organizations also offer other advantages to citizens wishing
to partake in political expression. Campaign organizations
offer a ready-built, convenient means of communicating for
donors wishing to support and amplify political messages.
Furthermore, the leader of the organization--the candidate--has a strong self-interest in efficiently expending
funds in a manner that maximizes the power of the messages
the contributor seeks to disseminate. Individual citizens
understandably realize that they "may add more to political

would-be payors remained free to use their money in other ways. Id., at
418. We disagreed and held that "[t]he refusal to permit appellees to pay
petition circulators restricts political expression" by "limit[ing] the number of voices who will convey appellees' message and the hours they can
speak and, therefore, limits the size of the audience they can reach." Id.,
at 422-423. In short, the Court held that the First Amendment protects
the right to pay others to help get a message out. In other cases, this
Court extended such protection, holding that the First Amendment prohibits laws that do not ban, but instead only regulate, the terms upon
which so-called mercenaries and gladiators are retained. See Riley v.
National Federation of Blind of N. C., Inc., 487 U. S. 781 (1988) (holding
that the First Amendment prohibits state restriction on the amount a
charity may pay a professional fundraiser); Secretary of State of Md. v.
Joseph H. Munson Co., 467 U. S. 947 (1984) (same). Cf. also, e. g., Teachers
v. Hudson, 475 U. S. 292 (1986) (opinion of the Court by Stevens, J.) (holding that the First Amendment restrains government-compelled exactions
of money); Abood v. Detroit Bd. of Ed., 431 U. S. 209 (1977) (same). In
these cases, the Court did not resort to Justice Stevens' assertion that
money "is not speech" to dismiss challenges to monetary regulations. Instead, the Court properly examined the impact of the regulations on free
expression. See also, e. g., Federal Election Comm'n v. National Conservative Political Action Comm., 470 U. S. 480 (1985) (First Amendment
protects political committee's expenditures of money); Citizens Against
Rent Control/Coalition for Fair Housing v. Berkeley, 454 U. S. 290 (1981)
(First Amendment protects monetary contributions to political committee); First Nat. Bank of Boston v. Bellotti, 435 U. S. 765, 769 (1978) (First
Amendment protects "spend[ing] money to publicize [political] views").

528US2 Unit: $U24 [06-27-01 14:28:22] PAGES PGT: OPIN

417Cite as: 528 U. S. 377 (2000)
Thomas, J., dissenting
discourse by giving rather than spending, if the donee is ableto put the funds to more productive use than can the individual." Colorado Republican, 518 U. S., at 636 (Thomas, J.,concurring in judgment and dissenting in part). See also
Federal Election Comm'n v. Massachusetts Citizens forLife, Inc., 479 U. S. 238, 261 (1986) ("[I]ndividuals contribute
to a political organization in part because they regard sucha contribution as a more effective means of advocacy than
spending the money under their own personal direction").5In the end,

Buckley's claim that contribution limits"d[o] not in any way infringe the contributor's freedom to

discuss candidates and issues," 424 U. S., at 21 (quoted ante,at 387), ignores the distinct role of candidate organizations
as a means of individual participation in the Nation's civicdialogue.

6 The result is simply the suppression of political

5 Even if contributions to a candidate were not the most effective means
of speaking--and contribution caps left political speech "significantly unimpaired," ante, at 387--an individual's choice of that mode of expression
would still be protected. "The First Amendment protects [individuals']
right not only to advocate their cause but also to select what they believe
to be the most effective means for so doing." Meyer, supra, at 424 (opinion of the Court by Stevens, J.). See also Glickman v. Wileman Brothers & Elliott, Inc., 521 U. S. 457, 488 (1997) (Souter, J., dissenting) (noting
a "First Amendment interest in touting [one's] wares as he sees fit").

6 Buckley's approach to associational freedom is also unsound. In defense of its decision, the Court in Buckley explained that contribution
limits "leave the contributor free to become a member of any political
association and to assist personally in the association's efforts on behalf of
candidates." 424 U. S., at 22 (quoted ante, at 387). In essence, the Court
accepted contribution limits because alternative channels of association
remained open. This justification, however, is peculiar because we have
rejected the notion that a law will pass First Amendment muster simply
because it leaves open other opportunities. Spence v. Washington, 418
U. S. 405, 411, n. 4 (1974) (per curiam) (Although a prohibition's effect
may be " `minuscule and trifling,' " a person " `is not to have the exercise
of his liberty of expression in appropriate places abridged on the plea that
it may be exercised in some other place' " (quoting Schneider v. State
(Town of Irvington), 308 U. S. 147, 163 (1939))). See also, e. g., Texas v.
Johnson, 491 U. S. 397, 416, n. 11 (1989); Kusper v. Pontikes, 414 U. S. 51,

528US2 Unit: $U24 [06-27-01 14:28:22] PAGES PGT: OPIN
418 NIXON v. SHRINK MISSOURI GOVERNMENT PAC

Thomas, J., dissenting
speech. By depriving donors of their right to speak throughthe candidate, contribution limits relegate donors' points of

view to less effective modes of communication. Addition-ally, limiting contributions curtails individual participation.
"Even for the affluent, the added costs in money or time oftaking out a newspaper advertisement, handing out leaflets
on the street, or standing in front of one's house with ahand-held sign may make the difference between participating and not participating in some public debate." City of
Ladue v. Gilleo, 512 U. S. 43, 57 (1994) (opinion of the Courtby

Stevens, J.). Buckley completely failed in its attemptto provide a basis for permitting government to secondguess the individual choices of citizens partaking in quint-essentially democratic activities. "The First Amendment
mandates that we presume that speakers, not the govern-ment, know best both what they want to say and how to say
it." Riley v. National Federation of Blind of N. C., Inc.,487 U. S. 781, 790-791 (1988).

B
The Court in Buckley denigrated the speech interests notonly of contributors, but also of candidates. Although the

Court purported to be concerned about the plight of candi-dates, it nevertheless proceeded to disregard their interests
without justification. The Court did not even attempt toclaim that contribution limits do not suppress the speech of
political candidates. See 424 U. S., at 18 ("[C]ontribution . . .limitations impose direct quantity restrictions on political
communication and association by . . . candidates"); id., at 33("[T]he [contribution] limitations may have a significant effect on particular challengers or incumbents"). It could nothave, given the reality that donations "mak[e] a significant
contribution to freedom of expression by enhancing the
58 (1973). "For even when pursuing a legitimate interest, a State may
not choose means that unnecessarily restrict constitutionally protected liberty." Id., at 58-59.

528US2 Unit: $U24 [06-27-01 14:28:22] PAGES PGT: OPIN

419Cite as: 528 U. S. 377 (2000)
Thomas, J., dissenting
ability of candidates to present, and the public to receive,information necessary for the effective operation of the

democratic process." CBS, Inc. v. FCC, 453 U. S. 367, 396(1981). See also

Citizens Against Rent Control/Coalition
for Fair Housing v. Berkeley, 454 U. S. 290, 299 (1981) ("Plac-ing limits on contributions which in turn limit expenditures

plainly impairs freedom of expression"). Instead, the Court
abstracted from a candidate's individual right to speak andfocused exclusively on aggregate campaign funding. See

Buckley v. Valeo, supra, at 21 ("There is no indication . . .that the contribution limitations imposed by the Act would
have any dramatic adverse effect on the funding of campaigns") (quoted ante, at 395); ante, at 395-396 (There is "no
showing that `the limitations prevented candidates and political committees from amassing the resources necessary for
effective advocacy' " (quoting Buckley v. Valeo, supra, at
21)).

The Court's flawed and unsupported aggregate approach
ignores both the rights and value of individual candidates.
The First Amendment "is designed and intended to remove
governmental restraints from the arena of public discussion,
putting the decision as to what views shall be voiced largely
into the hands of each of us, in the hope that use of such
freedom will ultimately produce a more capable citizenry and
more perfect polity and in the belief that no other approach
would comport with the premise of individual dignity and
choice upon which our political system rests." Cohen v. California, 403 U. S. 15, 24 (1971) (emphases added). See also
Sweezy v. New Hampshire, 354 U. S. 234, 250 (1957) (plurality
opinion) ("Our form of government is built on the premise
that every citizen shall have the right to engage in political
expression and association"); Richmond v. J. A. Croson Co.,
488 U. S. 469, 493 (1989) (plurality opinion) ("As this Court
has noted in the past, the `rights created by the first section
of the Fourteenth Amendment are, by its terms, guaranteed
to the individual. The rights established are personal

528US2 Unit: $U24 [06-27-01 14:28:22] PAGES PGT: OPIN
420 NIXON v. SHRINK MISSOURI GOVERNMENT PAC

Thomas, J., dissenting
rights' " (quoting Shelley v. Kraemer, 334 U. S. 1, 22 (1948))).
In short, the right to free speech is a right held by each
American, not by Americans en masse. The Court in Buckley provided no basis for suppressing the speech of an individual candidate simply because other candidates (or candidates in the aggregate) may succeed in reaching the voting
public. And any such reasoning would fly in the face of the
premise of our political system--liberty vested in individual
hands safeguards the functioning of our democracy. In the
case at hand, the Missouri scheme has a clear and detrimental effect on a candidate such as respondent Fredman, who
lacks the advantages of incumbency, name recognition, or
substantial personal wealth, but who has managed to attract
the support of a relatively small number of dedicated supporters: It forbids his message from reaching the voters.
And the silencing of a candidate has consequences for political debate and competition overall. See Arkansas Ed. Television Comm'n v. Forbes, 523 U. S. 666, 692, n. 14 (1998)
(Stevens, J., dissenting) (noting that the suppression of a
minor candidate's speech may directly affect the outcome of
an election); cf. NAACP v. Button, 371 U. S. 415, 431 (1963)
(" `All political ideas cannot and should not be channeled into
the programs of our two major parties. History has amply
proved the virtue of political activity by minority, dissident
groups . . . ' " (quoting Sweezy v. New Hampshire, supra, at
250-251 (plurality opinion))).

In my view, the Constitution leaves it entirely up to citizens and candidates to determine who shall speak, the means
they will use, and the amount of speech sufficient to inform
and persuade. Buckley's ratification of the government's attempt to wrest this fundamental right from citizens was
error.

III

Today, the majority blindly adopts Buckley's flawed reasoning without so much as pausing to consider the collapse of

528US2 Unit: $U24 [06-27-01 14:28:22] PAGES PGT: OPIN

421Cite as: 528 U. S. 377 (2000)
Thomas, J., dissenting
the speech-by-proxy argument or the reality that Buckley'sremaining premises fall when deprived of that support.

7

After ignoring these shortcomings, the Court proceeds toapply something less--much less--than strict scrutiny. Just

how much less the majority never says. The Court in Buck-ley at least purported to employ a test of " `closest scrutiny.' "
424 U. S., at 25 (quoting NAACP v. Alabama ex rel. Patterson, 357 U. S. 449, 461 (1958)). (The Court's words were be-lied by its actions, however, and it never deployed the test

in the fashion that the superlative instructs. See ColoradoRepublican, 518 U. S., at 640-641, n. 7 (

Thomas, J., concur-ring in judgment and dissenting in part) (noting that

Buck-ley purported to apply strict scrutiny but failed to do so in

fact).) The Court today abandons even that pretense andreviews contributions under the sui generis "Buckley's
standard of scrutiny," ante, at 387, which fails to obscure theCourt's ad hoc balancing away of First Amendment rights.
Apart from its endorsement of Buckley's rejection of the in-termediate standards of review used to evaluate expressive
conduct and time, place, and manner restrictions, ante, at386, the Court makes no effort to justify its deviation from
the tests we traditionally employ in free speech cases. See
Denver Area Ed. Telecommunications Consortium, Inc. v.FCC, 518 U. S. 727, 774 (1996) (

Souter, J., concurring) ("Re-viewing speech regulations under fairly strict categorical

rules keeps the starch in the standards for those moments

7 Implicitly, however, the majority downplays its reliance upon the
speech-by-proxy argument. In fact, the majority reprints nearly all of
Buckley's analysis of contributors' speech interests, block quoting almost
an entire paragraph from that decision. See ante, at 386-387 (quoting
Buckley v. Valeo, 424 U. S., at 20-21). Tellingly, the only complete sentence from that paragraph that the majority fails to quote is the final
sentence--which happens to be the one directly setting forth the speechby-proxy rationale. See id., at 21 ("While contributions may result in
political expression if spent by a candidate or an association to present
views to the voters, the transformation of contributions into political debate involves speech by someone other than the contributor").

528US2 Unit: $U24 [06-27-01 14:28:22] PAGES PGT: OPIN
422 NIXON v. SHRINK MISSOURI GOVERNMENT PAC

Thomas, J., dissenting
when the daily politics cries loudest for limiting what maybe said").

Unfortunately, the majority does not stop with a revisionof

Buckley's labels. After hiding behind Buckley's discredited reasoning and invoking "Buckley's standard of scru-tiny,"

ante, at 387, the Court proceeds to significantly extend
the holding in that case. The Court's substantive departure
from Buckley begins with a revision of our compelling-interest jurisprudence. In

Buckley, the Court indicated
that the only interest that could qualify as "compelling" inthis area was the government's interest in reducing actual

and apparent corruption.8 424 U. S., at 25-26. And theCourt repeatedly used the word "corruption" in the narrow
quid pro quo sense, meaning "[p]erversion or destruction ofintegrity in the discharge of public duties by bribery or favour." 3 Oxford English Dictionary 974 (2d ed. 1989). Seealso Webster's Third New International Dictionary 512
(1976) ("inducement (as of a political official) by means of
improper considerations (as bribery) to commit a violation of
duty"). When the Court set forth the interest in preventing
actual corruption, it spoke about "large contributions . . .
given to secure a political quid pro quo from current and
potential office holders." Buckley v. Valeo, 424 U. S., at 26.
The Court used similar language when it set forth the interest in protecting against the appearance of corruption: "Of
almost equal concern as the danger of actual quid pro quo
arrangements is the impact of the appearance of corruption
stemming from public awareness of the opportunities for
abuse inherent in a regime of large individual financial con8 The Court in Buckley explicitly rejected two other proffered rationales
for campaign finance regulation as out of tune with the First Amendment:
equalization of the ability of citizens to affect the outcome of elections and
controlling the costs of campaigns. See 424 U. S., at 48-49 (governmentally imposed equalization measures are "wholly foreign to the First
Amendment"); id., at 57 (mounting costs of elections "provid[e] no basis
for governmental restrictions on the quantity of campaign spending").

528US2 Unit: $U24 [06-27-01 14:28:22] PAGES PGT: OPIN

423Cite as: 528 U. S. 377 (2000)
Thomas, J., dissenting
tributions." Id., at 27. Later, in discussing limits on inde-pendent expenditures, the Court yet again referred to the

interest in protecting against the "dangers of actual or ap-parent

quid pro quo arrangements." Id., at 45. See also
id., at 47 (referring to "the danger that expenditures will begiven as a

quid pro quo for improper commitments"); id., at
67 (corruption relates to "post-election special favors that
may be given in return" for contributions). To be sure,after mentioning

quid pro quo transactions, the Court went
on to use more general terms such as "opportunities forabuse,"

id., at 27, "potential for abuse," id., at 47, "improper
influence," id., at 27, 29, 45, "attempts . . . to influence," id.,at 28, and "buy[ing] influence,"

id., at 45. But this general
language acquires concrete meaning only in light of the pre-ceding specific references to

quid pro quo arrangements.
Almost a decade after Buckley, we reiterated that "cor-ruption" has a narrow meaning with respect to contribution

limitations on individuals:

"Corruption is a subversion of the political process.
Elected officials are influenced to act contrary to theirobligations of office by the prospect of financial gain to

themselves or infusions of money into their campaigns.The hallmark of corruption is the financial

quid pro quo:
dollars for political favors." National Conservative
Political Action Comm., 470 U. S., at 497.

In that same opinion, we also used "giving official favors" asa synonym for corruption.

Id., at 498.
The majority today, by contrast, separates "corruption"from its

quid pro quo roots and gives it a new, far-reaching
(and speech-suppressing) definition, something like "[t]he
perversion of anything from an original state of purity." 3
Oxford English Dictionary, supra, at 974. See also Webster's Third New International Dictionary, supra, at 512 ("a
departure from what is pure or correct"). And the Court
proceeds to define that state of purity, casting aspersions on

528US2 Unit: $U24 [06-27-01 14:28:22] PAGES PGT: OPIN
424 NIXON v. SHRINK MISSOURI GOVERNMENT PAC

Thomas, J., dissenting
"politicians too compliant with the wishes of large contribu-tors."

Ante, at 389. "But precisely what the `corruption'
may consist of we are never told with assurance." National
Conservative Political Action Comm., supra, at 498. Presumably, the majority does not mean that politicians shouldbe free of attachments to constituent groups.

9 And the majority does not explicitly rely upon the "harm" that the Court
in Buckley rejected out of hand, namely, that speech couldbe regulated to equalize the voices of citizens.

Buckley v.
Valeo, supra, at 48-49. Instead, without bothering to offerany elaboration, much less justification, the majority permits

vague and unenumerated harms to suffice as a compellingreason for the government to smother political speech.

In refashioning Buckley, the Court then goes on to weaken
the requisite precision in tailoring, while at the same time
representing that its fiat "do[es] not relax Buckley's standard." Ante, at 390, n. 4. The fact is that the majority rati9 The Framers, of course, thought such attachments inevitable in a free
society and that faction would infest the political process. As to controlling faction, James Madison explained, "There are again two methods of
removing the causes of faction: the one, by destroying the liberty which
is essential to its existence; the other, by giving to every citizen the same
opinions, the same passions, and the same interests." The Federalist
No. 10, p. 78 (C. Rossiter ed. 1961). Contribution caps are an example of
the first method, which Madison contemptuously dismissed:

"It could never be more truly said than of the first remedy that it was
worse than the disease. Liberty is to faction what air is to fire, an aliment
without which it instantly expires. But it could not be a less folly to
abolish liberty, which is essential to political life, because it nourishes faction than it would be to wish the annihilation of air, which is essential to
animal life, because it imparts to fire its destructive agency." Ibid.

The Framers preferred a political system that harnessed such faction for
good, preserving liberty while also ensuring good government. Rather
than adopting the repressive "cure" for faction that the majority today
endorses, the Framers armed individual citizens with a remedy. "If a
faction consists of less than a majority, relief is supplied by the republican
principle, which enables the majority to defeat its sinister views by regular vote." Id., at 80.

528US2 Unit: $U24 [06-27-01 14:28:22] PAGES PGT: OPIN

425Cite as: 528 U. S. 377 (2000)
Thomas, J., dissenting
fies a law with a much broader sweep than that approved in
Buckley. In Buckley, the Court upheld contribution limits
of $1,000 on individuals and $5,000 on political committees(in 1976 dollars). 424 U. S., at 28-29, 35-36. Here, by contrast, the Court approves much more restrictive contributionlimitations, ranging from $250 to $1,000 (in 1995 dollars) for
both individuals and political committees. Mo. Rev. Stat.

$ 130.032.1 (Supp. 1999). The disparity between Missouri'scaps and those upheld in

Buckley is more pronounced when
one takes into account some measure of inflation. See
Shrink Missouri Government PAC v. Adams, 161 F. 3d 519,
523, and n. 4 (CA8 1998) (noting that, according to the Consumer Price Index, a dollar today purchases about a third of
what it did in 1976 when Buckley was decided). Yet the
Court's opinion gives not a single indication that the two
laws may differ in their tailoring. See ante, at 395 (Missouri's caps are "striking [in their] resemblance to the limitations sustained in Buckley"). The Court fails to pay any
regard to the drastically lower level of the limits here, fails
to explain why political committees should be subjected to
the same limits as individuals, and fails to explain why caps
that vary with the size of political districts are tailored to
corruption. I cannot fathom how a $251 contribution could
pose a substantial risk of "secur[ing] a political quid pro
quo." Buckley v. Valeo, supra, at 26. Thus, contribution
caps set at such levels could never be "closely drawn," ante,
at 387 (quoting Buckley v. Valeo, supra, at 25), to preventing
quid pro quo corruption. The majority itself undertakes no
such defense.

The Court also reworks Buckley's aggregate approach to
the free speech rights of candidates. It begins on the same
track as Buckley, noting that "a showing of one affected individual does not point up a system of suppressed political
advocacy that would be unconstitutional under Buckley."
Ante, at 396. See also, e. g., ibid. (claiming that candidates
" `are still able to amass impressive campaign war chests' "

528US2 Unit: $U24 [06-27-01 14:28:22] PAGES PGT: OPIN
426 NIXON v. SHRINK MISSOURI GOVERNMENT PAC

Thomas, J., dissenting
(quoting Shrink Missouri Government PAC v. Adams, 5F. Supp. 2d 734, 741 (ED Mo. 1998))). But the Court quickly

deviates from Buckley, persuading itself that Missouri's lim-its do not suppress political speech because, prior to the enactment of contribution limits, "97.62 percent of all contribu-tors to candidates for state auditor made contributions of
$2,000 or less." Ante, at 396. But this statistical anecdoteoffers the Court no refuge and the citizenry no comfort. As
an initial matter, the statistic provides no assurance thatMissouri's law has not reduced the resources supporting political speech, since the largest contributors provide a dispro-portionate amount of funds. The majority conspicuously offers no data revealing the percentage of funds provided bylarge contributors. (At least the Court in

Buckley relied onthe percentage of funds raised by contributions in excess of

the limits. 424 U. S., at 21-22, n. 23, 26, n. 27.) But what-ever the data would reveal, the Court's position would remain indefensible. If the majority's assumption is incor-rect--

i. e., if Missouri's contribution limits actually dosignificantly reduce campaign speech--then the majority's

calm assurance that political speech remains unaffected col-lapses. If the majority's assumption is correct--i. e., if large
contributions provide very little assistance to a candidateseeking to get out his message (and thus will not be missed
when capped)--then the majority's reasoning still falters.For if large contributions offer as little help to a candidate
as the Court maintains, then the Court fails to explain whya candidate would engage in "corruption" for such a meager
benefit. The majority's statistical claim directly undercutsits constitutional defense that large contributions pose a substantial risk of corruption.10

10 The majority's statistical analysis also overlooks the quantitative data
in the record that directly undercut its position that Missouri's law does
not create "a system of suppressed political advocacy." Ante, at 396.
For example, the Court does not bother to note that following the imposition of contribution limits, total combined spending during primary and

528US2 Unit: $U24 [06-27-01 14:28:22] PAGES PGT: OPIN

427Cite as: 528 U. S. 377 (2000)
Thomas, J., dissenting
Given the majority's ill-advised and illiberal aggregaterights approach, it is unsurprising that the Court's pro forma

hunt for suppressed speech proves futile. See ante, at 395-397. Such will always be the case, for courts have no yardstick by which to judge the proper amount and effectivenessof campaign speech. See, e. g., Smith, Faulty Assumptions
and Undemocratic Consequences of Campaign Finance Re-form, 105 Yale L. J. 1049, 1061 (1996). I, however, would
not fret about such matters. The First Amendment vestschoices about the proper amount and effectiveness of political
advocacy not in the government--whether in the legislaturesor the courts--but in the people.

IV
In light of the importance of political speech to republicangovernment, Missouri's substantial restriction of speech warrants strict scrutiny, which requires that contribution limits
be narrowly tailored to a compelling governmental interest.See

Buckley v. American Constitutional Law Foundation,
Inc., 525 U. S. 182, 207 (1999) (Thomas, J., concurring injudgment);

Colorado Republican, 518 U. S., at 640-641
(Thomas, J., concurring in judgment and dissenting in part).

general elections for five statewide offices was cut by over half, falling
from $21,599,000 to $9,337,000. See App. 24-28. Significantly, total
primary election expenditures in each of the races decreased. Ibid. In
fact, after contribution limits were imposed, overall spending in statewide
primary elections plummeted 89 percent, falling from $14,249,000 to
$1,625,000. Ibid. Most importantly, the majority does not bother to
mention that before spending caps were enacted each of the 10 statewide
primary elections was contested, with two to four candidates vying for
every nomination in 1992. After caps were enacted, however, only 1 of
the 10 primary elections was contested. Overall, the total number of candidates participating in statewide primaries fell from 32 to 11. See ibid.
Even if these data do not conclusively show that Missouri's contribution
limits diminish political speech (although it is undeniable that the data
strongly suggest such a result), they at least cast great doubt on the majority's assumption that the picture is rosy.

528US2 Unit: $U24 [06-27-01 14:28:22] PAGES PGT: OPIN
428 NIXON v. SHRINK MISSOURI GOVERNMENT PAC

Thomas, J., dissenting
Missouri does assert that its contribution caps are aimedat preventing actual and apparent corruption. Brief for

Petitioners 26-28. As we have noted, "preventing corrup-tion or the appearance of corruption are the only legitimate
and compelling government interests thus far identified forrestricting campaign finances."

National Conservative Political Action Comm., 470 U. S., at 496-497. But the State's
contribution limits are not narrowly tailored to that harm.The limits directly suppress the political speech of both contributors and candidates, and only clumsily further the gov-ernmental interests that they allegedly serve. They are
crudely tailored because they are massively overinclusive,
prohibiting all donors who wish to contribute in excess of
the cap from doing so and restricting donations without regard to whether the donors pose any real corruption risk.
See Colorado Republican, supra, at 642 (Thomas, J., concurring in judgment and dissenting in part) (" `Where First
Amendment rights are involved, a blunderbuss approach
which prohibits mostly innocent speech cannot be held a
means narrowly and precisely directed to the governmental
interest in the small minority of contributions that are not
innocent' " (quoting Brief for Appellants in Buckley v. Valeo,
O. T. 1975, Nos. 75-436 and 75-437, pp. 117-118)). See also
Martin v. City of Struthers, 319 U. S. 141, 145 (1943) (Though
a method of speaking may be "a blind for criminal activities,
[it] may also be useful [to] members of society engaged in the
dissemination of ideas in accordance with the best tradition of free discussion"). Moreover, the government has
less restrictive means of addressing its interest in curtailing
corruption. Bribery laws bar precisely the quid pro quo
arrangements that are targeted here. And disclosure laws
" `deter actual corruption and avoid the appearance of corruption by exposing large contributions and expenditures
to the light of publicity.' " American Constitutional Law
Foundation, supra, at 202 (quoting Buckley v. Valeo, 424
U. S., at 67). In fact, Missouri has enacted strict disclo528US2 Unit: $U24 [06-27-01 14:28:22] PAGES PGT: OPIN

429Cite as: 528 U. S. 377 (2000)
Thomas, J., dissenting
sure laws. See Mo. Rev. Stat. $$ 130.041, 130.046, 130.057(Supp. 1999).

In the end, contribution limitations find support only inthe proposition that other means will not be as effective at
rooting out corruption. But when it comes to a significantinfringement on our fundamental liberties, that some undesirable conduct may not be deterred is an insufficient justification to sweep in vast amounts of protected political speech.Our First Amendment precedents have repeatedly stressed

this point. For example, in Martin v. City of Struthers,
supra, we struck down an ordinance prohibiting door-to-door
distribution of handbills. Although we recognized that
"burglars frequently pose as canvassers," id., at 144, we also
noted that door-to-door distribution was "useful [to] members of society engaged in the dissemination of ideas in accordance with the best tradition of free discussion," id., at
145. We then struck down the ordinance, observing that the
"dangers of distribution can so easily be controlled by traditional legal methods." Id., at 147. Similarly, in Riley v.
National Federation of Blind of N. C., Inc., 487 U. S. 781
(1988), we struck down a law regulating the fees charged by
professional fundraisers. In response to the assertion that
citizens would be defrauded in the absence of such a law,
we explained that the State had an antifraud law which "we
presume[d] that law enforcement officers [we]re ready and
able to enforce," id., at 795, and that the State could constitutionally require fundraisers to disclose certain financial information, ibid. We concluded by acknowledging the obvious
consequences of the narrow tailoring requirement: "If this is
not the most efficient means of preventing fraud, we reaffirm
simply and emphatically that the First Amendment does not
permit the State to sacrifice speech for efficiency." Ibid.
See also, e. g., Schneider v. State (Town of Irvington), 308
U. S. 147, 162 (1939) ("There are obvious methods of preventing littering. Amongst these is the punishment of those
who actually throw papers on the streets").

528US2 Unit: $U24 [06-27-01 14:28:22] PAGES PGT: OPIN
430 NIXON v. SHRINK MISSOURI GOVERNMENT PAC

Thomas, J., dissenting
The same principles apply here, and dictate a result con-trary to the one the majority reaches. States are free to

enact laws that directly punish those engaged in corruptionand require the disclosure of large contributions, but they
are not free to enact generalized laws that suppress a tre-mendous amount of protected speech along with the targeted corruption. V

Because the Court unjustifiably discounts the FirstAmendment interests of citizens and candidates, and consequently fails to strictly scrutinize the inhibition of politicalspeech and competition, I respectfully dissent.

528US2 Unit: $U25 [06-15-01 18:08:01] PAGES PGT: OPIN

431OCTOBER TERM, 1999
Syllabus

BARAL v. UNITED STATES
certiorari to the united states court of appeals forthe district of columbia circuit

No. 98-1667. Argued January 18, 2000--Decided February 22, 2000
Two remittances were made to the Internal Revenue Service toward petitioner Baral's income tax liability for the 1988 tax year: a withholding
of $4,104 from Baral's wages throughout 1988 by his employer, and an
estimated income tax of $1,100 remitted in January 1989 by Baral. Baral's income tax return for 1988 was due on April 15, 1989. Though he
received an extension until August 15, he missed this deadline and did
not file the return until June 1, 1993. On the return, he claimed a $1,175
overpayment and asked the Service to apply this excess as a credit
toward his outstanding tax obligations for the 1989 tax year. The Service denied the requested credit, concluding that the claim exceeded the
ceiling imposed by 26 U. S. C. $ 6511(b)(2)(A), which states that "the
amount of the credit or refund shall not exceed the portion of the tax
paid within the period, immediately preceding the filing of the claim,
equal to 3 years plus the period of any extension of time for filing the
return." Since Baral filed his return on June 1, 1993, and received a
4-month extension from the initial due date, the relevant look-back period under $ 6511(b)(2)(A) extended from June 1, 1993, back to February
1, 1990 (i. e., three years plus four months). According to the Service,
Baral had paid no portion of the overpaid tax during that period, and
so faced a ceiling of zero on any allowable refund or credit. Baral commenced this suit for refund in the Federal District Court, which granted
the Service summary judgment. The Court of Appeals affirmed, concluding that both remittances were "paid" on April 15, 1989.

Held: Remittances of estimated income tax and withholding tax are "paid"

on the due date of a calendar year taxpayer's income tax return. Sections 6513(b)(1) and (2) unequivocally provide that the two remittances
were "paid" on April 15, 1989, for purposes of $ 6511(b)(2)(A), so that
they precede the look-back period, which began on February 1, 1990.
Subsection (1) resolves when the remittance of Baral's employer's withholding tax was "paid," and subsection (2) determines when his remittance of estimated income tax was "paid." Because neither these remittances nor any others were "paid" within the look-back period, the
ceiling on Baral's requested $1,175 credit is zero, and the Service was
correct to deny that credit. Contrary to Baral's claim, the withholding
tax and estimated tax are not taxes in their own right (separate from

528US2 Unit: $U25 [06-15-01 18:08:01] PAGES PGT: OPIN
432 BARAL v. UNITED STATES

Opinion of the Court
the income tax), that are converted into income tax only on the income
tax return. Rather, they are methods for collecting income taxes.
And the Tax Code directly contradicts Baral's notion that income tax is
"paid" under $ 6511(b)(2)(A) only when the income tax is assessed. See

$ 6151(a). His position also finds no support in Rosenman v. United
States, 323 U. S. 658, and would work to the detriment of timely taxpayers, who would be denied interest for the time between filing a return
claiming a refund or credit and the Service's assessment. Pp. 434-439.

172 F. 3d 918, affirmed.

Thomas, J., delivered the opinion for a unanimous Court.

Walter J. Rockler argued the cause for petitioner. Withhim on the briefs were

Julius Greisman and Thomas Klein.Kent L. Jones argued the cause for the United States.

With him on the brief were Solicitor General Waxman, As-sistant Attorney General Argrett, Deputy Solicitor General
Wallace, Gilbert S. Rothenberg, and Charles Bricken.

Justice Thomas delivered the opinion of the Court.
Internal Revenue Code $ 6511(b)(2)(A) imposes a ceilingon the amount of credit or refund to which a taxpayer is

entitled as compensation for an overpayment of tax: "[T]heamount of the credit or refund shall not exceed the portion of the tax paid within the period, immediately precedingthe filing of the claim, equal to 3 years plus the period of
any extension of time for filing the return." 26 U. S. C.$ 6511(b)(2)(A). We are called upon in this case to decide
when two types of remittance are "paid" for purposes of thissection: a remittance by a taxpayer of estimated income tax,
and a remittance by a taxpayer's employer of withholdingtax. The plain language of a nearby Code section, $ 6513(b),
provides the answer: These remittances are "paid" on thedue date of the taxpayer's income tax return.

I
The relevant facts are not disputed. Two remittanceswere made to the Internal Revenue Service toward peti528US2 Unit: $U25 [06-15-01 18:08:01] PAGES PGT: OPIN

433Cite as: 528 U. S. 431 (2000)
Opinion of the Court
tioner David H. Baral's income tax liability for the 1988 taxyear. The first, a withholding of $4,104 from Baral's wages

throughout 1988, was a garden-variety collection of incometax by the employer, see $ 3402. The second, an estimated
income tax of $1,100 remitted in January 1989, was sent byBaral himself out of concern that his employer's withholding
might be inadequate to meet his tax obligation for the year,
see $ 6654. In the ordinary course, Baral's income tax re-turn for 1988 was due to be filed on April 15, 1989. Though

he applied for and received an extension of time until August15, Baral missed this deadline; he did not file the return until
nearly four years later, on June 1, 1993. The Service, on
July 19, 1993, assessed the tax liability reported on this belated return.

On the return, Baral claimed that he (and his employer on
his behalf) had remitted $1,175 more with respect to the 1988
taxable year than he actually owed. Baral requested that
the Service apply this excess as a credit toward his outstanding tax obligations for the 1989 taxable year. The Service
denied the requested credit. It did not dispute that Baral
had timely filed the request under the relevant filing deadline--"within 3 years from the time the return was filed or
2 years from the time the tax was paid, whichever of such
periods expires the later." $ 6511(a); see $ 6511(b)(1). But
the Service concluded that the claim exceeded the ceiling
imposed by $ 6511(b)(2)(A). That provision states that "the
amount of the credit or refund shall not exceed the portion
of the tax paid within the period, immediately preceding the
filing of the claim, equal to 3 years plus the period of any
extension of time for filing the return." Ibid.; see generally
Commissioner v. Lundy, 516 U. S. 235, 240 (1996) (explaining
that $ 6511 contains two separate timeliness provisions: (1)

$ 6511(b)(1)'s filing deadline and (2) $ 6511(b)(2)'s ceilings,
which are defined by reference to that provision's "look-back
period[s]"). Since Baral had filed his return on June 1, 1993,
and had earlier received a 4-month extension from the initial

528US2 Unit: $U25 [06-15-01 18:08:01] PAGES PGT: OPIN
434 BARAL v. UNITED STATES

Opinion of the Court
due date, the relevant look-back period under $ 6511(b)(2)(A)extended from June 1, 1993, back to February 1, 1990 (i. e.,

three years plus four months). According to the Service,Baral had paid no portion of the overpaid tax during that
period, and so faced a ceiling of zero on any allowable refundor credit.

Baral then commenced the instant suit for refund in Fed-eral District Court. That court sustained the Service's position and granted summary judgment in its favor. The Courtof Appeals affirmed. App. to Pet. for Cert. A-1, judgt.
order reported at 172 F. 3d 918 (CADC 1999). The Court ofAppeals looked to $ 6513(b)(1), which states that amounts of
tax withheld from wages "shall . . . be deemed to have beenpaid by [the taxpayer] on the 15th day of the fourth month
following the close of his taxable year," and to $ 6513(b)(2),which makes similar provision for amounts submitted as estimated income tax, and concluded that, under these subsec-tions, both of the remittances at issue were "paid" on April
15, 1989. Accord, e. g., Dantzler v. United States, 183 F. 3d1247, 1250-1251 (CA11 1999) (estimated income tax); Ertman
v. United States, 165 F. 3d 204, 207 (CA2 1999) (same); Ehlev. United States, 720 F. 2d 1096, 1096-1097 (CA9 1983) (withholding from wages). In view of apparent tension betweenthis approach and a decision of the Court of Appeals for the
Fifth Circuit, Ford v. United States, 618 F. 2d 357, 360-361,and n. 4 (1980) (suggesting that a remittance respecting any
sort of tax is "paid" under $ 6511 only when the Service as-sesses the tax liability), we granted certiorari, 527 U. S.
1067 (1999). II

The parties renew before us the contentions advancedbelow. The Government submits that $$ 6513(b)(1) and (2)
unequivocally provide that the two remittances at issue were"paid" on April 15, 1989, for purposes of $ 6511(b)(2)(A), so
that they precede the look-back period, which, as noted, com-menced on February 1, 1990. Baral, on the other hand,
urges that a tax cannot be "paid" within the meaning of

528US2 Unit: $U25 [06-15-01 18:08:01] PAGES PGT: OPIN

435Cite as: 528 U. S. 431 (2000)
Opinion of the Court

$ 6511(b)(2)(A) until the tax liability is assessed (i. e., thevalue of the liability is definitively fixed). According to

Baral, the requisite assessment might be made either whenthe taxpayer files his return (here June 1, 1993) or when the
Service, under $ 6201, formally assesses the liability (hereJuly 19, 1993), though he seems to prefer the latter date.
See Brief for Petitioner 9 ("Payment of the income tax . . .occurred at the earliest on June 1, 1993, when the amount of
that tax first became known, and more precisely on July 19,1993, when the income tax was assessed").

We agree with the Government that $$ 6513(b)(1) and (2)settle the matter. We set out these provisions in full:

"(b) Prepaid income tax
"For purposes of section 6511 or 6512--"(1) Any tax actually deducted and withheld at the

source during any calendar year under chapter 24 shall,in respect of the recipient of the income, be deemed to
have been paid by him on the 15th day of the fourthmonth following the close of his taxable year with respect to which such tax is allowable as a credit undersection 31.

"(2) Any amount paid as estimated income tax for anytaxable year shall be deemed to have been paid on the
last day prescribed for filing the return under section6012 for such taxable year (determined without regard
to any extension of time for filing such return)."
Subsection (1) resolves when the remittance of withholding
tax by Baral's employer was "paid": Since Baral is a calendaryear taxpayer, the $4,104 withheld from his wages during

the 1988 calendar year was "paid" on April 15, 1989. Sub-section (2) determines when Baral's remittance of estimated
income tax was "paid": Since the referenced $ 6012 together
with $ 6072(a) requires that a calendar year taxpayer likeBaral file his income tax return on the April 15th following

the close of the calendar year, the $1,100 remitted as an esti-mated income tax in respect of Baral's 1988 tax liability was

528US2 Unit: $U25 [06-15-01 18:08:01] PAGES PGT: OPIN
436 BARAL v. UNITED STATES

Opinion of the Court
likewise "paid" on April 15, 1989. And both of these statu-torily defined payment dates apply "[f]or purposes of section

6511," the provision directly at issue in this case. Thismeans that, under $ 6511(b)(2)(A), both remittances at issue
(the withholding and the estimated income tax) fall before,and hence outside, the look-back period, which commenced
on February 1, 1990. Because neither these remittances nor
any others were "paid" within the look-back period (Febru-ary 1, 1990, to June 1, 1993), the ceiling on Baral's requested

credit of $1,175 is zero, and the Service was correct to denythe requested credit.

Baral disputes this reading of $ 6513(b). He claims that

$$ 6513(b)(1) and (2) establish a "deemed paid" date for payment of estimated tax and withholding tax, but in no sense
prescribe when the income tax is "paid," which is the crucial
inquiry under $ 6511(b)(2)(A). According to Baral, withholding tax and estimated tax are taxes in their own right (separate from the income tax), and are converted into income tax
only on the income tax return. (On this view, payment of
the income tax occurred no earlier than June 1, 1993, when
Baral filed the return.) This reading is evident, he says,
from the significance that the Treasury Regulations place on
the filing of the return, see 26 CFR $ 301.6315-1 (1999) ("The
aggregate amount of the payments of estimated tax should
be entered upon the income tax return for such taxable year
as payments to be applied against the tax shown on such
return"); $ 301.6402-3(a)(1) (providing that "in the case of an
overpayment of income taxes, a claim for credit or refund of
such overpayment shall be made on the appropriate income
tax return"), and from the fact that the Code's provisions
regarding withholding and estimated tax are found in different subtitles (C and F, respectively) from the provisions governing income tax (A).

We disagree. Withholding and estimated tax remittances
are not taxes in their own right, but methods for collecting
the income tax. Thus, $ 31(a)(1) of the Code provides that

528US2 Unit: $U25 [06-15-01 18:08:01] PAGES PGT: OPIN

437Cite as: 528 U. S. 431 (2000)
Opinion of the Court
amounts withheld from wages "shall be allowed to the recipi-ent of the income as a credit against the [income] tax," and

$ 6315 states that "[p]ayment of the estimated income tax,or any installment thereof, shall be considered payment on
account of the income taxes imposed by subtitle A for thetaxable year." Similarly, one of the regulations cited by
Baral explains that a remittance of estimated income tax
"shall be considered payment on account of the income taxfor the taxable year for which the estimate is made." 26

CFR $ 301.6315-1 (1999) (emphasis added). Baral's readingfails, moreover, to give any meaning to 26 U. S. C. $ 6513.
That section exists "[f]or purposes of section 6511," and

$ 6511 concerns credits and refunds, which result only when
the aggregate of remittances (such as withholding tax and
estimated income tax) exceed the tax liability, see $ 6401.
Thus, the concepts of credit or refund have no meaning as
applied to Baral's notion of withholding taxes and estimated
taxes as freestanding taxes. Not surprisingly, the caption
to $ 6513(b) describes withholding and estimated income tax
remittances as "[p]repaid income tax."

Taking a more metaphysical tack, Baral contends that
income tax is "paid" under $ 6511(b)(2)(A) only when the
income tax is assessed--here, June 1 or July 19, 1993, see
supra, at 434-435--because the concept of payment makes
sense only when the liability is "defined, known, and fixed by
assessment," Brief for Petitioner 9. But the Code directly
contradicts the notion that payment may not occur before
assessment. See $ 6151(a) ("[T]he person required to make
[a return of tax] shall, without assessment or notice and
demand from the Secretary, pay such tax . . . at the time
and place fixed for filing the return" (emphasis added));

$ 6213(b)(4) ("Any amount paid as a tax or in respect of a tax
may be assessed upon the receipt of such payment" (emphasis added)). Nor does Baral's argument find support in our
decision in Rosenman v. United States, 323 U. S. 658 (1945),
where we applied $ 6511's predecessor to a remittance of esti528US2 Unit: $U25 [06-15-01 18:08:01] PAGES PGT: OPIN
438 BARAL v. UNITED STATES

Opinion of the Court
mated estate tax. To be sure, a part of our opinion seemsto endorse petitioner's view that payment only occurs at

assessment:

"It is [the] erroneous assessment that gave rise to aclaim for refund. Not until then was there such a claim

as could start the time running for presenting the claim.In any responsible sense payment was then made by the
application of the balance credited to the petitioners inthe suspense account . . . ."

Id., at 661.

But the remittance in Rosenman, unlike the ones here, wasnot governed by a "deemed paid" provision akin to $ 6513,

and we therefore had no occasion to consider the implicationsof such a provision for determining when a tax is "paid"
under the predecessor to $ 6511. See ibid. (noting that "noextraneous relevant aids to construction have been called to
our attention"). Moreover, if the quoted passage had repre-sented our holding, we would have broadly rejected the Government's argument that payment occurred when the remit-tance of estimated estate tax was made, instead of rejecting
the argument, as we did, only because it was not in accordwith the "tenor" of the "business transaction," id., at 663.

1

We observe, finally, that Baral's position--to the extent hesubmits that payment occurs only at the Service's assessment--would work to the detriment of taxpayers who timelyfile their returns and claim a refund or credit as compensa1 Central to our analysis in this regard was a concern that the Service
should not be able to treat the same remittance as a payment for statute
of limitations purposes--disadvantaging the taxpayer by decreasing the
time in which a refund claim could be filed--and as a deposit for purposes
of accrual of interest on overpayments--disadvantaging the taxpayer by
starting the accrual of interest only at assessment. Rosenman, 323 U. S.,
at 662-663. Indeed, we suggested that an amendment to the Code disapproving of the Service's treatment of remittances as deposits for interest
purposes might change the analysis. Id., at 663 (citing Current Tax Payment Act of 1943, $ 4(d), 57 Stat. 140) (presently codified at 26 U. S. C.

$ 6401(c)).

528US2 Unit: $U25 [06-15-01 18:08:01] PAGES PGT: OPIN

439Cite as: 528 U. S. 431 (2000)
Opinion of the Court
tion for an overpayment. The Service will not always as-sess the taxpayer's liability immediately upon receiving the

return; the Service generally has three years in which to doso, see 26 U. S. C. $ 6501(a) (1994 ed., Supp. III). The Code
does allow for payment of interest to the taxpayer on over-payments once the return has been filed and the tax paid, 26
U. S. C. $ 6611 (1994 ed. and Supp. III), but under Baral'sview no interest could accrue during the time between the
filing of the return and the Service's assessment. Fortu-nately for the timely taxpayer, the Code definitively rejects
Baral's position in this setting. Section 6611(d) of 26 U. S. C.explains that the date of payment is determined according
to the provisions of $ 6513, which, as noted, supra, at 435-436, plainly set a deemed date of payment for remittances of
withholding and estimated income tax on the April 15 follow-ing the relevant taxable year.

2

* * *
For the foregoing reasons, we affirm the judgment below.

It is so ordered.

2 We need not address the proper treatment under $ 6511 of remittances
that, unlike withholding and estimated income tax, are not governed by a
"deemed paid" provision akin to $ 6513(b). Such remittances might include remittances of estimated estate tax, as in Rosenman, or remittances
of any sort of tax by a taxpayer under audit in order to stop the running
of interest and penalties, see, e. g., Moran v. United States, 63 F. 3d 663
(CA7 1995). In the latter situation, the taxpayer will often desire treatment of the remittance as a deposit--even if this means forfeiting the
right to interest on an overpayment--in order to preserve jurisdiction in
the Tax Court, which depends on the existence of a deficiency, 26 U. S. C.

$ 6213 (1994 ed. and Supp. III), a deficiency that would be wiped out by
treatment of the remittance as a payment. We note that the Service has
promulgated procedures to govern classification of a remittance as a deposit or payment in this context. See Rev. Proc. 84-58, 1984-2 Cum.
Bull. 501.

528US2 Unit: $U26 [06-18-01 18:03:50] PAGES PGT: OPIN
440 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

Syllabus

WEISGRAM et al. v. MARLEY CO. et al.
certiorari to the united states court of appeals forthe eighth circuit

No. 99-161. Argued January 18, 2000--Decided February 22, 2000
Bonnie Weisgram died of carbon monoxide poisoning during a fire in her

home. Her son, petitioner Chad Weisgram, individually and on behalf
of her heirs (hereinafter Weisgram), brought this diversity action in the
District Court seeking wrongful death damages. Weisgram alleged
that a defect in a heater, manufactured by defendant (now respondent)
Marley Company and located in Bonnie Weisgram's home, caused both
the fire and her death. At trial, Weisgram introduced the testimony of
three witnesses, proffered as experts, in an endeavor to prove the alleged heater defect and its causal connection to the fire. The District
Court overruled Marley's objections that this testimony was unreliable
and therefore inadmissible under Federal Rule of Evidence 702 as elucidated by Daubert v. Merrell Dow Pharmaceuticals, Inc., 509 U. S. 579.
At the close of Weisgram's evidence, and again at the close of all the
evidence, Marley unsuccessfully moved under Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 50(a) for judgment as a matter of law on the ground that plaintiffs had failed to meet their burden of proof on the issues of defect and
causation. The jury returned a verdict for Weisgram. Marley again
requested judgment as a matter of law, and additionally requested, in
the alternative, a new trial, pursuant to Rules 50 and 59; among arguments in support of its post-trial motions, Marley reasserted that the
expert testimony essential to prove Weisgram's case was unreliable and
therefore inadmissible. The District Court denied the motions and entered judgment for Weisgram. The Eighth Circuit panel held that Marley's motion for judgment as a matter of law should have been granted
because the testimony of Weisgram's expert witnesses, the sole evidence
supporting the product defect charge, was speculative and not shown to
be scientifically sound, and was therefore incompetent to prove plaintiffs' case. The court then considered the remaining evidence in the
light most favorable to Weisgram, found it insufficient to support the
jury verdict, and directed judgment as a matter of law for Marley. Although recognizing its discretion to remand for a new trial under Rule
50(d), the court rejected any contention that it was required to do so,
stating that this was not a close case, plaintiffs had had a fair opportunity to prove their strict liability claim, they failed to do so, and there
was no reason to give them a second chance.

528US2 Unit: $U26 [06-18-01 18:03:50] PAGES PGT: OPIN

441Cite as: 528 U. S. 440 (2000)
Syllabus
Held: Rule 50 permits an appellate court to direct the entry of judgment

as a matter of law when it determines that evidence was erroneously
admitted at trial and that the remaining, properly admitted, evidence is
insufficient to constitute a submissible case. Pp. 447-457.

(a) Rule 50(d), which controls when, as here, the verdict loser appeals
from the trial court's denial of a motion for judgment as a matter of law,
provides: "[T]he party who prevailed on that motion may, as appellee,
assert grounds entitling the party to a new trial in the event the appellate court concludes that the trial court erred in denying the motion . . . .
If the appellate court reverses the judgment, nothing in this rule precludes it from determining that the appellee is entitled to a new trial,
or from directing the trial court to determine whether a new trial shall
be granted." Rule 50 does not expressly address Weisgram's contention that, under subdivision (d), when a court of appeals determines that
a jury verdict cannot be sustained due to an error in the admission of
evidence, the appellate court may not order the entry of judgment for
the verdict loser, but must instead remand the case to the trial court
for a new trial determination. Neely v. Martin K. Eby Constr. Co., 386
U. S. 317, ruled definitively that if a court of appeals determines that
the district court erroneously denied a defendant's motion for judgment
as a matter of law, the appellate court may (1) order a new trial at the
verdict winner's request or on its own motion, (2) remand the case for
the trial court to decide whether a new trial or entry of judgment for
the defendant is warranted, or (3) direct the entry of judgment as a
matter of law for the defendant. Id., at 327-330. Pp. 447-452.

(b) The authority of courts of appeals to direct the entry of judgment
as a matter of law extends to cases such as the present one in which, on
the appellate court's excision of erroneously admitted testimony, there
remains insufficient evidence to support the jury's verdict. Contrary
to Weisgram's contention, that authority is not limited to cases exemplified by Neely in which judgment as a matter of law is requested based
on plaintiff's failure to produce enough evidence to warrant a jury verdict. Weisgram asserts that insufficiency caused by deletion of evidence on appeal requires an "automatic remand" to the district court for
consideration whether a new trial is warranted. His assertion draws
support from Court of Appeals decisions holding that, in fairness to a
verdict winner who may have relied on erroneously admitted evidence,
courts confronting questions of judgment as a matter of law should rule
on the record as it went to the jury, without excising evidence inadmissible under Federal Rule of Evidence 702. The decisions on which Weisgram relies are of questionable consistency with Rule 50(a)(1), which
states that in ruling on a motion for judgment as a matter of law, the
court is to inquire whether there is any "legally sufficient evidentiary

528US2 Unit: $U26 [06-18-01 18:03:50] PAGES PGT: OPIN
442 WEISGRAM v. MARLEY CO.

Syllabus
basis for a reasonable jury to find for [the opponent of the motion]."
Inadmissible evidence contributes nothing to a "legally sufficient evidentiary basis." See Brooke Group Ltd. v. Brown & Williamson Tobacco
Corp., 509 U. S. 209, 242. As Neely recognized, appellate rulings on
post-trial pleas for judgment as a matter of law call for the exercise of
"informed discretion," 386 U. S., at 329, and fairness to the parties is
surely key to the exercise of that discretion. But fairness concerns
should loom as large when the verdict winner, in the appellate court's
judgment, failed to present sufficient evidence as when the appellate
court declares inadmissible record evidence essential to the verdict winner's case. In both situations, the party whose verdict is set aside on
appeal will have had notice, before the close of evidence, of the alleged
evidentiary deficiency. See Rule 50(a)(2). On appeal, both will have
the opportunity to argue in support of the jury's verdict or, alternatively, for a new trial. And if judgment is instructed for the verdict
loser, both will have a further chance to urge a new trial in a rehearing
petition. Since Daubert, moreover, parties relying on expert evidence
have had notice of the exacting standards of reliability such evidence
must meet. It is implausible to suggest, post-Daubert, that parties will
initially present less than their best expert evidence in the expectation
of a second chance should their first try fail. The Court therefore rejects Weisgram's argument that allowing courts of appeals to direct the
entry of judgment for defendants will punish plaintiffs who could have
shored up their cases by other means had they known their expert testimony would be found inadmissible. In this case, for example, although
Weisgram was on notice every step of the way that Marley was challenging plaintiffs' experts, he made no attempt to add or substitute other
evidence. Facing the Eighth Circuit's determination that the properly
admitted evidence was insufficient to support the verdict, Weisgram offered that court no specific grounds for a new trial. The Eighth Circuit
therefore did not abuse its discretion by directing entry of judgment for
Marley, instead of returning the case to the District Court for further
proceedings. This Court's holding adheres to Neely's holding and rationale. Pp. 452-457.

169 F. 3d 514, affirmed.

Ginsburg, J., delivered the opinion for a unanimous Court.

Paul A. Strandness argued the cause for petitioners.With him on the briefs were Stephen S. Eckman and Daniel
J. Dunn.

528US2 Unit: $U26 [06-18-01 18:03:50] PAGES PGT: OPIN

443Cite as: 528 U. S. 440 (2000)
Opinion of the Court
Christine A. Hogan argued the cause for respondents.With her on the brief was James S. Hill.*

Justice Ginsburg delivered the opinion of the Court.
This case concerns the respective authority of federal trialand appellate courts to decide whether, as a matter of law,

judgment should be entered in favor of a verdict loser. Thepattern we confront is this. Plaintiff in a product liability
action gains a jury verdict. Defendant urges, unsuccessfullybefore the federal district court but successfully on appeal,
that expert testimony plaintiff introduced was unreliable,and therefore inadmissible, under the analysis required by
Daubert v. Merrell Dow Pharmaceuticals, Inc., 509 U. S. 579(1993). Shorn of the erroneously admitted expert testimony, the record evidence is insufficient to justify a plain-tiff 's verdict. May the court of appeals then instruct the
entry of judgment as a matter of law for defendant, or mustthat tribunal remand the case, leaving to the district court's
discretion the choice between final judgment for defendantor a new trial of plaintiff 's case?

Our decision is guided by Federal Rule of Civil Procedure50, which governs the entry of judgment as a matter of law,
and by the Court's pathmarking opinion in Neely v. MartinK. Eby Constr. Co., 386 U. S. 317 (1967). As Neely teaches,
courts of appeals should "be constantly alert" to "the trialjudge's first-hand knowledge of witnesses, testimony, and issues"; in other words, appellate courts should give due con-sideration to the first-instance decisionmaker's " `feel' for the
overall case." Id., at 325. But the court of appeals hasauthority to render the final decision. If, in the particular

*Jeffrey Robert White filed a brief for the Association of Trial Lawyers
of America as amicus curiae urging reversal.

Briefs of amici curiae urging affirmance were filed for Brunswick Corp.
by Stephen M. Shapiro, Timothy S. Bishop, and Jeffrey W. Sarles; and for
the Product Liability Advisory Council, Inc., by Michael T. Wharton.

528US2 Unit: $U26 [06-18-01 18:03:50] PAGES PGT: OPIN
444 WEISGRAM v. MARLEY CO.

Opinion of the Court
case, the appellate tribunal determines that the district court
is better positioned to decide whether a new trial, rather
than judgment for defendant, should be ordered, the court of
appeals should return the case to the trial court for such an
assessment. But if, as in the instant case, the court of appeals concludes that further proceedings are unwarranted
because the loser on appeal has had a full and fair opportunity to present the case, including arguments for a new trial,
the appellate court may appropriately instruct the district
court to enter judgment against the jury-verdict winner.
Appellate authority to make this determination is no less
when the evidence is rendered insufficient by the removal of
erroneously admitted testimony than it is when the evidence,
without any deletion, is insufficient.

I
Firefighters arrived at the home of Bonnie Weisgram on
December 30, 1993, to discover flames around the front entrance. Upon entering the home, they found Weisgram in
an upstairs bathroom, dead of carbon monoxide poisoning.
Her son, petitioner Chad Weisgram, individually and on behalf of Bonnie Weisgram's heirs, brought a diversity action
in the United States District Court for the District of North
Dakota seeking wrongful death damages. He alleged that
a defect in an electric baseboard heater, manufactured by
defendant (now respondent) Marley Company and located inside the door to Bonnie Weisgram's home, caused both the
fire and his mother's death.1

1 At trial and on appeal, the suit of the Weisgram heirs was consolidated
with an action brought against Marley Company by State Farm Fire and
Casualty Company, insurer of the Weisgram home, to recover benefits
State Farm paid for the damage to the Weisgram townhouse and an adjoining townhouse. State Farm was dismissed from the appeal after certiorari was granted. For purposes of this opinion, we generally refer to the
plaintiffs below, and to the petitioners before us, simply as "Weisgram."

528US2 Unit: $U26 [06-18-01 18:03:51] PAGES PGT: OPIN

445Cite as: 528 U. S. 440 (2000)
Opinion of the Court
At trial, Weisgram introduced the testimony of three wit-nesses, proffered as experts, in an endeavor to prove the

alleged defect in the heater and its causal connection to thefire. The District Court overruled defendant Marley's objections, lodged both before and during the trial, that thistestimony was unreliable and therefore inadmissible under
Federal Rule of Evidence 702 as elucidated by Daubert. At
the close of Weisgram's evidence, and again at the close ofall the evidence, Marley unsuccessfully moved under Federal

Rule of Civil Procedure 50(a) for judgment as a matter oflaw on the ground that plaintiffs had failed to meet their
burden of proof on the issues of defect and causation. The
jury returned a verdict for Weisgram. Marley again requested judgment as a matter of law, and additionally requested, in the alternative, a new trial, pursuant to Rules 50
and 59; among arguments in support of its post-trial motions,
Marley reasserted that the expert testimony essential to
prove Weisgram's case was unreliable and therefore inadmissible. App. 123-125. The District Court denied the motions and entered judgment for Weisgram. App. to Pet. for
Cert. A28-A40. Marley appealed.

The Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit held that Marley's motion for judgment as a matter of law should have
been granted. 169 F. 3d 514, 517 (1999). Writing for the
panel majority, Chief Judge Bowman first examined the testimony of Weisgram's expert witnesses, the sole evidence
supporting plaintiffs' product defect charge. Id., at 518-522.
Concluding that the testimony was speculative and not
shown to be scientifically sound, the majority held the expert
evidence incompetent to prove Weisgram's case. Ibid. The
court then considered the remaining evidence in the light
most favorable to Weisgram, found it insufficient to support
the jury verdict, and directed judgment as a matter of law
for Marley. Id., at 516-517, 521-522. In a footnote, the majority "reject[ed] any contention that [it was] required to remand for a new trial." Id., at 517, n. 2. It recognized its

528US2 Unit: $U26 [06-18-01 18:03:51] PAGES PGT: OPIN
446 WEISGRAM v. MARLEY CO.

Opinion of the Court
discretion to do so under Rule 50(d), but stated: "[W]e candiscern no reason to give the plaintiffs a second chance to

make out a case of strict liability . . . . This is not a closecase. The plaintiffs had a fair opportunity to prove their
claim and they failed to do so." Ibid. (citations omitted).The dissenting judge disagreed on both points, concluding
that the expert evidence was properly admitted and that the
appropriate remedy for improper admission of expert testi-mony is the award of a new trial, not judgment as a matter

of law. Id., at 522, 525 (citing Midcontinent Broadcasting
Co. v. North Central Airlines, Inc., 471 F. 2d 357 (CA8 1973)).

Courts of Appeals have divided on the question whetherFederal Rule of Civil Procedure 50 permits an appellate

court to direct the entry of judgment as a matter of lawwhen it determines that evidence was erroneously admitted
at trial and that the remaining, properly admitted evidenceis insufficient to constitute a submissible case.

2 We granted

certiorari to resolve the conflict, 527 U. S. 1069 (1999),3 and
we now affirm the Eighth Circuit's judgment.

2 The Tenth Circuit has held it inappropriate for an appellate court to
direct the entry of judgment as a matter of law based on the trial court's
erroneous admission of evidence, because to do so would be unfair to a
party who relied on the trial court's evidentiary rulings. See Kinser v.
Gehl Co., 184 F. 3d 1259, 1267, 1269 (1999). The Fourth, Sixth, and Eighth
Circuits recently have issued decisions, in accord with the position earlier
advanced by the Third Circuit, directing the entry of judgment as a matter
of law based on proof rendered insufficient by the deletion of improperly
admitted evidence. See Redman v. John D. Brush & Co., 111 F. 3d 1174,
1178-1179 (CA4 1997); Smelser v. Norfolk Southern R. Co., 105 F. 3d 299,
301, 306 (CA6 1997); Wright v. Willamette Industries, Inc., 91 F. 3d 1105,
1108 (CA8 1996); accord, Aloe Coal Co. v. Clark Equipment Co., 816 F. 2d
110, 115-116 (CA3 1987).

3 We agreed to decide only the issue of the authority of a court of appeals

to direct the entry of judgment as a matter of law, and accordingly accept
as final the decision of the Eighth Circuit holding the testimony of Weisgram's experts unreliable, and therefore inadmissible under Federal Rule
of Evidence 702, as explicated in Daubert v. Merrell Dow Pharmaceuticals, Inc., 509 U. S. 579 (1993). We also accept as final the Eighth Circuit's

528US2 Unit: $U26 [06-18-01 18:03:51] PAGES PGT: OPIN

447Cite as: 528 U. S. 440 (2000)
Opinion of the Court

II
Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 50, reproduced below, gov-erns motions for judgment as a matter of law in jury trials.

4

determination that the remaining, properly admitted, evidence was insufficient to make a submissible case under state law.

4 "Rule 50. Judgment as a Matter of Law in Jury Trials; Alternative

Motion for New Trial; Conditional Rulings.
"(a) Judgment as a Matter of Law.

"(1) If during a trial by jury a party has been fully heard on an issue
and there is no legally sufficient evidentiary basis for a reasonable jury to
find for that party on that issue, the court may determine the issue against
that party and may grant a motion for judgment as a matter of law against
that party with respect to a claim or defense that cannot under the controlling law be maintained or defeated without a favorable finding on that
issue.

"(2) Motions for judgment as a matter of law may be made at any time
before submission of the case to the jury. Such a motion shall specify the
judgment sought and the law and the facts on which the moving party is
entitled to the judgment.

"(b)
Motion for New Trial. If, for any reason, the court does not grant a
motion for judgment as a matter of law made at the close of all the evidence, the court is considered to have submitted the action to the jury
subject to the court's later deciding the legal questions raised by the motion. The movant may renew its request for judgment as a matter of law
by filing a motion no later than 10 days after entry of judgment--and may
alternatively request a new trial or join a motion for a new trial under
Rule 59. In ruling on a renewed motion, the court may:

"(1) if a verdict was returned:
"(A) allow the judgment to stand,
"(B) order a new trial, or
"(C) direct entry of judgment as a matter of law; or
"(2) if no verdict was returned:
"(A) order a new trial, or
"(B) direct entry of judgment as a matter of law.

"(c) Granting Renewed Motion for Judgment as a Matter of Law;

"(1) If the renewed motion for judgment as a matter of law is granted,
the court shall also rule on the motion for a new trial, if any, by determining whether it should be granted if the judgment is thereafter vacated or

528US2 Unit: $U26 [06-18-01 18:03:51] PAGES PGT: OPIN
448 WEISGRAM v. MARLEY CO.

Opinion of the Court
It allows the trial court to remove cases or issues from thejury's consideration "when the facts are sufficiently clear that

the law requires a particular result." 9A C. Wright & A.Miller, Federal Practice and Procedure $ 2521, p. 240 (2d ed.
1995) (hereinafter Wright & Miller). Subdivision (d) con-trols when, as here, the verdict loser appeals from the trial
court's denial of a motion for judgment as a matter of law:

"[T]he party who prevailed on that motion may, as ap-pellee, assert grounds entitling the party to a new trial

in the event the appellate court concludes that the trialcourt erred in denying the motion for judgment. If the
appellate court reverses the judgment, nothing in thisrule precludes it from determining that the appellee is
entitled to a new trial, or from directing the trial courtto determine whether a new trial shall be granted."

Under this Rule, Weisgram urges, when a court of appealsdetermines that a jury verdict cannot be sustained due to

reversed, and shall specify the grounds for granting or denying the motion
for the new trial. If the motion for a new trial is thus conditionally
granted, the order thereon does not affect the finality of the judgment.
In case the motion for a new trial has been conditionally granted and the
judgment is reversed on appeal, the new trial shall proceed unless the
appellate court has otherwise ordered. In case the motion for a new trial
has been conditionally denied, the appellee on appeal may assert error in
that denial; and if the judgment is reversed on appeal, subsequent proceedings shall be in accordance with the order of the appellate court.

"(2) Any motion for a new trial under Rule 59 by a party against whom
judgment as a matter of law is rendered shall be filed no later than 10
days after entry of the judgment.

"(d) Same: Denial of Motion for Judgment as a Matter of Law. If
the motion for judgment as a matter of law is denied, the party who prevailed on that motion may, as appellee, assert grounds entitling the party
to a new trial in the event the appellate court concludes that the trial
court erred in denying the motion for judgment. If the appellate court
reverses the judgment, nothing in this rule precludes it from determining
that the appellee is entitled to a new trial, or from directing the trial court
to determine whether a new trial shall be granted."

528US2 Unit: $U26 [06-18-01 18:03:51] PAGES PGT: OPIN

449Cite as: 528 U. S. 440 (2000)
Opinion of the Court
an error in the admission of evidence, the appellate courtmay not order the entry of judgment for the verdict loser,

but must instead remand the case to the trial court for anew trial determination. Brief for Petitioner 20, 22; Reply
Brief 1, 17. Nothing in Rule 50 expressly addresses thisquestion.

5

In a series of pre-1967 decisions, this Court refrained fromdeciding the question, while emphasizing the importance of

giving the party deprived of a verdict the opportunity toinvoke the discretion of the trial judge to grant a new trial.
See Cone v. West Virginia Pulp & Paper Co., 330 U. S. 212,216-218 (1947);

Globe Liquor Co. v. San Roman, 332 U. S.571, 573-574 (1948); Johnson v. New York, N. H. & H. R. Co.,

344 U. S. 48, 54, n. 3 (1952); see also 9A Wright & Miller$ 2540, at 370. Then, in Neely, the Court reviewed its prior
jurisprudence and ruled definitively that if a motion for judg-ment as a matter of law is erroneously denied by the district
court, the appellate court does have the power to order theentry of judgment for the moving party. 386 U. S., at 326;
see also Louis, Post-Verdict Rulings on the Sufficiency of theEvidence: Neely v. Martin K. Eby Construction Co. Revisited, 1975 Wis. L. Rev. 503 (surveying chronologically Court'sdecisions bearing on appellate direction of judgment as a
matter of law).

Neely first addressed the compatibility of appellate direc-tion of judgment as a matter of law (then styled "judgment

n.o.v.") with the Seventh Amendment's jury trial guarantee.It was settled, the Court pointed out, that a trial court, pur5 According to the Advisory Committee Notes to the 1963 Rule 50
amendments, this "omission" was not inadvertent:

"Subdivision (d) does not attempt a regulation of all aspects of the procedure where the motion for judgment n.o.v. and any accompanying motion
for a new trial are denied, since the problems have not been fully canvassed in the decisions and the procedure is in some respects still in a
formative stage. It is, however, designed to give guidance on certain
important features of the practice." Advisory Committee's Notes on Fed.
Rule Civ. Proc. 50(d), 28 U. S. C. App., p. 769.

528US2 Unit: $U26 [06-18-01 18:03:51] PAGES PGT: OPIN
450 WEISGRAM v. MARLEY CO.

Opinion of the Court
suant to Rule 50(b), could enter judgment for the verdictloser without offense to the Seventh Amendment. 386 U. S.,

at 321 (citing Montgomery Ward & Co. v. Duncan, 311 U. S.243 (1940)). "As far as the Seventh Amendment's right to
jury trial is concerned," the Court reasoned, "there is no
greater restriction on the province of the jury when an appellate court enters judgment n.o.v. than when a trial court
does"; accordingly, the Court concluded, "there is no constitutional bar to an appellate court granting judgment n.o.v."
386 U. S., at 322 (citing Baltimore & Carolina Line, Inc. v.
Redman, 295 U. S. 654 (1935)). The Court next turned to
"the statutory grant of appellate jurisdiction to the courts of
appeals [in 28 U. S. C. $ 2106]," 6 which it found "certainly
broad enough to include the power to direct entry of judgment n.o.v. on appeal." 386 U. S., at 322. The remainder of
the Neely opinion effectively complements Rules 50(c) and
50(d), providing guidance on the appropriate exercise of the
appellate court's discretion when it reverses the trial court's
denial of a defendant's Rule 50(b) motion for judgment as a
matter of law. Id., at 322-330; cf. supra, at 449, n. 5 (1963
observation of Advisory Committee that, as of that year,
"problems [concerning motions for judgment coupled with
new trial motions] ha[d] not been fully canvassed").

Neely represents no volte-face in the Court's understanding of the respective competences of trial and appellate
forums. Immediately after declaring that appellate courts
have the power to order the entry of judgment for a verdict
loser, the Court cautioned:

6 Section 2106 reads:
"The Supreme Court or any other court of appellate jurisdiction may
affirm, modify, vacate, set aside or reverse any judgment, decree, or order
of a court lawfully brought before it for review, and may remand the cause
and direct the entry of such appropriate judgment, decree, or order, or
require such further proceedings to be had as may be just under the
circumstances."

528US2 Unit: $U26 [06-18-01 18:03:51] PAGES PGT: OPIN

451Cite as: 528 U. S. 440 (2000)
Opinion of the Court
"Part of the Court's concern has been to protect therights of the party whose jury verdict has been set aside

on appeal and who may have valid grounds for a newtrial, some or all of which should be passed upon by the
district court, rather than the court of appeals, becauseof the trial judge's first-hand knowledge of witnesses,
testimony, and issues--because of his `feel' for the overall case. These are very valid concerns to which thecourt of appeals should be constantly alert." 386 U. S.,

at 325.7
Nevertheless, the Court in Neely continued, due consider-ation of the rights of the verdict winner and the closeness of

the trial court to the case "do[es] not justify an ironclad rulethat the court of appeals should never order dismissal or
judgment for the defendant when the plaintiff 's verdict has
been set aside on appeal." Id., at 326. "Such a rule," theCourt concluded, "would not serve the purpose of Rule 50

to speed litigation and to avoid unnecessary retrials." Ibid.
Neely ultimately clarified that if a court of appeals determines that the district court erroneously denied a motion forjudgment as a matter of law, the appellate court may (1)

order a new trial at the verdict winner's request or on itsown motion, (2) remand the case for the trial court to decide
whether a new trial or entry of judgment for the defendantis warranted, or (3) direct the entry of judgment as a matter

7 Iacurci v. Lummus Co., 387 U. S. 86 (1967) (per curiam), decided
shortly after Neely, is illustrative. There, the Court reversed the appellate court's direction of the entry of judgment as a matter of law for the
defendant and instructed the appeals court to remand the case to the trial
court for a new trial determination; the Court pointed to the jury's failure
to respond to four out of five special interrogatories, which left issues of
negligence unresolved, and concluded that in the particular circumstances,
the trial judge "was in the best position to pass upon the question of a
new trial in light of the evidence, his charge to the jury, and the jury's
verdict and interrogatory answers." 387 U. S., at 88.

528US2 Unit: $U26 [06-18-01 18:03:51] PAGES PGT: OPIN
452 WEISGRAM v. MARLEY CO.

Opinion of the Court
of law for the defendant. Id., at 327-330; see also 9AWright & Miller $ 2540, at 371-372.

III
The parties before us--and Court of Appeals opinions--diverge regarding Neely's scope. Weisgram, in line with

some appellate decisions, posits a distinction between casesin which judgment as a matter of law is requested based on
plaintiff 's failure to produce enough evidence to warrant ajury verdict, as in Neely, and cases in which the proof introduced becomes insufficient because the court of appealsdetermines that certain evidence should not have been
admitted, as in the instant case.8 Insufficiency caused bydeletion of evidence, Weisgram contends, requires an "automatic remand" to the district court for consideration whethera new trial is warranted. Brief for Petitioner 20, 22; Reply
Brief 1, 3-6; Tr. of Oral Arg. 6, 18, 23.9

8 See Tr. of Oral Arg. 6, 8, 17-18, 23, 26-28, 31; Reply Brief 3-6; Brief
for Respondents 24-29. Compare, e. g., Redman, 111 F. 3d, at 1178-1179
(treating judgment as a matter of law based on insufficiency caused by
admission error identically to initial insufficiency); Smelser, 105 F. 3d, at
301, 306 (same); Wright, 91 F. 3d, at 1108 (same); Lightning Lube, Inc. v.
Witco Corp., 4 F. 3d 1153, 1198-1200 (CA3 1993) (rejecting distinction),
with Kinser, 184 F. 3d, at 1267, 1269 (insufficiency caused by admission
error inappropriate basis for judgment as a matter of law); Jackson v.
Pleasant Grove Health Care Center, 980 F. 2d 692, 695-696 (CA11 1993)
(same); Douglass v. Eaton Corp., 956 F. 2d 1339, 1343-1344 (CA6 1992)
(same); Midcontinent Broadcasting Co. v. North Central Airlines, Inc.,
471 F. 2d 357, 358-359 (CA8 1973) (same).

9 Weisgram misreads the Court's decision in Montgomery Ward & Co. v.

Duncan, 311 U. S. 243 (1940), to support his position. Reply Brief 3-4;
Tr. of Oral Arg. 19. The Court in Montgomery Ward directed that a trial
judge who grants the verdict loser's motion for judgment n.o.v. should also
rule conditionally on that party's alternative motion for a new trial. 311
U. S., at 253-254. The conditional ruling would be reviewed by the court
of appeals only if it reversed the entry of judgment n.o.v. Proceeding in
this manner would avoid protracting the proceedings by obviating the

528US2 Unit: $U26 [06-18-01 18:03:51] PAGES PGT: OPIN

453Cite as: 528 U. S. 440 (2000)
Opinion of the Court
Weisgram relies on cases holding that, in fairness to a ver-dict winner who may have relied on erroneously admitted

evidence, courts confronting questions of judgment as a mat-ter of law should rule on the record as it went to the jury,
without excising evidence inadmissible under Federal Ruleof Evidence 702. See, e. g., Kinser v. Gehl Co., 184 F. 3d
1259, 1267, 1269 (CA10 1999); Schudel v. General Electric Co.,120 F. 3d 991, 995-996 (CA9 1997);

Jackson v. PleasantGrove Health Care Center, 980 F. 2d 692, 695-696 (CA11 1993);

Midcontinent Broadcasting, 471 F. 2d, at 358. But seeLightning Lube, Inc. v. Witco Corp., 4 F. 3d 1153, 1198-1200
(CA3 1993). These decisions are of questionable consistencywith Rule 50(a)(1), which states that in ruling on a motion
for judgment as a matter of law, the court is to inquire
need for multiple appeals. See id., at 253. Rule 50 was amended in 1963
to codify Montgomery Ward's instruction. See Fed. Rule Civ. Proc.
50(c)(1).

In the course of its elaboration, the Montgomery Ward Court observed
that a "motion for judgment cannot be granted unless, as a matter of law,
the opponent of the movant failed to make a case." 311 U. S., at 251. In
contrast, the Court stated, a new trial motion may invoke the court's discretion, bottomed on such standard new trial grounds as "the verdict is
against the weight of the evidence," or "the damages are excessive," or
substantial errors were made "in admission or rejection of evidence."
Ibid.; see also id., at 249.

Many rulings on evidence, of course, do not bear dispositively on the
adequacy of the proof to support a verdict. For example, the evidence
erroneously admitted or excluded may strengthen or weaken one side's
case without being conclusive as to the litigation's outcome. Or, the evidence may abundantly support a jury's verdict, but one or another item
may have been unduly prejudicial to the verdict loser and excludable on
that account. See Fed. Rule Evid. 403 (relevant evidence "may be excluded if its probative value is substantially outweighed by the danger
of unfair prejudice"). Such run-of-the-mine, ordinarily nondispositive,
evidentiary rulings, we take it, were the sort contemplated in Montgomery Ward. Cf. 311 U. S., at 245-246 (indicating that sufficiency-of-theevidence challenges are properly raised by motion for judgment, while
other rulings on evidence may be assigned as grounds for a new trial).

528US2 Unit: $U26 [06-18-01 18:03:51] PAGES PGT: OPIN
454 WEISGRAM v. MARLEY CO.

Opinion of the Court
whether there is any "legally sufficient evidentiary basis for
a reasonable jury to find for [the opponent of the motion]."
Inadmissible evidence contributes nothing to a "legally
sufficient evidentiary basis." See Brooke Group Ltd. v.
Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corp., 509 U. S. 209, 242
(1993) ("When an expert opinion is not supported by sufficient facts to validate it in the eyes of the law, or when indisputable record facts contradict or otherwise render the
opinion unreasonable, it cannot support a jury's verdict.").10

As Neely recognized, appellate rulings on post-trial pleas
for judgment as a matter of law call for the exercise of "informed discretion," 386 U. S., at 329, and fairness to the parties is surely key to the exercise of that discretion. But fairness concerns should loom as large when the verdict winner,
in the appellate court's judgment, failed to present sufficient
evidence as when the appellate court declares inadmissible
record evidence essential to the verdict winner's case. In
both situations, the party whose verdict is set aside on appeal will have had notice, before the close of evidence, of
the alleged evidentiary deficiency. See Fed. Rule Civ. Proc.
50(a)(2) (motion for judgment as a matter of law "shall specify . . . the law and facts on which the moving party is
entitled to the judgment"). On appeal, both will have the
opportunity to argue in support of the jury's verdict or, alternatively, for a new trial. And if judgment is instructed for

10 Weisgram additionally urges that the Seventh Amendment prohibits
a court of appeals from directing judgment as a matter of law on a record
different from the one considered by the jury. Brief for Petitioner 20-22;
Reply Brief 6-8. Neely made clear that a court of appeals may order
entry of judgment as a matter of law on sufficiency-of-the-evidence
grounds without violating the Seventh Amendment. 386 U. S., at 321-
322. Entering judgment for the verdict loser when all of the evidence
was properly before the jury is scarcely less destructive of the jury's verdict than is entry of such a judgment based on a record made insufficient
by the removal of evidence the jury should not have had before it.

528US2 Unit: $U26 [06-18-01 18:03:51] PAGES PGT: OPIN

455Cite as: 528 U. S. 440 (2000)
Opinion of the Court
the verdict loser, both will have a further chance to urge anew trial in a rehearing petition.

11

Since Daubert, moreover, parties relying on expert evi-dence have had notice of the exacting standards of reliability

such evidence must meet. 509 U. S. 579; see also Kumho
Tire Co. v. Carmichael, 526 U. S. 137 (1999) (rendered shortly
after the Eighth Circuit's decision in Weisgram's case); 12
General Electric Co. v. Joiner, 522 U. S. 136 (1997). It is
implausible to suggest, post-Daubert, that parties will initially present less than their best expert evidence in the expectation of a second chance should their first try fail. We
therefore find unconvincing Weisgram's fears that allowing
courts of appeals to direct the entry of judgment for defend11 We recognize that it is awkward for an appellee, who is wholeheartedly urging the correctness of the verdict, to point out, in the alternative,
grounds for a new trial. See Kaplan, Amendments of the Federal Rules
of Civil Procedure, 1961-1963 (II), 77 Harv. L. Rev. 801, 819 (1964) ("A
verdict winner may suffer forensic embarrassment in arguing for a new
trial on his own behalf, faute de mieux, while seeking to defend his verdict
against all attacks by his opponent."). A petition for rehearing in the
court of appeals, however, involves no conflicting tugs. We are not persuaded by Weisgram's objection that the 14 days allowed for the filing
of a petition for rehearing is insufficient time to formulate compelling
grounds for a new trial. Reply Brief 15-16. This time period is longer
than the ten days allowed a verdict winner to move for a new trial after
a trial court grants judgment as a matter of law. See Fed. Rule Civ. Proc.
50(c)(2). Nor do we foreclose the possibility that a court of appeals might
properly deny a petition for rehearing because it pressed an argument
that plainly could have been formulated in a party's brief. See Louis,
Post-Verdict Rulings on the Sufficiency of the Evidence: Neely v. Martin
K. Eby Construction Co. Revisited, 1975 Wis. L. Rev. 503, 519-520, n. 90
("[I]t is often difficult to argue that a gap in one's proof can be filled before
a court has held that the gap exists . . . ." On the other hand, "the brief
or oral argument will suffice . . . when the area of the alleged evidentiary
insufficiency has previously been clearly identified." (citation omitted)).

12 We note that the decision in Kumho is consistent with Eighth Circuit

precedent existing at the time of trial in Weisgram's case. See, e. g.,
Peitzmeier v. Hennessy Industries, Inc., 97 F. 3d 293, 297 (CA8 1996).

528US2 Unit: $U26 [06-18-01 18:03:51] PAGES PGT: OPIN
456 WEISGRAM v. MARLEY CO.

Opinion of the Court
ants will punish plaintiffs who could have shored up theircases by other means had they known their expert testimony

would be found inadmissible. See Brief for Petitioner 18,25. In this case, for example, although Weisgram was on
notice every step of the way that Marley was challenginghis experts, he made no attempt to add or substitute other
evidence. See Lujan v. National Wildlife Federation, 497U. S. 871, 897 (1990) ("[A] litigant's failure to buttress its position because of confidence in the strength of that position isalways indulged in at the litigant's own risk.").

After holding Weisgram's expert testimony inadmissible,the Court of Appeals evaluated the evidence presented at
trial, viewing it in the light most favorable to Weisgram, andfound the properly admitted evidence insufficient to support
the verdict. 169 F. 3d, at 516-517. Weisgram offered nospecific grounds for a new trial to the Eighth Circuit.

13

Even in the petition for rehearing, Weisgram argued onlythat the appellate court had misapplied state law, did not

have the authority to direct judgment, and had failed to giveadequate deference to the trial court's evidentiary rulings.
App. 131-151. The Eighth Circuit concluded that this was"not a close case." 169 F. 3d, at 517, n. 2. In these circumstances, the Eighth Circuit did not abuse its discretion bydirecting entry of judgment for Marley, instead of returning
the case to the District Court for further proceedings.

* * *
Neely recognized that there are myriad situations in whichthe determination whether a new trial is in order is best

made by the trial judge. 386 U. S., at 325-326. Neely held,

13 Cf. Neely v. Martin K. Eby Constr. Co., 386 U. S. 317, 327 (1967) (observing that it would not be clear that litigation should be terminated
for evidentiary insufficiency when, for example, the trial court excluded
evidence that would have strengthened the verdict winner's case or "itself
caused the insufficiency . . . by erroneously [imposing] too high a burden
of proof").

528US2 Unit: $U26 [06-18-01 18:03:51] PAGES PGT: OPIN

457Cite as: 528 U. S. 440 (2000)
Opinion of the Court
however, that there are also cases in which a court of appealsmay appropriately instruct the district court to enter judgment as a matter of law against the jury-verdict winner.Id., at 326. We adhere to Neely's holding and rationale, and
today hold that the authority of courts of appeals to directthe entry of judgment as a matter of law extends to cases in
which, on excision of testimony erroneously admitted, thereremains insufficient evidence to support the jury's verdict.

For the reasons stated, the judgment of the Court ofAppeals for the Eighth Circuit is

Affirmed.

528US2 Unit: $U27 [06-15-01 20:21:49] PAGES PGT: OPIN
458 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

Syllabus

HUNT-WESSON, INC. v. FRANCHISE TAX BOARD OFCALIFORNIA

certiorari to the court of appeal of california,first appellate district
No. 98-2043. Argued January 12, 2000--Decided February 22, 2000
A State may tax a proportionate share of the "unitary" income of a nondomiciliary corporation that carries out a particular business both inside
and outside that State, Allied-Signal, Inc. v. Director, Div. of Taxation,
504 U. S. 768, 772, but may not tax "nonunitary" income received by a
nondomiciliary corporation from an "unrelated business activity" which
constitutes a "discrete business enterprise," e. g., id., at 773. California's "unitary business" income-calculation system for determining that
State's taxable share of a multistate corporation's business income authorizes a deduction for interest expense, but permits (with one adjustment) use of that deduction only to the extent that the amount exceeds
certain out-of-state income arising from the unrelated business activity
of a discrete business enterprise, i. e., nonunitary income that the State
could not otherwise tax under this Court's decisions. Petitioner HuntWesson, Inc., is a successor in interest to a nondomiciliary of California
that incurred interest expense during the years at issue. California
disallowed the deduction for that expense insofar as the nondomiciliary
corporation had received relevant nonunitary dividend and interest income. Hunt-Wesson challenged the disallowance's constitutional validity. The State Court of Appeal found it constitutional, and the State
Supreme Court denied review.

Held: Because California's interest deduction offset provision is not a reasonable allocation of expense deductions to the income that the expense
generates, it constitutes impermissible taxation of income outside the
State's jurisdictional reach in violation of the Federal Constitution's Due
Process and Commerce Clauses. States may not tax income arising out
of interstate activities--even on a proportional basis--unless there is a
"minimal connection" or "nexus" between such activities and the taxing
State, and a "rational relationship between the income attributed to the
State and the intrastate values of the enterprise." Container Corp.
of America v. Franchise Tax Bd., 463 U. S. 159, 165-166. Although
California's statute does not directly impose a tax on nonunitary income,
it measures the amount of additional unitary income that becomes subject to its taxation (through reducing the deduction) by precisely the
amount of nonunitary income that the taxpayer has received. Thus,
that which California calls a deduction limitation would seem, in fact, to

528US2 Unit: $U27 [06-15-01 20:21:49] PAGES PGT: OPIN

459Cite as: 528 U. S. 458 (2000)
Syllabus
be an impermissible tax. National Life Ins. Co. v. United States, 277
U. S. 508. If California could show that its deduction limit actually reflected the portion of the expense properly related to nonunitary income,
however, the limit would not, in fact, be a tax on that income, but merely
a proper allocation of the deduction. See Denman v. Slayton, 282 U. S.
514. The state statute, however, pushes this proportional allocation
concept past reasonable bounds. In effect, it assumes that a corporation that borrows any money at all has really borrowed that money to
"purchase or carry," cf. 26 U. S. C. $ 265(a)(2), its nonunitary investments
(as long as the corporation has such investments), even if the corporation
has put no money at all into nonunitary business that year. No other
taxing jurisdiction has taken so absolute an approach. Rules used by
the Federal Government and many States that utilize a ratio of assets
and gross income to allocate a corporation's total interest expense between domestic and foreign source income recognize that borrowing,
even if supposedly undertaken for the unitary business, may also support nonunitary income generation. However, unlike the California
rule, ratio-based rules do not assume that all borrowing first supports
nonunitary investment. Rather, they allocate each borrowing between
the two types of income. Over time, it is reasonable to expect that the
ratios used will reflect approximately the amount of borrowing that
firms have actually devoted to generating each type of income. Conversely, it is simply not reasonable to expect that a rule that attributes
all borrowing first to nonunitary investment will accurately reflect the
amount of borrowing that has actually been devoted to generating each
type of income. Pp. 463-468.

Reversed and remanded.

Breyer, J., delivered the opinion for a unanimous Court.

Walter Hellerstein argued the cause for petitioner. Withhim on the briefs were Charles J. Moll III, Edwin P. Antolin, Fred O. Marcus, and Drew S. Days III.David Lew, Deputy Attorney General of California, argued the cause for respondent. With him on the brief wereBill Lockyer, Attorney General, and Timothy G. Laddish,
Senior Assistant Attorney General.*

*Briefs of amici curiae urging reversal were filed for General Electric
Co. by Carter G. Phillips, Scott J. Heyman, Nathan C. Sheers, John
Amato, Amy Eisenstadt, and Frank A. Yanover; and for Tax Executives
Institute, Inc., by Timothy J. McCormally and Mary L. Fahey.

Briefs of amici curiae urging affirmance were filed for the State of
Idaho et al. by Alan G. Lance, Attorney General of Idaho, and Geoffrey L.

528US2 Unit: $U27 [06-15-01 20:21:49] PAGES PGT: OPIN
460 HUNT-WESSON, INC. v. FRANCHISE TAX BD. OF CAL.

Opinion of the Court
Justice Breyer delivered the opinion of the Court.
A State may tax a proportionate share of the income of anondomiciliary corporation that carries out a particular business both inside and outside that State. Allied-Signal, Inc.v.

Director, Div. of Taxation, 504 U. S. 768, 772 (1992). TheState, however, may not tax income received by a corporation from an " ` "unrelated business activity" ' which consti-tutes a ` "discrete business enterprise." ' " Id., at 773 (quoting Exxon Corp. v. Department of Revenue of Wis., 447 U. S.207, 224 (1980), in turn quoting Mobil Oil Corp. v. Commissioner of Taxes of Vt., 445 U. S. 425, 442, 439 (1980)). Cali-fornia's rules for taxing its share of a multistate corporation's
income authorize a deduction for interest expense. Butthey permit (with one adjustment) use of that deduction

onlyto the extent that the amount exceeds certain out-of-state

income arising from the unrelated business activity of a dis-crete business enterprise, i. e., income that the State could
not otherwise tax. We must decide whether those rules vio-late the Constitution's Due Process and Commerce Clauses.
We conclude that they do. I

The legal issue is less complicated than may first appear,as examples will help to show. California, like many other
States, uses what is called a "unitary business" income-calculation system for determining its taxable share of a
multistate corporation's business income. In effect, thatsystem first determines the corporation's total income from
its nationwide business. During the years at issue, it then
averaged three ratios--those of the firm's California prop-erty, payroll, and sales to total property, payroll, and sales--

to make a combined ratio. Cal. Rev. & Tax Code Ann.
Thorpe, Deputy Attorney General, Bruce M. Botelho, Attorney General
of Alaska, Joseph P. Mazurek, Attorney General of Montana, and Heidi
Heitkamp, Attorney General of North Dakota; and for the Multistate Tax
Commission by Paull Mines.

528US2 Unit: $U27 [06-15-01 20:21:49] PAGES PGT: OPIN

461Cite as: 528 U. S. 458 (2000)
Opinion of the Court

$$ 25128, 25129, 25132, 25134 (West 1979). Finally, it mul-tiplies total income by the combined ratio. The result is

"California's share," to which California then applies itscorporate income tax. If, for example, an Illinois tin can
manufacturer, doing business in California and elsewhere,earns $10 million from its total nationwide tin can sales, and
if California's formula determines that the manufacturer
does 10% of its business in California, then California willimpose its income tax upon 10% of the corporation's tin can

income, $1 million.The income of which California taxes a percentage is
constitutionally limited to a corporation's "unitary" income.
Unitary income normally includes all income from a corporation's business activities, but excludes income that "derive[s]
from unrelated business activity which constitutes a discrete
business enterprise," Allied-Signal, 504 U. S., at 773 (internal quotation marks omitted). As we have said, this latter
"nonunitary" income normally is not taxable by any State
except the corporation's State of domicile (and the States
in which the "discrete enterprise" carries out its business).
Ibid.

Any income tax system must have rules for determining
the amount of net income to be taxed. California's system,
like others, basically does so by asking the corporation to
add up its gross income and then deduct costs. One of the
costs that California permits the corporation to deduct is
interest expense. The statutory language that authorizes
that deduction--the language here at issue--contains an important limitation. It says that the amount of "interest deductible" shall be the amount by which "interest expense
exceeds interest and dividend income . . . not subject to allocation by formula," i. e., the amount by which the interest
expense exceeds the interest and dividends that the nondomiciliary corporation has received from nonunitary businessor investment. Cal. Rev. & Tax Code Ann. $ 24344 (West
1979) (emphasis added); Appendix, infra. Suppose the Illi528US2 Unit: $U27 [06-15-01 20:21:49] PAGES PGT: OPIN
462 HUNT-WESSON, INC. v. FRANCHISE TAX BD. OF CAL.

Opinion of the Court
nois tin can manufacturer has interest expense of $150,000;and suppose it receives $100,000 in dividend income from a

nonunitary New Zealand sheep-farming subsidiary. Califor-nia's rule authorizes an interest deduction, not of $150,000,
but of $50,000, for the deduction is allowed only insofar asthe interest expense "exceeds" this other unrelated income.

Other language in the statute makes the matter a little
more complex. One part makes clear that, irrespective ofnonunitary income, the corporation may use the deduction

against unitary interest income that it earns. $ 24344.This means that if the Illinois tin can manufacturer has
earned $100,000 from tin can related interest, say, interest
paid on its tin can receipt bank accounts, the manufacturer
can use $100,000 of its interest expense deduction to offset
that interest income (though it would still lose the remaining
$50,000 of deduction because of income from the New
Zealand sheep farm). Another part provides an exception
to the extent that the subsidiary paying the dividend has
paid taxes to California. $$ 24344, 24402. If the sheep farm
were in California, not New Zealand (or at least to the extent
it were taxable in California), the tin can manufacturer
would not lose the deduction. We need not consider either
of these complications here.

One final complication involves a dispute between the parties over the amount of interest expense that the California
statute at issue covers. Hunt-Wesson, Inc., claims that California (at least during the years at issue here) required interstate corporations first to determine what part of their interest expense was for interest related to the unitary business
and what part was for interest related to other, nonunitary
matters. It says that the statute then required it to put the
latter to the side, so that only interest related to the unitary
business was at issue. California agrees that the form it
provided to corporations during the years at issue did work
this way, but states that the form did not interpret the statute correctly. In its view, the statute takes all interest ex528US2 Unit: $U27 [06-15-01 20:21:49] PAGES PGT: OPIN

463Cite as: 528 U. S. 458 (2000)
Opinion of the Court
pense into account. Apparently California now believesthat, if the tin can manufacturer had $100,000 interest expense related to its tin can business, and another $50,000interest expense related to the New Zealand sheep farm (say,
money borrowed to buy shares in the farm), then California'sstatute would count a total interest expense of $150,000, all
of which California would permit it to deduct from its uni-tary tin can business income if, for example, it had no nonunitary New Zealand sheep farm income in that particularyear. This matter, arguably irrelevant to the tax years here
in question (Hunt-Wesson reported no nonunitary interestexpense), is also irrelevant to our legal result. Therefore,
we need not consider this particular dispute further.The question before us then is reasonably straightforward:
Does the Constitution permit California to carve out an ex-ception to its interest expense deduction, which it measures
by the amount of nonunitary dividend and interest incomethat the nondomiciliary corporation has received? Petitioner, Hunt-Wesson, Inc., is successor in interest to a non-domiciliary corporation. That corporation incurred interest
expense during the years at issue. California disallowed thededuction for that expense insofar as the corporation had
received relevant nonunitary dividend and interest income.Hunt-Wesson challenged the constitutional validity of the
disallowance. The California Court of Appeal found it con-stitutional, No. A079969 (Dec. 11, 1998), App. 54; see also
Pacific Tel. & Tel. Co. v. Franchise Tax Bd., 7 Cal. 3d 544,498 P. 2d 1030 (1972) (upholding statute), and the California
Supreme Court denied review, App. 67. We granted certio-rari to consider the question.

II
Relevant precedent makes clear that California's rule vio-lates the Due Process and Commerce Clauses of the Federal

Constitution. In Container Corp. of America v. Franchise
Tax Bd., 463 U. S. 159 (1983), this Court wrote that the "Due

528US2 Unit: $U27 [06-15-01 20:21:49] PAGES PGT: OPIN
464 HUNT-WESSON, INC. v. FRANCHISE TAX BD. OF CAL.

Opinion of the Court
Process and Commerce Clauses . . . do not allow a Stateto tax income arising out of interstate activities--even on a

proportional basis--unless there is a ` "minimal connection"or "nexus" between the interstate activities and the taxing
State, and "a rational relationship between the income at-tributed to the State and the intrastate values of the enterprise." ' " Id., at 165-166 (quoting Exxon Corp., 447 U. S.,
at 219-220, in turn quoting Mobil Oil Corp., 445 U. S., at436, 437). Cf.

International Harvester Co. v. Department
of Treasury, 322 U. S. 340, 353 (1944) (Rutledge, J., concur-ring in part and dissenting in part) ("If there is a want of

due process to sustain" a tax, "by that fact alone any burden
the tax imposes on the commerce among the states becomes
`undue' "). The parties concede that the relevant income
here--that which falls within the scope of the statutory
phrase "not allocable by formula"--is income that, like the
New Zealand sheep farm in our example, by itself bears no
"rational relationship" or "nexus" to California. Under our
precedent, this "nonunitary" income may not constitutionally
be taxed by a State other than the corporation's domicile,
unless there is some other connection between the taxing
State and the income. Allied-Signal, 504 U. S., at 772-773.

California's statute does not directly impose a tax on nonunitary income. Rather, it simply denies the taxpayer use
of a portion of a deduction from unitary income (income like
that from tin can manufacture in our example), income which
does bear a "rational relationship" or "nexus" to California.
But, as this Court once put the matter, a " `tax on sleeping
measured by the number of pairs of shoes you have in your
closet is a tax on shoes.' " Trinova Corp. v. Michigan Dept.
of Treasury, 498 U. S. 358, 374 (1991) (quoting Jenkins, State
Taxation of Interstate Commerce, 27 Tenn. L. Rev. 239, 242
(1960)). California's rule measures the amount of additional
unitary income that becomes subject to its taxation (through
reducing the deduction) by precisely the amount of nonunitary income that the taxpayer has received. And for that

528US2 Unit: $U27 [06-15-01 20:21:49] PAGES PGT: OPIN

465Cite as: 528 U. S. 458 (2000)
Opinion of the Court
reason, that which California calls a deduction limitationwould seem, in fact, to amount to an impermissible tax.

National Life Ins. Co. v. United States, 277 U. S. 508 (1928)(finding that a federal statute that reduced an insurance company's tax deduction for reserves by the amount of tax-exempt interest the company received from a holding of
"tax-free" municipal bonds constituted unlawful taxation of
tax-exempt income).However, this principle does not end the matter. California offers a justification for its rule that seeks to relate thededuction limit to collection of California's tax on unitary
income. If California could show that its deduction limit actually reflected the portion of the expense properly related
to nonunitary income, the limit would not, in fact, be a tax
on nonunitary income. Rather, it would merely be a proper
allocation of the deduction. See Denman v. Slayton, 282
U. S. 514 (1931) (upholding Federal Tax Code's denial of interest expense deduction where borrowing is incurred to
"purchase or carry" tax-exempt obligations).

California points out that money is fungible, and that consequently it is often difficult to say whether a particular borrowing is "really" for the purpose of generating unitary income or for the purpose of generating nonunitary income.
California's rule prevents a firm from claiming that it paid
interest on borrowing for the first purpose (say, to build a
tin can plant) when the borrowing is "really" for the second
(say, to buy shares in the New Zealand sheep farm). Without some such rule, firms might borrow up to the hilt to
support their (more highly taxed) unitary business needs,
and use the freed unitary business resources to purchase
(less highly taxed) nonunitary business assets. This "tax
arbitrage" problem, California argues, is why this Court
upheld the precursor of 26 U. S. C. $ 265(a)(2), which denies
the taxpayer an interest deduction insofar as the interest
expense was "incurred or continued to purchase or carry"
tax-exempt obligations or securities. Denman v. Slayton,

528US2 Unit: $U27 [06-15-01 20:21:49] PAGES PGT: OPIN
466 HUNT-WESSON, INC. v. FRANCHISE TAX BD. OF CAL.

Opinion of the Court
supra, at 519. This Court has consistently upheld deduction
denials that represent reasonable efforts properly to allocate
a deduction between taxable and tax-exempt income, even
though such denials mean that the taxpayer owes more than
he would without the denial. E. g., First Nat. Bank of Atlanta v. Bartow County Bd. of Tax Assessors, 470 U. S. 583
(1985).

The California statute, however, pushes this concept past
reasonable bounds. In effect, it assumes that a corporation
that borrows any money at all has really borrowed that
money to "purchase or carry," cf. 26 U. S. C. $ 265(a)(2), its
nonunitary investments (as long as the corporation has such
investments), even if the corporation has put no money at all
into nonunitary business that year. Presumably California
believes that, in such a case, the unitary borrowing supports
the nonunitary business to the extent that the corporation
has any nonunitary investment because the corporation
might have, for example, sold the sheep farm and used the
proceeds to help its tin can operation instead of borrowing.

At the very least, this last assumption is unrealistic. And
that lack of practical realism helps explain why California's
rule goes too far. A state tax code that unrealistically assumes that every tin can borrowing first helps the sheep
farm (or the contrary view that every sheep farm borrowing
first helps the tin can business) simply because of the theoretical possibility of a hypothetical sale of either business is
a code that fails to "actually reflect a reasonable sense of how
income is generated," Container Corp., 463 U. S., at 169, and
in doing so assesses a tax upon constitutionally protected
nonunitary income. That is so even if, as California claims,
its rule attributes all interest expense both to unitary and
to nonunitary income. And it is even more obviously so if,
as Hunt-Wesson claims, California attributes all sheep-farmrelated borrowing to the sheep farm while attributing all
tin-can-related borrowing first to the sheep farm as well.

528US2 Unit: $U27 [06-15-01 20:21:49] PAGES PGT: OPIN

467Cite as: 528 U. S. 458 (2000)
Opinion of the Court
No other taxing jurisdiction, whether federal or state, has
taken so absolute an approach to the tax arbitrage problem
that California presents. Federal law in comparable circumstances (allocating interest expense between domestic and
foreign source income) uses a ratio of assets and gross income to allocate a corporation's total interest expense. See
26 CFR $$ 1.861-9T(f), (g) (1999). In a similar, but much
more limited, set of circumstances, the federal rules use a
kind of modified tracing approach--requiring that a certain
amount of interest expense be allocated to foreign income in
situations where a United States business group's loans to
foreign subsidiaries and the group's total borrowing have
increased relative to recent years (subject to a number of
adjustments), and both loans and borrowing exceed certain
amounts relative to total assets. See $ 1.861-10. Some
States other than California follow a tracing approach. See,
e. g., D. C. Mun. Regs., Tit. 9, $ 123.4 (1998); Ga. Rules and
Regs. $ 560-7-7.03(3) (1999). Some use a set of ratio-based
formulas to allocate borrowing between the generation
of unitary and nonunitary income. See, e. g., Ala. Code

$ 40-18-35(a)(2) (1998); La. Reg. $ 1130(B)(1) (1988). And
some use a combination of the two approaches. See, e. g.,
N. M. Admin. Code, Tit. 3, $ 5.5.8 (1999); Utah Code Ann.

$ 59-7-101 (19) (1999). No other jurisdiction uses a rule like
California's.

Ratio-based rules like the one used by the Federal Government and those used by many States recognize that borrowing, even if supposedly undertaken for the unitary business,
may also (as California argues) support the generation of
nonunitary income. However, unlike the California rule,
ratio-based rules do not assume that all borrowing first supports nonunitary investment. Rather, they allocate each
borrowing between the two types of income. Although they
may not reflect every firm's specific actions in any given
year, it is reasonable to expect that, over some period of

528US2 Unit: $U27 [06-15-01 20:21:49] PAGES PGT: OPIN
468 HUNT-WESSON, INC. v. FRANCHISE TAX BD. OF CAL.

Appendix to opinion of the Court
time, the ratios used will reflect approximately the amount
of borrowing that firms have actually devoted to generating
each type of income. Conversely, it is simply not reasonable
to expect that a rule that attributes all borrowing first to
nonunitary investment will accurately reflect the amount of
borrowing that has actually been devoted to generating each
type of income.

Because California's offset provision is not a reasonable
allocation of expense deductions to the income that the expense generates, it constitutes impermissible taxation of income outside its jurisdictional reach. The provision therefore violates the Due Process and Commerce Clauses of the
Constitution.

The judgment of the California Court of Appeal is reversed, and the case is remanded for proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.

It is so ordered.

APPENDIX TO OPINION OF THE COURT
Cal. Rev. & Tax Code Ann. $ 24344 (West 1979).

"Interest; restrictions

"(a) Except as limited by subsection (b), there shall be allowed as a deduction all interest paid or accrued during the
income year on indebtedness of the taxpayer.

"(b) [T]he interest deductible shall be an amount equal to
interest income subject to allocation by formula, plus the
amount, if any, by which the balance of interest expense exceeds interest and dividend income (except dividends deductible under the provisions of Section 24402) not subject to
allocation by formula. Interest expense not included in the
preceding sentence shall be directly offset against interest
and dividend income (except dividends deductible under the
provisions of Section 24402) not subject to allocation by
formula."

528US2 Unit: $U27 [06-15-01 20:21:49] PAGES PGT: OPIN

469Cite as: 528 U. S. 458 (2000)
Appendix to opinion of the Court
"$ 24402. Dividends
"Dividends received during the income year declared fromincome which has been included in the measure of the taxes

imposed under Chapter 2 or Chapter 3 of this part upon thetaxpayer declaring the dividends."

528US2 Unit: $U28 [06-15-01 20:30:15] PAGES PGT: OPIN
470 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

Syllabus

ROE, WARDEN v. FLORES-ORTEGA
certiorari to the united states court of appeals forthe ninth circuit

No. 98-1441. Argued November 1, 1999--Decided February 23, 2000
Respondent pleaded guilty to second-degree murder. At his sentencing,

the trial judge advised him that he had 60 days to file an appeal. His
counsel, Ms. Kops, wrote "bring appeal papers" in her file, but no notice
of appeal was filed within that time. Respondent's subsequent attempt
to file such notice was rejected as untimely, and his efforts to secure
state habeas relief were unsuccessful. He then filed a federal habeas
petition, alleging constitutionally ineffective assistance of counsel based
on Ms. Kops' failure to file the notice after promising to do so. The
District Court denied relief. The Ninth Circuit reversed, however,
finding that respondent was entitled to relief because, under its precedent, a habeas petitioner need only show that his counsel's failure to file
a notice of appeal was without the petitioner's consent.

Held:

1. Strickland v. Washington, 466 U. S. 668, provides the proper
framework for evaluating a claim that counsel was constitutionally ineffective for failing to file a notice of appeal. Under Strickland, a defendant must show (1) that counsel's representation "fell below an objective
standard of reasonableness," id., at 688, and (2) that counsel's deficient
performance prejudiced the defendant, id., at 694. Pp. 476-486.

(a) Courts must "judge the reasonableness of counsel's conduct on
the facts of the particular case, viewed as of the time of counsel's conduct," 466 U. S., at 690, and "[j]udicial scrutiny of counsel's performance
must be highly deferential," id., at 689. A lawyer who disregards a
defendant's specific instructions to file a notice of appeal acts in a professionally unreasonable manner, see Rodriquez v. United States, 395 U. S.
327, while a defendant who explicitly tells his attorney not to file an
appeal plainly cannot later complain that, by following those instructions, his counsel performed deficiently, see Jones v. Barnes, 463 U. S.
745, 751. The Ninth Circuit adopted a bright-line rule for cases where
the defendant has not clearly conveyed his wishes one way or the other;
in its view, failing to file a notice of appeal without the defendant's consent is per se deficient. The Court rejects that per se rule as inconsistent with Strickland's circumstance-specific reasonableness requirement.
The question whether counsel has performed deficiently in such cases is
best answered by first asking whether counsel in fact consulted with

528US2 Unit: $U28 [06-15-01 20:30:15] PAGES PGT: OPIN

471Cite as: 528 U. S. 470 (2000)
Syllabus
the defendant about an appeal. By "consult," the Court means advising
the defendant about the advantages and disadvantages of taking an appeal and making a reasonable effort to discover the defendant's wishes.
Counsel who consults with the defendant performs in a professionally
unreasonable manner only by failing to follow the defendant's express
instructions about an appeal. If counsel has not consulted, the court
must ask whether that failure itself constitutes deficient performance.
The better practice is for counsel routinely to consult with the defendant about an appeal. Counsel has a constitutionally imposed duty to
consult, however, only when there is reason to think either (1) that a
rational defendant would want to appeal, or (2) that this particular
defendant reasonably demonstrated to counsel that he was interested
in appealing. In making this determination, courts must take into
account all the information counsel knew or should have known. One
highly relevant factor will be whether the conviction follows a trial
or a guilty plea, because a plea both reduces the scope of potentially
appealable issues and may indicate that the defendant seeks an end to
judicial proceedings. Even then, a court must consider such factors as
whether the defendant received the sentence bargained for and whether

the plea expressly reserved or waived some or all appeal rights.
Pp. 477-481.

(b) The second part of the Strickland test requires the defendant
to show prejudice from counsel's deficient performance. Where an ineffective assistance of counsel claim involves counsel's performance during
the course of a legal proceeding, the Court normally applies a strong
presumption of reliability to the proceeding, requiring a defendant to
overcome that presumption by demonstrating that attorney errors actually had an adverse effect on the defense. The complete denial of counsel during a critical stage of a judicial proceeding, however, mandates a
presumption of prejudice because "the adversary process itself" has
been rendered "presumptively unreliable." United States v. Cronic,
466 U. S. 648, 659. The even more serious denial of the entire judicial
proceeding also demands a presumption of prejudice because no presumption of reliability can be accorded to judicial proceedings that never
took place. Respondent claims that his counsel's deficient performance
led to the forfeiture of his appeal. If that is so, prejudice must be presumed. Because the defendant in such cases must show that counsel's
deficient performance actually deprived him of an appeal, however, he
must demonstrate that there is a reasonable probability that, but for
counsel's deficient failure to consult with him about an appeal, he would
have timely appealed. This standard follows the pattern established in
Strickland and Cronic, and mirrors the prejudice inquiry applied in
Hill v. Lockhart, 474 U. S. 52, and Rodriquez v. United States, supra.

528US2 Unit: $U28 [06-15-01 20:30:15] PAGES PGT: OPIN
472 ROE v. FLORES-ORTEGA

Syllabus
The question whether a defendant has made the requisite showing will
turn on the facts of the particular case. Nonetheless, evidence that
there were nonfrivolous grounds for appeal or that the defendant
promptly expressed a desire to appeal will often be highly relevant in
making this determination. The performance and prejudice inquiries
may overlap because both may be satisfied if the defendant shows nonfrivolous grounds for appeal. However, they are not in all cases coextensive. Evidence that a defendant sufficiently demonstrated to counsel his interest in an appeal may prove deficient performance, but it
alone is insufficient to establish that he would have filed the appeal had
he received counsel's advice. And, although showing nonfrivolous
grounds for appeal may give weight to the defendant's contention that
he would have appealed, a defendant's inability to demonstrate the merit
of his hypothetical appeal will not foreclose the possibility that he can
meet the prejudice requirement where there are other substantial reasons to believe that he would have appealed. Pp. 481-486.

2. The court below undertook neither part of the Strickland inquiry
and the record does not provide the Court with sufficient information
to determine whether Ms. Kops rendered constitutionally inadequate
assistance. The case is accordingly remanded for a determination
whether Ms. Kops had a duty to consult with respondent (either because
there were potential grounds for appeal or because respondent expressed interest in appealing), whether she satisfied her obligations,
and, if she did not, whether respondent was prejudiced thereby. P. 487.

160 F. 3d 534, vacated and remanded.

O'Connor, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which Rehnquist,
C. J., and Scalia, Kennedy, Thomas, and Breyer, JJ., joined, and in
which Stevens, Souter, and Ginsburg, JJ., joined as to Part II-B.
Breyer, J., filed a concurring opinion, post, p. 488. Souter, J., filed an
opinion concurring in part and dissenting in part, in which Stevens and
Ginsburg, JJ., joined, post, p. 488. Ginsburg, J., filed an opinion concurring in part and dissenting in part, post, p. 493.

Paul E. O'Connor, Deputy Attorney General of California,
argued the cause for petitioner. With him on the briefs
were Bill Lockyer, Attorney General, David P. Druliner,
Chief Assistant Attorney General, Robert R. Anderson and
Arnold O. Overoye, Senior Assistant Attorneys General,

528US2 Unit: $U28 [06-15-01 20:30:15] PAGES PGT: OPIN

473Cite as: 528 U. S. 470 (2000)
Opinion of the Court
Margaret Venturi, Supervising Deputy Attorney General,and Ward A. Campbell, Assistant Supervising Deputy Attorney General.Edward C. DuMont argued the cause for the United
States as amicus curiae urging reversal. With him on thebrief were Solicitor General Waxman, Assistant Attorney
General Robinson, Deputy Solicitor General Dreeben, and
Nina Goodman.Quin Denvir argued the cause for respondent. With him

on the brief were Ann H. Voris and Mary French.*

Justice O'Connor delivered the opinion of the Court.
In this case we must decide the proper framework for eval-uating an ineffective assistance of counsel claim, based on

counsel's failure to file a notice of appeal without respond-ent's consent.

I
The State of California charged respondent, Lucio Flores-Ortega, with one count of murder, two counts of assault, and

a personal use of a deadly weapon enhancement allegation.In October 1993, respondent appeared in Superior Court
with his court-appointed public defender, Nancy Kops, and aSpanish language interpreter, and pleaded guilty to seconddegree murder. The plea was entered pursuant to a Califor-nia rule permitting a defendant both to deny committing a
crime and to admit that there is sufficient evidence to convicthim. See

People v. West, 3 Cal. 3d 595, 477 P. 2d 409 (1970).In exchange for the guilty plea, the state prosecutor moved

to strike the allegation of personal use of a deadly weaponand to dismiss both assault charges. On November 10, 1993,

*Kent S. Scheidegger and Christine M. Murphy filed a brief for the
Criminal Justice Legal Foundation as amicus curiae urging reversal.

Lawrence S. Lustberg, Kevin McNulty, and Lisa B. Kemler filed a brief
for the National Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers as amicus
curiae urging affirmance.

528US2 Unit: $U28 [06-15-01 20:30:15] PAGES PGT: OPIN
474 ROE v. FLORES-ORTEGA

Opinion of the Court
respondent was sentenced to 15 years to life in state prison.After pronouncing sentence, the trial judge informed respondent, "You may file an appeal within 60 days from to-day's date with this Court. If you do not have money for
Counsel, Counsel will be appointed for you to represent youon your appeal." App. 40.

Although Ms. Kops wrote "bring appeal papers" in her file,
no notice of appeal was filed within the 60 days allowed bystate law. See Cal. Penal Code Ann. $ 1239(a) (West Supp.

2000); Cal. App. Rule 31(d). (A notice of appeal is generallya one-sentence document stating that the defendant wishes
to appeal from the judgment. See Rule 31(b); Judicial Council of California, Approved Form CR-120 (Notice of AppealFelony) (Jan. 5, 2000), http://www.courtinfo.ca.gov/forms/
documents/cr120.pdf.) Filing such a notice is a purely ministerial task that imposes no great burden on counsel. During
the first 90 days after sentencing, respondent was apparently
in lockup, undergoing evaluation, and unable to communicate
with counsel. About four months after sentencing, on
March 24, 1994, respondent tried to file a notice of appeal,
which the Superior Court Clerk rejected as untimely. Respondent sought habeas relief from California's appellate
courts, challenging the validity of both his plea and conviction, and (before the California Supreme Court) alleging that
Ms. Kops had not filed a notice of appeal as she had promised.
These efforts were uniformly unsuccessful.

Respondent then filed a federal habeas petition pursuant
to 28 U. S. C. $ 2254, alleging constitutionally ineffective assistance of counsel based on Ms. Kops' failure to file a notice
of appeal on his behalf after promising to do so. The United
States District Court for the Eastern District of California
referred the matter to a Magistrate Judge, who in turn ordered an evidentiary hearing on the limited issue of whether
Ms. Kops promised to file a notice of appeal on respondent's
behalf. At the conclusion of the hearing, the Magistrate
Judge found:

528US2 Unit: $U28 [06-15-01 20:30:15] PAGES PGT: OPIN

475Cite as: 528 U. S. 470 (2000)
Opinion of the Court
"The evidence in this case is, I think, quite clear thatthere was no consent to a failure to file [a notice of

appeal].. . . . .

"It's clear to me that Mr. Ortega had little or no under-standing of what the process was, what the appeal process was, or what appeal meant at that stage of the game."I think there was a conversation [between Ortega
and Kops] in the jail. Mr. Ortega testified, and I'm surehe's testifying as to the best of his belief, that there was
a conversation after the pronouncement of judgment atthe sentencing hearing where it's his understanding that
Ms. Kops was going to file a notice of appeal."She has no specific recollection of that. However,
she is obviously an extremely experienced defense coun-sel. She's obviously a very meticulous person. And I
think had Mr. Ortega requested that she file a notice ofappeal, she would have done so.

"But, I cannot find that he has carried his burden ofshowing by a preponderance of the evidence that she
made that promise." App. 132-133.
The Magistrate Judge acknowledged that under precedentfrom the Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, United

States v. Stearns, 68 F. 3d 328 (1995), a defendant need onlyshow that he did not consent to counsel's failure to file a
notice of appeal to be entitled to relief. The judge con-cluded, however, that

Stearns announced a new rule thatcould not be applied retroactively on collateral review to respondent's case. See Teague v. Lane, 489 U. S. 288 (1989).Thus, the Magistrate Judge recommended that the habeas
petition be denied. App. 161. The District Court adoptedthe Magistrate's findings and recommendation, and denied
relief. Id., at 162-163.The Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit reversed, reasoning that the rule it applied in Stearns--that a habeaspetitioner need only show that his counsel's failure to file a

528US2 Unit: $U28 [06-15-01 20:30:15] PAGES PGT: OPIN
476 ROE v. FLORES-ORTEGA

Opinion of the Court
notice of appeal was without the petitioner's consent--tracked its earlier opinion in Lozada v. Deeds, 964 F. 2d 956

(1992), which predated respondent's conviction. 160 F. 3d534 (1998). Because respondent did not consent to the failure to file a notice of appeal--and thus qualified for reliefunder Stearns--the court remanded the case to the District
Court with instructions to issue a conditional habeas writunless the state court allowed respondent a new appeal. We
granted certiorari, 526 U. S. 1097 (1999), to resolve a conflictin the lower courts regarding counsel's obligations to file a
notice of appeal. Compare United States v. Tajeddini, 945F. 2d 458, 468 (CA1 1991)

(per curiam) (counsel's failure tofile a notice of appeal, allegedly without the defendant's

knowledge or consent, constitutes deficient performance);Morales v. United States, 143 F. 3d 94, 97 (CA2 1998) (counsel
has no duty to file a notice of appeal unless requested by thedefendant); Ludwig v. United States, 162 F. 3d 456, 459 (CA6
1998) (Constitution implicated only when defendant actuallyrequests an appeal and counsel disregards the request);
Castellanos v. United States, 26 F. 3d 717, 719-720 (CA71994) (same);

Romero v. Tansy, 46 F. 3d 1024, 1030-1031(CA10 1995) (defendant does not need to express to counsel

his intent to appeal for counsel to be constitutionally obli-gated to perfect defendant's appeal; unless defendant waived
right, counsel was deficient for failing to advise defendantabout appeal right); United States v. Stearns, supra, (counsel's failure to file a notice of appeal is deficient unless thedefendant consents to the abandonment of his appeal).

II
In Strickland v. Washington, 466 U. S. 668 (1984), we heldthat criminal defendants have a Sixth Amendment right to

"reasonably effective" legal assistance, id., at 687, and an-nounced a now-familiar test: A defendant claiming ineffective
assistance of counsel must show (1) that counsel's representa-tion "fell below an objective standard of reasonableness,"

528US2 Unit: $U28 [06-15-01 20:30:15] PAGES PGT: OPIN

477Cite as: 528 U. S. 470 (2000)
Opinion of the Court
id., at 688, and (2) that counsel's deficient performance prej-udiced the defendant, id., at 694. Today we hold that this

test applies to claims, like respondent's, that counsel was con-stitutionally ineffective for failing to file a notice of appeal.

A
As we have previously noted, "[n]o particular set ofdetailed rules for counsel's conduct can satisfactorily take

account of the variety of circumstances faced by defensecounsel." Id., at 688-689. Rather, courts must "judge the
reasonableness of counsel's challenged conduct on the factsof the particular case, viewed as of the time of counsel's conduct," id., at 690, and "[ j]udicial scrutiny of counsel's per-formance must be highly deferential,"

id., at 689.We have long held that a lawyer who disregards specific

instructions from the defendant to file a notice of appeal actsin a manner that is professionally unreasonable. See Rodriquez v. United States, 395 U. S. 327 (1969); cf. Peguero v.United States, 526 U. S. 23, 28 (1999) ("[W]hen counsel fails
to file a requested appeal, a defendant is entitled to [a new]appeal without showing that his appeal would likely have
had merit"). This is so because a defendant who instructscounsel to initiate an appeal reasonably relies upon counsel
to file the necessary notice. Counsel's failure to do so cannotbe considered a strategic decision; filing a notice of appeal
is a purely ministerial task, and the failure to file reflectsinattention to the defendant's wishes. At the other end of
the spectrum, a defendant who explicitly tells his attorney
not to file an appeal plainly cannot later complain that, byfollowing his instructions, his counsel performed deficiently.

See Jones v. Barnes, 463 U. S. 745, 751 (1983) (accused hasultimate authority to make fundamental decision whether to
take an appeal). The question presented in this case liesbetween those poles: Is counsel deficient for not filing a notice of appeal when the defendant has not clearly conveyedhis wishes one way or the other?

528US2 Unit: $U28 [06-15-01 20:30:15] PAGES PGT: OPIN
478 ROE v. FLORES-ORTEGA

Opinion of the Court
The Courts of Appeals for the First and Ninth Circuitshave answered that question with a bright-line rule: Counsel

must file a notice of appeal unless the defendant specificallyinstructs otherwise; failing to do so is

per se deficient. See,
e. g., Stearns, 68 F. 3d, at 330; Lozada, supra, at 958; Tajeddini, supra, at 468. Such a rule effectively imposes an obligation on counsel in all cases either (1) to file a notice of
appeal, or (2) to discuss the possibility of an appeal with thedefendant, ascertain his wishes, and act accordingly. We reject this per se rule as inconsistent with Strickland's holdingthat "the performance inquiry must be whether counsel's assistance was reasonable considering all the circumstances."
466 U. S., at 688. The Court of Appeals failed to engage
in the circumstance-specific reasonableness inquiry required
by Strickland, and that alone mandates vacatur and remand.

In those cases where the defendant neither instructs counsel to file an appeal nor asks that an appeal not be taken, we
believe the question whether counsel has performed deficiently by not filing a notice of appeal is best answered by
first asking a separate, but antecedent, question: whether
counsel in fact consulted with the defendant about an appeal.
We employ the term "consult" to convey a specific meaning--
advising the defendant about the advantages and disadvantages of taking an appeal, and making a reasonable effort to
discover the defendant's wishes. If counsel has consulted
with the defendant, the question of deficient performance is
easily answered: Counsel performs in a professionally unreasonable manner only by failing to follow the defendant's express instructions with respect to an appeal. See supra, at
477. If counsel has not consulted with the defendant, the
court must in turn ask a second, and subsidiary, question:
whether counsel's failure to consult with the defendant itself
constitutes deficient performance. That question lies at the
heart of this case: Under what circumstances does counsel
have an obligation to consult with the defendant about an
appeal?

528US2 Unit: $U28 [06-15-01 20:30:15] PAGES PGT: OPIN

479Cite as: 528 U. S. 470 (2000)
Opinion of the Court
Because the decision to appeal rests with the defendant,we agree with

Justice Souter that the better practice is
for counsel routinely to consult with the defendant regardingthe possibility of an appeal. See ABA Standards for Criminal Justice, Defense Function 4-8.2(a) (3d ed. 1993); post,at 490-491 (opinion concurring in part and dissenting in
part). In fact, California imposes on trial counsel a per se
duty to consult with defendants about the possibility ofan appeal. See Cal. Penal Code Ann. $ 1240.1(a) (West

Supp. 2000). Nonetheless, "[p]revailing norms of practice asreflected in American Bar Association standards and the
like . . . are only guides," and imposing "specific guidelines"
on counsel is "not appropriate." Strickland, 466 U. S., at
688. And, while States are free to impose whatever specific
rules they see fit to ensure that criminal defendants are well
represented, we have held that the Federal Constitution
imposes one general requirement: that counsel make objectively reasonable choices. See ibid. We cannot say, as a
constitutional matter, that in every case counsel's failure to
consult with the defendant about an appeal is necessarily
unreasonable, and therefore deficient. Such a holding would
be inconsistent with both our decision in Strickland and
common sense. See id., at 689 (rejecting mechanistic rules
governing what counsel must do). For example, suppose
that a defendant consults with counsel; counsel advises the
defendant that a guilty plea probably will lead to a 2 year
sentence; the defendant expresses satisfaction and pleads
guilty; the court sentences the defendant to 2 years' imprisonment as expected and informs the defendant of his appeal
rights; the defendant does not express any interest in appealing, and counsel concludes that there are no nonfrivolous
grounds for appeal. Under these circumstances, it would be
difficult to say that counsel is "professionally unreasonable,"
id., at 691, as a constitutional matter, in not consulting with
such a defendant regarding an appeal. Or, for example, suppose a sentencing court's instructions to a defendant about

528US2 Unit: $U28 [06-15-01 20:30:15] PAGES PGT: OPIN
480 ROE v. FLORES-ORTEGA

Opinion of the Court
his appeal rights in a particular case are so clear and informative as to substitute for counsel's duty to consult. In
some cases, counsel might then reasonably decide that he
need not repeat that information. We therefore reject a
bright-line rule that counsel must always consult with the
defendant regarding an appeal.

We instead hold that counsel has a constitutionally imposed duty to consult with the defendant about an appeal
when there is reason to think either (1) that a rational defendant would want to appeal (for example, because there
are nonfrivolous grounds for appeal), or (2) that this particular defendant reasonably demonstrated to counsel that he
was interested in appealing. In making this determination,
courts must take into account all the information counsel
knew or should have known. See id., at 690 (focusing on the
totality of the circumstances). Although not determinative,
a highly relevant factor in this inquiry will be whether the
conviction follows a trial or a guilty plea, both because a
guilty plea reduces the scope of potentially appealable issues
and because such a plea may indicate that the defendant
seeks an end to judicial proceedings. Even in cases when
the defendant pleads guilty, the court must consider such
factors as whether the defendant received the sentence bargained for as part of the plea and whether the plea expressly
reserved or waived some or all appeal rights. Only by considering all relevant factors in a given case can a court properly determine whether a rational defendant would have desired an appeal or that the particular defendant sufficiently
demonstrated to counsel an interest in an appeal.

Rather than the standard we announce today, Justice
Souter would have us impose an "almost" bright-line rule
and hold that counsel "almost always" has a duty to consult
with a defendant about an appeal. Post, at 488. Although
he recognizes that "detailed rules for counsel's conduct" have
no place in a Strickland inquiry, he argues that this "qualifi528US2 Unit: $U28 [06-15-01 20:30:15] PAGES PGT: OPIN

481Cite as: 528 U. S. 470 (2000)
Opinion of the Court
cation" has no application here. Post, at 491. According to
Justice Souter, in Strickland we only rejected per se rulesin order to respect the reasonable strategic choices made by

lawyers, and that failing to consult about an appeal cannotbe a strategic choice.

Post, at 491-492. But we have con-sistently declined to impose mechanical rules on counsel--

even when those rules might lead to better representation--not simply out of deference to counsel's strategic choices, but
because "the purpose of the effective assistance guaranteeof the Sixth Amendment is not to improve the quality of
legal representation, . . . [but rather] simply to ensure thatcriminal defendants receive a fair trial." 466 U. S., at 689.
The relevant question is not whether counsel's choices werestrategic, but whether they were reasonable. See

id., at 688(defendant must show that counsel's representation fell

below an objective standard of reasonableness). We expectthat courts evaluating the reasonableness of counsel's performance using the inquiry we have described will find, inthe vast majority of cases, that counsel had a duty to consult
with the defendant about an appeal. We differ from Jus-
tice Souter only in that we refuse to make this determina-tion as a per se (or "almost" per se) matter.

B
The second part of the Strickland test requires thedefendant to show pre judice from counsel's deficient

performance. 1

In most cases, a defendant's claim of ineffective assistanceof counsel involves counsel's performance during the course
of a legal proceeding, either at trial or on appeal. See, e. g.,id., at 699 (claim that counsel made poor strategic choices
regarding what to argue at a sentencing hearing); UnitedStates v. Cronic, 466 U. S. 648, 649-650 (1984) (claim that
young lawyer was incompetent to defend complex criminal

528US2 Unit: $U28 [06-15-01 20:30:15] PAGES PGT: OPIN
482 ROE v. FLORES-ORTEGA

Opinion of the Court
case); Penson v. Ohio, 488 U. S. 75, 88-89 (1988) (claim that
counsel in effect did not represent defendant on appeal);
Smith v. Robbins, ante, p. 259 (claim that counsel neglected
to file a merits brief on appeal); Smith v. Murray, 477 U. S.
527, 535-536 (1986) (claim that counsel failed to make a
particular argument on appeal). In such circumstances,
whether we require the defendant to show actual prejudice--"a reasonable probability that, but for counsel's unprofessional errors, the result of the proceeding would have
been different," Strickland, 466 U. S., at 694--or whether
we instead presume prejudice turns on the magnitude of the
deprivation of the right to effective assistance of counsel.
That is because "the right to the effective assistance of counsel is recognized not for its own sake, but because of the
effect it has on the ability of the accused to receive a fair
trial," Cronic, supra, at 658, or a fair appeal, see Penson,
supra, at 88-89. "Absent some effect of challenged conduct
on the reliability of the . . . process, the [effective counsel]
guarantee is generally not implicated." Cronic, supra, at
658.

We "normally apply a `strong presumption of reliability' to
judicial proceedings and require a defendant to overcome
that presumption," Robbins, ante, at 286 (citing Strickland,
supra, at 696), by "show[ing] how specific errors of counsel
undermined the reliability of the finding of guilt," Cronic,
supra, at 659, n. 26. Thus, in cases involving mere "attorney
error," we require the defendant to demonstrate that the
errors "actually had an adverse effect on the defense."
Strickland, supra, at 693. See, e. g., Robbins, ante, at 287
(applying actual prejudice requirement where counsel followed all required procedures and was alleged to have
missed a particular nonfrivolous argument); Strickland,
supra, at 699-700 (rejecting claim in part because the evidence counsel failed to introduce probably would not have
altered defendant's sentence).

528US2 Unit: $U28 [06-15-01 20:30:15] PAGES PGT: OPIN

483Cite as: 528 U. S. 470 (2000)
Opinion of the Court

2
In some cases, however, the defendant alleges not thatcounsel made specific errors in the course of representation,

but rather that during the judicial proceeding he was--eitheractually or constructively--denied the assistance of counsel
altogether. "The presumption that counsel's assistance isessential requires us to conclude that a trial is unfair if the
accused is denied counsel at a critical stage." Cronic, supra,at 659. The same is true on appeal. See

Penson, supra,at 88. Under such circumstances, "[n]o specific showing of

prejudice [is] required," because "the adversary process it-self [is] presumptively unreliable."

Cronic, supra, at 659;see also Robbins, ante, at 286 ("denial of counsel altogether

. . . warrants a presumption of prejudice"); Penson, supra,at 88-89 (complete denial of counsel on appeal requires a presumption of prejudice).Today's case is unusual in that counsel's alleged deficient
performance arguably led not to a judicial proceeding of dis-puted reliability, but rather to the forfeiture of a proceeding
itself. According to respondent, counsel's deficient perform-ance deprived him of a notice of appeal and, hence, an appeal
altogether. Assuming those allegations are true, counsel'sdeficient performance has deprived respondent of more than
a fair judicial proceeding; that deficiency deprived re-spondent of the appellate proceeding altogether. In

Cronic,Penson, and Robbins, we held that the complete denial of

counsel during a critical stage of a judicial proceeding man-dates a presumption of prejudice because "the adversary
process itself " has been rendered "presumptively unrelia-ble."

Cronic, supra, at 659. The even more serious denial
of the entire judicial proceeding itself, which a defendantwanted at the time and to which he had a right, similarly

demands a presumption of prejudice. Put simply, we cannotaccord any " `presumption of reliability,' "

Robbins, ante, at
286, to judicial proceedings that never took place.

528US2 Unit: $U28 [06-15-01 20:30:15] PAGES PGT: OPIN
484 ROE v. FLORES-ORTEGA

Opinion of the Court

3
The Court of Appeals below applied a per se prejudice
rule, and granted habeas relief based solely upon a showing
that counsel had performed deficiently under its standard.
160 F. 3d, at 536. Unfortunately, this per se prejudice rule
ignores the critical requirement that counsel's deficient performance must actually cause the forfeiture of the defendant's appeal. If the defendant cannot demonstrate that, but
for counsel's deficient performance, he would have appealed,
counsel's deficient performance has not deprived him of anything, and he is not entitled to relief. Cf. Peguero v. United
States, 526 U. S. 23 (1999) (defendant not prejudiced by
court's failure to advise him of his appeal rights, where he
had full knowledge of his right to appeal and chose not to do
so). Accordingly, we hold that, to show prejudice in these
circumstances, a defendant must demonstrate that there is a
reasonable probability that, but for counsel's deficient failure
to consult with him about an appeal, he would have timely
appealed.

In adopting this standard, we follow the pattern established in Strickland and Cronic, and reaffirmed in Robbins,
requiring a showing of actual prejudice (i. e., that, but
for counsel's errors, the defendant might have prevailed)
when the proceeding in question was presumptively reliable,
but presuming prejudice with no further showing from the
defendant of the merits of his underlying claims when the
violation of the right to counsel rendered the proceeding presumptively unreliable or entirely nonexistent. See Strickland, supra, at 493-496; Cronic, 466 U. S., at 658-659; Robbins, ante, at 286-287. Today, drawing on that line of cases
and following the suggestion of the Solicitor General, we hold
that when counsel's constitutionally deficient performance
deprives a defendant of an appeal that he otherwise would
have taken, the defendant has made out a successful ineffective assistance of counsel claim entitling him to an appeal.

528US2 Unit: $U28 [06-15-01 20:30:15] PAGES PGT: OPIN

485Cite as: 528 U. S. 470 (2000)
Opinion of the Court
We believe this prejudice standard breaks no new ground,for it mirrors the prejudice inquiry applied in

Hill v. Lockhart, 474 U. S. 52 (1985), and Rodriquez v. United States,395 U. S. 327 (1969). In

Hill, we considered an ineffective
assistance of counsel claim based on counsel's allegedly defi-cient advice regarding the consequences of entering a guilty

plea. Like the decision whether to appeal, the decision
whether to plead guilty (i. e., waive trial) rested with thedefendant and, like this case, counsel's advice in

Hill might
have caused the defendant to forfeit a judicial proceeding towhich he was otherwise entitled. We held that "to satisfy

the `prejudice' requirement [of Strickland], the defendant
must show that there is a reasonable probability that, but
for counsel's errors, he would not have pleaded guilty and
would have insisted on going to trial." Hill, supra, at 59.
Similarly, in Rodriquez, counsel failed to file a notice of appeal, despite being instructed by the defendant to do so.
See 395 U. S., at 328. We held that the defendant, by instructing counsel to perfect an appeal, objectively indicated
his intent to appeal and was entitled to a new appeal without
any further showing. Because "[t]hose whose right to an
appeal has been frustrated should be treated exactly like any
other appellan[t]," we rejected any requirement that the
would-be appellant "specify the points he would raise
were his right to appeal reinstated." Id., at 330. See also
Evitts v. Lucey, 469 U. S. 387 (1985) (defendant entitled to new appeal when counsel's deficient failure to comply with mechanistic local court rules led to dismissal of
first appeal).

As with all applications of the Strickland test, the question whether a given defendant has made the requisite showing will turn on the facts of a particular case. See 466 U. S.,
at 695-696. Nonetheless, evidence that there were nonfrivolous grounds for appeal or that the defendant in question
promptly expressed a desire to appeal will often be highly
relevant in making this determination. We recognize that

528US2 Unit: $U28 [06-15-01 20:30:15] PAGES PGT: OPIN
486 ROE v. FLORES-ORTEGA

Opinion of the Court
the prejudice inquiry we have described is not wholly dissim-ilar from the inquiry used to determine whether counsel performed deficiently in the first place; specifically, both maybe satisfied if the defendant shows nonfrivolous grounds for
appeal. See Hill, supra, at 59 (when, in connection with aguilty plea, counsel gives deficient advice regarding a potentially valid affirmative defense, the prejudice inquiry depends largely on whether that affirmative defense mighthave succeeded, leading a rational defendant to insist on

going to trial). But, while the performance and prejudiceprongs may overlap, they are not in all cases coextensive.
To prove deficient performance, a defendant can rely on evidence that he sufficiently demonstrated to counsel his interest in an appeal. But such evidence alone is insufficient to
establish that, had the defendant received reasonable advice
from counsel about the appeal, he would have instructed his
counsel to file an appeal.

By the same token, although showing nonfrivolous
grounds for appeal may give weight to the contention that
the defendant would have appealed, a defendant's inability
to "specify the points he would raise were his right to appeal
reinstated," Rodriquez, 395 U. S., at 330, will not foreclose
the possibility that he can satisfy the prejudice requirement
where there are other substantial reasons to believe that he
would have appealed. See ibid.; see also Peguero, supra,
at 30 (O'Connor, J., concurring) ("To require defendants to
specify the grounds for their appeal and show that they have
some merit would impose a heavy burden on defendants who
are often proceeding pro se in an initial [habeas] motion").
We similarly conclude here that it is unfair to require an
indigent, perhaps pro se, defendant to demonstrate that
his hypothetical appeal might have had merit before any advocate has ever reviewed the record in his case in search
of potentially meritorious grounds for appeal. Rather, we
require the defendant to demonstrate that, but for counsel's
deficient conduct, he would have appealed.

528US2 Unit: $U28 [06-15-01 20:30:15] PAGES PGT: OPIN

487Cite as: 528 U. S. 470 (2000)
Opinion of the Court

III
The court below undertook neither part of the Strickland
inquiry we have described, but instead presumed both that
Ms. Kops was deficient for failing to file a notice of appeal
without respondent's consent and that her deficient performance prejudiced respondent. See 160 F. 3d, at 536. Jus-
tice Souter finds Ms. Kops' performance in this case to
have been "derelict," presumably because he believes that
she did not consult with respondent about an appeal. Post,
at 489. But the Magistrate Judge's findings do not provide
us with sufficient information to determine whether Ms.
Kops rendered constitutionally inadequate assistance. Specifically, the findings below suggest that there may have been
some conversation between Ms. Kops and respondent about
an appeal, see App. 133; see also 160 F. 3d, at 535 (Ms. Kops
wrote " `bring appeal papers' " in her file), but do not indicate
what was actually said. Assuming, arguendo, that there
was a duty to consult in this case, it is impossible to determine whether that duty was satisfied without knowing
whether Ms. Kops advised respondent about the advantages
and disadvantages of taking an appeal and made a reasonable
effort to discover his wishes. Cf. Strickland, supra, at 691
("inquiry into counsel's conversations with the defendant
may be critical to a proper assessment of counsel's . . . decisions"). Based on the record before us, we are unable to
determine whether Ms. Kops had a duty to consult with respondent (either because there were potential grounds for
appeal or because respondent expressed interest in appealing), whether she satisfied her obligations, and, if she did not,
whether respondent was prejudiced thereby. Accordingly,
the judgment of the Court of Appeals is vacated, and the
case is remanded for further proceedings consistent with
this opinion.

It is so ordered.

528US2 Unit: $U28 [06-15-01 20:30:15] PAGES PGT: OPIN
488 ROE v. FLORES-ORTEGA

Opinion of Souter, J.
Justice Breyer, concurring.
I write to emphasize that the question presented con-cerned the filing of a "notice of appeal

following a guiltyplea." Pet. for Cert. i (emphasis added). In that context I

agree with the Court. I also join its opinion, which, in myview, makes clear that counsel does "almost always" have
a constitutional duty to consult with a defendant about anappeal after a trial. Post this page (

Souter, J., concurringin part and dissenting in part); cf.
ante, at 479-481.

Justice Souter, with whom Justice Stevens and Jus-
tice Ginsburg join, concurring in part and dissenting inpart.

I join Part II-B of the Court's opinion, but I respectfullydissent from Part II-A. As the opinion says, the crucial
question in this case is whether, after a criminal conviction,a lawyer has a duty to consult with her client about the
choice to appeal. The majority's conclusion is sometimes;mine is, almost always in those cases in which a plea of guilty
has not obviously waived any claims of error.1 It is unrea-sonable for a lawyer with a client like respondent FloresOrtega to walk away from her representation after trialor after sentencing without at the very least acting affir1 I say "almost" always, recognizing that there can be cases beyond the
margin: if a legally trained defendant were convicted in an error-free trial
of an open-and-shut case, his counsel presumably would not be deficient in
failing to explain the options. This is not what we have here. Nor is
this a case in which the judge during the plea colloquy so fully explains
appeal rights and possible issues as to obviate counsel's need to do the
same; such a possibility is never very likely and exists only at the furthest
reach of theory, given a defendant's right to adversarial representation,
see Smith v. Robbins, ante, at 296-297 (Souter, J., dissenting). Finally,
of course, there is no claim here that Flores-Ortega waived his right to
appeal as part of his plea agreement; although he pleaded guilty, the record shows that he and the State argued before the trial court for different
sentences, and he had little understanding of the legal system. The fact
of the plea is thus irrelevant to the disposition of the case.

528US2 Unit: $U28 [06-15-01 20:30:15] PAGES PGT: OPIN

489Cite as: 528 U. S. 470 (2000)
Opinion of Souter, J.
matively to ensure that the client understands the right toappeal.

Where appeal is available as a matter of right, a decisionto seek or forgo review is for the convict himself, not his
lawyer, Jones v. Barnes, 463 U. S. 745, 751 (1983), who owesa duty of effective assistance at the appellate stage,

Evitts
v. Lucey, 469 U. S. 387, 396 (1985); Penson v. Ohio, 488 U. S.
75, 85 (1988). It follows, as the majority notes, that if a de-fendant requests counsel to file an appeal, a lawyer who fails

to do so is, without more, ineffective for constitutional pur-poses. But, as the Court says, a lesser infidelity than that
may fail the test of lawyer competence under Strickland v.
Washington, 466 U. S. 668 (1984), which governs this case.
I think that the derelict character of counsel's performance
in this case is clearer than the majority realizes.

In Strickland, we explicitly noted that a lawyer has a duty
"to consult with the defendant on important decisions . . . in
the course of the prosecution." Id., at 688. The decision
whether to appeal is one such decision. Since it cannot be
made intelligently without appreciating the merits of possible grounds for seeking review, see Peguero v. United States,
526 U. S. 23, 30-31 (1999) (O'Connor, J., concurring); Rodriquez v. United States, 395 U. S. 327, 330 (1969), and the potential risks to the appealing defendant, a lay defendant
needs help before deciding. If the crime is minor, the issues
simple, and the defendant sophisticated, a 5-minute conversation with his lawyer may well suffice; if the charge is serious,
the potential claims subtle, and a defendant uneducated,
hours of counseling may be in order. But only in the extraordinary case will a defendant need no advice or counsel
whatever.

To the extent that our attention has been directed to statements of "prevailing professional norms," Strickland v.
Washington, 466 U. S., at 688 (Strickland's touchstone of
reasonable representation, see ibid.), they are consistent
with common sense in requiring a lawyer to consult with a

528US2 Unit: $U28 [06-15-01 20:30:15] PAGES PGT: OPIN
490 ROE v. FLORES-ORTEGA

Opinion of Souter, J.
client before the client makes his decision about appeal.Thus, ABA Standards for Criminal Justice 21-2.2(b) (2d ed.

1980):

"Defense counsel should advise a defendant on the
meaning of the court's judgment, of defendant's right toappeal, on the possible grounds for appeal, and of the

probable outcome of appealing. Counsel should also ad-vise of any posttrial proceedings that might be pursued
before or concurrent with an appeal. While counselshould do what is needed to inform and advise defendant, the decision whether to appeal, like the decisionwhether to plead guilty, must be the defendant's own
choice."
See also ABA Standards for Criminal Justice, Defense Function 4-8.2(a) (3d ed. 1993) (stating that trial counsel "shouldexplain to the defendant the meaning and consequences of

the court's judgment and defendant's right of appeal" and"should give the defendant his or her professional judgment
as to whether there are meritorious grounds for appeal andas to the probable results of an appeal");

id., 4-8.2, Commentary ("[C]ounsel [has the duty] to discuss frankly and objectively with the defendant the matters to be considered indeciding whether to appeal. . . . To make the defendant's

ultimate choice a meaningful one, counsel's evaluation of thecase must be communicated in a comprehensible manner. . . .
[T]rial counsel should always consult promptly with the de-fendant after making a careful appraisal of the prospects of
an appeal"); ABA Standards for Criminal Justice 21-3.2(b)(i).So also the ABA Model Code of Professional Responsibility, EC 2-31 (1991), provides that: "Trial counsel for a convicted defendant should continue to represent his client by advising whether to take an appeal . . . ." Likewise ABA Model
Rule of Professional Conduct 1.3, Comment (1996): "[I]f a lawyer has handled a judicial or administrative proceeding that
produced a result adverse to the client but has not been spe528US2 Unit: $U28 [06-15-01 20:30:15] PAGES PGT: OPIN

491Cite as: 528 U. S. 470 (2000)
Opinion of Souter, J.
cifically instructed concerning pursuit of an appeal, the law-yer should advise the client of the possibility of appeal before

relinquishing responsibility for the matter." Restatement(Third) of the Law Governing Lawyers $ 31(3) (Proposed
Final Draft No. 1, Mar. 29, 1996) embodies the same stand-ards: "A lawyer must notify a client of decisions to be made
by the client . . . and must explain a matter to the extent
reasonably necessary to permit the client to make informeddecisions regarding the representation." Indeed, California

has apparently eliminated any option on a lawyer's part tofail to give advice on the appeal decision (whether the failure
be negligent or intentional). California Penal Code Ann.

$ 1240.1(a) (West Supp. 2000) provides that trial counsel has
a duty to "provide counsel and advice as to whether arguably meritorious grounds exist for reversal or modification of

the judgment on appeal." California thus appears to have
adopted as an unconditional affirmative obligation binding
all criminal trial counsel the very standard of reasonable
practice expressed through the Restatement and the ABA
standards.

I understand that under Strickland, "[p]revailing norms
of practice as reflected in American Bar Association standards and the like . . . are guides to determining what is reasonable, but they are only guides," and that "[n]o particular
set of detailed rules for counsel's conduct can satisfactorily
take account of the variety of circumstances faced by defense
counsel or the range of legitimate decisions regarding how
best to represent a criminal defendant." 466 U. S., at 688-
689. But that qualification has no application here.

While Strickland's disclaimer that no particular set of
rules should be treated as dispositive respects the need to
defer to reasonable "strategic choices" by lawyers, id., at 690,
no such strategic concerns arise in this case. Strategic
choices are made about the extent of investigation, the risks
of a defense requiring defendant's testimony and exposure
to cross-examination, the possibility that placing personal

528US2 Unit: $U28 [06-15-01 20:30:15] PAGES PGT: OPIN
492 ROE v. FLORES-ORTEGA

Opinion of Souter, J.
background information before a jury will backfire, and soon. It is not, however, an issue of "strategy" to decide

whether or not to give a defendant any advice before he losesthe chance to appeal a conviction or sentence. The concern
about too much judicial second-guessing after the fact is sim-ply not raised by a claim that a lawyer should have counseled
her client to make an intelligent decision to invoke or forgo
the right of appeal or the opportunity to seek an appeal.The Court's position is even less explicable when one considers the condition of the particular defendant claiming
Strickland relief here. Flores-Ortega spoke no English and
had no sophistication in the ways of the legal system. TheMagistrate Judge found that "[i]t's clear . . . that Mr. Ortega

had little or no understanding of what the process was, whatthe appeal process was, or what appeal meant." App. 133.
To condition the duty of a lawyer to such a client on whether,
inter alia, "a rational defendant would want to appeal (for
example, because there are nonfrivolous grounds for appeal)," ante, at 480, is not only to substitute a harmless-error
rule for a showing of reasonable professional conduct, but to
employ a rule that simply ignores the reality that the constitutional norm must address.2 Most criminal defendants,
and certainly this one, will be utterly incapable of making
rational judgments about appeal without guidance. They
cannot possibly know what a rational decisionmaker must
know unless they are given the benefit of a professional
assessment of chances of success and risks of trying. And
they will often (indeed, usually) be just as bad off if they
seek relief on habeas after failing to take a direct appeal,

2 The Court holds that a duty to consult will also be present if "this
particular defendant reasonably demonstrated to counsel that he was interested in appealing." Ante, at 480. Because for most defendants, and
certainly for unsophisticated ones like Flores-Ortega who are unaware
even of what an appeal means, such a demonstration will be a practical
impossibility, I view the Court as virtually requiring the defendant to
show the existence of some nonfrivolous appellate issue.

528US2 Unit: $U28 [06-15-01 20:30:15] PAGES PGT: OPIN

493Cite as: 528 U. S. 470 (2000)
Opinion of Ginsburg, J.
having no right to counsel in state postconviction proceed-ings. See

Pennsylvania v. Finley, 481 U. S. 551, 557 (1987);
Murray v. Giarratano, 492 U. S. 1, 12 (1989); cf. Peguero v.
United States, 526 U. S., at 30 (O'Connor, J., concurring)
("To require defendants to specify the grounds for their ap-peal and show that they have some merit would impose a

heavy burden on defendants who are often proceeding pro
se in an initial 28 U. S. C. $ 2255 motion").In effect, today's decision erodes the principle that a decision about appeal is validly made only by a defendant with afair sense of what he is doing. Now the decision may be
made inadvertently by a lawyer who never utters the word"appeal" in his client's hearing, so long as that client cannot
later demonstrate (probably without counsel) that he unwittingly had "nonfrivolous grounds" for seeking review. This
state of the law amounts to just such a breakdown of the
adversary system that Strickland warned against. "In
every case the court should be concerned with whether . . .
the result of the particular proceeding is unreliable because
of a breakdown in the adversarial process that our system
counts on to produce just results." 466 U. S., at 696; see also
Rodriquez v. United States, 395 U. S., at 330; Penson v. Ohio,
488 U. S., at 85.

I would hold that in the aftermath of the hearing at which
Flores-Ortega was sentenced, his lawyer was obliged to consult with her client about the availability and prudence of
an appeal, and that failure to do that violated Strickland's
standard of objective reasonableness. I therefore respectfully dissent from Part II-A of the majority's opinion.

Justice Ginsburg, concurring in part and dissenting in
part.

This case presents the question whether, after a defendant
pleads guilty or is convicted, the Sixth Amendment permits
defense counsel simply to walk away, leaving the defendant
uncounseled about his appeal rights. The Court is not

528US2 Unit: $U28 [06-15-01 20:30:15] PAGES PGT: OPIN
494 ROE v. FLORES-ORTEGA

Opinion of Ginsburg, J.
deeply divided on this question. Both the Court and Jus-
tice Souter effectively respond: hardly ever. Because thetest articulated by

Justice Souter provides clearer guid-ance to lower courts and to counsel, and because I think it

plain that the duty to consult was not satisfied in this case,I join

Justice Souter's opinion.

528US2 Unit: $U29 [06-15-01 20:43:16] PAGES PGT: OPIN

495OCTOBER TERM, 1999
Syllabus

RICE v. CAYETANO, GOVERNOR OF HAWAII
certiorari to the united states court of appeals forthe ninth circuit

No. 98-818. Argued October 6, 1999--Decided February 23, 2000
The Hawaiian Constitution limits the right to vote for nine trustees chosen

in a statewide election. The trustees compose the governing authority
of a state agency known as the Office of Hawaiian Affairs, or OHA.
The agency administers programs designed for the benefit of two subclasses of Hawaiian citizenry, "Hawaiians" and "native Hawaiians."
State law defines "native Hawaiians" as descendants of not less than
one-half part of the races inhabiting the islands before 1778, and "Hawaiians"--a larger class that includes "native Hawaiians"--as descendants of the peoples inhabiting the Hawaiian Islands in 1778. The trustees are chosen in a statewide election in which only "Hawaiians" may
vote. Petitioner Rice, a Hawaiian citizen without the requisite ancestry
to be a "Hawaiian" under state law, applied to vote in OHA trustee
elections. When his application was denied, he sued respondent Governor (hereinafter State), claiming, inter alia, that the voting exclusion
was invalid under the Fourteenth and Fifteenth Amendments. The
Federal District Court granted the State summary judgment. Surveying the history of the islands and their people, it determined that Congress and Hawaii have recognized a guardian-ward relationship with
the native Hawaiians, which is analogous to the relationship between
the United States and Indian tribes. It examined the voting qualifications with the latitude applied to legislation passed pursuant to Congress' power over Indian affairs, see Morton v. Mancari, 417 U. S. 535,
and found that the electoral scheme was rationally related to the State's
responsibility under its Admission Act to utilize a part of the proceeds
from certain public lands for the native Hawaiians' benefit. The Ninth
Circuit affirmed, finding that Hawaii "may rationally conclude that Hawaiians, being the group to whom trust obligations run and to whom
OHA trustees owe a duty of loyalty, should be the group to decide who
the trustees ought to be." 146 F. 3d 1075, 1079.

Held: Hawaii's denial of Rice's right to vote in OHA trustee elections

violates the Fifteenth Amendment. Pp. 511-524.

(a) The Amendment's purpose and command are set forth in explicit
and comprehensive language. The National Government and the
States may not deny or abridge the right to vote on account of race.
The Amendment reaffirms the equality of races at the most basic level

528US2 Unit: $U29 [06-15-01 20:43:16] PAGES PGT: OPIN
496 RICE v. CAYETANO

Syllabus
of the democratic process, the exercise of the voting franchise. It protects all persons, not just members of a particular race. Important
precedents give instruction in the instant case. The Amendment was
quite sufficient to invalidate a grandfather clause that did not mention
race but instead used ancestry in an attempt to confine and restrict the
voting franchise, Guinn v. United States, 238 U. S. 347, 364-365; and it
sufficed to strike down the white primary systems designed to exclude
one racial class (at least) from voting, see, e. g., Terry v. Adams, 345
U. S. 461, 469-470. The voting structure in this case is neither subtle
nor indirect; it specifically grants the vote to persons of the defined
ancestry and to no others. Ancestry can be a proxy for race. It is that
proxy here. For centuries Hawaii was isolated from migration. The
inhabitants shared common physical characteristics, and by 1778 they
had a common culture. The provisions at issue reflect the State's effort
to preserve that commonality to the present day. In interpreting the
Reconstruction Era civil rights laws this Court has observed that racial
discrimination is that which singles out "identifiable classes of persons . . . solely because of their ancestry or ethnic characteristics."
Saint Francis College v. Al-Khazraji, 481 U. S. 604, 613. The very object of the statutory definition here is to treat the early Hawaiians as a
distinct people, commanding their own recognition and respect. The
history of the State's definition also demonstrates that the State has
used ancestry as a racial definition and for a racial purpose. The drafters of the definitions of "Hawaiian" and "native Hawaiian" emphasized
the explicit tie to race. The State's additional argument that the restriction is race neutral because it differentiates even among Polynesian
people based on the date of an ancestor's residence in Hawaii is undermined by the classification's express racial purpose and its actual effects.
The ancestral inquiry in this case implicates the same grave concerns
as a classification specifying a particular race by name, for it demeans a
person's dignity and worth to be judged by ancestry instead of by his
or her own merit and essential qualities. The State's ancestral inquiry
is forbidden by the Fifteenth Amendment for the further reason that
using racial classifications is corruptive of the whole legal order democratic elections seek to preserve. The law itself may not become the
instrument for generating the prejudice and hostility all too often directed against persons whose particular ancestry is disclosed by their
ethnic characteristics and cultural traditions. The State's electoral restriction enacts a race-based voting qualification. Pp. 511-517.

(b) The State's three principal defenses of its voting law are rejected.
It argues first that the exclusion of non-Hawaiians from voting is permitted under this Court's cases allowing the differential treatment of
Indian tribes. However, even if Congress had the authority, delegated

528US2 Unit: $U29 [06-15-01 20:43:16] PAGES PGT: OPIN

497Cite as: 528 U. S. 495 (2000)
Syllabus
to the State, to treat Hawaiians or native Hawaiians as tribes, Congress
may not authorize a State to create a voting scheme of the sort created
here. Congress may not authorize a State to establish a voting scheme
that limits the electorate for its public officials to a class of tribal Indians
to the exclusion of all non-Indian citizens. The elections for OHA
trustee are elections of the State, not of a separate quasi sovereign, and
they are elections to which the Fifteenth Amendment applies. Morton
v. Mancari, supra, distinguished. The State's further contention that
the limited voting franchise is sustainable under this Court's cases holding that the one-person, one-vote rule does not pertain to certain special
purpose districts such as water or irrigation districts also fails, for compliance with the one-person, one-vote rule of the Fourteenth Amendment does not excuse compliance with the Fifteenth Amendment.
Hawaii's final argument that the voting restriction does no more than
ensure an alignment of interests between the fiduciaries and the beneficiaries of a trust founders on its own terms, for it is not clear that the
voting classification is symmetric with the beneficiaries of the programs
OHA administers. While the bulk of the funds appears to be earmarked for the benefit of "native Hawaiians," the State permits both
"native Hawaiians" and "Hawaiians" to vote for trustees. The argument fails on more essential grounds; it rests on the demeaning premise
that citizens of a particular race are somehow more qualified than others
to vote on certain matters. There is no room under the Amendment
for the concept that the right to vote in a particular election can be
allocated based on race. Pp. 517-524.

146 F. 3d 1075, reversed.

Kennedy, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which Rehnquist,
C. J., and O'Connor, Scalia, and Thomas, JJ., joined. Breyer, J., filed
an opinion concurring in the result, in which Souter, J., joined, post,
p. 524. Stevens, J., filed a dissenting opinion, in which Ginsburg, J.,
joined as to Part II, post, p. 527. Ginsburg, J., filed a dissenting opinion,
post, p. 547.

Theodore B. Olson argued the cause for petitioner. With
him on the briefs were Douglas R. Cox and Thomas G.
Hungar.

John G. Roberts, Jr., argued the cause for respondent.
With him on the brief were Earl I. Anzai, Attorney Generalof Hawaii,

Girard D. Lau, Dorothy Sellers, and Charleen M.
Aina, Deputy Attorneys General, and Gregory G. Garre.

528US2 Unit: $U29 [06-15-01 20:43:16] PAGES PGT: OPIN
498 RICE v. CAYETANO

Opinion of the Court
Deputy Solicitor General Kneedler argued the cause forthe United States as amicus curiae urging affirmance.

With him on the brief were Solicitor General Waxman,Assistant Attorney General Schiffer, Deputy Solicitor General Underwood, Irving L. Gornstein, and Elizabeth AnnPeterson.*

Justice Kennedy delivered the opinion of the Court.
A citizen of Hawaii comes before us claiming that an ex-plicit, race-based voting qualification has barred him from

voting in a statewide election. The Fifteenth Amendmentto the Constitution of the United States, binding on the
National Government, the States, and their political sub-divisions, controls the case.

The Hawaiian Constitution limits the right to vote for ninetrustees chosen in a statewide election. The trustees com*Briefs of amici curiae urging reversal were filed for the Campaign for
a Color-Blind America et al. by Richard K. Willard and Shannen W. Coffin; and for the Center for Equal Opportunity et al. by Brett M. Kavanaugh, Robert H. Bork, and Roger Clegg.

Briefs of amici curiae urging affirmance were filed for the State of
California et al. by Bill Lockyer, Attorney General of California, and
Thomas F. Gede, Special Assistant Attorney General, and by the Attorneys General for their respective jurisdictions as follows: Bill Pryor of
Alabama, John F. Tarantino of Guam, Frankie Sue Del Papa of Nevada,
Patricia A. Madrid of New Mexico, Maya B. Kara of the Northern Mariana Islands, W. A. Drew Edmondson of Oklahoma, and Hardy Myers of
Oregon; for the Alaska Federation of Natives et al. by Jeffrey L. Bleich;
for the Kamehameha Schools Bishop Estate Trust by Carter G. Phillips,
Virginia A. Seitz, and C. Michael Hare; for the National Congress of
American Indians by Kim Jerome Gottschalk and Steven C. Moore; for the
State Council of Hawaiian Homestead Associations et al. by Paul Alston,
William M. Tam, Lea Hong, and David M. Forman; and for the Office of
Hawaiian Affairs et al. by Harry R. Sachse, Reid Peyton Chambers, Arthur Lazarus, Jr., Sherry P. Broder, and Jon M. Van Dyke.

Briefs of amici curiae were filed for the Hawai`i Congressional Delegations by Patricia M. Zell, Jennifer M. L. Chock, and Janet Erickson; for
the Hou Hawaiians et al. by Walter R. Schoettle; and for the Pacific Legal
Foundation by John H. Findley and Sharon L. Browne.

528US2 Unit: $U29 [06-15-01 20:43:16] PAGES PGT: OPIN

499Cite as: 528 U. S. 495 (2000)
Opinion of the Court
pose the governing authority of a state agency known as theOffice of Hawaiian Affairs, or OHA. Haw. Const., Art. XII,

$ 5. The agency administers programs designed for the ben-efit of two subclasses of the Hawaiian citizenry. The smaller
class comprises those designated as "native Hawaiians," de-fined by statute, with certain supplementary language later
set out in full, as descendants of not less than one-half partof the races inhabiting the Hawaiian Islands prior to 1778.
Haw. Rev. Stat. $ 10-2 (1993). The second, larger class ofpersons benefited by OHA programs is "Hawaiians," defined
to be, with refinements contained in the statute we laterquote, those persons who are descendants of people inhabiting the Hawaiian Islands in 1778. Ibid. The right to votefor trustees is limited to "Hawaiians," the second, larger
class of persons, which of course includes the smaller classof "native Hawaiians." Haw. Const., Art. XII, $ 5.

Petitioner Rice, a citizen of Hawaii and thus himself a Ha-waiian in a well-accepted sense of the term, does not have
the requisite ancestry even for the larger class. He is not,then, a "Hawaiian" in terms of the statute; so he may not
vote in the trustee election. The issue presented by thiscase is whether Rice may be so barred. Rejecting the
State's arguments that the classification in question is notracial or that, if it is, it is nevertheless valid for other reasons, we hold Hawaii's denial of petitioner's right to vote tobe a clear violation of the Fifteenth Amendment.

I
When Congress and the State of Hawaii enacted the lawswe are about to discuss and review, they made their own

assessments of the events which intertwine Hawaii's historywith the history of America itself. We will begin with a
very brief account of that historical background. Historiansand other scholars who write of Hawaii will have a different
purpose and more latitude than do we. They may drawjudgments either more laudatory or more harsh than the

528US2 Unit: $U29 [06-15-01 20:43:16] PAGES PGT: OPIN
500 RICE v. CAYETANO

Opinion of the Court
ones to which we refer. Our more limited role, in the pos-ture of this particular case, is to recount events as understood by the lawmakers, thus ensuring that we accord properappreciation to their purposes in adopting the policies and
laws at issue. The litigants seem to agree that two worksin particular are appropriate for our consideration, and we
rely in part on those sources. See L. Fuchs, Hawaii Pono:
An Ethnic and Political History (1961) (hereinafter Fuchs);1-3 R. Kuykendall, The Hawaiian Kingdom (1938); (1953);

(1967) (hereinafter Kuykendall).The origins of the first Hawaiian people and the date they
reached the islands are not established with certainty, but
the usual assumption is that they were Polynesians who voyaged from Tahiti and began to settle the islands around A. D.
750. Fuchs 4; 1 Kuykendall 3; see also G. Daws, Shoal of
Time: A History of the Hawaiian Islands xii-xiii (1968) (Marquesas Islands and Tahiti). When England's Captain Cook
made landfall in Hawaii on his expedition in 1778, the Hawaiian people had developed, over the preceding 1,000 years or
so, a cultural and political structure of their own. They had
well-established traditions and customs and practiced a polytheistic religion. Agriculture and fishing sustained the
people, and, though population estimates vary, some modern
historians conclude that the population in 1778 was about
200,000-300,000. See Fuchs 4; R. Schmitt, Historical Statistics of Hawaii 7 (1977) (hereinafter Schmitt). The accounts
of Hawaiian life often remark upon the people's capacity to
find beauty and pleasure in their island existence, but life
was not altogether idyllic. In Cook's time the islands were
ruled by four different kings, and intra-Hawaiian wars could
inflict great loss and suffering. Kings or principal chieftains, as well as high priests, could order the death or sacrifice of any subject. The society was one, however, with its
own identity, its own cohesive forces, its own history.

In the years after Cook's voyage many expeditions would
follow. A few members of the ships' companies remained on

528US2 Unit: $U29 [06-15-01 20:43:16] PAGES PGT: OPIN

501Cite as: 528 U. S. 495 (2000)
Opinion of the Court
the islands, some as authorized advisers, others as deserters.Their intermarriage with the inhabitants of Hawaii was not

infrequent.In 1810, the islands were united as one kingdom under the
leadership of an admired figure in Hawaiian history, Kame-hameha I. It is difficult to say how many settlers from
Europe and America were in Hawaii when the King consolidated his power. One historian estimates there were nomore than 60 or so settlers at that time. 1 Kuykendall 27.

An influx was soon to follow. Beginning about 1820, mis-sionaries arrived, of whom Congregationalists from New
England were dominant in the early years. They sought to
teach Hawaiians to abandon religious beliefs and customs
that were contrary to Christian teachings and practices.

The 1800's are a story of increasing involvement of westerners in the economic and political affairs of the Kingdom.
Rights to land became a principal concern, and there was
unremitting pressure to allow non-Hawaiians to use and to
own land and to be secure in their title. Westerners were
not the only ones with pressing concerns, however, for the
disposition and ownership of land came to be an unsettled
matter among the Hawaiians themselves.

The status of Hawaiian lands has presented issues of complexity and controversy from at least the rule of Kamehameha I to the present day. We do not attempt to interpret that history, lest our comments be thought to bear upon
issues not before us. It suffices to refer to various of the
historical conclusions that appear to have been persuasive to
Congress and to the State when they enacted the laws soon
to be discussed.

When Kamehameha I came to power, he reasserted suzerainty over all lands and provided for control of parts of them
by a system described in our own cases as "feudal." Hawaii
Housing Authority v. Midkiff, 467 U. S. 229, 232 (1984); Kaiser Aetna v. United States, 444 U. S. 164, 166 (1979). A
well-known description of the King's early decrees is con528US2 Unit: $U29 [06-15-01 20:43:16] PAGES PGT: OPIN
502 RICE v. CAYETANO

Opinion of the Court
tained in an 1864 opinion of the Supreme Court of the King-dom of Hawaii. The court, in turn, drew extensively upon

an earlier report which recited, in part, as follows:

" `When the islands were conquered by Kamehameha I.,
he followed the example of his predecessors, and dividedout the lands among his principal warrior chiefs, retaining, however, a portion in his own hands to be cultivatedor managed by his own immediate servants or attendants. Each principal chief divided his lands anew andgave them out to an inferior order of chiefs or persons
of rank, by whom they were subdivided again and againafter (often) passing through the hands of four, five or
six persons from the King down to the lowest class of
tenants. All these persons were considered to haverights in the lands, or the productions of them, the proportions of which rights were not clearly defined, al-though universally acknowledged. . . . The same rights
which the King possessed over the superior landlordsand all under them, the several grades of landlords possessed over their inferiors, so that there was a jointownership of the land, the King really owning the allodium, and the person in whose hands he placed the land,holding it in trust.' "

In re Estate of His Majesty Kamehameha IV, 2 Haw. 715, 718-719 (quoting Principles
Adopted by the Board of Commissioners to Quiet LandTitles, 2 Stat. Laws 81-82 (Haw. Kingdom 1847)).

Beginning in 1839 and through the next decade, a successive ruler, Kamehameha III, approved a series of decreesand laws designed to accommodate demands for ownership

and security of title. In the words of the Hawaiian Supreme
Court, "[t]he subject of rights in land was one of daily increasing importance to the newly formed Government, for it
was obvious that the internal resources of the country could
not be developed until the system of undivided and undefined
ownership in land should be abolished." 2 Haw., at 721.

528US2 Unit: $U29 [06-15-01 20:43:16] PAGES PGT: OPIN

503Cite as: 528 U. S. 495 (2000)
Opinion of the Court
Arrangements were made to confer freehold title in some
lands to certain chiefs and other individuals. The King retained vast lands for himself, and directed that other extensive lands be held by the government, which by 1840 had
adopted the first Constitution of the islands. Thus was effected a fundamental and historic division, known as the
Great Mahele. In 1850, foreigners, in turn, were given the
right of land ownership.

The new policies did not result in wide dispersal of ownership. Though some provisions had been attempted by which
tenants could claim lands, these proved ineffective in many
instances, and ownership became concentrated. In 1920, the
Congress of the United States, in a Report on the bill establishing the Hawaiian Homes Commission, made an assessment of Hawaiian land policy in the following terms:

"Your committee thus finds that since the institution of
private ownership of lands in Hawaii the native Hawaiians, outside of the King and the chiefs, were granted
and have held but a very small portion of the lands of
the Islands. Under the homestead laws somewhat
more than a majority of the lands were homesteaded to
Hawaiians, but a great many of these lands have been
lost through improvidence and inability to finance farming operations. Most frequently, however, the native
Hawaiian, with no thought of the future, has obtained
the land for a nominal sum, only to turn about and sell
it to wealthy interests for a sum more nearly approaching its real value. The Hawaiians are not business men
and have shown themselves unable to meet competitive
conditions unaided. In the end the speculators are the
real beneficiaries of the homestead laws. Thus the tax
returns for 1919 show that only 6.23 per centum of

the property of the Islands is held by native Hawaiians
and this for the most part is lands in the possession
of approximately a thousand wealthy Hawaiians, the

528US2 Unit: $U29 [06-15-01 20:43:16] PAGES PGT: OPIN
504 RICE v. CAYETANO

Opinion of the Court
descendents of the chiefs." H. R. Rep. No. 839, 66thCong., 2d Sess., 6 (1920).

While these developments were unfolding, the UnitedStates and European powers made constant efforts to protect their interests and to influence Hawaiian political andeconomic affairs in general. The first "articles of arrangement" between the United States and the Kingdom ofHawaii were signed in 1826, 8 Department of State, Treaties
and Other International Agreements of the United Statesof America 1776-1949, p. 861 (C. Bevans comp. 1968), and
additional treaties and conventions between the two coun-tries were signed in 1849, 1875, and 1887, see Treaty with
the Hawaiian Islands, 9 Stat. 977 (1849) (friendship, com-merce, and navigation); Convention between the United
States of America and His Majesty the King of the HawaiianIslands, 19 Stat. 625 (1875) (commercial reciprocity); Supplementary Convention between the United States of Americaand His Majesty the King of the Hawaiian Islands, 25 Stat.
1399 (1887) (same). The United States was not the onlycountry interested in Hawaii and its affairs, but by the later
part of the century the reality of American dominance intrade, settlement, economic expansion, and political influence
became apparent.Tensions intensified between an anti-Western, pro-native
bloc in the government on the one hand and western busi-ness interests and property owners on the other. The conflicts came to the fore in 1887. Westerners forced the resig-nation of the Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Hawaii and
the adoption of a new Constitution, which, among otherthings, reduced the power of the monarchy and extended the
right to vote to non-Hawaiians. 3 Kuykendall 344-372.Tensions continued through 1893, when they again peaked,
this time in response to an attempt by the then-Hawaiianmonarch, Queen Liliuokalani, to promulgate a new constitution restoring monarchical control over the House of Noblesand limiting the franchise to Hawaiian subjects. A so-called

528US2 Unit: $U29 [06-15-01 20:43:16] PAGES PGT: OPIN

505Cite as: 528 U. S. 495 (2000)
Opinion of the Court
Committee of Safety, a group of professionals and business-men, with the active assistance of John Stevens, the United

States Minister to Hawaii, acting with United States ArmedForces, replaced the monarchy with a provisional government. That government sought annexation by the UnitedStates. On December 18 of the same year, President Cleveland, unimpressed and indeed offended by the actions of the
American Minister, denounced the role of the Americanforces and called for restoration of the Hawaiian monarchy.

Message of the President to the Senate and House of Repre-sentatives, reprinted in H. R. Rep. No. 243, 53d Cong., 2d
Sess., 3-15 (1893). The Queen could not resume her former
place, however, and, in 1894, the provisional government established the Republic of Hawaii. The Queen abdicated her
throne a year later.

In 1898, President McKinley signed a Joint Resolution,
sometimes called the Newlands Resolution, to annex the
Hawaiian Islands as territory of the United States. 30
Stat. 750. According to the Joint Resolution, the Republic
of Hawaii ceded all former Crown, government, and public
lands to the United States. Ibid. The resolution further
provided that revenues from the public lands were to be
"used solely for the benefit of the inhabitants of the Hawaiian
Islands for educational and other public purposes." Ibid.
Two years later the Hawaiian Organic Act established the
Territory of Hawaii, asserted United States control over the
ceded lands, and put those lands "in the possession, use, and
control of the government of the Territory of Hawaii . . .
until otherwise provided for by Congress." Act of Apr. 30,
1900, ch. 339, $ 91, 31 Stat. 159.

In 1993, a century after the intervention by the Committee
of Safety, the Congress of the United States reviewed this
history, and in particular the role of Minister Stevens. Congress passed a Joint Resolution recounting the events in
some detail and offering an apology to the native Hawaiian
people. 107 Stat. 1510.

528US2 Unit: $U29 [06-15-01 20:43:16] PAGES PGT: OPIN
506 RICE v. CAYETANO

Opinion of the Court
Before we turn to the relevant provisions two other important matters, which affected the demographics of Hawaii,
must be recounted. The first is the tragedy inflicted on the
early Hawaiian people by the introduction of western diseases and infectious agents. As early as the establishment
of the rule of Kamehameha I, it was becoming apparent that
the native population had serious vulnerability to diseases
borne to the islands by settlers. High mortality figures
were experienced in infancy and adulthood, even from common illnesses such as diarrhea, colds, and measles. Fuchs
13; see Schmitt 58. More serious diseases took even greater
tolls. In the smallpox epidemic of 1853, thousands of lives
were lost. Ibid. By 1878, 100 years after Cook's arrival,
the native population had been reduced to about 47,500 people. Id., at 25. These mortal illnesses no doubt were an
initial cause of the despair, disenchantment, and despondency
some commentators later noted in descendents of the early
Hawaiian people. See Fuchs 13.

The other important feature of Hawaiian demographics to
be noted is the immigration to the islands by people of many
different races and cultures. Mostly in response to the demand of the sugar industry for arduous labor in the cane
fields, successive immigration waves brought Chinese, Portuguese, Japanese, and Filipinos to Hawaii. Beginning with
the immigration of 293 Chinese in 1852, the plantations alone
drew to Hawaii, in one estimate, something over 400,000
men, women, and children over the next century. Id., at 24;
A. Lind, Hawaii's People 6-7 (4th ed. 1980). Each of these
ethnic and national groups has had its own history in Hawaii,
its own struggles with societal and official discrimination, its
own successes, and its own role in creating the present society of the islands. See E. Nordyke, The Peopling of Hawai`i
28-98 (2d ed. 1989). The 1990 census figures show the resulting ethnic diversity of the Hawaiian population. U. S.
Dept. of Commerce, Bureau of Census, 1990 Census of Popu528US2 Unit: $U29 [06-15-01 20:43:16] PAGES PGT: OPIN

507Cite as: 528 U. S. 495 (2000)
Opinion of the Court
lation, Supplementary Reports, Detailed Ancestry Groupsfor States (Oct. 1992).

With this background we turn to the legislative enact-ments of direct relevance to the case before us.

II
Not long after the creation of the new Territory, Congressbecame concerned with the condition of the native Hawaiian

people. See H. R. Rep. No. 839, at 2-6; Hearings on theRehabilitation and Colonization of Hawaiians and Other Proposed Amendments to the Organic Act of the Territory ofHawaii before the House Committee on the Territories, 66th
Cong., 2d Sess. (1920). Reciting its purpose to rehabilitatethe native Hawaiian population, see H. R. Rep. No. 839, at
1-2, Congress enacted the Hawaiian Homes Commission Act,which set aside about 200,000 acres of the ceded public lands
and created a program of loans and long-term leases for thebenefit of native Hawaiians. Act of July 9, 1921, ch. 42, 42
Stat. 108. The Act defined "native Hawaiian[s]" to include"any descendant of not less than one-half part of the blood
of the races inhabiting the Hawaiian Islands previous to1778."

Ibid.Hawaii was admitted as the 50th State of the Union in

1959. With admission, the new State agreed to adopt theHawaiian Homes Commission Act as part of its own Constitution. Pub. L. 86-3, $$ 4, 7, 73 Stat. 5, 7 (Admission Act);see Haw. Const., Art. XII, $$ 1-3. In addition, the United
States granted Hawaii title to all public lands and publicproperty within the boundaries of the State, save those
which the Federal Government retained for its own use.Admission Act $$ 5(b)-(d), 73 Stat. 5. This grant included
the 200,000 acres set aside under the Hawaiian Homes Com-mission Act and almost 1.2 million additional acres of land.
Brief for United States as Amicus Curiae 4.The legislation authorizing the grant recited that these
lands, and the proceeds and income they generated, were to

528US2 Unit: $U29 [06-15-01 20:43:16] PAGES PGT: OPIN
508 RICE v. CAYETANO

Opinion of the Court
be held "as a public trust" to be "managed and disposed offor one or more of " five purposes:

"[1] for the support of the public schools and other publiceducational institutions, [2] for the betterment of the
conditions of native Hawaiians, as defined in the Hawai-ian Homes Commission Act, 1920, as amended, [3] for
the development of farm and home ownership on aswidespread a basis as possible[,] [4] for the making of
public improvements, and [5] for the provision of landsfor public use." Admission Act $ 5(f), 73 Stat. 6.

In the first decades following admission, the State appar-ently continued to administer the lands that had been set
aside under the Hawaiian Homes Commission Act for thebenefit of native Hawaiians. The income from the balance
of the public lands is said to have "by and large flowed to thedepartment of education." Hawaii Senate Journal, Standing
Committee Rep. No. 784, pp. 1350, 1351 (1979).In 1978 Hawaii amended its Constitution to establish the
Office of Hawaiian Affairs, Haw. Const., Art. XII, $ 5, whichhas as its mission "[t]he betterment of conditions of native
Hawaiians . . . [and] Hawaiians," Haw. Rev. Stat. $ 10-3(1993). Members of the 1978 constitutional convention, at
which the new amendments were drafted and proposed, setforth the purpose of the proposed agency:

"Members [of the Committee of the Whole] were im-pressed by the concept of the Office of Hawaiian
Affairs which establishes a public trust entity for thebenefit of the people of Hawaiian ancestry. Members
foresaw that it will provide Hawaiians the right to de-termine the priorities which will effectuate the betterment of their condition and welfare and promote the pro-tection and preservation of the Hawaiian race, and that
it will unite Hawaiians as a people." 1 Proceedings ofthe Constitutional Convention of Hawaii of 1978, Committee of the Whole Rep. No. 13, p. 1018 (1980).

528US2 Unit: $U29 [06-15-01 20:43:16] PAGES PGT: OPIN

509Cite as: 528 U. S. 495 (2000)
Opinion of the Court
Implementing statutes and their later amendments vestedOHA with broad authority to administer two categories of

funds: a 20 percent share of the revenue from the 1.2 millionacres of lands granted to the State pursuant to $ 5(b) of the
Admission Act, which OHA is to administer "for the better-ment of the conditions of native Hawaiians," Haw. Rev. Stat.

$ 10-13.5 (1993), and any state or federal appropriations or
private donations that may be made for the benefit of "nativeHawaiians" and/or "Hawaiians," Haw. Const., Art. XII, $ 6.

See generally Haw. Rev. Stat. $$ 10-1 to 10-16. (The200,000 acres set aside under the Hawaiian Homes Commission Act are administered by a separate agency. See Haw.Rev. Stat. $ 26-17 (1993).) The Hawaiian Legislature has
charged OHA with the mission of "[s]erving as the principalpublic agency . . . responsible for the performance, development, and coordination of programs and activities relating tonative Hawaiians and Hawaiians," "[a]ssessing the policies
and practices of other agencies impacting on native Hawai-ians and Hawaiians," "conducting advocacy efforts for native
Hawaiians and Hawaiians," "[a]pplying for, receiving, and
disbursing, grants and donations from all sources for nativeHawaiian and Hawaiian programs and services," and "[s]erving as a receptacle for reparations." $ 10-3.OHA is overseen by a nine-member board of trustees, the
members of which "shall be Hawaiians" and--presenting theprecise issue in this case--shall be "elected by qualified voters who are Hawaiians, as provided by law." Haw. Const.,Art. XII, $ 5; see Haw. Rev. Stat. $$ 13D-1, 13D-3(b)(1)
(1993). The term "Hawaiian" is defined by statute:

" `Hawaiian' means any descendant of the aboriginal peoples inhabiting the Hawaiian Islands which exercised
sovereignty and subsisted in the Hawaiian Islands in
1778, and which peoples thereafter have continued to
reside in Hawaii." $ 10-2.

The statute defines "native Hawaiian" as follows:

528US2 Unit: $U29 [06-15-01 20:43:16] PAGES PGT: OPIN
510 RICE v. CAYETANO

Opinion of the Court
" `Native Hawaiian' means any descendant of not less
than one-half part of the races inhabiting the Hawaiian
Islands previous to 1778, as defined by the Hawaiian
Homes Commission Act, 1920, as amended; provided
that the term identically refers to the descendants of
such blood quantum of such aboriginal peoples which
exercised sovereignty and subsisted in the Hawaiian
Islands in 1778 and which peoples thereafter continued
to reside in Hawaii." Ibid.

Petitioner Harold Rice is a citizen of Hawaii and a descendant of preannexation residents of the islands. He is not, as
we have noted, a descendant of pre-1778 natives, and so he
is neither "native Hawaiian" nor "Hawaiian" as defined by
the statute. Rice applied in March 1996 to vote in the elections for OHA trustees. To register to vote for the office of
trustee he was required to attest: "I am also Hawaiian and
desire to register to vote in OHA elections." Affidavit on
Application for Voter Registration, Lodging by Petitioner,
Tab 2. Rice marked through the words "am also Hawaiian
and," then checked the form "yes." The State denied his
application.

Rice sued Benjamin Cayetano, the Governor of Hawaii, in
the United States District Court for the District of Hawaii.
(The Governor was sued in his official capacity, and the Attorney General of Hawaii defends the challenged enactments. We refer to the respondent as "the State.") Rice
contested his exclusion from voting in elections for OHA
trustees and from voting in a special election relating to native Hawaiian sovereignty which was held in August 1996.
After the District Court rejected the latter challenge, see
Rice v. Cayetano, 941 F. Supp. 1529 (1996) (a decision not
before us), the parties moved for summary judgment on the
claim that the Fourteenth and Fifteenth Amendments to the
United States Constitution invalidate the law excluding Rice
from the OHA trustee elections.

528US2 Unit: $U29 [06-15-01 20:43:16] PAGES PGT: OPIN

511Cite as: 528 U. S. 495 (2000)
Opinion of the Court
The District Court granted summary judgment to theState. 963 F. Supp. 1547 (Haw. 1997). Surveying the

history of the islands and their people, the District Courtdetermined that Congress and the State of Hawaii have recognized a guardian-ward relationship with the native Hawai-ians, which the court found analogous to the relationship
between the United States and the Indian tribes. Id., at1551-1554. On this premise, the court examined the voting
qualification with the latitude that we have applied to legisla-tion passed pursuant to Congress' power over Indian affairs.
Id., at 1554-1555 (citing Morton v. Mancari, 417 U. S. 535(1974)). Finding that the electoral scheme was "rationally
related to the State's responsibility under the Admission Actto utilize a portion of the proceeds from the $ 5(b) lands for
the betterment of Native Hawaiians," the District Courtheld that the voting restriction did not violate the Constitution's ban on racial classifications. 963 F. Supp., at1554-1555.

The Court of Appeals affirmed. 146 F. 3d 1075 (CA91998). The court noted that Rice had not challenged the
constitutionality of the underlying programs or of OHA it-self. Id., at 1079. Considering itself bound to "accept the
trusts and their administrative structure as [it found] them,and assume that both are lawful," the court held that Hawaii
"may rationally conclude that Hawaiians, being the group towhom trust obligations run and to whom OHA trustees owe
a duty of loyalty, should be the group to decide who thetrustees ought to be." Ibid. The court so held notwithstanding its clear holding that the Hawaii Constitution andimplementing statutes "contain a racial classification on their
face." Ibid.We granted certiorari, 526 U. S. 1016 (1999), and now
reverse. III

The purpose and command of the Fifteenth Amendmentare set forth in language both explicit and comprehensive.

528US2 Unit: $U29 [06-15-01 20:43:16] PAGES PGT: OPIN
512 RICE v. CAYETANO

Opinion of the Court
The National Government and the States may not violate a
fundamental principle: They may not deny or abridge the
right to vote on account of race. Color and previous condition of servitude, too, are forbidden criteria or classifications,
though it is unnecessary to consider them in the present case.

Enacted in the wake of the Civil War, the immediate concern of the Amendment was to guarantee to the emancipated
slaves the right to vote, lest they be denied the civil and
political capacity to protect their new freedom. Vital as its
objective remains, the Amendment goes beyond it. Consistent with the design of the Constitution, the Amendment is
cast in fundamental terms, terms transcending the particular
controversy which was the immediate impetus for its enactment. The Amendment grants protection to all persons, not
just members of a particular race.

The design of the Amendment is to reaffirm the equality
of races at the most basic level of the democratic process,
the exercise of the voting franchise. A resolve so absolute
required language as simple in command as it was comprehensive in reach. Fundamental in purpose and effect and
self-executing in operation, the Amendment prohibits all
provisions denying or abridging the voting franchise of any
citizen or class of citizens on the basis of race. "[B]y the
inherent power of the Amendment the word white disappeared" from our voting laws, bringing those who had been
excluded by reason of race within "the generic grant of suffrage made by the State." Guinn v. United States, 238 U. S.
347, 363 (1915); see also Neal v. Delaware, 103 U. S. 370, 389
(1881). The Court has acknowledged the Amendment's
mandate of neutrality in straightforward terms: "If citizens
of one race having certain qualifications are permitted by
law to vote, those of another having the same qualifications
must be. Previous to this amendment, there was no constitutional guaranty against this discrimination: now there is."
United States v. Reese, 92 U. S. 214, 218 (1876).

528US2 Unit: $U29 [06-15-01 20:43:16] PAGES PGT: OPIN

513Cite as: 528 U. S. 495 (2000)
Opinion of the Court
Though the commitment was clear, the reality remainedfar from the promise. Manipulative devices and practices

were soon employed to deny the vote to blacks. We havecataloged before the "variety and persistence" of these techniques. South Carolina v. Katzenbach, 383 U. S. 301, 311-312 (1966) (citing,

e. g., Guinn, supra (grandfather clause);
Myers v. Anderson, 238 U. S. 368 (1915) (same); Lane v. Wilson, 307 U. S. 268 (1939) ("procedural hurdles"); Terry v.
Adams, 345 U. S. 461 (1953) (white primary); Smith v. Allwright, 321 U. S. 649 (1944) (same); United States v. Thomas,362 U. S. 58 (1960)

(per curiam) (registration challenges);
Gomillion v. Lightfoot, 364 U. S. 339 (1960) (racial gerrymandering); Louisiana v. United States, 380 U. S. 145 (1965) ("interpretation tests")). Progress was slow, particularly when
litigation had to proceed case by case, district by district,
sometimes voter by voter. See 383 U. S., at 313-315.

Important precedents did emerge, however, which give instruction in the case now before us. The Fifteenth Amendment was quite sufficient to invalidate a scheme which did
not mention race but instead used ancestry in an attempt to
confine and restrict the voting franchise. In 1910, the State
of Oklahoma enacted a literacy requirement for voting eligibility, but exempted from that requirement the " `lineal descendant[s]' " of persons who were " `on January 1, 1866, or
at any time prior thereto, entitled to vote under any form of
government, or who at that time resided in some foreign
nation.' " Guinn, supra, at 357. Those persons whose
ancestors were entitled to vote under the State's previous,
discriminatory voting laws were thus exempted from the
eligibility test. Recognizing that the test served only to
perpetuate those old laws and to effect a transparent racial
exclusion, the Court invalidated it. 238 U. S., at 364-365.

More subtle, perhaps, than the grandfather device in
Guinn were the evasions attempted in the white primary
cases; but the Fifteenth Amendment, again by its own terms,
sufficed to strike down these voting systems, systems de528US2 Unit: $U29 [06-15-01 20:43:16] PAGES PGT: OPIN
514 RICE v. CAYETANO

Opinion of the Court
signed to exclude one racial class (at least) from voting. See
Terry, supra, at 469-470; Allwright, supra, at 663-666 (overruling Grovey v. Townsend, 295 U. S. 45 (1935)). The Fif-teenth Amendment, the Court held, could not be so circumvented: "The Amendment bans racial discrimination invoting by both state and nation. It thus establishes a national policy . . . not to be discriminated against as voters in
elections to determine public governmental policies or to se-lect public officials, national, state, or local."

Terry, supra,
at 467.Unlike the cited cases, the voting structure now before us

is neither subtle nor indirect. It is specific in granting the
vote to persons of defined ancestry and to no others. The
State maintains this is not a racial category at all but instead
a classification limited to those whose ancestors were in
Hawaii at a particular time, regardless of their race. Brief
for Respondent 38-40. The State points to theories of certain scholars concluding that some inhabitants of Hawaii as
of 1778 may have migrated from the Marquesas Islands and
the Pacific Northwest, as well as from Tahiti. Id., at 38-39,
and n. 15. Furthermore, the State argues, the restriction
in its operation excludes a person whose traceable ancestors
were exclusively Polynesian if none of those ancestors resided in Hawaii in 1778; and, on the other hand, the vote
would be granted to a person who could trace, say, one sixtyfourth of his or her ancestry to a Hawaiian inhabitant on
the pivotal date. Ibid. These factors, it is said, mean the
restriction is not a racial classification. We reject this line
of argument.

Ancestry can be a proxy for race. It is that proxy here.
Even if the residents of Hawaii in 1778 had been of more
diverse ethnic backgrounds and cultures, it is far from clear
that a voting test favoring their descendants would not be
a race-based qualification. But that is not this case. For
centuries Hawaii was isolated from migration. 1 Kuykendall 3. The inhabitants shared common physical character528US2 Unit: $U29 [06-15-01 20:43:16] PAGES PGT: OPIN

515Cite as: 528 U. S. 495 (2000)
Opinion of the Court
istics, and by 1778 they had a common culture. Indeed, thedrafters of the statutory definition in question emphasized

the "unique culture of the ancient Hawaiians" in explainingtheir work. Hawaii Senate Journal, Standing Committee
Rep. No. 784, at 1354; see ibid. ("Modern scholarship alsoidentified such race of people as culturally distinguishable
from other Polynesian peoples"). The provisions before us
reflect the State's effort to preserve that commonality of peo-ple to the present day. In the interpretation of the Reconstruction era civil rights laws we have observed that "racialdiscrimination" is that which singles out "identifiable classes
of persons . . . solely because of their ancestry or ethnic char-acteristics."

Saint Francis College v. Al-Khazraji, 481 U. S.
604, 613 (1987). The very object of the statutory definitionin question and of its earlier congressional counterpart in

the Hawaiian Homes Commission Act is to treat the earlyHawaiians as a distinct people, commanding their own recognition and respect. The State, in enacting the legislationbefore us, has used ancestry as a racial definition and for a
racial purpose.

The history of the State's definition demonstrates thepoint. As we have noted, the statute defines "Hawaiian" as

"any descendant of the aboriginal peoples inhabiting the
Hawaiian Islands which exercised sovereignty and subsisted in the Hawaiian Islands in 1778, and which peo-ples thereafter have continued to reside in Hawaii."

Haw. Rev. Stat. $ 10-2 (1993).
A different definition of "Hawaiian" was first promulgatedin 1978 as one of the proposed amendments to the State

Constitution. As proposed, "Hawaiian" was defined as "any
descendant of the races inhabiting the Hawaiian Islands, previous to 1778." 1 Proceedings of the Constitutional Convention of Hawaii of 1978, Committee of the Whole Rep. No. 13,
at 1018. Rejected as not ratified in a valid manner, see Kahalekai v. Doi, 60 Haw. 324, 342, 590 P. 2d 543, 555 (1979),

528US2 Unit: $U29 [06-15-01 20:43:16] PAGES PGT: OPIN
516 RICE v. CAYETANO

Opinion of the Court
the definition was modified and in the end promulgated instatutory form as quoted above. See Hawaii Senate Journal, Standing Committee Rep. No. 784, at 1350, 1353-1354;
id., Conf. Comm. Rep. No. 77, at 998. By the drafters' own
admission, however, any changes to the language were atmost cosmetic. Noting that "[t]he definitions of `native Hawaiian' and `Hawaiian' are changed to substitute `peoples' for
`races,' " the drafters of the revised definition "stress[ed] thatthis change is non-substantive, and that `peoples' does mean

`races.' " Ibid.; see also id., at 999 ("[T]he word `peoples' hasbeen substituted for `races' in the definition of `Hawaiian'.
Again, your Committee wishes to emphasize that this sub-stitution is merely technical, and that `peoples' does mean
`races' ").The next definition in Hawaii's compilation of statutes incorporates the new definition of "Hawaiian" and preservesthe explicit tie to race:

" `Native Hawaiian' means any descendant of not lessthan one-half part of the races inhabiting the Hawaiian
Islands previous to 1778, as defined by the HawaiianHomes Commission Act, 1920, as amended; provided
that the term identically refers to the descendants ofsuch blood quantum of such aboriginal peoples which
exercised sovereignty and subsisted in the Hawaiian
Islands in 1778 and which peoples thereafter continuedto reside in Hawaii." Haw. Rev. Stat. $ 10-2 (1993).

This provision makes it clear: "[T]he descendants . . . of [the]
aboriginal peoples" means "the descendants . . . of theraces."

Ibid.
As for the further argument that the restriction differentiates even among Polynesian people and is based simply on
the date of an ancestor's residence in Hawaii, this too is insufficient to prove the classification is nonracial in purpose
and operation. Simply because a class defined by ancestry
does not include all members of the race does not suffice to

528US2 Unit: $U29 [06-15-01 20:43:16] PAGES PGT: OPIN

517Cite as: 528 U. S. 495 (2000)
Opinion of the Court
make the classification race neutral. Here, the State's argument is undermined by its express racial purpose and by its
actual effects.

The ancestral inquiry mandated by the State implicates
the same grave concerns as a classification specifying a particular race by name. One of the principal reasons race is
treated as a forbidden classification is that it demeans the
dignity and worth of a person to be judged by ancestry instead of by his or her own merit and essential qualities. An
inquiry into ancestral lines is not consistent with respect
based on the unique personality each of us possesses, a respect the Constitution itself secures in its concern for persons and citizens.

The ancestral inquiry mandated by the State is forbidden
by the Fifteenth Amendment for the further reason that the
use of racial classifications is corruptive of the whole legal
order democratic elections seek to preserve. The law itself
may not become the instrument for generating the prejudice
and hostility all too often directed against persons whose
particular ancestry is disclosed by their ethnic characteristics and cultural traditions. "Distinctions between citizens
solely because of their ancestry are by their very nature odious to a free people whose institutions are founded upon the
doctrine of equality." Hirabayashi v. United States, 320
U. S. 81, 100 (1943). Ancestral tracing of this sort achieves
its purpose by creating a legal category which employs the
same mechanisms, and causes the same injuries, as laws or
statutes that use race by name. The State's electoral restriction enacts a race-based voting qualification.

IV
The State offers three principal defenses of its voting law,
any of which, it contends, allows it to prevail even if the
classification is a racial one under the Fifteenth Amendment.
We examine, and reject, each of these arguments.

528US2 Unit: $U29 [06-15-01 20:43:16] PAGES PGT: OPIN
518 RICE v. CAYETANO

Opinion of the Court

A
The most far reaching of the State's arguments is that ex-clusion of non-Hawaiians from voting is permitted under our

cases allowing the differential treatment of certain membersof Indian tribes. The decisions of this Court, interpreting
the effect of treaties and congressional enactments on thesubject, have held that various tribes retained some elements of quasi-sovereign authority, even after cession oftheir lands to the United States. See

Brendale v. Confeder-ated Tribes and Bands of Yakima Nation, 492 U. S. 408, 425

(1989) (plurality opinion); Oliphant v. Suquamish Tribe, 435U. S. 191, 208 (1978). The retained tribal authority relates
to self-governance. Brendale, supra, at 425 (plurality opin-ion). In reliance on that theory the Court has sustained a
federal provision giving employment preferences to personsof tribal ancestry.

Mancari, 417 U. S., at 553-555. TheMancari case, and the theory upon which it rests, are invoked by the State to defend its decision to restrict votingfor the OHA trustees, who are charged so directly with protecting the interests of native Hawaiians.If Hawaii's restriction were to be sustained under Mancari we would be required to accept some beginning prem-ises not yet established in our case law. Among other postulates, it would be necessary to conclude that Congress, inreciting the purposes for the transfer of lands to the State--
and in other enactments such as the Hawaiian Homes Com-mission Act and the Joint Resolution of 1993--has determined that native Hawaiians have a status like that of Indi-ans in organized tribes, and that it may, and has, delegated to
the State a broad authority to preserve that status. Thesepropositions would raise questions of considerable moment
and difficulty. It is a matter of some dispute, for instance,whether Congress may treat the native Hawaiians as it does
the Indian tribes. Compare Van Dyke, The Political Statusof the Native Hawaiian People, 17 Yale L. & Pol'y Rev. 95
(1998), with Benjamin, Equal Protection and the Special Re528US2 Unit: $U29 [06-15-01 20:43:16] PAGES PGT: OPIN

519Cite as: 528 U. S. 495 (2000)
Opinion of the Court
lationship: The Case of Native Hawaiians, 106 Yale L. J. 537(1996). We can stay far off that difficult terrain, however.

The State's argument fails for a more basic reason. Evenwere we to take the substantial step of finding authority in
Congress, delegated to the State, to treat Hawaiians or na-tive Hawaiians as tribes, Congress may not authorize a State
to create a voting scheme of this sort.

Of course, as we have established in a series of cases, Con-gress may fulfill its treaty obligations and its responsibilities

to the Indian tribes by enacting legislation dedicated to theircircumstances and needs. See

Washington v. Washington
State Commercial Passenger Fishing Vessel Assn., 443 U. S.
658, 673, n. 20 (1979) (treaties securing preferential fishing
rights); United States v. Antelope, 430 U. S. 641, 645-647
(1977) (exclusive federal jurisdiction over crimes committed
by Indians in Indian country); Delaware Tribal Business
Comm. v. Weeks, 430 U. S. 73, 84-85 (1977) (distribution of
tribal property); Moe v. Confederated Salish and Kootenai
Tribes of Flathead Reservation, 425 U. S. 463, 479-480
(1976) (Indian immunity from state taxes); Fisher v. District
Court of Sixteenth Judicial Dist. of Mont., 424 U. S. 382,
390-391 (1976) (per curiam) (exclusive tribal court jurisdiction over tribal adoptions). As we have observed, "every
piece of legislation dealing with Indian tribes and reservations . . . single[s] out for special treatment a constituency of
tribal Indians." Mancari, supra, at 552.

Mancari, upon which many of the above cases rely, presented the somewhat different issue of a preference in hiring
and promoting at the federal Bureau of Indian Affairs (BIA),
a preference which favored individuals who were " `onefourth or more degree Indian blood and . . . member[s] of a
Federally-recognized tribe.' " 417 U. S., at 553, n. 24 (quoting 44 BIAM 335, 3.1 (1972)). Although the classification
had a racial component, the Court found it important that
the preference was "not directed towards a `racial' group
consisting of `Indians,' " but rather "only to members of `fed528US2 Unit: $U29 [06-15-01 20:43:16] PAGES PGT: OPIN
520 RICE v. CAYETANO

Opinion of the Court
erally recognized' tribes." 417 U. S., at 553, n. 24. "In thissense," the Court held, "the preference [was] political rather

than racial in nature." Ibid.; see also id., at 554 ("The pref-erence, as applied, is granted to Indians not as a discrete
racial group, but, rather, as members of quasi-sovereigntribal entities whose lives and activities are governed by the
BIA in a unique fashion"). Because the BIA preference
could be "tied rationally to the fulfillment of Congress'unique obligation toward the Indians," and was "reasonable

and rationally designed to further Indian self-government,"the Court held that it did not offend the Constitution.

Id.,
at 555. The opinion was careful to note, however, that the
case was confined to the authority of the BIA, an agency
described as "sui generis." Id., at 554.

Hawaii would extend the limited exception of Mancari
to a new and larger dimension. The State contends that
"one of the very purposes of OHA--and the challenged voting provision--is to afford Hawaiians a measure of selfgovernance," and so it fits the model of Mancari. Brief for
Respondent 34. It does not follow from Mancari, however,
that Congress may authorize a State to establish a voting
scheme that limits the electorate for its public officials to a
class of tribal Indians, to the exclusion of all non-Indian
citizens.

The tribal elections established by the federal statutes the
State cites illuminate its error. See Brief for Respondent
22 (citing, e. g., the Menominee Restoration Act, 25 U. S. C.

$ 903b, and the Indian Reorganization Act, 25 U. S. C. $ 476).
If a non-Indian lacks a right to vote in tribal elections, it is
for the reason that such elections are the internal affair of a
quasi sovereign. The OHA elections, by contrast, are the
affair of the State of Hawaii. OHA is a state agency, established by the State Constitution, responsible for the administration of state laws and obligations. See Haw. Const., Art.
XII, $$ 5-6. The Hawaiian Legislature has declared that
OHA exists to serve "as the principal public agency in th[e]

528US2 Unit: $U29 [06-15-01 20:43:16] PAGES PGT: OPIN

521Cite as: 528 U. S. 495 (2000)
Opinion of the Court
State responsible for the performance, development, and co-ordination of programs and activities relating to native Hawaiians and Hawaiians." Haw. Rev. Stat. $ 10-3(3) (1993);see also Lodging by Petitioner, Tab 6, OHA Annual Report
1993-1994, p. 5 (May 27, 1994) (admitting that "OHA is tech-nically a part of the Hawai'i state government," while asserting that "it operates as a semi-autonomous entity"). Foremost among the obligations entrusted to this agency is theadministration of a share of the revenues and proceeds from

public lands, granted to Hawaii to "be held by said State asa public trust." Admission Act $$ 5(b), (f ), 73 Stat. 5, 6; see
Haw. Const., Art. XII, $ 4.The delegates to the 1978 constitutional convention explained the position of OHA in the state structure:

"The committee intends that the Office of Hawaiian Affairs will be independent from the executive branch andall other branches of government although it will assume the status of a state agency. The chairman maybe an ex officio member of the governor's cabinet. The
status of the Office of Hawaiian Affairs is to be uniqueand special. . . . The committee developed this office
based on the model of the University of Hawaii. In par-ticular, the committee desired to use this model so that
the office could have maximum control over its budget,
assets and personnel. The committee felt that it wasimportant to arrange a method whereby the assets of

Hawaiians could be kept separate from the rest of thestate treasury." 1 Proceedings of the Constitutional
Convention of Hawaii of 1978, Standing Committee Rep.
No. 59, at 645.

Although it is apparent that OHA has a unique position
under state law, it is just as apparent that it remains an arm
of the State.

The validity of the voting restriction is the only question
before us. As the Court of Appeals did, we assume the va528US2 Unit: $U29 [06-15-01 20:43:16] PAGES PGT: OPIN
522 RICE v. CAYETANO

Opinion of the Court
lidity of the underlying administrative structure and trusts,without intimating any opinion on that point. Nonetheless,

the elections for OHA trustee are elections of the State, notof a separate quasi sovereign, and they are elections to which
the Fifteenth Amendment applies. To extend Mancari tothis context would be to permit a State, by racial classification, to fence out whole classes of its citizens from decision-making in critical state affairs. The Fifteenth Amendment
forbids this result. B

Hawaii further contends that the limited voting franchiseis sustainable under a series of cases holding that the rule of
one person, one vote does not pertain to certain special pur-pose districts such as water or irrigation districts. See

Ballv. James, 451 U. S. 355 (1981); Salyer Land Co. v. Tulare

Lake Basin Water Storage Dist., 410 U. S. 719 (1973). Justas the Mancari argument would have involved a significant
extension or new application of that case, so too it is far fromclear that the Salyer line of cases would be at all applicable
to statewide elections for an agency with the powers andresponsibilities of OHA.

We would not find those cases dispositive in any event,however. The question before us is not the one-person,
one-vote requirement of the Fourteenth Amendment, but therace neutrality command of the Fifteenth Amendment. Our
special purpose district cases have not suggested that com-pliance with the one-person, one-vote rule of the Fourteenth
Amendment somehow excuses compliance with the FifteenthAmendment. We reject that argument here. We held four
decades ago that state authority over the boundaries of polit-ical subdivisions, "extensive though it is, is met and overcome by the Fifteenth Amendment to the Constitution."
Gomillion, 364 U. S., at 345. The Fifteenth Amendment hasindependent meaning and force. A State may not deny or

abridge the right to vote on account of race, and this lawdoes so.

528US2 Unit: $U29 [06-15-01 20:43:16] PAGES PGT: OPIN

523Cite as: 528 U. S. 495 (2000)
Opinion of the Court

C
Hawaii's final argument is that the voting restriction doesno more than ensure an alignment of interests between the

fiduciaries and the beneficiaries of a trust. Thus, the con-tention goes, the restriction is based on beneficiary status
rather than race.As an initial matter, the contention founders on its own
terms, for it is not clear that the voting classification is sym-metric with the beneficiaries of the programs OHA administers. Although the bulk of the funds for which OHA is re-sponsible appears to be earmarked for the benefit of "native
Hawaiians," the State permits both "native Hawaiians" and"Hawaiians" to vote for the office of trustee. The classification thus appears to create, not eliminate, a differentialalignment between the identity of OHA trustees and what
the State calls beneficiaries.Hawaii's argument fails on more essential grounds. The
State's position rests, in the end, on the demeaning premisethat citizens of a particular race are somehow more qualified
than others to vote on certain matters. That reasoningattacks the central meaning of the Fifteenth Amendment.
The Amendment applies to "any election in which publicissues are decided or public officials selected." Terry, 345
U. S., at 468. There is no room under the Amendment forthe concept that the right to vote in a particular election can
be allocated based on race. Race cannot qualify some anddisqualify others from full participation in our democracy.
All citizens, regardless of race, have an interest in selectingofficials who make policies on their behalf, even if those policies will affect some groups more than others. Under theFifteenth Amendment voters are treated not as members of
a distinct race but as members of the whole citizenry.Hawaii may not assume, based on race, that petitioner or any
other of its citizens will not cast a principled vote. To acceptthe position advanced by the State would give rise to the
same indignities, and the same resulting tensions and ani528US2 Unit: $U29 [06-15-01 20:43:16] PAGES PGT: OPIN
524 RICE v. CAYETANO

Breyer, J., concurring in result
mosities, the Amendment was designed to eliminate. The
voting restriction under review is prohibited by the Fifteenth Amendment.

* * *

When the culture and way of life of a people are all but
engulfed by a history beyond their control, their sense of loss
may extend down through generations; and their dismay may
be shared by many members of the larger community. As
the State of Hawaii attempts to address these realities, it
must, as always, seek the political consensus that begins
with a sense of shared purpose. One of the necessary beginning points is this principle: The Constitution of the United
States, too, has become the heritage of all the citizens of
Hawaii.

In this case the Fifteenth Amendment invalidates the electoral qualification based on ancestry. The judgment of the
Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit is reversed.

It is so ordered.
Justice Breyer, with whom Justice Souter joins,
concurring in the result.

I agree with much of what the Court says and with its
result, but I do not agree with the critical rationale that
underlies that result. Hawaii seeks to justify its voting
scheme by drawing an analogy between its Office of Hawaiian Affairs (OHA) and a trust for the benefit of an Indian
tribe. The majority does not directly deny the analogy. It
instead at one point assumes, at least for argument's sake,
that the "revenues and proceeds" at issue are from a " `public
trust.' " Ante, at 521. It also assumes without deciding
that the State could "treat Hawaiians or native Hawaiians
as tribes." Ante, at 519. Leaving these issues undecided,
it holds that the Fifteenth Amendment forbids Hawaii's voting scheme, because the "OHA is a state agency," and thus

528US2 Unit: $U29 [06-15-01 20:43:16] PAGES PGT: OPIN

525Cite as: 528 U. S. 495 (2000)
Breyer, J., concurring in result
election to the OHA board is not "the internal affair of aquasi sovereign," such as an Indian tribe.

Ante, at 520.
I see no need, however, to decide this case on the basis ofso vague a concept as "quasi sovereign," and I do not subscribe to the Court's consequently sweeping prohibition.Rather, in my view, we should reject Hawaii's effort to justify its rules through analogy to a trust for an Indian tribe
because the record makes clear that (1) there is no "trust"for native Hawaiians here, and (2) OHA's electorate, as

defined in the statute, does not sufficiently resemble anIndian tribe.

The majority seems to agree, though it does not decide,
that the OHA bears little resemblance to a trust for native
Hawaiians. It notes that the Hawaii Constitution uses the
word "trust" when referring to the 1.2 million acres of land
granted in the Admission Act. Ante, at 508, 521. But the
Admission Act itself makes clear that the 1.2 million acres is to
benefit all the people of Hawaii. The Act specifies that the
land is to be used for the education of, the developments of
homes and farms for, the making of public improvements for,
and public use by, all of Hawaii's citizens, as well as for the
betterment of those who are "native." Admission Act $ 5(f).

Moreover, OHA funding comes from several different
sources. See, e. g., OHA Fiscal 1998 Annual Report 38
(hereinafter Annual Report) ($15 million from the 1.2 million
acres of public lands; $11 million from "[d]ividend and interest income"; $3 million from legislative appropriations;
$400,000 from federal and other grants). All of OHA's funding is authorized by ordinary state statutes. See, e. g., Haw.
Rev. Stat. $$ 10-4, 10-6, 10-13.5 (1993); see also Annual Report 11 ("OHA's fiscal 1998-99 legislative budget was passed
as Acts 240 and 115 by the 1997 legislature"). The amounts
of funding and funding sources are thus subject to change by
ordinary legislation. OHA spends most, but not all, of its
money to benefit native Hawaiians in many different ways.
See Annual Report (OHA projects support education, hous528US2 Unit: $U29 [06-15-01 20:43:16] PAGES PGT: OPIN
526 RICE v. CAYETANO

Breyer, J., concurring in result
ing, health, culture, economic development, and nonprofit or-ganizations). As the majority makes clear, OHA is simply

a special purpose department of Hawaii's state government.
Ante, at 520-521.

As importantly, the statute defines the electorate in a waythat is not analogous to membership in an Indian tribe. Native Hawaiians, considered as a group, may be analogous to
tribes of other Native Americans. But the statute does notlimit the electorate to native Hawaiians. Rather it adds to

approximately 80,000 native Hawaiians about 130,000 addi-tional "Hawaiians," defined as including anyone with one ancestor who lived in Hawaii prior to 1778, thereby including
individuals who are less than one five-hundredth original
Hawaiian (assuming nine generations between 1778 and
the present). See Native Hawaiian Data Book 39 (1998).
Approximately 10% to 15% of OHA's funds are spent specifically to benefit this latter group, see Annual Report 38,
which now constitutes about 60% of the OHA electorate.

I have been unable to find any Native American tribal
definition that is so broad. The Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act, for example, defines a "Native" as "a person of
one-fourth degree or more Alaska Indian" or one "who is
regarded as an Alaska Native by the Native village or Native group of which he claims to be a member and whose
father or mother is . . . regarded as Native by any village or
group" (a classification perhaps more likely to reflect real
group membership than any blood quantum requirement).
43 U. S. C. $ 1602(b). Many tribal constitutions define membership in terms of having had an ancestor whose name appeared on a tribal roll--but in the far less distant past. See,
e. g., Constitution of the Choctaw Nation of Oklahoma, Art.
II (membership consists of persons on final rolls approved in
1906 and their lineal descendants); Constitution of the Sac
and Fox Tribe of Indians of Oklahoma, Art. II (membership
consists of persons on official roll of 1937, children since born
to two members of the Tribe, and children born to one mem528US2 Unit: $U29 [06-15-01 20:43:16] PAGES PGT: OPIN

527Cite as: 528 U. S. 495 (2000)
Stevens, J., dissenting
ber and a nonmember if admitted by the council); RevisedConstitution of the Jicarilla Apache Tribe, Art. III (membership consists of persons on official roll of 1968 and childrenof one member of the Tribe who are at least three-eighths
Jicarilla Apache Indian blood); Revised Constitution Mesca-lero Apache Tribe, Art. IV (membership consists of persons
on the official roll of 1936 and children born to at least one
enrolled member who are at least one-fourth degree Mesca-lero Apache blood).

Of course, a Native American tribe has broad authorityto define its membership. See

Santa Clara Pueblo v. Martinez, 436 U. S. 49, 72, n. 32 (1978). There must, however,be some limit on what is reasonable, at the least when a State

(which is not itself a tribe) creates the definition. And
to define that membership in terms of 1 possible ancestor
out of 500, thereby creating a vast and unknowable body of
potential members--leaving some combination of luck and
interest to determine which potential members become actual voters--goes well beyond any reasonable limit. It was
not a tribe, but rather the State of Hawaii, that created this
definition; and, as I have pointed out, it is not like any actual
membership classification created by any actual tribe.

These circumstances are sufficient, in my view, to destroy
the analogy on which Hawaii's justification must depend.
This is not to say that Hawaii's definitions themselves independently violate the Constitution, cf. post, at 535-536, n. 11
(Justice Stevens, dissenting); it is only to say that the
analogies they here offer are too distant to save a race-based
voting definition that in their absence would clearly violate
the Fifteenth Amendment. For that reason I agree with
the majority's ultimate conclusion.

Justice Stevens, with whom Justice Ginsburg joins
as to Part II, dissenting.

The Court's holding today rests largely on the repetition
of glittering generalities that have little, if any, application

528US2 Unit: $U29 [06-15-01 20:43:16] PAGES PGT: OPIN
528 RICE v. CAYETANO

Stevens, J., dissenting
to the compelling history of the State of Hawaii. When thathistory is held up against the manifest purpose of the Fourteenth and Fifteenth Amendments, and against two centu-ries of this Court's federal Indian law, it is clear to me that
Hawaii's election scheme should be upheld.

I
According to the terms of the federal Act by which Hawaiiwas admitted to the Union, and to the terms of that State's

Constitution and laws, the Office of Hawaiian Affairs (OHA)is charged with managing vast acres of land held in trust for
the descendants of the Polynesians who occupied the Hawai-ian Islands before the 1778 arrival of Captain Cook. In addition to administering the proceeds from these assets, OHAis responsible for programs providing special benefits for

native Hawaiians. Established in 1978 by an amendment tothe State Constitution, OHA was intended to advance multiple goals: to carry out the duties of the trust relationshipbetween the islands' indigenous peoples and the Government
of the United States; to compensate for past wrongs to theancestors of these peoples; and to help preserve the distinct,
indigenous culture that existed for centuries before Cook'sarrival. As explained by the senior Senator from Hawaii,
Senator Inouye, who is not himself a native Hawaiian butrather (like petitioner) is a member of the majority of Hawaiian voters who supported the 1978 amendments, the amend-ments reflect "an honest and sincere attempt on the part of
the people of Hawai`i to rectify the wrongs of the past, andto put into being the mandate [of] our Federal government--
the betterment of the conditions of Native Hawaiians." 1

1 App. E to Brief for Hawai`i Congressional Delegation as Amicus Curiae E-3. In a statement explaining the cultural motivation for the
amendments, Senator Akaka pointed out that the "fact that the entire
State of Hawai`i voted to amend the State Constitution in 1978 to establish
the Office of Hawaiian Affairs is significant because it illustrates the recognition of the importance of Hawaiian culture and traditions as the foundation for the Aloha spirit." Id., at E-5.

528US2 Unit: $U29 [06-15-01 20:43:16] PAGES PGT: OPIN

529Cite as: 528 U. S. 495 (2000)
Stevens, J., dissenting
Today the Court concludes that Hawaii's method of elect-ing the trustees of OHA violates the Fifteenth Amendment.

In reaching that conclusion, the Court has assumed that theprograms administered by OHA are valid. That assumption
is surely correct. In my judgment, however, the reasonssupporting the legitimacy of OHA and its programs in general undermine the basis for the Court's decision holdingits trustee election provision invalid. The OHA election
provision violates neither the Fourteenth Amendment northe Fifteenth.

That conclusion is in keeping with three overlapping prin-ciples. First, the Federal Government must be, and has
been, afforded wide latitude in carrying out its obligationsarising from the special relationship it has with the aboriginal peoples, a category that includes the native Hawaiians,whose lands are now a part of the territory of the United
States. In addition, there exists in this case the State's ownfiduciary responsibility--arising from its establishment of a
public trust--for administering assets granted it by the Fed-eral Government in part for the benefit of native Hawaiians.
Finally, even if one were to ignore the more than two centu-ries of Indian law precedent and practice on which this case
follows, there is simply no invidious discrimination presentin this effort to see that indigenous peoples are compensated
for past wrongs, and to preserve a distinct and vibrant cul-ture that is as much a part of this Nation's heritage as any.

II
Throughout our Nation's history, this Court has recog-nized both the plenary power of Congress over the affairs of

Native Americans 2 and the fiduciary character of the special

2 See, e. g., Alaska v. Native Village of Venetie Tribal Government, 522
U. S. 520, 531, n. 6 (1998); United States v. Wheeler, 435 U. S. 313, 319
(1978); United States v. Antelope, 430 U. S. 641, 645 (1977); Morton v.
Mancari, 417 U. S. 535, 551 (1974); Lone Wolf v. Hitchcock, 187 U. S. 553,
564-565 (1903); United States v. Kagama, 118 U. S. 375 (1886).

528US2 Unit: $U29 [06-15-01 20:43:16] PAGES PGT: OPIN
530 RICE v. CAYETANO

Stevens, J., dissenting
federal relationship with descendants of those once sov-ereign peoples.

3 The source of the Federal Government's

responsibility toward the Nation's native inhabitants, whowere subject to European and then American military conquest, has been explained by this Court in the crudest terms,but they remain instructive nonetheless.

"These Indian tribes are the wards of the nation. Theyare communities dependent on the United States. Dependent largely for their daily food. Dependent fortheir political rights. . . . From their very weakness and
helplessness, so largely due to the course of dealingof the Federal Government with them and the treaties
in which it has been promised, there arises the duty ofprotection, and with it the power. This has always
been recognized by the Executive and by Congress, andby this court, whenever the question has arisen."
United States v. Kagama, 118 U. S. 375, 383-384 (1886)(emphasis in original).

As our cases have consistently recognized, Congress' ple-nary power over these peoples has been exercised time and
again to implement a federal duty to provide native peopleswith special " `care and protection.' "

4 With respect to the

Pueblos in New Mexico, for example, "public moneys havebeen expended in presenting them with farming implements

and utensils, and in their civilization and instruction."
United States v. Sandoval, 231 U. S. 28, 39-40 (1913).Today, the Federal Bureau of Indian Affairs (BIA) administers countless modern programs responding to comparablypragmatic concerns, including health, education, housing, and
impoverishment. See Office of the Federal Register, UnitedStates Government Manual 1999/2000, pp. 311-312. Federal
regulation in this area is not limited to the strictly practical

3 See, e. g., United States v. Sandoval, 231 U. S. 28 (1913); Kagama, 118
U. S., at 384-385; Cherokee Nation v. Georgia, 5 Pet. 1 (1831).

4 Sandoval, 231 U. S., at 45; Kagama, 118 U. S., at 384-385.

528US2 Unit: $U29 [06-15-01 20:43:16] PAGES PGT: OPIN

531Cite as: 528 U. S. 495 (2000)
Stevens, J., dissenting
but has encompassed as well the protection of cultural values; for example, the desecration of Native American graves
and other sacred sites led to the passage of the Native American Graves Protection and Repatriation Act, 25 U. S. C.

$ 3001 et seq.

Critically, neither the extent of Congress' sweeping power
nor the character of the trust relationship with indigenous
peoples has depended on the ancient racial origins of the
people, the allotment of tribal lands,5 the coherence or existence of tribal self-government,6 or the varying definitions of

"Indian" Congress has chosen to adopt.7 Rather, when it
comes to the exercise of Congress' plenary power in Indian
affairs, this Court has taken account of the "numerous occasions" on which "legislation that singles out Indians for particular and special treatment" has been upheld, and has concluded that as "long as the special treatment can be tied
rationally to the fulfillment of Congress' unique obligation

5 See, e. g., United States v. Celestine, 215 U. S. 278, 286-287 (1909).
6 See United States v. John, 437 U. S. 634, 653 (1978) ("Neither the fact

that the Choctaws in Mississippi are merely a remnant of a larger group
of Indians, long ago removed from Mississippi, nor the fact that federal
supervision over them has not been continuous, destroys the federal power
to deal with them"); Delaware Tribal Business Comm. v. Weeks, 430 U. S.
73, 82, n. 14, 84-85 (1977) (whether or not federal statute providing financial benefits to descendants of Delaware Tribe included nontribal Indian
beneficiaries, Congress' choice need only be " `tied rationally to the fulfillment of Congress' unique obligation toward the Indians' " (quoting Morton v. Mancari, 417 U. S., at 555)).

7 See generally F. Cohen, Handbook of Federal Indian Law 19-20 (1982).

Compare 25 U. S. C. $ 479 ("The term `Indian' as used in this Act shall
include all persons of Indian descent who are members of any recognized
Indian tribe now under Federal jurisdiction, and all persons who are descendants of such members who were, on June 1, 1934, residing within the
present boundaries of any Indian reservation, and shall further include all
other persons of one-half or more Indian blood. For the purposes of this
Act, Eskimos and other aboriginal peoples of Alaska shall be considered
Indians") with $ 1603(c)(3) (Indian is any person "considered by the Secretary of the Interior to be an Indian for any purpose").

528US2 Unit: $U29 [06-15-01 20:43:16] PAGES PGT: OPIN
532 RICE v. CAYETANO

Stevens, J., dissenting
towards the Indians, such legislative judgments will not bedisturbed." Morton v. Mancari, 417 U. S. 535, 554-555

(1974).As the history recited by the majority reveals, the grounds
for recognizing the existence of federal trust power here areoverwhelming. Shortly before its annexation in 1898, the
Republic of Hawaii (installed by United States merchants ina revolution facilitated by the United States Government)
expropriated some 1.8 million acres of land that it then cededto the United States. In the Organic Act establishing the
Territory of Hawaii, Congress provided that those landsshould remain under the control of the territorial government "until otherwise provided for by Congress," Act of Apr.30, 1900, ch. 339, $ 91, 31 Stat. 159. By 1921, Congress recognized that the influx of foreign infectious diseases, massimmigration coupled with poor housing and sanitation, hunger, and malnutrition had taken their toll. See ante, at 506.Confronted with the reality that the Hawaiian people had
been "frozen out of their lands and driven into the cities,"H. R. Rep. No. 839, 66th Cong., 2d Sess., 4 (1920), Congress
decided that 27 specific tracts of the lands ceded in 1898,comprising about 203,500 acres, should be used to provide
farms and residences for native Hawaiians. Act of July 9,1921, ch. 42, 42 Stat. 108. Relying on the precedent of previous federal laws granting Indians special rights in publiclands, Congress created the Hawaiian Homes Commission to
implement its goal of rehabilitating the native people andculture.

8 Hawaii was required to adopt this Act as a condi8 See H. R. Rep. No. 839, 66th Cong., 2d Sess., 4, 11 (1920). Reflecting a
compromise between the sponsor of the legislation, who supported special
benefits for "all who have Hawaiian blood in their veins," and plantation
owners who thought that only "Hawaiians of the pure blood" should qualify, Hawaiian Homes Commission Act: Hearings before the Senate Committee on the Territories, H. R. Rep. No. 13500, 66th Cong., 3d Sess., 14-17
(1920), the statute defined a "native Hawaiian" as "any descendant of not
less than one-half part of the blood of the races inhabiting the Hawaiian
Islands previous to 1778," 42 Stat. 108.

528US2 Unit: $U29 [06-15-01 20:43:16] PAGES PGT: OPIN

533Cite as: 528 U. S. 495 (2000)
Stevens, J., dissenting
tion of statehood in the Hawaii Statehood Admissions Act
(Admissions Act), $ 4, 73 Stat. 5. And in an effort to secure
the Government's duty to the indigenous peoples, $ 5 of the
Admissions Act conveyed 1.2 million acres of land to the
State to be held in trust "for the betterment of the conditions
of native Hawaiians" and certain other public purposes.

$ 5(f ), id., at 6.

The nature of and motivation for the special relationship
between the indigenous peoples and the United States Government was articulated in explicit detail in 1993, when Congress adopted a Joint Resolution containing a formal "apology to Native Hawaiians on behalf of the United States for
the overthrow of the Kingdom of Hawaii." 107 Stat. 1510.
Among other acknowledgments, the resolution stated that
the 1.8 million acres of ceded lands had been obtained "without the consent of or compensation to the Native Hawaiian
people of Hawaii or their sovereign government." Id., at
1512.

In the end, however, one need not even rely on this official apology to discern a well-established federal trust relationship with the native Hawaiians. Among the many and
varied laws passed by Congress in carrying out its duty to
indigenous peoples, more than 150 today expressly include
native Hawaiians as part of the class of Native Americans
benefited.9 By classifying native Hawaiians as "Native
Americans" for purposes of these statutes, Congress has
made clear that native Hawaiians enjoy many of "the same
rights and privileges accorded to American Indian, Alaska

9 See Brief for Hawai`i Congressional Delegation as Amicus Curiae 7,
and App. A; see also, e. g., American Indian Religious Freedom Act, 42
U. S. C. $ 1996 et seq.; Native American Programs Act of 1974, 42 U. S. C.

$$ 2991-2992; Comprehensive Employment and Training Act, 29 U. S. C.

$ 872; Drug Abuse Prevention, Treatment, and Rehabilitation Act, 21
U. S. C. $ 1177; Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act, $ 958,
104 Stat. 4422; Indian Health Care Amendments of 1988, 25 U. S. C. $ 1601
et seq.

528US2 Unit: $U29 [06-15-01 20:43:16] PAGES PGT: OPIN
534 RICE v. CAYETANO

Stevens, J., dissenting
Native, Eskimo, and Aleut communities. " 42 U. S. C.

$ 11701(19). See also $ 11701(17) ("The authority of the Congress under the United States Constitution to legislate in
matters affecting the aboriginal or indigenous peoples of the
United States includes the authority to legislate in matters
affecting the native peoples of . . . Hawaii").

While splendidly acknowledging this history--specifically
including the series of agreements and enactments the history reveals--the majority fails to recognize its import.
The descendants of the native Hawaiians share with the
descendants of the Native Americans on the mainland or in
the Aleutian Islands not only a history of subjugation at the
hands of colonial forces, but also a purposefully created and
specialized "guardian-ward" relationship with the Government of the United States. It follows that legislation targeting the native Hawaiians must be evaluated according to
the same understanding of equal protection that this Court
has long applied to the Indians on the continental United
States: that "special treatment . . . be tied rationally to the
fulfillment of Congress' unique obligation" toward the native
peoples. 417 U. S., at 555.

Declining to confront the rather simple logic of the foregoing, the majority would seemingly reject the OHA voting
scheme for a pair of different reasons. First, Congress'
trust-based power is confined to dealings with tribes, not
with individuals, and no tribe or indigenous sovereign entity
is found among the native Hawaiians. Ante, at 518-520.
Second, the elections are "elections of the State," not of a
tribe, and upholding this law would be "to permit a State,
by racial classification, to fence out whole classes of citizens
from decisionmaking in critical state affairs." Ante, at 522.
In my view, neither of these reasons overcomes the otherwise compelling similarity, fully supported by our precedent, between the once subjugated, indigenous peoples of the
continental United States and the peoples of the Hawaiian

528US2 Unit: $U29 [06-15-01 20:43:16] PAGES PGT: OPIN

535Cite as: 528 U. S. 495 (2000)
Stevens, J., dissenting
Islands whose historical sufferings and status parallel thoseof the continental Native Americans.

Membership in a tribe, the majority suggests, rather thanmembership in a race or class of descendants, has been the
sine qua non of governmental power in the realm of Indianlaw; Mancari itself, the majority contends, makes this proposition clear. Ante, at 519-520. But as scholars have oftenpointed out, tribal membership cannot be seen as the decisive factor in this Court's opinion upholding the BIA pref-erences in

Mancari; the hiring preference at issue in thatcase not only extended to nontribal member Indians, it also

required for eligibility that ethnic Native Americans possessa certain quantum of Indian blood.

10 Indeed, the Federal

Government simply has not been limited in its special deal-ings with the native peoples to laws affecting tribes or tribal

Indians alone. See nn. 6, 7, supra. In light of this prec-edent, it is a painful irony indeed to conclude that native
Hawaiians are not entitled to special benefits designed torestore a measure of native self-governance because they
currently lack any vestigial native government--a possibilityof which history and the actions of this Nation have deprived them.11

10 See, e. g., Frickey, Adjudication and its Discontents: Coherence and
Conciliation in Federal Indian Law, 110 Harv. L. Rev. 1754, 1761-1762
(1997). As is aptly explained, the BIA preference in that case was based
on a statute that extended the preference to ethnic Indians--identified by
blood quantum--who were not members of federally recognized tribes.
25 U. S. C. $ 479. Only the implementing regulation included a mention
of tribal membership, but even that regulation required that the tribal
member also " `be one-fourth or more degree Indian blood.' " Mancari,
417 U. S., at 553, n. 24.

11 Justice Breyer suggests that the OHA definition of native Hawaiians (i. e., Hawaiians who may vote under the OHA scheme) is too broad
to be "reasonable." Ante, at 527 (opinion concurring in result). This suggestion does not identify a constitutional defect. The issue in this case is
Congress' power to define who counts as an indigenous person, and Congress' power to delegate to States its special duty to persons so defined.
(Justice Breyer's interest in tribal definitions of membership--and in

528US2 Unit: $U29 [06-15-01 20:43:16] PAGES PGT: OPIN
536 RICE v. CAYETANO

Stevens, J., dissenting
Of greater concern to the majority is the fact that we areconfronted here with a state constitution and legislative enactment--passed by a majority of the entire population ofHawaii--rather than a law passed by Congress or a tribe
itself. See, e. g., ante, at 519-522. But as our own prece-dent makes clear, this reality does not alter our analysis.
As I have explained, OHA and its trustee elections canhardly be characterized simply as an "affair of the State"
alone; they are the instruments for implementing the Fedthis Court's holding that tribes' power to define membership is at the
core of tribal sovereignty and thus "unconstrained by those constitutional
provisions framed specifically as limitations on federal or state authority,"
Santa Clara Pueblo v. Martinez, 436 U. S. 49, 56 (1978)--is thus inapposite.) Nothing in federal law or in our Indian law jurisprudence suggests
that the OHA definition of native is anything but perfectly within that
power as delegated. See supra, at 531-534, and nn. 6-7. Indeed, the
OHA voters match precisely the set of people to whom the congressional
apology was targeted.

Federal definitions of "Indian" often rely on the ability to trace one's
ancestry to a particular group at a particular time. See, e. g., 25 CFR, ch.
1, $ 5.1 (1999) (extending BIA hiring preference to "persons of Indian descent who are . . . (b) [d]escendants of such [tribal] members who were, on
June 1, 1934, residing within the present boundaries of any Indian reservation"); see also n. 7, supra. It can hardly be correct that once 1934 is two
centuries past, rather than merely 66 years past, this classification will
cease to be "reasonable." The singular federal statute defining "native"
to which Justice Breyer points, 43 U. S. C. $ 1602(b) (including those
defined by blood quantum without regard to membership in any group),
serves to underscore the point that membership in a "tribal" structure
per se, see ante, at 525, is not the acid test for the exercise of federal
power in this arena. See R. Clinton, N. Newton, & M. Price, American
Indian Law 1054-1058 (3d ed. 1991) (describing provisions of the Alaska
Native Claims Settlement Act creating geographic regions of natives with
common heritage and interest, 43 U. S. C. $ 1606, requiring those regions
to organize a native corporation in order to qualify for settlement benefits,

$ 1607, and establishing the Alaska Native Fund of federal moneys to be
distributed to "enrolled natives," $$ 1604-1605); see also supra, at 535, and
n. 10. In the end, what matters is that the determination of indigenous
status or "real group membership," ante, at 526 (Breyer, J., concurring
in result), is one to be made by Congress--not by this Court.

528US2 Unit: $U29 [06-15-01 20:43:16] PAGES PGT: OPIN

537Cite as: 528 U. S. 495 (2000)
Stevens, J., dissenting
eral Government's trust relationship with a once sovereignindigenous people. This Court has held more than once that

the federal power to pass laws fulfilling the federal trustrelationship with the Indians may be delegated to the States.
Most significant is our opinion in Washington v. Confederated Bands and Tribes of Yakima Nation, 439 U. S. 463,
500-501 (1979), in which we upheld against a Fourteenth
Amendment challenge a state law assuming jurisdiction overIndian tribes within a State. While we recognized that

States generally do not have the same special relationshipwith Indians that the Federal Government has, we concluded
that because the state law was enacted "in response to a
federal measure" intended to achieve the result accomplished
by the challenged state law, the state law itself need only
" `rationally further the purpose identified by the State.' "
Id., at 500 (quoting Massachusetts Bd. of Retirement v. Murgia, 427 U. S. 307, 314 (1976) (per curiam)).

The state statutory and constitutional scheme here was
without question intended to implement the express desires
of the Federal Government. The Admissions Act in $ 4 mandated that the provisions of the Hawaiian Homes Commission Act "shall be adopted," with its multiple provisions
expressly benefiting native Hawaiians and not others. 73
Stat. 5. More, the Admissions Act required that the proceeds from the lands granted to the State "shall be held by
said State as a public trust for . . . the betterment of the
conditions of native Hawaiians," and that those proceeds
"shall be managed and disposed of . . . in such manner as the
constitution and laws of said State may provide, and their
use for any other object shall constitute a breach of trust for
which suit may be brought by the United States." $ 5, id.,
at 6. The terms of the trust were clear, as was the discretion granted to the State to administer the trust as the
State's laws "may provide." And Congress continues to
fund OHA on the understanding that it is thereby furthering
the federal trust obligation.

528US2 Unit: $U29 [06-15-01 20:43:16] PAGES PGT: OPIN
538 RICE v. CAYETANO

Stevens, J., dissenting
The sole remaining question under Mancari and Yakimais thus whether the State's scheme "rationally further[s] the

purpose identified by the State." Under this standard, aswith the BIA preferences in Mancari, the OHA voting requirement is certainly reasonably designed to promote "self-government" by the descendants of the indigenous Hawaiians, and to make OHA "more responsive to the needs of itsconstituent groups."

Mancari, 417 U. S., at 554. The OHAstatute provides that the agency is to be held "separate" and

"independent of the [State] executive branch," Haw. Rev.Stat. $ 10-4 (1993); OHA executes a trust, which, by its very
character, must be administered for the benefit of Hawaiiansand native Hawaiians, $$ 10-2, 10-3(1), 10-13.5; and OHA is
to be governed by a board of trustees that will reflect theinterests of the trust's native Hawaiian beneficiaries, Haw.
Const., Art. XII, $ 5 (1993); Haw. Rev. Stat. $ 13D-3(b) (1993).OHA is thus "directed to participation by the governed in
the governing agency." Mancari, 417 U. S., at 554. In thisrespect among others, the requirement is "reasonably and
directly related to a legitimate, nonracially based goal."
Ibid.The foregoing reasons are to me more than sufficient to

justify the OHA trust system and trustee election provisionunder the Fourteenth Amendment.

III
Although the Fif teenth Amendment tests the OHAscheme by a different measure, it is equally clear to me that

the trustee election provision violates neither the letter northe spirit of that Amendment.

12

12 Just as one cannot divorce the Indian law context of this case from an
analysis of the OHA scheme under the Fourteenth Amendment, neither
can one pretend that this law fits simply within our non-Indian cases under
the Fifteenth Amendment. As the preceding discussion of Mancari and
our other Indian law cases reveals, this Court has never understood laws
relating to indigenous peoples simply as legal classifications defined by

528US2 Unit: $U29 [06-15-01 20:43:16] PAGES PGT: OPIN

539Cite as: 528 U. S. 495 (2000)
Stevens, J., dissenting
Section 1 of the Fifteenth Amendment provides:

"The right of citizens of the United States to vote shallnot be denied or abridged by the United States or by

any State on account of race, color, or previous conditionof servitude." U. S. Const., Amdt. 15.

As the majority itself must tacitly admit, ante, at 513-514,the terms of the Amendment itself do not here apply. The
OHA voter qualification speaks in terms of ancestry and cur-rent residence, not of race or color. OHA trustee voters
must be "Hawaiian," meaning "any descendant of the aborig-inal peoples inhabiting the Hawaiian Islands which exercised
sovereignty and subsisted in the Hawaiian Islands in 1778,and which peoples have thereafter continued to reside in
Hawaii." Haw. Rev. Stat. $ 10-2 (1993). The ability to voteis a function of the lineal descent of a modern-day resident
of Hawaii, not the blood-based characteristics of that resi-dent, or of the blood-based proximity of that resident to the
"peoples" from whom that descendant arises.The distinction between ancestry and race is more than
simply one of plain language. The ability to trace one's an-cestry to a particular progenitor at a single distant point in
time may convey no information about one's own apparentor acknowledged race today. Neither does it of necessity
imply one's own identification with a particular race, or theexclusion of any others "

on account of race." The termsmanifestly carry distinct meanings, and ancestry was not included by the Framers in the Amendment's prohibitions.Presumably recognizing this distinction, the majority relies on the fact that "[a]ncestry can be a proxy for race."Ante, at 514. That is, of course, true, but it by no means

race. Even where, unlike here, blood quantum requirements are express,
this Court has repeatedly acknowledged that an overlapping political interest predominates. It is only by refusing to face this Court's entire
body of Indian law, see ante, at 511-512, that the majority is able to hold
that the OHA qualification denies non-"Hawaiians" the right to vote "on
account of race."

528US2 Unit: $U29 [06-15-01 20:43:16] PAGES PGT: OPIN
540 RICE v. CAYETANO

Stevens, J., dissenting
follows that ancestry is always a proxy for race. Cases inwhich ancestry served as such a proxy are dramatically different from this one. For example, the literacy requirementat issue in

Guinn v. United States, 238 U. S. 347 (1915), relied
on such a proxy. As part of a series of blatant efforts toexclude blacks from voting, Oklahoma exempted from its literacy requirement people whose ancestors were entitled to
vote prior to the enactment of the Fifteenth Amendment.The

Guinn scheme patently "served only to perpetuate . . .
old [racially discriminatory voting] laws and to effect a trans-parent racial exclusion."

Ante, at 513. As in Guinn, the
voting laws held invalid under the Fifteenth Amendment in
all of the cases cited by the majority were fairly and properly
viewed through a specialized lens--a lens honed in specific
detail to reveal the realities of time, place, and history behind the voting restrictions being tested.

That lens not only fails to clarify, it fully obscures the realities of this case, virtually the polar opposite of the Fifteenth
Amendment cases on which the Court relies. In Terry v.
Adams, 345 U. S. 461 (1953), for example, the Court held that
the Amendment proscribed the Texas "Jaybird primaries"
that used neutral voting qualifications "with a single proviso--Negroes are excluded," id., at 469. Similarly, in
Smith v. Allwright, 321 U. S. 649, 664 (1944), it was the blatant "discrimination against Negroes" practiced by a political
party that was held to be state action within the meaning of
the Amendment. Cases such as these that "strike down
these voting systems . . . designed to exclude one racial class
(at least) from voting," ante, at 513-514, have no application
to a system designed to empower politically the remaining
members of a class of once sovereign, indigenous people.

Ancestry surely can be a proxy for race, or a pretext for
invidious racial discrimination. But it is simply neither
proxy nor pretext here. All of the persons who are eligible
to vote for the trustees of OHA share two qualifications that
no other person old enough to vote possesses: They are bene528US2 Unit: $U29 [06-15-01 20:43:16] PAGES PGT: OPIN

541Cite as: 528 U. S. 495 (2000)
Stevens, J., dissenting
ficiaries of the public trust created by the State and administered by OHA, and they have at least one ancestor who was
a resident of Hawaii in 1778. A trust whose terms provide
that the trustees shall be elected by a class including beneficiaries is hardly a novel concept. See 2 A. Scott & W.
Fratcher, Law of Trusts $ 108.3 (4th ed. 1987). The Committee that drafted the voting qualification explained that the
trustees here should be elected by the beneficiaries because
"people to whom assets belong should have control over
them . . . . The election of the board will enhance representative governance and decision-making accountability
and, as a result, strengthen the fiduciary relationship between the board member, as trustee, and the native Hawaiian, as beneficiary." 13 The described purpose of this aspect
of the classification thus exists wholly apart from race.
It is directly focused on promoting both the delegated federal mandate, and the terms of the State's own trustee
responsibilities.

The majority makes much of the fact that the OHA trust--
which it assumes is legitimate--should be read as principally
intended to benefit the smaller class of "native Hawaiians,"
who are defined as at least one-half descended from a native
islander circa 1778, Haw. Rev. Stat. $ 10-2 (1993), not the
larger class of "Hawaiians," which includes "any descendant"
of those aboriginal people who lived in Hawaii in 1778 and
"which peoples thereafter have continued to reside in
Hawaii," ibid. See ante, at 523. It is, after all, the majority notes, the larger class of Hawaiians that enjoys the suffrage right in OHA elections. There is therefore a mismatch in interest alignment between the trust beneficiaries
and the trustee electors, the majority contends, and it thus
cannot be said that the class of qualified voters here is defined solely by beneficiary status.

13 1 Proceedings of the Constitutional Convention of Hawaii of 1978,
Standing Committee Rep. No. 59, p. 644.

528US2 Unit: $U29 [06-15-01 20:43:16] PAGES PGT: OPIN
542 RICE v. CAYETANO

Stevens, J., dissenting
While that may or may not be true depending upon theconstruction of the terms of the trust, there is surely nothing

racially invidious about a decision to enlarge the class of eli-gible voters to include "any descendant" of a 1778 resident
of the Islands. The broader category of eligible votersserves quite practically to ensure that, regardless how "dilute" the race of native Hawaiians becomes--a phenomenonalso described in the majority's lavish historical summary,
ante, at 506-507--there will remain a voting interest whoseancestors were a part of a political, cultural community, and
who have inherited through participation and memory theset of traditions the trust seeks to protect. The putative
mismatch only underscores the reality that it cannot bepurely a racial interest that either the trust or the election
provision seeks to secure; the political and cultural interestsserved are--unlike

racial survival--shared by both nativeHawaiians and Hawaiians.

14

14 Of course, the majority's concern about the absence of alignment becomes salient only if one assumes that something other than a Mancarilike political classification is at stake. As this Court has approached cases
involving the relationship among the Federal Government, its delegates,
and the indigenous peoples--including countless federal definitions of
"classes" of Indians determined by blood quantum, see n. 7, supra--any
"racial" aspect of the voting qualification here is eclipsed by the political
significance of membership in a once-sovereign indigenous class.

Beyond even this, the majority's own historical account makes clear that
the inhabitants of the Hawaiian Islands whose descendants constitute the
instant class are identified and remain significant as much because of culture as because of race. By the time of Cook's arrival, "the Hawaiian
people had developed, over the preceding 1,000 years or so, a cultural and
political structure . . . well-established traditions and customs and . . . a
polytheistic religion." Ante, at 500. Prior to 1778, although there "was
no private ownership of land," Hawaii Housing Authority v. Midkiff,
467 U. S. 229, 232 (1984), the native Hawaiians "lived in a highly organized, self-sufficient, subsistence social system based on communal land
tenure with a sophisticated language, culture, and religion," 42 U. S. C.

$ 11701(4). According to Senator Akaka, their society "was steeped in
science [and they] honored their `aina (land) and environment, and therefore developed methods of irrigation, agriculture, aquaculture, navigation,

528US2 Unit: $U29 [06-15-01 20:43:16] PAGES PGT: OPIN

543Cite as: 528 U. S. 495 (2000)
Stevens, J., dissenting
Even if one refuses to recognize the beneficiary status of
OHA trustee voters entirely,15 it cannot be said that the
ancestry-based voting qualification here simply stands in the

medicine, fishing and other forms of subsistence whereby the land and sea
were efficiently used without waste or damage. Respect for the environment and for others formed the basis of their culture and tradition." App.
E to Brief for Hawai`i Congressional Delegation as Amicus Curiae E-4.
Legends and oral histories passed from one generation to another are reflected in artifacts such as carved images, colorful feathered capes, songs,
and dances that survive today. For some, Pele, the God of Fire, still inhabits the crater of Kilauea, and the word of the Kahuna is still law. It
is this culture, rather than the Polynesian race, that is uniquely Hawaiian
and in need of protection.

15 Justice Breyer's even broader contention that "there is no `trust'

for native Hawaiians here," ante, at 525, appears to make the greater
mistake of conflating the public trust established by Hawaii's Constitution
and laws, see supra, at 537, with the "trust" relationship between the
Federal Government and the indigenous peoples. According to Justice
Breyer, the "analogy on which Hawaii's justification must depend," ante,
at 527, is "destroy[ed]" in part by the fact that OHA is not a trust (in the
former sense of a trust) for native Hawaiians alone. Rather than looking
to the terms of the public trust itself for this proposition, Justice Breyer
relies on the terms of the land conveyance to Hawaii in part of the Admissions Act. But the portion of the trust administered by OHA does not
purport to contain in its corpus all 1.2 million acres of federal trust lands
set aside for the benefit of all Hawaiians, including native Hawaiians. By
its terms, only "[t]wenty per cent of all revenue derived from the public
land trust shall be expended by the office for the betterment of the conditions of native Hawaiians." Haw. Rev. Stat. $ 10-13.5 (1993). This portion appears to coincide precisely with the one-fifth described purpose of
the Admissions Act trust lands to better the conditions of native Hawaiians. Admissions Act $ 5(f), 73 Stat. 6. Neither the fact that native Hawaiians have a specific, beneficial interest in only 20% of trust revenues,
nor the fact that the portion of the trust administered by OHA is supplemented to varying degrees by nontrust moneys, negates the existence of
the trust itself.

Moreover, neither the particular terms of the State's public trust nor
the particular source of OHA funding "destroys" the centrally relevant
trust "analogy" on which Hawaii relies--that of the relationship between
the Federal Government and indigenous Indians on this continent, as compared with the relationship between the Federal Government and indige528US2 Unit: $U29 [06-15-01 20:43:16] PAGES PGT: OPIN
544 RICE v. CAYETANO

Stevens, J., dissenting
shoes of a classification that would either privilege or penal-ize "on account of " race. The OHA voting qualification--

part of a statutory scheme put in place by democratic voteof a multiracial majority of all state citizens, including those
non-"Hawaiians" who are not entitled to vote in OHA trusteeelections--appropriately includes every resident of Hawaii
having at least one ancestor who lived in the islands in 1778.That is, among other things, the audience to whom the congressional apology was addressed. Unlike a class includingonly full-blooded Polynesians--as one would imagine were
the class strictly defined in terms of race--the OHA electionprovision

excludes all full-blooded Polynesians currently re-siding in Hawaii who are not descended from a 1778 resident

of Hawaii. Conversely, unlike many of the old southern vot-ing schemes in which any potential voter with a "taint" of
non-Hawaiian blood would be excluded, the OHA scheme ex-cludes no descendant of a 1778 resident because he or she is
also part European, Asian, or African as a matter of race.The classification here is thus both too inclusive and not inclusive enough to fall strictly along racial lines.At pains then to identify at work here a singularly "racial
purpose," ante, at 515, 517--whatever that might mean, al-though one might assume the phrase a "proxy" for "racial
discrimination"--the majority next posits that "[o]ne of theprincipal reasons race is treated as a forbidden classification
is that it demeans the dignity and worth of a person to bejudged by ancestry instead of by his or her own merit and
essential qualities." Ante, at 517. That is, of course, truewhen ancestry is the basis for denying or abridging one's
right to vote or to share the blessings of freedom. But it isquite wrong to ignore the relevance of ancestry to claims of

nous Hawaiians in the now United States-owned Hawaiian Islands. That
trust relationship--the only trust relevant to the Indian law analogy--
includes the power to delegate authority to the States. As we have explained, supra, at 531-534, the OHA scheme surely satisfies the established standard for testing an exercise of that power.

528US2 Unit: $U29 [06-15-01 20:43:16] PAGES PGT: OPIN

545Cite as: 528 U. S. 495 (2000)
Stevens, J., dissenting
an interest in trust property, or to a shared interest in a
proud heritage. There would be nothing demeaning in a law
that established a trust to manage Monticello and provided
that the descendants of Thomas Jefferson should elect the
trustees. Such a law would be equally benign, regardless of
whether those descendants happened to be members of the
same race.16

In this light, it is easy to understand why the classification
here is not "demeaning" at all, ante, at 523, for it is simply
not based on the "premise that citizens of a particular race
are somehow more qualified than others to vote on certain
matters," ibid. It is based on the permissible assumption in
this context that families with "any" ancestor who lived in
Hawaii in 1778, and whose ancestors thereafter continued
to live in Hawaii, have a claim to compensation and selfdetermination that others do not. For the multiracial majority of the citizens of the State of Hawaii to recognize that
deep reality is not to demean their own interests but to
honor those of others.

It thus becomes clear why the majority is likewise wrong
to conclude that the OHA voting scheme is likely to "become
the instrument for generating the prejudice and hostility all
too often directed against persons whose particular ancestry

16 Indeed, "[i]n one form or another, the right to pass on property--to
one's family in particular--has been part of the Anglo-American legal system since feudal times." Hodel v. Irving, 481 U. S. 704, 716 (1987). Even
the most minute fractional interests that can be identified after allotted
lands are passed through several generations can receive legal recognition
and protection. Thus, we held not long ago that inherited shares of parcels allotted to the Sioux in 1889 could not be taken without compensation
even though their value was nominal and it was necessary to use a common
denominator of 3,394,923,840,000 to identify the size of the smallest interest. Id., at 713-717. Whether it is wise to provide recompense for all of
the descendants of an injured class after several generations have come
and gone is a matter of policy, but the fact that their interests were acquired by inheritance rather than by assignment surely has no constitutional significance.

528US2 Unit: $U29 [06-15-01 20:43:16] PAGES PGT: OPIN
546 RICE v. CAYETANO

Stevens, J., dissenting
is disclosed by their ethnic characteristics and cultural tradi-tions." Ante, at 517. The political and cultural concerns

that motivated the nonnative majority of Hawaiian voters toestablish OHA reflected an interest in preserving through
the self-determination of a particular people ancient tradi-tions that they value. The fact that the voting qualification
was established by the entire electorate in the State--the
vast majority of which is not native Hawaiian--testifies totheir judgment concerning the Court's fear of "prejudice and

hostility" against the majority of state residents who are not"Hawaiian," such as petitioner. Our traditional understanding of democracy and voting preferences makes it difficult toconceive that the majority of the State's voting population
would have enacted a measure that discriminates against, orin any way represents prejudice and hostility toward, that
self-same majority. Indeed, the best insurance against thatdanger is that the electorate here retains the power to revise
its laws. IV

The Court today ignores the overwhelming differences be-tween the Fifteenth Amendment case law on which it relies
and the unique history of the State of Hawaii. The formerrecalls an age of abject discrimination against an insular

minority in the old South; the latter at long last yielded the
"political consensus" the majority claims it seeks, ante, at524--a consensus determined to recognize the special claim

to self-determination of the indigenous peoples of Hawaii.This was the considered and correct view of the District
Judge for the United States District Court for the Districtof Hawaii, as well as the three Circuit Judges on the Court
of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit.17 As Judge Rymerexplained:

17 Indeed, the record indicates that none of the 20-plus judges on the
Ninth Circuit to whom the petition for rehearing en banc was circulated
even requested a vote on the petition. App. to Pet. for Cert. 44a.

528US2 Unit: $U29 [06-15-01 20:43:16] PAGES PGT: OPIN

547Cite as: 528 U. S. 495 (2000)
Ginsburg, J., dissenting
"The special election for trustees is not equivalent toa general election, and the vote is not for officials who

will perform general governmental functions in either arepresentative or executive capacity. . . . Nor does the
limitation in these circumstances suggest that votingeligibility was designed to exclude persons who would
otherwise be interested in OHA's affairs. . . . Rather, itreflects the fact that the trustees' fiduciary responsibilities run only to native Hawaiians and Hawaiians and`a board of trustees chosen from among those who are
interested parties would be the best way to insureproper management and adherence to the needed fiduciary principles.' 18 The challenged part of Hawaii law
was not contrived to keep non-Hawaiians from voting ingeneral, or in any respect pertinent to their legal interests. Therefore, we cannot say that [petitioner's] rightto vote has been denied or abridged in violation of the
Fifteenth Amendment.

"18 1 Proceedings of the Constitutional Convention of Hawaii of
1978, Standing Comm. Rep. No. 59 at 644. The Committee reporting
on Section 5, establishing OHA, further noted that trustees should
be so elected because `people to whom assets belong should have
control over them. . . . The election of the board will enhance representative governance and decision-making accountability and, as a
result, strengthen the fiduciary relationship between the board member, as trustee, and the native Hawaiian, as beneficiary.' Id."

146 F. 3d 1075, 1081-1082 (CA9 1998).

In my judgment, her reasoning is far more persuasive than
the wooden approach adopted by the Court today.Accordingly, I respectfully dissent.

Justice Ginsburg, dissenting.
I dissent essentially for the reasons stated by Justice
Stevens in Part II of his dissenting opinion. Ante, at 529-
538 (relying on established federal authority over Native

528US2 Unit: $U29 [06-15-01 20:43:16] PAGES PGT: OPIN
548 RICE v. CAYETANO

Ginsburg, J., dissenting
Americans). Congress' prerogative to enter into specialtrust relationships with indigenous peoples, Morton v.

Mancari, 417 U. S. 535 (1974), as Justice Stevens cogentlyexplains, is not confined to tribal Indians. In particular,
it encompasses native Hawaiians, whom Congress has innumerous statutes reasonably treated as qualifying for the
special status long recognized for other once-sovereign indig-enous peoples. See

ante, at 533-534, and n. 9 (Stevens, J.,dissenting). That federal trust responsibility, both the

Court and Justice Stevens recognize, has been delegatedby Congress to the State of Hawaii. Both the Office of
Hawaiian Affairs and the voting scheme here at issue are"tied rationally to the fulfillment" of that obligation. See
Mancari, 417 U. S., at 555. No more is needed to demon-strate the validity of the Office and the voting provision
under the Fourteenth and Fifteenth Amendments.

528US2 Unit: $U30 [06-15-01 20:48:42] PAGES PGT: OPIN

549OCTOBER TERM, 1999
Syllabus

ROTELLA v. WOOD et al.
certiorari to the united states court of appeals forthe fifth circuit

No. 98-896. Argued November 3, 1999--Decided February 23, 2000
Petitioner Rotella was admitted to a private psychiatric facility in 1985

and discharged in 1986. In 1994, the facility's parent company and one
of its directors pleaded guilty to criminal fraud related to improper relationships and illegal agreements between the company and its doctors.
Rotella learned of the plea that same year, and in 1997 he filed a civil
damages action under the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act (RICO), claiming that respondents, doctors and related business entities, had conspired to keep him hospitalized to maximize their
profits. RICO makes it criminal "to conduct" an "enterprise's affairs
through a pattern of racketeering activity," 18 U. S. C. $ 1962(c). A
"pattern" requires at least two acts of racketeering activity, the last of
which occurred within 10 years after the commission of a prior act.

$ 1961(5). A person injured by a RICO violation may bring a civil
RICO action. $ 1964(c). The District Court granted respondents summary judgment on the ground that the 4-year limitations period for civil
RICO claims, see Agency Holding Corp. v. Malley-Duff & Associates,
Inc., 483 U. S. 143, 156, had expired in 1990, four years after Rotella
admitted discovering his injury. In affirming, the Fifth Circuit rejected Rotella's argument that the limitations period does not begin to
run until a plaintiff discovers (or should have discovered) both the injury
and the pattern of racketeering activity.

Held: The "injury and pattern discovery" rule invoked by Rotella does

not govern the start of the limitations period for civil RICO claims.
Pp. 553-561.

(a) In Malley-Duff, this Court based its choice of a uniform 4-year
statute of limitations period for civil RICO on a Clayton Act analogy,
but did not decide when the period began to run. In Malley-Duff's
wake, some Circuits, like the Fifth, applied an injury discovery accrual
rule starting the clock when a plaintiff knew or should have known of
his injury, while others applied the injury and pattern discovery rule
that Rotella seeks. This Court has rejected the Third Circuit's "last
predicate act" rule, Klehr v. A. O. Smith Corp., 521 U. S. 179, and now
eliminates another possibility. Pp. 553-554.

(b) The injury and pattern discovery rule is unsound for a number of
reasons. It would extend the potential limitations period for most civil

528US2 Unit: $U30 [06-15-01 20:48:42] PAGES PGT: OPIN
550 ROTELLA v. WOOD

Syllabus
RICO cases well beyond the time when a plaintiff's cause of action is
complete. Under a provision recognizing the possibility of predicate
acts 10 years apart, even an injury occurrence rule unsoftened by a
discovery feature could in theory open the door to proof of predicate acts
occurring 10 years before injury and 14 years before commencement of
suit. A pattern discovery rule would allow proof even more remote
from time of trial and, hence, litigation even more at odds with the basic
policies of all limitations provisions: repose, elimination of stale claims,
and certainty about a plaintiff's opportunity for recovery and a defendant's potential liabilities. See, e. g., Klehr, supra, at 187. In the circumstance of medical malpractice, where the cry for a discovery rule is
loudest, the Court has been emphatic that the justification for such a
rule does not extend beyond the injury. United States v. Kubrick, 444
U. S. 111, 122. A person suffering from inadequate treatment is thus
responsible for determining within the limitations period then running
whether the inadequacy was malpractice. There is no good reason for
accepting a lesser degree of responsibility on a RICO plaintiff's part.
The fact, as Rotella notes, that identifying a pattern in civil RICO may
require considerable effort does not place a RICO plaintiff in a significantly different position from the malpractice victim, who may be
thwarted by ignorance of the details of treatment decisions or of prevailing medical practice standards. This Court has also recognized that
the connection between fraud and civil RICO is an insufficient ground
for recognizing a limitations period beyond four years, Malley-Duff,
supra, at 149, and adopting Rotella's lenient rule would amount to backtracking from Malley-Duff. Rotella's less demanding discovery rule
would also clash with the limitations imposed on Clayton Act suits.
There is a clear legislative record of congressional reliance on the Clayton Act when RICO was under consideration, and the Clayton Act's
injury-focused accrual rule was well established by the time civil RICO
was enacted. Both statutes share a common congressional objective of
encouraging civil litigation not merely to compensate victims but also
to turn them into private attorneys general, supplementing Government
efforts by undertaking litigation in the public good. The Clayton Act
analogy reflects Congress's clear intent to reject a potentially longer
basic rule under RICO. Neither of Rotella's two remaining points--
that this Court itself has undercut the Clayton Act analogy; and that
without a pattern discovery rule, some plaintiffs will be barred from
suit by Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 9(b), which requires that fraud
be pleaded with particularity--supports adoption of a more protracted
basic limitations period. Pp. 555-561.

147 F. 3d 438, affirmed.

528US2 Unit: $U30 [06-15-01 20:48:42] PAGES PGT: OPIN

551Cite as: 528 U. S. 549 (2000)
Opinion of the Court
Souter, J., delivered the opinion for a unanimous Court.

Richard P. Hogan, Jr., argued the cause for petitioner.With him on the briefs were

Kevin Dubose, Richard W.Mithoff, Tommy Jacks, and Robert F. Andrews.

Charles T. Frazier, Jr., argued the cause for respondents.With him on the brief were Debora B. Alsup, John H. Martin, Tom Renfro, and Joseph R. Cleveland, Jr.*

Justice Souter delivered the opinion of the Court.
The commencement of petitioner's civil treble-damagesaction under the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act (RICO) was timely only if the so-called "injuryand pattern discovery" rule governs the start of the 4-year
limitations period. We hold that it does not.

I
In February 1985, petitioner, Mark Rotella, was admittedto the Brookhaven Psychiatric Pavilion with a diagnosis of

major depression. Rotella v. Pederson, 144 F. 3d 892, 894(CA5 1998). He was discharged in 1986. In 1994, Brookhaven's parent company and one of its directors pleadedguilty to charges of criminal fraud perpetrated through improper relationships and illegal agreements between thecompany and its doctors. Rotella learned of the plea agreement that same year, and in 1997 he filed a civil RICO claimagainst respondents, a group of doctors and related business
entities, in Federal District Court.1

*Daniel J. Popeo and Richard A. Samp filed a brief for the Washington
Legal Foundation et al. as amici curiae urging affirmance.

Philip Allen Lacovara, Evan M. Tager, and Gary E. Hughes filed a
brief for the American Council of Life Insurance as amicus curiae.

1 Rotella alleged that "a group of doctors and their related business

entities . . . improperly conspir[ed] to admit, treat, and retain him at
Brookhaven Psychiatric Pavilion for reasons related to their own financial
interests rather than the patient's psychiatric condition." 147 F. 3d 438,
439 (CA5 1998). As injuries, he alleged, among other things, confinement

528US2 Unit: $U30 [06-15-01 20:48:42] PAGES PGT: OPIN
552 ROTELLA v. WOOD

Opinion of the Court
RICO, 18 U. S. C. $$ 1961-1968 (1994 ed. and Supp. III),makes it criminal "to conduct" an "enterprise's affairs

through a pattern of racketeering activity," 18 U. S. C.$ 1962(c), defined as behavior that violates certain other laws,
either enumerated federal statutes or state laws addressingspecified topics and bearing specified penalties, 18 U. S. C.

$ 1961(1) (Supp. III). "Pattern" is also a defined term re-quiring "at least two acts of racketeering activity . . . , the
last of which occurred within ten years . . . after the commis-sion of a prior act of racketeering activity." 18 U. S. C.

$ 1961(5).RICO provides for civil actions (like this one) by which
"[a]ny person injured in his business or property" by a RICOviolation may seek treble damages and attorney's fees. 18
U. S. C. $ 1964(c) (Supp. III). Rotella alleged such injury, inthat respondents had conspired to admit, treat, and retain
him at Brookhaven not for any medical reason but simply tomaximize their profits. Respondents raised the statute of
limitations as a defense and sought summary judgment onthe ground that the period for bringing the civil action had
expired before Rotella sued.Agency Holding Corp. v. Malley-Duff & Associates, Inc.,
483 U. S. 143, 156 (1987), established a 4-year limitations pe-riod for civil RICO claims. The District Court held that the
period began when Rotella discovered his injury, which heconcedes he did in 1986 at the latest. 147 F. 3d 438, 439
(CA5 1998). Under this "injury discovery" rule, the limita-tions period expired in 1990, and the District Court accordingly ordered summary judgment for respondents. Rotellaappealed to the Fifth Circuit, arguing that the RICO limitations period does not begin to run until the plaintiff discovers(or should have discovered) both the injury and the pattern

for an excessive period because of the conspiracy to draw down his and
other patients' insurance coverage, loss of a number of personal items,
and fraudulent charges for unnecessary treatment. Brief for Petitioner
3; App. 20-24.

528US2 Unit: $U30 [06-15-01 20:48:42] PAGES PGT: OPIN

553Cite as: 528 U. S. 549 (2000)
Opinion of the Court
of racketeering activity. After the Fif th Circuit ruled
against him, ibid., we granted certiorari to address a split of
authority among the Courts of Appeals on whether the
limitations period is triggered in accordance with the "injury
and pattern discovery" rule invoked by Rotella. 526 U. S.
1003 (1999). We now affirm.

II
Given civil RICO's want of any express limitations provision for civil enforcement actions, in Malley-Duff we undertook to derive one and determined that the limitations
period should take no account of differences among the
multifarious predicate acts of racketeering activity covered
by the statute. Although we chose a uniform 4-year period
on a Clayton Act analogy, $ 4B, as added, 69 Stat. 283, 15
U. S. C. $ 15b, we did not decide when the period began to
run, and the question has divided the Courts of Appeals.

Three distinct approaches emerged in the wake of
Malley-Duff. Some Circuits, like the Fifth in this case,
applied an injury discovery accrual rule starting the clock
when a plaintiff knew or should have known of his injury.
See, e. g., Grimmett v. Brown, 75 F. 3d 506, 511 (CA9 1996);
McCool v. Strata Oil Co., 972 F. 2d 1452, 1464-1465 (CA7
1992); Rodriguez v. Banco Central Corp., 917 F. 2d 664, 665-
666 (CA1 1990); Bankers Trust Co. v. Rhoades, 859 F. 2d
1096, 1102 (CA2 1988); Pocahontas Supreme Coal Co. v.
Bethlehem Steel Corp., 828 F. 2d 211, 220 (CA4 1987).

Some applied the injury and pattern discovery rule that
Rotella seeks, under which a civil RICO claim accrues only
when the claimant discovers, or should discover, both an
injury and a pattern of RICO activity. See, e. g., Caproni
v. Prudential Securities, Inc., 15 F. 3d 614, 619-620 (CA6
1994); Granite Falls Bank v. Henrikson, 924 F. 2d 150, 154
(CA8 1991); Bath v. Bushkin, Gaims, Gaines & Jonas, 913
F. 2d 817, 820-821 (CA10 1990); Bivens Gardens Office

528US2 Unit: $U30 [06-15-01 20:48:42] PAGES PGT: OPIN
554 ROTELLA v. WOOD

Opinion of the Court
Building, Inc. v. Barnett Bank, 906 F. 2d 1546, 1554-1555(CA11 1990).

The Third Circuit applied a "last predicate act" rule, see
Keystone Ins. Co. v. Houghton, 863 F. 2d 1125, 1130 (CA3
1988). Under this rule, the period began to run as soon asthe plaintiff knew or should have known of the injury and

the pattern of racketeering activity, but began to run anew
upon each predicate act forming part of the same pattern.

In Klehr v. A. O. Smith Corp., 521 U. S. 179 (1997), we cut
the possibilities by one in rejecting the last predicate act
rule. Since a pattern of predicate acts can continue indefinitely, with each separated by as many as 10 years, that rule
might have extended the limitations period to many decades,
and so beyond any limit that Congress could have contemplated. See ibid. Preserving a right of action for such a
vast stretch of time would have thwarted the basic objective
of repose underlying the very notion of a limitations period.
See id., at 189. The last predicate act rule was likewise at
odds with the model for civil RICO, the Clayton Act, under
which "[g]enerally, a cause of action accrues and the statute
begins to run when a defendant commits an act that injures
a plaintiff 's business." Zenith Radio Corp. v. Hazeltine Research, Inc., 401 U. S. 321, 338 (1971); Klehr, supra, at 188.

The decision in Klehr left two candidates favored by various Courts of Appeals: some form of the injury discovery
rule (preferred by a majority of Circuits to have considered
it), and the injury and pattern discovery rule. Today,
guided by principles enunciated in Klehr, we eliminate the
latter.2

2 We do not, however, settle upon a final rule. In addition to the possibilities entertained in the Courts of Appeals, Justice Scalia has
espoused an "injury occurrence" rule, under which discovery would be
irrelevant, Klehr v. A. O. Smith Corp., 521 U. S. 179, 198 (1997) (opinion
concurring in part and concurring in judgment), and our decision in Klehr
leaves open the possibility of a straight injury occurrence rule. Amicus
American Council of Life Insurance urges us to adopt this injury occurrence rule in this case, see Brief for American Council of Life Insurance

528US2 Unit: $U30 [06-15-01 20:48:42] PAGES PGT: OPIN

555Cite as: 528 U. S. 549 (2000)
Opinion of the Court

III
We think the minority injury and pattern discovery ruleunsound for a number of reasons. We start with the realization that under the provision recognizing the possibility offinding a pattern of racketeering in predicate acts 10 years
apart, even an injury occurrence rule unsoftened by a discov-ery feature could in theory open the door to proof of predicate acts occurring 10 years before injury and 14 before com-mencement of litigation. A pattern discovery rule would
allow proof of a defendant's acts even more remote from timeof trial and, hence, litigation even more at odds with the
basic policies of all limitations provisions: repose, eliminationof stale claims, and certainty about a plaintiff 's opportunity
for recovery and a defendant's potential liabilities. See, e. g.,Klehr, supra, at 187; Malley-Duff, 483 U. S., at 150, 156; Wilson v. Garcia, 471 U. S. 261, 270, 271 (1985).How long is too long is, of course, a matter of judgment
based on experience, and it gives us great pause that theinjury and pattern discovery rule is an extension of the traditional federal accrual rule of injury discovery, and unwar-ranted by the injury discovery rule's rationale. Federal
courts, to be sure, generally apply a discovery accrual rulewhen a statute is silent on the issue, as civil RICO is here.
Klehr, supra, at 191 (citing Connors v. Hallmark & Son Coal
Co., 935 F. 2d 336, 342 (CADC 1991), and 1 C. Corman, Limi-tation of Actions $ 6.5.5.1, p. 449 (1991)). But in applying a

discovery accrual rule, we have been at pains to explain thatdiscovery of the injury, not discovery of the other elements
of a claim, is what starts the clock. In the circumstance ofmedical malpractice, where the cry for a discovery rule is
loudest, we have been emphatic that the justification for adiscovery rule does not extend beyond the injury:

"We are unconvinced that for statute of limitations pur-poses a plaintiff 's ignorance of his legal rights and his

as Amicus Curiae 5-14, but the parties have not focused on this option,
and we would not pass upon it without more attentive advocacy.

528US2 Unit: $U30 [06-15-01 20:48:42] PAGES PGT: OPIN
556 ROTELLA v. WOOD

Opinion of the Court
ignorance of the fact of his injury or its cause shouldreceive identical treatment. That he has been injured

in fact may be unknown or unknowable until the injurymanifests itself; and the facts about causation may be in
the control of the putative defendant, unavailable to theplaintiff or at least very difficult to obtain. The prospect is not so bleak for a plaintiff in possession of thecritical facts that he has been hurt and who has inflicted
the injury. He is no longer at the mercy of the latter.There are others who can tell him if he has been
wronged, and he need only ask." United States v.
Kubrick, 444 U. S. 111, 122 (1979).

A person suffering from inadequate treatment is thus re-sponsible for determining within the limitations period then

running whether the inadequacy was malpractice.We see no good reason for accepting a lesser degree of
responsibility on the part of a RICO plaintiff. It is true, ofcourse, as Rotella points out, that RICO has a unique pattern
requirement, see Malley-Duff, supra, at 154 ("[T]he heart ofany RICO complaint is the allegation of a

pattern of rack-eteering"); H. J. Inc. v. Northwestern Bell Telephone Co., 492

U. S. 229, 236 (1989) (referring to "RICO's key requirementof a pattern of racketeering"). And it is true as well that a
pattern of predicate acts may well be complex, concealed, orfraudulent. But identifying professional negligence may
also be a matter of real complexity, and its discovery is notrequired before the statute starts running.

Kubrick, supra,at 122, 124. Although we said that the potential malpractice

plaintiff "need only ask" if he has been wronged by a doctor,considerable enquiry and investigation may be necessary before he can make a responsible judgment about the action-ability of the unsuccessful treatment he received. The fact,
then, that a considerable effort may be required before aRICO plaintiff can tell whether a pattern of racketeering is
demonstrable does not place him in a significantly differentposition from the malpractice victim. A RICO plaintiff 's

528US2 Unit: $U30 [06-15-01 20:48:42] PAGES PGT: OPIN

557Cite as: 528 U. S. 549 (2000)
Opinion of the Court
ability to investigate the cause of his injuries is no more im-paired by his ignorance of the underlying RICO pattern than

a malpractice plaintiff is thwarted by ignorance of the detailsof treatment decisions or of prevailing standards of medical
practice.Nor does Rotella's argument gain strength from the fact
that some patterns of racketeering will include fraud, whichis generally associated with a different accrual rule; we have
already found the connection between civil RICO and fraudto be an insufficient ground for recognizing a limitations
period beyond four years, Malley-Duff, supra, at 149, andthe lenient rule Rotella seeks would amount to backsliding

from Malley-Duff.What is equally bad is that a less demanding basic discovery rule than federal law generally applies would clash withthe limitations imposed on Clayton Act suits. This is important because, as we have previously noted, there is a clearlegislative record of congressional reliance on the Clayton
Act when RICO was under consideration, see Sedima, S. P.R. L. v. Imrex Co., 473 U. S. 479, 489 (1985), and we have
recognized before that the Clayton Act's injury-focused ac-crual rule was well established by the time civil RICO was
enacted. Klehr, 521 U. S., at 189. In rejecting a signifi-cantly different focus under RICO, therefore, we are honoring an analogy that Congress itself accepted and relied upon,and one that promotes the objectives of civil RICO as readily
as it furthers the objects of the Clayton Act. Both statutesshare a common congressional objective of encouraging civil
litigation to supplement Government efforts to deter and pe-nalize the respectively prohibited practices. The object of
civil RICO is thus not merely to compensate victims but toturn them into prosecutors, "private attorneys general,"
dedicated to eliminating racketeering activity.3 Id., at 187

3 This objective of encouraging prompt litigation to combat racketeering
is the most obvious answer to Rotella's argument that the injury and pattern discovery rule should be adopted because "RICO is to be read

528US2 Unit: $U30 [06-15-01 20:48:42] PAGES PGT: OPIN
558 ROTELLA v. WOOD

Opinion of the Court
(citing Malley-Duff, 483 U. S., at 151) (civil RICO specificallyhas a "further purpose [of] encouraging potential private

plaintiffs diligently to investigate"). The provision for tre-ble damages is accordingly justified by the expected benefit
of suppressing racketeering activity, an object pursued thesooner the better. It would, accordingly, be strange to provide an unusually long basic limitations period that could
only have the effect of postponing whatever public benefitcivil RICO might realize. The Clayton Act avoids any such

policy conflict by its accrual rule that "[g]enerally, a causeof action accrues and the statute begins to run when a defendant commits an act that injures a plaintiff 's business,"
Zenith Radio Corp. v. Hazeltine Research, Inc., 401 U. S.,
at 338, and the Clayton Act analogy reflects the clear intentof Congress to reject a potentially longer basic rule under

RICO.In sum, any accrual rule softened by a pattern discovery
feature would undercut every single policy we have mentioned. By tying the start of the limitations period to a
plaintiff 's reasonable discovery of a pattern rather than to
the point of injury or its reasonable discovery, the rule would
extend the potential limitations period for most civil RICO
cases well beyond the time when a plaintiff 's cause of action
is complete,4 as this case shows. Rotella does not deny that

broadly" and " `liberally construed to effectuate its remedial purposes,' "
Sedima, S. P. R. L. v. Imrex Co., 473 U. S. 479, 497-498 (1985) (quoting
Pub. L. 91-452, $ 904(a), 84 Stat. 947).

4 Some Circuits apply injury and pattern discovery out of fear that when

the injury precedes a second predicate act, the limitations period might
otherwise expire before the pattern is created. E. g., Granite Falls Bank
v. Henrikson, 924 F. 2d 150, 154 (CA8 1991). Respondents argue that this
overlooks the cardinal principle that a limitations period does not begin
to run until the cause of action is complete. Rawlings v. Ray, 312 U. S.
96, 98 (1941); see also United States v. Lindsay, 346 U. S. 568, 569 (1954);
Clark v. Iowa City, 20 Wall. 583, 589 (1875).

The quandary is hypothetical here; Rotella does not dispute that his
injury in 1986 completed the elements of his cause of action. Hence, we

528US2 Unit: $U30 [06-15-01 20:48:42] PAGES PGT: OPIN

559Cite as: 528 U. S. 549 (2000)
Opinion of the Court
he knew of his injury in 1986 when it occurred, or that hiscivil RICO claim was complete and subject to suit at that

time. But under Rotella's rule, the clock would have startedonly in 1994, when he discovered the pattern of predicate
acts (his assumption being that he could not reasonably havebeen expected to discover them sooner). A limitations period that would have begun to run only eight years aftera claim became ripe would bar repose, prove a godsend to
stale claims, and doom any hope of certainty in identifyingpotential liability. Whatever disputes may arise about pinpointing the moment a plaintiff should have discovered aninjury to himself would be dwarfed by the controversy inherent in divining when a plaintiff should have discovered aracketeering pattern that might well be complex, concealed
or fraudulent, and involve harm to parties wholly unrelatedto an injured plaintiff. The fact, as Rotella notes, that difficulty in identifying a pattern is inherent in civil RICO, see
H. J. Inc., 492 U. S., at 235, n. 2 (collecting cases), only rein-forces our reluctance to parlay the necessary complexity of

RICO into worse trouble in applying its limitations rule.Cf.

Wilson, 471 U. S., at 270 (discussing need for firmly de-fined, easily applied rules). A pattern discovery rule would

patently disserve the congressional objective of a civil en-forcement scheme parallel to the Clayton Act regime, aimed
at rewarding the swift who undertake litigation in the pub-lic good.

Rotella has two remaining points about which a wordshould be said. We have already encountered his argument
that differences between RICO and the Clayton Act rendertheir analogy inapt, and we have explained why neither the
RICO pattern requirement nor the occurrence of fraud in
need not and do not decide whether civil RICO allows for a cause of action
when a second predicate act follows the injury, or what limitations accrual
rule might apply in such a case. In any event, doubt about whether a
harm might be actionable before a pattern is complete is a weak justification for the cost of a general pattern discovery rule.

528US2 Unit: $U30 [06-15-01 20:48:42] PAGES PGT: OPIN
560 ROTELLA v. WOOD

Opinion of the Court
RICO patterns is a good reason to ignore the Clayton Actmodel, see

supra, at 556-557. Here it remains only to respond to Rotella's argument that we ourselves undercut theforce of the Clayton Act analogy when we held that RICO

had no racketeering injury requirement comparable to theantitrust injury requirement under the Clayton Act, see
Sedima, 473 U. S., at 495. This point not only fails to support but even cuts against Rotella's position. By eliminatingthe complication of anything like an antitrust injury element

we have, to that extent, recognized a simpler RICO cause ofaction than its Clayton Act counterpart, and RICO's comparative simplicity in this respect surely does not support the
adoption of a more protracted basic limitations period.

Finally, Rotella returns to his point that RICO patterns
will involve fraud in many cases, when he argues that unless
a pattern discovery rule is recognized, a RICO plaintiff will
sometimes be barred from suit by Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 9(b), which provides that fraud must be pleaded with
particularity. While we will assume that Rule 9(b) will
exact some cost, we are wary of allowing speculation about
that cost to control the resolution of the issue here. Rotella
has presented no case in which Rule 9(b) has effectively
barred a claim like his, and he ignores the flexibility provided
by Rule 11(b)(3), allowing pleadings based on evidence reasonably anticipated after further investigation or discovery.
See, e. g., Corley v. Rosewood Care Center, Inc. of Peoria,
142 F. 3d 1041, 1050-1051 (CA7 1998) (relaxing particularity
requirements of Rule 9(b) where RICO plaintiff lacks access
to all facts necessary to detail claim). It is not that we mean
to reject Rotella's concern about allowing "blameless ignorance" to defeat a claim, Urie v. Thompson, 337 U. S. 163,
170 (1949); we simply do not think such a concern should
control the decision about the basic limitations rule. In rejecting pattern discovery as a basic rule, we do not unsettle
the understanding that federal statutes of limitations are
generally subject to equitable principles of tolling, see Holm528US2 Unit: $U30 [06-15-01 20:48:42] PAGES PGT: OPIN

561Cite as: 528 U. S. 549 (2000)
Opinion of the Court
berg v. Armbrecht, 327 U. S. 392, 397 (1946), and where apattern remains obscure in the face of a plaintiff 's diligence

in seeking to identify it, equitable tolling may be one answerto the plaintiff 's difficulty, complementing Federal Rule of
Civil Procedure 11(b)(3). See ibid.; see generally Klehr, 521U. S., at 192-193 (noting distinctions between different equitable devices). The virtue of relying on equitable tolling liesin the very nature of such tolling as the exception, not the
rule.The judgment of the Court of Appeals is affirmed.

It is so ordered.

528US2 Unit: $U31 [06-15-01 20:49:36] PAGES PGT: OPIN
562 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

Syllabus

VILLAGE OF WILLOWBROOK et al. v. OLECH
certiorari to the united states court of appeals forthe seventh circuit

No. 98-1288. Argued January 10, 2000--Decided February 23, 2000
When respondent Olech and her late husband first asked petitioner Village

of Willowbrook (Village) to connect their property to the municipal
water supply, the Village conditioned the connection on the Olechs
granting it a 33-foot easement. Although it subsequently reduced the
easement to the 15 feet required of other property owners, Olech sued,
claiming that the Village's demand for an additional 18-foot easement
violated the Fourteenth Amendment's Equal Protection Clause, and asserting that the easement was irrational and arbitrary, that the Village
was motivated by ill will resulting from the Olechs' success in an unrelated lawsuit against the Village, and that the Village acted either with
the intent to deprive Olech of her rights or in reckless disregard of her
rights. The District Court dismissed the suit for failure to state a
claim, but the Seventh Circuit reversed, holding that Olech's spiteful ill
will allegation stated a claim.

Held: The Equal Protection Clause gives rise to a cause of action on behalf

of a "class of one" where the plaintiff does not allege membership in a
class or group, but alleges that she has been intentionally treated differently from others similarly situated and that there is no rational basis
for such treatment. See, e. g., Sioux City Bridge Co. v. Dakota County,
260 U. S. 441. The Clause secures every person within a State's jurisdiction against intentional and arbitrary discrimination, whether occasioned by a statute's express terms or by its improper execution. Id.,
at 445. Here, Olech's allegations that the Village intentionally demanded a 33-foot easement from her when it required only 15 feet from
similarly situated property owners, that the demand was irrational and
arbitrary, and that the Village ultimately connected her property in return for a 15-foot easement--quite apart from the Village's subjective
motive--state a claim for relief under traditional equal protection analysis. Thus, the Court does not reach the alternative "subjective ill will"
theory on which the Seventh Circuit relied.

160 F. 3d 386, affirmed.

James L. DeAno argued the cause and filed briefs for
petitioners.

528US2 Unit: $U31 [06-15-01 20:49:36] PAGES PGT: OPIN

563Cite as: 528 U. S. 562 (2000)
Per Curiam
Irving L. Gornstein argued the cause for the UnitedStates as amicus curiae. With him on the brief were Solicitor General Waxman, Acting Assistant Attorney GeneralOgden, Deputy Solicitor General Underwood, and Mark B.
Stern.John R. Wimmer argued the cause and filed a brief for
respondent.*

Per Curiam.
Respondent Grace Olech and her late husband Thaddeusasked petitioner Village of Willowbrook (Village) to connect

their property to the municipal water supply. The Villageat first conditioned the connection on the Olechs granting the
Village a 33-foot easement. The Olechs objected, claimingthat the Village only required a 15-foot easement from other
property owners seeking access to the water supply. Aftera 3-month delay, the Village relented and agreed to provide
water service with only a 15-foot easement.Olech sued the Village, claiming that the Village's demand
of an additional 18-foot easement violated the Equal Protec-tion Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. Olech asserted
that the 33-foot easement demand was "irrational and whollyarbitrary"; that the Village's demand was actually motivated
by ill will resulting from the Olechs' previous filing of anunrelated, successful lawsuit against the Village; and that the
Village acted either with the intent to deprive Olech of herrights or in reckless disregard of her rights. App. 10, 12.

The District Court dismissed the lawsuit pursuant to Fed-eral Rule of Civil Procedure 12(b)(6) for failure to state a
cognizable claim under the Equal Protection Clause. Rely-ing on Circuit precedent, the Court of Appeals for the Sev*Richard Ruda, James I. Crowley, and Donald B. Ayer filed a brief
for the International City/County Management Association et al. as amici
curiae urging reversal.

Harvey Grossman, Steven R. Shapiro, and Richard J. O'Brien filed a
brief for the ACLU as amicus curiae urging affirmance.

528US2 Unit: $U31 [06-15-01 20:49:36] PAGES PGT: OPIN
564 VILLAGE OF WILLOWBROOK v. OLECH

Per Curiam
enth Circuit reversed, holding that a plaintiff can allege an
equal protection violation by asserting that state action was
motivated solely by a " `spiteful effort to "get" him for reasons wholly unrelated to any legitimate state objective.' "
160 F. 3d 386, 387 (1998) (quoting Esmail v. Macrane, 53
F. 3d 176, 180 (CA7 1995)). It determined that Olech's complaint sufficiently alleged such a claim. 160 F. 3d, at 388.
We granted certiorari to determine whether the Equal Protection Clause gives rise to a cause of action on behalf of a
"class of one" where the plaintiff did not allege membership
in a class or group.* 527 U. S. 1067 (1999).

Our cases have recognized successful equal protection
claims brought by a "class of one," where the plaintiff alleges
that she has been intentionally treated differently from others similarly situated and that there is no rational basis for
the difference in treatment. See Sioux City Bridge Co. v.
Dakota County, 260 U. S. 441 (1923); Allegheny Pittsburgh
Coal Co. v. Commission of Webster Cty., 488 U. S. 336 (1989).
In so doing, we have explained that " `[t]he purpose of the
equal protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment is to
secure every person within the State's jurisdiction against
intentional and arbitrary discrimination, whether occasioned
by express terms of a statute or by its improper execution
through duly constituted agents.' " Sioux City Bridge Co.,
supra, at 445 (quoting Sunday Lake Iron Co. v. Township of
Wakefield, 247 U. S. 350, 352 (1918)).

*We note that the complaint in this case could be read to allege a class
of five. In addition to Grace and Thaddeus Olech, their neighbors Rodney
and Phyllis Zimmer and Howard Brinkman requested to be connected to
the municipal water supply, and the Village initially demanded the 33-foot
easement from all of them. The Zimmers and Mr. Brinkman were also
involved in the previous, successful lawsuit against the Village, which allegedly created the ill will motivating the excessive easement demand.
Whether the complaint alleges a class of one or of five is of no consequence
because we conclude that the number of individuals in a class is immaterial
for equal protection analysis.

528US2 Unit: $U31 [06-15-01 20:49:36] PAGES PGT: OPIN

565Cite as: 528 U. S. 562 (2000)
Breyer, J., concurring in result
That reasoning is applicable to this case. Olech's com-plaint can fairly be construed as alleging that the Village

intentionally demanded a 33-foot easement as a condition ofconnecting her property to the municipal water supply
where the Village required only a 15-foot easement fromother similarly situated property owners. See

Conley v.
Gibson, 355 U. S. 41, 45-46 (1957). The complaint also alleged that the Village's demand was "irrational and whollyarbitrary" and that the Village ultimately connected her

property after receiving a clearly adequate 15-foot easement.These allegations, quite apart from the Village's subjective
motivation, are sufficient to state a claim for relief undertraditional equal protection analysis. We therefore affirm
the judgment of the Court of Appeals, but do not reach the
alternative theory of "subjective ill will" relied on by that
court.

It is so ordered.

Justice Breyer, concurring in the result.
The Solicitor General and the village of Willowbrook have
expressed concern lest we interpret the Equal Protection
Clause in this case in a way that would transform many ordinary violations of city or state law into violations of the Constitution. It might be thought that a rule that looks only to
an intentional difference in treatment and a lack of a rational
basis for that different treatment would work such a transformation. Zoning decisions, for example, will often, perhaps almost always, treat one landowner differently from
another, and one might claim that, when a city's zoning authority takes an action that fails to conform to a city zoning
regulation, it lacks a "rational basis" for its action (at least
if the regulation in question is reasonably clear).

This case, however, does not directly raise the question
whether the simple and common instance of a faulty zoning
decision would violate the Equal Protection Clause. That is
because the Court of Appeals found that in this case respond528US2 Unit: $U31 [06-15-01 20:49:36] PAGES PGT: OPIN
566 VILLAGE OF WILLOWBROOK v. OLECH

Breyer, J., concurring in result
ent had alleged an extra factor as well--a factor that theCourt of Appeals called "vindictive action," "illegitimate animus," or "ill will." 160 F. 3d 386, 388 (CA7 1998). And, inthat respect, the court said this case resembled Esmail v.
Macrane, 53 F. 3d 176 (CA7 1995), because the Esmail plain-tiff had alleged that the municipality's differential treatment
"was the result not of prosecutorial discretion honestly (evenif ineptly--even if arbitrarily) exercised but of an illegitimate desire to `get' him." 160 F. 3d, at 388.In my view, the presence of that added factor in this case
is sufficient to minimize any concern about transformingrun-of-the-mill zoning cases into cases of constitutional right.
For this reason, along with the others mentioned by theCourt, I concur in the result.

Job: 528ORD Take: NOT1 Date/Time: 06-23-01 08:44:14

Reporter's Note
The next page is purposely numbered 801. The numbers between 566
and 801 were intentionally omitted, in order to make it possible to publish
the orders with permanent page numbers, thus making the official citations available upon publication of the preliminary prints of the United
States Reports.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:19] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

ORDERS FOR OCTOBER 4, 1999, THROUGHFEBRUARY 28, 2000

October 4, 1999
Certiorari Granted--Vacated and Remanded

No. 98-9308. Cross v. California. Ct. App. Cal., 1st App.Dist.; and

No. 98-9504. Cooper v. California. Ct. App. Cal., 1st App.Dist. Motions of petitioners for leave to proceed in forma pauperis granted. Certiorari granted, judgment vacated, and casesremanded for further consideration in light of Lilly v. Virginia,
527 U. S. 116 (1999).
Miscellaneous Orders

No. D-1961. In re Disbarment of Weisser. Disbarmententered. [For earlier order herein, see 524 U. S. 913.]

No. D-2073. In re Disbarment of Nunes. Disbarmententered. [For earlier order herein, see 526 U. S. 1128.]
No. D-2076. In re Disbarment of Patt. Disbarmententered. [For earlier order herein, see 526 U. S. 1143.]
No. D-2088. In re Disbarment of Robins. Disbarmententered. [For earlier order herein, see 527 U. S. 1020.]
No. D-2101. In re Disbarment of Jacobs. Patricia DianneJacobs, of Washington, D. C., is suspended from the practice of
law in this Court, and a rule will issue, returnable within 40 days,requiring her to show cause why she should not be disbarred
from the practice of law in this Court.

No. D-2102. In re Disbarment of Eagle. Saul L. Eagle,of New York, N. Y., is suspended from the practice of law in this

Court, and a rule will issue, returnable within 40 days, requiringhim to show cause why he should not be disbarred from the
practice of law in this Court.

No. D-2103. In re Disbarment of Maney. William Ken-neth Maney, of Johnson City, N. Y., is suspended from the practice

801

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:19] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
802 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

October 4, 1999 528 U. S.
of law in this Court, and a rule will issue, returnable within 40days, requiring him to show cause why he should not be disbarred
from the practice of law in this Court.

No. D-2104. In re Disbarment of Ponzini. Robert J. Pon-zini, of Tarrytown, N. Y., is suspended from the practice of law in

this Court, and a rule will issue, returnable within 40 days, re-quiring him to show cause why he should not be disbarred from
the practice of law in this Court.

No. D-2105. In re Disbarment of Warren. Kenneth Xa-vier Warren, of Baltimore, Md., is suspended from the practice of

law in this Court, and a rule will issue, returnable within 40 days,requiring him to show cause why he should not be disbarred from
the practice of law in this Court.

No. 98M75. Morgan v. CMS/Data Corp. Motion for recon-sideration of order denying leave to file petition for writ of certiorari out of time [527 U. S. 1002] denied.

No. 99M1. Chaney v. Stewart, Director, Arizona De-partment of Corrections;

No. 99M2. West v. United States;No. 99M3. Evans v. City of -ictorville et al.;
No. 99M4. Parrish v. Nebraska et al.;No. 99M5. Carter v. United States;
No. 99M6. Florida v. Rodriguez;No. 99M7. Orleans Levee District et al. v. Lange et al.;
No. 99M8. Ward v. Hanks, Superintendent, Wabash -al-ley Correctional Facility;
No. 99M9. Autodie International, Inc. v. NationalLabor Relations Board;
No. 99M10. Bolanos Portillo v. Immigration and Natu-ralization Service;
No. 99M11. Dominguez v. Casey, United States Attorneyfor the Eastern District of Arkansas;
No. 99M13. Zwicker v. Moore, Secretary, Florida De-partment of Corrections, et al.;
No. 99M14. Solivan v. Scottsdale Justice Court et al.;No. 99M15. Powell v. Powell et al.;
No. 99M16. Aspelmeier v. Gilmore, Warden;No. 99M17. Calderon v. Dugan;
No. 99M19. Slayton v. Mountain City Club;

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:19] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

803ORDERS
October 4, 1999528 U. S.
No. 99M23. Heinemann v. Mid-State Trust IV;No. 99M24. Tarver v. Haley, Commissioner, Alabama
Department of Corrections;No. 99M25. Bickford v. Anchorage School District;

No. 99M26. Mahon et ux. v. Credit Bureau of PlacerCounty et al.; and
No. 99M27. Cherry v. Athens-Clarke County, Georgia,et al. Motions to direct the Clerk to file petitions for writs of
certiorari out of time denied.

No. 99M12. Sanders v. Gramley, Warden. Motion to directthe Clerk to file petition for writ of certiorari out of time under

this Court's Rule 14.5 denied.

No. 99M18. In re Clancy. Motion to direct the Clerk to filesubmitted pleadings denied.

No. 99M20. Rotzinger v. United States et al. Motion todirect the Clerk to file petition for writ of certiorari that does
not comply with the Rules of this Court denied.

No. 99M21. Lam, aka Moody v. Moody. Motion to direct theClerk to file petition for writ of certiorari denied.

No. 99M22. Council v. South Carolina. Motion for leaveto proceed in forma pauperis without an affidavit of indigency
executed by petitioner granted.

No. 8, Orig. Arizona v. California et al. Report of theSpecial Master received and ordered filed. Exceptions to the Report, with supporting briefs, may be filed by the parties within45 days. Reply briefs, if any, may be filed by the parties within
30 days. [For earlier order herein, see, e. g., 514 U. S. 1081.]

No. 98-238. West, Secretary of -eterans Affairs v. Gib-son, 527 U. S. 212. Motion of respondent to retax costs denied,

except that respondent is relieved of $45.56 in costs.

No. 98-1037. Smith, Warden v. Robbins. C. A. 9th Cir.[Certiorari granted, 526 U. S. 1003.] Motion of petitioner to

strike lodged materials denied, except that the uncertified tran-script of the oral argument before the United States Court of
Appeals for the Ninth Circuit is stricken.

No. 98-1161. City of Erie et al. v. Pap's A. M., tdba"Kandyland." Sup. Ct. Pa. [Certiorari granted, 526 U. S.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:19] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
804 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

October 4, 1999 528 U. S.
1111.] Motions of Erie County Citizens Coalition Against ViolentPornography, American Liberties Institute et al., and Orange
County, Florida, for leave to file briefs as amici curiae granted.

No. 98-1189. Board of Regents of the University ofWisconsin System v. Southworth et al. C. A. 7th Cir.

[Certiorari granted, 526 U. S. 1038.] Motion of Student RightsLaw Center, Inc., for leave to file a brief as amicus curiae
granted.

No. 98-1441. Roe, Warden v. Flores-Ortega. C. A. 9thCir. [Certiorari granted, 526 U. S. 1097.] Motion of the Solicitor

General for leave to participate in oral argument as amicus cu-riae and for divided argument granted.

No. 98-1480. Beck v. Prupis et al. C. A. 11th Cir. [Certio-rari granted, 526 U. S. 1158.] Motion of Washington Legal Foundation et al. for leave to file a brief as amici curiae granted.

No. 98-1747. Perez et al. v. Pasadena IndependentSchool District et al. C. A. 5th Cir.;

No. 98-1768. Buckman Co. v. Plaintiffs' Legal Commit-tee. C. A. 3d Cir.;
No. 98-1836. United States Healthcare Systems ofPennsylvania, Inc. v. Pennsylvania Hospital Insurance
Co. et al. Sup. Ct. Pa.;No. 98-1971. Robinson et al. v. Administrative Commit-
tee of the Sea Ray Employees' Stock Ownership andProfit Sharing Plan et al. C. A. 6th Cir.;

No. 98-1987. -aldespino et al. v. Alamo Heights Inde-pendent School District et al. C. A. 5th Cir.; and
No. 98-9663. Davis v. Hopper, Commissioner, AlabamaDepartment of Corrections, et al. C. A. 11th Cir. The
Solicitor General is invited to file briefs in these cases express-ing the views of the United States.

No. 98-8384. Williams v. Taylor, Warden. C. A. 4th Cir.[Certiorari granted, 526 U. S. 1050.] Motions of Marvin Frankel
et al. and Lance Banning et al. for leave to file briefs as amicicuriae granted.

No. 98-8711. Tyler et al. v. Moriarty, Judge, CircuitCourt of Missouri, City of St. Louis, et al. C. A. 8th

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:19] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

805ORDERS
October 4, 1999528 U. S.
Cir. Motion of petitioners for reconsideration of order denyingleave to proceed in forma pauperis [526 U. S. 1143] denied.

No. 98-8785. Baez v. Breslin. C. A. 11th Cir.;No. 98-8798. Balawajder v. Scott, Executive Director,
Texas Department of Criminal Justice. C. A. 5th Cir.; andNo. 98-8802. Cunningham v. Poppell, Warden, et al.
C. A. 5th Cir. Motions of petitioners for reconsideration of orderdenying leave to proceed in forma pauperis [526 U. S. 1157]
denied.

No. 98-8821. Arbogast v. Alcoa Building Products.C. A. 7th Cir. Motion of petitioner for reconsideration of order

denying leave to proceed in forma pauperis [526 U. S. 1157]denied.

No. 98-9085. Whitfield v. Texas (three judgments). Ct.Crim. App. Tex. Motion of petitioner for reconsideration of order
denying leave to proceed in forma pauperis [527 U. S. 885]denied.

No. 98-9133. Cohea v. Bray et al. C. A. 9th Cir. Motionof petitioner for reconsideration of order denying leave to proceed
in forma pauperis [527 U. S. 1034] denied.

No. 98-9473. In re Hill. Motion of petitioner for reconsider-ation of order denying leave to proceed in forma pauperis [527

U. S. 1002] denied.

No. 98-9254. Chrispen v. Feiner et al. C. A. 11th Cir.;No. 98-9261. Chrispen v. Feiner et al. C. A. 11th Cir.;

No. 98-9282. Cross v. Murphy et al. Ct. App. Cal., 6thApp. Dist.;
No. 98-9301. Galloway v. California. Sup. Ct. Cal.;No. 98-9384. Braun v. Department of Justice et al.
C. A. 8th Cir.;No. 98-9431. Mangrum v. Reddy et al. C. A. 11th Cir.;

No. 98-9443. Browning v. Weichert. C. A. 9th Cir.;No. 98-9475. Hill v. Pennsylvania. Sup. Ct. Pa.;
No. 98-9516. Tyler v. Cryne. Sup. Ct. Neb.;No. 98-9545. Mason v. Westminster Investments et al.
Ct. App. Cal., 2d App. Dist.;No. 98-9553. Lyle v. United States District Court for
the Eastern District of Michigan. C. A. 6th Cir.;

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:19] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
806 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

October 4, 1999 528 U. S.
No. 98-9557. Taylor v. Winnebago County Jail et al.C. A. 7th Cir.;
No. 98-9634. Thompson v. Federal Bureau of Investiga-
tion. C. A. 8th Cir.;No. 98-9765.

Shabazz v. Keating, Governor of Oklahoma,
et al. Sup. Ct. Okla.;No. 98-9903.

Oriakhi v. Harding et al. C. A. 4th Cir.;No. 98-9922.

Baba v. Warren Management Consultants,
Inc., et al. C. A. 2d Cir.;No. 98-9965.

Mangrum v. Charter Property Manage-
ment Co., Inc. C. A. 11th Cir.;No. 98-10019.

Higgason v. Hanks, Superintendent, Wa-
bash -alley Correctional Facility. C. A. 7th Cir.;No. 99-5007.

Browning v. Family Fitness Center. Ct.App. Cal., 2d App. Dist.;

No. 99-5362. Fabian v. Paradise Park Apartments et al.C. A. 11th Cir.;
No. 99-5390. Lyle v. United States District Court for
the Eastern District of Michigan. C. A. 6th Cir.;No. 99-5566.

Bailey v. United States. C. A. 7th Cir.;No. 99-5616.

Bennett v. Johnson, Director, Texas De-
partment of Criminal Justice, Institutional Division.C. A. 5th Cir.;

No. 99-5829. In re Ganey; andNo. 99-6052.

In re Altschul. Motions of petitioners forleave to proceed in forma pauperis denied. See this Court's

Rule 39.8. Petitioners are allowed until October 25, 1999, withinwhich to pay the docketing fees required by Rule 38(a) and to
submit petitions in compliance with Rule 33.1 of the Rules ofthis Court.

No. 98-9539. Lai v. International Immunology Corp. et
al. Ct. App. Cal., 4th App. Dist.;No. 98-9749.

McFall v. Department of Agriculture.C. A. Fed. Cir.;

No. 98-9760. Boone v. Charlie Obaugh Pontiac Buick,
Inc. Sup. Ct. Va.;No. 98-9992.

Sharif-Johnson v. Illinois Educational
Labor Relations Board et al. App. Ct. Ill., 1st Dist.;No. 98-10040.

Basta v. Farner. Cir. Ct. Wood County,W. Va.;

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:19] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

807ORDERS
October 4, 1999528 U. S.
No. 99-5301. Ladner v. City of New York et al. C. A.2d Cir.; and
No. 99-5599. Sumner v. Merit Systems Protection Board.C. A. Fed. Cir. Motions of petitioners for leave to proceed in
forma pauperis denied. Petitioners are allowed until October 25,1999, within which to pay the docketing fees required by Rule
38(a) and to submit petitions in compliance with Rule 33.1 of theRules of this Court.

No. 99-5. United States v. Morrison et al.; andNo. 99-29. Brzonkala v. Morrison et al. C. A. 4th Cir.
[Certiorari granted, 527 U. S. 1068.] Motion of Pacific LegalFoundation for leave to file a brief as amicus curiae granted.

No. 99-5746. Weeks v. Angelone, Director, VirginiaDepartment of Corrections. C. A. 4th Cir. [Certiorari
granted, 527 U. S. 1060.] Motion for appointment of counselgranted, and it is ordered that Timothy M. Richardson, Esq., of
Virginia Beach, Va., be appointed to serve as counsel for peti-tioner in this case.

No. 98-9743. In re Johnson;No. 98-9908. In re Coleman;
No. 98-9928. In re Robinson;No. 98-10017. In re Davis;
No. 98-10024. In re Tennille;No. 99-5025. In re Townsend;
No. 99-5108. In re Crowder;No. 99-5147. In re Holston;
No. 99-5170. In re Mallard;No. 99-5228. In re -erdone;
No. 99-5259. In re Cotner;No. 99-5292. In re Minarik;
No. 99-5294. In re Jones;No. 99-5380. In re Poe;
No. 99-5424. In re McKee;No. 99-5446. In re Baynes;
No. 99-5567. In re Coach;No. 99-5593. In re Woods;
No. 99-5604. In re Tiffany;No. 99-5617. In re Clincy;
No. 99-5648. In re Nha Khiem Tran;No. 99-5649. In re Webb-El;

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:19] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
808 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

October 4, 1999 528 U. S.
No. 99-5696. In re Ross;No. 99-5853. In re McCowin;
No. 99-5974. In re Stone; andNo. 99-6055. In re Brewer. Petitions for writs of habeas
corpus denied.

No. 98-2048. In re Walker;No. 98-9171. In re Johnson;

No. 98-9311. In re Proctor;No. 98-9335. In re Nicholson-El;
No. 98-9428. In re Watkis;No. 98-9503. In re Warren;
No. 98-9766. In re Ogunde;No. 98-9845. In re Tucker;
No. 98-9917. In re Anderson;No. 98-9926. In re Proctor;
No. 99-57. In re Fallin et al.;No. 99-5028. In re Roy;
No. 99-5092. In re Farrell;No. 99-5135. In re Francis;
No. 99-5336. In re Grady;No. 99-5343. In re Brannan;
No. 99-5383. In re Santo-Garcia;No. 99-5408. In re Bean;
No. 99-5410. In re Maxwell;No. 99-5474. In re Bartel; and
No. 99-5549. In re Wallace. Petitions for writs of manda-mus denied.

No. 98-2037. In re Jackson; andNo. 99-5592. In re Woody. Petitions for writs of mandamus
and/or prohibition denied.
Certiorari Granted

No. 99-150. Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. v. Samara Brothers,Inc. C. A. 2d Cir. Certiorari granted limited to the following

question: "What must be shown to establish that a product's de-sign is inherently distinctive for purposes of Lanham Act tradedress protection?" Brief of petitioner is to be filed with the Clerkand served upon opposing counsel on or before 3 p.m., Thursday,
November 18, 1999. Brief of respondent is to be filed with theClerk and served upon opposing counsel on or before 3 p.m., Mon528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:19] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

809ORDERS
October 4, 1999528 U. S.
day, December 20, 1999. A reply brief, if any, is to be filed withthe Clerk and served upon opposing counsel on or before 3 p.m.,
Monday, January 10, 2000. This Court's Rule 29.2 does not apply.Reported below: 165 F. 3d 120.

Certiorari Denied

No. 98-1270. Albertson's, Inc. v. United Food and Com-mercial Workers International Union, AFL-CIO and CLC,

et al. C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 157F. 3d 758.

No. 98-1584. Ivester v. Missouri. Ct. App. Mo., EasternDist. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 978 S. W. 2d 762.
No. 98-1599. Mortham, Secretary of State of Florida,et al. v. Walker et al. C. A. 11th Cir. Certiorari denied.
Reported below: 158 F. 3d 1177.

No. 98-1600. Unser v. United States. C. A. 10th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 165 F. 3d 755.

No. 98-1649. Sea-Land Service, Inc. v. Director, Officeof Workers' Compensation Programs, et al. C. A. 9th Cir.
Certiorari denied. Reported below: 153 F. 3d 1051 and 164F. 3d 480.

No. 98-1651. Kim v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 172 F. 3d 45.
No. 98-1654. Carleton et al. v. City of Tulsa et al.C. A. 10th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 166 F. 3d
1220.

No. 98-1662. Alexander v. Merit Systems ProtectionBoard. C. A. 6th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 165

F. 3d 474.

No. 98-1688. Bonneville Associates, Limited Partner-ship, et al. v. Barram, Administrator, General Services

Administration. C. A. Fed. Cir. Certiorari denied. Reportedbelow: 165 F. 3d 1360.

No. 98-1689. Porter v. United States. C. A. Fed. Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 163 F. 3d 1304.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:19] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
810 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

October 4, 1999 528 U. S.
No. 98-1692. Miccosukee Tribe of Indians of Floridaet al. v. United States et al. C. A. 11th Cir. Certiorari
denied. Reported below: 163 F. 3d 1359.

No. 98-1695. Prudential Insurance Company of Americaet al. v. Prince George Center, Inc., et al. Super. Ct. Pa.

Certiorari denied. Reported below: 704 A. 2d 141.

No. 98-1698. Renteria-Prado v. Pasquarell, District Di-rector, San Antonio District of the Immigration and Nat-

uralization Service, et al. C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied.Reported below: 174 F. 3d 198.

No. 98-1700. Hindenlang v. United States. C. A. 6th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 164 F. 3d 1029.
No. 98-1702. Abu-Jamal v. Pennsylvania. Sup. Ct. Pa.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 553 Pa. 485, 720 A. 2d 79.
No. 98-1715. Krilich v. United States. C. A. 7th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 159 F. 3d 1020.
No. 98-1718. Rhodes v. Killian, Director, Arizona De-partment of Revenue, et al. Sup. Ct. Ariz. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 193 Ariz. 273, 972 P. 2d 606.

No. 98-1725. Rahim v. Texas. Ct. App. Tex., 5th Dist. Cer-tiorari denied.

No. 98-1729. McNeil v. Utah, Medicaid Section. Sup. Ct.Utah. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 972 P. 2d 446.
No. 98-1735. Bestfoods, fka CPC International, Inc. v.United States. C. A. Fed. Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported
below: 165 F. 3d 1371.

No. 98-1740. Benito v. New York. App. Div., Sup. Ct. N. Y.,1st Jud. Dept. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 256 App.

Div. 2d 221, 683 N. Y. S. 2d 27.

No. 98-1743. MCM Partners, Inc. v. Andrews-Bartlett &Associates, Inc., dba Andrews-Bartlett Exposition Serv-

ices, et al. C. A. 7th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below:161 F. 3d 443.

No. 98-1744. Taylor v. Monfils, Special Administratorof the Estate of Monfils, Deceased, et al. C. A. 7th Cir.
Certiorari denied. Reported below: 165 F. 3d 511.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:19] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

811ORDERS
October 4, 1999528 U. S.
No. 98-1745. -an Horne v. Evergreen Media Corp. et al.Sup. Ct. Ill. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 185 Ill. 2d 299,
705 N. E. 2d 898.

No. 98-1756. Evans et ux. v. Tohono O'Odham Nationet al. C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 98-1761. Rainsong Co. v. Federal Energy Regula-tory Commission et al. C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari denied.
Reported below: 151 F. 3d 1231.

No. 98-1763. Stone Casket Company of Oklahoma City v.Oklahoma Board of Embalmers and Funeral Directors.

Ct. Civ. App. Okla. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 976 P.2d 1074.

No. 98-1771. Skaggs, Guardian of Person and Estate ofSkaggs, Incapacitated v. Otis Elevator Co. C. A. 10th Cir.
Certiorari denied. Reported below: 164 F. 3d 511.

No. 98-1772. Mir v. FHP, Inc. C. A. 9th Cir. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 164 F. 3d 631.

No. 98-1774. Jones v. City of Berkeley Rent Stabiliza-tion Board. Ct. App. Cal., 1st App. Dist. Certiorari denied.
No. 98-1778. Koveleskie v. SBC Capital Markets, Inc.,aka SBC Warburg, Inc. C. A. 7th Cir. Certiorari denied.
Reported below: 167 F. 3d 361.

No. 98-1779. Mullin v. Raytheon Co. C. A. 1st Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 164 F. 3d 696.

No. 98-1780. Sorrow v. Georgia. Ct. App. Ga. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 234 Ga. App. 357, 505 S. E. 2d 842.
No. 98-1782. Deerwester v. Illinois. App. Ct. Ill., 4thDist. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 298 Ill. App. 3d 250,
698 N. E. 2d 550.

No. 98-1784. Pack v. Kmart Corp. C. A. 10th Cir. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 166 F. 3d 1300.

No. 98-1785. Boggs v. Summers, Secretary of the Treas-ury, et al. C. A. D. C. Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported
below: 161 F. 3d 37.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:19] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
812 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

October 4, 1999 528 U. S.
No. 98-1794. International Union of Operating Engi-neers, Local 351 v. Cooper Natural Resources, Inc. C. A.
5th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 163 F. 3d 916.

No. 98-1795. Martinez v. City of Los Fresnos. Ct. App.Tex., 13th Dist. Certiorari denied.

No. 98-1797. Iglesias v. Mutual Life Insurance Companyof New York. C. A. 1st Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported
below: 156 F. 3d 237.

No. 98-1799. Knox County Education Assn. v. KnoxCounty Board of Education. C. A. 6th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 158 F. 3d 361.

No. 98-1800. Philadelphia, Bethlehem & New EnglandRailroad Co. v. Newhard. C. A. 3d Cir. Certiorari denied.

Reported below: 175 F. 3d 1011.

No. 98-1801. Swisher v. -irginia. Sup. Ct. Va. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 256 Va. 471, 506 S. E. 2d 763.

No. 98-1802. Baltimore City Police Department et al. v.Fraternal Order of Police, Lodge 3, et al. C. A. 4th Cir.
Certiorari denied. Reported below: 164 F. 3d 624.

No. 98-1803. Gibson v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 166 F. 3d 1210.

No. 98-1804. Kaul et vir v. Kansas Department of Reve-nue et al. Sup. Ct. Kan. Certiorari denied. Reported below:
266 Kan. 464, 970 P. 2d 60.

No. 98-1805. Irving v. United States. C. A. 1st Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 162 F. 3d 154.

No. 98-1807. Industrial Chemicals, Inc. v. City of Tusca-loosa et al.; and
No. 98-1997. Harcros Chemicals, Inc. v. City of Tusca-loosa et al. C. A. 11th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported
below: 158 F. 3d 548.

No. 98-1808. Cureton et al. v. Sharpe et al. C. A. 6thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 172 F. 3d 873.

No. 98-1810. McGinnis v. Anchorage School Districtet al. C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 166
F. 3d 343.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:19] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

813ORDERS
October 4, 1999528 U. S.
No. 98-1813. Baker et al. v. Hadley et al. C. A. 6th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 167 F. 3d 1014.

No. 98-1820. Spangler et al. v. Altec InternationalLimited Partnership et al. C. A. 7th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 172 F. 3d 53.

No. 98-1823. Acri v. -anderveen et al. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 162 F. 3d 1167.

No. 98-1827. Hunt v. Hunt. Sup. Ct. N. H. Certioraridenied.
No. 98-1829. Ortho Biotech, Inc. v. Medlock. C. A. 10thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 164 F. 3d 545.
No. 98-1831. Montalvo, Parent and Guardian of Mon-talvo v. Radcliffe et al. C. A. 4th Cir. Certiorari denied.
Reported below: 167 F. 3d 873.

No. 98-1833. Doherty, dba The Menlo Club v. WirelessBroadcasting Systems of Sacramento, Inc., dba Pacific

West Cable Television. C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari denied.Reported below: 151 F. 3d 1129.

No. 98-1837. Diettrich v. Northwest Airlines, Inc.C. A. 7th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 168 F. 3d 961.
No. 98-1838. Cohen et al. v. Recreation and Park Com-mission for the Parish of East Baton Rouge (BREC) et al.
Ct. App. La., 1st Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 728So. 2d 31.

No. 98-1842. Patterson et vir v. Premier Bank. C. A. 5thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 172 F. 3d 870.
No. 98-1843. Green v. Terhune, Director, California De-partment of Corrections, et al. C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari
denied.

No. 98-1844. Sudarsky v. City of New York et al. App.Div., Sup. Ct. N. Y., 1st Jud. Dept. Certiorari denied. Reported

below: 247 App. Div. 2d 206, 668 N. Y. S. 2d 350.

No. 98-1846. Pfau v. Reed, Director, Defense ContractAudit Agency. C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported

below: 167 F. 3d 228.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:19] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
814 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

October 4, 1999 528 U. S.
No. 98-1849. McClain v. Scharrer et al. C. A. 6th Cir.Certiorari denied.

No. 98-1850. J. F. v. Pennsylvania. Super. Ct. Pa. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 714 A. 2d 467.
No. 98-1853. Webb v. California Department of Rehabil-itation et al. Ct. App. Cal., 2d App. Dist. Certiorari denied.
No. 98-1854. Anaeme v. Diagnostek, Inc., et al. C. A.10th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 164 F. 3d 1275.
No. 98-1857. Esperance, Ltd. v. Den Norske Bank. C. A.11th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 166 F. 3d 353.
No. 98-1859. Babcock v. City of Manchester. Ct. App.Mo., Eastern Dist. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 984
S. W. 2d 161.

No. 98-1860. Bianchi, fdba M. Bianchi of California v.Walker, Comptroller General of the United States,

et al. C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 163F. 3d 564.

No. 98-1862. Gordon v. Community First Bank of Ne-braska, fka The Abbott Bank, et al. Sup. Ct. Neb. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 255 Neb. 637, 587 N. W. 2d 343.

No. 98-1863. Riggan v. R. W. Moore Equipment Co. C. A.4th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 163 F. 3d 599.

No. 98-1864. Pueschel v. Slater, Secretary of Transpor-tation. C. A. 4th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 173
F. 3d 425.

No. 98-1866. Karam et al. v. New Jersey Department ofEnvironmental Protection et al. Sup. Ct. N. J. Certiorari

denied. Reported below: 157 N. J. 187, 723 A. 2d 943.

No. 98-1867. Davis v. Lauria. App. Ct. Mass. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 46 Mass. App. 1112, 707 N. E. 2d 409.

No. 98-1869. Gagliano v. Storage Technology Corp.C. A. 10th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 172 F. 3d
878.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:19] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

815ORDERS
October 4, 1999528 U. S.
No. 98-1872. Nashua Corp. v. Ricoh Co., Ltd., et al. C. A.Fed. Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 185 F. 3d 884.

No. 98-1875. Everett et al. v. US Airways Group, Inc.,et al. C. A. D. C. Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below:
194 F. 3d 173.

No. 98-1876. Sheren v. Dayton Hudson Corp. C. A. 7thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 175 F. 3d 1021.

No. 98-1877. Gipson v. Kajima Engineering & Construc-tion Co. C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below:
173 F. 3d 860.

No. 98-1878. Garrick et ux. v. Thibodeaux et al. C. A.5th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 174 F. 3d 198.

No. 98-1879. Court of Indian Offenses of the ChoctawNation et al. v. Dry et al. C. A. 10th Cir. Certiorari denied.
Reported below: 168 F. 3d 1207.

No. 98-1880. Leader v. Livingston Parish School Boardet al. C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 172

F. 3d 870.

No. 98-1881. Liu et ux. v. Silverman, Chapter 7 Trusteeof the Estate of Liu, et ux. C. A. 2d Cir. Certiorari denied.

Reported below: 166 F. 3d 1200.

No. 98-1882. Peek v. Peek. Ct. App. Mo., Eastern Dist.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 983 S. W. 2d 564.

No. 98-1883. Polaris Pictures Corp. et al. v. Cigna Prop-erty et al. C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported
below: 159 F. 3d 412.

No. 98-1884. Simms v. Oklahoma ex rel. Oklahoma De-partment of Mental Health and Substance Abuse Serv-

ices. C. A. 10th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 165F. 3d 1321.

No. 98-1885. Carella, Trustee/Receiver v. New JerseyDepartment of Treasury, by Crane, Treasurer. Super. Ct.
N. J., App. Div. Certiorari denied.

No. 98-1888. Edwards v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 173 F. 3d 424.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:19] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
816 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

October 4, 1999 528 U. S.
No. 98-1889. Brooks v. The Gas Co. et al. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 166 F. 3d 342.

No. 98-1890. Pace et al. v. Mortgage Investors, Inc.C. A. 11th Cir. Certiorari denied.
No. 98-1891. Waite v. Empson et al. Ct. App. Neb. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 8 Neb. App. xiii.
No. 98-1892. Franklin v. United States. C. A. Fed. Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 178 F. 3d 1312.
No. 98-1894. Buckley v. California Coastal Commission.Ct. App. Cal., 2d App. Dist. Certiorari denied. Reported below:
68 Cal. App. 4th 178, 80 Cal. Rptr. 2d 562.

No. 98-1895. Sank v. Bergen County Superintendent ofElections et al. Super. Ct. N. J., App. Div. Certiorari denied.

No. 98-1896. Jackson v. Houston County Board of Educa-tion. C. A. 11th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 168
F. 3d 506.

No. 98-1897. Fisher et ux. v. Aetna Life Insurance &Annuity Co. C. A. 3d Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported

below: 176 F. 3d 472.

No. 98-1898. Johnson v. Summers, Secretary of theTreasury, et al. C. A. 11th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 165 F. 3d 40.

No. 98-1899. Conk v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 164 F. 3d 627.

No. 98-1902. Adcock v. Chrysler Corp. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 166 F. 3d 1290.
No. 98-1903. Benson v. Benson. Ct. Civ. App. Ala. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 757 So. 2d 490.
No. 98-1905. Tompkins et al. v. Alabama State Univer-sity et al. C. A. 11th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported
below: 174 F. 3d 203.

No. 98-1906. Romano et ux. v. Bible et al. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 169 F. 3d 1182.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:19] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

817ORDERS
October 4, 1999528 U. S.
No. 98-1909. Huneycutt et al. v. City of Suffolk. Sup.Ct. Va. Certiorari denied.

No. 98-1911. Rodriguez et al. v. Louisiana Departmentof Transportation and Development. Ct. App. La., 5th Cir.
Certiorari denied. Reported below: 731 So. 2d 560.

No. 98-1912. Owens v. United States. C. A. 6th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 159 F. 3d 221.

No. 98-1913. Clifton v. Moore, Secretary, Florida De-partment of Corrections, et al. C. A. 11th Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 98-1914. Paulson et al. v. United States. C. A. 5thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 166 F. 3d 339.

No. 98-1917. Nussbeck v. Nussbeck. Sup. Ct. Colo. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 974 P. 2d 493.
No. 98-1918. Lightfoot v. Union Carbide Corp. et al.C. A. 2d Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 175 F. 3d 1008.
No. 98-1919. City of Newark et al. v. Fraternal Orderof Police Newark Lodge No. 12 et al. C. A. 3d Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 170 F. 3d 359.

No. 98-1920. In re S. H. Sup. Ct. Alaska. Certiorari de-nied. Reported below: 967 P. 2d 91.

No. 98-1922. Kreischer et al. v. Kerrisons Dry Goods Co.et al. C. A. 4th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 172
F. 3d 863.

No. 98-1923. Freund v. Butterworth, Attorney Generalof Florida. C. A. 11th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported

below: 165 F. 3d 839.

No. 98-1924. Wojciechowski v. Montevideo Partnershipet al. C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 173

F. 3d 861.

No. 98-1925. Campbell v. City of Plymouth. Ct. App.Mich. Certiorari denied.

No. 98-1926. Cockrell et al. v. City of Southaven. Sup.Ct. Miss. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 730 So. 2d 1119.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:19] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
818 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

October 4, 1999 528 U. S.
No. 98-1927. Braun v. Bureau of State Audits et al. Ct.App. Cal., 1st App. Dist. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 67
Cal. App. 4th 1382, 79 Cal. Rptr. 2d 791.

No. 98-1928. Lopez Cantu v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 167 F. 3d 198.

No. 98-1929. American Lung Assn. et al. v. Environmen-tal Protection Agency et al. C. A. D. C. Cir. Certiorari
denied.

No. 98-1930. Chambers v. McClenney et al. C. A. 10thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 166 F. 3d 1220.

No. 98-1934. Carlson v. United States. C. A. 6th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 98-1936. Shaw v. Shivers, Conservator for Levitz,et al. C. A. 11th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 176
F. 3d 493.

No. 98-1937. -ey v. Ridge, Governor of Pennsylvania,et al. C. A. 3d Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 98-1938. Kiel v. Select Artificials, Inc. C. A. 8thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 169 F. 3d 1131.
No. 98-1939. Dawson v. Lovell et al. C. A. 11th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied.
No. 98-1940. Pittman, a Minor, by Pittman, Her Fatherand Legal Custodian, et al. v. Icelandair, Inc. C. A. 2d
Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 149 F. 3d 111.

No. 98-1941. McNaughton v. United Healthcare Serv-ices, Inc., et al. Sup. Ct. Ala. Certiorari denied. Reported

below: 728 So. 2d 592.

No. 98-1943. Espinoza v. Wyoming. Sup. Ct. Wyo. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 969 P. 2d 542.

No. 98-1944. Oiknine v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 162 F. 3d 1170.
No. 98-1945. Burnette v. Grove Isle Club, Inc., et al.Dist. Ct. App. Fla., 3d Dist. Certiorari denied. Reported below:
710 So. 2d 80.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:19] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

819ORDERS
October 4, 1999528 U. S.
No. 98-1946. Franklin v. West, Secretary of -eteransAffairs. C. A. 10th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below:
172 F. 3d 62.

No. 98-1947. Jandu v. National Science Foundation.C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 172 F. 3d 869.

No. 98-1948. Angulo Alvarez et al. v. Aponte de laTorre et al. C. A. 1st Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported
below: 170 F. 3d 246.

No. 98-1950. Bolinger v. Ridge, Governor of Pennsylva-nia, et al. C. A. 3d Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below:

178 F. 3d 1278.

No. 98-1951. Foroglou v. Immigration and Naturaliza-tion Service. C. A. 1st Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported

below: 170 F. 3d 68.

No. 98-1952. Marathon Oil Co. v. Babbitt, Secretary ofthe Interior, et al. C. A. 10th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 166 F. 3d 1221.

No. 98-1953. Ferguson v. Federal Deposit InsuranceCorporation et al. C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 164 F. 3d 894.

No. 98-1954. Local Union 1393, International Brother-hood of Electrical Workers, AFL-CIO v. Utilities Dis-

trict of Western Indiana Rural Electric Membership Co-operative. C. A. 7th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below:
167 F. 3d 1181.

No. 98-1955. Wojciechowski v. Walt Disney ConcertHall No. 1 et al. C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported

below: 173 F. 3d 862.

No. 98-1956. Johnson v. Oklahoma. Ct. Crim. App. Okla.Certiorari denied.

No. 98-1957. Bennett v. United States. C. A. 3d Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 161 F. 3d 171.
No. 98-1958. Achebe v. Chicago Board of Education.C. A. 7th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 172 F. 3d 52.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:19] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
820 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

October 4, 1999 528 U. S.
No. 98-1959. Harris v. United States. C. A. 7th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 172 F. 3d 54.

No. 98-1962. Burns v. Arizona. Ct. App. Ariz. Certioraridenied.
No. 98-1963. Franklin v. City of Birmingham et al.C. A. 11th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 163 F. 3d
1361.

No. 98-1965. Welch et al. v. Town of Mountain Cityet al. C. A. 11th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 168

F. 3d 507.

No. 98-1966. Sherman Park Apartments et al. v. UnitedStates. C. A. Fed. Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below:

162 F. 3d 1123.

No. 98-1968. Gresham v. Henderson, Postmaster Gen-eral. C. A. 10th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 166

F. 3d 347.

No. 98-1969. Morelli v. United States. C. A. 3d Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 169 F. 3d 798.

No. 98-1970. Commercial Energies, Inc. v. Danzig, Secre-tary of the Navy. C. A. Fed. Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 194 F. 3d 1330.

No. 98-1972. Constant v. Advanced Micro-Devices, Inc.,et al. C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 98-1973. Szenay v. Yukins et al. C. A. 6th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 178 F. 3d 1296.
No. 98-1974. Mergens et al. v. Dreyfoos et al. C. A.11th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 166 F. 3d 1114.
No. 98-1975. Buggs et vir v. Tisdale et al. C. A. 7th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 98-1977. Paredes-Ravelo v. United States. C. A. 2dCir. Certiorari denied.
No. 98-1978. Haefling v. United Parcel Service, Inc.C. A. 7th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 169 F. 3d 494.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:19] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

821ORDERS
October 4, 1999528 U. S.
No. 98-1979. Small v. United States; and Neptune etal. v. United States. C. A. Fed. Cir. Certiorari denied.
Reported below: 158 F. 3d 576 (first judgment); 178 F. 3d 1306(second judgment).

No. 98-1980. Allison et ux. v. Pacific Bell. Ct. App. Cal.,2d App. Dist. Certiorari denied.
No. 98-1981. Contech Division, SPX Corp. v. NationalLabor Relations Board et al. C. A. 6th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 164 F. 3d 297.

No. 98-1982. Lee v. Hawaii. Sup. Ct. Haw. Certiorari de-nied. Reported below: 90 Haw. 130, 976 P. 2d 444.

No. 98-1984. Spiers v. Sydnor. C. A. 4th Cir. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 173 F. 3d 852.
No. 98-1985. Morrissey et al. v. Jackson. C. A. 4th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 165 F. 3d 911.
No. 98-1986. Road Sprinkler Fitters Local UnionNo. 669, United Association of Journeymen and Appren-
tices of the Plumbing and Pipe Fitting Industry of theUnited States and Canada, AFL-CIO v. American Auto-
matic Sprinkler Systems, Inc., et al. C. A. 4th Cir. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 163 F. 3d 209.

No. 98-1988. Swainston et al. v. Turnipseed, NevadaState Engineer, et al. Sup. Ct. Nev. Certiorari denied.
No. 98-1990. Mole v. Buckhorn Rubber Products, Inc.C. A. 8th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 165 F. 3d
1212.

No. 98-1992. Worth Capital, Inc. v. Herman Miller, Inc.C. A. 2d Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 173 F. 3d 844.

No. 98-1994. Brian v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 198 F. 3d 255.
No. 98-1995. Graphic Communications InternationalUnion, Local 1B v. Bureau of Engraving, Inc. C. A. 8th
Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 164 F. 3d 427.

No. 98-1999. Luther v. Minnesota Commissioner of Reve-nue. Sup. Ct. Minn. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 588

N. W. 2d 502.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:19] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
822 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

October 4, 1999 528 U. S.
No. 98-2000. Potts v. United States. C. A. 6th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 173 F. 3d 430.

No. 98-2002. Balogh et al. v. Ramos. Ct. App. Tex., 13thDist. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 978 S. W. 2d 696.
No. 98-2003. Hoffman et al. v. Ballew, Sheriff, LeFloreCounty, Oklahoma, et al. Sup. Ct. Okla. Certiorari denied.
No. 98-2005. Bannum, Inc., et al. v. City of Fort Lauder-dale. C. A. 11th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 157
F. 3d 819.

No. 98-2008. Davis v. Davis. C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari de-nied. Reported below: 170 F. 3d 475.

No. 98-2009. Florida Department of Corrections v.Gomez et al. Sup. Ct. Fla. Certiorari denied. Reported
below: 733 So. 2d 499.

No. 98-2010. Charles Schwab Corp. et al. v. Commis-sioner of Internal Revenue. C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari

denied. Reported below: 161 F. 3d 1231.

No. 98-2011. Davis et al. v. Tabachnick. App. Ct. Mass.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 46 Mass. App. 1109, 707 N. E.

2d 406.

No. 98-2012. Josenhans v. Sherwood Medical Corp. et al.C. A. 11th Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 98-2013. Kamasinski v. United States. C. A. 1st Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 98-2014. Blountt v. Glickman, Secretary of Agri-culture, et al. C. A. 7th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported
below: 175 F. 3d 1019.

No. 98-2015. Interstate Brands Corp. v. Bakery Driv-ers & Bakery Goods -ending Machines, Local No. 550,

International Brotherhood of Teamsters. C. A. 2d Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 167 F. 3d 764.

No. 98-2017. Coggins v. District of Columbia. C. A. 4thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 173 F. 3d 424.
No. 98-2018. Oakley v. Wilson. Sup. Ct. Tenn. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 984 S. W. 2d 898.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:19] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

823ORDERS
October 4, 1999528 U. S.
No. 98-2019. James v. Georgia. Sup. Ct. Ga. Certiorari de-nied. Reported below: 270 Ga. 675, 513 S. E. 2d 207.

No. 98-2020. Carpenter v. Federal National MortgageAssociation. C. A. D. C. Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported
below: 165 F. 3d 69.

No. 98-2022. Corley v. City of Longview. C. A. 5th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 180 F. 3d 265.

No. 98-2023. Alabama Municipal Insurance Corp. et al.v. Alabama et al. Sup. Ct. Ala. Certiorari denied. Reported
below: 730 So. 2d 107.

No. 98-2024. Furlow et vir v. Allied Conveyor, Inc.,et al. C. A. 7th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 172

F. 3d 53.

No. 98-2025. Pike et ux. v. Arizona Department ofTransportation et al. Ct. App. Ariz. Certiorari denied.

No. 98-2026. LoCascio v. United States. C. A. 2d Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 166 F. 3d 1202.
No. 98-2027. Lawson et al. v. Abrams, Former AttorneyGeneral of New York, et al. C. A. 2d Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 166 F. 3d 1200.

No. 98-2028. Lewis v. Cowen et al. C. A. 2d Cir. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 165 F. 3d 154.

No. 98-2029. Rothbury Investments et al. v. Dura-Corp.,Inc. Super. Ct. Pa. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 714
A. 2d 1090.

No. 98-2030. Sapp et al. v. United States. C. A. 10th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 166 F. 3d 349.

No. 98-2031. Kahre et al. v. International MonetaryFund et al. Sup. Ct. Nev. Certiorari denied.
No. 98-2032. McQueen v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 176 F. 3d 478.
No. 98-2033. Schlosser v. Town of Woodside et al. Ct.App. Cal., 1st App. Dist. Certiorari denied.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:19] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
824 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

October 4, 1999 528 U. S.

No. 98-2034. Robinson et al. v. Sheriff of Cook County.C. A. 7th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 167 F. 3d
1155.

No. 98-2035. McGee et ux. v. County of Orange. C. A.9th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 172 F. 3d 55.

No. 98-2036. Jackson v. The Right Stuff, Inc., et al.C. A. 3d Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 176 F. 3d 472.
No. 98-2038. Greene v. City of Montgomery. Ct. Crim.App. Ala. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 741 So. 2d 492.
No. 98-2039. Guidish v. White et al. C. A. 3d Cir. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 175 F. 3d 1010.
No. 98-2040. Gourley v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 168 F. 3d 165.
No. 98-2041. Jefferson v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 161 F. 3d 12.
No. 98-2042. Benjamin et al. v. Kerik, Commissioner,New York City Department of Correction, et al. C. A.
2d Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 172 F. 3d 144.

No. 98-2044. Aloupis et vir v. Roop et al. C. A. 4th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 166 F. 3d 331.

No. 98-2045. Pelullo v. United States. C. A. 3d Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 173 F. 3d 131.
No. 98-2046. Thompson v. National Aeronautics andSpace Administration. C. A. Fed. Cir. Certiorari denied.
Reported below: 178 F. 3d 1309.

No. 98-2047. Dittler v. Robey. Ct. App. Wash. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 93 Wash. App. 1069.

No. 98-2049. Douros et ux. v. Sharon Savings Bank, For-merly Sharon Savings and Loan Assn. Super. Ct. Pa. Certiorari denied.

No. 98-2050. Matteo v. Brennan, Superintendent, Al-bion Correctional Institution, et al. C. A. 3d Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 171 F. 3d 877.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:20] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

825ORDERS
October 4, 1999528 U. S.
No. 98-2054. Jobe, Assignee of Air New Orleans, Inc. v.ATR Marketing, Inc., et al. C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied.
Reported below: 174 F. 3d 198.

No. 98-2055. Dunn et al. v. Commodity Futures TradingCommission. C. A. 2d Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below:

169 F. 3d 785.

No. 98-2057. Norton et ux., as Parents of Norton, aMinor v. Orinda Union School District. C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 168 F. 3d 500.

No. 98-2058. R. M. S. Titanic, Inc., Successor in Interestto Titanic -entures, Limited Partnership v. Haver et al.

C. A. 4th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 171 F. 3d 943.

No. 98-2061. Pi et al. v. United States. C. A. 6th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 174 F. 3d 745.

No. 98-8002. Martinez v. Texas. Ct. Crim. App. Tex. Cer-tiorari denied.
No. 98-8051. Dewberry v. Oklahoma. Ct. Crim. App. Okla.Certiorari denied.
No. 98-8159. Turpin v. Hanks, Superintendent, Wabash-alley Correctional Facility. C. A. 7th Cir. Certiorari
denied.

No. 98-8318. Barraza v. Texas. Ct. Crim. App. Tex. Cer-tiorari denied.

No. 98-8359. Gonzalez v. Illinois. Sup. Ct. Ill. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 184 Ill. 2d 402, 704 N. E. 2d 375.
No. 98-8551. Beets v. Kautzky, Director, Iowa Depart-ment of Corrections. C. A. 8th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 164 F. 3d 1131.

No. 98-8571. Sheppard v. United States;No. 98-8589. Sheppard v. United States;

No. 98-8604. Sheppard v. United States;No. 98-8614. Brown v. United States; and
No. 98-9006. Edwards v. United States. C. A. 8th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 159 F. 3d 1117.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:20] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
826 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

October 4, 1999 528 U. S.
No. 98-8629. Williams v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 164 F. 3d 627.

No. 98-8702. Soriano v. California. Ct. App. Cal., 5th App.Dist. Certiorari denied.
No. 98-8777. Chester v. Louisiana. Sup. Ct. La. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 724 So. 2d 1276.
No. 98-8795. Fuller v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 162 F. 3d 256.
No. 98-8799. Cromer v. Smith et al. C. A. 4th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 159 F. 3d 875.
No. 98-8804. Sosa v. Moore, Secretary, Florida Depart-ment of Corrections. C. A. 11th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 177 F. 3d 982.

No. 98-8828. Watson v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 168 F. 3d 485.

No. 98-8840. Gonzalez-Almaraz v. United States. C. A.5th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 168 F. 3d 485.
No. 98-8894. Barajas-Chavez v. United States. C. A. 10thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 162 F. 3d 1285.
No. 98-8896. Mancillas-Zarate v. United States. C. A.5th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 168 F. 3d 485.
No. 98-8907. Patterson v. Texas. Ct. Crim. App. Tex.Certiorari denied.
No. 98-8929. Bell v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 168 F. 3d 483.
No. 98-8972. Gutierrez v. United States Postal Service.C. A. Fed. Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 168 F. 3d
1318.

No. 98-8973. Griffith v. Texas. Ct. Crim. App. Tex. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 983 S. W. 2d 282.

No. 98-8981. Romanelli v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 165 F. 3d 37.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:20] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

827ORDERS
October 4, 1999528 U. S.
No. 98-8999. -ail v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 165 F. 3d 920.

No. 98-9044. Degen v. Louisiana. Ct. App. La., 1st Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 720 So. 2d 470.
No. 98-9057. Thomas v. Pennsylvania. Sup. Ct. Pa. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 552 Pa. 621, 717 A. 2d 468.
No. 98-9061. Baez v. Pennsylvania. Sup. Ct. Pa. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 554 Pa. 66, 720 A. 2d 711.
No. 98-9066. Castro v. United States; andNo. 98-9090. Gomez v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 166 F. 3d 728.

No. 98-9073. Williams v. Florida. Dist. Ct. App. Fla., 5thDist. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 728 So. 2d 239.

No. 98-9095. Rith v. United States. C. A. 10th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 164 F. 3d 1323.
No. 98-9096. Shearer v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 167 F. 3d 538.
No. 98-9121. Durfee, fka Dupre, et al. v. United States.C. A. 1st Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 167 F. 3d 36.
No. 98-9124. Bull v. Illinois. Sup. Ct. Ill. Certiorari de-nied. Reported below: 185 Ill. 2d 179, 705 N. E. 2d 824.
No. 98-9137. Olmstead v. Social and RehabilitativeServices of Wyandotte County. Ct. App. Kan. Certiorari
denied. Reported below: 25 Kan. App. 2d xxi, 975 P. 2d 273.

No. 98-9147. Schell v. Stewart, Director, Arizona De-partment of Corrections, et al. C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari

denied. Reported below: 165 F. 3d 917.

No. 98-9148. Sorton v. California et al. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 172 F. 3d 58.

No. 98-9149. Rivera v. Sistrunk, Superintendent, Char-lotte Correctional Institution, et al. C. A. 11th Cir.
Certiorari denied. Reported below: 163 F. 3d 1358.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:20] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
828 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

October 4, 1999 528 U. S.
No. 98-9154. Macri v. LaCoille et al. Dist. Ct. App. Fla.,5th Dist. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 710 So. 2d 1389.

No. 98-9155. Kreager v. Struble et al. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 172 F. 3d 57.
No. 98-9156. Miles v. Ugast et al. C. A. D. C. Cir. Cer-tiorari denied.
No. 98-9161. Lee v. Johnson, Warden, et al. C. A. 4thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 166 F. 3d 1209.
No. 98-9162. Jackson v. United States. C. A. 8th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 175 F. 3d 600.
No. 98-9170. Lee v. Florida. C. A. 11th Cir. Certioraridenied.
No. 98-9174. Leonard v. Nevada. Sup. Ct. Nev. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 114 Nev. 1196, 969 P. 2d 288.
No. 98-9175. Morris v. Tennessee. Ct. Crim. App. Tenn.Certiorari denied.
No. 98-9178. Stewart v. California et al. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 98-9180. Pairis v. California. Ct. App. Cal., 5th App.Dist. Certiorari denied.
No. 98-9182. Muhleisen v. Ieyoub, Attorney General ofLouisiana, et al. C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported
below: 168 F. 3d 840.

No. 98-9186. Wright v. Tennessee. Sup. Ct. Tenn. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 987 S. W. 2d 26.

No. 98-9187. Wilson et al. v. United States. C. A. D. C.Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 160 F. 3d 732.
No. 98-9192. Williams v. Johnson, Superintendent, StateCorrectional Institution at Cresson, et al. C. A. 3d Cir.
Certiorari denied.

No. 98-9199. Reliford v. California. Ct. App. Cal., 2dApp. Dist. Certiorari denied.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:20] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

829ORDERS
October 4, 1999528 U. S.
No. 98-9200. Smith v. Peters et al. C. A. 7th Cir. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 132 F. 3d 36.

No. 98-9205. Burkes v. Florida. Dist. Ct. App. Fla., 2dDist. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 719 So. 2d 29.
No. 98-9207. Lisenbee v. Henry. C. A. 9th Cir. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 166 F. 3d 997.
No. 98-9211. Weaselhead v. United States. C. A. 8th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 165 F. 3d 1209.
No. 98-9212. Webster v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 162 F. 3d 308.
No. 98-9213. Zagorski v. Tennessee. Sup. Ct. Tenn. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 983 S. W. 2d 654.
No. 98-9214. Welch v. Oklahoma. Ct. Crim. App. Okla.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 968 P. 2d 1231.
No. 98-9216. Macri v. Illinois. Sup. Ct. Ill. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 185 Ill. 2d 1, 705 N. E. 2d 772.
No. 98-9217. James v. Johnson, Director, Texas Depart-ment of Criminal Justice, Institutional Division. C. A.
5th Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 98-9220. Mayfield-El v. Schottey et al. C. A. 6thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 172 F. 3d 49.

No. 98-9221. Joiner v. Bennett. C. A. 5th Cir. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 172 F. 3d 869.
No. 98-9223. Ramsey v. Kemna, Superintendent, Cross-roads Correctional Center. C. A. 8th Cir. Certiorari
denied.

No. 98-9227. Antonio Sanchez v. California. Ct. App.Cal., 5th App. Dist. Certiorari denied.

No. 98-9230. Ganus v. Illinois. Sup. Ct. Ill. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 185 Ill. 2d 355, 706 N. E. 2d 875.
No. 98-9234. Hand v. Mensh and MacIntosh, P. A. Dist.Ct. App. Fla., 2d Dist. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 718
So. 2d 234.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:20] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
830 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

October 4, 1999 528 U. S.
No. 98-9238. Duncan v. Tennessee. Ct. Crim. App. Tenn.Certiorari denied.

No. 98-9239. Sarvey v. California. Ct. App. Cal., 3d App.Dist. Certiorari denied.
No. 98-9243. Lynes v. Massachusetts. App. Ct. Mass.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 46 Mass. App. 1106, 706 N. E.
2d 730.

No. 98-9244. Johnson v. Stubblefield, Superintendent,Missouri Eastern Correctional Center. C. A. 8th Cir.

Certiorari denied.

No. 98-9245. Jefferies v. Andrews. C. A. 4th Cir. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 166 F. 3d 1209.

No. 98-9247. Rayas Mejia v. Cole et al. C. A. 5th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 168 F. 3d 485.
No. 98-9250. Thomas v. Nevada. Sup. Ct. Nev. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 114 Nev. 1127, 967 P. 2d 1111.
No. 98-9257. Olson et ux. v. Christian County Planningand Zoning et al. C. A. 8th Cir. Certiorari denied.
No. 98-9259. Jackson v. Town of Jonesboro et al. C. A.5th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 156 F. 3d 181.
No. 98-9265. Steward v. United States; andNo. 98-9286. Harris v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 154 F. 3d 1082 and 163 F. 3d 608.

No. 98-9268. Alexander v. Catoe, Director, South Caro-lina Department of Corrections, et al. C. A. 4th Cir.

Certiorari denied. Reported below: 172 F. 3d 862.

No. 98-9269. Alexander v. Doe et al. C. A. 4th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 172 F. 3d 862.

No. 98-9272. Weaver v. Texas. Ct. Crim. App. Tex. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 982 S. W. 2d 892.
No. 98-9276. Copenhefer v. Pennsylvania. Sup. Ct. Pa.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 553 Pa. 285, 719 A. 2d 242.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:20] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

831ORDERS
October 4, 1999528 U. S.
No. 98-9281. Kliner v. Illinois. Sup. Ct. Ill. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 185 Ill. 2d 81, 705 N. E. 2d 850.

No. 98-9283. Conners et al. v. Alabama Departmentof Corrections et al. C. A. 11th Cir. Certiorari denied.
Reported below: 165 F. 3d 39.

No. 98-9284. Davis v. California. Ct. App. Cal., 4th App.Dist. Certiorari denied.

No. 98-9285. Hamilton v. Roe, Warden, et al. C. A. 9thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 168 F. 3d 499.
No. 98-9287. Dutch v. Texas. Ct. App. Tex., 1st Dist. Cer-tiorari denied.
No. 98-9289. Dominguez-Carmona v. United States;No. 98-9290. Hernandez-Villanueva v. United States;
andNo. 98-9295. Rubio-Loya et al. v. United States. C. A.
10th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 166 F. 3d 1052.

No. 98-9298. Scott v. Alabama. Sup. Ct. Ala. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 728 So. 2d 172.

No. 98-9300. Frost v. Louisiana. Sup. Ct. La. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 727 So. 2d 417.
No. 98-9310. Rodgers v. Tobin, Judge, Court of CommonPleas of Ohio, Columbiana County, et al. C. A. 6th Cir.
Certiorari denied. Reported below: 173 F. 3d 429.

No. 98-9312. Richardson v. North Carolina Departmentof Correction et al. C. A. 4th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 166 F. 3d 333.

No. 98-9314. Pennington v. Arkansas. Sup. Ct. Ark. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 337 Ark. xix.

No. 98-9315. Young v. California. Ct. App. Cal., 6th App.Dist. Certiorari denied.
No. 98-9319. Woods v. Ohio. Ct. App. Ohio, HamiltonCounty. Certiorari denied.
No. 98-9325. Moore v. Parrott, Judge, Superior Courtof Georgia, Jasper County, et al. C. A. 11th Cir. Certiorari denied.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:20] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
832 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

October 4, 1999 528 U. S.
No. 98-9326. Milburn v. West -irginia. Sup. Ct. App.W. Va. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 204 W. Va. 203, 511
S. E. 2d 828.

No. 98-9327. Stroud v. Patton, Warden, et al. C. A. 5thCir. Certiorari denied.

No. 98-9328. Roybal v. California. Sup. Ct. Cal. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 19 Cal. 4th 481, 966 P. 2d 521.
No. 98-9329. Pesek v. Court of Appeals of Wisconsin,District III, et al. Sup. Ct. Wis. Certiorari denied.
No. 98-9330. Burral v. Maryland. Ct. App. Md. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 352 Md. 707, 724 A. 2d 65.
No. 98-9332. Turner v. Miller County Sheriff's Depart-ment. C. A. 8th Cir. Certiorari denied.
No. 98-9333. Mahan v. Hargett, Warden, et al. C. A.10th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 166 F. 3d 1221.
No. 98-9334. King v. Cain, Warden. C. A. 5th Cir. Certio-rari denied.
No. 98-9336. McBroom v. Techneglas, Inc. Ct. App. Ohio,Franklin County. Certiorari denied.
No. 98-9337. Wiggins v. Maryland. Ct. App. Md. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 352 Md. 580, 724 A. 2d 1.
No. 98-9338. Boggs v. Treadway et al. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 172 F. 3d 875.
No. 98-9339. Pesek v. Court of Appeals of Wisconsin,District III. Sup. Ct. Wis. Certiorari denied.
No. 98-9345. Johnson v. San Bernardino County et al.C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 925.
No. 98-9346. Rivera v. Nelson et al. C. A. 8th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied.
No. 98-9347. Stevens v. Wingard, Warden. C. A. 6th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 172 F. 3d 49.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:20] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

833ORDERS
October 4, 1999528 U. S.
No. 98-9352. Cavender v. Miller, Judge, Circuit Courtof Kentucky, Wolfe County. Sup. Ct. Ky. Certiorari denied.
Reported below: 984 S. W. 2d 848.

No. 98-9354. Lemley v. Lemley. Ct. Sp. App. Md. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 123 Md. App. 791.

No. 98-9369. Splunge v. Anderson, Superintendent, Indi-ana State Prison. C. A. 7th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 160 F. 3d 369.

No. 98-9370. Reid v. -irginia. Sup. Ct. Va. Certiorari de-nied. Reported below: 256 Va. 561, 506 S. E. 2d 787.

No. 98-9371. Smith v. Alabama. Sup. Ct. Ala. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 727 So. 2d 173.
No. 98-9375. Sykes-Bey v. Maryland; andNo. 99-5085. Evans v. Maryland. Ct. App. Md. Certiorari
denied. Reported below: 352 Md. 496, 723 A. 2d 423.

No. 98-9381. Magana-Cardona v. Papac et al. C. A. 9thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 172 F. 3d 57.

No. 98-9382. Angehrn v. Washington. Ct. App. Wash.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 90 Wash. App. 339, 952 P.
2d 195.

No. 98-9383. Braxton v. Cain, Warden. C. A. 5th Cir.Certiorari denied.

No. 98-9385. Byrd v. Johnson, Director, Texas Depart-ment of Criminal Justice, Institutional Division. C. A.
5th Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 98-9387. Cook v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 163 F. 3d 1354.

No. 98-9388. Clarke v. Sikes, Warden, et al. C. A. 11thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 176 F. 3d 494.
No. 98-9389. Barksdale v. Nevada. Sup. Ct. Nev. Certio-rari denied.
No. 98-9390. Caudle v. Hightower, Warden. C. A. 11thCir. Certiorari denied.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:20] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
834 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

October 4, 1999 528 U. S.
No. 98-9392. Bogard v. California. C. A. 9th Cir. Certio-rari denied.

No. 98-9396. Howell v. Oklahoma. Ct. Crim. App. Okla.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 967 P. 2d 1221.
No. 98-9400. Folck v. Maschner, Warden. C. A. 8th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 98-9408. Rather v. Suthers, Executive Director,Colorado Department of Corrections, et al. Sup. Ct. Colo.
Certiorari denied. Reported below: 973 P. 2d 1264.

No. 98-9410. Tong Park v. San Mateo County, California,et al. Ct. App. Cal., 1st App. Dist. Certiorari denied.

No. 98-9411. Martinez-Villareal v. Arizona. Super. Ct.Ariz., Cochise County. Certiorari denied.
No. 98-9413. Maestas v. Texas. Ct. Crim. App. Tex. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 987 S. W. 2d 59.
No. 98-9415. McSheffrey v. Henry, Warden; McSheffreyv. Crump et al.; McSheffrey v. United States; and McShef-
frey v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir. Certiorari denied. Re-ported below: 164 F. 3d 625 (first judgment); 166 F. 3d 333 (second judgment).

No. 98-9416. Burrell v. Norris, Director, Arkansas De-partment of Correction. C. A. 8th Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 98-9417. Closson v. Pitcher, Warden. C. A. 6th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 98-9420. Cooks v. Ward, Warden. C. A. 10th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 165 F. 3d 1283.
No. 98-9421. Tortorici v. New York. Ct. App. N. Y. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 92 N. Y. 2d 757, 709 N. E. 2d 87.
No. 98-9422. Weldon v. Wyoming. Dist. Ct. Wyo., NatronaCounty. Certiorari denied.
No. 98-9423. Wayne v. Pennsylvania. Sup. Ct. Pa. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 553 Pa. 614, 720 A. 2d 456.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:20] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

835ORDERS
October 4, 1999528 U. S.
No. 98-9424. Trull v. North Carolina. Sup. Ct. N. C.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 349 N. C. 428, 509 S. E. 2d
178.

No. 98-9425. Zigmund v. Norko et al. C. A. 2d Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 165 F. 3d 16.

No. 98-9426. Crawford v. Texas. Ct. Crim. App. Tex.Certiorari denied.
No. 98-9430. Johnson v. Texas. Ct. Crim. App. Tex. Cer-tiorari denied.
No. 98-9437. Perelman v. Reno, Attorney General, etal. C. A. 4th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 175
F. 3d 1015.

No. 98-9438. Hobson v. Department of the Treasury.C. A. 6th Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 98-9440. Perelman v. Reno, Attorney General, etal. C. A. D. C. Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 194
F. 3d 174.

No. 98-9441. Smith v. Cain, Warden. C. A. 5th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied.

No. 98-9444. Chhim v. City of Houston et al. C. A. 5thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 168 F. 3d 486.
No. 98-9447. Hanson v. South Dakota. Sup. Ct. S. D.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 588 N. W. 2d 885.
No. 98-9448. Egeolu v. University of Texas at San Anto-nio. C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 167
F. 3d 537.

No. 98-9450. Franklin v. Goodwin, Warden, et al. C. A.11th Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 98-9451. French v. Johnson, Director, Texas Depart-ment of Criminal Justice, Institutional Division. C. A.
5th Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 98-9457. Sumter v. Saybolt, Inc. Super. Ct. N. J., App.Div. Certiorari denied.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:20] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
836 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

October 4, 1999 528 U. S.
No. 98-9459. Trobaugh v. Iowa. Sup. Ct. Iowa. Certioraridenied.

No. 98-9463. Counterman v. Pennsylvania. Sup. Ct. Pa.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 553 Pa. 370, 719 A. 2d 284.
No. 98-9465. Raphael v. Texas. Ct. App. Tex., 2d Dist.Certiorari denied.
No. 98-9466. Mendez v. Singletary, Secretary, FloridaDepartment of Corrections, et al. C. A. 11th Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 98-9467. McCall-Bey v. Brady, Judge, Circuit Courtof Illinois, Cook County. Sup. Ct. Ill. Certiorari denied.

No. 98-9468. McDaniel-Ortega v. Williams, Warden.C. A. 10th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 172 F. 3d
879.

No. 98-9469. Luntao v. Equitable Life Assurance Soci-ety of the United States. C. A. 4th Cir. Certiorari denied.

Reported below: 161 F. 3d 2.

No. 98-9470. Harris v. Johnson, Director, Texas Depart-ment of Criminal Justice, Institutional Division. C. A.

5th Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 98-9471. Franks v. Thomas, Warden, et al. C. A. 11thCir. Certiorari denied.

No. 98-9477. Cortez Escamilla v. Prunty, Warden, et al.C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari denied.
No. 98-9479. Hodges v. Blocker et al. C. A. 8th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 163 F. 3d 602.
No. 98-9482. Flynn v. Endicott, Warden. C. A. 7th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 98-9483. Gleason v. Burtner. C. A. 9th Cir. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 161 F. 3d 12.
No. 98-9484. Fane v. California. Ct. App. Cal., 5th App.Dist. Certiorari denied.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:20] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

837ORDERS
October 4, 1999528 U. S.
No. 98-9485. Gaffin v. Clarke, Warden. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied.

No. 98-9486. Hayden v. Morgan, Warden. C. A. 6th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 98-9489. Herbin v. -irginia. Sup. Ct. Va. Certioraridenied.
No. 98-9490. Northington v. Elo, Warden. C. A. 6th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 173 F. 3d 429.
No. 98-9492. -asquez del Rosario v. Radloff et al.C. A. 3d Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 176 F. 3d 473.
No. 98-9495. Brannon v. Tarlov et al. C. A. 2d Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 164 F. 3d 617.
No. 98-9502. Young v. Oklahoma. Ct. Crim. App. Okla.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 992 P. 2d 332.
No. 98-9505. Spires v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 167 F. 3d 541.
No. 98-9506. Mahmoud v. Immigration and Naturaliza-tion Service. C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported
below: 163 F. 3d 1355.

No. 98-9507. McCants v. Moore, Secretary, FloridaDepartment of Corrections. Sup. Ct. Fla. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 732 So. 2d 327.

No. 98-9509. Galvan Rodriguez v. United States. C. A.5th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 169 F. 3d 217.

No. 98-9510. Sisk v. Johnson, Director, Texas Depart-ment of Criminal Justice, Institutional Division. C. A.
5th Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 98-9511. Brown et al. v. Ohio; and Johnson et al.v. Ohio. Ct. App. Ohio, Ross County. Certiorari denied.

No. 98-9515. Watson v. Johnson, Director, Texas Depart-ment of Criminal Justice, Institutional Division. C. A.
5th Cir. Certiorari denied.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:20] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
838 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

October 4, 1999 528 U. S.
No. 98-9517. Robbins v. Johnson, Director, Texas De-partment of Criminal Justice, Institutional Division.
C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 98-9520. Weathers v. United States. C. A. 6th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 169 F. 3d 336.

No. 98-9522. -ega v. Florida. Dist. Ct. App. Fla., 3d Dist.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 730 So. 2d 691.
No. 98-9523. Skibinski v. Bell Atlantic et al. C. A. 2dCir. Certiorari denied.
No. 98-9526. Cardales v. United States. C. A. 1st Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 168 F. 3d 548.
No. 98-9528. Hoskins v. Federal Communications Commis-sion et al. C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari before judgment denied.
No. 98-9530. Hommrich v. Marinette County, Wisconsin,et al. C. A. 7th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 175
F. 3d 1020.

No. 98-9532. Frazier v. United States. C. A. 8th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 175 F. 3d 1025.

No. 98-9534. Parker v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 176 F. 3d 486.
No. 98-9535. Padgett v. California. Ct. App. Cal., 3d App.Dist. Certiorari denied.
No. 98-9541. McNeill v. North Carolina. Sup. Ct. N. C.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 349 N. C. 634, 509 S. E. 2d
415.

No. 98-9542. Kirtman v. United States. C. A. 10th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 172 F. 3d 63.

No. 98-9543. Muniz-Herrera v. United States. C. A. 5thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 174 F. 3d 198.
No. 98-9544. Murillo v. North Carolina. Sup. Ct. N. C.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 349 N. C. 573, 509 S. E. 2d
752.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:20] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

839ORDERS
October 4, 1999528 U. S.
No. 98-9546. Shaw v. Lindsey, Warden, et al. C. A. 9thCir. Certiorari denied.

No. 98-9547. Rushing v. United States. C. A. 6th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 98-9548. Roque v. Louisiana. C. A. 5th Cir. Certio-rari denied.
No. 98-9549. Muhammad v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 98-9550. Lomax v. Bowersox, Superintendent, PotosiCorrectional Center. C. A. 8th Cir. Certiorari denied.
No. 98-9552. Montoya v. California. Ct. App. Cal., 1stApp. Dist. Certiorari denied.
No. 98-9555. Schultz v. United States; andNo. 99-5535. Biggins v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir.
Certiorari denied. Reported below: 174 F. 3d 201.

No. 98-9556. Smith v. Robinson, Warden. C. A. 6th Cir.Certiorari denied.

No. 98-9558. Shields v. United States. C. A. 10th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 172 F. 3d 880.
No. 98-9559. Bell v. United States; andNo. 98-9746. Bell v. United States. C. A. 6th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 178 F. 3d 1296.

No. 98-9560. Chapa v. Adams et al. C. A. 7th Cir. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 168 F. 3d 1036.

No. 98-9561. Crowe v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 168 F. 3d 483.
No. 98-9562. Brown v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 172 F. 3d 864.
No. 98-9564. Burns v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 174 F. 3d 203.
No. 98-9565. Bishop v. United States. C. A. 10th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 172 F. 3d 63.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:20] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
840 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

October 4, 1999 528 U. S.
No. 98-9566. Ospina v. Pataki, Governor of New York.C. A. 2d Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 98-9568. Mendoza-Perez v. United States. C. A. 9thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 168 F. 3d 503.
No. 98-9570. Nagy v. United States. C. A. 2d Cir. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 173 F. 3d 847.
No. 98-9571. Mike v. United States. C. A. 10th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 172 F. 3d 880.
No. 98-9572. L. M. K., a Juvenile v. United States. C. A.9th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 166 F. 3d 1051.
No. 98-9573. McQuillion v. California. Sup. Ct. Cal.Certiorari denied.
No. 98-9574. Mahique v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 180 F. 3d 269.
No. 98-9575. Middleton v. Ray, Warden. C. A. 10th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 166 F. 3d 1221.
No. 98-9576. Turner v. Illinois. App. Ct. Ill., 5th Dist.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 301 Ill. App. 3d 1115, 746
N. E. 2d 351.

No. 98-9577. -illarreal-Fuentes v. United States.C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 174 F. 3d 198.

No. 98-9578. Jones v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 172 F. 3d 882.
No. 98-9579. Martinez v. Kelly, Superintendent, AtticaCorrectional Facility. C. A. 2d Cir. Certiorari denied.
No. 98-9581. v. Mohr et al. C. A. 5th Cir. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 172 F. 3d 867.
No. 98-9582. Terio v. Kurtzman & Haspel, Trustee, etal. C. A. 2d Cir. Certiorari denied.
No. 98-9583. Welch v. Lambert, Superintendent, Wash-ington State Penitentiary. C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari denied.
Reported below: 156 F. 3d 1241.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:20] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

841ORDERS
October 4, 1999528 U. S.
No. 98-9584. Wheeler v. United States. C. A. 6th Cir.Certiorari denied.

No. 98-9585. Williams v. Schriro, Director, Missouri De-partment of Corrections, et al. C. A. 8th Cir. Certiorari
denied.

No. 98-9586. Tyler v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 172 F. 3d 60.

No. 98-9587. Bates v. United States. C. A. 8th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied.
No. 98-9591. Contreras-Cardenas v. United States.C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 172 F. 3d 59.
No. 98-9592. Cave v. Florida. Sup. Ct. Fla. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 727 So. 2d 227.
No. 98-9593. Bell v. Day et al. C. A. 5th Cir. Certioraridenied.
No. 98-9594. Terry v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 172 F. 3d 60.
No. 98-9596. Wesley v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 98-9597. White v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 173 F. 3d 427.
No. 98-9598. Wells v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 163 F. 3d 889.
No. 98-9599. Wilson v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 172 F. 3d 865.
No. 98-9600. Wilson v. Roe, Warden. C. A. 9th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied.
No. 98-9602. Atondo v. California; andNo. 98-9796. Atondo v. California. Ct. App. Cal., 6th App.
Dist. Certiorari denied.

No. 98-9603. Carrillo v. United States. C. A. 3d Cir.Certiorari denied.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:20] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
842 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

October 4, 1999 528 U. S.
No. 98-9604. Crippen v. California. Ct. App. Cal., 6thApp. Dist. Certiorari denied.

No. 98-9605. Buchholz v. California. Ct. App. Cal., 5thApp. Dist. Certiorari denied.
No. 98-9606. Coe v. Bell, Warden. C. A. 6th Cir. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 161 F. 3d 320.
No. 98-9607. Jackson v. Houston, Warden. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 176 F. 3d 493.
No. 98-9608. Natale v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 176 F. 3d 491.
No. 98-9609. Moore v. Kentucky. Sup. Ct. Ky. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 983 S. W. 2d 479.
No. 98-9611. Searcy v. United States. C. A. 6th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 173 F. 3d 430.
No. 98-9612. Singleton v. Georgia. Ct. App. Ga. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 235 Ga. App. 88, 508 S. E. 2d 461.
No. 98-9613. Payan-Solis v. United States;No. 98-9658. Rivas-Lerma v. United States;
No. 98-9719. Rojas Renteria v. United States;No. 98-9797. Morcillo-Vidal v. United States;
No. 98-9841. Palma-Robayo v. United States;No. 98-9947. Ferraro Montesdeoca v. United States;
No. 98-9948. Lerma-Lerma v. United States;No. 98-9950. Otero-Estupinan v. United States; and
No. 98-9954. Caicedo Pineda v. United States. C. A. 9thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 144 F. 3d 1249.

No. 98-9614. Rollack v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 173 F. 3d 853.
No. 98-9615. Williams v. Galaza, Warden, et al. C. A.9th Cir. Certiorari denied.
No. 98-9616. Williams v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 176 F. 3d 493.
No. 98-9618. Bonnell v. Ohio. Ct. App. Ohio, CuyahogaCounty. Certiorari denied.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:20] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

843ORDERS
October 4, 1999528 U. S.
No. 98-9619. Aguilar v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 173 F. 3d 862.

No. 98-9620. Cole v. United States. C. A. 1st Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 101 F. 3d 680.
No. 98-9621. Medina v. Johnson, Director, Texas Depart-ment of Criminal Justice, Institutional Division. C. A.
5th Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 98-9622. O'Neal v. Ohio. Ct. App. Ohio, CuyahogaCounty. Certiorari denied.

No. 98-9623. Solis v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 169 F. 3d 224.
No. 98-9624. Okeezie v. United States. C. A. 6th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 178 F. 3d 1295.
No. 98-9625. Sellner v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 166 F. 3d 344.
No. 98-9626. Sheets v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 165 F. 3d 920.
No. 98-9627. Roston v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 168 F. 3d 377.
No. 98-9628. Strother v. United States. C. A. 2d Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 175 F. 3d 1009.
No. 98-9629. Sharrow v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 174 F. 3d 202.
No. 98-9630. Payton v. United States. C. A. 8th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 168 F. 3d 1103.
No. 98-9631. Small v. Idaho. Ct. App. Idaho. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 132 Idaho 327, 971 P. 2d 1151.
No. 98-9632. Cole v. Yearwood, Warden, et al. C. A. 9thCir. Certiorari denied.
No. 98-9633. Washington v. United States DistrictCourt for the Northern District of California. C. A. 9th
Cir. Certiorari denied.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:20] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
844 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

October 4, 1999 528 U. S.
No. 98-9635. Lusk v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 176 F. 3d 479.

No. 98-9636. Smith v. California. Ct. App. Cal., 6th App.Dist. Certiorari denied.
No. 98-9637. Simon v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 168 F. 3d 1271.
No. 98-9638. Bilderbeck v. United States. C. A. 6th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 163 F. 3d 971.
No. 98-9639. Bennett v. Stewart, Superintendent, Mc-Neil Island Corrections Center. C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 98-9640. Aguilar v. Abbott et al. C. A. 5th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 172 F. 3d 868.

No. 98-9641. Cook v. Moore, Secretary, Florida Depart-ment of Corrections. C. A. 11th Cir. Certiorari denied.
No. 98-9642. Bishop v. Romer, Governor of Colorado,et al. C. A. 10th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 172
F. 3d 62.

No. 98-9643. Wilson v. Reynolds et al. C. A. 6th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 172 F. 3d 874.

No. 98-9644. Walker v. Collins, Warden. C. A. 6th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 98-9645. Carthane v. Florida. Sup. Ct. Fla. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 727 So. 2d 903.
No. 98-9646. Casey v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 165 F. 3d 20.
No. 98-9647. Hilton v. United States. C. A. 1st Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 167 F. 3d 61.
No. 98-9648. Herrera et ux. v. United States. C. A. 3dCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 175 F. 3d 1011.
No. 98-9649. Chong Ling Dan v. United States. C. A. 3dCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 178 F. 3d 1281.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:20] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

845ORDERS
October 4, 1999528 U. S.
No. 98-9650. Dean v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 176 F. 3d 478.

No. 98-9651. Garcia v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 173 F. 3d 852.
No. 98-9652. Fowler v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 176 F. 3d 491.
No. 98-9653. Freeman v. United States et al. C. A. 9thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 152 F. 3d 925.
No. 98-9654. Graham v. United States. C. A. 3d Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 169 F. 3d 787.
No. 98-9655. Garcia v. New York. Ct. App. N. Y. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 92 N. Y. 2d 726, 708 N. E. 2d 992.
No. 98-9656. Ekandem v. District of Columbia et al.C. A. D. C. Cir. Certiorari denied.
No. 98-9657. Poland v. Stewart, Director, Arizona De-partment of Corrections. C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari denied.
Reported below: 169 F. 3d 573.

No. 98-9659. Edmondson v. United States; andNo. 99-5423. -argas Navarro v. United States. C. A. 5th

Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 169 F. 3d 228.

No. 98-9660. Eagle Tail v. United States; andNo. 98-9890. Jackson v. United States. C. A. 8th Cir.

Certiorari denied. Reported below: 164 F. 3d 403.

No. 98-9661. Flores v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 168 F. 3d 502.

No. 98-9662. Fleming v. Cape May County Courthouseet al. C. A. 3d Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 172
F. 3d 859.

No. 98-9664. Harris v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 174 F. 3d 202.

No. 98-9665. Gilliam v. United States. C. A. D. C. Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 167 F. 3d 628.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:20] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
846 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

October 4, 1999 528 U. S.
No. 98-9666. Green, aka U'Allah v. North Carolina.Sup. Ct. N. C. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 350 N. C. 59,
510 S. E. 2d 375.

No. 98-9667. Gonzalez-Lozoya v. United States. C. A. 5thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 174 F. 3d 198.

No. 98-9668. Goodwin v. Ohio. Sup. Ct. Ohio. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 84 Ohio St. 3d 331, 703 N. E. 2d 1251.
No. 98-9669. Robinson v. United States. C. A. 3d Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 167 F. 3d 824.
No. 98-9670. Swedzinski v. United States. C. A. 8th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 160 F. 3d 498.
No. 98-9671. Soltero v. Ingle, Warden, et al. C. A. 9thCir. Certiorari denied.
No. 98-9672. Smith v. Press. C. A. 4th Cir. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 173 F. 3d 425.
No. 98-9673. Stewart v. Alabama. Sup. Ct. Ala. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 730 So. 2d 1246.
No. 98-9675. Hoskins v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 162 F. 3d 1170.
No. 98-9677. Hughes v. North Dakota. Sup. Ct. N. D.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 589 N. W. 2d 912.
No. 98-9678. Fisher v. A. D. T. Security System. C. A.3d Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 173 F. 3d 420.
No. 98-9679. Filippi v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 172 F. 3d 864.
No. 98-9680. Cook v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 168 F. 3d 507.
No. 98-9681. Barrett v. Acevedo. C. A. 8th Cir. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 169 F. 3d 1155.
No. 98-9682. Thomas v. Caldera, Secretary of the Army.C. A. D. C. Cir. Certiorari denied.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:20] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

847ORDERS
October 4, 1999528 U. S.
No. 98-9683. Outlaw v. Ryan, Governor of Illinois, etal. C. A. 7th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 175
F. 3d 1020.

No. 98-9684. Robinson v. Florida. Dist. Ct. App. Fla., 5thDist. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 720 So. 2d 1124.

No. 98-9685. Roseman v. Florida. Sup. Ct. Fla. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 729 So. 2d 394.
No. 98-9686. Ramos v. Rogers, Warden. C. A. 6th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 170 F. 3d 560.
No. 98-9687. Brown v. Ohio. Ct. App. Ohio, Huron County.Certiorari denied.
No. 98-9688. Cavalieri, aka Cavalieri-Conway v. L. But-terman & Associates et al. C. A. 7th Cir. Certiorari denied.
Reported below: 172 F. 3d 52.

No. 98-9689. Barreno v. Johnson, Director, Texas De-partment of Criminal Justice, Institutional Division.

C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 98-9690. Lynas v. Godfrey. C. A. 9th Cir. Certioraridenied.

No. 98-9691. Laughlin v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 929.
No. 98-9692. Shaw v. Gomez et al. C. A. 9th Cir. Certio-rari denied.
No. 98-9693. McDonald v. United States. C. A. D. C. Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 194 F. 3d 175.
No. 98-9694. Lopez-Gamez v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 172 F. 3d 877.
No. 98-9695. Clearman v. United States. C. A. 8th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 98-9696. Alford v. Wilkinson, Director, Ohio De-partment of Rehabilitation and Correction, et al. C. A.
6th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 173 F. 3d 428.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:20] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
848 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

October 4, 1999 528 U. S.
No. 98-9697. Boles et al. v. Bradley et al. C. A. 6th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 166 F. 3d 1213.

No. 98-9698. Robinson v. United States. C. A. 7th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 164 F. 3d 1068.
No. 98-9699. Perkins v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 173 F. 3d 853.
No. 98-9700. Oliver v. Massachusetts. App. Ct. Mass.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 36 Mass. App. 1110, 633 N. E.
2d 443.

No. 98-9702. Robinson v. Henderson et al. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied.

No. 98-9703. Pratt v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 177 F. 3d 983.
No. 98-9704. Jerome v. Ohio. C. A. 6th Cir. Certioraridenied.
No. 98-9705. Aviles et al. v. United States. C. A. 9thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 170 F. 3d 863.
No. 98-9706. Colbert v. Corcoran, Warden, et al. C. A.4th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 172 F. 3d 862.
No. 98-9707. -incent v. United States. C. A. 8th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 167 F. 3d 428.
No. 98-9708. Tucker et al. v. United States. C. A. 3dCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 187 F. 3d 627.
No. 98-9709. Miles v. United States. C. A. D. C. Cir. Cer-tiorari denied.
No. 98-9710. Nason v. United States. C. A. 1st Cir. Cer-tiorari denied.
No. 98-9711. Kulas v. United States District Court forthe District of Arizona. C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari denied.
No. 98-9712. Blackshear v. Russell, Warden, et al.C. A. 6th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 173 F. 3d 854.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:20] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

849ORDERS
October 4, 1999528 U. S.
No. 98-9713. Aguilar v. Johnson, Director, Texas De-partment of Criminal Justice, Institutional Division.
C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 98-9714. Cantrell v. United States. C. A. 6th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 173 F. 3d 430.

No. 98-9715. Braun v. Flowers, Warden, et al. C. A.10th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 172 F. 3d 62.
No. 98-9716. Robinson v. Baker Hughes Oilfield Opera-tions, Inc. C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below:
170 F. 3d 183.

No. 98-9717. Cordero-Godinez v. United States. C. A.5th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 176 F. 3d 479.

No. 98-9718. Clawson v. United States. C. A. 6th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 181 F. 3d 104.
No. 98-9720. Jennings v. Johnson, Director, Texas De-partment of Criminal Justice, Institutional Division.
C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 170 F. 3d 183.

No. 98-9722. Tyabji v. California (two judgments). Ct.App. Cal., 4th App. Dist. Certiorari denied.

No. 98-9723. Thompson v. Missouri. Ct. App. Mo., SouthernDist. Certiorari denied.
No. 98-9724. Kreager v. A to Z Auto Recycler et al.Ct. App. Ariz. Certiorari denied.
No. 98-9725. Botero v. United States. C. A. 2d Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 172 F. 3d 39.
No. 98-9726. Clark v. Mitchem, Warden. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 98-9727. Bisby v. Johnson, Director, Texas Depart-ment of Criminal Justice, Institutional Division. C. A.
5th Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 98-9728. Berkovich v. United States. C. A. 2d Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 168 F. 3d 64.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:20] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
850 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

October 4, 1999 528 U. S.
No. 98-9729. Powers v. Shanks, Warden. C. A. 10th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 172 F. 3d 879.

No. 98-9730. Rogers v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 98-9731. Powell v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 172 F. 3d 45.
No. 98-9732. Klein v. United States; andNo. 99-5597. Cooperman v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir.
Certiorari denied. Reported below: 177 F. 3d 981.

No. 98-9733. Nervil v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 166 F. 3d 1211.

No. 98-9734. Miller v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 176 F. 3d 492.
No. 98-9735. McGeorge v. United States; andNo. 98-9736. Jones v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 173 F. 3d 426.

No. 98-9737. Long v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 173 F. 3d 853.

No. 98-9738. Moore v. White. C. A. 8th Cir. Certioraridenied.
No. 98-9739. Neacsu v. Louisiana. Sup. Ct. La. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 740 So. 2d 616.
No. 98-9740. Lindstedt v. Missouri Libertarian Partyet al. C. A. 8th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 160
F. 3d 1197.

No. 98-9742. Morris v. City of Buffalo. C. A. 2d Cir.Certiorari denied.

No. 98-9744. Martinez v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 166 F. 3d 340.
No. 98-9747. Bowen v. United States. C. A. 1st Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 171 F. 3d 24.
No. 98-9748. Brown v. Conley, Warden. C. A. 6th Cir.Certiorari denied.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:20] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

851ORDERS
October 4, 1999528 U. S.
No. 98-9750. Dung Hoang Le v. Lambert, Superintend-ent, Washington State Penitentiary. C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 98-9751. Morse v. Hanks, Superintendent, Wabash-alley Correctional Facility. C. A. 7th Cir. Certiorari

denied. Reported below: 172 F. 3d 983.

No. 98-9753. Brooks v. Cain, Warden. C. A. 5th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied.

No. 98-9754. Carpenter v. Lutheran Social Services.Ct. App. Wash. Certiorari denied.
No. 98-9755. Bramwell v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 165 F. 3d 20.
No. 98-9756. Aguilar v. Texas Department of CriminalJustice, Institutional Division, et al. C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 160 F. 3d 1052.

No. 98-9757. Baker v. Johnson, Director, Texas Depart-ment of Criminal Justice, Institutional Division. C. A.

5th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 174 F. 3d 197.

No. 98-9758. Boyd v. United States. C. A. 8th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 168 F. 3d 1077.

No. 98-9759. Anderson v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 98-9761. Cobb v. Alabama. Ct. Crim. App. Ala. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 741 So. 2d 483.
No. 98-9762. Carter v. Michigan. Ct. App. Mich. Certio-rari denied.
No. 98-9763. Rose v. North Carolina. Gen. Ct. Justice,Super. Ct. Div., Haywood County, N. C. Certiorari denied.
No. 98-9764. Randolph v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 176 F. 3d 492.
No. 98-9767. Garrett v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 176 F. 3d 478.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:20] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
852 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

October 4, 1999 528 U. S.
No. 98-9768. Gardiner v. United States. C. A. 8th Cir.Certiorari denied.

No. 98-9769. Fogarty v. Georgia. Sup. Ct. Ga. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 270 Ga. 609, 513 S. E. 2d 493.
No. 98-9770. Fabiano v. United States. C. A. 10th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 169 F. 3d 1299.
No. 98-9771. Duron v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 176 F. 3d 479.
No. 98-9772. Hathcock v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 172 F. 3d 877.
No. 98-9773. Gibson v. Pennsylvania. Sup. Ct. Pa. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 553 Pa. 648, 720 A. 2d 473.
No. 98-9774. Garcia v. Moore, Secretary, Florida De-partment of Corrections, et al. C. A. 11th Cir. Certiorari
denied. Reported below: 166 F. 3d 351.

No. 98-9775. Green v. United States. C. A. 10th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 175 F. 3d 822.

No. 98-9776. Gough v. United States. C. A. 6th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 173 F. 3d 857.
No. 98-9777. Franklin v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 164 F. 3d 243.
No. 98-9778. Hicks v. United States. C. A. 7th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 164 F. 3d 389.
No. 98-9779. Peeples v. Ohio. Ct. App. Ohio, PickawayCounty. Certiorari denied.
No. 98-9780. Fellows v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 157 F. 3d 1197.
No. 98-9781. Esquivel v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 176 F. 3d 491.
No. 98-9782. Gray v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 168 F. 3d 503.
No. 98-9783. Funtanilla v. Cambra, Warden. C. A. 9thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 162 F. 3d 1168.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:20] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

853ORDERS
October 4, 1999528 U. S.
No. 98-9784. Smith v. Walker, Superintendent, AuburnCorrectional Facility. C. A. 2d Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 98-9786. Southerland v. Heine et al. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 98-9787. Rashed v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 166 F. 3d 344.
No. 98-9789. Mallett v. Bowersox, Superintendent, Po-tosi Correctional Center. C. A. 8th Cir. Certiorari denied.
Reported below: 160 F. 3d 456.

No. 98-9790. Terry v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 181 F. 3d 94.

No. 98-9791. Cason v. United States. C. A. 8th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 175 F. 3d 1025.
No. 98-9792. Chappell v. Nevada. Sup. Ct. Nev. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 114 Nev. 1403, 972 P. 2d 838.
No. 98-9794. Ballek v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 170 F. 3d 871.
No. 98-9795. Allen v. California. Ct. App. Cal., 6th App.Dist. Certiorari denied.
No. 98-9798. MacAllister v. United States. C. A. 11thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 160 F. 3d 1304.
No. 98-9799. Miller v. United States;No. 98-9885. Cobbs v. United States; and
No. 98-9888. Walker v. United States. C. A. 2d Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 173 F. 3d 846.

No. 98-9800. Maden v. United States. C. A. 10th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 173 F. 3d 865.
No. 98-9801. Lovelock v. United States. C. A. 2d Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 170 F. 3d 339.
No. 98-9802. Jones v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 165 F. 3d 912.
No. 98-9803. Brown v. Apfel, Commissioner of SocialSecurity. C. A. 7th Cir. Certiorari denied.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:20] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
854 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

October 4, 1999 528 U. S.
No. 98-9804. Biles v. Smith, Warden, et al. C. A. 4th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 172 F. 3d 43.

No. 98-9806. Mazzaglia v. Mazzaglia. Sup. Ct. N. H. Cer-tiorari denied.
No. 98-9807. Lancaster v. Stubblefield, Superintend-ent, Missouri Eastern Correctional Center, et al. Ct.
App. Mo., Eastern Dist. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 985S. W. 2d 854.

No. 98-9809. Turner v. United States. C. A. 6th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 173 F. 3d 431.
No. 98-9810. Williams v. United States et al. C. A. 4thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 170 F. 3d 431.
No. 98-9811. -ernatter v. Holland et al. C. A. 4th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 175 F. 3d 1018.
No. 98-9812. Zigmund v. Solnit et al. C. A. 2d Cir. Cer-tiorari denied.
No. 98-9813. Wilson v. Millhouse. C. A. 6th Cir. Certio-rari denied.
No. 98-9814. Taylor v. Country Brook Estates. Cir. Ct.Jefferson County, Ky. Certiorari denied.
No. 98-9815. Riddick v. Wright, Warden. C. A. 4th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 173 F. 3d 851.
No. 98-9816. Sherrill v. Pico. Int. Ct. App. Haw. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 91 Haw. 139, 980 P. 2d 1013.
No. 98-9817. Perez v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 166 F. 3d 336.
No. 98-9818. Pinnock v. United States. C. A. D. C. Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 194 F. 3d 175.
No. 98-9820. Rondeau v. New Hampshire et al. C. A. 1stCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 201 F. 3d 428.
No. 98-9821. Rodriguez-Rodriguez v. Bittenbender etal. C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 170
F. 3d 183.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:20] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

855ORDERS
October 4, 1999528 U. S.
No. 98-9822. Serra-Navas v. United States. C. A. 11thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 177 F. 3d 981.

No. 98-9823. Speed v. Georgia. Sup. Ct. Ga. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 270 Ga. 688, 512 S. E. 2d 896.
No. 98-9824. Ward v. United States;No. 98-9884. Cox v. United States; and
No. 99-5318. Gibson v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 171 F. 3d 188.

No. 98-9826. Robledo-Robledo v. United States. C. A.5th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 176 F. 3d 480.
No. 98-9827. Roberson v. United States. C. A. 7th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 175 F. 3d 1021.
No. 98-9829. Rojas-Ortiz v. United States. C. A. 3d Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 178 F. 3d 1281.
No. 98-9830. McGrady et al. v. United States. C. A.4th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 173 F. 3d 426.
No. 98-9831. Sanchez-Mendoza v. United States. C. A.6th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 173 F. 3d 857.
No. 98-9833. Cruz v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 175 F. 3d 1016.
No. 98-9834. Brown v. United States. C. A. 6th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 181 F. 3d 104.
No. 98-9835. Blunt v. United States. C. A. 3d Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 178 F. 3d 1280.
No. 98-9838. Crandon v. United States. C. A. 3d Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 173 F. 3d 122.
No. 98-9839. Castillo-Chavez v. United States. C. A.5th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 177 F. 3d 977.
No. 98-9842. Sexton v. French, Warden. C. A. 4th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 163 F. 3d 874.
No. 98-9843. Page v. United States. Ct. App. D. C. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 715 A. 2d 890.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:20] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
856 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

October 4, 1999 528 U. S.
No. 98-9844. Passee v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 173 F. 3d 426.

No. 98-9846. Thomas v. Durham, Sheriff, CleburneCounty, Alabama. C. A. 11th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 178 F. 3d 1303.

No. 98-9847. Hildwin v. Florida. Sup. Ct. Fla. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 727 So. 2d 193.

No. 98-9848. Atayants v. United States;No. 98-9895. Movsesyants v. United States; and
No. 99-5076. Nagorniuk v. United States. C. A. 8th Cir.Certiorari denied.

No. 98-9849. Hood v. United States District Court forthe Western District of North Carolina. C. A. 4th Cir.
Certiorari denied. Reported below: 172 F. 3d 863.

No. 98-9851. Tidwell v. Norris, Director, Arkansas De-partment of Correction. C. A. 8th Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 98-9852. Gilbert v. United States. C. A. 6th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 173 F. 3d 974.
No. 98-9853. Holmes v. United States. C. A. 2d Cir. Cer-tiorari denied.
No. 98-9854. Franks v. Thomas, Warden, et al. C. A. 11thCir. Certiorari denied.
No. 98-9855. Gibson v. Apfel, Commissioner of Social Se-curity. C. A. 8th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 175
F. 3d 1024.

No. 98-9856. Givens v. Roulain, Warden. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 156 F. 3d 187.

No. 98-9857. Douglas v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 172 F. 3d 877.
No. 98-9858. Hutching v. United States. C. A. 6th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 181 F. 3d 104.
No. 98-9859. Hamm v. Campbell, Commissioner, Tennes-see Department of Correction. C. A. 6th Cir. Certiorari
denied.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:20] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

857ORDERS
October 4, 1999528 U. S.
No. 98-9860. Dixon v. Louisiana. Ct. App. La., 4th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 731 So. 2d 559.

No. 98-9861. Howard v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 914.
No. 98-9862. Hansboro v. Clayton et al. C. A. 7th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 172 F. 3d 53.
No. 98-9863. Edwards v. Illinois. App. Ct. Ill., 2d Dist.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 301 Ill. App. 3d 966, 704
N. E. 2d 982.

No. 98-9864. Gilbert, aka Smith v. United States. C. A.4th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 176 F. 3d 476.

No. 98-9865. Drayton v. Catoe, Director, South CarolinaDepartment of Corrections, et al. C. A. 4th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 168 F. 3d 481.

No. 98-9866. Hoskins v. U S WEST, Inc., et al. C. A. 9thCir. Certiorari denied.

No. 98-9867. Carter et al. v. Tennessee. Ct. Crim. App.Tenn. Certiorari denied.
No. 98-9868. Mosley v. California. Ct. App. Cal., 2d App.Dist. Certiorari denied.
No. 98-9869. Dong Soo Kim v. United States. C. A. 9thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 176 F. 3d 1126.
No. 98-9870. Johnson v. United States. C. A. 8th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 169 F. 3d 1092.
No. 98-9871. Martin v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 162 F. 3d 1157.
No. 98-9872. Monson v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 173 F. 3d 853.
No. 98-9873. Kirkman v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 168 F. 3d 482.
No. 98-9874. Manning v. Michigan. Cir. Ct. Mich., SaginawCounty. Certiorari denied.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:20] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
858 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

October 4, 1999 528 U. S.
No. 98-9875. Null v. Pennsylvania Board of Probationand Parole. Commw. Ct. Pa. Certiorari denied.

No. 98-9876. Knipfer v. Pitzer, Warden. C. A. 6th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 98-9877. King v. Crist, Warden. C. A. 8th Cir. Certio-rari denied.
No. 98-9878. McIntyre v. Bayer et al. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 178 F. 3d 1300.
No. 98-9879. Prosser v. Ross et al. C. A. 8th Cir. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 175 F. 3d 1025.
No. 98-9880. Pollack v. United States. C. A. 3d Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 98-9881. Reeves v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 173 F. 3d 853.
No. 98-9882. Stokes v. United States. C. A. D. C. Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 194 F. 3d 175.
No. 98-9883. Casimier v. United States Postal Service.C. A. Fed. Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 194 F. 3d
1330.

No. 98-9886. Washington v. Davis, Warden, et al. C. A.4th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 173 F. 3d 853.

No. 98-9887. Wedgeworth v. Sutton, Warden, et al.C. A. 11th Cir. Certiorari denied.
No. 98-9889. King v. Love et al. C. A. 5th Cir. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 172 F. 3d 869.
No. 98-9891. Lloyd v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 173 F. 3d 426.
No. 98-9892. Jackson v. Johnson, Director, Texas Depart-ment of Criminal Justice, Institutional Division. C. A.
5th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 177 F. 3d 978.

No. 98-9893. Lumbef v. Finn et al. C. A. 9th Cir. Certio-rari denied.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:20] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

859ORDERS
October 4, 1999528 U. S.
No. 98-9894. Kallin v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 172 F. 3d 877.

No. 98-9896. Lopez v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 929.
No. 98-9897. McGee v. United States. C. A. 6th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 173 F. 3d 952.
No. 98-9898. Mark v. Johnson, Director, Texas Depart-ment of Criminal Justice, Institutional Division. C. A.
5th Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 98-9899. Walton v. Booker, Superintendent, Missis-sippi State Penitentiary, et al. C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari

denied.

No. 98-9900. Woods v. Klingler, Warden. C. A. 10th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 172 F. 3d 880.

No. 98-9901. -ig v. United States; andNo. 98-9902. -ig v. United States. C. A. 8th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 167 F. 3d 443.

No. 98-9904. Stewart v. Stubblefield, Superintendent,Eastern Missouri Correctional Center. C. A. 8th Cir.

Certiorari denied.

No. 98-9905. Wilkerson v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 170 F. 3d 1040.

No. 98-9906. Roberts v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 166 F. 3d 336.
No. 98-9907. Beghtel v. Bowersox, Superintendent, Po-tosi Correctional Center, et al. C. A. 8th Cir. Certiorari
denied.

No. 98-9909. Bautista v. Johnson, Director, Texas De-partment of Criminal Justice, Institutional Division,

et al. C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 98-9910. Amezcua v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied.

No. 98-9911. Bleam v. United States. C. A. 10th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 173 F. 3d 864.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:20] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
860 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

October 4, 1999 528 U. S.
No. 98-9912. Kratzer v. First Healthcare Corp. et al.C. A. 10th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 173 F. 3d
863.

No. 98-9914. Britt v. Martin et al. C. A. 4th Cir. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 172 F. 3d 862.

No. 98-9915. Bland v. Turner. Ct. Civ. App. Ala. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 771 So. 2d 513.
No. 98-9916. Brown v. New York. App. Div., Sup. Ct. N. Y.,2d Jud. Dept. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 258 App. Div.
2d 661, 683 N. Y. S. 2d 915.

No. 98-9918. Carter v. Wright et al. C. A. 6th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 181 F. 3d 100.

No. 98-9919. Collins v. Terhune, Director, CaliforniaDepartment of Corrections, et al. C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 98-9920. Cupit v. United States. C. A. 8th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 169 F. 3d 536.

No. 98-9921. Carroll v. California. Sup. Ct. Cal. Certio-rari denied.
No. 98-9923. Anderson v. Johnson, Director, Texas De-partment of Criminal Justice, Institutional Division.
C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 98-9924. Braswell v. Texas. Ct. App. Tex., 5th Dist.Certiorari denied.

No. 98-9925. Bey et al. v. City of New York Departmentof Correction et al. C. A. 2d Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 164 F. 3d 617.

No. 98-9927. Singleton v. United States; andNo. 99-5900. Moore v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 928.

No. 98-9929. Sanapaw et al. v. United States. C. A. 7thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 171 F. 3d 514.

No. 98-9930. Hill v. Florida. Sup. Ct. Fla. Certiorari de-nied. Reported below: 725 So. 2d 1108.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:20] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

861ORDERS
October 4, 1999528 U. S.
No. 98-9931. Alford v. United States Court of Appealsfor the District of Columbia Circuit (three judgments).
C. A. D. C. Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 98-9932. Bacchus v. United States. C. A. 3d Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 178 F. 3d 1280.

No. 98-9934. Brigaerts v. United States District Courtfor the Northern District of California. C. A. 9th Cir.
Certiorari before judgment denied.

No. 98-9935. Woods v. Indiana. Sup. Ct. Ind. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 701 N. E. 2d 1208.

No. 98-9937. Coe v. Prunty, Warden, et al. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 98-9938. Cook v. Brown et al. C. A. 3d Cir. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 176 F. 3d 471.
No. 98-9939. Cox v. United States. C. A. 10th Cir. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 172 F. 3d 879.
No. 98-9940. Barnes v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 166 F. 3d 1210.
No. 98-9941. Coffey v. Booker, Superintendent, Missis-sippi State Penitentiary, et al. C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari
denied.

No. 98-9942. Browner v. Bowersox, Superintendent, Po-tosi Correctional Center. C. A. 8th Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 98-9943. Jones v. United States. C. A. 6th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 170 F. 3d 617.
No. 98-9944. Marshall v. United States. C. A. 10th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 166 F. 3d 349.
No. 98-9945. Jimenez-Roman v. United States. C. A. 9thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 928.
No. 98-9946. Messina v. United States. C. A. 6th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 178 F. 3d 1297.
No. 98-9949. Ahmad v. United States. C. A. 2d Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 173 F. 3d 846.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:20] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
862 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

October 4, 1999 528 U. S.
No. 98-9951. Stephen v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 175 F. 3d 1018.

No. 98-9952. Schiappa v. Connecticut. Sup. Ct. Conn.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 248 Conn. 132, 728 A. 2d 466.
No. 98-9953. Ochoa v. California. Sup. Ct. Cal. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 19 Cal. 4th 353, 966 P. 2d 442.
No. 98-9955. Booker v. Oklahoma. Ct. Crim. App. Okla.Certiorari denied.
No. 98-9956. Span v. United States. C. A. 7th Cir. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 170 F. 3d 798.
No. 98-9957. Prevost v. Cain, Warden. C. A. 5th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 98-9958. Profit v. Minnesota. Sup. Ct. Minn. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 591 N. W. 2d 451.
No. 98-9959. Gulley v. Circuit Court for MilwaukeeCounty. Ct. App. Wis. Certiorari denied.
No. 98-9960. Chappell v. Easley, Attorney General ofNorth Carolina, et al. C. A. 4th Cir. Certiorari denied.
Reported below: 173 F. 3d 849.

No. 98-9961. Blackburn v. New Mexico Department ofCorrections et al. C. A. 10th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 172 F. 3d 62.

No. 98-9962. Baca v. Cambra, Warden, et al. C. A. 9thCir. Certiorari denied.

No. 98-9963. Arroyo v. Johnson, Director, Texas Depart-ment of Criminal Justice, Institutional Division. C. A.
5th Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 98-9964. Mathis v. Ratelle, Warden, et al. C. A. 9thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 166 F. 3d 1218.

No. 98-9966. Montefusco v. United States. C. A. 2d Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 902.
No. 98-9967. Clark v. Booker, Superintendent, Missis-sippi State Penitentiary. C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:20] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

863ORDERS
October 4, 1999528 U. S.
No. 98-9968. Brant v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 163 F. 3d 1360.

No. 98-9969. Courtney v. Holmes, Deputy Warden, et al.C. A. 6th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 173 F. 3d 428.
No. 98-9970. Taylor v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 165 F. 3d 920.
No. 98-9971. Tatum v. Maryland Division of Correctionet al. C. A. 4th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 173
F. 3d 425.

No. 98-9972. Griffin v. Bowersox, Superintendent, Po-tosi Correctional Center. C. A. 8th Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 98-9973. Hightower v. South Carolina. Sup. Ct. S. C.Certiorari denied.
No. 98-9974. Donaldson v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 176 F. 3d 492.
No. 98-9975. Davis v. Scott, Former Director, Texas De-partment of Criminal Justice, Institutional Division,
et al. C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 172F. 3d 867.

No. 98-9976. Hoffman v. New York. App. Div., Sup. Ct.N. Y., 4th Jud. Dept. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 256
App. Div. 2d 1195, 685 N. Y. S. 2d 142.

No. 98-9977. Greenleaf v. Sup. Ct. Minn.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 591 N. W. 2d 488.

No. 98-9978. Enciso Del-Carmen v. United States. C. A.9th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 173 F. 3d 862.
No. 98-9979. DeLeon v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 170 F. 3d 494.
No. 98-9980. Franklin v. Bilbray et al.; and Franklin v.United States. C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported
below: 172 F. 3d 56 (first judgment); 165 F. 3d 919 (secondjudgment).

No. 98-9981. St. Fleur v. United States. C. A. D. C. Cir.Certiorari denied.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:20] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
864 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

October 4, 1999 528 U. S.
No. 98-9982. Owens v. Kemna, Superintendent, Cross-roads Correctional Center, et al. C. A. 8th Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 98-9983. Ricotta v. California et al. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 173 F. 3d 861.

No. 98-9985. Hamilton v. Roe, Warden, et al. C. A. 9thCir. Certiorari denied.
No. 98-9986. Dua v. United States et al. C. A. D. C. Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 98-9987. Gorham v. Texas. Ct. App. Tex., 14th Dist.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 981 S. W. 2d 315.
No. 98-9988. Hooper v. Stringfellow. Sup. Ct. Ga. Cer-tiorari denied.
No. 98-9989. Moore v. Florida. Dist. Ct. App. Fla., 2d Dist.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 731 So. 2d 666.
No. 98-9990. Mark v. United States et al. C. A. 4th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 166 F. 3d 1209.
No. 98-9991. Rodriguez v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 913.
No. 98-9993. Brady v. Prison Health Care Services, Inc.,et al. C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari denied.
No. 98-9994. Simpson v. Sikes, Warden. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 98-9995. Mancini v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 134 F. 3d 380.
No. 98-9996. Johnson v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 175 F. 3d 1017.
No. 98-9997. Barber v. United States. C. A. 10th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 173 F. 3d 864.
No. 98-9998. Evans v. Hicks, Warden. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 98-9999. Fuller v. Tidwell et al. C. A. 8th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:20] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

865ORDERS
October 4, 1999528 U. S.
No. 98-10000. Dawson v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 168 F. 3d 505.

No. 98-10001. Eaton v. Weber, Warden, et al. C. A. 8thCir. Certiorari denied.
No. 98-10003. Ferrusca v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 928.
No. 98-10004. Grier, aka Avery v. United States. C. A.4th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 175 F. 3d 1017.
No. 98-10005. Hassan v. California. Ct. App. Cal., 2d App.Dist. Certiorari denied.
No. 98-10006. White v. Parker, Warden. C. A. 6th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 98-10007. Graham v. Lewis et al. Sup. Ct. Va. Cer-tiorari denied.
No. 98-10008. Crenshaw v. United States. C. A. 6th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 172 F. 3d 50.
No. 98-10009. Carter v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 168 F. 3d 502.
No. 98-10010. Butler v. California. Ct. App. Cal., 6thApp. Dist. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 68 Cal. App. 4th
421, 80 Cal. Rptr. 2d 357.

No. 98-10011. Caviness v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 168 F. 3d 483.

No. 98-10012. Batterman v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 175 F. 3d 1016.
No. 98-10013. Wright v. Johnson, Director, Texas De-partment of Criminal Justice, Institutional Division.
C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 98-10014. McCarty v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 177 F. 3d 978.

No. 98-10015. Haynie v. Furlong et al. C. A. 10th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 172 F. 3d 62.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:20] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
866 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

October 4, 1999 528 U. S.
No. 98-10016. Frederick v. Wisconsin. Ct. App. Wis.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 223 Wis. 2d 267, 588 N. W.
2d 928.

No. 98-10018. Danzey v. United States. C. A. 3d Cir.Certiorari denied.

No. 98-10020. Hernandez v. Yearwood, Warden, et al.C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari denied.
No. 98-10021. Gordon v. United States. C. A. 10th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 162 F. 3d 1174.
No. 98-10022. Goines v. McAninch, Warden. C. A. 6th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 173 F. 3d 855.
No. 98-10023. Turner v. Farm Bureau Insurance Agency.C. A. 8th Cir. Certiorari denied.
No. 98-10025. Coles v. Supervalu, Inc., et al. C. A. 6thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 178 F. 3d 1293.
No. 98-10026. Yarbrough v. Johnson, Director, TexasDepartment of Criminal Justice, Institutional Division.
C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 98-10027. Thomas v. Meyers, Superintendent, StateCorrectional Institution at Rockview, et al. C. A. 3d Cir.

Certiorari denied.

No. 98-10028. Ward v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 172 F. 3d 865.

No. 98-10029. Ware v. California. Ct. App. Cal., 4th App.Dist. Certiorari denied.
No. 98-10030. Baddour v. Birkenbach. Ct. App. Cal., 4thApp. Dist. Certiorari denied.
No. 98-10031. Colbert v. Workers' Compensation Ap-peals Board et al. Ct. App. Cal., 2d App. Dist. Certiorari
denied.

No. 98-10032. Duffus, aka Lewis v. United States. C. A.3d Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 174 F. 3d 333.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:20] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

867ORDERS
October 4, 1999528 U. S.
No. 98-10033. Clements v. United States. C. A. 6th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 181 F. 3d 104.

No. 98-10034. Wilson v. Schriro, Director, Missouri De-partment of Corrections, et al. C. A. 8th Cir. Certiorari
denied.

No. 98-10035. Winzy v. Lensing, Warden. C. A. 5th Cir.Certiorari denied.

No. 98-10036. Conard v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 168 F. 3d 483.
No. 98-10037. Burrows v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 98-10038. Buckhana v. Roe, Warden. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 98-10039. Bunn v. Grimes, Sheriff, et al. C. A. 8thCir. Certiorari denied.
No. 98-10041. Palacios v. United States. C. A. 2d Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 173 F. 3d 847.
No. 98-10042. Skibinski v. Lazaroff et al. C. A. 2d Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 173 F. 3d 846.
No. 98-10043. Opong-Mensah v. Department of Person-nel Administration. Ct. App. Cal., 3d App. Dist. Certiorari
denied.

No. 98-10044. Birch v. Illinois. App. Ct. Ill., 2d Dist. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 299 Ill. App. 3d 1129, 740 N. E.

2d 100.

No. 98-10045. Williams v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 176 F. 3d 492.

No. 98-10046. Taylor v. Securities and Exchange Com-mission et al. C. A. D. C. Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported
below: 194 F. 3d 175.

No. 98-10047. Broughton v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 177 F. 3d 978.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:20] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
868 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

October 4, 1999 528 U. S.
No. 99-1. White v. Fist, Personal Representative of theEstate of Geller, Deceased, et al. Ct. Civ. App. Okla.
Certiorari denied. Reported below: 980 P. 2d 665.

No. 99-3. Ace Auto Body & Towing, Ltd., et al. v. Cityof New York. C. A. 2d Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported

below: 171 F. 3d 765.

No. 99-4. Begala v. PNC Bank, Ohio, National Assn.C. A. 6th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 163 F. 3d 948.

No. 99-6. A. S. Goldmen & Co., Inc. v. New Jersey Bureauof Securities. C. A. 3d Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported
below: 163 F. 3d 780.

No. 99-7. Haik et al. v. Town of Alta et al. C. A. 10thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 176 F. 3d 488.

No. 99-8. Louisiana Seafood Management Council et al.v. Louisiana Wildlife and Fisheries Commission et al. Ct.
App. La., 1st Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 719 So.2d 119.

No. 99-9. Oliver & Wright Motors, Inc., Individuallyand as Class Representative v. City of Hoover et al.
Sup. Ct. Ala. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 730 So. 2d608.

No. 99-10. Leggett v. United States. C. A. 3d Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 162 F. 3d 237.
No. 99-11. Barris v. County of Los Angeles. Sup. Ct.Cal. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 20 Cal. 4th 101, 972
P. 2d 966.

No. 99-13. Bryant et ux. v. Waltham School Committeeet al. Sup. Jud. Ct. Mass. Certiorari denied. Reported below:

429 Mass. 1001, 705 N. E. 2d 625.

No. 99-14. Supreme Oil Co. v. Metropolitan Transporta-tion Authority et al. C. A. 2d Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 157 F. 3d 148.

No. 99-15. Blackley v. United States. C. A. D. C. Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 167 F. 3d 543.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:20] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

869ORDERS
October 4, 1999528 U. S.
No. 99-16. Burnette v. Signet/Capital One Bank. C. A.4th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 172 F. 3d 862.

No. 99-17. Couch v. Oregon Department of Fish andWildlife. Ct. App. Ore. Certiorari denied. Reported below:
155 Ore. App. 302, 966 P. 2d 248.

No. 99-19. Wainscott v. Medusa Aggregates Co. C. A.6th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 173 F. 3d 857.

No. 99-21. LaRoche v. -ose et al. C. A. 1st Cir. Certio-rari denied.
No. 99-22. Mississippi Tax Commission v. H. J. Wilson Co.,Inc.; and
No. 99-30. H. J. Wilson Co., Inc. v. Mississippi Tax Commis-sion. Sup. Ct. Miss. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 737
So. 2d 981.

No. 99-23. La -elle v. California Workers' Compensa-tion Appeals Board et al. Ct. App. Cal., 2d App. Dist. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-25. Gencarelli v. Massachusetts Department ofEnvironmental Protection et al. App. Ct. Mass. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 46 Mass. App. 1112, 707 N. E. 2d409.

No. 99-27. Shelton v. Rosbottom et al. C. A. 5th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 176 F. 3d 478.
No. 99-28. Physicians Insurance Company of Wisconsinet al. v. Schreiber, a Minor, by Her Guardian ad Litem,
Krueger, et al. Sup. Ct. Wis. Certiorari denied. Reportedbelow: 223 Wis. 2d 417, 588 N. W. 2d 26.

No. 99-32. Blue v. New Mexico. Ct. App. N. M. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 125 N. M. 826, 965 P. 2d 945.
No. 99-33. Fernandes v. Environmental ProtectionAgency et al. C. A. 3d Cir. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-35. In re Kramer. Ct. App. N. Y. Certiorari de-nied. Reported below: 93 N. Y. 2d 883, 711 N. E. 2d 639.
No. 99-36. Marchi v. Board of Cooperative EducationalServices of Albany, Schoharie, Schenectady, and Sara-

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:20] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
870 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

October 4, 1999 528 U. S.
toga Counties. C. A. 2d Cir. Certiorari denied. Reportedbelow: 173 F. 3d 469.

No. 99-37. Taube v. Illinois. App. Ct. Ill., 2d Dist. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 299 Ill. App. 3d 715, 702 N. E.
2d 573.

No. 99-40. Shepley et al. v. New Coleman Holdings Inc.,fka Coleman Co., Inc., et al. C. A. 2d Cir. Certiorari denied.

Reported below: 174 F. 3d 65.

No. 99-43. Bast, Individually and as Personal Repre-sentative for the Estate of Bast, Deceased, et al. v. Pru-

dential Insurance Company of America. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 150 F. 3d 1003.

No. 99-45. Weeren, dba -entura Marina and Landing v.-entura Group LLC et al. C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-46. Stone et al. v. City of Prescott et al. C. A.9th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 173 F. 3d 1172.
No. 99-49. Cleary, by His Next Friend, Cleary, etux. v. Waldman, Commissioner, New Jersey Department
of Human Services, et al. C. A. 3d Cir. Certiorari denied.Reported below: 167 F. 3d 801.

No. 99-50. Wenzel v. Apfel, Commissioner of SocialSecurity. C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below:
162 F. 3d 1171.

No. 99-52. Herb Hallman Chevrolet et al. v. Nash-Holmes et al.; and

No. 99-211. Nash-Holmes et al. v. Herb Hallman Chev-rolet et al. C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported
below: 169 F. 3d 636.

No. 99-53. Polsby v. Chase et al. C. A. 4th Cir. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 165 F. 3d 19.

No. 99-54. Persico v. United States. C. A. 2d Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 164 F. 3d 796.
No. 99-55. Mantz et ux. v. Kirchman, Acting Judge,Crawford County. Ct. App. Wis. Certiorari denied.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:20] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

871ORDERS
October 4, 1999528 U. S.
No. 99-56. Giles v. Sons of Confederate -eterans, Inc.C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 180 F. 3d 260.

No. 99-58. Hawkins et al. v. City and County of Denveret al. C. A. 10th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 170
F. 3d 1281.

No. 99-60. Rainey Brothers Construction Co., Inc. v.Memphis and Shelby County Board of Adjustment et al.

C. A. 6th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 178 F. 3d1295.

No. 99-63. -osburgh et al. v. Welch et al. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 166 F. 3d 344.
No. 99-64. Advocacy Organization for Patients and Pro-viders et al. v. Auto Club Insurance Assn. et al. C. A.
6th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 176 F. 3d 315.

No. 99-66. Threadgill et al. v. United States. C. A. 5thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 172 F. 3d 357.

No. 99-67. Super Sulky, Inc. v. United States TrottingAssn. C. A. 6th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 174
F. 3d 733.

No. 99-68. Frank v. Orange County Social ServicesAgency. Ct. App. Cal., 4th App. Dist. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-69. Nemeth et al. v. Florida Department of Rev-enue et al. Sup. Ct. Fla. Certiorari denied. Reported below:
733 So. 2d 970.

No. 99-70. Bennett et al. v. Conrail Matched SavingsPlan Administrative Committee et al. C. A. 3d Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 168 F. 3d 671.

No. 99-72. Cheminor Drugs, Ltd., et al. v. Ethyl Corp.et al. C. A. 3d Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 168

F. 3d 119.

No. 99-73. Crenshaw v. Shepard, Chief Justice, SupremeCourt of Indiana, et al. C. A. 7th Cir. Certiorari denied.

Reported below: 170 F. 3d 725.

No. 99-74. Harris v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 176 F. 3d 476.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:20] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
872 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

October 4, 1999 528 U. S.
No. 99-76. Berg v. Norand Corp. C. A. 8th Cir. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 169 F. 3d 1140.

No. 99-78. Fishing -essel Owners & Marine Ways, Inc.v. Bank of America NT&SA et al. C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari
denied. Reported below: 175 F. 3d 1109.

No. 99-79. Reeder v. United States. C. A. 1st Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 170 F. 3d 93.

No. 99-82. -ardanega v. United States et al. C. A. 9thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 170 F. 3d 1184.
No. 99-83. Medina v. United States. C. A. 2d Cir. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 173 F. 3d 89.
No. 99-84. Desselle, Co-Executor for the Estate of Mc-Nail, Deceased v. Eidson. Ct. App. Kan. Certiorari denied.
Reported below: 25 Kan. App. 2d xvi, 975 P. 2d 272.

No. 99-85. Wilson v. Hart, United States District Judge,Northern District of Illinois. C. A. 7th Cir. Certiorari

denied.

No. 99-87. Constructora Lluch, Inc., et al. v. PuertoRico Aqueduct and Sewer Authority. C. A. 1st Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 169 F. 3d 68.

No. 99-88. Bischoff v. Bischoff. Ct. App. Ky. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 987 S. W. 2d 798.

No. 99-90. Bocalbos v. National Western Life Insur-ance Co. C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below:
162 F. 3d 379.

No. 99-91. Dempster v. Waste Management, Inc., t/aWaste Management of Pittsburgh. Super. Ct. Pa. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 736 A. 2d 687.

No. 99-93. Hill v. United States. C. A. 6th Cir. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 167 F. 3d 1055.

No. 99-94. Zvi et al. v. United States. C. A. 2d Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 168 F. 3d 49.
No. 99-96. United Food and Commercial Workers Union,Local No. 324, AFL-CIO, CLC v. K. V. Mart Co., dba Top

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:20] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

873ORDERS
October 4, 1999528 U. S.
-alu Markets, et al. C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari denied. Re-ported below: 173 F. 3d 1221.

No. 99-98. Ibrahim v. New York State Department ofHealth. C. A. 2d Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 173
F. 3d 844.

No. 99-100. LaMontagne v. St. Louis Development Corp.et al. C. A. 8th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 172

F. 3d 555.

No. 99-101. Scholl v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 166 F. 3d 964.

No. 99-102. Topink, Illinois State Treasurer v. Common-wealth Edison Co. et al. C. A. 7th Cir. Certiorari denied.
Reported below: 174 F. 3d 870.

No. 99-103. Allender v. United States. C. A. 7th Cir.Certiorari denied.

No. 99-108. McDonald et al. v. United States. C. A. 6thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 173 F. 3d 430.
No. 99-110. Cherrix v. -irginia. Sup. Ct. Va. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 257 Va. 292, 513 S. E. 2d 642.
No. 99-112. McFadden v. Mississippi State Board of Med-ical Licensure. Sup. Ct. Miss. Certiorari denied. Reported
below: 735 So. 2d 145.

No. 99-113. -illage of Northfield v. 10280 NorthfieldRoad, LLC. C. A. 6th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below:

173 F. 3d 429.

No. 99-114. Qualia v. Qualia et al. Ct. App. Tex., 4th Dist.Certiorari denied.

No. 99-115. Harris v. Georgia. Ct. App. Ga. Certioraridenied.
No. 99-117. Lumbermens Mutual Casualty Co. v. LibertyMutual Insurance Co. et al. C. A. D. C. Cir. Certiorari
denied. Reported below: 172 F. 3d 919.

No. 99-118. Elk Corporation of Dallas v. GAF BuildingMaterials Corp. et al. C. A. Fed. Cir. Certiorari denied.

Reported below: 168 F. 3d 28.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:20] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
874 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

October 4, 1999 528 U. S.
No. 99-121. Hardin v. S. C. Johnson & Son, Inc. C. A. 7thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 167 F. 3d 340.

No. 99-122. Goodman v. United States. C. A. 2d Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 165 F. 3d 169.
No. 99-123. Lazy Oil Co. et al. v. Witco Corp. et al.C. A. 3d Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 166 F. 3d 581.
No. 99-124. Towers et al. v. City of Chicago. C. A. 7thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 173 F. 3d 619.
No. 99-126. Adams v. Michigan. Ct. App. Mich. Certio-rari denied.
No. 99-129. Ackerman et al. v. Northwestern MutualLife Insurance Co. et al. C. A. 7th Cir. Certiorari denied.
Reported below: 172 F. 3d 467.

No. 99-130. Moody Hill Farms Limited Partnershipet al. v. Department of the Interior, National Parks

Service. C. A. 2d Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below:205 F. 3d 554.

No. 99-131. Mickle et al. v. Moore et al. C. A. 4th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 174 F. 3d 464.
No. 99-133. Sprecher v. United States. C. A. 2d Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 181 F. 3d 83.
No. 99-134. Omega Homes, Inc. v. City of Buffalo et al.C. A. 2d Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 171 F. 3d 755.
No. 99-136. Middleton v. Albright, Secretary of State.C. A. D. C. Cir. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-139. Warn et al. v. M/Y Maridome et al. C. A.9th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 169 F. 3d 625.
No. 99-140. Williams v. Minnesota. Sup. Ct. Minn. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 593 N. W. 2d 227.
No. 99-144. Paresi et al. v. City of Portland. C. A. 9thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 665.
No. 99-146. Fernsler et al. v. Two Men and a TruckInternational, Inc. C. A. 6th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 172 F. 3d 49.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:20] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

875ORDERS
October 4, 1999528 U. S.
No. 99-147. Menjivar et al. v. Wiles. C. A. 9th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 176 F. 3d 483.

No. 99-148. Dalton v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 175 F. 3d 1016.
No. 99-149. Adofo-Kissi v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 175 F. 3d 1017.
No. 99-151. Mensah v. United States. C. A. 7th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 172 F. 3d 53.
No. 99-152. Polyak v. Burson et al. C. A. 6th Cir. Certio-rari denied.
No. 99-155. California v. Webb. Ct. App. Cal., 2d App.Dist. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-156. Dobkin et al. v. Johns Hopkins Universityet al. C. A. 4th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 172
F. 3d 43.

No. 99-157. Rivera v. United States;No. 99-5059. Millet v. United States;

No. 99-5543. Morales v. United States;No. 99-5555. Cruz v. United States; and
No. 99-5564. -idro v. United States. C. A. 2d Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 176 F. 3d 52.

No. 99-158. King v. Tennessee. Sup. Ct. Tenn. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 989 S. W. 2d 319.
No. 99-159. American Motorists Insurance Co. v. Supe-rior Court of California, County of Los Angeles (Mon-
trose Chemical Corporation of California, Real Party inInterest). Ct. App. Cal., 2d App. Dist. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-160. American Stores Co. and Subsidiaries v. Com-missioner of Internal Revenue. C. A. 10th Cir. Certiorari
denied. Reported below: 170 F. 3d 1267.

No. 99-162. Johnson v. Gila River Indian Community.C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 174 F. 3d

1032.

No. 99-164. Howser v. City of Long Beach et al. C. A.9th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 172 F. 3d 876.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:20] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
876 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

October 4, 1999 528 U. S.
No. 99-165. Hicks v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 180 F. 3d 272.

No. 99-167. Joseph v. New York City Board of Education.C. A. 2d Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 171 F. 3d 87.
No. 99-168. McClintock et al. v. Eichelberger et al.C. A. 3d Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 169 F. 3d 812.
No. 99-169. Scholz v. Oklahoma. Ct. Civ. App. Okla. Cer-tiorari denied.
No. 99-170. Staten v. West, Secretary of -eterans Af-fairs. C. A. Fed. Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 155
F. 3d 572.

No. 99-171. Robertson v. Alabama Department of Reve-nue. Ct. Civ. App. Ala. Certiorari denied. Reported below:

733 So. 2d 397.

No. 99-172. Levy et al. v. General Accounting Office.C. A. 2d Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 175 F. 3d 254.

No. 99-173. Rosenthal v. United States et al. C. A. 7thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 175 F. 3d 1020.
No. 99-174. American Commerce National Bank et al. v.Office of the Comptroller of the Currency et al. C. A.
9th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 168 F. 3d 497.

No. 99-175. Milbank, Chapter 7 Bankruptcy Trusteefor the Estate of McIntyre v. Geary & Spencer, P. C., fka

Geary, Stahl & Spencer, P. C., et al. Ct. App. Tex., 5th Dist.Certiorari denied.

No. 99-176. Dass v. Caplinger et al. C. A. 5th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 170 F. 3d 183.
No. 99-177. Carpenter v. Federal National MortgageAssociation. C. A. D. C. Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported
below: 174 F. 3d 231.

No. 99-178. -irginia Mortgage Co. v. United Stateset al. C. A. 4th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 175

F. 3d 1018.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:20] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

877ORDERS
October 4, 1999528 U. S.
No. 99-179. Smith v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied.

No. 99-180. Konkel v. Bob Evans Farms, Inc. C. A. 4thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 165 F. 3d 275.
No. 99-181. Arkansas Highway Police v. CrittendenCounty Prosecuting Attorney's Office et al. Sup. Ct.
Ark. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 337 Ark. 74, 987 S. W.2d 663.

No. 99-182. Pink v. Modoc Indian Health Project, Inc.,et al. C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 157
F. 3d 1185.

No. 99-183. O'Neal v. FHP, Inc., et al. Ct. App. Cal., 4thApp. Dist. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-187. Lowenschuss, Trustee of the Fred Lowen-schuss Associates, Attorneys at Law, Pension and Profit
Sharing Plan v. Selnick. C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari denied.Reported below: 171 F. 3d 673.

No. 99-188. Adams et al. v. Delta Air Lines, Inc., et al.C. A. 2d Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 175 F. 3d 1007.
No. 99-191. Taylor v. Federal Aviation Administration.C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 172 F. 3d 58.
No. 99-192. Crenshaw v. Disciplinary Commission of theSupreme Court of Indiana. Sup. Ct. Ind. Certiorari denied.
Reported below: 708 N. E. 2d 859.

No. 99-194. Tuttle v. Missouri Department of Agricul-ture. C. A. 8th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 172

F. 3d 1025.

No. 99-196. ANR Coal Co., Inc. v. Cogentrix of NorthCarolina, Inc. C. A. 4th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported

below: 173 F. 3d 493.

No. 99-197. Balliet v. Heydt et al. C. A. 3d Cir. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 176 F. 3d 471.

No. 99-205. Brawley v. Colorado. Dist. Ct. Colo., AdamsCounty. Certiorari denied.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:20] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
878 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

October 4, 1999 528 U. S.
No. 99-209. Patrick et al. v. Commissioner of InternalRevenue. C. A. 6th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below:
181 F. 3d 103.

No. 99-221. Mott v. Robinson. C. A. 6th Cir. Certioraridenied.

No. 99-222. Pagan v. Florida Department of Childrenand Families. C. A. 11th Cir. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-225. Eells v. Dirnfeld & Zelner et al. Ct. App.Cal., 2d App. Dist. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-229. Woods et ux. v. Kenan, Trustee. C. A. 10thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 173 F. 3d 770.
No. 99-230. Tillman v. United States. C. A. 6th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 173 F. 3d 430.
No. 99-238. Eible v. Houstoun, Secretary, Departmentof Public Welfare, et al. C. A. 3d Cir. Certiorari denied.
Reported below: 187 F. 3d 625.

No. 99-240. McQuiddy v. United States. C. A. 6th Cir.Certiorari denied.

No. 99-246. Sherwood v. Patel, United States DistrictJudge for the Northern District of California. C. A. 9th
Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 161 F. 3d 14.

No. 99-250. Giles et ux. v. Texas. Ct. App. Tex., 1st Dist.Certiorari denied.

No. 99-257. Tenner v. Mississippi. Ct. App. Miss. Certio-rari denied.
No. 99-263. Cuneo v. Cuneo. Super. Ct. Pa. Certiorari de-nied. Reported below: 726 A. 2d 417.
No. 99-273. Gruppo Agusta et al. v. Paramount AviationCorp. C. A. 3d Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 178
F. 3d 132.

No. 99-275. English v. United States; andNo. 99-5788. Manley v. United States. C. A. 7th Cir.

Certiorari denied. Reported below: 175 F. 3d 1021.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:20] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

879ORDERS
October 4, 1999528 U. S.
No. 99-276. Tiwari v. Board of Regents of the Univer-sity System of Georgia et al. C. A. 11th Cir. Certiorari
denied. Reported below: 180 F. 3d 273.

No. 99-281. Young v. Montgomery City Council et al.C. A. 11th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 165 F. 3d 40.

No. 99-283. D'Auria v. Pennsylvania et al. C. A. 3d Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 187 F. 3d 625.
No. 99-287. Cataldo v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 171 F. 3d 1316.
No. 99-303. Moss v. Stinnes Corp. et al. C. A. 2d Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 169 F. 3d 784.
No. 99-304. Rogers v. District of Columbia. C. A. D. C.Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 194 F. 3d 174.
No. 99-305. Ross v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 177 F. 3d 981.
No. 99-306. Robertson et ux. v. Comptroller of theTreasury of Maryland. Ct. App. Md. Certiorari denied.
Reported below: 354 Md. 115, 729 A. 2d 406.

No. 99-311. Perez v. United States. C. A. 3d Cir. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 168 F. 3d 480.

No. 99-325. Flores, aka Haggard v. United States. C. A.5th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 181 F. 3d 96.
No. 99-329. Carr v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir. Certio-rari denied.
No. 99-332. Bowen v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 172 F. 3d 55.
No. 99-333. Harilall v. University Health System De-velopment Corp., fka Bexar County Hospital District, dba
University Hospital System, aka University Hospital.C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 174 F. 3d 197.

No. 99-338. Burton et al. v. Charles et al. C. A. 11thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 169 F. 3d 1322.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:20] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
880 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

October 4, 1999 528 U. S.
No. 99-344. Ayres v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 166 F. 3d 991.

No. 99-347. Wilson v. Catoe, Director, South CarolinaDepartment of Corrections, et al. C. A. 4th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 178 F. 3d 266.

No. 99-5001. Pornes-Garcia v. United States; and Sosav. United States. C. A. 2d Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported

below: 171 F. 3d 142 (first judgment); 173 F. 3d 847 (secondjudgment).

No. 99-5002. Smith v. Arizona. Sup. Ct. Ariz. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 193 Ariz. 452, 974 P. 2d 431.
No. 99-5004. Peters v. Endicott, Warden. C. A. 7th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-5005. Beck v. Angelone, Director, Virginia De-partment of Corrections. Sup. Ct. Va. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-5006. Tapia v. LeMaster, Warden, et al. C. A.10th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 172 F. 3d 1193.
No. 99-5008. Calloway v. Cain, Warden. C. A. 5th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-5009. Johnson v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 166 F. 3d 1211.
No. 99-5010. Moceo v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 929.
No. 99-5011. Newman v. Kramer, Warden, et al. C. A.9th Cir. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-5012. Kelley v. Kelley. App. Ct. Ill., 2d Dist. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 298 Ill. App. 3d 1170, 738 N. E.
2d 237.

No. 99-5013. Young v. Bowersox, Superintendent, PotosiCorrectional Center. C. A. 8th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 161 F. 3d 1159.

No. 99-5014. Williams v. North Carolina. Sup. Ct. N. C.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 350 N. C. 1, 510 S. E. 2d 626.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:20] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

881ORDERS
October 4, 1999528 U. S.
No. 99-5015. Waters v. Brown. C. A. 7th Cir. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 175 F. 3d 1022.

No. 99-5016. Woods v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 180 F. 3d 262.
No. 99-5017. Omoike v. Louisiana et al. C. A. 5th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 184 F. 3d 817.
No. 99-5018. Parker v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 166 F. 3d 1211.
No. 99-5019. Sanders v. California. Ct. App. Cal., 2d App.Dist. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-5020. Roy v. Brigano, Warden. C. A. 6th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied.
No. 99-5021. Walker v. Snyder, Director, Illinois De-partment of Corrections. App. Ct. Ill., 3d Dist. Certiorari
denied. Reported below: 299 Ill. App. 3d 1135, 740 N. E. 2d 102.

No. 99-5022. Carrillo-Rodriguez v. United States. C. A.5th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 177 F. 3d 979.

No. 99-5023. Serratos Beltran v. United States. C. A.9th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 165 F. 3d 1266.
No. 99-5024. Woods v. Johnson, Director, Texas Depart-ment of Criminal Justice, Institutional Division. C. A.
5th Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-5026. Wronke v. Madigan, Sheriff, ChampaignCounty, Illinois. C. A. 7th Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-5027. Terrell v. Illinois. Sup. Ct. Ill. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 185 Ill. 2d 467, 708 N. E. 2d 309.
No. 99-5030. Pewenofkit v. United States. C. A. 10th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 173 F. 3d 865.
No. 99-5031. Rooks v. United States. C. A. 6th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 181 F. 3d 105.
No. 99-5032. Ramirez-Gamez v. United States. C. A. 5thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 171 F. 3d 236.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:20] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
882 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

October 4, 1999 528 U. S.
No. 99-5033. Ortega-Franco, aka Zarate v. UnitedStates. C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 177
F. 3d 979.

No. 99-5034. Woodley v. United States. C. A. 6th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 178 F. 3d 1297.

No. 99-5036. Brock v. Myers, Warden. C. A. 6th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied.
No. 99-5037. Campbell v. United States. C. A. 6th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 168 F. 3d 263.
No. 99-5038. Adkins v. Seiter. C. A. 8th Cir. Certioraridenied.
No. 99-5039. Schwartz v. City of Pittsburgh et al.C. A. 3d Cir. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-5040. Rodriguez v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-5041. Rudd v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 172 F. 3d 60.
No. 99-5042. Rumler v. United States. C. A. 6th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 172 F. 3d 49.
No. 99-5043. Tavakoli-Nouri v. Central IntelligenceAgency. C. A. 4th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below:
173 F. 3d 852.

No. 99-5044. Walker v. Saffle, Director, OklahomaDepartment of Corrections, et al. C. A. 10th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 173 F. 3d 865.

No. 99-5045. Tucker v. Cain, Warden. C. A. 5th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied.

No. 99-5046. Williams v. Johnson, Director, Texas De-partment of Criminal Justice, Institutional Division.
C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 171 F. 3d 300.

No. 99-5047. Tarintino v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 166 F. 3d 344.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:20] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

883ORDERS
October 4, 1999528 U. S.
No. 99-5048. Woods v. United States District Court forthe Eastern District of Kentucky. C. A. 6th Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-5049. Jackson v. Day, Warden. C. A. 5th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied.

No. 99-5050. Jackson v. Champion, Warden. C. A. 10th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 172 F. 3d 62.
No. 99-5051. Wills v. Galaza, Warden. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-5052. Baker v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 167 F. 3d 538.
No. 99-5053. Ellis v. Illinois. App. Ct. Ill., 5th Dist. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 294 Ill. App. 3d 1130, 721 N. E.
2d 865.

No. 99-5054. Brown v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 165 F. 3d 20.

No. 99-5055. Jordan v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 168 F. 3d 484.
No. 99-5056. Alston v. Brown et al. C. A. 2d Cir. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 173 F. 3d 843.
No. 99-5057. McCaughan v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 929.
No. 99-5058. Johnston v. Moore, Secretary, Florida De-partment of Corrections. C. A. 11th Cir. Certiorari denied.
Reported below: 162 F. 3d 630.

No. 99-5062. Larkin v. United States. C. A. 7th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 171 F. 3d 556.

No. 99-5064. Pippen v. Sheraton Operating Corp. C. A.11th Cir. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-5065. Smith v. Bowersox, Superintendent, PotosiCorrectional Center. C. A. 8th Cir. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-5066. Moore v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 168 F. 3d 1234.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:20] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
884 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

October 4, 1999 528 U. S.
No. 99-5068. Murphy v. United States. C. A. 10th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 176 F. 3d 490.

No. 99-5069. Nillo v. Hallahan, Warden, et al. C. A. 9thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 165 F. 3d 916.
No. 99-5070. Mayes v. United States. C. A. 6th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 181 F. 3d 105.
No. 99-5071. Speller v. North Carolina. Ct. App. N. C.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 132 N. C. App. 135, 517 S. E.
2d 427.

No. 99-5072. Ortiz v. United States. C. A. 10th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 934.

No. 99-5073. Smith v. Mann, Warden. C. A. 2d Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 173 F. 3d 73.
No. 99-5074. Pierce v. California. Ct. App. Cal., 6th App.Dist. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-5075. Johnson v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 176 F. 3d 485.
No. 99-5078. Zarate v. United States. C. A. 10th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 173 F. 3d 865.
No. 99-5079. Thomas v. Moore, Secretary, Florida De-partment of Corrections, et al. Sup. Ct. Fla. Certiorari
denied. Reported below: 729 So. 2d 369.

No. 99-5080. Williams v. Illinois. Sup. Ct. Ill. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 186 Ill. 2d 55, 708 N. E. 2d 1152.

No. 99-5081. McManus v. Angelone, Director, VirginiaDepartment of Corrections. C. A. 4th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 166 F. 3d 333.

No. 99-5082. Hall v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 174 F. 3d 197.

No. 99-5083. Hill v. United States. C. A. 6th Cir. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 172 F. 3d 50.
No. 99-5084. Hazeem v. United States. C. A. 2d Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 181 F. 3d 83.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:20] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

885ORDERS
October 4, 1999528 U. S.
No. 99-5086. Garnett v. United States. C. A. 6th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 173 F. 3d 857.

No. 99-5087. Estep v. California. Ct. App. Cal., 6th App.Dist. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-5088. Hoyos v. United States. C. A. 2d Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 172 F. 3d 37.
No. 99-5089. Holloman v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 180 F. 3d 263.
No. 99-5090. Dorsey v. United States. C. A. 3d Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 174 F. 3d 331.
No. 99-5091. Garza v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 178 F. 3d 1290.
No. 99-5093. Huron v. Department of -eterans Affairs.C. A. Fed. Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 194 F. 3d
1336.

No. 99-5094. Settle v. United States. C. A. 8th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied.

No. 99-5095. Puga v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 929.
No. 99-5096. Green et al. v. Carver State Bank et al.C. A. 11th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 163 F. 3d
1360.

No. 99-5097. Green et al. v. Carver State Bank et al.C. A. 11th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 163 F. 3d

1360.

No. 99-5099. Hines v. United States. C. A. 7th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied.

No. 99-5100. Kuplen v. Hardy et al. Ct. App. N. C. Cer-tiorari denied.
No. 99-5102. Thornsbury v. United States. C. A. 6th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-5103. Kinney v. Bankers Trust Co. App. Ct. Conn.Certiorari denied.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:20] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
886 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

October 4, 1999 528 U. S.
No. 99-5104. James v. Cain, Warden. C. A. 5th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied.

No. 99-5105. Starz et al. v. California. App. Dept.,Super. Ct. Cal., County of Los Angeles. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-5109. Fletcher v. United States. C. A. 10th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 242 F. 3d 391.
No. 99-5110. Fields v. Johnson, Director, Texas Depart-ment of Criminal Justice, Institutional Division. C. A.
5th Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-5111. Flores v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 172 F. 3d 695.

No. 99-5112. Edwards, aka Cooper v. United States.C. A. 4th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 172 F. 3d 45.
No. 99-5113. Harris v. Dormire, Superintendent, Jeffer-son City Correctional Center. C. A. 8th Cir. Certiorari
denied.

No. 99-5114. Holstick v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 178 F. 3d 1302.

No. 99-5115. Gladfelter v. United States. C. A. 8th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 168 F. 3d 1078.
No. 99-5117. Dellamonica v. United States. C. A. 11thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 181 F. 3d 107.
No. 99-5118. Gordon, aka Jonston v. United States.C. A. 10th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 173 F. 3d
761.

No. 99-5119. Cabrera v. Barbo, Administrator, NorthernState Prison, et al. C. A. 3d Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 175 F. 3d 307.

No. 99-5120. Ariza-Salazar v. United States. C. A. 5thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 178 F. 3d 1290.

No. 99-5121. Butler v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 174 F. 3d 202.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:20] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

887ORDERS
October 4, 1999528 U. S.
No. 99-5122. Buchanan v. United States. C. A. 8th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 167 F. 3d 1207.

No. 99-5123. Ademaj v. United States. C. A. 1st Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 170 F. 3d 58.
No. 99-5124. Cline v. Bayer, Director, Nevada Depart-ment of Prisons, et al. C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari denied.
Reported below: 176 F. 3d 482.

No. 99-5126. Downs v. Taylor. C. A. 8th Cir. Certioraridenied.

No. 99-5127. Engle v. Million, Warden. C. A. 6th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-5128. Hare v. Johnson, Director, Texas Depart-ment of Criminal Justice, Institutional Division. C. A.
5th Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-5129. Grate v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 173 F. 3d 426.

No. 99-5130. Elliott v. Hanks, Superintendent, Wabash-alley Correctional Facility. C. A. 7th Cir. Certiorari
denied.

No. 99-5131. Gillis v. McCaughtry, Warden. Ct. App.Wis. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-5132. -asquez v. Hill, Warden, et al. C. A. 9thCir. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-5133. English v. Shell et al. C. A. 11th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied.
No. 99-5134. Howland v. Texas. Ct. Crim. App. Tex. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 990 S. W. 2d 274.
No. 99-5136. Smith v. Zlaket et al. C. A. 9th Cir. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 166 F. 3d 1218.
No. 99-5138. Ross v. Gibson, Warden. C. A. 10th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 165 F. 3d 793.
No. 99-5139. Patterson v. United States. C. A. 6th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 181 F. 3d 105.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:20] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
888 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

October 4, 1999 528 U. S.
No. 99-5141. Donohue v. United States. C. A. 6th Cir.Certiorari denied.

No. 99-5142. Hamilton v. Lehman, Secretary, Washing-ton Department of Corrections. C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari
denied.

No. 99-5143. Garza v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied.

No. 99-5144. Fitzpatrick v. Perrin et al. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-5145. Gilchrist v. Georgia. Sup. Ct. Ga. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 270 Ga. 287, 508 S. E. 2d 409.
No. 99-5146. Darby v. Johnson, Director, Texas Depart-ment of Criminal Justice, Institutional Division. C. A.
5th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 176 F. 3d 479.

No. 99-5148. Fletcher v. Johnson, Director, Texas De-partment of Criminal Justice, Institutional Division.

C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-5149. Huggins v. Sauaris et al. C. A. 10th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 172 F. 3d 878.

No. 99-5150. Durham v. Stubblefield, Superintendent,Missouri Eastern Correctional Center. C. A. 8th Cir.
Certiorari denied.

No. 99-5151. Hall v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 173 F. 3d 852.

No. 99-5152. Hernandez v. Johnson, Director, Texas De-partment of Criminal Justice, Institutional Division.
C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-5154. Nash v. United States. C. A. 6th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 175 F. 3d 429.

No. 99-5155. Morris v. -irginia. Sup. Ct. Va. Certioraridenied.
No. 99-5156. Lilliock v. United States. C. A. 3d Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 187 F. 3d 627.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:20] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

889ORDERS
October 4, 1999528 U. S.
No. 99-5157. Key v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 176 F. 3d 476.

No. 99-5158. Ayala-Mendez v. United States; andNo. 99-5329. Lopez-Llerenas v. United States. C. A. 9th
Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 168 F. 3d 502.

No. 99-5159. Jain v. United States. C. A. 7th Cir. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 174 F. 3d 892.

No. 99-5160. Johnson v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 180 F. 3d 273.
No. 99-5162. Lewis v. Ohio. Ct. App. Ohio, CuyahogaCounty. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-5163. Wiseman v. United States. C. A. 10th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 172 F. 3d 1196.
No. 99-5164. Macon v. California. C. A. 9th Cir. Certio-rari denied.
No. 99-5165. Kelly v. Beeler, Warden. C. A. 3d Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 178 F. 3d 1279.
No. 99-5166. Rincher v. Burke, Warden. C. A. 6th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-5167. Reliford v. McCarthy et al. C. A. 4th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 165 F. 3d 19.
No. 99-5168. Sidberry v. Bailey, Superintendent, Foot-hills Correctional Institution, et al. C. A. 4th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 166 F. 3d 1210.

No. 99-5172. Lowery et al. v. United States. C. A. 11thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 166 F. 3d 1119.

No. 99-5173. Youngs v. Department of the Army. C. A.Fed. Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 194 F. 3d 1331.
No. 99-5174. Zubiate v. Sonoma County Social ServicesDepartment et al. C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 168 F. 3d 504.

No. 99-5175. Treadwell v. Tennessee. Ct. Crim. App.Tenn. Certiorari denied.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:20] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
890 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

October 4, 1999 528 U. S.
No. 99-5176. Young v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 173 F. 3d 853.

No. 99-5177. Zakhia v. Pinchak, Administrator, East Jer-sey State Prison, et al. C. A. 3d Cir. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-5178. Williams v. Lensing, Warden. C. A. 5th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-5179. Robinson v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 178 F. 3d 1290.
No. 99-5180. Sayler v. Florida Bar. Sup. Ct. Fla. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 721 So. 2d 1152.
No. 99-5181. Oates v. United States. C. A. 8th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 173 F. 3d 651.
No. 99-5183. McNeil v. -aughn, Superintendent, StateCorrectional Institution at Graterford, et al. C. A. 3d
Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-5184. Woodard v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 172 F. 3d 717.

No. 99-5185. Lambert v. United States. C. A. 3d Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 175 F. 3d 1012.
No. 99-5186. Monroe v. Florida. Dist. Ct. App. Fla., 5thDist. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 729 So. 2d 942.
No. 99-5187. Bartel v. Fletcher. C. A. 11th Cir. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 168 F. 3d 507.
No. 99-5188. Aenk v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied.
No. 99-5189. Wallace v. -irginia. Sup. Ct. Va. Certio-rari denied.
No. 99-5190. Carroll v. Grand Casino Mille Lacs et al.Ct. App. Minn. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-5191. Gulley v. Department of Health andHuman Services et al. C. A. 7th Cir. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-5192. Houser v. United States. C. A. 6th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 172 F. 3d 872.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:20] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

891ORDERS
October 4, 1999528 U. S.
No. 99-5193. Green v. Selsky et al. C. A. 2d Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 165 F. 3d 13.

No. 99-5194. Goodman v. Johnson et al. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 170 F. 3d 187.
No. 99-5195. Fleenor v. Anderson, Superintendent,Indiana State Prison. C. A. 7th Cir. Certiorari denied.
Reported below: 171 F. 3d 1096.

No. 99-5197. Floyd et al. v. Waiters et al. C. A. 11thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 171 F. 3d 1264.

No. 99-5198. Chaudhry et al. v. Gallerizzo et al. C. A.4th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 174 F. 3d 394.
No. 99-5199. Price v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 178 F. 3d 1288.
No. 99-5200. Small v. Tennessee. Sup. Ct. Tenn. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 988 S. W. 2d 671.
No. 99-5201. Patterson v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-5202. Radley v. Nixon, Attorney General of Mis-souri, et al. C. A. 8th Cir. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-5203. Smith v. Johnson, Director, Texas Depart-ment of Criminal Justice, Institutional Division. C. A.
5th Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-5204. Black v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 176 F. 3d 485.

No. 99-5205. Torres v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied.
No. 99-5206. Doty v. Whalen, Warden. C. A. 6th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-5207. McCullough v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 911.
No. 99-5208. Marquez-Flores v. United States. C. A.9th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 176 F. 3d 485.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:20] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
892 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

October 4, 1999 528 U. S.
No. 99-5209. Longoria v. United States. C. A. 10th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 177 F. 3d 1179.

No. 99-5210. Nelson v. United States. C. A. 6th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-5211. Leong v. Washington. Ct. App. Wash. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 91 Wash. App. 1075.
No. 99-5212. Jones v. Johnson, Director, Texas Depart-ment of Criminal Justice, Institutional Division. C. A.
5th Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-5214. King v. United States. C. A. 6th Cir. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 169 F. 3d 1035.

No. 99-5215. Lewis v. Oklahoma. Ct. Crim. App. Okla.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 970 P. 2d 1158.
No. 99-5216. Israel v. Cohn, Commissioner, Indiana De-partment of Corrections, et al. C. A. 7th Cir. Certiorari
denied.

No. 99-5217. Miller v. Kelly et al. C. A. 9th Cir. Certio-rari denied.

No. 99-5218. Jones v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 166 F. 3d 335.
No. 99-5219. Jiles v. United States. C. A. 7th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied.
No. 99-5220. Jamison v. Thomas, Warden. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 157 F. 3d 906.
No. 99-5221. Steindler v. United States. C. A. 6th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-5222. Fowle v. Michigan. Ct. App. Mich. Certio-rari denied.
No. 99-5223. Keithley v. Hopkins, Warden. C. A. 8th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-5224. French v. United States District Court forthe Southern District of Texas. C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari
denied.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:20] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

893ORDERS
October 4, 1999528 U. S.
No. 99-5225. Taylor v. Hannigan, Warden, et al. C. A.10th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 166 F. 3d 1222.

No. 99-5226. Chukwuezi v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 175 F. 3d 1016.
No. 99-5227. Bradley v. Taylor. Ct. App. Cal., 1st App.Dist. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-5229. Campbell et al. v. City of Upland. C. A.9th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 164 F. 3d 629.
No. 99-5230. Stedman v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-5231. Swanson v. United States et al. C. A. D. C.Cir. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-5232. Ohaegbu v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 174 F. 3d 201.
No. 99-5233. Reed v. Phillips, Warden. C. A. 5th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-5234. Castleberry v. Louisiana. Sup. Ct. La.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 758 So. 2d 749.
No. 99-5235. Belasquez v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 176 F. 3d 476.
No. 99-5237. Catoe v. Miller, Superintendent, EasternNew York Correctional Facility. C. A. 2d Cir. Certiorari
denied.

No. 99-5238. Corona et al. v. United States. C. A. 8thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 172 F. 3d 1048.

No. 99-5239. Koenig v. Hagy et al. C. A. 4th Cir. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 175 F. 3d 1014.
No. 99-5240. Johnson v. DeLoach, Warden, et al. C. A.11th Cir. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-5241. Jenkins, aka Wright v. United States.C. A. 3d Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 176 F. 3d 473.
No. 99-5243. Dunlap v. Colorado. Sup. Ct. Colo. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 975 P. 2d 723.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:20] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
894 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

October 4, 1999 528 U. S.
No. 99-5244. Hathaway et ux. v. Essex County, NewYork, et al. C. A. 2d Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below:
172 F. 3d 37.

No. 99-5245. Wright v. Universal Mortgage Corp. App.Ct. Ill., 2d Dist. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 298 Ill.

App. 3d 1177, 738 N. E. 2d 240.

No. 99-5246. House v. New Mexico. Sup. Ct. N. M. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 127 N. M. 151, 978 P. 2d 967.

No. 99-5247. Howington v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 176 F. 3d 492.
No. 99-5248. White v. United States. C. A. 3d Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 187 F. 3d 627.
No. 99-5249. -alencia-Gonzales v. United States. C. A.5th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 172 F. 3d 344.
No. 99-5250. Hafemeister v. United States. C. A. 11thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 166 F. 3d 353.
No. 99-5251. Davidson v. Johnson, Director, Texas De-partment of Criminal Justice, Institutional Division.
C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 180 F. 3d 260.

No. 99-5252. Burnett v. Roe, Warden, et al. C. A. 9thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 178 F. 3d 1299.

No. 99-5254. Rathfon v. Pennsylvania. Super. Ct. Pa.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 705 A. 2d 448.
No. 99-5255. Ramsey v. United States. C. A. D. C. Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 165 F. 3d 980.
No. 99-5256. Samples v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 178 F. 3d 1303.
No. 99-5257. Owens v. United States. C. A. 1st Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 167 F. 3d 739.
No. 99-5261. Makoka v. Tennessee Department ofHuman Services et al. C. A. 6th Cir. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-5262. Locklear v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 178 F. 3d 1287.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:20] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

895ORDERS
October 4, 1999528 U. S.
No. 99-5263. Jones v. Jones, Warden. C. A. 5th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 163 F. 3d 285.

No. 99-5264. Martinez v. Lensing, Warden. C. A. 5th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-5265. Jones v. California. Sup. Ct. Cal. Certio-rari denied.
No. 99-5266. Loera v. Roe, Warden, et al. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-5267. McClain v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 168 F. 3d 503.
No. 99-5268. Loss v. Ward et al.; and Loss v. UnitedStates District Court for the Western District of Michi-
gan. C. A. 6th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 178F. 3d 1295 (first judgment).

No. 99-5269. Johnson v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 165 F. 3d 21.
No. 99-5270. Musgrove v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 176 F. 3d 476.
No. 99-5271. Richardson v. United States. C. A. D. C.Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 167 F. 3d 621.
No. 99-5272. Purnell v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 174 F. 3d 202.
No. 99-5273. Schwyhart v. United States. C. A. 3d Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 187 F. 3d 627.
No. 99-5274. Storey v. Missouri. Sup. Ct. Mo. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 986 S. W. 2d 462.
No. 99-5275. Masuoka v. Hawaii et al. C. A. 9th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 173 F. 3d 861.
No. 99-5276. Salazar v. Oklahoma. Ct. Crim. App. Okla.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 973 P. 2d 315.
No. 99-5277. Smith v. Leonberger et al. C. A. 7th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 175 F. 3d 1021.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:20] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
896 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

October 4, 1999 528 U. S.
No. 99-5278. Shakur v. Hawk, Director, Federal Bureauof Prisons, et al. C. A. D. C. Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-5279. Smith v. Moore, Secretary, Florida Depart-ment of Corrections. C. A. 11th Cir. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-5280. Puckett v. Kaylo, Warden. C. A. 5th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-5281. Williamson v. Bowersox, Superintendent,Potosi Correctional Center. C. A. 8th Cir. Certiorari
denied.

No. 99-5284. Daniel v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 173 F. 3d 427.

No. 99-5285. Stroble v. United States. C. A. 10th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 173 F. 3d 865.
No. 99-5286. Rios-Garza v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 180 F. 3d 261.
No. 99-5288. Keller v. United States. C. A. 6th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-5289. McClaine v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 180 F. 3d 261.
No. 99-5290. Myles v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 180 F. 3d 262.
No. 99-5293. Jenkins v. Abrams et ux. Ct. App. Cal., 1stApp. Dist. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-5296. Spears v. United States. C. A. 7th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 159 F. 3d 1081.
No. 99-5297. Cruz v. United States. C. A. 3d Cir. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 187 F. 3d 627.
No. 99-5298. Marshall v. Alabama Disability Determi-nation Service et al. C. A. 11th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 168 F. 3d 507.

No. 99-5299. Marshall v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:20] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

897ORDERS
October 4, 1999528 U. S.
No. 99-5300. Miller v. Oklahoma. Ct. Crim. App. Okla.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 977 P. 2d 1099.

No. 99-5302. Anthony Y. v. United States. C. A. 10th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 172 F. 3d 1249.
No. 99-5303. Cooper v. California. Sup. Ct. Cal. Certio-rari denied.
No. 99-5304. Caston v. Michigan. Ct. App. Mich. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 228 Mich. App. 291, 579 N. W. 2d
368.

No. 99-5305. Sanchez v. Johnson, Director, Texas De-partment of Criminal Justice, Institutional Division.

C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-5306. Ruiz v. United States. C. A. 7th Cir. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 178 F. 3d 877.

No. 99-5307. Reed v. United States. C. A. 6th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 167 F. 3d 984.
No. 99-5308. Rickerby v. Everett, Warden. Sup. Ct. Wyo.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-5309. Loftin v. New Jersey. Sup. Ct. N. J. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 157 N. J. 253, 724 A. 2d 129.
No. 99-5310. Miller v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 929.
No. 99-5311. Lawrence v. Armontrout. C. A. 8th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-5312. Lark v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 165 F. 3d 21.
No. 99-5313. Mesa v. Johnson, Director, Texas Depart-ment of Criminal Justice, Institutional Division. C. A.
5th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 172 F. 3d 867.

No. 99-5314. Frye v. North Carolina. Gen. Ct. Justice,Super. Ct. Div., Catawba County, N. C. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-5315. Feliciano v. United States. C. A. 3d Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 187 F. 3d 627.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:20] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
898 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

October 4, 1999 528 U. S.
No. 99-5317. White v. Alaska. C. A. 9th Cir. Certioraridenied.

No. 99-5319. Fairfull v. United States District Courtfor the Middle District of Florida. C. A. 11th Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-5321. Torres v. Maloney, Commissioner, Massa-chusetts Department of Correction, et al. C. A. 1st Cir.

Certiorari denied. Reported below: 174 F. 3d 43.

No. 99-5322. Tolley v. United States. C. A. 6th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 173 F. 3d 431.

No. 99-5323. Lynn v. Department of Labor et al. C. A.3d Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 172 F. 3d 41.
No. 99-5324. Kabede v. Marshall, Warden. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-5325. Smith v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 181 F. 3d 91.
No. 99-5326. Rhodes v. Washington, Superintendent,Chillicothe Correctional Center. C. A. 8th Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-5327. Rusch v. Horn, Commissioner, PennsylvaniaDepartment of Corrections. Commw. Ct. Pa. Certiorari

denied.

No. 99-5328. Sineus v. Dormire, Superintendent, Jeffer-son City Correctional Center. C. A. 8th Cir. Certiorari

denied.

No. 99-5330. Jennings v. Gammon, Superintendent, Mo-berly Correctional Center, et al. C. A. 8th Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-5332. Battle v. United States. C. A. 7th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 175 F. 3d 1021.

No. 99-5333. Perez et al. v. General Nutrition Corp.C. A. 11th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 176 F. 3d
493.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:20] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

899ORDERS
October 4, 1999528 U. S.
No. 99-5334. Torres v. B. F. I. Waste Systems. C. A. 2dCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 173 F. 3d 846.

No. 99-5335. Gines v. United States. C. A. 10th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 166 F. 3d 1222.
No. 99-5337. Tyrone v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 181 F. 3d 96.
No. 99-5338. Gillis v. O'Brien. Sup. Ct. Wis. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 224 Wis. 2d 268, 590 N. W. 2d 492.
No. 99-5339. Graham v. Green et al. Sup. Ct. Va. Certio-rari denied.
No. 99-5340. Garrett v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 180 F. 3d 260.
No. 99-5342. Nixon v. United States. Ct. App. D. C. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 730 A. 2d 145.
No. 99-5344. Holland v. Florida. Dist. Ct. App. Fla., 4thDist. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 729 So. 2d 937.
No. 99-5345. Hooker v. Dormire, Superintendent, Jef-ferson City Correctional Center. C. A. 8th Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-5346. Hall v. United States. C. A. 6th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied.

No. 99-5347. Enriquez v. Texas. Ct. Crim. App. Tex. Cer-tiorari denied.
No. 99-5348. Truesdale et al. v. United States. C. A.4th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 161 F. 3d 5.
No. 99-5349. Young v. Dormire, Superintendent, Jeffer-son City Correctional Center. C. A. 8th Cir. Certiorari
denied.

No. 99-5351. Turner v. Hawaii. Sup. Ct. Haw. Certioraridenied.

No. 99-5352. Taylor v. Leonard, Warden. C. A. 6th Cir.Certiorari denied.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:20] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
900 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

October 4, 1999 528 U. S.
No. 99-5356. Hall v. Wella Corp. C. A. 4th Cir. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 135 F. 3d 769.

No. 99-5357. Gillam et al. v. United States. C. A. 9thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 167 F. 3d 1273.
No. 99-5358. Grace v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 168 F. 3d 502.
No. 99-5359. Harris et ux. v. Henderson, PostmasterGeneral. C. A. 6th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below:
173 F. 3d 855.

No. 99-5360. Cheuk-Yan Fung v. Stewart, Superintend-ent, McNeil Island Corrections Center. C. A. 9th Cir.

Certiorari denied.

No. 99-5361. Delpit v. United States. C. A. 8th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied.

No. 99-5363. Huettl v. Wisconsin. Sup. Ct. Wis. Certio-rari denied.
No. 99-5364. Sanders v. Rickertsen et al. C. A. 7th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 175 F. 3d 1020.
No. 99-5365. Ayers v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 180 F. 3d 262.
No. 99-5366. Battle v. Moore, Secretary, Florida De-partment of Corrections. C. A. 11th Cir. Certiorari denied.
Reported below: 180 F. 3d 268.

No. 99-5367. Nealy, aka Keys v. United States. C. A. 4thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 178 F. 3d 1288.

No. 99-5368. Lewis v. DuCharme, Superintendent, Mon-roe Correctional Complex. C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-5369. Burton v. West, Secretary of -eterans Af-fairs, et al. C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported
below: 176 F. 3d 481.

No. 99-5370. Strauss v. Taylor, Superintendent, West-ern Missouri Correctional Center. C. A. 8th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 175 F. 3d 1025.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:20] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

901ORDERS
October 4, 1999528 U. S.
No. 99-5371. Wright v. United States. C. A. 6th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 188 F. 3d 510.

No. 99-5372. Baah v. California Bureau of State Audits.C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 172 F. 3d 55.
No. 99-5374. Hart v. Superior Court of California, Ala-meda County. Ct. App. Cal., 1st App. Dist. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-5375. Humphrey v. Johnson, Director, Texas De-partment of Criminal Justice, Institutional Division.
C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-5376. Fuller, aka Sherrill v. United States.C. A. 4th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 181 F. 3d 93.

No. 99-5378. Pegues v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 185 F. 3d 871.
No. 99-5379. Sours v. United States. C. A. 10th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 173 F. 3d 865.
No. 99-5381. Pounders v. Bowersox, Superintendent, Po-tosi Correctional Center. C. A. 8th Cir. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-5382. Shabazz v. California. Ct. App. Cal., 2d App.Dist. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-5384. Smith v. Angelone, Director, Virginia De-partment of Corrections. C. A. 4th Cir. Certiorari denied.
Reported below: 173 F. 3d 852.

No. 99-5387. Taylor v. Kentucky. Sup. Ct. Ky. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 987 S. W. 2d 302.

No. 99-5388. Lane v. Russell, Warden, et al. C. A. 6thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 178 F. 3d 1295.
No. 99-5389. Mapp v. United States; andNo. 99-5632. Moore v. United States. C. A. 2d Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 170 F. 3d 328.

No. 99-5391. Francis v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 178 F. 3d 1290.

No. 99-5392. Slaughter v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 187 F. 3d 633.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:20] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
902 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

October 4, 1999 528 U. S.
No. 99-5393. Rios v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 180 F. 3d 262.

No. 99-5394. Roblyer v. Pennsylvania Department ofCorrections et al. C. A. 3d Cir. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-5396. Yasin et al. v. United States et al. C. A.3d Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 176 F. 3d 472.
No. 99-5397. Blatz v. Seabold, Warden. C. A. 6th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-5398. Wolff v. California. Ct. App. Cal., 1st App.Dist. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-5399. Bernardino v. Merit Systems ProtectionBoard. C. A. Fed. Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below:
194 F. 3d 1330.

No. 99-5400. Skaggs v. United States. C. A. 7th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied.

No. 99-5401. Parrish v. Holiday Inn. Ct. App. Neb. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 7 Neb. App. xxxii.
No. 99-5403. Brewer v. Johnson, Director, Texas De-partment of Criminal Justice, Institutional Division.
C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-5404. Williams v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied.

No. 99-5405. -aldes v. Hahn, Warden, et al. C. A. 11thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 163 F. 3d 1359.
No. 99-5406. Bekovich v. Coyle, Warden. C. A. 6th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-5407. Bell-El v. Pitcher, Warden. C. A. 6th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-5409. Curry v. Illinois. Sup. Ct. Ill. Certioraridenied.
No. 99-5411. Levy v. Superintendent of Public Schools,Fairfax County, Virginia. C. A. 4th Cir. Certiorari denied.
Reported below: 175 F. 3d 1014.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:20] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

903ORDERS
October 4, 1999528 U. S.
No. 99-5412. Maggard v. Moore, Secretary, Florida De-partment of Corrections, et al. C. A. 11th Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-5413. Anderson v. United States. C. A. 10th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 185 F. 3d 875.

No. 99-5414. Curry v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 175 F. 3d 1016.
No. 99-5415. Cooper v. Butler et al. C. A. 7th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 172 F. 3d 52.
No. 99-5416. Parchue v. California. Sup. Ct. Cal. Certio-rari denied.
No. 99-5417. Owens v. Nosker et al. C. A. 3d Cir. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 187 F. 3d 626.
No. 99-5418. Scott v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied.
No. 99-5419. Patrick v. Maryland. Ct. Sp. App. Md. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 125 Md. App. 784.
No. 99-5420. Mohemmed v. Hill, Warden, et al. C. A. 9thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 176 F. 3d 484.
No. 99-5421. Miller v. Pennsylvania. Sup. Ct. Pa. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 555 Pa. 354, 724 A. 2d 895.
No. 99-5422. Millis v. United States. C. A. 6th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 172 F. 3d 49.
No. 99-5425. Lions v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied.
No. 99-5426. Lambert v. Cain, Warden. C. A. 5th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-5427. Maile v. Trippett, Warden. C. A. 6th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-5428. Moore v. Johnson, Director, Texas Depart-ment of Criminal Justice, Institutional Division. C. A.
5th Cir. Certiorari denied.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:20] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
904 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

October 4, 1999 528 U. S.
No. 99-5429. Ayele v. Simkins Industries, Inc., et al.C. A. 2d Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 166 F. 3d 1199.

No. 99-5430. Contreras v. United States. C. A. 10th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 180 F. 3d 1204.
No. 99-5431. Clayton v. Tennessee. Ct. Crim. App. Tenn.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-5432. Taylor v. United States. C. A. 10th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 183 F. 3d 1199.
No. 99-5433. Thompson v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 177 F. 3d 981.
No. 99-5434. Wilson v. Oklahoma. Ct. Crim. App. Okla.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 983 P. 2d 448.
No. 99-5437. Thierry v. Gibson, Warden, et al. C. A. 10thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 173 F. 3d 864.
No. 99-5438. Wangboje v. United States. C. A. 3d Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 178 F. 3d 1281.
No. 99-5439. Thompson v. Alaska. Ct. App. Alaska. Cer-tiorari denied.
No. 99-5441. Czeck v. United States. C. A. 8th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 175 F. 3d 1023.
No. 99-5442. Brown v. California. Ct. App. Cal., 2d App.Dist. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-5443. Jones v. Johnson, Director, Texas Depart-ment of Criminal Justice, Institutional Division. C. A.
5th Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-5444. Bouyea v. United States. C. A. 2d Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 152 F. 3d 192.

No. 99-5448. Peterson v. United States. C. A. 7th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 175 F. 3d 1021.
No. 99-5449. Smart et al. v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 165 F. 3d 37.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:20] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

905ORDERS
October 4, 1999528 U. S.
No. 99-5450. Simpson v. Illinois. App. Ct. Ill., 4th Dist.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 297 Ill. App. 3d 1140, 737
N. E. 2d 717.

No. 99-5451. Roberts v. Davis. Sup. Ct. Nev. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 114 Nev. 1461, 970 P. 2d 1084.

No. 99-5452. Mazzarella v. United States Postal Serv-ice. C. A. Fed. Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 185
F. 3d 885.

No. 99-5453. Isby v. Duckworth, Superintendent, Cor-rectional Industrial Facility, et al. C. A. 7th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 175 F. 3d 1020.

No. 99-5454. Lawson v. Mississippi Department of Cor-rections. Sup. Ct. Miss. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-5455. Austin v. Department of the Treasury.C. A. Fed. Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 194 F. 3d
1333.

No. 99-5456. Calvin v. Johnson, Director, Texas Depart-ment of Criminal Justice, Institutional Division. C. A.

5th Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-5457. Cain v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir. Certio-rari denied.

No. 99-5458. Casapini v. United States. C. A. 2d Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-5459. Bell v. Kansas. Sup. Ct. Kan. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 266 Kan. 896, 975 P. 2d 239.
No. 99-5460. Champion v. Johnson, Director, Texas De-partment of Criminal Justice, Institutional Division.
C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-5461. Clarkson v. Illinois. App. Ct. Ill., 1st Dist.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 288 Ill. App. 3d 1099, 711

N. E. 2d 822.

No. 99-5462. Baker v. Pitzer, Warden. C. A. 6th Cir.Certiorari denied.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:20] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
906 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

October 4, 1999 528 U. S.
No. 99-5463. Pluta v. United States. C. A. 2d Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 176 F. 3d 43.

No. 99-5464. Pollock v. Brigano, Warden, et al. Ct. App.Ohio, Warren County. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 130
Ohio App. 3d 505, 720 N. E. 2d 571.

No. 99-5465. Scruggs v. McBride, Superintendent, West-ville Correctional Facility. C. A. 7th Cir. Certiorari

denied.

No. 99-5466. Page-Bey v. United States. C. A. 8th Cir.Certiorari denied.

No. 99-5468. Preston v. Hughes et al. C. A. 6th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 178 F. 3d 1295.
No. 99-5469. Brice v. United States. C. A. D. C. Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 194 F. 3d 175.
No. 99-5470. Prins v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 929.
No. 99-5471. Stewart v. Knutson et al. C. A. 5th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 174 F. 3d 530.
No. 99-5472. Arnold v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 178 F. 3d 1303.
No. 99-5473. Cole v. United States. C. A. 7th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 175 F. 3d 1021.
No. 99-5475. Bane v. Robinson et al. C. A. 4th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 165 F. 3d 910.
No. 99-5478. Stroupe v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 176 F. 3d 476.
No. 99-5479. Gardner v. Moore, Secretary, Florida De-partment of Corrections. C. A. 11th Cir. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-5480. Farr v. Wisconsin. Ct. App. Wis. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 224 Wis. 2d 641, 590 N. W. 2d 281.
No. 99-5481. Gauvin v. United States. C. A. 10th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 173 F. 3d 798.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:20] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

907ORDERS
October 4, 1999528 U. S.
No. 99-5482. Ernest v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir.Certiorari denied.

No. 99-5483. Edwards v. United States. C. A. 7th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 175 F. 3d 1021.
No. 99-5484. Galbreath v. Wear et al. Sup. Ct. Ala.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 768 So. 2d 428.
No. 99-5485. Gomez, aka Izquierdo v. United States.C. A. 11th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 164 F. 3d
1354.

No. 99-5486. Doke v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 171 F. 3d 240.

No. 99-5487. Hawkins v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 176 F. 3d 476.
No. 99-5488. Graham v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 184 F. 3d 822.
No. 99-5491. Hucks v. United States;No. 99-5586. Martinez v. United States;
No. 99-5664. Gomez v. United States; andNo. 99-5724. Agudelo v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir.
Certiorari denied. Reported below: 178 F. 3d 1286.

No. 99-5492. Easton v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 180 F. 3d 261.

No. 99-5493. Long v. United States. C. A. 8th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 175 F. 3d 1026.
No. 99-5494. Kaschenbach v. Maryland. Ct. Sp. App. Md.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 123 Md. App. 791.
No. 99-5495. Miller v. Walter, Superintendent, AirwayHeights Corrections Center, et al. C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 156 F. 3d 1238.

No. 99-5496. Lathan v. Stubblefield, Superintendent,Missouri Eastern Correctional Center. C. A. 8th Cir.

Certiorari denied.

No. 99-5497. Adkism et al. v. United States. C. A. 5thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 180 F. 3d 264.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:20] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
908 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

October 4, 1999 528 U. S.
No. 99-5498. Anderson v. Johnson, Director, Texas De-partment of Criminal Justice, Institutional Division.
C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-5499. Ashworth v. Ohio. Sup. Ct. Ohio. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 85 Ohio St. 3d 56, 706 N. E. 2d 1231.

No. 99-5500. Brooks v. Bunch et al. C. A. 4th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 173 F. 3d 849.
No. 99-5501. Brown v. Cain, Warden. C. A. 5th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied.
No. 99-5504. Williams v. Texas. Ct. App. Tex., 4th Dist.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 974 S. W. 2d 324.
No. 99-5505. Braxton v. Maryland. C. A. 4th Cir. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 175 F. 3d 1013.
No. 99-5506. Ashley v. Kemna, Superintendent, Cross-roads Correctional Center, et al. C. A. 8th Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-5507. Apampa v. Layng et al. C. A. 7th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 157 F. 3d 1103.

No. 99-5509. Alston v. New York. App. Div., Sup. Ct. N. Y.,2d Jud. Dept. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 249 App. Div.
2d 404, 670 N. Y. S. 2d 796.

No. 99-5510. Burnette v. United States. C. A. 6th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 170 F. 3d 567.

No. 99-5511. Alvarez-Rodriguez v. United States. C. A.9th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 162 F. 3d 1170.
No. 99-5512. Brown v. Briick et al. C. A. 7th Cir. Certio-rari denied.
No. 99-5513. Anderson v. Stubblefield, Superintendent,Missouri Eastern Correctional Center. C. A. 8th Cir.
Certiorari denied.

No. 99-5514. Cooper v. Johnson, Director, Texas Depart-ment of Criminal Justice, Institutional Division. C. A.

5th Cir. Certiorari denied.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:20] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

909ORDERS
October 4, 1999528 U. S.
No. 99-5515. Alaniz-Alaniz v. California. Ct. App. Cal.,2d App. Dist. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-5516. Taylor v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-5518. Johnson v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 172 F. 3d 864.
No. 99-5519. Robinson v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-5521. Holman v. North Carolina. Sup. Ct. N. C.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 350 N. C. 86, 511 S. E. 2d
305.

No. 99-5522. Gray v. United States. C. A. 8th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 175 F. 3d 617.

No. 99-5523. Eesley v. Wisconsin. Sup. Ct. Wis. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 225 Wis. 2d 248, 591 N. W. 2d 846.
No. 99-5524. Gilbert v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-5527. Jean-Pierre v. United States. C. A. 2d Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 173 F. 3d 847.
No. 99-5529. Johnson v. Christopher et al. C. A. 3d Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 903.
No. 99-5530. Lawson v. United States. C. A. 8th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 173 F. 3d 666.
No. 99-5532. Aysisayh v. Moore, Secretary, Florida De-partment of Corrections, et al. Dist. Ct. App. Fla., 3d Dist.
Certiorari denied. Reported below: 740 So. 2d 545.

No. 99-5533. Coleman v. United States. Ct. App. D. C.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 728 A. 2d 1230.

No. 99-5534. Chee v. United States. C. A. 10th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 173 F. 3d 864.
No. 99-5536. Barnes v. United States. C. A. D. C. Cir.Certiorari denied.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:20] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
910 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

October 4, 1999 528 U. S.
No. 99-5537. -aldes v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 181 F. 3d 108.

No. 99-5538. Lee v. United States. C. A. Fed. Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 173 F. 3d 434.
No. 99-5541. Nogueras v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 176 F. 3d 492.
No. 99-5547. Truax v. Texas. Ct. App. Tex., 13th Dist.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-5548. Wofford v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-5550. Byrd v. Texas. Ct. Crim. App. Tex. Certio-rari denied.
No. 99-5551. Surratt v. United States. C. A. 8th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 172 F. 3d 559.
No. 99-5552. Smith v. United States. C. A. 1st Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 178 F. 3d 22.
No. 99-5553. Reyes v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 178 F. 3d 1301.
No. 99-5554. Rangel-Silva v. United States. C. A. 5thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 178 F. 3d 1291.
No. 99-5556. Conyers v. Maryland. Ct. App. Md. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 354 Md. 132, 729 A. 2d 910.
No. 99-5562. Necochea v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 169 F. 3d 1188.
No. 99-5570. Davis v. International Management Groupet al. C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 173
F. 3d 859.

No. 99-5571. Hayes v. United States. C. A. 8th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied.

No. 99-5572. Hernandez-Soto, aka Gonzalez-Hernandezv. United States. C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported
below: 180 F. 3d 264.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:20] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

911ORDERS
October 4, 1999528 U. S.
No. 99-5574. Hall v. United States. C. A. 2d Cir. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 181 F. 3d 83.

No. 99-5576. Walker v. New York. Sup. Ct. N. Y., QueensCounty. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-5577. Pitts v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 176 F. 3d 239.
No. 99-5579. Ortega-Torres v. United States. C. A. 11thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 174 F. 3d 1199.
No. 99-5580. Knox v. Louisiana. Ct. App. La., 4th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 731 So. 2d 558.
No. 99-5582. Bowler v. Massachusetts. App. Ct. Mass.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 46 Mass. App. 1108, 707 N. E.
2d 406.

No. 99-5587. Jackson v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 184 F. 3d 824.

No. 99-5588. Moosavi v. Evans. C. A. 4th Cir. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 181 F. 3d 89.
No. 99-5589. Moosavi v. Zook, Director of Zoning Admin-istration, Zoning Enforcement Branch. C. A. 4th Cir.
Certiorari denied. Reported below: 181 F. 3d 89.

No. 99-5591. Quadros v. United States. C. A. 1st Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 177 F. 3d 76.

No. 99-5594. Tobin v. Board of Education, City of Buf-falo. C. A. 2d Cir. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-5595. Cabel v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 178 F. 3d 1286.
No. 99-5596. Adams v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 176 F. 3d 793.
No. 99-5598. Baker v. Barbo, Administrator, NorthernState Prison, et al. C. A. 3d Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 177 F. 3d 149.

No. 99-5600. Bilis v. United States. C. A. 1st Cir. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 170 F. 3d 88.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:20] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
912 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

October 4, 1999 528 U. S.
No. 99-5601. Marsh v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 177 F. 3d 978.

No. 99-5602. Rrapi v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 175 F. 3d 742.
No. 99-5603. Webb v. West, Secretary of -eterans Af-fairs. C. A. Fed. Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 215
F. 3d 1342.

No. 99-5605. Weldon v. Everett, Warden. Sup. Ct. Wyo.Certiorari denied.

No. 99-5609. Caldwell v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 172 F. 3d 864.
No. 99-5611. Green v. Merit Systems Protection Board.C. A. Fed. Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 194 F. 3d
1330.

No. 99-5612. Faulkner v. United States. C. A. 6th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 181 F. 3d 104.

No. 99-5613. Szabo v. United States. C. A. 7th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 176 F. 3d 930.
No. 99-5615. Espinoza Angiano v. United States. C. A.9th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 185 F. 3d 869.
No. 99-5620. Rodriguez-Varela v. United States. C. A.9th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 929.
No. 99-5621. Burgess v. Oregon Board of Parole andPost-Prison Supervision. Ct. App. Ore. Certiorari denied.
Reported below: 159 Ore. App. 426, 979 P. 2d 315.

No. 99-5623. Bryant v. Johnson, Director, Texas Depart-ment of Criminal Justice, Institutional Division. C. A.

5th Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-5627. Price v. Ryder System, Inc., et al. C. A. 5thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 177 F. 3d 978.

No. 99-5629. Parson v. United States; andNo. 99-5646. Parson v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir.
Certiorari denied. Reported below: 181 F. 3d 107.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:20] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

913ORDERS
October 4, 1999528 U. S.
No. 99-5631. Jenkins v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 178 F. 3d 1287.

No. 99-5634. Jenkins v. United States. C. A. 10th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 175 F. 3d 1208.
No. 99-5635. Jolliff v. Bowersox, Superintendent, Po-tosi Correctional Center. C. A. 8th Cir. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-5636. Mayes v. Dormire, Superintendent, Jeffer-son City Correctional Center, et al. C. A. 8th Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-5640. Ford v. United States. C. A. 8th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied.

No. 99-5643. -asquez-Alvarez v. United States. C. A.10th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 176 F. 3d 1294.
No. 99-5644. Workman v. Bell, Warden. C. A. 6th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 178 F. 3d 759.
No. 99-5647. Counce v. United States District Court forthe Central District of California. C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-5650. Word v. United States. C. A. 6th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 181 F. 3d 105.

No. 99-5651. Weaver v. Arkansas. Ct. App. Ark. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 66 Ark. App. 249, 990 S. W. 2d 572.
No. 99-5653. Hock v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 172 F. 3d 676.
No. 99-5655. Harrell v. United States. C. A. 6th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 181 F. 3d 104.
No. 99-5657. Nieves v. Kelly, Superintendent, AtticaCorrectional Facility. C. A. 2d Cir. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-5661. Teal v. United States. C. A. 6th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied.
No. 99-5665. Hedges v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 175 F. 3d 1312.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:20] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
914 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

October 4, 1999 528 U. S.
No. 99-5666. Thomas v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 181 F. 3d 94.

No. 99-5668. Taylor v. United States. Ct. App. D. C.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-5669. Saleem v. United States Court of Appealsfor the Sixth Circuit. C. A. 6th Cir. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-5671. Broeske v. United States. C. A. 7th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 178 F. 3d 887.
No. 99-5672. Barbee v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 929.
No. 99-5673. Tiffany v. Roeder, Sheriff, Greene County,Iowa, et al. C. A. 8th Cir. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-5675. Joseph v. United States. C. A. D. C. Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 169 F. 3d 9.
No. 99-5677. Lewitzke v. United States. C. A. 7th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 176 F. 3d 1022.
No. 99-5678. Mason v. Corcoran, Warden, et al. C. A.4th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 173 F. 3d 851.
No. 99-5679. Leese v. United States. C. A. 3d Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 176 F. 3d 740.
No. 99-5682. v. United States Postal Service.C. A. 2d Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 181 F. 3d 83.
No. 99-5683. Robinson v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 176 F. 3d 476.
No. 99-5684. Schulte v. United States. C. A. 6th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 181 F. 3d 105.
No. 99-5688. Grigger v. New York. App. Div., Sup. Ct.N. Y., 2d Jud. Dept. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 244
App. Div. 2d 501, 665 N. Y. S. 2d 570.

No. 99-5691. Freeman v. Cowan, Warden. C. A. 7th Cir.Certiorari denied.

No. 99-5694. Hobbs v. United States. C. A. D. C. Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 194 F. 3d 175.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:20] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

915ORDERS
October 4, 1999528 U. S.
No. 99-5700. Brown v. Federal Trade Commission. C. A.4th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 178 F. 3d 1282.

No. 99-5703. Senger v. Barbo, Administrator, NorthernState Prison, et al. C. A. 3d Cir. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-5704. Arnold, aka Pitts v. United States. C. A.5th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 178 F. 3d 1291.
No. 99-5706. Mann v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 181 F. 3d 109.
No. 99-5707. Loudermilk v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 929.
No. 99-5708. Lopez-Carvajal v. United States. C. A. 9thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 929.
No. 99-5709. Johnson v. United States. C. A. 8th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 187 F. 3d 644.
No. 99-5711. Stone v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 172 F. 3d 865.
No. 99-5714. Diaz v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 178 F. 3d 1301.
No. 99-5717. Tyler v. Schriro, Director, Missouri De-partment of Corrections. Sup. Ct. Mo. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-5718. Tyler v. Schriro, Director, Missouri De-partment of Corrections. Sup. Ct. Mo. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-5719. Brown v. Apfel, Commissioner of SocialSecurity. C. A. 7th Cir. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-5721. Gwin v. Tennessee. Sup. Ct. Tenn. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 995 S. W. 2d 78.
No. 99-5723. Sealed Petitioner v. United States. C. A.D. C. Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 194 F. 3d 175.
No. 99-5725. Ryan v. United States. C. A. 3d Cir. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 178 F. 3d 1281.
No. 99-5726. Springer v. United States. C. A. 3d Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 905.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:21] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
916 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

October 4, 1999 528 U. S.
No. 99-5731. -iray v. Department of the Navy. Ct. App.Cal., 4th App. Dist. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-5732. Rucker v. Henderson, Postmaster General.C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 178 F. 3d
1300.

No. 99-5733. Johnson v. Supreme Court of Illinois et al.C. A. 7th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 165 F. 3d

1140.

No. 99-5734. Jones v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 928.

No. 99-5735. Cleveland v. Middleton, Warden, et al.C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-5736. Wade v. United States. C. A. 8th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 177 F. 3d 688.
No. 99-5740. Bruce v. United States. C. A. 8th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied.
No. 99-5759. Johnson v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 178 F. 3d 1287.
No. 99-5761. McCray v. Warden, Maryland House ofCorrection Annex, et al. C. A. 4th Cir. Certiorari denied.
Reported below: 181 F. 3d 89.

No. 99-5762. Martinez v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 929.

No. 99-5763. Lopez v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 165 F. 3d 21.
No. 99-5768. Washington v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 913.
No. 99-5769. Timley v. United States. C. A. 10th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 188 F. 3d 520.
No. 99-5775. Capaldi v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 928.
No. 99-5776. Adams v. Moore, Secretary, Florida De-partment of Corrections. Dist. Ct. App. Fla., 2d Dist. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 748 So. 2d 1041.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:21] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

917ORDERS
October 4, 1999528 U. S.
No. 99-5777. Brentwood v. Boeing Co. C. A. 9th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 168 F. 3d 498.

No. 99-5778. Ayers v. United States. C. A. 6th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied.
No. 99-5781. Murray v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 176 F. 3d 476.
No. 99-5786. Acosta-Torres v. United States. C. A. 9thCir. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-5790. Jackson v. United States. Ct. App. D. C.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-5791. Newsome v. Equal Employment Oppor-tunity Commission et al. C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied.
Reported below: 182 F. 3d 915.

No. 99-5795. -illaman-Rodriguez v. United States.C. A. 1st Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 167 F. 3d 687.

No. 99-5797. Sainz-Ibarra v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 185 F. 3d 870.
No. 99-5801. Stonner v. United States. C. A. 2d Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 165 F. 3d 16.
No. 99-5804. Reed v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 181 F. 3d 94.
No. 99-5805. Moore v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 929.
No. 99-5806. Lomas v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 184 F. 3d 818.
No. 99-5807. Mitchell v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 177 F. 3d 236.
No. 99-5808. Baker v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 181 F. 3d 96.
No. 99-5809. Caldwell v. United States. C. A. 6th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 176 F. 3d 898.
No. 99-5810. Carlin v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 928.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:21] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
918 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

October 4, 1999 528 U. S.
No. 99-5816. Jennings v. United States. C. A. 3d Cir.Certiorari denied.

No. 99-5819. Thomas v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 168 F. 3d 484.
No. 99-5821. Garrett v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-5823. Dickerson v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-5827. Gerth v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 173 F. 3d 852.
No. 99-5830. Sanjurjo v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 176 F. 3d 493.
No. 99-5832. Saunders v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 178 F. 3d 1288.
No. 99-5834. Critton v. Moore, Secretary, Florida De-partment of Corrections, et al. C. A. 11th Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-5835. Gross-Bey v. Sizer, Warden, et al. C. A. 4thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 178 F. 3d 1283.

No. 99-5836. Hunt v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 170 F. 3d 186.
No. 99-5837. Hicks v. United States. C. A. 6th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied.
No. 99-5838. Hill v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 176 F. 3d 492.
No. 99-5839. Haley v. Senkowski, Superintendent, Clin-ton Correctional Facility. C. A. 2d Cir. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-5845. Frederick v. Brigano, Warden. C. A. 6thCir. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-5854. Okafor v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-5855. Pri-Har v. United States. C. A. 2d Cir. Cer-tiorari denied.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:21] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

919ORDERS
October 4, 1999528 U. S.
No. 99-5858. Fortt v. United States. C. A. 3d Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 904.

No. 99-5864. Guanipa v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-5866. DeWitt v. United States. C. A. 8th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-5868. Fletcher v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 165 F. 3d 20.
No. 99-5875. Edwards v. United States. C. A. 3d Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-5876. Hames v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-5878. Recinos v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 173 F. 3d 862.
No. 99-5879. Perez v. United States. C. A. 2d Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 902.
No. 99-5882. Traylor v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 184 F. 3d 816.
No. 99-5883. -ee Choong Chin v. United States. C. A.4th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 181 F. 3d 92.
No. 99-5888. Wright v. United States. C. A. 3d Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 905.
No. 99-5890. -anoli v. Washington. Ct. App. Wash. Cer-tiorari denied.
No. 99-5895. Mendez v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 189 F. 3d 486.
No. 99-5896. Munsterman v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 177 F. 3d 1139.
No. 99-5897. Jackson v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 172 F. 3d 60.
No. 99-5899. Ingrati v. United States. C. A. 3d Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 175 F. 3d 1011.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:21] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
920 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

October 4, 1999 528 U. S.
No. 99-5901. Mathis v. United States. C. A. 6th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 173 F. 3d 857.

No. 99-5902. McCullough v. Norris, Director, ArkansasDepartment of Correction. C. A. 8th Cir. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-5903. King v. United States Court of Appeals forthe Eighth Circuit. C. A. 8th Cir. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-5904. Martinson v. United States. C. A. 3d Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-5905. Tineo v. United States. C. A. 7th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied.
No. 99-5906. Telemaque v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 166 F. 3d 351.
No. 99-5908. Weatherspoon v. North Dakota. Sup. Ct.N. D. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-5910. Solis v. United States. C. A. 6th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied.
No. 99-5911. Zelaya-Amaya v. United States. Ct. App.D. C. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-5912. Borgmann v. Anderson, Warden. C. A. 6thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 181 F. 3d 99.
No. 99-5913. August v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-5919. Newland v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 185 F. 3d 871.
No. 99-5920. Gibbs v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 185 F. 3d 870.
No. 99-5922. Hansel v. Ohio. Ct. App. Ohio, Stark County.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-5923. Gambrell v. United States. C. A. 7th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 178 F. 3d 927.
No. 99-5924. Dixon v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 181 F. 3d 92.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:21] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

921ORDERS
October 4, 1999528 U. S.
No. 99-5926. Solis v. United States. C. A. 6th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied.

No. 99-5927. Sherbak v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-5933. Woodard v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 181 F. 3d 92.
No. 99-5934. Williams v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-5939. Glenn v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 177 F. 3d 981.
No. 99-5940. Goode v. United States. C. A. 6th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 919.
No. 99-5944. Long v. United States. C. A. 10th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 176 F. 3d 1304.
No. 99-5950. Long v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 187 F. 3d 632.
No. 99-5952. Spitzauer v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 176 F. 3d 486.
No. 99-5957. Araujo v. United States. C. A. 7th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied.
No. 99-5965. Lewis v. United States; andNo. 99-5966. Lewis v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 914.

No. 99-5972. Palmer v. United States. Ct. App. D. C.Certiorari denied.

No. 98-1716. Kotterman et al. v. Killian, Director, Ari-zona Department of Revenue, et al. Sup. Ct. Ariz. Motion
of National School Boards Association for leave to file a brief asamicus curiae granted. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 193
Ariz. 273, 972 P. 2d 606.

No. 98-1748. Lay, dba Wintergreen Nurseries, et al. v.E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Co. et al. C. A. 11th Cir. Certiorari denied. Justice O'Connor took no part in the consider-ation or decision of this petition. Reported below: 162 F. 3d 619.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:21] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
922 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

October 4, 1999 528 U. S.
No. 98-1789. Phonometrics, Inc. v. International Busi-ness Machines. C. A. Fed. Cir. Certiorari denied. Justice
Stevens took no part in the consideration or decision of thispetition. Reported below: 185 F. 3d 882.

No. 98-1796. Conseco Annuity Assurance Co. v. Trostelet al. C. A. 8th Cir. Certiorari denied. Justice Breyer took
no part in the consideration or decision of this petition. Reportedbelow: 168 F. 3d 1105.

No. 99-143. Manufacturers Bank v. Amoco Oil Co. C. A.7th Cir. Certiorari denied. Justice Breyer took no part in
the consideration or decision of this petition. Reported below:170 F. 3d 692.

No. 99-195. A. B. Chance Co. v. Enfield, By and ThroughHis Conservator and Natural Mother, Enfield. C. A. 10th
Cir. Certiorari denied. Justice Breyer took no part in theconsideration or decision of this petition. Reported below: 182
F. 3d 931.

No. 99-5674. Macholl v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied. Justice Breyer took no part in the consideration or decision of this petition. Reported below: 176 F. 3d 485.

No. 98-1908. Professional Divers of New Orleans v.Wisner. Sup. Ct. La. Motion of Halliburton Energy Services,

Inc., for leave to file a brief as amicus curiae granted. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 731 So. 2d 200.

No. 98-1910. Pennsylvania v. Allen. Sup. Ct. Pa. Motionof respondent for leave to proceed in forma pauperis granted.
Certiorari denied. Reported below: 555 Pa. 522, 725 A. 2d 737.

No. 98-1931. Calderon, Warden v. Bean. C. A. 9th Cir.Motion of respondent for leave to proceed in forma pauperis

granted. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 163 F. 3d 1073.

No. 99-41. Washington v. Finch. Sup. Ct. Wash. Motionof respondent for leave to proceed in forma pauperis granted.

Certiorari denied. Reported below: 137 Wash. 2d 792, 975 P. 2d967.

No. 98-2001. Assa'ad-Faltas v. University of South Car-olina et al.; and Assa'ad-Faltas v. Attorney General of

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:21] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

923ORDERS
October 4, 1999528 U. S.
-irginia et al. C. A. 4th Cir. Motion of petitioner to consoli-date this case with No. 98-1189, Board of Regents of the University of Wisconsin System v. Southworth et al. [certiorari granted,526 U. S. 1038], denied. Motion of petitioner to strike the brief in
opposition and other relief denied. Certiorari denied. JusticeSouter took no part in the consideration or decision of these
motions and this petition. Reported below: 165 F. 3d 910 (firstjudgment); 164 F. 3d 623 (second judgment).

No. 98-2004. Ringling Bros.-Barnum & Bailey CombinedShows, Inc. v. Utah Division of Travel Development. C. A.
4th Cir. Motion of Revlon Consumer Products Corp. et al. forleave to file a brief as amici curiae granted. Certiorari denied.
Reported below: 170 F. 3d 449.

No. 98-2052. Fenton et al. v. Unihealth America, Inc.,et al. Ct. App. Cal., 2d App. Dist. Motion of American Academy of Emergency Medicine et al. for leave to file a brief asamici curiae granted. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-81. Pulse Communications, Inc. v. DSC Communi-cations Corp. C. A. Fed. Cir. Motion of Computer and Communications Industry Association for leave to file a brief as ami-cus curiae granted. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 170
F. 3d 1354.

No. 99-132. Mulligan v. Associates Leasing, Inc., et al.C. A. 4th Cir. Motion of Fred W. Allnutt, Sr., for leave to intervene denied. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-267. Keyerleber v. Champion InternationalCorp. C. A. 6th Cir. Motion of Association of Trial Lawyers of

America et al. for leave to file a brief as amici curiae granted.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 178 F. 3d 1294.

No. 99-5196. Filiaggi v. Ohio. Sup. Ct. Ohio. Motion ofpetitioner to defer consideration of petition for writ of certiorari
denied. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 85 Ohio St. 3d 1443,708 N. E. 2d 209.

Rehearing Denied

No. 98-619. Jonas v. Briggs, Executrix of the Estate ofMorey, Deceased, 525 U. S. 1041;

No. 98-1233. Chavis v. United States, 526 U. S. 1006;

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:21] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
924 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

October 4, 8, 12, 1999 528 U. S.
No. 98-1900. Azamber v. Franchise Tax Board of Cali-fornia, 527 U. S. 1039;
No. 98-8624. Council v. United States, 526 U. S. 1080;No. 98-8893. Couch v. Georgia, 527 U. S. 1007;
No. 98-9099. Fisher et ux. v. Sunkist Growers, 527 U. S.1040; and
No. 98-9224. Raines v. United States, 526 U. S. 1164. Peti-tions for rehearing denied.

No. 98-1855. Gibson v. Slater, Secretary of Transporta-tion, 527 U. S. 1023. Motion of petitioner for leave to proceed
further herein in forma pauperis granted. Motion for leave tofile petition for rehearing denied.

October 8, 1999Miscellaneous Order
No. 99A241 (99-451). Lewis, Warden, et al. v. Garcia Del-gado. C. A. 9th Cir. Motion for reconsideration of stay entered
September 27, 1999 [527 U. S. 1066], denied.

October 12, 1999
Dismissal Under Rule 46

No. 98-1915. Catapult Entertainment, Inc. v. Perlman.C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari dismissed under this Court's Rule 46.1.

Reported below: 165 F. 3d 747.
Miscellaneous Orders. (See also No. 98-9913, ante, p. 1; Nos.98-9933 and 99-5445, ante, p. 3; No. 99-5260, ante, p. 5;

No. 99-5283, ante, p. 7; and No. 99-5316, ante, p. 9.)
No. D-2087. In re Disbarment of Peek. Disbarment en-tered. [For earlier order herein, see 527 U. S. 1020.]

No. D-2089. In re Disbarment of Raphael. Disbarmententered. [For earlier order herein, see 527 U. S. 1032.]
No. D-2091. In re Disbarment of Turtletaub. Disbar-ment entered. [For earlier order herein, see 527 U. S. 1053.]
No. D-2092. In re Disbarment of Lewis. Disbarment en-tered. [For earlier order herein, see 527 U. S. 1053.]

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:21] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

925ORDERS
October 12, 1999528 U. S.
No. D-2093. In re Disbarment of Bykofsky. Disbarmententered. [For earlier order herein, see 527 U. S. 1053.]

No. D-2094. In re Disbarment of Ondeck. Disbarmententered. [For earlier order herein, see 527 U. S. 1053.]
No. D-2096. In re Disbarment of Durie. Disbarment en-tered. [For earlier order herein, see 527 U. S. 1053.]
No. D-2097. In re Disbarment of Wilkes. Disbarmententered. [For earlier order herein, see 527 U. S. 1053.]
No. D-2106. In re Disbarment of Pipes. Richard AlanPipes, of Upper Tumon, Guam, is suspended from the practice of
law in this Court, and a rule will issue, returnable within 40 days,requiring him to show cause why he should not be disbarred from
the practice of law in this Court.

No. D-2107. In re Disbarment of Buckley. F. Mac Buck-ley, of Hartford, Conn., is suspended from the practice of law in

this Court, and a rule will issue, returnable within 40 days, re-quiring him to show cause why he should not be disbarred from
the practice of law in this Court.

No. D-2108. In re Disbarment of Passalacqua. RichardM. Passalacqua, of Framingham, Mass., is suspended from the

practice of law in this Court, and a rule will issue, returnablewithin 40 days, requiring him to show cause why he should not
be disbarred from the practice of law in this Court.

No. 99M28. Torain v. Siemens Rolm Communications, Inc.;No. 99M29. Carpenter v. White, Warden;

No. 99M30. Sherrill v. Pico;No. 99M 31. Sh errill v. Arizona Regist rar o f
Contractors;No. 99M33. Barrios v. Goux Enterprises, Inc.; and

No. 99M34. Pierson v. Wilshire Terrace Corp. et al.Motions to direct the Clerk to file petitions for writs of certiorari
out of time denied.

No. 99M32. Munoz v. Texas. Motion for leave to proceed informa pauperis without an affidavit of indigency executed by

petitioner denied.

No. 65, Orig. Texas v. New Mexico. Motion of the RiverMaster for fees and reimbursement of expenses granted, and the

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:21] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
926 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

October 12, 1999 528 U. S.
River Master is awarded a total of $3,189.83 for the period April1 through June 30, 1999, to be paid equally by the parties. [For
earlier order herein, see, e. g., 526 U. S. 1085.]

No. 98-1170. Portuondo, Superintendent, Fishkill Cor-rectional Facility v. Agard. C. A. 2d Cir. [Certiorari

granted, 526 U. S. 1016.] Motion for appointment of counselgranted, and it is ordered that Beverly Van Ness, Esq., of New
York, N. Y., be appointed to serve as counsel for respondent inthis case.

No. 99-5542. Reiman v. Wagstaff et al. C. A. 9th Cir.;No. 99-5932. Rosenberg v. Bush et al. C. A. D. C. Cir.;
andNo. 99-6033. In re -eneri. Motions of petitioners for leave
to proceed in forma pauperis denied. See this Court's Rule 39.8.Petitioners are allowed until November 2, 1999, within which to
pay the docketing fees required by Rule 38(a) and to submit peti-tions in compliance with Rule 33.1 of the Rules of this Court.

No. 99-5925. Henley v. State Bar of Georgia. Sup. Ct.Ga. Motion of petitioner for leave to proceed in forma pauperis
denied. Petitioner is allowed until November 2, 1999, withinwhich to pay the docketing fee required by Rule 38(a) and to
submit a petition in compliance with Rule 33.1 of the Rules ofthis Court.

No. 99-5884. In re Cornell; andNo. 99-5918. In re Kwasigroch. Petitions for writs of mandamus denied.

No. 99-5667. In re Sanders. Petition for writ of mandamusand/or prohibition denied.

Certiorari Granted

No. 98-1991. Public Lands Council et al. v. Babbitt, Sec-retary of the Interior, et al. C. A. 10th Cir. Certiorari

granted. Reported below: 167 F. 3d 1287.

No. 99-166. United States v. Hubbell. C. A. D. C. Cir.Certiorari granted. Reported below: 167 F. 3d 552.

No. 98-1167. Christensen et al. v. Harris County et al.C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari granted limited to the following ques528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:21] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

927ORDERS
October 12, 1999528 U. S.
tion: "Whether a public agency governed by the compensatorytime provisions of the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938, 29
U. S. C. $ 207(o), may, absent a preexisting agreement, require itsemployees to use accrued compensatory time?" Reported below:
158 F. 3d 241.

No. 98-9349. Bond v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir. Mo-tion of petitioner for leave to proceed in forma pauperis granted.

Certiorari granted limited to Question 1 presented by the peti-tion. Reported below: 167 F. 3d 225.

Certiorari Denied

No. 98-1713. Arkansas v. Mazepink. Sup. Ct. Ark. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 336 Ark. 171, 987 S. W. 2d 648.

No. 98-1886. Mayor and City Council of Baltimore v.One 1995 Corvette VIN #1G1YY220585103433. Ct. App. Md.
Certiorari denied. Reported below: 353 Md. 114, 724 A. 2d 680.

No. 98-1933. Aztec General Agency v. Federal DepositInsurance Corporation. C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied.

Reported below: 158 F. 3d 584.

No. 98-8272. Wippert v. Texas. Ct. App. Tex., 5th Dist.Certiorari denied.

No. 98-9273. White v. Gibson, Warden, et al. Ct. Crim.App. Okla. Certiorari denied.
No. 98-9377. v. Texas. Ct. Crim. App. Tex. Certio-rari denied.
No. 98-9595. Wilkerson v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 173 F. 3d 427.
No. 98-9721. Middleton v. Nevada. Sup. Ct. Nev. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 114 Nev. 1089, 968 P. 2d 296.
No. 98-9793. Akintobi et al. v. United States. C. A. 9thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 159 F. 3d 401.
No. 99-20. Robinson, Plan Administrator of the Land-mark Insurance Group Plan, et al. v. Clock Tower Place
Investments, Ltd., et al. C. A. 4th Cir. Certiorari denied.Reported below: 175 F. 3d 1013.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:21] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
928 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

October 12, 1999 528 U. S.
No. 99-34. Yankton Sioux Tribe v. United States. C. A.8th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 187 F. 3d 645.

No. 99-44. Paradissiotis v. Summers, Secretary of theTreasury, et al. C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported
below: 171 F. 3d 983.

No. 99-59. New Mexico Taxation and Revenue Depart-ment v. Ramah Navajo School Board, Inc., et al.; and

No. 99-228. Ramah Navajo School Board, Inc., et al. v.New Mexico Taxation and Revenue Department. Ct. App.
N. M. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 127 N. M. 101, 977 P.2d 1021.

No. 99-65. Feldman v. Chung Wu Ho et al. C. A. 7th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 171 F. 3d 494.
No. 99-71. Kostmayer et al. v. Department of the Treas-ury et al. C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below:
178 F. 3d 1291.

No. 99-75. Kaplan v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 171 F. 3d 1351.

No. 99-80. Callahan v. Suffolk County Department ofSocial Services. Ct. App. N. Y. Certiorari denied. Reported
below: 93 N. Y. 2d 111, 710 N. E. 2d 1079.

No. 99-86. Wheeling & Lake Erie Railway Co. v. Penn-sylvania Public Utility Commission et al.; and

No. 99-234. Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission etal. v. Wheeling & Lake Erie Railway Co. C. A. 3d Cir.
Certiorari denied. Reported below: 141 F. 3d 88.

No. 99-99. State Line Hotel, Inc. v. Buddensick. Ct.App. Utah. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 972 P. 2d 928.

No. 99-104. County of Hawaii v. Anderson. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 176 F. 3d 1231.
No. 99-106. Fraternal Order of Police v. United States.C. A. D. C. Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 173 F. 3d
898.

No. 99-107. Lundell v. Watkins et ux. C. A. 8th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 169 F. 3d 540.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:21] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

929ORDERS
October 12, 1999528 U. S.
No. 99-111. Mikel et ux. v. Allen et al. Sup. Ct. Va.Certiorari denied.

No. 99-154. Pennsylvania Department of Revenue etal. v. Newman et al. Sup. Ct. Pa. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 556 Pa. 289, 728 A. 2d 351.

No. 99-189. Kansas v. Garza. Ct. App. Kan. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 26 Kan. App. 2d 426, 991 P. 2d 905.

No. 99-193. Parrish et al. v. Nikolits, Property Ap-praiser of Palm Beach County. C. A. 11th Cir. Certiorari
denied. Reported below: 170 F. 3d 188.

No. 99-198. Evans, Conservator of Evans v. LederleLaboratories et al. C. A. 7th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 167 F. 3d 1106.

No. 99-199. Emery v. City of Toledo et al. C. A. 6th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 178 F. 3d 1294.

No. 99-202. Smith v. Centra Benefit Services, Inc. C. A.5th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 177 F. 3d 979.
No. 99-204. Malley v. Keenan, United States DistrictJudge for the Southern District of New York. C. A. 2d
Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-207. Gomez, Director, California Department ofCorrections, et al. v. Hart. C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari denied.

Reported below: 174 F. 3d 1067.

No. 99-212. Bergendahl, Administratrix of the Estateof Bergendahl, Deceased v. Massachusetts Electric Co.

App. Ct. Mass. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 45 Mass.App. 715, 701 N. E. 2d 656.

No. 99-214. Greene et al. v. Ham. Sup. Ct. Conn. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 248 Conn. 508, 729 A. 2d 740.
No. 99-215. Casey et al. v. Retirement Board of theRhode Island Employees' Retirement System et al. C. A.
1st Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 172 F. 3d 22.

No. 99-217. Hoffmann v. Twamley et al. C. A. 8th Cir.Certiorari denied.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:21] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
930 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

October 12, 1999 528 U. S.
No. 99-226. Young v. Gregoire, Attorney General ofWashington. C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-227. Brooks v. Bodwell et al. Super. Ct. N. H.,Hillsborough County. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-231. Llampallas v. Mini-Circuits Lab., Inc., et al.C. A. 11th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 163 F. 3d
1236.

No. 99-233. DeShay et vir, Individually and as NextFriends of Their Son, DeShay v. Bastrop Independent

School District et al. C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied. Re-ported below: 180 F. 3d 262.

No. 99-235. Demasse et al. v. ITT Corp., dba ITT Cannon.C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 185 F. 3d 866.
No. 99-236. Sloop v. ABTCO, Inc. C. A. 4th Cir. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 178 F. 3d 1285.
No. 99-237. Chiropractic America v. La-ecchia, Commis-sioner, Department of Banking and Insurance, et al.
C. A. 3d Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 180 F. 3d 99.

No. 99-239. Parrett v. Mize. Ct. App. Cal., 3d App. Dist.Certiorari denied.

No. 99-241. Chen-Li Pang v. Allstate Insurance Co.C. A. 2d Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 173 F. 3d 845.
No. 99-242. Taylor Communications Group, Inc. v. South-western Bell Telephone Co. et al. C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 172 F. 3d 385.

No. 99-245. Jackson v. Texas. Ct. App. Tex., 7th Dist.Certiorari denied.

No. 99-247. Freedman v. McCandless. Super. Ct. Pa.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 731 A. 2d 203.
No. 99-249. Guardian Life Insurance Company ofAmerica v. Unibell Anesthesia, P. C. App. Div., Sup. Ct.
N. Y., 1st Jud. Dept. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 256App. Div. 2d 252, 682 N. Y. S. 2d 193.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:21] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

931ORDERS
October 12, 1999528 U. S.
No. 99-252. Combustion Engineering, Inc. v. McGill etal. C. A. 11th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 170
F. 3d 1320.

No. 99-254. Strout et al. v. Albanese, Commissioner,Maine Department of Education. C. A. 1st Cir. Certiorari

denied. Reported below: 178 F. 3d 57.

No. 99-260. Johnston v. Easley, Attorney General ofNorth Carolina, et al. C. A. 4th Cir. Certiorari denied.

Reported below: 181 F. 3d 88.

No. 99-264. Dickerson et al. v. City of Dallas. C. A. 5thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 181 F. 3d 96.

No. 99-266. Cook County v. Chandler. C. A. 7th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-272. Newman et ux. v. Deiter et al. Ct. App. Ind.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 702 N. E. 2d 1093.
No. 99-277. Pletcher v. Kentucky. Ct. App. Ky. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 992 S. W. 2d 852.
No. 99-279. Ockenden et ux. v. Josephine County et al.C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 185 F. 3d 868.
No. 99-280. Kin Siu Tam v. Georgia. C. A. 11th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 172 F. 3d 883.
No. 99-288. Carter, Personal Representative of theEstate of Carter, Deceased, and as Next Friend and
Natural and Legal Guardian of Carter et al. v. UnitedStates. C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 182
F. 3d 924.

No. 99-290. Davis v. City of Malden Board of Assessors.App. Tax Bd. Mass. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-291. Scarborough v. Fischer. C. A. 8th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 171 F. 3d 638.
No. 99-293. Sachs et al. v. Intelogic Trace, Inc., et al.C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 174 F. 3d 198.
No. 99-300. Coastal Fuels of Puerto Rico, Inc. v. Carib-bean Petroleum Corp. C. A. 1st Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 175 F. 3d 18.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:21] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
932 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

October 12, 1999 528 U. S.
No. 99-307. Moore et al. v. Time Inc. et al. C. A. 2d Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 180 F. 3d 463.

No. 99-310. Perry v. United States et al. C. A. 7th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 175 F. 3d 1020.
No. 99-313. Cummins v. Pepsi-Cola Co. et al. C. A. 6thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 181 F. 3d 100.
No. 99-314. Fofana et al. v. Landtech Engineering etal. Ct. App. Md. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 353 Md.
269, 725 A. 2d 1068.

No. 99-316. Broadway v. Sinex et al. C. A. 5th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 166 F. 3d 339.

No. 99-317. Arnett v. United States et al. C. A. 6th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 181 F. 3d 99.
No. 99-318. McGlone v. Pennsylvania. Super. Ct. Pa.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 716 A. 2d 1280.
No. 99-320. AKS Daks Communications, Inc., et al. v. Ari-zona Corporations Commission et al. Ct. App. Ariz. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 194 Ariz. 104, 977 P. 2d 826.

No. 99-322. McGuinness v. Regents of the Universityof New Mexico. C. A. 10th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported

below: 183 F. 3d 1172.

No. 99-327. Danielson v. Hawaii. Sup. Ct. Haw. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 90 Haw. 475, 979 P. 2d 71.

No. 99-330. Davidson v. Detroit Free Press, Inc., et al.Ct. App. Mich. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-335. Tichenor v. Caldera, Secretary of theArmy. C. A. 6th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 181
F. 3d 104.

No. 99-336. Gilland v. Caldera, Secretary of the Army.C. A. 6th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 181 F. 3d 100.

No. 99-346. Boggia v. United States et al. C. A. 2d Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 167 F. 3d 113.
No. 99-350. Cox v. United States;

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:21] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

933ORDERS
October 12, 1999528 U. S.
No. 99-5935. Long v. United States; andNo. 99-5989. Trout v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 177 F. 3d 272.

No. 99-352. Jones v. Henderson, Postmaster General.C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 177 F. 3d 977.

No. 99-357. Waterman Steamship Co. v. Weeks Marine,Inc. C. A. 2d Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 175
F. 3d 274.

No. 99-364. Rice et al. v. United States. C. A. 10th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 166 F. 3d 1088.

No. 99-382. Hay v. Lazaroff, Warden, et al. C. A. 6thCir. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-383. Hutcherson v. City of New York et al.C. A. 2d Cir. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-385. King v. Washington Adventist Hospital etal. C. A. Fed. Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 194 F.
3d 1336.

No. 99-397. McFarland v. Arkansas. Sup. Ct. Ark. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 337 Ark. 386, 989 S. W. 2d 899.

No. 99-400. Steele v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 178 F. 3d 1230.
No. 99-406. Finnegan et ux. v. Commissioner of InternalRevenue. C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below:
168 F. 3d 498.

No. 99-407. Jones v. United States. C. A. 6th Cir. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 178 F. 3d 790.

No. 99-408. Crea v. United States. C. A. 2d Cir. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 168 F. 3d 61.
No. 99-413. Lukacs v. Shalala, Secretary of Health andHuman Services, et al. C. A. 4th Cir. Certiorari denied.
Reported below: 173 F. 3d 851.

No. 99-421. Fermin, and on Behalf of the Estate ofFermin v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied.

Reported below: 180 F. 3d 263.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:21] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
934 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

October 12, 1999 528 U. S.
No. 99-425. Wallace v. Stiehl, Senior Judge, UnitedStates District Court for the Southern District of Illi-
nois. C. A. 7th Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-5063. Nichols v. United States. C. A. 10th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 169 F. 3d 1255.

No. 99-5137. Sears v. Georgia. Sup. Ct. Ga. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 270 Ga. 834, 514 S. E. 2d 426.
No. 99-5236. Beuke v. Ohio. Ct. App. Ohio, HamiltonCounty. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 130 Ohio App. 3d
633, 720 N. E. 2d 962.

No. 99-5242. Ihu, aka Ihuboye v. United States. C. A.6th Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-5253. Charles v. Apfel, Commissioner of SocialSecurity. C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below:
180 F. 3d 260.

No. 99-5354. Wright v. Haley, Commissioner, AlabamaDepartment of Corrections. C. A. 11th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 169 F. 3d 695.

No. 99-5402. Battle v. Bruton, Warden, et al. C. A. 8thCir. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-5508. Pesek v. Wisconsin Department of Healthand Family Services. Ct. App. Wis. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 223 Wis. 2d 800, 589 N. W. 2d 455.

No. 99-5528. Mason v. Hagerstown Police Departmentet al. C. A. 4th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 172

F. 3d 44.

No. 99-5540. McBroom v. Bob-Boyd Lincoln Mercury, Inc.Ct. App. Ohio, Franklin County. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-5544. Jones v. Minnesota Mining & Manufactur-ing Co. et al. C. A. 8th Cir. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-5545. Jones v. California. Ct. App. Cal., 1st App.Dist. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-5558. Brown v. Michigan. Ct. App. Mich. Certio-rari denied.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:21] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

935ORDERS
October 12, 1999528 U. S.
No. 99-5559. Brown v. Davis et al. C. A. 5th Cir. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 174 F. 3d 198.

No. 99-5563. Melendez v. Arizona Department of Eco-nomic Security et al. Ct. App. Ariz. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-5565. Taylor v. Wall et al. C. A. 4th Cir. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 172 F. 3d 864.
No. 99-5568. Buchanan v. Birnie et al. Ct. App. S. C.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-5569. Carter v. Hernandez, Clerk, DistrictCourt of New Mexico, Lea County, et al. Sup. Ct. N. M.
Certiorari denied.

No. 99-5573. Green v. Cumberland et al. C. A. 6th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 178 F. 3d 1294.

No. 99-5575. Flynn v. Thomas et al. App. Ct. Ill., 1st Dist.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 301 Ill. App. 3d 1078, 746
N. E. 2d 333.

No. 99-5581. Coleman v. Tennessee. Ct. Crim. App. Tenn.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 3 S. W. 3d 19.

No. 99-5583. Barker v. Florida Parole Commission et al.Sup. Ct. Fla. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 735 So. 2d
1283.

No. 99-5584. Brown v. Johnson, Director, Texas Depart-ment of Criminal Justice, Institutional Division. C. A.

5th Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-5585. Pirtle v. Ohio. Ct. App. Ohio, FranklinCounty. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-5590. Rabb v. West -irginia. Sup. Ct. App. W. Va.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-5606. Taylor v. -eigas et al. C. A. 11th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied.
No. 99-5607. Cruthird v. Texas. Ct. App. Tex., 3d Dist.Certiorari denied.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:21] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
936 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

October 12, 1999 528 U. S.
No. 99-5610. Gray v. California et al. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 925.

No. 99-5618. Curro v. Kelly, Superintendent, AtticaCorrectional Facility, et al. C. A. 2d Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 181 F. 3d 82.

No. 99-5619. Stubbs v. Florida. Dist. Ct. App. Fla., 1stDist. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 732 So. 2d 1075.

No. 99-5622. -o v. California. Sup. Ct. Cal. Certioraridenied.
No. 99-5624. Carlson v. Woods, Warden, et al. C. A. 5thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 178 F. 3d 1291.
No. 99-5625. Bailey v. Texas. Ct. Crim. App. Tex. Certio-rari denied.
No. 99-5626. Schouster v. Langley, Warden. C. A. 6thCir. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-5633. Johnson v. Super Fresh Food Markets, Inc.C. A. 3d Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 178 F. 3d 1279.
No. 99-5637. Adams v. Inman. C. A. 8th Cir. Certioraridenied.
No. 99-5638. Griffin v. Apfel, Commissioner of SocialSecurity, et al. C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-5641. Sharp v. Arizona. Sup. Ct. Ariz. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 193 Ariz. 414, 973 P. 2d 1171.
No. 99-5642. Thibodeaux v. Louisiana. Ct. App. La., 3dCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 728 So. 2d 416.
No. 99-5645. Lancaster v. California. Sup. Ct. Cal. Cer-tiorari denied.
No. 99-5652. Hatter v. New York City Housing Author-ity et al. C. A. 2d Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below:
165 F. 3d 14.

No. 99-5654. Athmer v. Hill et al. C. A. 7th Cir. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 178 F. 3d 473.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:21] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

937ORDERS
October 12, 1999528 U. S.
No. 99-5656. Mendlow v. University of Washington etal. C. A. 2d Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 152 F.
3d 919.

No. 99-5658. Moreland v. Johnson, Director, Texas De-partment of Criminal Justice, Institutional Division.

C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 175 F. 3d 347.

No. 99-5659. McKenna v. Nevada. Sup. Ct. Nev. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 114 Nev. 1044, 968 P. 2d 739.

No. 99-5660. Leggett v. Johnson, Director, Texas De-partment of Criminal Justice, Institutional Division.
C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-5662. Woods v. Caesar et al. C. A. 6th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 178 F. 3d 1298.

No. 99-5680. McClain v. Pryor, Attorney General of Al-abama, et al. C. A. 11th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported
below: 177 F. 3d 982.

No. 99-5681. Leach v. Alabama. C. A. 11th Cir. Certio-rari denied.

No. 99-5685. Cummings v. Michigan. Ct. App. Mich. Cer-tiorari denied.
No. 99-5686. Frazier v. Montana State Prison et al.C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 168 F. 3d 498.
No. 99-5687. Douglas v. Lehman, Secretary, WashingtonDepartment of Corrections, et al. C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-5689. Dodson v. Leonard, Warden. C. A. 6th Cir.Certiorari denied.

No. 99-5690. Davis v. Earhart et al. C. A. 3d Cir. Cer-tiorari denied.
No. 99-5692. Holliday v. Johnson, Director, Texas De-partment of Criminal Justice, Institutional Division.
C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-5693. Dial v. DeLoach, Warden, et al. C. A. 11thCir. Certiorari denied.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:21] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
938 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

October 12, 1999 528 U. S.
No. 99-5695. Anh Tuan Hoang v. Johnson, Director,Texas Department of Criminal Justice, Institutional
Division. C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-5697. Stancliff v. Coffield et al. C. A. 5th Cir.Certiorari denied.

No. 99-5698. Snipes v. Warden, Caddo Correctional Cen-ter. C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-5701. Owens v. Ray et al. C. A. 3d Cir. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 904.
No. 99-5705. Allen v. West -irginia et al.; Allen v. Fra-zier et al.; and Allen v. West -irginia et al. C. A. 4th Cir.
Certiorari denied. Reported below: 173 F. 3d 423.

No. 99-5710. Savior v. -entura, Governor of Minnesota,et al. Ct. App. Minn. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-5712. Washington v. Margolis. C. A. 9th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied.
No. 99-5713. Green v. United States Postal Service.C. A. Fed. Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 194 F. 3d
1330.

No. 99-5715. Hanley v. City of Houston et al. C. A. 5thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 178 F. 3d 1290.

No. 99-5720. Madasci v. Moore, Secretary, Florida De-partment of Corrections, et al. C. A. 11th Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-5722. White v. Ohio. Sup. Ct. Ohio. Certiorari de-nied. Reported below: 85 Ohio St. 3d 433, 709 N. E. 2d 140.

No. 99-5727. Bland v. Beverly Hills Unified School Dis-trict et al. Ct. App. Cal., 2d App. Dist. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-5728. Mance v. Arizona et al. C. A. 9th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 172 F. 3d 57.
No. 99-5730. King v. Smith, Warden. C. A. 11th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 181 F. 3d 109.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:21] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

939ORDERS
October 12, 1999528 U. S.
No. 99-5738. Stevenson v. Nixon, Attorney General ofMissouri. C. A. 8th Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-5752. Bryan v. Kansas. Sup. Ct. Kan. Certioraridenied.
No. 99-5754. Roberts v. Alabama. Sup. Ct. Ala. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 735 So. 2d 1270.
No. 99-5757. Stone v. Oregon. Ct. App. Ore. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 156 Ore. App. 640, 967 P. 2d 533.
No. 99-5758. Patton v. Oklahoma. Ct. Crim. App. Okla.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 973 P. 2d 270.
No. 99-5764. Levitan v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 170 F. 3d 188.
No. 99-5767. Ybarra -illagrana v. California. Ct. App.Cal., 6th App. Dist. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-5796. Outland v. Henderson, Postmaster Gen-eral. C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 180
F. 3d 265.

No. 99-5802. Simmons v. Johnson, Director, Texas De-partment of Criminal Justice, Institutional Division.

C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-5815. LeForce v. Szmutko. Ct. App. Ariz. Certio-rari denied.

No. 99-5817. Thompson v. Moore, Secretary, FloridaDepartment of Corrections. C. A. 11th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 181 F. 3d 109.

No. 99-5820. Fernandez v. Connecticut. App. Ct. Conn.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 52 Conn. App. 599, 728

A. 2d 1.

No. 99-5822. Delgado v. Texas. Ct. Crim. App. Tex. Cer-tiorari denied.

No. 99-5824. Galvan v. Johnson, Director, Texas Depart-ment of Criminal Justice, Institutional Division. C. A.
5th Cir. Certiorari denied.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:21] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
940 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

October 12, 1999 528 U. S.
No. 99-5831. Stewart v. Scott, Executive Director,Texas Department of Criminal Justice, et al. C. A. 5th
Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-5843. Dupard v. Cain, Warden. C. A. 5th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied.

No. 99-5844. Duren v. Haley, Commissioner, AlabamaDepartment of Corrections. C. A. 11th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 161 F. 3d 655.

No. 99-5846. Harris v. Johnson, Director, Texas Depart-ment of Criminal Justice, Institutional Division. C. A.

5th Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-5850. Clark v. Nassau County, New York. C. A.2d Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 175 F. 3d 1007.

No. 99-5852. Pink v. United States Postal Service et al.C. A. 7th Cir. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-5856. Powell v. Ohio. Ct. App. Ohio, SummitCounty. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-5857. Sovak v. Board of Education of the City ofNew York et al. C. A. 2d Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported
below: 181 F. 3d 83.

No. 99-5859. Foster v. Johnson, Director, Texas Depart-ment of Criminal Justice, Institutional Division. C. A.

5th Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-5861. Hernandez v. Johnson, Director, Texas De-partment of Criminal Justice, Institutional Division.

C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-5871. Hill v. Dormire, Superintendent, Jeffer-son City Correctional Center. C. A. 8th Cir. Certiorari

denied.

No. 99-5874. Hinson v. Florida. Dist. Ct. App. Fla., 1stDist. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 720 So. 2d 520.

No. 99-5889. Williams v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 185 F. 3d 869.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:21] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

941ORDERS
October 12, 1999528 U. S.
No. 99-5893. Parrish v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 175 F. 3d 1017.

No. 99-5921. Fleming v. North Carolina. Sup. Ct. N. C.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 350 N. C. 109, 512 S. E. 2d
720.

No. 99-5937. Germany v. Pennsylvania. Super. Ct. Pa.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 718 A. 2d 857.

No. 99-5938. Goodrich v. California. Ct. App. Cal., 3dApp. Dist. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-5941. Perry v. United States District Court forthe Northern District of Ohio. C. A. 6th Cir. Certiorari
denied.

No. 99-5943. Michaels, aka Blumberg v. United States.C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 172 F. 3d 877.

No. 99-5948. King v. United States. Ct. App. D. C. Cer-tiorari denied.
No. 99-5953. Raine v. Dormire, Superintendent, Jeffer-son City Correctional Center. C. A. 8th Cir. Certiorari
denied. Reported below: 175 F. 3d 1025.

No. 99-5954. Ficklin v. Hatcher, Warden, et al. C. A.9th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 177 F. 3d 1147.

No. 99-5971. Silva v. United States. C. A. 1st Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 177 F. 3d 76.
No. 99-5978. Capers v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 175 F. 3d 1016.
No. 99-5981. Albaugh v. Ohio. Ct. App. Ohio, Stark County.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-5983. Smith v. Illinois. App. Ct. Ill., 4th Dist. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 294 Ill. App. 3d 1126, 721 N. E.
2d 863.

No. 99-5984. Sergent v. Ohio. Ct. App. Ohio, MontgomeryCounty. Certiorari denied.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:21] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
942 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

October 12, 1999 528 U. S.
No. 99-5986. Payan v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 914.

No. 99-5988. Weed v. United States; andNo. 99-6013. Clancy v. United States. C. A. 7th Cir.
Certiorari denied. Reported below: 175 F. 3d 1021.

No. 99-5991. Turcio-Salmeron v. United States. C. A.5th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 914.

No. 99-5992. Tafolla-Carrillo v. United States. C. A.9th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 185 F. 3d 871.
No. 99-5993. Ward v. Illinois. App. Ct. Ill., 4th Dist. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 297 Ill. App. 3d 1140, 737 N. E.
2d 717.

No. 99-5994. Thompson v. United States. C. A. 8th Cir.Certiorari denied.

No. 99-5995. Yurtis v. Phipps. Ct. App. Wash. Certioraridenied.
No. 99-5998. Colyar v. Gilman, Congressman. C. A. 2dCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 165 F. 3d 13.
No. 99-5999. Chappell v. United States; andNo. 99-6044. Caver v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 928.

No. 99-6002. Cook v. United States. C. A. 6th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 181 F. 3d 104.

No. 99-6005. Quinones v. United States. C. A. 2d Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 902.
No. 99-6009. Davies v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 185 F. 3d 870.
No. 99-6012. Kamoga v. United States. C. A. 7th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 177 F. 3d 617.
No. 99-6014. Hurtado Moreno v. United States. C. A.5th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 192 F. 3d 126.
No. 99-6015. Jordan v. United States. C. A. 8th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 187 F. 3d 644.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:21] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

943ORDERS
October 12, 1999528 U. S.
No. 99-6019. Patton v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied.

No. 99-6021. Perelman v. Reno, Attorney General, etal. C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-6024. Mohler v. United States. C. A. 6th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 919.
No. 99-6025. Moore v. United States. C. A. 8th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 178 F. 3d 994.
No. 99-6026. Jackson v. Sacchet, Warden, et al. C. A.4th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 173 F. 3d 424.
No. 99-6029. Jones v. United States. C. A. 6th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied.
No. 99-6031. Jackson v. McManamon et al. Sup. Ct. Ohio.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 86 Ohio St. 3d 1434, 713
N. E. 2d 1047.

No. 99-6032. Marcello v. Town of Stetson, Maine. Sup.Jud. Ct. Me. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-6036. Santa v. United States. C. A. 2d Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 180 F. 3d 20.
No. 99-6043. Allen v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-6045. Kelly v. United States. C. A. 7th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 923.
No. 99-6046. Milburn v. United States. C. A. 8th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-6050. Washington v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 180 F. 3d 263.
No. 99-6056. Cook v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 914.
No. 99-6057. Garcia v. McCaughtry, Warden. C. A. 7thCir. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-6061. Gomez v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 935.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:21] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
944 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

October 12, 1999 528 U. S.
No. 99-6063. Friends v. United States. C. A. 8th Cir.Certiorari denied.

No. 99-6064. Bautista De La Cruz v. United States.C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 166 F. 3d
1218.

No. 99-6065. David v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 185 F. 3d 870.

No. 99-6074. Mitchell v. Apfel, Commissioner of SocialSecurity. C. A. 4th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below:
182 F. 3d 272.

No. 99-6075. McHorse v. United States. C. A. 10th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 179 F. 3d 889.

No. 99-6076. Martinez v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 1107.
No. 99-6079. Asher v. United States. C. A. 7th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 178 F. 3d 486.
No. 99-6081. Love v. North Carolina. Sup. Ct. N. C. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 350 N. C. 586, 516 S. E. 2d 382.
No. 99-6085. Matthews et al. v. United States. C. A. 5thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 178 F. 3d 295.
No. 99-6087. Ortiz v. United States. C. A. 2d Cir. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 902.
No. 99-6090. Steele v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 193 F. 3d 520.
No. 99-6091. Orozco v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 185 F. 3d 871.
No. 99-6094. Ukositkul v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 187 F. 3d 650.
No. 99-6099. Perkins v. United States. C. A. 6th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 187 F. 3d 639.
No. 99-6100. Price v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 180 F. 3d 266.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:21] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

945ORDERS
October 12, 1999528 U. S.
No. 99-6104. Noble v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 911.

No. 99-6107. Del Pilar Reynoso v. United States. C. A.8th Cir. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-6109. Lindsey v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 141 F. 3d 1189.
No. 99-6111. Anderson v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 172 F. 3d 881.
No. 99-6112. Powers v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 168 F. 3d 741.
No. 99-6117. Langworthy v. Dean et al. C. A. 4th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 181 F. 3d 88.
No. 99-6124. Jackson v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 181 F. 3d 93.
No. 99-6133. Roncone v. New Jersey. Super. Ct. N. J.,App. Div. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-6134. Saucedo Mendoza v. United States. C. A.6th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 919.
No. 99-6141. Bustamante Tobon v. United States. C. A.11th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 176 F. 3d 492.
No. 99-6144. Boone v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied.
No. 99-6148. Hubbard v. United States. C. A. 10th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 934.
No. 99-6152. Deering, aka Williams v. United States.C. A. 8th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 179 F. 3d 592.
No. 99-6154. Hart, aka Major, aka Gorden v. UnitedStates. C. A. 3d Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 175
F. 3d 1011.

No. 99-6155. Graham v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 187 F. 3d 631.

No. 99-6160. Bouthot v. United States. C. A. 1st Cir.Certiorari denied.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:21] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
946 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

October 12, 1999 528 U. S.
No. 99-6167. Lopez v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 185 F. 3d 870.

No. 99-6170. Mitchell v. United States. C. A. 7th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 178 F. 3d 904.
No. 99-6171. Lozano v. United States. C. A. 7th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 171 F. 3d 1129.
No. 99-6183. Cash v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 181 F. 3d 92.
No. 98-1932. Pataki, Governor of New York, et al. v.Grumet et al. Ct. App. N. Y. Certiorari denied. Justice
O'Connor, Justice Scalia, and Justice Thomas would grantcertiorari. Reported below: 93 N. Y. 2d 677, 720 N. E. 2d 66.

No. 98-1942. Nike, Inc. v. Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., et al.C. A. Fed. Cir. Motion of Reebok International Ltd. and Rockport Co., Inc., for leave to file a brief as amici curiae granted.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 138 F. 3d 1437.

No. 98-2007. City of New York et al. v. Covington. C. A.2d Cir. Motion of respondent for leave to proceed in forma
pauperis granted. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 171F. 3d 117.

No. 99-203. Coyle, Warden v. Mapes. C. A. 6th Cir. Mo-tion of respondent for leave to proceed in forma pauperis
granted. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 171 F. 3d 408.

No. 99-77. Gibson v. Head, Warden. Sup. Ct. Ga. Motionsof Southern Center for Human Rights, NAACP Legal Defense &

Educational Fund, and American Bar Association for leave tofile briefs as amici curiae granted. Certiorari denied. Reported
below: 270 Ga. 855, 513 S. E. 2d 186.

No. 99-95. Excel Communications, Inc., et al. v. AT&TCorp. C. A. Fed. Cir. Certiorari denied. Justice O'Connor

took no part in the consideration or decision of this petition. Re-ported below: 172 F. 3d 1352.

Statement of Justice Stevens respecting the denial of thepetition for writ of certiorari.
The importance of the question presented in this certiorari peti-tion makes it appropriate to reiterate the fact that the denial of

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:21] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

947ORDERS
October 12, 14, 1999528 U. S.
the petition does not constitute a ruling on the merits. See Car-penter v. Gomez, 516 U. S. 981 (1995) (opinion of Stevens, J.,
respecting denial of certiorari); Maryland v. Baltimore RadioShow, Inc., 338 U. S. 912, 917-919 (1950) (opinion of Frankfurter,
J., respecting denial of certiorari).

No. 99-163. Bagley et al. v. Raymond School Depart-ment et al. Sup. Jud. Ct. Me. Motion of Texas Justice Foundation et al. for leave to file a brief as amici curiae granted. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 728 A. 2d 127.

No. 99-292. McCarty, Commissioner of the Indiana De-partment of Insurance and Liquidator of Classic Fire &
Marine Insurance Co. v. Brown et al. Ct. App. La., 4th Cir.Motion of National Association of Insurance Commissioners for
leave to file a brief as amicus curiae granted. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-6071 (99A209). Crane v. Johnson, Director, TexasDepartment of Criminal Justice, Institutional Division.

C. A. 5th Cir. Application for stay of execution of sentence ofdeath, presented to Justice Scalia, and by him referred to the
Court, denied. Certiorari denied. Justice Stevens and Jus-tice Ginsburg would grant the application for stay of execution.
Reported below: 178 F. 3d 309.

No. 99-6101. Rowles v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied. Justice Breyer took no part in the consideration or decision of this petition. Reported below: 172 F. 3d 877.
Rehearing Denied

No. 98-8300. Abdus-Sabir v. Hightower, Warden, et al.,526 U. S. 1100; and

No. 98-8790. Smith v. United States et al., 526 U. S. 1136.Petitions for rehearing denied.

October 14, 1999Certiorari Denied
No. 99-6249 (99A239). McFadden v. Johnson, Director,Texas Department of Criminal Justice, Institutional Di-
vision. C. A. 5th Cir. Application for stay of execution of sen-tence of death, presented to Justice Scalia, and by him referred
to the Court, denied. Certiorari denied. Justice Stevens and

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:21] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
948 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

October 14, 15, 18, 1999 528 U. S.
Justice Ginsburg would grant the application for stay of execu-tion. Reported below: 166 F. 3d 757.

October 15, 1999
Dismissal Under Rule 46

No. 99-381. Weaver et al. v. Burger King Corp. C. A.11th Cir. Certiorari dismissed under this Court's Rule 46.1. Reported below: 169 F. 3d 1310.

October 18, 1999
Certiorari Granted--Reversed and Remanded. (See No. 98-8770, ante, p. 11.)

Miscellaneous Orders. (See also No. 99-5440, ante, p. 16.)

No. D-2109. In re Disbarment of El-Amin. Saad El-Amin,of Richmond, Va., is suspended from the practice of law in this

Court, and a rule will issue, returnable within 40 days, requiringhim to show cause why he should not be disbarred from the
practice of law in this Court.

No. D-2110. In re Disbarment of Morgenstern. Mark J.Morgenstern, of Rockville, N. Y., is suspended from the practice

of law in this Court, and a rule will issue, returnable within 40days, requiring him to show cause why he should not be disbarred
from the practice of law in this Court.

No. D-2111. In re Disbarment of Kramer. Marc Law-rence Kramer, of Chicago, Ill., is suspended from the practice of

law in this Court, and a rule will issue, returnable within 40 days,requiring him to show cause why he should not be disbarred from
the practice of law in this Court.

No. 99M35. Board of Fire Commissioners, FarmingvilleFire District v. Pietras. Motion to direct the Clerk to file

petition for writ of certiorari out of time denied.

No. 98-1161. City of Erie et al. v. Pap 's A. M., tdba"Kandyland." Sup. Ct. Pa. [Certiorari granted, 526 U. S.

1111.] Motion of Bill Conte et al. for leave to file a brief asamici curiae granted.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:21] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

949ORDERS
October 18, 1999528 U. S.
No. 98-1480. Beck v. Prupis et al. C. A. 11th Cir. [Certio-rari granted, 526 U. S. 1158.] Motion of respondent Frederick
Mezey for divided argument denied.

No. 98-6322. Slack v. McDaniel, Warden, et al. C. A.9th Cir. [Certiorari granted, 525 U. S. 1138.] Case restored to

calendar for reargument. The parties are directed to file supple-mental briefs not to exceed 25 pages addressing the following
questions: "(1) Do the provisions of the Antiterrorism and Effec-tive Death Penalty Act of 1996 (AEDPA), specifically including
28 U. S. C. $ 2253(c) and 28 U. S. C. $ 2244(b), control the proceed-ings on appeal? (2) If AEDPA does control the proceedings on
appeal, may a certificate of appealability issue under 28 U. S. C.$ 2253(c)?" Briefs are to be filed with the Clerk and served upon
opposing parties on or before 3 p.m., Wednesday, December 15,1999. Reply briefs, if any, not to exceed 10 pages, are to be filed
with the Clerk and served upon opposing parties on or before 3p.m., Friday, January 14, 2000. The Solicitor General is invited
to file a brief, not to exceed 25 pages, expressing the views ofthe United States. Any brief as amicus curiae, not to exceed 15
pages, may be filed with the Clerk and served upon the partieson or before 3 p.m., Wednesday, December 15, 1999. This Court's
Rule 29.2 does not apply.

No. 99-5811. Briggs v. Dalkon Shield Claimants Trust.C. A. 4th Cir.;

No. 99-5813. McCloud v. Community Hospital et al.C. A. 11th Cir.; and
No. 99-6126. Minford v. Domalakes, Judge, Court of Com-mon Pleas of Pennsylvania, Schuylkill County, et al.
C. A. 3d Cir. Motions of petitioners for leave to proceed in formapauperis denied. Petitioners are allowed until November 8, 1999,
within which to pay the docketing fees required by Rule 38(a)and to submit petitions in compliance with Rule 33.1 of the Rules
of this Court.

No. 99-6197. In re Arriola. Petition for writ of manda-mus denied.

Certiorari Granted

No. 99-312. Norfolk Southern Railway Co. v. Shanklin,Individually and as Next Friend of Shanklin. C. A. 6th

Cir. Certiorari granted. Reported below: 173 F. 3d 386.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:21] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
950 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

October 18, 1999 528 U. S.
No. 98-9828. Ohler v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir. Mo-tion of petitioner for leave to proceed in forma pauperis granted.
Certiorari granted. Reported below: 169 F. 3d 1200.

No. 99-5153. Johnson v. United States. C. A. 6th Cir.Motion of petitioner for leave to proceed in forma pauperis

granted. Certiorari granted. Reported below: 181 F. 3d 105.
Certiorari Denied

No. 98-1998. Withrow et al. v. United States. C. A. 11thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 117 F. 3d 1433.

No. 98-9752. Nauton v. Newland, Warden. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 142 F. 3d 444.
No. 98-10048. Bradford v. Texas. Ct. Crim. App. Tex.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-31. W. R. Grace & Co.-Conn. et al. v. WashingtonDepartment of Revenue;
No. 99-38. Buffelen Woodworking Co. et al. v. Washing-ton Department of Revenue; and
No. 99-223. Washington Department of Revenue v. W. R.Grace & Co.-Conn. et al. Sup. Ct. Wash. Certiorari denied.
Reported below: 137 Wash. 2d 580, 973 P. 2d 1011.

No. 99-119. Bronco Wine Co. v. Bureau of Alcohol, To-bacco and Firearms et al. C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari denied.

Reported below: 168 F. 3d 498.

No. 99-120. Tuschner & Co., Inc., et al. v. Securities andExchange Commission. C. A. 8th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 167 F. 3d 396.

No. 99-127. Bach v. United States. C. A. 7th Cir. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 172 F. 3d 520.

No. 99-135. Western Coal Traffic League v. SurfaceTransportation Board et al. C. A. 8th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 169 F. 3d 1099.

No. 99-184. Sullivan v. County of Suffolk et al. C. A.2d Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 174 F. 3d 282.

No. 99-185. Meinhardt et al. v. Unisys Corp. et al. C. A.3d Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 173 F. 3d 145.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:21] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

951ORDERS
October 18, 1999528 U. S.
No. 99-255. -ento v. Colorado National Bank et al.C. A. 10th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d
934.

No. 99-261. Mallory et al. v. Ohio et al. C. A. 6th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 173 F. 3d 377.

No. 99-285. Avalos v. Hunter, Sheriff, Collier County.C. A. 11th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 172 F. 3d
881.

No. 99-286. RCK Properties, Inc., fka Forest Proper-ties, Inc. v. United States. C. A. Fed. Cir. Certiorari denied.

Reported below: 177 F. 3d 1360.

No. 99-289. Butler v. Orangeburg County et al. C. A.4th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 173 F. 3d 849.

No. 99-297. Hazani v. Oki Electric Industry Co., Ltd.,et al. C. A. Fed. Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 194
F. 3d 1336.

No. 99-298. Bryant v. Golden Flake Snack Foods, Inc.,et al.; and Gunter v. City of Belleview et al. Dist. Ct.

App. Fla., 1st Dist. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 732 So.2d 1071 (first judgment) and 1073 (second judgment).

No. 99-299. King et ux. v. East Lampeter Townshipet al. C. A. 3d Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 182
F. 3d 903.

No. 99-301. Holywell Corp. v. Bank of New York et al.C. A. 11th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 181 F. 3d

107.

No. 99-302. Fields et al. v. Assaf. C. A. 3d Cir. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 178 F. 3d 170.

No. 99-319. Mingtai Fire & Marine Insurance Co., Ltd.v. United Parcel Service, Inc., et al. C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 177 F. 3d 1142.

No. 99-334. Freeman v. Johnson. Ct. App. Cal., 4th App.Dist. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-343. Water Works and Sewer Board of the Cityof Birmingham v. Department of the Army, Corps of Engi-

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:21] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
952 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

October 18, 1999 528 U. S.
neers, et al. C. A. 11th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reportedbelow: 162 F. 3d 98.

No. 99-349. Crenshaw v. Baynerd et al. C. A. 7th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 180 F. 3d 866.
No. 99-354. Theresa v. New Jersey. Super. Ct. N. J., App.Div. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-355. Wenzel v. International Business MachinesCorp. C. A. 7th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 175
F. 3d 1022.

No. 99-360. Brown et al. v. Pacific Bell Directory. Ct.App. Cal., 3d App. Dist. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-363. Robi v. Reed et al. C. A. 9th Cir. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 173 F. 3d 736.
No. 99-426. Lukacs v. Shalala, Secretary of Health andHuman Services, et al.; and
No. 99-429. Lukacs v. Shalala, Secretary of Health andHuman Services. C. A. 4th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported
below: 178 F. 3d 1284.

No. 99-440. LaGrua et al. v. United States. C. A. 2d Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 901.

No. 99-482. Zora Enterprises, Inc., et al. v. Town ofMarion et al. App. Ct. Mass. Certiorari denied. Reported
below: 46 Mass. App. 1120, 708 N. E. 2d 154.

No. 99-5003. Polk v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 929.

No. 99-5287. Rios Romero v. Pennsylvania. Sup. Ct. Pa.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 555 Pa. 4, 722 A. 2d 1014.
No. 99-5295. Bramblett v. -irginia. Sup. Ct. Va. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 257 Va. 263, 513 S. E. 2d 400.
No. 99-5353. Wheat v. Texas. Ct. Crim. App. Tex. Certio-rari denied.
No. 99-5355. Hedrick v. -irginia. Sup. Ct. Va. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 257 Va. 328, 513 S. E. 2d 634.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:21] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

953ORDERS
October 18, 1999528 U. S.
No. 99-5742. Rocheville v. Catoe, Director, South Caro-lina Department of Corrections, et al. C. A. 4th Cir.
Certiorari denied. Reported below: 175 F. 3d 1015.

No. 99-5744. Scoggin v. Kaiser, Warden. C. A. 10th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 186 F. 3d 1203.

No. 99-5747. Hartnett v. Franklin, Kansas Secretaryof Human Resources. Sup. Ct. Kan. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-5748. Hartnett v. City of Dodge City et al. Ct.App. Kan. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 25 Kan. App. 2d
xiv, 963 P. 2d 442.

No. 99-5749. Taylor v. Dees, Warden, et al. C. A. 11thCir. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-5750. Wilson v. Moore, Secretary, Florida De-partment of Corrections, et al. C. A. 11th Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-5751. Odle et al. v. Louisiana. Sup. Ct. La. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 743 So. 2d 651.

No. 99-5753. Pravda v. City of Albany, New York, et al.C. A. 2d Cir. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-5755. Parker v. McGinnis et al. C. A. 6th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 181 F. 3d 102.
No. 99-5756. Sims v. Motorola, Inc. C. A. 7th Cir. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 175 F. 3d 1021.
No. 99-5760. Knighten v. Johnson, Director, Texas De-partment of Criminal Justice, Institutional Division.
C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-5765. Marion v. Ford Motor Credit. C. A. 3d Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 176 F. 3d 472.

No. 99-5766. Yuille v. Webb et al. C. A. 4th Cir. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 181 F. 3d 95.
No. 99-5771. Hart et ux. v. Elder et al. C. A. 4th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 141 F. 3d 1158.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:21] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
954 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

October 18, 1999 528 U. S.
No. 99-5772. Thomas v. Clagett, Judge, Circuit Court ofMaryland, Calvert County, et al. C. A. 4th Cir. Certiorari
denied. Reported below: 178 F. 3d 1286.

No. 99-5773. Thannisch v. Scott, Warden. C. A. 10th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 185 F. 3d 875.

No. 99-5779. Coleman v. Ohio. Sup. Ct. Ohio. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 85 Ohio St. 3d 129, 707 N. E. 2d 476.
No. 99-5780. Ajiwoju v. Housing Authority of KansasCity, Kansas. C. A. 10th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported
below: 173 F. 3d 863.

No. 99-5782. Leslie v. Litscher, Secretary, WisconsinDepartment of Corrections; and

No. 99-6006. Pischke v. Litscher, Secretary, WisconsinDepartment of Corrections. C. A. 7th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 178 F. 3d 497.

No. 99-5783. Nelms v. Texas. Ct. Crim. App. Tex. Certio-rari denied.

No. 99-5784. Asher v. Kemna, Superintendent, Cross-roads Correctional Center, et al. C. A. 8th Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-5785. Beathard v. Johnson, Director, Texas De-partment of Criminal Justice, Institutional Division.

C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 177 F. 3d 340.

No. 99-5787. Lemons v. Dormire, Superintendent, Jef-ferson City Correctional Center. C. A. 8th Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-5789. Nubine v. United States District Court forthe Northern District of Texas. C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari

denied.

No. 99-5794. Syvertson v. North Dakota. Sup. Ct. N. D.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 597 N. W. 2d 652.

No. 99-5798. Smith v. Snyder, Warden, et al. C. A. 3dCir. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-5799. Acker v. United States District Court forthe District of Arizona. C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari denied.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:21] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

955ORDERS
October 18, 1999528 U. S.
No. 99-5800. Coolidge v. United States District Courtfor the District of Minnesota. C. A. 8th Cir. Certiorari
denied.

No. 99-5803. Reliford v. Dale County Department ofHuman Resources et al. C. A. 4th Cir. Certiorari denied.

Reported below: 181 F. 3d 90.

No. 99-5812. Billups v. Woodard et al. C. A. 4th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 173 F. 3d 423.

No. 99-5814. Johnson v. Hofbauer, Warden. C. A. 6th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-5818. Wells v. Johnson, Director, Texas Depart-ment of Criminal Justice, Institutional Division. C. A.
5th Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-5825. Estrada v. Cornyn, Attorney General ofTexas, et al. C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported

below: 174 F. 3d 197.

No. 99-5826. Heidelberg et al. v. Illinois PrisonerReview Board et al. C. A. 7th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 163 F. 3d 1025.

No. 99-5828. Dunn v. Bowersox, Superintendent, PotosiCorrectional Center. C. A. 8th Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-5833. Spears v. Marsh et al. C. A. 4th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied.
No. 99-5841. Dickerson v. Cain, Warden. C. A. 5th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 180 F. 3d 265.
No. 99-5842. Daniels v. Lindsey. C. A. 5th Cir. Certio-rari denied.
No. 99-5847. Guilfoyle v. Angelone, Director, VirginiaDepartment of Corrections. C. A. 4th Cir. Certiorari
denied. Reported below: 163 F. 3d 598.

No. 99-5848. Davis v. Cambra, Warden. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied.

No. 99-5849. Williams v. Community Bank/NationsBank.C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 184 F. 3d 816.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:21] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
956 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

October 18, 1999 528 U. S.
No. 99-5886. Syvertson v. North Dakota. Sup. Ct. N. D.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 597 N. W. 2d 644.

No. 99-5891. Wash v. Booker, Superintendent, Missis-sippi State Penitentiary. C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-5929. Bland v. Mitchem, Warden, et al. C. A. 11thCir. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-5945. Scherf v. Washington. Ct. App. Wash. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 93 Wash. App. 1081.
No. 99-5949. Matiaz Juan v. Tennessee. Ct. Crim. App.Tenn. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-5955. Brooks v. Texas. Ct. Crim. App. Tex. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 990 S. W. 2d 278.
No. 99-5973. Brown v. Hickman, Warden. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-5985. Shemonsky v. United States. C. A. Fed. Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 215 F. 3d 1340.
No. 99-5987. Robertson v. California. Ct. App. Cal., 5thApp. Dist. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-6054. Buckner v. Franco, Inc., et al. C. A. 6thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 178 F. 3d 1293.
No. 99-6073. London v. Cain, Warden. C. A. 5th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied.
No. 99-6092. Simental v. Illinois. App. Ct. Ill., 2d Dist.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 301 Ill. App. 3d 1101, 746
N. E. 2d 345.

No. 99-6095. Wagener v. Angelone, Director, VirginiaDepartment of Corrections. Sup. Ct. Va. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-6098. O'Connor v. State Mutual Life AssuranceCompany of America. C. A. 11th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 174 F. 3d 202.

No. 99-6114. Sours v. Dormire, Superintendent, Jeffer-son City Correctional Center, et al. C. A. 8th Cir. Certiorari denied.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:21] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

957ORDERS
October 18, 1999528 U. S.
No. 99-6115. Quintero v. North Carolina et al. C. A.4th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 178 F. 3d 1285.

No. 99-6116. Whethers v. Pennsylvania. Super. Ct. Pa.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 726 A. 2d 1084.
No. 99-6118. Keenan v. Michigan Department of Correc-tions. Cir. Ct. Saginaw County, Mich. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-6130. Rucker v. United States. C. A. 10th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 178 F. 3d 1369.
No. 99-6131. Roman v. United States. C. A. 2d Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 176 F. 3d 52.
No. 99-6132. Sumpter v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 177 F. 3d 980.
No. 99-6156. Haynes v. United States. C. A. 7th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 179 F. 3d 1045.
No. 99-6157. Harris v. Kansas. Ct. App. Kan. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 26 Kan. App. 2d 42, 975 P. 2d 1228.
No. 99-6158. Carver v. United States; andNo. 99-6196. Coleman v. United States. C. A. 7th Cir.
Certiorari denied. Reported below: 179 F. 3d 1056.

No. 99-6168. Marsack v. Michigan. Ct. App. Mich. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 231 Mich. App. 364, 586 N. W. 2d

234.

No. 99-6173. Walls v. Crowley, Warden. C. A. 6th Cir.Certiorari denied.

No. 99-6179. Medvecky v. United States. C. A. 6th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-6182. Barclay v. United States. C. A. 2d Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 181 F. 3d 83.
No. 99-6184. Ayala v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 165 F. 3d 919.
No. 99-6188. Reynolds v. United States. C. A. 7th Cir.Certiorari denied.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:21] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
958 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

October 18, 1999 528 U. S.
No. 99-6192. Ward, aka Connelly, aka Riemer v. UnitedStates. C. A. 10th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below:
185 F. 3d 876.

No. 99-6193. Jenkins v. United States. C. A. 6th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 187 F. 3d 638.

No. 99-6195. Allegree v. United States. C. A. 8th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 175 F. 3d 648.
No. 99-6198. Coleman v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 175 F. 3d 1016.
No. 99-6204. Alaffa-Flores v. United States. C. A. 5thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 180 F. 3d 262.
No. 99-6205. Burdeau v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 168 F. 3d 352.
No. 99-6207. Barrett v. United States. C. A. 8th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 175 F. 3d 605.
No. 99-6208. Ischy v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 184 F. 3d 817.
No. 99-6209. Lippitt v. United States. C. A. 7th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 180 F. 3d 873.
No. 99-6210. Lewis v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 178 F. 3d 1287.
No. 99-6215. Rickett v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-6220. Rodriguez-De La Cruz v. United States.C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 184 F. 3d 817.
No. 99-6221. King v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 178 F. 3d 1376.
No. 99-6222. Laughlin v. United States. C. A. 10th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 185 F. 3d 875.
No. 99-6232. Williams v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied.
Rehearing Denied

No. 98-1746. Pettus v. United States, 526 U. S. 1146; and

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:21] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

959ORDERS
October 18, 19, 20, 26, 1999528 U. S.
No. 98-8878. Pack v. Union Station Terminal, 527 U. S.1007. Petitions for rehearing denied.

October 19, 1999Certiorari Denied
No. 99-6303 (99A249). Joseph v. Angelone, Director, Vir-ginia Department of Corrections. C. A. 4th Cir. Application for stay of execution of sentence of death, presented to TheChief Justice, and by him referred to the Court, denied. Motion of William Broaddus et al. for leave to file a brief as amicicuriae granted. Certiorari denied. Justice Stevens and Jus-
tice Ginsburg would grant the application for stay of execution.Reported below: 184 F. 3d 320.

October 20, 1999Certiorari Denied
No. 99-6652 (99A317). Boyd v. North Carolina. Gen. Ct.Justice, Super. Ct. Div., Surry County, N. C. Application for
stay of execution of sentence of death, presented to The ChiefJustice, and by him referred to the Court, denied. Certiorari
denied.

October 26, 1999
Dismissal Under Rule 46

No. 98-1916. San Huan New Materials High Tech, Inc.,et al. v. International Trade Commission et al. C. A. Fed.

Cir. Certiorari dismissed under this Court's Rule 46.1. Re-ported below: 161 F. 3d 1347.

Miscellaneous Orders

No. 99A321 (99-6675). Sims v. Moore, Secretary, FloridaDepartment of Corrections. Sup. Ct. Fla. Application for

stay of execution of sentence of death, presented to Justice Ken-nedy, and by him referred to the Court, denied without prejudice
in light of the Supreme Court of Florida's order, case No. 96,818,granting a temporary stay to and including 7:00 a.m. on Tuesday,
November 2, 1999.

No. 99-6732 (99A335). In re Ortiz. Application for stay ofexecution of sentence of death, presented to Justice O'Connor,

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:21] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
960 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

October 26, 27, 28, 1999 528 U. S.
and by her referred to the Court, denied. Petition for writ ofhabeas corpus denied.

Certiorari Granted

No. 99-6723 (99A330). Bryan v. Moore, Secretary, FloridaDepartment of Corrections. Sup. Ct. Fla. Application for

stay of execution of sentence of death, presented to Justice Ken-nedy, and by him referred to the Court, granted. Motion to
consolidate with case Nos. 99-6668 and 99-6675 denied. Motionfor leave to proceed in forma pauperis granted. Certiorari
granted. Reported below: 744 So. 2d 452.

October 27, 1999Certiorari Denied
No. 99-6129 (99A287). Cantu v. Johnson, Director, TexasDepartment of Criminal Justice, Institutional Division.
C. A. 5th Cir. Application for stay of execution of sentence ofdeath, presented to Justice Scalia, and by him referred to the
Court, denied. Certiorari denied. Justice Stevens and Jus-tice Ginsburg would grant the application for stay of execution.
Reported below: 193 F. 3d 516.

No. 99-6757 (99A345). Ortiz v. Stewart, Director, ArizonaDepartment of Corrections. C. A. 9th Cir. Application for

stay of execution of sentence of death, presented to JusticeO'Connor, and by her referred to the Court, denied. Certiorari
denied. Reported below: 195 F. 3d 520.

No. 99-6758 (99A346). Ortiz v. Arizona. Sup. Ct. Ariz.Application for stay of execution of sentence of death, presented

to Justice O'Connor, and by her referred to the Court, denied.Certiorari denied.

October 28, 1999Certiorari Granted
No. 99-6615 (99A307). Williams v. Taylor, Warden. C. A.4th Cir. Application for stay of execution of sentence of death,
presented to The Chief Justice, and by him referred to theCourt, granted. Motion for leave to proceed in forma pauperis
granted. Certiorari granted limited to Question 2 presented bythe petition. Reported below: 189 F. 3d 421.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:21] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

961ORDERS
528 U. S.

November 1, 1999
Miscellaneous Orders

No. D-2095. In re Disbarment of Connors. Disbarmententered. [For earlier order herein, see 527 U. S. 1053.]

No. D-2098. In re Disbarment of Harris. Disbarmententered. [For earlier order herein, see 527 U. S. 1057.]
No. D-2100. In re Disbarment of Mmahat. Disbarmententered. [For earlier order herein, see 527 U. S. 1057.]
No. D-2112. In re Disbarment of Elkins. Randy D. El-kins, of Ruston, La., is suspended from the practice of law in this
Court, and a rule will issue, returnable within 40 days, requiringhim to show cause why he should not be disbarred from the
practice of law in this Court.

No. D-2113. In re Disbarment of Sumner. William Ems-lie Sumner, of Atlanta, Ga., is suspended from the practice of law

in this Court, and a rule will issue, returnable within 40 days,requiring him to show cause why he should not be disbarred from
the practice of law in this Court.

No. D-2114. In re Disbarment of Beem. John R. Beem, ofGlen Ellyn, Ill., is suspended from the practice of law in this

Court, and a rule will issue, returnable within 40 days, requiringhim to show cause why he should not be disbarred from the
practice of law in this Court.

No. D-2115. In re Disbarment of Jackson. Diane PatriciaJackson, of Phoenix, Ariz., is suspended from the practice of law

in this Court, and a rule will issue, returnable within 40 days,requiring her to show cause why she should not be disbarred
from the practice of law in this Court.

No. 99M36. Theede v. Department of Labor et al.;No. 99M37. Patillo v. Cumberland Farms, Inc.;

No. 99M38. Benju Corp. v. Peters, Secretary of theAir Force;
No. 99M39. Bowen v. United States; andNo. 99M40. Smith v. Department of the Army. Motions
to direct the Clerk to file petitions for writs of certiorari out oftime denied.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:21] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
962 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

November 1, 1999 528 U. S.
No. 98-1161. City of Erie et al. v. Pap 's A. M., tdba
"Kandyland." Sup. Ct. Pa. [Certiorari granted, 526 U. S.
1111.] Motion of Kansas and Ohio for leave to participate in oral
argument as amici curiae and for divided argument denied.

No. 98-1648. Mitchell et al. v. Helms et al. C. A. 5th
Cir. [Certiorari granted, 527 U. S. 1002.] Motion of the Solicitor
General for divided argument granted.

No. 98-1667. Baral v. United States. C. A. D. C. Cir.
[Certiorari granted, 527 U. S. 1067.] Motion of the Solicitor General to dispense with printing the joint appendix granted.

No. 98-1696. United States v. Johnson. C. A. 6th Cir.
[Certiorari granted, 527 U. S. 1062.] Motion of the Solicitor General to dispense with printing the joint appendix granted.

No. 99-5873. Hickox et ux. v. MLA, Inc. Sup. Ct. Fla.; and
No. 99-6023. Lazich v. Westchester County, New York,
et al. C. A. 2d Cir. Motions of petitioners for leave to proceed
in forma pauperis denied. Petitioners are allowed until November 22, 1999, within which to pay the docketing fees required by
Rule 38(a) and to submit petitions in compliance with Rule 33.1
of the Rules of this Court.

No. 99-6391. In re Stone. Petition for writ of habeas corpus denied.

No. 99-18. In re Josenhans;
No. 99-372. In re Bernofsky;
No. 99-5350. In re Washington; and
No. 99-5476. In re McCarty. Petitions for writs of mandamus denied.

Certiorari Granted

No. 99-116. Fischer v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir.
Certiorari granted. Reported below: 168 F. 3d 1273.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:21] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

963ORDERS
November 1, 1999528 U. S.
No. 98-1993. Florida v. J. L. Sup. Ct. Fla. Motion of re-spondent for leave to proceed in forma pauperis granted. Certiorari granted. Reported below: 727 So. 2d 204.
Certiorari Denied

No. 98-1989. Shepherd v. Comptroller of Public Ac-counts of Texas. C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported

below: 168 F. 3d 871.

No. 98-2016. Guarino v. United States. C. A. 7th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 169 F. 3d 418.

No. 98-2056. Belli v. Immigration and NaturalizationService. C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below:
177 F. 3d 979.

No. 98-2059. Brown v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 170 F. 3d 188.

No. 98-8327. Domingues v. Nevada. Sup. Ct. Nev. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 114 Nev. 783, 961 P. 2d 1279.
No. 99-2. McDaniel et al. v. United States. C. A. 2d Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 175 F. 3d 1009.
No. 99-12. Unity Real Estate Co. et al. v. Hudson et al.C. A. 3d Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 178 F. 3d 649.
No. 99-26. Henry v. Lockyer, Attorney General of Cali-fornia. C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 164
F. 3d 1240.

No. 99-39. Quintero v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 165 F. 3d 831.

No. 99-42. Central Newspapers, Inc. v. Johnson et al.Ct. App. La., 3d Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 722
So. 2d 1224.

No. 99-141. Mattison v. United States. C. A. 3d Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 173 F. 3d 225.

No. 99-142. Hyundai Merchant Marine Co., Ltd., et al.v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported
below: 172 F. 3d 1187.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:21] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
964 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

November 1, 1999 528 U. S.
No. 99-153. Oregon Natural Desert Assn. et al. v. Dom-beck, Chief, United States Forest Service, et al. C. A.
9th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 172 F. 3d 1092.

No. 99-186. Standard Insurance Co. v. Kearney. C. A.9th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 175 F. 3d 1084.

No. 99-190. Kunin v. Sears, Roebuck & Co. C. A. 3d Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 175 F. 3d 289.
No. 99-206. Wimmer v. Suffolk County Police Depart-ment et al. C. A. 2d Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below:
176 F. 3d 125.

No. 99-208. Franklin Savings Corp. et al. v. UnitedStates et al. C. A. 10th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported

below: 180 F. 3d 1124.

No. 99-210. Hospital Service District No. 1 of Tangi-pahoa Parish et al. v. Surgical Care Center of Hammond,

L. C., et al.; and Richland Parish Hospital Service Dis-trict 1-B, dba Richland Parish Medical Center, et al. v.
Abraham et al. C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reportedbelow: 171 F. 3d 231 (first judgment); 181 F. 3d 96 (second
judgment).

No. 99-232. Townes v. City of New York et al. C. A. 2dCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 176 F. 3d 138.

No. 99-271. City of Niagara Falls et al. v. Capton.C. A. 2d Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 175 F. 3d 1007.
No. 99-308. Dena' Nena' Henash, aka Tanana ChiefsConference, Inc. v. Ipalook et al. Sup. Ct. Alaska. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 985 P. 2d 442.

No. 99-309. Webb, Special Deputy Receiver for Employ-ers National Insurance Company in Receivership v. B. C.

Rogers Poultry, Inc., et al. C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied.Reported below: 174 F. 3d 697.

No. 99-324. Cole v. Tully et al. Super. Ct. Pa. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 736 A. 2d 678.
No. 99-331. Early et al. v. Toledo Blade Co. et al. Ct.App. Ohio, Lucas County. Certiorari denied. Reported below:
130 Ohio App. 3d 302, 720 N. E. 2d 107.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:21] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

965ORDERS
November 1, 1999528 U. S.
No. 99-339. Hollander v. American Cyanamid Co. C. A.2d Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 172 F. 3d 192.

No. 99-341. Signet Bank/Virginia et al. v. Yu et al. Ct.App. Cal., 1st App. Dist. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 69
Cal. App. 4th 1377, 82 Cal. Rptr. 2d 304.

No. 99-342. Midwest Pride I- v. Ohio. Ct. App. Ohio, Fay-ette County. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 131 Ohio App.

3d 1, 721 N. E. 2d 458.

No. 99-351. Salem v. Georgia. Ct. App. Ga. Certiorari de-nied. Reported below: 232 Ga. App. 886, 503 S. E. 2d 62.

No. 99-353. Kim v. Board of Trustees of the Universityof Alabama et al. C. A. 11th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 167 F. 3d 541.

No. 99-358. White, Warden v. -anSickel; andNo. 99-5770. -anSickel v. White, Warden. C. A. 9th Cir.

Certiorari denied. Reported below: 166 F. 3d 953.

No. 99-361. Smith et al. v. Multi-Flow Dispensers ofOhio, Inc. C. A. 6th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below:

181 F. 3d 103.

No. 99-366. Chase Manhattan Bank et al. v. Gene Gavin,Commissioner of Revenue Service of Connecticut. Sup.

Ct. Conn. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 249 Conn. 172,733 A. 2d 782.

No. 99-369. Allied Systems, Ltd. v. Teamsters NationalAutomobile Transporters Industry Negotiation Commit-
tee, Local Union 327, et al. C. A. 6th Cir. Certiorari denied.Reported below: 179 F. 3d 982.

No. 99-370. Evans v. Illinois. Sup. Ct. Ill. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 186 Ill. 2d 83, 708 N. E. 2d 1158.
No. 99-371. Boyajian v. California. Ct. App. Cal., 4th App.Dist. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-374. Wilson v. Began et al. Ct. App. Cal., 2d App.Dist. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-375. Roach v. Angelone, Director, Virginia De-partment of Corrections. C. A. 4th Cir. Certiorari denied.
Reported below: 176 F. 3d 210.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:21] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
966 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

November 1, 1999 528 U. S.
No. 99-376. Singleton v. Cecil et al. C. A. 8th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 176 F. 3d 419.

No. 99-377. Smith, Personally and on Behalf of AllOthers Similarly Situated v. City of Fort Lauderdale.
C. A. 11th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 177 F. 3d954.

No. 99-378. Tucker, Mother of Branning, Deceased, etal. v. Reliance National Insurance Co. C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 171 F. 3d 1033.

No. 99-379. Sullivan v. National Railroad PassengerCorporation. C. A. 11th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported

below: 107 F. 3d 1056.

No. 99-384. Robert Bogetti & Sons et al. v. Bank ofAmerica, N. T. & S. A. C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 178 F. 3d 1300.

No. 99-386. Luhr Bros., Inc. v. Hanks. App. Ct. Ill., 5thDist. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 303 Ill. App. 3d 661,

707 N. E. 2d 1266.

No. 99-389. Hirschfeld v. Arpaio, Sheriff, et al. C. A.9th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 178 F. 3d 1299.

No. 99-392. Shaner et al. v. Brown et al. C. A. 6th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 172 F. 3d 927.
No. 99-393. Turner et al. v. Poullard. C. A. 5th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 184 F. 3d 815.
No. 99-396. Constant v. Ray, Trustee, et al. C. A. 9thCir. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-402. Freight, Construction, General Drivers,Warehousemen & Helpers Local 287 et al. v. Brooke et al.
C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 175 F. 3d 680.

No. 99-404. Wright v. Oregon State Board of Parole.C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-410. Cuneo v. Pennsylvania. Super. Ct. Pa. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 734 A. 2d 433.
No. 99-427. Medina v. United States; and

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:21] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

967ORDERS
November 1, 1999528 U. S.
No. 99-450. Medina v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 184 F. 3d 818.

No. 99-430. Liggins v. McDonnell Douglas Corp. et al.C. A. 8th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 175 F. 3d
1024.

No. 99-435. Gaston v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 176 F. 3d 476.

No. 99-436. RNJ Interstate Corp. v. United States.C. A. Fed. Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 181 F. 3d
1329.

No. 99-443. Bustos v. West, Secretary of -eterans Af-fairs. C. A. Fed. Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 179

F. 3d 1378.

No. 99-444. LaFaver v. Prager. C. A. 10th Cir. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 180 F. 3d 1185.

No. 99-447. Xomox Corp. et al. v. Federal Insurance Co.,as Subrogee of Charles Lowe Co. C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari
denied. Reported below: 178 F. 3d 1299.

No. 99-453. Willett v. City University of New York etal. C. A. 2d Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 173 F.

3d 848.

No. 99-454. Richardson v. Department of -eterans Af-fairs et al. C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported

below: 172 F. 3d 866.

No. 99-457. Frith v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 181 F. 3d 92.

No. 99-472. Jason B. v. Connecticut. Sup. Ct. Conn. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 248 Conn. 543, 729 A. 2d 760.
No. 99-473. Laborers National Pension Fund et al. v.American National Bank & Trust Company of Chicago
et al. C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 173F. 3d 313.

No. 99-477. Brown v. Commissioner of Internal Reve-nue. C. A. 6th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 181
F. 3d 99.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:21] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
968 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

November 1, 1999 528 U. S.
No. 99-480. Trivedi v. Thayer et al. C. A. 2d Cir. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 901.

No. 99-485. Snyder v. United States. C. A. 7th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 172 F. 3d 53.
No. 99-492. Johnson v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 185 F. 3d 870.
No. 99-496. Bieri v. United States. C. A. 8th Cir. Certio-rari denied.
No. 99-497. Nebraska v. Franco. Sup. Ct. Neb. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 257 Neb. 15, 594 N. W. 2d 633.
No. 99-504. Zelazek v. Illinois. App. Ct. Ill., 1st Dist.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 299 Ill. App. 3d 1125, 740
N. E. 2d 98.

No. 99-506. McCarthy v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 178 F. 3d 1287.

No. 99-507. Rockwood Bank v. Gaia. C. A. 8th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 170 F. 3d 833.
No. 99-509. Higham v. United States. C. A. 7th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied.
No. 99-512. Hutchinson v. United States. C. A. 2d Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 181 F. 3d 83.
No. 99-514. Tocco v. New York. App. Div., Sup. Ct. N. Y.,1st Jud. Dept. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 258 App.
Div. 2d 374, 685 N. Y. S. 2d 699.

No. 99-517. Rojas Rivera v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 189 F. 3d 467.

No. 99-523. Boykin v. Entergy Operations, Inc., et al.C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 180 F. 3d 262.
No. 99-525. Albert v. City of Sparks et al. Sup. Ct. Nev.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-526. McCray v. National Labor Relations Board.C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 185 F. 3d 868.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:21] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

969ORDERS
November 1, 1999528 U. S.
No. 99-572. Neilson et al. v. Michigan. C. A. 6th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 181 F. 3d 102.

No. 99-595. Elections Board of Wisconsin v. WisconsinManufacturers & Commerce et al. Sup. Ct. Wis. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 227 Wis. 2d 650, 597 N. W. 2d 721.

No. 99-5035. Taylor v. United States. C. A. 6th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 173 F. 3d 857.

No. 99-5067. Mayabb v. Johnson, Director, Texas Depart-ment of Criminal Justice, Institutional Division. C. A.
5th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 168 F. 3d 863.

No. 99-5077. Turner v. Mississippi. Sup. Ct. Miss. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 732 So. 2d 937.

No. 99-5116. Hodge v. Connecticut. Sup. Ct. Conn. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 248 Conn. 207, 726 A. 2d 531.
No. 99-5373. Chambers v. Bowersox, Superintendent, Po-tosi Correctional Center. Sup. Ct. Mo. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-5435. Winters v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 174 F. 3d 478.
No. 99-5517. -ann v. Saffle, Director, Oklahoma De-partment of Corrections, et al. C. A. 10th Cir. Certiorari
denied. Reported below: 172 F. 3d 878.

No. 99-5520. Tanner v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied.

No. 99-5526. Maguna-Celaya v. Haro, Chief Warden, etal. C. A. 11th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 172
F. 3d 883.

No. 99-5539. Koziol et al. v. United States et al. C. A.9th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 178 F. 3d 1301.

No. 99-5557. Brown v. Shalala, Secretary of Healthand Human Services. C. A. 4th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 178 F. 3d 1282.

No. 99-5639. Gwynn v. Pennsylvania. Sup. Ct. Pa. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 555 Pa. 86, 723 A. 2d 143.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:21] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
970 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

November 1, 1999 528 U. S.
No. 99-5729. Kuplen v. Arnold, Chief Judge, et al. Sup.Ct. N. C. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-5860. Gilbert v. Florida. Sup. Ct. Fla. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 735 So. 2d 1284.
No. 99-5862. Howland v. Cornyn, Attorney General ofTexas. C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 176
F. 3d 478.

No. 99-5863. Hoard v. Reddy et al. C. A. 7th Cir. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 175 F. 3d 531.

No. 99-5865. Carter v. Cain, Warden. C. A. 5th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied.
No. 99-5869. Fordjour v. Budoff, Judge, Superior Courtof Arizona, Maricopa County, et al. Ct. App. Ariz. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-5870. Hinson v. Florida. Dist. Ct. App. Fla., 1stDist. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 736 So. 2d 1184.

No. 99-5872. Gee v. Oregon. Ct. App. Ore. Certiorari de-nied. Reported below: 156 Ore. App. 241, 965 P. 2d 462, and 158
Ore. App. 597, 976 P. 2d 80.

No. 99-5877. Hansbrough v. California. Ct. App. Cal., 2dApp. Dist. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-5880. O'Brien v. LeCureux, Warden. C. A. 6th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-5885. Chandler v. Case Western Reserve Uni-versity. C. A. 6th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below:
178 F. 3d 1293.

No. 99-5887. Potts v. McDonald. C. A. 5th Cir. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 189 F. 3d 467.

No. 99-5892. Young v. Michigan. Ct. App. Mich. Certio-rari denied.
No. 99-5894. Setser v. Lucero, Warden, et al. C. A. 10thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 176 F. 3d 489.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:21] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

971ORDERS
November 1, 1999528 U. S.
No. 99-5898. Merola v. New Jersey Department of Cor-rections et al. C. A. 3d Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-5907. Walker v. Bonnet, LM, et al. Sup. Ct. Fla.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 737 So. 2d 552.
No. 99-5909. Williams v. Moore, Secretary, Florida De-partment of Corrections. Sup. Ct. Fla. Certiorari denied.
Reported below: 733 So. 2d 517.

No. 99-5914. Santa Cruz v. Illinois. App. Ct. Ill., 1st Dist.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 301 Ill. App. 3d 1091, 746

N. E. 2d 340.

No. 99-5916. Farrell v. Grievance Committee for theSouthern District of New York. C. A. 2d Cir. Certiorari

denied. Reported below: 181 F. 3d 82.

No. 99-5917. Kelley v. Gibson, Warden. C. A. 10th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 172 F. 3d 62.

No. 99-5928. Bagby v. Oklahoma. Ct. Crim. App. Okla.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-5930. Beverlin v. Moore, Secretary, Florida De-partment of Corrections, et al. C. A. 11th Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-5931. Cotton v. Cain, Warden. C. A. 5th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 914.

No. 99-5942. Sprunk v. Arizona. Super. Ct. Ariz., MaricopaCounty. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-5947. Washington v. Regents of the Universityof California et al. Ct. App. Cal., 2d App. Dist. Certiorari
denied.

No. 99-5956. Aguilar v. California. Ct. App. Cal., 4thApp. Dist. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-5958. Chisolm v. New York. C. A. 2d Cir. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 898.
No. 99-5960. Rodriguez v. Moore, Secretary, Florida De-partment of Corrections, et al. C. A. 11th Cir. Certiorari
denied. Reported below: 174 F. 3d 202.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:21] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
972 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

November 1, 1999 528 U. S.
No. 99-5961. Knighten v. John et al. C. A. 5th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 180 F. 3d 264.

No. 99-5962. Long v. Kentucky. C. A. 6th Cir. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 187 F. 3d 636.
No. 99-5963. Mikkilineni v. City of Houston, Texas, etal. C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 172 F.
3d 868.

No. 99-5964. Johnson v. Gibson, Warden. C. A. 10th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 169 F. 3d 1239.

No. 99-5967. Koehler v. Koehler. Ct. App. Ariz. Certio-rari denied.
No. 99-5968. Cartwright v. Texas. Ct. Crim. App. Tex.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-5969. Castor v. Modisett, Attorney General ofIndiana, et al. C. A. 7th Cir. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-5970. Criollo v. Johnson, Director, Texas Depart-ment of Criminal Justice, Institutional Division. C. A.
5th Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-5976. Parker v. Oklahoma. Ct. Crim. App. Okla.Certiorari denied.

No. 99-5977. Powell v. Cain, Warden, et al. C. A. 5thCir. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-5979. Ross v. Bilow et al. C. A. 2d Cir. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 166 F. 3d 1201.
No. 99-5980. Crump v. California. Ct. App. Cal., 1st App.Dist. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-5982. Rowe v. Johnson, Superintendent, SantaRosa Correctional Institution, et al. Sup. Ct. Fla. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 733 So. 2d 517.

No. 99-5990. Walker v. Mitchem, Warden, et al. C. A.11th Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-5996. Phillips v. Oklahoma. Ct. Crim. App. Okla.Certiorari denied.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:21] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

973ORDERS
November 1, 1999528 U. S.
No. 99-5997. Rodgers v. Ohio. Ct. App. Ohio, ColumbianaCounty. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-6000. Anderson v. North Carolina. Sup. Ct. N. C.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 350 N. C. 153, 513 S. E. 2d
296.

No. 99-6001. Boutin v. Hvass, Commissioner, MinnesotaDepartment of Corrections, et al. Sup. Ct. Minn. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 591 N. W. 2d 711.

No. 99-6007. Richardson v. West -irginia Departmentof Health and Human Services. C. A. 4th Cir. Certiorari

denied. Reported below: 181 F. 3d 90.

No. 99-6010. Flanagan et ux. v. Arnaiz et al. C. A. 9thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 925.

No. 99-6011. Lavine et al. v. Jackson et al. Ct. App. La.,1st Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 730 So. 2d 958.
No. 99-6020. Perelman v. George et al. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-6022. Kelly v. Ohio. Ct. App. Ohio, Franklin County.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-6027. Scott v. Pennsylvania. Super. Ct. Pa. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 736 A. 2d 685.
No. 99-6028. Jarrett v. Hayward Manor Apartments etal. C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 173 F.
3d 860.

No. 99-6030. v. Washington Department of Socialand Health Services. Ct. App. Wash. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-6034. Wright v. Cain, Warden. C. A. 5th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied.
No. 99-6038. Jackson v. Johnson, Director, Texas Depart-ment of Criminal Justice, Institutional Division. C. A.
5th Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-6039. Johnson v. California. Ct. App. Cal., 4thApp. Dist. Certiorari denied.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:21] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
974 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

November 1, 1999 528 U. S.
No. 99-6040. Messere v. Maloney, Commissioner, Massa-chusetts Department of Correction, et al. App. Ct. Mass.
Certiorari denied. Reported below: 46 Mass. App. 1121, 708 N. E.2d 154.

No. 99-6041. Cromartie v. Georgia. Sup. Ct. Ga. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 270 Ga. 780, 514 S. E. 2d 205.
No. 99-6042. Cook v. Georgia. Sup. Ct. Ga. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 270 Ga. 820, 514 S. E. 2d 657.
No. 99-6047. Kampmann v. California. Sup. Ct. Cal. Cer-tiorari denied.
No. 99-6048. Moore v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 178 F. 3d 1287.
No. 99-6049. -iray v. Beneficial California, Inc. Ct.App. Cal., 4th App. Dist. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-6053. Magic v. General Electric Co. C. A. 7th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 922.
No. 99-6058. Graham v. Texas. Ct. Crim. App. Tex. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 994 S. W. 2d 651.
No. 99-6059. Glasper v. Rice, Warden. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 187 F. 3d 647.
No. 99-6060. Howard v. Louisiana. Sup. Ct. La. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 751 So. 2d 783.
No. 99-6066. De-erney v. Sup. Ct. Minn.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 592 N. W. 2d 837.
No. 99-6067. Brown v. McCaughtry, Warden. C. A. 7thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 175 F. 3d 1019.
No. 99-6068. Cho v. Hawaii. Sup. Ct. Haw. Certiorari de-nied. Reported below: 90 Haw. 474, 979 P. 2d 70.
No. 99-6069. Barnes v. Johnson, Director, Texas Depart-ment of Criminal Justice, Institutional Division. C. A.
5th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 184 F. 3d 816.

No. 99-6072. Ledford v. California. Ct. App. Cal., 3d App.Dist. Certiorari denied.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:21] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

975ORDERS
November 1, 1999528 U. S.
No. 99-6077. Bradbury v. Manor Healthcare Corp. C. A.7th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 921.

No. 99-6078. Wilborn, aka Adams v. Harvard et al.C. A. 11th Cir. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-6080. Kieffer v. Riske. C. A. 8th Cir. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 168 F. 3d 494.
No. 99-6082. Tyson v. Boone, Warden. C. A. 10th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 933.
No. 99-6083. Dennis v. Scott, Warden. C. A. 10th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 185 F. 3d 873.
No. 99-6084. Monsebroten v. Maass, Superintendent, Or-egon State Penitentiary. C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari denied.
Reported below: 182 F. 3d 926.

No. 99-6086. Basilio v. Camray Development & Con-struction Co. et al. Ct. App. Cal., 3d App. Dist. Certiorari

denied.

No. 99-6089. Pursell v. Pennsylvania. Sup. Ct. Pa. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 555 Pa. 233, 724 A. 2d 293.

No. 99-6097. Ortiz v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 172 F. 3d 881.
No. 99-6103. Jefferson v. Johnson, Warden. C. A. 6th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-6120. Kennedy v. Cain, Warden. C. A. 5th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-6123. Torres v. Dufrain, Superintendent, Frank-lin Correctional Facility. C. A. 2d Cir. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-6128. Widmer v. Noble et al. Dist. Ct. App. Fla.,1st Dist. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 731 So. 2d 1280.
No. 99-6138. Smith v. Motes, Judge, Piedmont JudicialCircuit. Sup. Ct. Ga. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 271
Ga. 132, 516 S. E. 2d 295.

No. 99-6139. Stevens v. United States. Ct. App. D. C.Certiorari denied.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:21] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
976 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

November 1, 1999 528 U. S.
No. 99-6142. Wyatt v. Henry, Warden. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied.

No. 99-6150. Rodriguez de -aron v. United States. C. A.11th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 175 F. 3d 930.
No. 99-6159. Reed v. Ivanhoe Citrus Assn. et al. C. A.9th Cir. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-6162. Anderson v. General Motors Corp. C. A.10th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 176 F. 3d 488.
No. 99-6178. Mathis v. Ratelle, Warden, et al. C. A. 9thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 173 F. 3d 861.
No. 99-6181. Bell v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 189 F. 3d 466.
No. 99-6216. True v. United States. C. A. 8th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 179 F. 3d 1087.
No. 99-6226. Rosales-Lizalde v. United States. C. A. 5thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 184 F. 3d 819.
No. 99-6231. Kimberlin v. Judges, United States Courtof Appeals for the Fourth Circuit. C. A. 4th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 188 F. 3d 502.

No. 99-6235. Rohlsen v. United States. C. A. 3d Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 185 F. 3d 864.

No. 99-6236. Brock v. Johnson, Director, Texas Depart-ment of Criminal Justice, Institutional Division. C. A.
5th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 184 F. 3d 819.

No. 99-6242. Guzman Resendez, aka Garcia Gonzalez v.United States. C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported

below: 184 F. 3d 818.

No. 99-6243. Willis v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 184 F. 3d 816.

No. 99-6245. Rucker v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 171 F. 3d 1359.
No. 99-6247. Strozier v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 178 F. 3d 1303.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:21] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

977ORDERS
November 1, 1999528 U. S.
No. 99-6250. Menchaca v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 189 F. 3d 468.

No. 99-6252. Cole v. United States. C. A. 3d Cir. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 185 F. 3d 863.
No. 99-6253. Ciriaco-Gomez v. United States. C. A. 9thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 185 F. 3d 869.
No. 99-6254. Barrett v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 181 F. 3d 91.
No. 99-6255. Martines, aka Martinos v. United States.C. A. 4th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 911.
No. 99-6256. Mora-Peralta v. United States. C. A. 10thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 188 F. 3d 520.
No. 99-6257. Moreno v. United States. C. A. 2d Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 181 F. 3d 206.
No. 99-6258. Jefferson v. Johnson, Warden, et al. C. A.6th Cir. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-6261. Moore, aka Swillings v. United States.C. A. 6th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 181 F. 3d 105.
No. 99-6262. Sheppard v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 129 F. 3d 615.
No. 99-6263. Barron Salazar v. United States. C. A. 5thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 184 F. 3d 819.
No. 99-6264. Ridgeway v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 189 F. 3d 467.
No. 99-6265. Peoples v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-6267. Rodgers v. United States. C. A. 10th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 176 F. 3d 490.
No. 99-6268. Pleasants v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 911.
No. 99-6269. Snyder v. Dobucki, Warden. C. A. 7th Cir.Certiorari denied.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:21] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
978 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

November 1, 1999 528 U. S.
No. 99-6276. Baldwin v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 181 F. 3d 91.

No. 99-6279. Garrett v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 179 F. 3d 1143.
No. 99-6280. Happel v. United States. C. A. 7th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 923.
No. 99-6281. Doe v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 170 F. 3d 1162.
No. 99-6282. Hickman v. United States. C. A. 6th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 919.
No. 99-6285. Payton v. United States. C. A. 6th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 919.
No. 99-6287. Leaf v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied.
No. 99-6296. Jackson v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-6298. Markiewicz v. Washington et al. C. A. 7thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 175 F. 3d 1020.
No. 99-6304. Rosario v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 181 F. 3d 108.
No. 99-6305. Terreforte Quidgley v. United States.C. A. 1st Cir. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-6306. Mason v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 187 F. 3d 650.
No. 99-6311. Schuster v. United States Postal Serviceet al. C. A. 7th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 182
F. 3d 922.

No. 99-6317. Jenkins v. United States. C. A. 3d Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 185 F. 3d 863.

No. 99-6320. Thompson v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 180 F. 3d 270.
No. 99-6322. Sanchez v. Wyoming. Sup. Ct. Wyo. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 982 P. 2d 149.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:21] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

979ORDERS
November 1, 1999528 U. S.
No. 99-6324. Lay v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 911.

No. 99-6327. McLilly v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-6331. Stadther v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 187 F. 3d 650.
No. 99-6335. Brown v. Missouri. Sup. Ct. Mo. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 998 S. W. 2d 531.
No. 99-6337. Cauley v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 181 F. 3d 107.
No. 99-6339. Aguilera-Gomez v. United States. C. A. 9thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 187 F. 3d 649.
No. 99-6340. Carlisle v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 189 F. 3d 483.
No. 99-6345. Espinoza Betancourt v. United States.C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 168 F. 3d 502.
No. 99-6346. Allen v. United States. C. A. 7th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 175 F. 3d 560.
No. 99-6347. Lara v. United States. C. A. 1st Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 181 F. 3d 183.
No. 99-6348. Jackson v. United States. C. A. 7th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 189 F. 3d 502.
No. 99-6351. Wilson v. United States. C. A. 6th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 181 F. 3d 106.
No. 99-6352. Young v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 912.
No. 99-6357. Ortegon-Uvalde v. United States. C. A. 5thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 179 F. 3d 956.
No. 99-6358. Levesque v. United States. C. A. 1st Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-6365. Pickering v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 178 F. 3d 1168.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:21] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
980 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

November 1, 1999 528 U. S.
No. 99-6366. Smith v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 180 F. 3d 265.

No. 99-6367. O'Neal v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 180 F. 3d 115.
No. 99-6368. Brooks v. United States. C. A. 3d Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 185 F. 3d 864.
No. 99-6369. Hurt v. Tennessee. Ct. Crim. App. Tenn.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-6375. Tamayo-Navarro v. United States. C. A. 9thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 191 F. 3d 462.
No. 99-6376. -illareal-Gonzalez, aka Gonzalez-Vasquezv. United States. C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported
below: 184 F. 3d 818.

No. 99-6377. Traynham v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 178 F. 3d 1288.

No. 99-6379. Toledo-Castaneda v. United States. C. A.11th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 189 F. 3d 480.
No. 99-6380. Goins v. Commissioner of Internal Reve-nue. C. A. 4th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 151
F. 3d 1029.

No. 99-6382. Griggs v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 189 F. 3d 481.

No. 99-6385. Watts v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 189 F. 3d 482.
No. 99-6386. Winestock v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 187 F. 3d 633.
No. 99-6387. Walker v. United States. C. A. 6th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 181 F. 3d 774.
No. 99-6390. O'Kane v. United States. C. A. 10th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 185 F. 3d 875.
No. 99-6397. McCoy v. United States. C. A. 6th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 181 F. 3d 105.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:21] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

981ORDERS
November 1, 1999528 U. S.
No. 99-6398. Terrero v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 189 F. 3d 485.

No. 99-6399. Wilson v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 178 F. 3d 1288.
No. 99-6409. McGlamry v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 173 F. 3d 853.
No. 99-6413. Craig v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 181 F. 3d 1124.
No. 99-6415. Brown v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 185 F. 3d 869.
No. 99-6416. Hawkins v. United States. C. A. 8th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 181 F. 3d 911.
No. 99-6417. Gibbs v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 185 F. 3d 870.
No. 99-6429. -andross v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 178 F. 3d 1288.
No. 99-6434. Ibida v. United States. C. A. 6th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 187 F. 3d 638.
No. 99-6439. Quintero-Loaiza v. United States. C. A.11th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 189 F. 3d 481.
No. 99-6440. Pryor v. Ohio. Ct. App. Ohio, Franklin County.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-6442. Smith v. United States. C. A. D. C. Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 194 F. 3d 175.
No. 99-6443. Salais-Perea v. United States. C. A. 10thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 185 F. 3d 875.
No. 99-6452. Williams v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 168 F. 3d 1234 and 181
F. 3d 1205.

No. 99-6457. Neumann v. United States. C. A. 8th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 183 F. 3d 753.

No. 99-6458. Lindsay v. United States. C. A. 10th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 184 F. 3d 1138.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:21] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
982 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

November 1, 5, 1999 528 U. S.
No. 99-6459. Mejia-Sanchez v. United States. C. A. 9thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 172 F. 3d 1172.

No. 99-6464. Rubio-Ramos v. United States. C. A. 11thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 190 F. 3d 542.
No. 99-6465. Ruvalcaba v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 189 F. 3d 468.
No. 99-6467. Pineiro v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 187 F. 3d 632.
No. 99-6472. Meredyth v. United States. C. A. 10th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 188 F. 3d 520.
No. 99-6473. Young v. Ohio. Ct. App. Ohio, Stark County.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-6476. Lazo v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied.
No. 99-6484. James, aka Ali v. United States. C. A. 2dCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 181 F. 3d 83.
No. 99-6486. Nosair v. United States. C. A. 2d Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 189 F. 3d 88.
No. 99-6488. Lowery v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 181 F. 3d 93.
No. 99-367. Smyly v. International Business MachinesCorp. C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari denied. Justice Stevens
took no part in the consideration or decision of this petition. Re-ported below: 182 F. 3d 927.

No. 99-398. Arizona v. Sanders. Ct. App. Ariz. Motion ofrespondent for leave to proceed in forma pauperis granted. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 194 Ariz. 156, 978 P. 2d 133.

November 5, 1999
Dismissal Under Rule 46

No. 99-161. Weisgram et al. v. Marley Co. et al. C. A.8th Cir. [Certiorari granted, 527 U. S. 1069.] Writ of certiorari

as to State Farm Fire & Casualty Insurance Co. dismissed underthis Court's Rule 46.1.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:21] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

983ORDERS
November 5, 8, 1999528 U. S.
Miscellaneous Order

No. 99A320. Zelman, Superintendent of Public Instruc-tion of Ohio, et al. v. Simmons-Harris et al. Treating the

application as a request for a stay of the preliminary injunction,application for stay presented to Justice Stevens, and by him
referred to the Court, granted. Preliminary injunction enteredby the United States District Court for the Northern District of
Ohio, case No. 99 CV 1740, on August 24, 1999, is stayed pendingfinal disposition of the appeal by the United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit. Justice Stevens, Justice Souter,Justice Ginsburg, and Justice Breyer would deny the application for stay.

November 8, 1999
Certiorari Dismissed

No. 99-6093. In re Tyler et al. C. A. 8th Cir. Motion ofpetitioners for leave to proceed in forma pauperis denied, and

certiorari dismissed. See this Court's Rule 39.8. As petitionerTyler has repeatedly abused this Court's process, the Clerk is
directed not to accept any further petitions in noncriminal mat-ters from petitioner Tyler unless the docketing fee required by
Rule 38(a) is paid and the petition is submitted in compliance withRule 33.1. See Martin v. District of Columbia Court of Appeals,
506 U. S. 1 (1992) (per curiam). Justice Stevens dissents.See id., at 4, and cases cited therein.

Miscellaneous Orders

No. D-2116. In re Disbarment of Cato. Michael Cato, ofHouston, Tex., is suspended from the practice of law in this Court,

and a rule will issue, returnable within 40 days, requiring him toshow cause why he should not be disbarred from the practice of
law in this Court.

No. D-2117. In re Disbarment of Bessey. John DanielBessey, of Sacramento, Cal., is suspended from the practice of

law in this Court, and a rule will issue, returnable within 40days, requiring him to show cause why he should not be disbarred
from the practice of law in this Court.

No. D-2118. In re Disbarment of Brown. David EugeneBrown, of Sacramento, Cal., is suspended from the practice of law

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:21] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
984 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

November 8, 1999 528 U. S.
in this Court, and a rule will issue, returnable within 40 days,requiring him to show cause why he should not be disbarred from
the practice of law in this Court.

No. D-2119. In re Disbarment of Cullen. Rick S. Cullen,of Tallahassee, Fla., is suspended from the practice of law in this

Court, and a rule will issue, returnable within 40 days, requiringhim to show cause why he should not be disbarred from the
practice of law in this Court.

No. D-2120. In re Disbarment of Gelbwaks. Aaron Gelb-waks, of New York, N. Y., is suspended from the practice of law

in this Court, and a rule will issue, returnable within 40 days,requiring him to show cause why he should not be disbarred from
the practice of law in this Court.

No. D-2121. In re Disbarment of Wechsler. Alan LewisWechsler, of New York, N. Y., is suspended from the practice of

law in this Court, and a rule will issue, returnable within 40 days,requiring him to show cause why he should not be disbarred from
the practice of law in this Court.

No. 99M41. Halas v. United States. Motion to direct theClerk to file petition for writ of certiorari denied.

No. 98-1109. Shalala, Secretary of Health and HumanServices, et al. v. Illinois Council on Long Term Care,
Inc. C. A. 7th Cir. [Certiorari granted, 526 U. S. 1063.] Mo-tion of respondent for leave to cite additional authority in
response to the reply brief of the Solicitor General denied.

No. 98-9828. Ohler v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir. [Cer-tiorari granted, ante, p. 950.] Motion for appointment of counsel

granted, and it is ordered that Benjamin L. Coleman, Esq., of SanDiego, Cal., be appointed to serve as counsel for petitioner in
this case.

No. 99-6578. In re Hines; andNo. 99-6599. In re Purvis. Petitions for writs of habeas

corpus denied.

No. 99-6088. In re Tyler. Motion of petitioner for leave toproceed in forma pauperis denied, and petition for writ of mandamus dismissed. See this Court's Rule 39.8. As petitioner hasrepeatedly abused this Court's process, the Clerk is directed not

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:21] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

985ORDERS
November 8, 1999528 U. S.
to accept any further petitions in noncriminal matters from peti-tioner unless the docketing fee required by Rule 38(a) is paid and
the petition is submitted in compliance with Rule 33.1. See Mar-tin v. District of Columbia Court of Appeals, 506 U. S. 1 (1992)
(per curiam). Justice Stevens dissents. See id., at 4, andcases cited therein.

No. 99-535. In re Rivera. Petition for writ of mandamusand/or prohibition denied.
No. 99-6096. In re Ledet. Motion of petitioner for leave toproceed in forma pauperis denied, and petition for writ of mandamus and/or prohibition dismissed. See this Court's Rule 39.8.
Certiorari Granted

No. 99-409. Hartford Underwriters Insurance Co. v.Union Planters Bank, N. A. C. A. 8th Cir. Certiorari

granted. Reported below: 177 F. 3d 719.

No. 99-536. Reeves v. Sanderson Plumbing Products,Inc. C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari granted. Reported below: 197

F. 3d 688.

No. 98-2060. Edwards, Warden v. Carpenter. C. A. 6thCir. Motion of respondent for leave to proceed in forma pauperis granted. Certiorari granted. Reported below: 163 F. 3d938.

Certiorari Denied

No. 98-1964. Jones v. Texas. Ct. Crim. App. Tex. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 982 S. W. 2d 386.

No. 98-9539. Lai v. International Immunology Corp. etal. Ct. App. Cal., 4th App. Dist. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-125. De La Mata et al. v. United States. C. A.11th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 172 F. 3d 806.
No. 99-216. Amati et al. v. City of Woodstock et al.C. A. 7th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 176 F. 3d 952.
No. 99-218. Lopez-Lukis v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 170 F. 3d 186.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:21] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
986 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

November 8, 1999 528 U. S.
No. 99-326. Amalgamated Transit Union, AFL-CIO, CLC,et al. v. Niehaus. C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported
below: 173 F. 3d 1207.

No. 99-403. Earthman v. Ingram. Ct. App. Tenn. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 993 S. W. 2d 611.

No. 99-415. Snyder v. The Upjohn Co. C. A. 9th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 172 F. 3d 58.
No. 99-432. Karagounis v. University of Texas HealthScience Center at San Antonio et al. C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 168 F. 3d 485.

No. 99-458. Don -icente Macias, Inc. v. Texas GulfTrawling Co., Inc., et al. C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied.

Reported below: 168 F. 3d 209.

No. 99-460. Scheffler v. Dow Jones & Co., Inc. C. A. 3dCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 185 F. 3d 862.

No. 99-462. Blanche et ux. v. United States et al. C. A.5th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 169 F. 3d 956.
No. 99-468. Dixon, Personal Representative for Dixon,Deceased v. United States. C. A. 10th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 185 F. 3d 873.

No. 99-487. Stagman v. Ryan, Attorney General of Illi-nois, et al. C. A. 7th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below:

176 F. 3d 986.

No. 99-491. Tejeda v. Texas. Ct. App. Tex., 7th Dist. Cer-tiorari denied.

No. 99-544. Melof et al. v. James et al. Sup. Ct. Ala.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 735 So. 2d 1172.
No. 99-561. Chavez-Galvan v. United States. C. A. 11thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 180 F. 3d 268.
No. 99-565. Carlton v. Henderson, Postmaster General.C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-566. King v. Anderson. C. A. 5th Cir. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 913.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:21] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

987ORDERS
November 8, 1999528 U. S.
No. 99-567. Wallace v. Alaska. Ct. App. Alaska. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 933 P. 2d 1157.

No. 99-568. Efron, a Minor, By and Through Efron etux., Her Next Friends v. United States et al. C. A. 11th
Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 189 F. 3d 482.

No. 99-590. Ida v. United States. C. A. 2d Cir. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 176 F. 3d 580.

No. 99-608. Hastings v. United States. C. A. 2d Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 173 F. 3d 847.
No. 99-609. Garcia v. United States. C. A. 10th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 1165.
No. 99-621. O'Brien et al. v. United States. C. A. 6thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 174 F. 3d 720.
No. 99-5098. Hunter v. Pennsylvania. Super. Ct. Pa.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 734 A. 2d 436.
No. 99-5101. Taylor v. United States. C. A. 6th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 173 F. 3d 538.
No. 99-5169. Reneau v. Texas. Ct. Crim. App. Tex. Cer-tiorari denied.
No. 99-5171. Osborne v. Boone, Warden, et al. C. A. 10thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 176 F. 3d 489.
No. 99-6008. Smith v. United States. C. A. 10th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 188 F. 3d 520.
No. 99-6102. Luna -asquez v. Neal, Superintendent,Canon Minimum Centers, et al. C. A. 10th Cir. Certiorari
denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 934.

No. 99-6105. Walker v. Edmondson, Attorney Generalof Oklahoma, et al. C. A. 10th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 167 F. 3d 1339.

No. 99-6110. Copeland v. Pastrano. C. A. 5th Cir. Certio-rari denied.

No. 99-6113. Karls v. Hudson, Warden. C. A. 10th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 932.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:21] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
988 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

November 8, 1999 528 U. S.
No. 99-6163. Sysouvong v. Meschner, Warden. C. A. 8thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 171 F. 3d 614.

No. 99-6166. Rainey v. New Jersey. Super. Ct. N. J., App.Div. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-6189. Parsee v. United States; andNo. 99-6237. Harrison v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir.
Certiorari denied. Reported below: 178 F. 3d 374.

No. 99-6217. Rogers v. Kentucky. Sup. Ct. Ky. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 992 S. W. 2d 183.

No. 99-6219. Stringer v. Ohio. Ct. App. Ohio, SciotoCounty. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-6223. Lyons v. Henry, Warden. C. A. 9th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 176 F. 3d 483.
No. 99-6228. Adusumilli v. City of Chicago. C. A. 7th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 164 F. 3d 353.
No. 99-6283. Eades v. Kentucky. Ct. App. Ky. Certioraridenied.
No. 99-6286. Al-Wahhab v. United States et al. C. A.4th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 181 F. 3d 86.
No. 99-6288. Murdock v. James et al. C. A. 6th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied.
No. 99-6292. Conlon v. Arizona et al. Ct. App. Ariz.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-6344. Shed v. Johnson, Director, Texas Depart-ment of Criminal Justice, Institutional Division. C. A.
5th Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-6360. Porter v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 187 F. 3d 632.

No. 99-6373. Flint v. Booker, Superintendent, Missis-sippi State Penitentiary, et al. C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari
denied.

No. 99-6395. Pfeil v. Wyoming. Sup. Ct. Wyo. Certioraridenied.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:21] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

989ORDERS
November 8, 1999528 U. S.
No. 99-6405. Bohannan v. Johnson, Director, Texas De-partment of Criminal Justice, Institutional Division.
C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 178 F. 3d1290.

No. 99-6426. Ahmad v. Lamanna, Warden, et al. C. A.6th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 917.
No. 99-6448. Smith v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied.
No. 99-6470. Nelson v. Barbo et al. C. A. 3d Cir. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 176 F. 3d 472.
No. 99-6480. Raulerson v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-6482. Smith v. United States. C. A. 6th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 191 F. 3d 454.
No. 99-6492. Belser v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied.
No. 99-6494. Cavano v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 189 F. 3d 483.
No. 99-6497. Wolmarans v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 167 F. 3d 539.
No. 99-6498. Sealed Petitioner v. United States. C. A.D. C. Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 149 F. 3d 1198
and 181 F. 3d 128.

No. 99-6501. Rivera-Romero v. United States. C. A. 5thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 198 F. 3d 240.

No. 99-6505. Pino-Noriega v. United States. C. A. 9thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 189 F. 3d 1089.
No. 99-6506. Smiley v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 168 F. 3d 1234 and 181
F. 3d 1205.

No. 99-6508. Llamas v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 187 F. 3d 632.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:21] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
990 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

November 8, 1999 528 U. S.
No. 99-6509. Lee v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 183 F. 3d 1029.

No. 99-6529. Ma v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 176 F. 3d 485.
No. 99-6530. Mullin v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 178 F. 3d 334.
No. 99-6536. White v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 181 F. 3d 94.
No. 99-6542. Lloyd v. United States. C. A. 6th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 917.
No. 98-9741. Knight, aka Muhammad v. Florida. Sup. Ct.Fla.; and
No. 99-5291. Moore v. Nebraska. Sup. Ct. Neb. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: No. 98-9741, 721 So. 2d 287;
No. 99-5291, 256 Neb. 553, 591 N. W. 2d 86.

Opinion of Justice Stevens respecting the denial of the peti-tions for writ of certiorari.

It seems appropriate to emphasize that the denial of these peti-tions for certiorari does not constitute a ruling on the merits.
See, e. g., Barber v. Tennessee, 513 U. S. 1184 (1995) (opinion ofStevens, J., respecting denial of certiorari).

Justice Thomas, concurring.
I write only to point out that I am unaware of any support inthe American constitutional tradition or in this Court's precedent

for the proposition that a defendant can avail himself of the pano-ply of appellate and collateral procedures and then complain when
his execution is delayed. Indeed, were there any such supportin our own jurisprudence, it would be unnecessary for proponents
of the claim to rely on the European Court of Human Rights,the Supreme Court of Zimbabwe, the Supreme Court of India, or
the Privy Council.1

1 In support of his claim, petitioner Knight cites Blackstone, who remarked that "a delayed execution `affects the minds of the spectators ratheras a terrible sight, than as the necessary consequence of transgression.' "

Pet. for Cert. in No. 98-9741, p. 15 (quoting 4 W. Blackstone, Commentar-ies *397). Blackstone was speaking of the effect speedy execution would
have on deterring crime: "[P]unishment should follow the crime as early as

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:21] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

991ORDERS
Thomas, J., concurring990
It is worth noting, in addition, that, in most cases raising thisnovel claim, the delay in carrying out the prisoner's execution
stems from this Court's Byzantine death penalty jurisprudence,e. g., Graham v. Collins, 506 U. S. 461, 478 (1993) (Thomas, J.,
concurring) (criticizing the Court's holding in Penry v. Lynaugh,492 U. S. 302 (1989), that Texas special issues violated the Eighth
Amendment by preventing the jury from giving effect to mitigat-ing evidence); Ohio Adult Parole Authority v. Woodard, 523 U. S.
272, 279 (1998) (opinion of Rehnquist, C. J.) (disagreeing withthe view of five Members of this Court

2 that procedural due

process principles govern a clemency hearing in which the clem-ency decision is entrusted to executive discretion); Simmons v.

South Carolina, 512 U. S. 154, 178 (1994) (Scalia, J., dissenting)(disputing Court's holding that due process compels a State to
inform a sentencing jury of a capital defendant's ineligibility forparole); Morgan v. Illinois, 504 U. S. 719, 739 (1992) (Scalia, J.,
dissenting) (disagreeing with the Court's holding that the SixthAmendment requires exclusion of a sentencing juror who would
always impose the death penalty upon proof of the defendant'sguilt of a capital offense).

3 In that sense, Justice Breyer is

unmistakably correct when he notes that one cannot "justifylengthy delays [between conviction and sentence] by reference to

possible; that the prospect of gratification or advantage, which tempts aman to commit the crime, should instantly awake the attendant idea of punishment." Ibid. In this regard, Blackstone observed that "throughout thekingdom, by statute 25 Geo. II. c. 37. it is enacted that, in case of murder,
the judge shall in his sentence direct execution to be performed on the nextday but one after sentence passed." Ibid. I have no doubt that such a
system, if reenacted, would have the deterrent effect that Justice Breyerfinds lacking in the current system, but I am equally confident that such a
procedure would find little support from this Court.

2 See 523 U. S., at 288 (O'Connor, J., concurring in part and concurring in judgment); id., at 290 (Stevens, J., concurring in part and dissentingin part).

3 Furthermore, I observed prior to Congress' adoption of the Antiterrorism and Effective Death Penalty Act of 1996 (AEDPA), Pub. L. 104-132,Tit. IV-B, $ 413(f), 110 Stat. 1269, that this Court has radically expanded

federal habeas corpus review for state prisoners, which until AEDPA hadbeen delineated in scope by an unchanged statutory formulation. See
Wright v. West, 505 U. S. 277, 285-287 (1992) (opinion of Thomas, J.) (tracingthe expansion of federal habeas corpus relief from its original conception as
a mechanism for prisoners to challenge the jurisdiction of the state courtthat had rendered judgment).

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:21] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
992 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

Thomas, J., concurring 528 U. S.
[our] constitutional tradition." Post, at 995. Consistency wouldseem to demand that those who accept our death penalty jurisprudence as a given also accept the lengthy delay between sentencingand execution as a necessary consequence. See Coleman v. Balkcom, 451 U. S. 949, 952 (1981) (Stevens, J., concurring in denialof certiorari) ("However critical one may be of . . . protracted
post-trial procedures, it seems inevitable that there must be asignificant period of incarceration on death row during the interval between sentencing and execution"). It is incongruous to armcapital defendants with an arsenal of "constitutional" claims with
which they may delay their executions, and simultaneously tocomplain when executions are inevitably delayed. See Turner v.
Jabe, 58 F. 3d 924, 933 (CA4) (Luttig, J., concurring), cert. denied,514 U. S. 1136 (1995); Kozinski & Gallagher, Death: The Ultimate
Run-On Sentence, 46 Case W. Res. L. Rev. 1, 25 (1995).Ironically, the neoteric Eighth Amendment claim proposed by
Justice Breyer would further prolong collateral review bygiving virtually every capital prisoner yet another ground on
which to challenge and delay his execution. See U. S. Dept. ofJustice, Bureau of Justice Statistics Bulletin, Capital Punishment 1997, p. 12 (Dec. 1998) (for prisoners executed between 1977and 1997, the average elapsed time on death row was 111 months
from the last sentencing date). The claim might, in addition,provide reviewing courts a perverse incentive to give short shrift
to a capital defendant's legitimate claims so as to avoid violatingthe Eighth Amendment right suggested by

Justice Breyer.Cf. United States v. Tateo, 377 U. S. 463, 466 (1964) ("From the

standpoint of a defendant, it is at least doubtful that appellatecourts would be as zealous as they now are in protecting against
the effects of improprieties at the trial or pretrial stage if theyknew that reversal of a conviction would put the accused irrevocably beyond the reach of further prosecution. In reality, therefore,the practice of retrial serves defendants' rights as well as society's interest").Five years ago,

Justice Stevens issued an invitation to stateand lower courts to serve as "laboratories" in which the viability

of this claim could receive further study. Lackey v. Texas, 514U. S. 1045 (1995) (memorandum respecting denial of certiorari).
These courts have resoundingly rejected the claim as meritless.See, e. g., People v. Frye, 18 Cal. 4th 894, 1030-1031, 959 P. 2d
183, 262 (1998); People v. Massie, 19 Cal. 4th 550, 574, 967 P. 2d

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:21] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

993ORDERS
Breyer, J., dissenting990
29, 44-45 (1998); Ex parte Bush, 695 So. 2d 138, 140 (Ala. 1997);State v. Schackart, 190 Ariz. 238, 259, 947 P. 2d 315, 336 (1997),
cert. denied, 525 U. S. 862 (1998); Bell v. State, 938 S. W. 2d 35,53 (Tex. Crim. App. 1996), cert. denied, 522 U. S. 827 (1997);

Statev. Smith, 280 Mont. 158, 183-184, 931 P. 2d 1272, 1287-1288 (1996);

White v. Johnson, 79 F. 3d 432, 439-440 (CA5), cert. denied, 519U. S. 911 (1996); Stafford v. Ward, 59 F. 3d 1025, 1028 (CA10
1995).4 I submit that the Court should consider the experimentconcluded.

Justice Breyer, dissenting.
These petitions ask us to consider whether the Eighth Amend-ment prohibits as "cruel and unusual punishmen[t]" the execution of prisoners who have spent nearly 20 years or more ondeath row. Both of these cases involve astonishingly long delays
flowing in significant part from constitutionally defective deathpenalty procedures. Where a delay, measured in decades, reflects
the State's own failure to comply with the Constitution's demands,the claim that time has rendered the execution inhuman is a
particularly strong one. I believe this Court should consider

that claim now. See Lackey v. Texas, 514 U. S. 1045 (1995)(

Stevens, J., respecting denial of certiorari); Elledge v. Florida,
525 U. S. 944 (1998) (Breyer, J., dissenting from denial ofcertiorari).

The petitioner in Moore v. Nebraska was sentenced to death
on June 20, 1980, more than 19 years ago. By mid-1982, Moorehad invoked all his direct appellate remedies and lost. By mid1984, he had invoked all state collateral remedies and lost. Butin 1988 a Federal District Court agreed with Moore that Nebraska's death sentence procedures violated the Constitution becauseits standards were too vague, permitting the death penalty's arbitrary application. See Furman v. Georgia, 408 U. S. 238 (1972)
(per curiam). The District Court issued a writ of habeas corpus.The Eighth Circuit affirmed. And in May 1992, this Court denied

4 Each of these cases rejected the claim on the merits. I am not aware
of a single American court that has accepted such an Eighth Amendmentclaim. Some judges have dismissed the claim in the strongest of terms.

See, e. g., Turner v. Jabe, 58 F. 3d 924, 933 (CA4 1995) (Luttig, J., concurring)(describing a similar claim as a "mockery of our system of justice, and an
affront to lawabiding citizens").

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:21] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
994 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

Breyer, J., dissenting 528 U. S.
the State's petition for certiorari, making final the lower federalcourt decision in Moore's favor.

In April 1995, after modifying its death sentence proceduresand 15 years after Moore's first sentencing proceeding, the State
held a new sentencing proceeding; Moore was again sentenced todeath. By April 1997, Moore had invoked all direct appellate
remedies and lost. He then invoked state collateral review andlost in the lower courts. See 210 Neb. 457, 316 N. W. 2d 33 (1982).
He now seeks certiorari, asking us to review his claim of inordi-nate delay (among others)--19 years and 4 months after he was
first sentenced to death.The petitioner in Knight v. Florida was sentenced to death on
April 21, 1975, nearly 25 years ago. By mid-1976, Knight hadinvoked all his direct appellate remedies and lost. By mid-1983,
he had invoked all state collateral remedies and lost. But Knighthad also filed a petition for habeas corpus in federal court; and
in December 1988, the Federal Court of Appeals for the Elev-enth Circuit found that Florida's death penalty sentencing procedure was constitutionally defective because it did not require thejury to take account of an unusually traumatic and abusive childhood as a potentially mitigating factor. See Lockett v. Ohio, 438U. S. 586 (1978). The Court of Appeals ordered a new sentencing proceeding.In February 1996, the State held a new proceeding, and Knight
was again sentenced to death. In November 1998, the FloridaSupreme Court affirmed. 721 So. 2d 287 (1998). Knight now
seeks certiorari, asking us to review his claim of inordinate delay(among others)--24 years and 6 months after he was first sentenced to death.It is difficult to deny the suffering inherent in a prolonged wait
for execution--a matter which courts and individual judges havelong recognized. See Lackey, supra, at 1045-1047. More than a
century ago, this Court described as "horrible" the "feelings" thataccompany uncertainty about whether, or when, the execution
will take place. In re Medley, 134 U. S. 160, 172 (1890). TheCalifornia Supreme Court has referred to the "dehumanizing effects of . . . lengthy imprisonment prior to execution." People v.Anderson, 6 Cal. 3d 628, 649, 493 P. 2d 880, 894 (1972). In Furman v. Georgia, supra, at 288-289 (concurring opinion), JusticeBrennan wrote of the "inevitable long wait" that exacts "a frightful toll." Justice Frankfurter noted that the "onset of insanity

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:21] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

995ORDERS
Breyer, J., dissenting990
while awaiting execution of a death sentence is not a rare phe-nomenon." Solesbee v. Balkcom, 339 U. S. 9, 14 (1950) (dissenting
opinion). See Strafer, Volunteering for Execution, 74 J. Crim.L. & C. 860, 872, n. 44 (1983) (a study of Florida inmates showed
that 35% of those confined on death row attempted suicide; 42%seriously considered suicide). And death row conditions of special isolation may well aggravate that suffering. See Connolly,Better Never Than Late, 23 New England J. on Crim. & Civ.
Confinement 101, 121 (1997); Strafer, supra, at 870-871, n. 37.At the same time, the longer the delay, the weaker the justification for imposing the death penalty in terms of punishment'sbasic retributive or deterrent purposes. Lackey, supra, at 1046.
Nor can one justify lengthy delays by reference to constitutionaltradition, for our Constitution was written at a time when delay
between sentencing and execution could be measured in days orweeks, not decades. See Pratt v. Attorney General for Jamaica,
[1994] 2 A. C. 1, 18, 4 All E. R. 769, 773 (P. C. 1993) (en banc)(Great Britain's "Murder Act" of 1751 prescribed that execution
take place on the next day but one after sentence).A growing number of courts outside the United States--courts
that accept or assume the lawfulness of the death penalty--haveheld that lengthy delay in administering a lawful death penalty
renders ultimate execution inhuman, degrading, or unusuallycruel. In Pratt v. Attorney General for Jamaica, supra, for
example, the Privy Council considered whether Jamaica lawfullycould execute two prisoners held for 14 years after sentencing.
The Council noted that Jamaican law authorized the death penaltyand that the United Nations Committee on Human Rights has
written that " `capital punishment is not per se unlawful underthe [Human Rights] Covenant.' " Id., at 26, 4 All E. R., at 780.
But the Privy Council concluded that it was an "inhuman act tokeep a man facing the agony of execution over a long extended
period of time," id., at 29, 4 All E. R., at 783, and the delay of 14years was "shocking," id., at 33, 4 All E. R., at 786. It held that
the delay (and presumptively any delay of more than five years)was " `inhuman or degrading punishment or other treatment' "
forbidden by Jamaica's Constitution unless "due entirely to thefault of the accused." Id., at 29, 4 All E. R., at 783.

The Supreme Court of India has held that an appellate court,which itself has authority to sentence, must take account of delay
when deciding whether to impose a death penalty. Sher Singh

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:21] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
996 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

Breyer, J., dissenting 528 U. S.
v. State of Punjab, A. I. R. 1983 S. C. 465. A condemned pris-oner may ask whether it is "just and fair" to permit execution
in instances of "[p]rolonged delay." Id., at 470-471. The Su-preme Court of Zimbabwe, after surveying holdings of many
foreign courts, concluded that delays of five and six years were"inordinate" and constituted " `torture or . . . inhuman or degrading punishment or other such treatment.' " Catholic Com-mission for Justice and Peace in Zimbabwe v. Attorney-General,
[1993] 1 Zimb. L. R. 239, 240, 269 (S) (Aug. 4, 1999), http://www.law.wits.ac.za/salr/catholic.html. And the European Court
of Human Rights, interpreting the European Convention onHuman Rights, noted the convention did not forbid capital punishment. But, in the court's view, the convention nonethelessprohibited the United Kingdom from extraditing a potential defendant to the Commonwealth of Virginia--in large part becausethe 6- to 8-year delay that typically accompanied a death sentence
amounts to "cruel, inhuman, [or] degrading treatment or punish-ment" forbidden by the convention. Soering v. United Kingdom,
11 Eur. Ct. H. R. (ser. A), pp. 439, 478, || 111 (1989).Not all foreign authority reaches the same conclusion. The
Supreme Court of Canada, for example, held that Canadian consti-tutional standards, though roughly similar to those of the European Convention on Human Rights, did not bar extradition to theUnited States of a defendant facing the death penalty. Kindler
v. Minister of Justice, [1991] 2 S. C. R. 779, 838 ( joint opinion).And the United Nations Human Rights Committee has written
that a delay of 10 years does not necessarily violate roughlysimilar standards set forth in the Universal Declaration of Human
Rights. Views adopted by the United Nations Human RightsCommittee, 44th Sess., Mar. 30, 1992, In re: Barrett v. Jamaica
(Nos. 270/1988 and 271/1988) $ 8.4. Given the closeness of theCanadian Court's decision (4 to 3) and language that the United
Nations Human Rights Committee used to describe the 10-yeardelay ("disturbingly long"), one cannot be certain what position
those bodies would take in respect to delays of 19 and 24 years.Obviously this foreign authority does not bind us. After all,
we are interpreting a "Constitution for the United States ofAmerica." Thompson v. Oklahoma, 487 U. S. 815, 868, n. 4 (1988)
(Scalia, J., dissenting). And indeed, after Soering, the UnitedStates Senate insisted on reservations to language imposing similar standards in various human rights treaties, specifying, for

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:21] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

997ORDERS
Breyer, J., dissenting990
example, that the language in question did not "restrict or pro-hibit the United States from applying the death penalty consistent with the . . . Constitution of the United States, including anyconstitutional period of confinement prior to the imposition of the
death penalty." 136 Cong. Rec. 36192-36199 (1990) (U. S. SenateResolution of Advice and Consent to Ratification of the Convention Against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or DegradingTreatment or Punishment).

Nonetheless, the treaty reservations say nothing about whethera particular "period of confinement" is "constitutional." And this
Court has long considered as relevant and informative the way inwhich foreign courts have applied standards roughly comparable
to our own constitutional standards in roughly comparable cir-cumstances. In doing so, the Court has found particularly instructive opinions of former Commonwealth nations insofar asthose opinions reflect a legal tradition that also underlies our own
Eighth Amendment. Thompson v. Oklahoma, supra, at 830-831
(opinion of Stevens, J.) (considering practices of Anglo-Americannations regarding executing juveniles);

Enmund v. Florida, 458
U. S. 782, 796-797, n. 22 (1982) (noting that the doctrine of felony
murder has been eliminated or restricted in England, India, Can-ada, and a "number of other Commonwealth countries");

Coker v.
Georgia, 433 U. S. 584, 596, n. 10 (1977) (observing that only 3 of60 nations surveyed in 1965 retained the death penalty for rape);

Trop v. Dulles, 356 U. S. 86, 102-103 (1958) (noting that only 2 of84 countries surveyed imposed denationalization as a penalty for
desertion). See also Washington v. Glucksberg, 521 U. S. 702,
710, n. 8, and 718-719, n. 16 (1997) (surveying other nations' lawsregarding assisted suicide);

Culombe v. Connecticut, 367 U. S.
568, 583-584, n. 25, and 588 (1961) (considering English practiceconcerning police interrogation of suspects);

Kilbourn v. Thompson, 103 U. S. 168, 183-189 (1881) (referring to the practices of
Parliament in determining whether the House of Representa-tives has the power to hold a witness in contempt). Willingness

to consider foreign judicial views in comparable cases is not sur-prising in a Nation that from its birth has given a "decent respect
to the opinions of mankind."In these cases, the foreign courts I have mentioned have considered roughly comparable questions under roughly comparable
legal standards. Each court has held or assumed that those

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:21] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
998 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

Breyer, J., dissenting 528 U. S.
standards permit application of the death penalty itself. Conse-quently, I believe their views are useful even though not binding.

Further, the force of the major countervailing argument is di-minished in these two cases. That argument (as set out by the
Human Rights Commission) recognizes that there must be an"element of delay between the lawful imposition of a sentence of
death and the exhaustion of available remedies." Barrett, supra,$ 8.4. It claims that "even prolonged periods of detention under
a severe custodial regime on death row cannot generally be con-sidered to constitute cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment if the
convicted person is merely availing himself of appellate reme-dies." Ibid. As the Canadian Supreme Court noted, "a defendant is never forced to undergo the full appeal procedure, but thevast majority choose to do so. It would be ironic if delay caused
by the appellant's taking advantage of the full and generous ave-nue of the appeals available to him should be viewed as a violation
of fundamental justice." Kindler, supra, at 838; see also Rich-mond v. Lewis, 948 F. 2d 1473, 1491-1492 (CA9 1990).

The cases before us, however, involve delays which resultedin large part from the States' failure to apply constitutionally
sufficient procedures at the time of initial sentencing. They alsoinvolve extensive delays of close to two decades or more. Petitioners argue that the state-induced portion of the delay, perhapsup to 12 years in Moore's case, up to 15 years in Knight's, should
not be charged against them in any constitutional calculus.Cf. Pratt, 2 A. C., at 29, 4 All E. R., at 783 (counting against the
prisoner only that portion of the delay caused by "escape . . . orfrivolous and time wasting resort to legal procedures"). Twenty
years or more could not be necessary to provide a "reasonabletime for appeal and consideration of reprieve." Id., at 33, 4 All
E. R., at 786. For these reasons, I think petitioners' argumentcannot be rejected out of hand.

Nor do I agree with Justice Thomas that the lower courtshave "resoundingly rejected" petitioners' claim. Ante, at 992. I
have found about two dozen post-1995 lower court cases in whichprisoners have raised Lackey claims. Most involve procedural
failings that in part or in whole determined the outcome of thecase. Of the eight cases (other than the two cases below) that
decided Lackey claims solely on the merits, only four involvelengthy delays for which the State arguably bears responsibility.
See Bell v. State, 938 S. W. 2d 35 (Tex. Crim. App. 1996) (20 years;

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:21] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

999ORDERS
November 8, 1999528 U. S.
conviction overturned once); Ex parte Bush, 695 So. 2d 138 (Ala.1997) (16 years; conviction overturned twice); State v. Smith, 280
Mont. 158, 931 P. 2d 1272 (1996) (13 years; sentence overturnedonce); People v. Massie, 19 Cal. 4th 550, 967 P. 2d 29 (1998) (16
years; sentence overturned once). Neither the opinions in thesefour cases, nor those in any other of the lower court cases that I
have found, discuss the potential significance of that state respon-sibility at any length. Thus, although the experiment may have
begun, it is hardly evident that we "should consider the experi-ment concluded." Ante, at 993.

Finally, the constitutional issue, even if limited to delays ofclose to 20 years or more, has considerable practical importance.
Available statistics indicate that as of two years ago, December1997, 24 prisoners sentenced to death had been on death row for
more than 20 years. At that time 125 prisoners on death rowhad been sentenced in or before 1980 and therefore may now fall
within the relevant category. U. S. Dept. of Justice, Bureau ofJustice Statistics Bulletin, Capital Punishment 1997, p. 13 (Dec.
1998). Given these figures and the nature of the question, despitethe absence of a division among the lower federal courts, this
Court should consider the issue.I would grant the petitions for certiorari in these two cases.

No. 99-5258. Stojetz v. Ohio. Sup. Ct. Ohio. Motion ofpetitioner to strike the brief in opposition denied. Certiorari
denied. Reported below: 84 Ohio St. 452, 705 N. E. 2d 329.
Rehearing Denied

No. 98-1937. -ey v. Ridge, Governor of Pennsylvania,et al., ante, p. 818;

No. 98-8777. Chester v. Louisiana, ante, p. 826;No. 98-9336. McBroom v. Techneglas, Inc., ante, p. 832;
No. 98-9550. Lomax v. Bowersox, Superintendent, PotosiCorrectional Center, ante, p. 839;
No. 98-9582. Terio v. Kurtzman & Haspel, Trustee, etal., ante, p. 840;
No. 98-9633. Washington v. United States DistrictCourt for the Northern District of California, ante,
p. 843;No. 98-9715. Braun v. Flowers, Warden, et al., ante,
p. 849;No. 98-9889. King v. Love et al., ante, p. 858;

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:21] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
1000 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

November 8, 9, 12, 15, 1999 528 U. S.
No. 99-5026. Wronke v. Madigan, Sheriff, ChampaignCounty, Illinois, ante, p. 881; and
No. 99-5475. Bane v. Robinson et al., ante, p. 906. Peti-tions for rehearing denied.

November 9, 1999Miscellaneous Order
No. 99A393. Bowersox, Superintendent, Potosi Correc-tional Center v. Chambers. Application to vacate stay of execution of sentence of death entered by the United States Courtof Appeals for the Eighth Circuit on November 5, 1999, presented
to Justice Thomas, and by him referred to the Court, denied.
Certiorari Denied

No. 99-6840 (99A363). Royal v. Taylor, Warden. C. A. 4thCir. Application for stay of execution of sentence of death, presented to The Chief Justice, and by him referred to the Court,denied. Certiorari denied. Justice Stevens and Justice
Ginsburg would grant the application for stay of execution. Re-ported below: 188 F. 3d 239.

November 12, 1999
Miscellaneous Order

No. 99A359. Reno, Attorney General, et al. v. Kim HoMa. D. C. W. D. Wash. Application for stay, presented to Jus-

tice O'Connor, and by her referred to the Court, denied.

November 15, 1999
Miscellaneous Orders

No. 99M15. Powell v. Powell et al.; andNo. 99M24. Tarver v. Haley, Commissioner, Alabama De-

partment of Corrections. Motions of petitioners for reconsid-eration of order denying motions to direct the Clerk to file petitions for writs of certiorari out of time [ante, pp. 802-803] denied.

No. 99M42. Rickard v. Sanchez et al. Motion for leave toproceed in forma pauperis without an affidavit of indigency executed by petitioner denied.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:21] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

1001ORDERS
November 15, 1999528 U. S.
No. 126, Orig. Kansas v. Nebraska et al. It is orderedthat the Honorable Vincent L. McKusick, Esq., of Portland, Me.,
be appointed Special Master in this case with authority to fix thetime and conditions for the filing of additional pleadings and to
direct subsequent proceedings, and with authority to summon wit-nesses, issue subpoenas, and take such evidence as may be introduced and such as he may deem it necessary to call for. TheSpecial Master is directed to submit such reports as he may
deem appropriate.The compensation of the Special Master, the allowances to him,
the compensation paid to his legal, technical, stenographic, andclerical assistants, the cost of printing his report, and all other
proper expenses, including travel expenses, shall be chargedagainst and be borne by the parties in such proportion as the
Court may hereafter direct. Motion of Nebraska to dismiss thecomplaint is referred to the Special Master. [For earlier order
herein, see, e. g., 527 U. S. 1020.]

No. 98-1811. Geier et al. v. American Honda Motor Co.,Inc., et al. C. A. D. C. Cir. [Certiorari granted, 527 U. S.

1063.] Motion of the Solicitor General for leave to participatein oral argument as amicus curiae and for divided argument
granted.

No. 98-7540. Carmell v. Texas. Ct. App. Tex., 2d Dist.[Certiorari granted, 527 U. S. 1002.] Motion of the Solicitor General for leave to participate in oral argument as amicus curiaeand for divided argument granted.

No. 98-1828. -ermont Agency of Natural Resources v.United States ex rel. Stevens. C. A. 2d Cir. [Certiorari
granted, 527 U. S. 1034.] Motion of the Solicitor General for di-vided argument granted.

No. 99-56. Giles v. Sons of Confederate -eterans, Inc.,ante, p. 871. Motion of respondent for attorney's fees denied
without prejudice to filing in the United States Court of Appealsfor the Fifth Circuit.

No. 99-6033. In re -eneri. Motion of petitioner for recon-sideration of order denying leave to proceed in forma pauperis
[ante, p. 926] denied.

No. 99-6433. Wright v. South Dakota. Ct. App. Colo. Mo-tion of petitioner for leave to proceed in forma pauperis de528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:21] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
1002 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

November 15, 1999 528 U. S.
nied. Petitioner is allowed until December 6, 1999, within whichto pay the docketing fee required by Rule 38(a) and to submit a
petition in compliance with Rule 33.1 of the Rules of this Court.

No. 99-6625. In re Nathan; andNo. 99-6678. In re Johnson. Petitions for writs of habeas

corpus denied.

No. 99-6161. In re Awofolu;No. 99-6180. In re Awofolu;

No. 99-6200. In re Anderson; andNo. 99-6225. In re Ioane. Petitions for writs of mandamus
denied.
Certiorari Granted

No. 99-62. Santa Fe Independent School District v.Doe, Individually and as Next Friend for Her Minor

Children, et al. C. A. 5th Cir. Motion of Rutherford Insti-tute for leave to file a brief as amicus curiae granted. Certiorari
granted limited to the following question: "Whether petitioner'spolicy permitting student-led, student-initiated prayer at football
games violates the Establishment Clause?" Reported below: 168F. 3d 806.

No. 99-244. Mobil Oil Exploration & Producing South-east, Inc. v. United States; and
No. 99-253. Marathon Oil Co. v. United States. C. A.Fed. Cir. Certiorari granted, cases consolidated, and a total of
one hour allotted for oral argument. Reported below: 177 F. 3d1331.

No. 99-5739. Jones v. United States. C. A. 7th Cir. Mo-tion of petitioner for leave to proceed in forma pauperis granted.
Certiorari granted limited to the following question: "Whether,in light of United States v. Lopez, 514 U. S. 549 (1995), and
the interpretive rule that constitutionally doubtful constructionsshould be avoided, see Edward J. DeBartolo Corp. v. Florida
Gulf Coast Building & Constr. Trades Council, 485 U. S. 568, 575(1988), 18 U. S. C. $ 844(i) applies to the arson of a private residence; and if so, whether its application to the private residencein the present case is constitutional?" Reported below: 178
F. 3d 479.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:21] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

1003ORDERS
November 15, 1999528 U. S.
Certiorari Denied

No. 98-9545. Mason v. Westminster Investments et al.Ct. App. Cal., 2d App. Dist. Certiorari denied.

No. 98-9749. McFall v. Department of Agriculture.C. A. Fed. Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 178 F. 3d
1307.

No. 98-9760. Boone v. Charlie Obaugh Pontiac Buick,Inc. Sup. Ct. Va. Certiorari denied.

No. 98-9785. Preston v. Johnson, Director, Texas De-partment of Criminal Justice, Institutional Division.
C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 98-9992. Sharif-Johnson v. Illinois EducationalLabor Relations Board et al. App. Ct. Ill., 1st Dist. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-24. Orange County Department of Probation v.Warner. C. A. 2d Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below:

173 F. 3d 120.

No. 99-47. Ruvalcaba v. City of Los Angeles et al.C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 167 F. 3d 514.

No. 99-97. Page v. United States. C. A. 6th Cir. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 167 F. 3d 325.
No. 99-256. B. Willis, C. P. A., Inc. v. Public Service Com-pany of Oklahoma et al. C. A. 10th Cir. Certiorari denied.
Reported below: 182 F. 3d 931.

No. 99-258. Connecticut General Life Insurance Co.et al. v. Commissioner of Internal Revenue. C. A. 3d Cir.

Certiorari denied. Reported below: 177 F. 3d 136.

No. 99-259. Lozada Colon v. Department of State et al.C. A. D. C. Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 170 F. 3d

191.

No. 99-262. Anker Energy Corp. et al. v. United MineWorkers of America Combined Benefit Fund et al. C. A.

3d Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 177 F. 3d 161.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:21] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
1004 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

November 15, 1999 528 U. S.
No. 99-265. Nakamura et al. v. Babbitt, Secretary ofthe Interior. C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported
below: 165 F. 3d 916.

No. 99-274. Johnson et al. v. E. A. Miller, Inc., et al.C. A. 10th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 172 F. 3d 62.

No. 99-278. Ruiz Coronado v. United States. C. A. 11thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 936.
No. 99-282. Blackfeet National Bank et al. v. Nelson,Florida Treasurer and Insurance Commissioner. C. A.
11th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 171 F. 3d 1237.

No. 99-417. Epstein et al. v. Matsushita Electric Indus-trial Co., Ltd., et al. C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 179 F. 3d 641.

No. 99-420. Midwest Motor Express, Inc., et al. v. Cen-tral States, Southeast and Southwest Areas Pension

Fund. C. A. 7th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 181F. 3d 799.

No. 99-428. Perdue v. Hunter et al. Ct. App. D. C. Cer-tiorari denied.
No. 99-433. County of Orange et al. v. Wehrli. C. A.9th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 175 F. 3d 692.
No. 99-441. Kirkpatrick et ux. v. City of Bangor. Sup.Ct. Me. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 728 A. 2d 1268.
No. 99-442. International Union of Operating Engi-neers, Local 150, AFL-CIO v. R. L. Coolsaet Construction
Co. C. A. 7th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 177F. 3d 648.

No. 99-445. Oglesby et ux. v. General Motors Corp.C. A. 2d Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 180 F. 3d 458.
No. 99-452. Torres v. Bonilla et al.; and Onossian et al.v. Block et al. C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported
below: 185 F. 3d 869 (first judgment); 175 F. 3d 1169 (secondjudgment).

No. 99-459. Connick, District Attorney, Orleans Parishv. Hudson. C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below:
174 F. 3d 677.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:21] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

1005ORDERS
November 15, 1999528 U. S.
No. 99-481. Roe, Representing Unknown Employees ofthe Philadelphia District Attorney's Office v. Carter.
C. A. 3d Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 181 F. 3d 339.

No. 99-486. Waring et al. v. UMLIC-Nine Corp. C. A.10th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 168 F. 3d 1173.

No. 99-495. In re Barkman. Commw. Ct. Pa. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 726 A. 2d 440.
No. 99-499. Bandido's, Inc. v. Journal-Gazette Co., Inc.Sup. Ct. Ind. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 712 N. E. 2d
446.

No. 99-508. Haggerty v. City of Mountain -iew et al.Ct. App. Cal., 1st App. Dist. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-515. Wojcik et al. v. Meek. C. A. 9th Cir. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 183 F. 3d 962.
No. 99-530. C & C Building Co., Inc., et al. v. MichiganDepartment of Consumer and Industry Affairs, Bureau
of Occupational and Professional Regulation. Ct. App.Mich. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-531. L. M. M. v. E. N. O. Sup. Jud. Ct. Mass. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 429 Mass. 824, 711 N. E. 2d 886.
No. 99-559. Moore et al. v. Owens-Corning et al. Sup.Ct. Tex. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 997 S. W. 2d 560.
No. 99-569. Gebman v. Pataki, Governor of New York,et al. App. Div., Sup. Ct. N. Y., 3d Jud. Dept. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 256 App. Div. 2d 854, 681 N. Y. S. 2d 701.

No. 99-577. Glover v. City of Memphis et al. C. A. 6thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 181 F. 3d 101.

No. 99-584. Cavallaro v. Gallant, Administrator of theEstate of Cavallaro. Sup. Ct. Conn. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-593. Emerick v. United Technologies Corp. App.Ct. Conn. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 52 Conn. App.
724, 737 A. 2d 456.

No. 99-599. Braver v. Parker Real Estate, Inc. Ct. Civ.App. Okla. Certiorari denied.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:21] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
1006 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

November 15, 1999 528 U. S.
No. 99-618. Planned Parenthood of Mid-Missouri andEastern Kansas, Inc. v. Missouri. C. A. 8th Cir. Certiorari
denied.

No. 99-627. Daniels v. Pennsylvania Public Utility Com-mission. C. A. 3d Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-667. Leppo v. United States. C. A. 1st Cir. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 177 F. 3d 93.
No. 99-670. Schachner v. Ohio. Ct. App. Ohio, LucasCounty. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 131 Ohio App. 3d
808, 723 N. E. 2d 1127.

No. 99-675. Wahl v. San Diego Sheet Metal Works, Inc.,et al. Ct. App. Cal., 4th App. Dist. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-5213. Minnick v. Indiana. Sup. Ct. Ind. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 698 N. E. 2d 745.
No. 99-5282. Gosier v. Page, Warden. C. A. 7th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 175 F. 3d 504.
No. 99-5301. Ladner v. City of New York et al. C. A.2d Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 181 F. 3d 83.
No. 99-5377. Garza v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 165 F. 3d 312.
No. 99-5386. Wiley v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied.
No. 99-5676. v. Alabama. Sup. Ct. Ala. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 736 So. 2d 681.
No. 99-5743. Pruitt v. Georgia. Sup. Ct. Ga. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 270 Ga. 745, 514 S. E. 2d 639.
No. 99-5851. Nagel v. Osborne et al. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 164 F. 3d 582.
No. 99-5946. Thomas v. North Carolina. Sup. Ct. N. C.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 350 N. C. 315, 514 S. E. 2d
486.

No. 99-6037. Lee v. Georgia. Sup. Ct. Ga. Certiorari de-nied. Reported below: 270 Ga. 798, 514 S. E. 2d 1.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:21] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

1007ORDERS
November 15, 1999528 U. S.
No. 99-6106. Berrios Quinones v. New York et al. C. A.2d Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 173 F. 3d 845.

No. 99-6108. Scott v. Alabama. Ct. Crim. App. Ala. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 768 So. 2d 1031.
No. 99-6119. Jones v. Cheeks et al. C. A. 4th Cir. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 187 F. 3d 629.
No. 99-6121. Wilder v. United States et al. C. A. 10thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 934.
No. 99-6122. -otta v. Gnazzo et al. C. A. 1st Cir. Certio-rari denied.
No. 99-6127. Turner v. Johnson, Director, Texas Depart-ment of Criminal Justice, Institutional Division. C. A.
5th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 177 F. 3d 390.

No. 99-6137. Sheldon v. Kitchell, Warden, et al. C. A.9th Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-6140. Taylor v. Florida. Dist. Ct. App. Fla., 2dDist. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 740 So. 2d 544.
No. 99-6145. Corpuz v. Walter, Superintendent, AirwayHeights Corrections Center. C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari
denied.

No. 99-6146. Beard v. Florida. Dist. Ct. App. Fla., 2d Dist.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 751 So. 2d 61.

No. 99-6151. Hampton v. Louisiana. Sup. Ct. La. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 750 So. 2d 867.
No. 99-6153. Jones v. Hines et al. Ct. App. Cal., 2d App.Dist. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-6164. Romney v. Disessa et al. C. A. 9th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 927.
No. 99-6165. Potts v. Texas Department of Criminal Jus-tice, Institutional Division. Ct. App. Tex., 9th Dist. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-6169. King v. Tennessee. Sup. Ct. Tenn. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 992 S. W. 2d 946.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:22] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
1008 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

November 15, 1999 528 U. S.
No. 99-6174. Kukes v. Calderon, Warden. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 178 F. 3d 1300.

No. 99-6175. Jackson v. Louisiana. Ct. App. La., 4th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 701 So. 2d 270.
No. 99-6176. Nieblas v. City of New York et al. C. A.2d Cir. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-6177. Martinez v. California. Ct. App. Cal., 5thApp. Dist. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-6185. Saunders v. Taylor, Commissioner, Dela-ware Department of Correction, et al. C. A. 3d Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 181 F. 3d 85.

No. 99-6186. Ravesloot v. Arizona. Ct. App. Ariz. Cer-tiorari denied.

No. 99-6187. Reedy v. Phillips, Warden. C. A. 6th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-6190. Krueger v. Carey, Warden. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-6191. Jacobs v. Gammon, Superintendent, MoberlyCorrectional Center. C. A. 8th Cir. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-6194. McKee v. Stewart. C. A. 9th Cir. Certio-rari denied.
No. 99-6202. Price v. Mazurkiewicz et al. C. A. 3d Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 904.
No. 99-6203. Allah v. California et al. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 924.
No. 99-6211. Jordan v. Fanello, Warden, et al. C. A. 3dCir. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-6212. Wardell v. Ryden, Deputy Sheriff, LarimerCounty, Colorado, et al. C. A. 10th Cir. Certiorari denied.
Reported below: 166 F. 3d 1223.

No. 99-6213. Seward v. California. Sup. Ct. Cal. Certio-rari denied.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:22] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

1009ORDERS
November 15, 1999528 U. S.
No. 99-6214. Sherrill v. Hargett, Warden. C. A. 10thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 184 F. 3d 1172.

No. 99-6229. Gronquist v. Washington. Sup. Ct. Wash.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 138 Wash. 2d 388, 978 P. 2d
1083.

No. 99-6230. Carr v. Dormire, Superintendent, Jeffer-son City Correctional Center. C. A. 8th Cir. Certiorari

denied.

No. 99-6246. Woods v. Securities and Exchange Commis-sion et al. C. A. 3d Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below:

176 F. 3d 473.

No. 99-6248. Killion v. Cain, Warden. C. A. 5th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied.

No. 99-6260. Lopez v. Udall, Attorney General of NewMexico. C. A. 10th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below:
185 F. 3d 874.

No. 99-6270. Deck v. Missouri. Sup. Ct. Mo. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 994 S. W. 2d 527.

No. 99-6277. Dillard v. Kentucky. Sup. Ct. Ky. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 995 S. W. 2d 366.
No. 99-6284. Drake v. Kentucky. Ct. App. Ky. Certioraridenied.
No. 99-6291. Belei v. California. Ct. App. Cal., 2d App.Dist. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-6321. Roberts v. Lee, Warden. C. A. 4th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 909.
No. 99-6334. Perelman v. Reno, Attorney General.C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-6336. Carlson v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-6350. McCarty v. Oklahoma. Ct. Crim. App. Okla.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 977 P. 2d 1116.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:22] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
1010 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

November 15, 1999 528 U. S.
No. 99-6355. Perelman v. Reno, Attorney General.C. A. 1st Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-6359. Jones v. Corcoran, Warden, et al. C. A. 4thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 187 F. 3d 629.
No. 99-6421. Faloni v. Freeh, Director, Federal Bureauof Investigation, et al. C. A. 4th Cir. Certiorari denied.
Reported below: 181 F. 3d 87.

No. 99-6427. Thurston v. United States District Courtfor the Southern District of Florida et al. C. A. 11th

Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 181 F. 3d 109.

No. 99-6428. Weaver v. Gaskins. C. A. 9th Cir. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 185 F. 3d 872.

No. 99-6441. Shurn v. Bowersox, Superintendent, PotosiCorrectional Center. C. A. 8th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 177 F. 3d 662.

No. 99-6445. Sellers v. Henry, Warden. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 185 F. 3d 868.

No. 99-6462. Baker v. Toledo Board of Education. C. A.6th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 181 F. 3d 99.
No. 99-6496. Young v. Illinois. App. Ct. Ill., 1st Dist.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 301 Ill. App. 3d 1093, 746
N. E. 2d 341.

No. 99-6499. Wallis v. Moore, Secretary, Florida De-partment of Corrections, et al. C. A. 11th Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-6510. Monroe v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 178 F. 3d 304.

No. 99-6524. Brown v. Thompson et al. Sup. Ct. Haw.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 91 Haw. 1, 979 P. 2d 586.
No. 99-6525. del Pilar Marin v. United States. C. A.11th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 189 F. 3d 484.
No. 99-6526. Keys v. Gonzalez, Warden, et al. C. A. 9thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 188 F. 3d 513.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:22] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

1011ORDERS
November 15, 1999528 U. S.
No. 99-6531. Leggett v. United States. Ct. App. D. C.Certiorari denied.

No. 99-6533. Clemmons v. Bowersox, Superintendent, Po-tosi Correctional Center. C. A. 8th Cir. Certiorari denied.
Reported below: 177 F. 3d 680.

No. 99-6534. Basket v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 189 F. 3d 486.

No. 99-6537. -argas-Mejias v. United States. C. A. 11thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 189 F. 3d 484.
No. 99-6539. Lester v. United States. C. A. 6th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied.
No. 99-6541. Marshall v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 176 F. 3d 485.
No. 99-6545. Slate v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 175 F. 3d 1017.
No. 99-6547. Padgett v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 188 F. 3d 505.
No. 99-6548. Quintanilla v. United States. C. A. 10thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 189 F. 3d 479.
No. 99-6549. Sosa-Martinez v. United States. C. A. 9thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 187 F. 3d 650.
No. 99-6550. Peyton v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 189 F. 3d 485.
No. 99-6552. Paniagua v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 189 F. 3d 476.
No. 99-6554. Shorter v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 188 F. 3d 505.
No. 99-6569. Gutierrez-Gonzalez v. United States. C. A.10th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 184 F. 3d 1160.
No. 99-6571. Garay v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 189 F. 3d 484.
No. 99-6573. Da Ping Huang v. United States. C. A. 3dCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 178 F. 3d 184.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:22] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
1012 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

November 15, 1999 528 U. S.
No. 99-6580. Freeman v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 177 F. 3d 272.

No. 99-6582. Elam, aka White v. United States. C. A.11th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 189 F. 3d 482.
No. 99-6583. De Mendoza v. United States. C. A. 11thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 184 F. 3d 821.
No. 99-6585. White v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 194 F. 3d 1307.
No. 99-6586. Taylor v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 181 F. 3d 97.
No. 99-6600. Otero v. United States. C. A. 7th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied.
No. 99-6602. McKinley v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 189 F. 3d 483.
No. 99-6603. Nurse v. United States; andNo. 99-6620. Brown v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir.
Certiorari denied. Reported below: 189 F. 3d 483.

No. 99-6605. Jackson v. United States. C. A. 6th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 173 F. 3d 857.

No. 99-6606. Miranda v. United States. C. A. 7th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 185 F. 3d 780.
No. 99-6608. Ratigan v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 929.
No. 99-6612. Najiy v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 180 F. 3d 269.
No. 99-6613. Kelly v. United States. C. A. 7th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 923.
No. 99-6614. Jackson v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 167 F. 3d 1280.
No. 99-6617. Laszczynski v. United States. C. A. 3d Cir.Certiorari denied.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:22] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

1013ORDERS
November 15, 1999528 U. S.
No. 99-6619. Cruz-Mendoza v. United States. C. A. 9thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 147 F. 3d 1069 and 163
F. 3d 1149.

No. 99-6624. Brown v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 928.

No. 99-6632. Stephenson, aka McCurvin v. UnitedStates. C. A. 2d Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 183
F. 3d 110.

No. 99-6697. Normington v. Wisconsin. Ct. App. Wis.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 228 Wis. 2d 509, 597 N. W.

2d 773.

No. 99-414. Hatch, Attorney General of Minnesota v.Minnesota Twins Partnership et al. Sup. Ct. Minn. Motion of Consumer Federation of America for leave to file a briefas amicus curiae granted. Certiorari denied. Reported below:
592 N. W. 2d 847.

No. 99-455. Sons v. California. Ct. App. Cal., 5th App.Dist. Motion of petitioner for leave to file petition for writ of

certiorari under seal with redacted copies for the public recordgranted. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-6149. Morrow v. Hvass, Commissioner, MinnesotaDepartment of Corrections. Sup. Ct. Minn. Motion of petitioner to vacate judgment of the Supreme Court of Minnesotadenied. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 590 N. W. 2d 787.

No. 99-6272 (99A309). Lamb v. Johnson, Director, TexasDepartment of Criminal Justice, Institutional Division.
C. A. 5th Cir. Application for stay of execution of sentence ofdeath, presented to Justice Scalia, and by him referred to the
Court, denied. Certiorari denied. Justice Stevens and Jus-tice Ginsburg would grant the application for stay of execution.
Reported below: 179 F. 3d 352.
Rehearing Denied

No. 98-2032. McQueen v. United States, ante, p. 823;No. 98-9387. Cook v. United States, ante, p. 833;

No. 98-9422. Weldon v. Wyoming, ante, p. 834;

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:22] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
1014 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

November 15, 18, 1999 528 U. S.
No. 98-9682. Thomas v. Caldera, Secretary of the Army,ante, p. 846;
No. 98-9980. Franklin v. Bilbray et al.; and Franklin v.United States, ante, p. 863;
No. 99-152. Polyak v. Burson et al., ante, p. 875;No. 99-225. Eells v. Dirnfeld & Zelner et al., ante,
p. 878;No. 99-421. Fermin, and on Behalf of the Estate of
Fermin v. United States, ante, p. 933;No. 99-5020. Roy v. Brigano, Warden, ante, p. 881;

No. 99-5500. Brooks v. Bunch et al., ante, p. 908;No. 99-5537. -aldes v. United States, ante, p. 910;
No. 99-5538. Lee v. United States, ante, p. 910;No. 99-5605. Weldon v. Everett, Warden, ante, p. 912;
No. 99-5717. Tyler v. Schriro, Director, Missouri De-partment of Corrections, ante, p. 915;
No. 99-5718. Tyler v. Schriro, Director, Missouri De-partment of Corrections, ante, p. 915;
No. 99-5732. Rucker v. Henderson, Postmaster General,ante, p. 916;
No. 99-5816. Jennings v. United States, ante, p. 918; andNo. 99-6117. Langworthy v. Dean et al., ante, p. 945. Petitions for rehearing denied.

November 18, 1999
Dismissal Under Rule 46

No. 99-494. Chevron U. S. A. Inc. (Formerly Gulf OilCorp.) v. OXY USA Inc. (Formerly Cities Service Co.). Sup.

Ct. Okla. Certiorari dismissed under this Court's Rule 46.1. Re-ported below: 980 P. 2d 116.

Miscellaneous Order

No. 99-7065 (99A421). In re Brown, aka Muhammed. Ap-plication for stay of execution of sentence of death, presented to

The Chief Justice, and by him referred to the Court, denied.Petition for writ of habeas corpus denied.

Certiorari Denied

No. 99-6841 (99A364). Brown, aka Muhammed v. NorthCarolina. Gen. Ct. Justice, Super. Ct. Div., Moore County, N. C.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:22] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

1015ORDERS
November 18, 19, 23, 24, 1999528 U. S.
Application for stay of execution of sentence of death, presentedto The Chief Justice, and by him referred to the Court, denied.
Certiorari denied.

November 19, 1999
Miscellaneous Order

No. 98-1828. -ermont Agency of Natural Resources v.United States ex rel. Stevens. C. A. 2d Cir. [Certiorari

granted, 527 U. S. 1034.] The parties are directed to file supple-mental briefs addressing the following question: "Does a private
person have standing under Article III to litigate claims of fraudupon the Government?" Briefs are to be filed with the Clerk
and served upon opposing counsel on or before 3 p.m., Tuesday,November 30, 1999. Twenty copies of the briefs prepared under
Rule 33.2 may be filed initially in order to meet the November30 filing date. Rule 29.2 does not apply. Forty copies of the
briefs prepared under Rule 33.1 are to be filed as soon as possi-ble thereafter.

November 23, 1999
Miscellaneous Order

No. 99A416 (99-7000). Ramdass v. Angelone, Director,Virginia Department of Corrections. C. A. 4th Cir. Application for stay of execution of sentence of death, presented toThe Chief Justice, and by him referred to the Court, granted
pending disposition of the petition for writ of certiorari. Shouldthe petition for writ of certiorari be denied, this stay shall terminate automically. In the event the petition for writ of certiorariis granted, the stay shall continue pending the sending down of
the judgment of this Court.

November 24, 1999
Miscellaneous Order

No. 98-1701. United States v. Locke, Governor of Wash-ington, et al.; and

No. 98-1706. International Association of IndependentTanker Owners (Intertanko) v. Locke, Governor of Wash-
ington, et al. C. A. 9th Cir. [Certiorari granted, 527 U. S.1063.] Motion of the Solicitor General for divided argument

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:22] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
1016 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

November 24, 29, 1999 528 U. S.
granted. Motion of respondent/intervenor for divided argumentdenied.

November 29, 1999
Dismissal Under Rule 46

No. 99-613. George et ux. v. City of Morro Bay et al.C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari dismissed as to Santa Lucia National

Bank under this Court's Rule 46.1. Reported below: 177 F. 3d885 and 185 F. 3d 866.

Certiorari Granted--Reversed in Part and Remanded. (SeeNo. 98-1111, ante, p. 18.)
Certiorari Dismissed

No. 99-6310. Baba v. Japan Travel Bureau Interna-tional, Inc., et al. C. A. 2d Cir. Motion of petitioner for leave

to proceed in forma pauperis denied, and certiorari dismissed.See this Court's Rule 39.8. As petitioner has repeatedly abused
this Court's process, the Clerk is directed not to accept any fur-ther petitions in noncriminal matters from petitioner unless the
docketing fee required by Rule 38(a) is paid and the petition issubmitted in compliance with Rule 33.1. See Martin v. District
of Columbia Court of Appeals, 506 U. S. 1 (1992) (per curiam).Justice Stevens dissents. See id., at 4, and cases cited therein.
Reported below: 166 F. 3d 1199.
Miscellaneous Orders

No. D-1961. In re Disbarment of Weisser. Motion forreconsideration of order of disbarment [ante, p. 801] denied.

No. D-2099. In re Disbarment of Hernandez. Disbar-ment entered. [For earlier order herein, see 527 U. S. 1057.]
No. D-2102. In re Disbarment of Eagle. Disbarmententered. [For earlier order herein, see ante, p. 801.]
No. D-2122. In re Disbarment of Arnold. Robert R. Ar-nold, of Wichita, Kan., is suspended from the practice of law in
this Court, and a rule will issue, returnable within 40 days, re-quiring him to show cause why he should not be disbarred from
the practice of law in this Court.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:22] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

1017ORDERS
November 29, 1999528 U. S.
No. 99M43. Metzenbaum v. Huntington National Bank.Motion to direct the Clerk to file petition for writ of certiorari
out of time denied.

No. 98-1446. S & R Company of Kingston et al. v. LatonaTrucking, Inc. C. A. 2d Cir. Motion of the parties to further

defer consideration of petition for writ of certiorari granted.

No. 98-1856. Hill et al. v. Colorado et al. Sup. Ct. Colo.[Certiorari granted, 527 U. S. 1068.] Motion of Alan Ernest to

allow counsel to represent children unborn and born alive denied.Motion of Alan Ernest for leave to file a brief as amicus curiae
denied.

No. 98-1991. Public Lands Council et al. v. Babbitt, Sec-retary of the Interior, et al. C. A. 10th Cir. [Certiorari

granted, ante, p. 926.] Motion of petitioners to dispense withprinting the joint appendix granted.

No. 98-9384. Braun v. Department of Justice et al.C. A. 8th Cir.; and
No. 98-9922. Baba v. Warren Management Consultants,Inc., et al. C. A. 2d Cir. Motions of petitioners for reconsideration of order denying leave to proceed in forma pauperis [ante,pp. 805-806] denied.

No. 98-9913. Brancato v. Gunn et al. C. A. 8th Cir. Mo-tion of petitioner for reconsideration of order denying leave to
proceed in forma pauperis [ante, p. 1] denied.

No. 99-729. City of West Haven et al. v. Thomas et al.Sup. Ct. Conn. Motion of petitioners West Haven et al. to consolidate this case with No. 98-1288, Village of Willowbrook et al. v.Olech [certiorari granted, 527 U. S. 1067], denied.

No. 99-6799. In re Edwards;No. 99-6915. In re Dorrough; and
No. 99-6916. In re Harris. Petitions for writs of habeascorpus denied.

No. 99-6673. In re Tyler. Motion of petitioner for leave toproceed in forma pauperis denied, and petition for writ of habeas
corpus dismissed. See this Court's Rule 39.8.

No. 99-6657. In re Taylor. Petition for writ of mandamusdenied.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:22] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
1018 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

November 29, 1999 528 U. S.
No. 99-6389. In re Stone. Motion of petitioner for leave toproceed in forma pauperis denied, and petition for writ of mandamus dismissed. See this Court's Rule 39.8.

No. 99-6532. In re Reidt. Motion of petitioner for leave toproceed in forma pauperis denied, and petition for writ of mandamus dismissed. See this Court's Rule 39.8. As petitioner hasrepeatedly abused this Court's process, the Clerk is directed not
to accept any further petitions in noncriminal matters from peti-tioner unless the docketing fee required by Rule 38(a) is paid and
the petition is submitted in compliance with Rule 33.1. See Mar-tin v. District of Columbia Court of Appeals, 506 U. S. 1 (1992)
(per curiam). Justice Stevens dissents. See id., at 4, andcases cited therein.

No. 99-6275. In re Lavertu; andNo. 99-6341. In re Parker. Petitions for writs of mandamus
and/or prohibition denied.
Certiorari Granted

No. 99-391. Free et al. v. Abbott Laboratories, Inc.,et al. C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari granted. Reported below: 176

F. 3d 298.

No. 99-474. Natsios, Secretary of Administration andFinance of Massachusetts, et al. v. National Foreign

Trade Council. C. A. 1st Cir. Certiorari granted. Reportedbelow: 181 F. 3d 38.

No. 99-478. Apprendi v. New Jersey. Sup. Ct. N. J. Cer-tiorari granted. Reported below: 159 N. J. 7, 731 A. 2d 485.
No. 99-502. Nelson v. Adams USA, Inc., et al. C. A. Fed.Cir. Certiorari granted. Reported below: 175 F. 3d 1343.
No. 98-9537. Sims v. Apfel, Commissioner of Social Secu-rity. C. A. 5th Cir. Motion of petitioner for leave to proceed
in forma pauperis granted. Certiorari granted. Reportedbelow: 200 F. 3d 229.

Certiorari Denied

No. 99-48. Lewis County et al. v. United States. C. A.9th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 175 F. 3d 671.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:22] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

1019ORDERS
November 29, 1999528 U. S.
No. 99-89. Bogan et al. v. Hodgkins. C. A. 2d Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 166 F. 3d 509.

No. 99-92. Hollingsworth & Vose Co. v. Ruckstuhl.Sup. Ct. La. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 731 So. 2d 881.
No. 99-219. Castillo et al. v. City of Round Rock et al.C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 177 F. 3d 977.
No. 99-284. Papa v. Katy Industries, Inc., et al. C. A.7th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 166 F. 3d 937.
No. 99-315. Cooper v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 173 F. 3d 1192.
No. 99-340. Hossain v. Immigration and NaturalizationService. C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below:
172 F. 3d 876.

No. 99-345. United States v. Cook County et al. C. A.7th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 167 F. 3d 381.

No. 99-368. Wilson v. Area Plan Commission of Evans-ville and -anderburgh County et al. Ct. App. Ind. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 701 N. E. 2d 856.

No. 99-373. Shannon v. Consolidated Freightways Corp.et al. C. A. 6th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 181

F. 3d 103.

No. 99-463. Sullivan v. River -alley School Board etal. Ct. App. Mich. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-467. Trice v. Board of Trustees for Okolona Mu-nicipal Separate School District et al. C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 184 F. 3d 816.

No. 99-469. Karavan Trailers, Inc. v. Midwest Indus-tries, Inc. C. A. Fed. Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported

below: 175 F. 3d 1356.

No. 99-471. Sandage et ux. v. Bankhead Enterprises,Inc., dba Bankhead Transportation Equipment Co. C. A.

8th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 177 F. 3d 670.

No. 99-476. -alence Technology, Inc., et al. v. Berryet al. C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 175

F. 3d 699.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:22] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
1020 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

November 29, 1999 528 U. S.
No. 99-483. Restaurant Row Associates et al. v. HorryCounty. Sup. Ct. S. C. Certiorari denied. Reported below:
335 S. C. 209, 516 S. E. 2d 442.

No. 99-488. Rodriguez v. Muhlenberg Hospital Center.C. A. 3d Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 185 F. 3d 862.

No. 99-490. Grider et al. v. City of Louisville. C. A. 6thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 180 F. 3d 739.
No. 99-493. Green et ux. v. Levis Motors, Inc., dba LevisMitsubishi, et al. C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 179 F. 3d 286.

No. 99-503. Herman et al. v. Blockbuster Entertain-ment Group et al. C. A. 2d Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 899.

No. 99-511. Sanders v. -illage of Dixmoor. C. A. 7th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 178 F. 3d 869.

No. 99-516. Wisdom v. Ward, Warden. C. A. 10th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 934.
No. 99-518. Zahran et ux. v. Frankenmuth Mutual In-surance Co. C. A. 7th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported
below: 175 F. 3d 1022.

No. 99-521. Fitzgerald et al. v. Stalder, Individuallyand in His Capacity as Secretary, Louisiana Department

of Public Safety and Corrections, et al. Ct. App. La., 1stCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 731 So. 2d 500.

No. 99-524. Jiricko v. Moser & Marsalek, P. C. C. A. 8thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 187 F. 3d 641.
No. 99-529. Talyansky v. Xerox Corp. et al. C. A. 2d Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 901.
No. 99-533. Parker v. United States Air Force et al.C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 173 F. 3d 861.
No. 99-534. Montana Rail Link, Inc. v. Watts et al. Sup.Ct. Mont. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 293 Mont. 167,
975 P. 2d 283.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:22] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

1021ORDERS
November 29, 1999528 U. S.
No. 99-539. Decker v. Urrutia et al. Sup. Ct. Tex. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 992 S. W. 2d 440.

No. 99-541. Omlin v. Ursetti. Ct. App. Ohio, Lake County.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-546. Horton et al. v. City of Houston et al.C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 179 F. 3d 188.
No. 99-549. Allred's Produce v. Department of Agricul-ture. C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 178
F. 3d 743.

No. 99-550. Garcia Sanchez v. Texas. Ct. Crim. App. Tex.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 995 S. W. 2d 677.

No. 99-552. Sun International North America, Inc. v.Lowenschuss, Trustee. C. A. 3d Cir. Certiorari denied.
Reported below: 181 F. 3d 505.

No. 99-553. Corcoran et al. v. Croixland PropertiesLimited Partnership. C. A. D. C. Cir. Certiorari denied.

Reported below: 174 F. 3d 213.

No. 99-555. Fent et ux. v. Oklahoma Capitol Improve-ment Authority (two judgments). Sup. Ct. Okla. Certiorari

denied. Reported below: 984 P. 2d 200 (second judgment).

No. 99-556. Norfolk Southern Railway Co. v. Baker,Personal Representative of the Estate of Baker, De-

ceased. Ct. App. Ga. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 237Ga. App. 292, 514 S. E. 2d 448.

No. 99-562. Cunigan et al. v. Shamaeizadeh. C. A. 6thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 391.
No. 99-563. Deering, Personal Representative of theEstate of Deering, Deceased v. Reich. C. A. 7th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 183 F. 3d 645.

No. 99-564. Bado v. New Jersey. Super. Ct. N. J., App. Div.Certiorari denied.

No. 99-578. Koster v. Trans World Airlines, Inc. C. A.1st Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 181 F. 3d 24.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:22] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
1022 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

November 29, 1999 528 U. S.
No. 99-580. Alston v. GTE Directories Corp. C. A. 7thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 175 F. 3d 1019.

No. 99-583. Emerson v. Delta Airlines, Inc., et al. C. A.11th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 177 F. 3d 983.
No. 99-586. North Broward Hospital District et al. v.Shalala, Secretary of Health and Human Services. C. A.
D. C. Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 172 F. 3d 90.

No. 99-587. Glavan et ux. v. OMI Corp. et al. App. Div.,Sup. Ct. N. Y., 1st Jud. Dept. Certiorari denied. Reported

below: 249 App. Div. 2d 42, 670 N. Y. S. 2d 771.

No. 99-588. -ictoria Independent School District et al.v. Harris et al. C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported

below: 168 F. 3d 216.

No. 99-591. Avelar v. Idaho. Sup. Ct. Idaho. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 132 Idaho 775, 979 P. 2d 648.

No. 99-594. Fisher et al. v. United States. C. A. 11thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 174 F. 3d 201.
No. 99-611. National Federation of the Blind, Inc.,et al. v. Cross, Director, Division of Family Services of
Missouri, et al. C. A. 8th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reportedbelow: 184 F. 3d 973.

No. 99-654. Stanley v. University of Southern Califor-nia et al. C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below:
178 F. 3d 1069.

No. 99-659. Foster v. North Carolina. Ct. App. N. C.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 132 N. C. App. 823, 519 S. E.

2d 783.

No. 99-682. Garcia v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 169 F. 3d 687.

No. 99-690. Adams v. North Carolina. Ct. App. N. C.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 132 N. C. App. 819, 513 S. E.
2d 588.

No. 99-707. Hightower v. Kendall Co., an Unincorpo-rated Division of TYCO International (US) Inc. C. A. 11th

Cir. Certiorari denied.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:22] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

1023ORDERS
November 29, 1999528 U. S.
No. 99-712. Anderson v. United States. C. A. ArmedForces. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 51 M. J. 145.

No. 99-725. Casso v. United States. C. A. 2d Cir. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 187 F. 3d 261.
No. 99-780. Engle v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 174 F. 3d 1215.
No. 99-5060. McMahon v. United States. C. A. 10th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 934.
No. 99-5061. Nufio-Ortiz v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 177 F. 3d 979.
No. 99-5182. Tidwell v. United States. C. A. 7th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 178 F. 3d 946.
No. 99-5490. DeLozier v. Oklahoma. Ct. Crim. App. Okla.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 991 P. 2d 22.
No. 99-5628. Spaziano v. Moore, Secretary, Florida De-partment of Corrections. Sup. Ct. Fla. Certiorari denied.
Reported below: 735 So. 2d 1287.

No. 99-5745. Paul v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 175 F. 3d 906.

No. 99-5792. Smith v. Tennessee. Sup. Ct. Tenn. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 993 S. W. 2d 6.
No. 99-5867. Grimes, aka Greenwood v. Ghianda et al.Dist. Ct. App. Fla., 4th Dist. Certiorari denied. Reported
below: 731 So. 2d 20.

No. 99-5925. Henley v. State Bar of Georgia. Sup. Ct.Ga. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 271 Ga. 21, 518 S. E.

2d 418.

No. 99-6227. Galloway v. Ohio. Sup. Ct. Ohio. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 86 Ohio St. 3d 1403, 711 N. E. 2d 231.

No. 99-6234. Flores Sanchez v. Stewart, Superintend-ent, McNeil Island Corrections Center. C. A. 9th Cir.
Certiorari denied.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:22] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
1024 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

November 29, 1999 528 U. S.
No. 99-6238. Gardner v. DuCharme, Superintendent,Washington State Reformatory. C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari
denied. Reported below: 187 F. 3d 647.

No. 99-6239. Gillard v. Ohio. Sup. Ct. Ohio. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 85 Ohio St. 3d 363, 708 N. E. 2d 708.

No. 99-6241. Garcia v. Ylst, Warden. C. A. 9th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 185 F. 3d 866.
No. 99-6244. Preston v. Caruso, Warden. C. A. 6th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-6266. Perry v. Zaentz et al. C. A. 9th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 185 F. 3d 868.
No. 99-6271. Kimbrough v. California. Ct. App. Cal., 5thApp. Dist. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-6273. Jacobs v. Jacobs et al. Ct. App. Ore. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 156 Ore. App. 396, 972 P. 2d 1227.
No. 99-6274. Zubiate v. McCausland. Ct. App. Cal., 1stApp. Dist. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-6289. Barlow v. Ballard, Director, Texas De-partment of Criminal Justice, Parole Division. C. A. 5th
Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 184 F. 3d 819.

No. 99-6290. Turrentine v. Northern Telecom Inc.C. A. 2d Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 173 F. 3d 846.

No. 99-6294. Zaetler v. Moore, Secretary, Florida De-partment of Corrections, et al. C. A. 11th Cir. Certiorari
denied. Reported below: 180 F. 3d 269.

No. 99-6295. Robinson v. Illinois. App. Ct. Ill., 1st Dist.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 302 Ill. App. 3d 1093, 746

N. E. 2d 911.

No. 99-6297. Williams v. Jarvis et al. C. A. 4th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 181 F. 3d 95.

No. 99-6299. Warmsley v. West et al. C. A. 5th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 193 F. 3d 518.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:22] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

1025ORDERS
November 29, 1999528 U. S.
No. 99-6300. Tellier v. United States District Courtfor the Southern District of New York. C. A. 2d Cir.
Certiorari denied.

No. 99-6301. Mackay v. Weiner. C. A. 3d Cir. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 189 F. 3d 464.

No. 99-6308. King v. MTA Bridges and Tunnels et al.C. A. 2d Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 173 F. 3d 844.
No. 99-6312. Prestia v. O'Connor et al. C. A. 2d Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 178 F. 3d 86.
No. 99-6314. -enegas v. Galaza, Warden. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-6316. McKimble v. Oklahoma. Ct. Crim. App. Okla.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-6318. Irving v. Gurney. C. A. 4th Cir. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 175 F. 3d 1014.
No. 99-6325. McLaughlin v. North Carolina. Gen. Ct.Justice, Super. Ct. Div., Bladen County, N. C. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-6326. Newton v. -irginia. Ct. App. Va. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 29 Va. App. 433, 512 S. E. 2d 846.
No. 99-6332. Reed-Bey v. Hofbauer, Warden. C. A. 6thCir. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-6333. Pennucci v. California. Ct. App. Cal., 3dApp. Dist. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-6338. Branch v. Minnesota et al. Ct. App. Minn.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-6343. Riddick v. Wright, Warden. C. A. 4th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 173 F. 3d 851.
No. 99-6354. Scott v. Cain, Warden. C. A. 5th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied.
No. 99-6356. Roll v. Bowersox, Superintendent, PotosiCorrectional Center. C. A. 8th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 177 F. 3d 697.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:22] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
1026 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

November 29, 1999 528 U. S.
No. 99-6361. Lenoir v. Kerley. C. A. 11th Cir. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 181 F. 3d 108.

No. 99-6362. Kendall v. Reid et al. Ct. App. Wash. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 93 Wash. App. 1050.
No. 99-6371. Green v. Sommers et al. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 174 F. 3d 203.
No. 99-6372. Gwynn v. Mazurkiewicz et al. C. A. 3d Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-6381. Good v. Hilltop House et al. Sup. Ct. Va.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-6384. Fuentes v. Texas. Ct. Crim. App. Tex. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 991 S. W. 2d 267.
No. 99-6388. Thibodeaux v. Cain, Warden. C. A. 5th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-6392. Smith v. Johnson, Warden. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-6393. Stiver v. Pennsylvania et al. C. A. 3d Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-6394. Scarbrough v. G A B Robins et al. C. A.5th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 184 F. 3d 818.
No. 99-6400. White v. Wilkinson, Director, Ohio Depart-ment of Rehabilitation and Correction. C. A. 6th Cir.
Certiorari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 920.

No. 99-6404. Thomas v. New York. App. Div., Sup. Ct.N. Y., 4th Jud. Dept. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 259

App. Div. 2d 997, 688 N. Y. S. 2d 305.

No. 99-6406. Bass v. Thomas Jefferson University Hospi-tal. C. A. 3d Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 189

F. 3d 463.

No. 99-6418. Edwards v. Louisiana. Sup. Ct. La. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 750 So. 2d 893.

No. 99-6432. Winchester v. Little. Ct. App. Tenn. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 996 S. W. 2d 818.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:22] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

1027ORDERS
November 29, 1999528 U. S.
No. 99-6449. Clayton v. Missouri. Sup. Ct. Mo. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 995 S. W. 2d 468.

No. 99-6451. Coulibaly v. Immigration and Naturaliza-tion Service. C. A. 4th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported
below: 176 F. 3d 475.

No. 99-6455. McWilliams v. Jones. C. A. 11th Cir. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 178 F. 3d 1303.

No. 99-6475. Moore v. Anderson, Superintendent, Missis-sippi State Penitentiary, et al. C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari
denied.

No. 99-6493. Burton v. Hill, Warden. C. A. 9th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 187 F. 3d 646.

No. 99-6512. James v. Hanks, Superintendent, Wabash-alley Correctional Facility. C. A. 7th Cir. Certiorari
denied.

No. 99-6513. Bryan v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 187 F. 3d 649.

No. 99-6516. Alford v. United States. C. A. 6th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 918.
No. 99-6523. Teacherson v. Office of Patents and Trade-marks. C. A. 11th Cir. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-6535. Tisdale v. Ohio. Ct. App. Ohio, CuyahogaCounty. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-6551. Shockett v. Massachusetts. C. A. 1st Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-6553. Resper v. Maryland. Ct. App. Md. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 354 Md. 611, 732 A. 2d 863.
No. 99-6559. Luedtke v. United States et al. C. A. D. C.Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 194 F. 3d 174.
No. 99-6579. Lewis v. Grimmett. C. A. 5th Cir. Certio-rari denied.
No. 99-6588. Cendejas v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 178 F. 3d 1301.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:22] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
1028 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

November 29, 1999 528 U. S.
No. 99-6589. Burnette v. CACI, Inc. C. A. 4th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 176 F. 3d 475.

No. 99-6592. Brown v. Diercks et al. C. A. 7th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied.
No. 99-6593. Cox, aka Cook v. Florida. Dist. Ct. App. Fla.,1st Dist. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 737 So. 2d 1080.
No. 99-6604. Napier v. United States. C. A. 6th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 172 F. 3d 874.
No. 99-6609. Wade v. New York. App. Div., Sup. Ct. N. Y.,3d Jud. Dept. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 260 App. Div.
2d 798, 688 N. Y. S. 2d 733.

No. 99-6611. Snyder v. Dobucki, Warden. C. A. 7th Cir.Certiorari denied.

No. 99-6618. Murray v. Cisar et al. Ct. App. Minn. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 594 N. W. 2d 918.
No. 99-6627. Mendez-Garcia v. United States. C. A. 9thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 189 F. 3d 476.
No. 99-6628. -elazquez v. United States. C. A. 7th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 923.
No. 99-6630. -argas-Molina v. United States. C. A. 9thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 189 F. 3d 476.
No. 99-6631. Waskom v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 179 F. 3d 303.
No. 99-6635. Rivas v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 189 F. 3d 476.
No. 99-6636. Peaks v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 187 F. 3d 631.
No. 99-6637. Lopez-Garcia v. United States. C. A. 10thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 194 F. 3d 1321.
No. 99-6638. Norred v. United States. C. A. 10th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 185 F. 3d 875.
No. 99-6640. Lineberger v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 181 F. 3d 93.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:22] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

1029ORDERS
November 29, 1999528 U. S.
No. 99-6642. Wheeler v. United States et al. C. A. 9thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 178 F. 3d 1301.

No. 99-6643. Weir v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied.
No. 99-6645. Woods v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 175 F. 3d 1018.
No. 99-6647. Walker v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 181 F. 3d 94.
No. 99-6651. Al-Muqsit v. United States. C. A. 8th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 191 F. 3d 928.
No. 99-6653. -est v. United States. C. A. 8th Cir. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 125 F. 3d 676.
No. 99-6654. White v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied.
No. 99-6656. Wimbush v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-6664. Carniglia v. United States. C. A. 8th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 187 F. 3d 643.
No. 99-6665. Pinet v. United States. C. A. 3d Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 189 F. 3d 465.
No. 99-6666. Smith v. Brigano, Warden. C. A. 6th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-6669. Nelson v. United States. C. A. 8th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 184 F. 3d 953.
No. 99-6670. Amerson v. United States. C. A. 7th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 185 F. 3d 676.
No. 99-6674. Bonilla v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 181 F. 3d 92.
No. 99-6676. -ineyard v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 187 F. 3d 633.
No. 99-6679. Billman v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 173 F. 3d 425.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:22] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
1030 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

November 29, 1999 528 U. S.
No. 99-6682. Foster v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 190 F. 3d 541.

No. 99-6685. Garcia-Acuna v. United States. C. A. 9thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 175 F. 3d 1143.
No. 99-6686. Harris v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 183 F. 3d 313.
No. 99-6687. Osorio de Escobar v. United States. C. A.11th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 189 F. 3d 484.
No. 99-6689. Daniels v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 189 F. 3d 475.
No. 99-6691. DeLeon v. United States. C. A. 1st Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 187 F. 3d 60.
No. 99-6692. Gomez-Jaramillo v. United States. C. A.11th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 189 F. 3d 484.
No. 99-6693. Hooks v. Easley, Attorney General ofNorth Carolina, et al. C. A. 4th Cir. Certiorari denied.
Reported below: 182 F. 3d 907.

No. 99-6695. Eady v. Connecticut. Sup. Ct. Conn. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 249 Conn. 431, 733 A. 2d 112.

No. 99-6696. Avalos-Cervantes v. United States. C. A.5th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 190 F. 3d 537.
No. 99-6701. Coalla v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 190 F. 3d 540.
No. 99-6702. -elez v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 185 F. 3d 1048.
No. 99-6703. Tal v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 189 F. 3d 476.
No. 99-6706. Boulanger v. Cohen, Secretary of Defense.C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 176 F. 3d 481.
No. 99-6711. Ochoa v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 190 F. 3d 537.
No. 99-6712. Sadeghi v. United States. C. A. 3d Cir.Certiorari denied.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:22] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

1031ORDERS
November 29, 1999528 U. S.
No. 99-6713. Bulger v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 189 F. 3d 466.

No. 99-6714. Barnes v. Easley, Attorney General ofNorth Carolina, et al. C. A. 4th Cir. Certiorari denied.
Reported below: 187 F. 3d 628.

No. 99-6718. Bews v. Morgan, Superintendent, ClallamBay Corrections Center. C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari denied.

Reported below: 189 F. 3d 472.

No. 99-6719. Reclusado v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 189 F. 3d 476.

No. 99-6721. Bridgeforth v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 189 F. 3d 475.
No. 99-6722. Brooks v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 190 F. 3d 538.
No. 99-6726. Woods v. Henderson, Postmaster General.C. A. 2d Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 173 F. 3d 848.
No. 99-6728. Osborne v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 178 F. 3d 1287.
No. 99-6733. Cadian v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 190 F. 3d 542.
No. 99-6734. Johnson v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 187 F. 3d 632.
No. 99-6736. Zukowski v. United States. C. A. 6th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 187 F. 3d 639.
No. 99-6739. Tilmon v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 915.
No. 99-6740. Mandina v. United States. C. A. 8th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-6742. Jacko v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 914.
No. 99-6744. de Aza-Paez v. United States. C. A. 1st Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 166 F. 3d 413.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:22] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
1032 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

November 29, 1999 528 U. S.
No. 99-6745. Rangel-Rodriguez v. United States. C. A.9th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 189 F. 3d 476.

No. 99-6746. Sum v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir. Certio-rari denied.
No. 99-6747. Rudd v. Bureau of Prisons et al. C. A. 6thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 188 F. 3d 509.
No. 99-6749. Long v. United States. C. A. 6th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 190 F. 3d 471.
No. 99-6751. Morgan v. Maryland. Ct. Sp. App. Md. Cer-tiorari denied.
No. 99-6752. Betancour-Echeverry v. United States.C. A. 11th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 190 F. 3d
540.

No. 99-6754. Campbell v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 181 F. 3d 1263.

No. 99-6755. Carl v. United States. C. A. 7th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied.
No. 99-6756. Perez-Ayon v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 172 F. 3d 877.
No. 99-6759. Maydak, aka David, aka Maidak, aka Figgv. United States. C. A. 3d Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported
below: 182 F. 3d 904.

No. 99-6760. Jones v. United States. C. A. 6th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 188 F. 3d 510.

No. 99-6761. Mathis v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 190 F. 3d 541.
No. 99-6765. Wilhoite v. Merit Systems ProtectionBoard. C. A. Fed. Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below:
194 F. 3d 1339.

No. 99-6769. Willis v. United States. C. A. 6th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 187 F. 3d 639.

No. 99-6770. Johnson v. Catoe, Director, South CarolinaDepartment of Corrections, et al. C. A. 4th Cir. Certiorari denied.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:22] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

1033ORDERS
November 29, 1999528 U. S.
No. 99-6772. McCoy v. United States. C. A. 7th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 175 F. 3d 1021.

No. 99-6778. Wood v. Social Security Administration.C. A. 4th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 181 F. 3d 95.
No. 99-6780. Arboleda v. United States. C. A. 1st Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-6781. Baldwin v. United States. C. A. 2d Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 186 F. 3d 99.
No. 99-6782. Gipson v. United States. C. A. 6th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 919.
No. 99-6785. Goodson v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 198 F. 3d 238.
No. 99-6786. Hayes v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 175 F. 3d 1017.
No. 99-6787. Haynes v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 194 F. 3d 1306.
No. 99-6793. Quary v. United States. C. A. 10th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 188 F. 3d 520.
No. 99-6794. Ross v. United States. C. A. 6th Cir. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 190 F. 3d 446.
No. 99-6796. Stackhouse v. United States. C. A. 8th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 183 F. 3d 900.
No. 99-6798. Durham v. United States. C. A. 6th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 178 F. 3d 796.
No. 99-6803. Flucas v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied.
No. 99-6806. Hilton, aka Montana v. United States.C. A. 11th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 178 F. 3d
1303.

No. 99-6810. Bailey v. United States. C. A. 7th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 188 F. 3d 773.

No. 99-6812. Spearman v. United States. C. A. 6th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 186 F. 3d 743.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:22] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
1034 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

November 29, 1999 528 U. S.
No. 99-6813. Smith v. United States. C. A. 10th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 188 F. 3d 520.

No. 99-6826. Castro v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 181 F. 3d 97.
No. 99-6832. Pace v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 196 F. 3d 1262.
No. 99-6835. Johnston v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 180 F. 3d 269.
No. 99-6842. Brummitt v. United States. C. A. 6th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 194 F. 3d 1311.
No. 99-6843. Arroyo-Gorrostieta v. United States. C. A.5th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 192 F. 3d 126.
No. 99-6845. Lopez v. United States. C. A. 2d Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 198 F. 3d 235.
No. 99-6848. John v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 936.
No. 99-6860. Wooderts v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 189 F. 3d 468.
No. 99-6863. Watkins v. United States. C. A. 10th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 188 F. 3d 520.
No. 99-6864. -elez-Velasquez v. United States. C. A.11th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 190 F. 3d 542.
No. 99-6868. Chambers v. Bowersox, Superintendent, Po-tosi Correctional Center. Sup. Ct. Mo. Certiorari denied.
No. 98-9183. Marx v. Texas. Ct. Crim. App. Tex. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 987 S. W. 2d 577.
Justice Scalia, with whom Justice Thomas joins, dissenting.
The Court today forgoes the opportunity to prevent an expan-sion of the exception it recently created to the Sixth Amendment

right of the defendant "[i]n all criminal prosecutions . . . to beconfronted with the witnesses against him." In Maryland v.
Craig, 497 U. S. 836 (1990), the Court held for the first time thatthe right "to be confronted" with a trial witness does not necessarily require that the witness testify in the defendant's presence.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:22] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

1035ORDERS
Scalia, J., dissenting1034
It said that (a) as to the category of witnesses involved in thatcase, and (b) after the preliminary trial-court finding that the
statute in that case required, the State could restrict the defend-ant to viewing the trial testimony over closed-circuit television.
The witnesses at issue were the alleged child victim in a sexualabuse case, and other child victims testifying concerning their
own abuse. The preliminary finding required was that testifyingin the defendant's presence would cause the child serious emotional trauma. Id., at 840-841.I dissented in Craig, because I thought it subordinated the
plain language of the Bill of Rights to the "tide of prevailingcurrent opinion." Id., at 860. See also Danner v. Kentucky, 525
U. S. 1010 (1998) (Scalia, J., dissenting from denial of certiorari).I do not think the Court should ever depart from the plain meaning of the Bill of Rights. But when it does take such a step intothe dark it has an obligation, it seems to me, to clarify as soon
as possible the extent of its permitted departure. The presentcase represents an expansion of Craig both as to the category
of witness covered and as to the finding required. First, it ex-tends the holding of that case to a child witness whose abuse is
neither the subject of the prosecution nor will be the subjectof her testimony. The only basis for excusing her from real confrontation with the defendant is that, according to the prosecu-tion, she also was the subject of sexual abuse, on another occasion, by the same defendant. The State's extension of our novelconfrontation-via-TV jurisprudence to this situation should alone
warrant our accepting this case for review.But the case expands Craig even further with regard to the
preliminary finding. The state statute at issue in Craig permit-ted confrontation-via-TV only when the trial court found that real
confrontation would produce " `serious emotional distress suchthat the child cannot reasonably communicate,' " 497 U. S., at 856
(quoting Md. Cts. & Jud. Proc. Code Ann. $ 9-102(a)(1)(ii) (1989)).Our opinion left open the question of "the minimum showing
of emotional trauma" constitutionally required. 497 U. S., at 856.If the lower court's opinion in this case is in the ballpark, the
"minimum showing" required is no showing at all, and in allabused-child-witness cases this Court's exception has swallowed
the constitutional rule.The facts are as follows: Jeffrey Steven Marx was charged in
separate indictments with sexually abusing B. J., a 13-year-old

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:22] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
1036 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

Scalia, J., dissenting 528 U. S.
girl, and J. M., a 6-year-old girl. Before the trial concerningMarx's abuse of B. J., the court held a hearing to determine
whether to permit J. M.--who had witnessed the abuse--to testifyvia closed-circuit television as to what she had seen. At the hearing, the prosecutor asked J. M.'s mother whether J. M. wouldsuffer additional "emotional . . . and psychological trauma," Tr. 68
(Apr. 17, 1995), were she to testify in Marx's presence. J. M.'smother initially answered in the affirmative. After defense counsel clarified for J. M.'s mother that her daughter's testimony woulddeal only with the incidents between Marx and B. J., however,
J. M.'s mother indicated that her daughter would be "ready forthat":

"Q. Do you understand we're talking about testifying just inthe case that she's a witness in, not in the case in which she
was allegedly abused in? Do you understand that?
"A. Yes.
"Q. Okay. And you understand all she's going to be askedto testify to in this proceeding is what she allegedly saw

through some window?
"A. Okay.
"Q. Okay. You understand the difference now?
"A. Okay. Well, that does make a difference.
"Q. Well, sure. All she's going to be asked to testify to iswhat she--

"A. Okay. So this isn't her case?
"Q. No.. . . . .

"A. Okay. Well, that she's okay with. I mean, she's readyfor that.
"Q. I mean, what she saw hasn't caused her any kind of emo-tional distress or problems, what she allegedly saw through
a window?
"A. No. She just--I mean, she could probably do it." Id.,at 69.

In addition, Dr. Anita June Calvert, who had examined J. M.,engaged in the following colloquy with the prosecutor:

"Q. Okay. Doctor, do you feel like if she testifies in opencourt in the presence of Jeffrey Steven Marx, that she will--

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:22] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

1037ORDERS
Scalia, J., dissenting1034
the result would cause further serious emotional and physicaldistress than what she has now?

"A. If no one was ugly to her, you know, made her feel reallybadly about it--I think [she] is more of a talker than most.
She will probably come on and do it.
"Q. Of course, we can make her do that as you well know,but my concern is what would be the emotional and physical

distress that would cause--that would be resulting from hertestifying in open court in the presence of another.
"A. In the presence of Jeffrey?
"Q. Yes, ma'am.
"A. She tells me she wants to. So unless she gets morefrightened than I expect, that little girl would probably testify okay." Id., at 76.
In response to questions from the judge, Dr. Calvert reiteratedher belief that J. M. would suffer no additional trauma as a result

of testifying.

"Q. Do you feel like there would be any emotional or physicaltrauma if she were to be in confrontation with the defendant

in the ordinary involvement in the courtroom trial?
"A. You mean if she had to go and interact with him or ifshe just--

"Q. If she had to sit there and testify from the witness stand.
"A. I can't say for sure, but she says she wants to tell whathappened, and she's a very strong little girl, strong-willed

child like that.
"Q. Do you think she would suffer any emotional or physicalproblems as a result of that confrontation?

"A. I couldn't guarantee it, but I think--occasionally there'sa child who wants to tell their story.
"Q. Listen to my question.
"A. Okay.
"Q. Do you think that there would be any emotional or physi-cal problems with her confronting--testifying from that witness stand and having to confront her uncle?
"A. Your Honor, I couldn't say for sure that there would notbe. I wouldn't expect it."

Id., at 77-78.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:22] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
1038 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

November 29, 1999 528 U. S.
Dr. Calvert subsequently testified that "if there was going to beany trauma to [J. M.]" from testifying in the presence of Marx,
the risk of such trauma would of course be lessened if she werepermitted to testify via closed-circuit television. Id., at 79 (emphasis added). The trial court, without any elaboration, grantedthe prosecution's motion to allow J. M. to testify outside of Marx's
presence. A divided Court of Criminal Appeals of Texas af-firmed. 987 S. W. 2d 577 (1999) (en banc).

Quite unlike the child witnesses in Craig, who " `wouldn't beable to communicate effectively,' " or who " `would probably stop
talking and . . . would withdraw and curl up,' " 497 U. S., at 842(quoting Craig v. State, 316 Md. 551, 568-569, 560 A. 2d 1120,
1128-1129 (1989)), the witness exempted by the court below af-firmatively "want[ed] to" testify, and by all accounts was "ready
for that." If the decision here is correct, the right to confronta-tion of allegedly abused child witnesses has not simply been, as
I suggested in Danner, "water[ed] down," 525 U. S., at 1012; ithas been washed away.

I respectfully dissent.
No. 99-645. Luckey et al. v. Baxter Healthcare Corp.C. A. 7th Cir. Certiorari denied. Justice O'Connor took no

part in the consideration or decision of this petition. Reportedbelow: 183 F. 3d 730.

No. 99-692. Doe v. Marshall, Acting Administrator ofthe Drug Enforcement Agency, et al. C. A. 3d Cir. Motion of petitioner for protective order denied. Certiorari denied.Reported below: 182 F. 3d 903.

Rehearing Denied

No. 97-5401. Woolley v. Zimmerman, Superintendent,Pennsylvania State Correctional Institution at Way-

mart, et al., 522 U. S. 892;No. 98-1810. McGinnis v. Anchorage School District et
al., ante, p. 812;No. 98-1881. Liu et ux. v. Silverman, Chapter 7 Trustee
of the Estate of Liu, et ux., ante, p. 815;No. 98-1894. Buckley v. California Coastal Commission,
ante, p. 816;No. 98-1924. Wojciechowski v. Montevideo Partnership
et al., ante, p. 817;

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:22] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

1039ORDERS
November 29, 1999528 U. S.
No. 98-1955. Wojciechowski v. Walt Disney ConcertHall No. 1 et al., ante, p. 819;
No. 98-1975. Buggs et vir v. Tisdale et al., ante, p. 820;No. 98-1982. Lee v. Hawaii, ante, p. 821;
No. 98-2031. Kahre et al. v. International MonetaryFund et al., ante, p. 823;
No. 98-2041. Jefferson v. United States, ante, p. 824;No. 98-2047. Dittler v. Robey, ante, p. 824;
No. 98-2048. In re Walker, ante, p. 808;No. 98-7567. Davis v. Murov et al., 525 U. S. 1182;
No. 98-8002. Martinez v. Texas, ante, p. 825;No. 98-8551. Beets v. Kautzky, Director, Iowa Depart-
ment of Corrections, ante, p. 825;No. 98-9345. Johnson v. San Bernardino County et al.,
ante, p. 832;No. 98-9444. Chhim v. City of Houston et al., ante, p. 835;

No. 98-9492. -asquez del Rosario v. Radloff et al., ante,p. 837;
No. 98-9585. Williams v. Schriro, Director, MissouriDepartment of Corrections, et al., ante, p. 841;
No. 98-9606. Coe v. Bell, Warden, ante, p. 842;No. 98-9642. Bishop v. Romer, Governor of Colorado,
et al., ante, p. 844;No. 98-9742.

Morris v. City of Buffalo, ante, p. 850;No. 98-9789. Mallett v. Bowersox, Superintendent, Po-

tosi Correctional Center, ante, p. 853;No. 98-9823. Speed v. Georgia, ante, p. 855;

No. 98-9886. Washington v. Davis, Warden, et al., ante,p. 858;
No. 98-9892. Jackson v. Johnson, Director, Texas Depart-
ment of Criminal Justice, Institutional Division, ante,p. 858;

No. 98-9920. Cupit v. United States, ante, p. 860;No. 98-9960. Chappell v. Easley, Attorney General of
North Carolina, et al., ante, p. 862;No. 98-9972.

Griffin v. Bowersox, Superintendent, Po-tosi Correctional Center, ante, p. 863;

No. 98-10028. Ward v. United States, ante, p. 866;No. 98-10035. Winzy v. Lensing, Warden, ante, p. 867;
No. 98-10046. Taylor v. Securities and Exchange Com-
mission et al., ante, p. 867;

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:22] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
1040 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

November 29, 1999 528 U. S.
No. 99-60. Rainey Brothers Construction Co., Inc. v.Memphis and Shelby County Board of Adjustment et al.,
ante, p. 871;No. 99-68. Frank v. Orange County Social Services
Agency, ante, p. 871;No. 99-103. Allender v. United States, ante, p. 873;

No. 99-132. Mulligan v. Associates Leasing, Inc., et al.,ante, p. 923;
No. 99-173. Rosenthal v. United States et al., ante,p. 876;
No. 99-176. Dass v. Caplinger et al., ante, p. 876;No. 99-245. Jackson v. Texas, ante, p. 930;
No. 99-276. Tiwari v. Board of Regents of the Univer-sity System of Georgia et al., ante, p. 879;
No. 99-281. Young v. Montgomery City Council et al.,ante, p. 879;
No. 99-310. Perry v. United States et al., ante, p. 932;No. 99-316.

Broadway v. Sinex et al., ante, p. 932;No. 99-385.

King v. Washington Adventist Hospital etal., ante, p. 933;

No. 99-5039. Schwartz v. City of Pittsburgh et al., ante,p. 882;
No. 99-5056. Alston v. Brown et al., ante, p. 883;No. 99-5079.

Thomas v. Moore, Secretary, Florida De-partment of Corrections, et al., ante, p. 884;

No. 99-5137. Sears v. Georgia, ante, p. 934;No. 99-5176. Young v. United States, ante, p. 890;
No. 99-5196. Filiaggi v. Ohio, ante, p. 923;No. 99-5214. King v. United States, ante, p. 892;
No. 99-5275. Masuoka v. Hawaii et al., ante, p. 895;No. 99-5308.

Rickerby v. Everett, Warden, ante, p. 897;No. 99-5317. White v. Alaska, ante, p. 898;

No. 99-5363. Huettl v. Wisconsin, ante, p. 900;No. 99-5402. Battle v. Bruton, Warden, et al., ante,
p. 934;No. 99-5404.

Williams v. United States, ante, p. 902;No. 99-5422. Millis v. United States, ante, p. 903;

No. 99-5509. Alston v. New York, ante, p. 908;No. 99-5540. v.
Inc., ante, p. 934;No. 99-5550.

Byrd v. Texas, ante, p. 910;

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:22] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

1041ORDERS
November 29, 30, December 1, 1999528 U. S.
No. 99-5603. Webb v. West, Secretary of -eterans Af-fairs, ante, p. 912;
No. 99-5618. Curro v. Kelly, Superintendent, AtticaCorrectional Facility, et al., ante, p. 936;
No. 99-5644. Workman v. Bell, Warden, ante, p. 913;No. 99-5658. Moreland v. Johnson, Director, Texas De-
partment of Criminal Justice, Institutional Division, ante,p. 937;

No. 99-5678. Mason v. Corcoran, Warden, et al., ante,p. 914;
No. 99-5782. Leslie v. Litscher, Secretary, WisconsinDepartment of Corrections, ante, p. 954;
No. 99-5985. Shemonsky v. United States, ante, p. 956;No. 99-6043. Allen v. United States, ante, p. 943; and
No. 99-6087. Ortiz v. United States, ante, p. 944. Petitionsfor rehearing denied.

No. 98-2038. Greene v. City of Montgomery, ante, p. 824.Motion of petitioner to present issues from prior related cases
denied. Petition for rehearing denied.

November 30, 1999
Dismissal Under Rule 46

No. 99-714. Irvine et al. v. Murad Skin Research Labo-ratories, Inc. C. A. 1st Cir. Certiorari dismissed under this

Court's Rule 46.

December 1, 1999
Dismissal Under Rule 46

No. 99-5489. Fiorentino v. United States. C. A. 8th Cir.Certiorari dismissed under this Court's Rule 46.1. Reported

below: 170 F. 3d 843.
Miscellaneous Order

No. 99-7144 (99A434). In re Cooks. Application for stay ofexecution of sentence of death, presented to Justice Breyer,

and by him referred to the Court, denied. Petition for writ ofhabeas corpus denied.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:22] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
1042 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

December 3, 6, 1999 528 U. S.
December 3, 1999
Vacated and Remanded After Certiorari Granted

No. 98-1904. United States et al. v. Weatherhead. C. A.9th Cir. [Certiorari granted, 527 U. S. 1063.] Judgment vacated,

and case remanded to the Court of Appeals with directions toorder the vacation of the judgment of the United States District
Court for the Eastern District of Washington and to dismiss thecase as moot. Justice Scalia dissents.

December 6, 1999
Certiorari Dismissed

No. 99-6491. Cousino v. Nowicki et al. C. A. 6th Cir. Mo-tion of petitioner for leave to proceed in forma pauperis denied,

and certiorari dismissed. See this Court's Rule 39.8. Reportedbelow: 181 F. 3d 100.

No. 99-6495. Baba v. New York State Division of Housingand Community Renewal et al. App. Div., Sup. Ct. N. Y., 1st
Jud. Dept. Motion of petitioner for leave to proceed in formapauperis denied, and certiorari dismissed. See this Court's
Rule 39.8.

No. 99-6705. Burgess v. Kitzhaber et al. Ct. App. Ore.Motion of petitioner for leave to proceed in forma pauperis denied, and certiorari dismissed. See this Court's Rule 39.8. Re-ported below: 161 Ore. App. 667, 984 P. 2d 959.

Miscellaneous Orders

No. D-2103. In re Disbarment of Maney. Disbarmententered. [For earlier order herein, see ante, p. 801.]

No. D-2105. In re Disbarment of Warren. Disbarmententered. [For earlier order herein, see ante, p. 802.]
No. D-2107. In re Disbarment of Buckley. Disbarmententered. [For earlier order herein, see ante, p. 925.]
No. D-2123. In re Disbarment of Romm. Stuart A. Romm,of Brockton, Mass., is suspended from the practice of law in this
Court, and a rule will issue, returnable within 40 days, requiring

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:22] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

1043ORDERS
December 6, 1999528 U. S.
him to show cause why he should not be disbarred from thepractice of law in this Court.

No. D-2124. In re Disbarment of Kinane. Daniel EdwardKinane, Jr., of Dayton, Ohio, is suspended from the practice of
law in this Court, and a rule will issue, returnable within 40 days,requiring him to show cause why he should not be disbarred from
the practice of law in this Court.

No. D-2125. In re Disbarment of Tesseyman. FrancisWilliam Tesseyman, Jr., of West Seneca, N. Y., is suspended from

the practice of law in this Court, and a rule will issue, returnablewithin 40 days, requiring him to show cause why he should not
be disbarred from the practice of law in this Court.

No. D-2126. In re Disbarment of Hanbery. William LeeHanbery, of Florence, Ala., is suspended from the practice of law

in this Court, and a rule will issue, returnable within 40 days,requiring him to show cause why he should not be disbarred from
the practice of law in this Court.

No. D-2127. In re Disbarment of Thomas. GregoryLeeAndrew Thomas, of Washington, D. C., is suspended from the

practice of law in this Court, and a rule will issue, returnablewithin 40 days, requiring him to show cause why he should not
be disbarred from the practice of law in this Court.

No. D-2128. In re Disbarment of Jackson. C. MichaelJackson, of Fort Myers, Fla., is suspended from the practice of

law in this Court, and a rule will issue, returnable within 40 days,requiring him to show cause why he should not be disbarred from
the practice of law in this Court.

No. 99M44. Randall v. Wass;No. 99M45. Tolbert et ux. v. Commissioner of Internal

Revenue; andNo. 99M46. Local 496, Laborers' International Union of
North America v. Alexander et al. Motions to direct theClerk to file petitions for writs of certiorari out of time denied.

No. 98-1701. United States v. Locke, Governor of Wash-ington, et al.; and
No. 98-1706. International Association of IndependentTanker Owners (Intertanko) v. Locke, Governor of Wash-

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:22] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
1044 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

December 6, 1999 528 U. S.
ington, et al. C. A. 9th Cir. [Certiorari granted, 527 U. S.1063.] Motion of Counties of Pierce, Mason, and Skagit to join
brief amici curiae of Washington Counties of San Juan et al.denied.

No. 98-1828. -ermont Agency of Natural Resources v.United States ex rel. Stevens. C. A. 2d Cir. [Certiorari
granted, 527 U. S. 1034.] Motions for leave to file briefs as amicicuriae filed by the following are granted: Federation of American
Health Systems, FMC Corp., Friends of the Earth et al., Chamberof Commerce of the United States et al., Project on Government
Oversight, National Employment Lawyers Association, TaxpayersAgainst Fraud, American Petroleum Institute et al., American
Clinical Laboratory Association, American Medical Associationet al., and Aerospace Industries Association of America, Inc.

No. 99-5. United States v. Morrison et al.; andNo. 99-29. Brzonkala v. Morrison et al. C. A. 4th Cir.
[Certiorari granted, 527 U. S. 1068.] Motions of Association ofthe Bar of the City of New York, Equal Rights Advocates et al.,
Lawyers' Committee for Civil Rights Under Law et al., and Asso-ciation of Trial Lawyers of America for leave to file briefs as
amici curiae granted. Motion of the Solicitor General for dividedargument granted.

No. 99-138. Troxel et vir v. Granville. Sup. Ct. Wash.[Certiorari granted, 527 U. S. 1069.] Motion of Grandparents
United for Children's Rights for leave to file a brief as amicuscuriae granted.

No. 99-6126. Minford v. Domalakes, Judge, Court of Com-mon Pleas of Pennsylvania, Schuylkill County, et al.
C. A. 3d Cir. Motion of petitioner for reconsideration of orderdenying leave to proceed in forma pauperis [ante, p. 949] denied.

No. 99-6444. Paveletz v. United States Court of Ap-peals for the Third Circuit. C. A. 3d Cir. Motion of petitioner for leave to proceed in forma pauperis denied. Petitioneris allowed until December 27, 1999, within which to pay the docketing fee required by Rule 38(a) and to submit a petition in com-pliance with Rule 33.1 of the Rules of this Court.

No. 99-6615. Williams v. Taylor, Warden. C. A. 4th Cir.[Certiorari granted, ante, p. 960.] Motion for appointment of

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:22] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

1045ORDERS
December 6, 1999528 U. S.
counsel granted, and it is ordered that Barbara L. Hartung, Esq.,of Richmond, Va., be appointed to serve as counsel for petitioner
in this case.

No. 99-6959. In re Neff. Petition for writ of habeas cor-pus denied.

No. 99-6430. In re Taylor. Petition for writ of mandamusdenied.
Certiorari Granted

No. 99-224. Duckworth, Superintendent, PendletonCorrectional Facility, et al. v. French et al.; and

No. 99-582. United States v. French et al. C. A. 7th Cir.Certiorari granted, cases consolidated, and a total of one hour
allotted for oral argument. Reported below: 178 F. 3d 437.

No. 99-5525. Dickerson v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir.Motion of petitioner for leave to proceed in forma pauperis

granted. Certiorari granted limited to Question 1 presented bythe petition. Paul G. Cassell, Esq., of Salt Lake City, Utah, is
invited to brief and argue this case, as amicus curiae, in supportof the judgment below. Reported below: 166 F. 3d 667.

Certiorari Denied

No. 99-388. National Engineering & Contracting Co.,Inc. v. Herman, Secretary of Labor, et al. C. A. 6th Cir.

Certiorari denied. Reported below: 181 F. 3d 715.

No. 99-394. Bank of America Corp. et al. v. Herman, Sec-retary of Labor, et al. C. A. 4th Cir. Certiorari denied.

Reported below: 174 F. 3d 424.

No. 99-405. Hay v. Evins et al. C. A. 6th Cir. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 173 F. 3d 428.

No. 99-438. Trivette et ux., as Co-Administrators ofthe Estate of Trivette, et al. v. North Carolina Baptist
Hospitals, Inc. Sup. Ct. N. C. Certiorari denied. Reportedbelow: 350 N. C. 299, 512 S. E. 2d 425.

No. 99-470. Langford v. Makita Corporation of America.C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 181 F. 3d 96.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:22] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
1046 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

December 6, 1999 528 U. S.
No. 99-505. Saldana Sanchez et al. v. -ega Sosa et al.C. A. 1st Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 175 F. 3d 35.

No. 99-510. Indiana High School Athletic Assn., Inc.,et al. v. Washington et al. C. A. 7th Cir. Certiorari denied.
Reported below: 181 F. 3d 840.

No. 99-527. Ryan et al. v. Powell et al.; andNo. 99-574. Ridge, Governor of Pennsylvania, et al. v.

Powell et al. C. A. 3d Cir. Certiorari denied. Reportedbelow: 189 F. 3d 387.

No. 99-542. Jaworowski v. New York City Transit Au-thority et al. C. A. 2d Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported
below: 182 F. 3d 900.

No. 99-554. Goodyear Tire & Rubber Co. et al. v. -inson.Sup. Ct. Ala. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 749 So. 2d

393.

No. 99-575. Moreton Rolleston, Jr., Living Trust, et al.v. Estate of Simms, Cherry, Executor. Ct. App. Ga. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 237 Ga. App. 733, 521 S. E. 2d 1.

No. 99-581. North Star Steel Co. v. MidAmerican En-ergy Holdings Co. et al. C. A. 8th Cir. Certiorari denied.

Reported below: 184 F. 3d 732.

No. 99-600. Flowers v. Seki et al. C. A. 9th Cir. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 176 F. 3d 482.

No. 99-601. Interactive Technologies, Inc. v. PittwayCorp. et al. C. A. Fed. Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported
below: 194 F. 3d 1337.

No. 99-606. Willis et al. v. Goodpaster et al. C. A. 10thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 183 F. 3d 1231.

No. 99-610. Krajicek v. Justin et al. C. A. 6th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 178 F. 3d 1294.
No. 99-616. Willars v. Jones, Warden. C. A. 5th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-620. Morters v. Croen & Barr et al. Ct. App.Wis. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 228 Wis. 2d 508, 597
N. W. 2d 773.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:22] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

1047ORDERS
December 6, 1999528 U. S.
No. 99-622. Loftus v. Southeastern PennsylvaniaTransportation Authority et al. C. A. 3d Cir. Certiorari
denied. Reported below: 187 F. 3d 626.

No. 99-623. Wells v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 936.

No. 99-631. Derryberry v. Tennessee -alley Authorityet al. C. A. 6th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 182
F. 3d 916.

No. 99-637. Norville et ux. v. United States. C. A. 9thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 175 F. 3d 1133.

No. 99-638. Zora Enterprises, Inc. v. Massachusetts.App. Ct. Mass. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 46 Mass.
App. 1120, 708 N. E. 2d 154.

No. 99-644. Hoyos v. United States et al. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 172 F. 3d 882.

No. 99-649. Rardin, Warden, et al. v. Ricardo. C. A. 9thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 189 F. 3d 474.
No. 99-652. Agee v. Morse. C. A. 2d Cir. Certioraridenied.
No. 99-657. Althoff et ux. v. United States. C. A. Fed.Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 194 F. 3d 1336.
No. 99-676. Tinsley v. Equifax Credit Information Serv-ices, Inc., et al. C. A. D. C. Cir. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-686. Hargrove v. North Carolina. Sup. Ct. N. C.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 350 N. C. 96, 533 S. E. 2d
465.

No. 99-700. Lopez v. Henderson, Postmaster General.C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 190 F. 3d 538.

No. 99-702. Capital Leasing of Ohio, Inc., dba BudgetRent-A-Car of Columbus v. Columbus Municipal Airport
Authority. C. A. 6th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below:182 F. 3d 916.

No. 99-716. Ruiz Rivera v. Department of Educationet al. C. A. 1st Cir. Certiorari denied.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:22] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
1048 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

December 6, 1999 528 U. S.
No. 99-717. Sabah Shipyard Sdn. Bhd. v. M/V HarbelTapper, in rem, et al. C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 178 F. 3d 400.

No. 99-726. Caudillo v. Continental Bank/ Bank ofAmerica Illinois. C. A. 7th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 191 F. 3d 455.

No. 99-734. Galluzzi v. United States. C. A. 3d Cir. Cer-tiorari denied.

No. 99-736. Benin v. Home Savings of America, FSB, etal. C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 173
F. 3d 859.

No. 99-738. Wilhelmsen v. Walsh et al. Sup. Ct. Alaska.Certiorari denied.

No. 99-757. Cambridge Hospital v. Shalala, Secretaryof Health and Human Services. C. A. D. C. Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-789. Martinez v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir.Certiorari denied.

No. 99-790. Tingle v. United States. C. A. 7th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 183 F. 3d 719.
No. 99-793. Chaves v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 169 F. 3d 687.
No. 99-797. Southwell v. Commissioner of InternalRevenue. C. A. 6th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below:
187 F. 3d 638.

No. 99-5608. Caraway v. Texas. Ct. App. Tex., 11th Dist.Certiorari denied.

No. 99-6125. Zuker v. Andrews. C. A. 1st Cir. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 181 F. 3d 81.
No. 99-6363. James v. Cain, Warden. C. A. 5th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied.
No. 99-6364. Lassan v. Bolton. C. A. 11th Cir. Certioraridenied.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:22] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

1049ORDERS
December 6, 1999528 U. S.
No. 99-6396. Pettway v. Moore, Secretary, Florida De-partment of Corrections. Sup. Ct. Fla. Certiorari denied.
Reported below: 740 So. 2d 528.

No. 99-6402. Bivens v. Moore, Secretary, Florida De-partment of Corrections, et al. C. A. 11th Cir. Certiorari

denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 936.

No. 99-6403. Biggins v. Withers, Assistant AttorneyGeneral of Delaware, et al. C. A. 3d Cir. Certiorari

denied.

No. 99-6407. Morris et al. v. Borough of Red Bank et al.C. A. 3d Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 178 F. 3d 1280.

No. 99-6408. Marcicky v. Michigan. Ct. App. Mich. Cer-tiorari denied.
No. 99-6410. Delgado Medrano v. Johnson, Director,Texas Department of Criminal Justice, Institutional Di-
vision. C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-6411. v. Johnson, Director, Texas Depart-ment of Criminal Justice, Institutional Division. C. A.

5th Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-6412. Bey v. Ohio. Sup. Ct. Ohio. Certiorari denied.Reported below: 85 Ohio St. 3d 487, 709 N. E. 2d 484.

No. 99-6414. Baston v. Ohio. Sup. Ct. Ohio. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 85 Ohio St. 3d 418, 709 N. E. 2d 128.
No. 99-6419. Hemmerle v. Bakst. C. A. 11th Cir. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 177 F. 3d 981.
No. 99-6420. Harper v. Ratelle, Warden, et al. C. A.9th Cir. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-6423. Herrera v. Utah. Sup. Ct. Utah. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 993 P. 2d 854.
No. 99-6424. Hoffman v. California Franchise TaxBoard et al. C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported
below: 188 F. 3d 513.

No. 99-6431. Linehan v. Minnesota et al. Sup. Ct. Minn.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 594 N. W. 2d 867.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:22] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
1050 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

December 6, 1999 528 U. S.
No. 99-6435. Kieffer v. Riske. C. A. 8th Cir. Certioraridenied.

No. 99-6436. Blanton v. Elo, Warden. C. A. 6th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 186 F. 3d 712.
No. 99-6437. Browning v. Liberty Mutual Insurance Co.C. A. 8th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 178 F. 3d
1043.

No. 99-6438. Simmons v. Parrish et al. C. A. 10th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 185 F. 3d 875.

No. 99-6446. Price v. Texas. Ct. App. Tex., 14th Dist. Cer-tiorari denied.
No. 99-6447. Steele v. Sentinel Communications et al.Sup. Ct. Fla. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 743 So. 2d 510.
No. 99-6450. Council v. South Carolina. Sup. Ct. S. C.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 335 S. C. 1, 515 S. E. 2d 508.
No. 99-6453. Wessinger v. Louisiana. Sup. Ct. La. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 736 So. 2d 162.
No. 99-6454. Moore v. Payless Shoe Source, Inc. C. A.8th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 187 F. 3d 845.
No. 99-6456. McLean v. Mc Ginnis, Superintendent,Southport Correctional Facility, et al. C. A. 2d Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 189 F. 3d 461.

No. 99-6460. Miller v. Miller et al. C. A. 7th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied.

No. 99-6463. Ajiwoju v. Gronneman et al. C. A. 10th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 189 F. 3d 477.
No. 99-6468. Roberts v. Ward, Warden. C. A. 10th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 176 F. 3d 489.
No. 99-6471. Joyner v. Industrial Accident Board ofDelaware. C. A. 3d Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below:
185 F. 3d 862.

No. 99-6474. Yancy v. Cain, Warden. C. A. 5th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:22] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

1051ORDERS
December 6, 1999528 U. S.
No. 99-6477. Miller v. Pugh et al. C. A. 10th Cir. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 189 F. 3d 478.

No. 99-6478. White v. Rodriguez Mendoza, Clerk, Dis-trict Court of Texas, Travis County. C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 189 F. 3d 467.

No. 99-6479. Re v. New Mexico. C. A. 10th Cir. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 173 F. 3d 864.

No. 99-6481. Omosefunmi v. Farquharson. C. A. 1st Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 187 F. 3d 622.
No. 99-6483. Ponder v. Hill, Superintendent, EasternOregon Correctional Institution. Sup. Ct. Ore. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-6487. Arroyo v. California. Sup. Ct. Cal. Certio-rari denied.

No. 99-6489. Brown v. Ellis et al. C. A. 5th Cir. Certio-rari denied.
No. 99-6490. Ceglarek v. John Crane, Inc. C. A. 7th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 921.
No. 99-6502. Palmer v. Georgia. Sup. Ct. Ga. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 271 Ga. 234, 517 S. E. 2d 502.
No. 99-6514. Anderson v. Ault, Warden. C. A. 8th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-6517. Washington v. Russell, Warden. C. A. 6thCir. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-6518. Palmer v. New York. App. Div., Sup. Ct.N. Y., 1st Jud. Dept. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 263
App. Div. 2d 361, 693 N. Y. S. 2d 539.

No. 99-6567. Muchen v. Hopewell Center, Inc. C. A. 8thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 187 F. 3d 642.

No. 99-6577. Gibbs v. United States. C. A. 6th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 408.
No. 99-6581. Guillory v. Apfel, Commissioner of SocialSecurity. C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below:
189 F. 3d 468.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:22] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
1052 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

December 6, 1999 528 U. S.
No. 99-6584. Tenner v. Schomig, Warden. C. A. 7th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 184 F. 3d 608.

No. 99-6587. White v. United States Court of Appealsfor the Fifth Circuit. C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-6597. Soun v. Lindsey, Warden. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 189 F. 3d 474.
No. 99-6607. Porter v. Department of Labor, BenefitsReview Board, et al. C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 176 F. 3d 484.

No. 99-6623. Chew v. New Jersey. Sup. Ct. N. J. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 150 N. J. 30, 695 A. 2d 1301, and

159 N. J. 183, 731 A. 2d 1070.

No. 99-6639. Maresca v. Ignacio, Warden. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied.

No. 99-6641. Lukens v. Oregon State Office for Serv-ices to Children and Families. Ct. App. Ore. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 159 Ore. App. 680, 979 P. 2d 315.

No. 99-6655. Williams et ux. v. Tsakopoulos Investmentset al. Ct. App. Cal., 3d App. Dist. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-6661. Templeton v. Johnson, Director, Texas De-partment of Criminal Justice, Institutional Division.
C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-6683. Horne v. Coughlin, Commissioner, New YorkState Department of Correctional Services, et al. C. A.

2d Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 191 F. 3d 244.

No. 99-6700. Hawks v. Clark, Warden, et al. C. A. 9thCir. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-6707. Baumer v. Melton et al. C. A. 9th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 189 F. 3d 472.
No. 99-6710. Price v. California. Ct. App. Cal., 3d App.Dist. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-6720. Odom v. Stubblefield, Superintendent, Mis-souri Eastern Correctional Center. C. A. 8th Cir. Certiorari denied.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:22] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

1053ORDERS
December 6, 1999528 U. S.
No. 99-6725. Murray v. Stubblefield, Superintendent,Missouri Eastern Correctional Center. C. A. 8th Cir.
Certiorari denied.

No. 99-6743. DeAngelis v. Widener University Schoolof Law et al. C. A. 3d Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported

below: 187 F. 3d 625.

No. 99-6763. Williams v. Clark, Warden. C. A. 7th Cir.Certiorari denied.

No. 99-6790. Helem v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 186 F. 3d 449.
No. 99-6795. Orlov v. Palmateer, Superintendent, Ore-gon State Penitentiary. C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari denied.
Reported below: 189 F. 3d 474.

No. 99-6800. Dean v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 176 F. 3d 492.

No. 99-6811. Barrett v. Barrett. Sup. Ct. Minn. Certio-rari denied.
No. 99-6821. Jackson v. Texas Electric Utility ServiceCo. Ct. App. Tex., 2d Dist. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-6833. Sexton v. Angelone, Director, Virginia De-partment of Corrections. C. A. 4th Cir. Certiorari denied.
Reported below: 187 F. 3d 631.

No. 99-6839. Moore v. Ponte. C. A. 1st Cir. Certiorari de-nied. Reported below: 186 F. 3d 26.

No. 99-6849. Karall v. Illinois. App. Ct. Ill., 1st Dist.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-6852. Martin v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 192 F. 3d 130.
No. 99-6858. Ranglin v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 190 F. 3d 541.
No. 99-6869. Burnett v. United States. C. A. 10th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 188 F. 3d 519.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:22] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
1054 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

December 6, 1999 528 U. S.

No. 99-6871. Anderson v. United States. C. A. ArmedForces. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 50 M. J. 447.
No. 99-6876. Spears v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 194 F. 3d 1307.
No. 99-6877. Santos-Riviera v. United States. C. A. 5thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 183 F. 3d 367.
No. 99-6878. Wilder v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 187 F. 3d 650.
No. 99-6880. Kam Far Lee v. United States. C. A. 2d Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 900.
No. 99-6881. Mensah v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-6882. Middleton v. Missouri. Sup. Ct. Mo. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 995 S. W. 2d 443.
No. 99-6884. Saumani v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 189 F. 3d 476.
No. 99-6886. Palmer v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 937.
No. 99-6889. Williams v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-6891. Aleman v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 192 F. 3d 130.
No. 99-6893. William v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 189 F. 3d 470.
No. 99-6901. Green v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 180 F. 3d 216.
No. 99-6902. Esparza v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 190 F. 3d 538.
No. 99-6904. Harple v. United States. C. A. 3d Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 193 F. 3d 514.
No. 99-6906. Escalanti v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 188 F. 3d 515.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:22] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

1055ORDERS
December 6, 1999528 U. S.
No. 99-6910. Gordon v. United States; andNo. 99-6947. Boddie v. United States. C. A. 6th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 919.

No. 99-6911. Harris v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 185 F. 3d 999.

No. 99-6914. Estevez v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 172 F. 3d 882.
No. 99-6922. Cain v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 177 F. 3d 272.
No. 99-6923. Salgado Roman v. United States. C. A. 4thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 181 F. 3d 94.
No. 99-6927. Ogbonna v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 184 F. 3d 447.
No. 99-6930. Johnson v. United States. C. A. 3d Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 202 F. 3d 255.
No. 99-6932. Jacobs v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 192 F. 3d 126.
No. 99-6934. Marshall v. United States. C. A. 7th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-6936. King v. United States. C. A. 6th Cir. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 188 F. 3d 509.
No. 99-6937. Joseph v. United States District Court forthe Middle District of Georgia. C. A. 11th Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-6938. West v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 187 F. 3d 633.

No. 99-6942. White v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 187 F. 3d 633.
No. 99-6943. Ramos-Torres v. United States. C. A. 8thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 187 F. 3d 909.
No. 99-6944. Young v. United States. C. A. 7th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 202 F. 3d 276.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:22] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
1056 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

December 6, 1999 528 U. S.
No. 99-6948. Battle v. United States. C. A. 10th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 188 F. 3d 519.

No. 99-6949. Anderson v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 192 F. 3d 130.
No. 99-6951. Robbio v. United States. C. A. 1st Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 186 F. 3d 37.
No. 99-6952. Shores v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 188 F. 3d 516.
No. 99-6956. Meachum v. United States. C. A. 7th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 923.
No. 99-6975. Honken v. United States. C. A. 8th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 184 F. 3d 961.
No. 99-6978. Mitchell v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 189 F. 3d 476.
No. 99-6984. Burke v. United States. C. A. 6th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 187 F. 3d 638.
No. 99-678. Crandall v. Wagner. Ct. App. Cal., 1st App.Dist. Motion of Legal Advocates for Children and Youth et al.
for leave to file a brief as amici curiae granted. Certiorari de-nied. Reported below: 71 Cal. App. 4th 524, 84 Cal. Rptr. 2d 48.

No. 99-5560. Klat v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. The Chief Justice took no part in the consideration or decision of this petition. Reported below: 180 F. 3d 264.
Rehearing Denied

No. 98-8579. Xin Hang Chen v. Raz et al., 526 U. S. 1134;No. 98-9465. Raphael v. Texas, ante, p. 836;

No. 98-9645. Carthane v. Florida, ante, p. 844;No. 98-9883. Casimier v. United States Postal Service,
ante, p. 858;No. 98-9891. Lloyd v. United States, ante, p. 858;

No. 99-217. Hoffmann v. Twamley et al., ante, p. 929;No. 99-288. Carter, Personal Representative of the
Estate of Carter, Deceased, and as Next Friend and Nat-ural and Legal Guardian of Carter et al. v. United
States, ante, p. 931;

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:22] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

1057ORDERS
December 6, 8, 1999528 U. S.
No. 99-5045. Tucker v. Cain, Warden, ante, p. 882;
No. 99-5096. Green et al. v. Carver State Bank et al.,
ante, p. 885;

No. 99-5097. Green et al. v. Carver State Bank et al.,
ante, p. 885;

No. 99-5239. Koenig v. Hagy et al., ante, p. 893;
No. 99-5259. In re Cotner, ante, p. 807;
No. 99-5394. Roblyer v. Pennsylvania Department of
Corrections et al., ante, p. 902;

No. 99-5410. In re Maxwell, ante, p. 808;
No. 99-5514. Cooper v. Johnson, Director, Texas Depart-
ment of Criminal Justice, Institutional Division, ante,
p. 908;

No. 99-5688. Grigger v. New York, ante, p. 914;
No. 99-5710. Savior v. -entura, Governor of Minnesota,
et al., ante, p. 938;

No. 99-5765. Marion v. Ford Motor Credit, ante, p. 953;
No. 99-5777. Brentwood v. Boeing Co., ante, p. 917;
No. 99-5849. Williams v. Community Bank/NationsBank,
ante, p. 955;

No. 99-5850. Clark v. Nassau County, New York, ante,
p. 940;

No. 99-5907. Walker v. Bonnet, LM, et al., ante, p. 971;
No. 99-5995. Yurtis v. Phipps, ante, p. 942;
No. 99-5998. Colyar v. Gilman, Congressman, ante, p. 942;
and

No. 99-6032. Marcello v. Town of Stetson, Maine, ante,
p. 943. Petitions for rehearing denied.

No. 98-9496. Chambers v. Bowersox, Superintendent, Po-
tosi Correctional Center, 527 U. S. 1029 and 1059. Motion
of petitioner for leave to file second petition for rehearing denied.

December 8, 1999
Miscellaneous Order

No. 99-7269 (99A475). In re Ross. Application for stay of
execution of sentence of death, presented to Justice Breyer,

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:22] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
1058 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

December 8, 9, 13, 1999 528 U. S.
and by him referred to the Court, denied. Petition for writ ofhabeas corpus denied.

Certiorari Denied

No. 99-7181 (99A445). Long v. Johnson, Director, TexasDepartment of Criminal Justice, Institutional Division.

C. A. 5th Cir. Application for stay of execution of sentence ofdeath, presented to Justice Scalia, and by him referred to the
Court, denied. Certiorari denied. Justice Stevens, JusticeGinsburg, and Justice Breyer would grant the application for
stay of execution. Reported below: 189 F. 3d 469.

No. 99-7328 (99A487). Fleenor v. Anderson, Superintend-ent, Indiana State Prison. C. A. 7th Cir. Application for

stay of execution of sentence of death, presented to JusticeStevens, and by him referred to the Court, denied. Motion
for leave to proceed in forma pauperis without an affidavit ofindigency executed by petitioner granted. Certiorari denied.

December 9, 1999Certiorari Denied
No. 99-7270 (99A478). Graham v. Angelone, Director, Vir-ginia Department of Corrections. C. A. 4th Cir. Application for stay of execution of sentence of death, presented to TheChief Justice, and by him referred to the Court, denied. Certiorari denied. Justice Stevens and Justice Ginsburg wouldgrant the application for stay of execution. Reported below: 191
F. 3d 447.

No. 99-7368 (99A489). Graham v. Angelone, Director, Vir-ginia Department of Corrections. C. A. 4th Cir. Application for stay of execution of sentence of death, presented to TheChief Justice, and by him referred to the Court, denied. Certiorari before judgment denied.

December 13, 1999
Dismissal Under Rule 46

No. 98-1446. S & R Company of Kingston et al. v. LatonaTrucking, Inc. C. A. 2d Cir. Certiorari dismissed under this

Court's Rule 46.1. Reported below: 159 F. 3d 80.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:22] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

1059ORDERS
December 13, 1999528 U. S.
Certiorari Granted--Vacated and Remanded

No. 99-200. McClure et al. v. Amelkin et al. C. A. 6thCir. Certiorari granted, judgment vacated, and case remanded

for further consideration in light of Los Angeles Police Dept. v.United Reporting Publishing Corp., ante, p. 32. Reported below:
168 F. 3d 893.
Certiorari Dismissed

No. 99-6663. Cunningham v. Moreno. C. A. 5th Cir. Mo-tion of petitioner for leave to proceed in forma pauperis denied,

and certiorari dismissed. See this Court's Rule 39.8. As peti-tioner has repeatedly abused this Court's process, the Clerk is
directed not to accept any further petitions in noncriminal mat-ters from petitioner unless the docketing fee required by Rule
38(a) is paid and the petition is submitted in compliance with Rule33.1. See Martin v. District of Columbia Court of Appeals, 506
U. S. 1 (1992) (per curiam). Justice Stevens dissents. Seeid., at 4, and cases cited therein.

Miscellaneous Orders

No. 99M47. Hou Hawaiians et al. v. Cayetano, Governorof Hawaii, et al. Motion to direct the Clerk to file petition for

writ of certiorari out of time denied.

No. 99M48. Sheppard v. Ohio. Motion for leave to proceedin forma pauperis without an affidavit of indigency executed by

petitioner granted.

No. 108, Orig. Nebraska v. Wyoming et al. Motion of theSpecial Master for compensation and reimbursement of expenses

granted, and the Special Master is awarded a total of $84,772.75for the period June 1 through December 1, 1999, to be paid as
follows: 34% by Nebraska, 34% by Wyoming, 5% by Colorado,24% by the United States, and 3% by Basin Electric Power Cooperative. [For earlier order herein, see, e. g., 527 U. S. 1033.]

No. 98-1288. -illage of Willowbrook et al. v. Olech.C. A. 7th Cir. [Certiorari granted, 527 U. S. 1067.] Motion of

the Solicitor General for leave to participate in oral argument asamicus curiae and for divided argument granted.

No. 98-1856. Hill et al. v. Colorado et al. Sup. Ct. Colo.[Certiorari granted, 527 U. S. 1068.] Motion of the Solicitor Gen528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:22] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
1060 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

December 13, 1999 528 U. S.
eral for leave to participate in oral argument as amicus curiaeand for divided argument granted.

No. 98-1993. Florida v. J. L. Sup. Ct. Fla. [Certiorarigranted, ante, p. 963.] Motion of petitioner to dispense with
printing the joint appendix granted.

No. 98-2060. Edwards, Warden v. Carpenter. C. A. 6thCir. [Certiorari granted, ante, p. 985.] Motion for appointment

of counsel granted, and it is ordered that J. Joseph Bodine, Jr.,Esq., of Columbus, Ohio, be appointed to serve as counsel for
respondent in this case.

No. 99-150. Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. v. Samara Brothers,Inc. C. A. 2d Cir. [Certiorari granted, ante, p. 808.] Motion

of the Solicitor General for leave to participate in oral argumentas amicus curiae and for divided argument granted. Motion of
Payless ShoeSource, Inc., for leave to participate in oral argumentas amicus curiae and for divided argument denied.

No. 99-6433. Wright v. South Dakota. Ct. App. Colo. Mo-tion of petitioner for reconsideration of order denying leave to
proceed in forma pauperis [ante, p. 1001] denied.

No. 99-6590. In re Brown;No. 99-7045. In re Manley; and

No. 99-7083. In re Campbell. Petitions for writs of habeascorpus denied.

No. 99-721. In re Durbin et ux. Petition for writ of man-damus denied.
Certiorari Granted

No. 99-5716. Carter v. United States. C. A. 3d Cir. Mo-tion of petitioner for leave to proceed in forma pauperis granted.

Certiorari granted. Reported below: 185 F. 3d 863.
Certiorari Denied

No. 98-9676. F. B. v. Pennsylvania. Sup. Ct. Pa. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 555 Pa. 661, 726 A. 2d 361.

No. 99-109. Lonergan, aka Koury v. United States.C. A. 3d Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 172 F. 3d 861.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:22] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

1061ORDERS
December 13, 1999528 U. S.
No. 99-248. Loyd et al. v. Alabama Department of Cor-rections et al. C. A. 11th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported
below: 176 F. 3d 1336.

No. 99-412. Louisville Country Club et al. v. Watts,Executive Director, Kentucky Commission on Human

Rights, et al. C. A. 6th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reportedbelow: 178 F. 3d 1295.

No. 99-419. Georgia Power Co. v. National Labor Rela-tions Board et al. C. A. 11th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 176 F. 3d 494.

No. 99-446. Hindi et al. v. Tosco Corp. et al.; andNo. 99-551. Simmons et al. v. Unocal Corp. et al. C. A.

9th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 177 F. 3d 755 and187 F. 3d 648.

No. 99-461.Authority v. Swanks. C. A. D. C. Cir. Certiorari denied.
Reported below: 179 F. 3d 929.

No. 99-465. City of Westminster et al. v. Herr et al.;and

No. 99-650. Davis, Reno & Courtney v. City of Westmin-ster et al. C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below:
177 F. 3d 839.

No. 99-532. Slick et al. v. McIntosh. Sup. Ct. Ohio. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 85 Ohio St. 3d 465, 709 N. E.

2d 468.

No. 99-612. Wysong Laser Co., Inc., et al. v. -idimos, Inc.C. A. 7th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 179 F. 3d

1063.

No. 99-615. Perini Corp. v. City of New York. C. A. 2dCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 901.

No. 99-617. Neo Gen Screening, Inc. v. New EnglandNewborn Screening Program, University of Massachu-
setts, et al. C. A. 1st Cir. Certiorari denied. Reportedbelow: 187 F. 3d 24.

No. 99-624. Corsini v. U-Haul International, Inc., et al.App. Div., Sup. Ct. N. Y., 1st Jud. Dept. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 257 App. Div. 2d 441, 682 N. Y. S. 2d 578.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:22] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
1062 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

December 13, 1999 528 U. S.
No. 99-625. Jewell v. Dallas Independent School Dis-trict. C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 189
F. 3d 469.

No. 99-634. Anderson v. Dallas Area Rapid Transit.C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 180 F. 3d 265.

No. 99-635. Sepe v. McDonnell Douglas Corp. C. A. 8thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 176 F. 3d 1113.
No. 99-639. Circle Industries USA, Inc. v. Parke Con-struction Group, Inc. C. A. 2d Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 183 F. 3d 105.

No. 99-643. Wareham Education Assn. et al. v. Massa-chusetts Labor Relations Commission et al. Sup. Jud. Ct.

Mass. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 430 Mass. 81, 713N. E. 2d 363.

No. 99-646. Rogan v. Evans. C. A. 1st Cir. Certiorari de-nied. Reported below: 175 F. 3d 75.
No. 99-647. Fontenot et al. v. Dual Drilling Co. C. A.5th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 179 F. 3d 969.
No. 99-648. McGlothlin v. Cullington. Ct. App. Tex., 3dDist. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 989 S. W. 2d 449.
No. 99-660. McDuffie, dba D & M Contracting Co. v. Cityof Jacksonville. C. A. 11th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 184 F. 3d 822.

No. 99-661. Willman v. Michigan Department of Correc-tions et al. C. A. 6th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported

below: 182 F. 3d 920.

No. 99-665. In re Mothershed. C. A. 10th Cir. Certio-rari denied.

No. 99-691. Hockaday v. Alabama. Ct. Crim. App. Ala.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 689 So. 2d 1009.
No. 99-744. Premier Games, Inc., et al. v. Louisianaet al. Ct. App. La., 1st Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported
below: 739 So. 2d 852.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:22] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

1063ORDERS
December 13, 1999528 U. S.
No. 99-758. Wenc v. Cable News Network, Inc., c/oTurner Broadcasting Inc., et al. C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari
denied. Reported below: 178 F. 3d 1301.

No. 99-801. Kay v. Smyser, United States Magistrate,et al. C. A. 3d Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 191

F. 3d 445.

No. 99-813. Santobello v. United States. C. A. 2d Cir.Certiorari denied.

No. 99-814. Allen et al. v. Entergy Corp. et al. C. A.8th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 181 F. 3d 902.
No. 99-835. Stewart v. United States. C. A. 3d Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 185 F. 3d 112.
No. 99-5385. Quintana-Garcia v. United States. C. A. 5thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 180 F. 3d 263.
No. 99-5873. Hickox et ux. v. MLA, Inc. Sup. Ct. Fla.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 733 So. 2d 516.
No. 99-5959. Young v. Texas. Ct. Crim. App. Tex. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 991 S. W. 2d 835.
No. 99-6503. Smith v. South Carolina. Ct. App. S. C.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 329 S. C. 550, 495 S. E. 2d
798.

No. 99-6504. Ocasio v. New York. App. Div., Sup. Ct. N. Y.,1st Jud. Dept. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 260 App.

Div. 2d 256, 686 N. Y. S. 2d 706.

No. 99-6507. Pravda v. Saratoga County, New York, etal. App. Div., Sup. Ct. N. Y., 3d Jud. Dept. Certiorari denied.

Reported below: 255 App. Div. 2d 717, 680 N. Y. S. 2d 705.

No. 99-6519. Plante v. Surpitski et al. C. A. 1st Cir.Certiorari denied.

No. 99-6520. Patterson v. Johnson, Director, Texas De-partment of Criminal Justice, Institutional Division.
C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 184 F. 3d 816.

No. 99-6521. Snipes v. Florida. Sup. Ct. Fla. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 737 So. 2d 551.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:22] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
1064 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

December 13, 1999 528 U. S.
No. 99-6522. Stewart v. Cain, Warden. C. A. 5th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 189 F. 3d 468.

No. 99-6528. Lantz v. Arctic Orion Fisheries et al.C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 173 F. 3d 860.
No. 99-6538. Gardner et al. v. Nissan Motor AcceptanceCorp. Ct. App. Tex., 2d Dist. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-6540. Moore v. Florida Department of Correc-tions. C. A. 11th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 182
F. 3d 935.

No. 99-6543. Williams v. Cain, Warden. C. A. 5th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 190 F. 3d 538.

No. 99-6555. Kidwell v. Shawnee County Board ofCounty Commissioners. C. A. 10th Cir. Certiorari denied.
Reported below: 189 F. 3d 478.

No. 99-6557. Lopez v. California. Ct. App. Cal., 3d App.Dist. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-6561. Wells v. Lamson & Sessions Co. et al. C. A.8th Cir. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-6562. Clark v. Land et al. C. A. 5th Cir. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 189 F. 3d 467.
No. 99-6563. Carmelo Jimenez v. California. Ct. App.Cal., 5th App. Dist. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-6564. Melton v. -asquez, Warden. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 178 F. 3d 1300.
No. 99-6565. Jiles v. Sparkman, Warden, et al. C. A. 5thCir. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-6658. Bubenchik v. Ohio. Ct. App. Ohio, StarkCounty. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-6748. Rooney v. Kelly, Superintendent, AtticaCorrectional Facility. C. A. 2d Cir. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-6767. Thomas v. Kentucky. Ct. App. Ky. Certio-rari denied.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:22] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

1065ORDERS
December 13, 1999528 U. S.
No. 99-6804. Hatcher v. Office of Compliance. C. A.Fed. Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 194 F. 3d 1335.

No. 99-6808. Genco v. United States et al. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-6819. Maxwell v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 173 F. 3d 424.
No. 99-6834. O'Donnell v. Brill, Warden, et al. C. A.10th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 188 F. 3d 519.
No. 99-6850. James v. United States. C. A. 6th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 173 F. 3d 430.
No. 99-6866. Cameron v. Garraghty, Warden. C. A. 4thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 178 F. 3d 1282.
No. 99-6874. Schomaker v. United States. C. A. 1st Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-6919. Germosen v. United States. C. A. 2d Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 165 F. 3d 15.
No. 99-6920. Rogers v. Moore, Secretary, Florida De-partment of Corrections, et al. C. A. 11th Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-6929. Rodriguez-Estupinan v. United States; andNo. 99-6931. Munera-Uribe v. United States. C. A. 5th

Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 192 F. 3d 126.

No. 99-6945. Berger v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 187 F. 3d 646.

No. 99-6950. Cardenas v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 189 F. 3d 481.
No. 99-6960. Tatum v. Dormire, Superintendent, Jeffer-son City Correctional Center, et al. C. A. 8th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 183 F. 3d 875.

No. 99-6981. Pastrana v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 189 F. 3d 476.

No. 99-6983. Oforha v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 188 F. 3d 505.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:22] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
1066 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

December 13, 1999 528 U. S.
No. 99-6989. Mixon v. United States. C. A. 10th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 185 F. 3d 875.

No. 99-7007. Brown v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 183 F. 3d 1306.
No. 99-7010. Jackson v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 193 F. 3d 516.
No. 99-7014. Anderson v. United States. C. A. 7th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 921.
No. 99-7019. Zapata-Robles v. United States. C. A. 9thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 188 F. 3d 516.
No. 99-7026. DeWitt v. United States. C. A. 8th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-7032. Dunmore v. United States. C. A. 8th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-7069. Thomas v. United States. C. A. 8th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 83 F. 3d 259.
No. 99-422. Spiegel v. Probate Proceeding, Will of War-saski, Deceased. App. Div., Sup. Ct. N. Y., 1st Jud. Dept. Motion of Concerned Illinois Lawyers and Law Professors for leaveto file a brief as amicus curiae granted. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 258 App. Div. 2d 379, 685 N. Y. S. 2d 684.

No. 99-628. Andrews et al. v. -ermont Department ofEducation et al. Sup. Ct. Vt. Motion of Christian Legal Society et al. for leave to file a brief as amici curiae granted. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 169 Vt. 310, 738 A. 2d 539.

No. 99-5546. Shisinday v. Texas. Ct. App. Tex., 14th Dist.Motion of petitioner to strike brief in opposition denied. Certiorari denied.
Rehearing Denied

No. 98-9268. Alexander v. Catoe, Director, South Caro-lina Department of Corrections, et al., ante, p. 830;

No. 98-9570. Nagy v. United States, ante, p. 840;No. 98-9698. Robinson v. United States, ante, p. 848;

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:22] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

1067ORDERS
December 13, 14, 15, 28, 1999528 U. S.
No. 99-355. Wenzel v. International Business MachinesCorp., ante, p. 952;
No. 99-526. McCray v. National Labor Relations Board,ante, p. 968;
No. 99-5016. Woods v. United States, ante, p. 881;No. 99-5081. McManus v. Angelone, Director, Virginia
Department of Corrections, ante, p. 884;No. 99-5230. Stedman v. United States, ante, p. 893;

No. 99-5373. Chambers v. Bowersox, Superintendent,Potosi Correctional Center, ante, p. 969;
No. 99-6010. Flanagan et ux. v. Arnaiz et al., ante, p. 973;and
No. 99-6078. Wilborn, aka Adams v. Harvard et al., ante,p. 975. Petitions for rehearing denied.

December 14, 1999Certiorari Denied
No. 99-817 (99A437). Felder v. Johnson, Director, TexasDepartment of Criminal Justice, Institutional Division.
C. A. 5th Cir. Application for stay of execution of sentence ofdeath, presented to Justice Scalia, and by him referred to the
Court, denied. Certiorari denied. Justice Stevens, JusticeGinsburg, and Justice Breyer would grant the application for
stay of execution. Reported below: 180 F. 3d 206.

December 15, 1999Rehearing Denied
No. 99-817. Felder v. Johnson, Director, Texas Depart-ment of Criminal Justice, Institutional Division, ante, this
page. Petition for rehearing denied. Justice Scalia took nopart in the consideration or decision of this petition.

December 28, 1999
Dismissal Under Rule 46

No. 99-704. E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Co. v. Matsuura,Individually and dba Orchid Isle Nursery, et al. C. A.

9th Cir. Certiorari dismissed under this Court's Rule 46.1. Re-ported below: 179 F. 3d 1131.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:22] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
1068 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

January 5, 7, 2000 528 U. S.
January 5, 2000Miscellaneous Order

No. 99-7618 (99A545). In re Johnson. Application for stayof execution of sentence of death, presented to Justice Breyer,
and by him referred to the Court, denied. Petition for writ ofhabeas corpus denied.

January 7, 2000Certiorari Granted
No. 99-387. Raleigh, Chapter 7 Trustee for the Estateof Stoecker v. Illinois Department of Revenue. C. A. 7th
Cir. Certiorari granted. Brief of petitioner is to be filed withthe Clerk and served upon opposing counsel on or before 3 p.m.,
Tuesday, February 22, 2000. Brief of respondent is to be filedwith the Clerk and served upon opposing counsel on or before 3
p.m., Thursday, March 23, 2000. A reply brief, if any, is to be filedwith the Clerk and served upon opposing counsel on or before 3
p.m., Monday, April 10, 2000. This Court's Rule 29.2 does notapply. Reported below: 179 F. 3d 546.

No. 99-579. Harris Trust and Savings Bank, as Trusteefor the Ameritech Pension Trust, et al. v. Salomon Smith
Barney Inc. et al. C. A. 7th Cir. Certiorari granted. Briefof petitioners is to be filed with the Clerk and served upon opposing counsel on or before 3 p.m., Tuesday, February 22, 2000.Brief of respondents is to be filed with the Clerk and served upon
opposing counsel on or before 3 p.m., Thursday, March 23, 2000.A reply brief, if any, is to be filed with the Clerk and served upon
opposing counsel on or before 3 p.m., Monday, April 10, 2000.This Court's Rule 29.2 does not apply. Reported below: 184
F. 3d 646.

No. 99-7000. Ramdass v. Angelone, Director, VirginiaDepartment of Corrections. C. A. 4th Cir. Motion of petitioner for leave to proceed in forma pauperis granted. Certio-rari granted limited to Question 1 presented by the petition.
Brief of petitioner is to be filed with the Clerk and served uponopposing counsel on or before 3 p.m., Tuesday, February 22, 2000.
Brief of respondent is to be filed with the Clerk and served uponopposing counsel on or before 3 p.m., Thursday, March 23, 2000.
A reply brief, if any, is to be filed with the Clerk and served uponopposing counsel on or before 3 p.m., Monday, April 10, 2000.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:22] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

1069ORDERS
January 7, 10, 2000528 U. S.
This Court's Rule 29.2 does not apply. Reported below: 187F. 3d 396.

January 10, 2000Certiorari Dismissed
No. 99-6704. Burgess v. Baldwin, Superintendent, East-ern Oregon Correctional Institution. Ct. App. Ore. Motion of petitioner for leave to proceed in forma pauperis denied,and certiorari dismissed. See this Court's Rule 39.8. Reported
below: 161 Ore. App. 667, 984 P. 2d 959.

No. 99-6797. Frederick v. Gudmanson, Warden. C. A. 7thCir. Motion of petitioner for leave to proceed in forma pauperis

denied, and certiorari dismissed. See this Court's Rule 39.8.

No. 99-6818. Lyle v. Thompson et al. C. A. 6th Cir. Mo-tion of petitioner for leave to proceed in forma pauperis denied,

and certiorari dismissed. See this Court's Rule 39.8. As peti-tioner has repeatedly abused this Court's process, the Clerk is
directed not to accept any further petitions in noncriminal mat-ters from petitioner unless the docketing fee required by Rule
38(a) is paid and the petition is submitted in compliance with Rule33.1. See Martin v. District of Columbia Court of Appeals, 506
U. S. 1 (1992) (per curiam). Justice Stevens dissents. Seeid., at 4, and cases cited therein. Reported below: 187 F. 3d 636.

No. 99-6820. Rawlins v. Lee. C. A. 9th Cir. Motion of peti-tioner for leave to proceed in forma pauperis denied, and certiorari dismissed. See this Court's Rule 39.8. Reported below: 173F. 3d 861.

No. 99-6909. Fabian v. Progressive American InsuranceCo. et al. C. A. 11th Cir. Motion of petitioner for leave to
proceed in forma pauperis denied, and certiorari dismissed. Seethis Court's Rule 39.8. As petitioner has repeatedly abused this
Court's process, the Clerk is directed not to accept any furtherpetitions in noncriminal matters from petitioner unless the docketing fee required by Rule 38(a) is paid and the petition is submit-ted in compliance with Rule 33.1. See Martin v. District of
Columbia Court of Appeals, 506 U. S. 1 (1992) (per curiam).Justice Stevens dissents. See id., at 4, and cases cited therein.
Reported below: 189 F. 3d 485.

No. 99- 6940. Turner v. Internal Revenue Service.C. A. 4th Cir. Motion of petitioner for leave to proceed in forma

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:22] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
1070 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

January 10, 2000 528 U. S.
pauperis denied, and certiorari dismissed. See this Court's Rule39.8. As petitioner has repeatedly abused this Court's process,
the Clerk is directed not to accept any further petitions in non-criminal matters from petitioner unless the docketing fee required
by Rule 38(a) is paid and the petition is submitted in compliancewith Rule 33.1. See Martin v. District of Columbia Court of
Appeals, 506 U. S. 1 (1992) (per curiam). Justice Stevens dis-sents. See id., at 4, and cases cited therein. Reported below:
181 F. 3d 91.

No. 99-7137. Oriakhi v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir. Mo-tion of petitioner for leave to proceed in forma pauperis denied,

and certiorari dismissed. See this Court's Rule 39.8. As peti-tioner has repeatedly abused this Court's process, the Clerk is
directed not to accept any further petitions in noncriminal mat-ters from petitioner unless the docketing fee required by Rule
38(a) is paid and the petition is submitted in compliance with Rule33.1. See Martin v. District of Columbia Court of Appeals, 506
U. S. 1 (1992) (per curiam). Justice Stevens dissents. Seeid., at 4, and cases cited therein. Reported below: 181 F. 3d 93.

Miscellaneous Orders

No. 99A464. Chiingirian v. United States. Application forrelease pending appeal, addressed to Justice Souter and referred to the Court, denied.

No. D-1956. In re Disbarment of Bleecker. Disbarmententered. [For earlier order herein, see 524 U. S. 902.]

No. D-2106. In re Disbarment of Pipes. Disbarment en-tered. [For earlier order herein, see ante, p. 925.]
No. D-2108. In re Disbarment of Passalacqua. Disbar-ment entered. [For earlier order herein, see ante, p. 925.]
No. D-2109. In re Disbarment of El-Amin. Disbarmententered. [For earlier order herein, see ante, p. 948.]
No. D-2110. In re Disbarment of Morgenstern. Disbar-ment entered. [For earlier order herein, see ante, p. 948.]
No. D-2112. In re Disbarment of Elkins. Disbarmententered. [For earlier order herein, see ante, p. 961.]

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:22] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

1071ORDERS
January 10, 2000528 U. S.
No. D-2115. In re Disbarment of Jackson. Disbarmententered. [For earlier order herein, see ante, p. 961.]

No. D-2117. In re Disbarment of Bessey. Disbarmententered. [For earlier order herein, see ante, p. 983.]
No. D-2118. In re Disbarment of Brown. Disbarmententered. [For earlier order herein, see ante, p. 983.]
No. D-2119. In re Disbarment of Cullen. Disbarmententered. [For earlier order herein, see ante, p. 984.]
No. D-2121. In re Disbarment of Wechsler. Disbarmententered. [For earlier order herein, see ante, p. 984.]
No. D-2129. In re Disbarment of Horn. Jerry L. Horn, ofLexington, Ky., is suspended from the practice of law in this
Court, and a rule will issue, returnable within 40 days, requiringhim to show cause why he should not be disbarred from the
practice of law in this Court.

No. D-2130. In re Disbarment of Malerba. Robert F.Malerba, of Huntington, N. Y., is suspended from the practice of

law in this Court, and a rule will issue, returnable within 40 days,requiring him to show cause why he should not be disbarred from
the practice of law in this Court.

No. D-2131. In re Disbarment of Zeegers. Donna LeeZeegers, of Manchester, Me., is suspended from the practice of

law in this Court, and a rule will issue, returnable within 40 days,requiring her to show cause why she should not be disbarred
from the practice of law in this Court.

No. D-2132. In re Disbarment of Grindle. B. Dean Grin-dle, Jr., of Dahlonega, Ga., is suspended from the practice of law

in this Court, and a rule will issue, returnable within 40 days,requiring him to show cause why he should not be disbarred from
the practice of law in this Court.

No. D-2133. In re Disbarment of Philomena. James A.Philomena, of Canfield, Ohio, is suspended from the practice of

law in this Court, and a rule will issue, returnable within 40 days,requiring him to show cause why he should not be disbarred from
the practice of law in this Court.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:22] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
1072 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

January 10, 2000 528 U. S.
No. D-2134. In re Disbarment of Groskin. Lawrence J.Groskin, of Tuxedo Park, N. Y., is suspended from the practice of
law in this Court, and a rule will issue, returnable within 40 days,requiring him to show cause why he should not be disbarred from
the practice of law in this Court.

No. D-2135. In re Disbarment of Kuhlman. Jack FrankKuhlman, of Hinsdale, Ill., is suspended from the practice of law

in this Court, and a rule will issue, returnable within 40 days,requiring him to show cause why he should not be disbarred from
the practice of law in this Court.

No. D-2136. In re Disbarment of Miller. Steven G.Miller, of Junction City, Ore., is suspended from the practice of

law in this Court, and a rule will issue, returnable within 40 days,requiring him to show cause why he should not be disbarred from
the practice of law in this Court.

No. 99M49. Cowhig v. Caldera, Secretary of the Army.Motion of petitioner for leave to proceed as a veteran denied.

No. 99M51. Pryor v. Westmoreland Coal Co. et al.;No. 99M52. Williams v. East Coast Truck Lines;
No. 99M54. Jancuk v. Donofrio, Judge, et al.; andNo. 99M55. Fielitz v. Fielitz et al. Motions to direct the
Clerk to file petitions for writs of certiorari out of time denied.

No. 99-5525. Dickerson v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir.[Certiorari granted, ante, p. 1045.] Motion for appointment of

counsel granted, and it is ordered that James W. Hundley, Esq.,of Fairfax, Va., be appointed to serve as counsel for petitioner in
this case.

No. 99-6088. In re Tyler. Motion of petitioner for reconsid-eration of order denying leave to proceed in forma pauperis

[ante, p. 984] denied.

No. 99-6093. In re Tyler et al. C. A. 8th Cir. Motion ofpetitioners for reconsideration of order denying leave to proceed

in forma pauperis [ante, p. 983] denied.

No. 99-6905. Friend v. Reno, Attorney General, et al.C. A. 9th Cir.; and

No. 99-7180. Stevens v. Michigan. Sup. Ct. Mich. Motionsof petitioners for leave to proceed in forma pauperis denied.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:22] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

1073ORDERS
January 10, 2000528 U. S.
Petitioners are allowed until January 31, 2000, within which topay the docketing fees required by Rule 38(a) and to submit petitions in compliance with Rule 33.1 of the Rules of this Court.

No. 99-7086. In re Nance;No. 99-7222. In re Mayes;

No. 99-7303. In re Campbell;No. 99-7332. In re Spencer;
No. 99-7362. In re Warren;No. 99-7366. In re Ramirez -ela;
No. 99-7404. In re YoungBear; andNo. 99-7430. In re Williams. Petitions for writs of habeas
corpus denied.

No. 99-7631 (99A548). In re Thomas. Application for stayof execution of sentence of death, presented to The Chief Jus-

tice, and by him referred to the Court, denied. Petition for writof habeas corpus denied.

No. 99-6601. In re Mroch;No. 99-6671. In re Canty; and
No. 99-7023. In re Warren. Petitions for writs of manda-mus denied.

Certiorari Denied

No. 99-201. Perez v. O'Sullivan, Warden. C. A. 7th Cir.Certiorari denied.

No. 99-269. New York et al. v. Seneca Nation of Indianset al. C. A. 2d Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 178
F. 3d 95.

No. 99-359. Landry et al. v. Reilly, Attorney Generalof Massachusetts, et al. Sup. Jud. Ct. Mass. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 429 Mass. 336, 709 N. E. 2d 1085.

No. 99-380. -irginia et al. v. Collins et al. C. A. 4thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 173 F. 3d 924.

No. 99-395. Armstrong v. Accrediting Council for Con-tinuing Education & Training, Inc., et al. C. A. D. C. Cir.
Certiorari denied. Reported below: 168 F. 3d 1362 and 177F. 3d 1036.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:22] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
1074 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

January 10, 2000 528 U. S.
No. 99-399. Arizona v. Flannigan. Ct. App. Ariz. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 194 Ariz. 150, 978 P. 2d 127.

No. 99-431. Atlantic City Police Department v. Hurley.C. A. 3d Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 174 F. 3d 95.
No. 99-439. Nature's Dairy et al. v. Glickman, Secretaryof Agriculture, et al. C. A. 6th Cir. Certiorari denied.
Reported below: 173 F. 3d 429.

No. 99-448. ENSCO Offshore Co. v. Smith. C. A. 5th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 181 F. 3d 97.

No. 99-466. City of Los Angeles et al. v. Departmentof Transportation et al.; and
No. 99-500. Airports Council International-NorthAmerica v. Department of Transportation et al. C. A.
D. C. Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 165 F. 3d 972.

No. 99-484. Roberts v. Ohio. Ct. App. Ohio, GuernseyCounty. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-489. Herndon v. SunService, a Division of SunMicrosystems, Inc. C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 185 F. 3d 867.

No. 99-501. Detroit Auto Auction v. National Labor Re-lations Board. C. A. 6th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported

below: 182 F. 3d 916.

No. 99-520. -isiting Nurse Services of Western Massa-chusetts, Inc. v. National Labor Relations Board et al.

C. A. 1st Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 177 F. 3d 52.

No. 99-537. Hill, Warden, et al. v. Rumbles. C. A. 9thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 1064.

No. 99-540. Bartels et al. v. Riley, Secretary of Educa-tion, et al. C. A. 11th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported
below: 189 F. 3d 483.

No. 99-547. Palomar Pomerado Health System v. Bonta,Director, California Department of Health Services,

et al. C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 180F. 3d 1104.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:22] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

1075ORDERS
January 10, 2000528 U. S.
No. 99-548. Falbaum et al. v. Leslie Fay Cos., Inc. C. A.2d Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 899.

No. 99-558. Reading & Bates Corp. et al. v. Stier; andNo. 99-770. Stier v. Reading & Bates Corp. et al. Sup.
Ct. Tex. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 992 S. W. 2d 423.

No. 99-560. Witter et al. v. Immigration and Natural-ization Service. C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-571. Johnson et al. v. National Association ofLetter Carriers, AFL-CIO. C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 1071 and 185 F. 3d 867.

No. 99-576. L. A. Development v. City of Sherwood. Ct.App. Ore. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 159 Ore. App.

125, 977 P. 2d 392.

No. 99-597. Minnesota Department of Revenue v.United States. C. A. 8th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported

below: 184 F. 3d 725.

No. 99-607. Goodman v. Temple Shir Ami, Inc., et al.Sup. Ct. Fla. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 737 So. 2d

1077.

No. 99-642. Oregon Laborers-Employers Health andWelfare Fund et al. v. Philip Morris, Inc., et al. C. A.

9th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 185 F. 3d 957.

No. 99-651. Fioriglio v. City of Atlantic City et al.C. A. 3d Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 185 F. 3d 861.

No. 99-653. Loral Fairchild Corp. v. Sony Corp. et al.C. A. Fed. Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 181 F. 3d
1313.

No. 99-662. Shoen et al. v. Shoen et al. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 176 F. 3d 1150.

No. 99-663. Pennsylvania Department of Environmen-tal Protection v. Nigro, Trustee, Estate of Tri-State
Clinical Laboratories, Inc. C. A. 3d Cir. Certiorari denied.Reported below: 178 F. 3d 685.

No. 99-666. LRC Electronics, Inc. v. John MezzalinguaAssociates, Inc. C. A. Fed. Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported
below: 194 F. 3d 1337.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:22] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
1076 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

January 10, 2000 528 U. S.
No. 99-668. Shaw v. AutoZone, Inc. C. A. 7th Cir. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 180 F. 3d 806.

No. 99-673. GMA Accessories, Inc. v. Gootnick Enter-prises, Inc., dba It's All Greek To Me Corp. C. A. 2d Cir.
Certiorari denied. Reported below: 181 F. 3d 82.

No. 99-674. Weeden et ux. v. Auto Workers CreditUnion. C. A. 6th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 173

F. 3d 857.

No. 99-683. Brierly, Administrator of the Estate ofBrierly, Deceased v. Alusuisse Flexible Packaging, Inc.,

et al. C. A. 6th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 184F. 3d 527.

No. 99-684. -incent v. Delta Airlines, Inc., et al. Ct.App. Cal., 2d App. Dist. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-687. Orthofix S. R. L. et al. v. EBI Medical Sys-tems, Inc., et al. C. A. 3d Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported
below: 181 F. 3d 446.

No. 99-688. Sanchez, Next Friend of Sanchez v. Bacaet al. C. A. 10th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 182

F. 3d 933.

No. 99-693. Lichtig v. California. Ct. App. Cal., 2d App.Dist. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-695. Williamson et al. v. Chicago Transit Au-thority. C. A. 7th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below:
185 F. 3d 792.

No. 99-698. Hoy, Guardian for Brown v. Simpson, Sheriffof Loudoun County, et al. C. A. 4th Cir. Certiorari denied.

Reported below: 182 F. 3d 908.

No. 99-701. Wolk v.C. A. 3d Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 186 F. 3d 352.

No. 99-705. Batiste et al. v. Island Records, Inc., et al.C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 179 F. 3d 217.
No. 99-706. Canty v. LaRhette et al. C. A. 1st Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 201 F. 3d 426.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:22] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

1077ORDERS
January 10, 2000528 U. S.
No. 99-708. Hamann v. Bio-Rad Laboratories, Inc. C. A.9th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 925.

No. 99-709. Pennsylvania v. Williams. Sup. Ct. Pa. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 557 Pa. 285, 733 A. 2d 593.
No. 99-710. Shepler v. Evans, Warden. C. A. 10th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 188 F. 3d 519.
No. 99-711. Ortiz et ux. v. County of Los Angeles et al.C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 187 F. 3d 648.
No. 99-713. Smith v. Board of Trustees for the OkolonaMunicipal Separate School District et al. C. A. 5th Cir.
Certiorari denied. Reported below: 190 F. 3d 538.

No. 99-715. Rash v. Rash. C. A. 11th Cir. Certiorari de-nied. Reported below: 173 F. 3d 1376.

No. 99-718. Carrillo v. ACF Industries, Inc. Sup. Ct.Cal. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 20 Cal. 4th 1158, 980
P. 2d 386.

No. 99-720. Alcan Aluminum Corp. v. Prudential Assur-ance Co. Ltd. et al. C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 173 F. 3d 859.

No. 99-722. Casino -entures, Inc. v. Stewart, Chief,South Carolina Law Enforcement Division, et al. C. A.

4th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 183 F. 3d 307.

No. 99-723. Metro Communications Co. et al. v. Ameri-tech Corp. et al. C. A. 6th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported

below: 182 F. 3d 916.

No. 99-724. Louis et al. v. Grant, Trustee. C. A. 11thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 181 F. 3d 108.

No. 99-727. Teng Li-Ann Lee v. City of Rancho Palos-erdes et al. Ct. App. Cal., 2d App. Dist. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-728. Central Maine Power Co. v. Maine PublicUtilities Commission. Sup. Jud. Ct. Me. Certiorari denied.
Reported below: 734 A. 2d 1120.

No. 99-730. Pennsylvania v. Loomis. Super. Ct. Pa. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 737 A. 2d 1275.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:22] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
1078 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

January 10, 2000 528 U. S.
No. 99-732. Weber v. Strippit, Inc., et al. C. A. 8th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 186 F. 3d 907.

No. 99-733. Beverly Enterprises, Inc., et al. v. Trumpet al. C. A. 3d Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 182
F. 3d 183.

No. 99-735. Shiplett v. National Railroad PassengerCorporation, dba AMTRAK. C. A. 6th Cir. Certiorari denied.

Reported below: 182 F. 3d 918.

No. 99-737. Mosley v. Halter Marine Group. C. A. 5thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 190 F. 3d 537.

No. 99-740. Phillips v. Alabama. Sup. Ct. Ala. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 779 So. 2d 257.
No. 99-743. McBurney v. Jeremiah. Sup. Ct. R. I. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 735 A. 2d 212.
No. 99-745. Scanlon v. Georgia. Ct. App. Ga. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 237 Ga. App. 362, 514 S. E. 2d 876.
No. 99-749. LOT$OFF Corp. v. Chase Manhattan Bank,N. A. C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 180
F. 3d 247.

No. 99-750. Takahashi v. Phillips et al. Ct. App. Cal., 5thApp. Dist. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-752. Pennsylvania v. Collazo. Super. Ct. Pa. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 737 A. 2d 1270.
No. 99-753. Abbott Laboratories v. Geneva Pharmaceu-ticals, Inc., et al. C. A. Fed. Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 1315.

No. 99-754. Forman v. Regal Insurance Co. Sup. Ct. Va.Certiorari denied.

No. 99-755. Snyder v. O'Bannon, Governor and Chief Ex-ecutive of Indiana. C. A. 7th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 191 F. 3d 456.

No. 99-759. Roach v. Roach. Ct. App. Ga. Certiorari de-nied. Reported below: 237 Ga. App. 264, 514 S. E. 2d 44.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:22] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

1079ORDERS
January 10, 2000528 U. S.
No. 99-760. Taylor v. Slick, Executor of the Estate ofBallantine, Deceased. C. A. 3d Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 178 F. 3d 698.

No. 99-761. Willis v. California State Bar. Sup. Ct. Cal.Certiorari denied.

No. 99-762. Torres v. McLaughlin et al. C. A. 3d Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 163 F. 3d 169.
No. 99-763. Cygan v. Michigan Department of the Treas-ury. Ct. App. Mich. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-764. Kridel v. Florida Public Employees Rela-tions Commission et al. C. A. 11th Cir. Certiorari denied.
Reported below: 180 F. 3d 269.

No. 99-767. York Products, Inc., et al. v. LR- Acquisi-tion Corp. C. A. Fed. Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below:

215 F. 3d 1343.

No. 99-768. N. A. S. Holdings, Inc. v. Pafundi. Sup. Ct. Vt.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 169 Vt. 437, 736 A. 2d 780.

No. 99-769. White v. SMI of Pattison Avenue, L. P., et al.C. A. 3d Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 191 F. 3d 446.
No. 99-771. Pennsylvania v. Larson. Super. Ct. Pa. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 734 A. 2d 436.
No. 99-773. Dlugosz v. Scarano, Judge, Saratoga CountyCourt, et al. App. Div., Sup. Ct. N. Y., 3d Jud. Dept. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 255 App. Div. 2d 747, 681 N. Y. S.2d 120.

No. 99-777. United Farmers Plant Food, Inc., dba Farm-ers AG Center, Inc. v. Lebanon Chemical Corp., dba Leba-
non Seaboard Corp. C. A. 8th Cir. Certiorari denied. Re-ported below: 179 F. 3d 1095.

No. 99-778. Baja v. DuCharme, Superintendent, Wash-ington State Reformatory, et al. C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari
denied. Reported below: 187 F. 3d 1075.

No. 99-787. Rogers v. Administrator of -eterans Admin-istration Hospital et al. C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari denied.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:22] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
1080 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

January 10, 2000 528 U. S.
No. 99-791. Laborers Local 17 Health and BenefitFund et al. v. Philip Morris, Inc., et al. C. A. 2d Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 191 F. 3d 229.

No. 99-807. Spiegel v. DesRosiers et al. App. Ct. Ill., 1stDist. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 302 Ill. App. 3d 1095,

746 N. E. 2d 912.

No. 99-811. Floyd v. Federal Communications Commis-sion. C. A. D. C. Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 194

F. 3d 173.

No. 99-819. Howard v. New York Times Co. C. A. 2d Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 899.

No. 99-820. Lawson v. New York. County Ct., Erie County,N. Y. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-825. Lewis, Personal Representative of theEstate of Lewis, Deceased v. Local 382, International
Brotherhood of Electrical Workers (AFL-CIO). Sup. Ct.S. C. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 335 S. C. 562, 518
S. E. 2d 583.

No. 99-831. Gail M., fka Gail L. v. Jerome E. M. Ct. App.Wis. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 229 Wis. 2d 253, 599

N. W. 2d 666.

No. 99-832. Hanna v. Farmon, Warden, et al. C. A. 9thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 187 F. 3d 647.

No. 99-839. Holley v. West, Secretary of -eterans Af-fairs. C. A. 3d Cir. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-842. Schluneger v. United States. C. A. 10th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 184 F. 3d 1154.
No. 99-844. Brockman v. United States. C. A. 8th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 183 F. 3d 891.
No. 99-847. Albany Insurance Co. v. Banco Mexicano,S. A. C. A. 2d Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 182
F. 3d 898.

No. 99-852. Neal v. United States. C. A. 6th Cir. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 187 F. 3d 639.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:22] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

1081ORDERS
January 10, 2000528 U. S.
No. 99-875. Pelullo v. United States. C. A. 3d Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 185 F. 3d 861.

No. 99-876. Wilburn v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 190 F. 3d 541.
No. 99-877. Kennedy v. Goldin, Administrator, NationalAeronautics and Space Administration, et al. C. A. 11th
Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 184 F. 3d 824.

No. 99-889. Newspaper and Mail Deliverers Union ofNew York and -icinity v. New York. App. Div., Sup. Ct.

N. Y., 1st Jud. Dept. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 250App. Div. 2d 207, 683 N. Y. S. 2d 488.

No. 99-891. Wilson v. California et al. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 191 F. 3d 462.
No. 99-909. Lukacs v. Shalala, Secretary of Health andHuman Services, et al. C. A. 4th Cir. Certiorari denied.
Reported below: 181 F. 3d 89.

No. 99-911. -ey v. The Universe et al. C. A. 3d Cir.Certiorari denied.

No. 99-945. Pullman v. United States. C. A. 8th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 187 F. 3d 816.
No. 99-947. Insurance Consultants of Knox, Inc., et al.v. United States. C. A. 7th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported
below: 187 F. 3d 755.

No. 99-975. Akselrad v. City of Philadelphia et al.C. A. 3d Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 187 F. 3d 625.

No. 99-5140. Shirosaki v. United States. C. A. D. C. Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 194 F. 3d 175.
No. 99-5320. -asquez-Chamorro v. United States. C. A.5th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 176 F. 3d 479.
No. 99-5331. Mora-Rodriguez v. United States. C. A. 5thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 180 F. 3d 262.
No. 99-5467. Busby v. Texas. Ct. Crim. App. Tex. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 990 S. W. 2d 263.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:22] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
1082 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

January 10, 2000 528 U. S.
No. 99-5477. Simpson v. Matesanz, Superintendent, BayState Correctional Center. C. A. 1st Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 175 F. 3d 200.

No. 99-5503. Teagne v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 178 F. 3d 1288.

No. 99-5561. Mills v. Moore, Secretary, Florida Depart-ment of Corrections. C. A. 11th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 161 F. 3d 1273.

No. 99-5578. Robinson v. Pennsylvania. Sup. Ct. Pa.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 554 Pa. 293, 721 A. 2d 344.

No. 99-5599. Sumner v. Merit Systems Protection Board.C. A. Fed. Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 194 F. 3d
1330.

No. 99-5737. -aldez v. California. Ct. App. Cal., 6th App.Dist. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-5741. Pirela v. Pennsylvania. Sup. Ct. Pa. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 556 Pa. 32, 726 A. 2d 1026.
No. 99-5811. Briggs v. Dalkon Shield Claimants Trust.C. A. 4th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 166 F. 3d 331.
No. 99-5813. McCloud v. Community Hospital et al.C. A. 11th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 174 F. 3d
202.

No. 99-5881. Orozco v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 160 F. 3d 1309.

No. 99-5915. Eldridge v. United States. Ct. App. D. C.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-6062. Davis v. United States. Ct. App. D. C. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 724 A. 2d 1163.
No. 99-6070. Chamberlain v. Texas. Ct. Crim. App. Tex.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 998 S. W. 2d 230.
No. 99-6206. Cathey v. Texas. Ct. Crim. App. Tex. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 992 S. W. 2d 460.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:22] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

1083ORDERS
January 10, 2000528 U. S.
No. 99-6251. Ramirez v. United States. C. A. 7th Cir.Certiorari denied.

No. 99-6293. Blount v. United States; andNo. 99-6309. Kimble v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir.
Certiorari denied. Reported below: 178 F. 3d 1163.

No. 99-6307. Lovell v. Utah. Sup. Ct. Utah. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 984 P. 2d 382.

No. 99-6330. Miller v. Indiana. Sup. Ct. Ind. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 702 N. E. 2d 1053.
No. 99-6342. Rodriguez-Ortiz v. United States. C. A. 9thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 929.
No. 99-6353. Wellington v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 189 F. 3d 482.
No. 99-6374. Howerin v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 175 F. 3d 1304.
No. 99-6422. Ford v. Superior Court of California, LosAngeles County. Ct. App. Cal., 2d App. Dist. Certiorari
denied.

No. 99-6556. Kellogg v. Washington. Ct. App. Wash.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 94 Wash. App. 1003.

No. 99-6566. Mosley v. Texas. Ct. Crim. App. Tex. Cer-tiorari denied.
No. 99-6568. Estrada v. Terhune, Director, CaliforniaDepartment of Corrections, et al. C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-6570. Gadson v. Levitt, Chairman, Securities andExchange Commission. C. A. D. C. Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-6574. Holmes v. Texas. Ct. App. Tex., 10th Dist.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-6575. Henderson v. Georgia. Sup. Ct. Ga. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 271 Ga. 264, 517 S. E. 2d 61.
No. 99-6576. Hughes v. Mississippi. Sup. Ct. Miss. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 735 So. 2d 238.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:22] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
1084 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

January 10, 2000 528 U. S.
No. 99-6591. Caldwell v. Phillips, Warden. C. A. 6th Cir.Certiorari denied.

No. 99-6594. Auchmuty v. Florida. Dist. Ct. App. Fla., 4thDist. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 736 So. 2d 1200.
No. 99-6595. Singleton v. Norris, Director, ArkansasDepartment of Correction. Sup. Ct. Ark. Certiorari denied.
Reported below: 338 Ark. 135, 992 S. W. 2d 768.

No. 99-6596. Parker v. North Carolina. Sup. Ct. N. C.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 350 N. C. 411, 516 S. E. 2d

106.

No. 99-6598. Rhine v. Boone, Warden. C. A. 10th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 1153.

No. 99-6610. Woodress v. Woodress et al. C. A. 7th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-6616. Muldoon v. Dome Sheet Metal, Inc., et al.Sup. Jud. Ct. Mass. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 429
Mass. 1005, 708 N. E. 2d 657.

No. 99-6621. Cooper v. New Jersey. Sup. Ct. N. J. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 151 N. J. 326, 700 A. 2d 306, and

159 N. J. 55, 731 A. 2d 1000.

No. 99-6622. Roberts v. Alabama. Ct. Crim. App. Ala.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 744 So. 2d 965.

No. 99-6634. Phillips v. Garrison et al. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-6644. Travis v. Prunty, Warden, et al. C. A. 9thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 189 F. 3d 475.
No. 99-6646. Young v. Cain, Warden. C. A. 5th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied.
No. 99-6648. Wamre v. North Dakota; andNo. 99-6649. Wamre v. North Dakota. Sup. Ct. N. D. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 599 N. W. 2d 268.

No. 99-6659. Winslow v. Angelone, Director, VirginiaDepartment of Corrections. Sup. Ct. Va. Certiorari denied.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:22] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

1085ORDERS
January 10, 2000528 U. S.
No. 99-6660. Barrett v. Bross et al. Sup. Ct. Fla. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 735 So. 2d 1283.

No. 99-6662. Trust v. Jackson et al. C. A. 8th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 187 F. 3d 643.
No. 99-6667. Rogers v. Chapman, Warden. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 189 F. 3d 486.
No. 99-6672. Augman v. LeBlanc, Warden. C. A. 5th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-6677. Wilson v. Sager et al. C. A. 9th Cir. Certio-rari denied.
No. 99-6680. Cuozzo v. Waynick et al. C. A. 6th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied.
No. 99-6694. Hart v. California. Sup. Ct. Cal. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 20 Cal. 4th 546, 976 P. 2d 683.
No. 99-6698. Guenther v. Holt, Warden, et al. C. A. 11thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 173 F. 3d 1328.
No. 99-6699. Harvey v. New Jersey. Sup. Ct. N. J. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 151 N. J. 117, 699 A. 2d 596.
No. 99-6708. O'Neill v. Cohn, Commissioner, Indiana De-partment of Correction. C. A. 7th Cir. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-6709. Short v. Oklahoma. Ct. Crim. App. Okla.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 980 P. 2d 1081.
No. 99-6715. Malik, aka Prince v. United States. C. A.4th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 181 F. 3d 93.
No. 99-6716. Trun Minh Le v. Barbour, Superintendent,Twin Rivers Corrections Center. C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari
denied. Reported below: 172 F. 3d 57.

No. 99-6717. Nordic v. Colorado. Ct. App. Colo. Certio-rari denied.

No. 99-6724. Leininger v. Washington. Ct. App. Wash.Certiorari denied.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:22] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
1086 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

January 10, 2000 528 U. S.
No. 99-6727. O'Donnell v. Johnson, Director, Texas De-partment of Criminal Justice, Institutional Division.
C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-6729. Phillips v. Reyes, Sheriff, Pinal County,Arizona, et al.; and Phillips v. Apache Junction Police De-

partment et al. C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-6730. Renoir v. McMillan. C. A. 4th Cir. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 198 F. 3d 237.

No. 99-6731. Scott v. Dormire, Superintendent, Jeffer-son City Correctional Center. C. A. 8th Cir. Certiorari
denied.

No. 99-6735. Jones v. North Carolina. Gen. Ct. Justice,Super. Ct. Div., Jones County, N. C. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-6741. Mosseri v. Leser et al. C. A. 2d Cir. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 199 F. 3d 1322.
No. 99-6750. McGlothurn v. Kaylo, Warden. C. A. 5thCir. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-6753. Barone v. Oregon. Sup. Ct. Ore. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 329 Ore. 210, 986 P. 2d 5.
No. 99-6764. Wade v. Maryland. C. A. 4th Cir. Certio-rari denied.
No. 99-6766. Walker v. Neilsen, Chairman, CaliforniaBoard of Prison Terms. C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-6768. Wilkins v. Oklahoma. Ct. Crim. App. Okla.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 985 P. 2d 184.
No. 99-6771. Clemons v. Wisconsin. Ct. App. Wis. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 222 Wis. 2d 216, 587 N. W. 2d 213.
No. 99-6773. McLean et al. v. Crabtree, Warden. C. A.9th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 173 F. 3d 1176.
No. 99-6776. Zharn v. United States Fidelity & Guar-anty Co. et al. Ct. App. Mich. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-6777. Williams v. Cain, Warden. C. A. 5th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 189 F. 3d 467.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:22] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

1087ORDERS
January 10, 2000528 U. S.
No. 99-6779. Cruz v. Angelone, Director, Virginia De-partment of Corrections. Sup. Ct. Va. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-6783. Hemmerle v. Bakst. C. A. 11th Cir. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 190 F. 3d 542.
No. 99-6784. Gray v. Cain, Warden. C. A. 5th Cir. Certio-rari denied.
No. 99-6788. Griesenbeck v. Curry, Judge, 73rd DistrictCourt, et al. C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported
below: 189 F. 3d 466.

No. 99-6791. Gatlin v. Madding, Warden, et al. C. A. 9thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 189 F. 3d 882.

No. 99-6792. Reliford v. South Carolina. Sup. Ct. S. C.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-6801. Harper v. Sparkman, Warden, et al. C. A.5th Cir. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-6802. Hill v. Moore, Secretary, Florida Depart-ment of Corrections. C. A. 11th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 175 F. 3d 915.

No. 99-6805. Fortner v. Dees, Warden, et al. C. A. 11thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 176 F. 3d 492.

No. 99-6809. Wright v. Moore, Secretary, Florida De-partment of Corrections, et al. C. A. 11th Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-6815. Braxton v. Maryland. C. A. 4th Cir. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 181 F. 3d 86.

No. 99-6816. Bryant v. -irginia et al. C. A. 4th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 907.
No. 99-6817. Lambert v. Oklahoma. Ct. Crim. App. Okla.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 984 P. 2d 221.
No. 99-6822. Spiteri v. Gomez, Warden, et al. C. A. 9thCir. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-6823. Bowman v. Cain, Warden. C. A. 5th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 913.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:22] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
1088 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

January 10, 2000 528 U. S.
No. 99-6824. Taylor v. Stalder, Secretary, Louisiana De-partment of Public Safety and Corrections, et al. C. A.
5th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 193 F. 3d 518.

No. 99-6825. Canterbury v. West, Secretary of -eter-ans Affairs. C. A. Fed. Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported

below: 215 F. 3d 1342.

No. 99-6827. Syvertson v. Schuetzle et al. C. A. 8th Cir.Certiorari denied.

No. 99-6828. Powell v. Carter et al. C. A. 10th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 932.
No. 99-6829. Spann v. New Jersey. Super. Ct. N. J., App.Div. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-6830. Smith v. Cain, Warden. C. A. 5th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied.
No. 99-6831. Smith v. Texas. Ct. App. Tex., 5th Dist. Cer-tiorari denied.
No. 99-6836. Kokoszka v. Angelone, Director, VirginiaDepartment of Corrections. C. A. 4th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 908.

No. 99-6837. Lowe v. Consolidated Freightways of Dela-ware, Inc., et al. C. A. 7th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported

below: 177 F. 3d 640.

No. 99-6853. Mason v. St. Francis Health System et al.Super. Ct. Pa. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 737 A. 2d

1286.

No. 99-6854. Bowman v. Cain, Warden. C. A. 5th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 913.

No. 99-6855. Portley-El v. Zavaras et al. C. A. 10th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 188 F. 3d 519.
No. 99-6856. Rivera v. California. Ct. App. Cal., 3d App.Dist. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-6857. Reed v. Mosley et al. C. A. 5th Cir. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 194 F. 3d 1309.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:22] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

1089ORDERS
January 10, 2000528 U. S.
No. 99-6859. Simpson v. Yukins, Warden. C. A. 6th Cir.Certiorari denied.

No. 99-6861. Wiley v. Johnson, Director, Texas Depart-ment of Criminal Justice, Institutional Division. C. A.
5th Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-6867. Brooks v. Texas. C. A. 5th Cir. Certioraridenied.

No. 99-6870. Arroyo v. California. Sup. Ct. Cal. Certio-rari denied.
No. 99-6872. Adams v. Presley, Clerk, District Court ofOklahoma County, et al. Ct. Crim. App. Okla. Certiorari
denied.

No. 99-6873. Anderson v. Dormire, Superintendent, Jef-ferson City Correctional Center, et al. C. A. 8th Cir.

Certiorari denied.

No. 99-6875. Ponce v. Arizona. Ct. App. Ariz. Certioraridenied.

No. 99-6883. Johnson v. Johnson, Director, Texas De-partment of Criminal Justice, Institutional Division.
C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-6885. Pagano v. Massachusetts. App. Ct. Mass.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 47 Mass. App. 55, 710 N. E.

2d 1034.

No. 99-6888. Patterson v. Rivers, Warden. C. A. 6th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 191 F. 3d 452.

No. 99-6890. Alverson v. Oklahoma. Ct. Crim. App. Okla.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 983 P. 2d 498.
No. 99-6892. Lewis v. Moore, Secretary, Florida Depart-ment of Corrections. Dist. Ct. App. Fla., 2d Dist. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-6894. Irvin v. Borg et al. C. A. 9th Cir. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 187 F. 3d 647.

No. 99-6895. Minigan v. Irvin, Superintendent, WendeCorrectional Facility. C. A. 2d Cir. Certiorari denied.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:22] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
1090 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

January 10, 2000 528 U. S.
No. 99-6896. Kanikaynar v. Sisneros, Director, Berna-lillo County Detention Center, et al. C. A. 10th Cir.
Certiorari denied. Reported below: 190 F. 3d 1115.

No. 99-6899. Ericson v. IDC Services, Inc., et al. C. A.2d Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-6900. Filiaggi v. Ohio. Sup. Ct. Ohio. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 86 Ohio St. 3d 230, 714 N. E. 2d 867.
No. 99-6908. Daniels v. California. Ct. App. Cal., 4thApp. Dist. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-6912. Thompson v. California. Ct. App. Cal., 2dApp. Dist. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-6913. Genco v. United States District Court forthe District of Oregon (two judgments). C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-6917. Hood v. Illinois. App. Ct. Ill., 1st Dist. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 302 Ill. App. 3d 1091, 746 N. E.

2d 910.

No. 99-6918. Hudson v. Dooling, Judge, Circuit Court ofIllinois, Cook County, et al. C. A. 7th Cir. Certiorari

denied.

No. 99-6926. Byrd v. Society National Bank. Ct. App.Ohio, Franklin County. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-6953. Simonsen v. Oregon. Sup. Ct. Ore. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 329 Ore. 288, 986 P. 2d 566.
No. 99-6955. Olguini v. Stewart, Director, Arizona De-partment of Corrections. C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-6961. Lewis v. United States et al. C. A. D. C.Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 203 F. 3d 52.
No. 99-6969. Gonzalez v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 181 F. 3d 108.
No. 99-6970. Garcia-Sosa v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 192 F. 3d 126.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:22] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

1091ORDERS
January 10, 2000528 U. S.
No. 99-6974. Durand v. Johnson, Director, Texas Depart-ment of Criminal Justice, Institutional Division. C. A.
5th Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-6977. Linville v. Ricks et al. C. A. 4th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 181 F. 3d 89.

No. 99-6979. Harris v. Lee, Warden. C. A. 4th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 907.
No. 99-6980. Wall v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 194 F. 3d 1307.
No. 99-6982. Danks v. United States. C. A. 8th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 187 F. 3d 643.
No. 99-6986. Salcedo-Castro v. United States. C. A. 11thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 189 F. 3d 485.
No. 99-6987. Chu v. Holland, Warden. C. A. 6th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 187 F. 3d 635.
No. 99-6990. Lang v. United States; andNo. 99-7141. Lawrence v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir.
Certiorari denied. Reported below: 189 F. 3d 467.

No. 99-6993. Montes-Escalera v. United States. C. A.9th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 188 F. 3d 516.

No. 99-6996. Anderson v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 184 F. 3d 479.
No. 99-6997. Conrad v. Cain, Warden. C. A. 5th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 193 F. 3d 516.
No. 99-7001. Pino-Dor v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 188 F. 3d 516.
No. 99-7003. Oriakhi v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 187 F. 3d 632.
No. 99-7004. Short v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 181 F. 3d 620.
No. 99-7008. Brown v. United States. Ct. App. D. C. Cer-tiorari denied.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:22] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
1092 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

January 10, 2000 528 U. S.
No. 99-7012. Lipari et ux. v. United States. C. A. 2d Cir.Certiorari denied.

No. 99-7013. Laird v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied.
No. 99-7016. Asbury v. Aetna Life Insurance & AnnuityCo. C. A. 6th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 181
F. 3d 99.

No. 99-7018. Whitmer v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 187 F. 3d 633.

No. 99-7021. Woody v. Roe, Warden, et al. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 188 F. 3d 517.
No. 99-7028. Fisher v. -arner, Superintendent, StateCorrectional Institution at Retreat. C. A. 3d Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-7031. Ehnes v. Card, Superintendent, Tipton Cor-rectional Center, et al. C. A. 8th Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-7034. David v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 181 F. 3d 92.
No. 99-7035. Garcia v. -anyur, Warden. C. A. 4th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 187 F. 3d 629.
No. 99-7036. Frazier v. United States. Ct. App. D. C.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-7038. Hylton v. Angelone, Director, Virginia De-partment of Corrections. C. A. 4th Cir. Certiorari denied.
Reported below: 181 F. 3d 88.

No. 99-7039. Reid v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 193 F. 3d 523.

No. 99-7040. Seabrookes v. United States. C. A. 3d Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-7041. Rich v. Woodford, Warden. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 187 F. 3d 1064.
No. 99-7046. Fedee v. United States. C. A. 2d Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 181 F. 3d 83.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:23] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

1093ORDERS
January 10, 2000528 U. S.
No. 99-7047. Dunn v. Gordon, Warden, et al. C. A. 9thCir. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-7049. Hopson v. United States. C. A. 7th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 184 F. 3d 634.
No. 99-7051. Davage v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 173 F. 3d 426.
No. 99-7052. Dillibe v. United States. C. A. 8th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-7053. Howell v. Helman, Warden. C. A. 7th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-7057. Kelly v. Johnson, Director, Texas Depart-ment of Criminal Justice, Institutional Division. C. A.
5th Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-7059. Moore v. Harris, Judge, Circuit Court ofKentucky, Simpson County. Sup. Ct. Ky. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-7063. Adeniji v. United States. C. A. 3d Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 193 F. 3d 514.
No. 99-7064. Anderson v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-7066. Slovak v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 188 F. 3d 516.
No. 99-7070. Taylor v. United States. C. A. 3d Cir. Cer-tiorari denied.
No. 99-7072. Wentzell v. McDaniel, Warden. C. A. 9thCir. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-7073. Alston v. New Jersey. Super. Ct. N. J., App.Div. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-7077. Tomas v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 178 F. 3d 1302.
No. 99-7078. Forgac v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 188 F. 3d 515.
No. 99-7079. Robinson v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:23] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
1094 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

January 10, 2000 528 U. S.
No. 99-7080. Rahman v. United States;No. 99-7085. Khallafalla et al. v. United States;
No. 99-7090. Abdelgani v. United States;No. 99-7091. Abdelgani v. United States;
No. 99-7093. Abdelgani v. United States;No. 99-7094. Alvarez v. United States;
No. 99-7097. Hampton-El v. United States;No. 99-7098. Elhassan v. United States; and
No. 99-7099. Elhassan v. United States. C. A. 2d Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 189 F. 3d 88.

No. 99-7082. Sanchez v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 193 F. 3d 516.
No. 99-7089. Murry v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 179 F. 3d 834.
No. 99-7095. Allen v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 190 F. 3d 540.
No. 99-7100. Finley v. United States. C. A. 8th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 175 F. 3d 645.
No. 99-7102. Franklin v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 181 F. 3d 107.
No. 99-7103. Holick v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 186 F. 3d 617.
No. 99-7104. Houston v. United States. C. A. 6th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 187 F. 3d 593.
No. 99-7106. Fernandez v. United States. C. A. 6th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 919.
No. 99-7107. Gonzalez v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 188 F. 3d 515.
No. 99-7108. Head v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 178 F. 3d 1205.
No. 99-7113. Keeper v. Holland, Warden. C. A. 6th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 187 F. 3d 636.
No. 99-7114. Livingston v. Galanos et al. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 180 F. 3d 271.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:23] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

1095ORDERS
January 10, 2000528 U. S.
No. 99-7117. Lewis, aka Foster v. United States. C. A.9th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 188 F. 3d 516.

No. 99-7118. Stone v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 193 F. 3d 523.
No. 99-7120. Curry v. United States. C. A. 7th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 187 F. 3d 762.
No. 99-7121. Shakoor v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 188 F. 3d 505.
No. 99-7124. Hernandez-Rocha v. United States. C. A.9th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 187 F. 3d 649.
No. 99-7125. Davis v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 177 F. 3d 272.
No. 99-7126. Francisco de la Fuente v. United States.C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 192 F. 3d 127.
No. 99-7128. Howard v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 193 F. 3d 519.
No. 99-7131. Hester v. Carter, Warden. C. A. 6th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-7132. Gibson v. Gammon, Superintendent, Mo-berly Correctional Center. C. A. 8th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 175 F. 3d 1024.

No. 99-7134. Robertson v. United States. C. A. 1st Cir.Certiorari denied.

No. 99-7136. Spaulding v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 193 F. 3d 517.
No. 99-7138. McHone v. North Carolina. Sup. Ct. N. C.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-7139. Moreno v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 185 F. 3d 465.
No. 99-7140. Leonard v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 191 F. 3d 461.
No. 99-7145. Lara-Aceves v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 183 F. 3d 1007.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:23] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
1096 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

January 10, 2000 528 U. S.
No. 99-7149. Bagley v. Cuniff et al. Ct. Sp. App. Md.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 126 Md. App. 710.

No. 99-7151. Anderson v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 188 F. 3d 503.
No. 99-7152. Bennett v. United States. C. A. 3d Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 191 F. 3d 446.
No. 99-7154. Lawrence v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 179 F. 3d 343.
No. 99-7159. Soto Zamarripa v. United States. C. A. 5thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 190 F. 3d 537.
No. 99-7160. Williams v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 188 F. 3d 505.
No. 99-7162. Legette v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 189 F. 3d 481.
No. 99-7163. Scheets v. United States. C. A. 7th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 188 F. 3d 829.
No. 99-7167. -ernor v. Lock, Superintendent, CentralMissouri Correctional Center, et al. C. A. 8th Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-7172. Black v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 172 F. 3d 864.

No. 99-7185. Smith v. Missouri. Ct. App. Mo., Western Dist.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 996 S. W. 2d 518.
No. 99-7186. Richardson v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 195 F. 3d 192.
No. 99-7187. Spruth et al. v. United States. C. A. 9thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 185 F. 3d 871.
No. 99-7189. Pelullo v. United States. C. A. 3d Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 185 F. 3d 863.
No. 99-7191. Robinson v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 188 F. 3d 505.
No. 99-7192. Collins v. United States. C. A. 10th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 189 F. 3d 479.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:23] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

1097ORDERS
January 10, 2000528 U. S.
No. 99-7193. Benitez-Villafuerte v. United States.C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 186 F. 3d 651.

No. 99-7194. Beltran-Garcia v. United States. C. A. 9thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 179 F. 3d 1200.
No. 99-7203. Johnson v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 192 F. 3d 126.
No. 99-7204. Lapense, aka Zuniga v. United States.C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 185 F. 3d 870.
No. 99-7206. Perkins v. United States. C. A. 8th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 184 F. 3d 781.
No. 99-7208. Patterson v. United States. C. A. 2d Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 189 F. 3d 462.
No. 99-7209. Snyder v. United States. C. A. 7th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 189 F. 3d 640.
No. 99-7212. Zanghi v. United States. C. A. 1st Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 189 F. 3d 71.
No. 99-7213. Major v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 200 F. 3d 819.
No. 99-7214. Martin v. United States. C. A. 7th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 189 F. 3d 547.
No. 99-7215. Kuehnoel v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 187 F. 3d 649.
No. 99-7226. Copenhaver v. United States. C. A. 3d Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 185 F. 3d 178.
No. 99-7236. Harris v. Bowersox, Superintendent, PotosiCorrectional Center, et al. C. A. 8th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 184 F. 3d 744.

No. 99-7238. Heard v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 193 F. 3d 518.

No. 99-7240. Francies v. United States. C. A. 7th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-7241. Gilbert v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 191 F. 3d 461.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:23] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
1098 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

January 10, 2000 528 U. S.
No. 99-7242. Djelilate v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 201 F. 3d 437.

No. 99-7243. Delgenio v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 193 F. 3d 519.
No. 99-7244. Driskill v. United States. C. A. 10th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 194 F. 3d 1321.
No. 99-7245. Gooden v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 188 F. 3d 504.
No. 99-7246. Nixon v. United States. Ct. App. D. C. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 728 A. 2d 582.
No. 99-7249. Fox v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 189 F. 3d 1115.
No. 99-7250. Hudson v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 188 F. 3d 516.
No. 99-7251. Cooper v. United States. C. A. 10th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 189 F. 3d 479.
No. 99-7252. Charley v. United States. C. A. 10th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 189 F. 3d 1251.
No. 99-7274. Crandall v. United States. C. A. 8th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-7275. Collier v. United States. C. A. 10th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 189 F. 3d 479.
No. 99-7276. Boyd v. United States. C. A. 1st Cir. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 181 F. 3d 183.
No. 99-7352. Espinoza-Hernandez v. United States.C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 189 F. 3d 469.
No. 99-7354. Martinez-Gill v. United States. C. A. 5thCir. Certiorari denied.
No. 98-1628. Salt River Project Agricultural Improve-ment and Power District v. Dawavendewa. C. A. 9th Cir.
Motion of Navajo Nation for leave to file a brief as amicus curiaegranted. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 154 F. 3d 1117.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:23] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

1099ORDERS
January 10, 2000528 U. S.
No. 98-2006. Cloer et al. v. Gynecology Clinic, Inc., dba
Palmetto State Medical Center. Sup. Ct. S. C. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 334 S. C. 555, 514 S. E. 2d 592.

Justice Scalia, with whom Justice Thomas joins, dissenting.
Petitioner Michael Cloer is senior pastor of Siloam BaptistChurch in Easley, South Carolina, and the founder and director

of petitioner Pastors for Life, Inc., a group of pastors dedicatedto protesting against, and offering alternatives to, abortion.
Since 1989, Pastor Cloer and Pastors for Life have organizedprotests outside Palmetto State Medical Center, a facility in
Greenville, South Carolina, operated by respondent GynecologyClinic, Inc., that performs abortions.

In 1994, respondent filed suit against Cloer, Pastors for Life,and others, in South Carolina state court, alleging private nuisance, public nuisance, and civil conspiracy under state law. Re-spondent initially sought injunctive relief and damages, but subsequently waived its claim for damages. The trial court granteddefendants' motion to dismiss the public-nuisance cause of action;
after a bench trial, it rendered judgment for defendants on theprivate-nuisance claim, and for respondent on the civil-conspiracy
claim. It entered an injunction barring the defendants from (1)trespassing on the private property of the clinic; (2) interfering
with ingress to and egress from the clinic; (3) interfering withthe free flow of traffic on the property of the clinic and adjoining
public streets and sidewalks and approaching any physician em-ployed by the clinic or any vehicle containing such a physician;
(4) protesting within a 12-foot buffer zone along the public side-walk on either side of the driveway of the clinic; (5) obstructing
the view of street traffic by any vehicle that is attempting to exitthe clinic; and (6) making any noise that would be heard inside
the clinic. App. to Pet. for Cert. 8a-9a. The South CarolinaSupreme Court affirmed the judgment in a summary opinion.
334 S. C. 555, 514 S. E. 2d 592 (1999).Although in my judgment the scope of the injunction is unconstitutionally broad insofar as it prohibits approaching any physi-cian or any vehicle containing a physician, and prohibits any noise
that can be heard inside the clinic during any of its businesshours, see Madsen v. Women's Health Center, Inc., 512 U. S. 753,
812 (1994) (Scalia, J., concurring in judgment in part and dissent-ing in part), there would be nothing about this case warranting

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:23] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
1100 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

Scalia, J., dissenting 528 U. S.
our attention if the judgment were based upon, and the scope ofthe injunction determined by, unlawful acts committed by petitioners. The First Amendment is not a license for lawlessness,and when abortion protesters engage in such acts as trespassing
upon private property and deliberately obstructing access to clin-ics, they are accountable to the law. What makes the present
case remarkable, however, and establishes it as a terrifying deter-rent to legitimate, peaceful First Amendment activity throughout
South Carolina, is the fact that the South Carolina SupremeCourt's affirmance did not rest upon its determination that there
was adequate evidence of unlawful activity. The analysis con-tained in its brief per curiam opinion begins as follows:

"Appellants first assert that, because their actions are pro-tected by the First Amendment, they cannot be the basis for
a civil conspiracy. Under South Carolina law, lawful actsmay become actionable as a civil conspiracy when the object
is to ruin or damage the business of another. . . . The recordis replete with evidence that appellants' goal is to discourage
women from patronizing respondent's business with the goalof making abortion unavailable. Assuming appellants' acts
were lawful, that fact does not prevent the finding of a civilconspiracy." 334 S. C., at 556, 514 S. E. 2d, at 592 (internal
quotation marks and citations omitted).
This extraordinary application of state civil-conspiracy law toattempts to persuade persons not to patronize certain businesses

would outlaw many activities long thought to be protected bythe First Amendment--routine picketing by striking unions, for
example, and the civil-rights boycotts directed against businesseswith segregated lunch counters in the 1960's. It may well be
that an attempt, by lawful persuasion, to harm someone's businessout of sheer malice, or in order to capture his clientele, can be
made illegal. But seeking to harm it (through persuasion) be-cause of principled objection to the nature of the business--
whether because of moral disapproval of abortion, or social dis-approval of segregation, or economic disapproval of substandard
wages--is an entirely different matter. If this sort of persuasiveactivity can be swept away under state civil-conspiracy laws, some
of our most significant First Amendment jurisprudence becomesacademic. Consider, for example, how the South Carolina Supreme Court's theory makes a nullity of our statement in a lead528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:23] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

1101ORDERS
Scalia, J., dissenting1099
ing case involving the boycott of segregated businesses inMississippi:

"A massive and prolonged effort to change the social, political,and economic structure of a local environment cannot be characterized as a violent conspiracy simply by reference to theephemeral consequences of relatively few violent acts. Such
a characterization must be supported by findings that ade-quately disclose the evidentiary basis for concluding that specific parties agreed to use unlawful means, that carefully iden-tify the impact of such unlawful conduct, and that recognize
the importance of avoiding the imposition of punishment forconstitutionally protected activity." NAACP v. Claiborne
Hardware Co., 458 U. S. 886, 933-934 (1982).
I would also note that even on its own terms the resultproduced by the South Carolina Supreme Court's opinion is irrational: If seeking to harm an abortion clinic's business throughpersuasion is indeed unlawful in South Carolina, why does the
injunction permit such harm so long as it is inflicted at a distanceof 12 feet from the driveway? The cryptic last paragraph of the
South Carolina Supreme Court's opinion reads as follows: "Finally,appellants raise numerous evidentiary challenges to the findings
of the trial judge which form the basis for the injunctive reliefgranted respondent. We find no evidentiary or constitutional
error in the injunction issued here." 334 S. C., at 557, 514 S. E.2d, at 593. Given what preceded (and avoiding the attribution of
illogic to the South Carolina Supreme Court), this can mean noth-ing more than that the evidentiary findings supporting civil conspiracy, which would have justified a total ban of the antiabortionprotests, adequately support the more limited ban. But even if
it means that the trial court's findings of unlawful acts (suchas trespass and obstruction of access) justified the terms of the
injunction; and even if it means (quite illogically) that such unlaw-ful acts will always be necessary to fix the scope of injunctive
relief; the court's plain holding that "discourag[ing] women frompatronizing [abortion clinics] with the goal of making abortion
unavailable" id., at 556, 514 S. E. 2d, at 592, is an unlawful civilconspiracy subjects all such activity--no matter how peaceful and
law abiding--to civil damages.I would grant certiorari in this case to consider the constitutionality of a novel civil-conspiracy doctrine that places routine,

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:23] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
1102 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

January 10, 2000 528 U. S.
lawful First Amendment activity under threat of financial liability,and probably under threat of injunction, throughout the State of
South Carolina.

No. 99-323. Hanousek v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 176 F. 3d 1116.

Justice Thomas, with whom Justice O'Connor joins,dissenting.
In 1994, petitioner Edward Hanousek, Jr., was employed by thePacific & Arctic Railway and Navigation Company as the roadmaster of the White Pass & Yukon Railroad. In that capacity,petitioner supervised a rock quarrying project at a site known as
"6-mile," which is located on an embankment 200 feet above theSkagway River six miles outside of Skagway, Alaska. During
rock removal operations, a backhoe operator employed by Hunz &Hunz, an independent contractor retained before petitioner was
hired, accidentally struck a petroleum pipeline near the railroadtracks. The operator's mistake caused the pipeline to rupture
and spill between 1,000 and 5,000 gallons of oil into the river.Petitioner, who was off duty and at home when the accident
occurred, was indicted and convicted under the Clean Water Act(CWA or Act), 86 Stat. 859, 33 U. S. C. $$ 1319(c)(1)(A), 1321(b)(3),
for negligently discharging oil into a navigable water of theUnited States.

1 Petitioner was fined $5,000 and sentenced to

sequential terms of six months' imprisonment, six months in ahalfway house, and six months of supervised release. On appeal,

petitioner argued, among other things, that it would violatehis due process rights to impose criminal liability for ordinary
negligence in discharging oil into the river.In rejecting the due process claim, the United States Court
of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit reasoned, in part, that thecriminal provisions of the CWA are "public welfare legislation"
because the CWA "is designed to protect the public from poten-tially harmful or injurious items" and criminalizes " `a type of
conduct that a reasonable person should know is subject tostringent public regulation and may seriously threaten the com1 Section 1319(c)(1)(A) provides that anyone who "negligently [violates certain provisions of the CWA] shall be punished by a fine of not less than$2,500 nor more than $25,000 per day of violation, or by imprisonment for

not more than 1 year, or by both." Section 1321(b)(3) prohibits "[t]he dis-charge of oil . . . into or upon the navigable waters of the United States."

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:23] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

1103ORDERS
Thomas, J., dissenting1102
munity's health or safety.' " 176 F. 3d 1116, 1121 (CA9 1999)(quoting Liparota v. United States, 471 U. S. 419, 433 (1985)).
Whether the CWA is appropriately characterized as a publicwelfare statute is an issue on which the Courts of Appeals
are divided. Compare, e. g., United States v. Kelley TechnicalCoatings, Inc., 157 F. 3d 432, 439, n. 4 (CA6 1998) ("[V]iolations
of the CWA fit squarely within the public welfare offense doc-trine"), and United States v. Weitzenhoff, 35 F. 3d 1275, 1286
(CA9 1993) ("The criminal provisions of the CWA are clearlydesigned to protect the public at large from the potentially dire
consequences of water pollution . . . and as such fall within thecategory of public welfare legislation"), with United States v.
Ahmad, 101 F. 3d 386, 391 (CA5 1996) (rejecting the argumentthat the CWA is public welfare legislation).

Whatever the merits of petitioner's underlying due processclaim, I think that it is erroneous to rely, even in small part,
on the notion that the CWA is a public welfare statute. Wehave said that "to determine as a threshold matter whether a
particular statute defines a public welfare offense, a court musthave in view some category of dangerous and deleterious devices
that will be assumed to alert an individual that he stands in`responsible relation to a public danger.' " Staples v. United
States, 511 U. S. 600, 613, n. 6 (1994). See also id., at 628-629(

Stevens, J., dissenting) (" `Public welfare' offenses . . . regulate`dangerous or deleterious devices or products or obnoxious waste

materials' ") (quoting United States v. International Minerals &Chemical Corp., 402 U. S. 558, 565 (1971)). Although provisions
of the CWA regulate certain dangerous substances, this caseillustrates that the CWA also imposes criminal liability for persons using standard equipment to engage in a broad range ofordinary industrial and commercial activities. This fact strongly
militates against concluding that the public welfare doctrine ap-plies. As we have said, "[e]ven dangerous items can, in some
cases, be so commonplace and generally available" that we wouldnot consider regulation of them to fall within the public welfare
doctrine. Staples, 511 U. S., at 611. I think we should be hesi-tant to expose countless numbers of construction workers and
contractors to heightened criminal liability for using ordinarydevices to engage in normal industrial operations.

We have also distinguished those criminal statutes within thedoctrine of "public welfare offenses" from those outside it by

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:23] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
1104 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

Thomas, J., dissenting 528 U. S.
considering the severity of the penalty imposed. See, e. g., id.,at 616-618. We have said, with respect to public welfare offenses, that "penalties commonly are relatively small, and convic-tion does no grave damage to an offender's reputation." Morissette v. United States, 342 U. S. 246, 256 (1952). See also Sayre,Public Welfare Offenses, 33 Colum. L. Rev. 55, 72 (1933) (stating
that it is a "cardinal principle" of public welfare offenses thatthe penalty not be severe). The CWA provides that any person
who "negligently" violates the Act may be imprisoned for up toone year. $ 1319(c)(1). A second negligent violation of the Act
may subject a person to imprisonment for up to two years.Ibid. The CWA also contains a felony provision that provides
that any person who "knowingly" violates $ 1321(b)(3) "shall bepunished by a fine of not less than $5,000 nor more than $50,000
per day of violation, or by imprisonment for not more than 3years, or by both. If a conviction of a person is for a violation
committed after a first conviction of such person under thisparagraph, punishment shall be by a fine of not more than
$100,000 per day of violation, or by imprisonment of not morethan 6 years, or by both." $ 1319(c)(2).

2 The seriousness of

these penalties counsels against concluding that the CWA canaccurately be classified as a public welfare statute.

The Court of Appeals disregarded these factors, and reliedinstead on our previous statements that public welfare offenses
regulate " `conduct that a reasonable person should know is sub-ject to stringent public regulation and may seriously threaten
the community's health or safety.' " 176 F. 3d, at 1121 (quotingLiparota v. United States, supra, at 433). But we have never
held that any statute can be described as creating a publicwelfare offense so long as the statute regulates conduct that is
known to be subject to extensive regulation and that may involvea risk to the community. Indeed, such a suggestion would extend this narrow doctrine to virtually any criminal statute appli-cable to industrial activities. I presume that in today's heavily
regulated society, any person engaged in industry is aware thathis activities are the object of sweeping regulation and that an

2 Some courts interpreting the felony provisions of the CWA have used
the public welfare doctrine to determine that a person may "knowingly"violate the statute even if he is not aware that he is violating the law. See,

e. g., United States v. Weitzenhoff, 35 F. 3d 1275, 1284-1286 (CA9 1993).

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:23] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

1105ORDERS
January 10, 2000528 U. S.
industrial accident could threaten health or safety. To the ex-tent that any of our prior opinions have contributed to the Court
of Appeals' overly broad interpretation of this doctrine, I wouldreconsider those cases. Because I believe the Courts of Appeals
invoke this narrow doctrine too readily, I would grant certiorarito further delineate its limits.

No. 99-362. Short v. United States. C. A. Armed Forces.Motion of petitioner to defer consideration of petition for writ of
certiorari denied. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 50 M. J.370.

No. 99-434. Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. v. Danco, Inc., et al.C. A. 1st Cir. Motion of Chamber of Commerce of the United
States for leave to file a brief as amicus curiae granted. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 178 F. 3d 8.

No. 99-456. Henson v. Religious Technology Center.C. A. 9th Cir. Motion of Electronic Frontier Foundation for leave
to file a brief as amicus curiae granted. Certiorari denied. Re-ported below: 182 F. 3d 927.

No. 99-498. Microsoft Corp. et al. v. -izcaino et al.C. A. 9th Cir. Motion of Information Technology Association of
America et al. for leave to file a brief as amici curiae granted.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 173 F. 3d 713 and 184 F. 3d
1070.

No. 99-522. City of Macedonia et al. v. DePiero. C. A.6th Cir. Motion of Ohio Municipal League for leave to file a brief

as amicus curiae granted. Certiorari denied. Reported below:180 F. 3d 770.

No. 99-545. Steamfitters Local Union No. 420 WelfareFund et al. v. Philip Morris, Inc., et al. C. A. 3d Cir. Motion of United Association of Journeymen, Plumbing, and PipeFitting et al. for leave to file a brief as amici curiae granted.
Certiorari denied. Reported below: 171 F. 3d 912.

No. 99-689. Stewart, Director, Arizona Department ofCorrections, et al. v. Wallace. C. A. 9th Cir. Motion of

respondent for leave to proceed in forma pauperis granted. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 184 F. 3d 1112.

No. 99-703. Mills v. Meadows et al. C. A. 4th Cir. Mo-tion of National Association of Police Organizations for leave to

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:23] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
1106 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

January 10, 2000 528 U. S.
file a brief as amicus curiae granted. Certiorari denied. Re-ported below: 187 F. 3d 630.

No. 99-748. U S WEST, Inc., et al. v. Tristani, Chairman,New Mexico State Corporation Commission, et al. C. A.
10th Cir. Motion of Attorney General of New Mexico for leaveto file a brief as amicus curiae granted. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 1202.

No. 99-772. Doe et al. v. Mutual of Omaha InsuranceCo. C. A. 7th Cir. Motion of Infectious Diseases Society of

America et al. for leave to file a brief as amici curiae granted.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 179 F. 3d 557.

No. 99-775. Lucent Information Management, Inc. v. Lu-cent Technologies, Inc. C. A. 3d Cir. Certiorari denied.
Justice O'Connor took no part in the consideration or decisionof this petition. Reported below: 186 F. 3d 311.

No. 99-6650. Williams v. Waters, Warden. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari before judgment denied.
No. 99-7734 (99A562). Thomas v. Garraghty, Warden.Sup. Ct. Va. Application for stay of execution of sentence of
death, presented to The Chief Justice, and by him referred tothe Court, denied. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 258 Va.
530, 522 S. E. 2d 865.
Rehearing Denied

No. 98-9149. Rivera v. Sistrunk, Superintendent, Char-lotte Correctional Institution, et al., ante, p. 827;

No. 98-9297. Snell v. Massachusetts, 527 U. S. 1010;No. 98-9325. Moore v. Parrott, Judge, Superior Court of
Georgia, Jasper County, et al., ante, p. 831;No. 98-9471. Franks v. Thomas, Warden, et al., ante,
p. 836;No. 98-9539. Lai v. International Immunology Corp. et
al., ante, p. 985;No. 98-9677. Hughes v. North Dakota, ante, p. 846;

No. 98-9744. Martinez v. United States, ante, p. 850;No. 98-9820. Rondeau v. New Hampshire et al., ante,
p. 854;No. 98-9851. Tidwell v. Norris, Director, Arkansas De-
partment of Correction, ante, p. 856;

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:23] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

1107ORDERS
January 10, 2000528 U. S.
No. 98-9912. Kratzer v. First Healthcare Corp. et al.,ante, p. 860;
No. 98-10031. Colbert v. Workers' Compensation Ap-peals Board et al., ante, p. 866;
No. 99-2. McDaniel et al. v. United States, ante, p. 963;No. 99-259. Lozada Colon v. Department of State et al.,
ante, p. 1003;No. 99-311. Perez v. United States, ante, p. 879;

No. 99-339. Hollander v. American Cyanamid Co., ante,p. 965;
No. 99-379. Sullivan v. National Railroad PassengerCorporation, ante, p. 966;
No. 99-496. Bieri v. United States, ante, p. 968;No. 99-569. Gebman v. Pataki, Governor of New York,
et al., ante, p. 1005;No. 99-627. Daniels v. Pennsylvania Public Utility Com-
mission, ante, p. 1006;No. 99-5048.

Woods v. United States District Court for
the Eastern District of Kentucky, ante, p. 883;No. 99-5052. Baker v. United States, ante, p. 883;

No. 99-5233. Reed v. Phillips, Warden, ante, p. 893;No. 99-5244. Hathaway et ux. v. Essex County, New
York, et al., ante, p. 894;No. 99-5350.

In re Washington, ante, p. 962;No. 99-5375. Humphrey v. Johnson, Director, Texas De-

partment of Criminal Justice, Institutional Division,ante, p. 901;

No. 99-5429. Ayele v. Simkins Industries, Inc., et al.,ante, p. 904;
No. 99-5452. Mazzarella v. United States Postal Serv-
ice, ante, p. 905;No. 99-5563. Melendez v. Arizona Department of Eco-

nomic Security et al., ante, p. 935;No. 99-5568. Buchanan v. Birnie et al., ante, p. 935;

No. 99-5606. Taylor v. -eigas et al., ante, p. 935;No. 99-5627.

Price v. Ryder System, Inc., et al., ante,p. 912;

No. 99-5715. Hanley v. City of Houston et al., ante,p. 938;
No. 99-5731. -iray v. Department of the Navy, ante,p. 916;

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:23] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
1108 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

January 10, 2000 528 U. S.
No. 99-5743. Pruitt v. Georgia, ante, p. 1006;
No. 99-5749. Taylor v. Dees, Warden, et al., ante, p. 953;
No. 99-5753. Pravda v. City of Albany, New York, et al.,
ante, p. 953;

No. 99-5794. Syvertson v. North Dakota, ante, p. 954;
No. 99-5852. Pink v. United States Postal Service et al.,
ante, p. 940;

No. 99-5976. Parker v. Oklahoma, ante, p. 972;
No. 99-6041. Cromartie v. Georgia, ante, p. 974;
No. 99-6042. Cook v. Georgia, ante, p. 974;
No. 99-6049. -iray v. Beneficial California, Inc., ante,
p. 974;

No. 99-6083. Dennis v. Scott, Warden, ante, p. 975;
No. 99-6086. Basilio v. Camray Development & Con-
struction Co. et al., ante, p. 975;

No. 99-6151. Hampton v. Louisiana, ante, p. 1007;
No. 99-6178. Mathis v. Ratelle, Warden, et al., ante,
p. 976;

No. 99-6216. True v. United States, ante, p. 976;
No. 99-6341. In re Parker, ante, p. 1018;
No. 99-6387. Walker v. United States, ante, p. 980;
No. 99-6400. White v. Wilkinson, Director, Ohio Depart-
ment of Rehabilitation and Correction, ante, p. 1026;

No. 99-6427. Thurston v. United States District Court
for the Southern District of Florida et al., ante, p. 1010;
and

No. 99-6480. Raulerson v. United States, ante, p. 989.
Petitions for rehearing denied.

No. 98-1945. Burnette v. Grove Isle Club, Inc., et al.,
ante, p. 818. Motion of petitioner for leave to proceed further herein in forma pauperis granted. Petition for rehearing
denied.

No. 99-404. Wright v. Oregon State Board of Parole,
ante, p. 966. Motion of petitioner for leave to proceed further in
forma pauperis granted. Motion for leave to file petition for
rehearing denied.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:23] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

1109ORDERS
January 12, 14, 2000528 U. S.

January 12, 2000
Certiorari Granted--Reversed and Remanded. (See No. 99-295,ante, p. 216.)

Miscellaneous Order

No. 99-7774 (99A575). In re Heiselbetz. Application forstay of execution of sentence of death, presented to Justice

Scalia, and by him referred to the Court, denied. Petition forwrit of habeas corpus denied.

Certiorari Denied

No. 99-7333 (99A512). Heiselbetz v. Johnson, Director,Texas Department of Criminal Justice, Institutional Di-

vision. C. A. 5th Cir. Application for stay of execution of sen-tence of death, presented to Justice Scalia, and by him referred
to the Court, denied. Certiorari denied. Justice Stevens andJustice Ginsburg would grant the application for stay of execution. Reported below: 190 F. 3d 538.

January 14, 2000Certiorari Granted

No. 99-658. Castillo et al. v. United States. C. A. 5thCir. Certiorari granted. Brief of petitioners is to be filed with
the Clerk and served upon opposing counsel on or before 3 p.m.,Monday, February 28, 2000. Brief of respondent is to be filed
with the Clerk and served upon opposing counsel on or before 3p.m., Wednesday, March 29, 2000. A reply brief, if any, is to be
filed with the Clerk and served upon opposing counsel on or be-fore 3 p.m., Monday, April 17, 2000. This Court's Rule 29.2 does
not apply. Reported below: 179 F. 3d 321.

No. 99-699. Boy Scouts of America et al. v. Dale. Sup.Ct. N. J. Certiorari granted. Brief of petitioners is to be filed

with the Clerk and served upon opposing counsel on or before 3p.m., Monday, February 28, 2000. Brief of respondent is to be
filed with the Clerk and served upon opposing counsel on or be-fore 3 p.m., Wednesday, March 29, 2000. A reply brief, if any, is
to be filed with the Clerk and served upon opposing counsel onor before 3 p.m., Monday, April 17, 2000. This Court's Rule 29.2
does not apply. Reported below: 160 N. J. 562, 734 A. 2d 1196.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:23] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
1110 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

January 14, 18, 2000 528 U. S.
No. 99-830. Stenberg, Attorney General of Nebraska,et al. v. Carhart. C. A. 8th Cir. Motion of New Jersey Legislature et al. for leave to file a brief as amici curiae granted.Certiorari granted limited to Questions 1 and 2 presented by the
petition. Brief of petitioners is to be filed with the Clerk andserved upon opposing counsel on or before 3 p.m., Monday, February 28, 2000. Brief of respondent is to be filed with the Clerkand served upon opposing counsel on or before 3 p.m., Wednesday,
March 29, 2000. A reply brief, if any, is to be filed with the Clerkand served upon opposing counsel on or before 3 p.m., Monday,
April 17, 2000. This Court's Rule 29.2 does not apply. Reportedbelow: 192 F. 3d 1142.

January 18, 2000Affirmed on Appeal
No. 99-475. Torres et al. v. Sablan et al. Affirmed onappeal from D. C. Northern Mariana Islands. Reported below:
95 F. Supp. 2d 1133.
Certiorari Granted--Vacated and Remanded

No. 98-821. Tennessee Board of Regents et al. v. Cogeret al. C. A. 6th Cir. Certiorari granted, judgment vacated,

and case remanded for further consideration in light of Kimel v.Florida Bd. of Regents, ante, p. 62. Reported below: 154 F. 3d
296.

No. 98-1117. Illinois State University et al. v. -arneret al. C. A. 7th Cir. Certiorari granted, judgment vacated,

and case remanded for further consideration in light of Kimel v.Florida Bd. of Regents, ante, p. 62. Reported below: 150 F. 3d
706.

No. 98-1178. Board of Regents of the University ofNew Mexico v. Migneault et al. C. A. 10th Cir. Certiorari

granted, judgment vacated, and case remanded for further consid-eration in light of Kimel v. Florida Bd. of Regents, ante, p. 62.
Reported below: 158 F. 3d 1131.

No. 98-1524. Board of Trustees of the University ofConnecticut et al. v. Davis et al. C. A. 2d Cir. Certiorari

granted, judgment vacated, and case remanded for further consid-eration in light of Kimel v. Florida Bd. of Regents, ante, p. 62.
Reported below: 162 F. 3d 770.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:23] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

1111ORDERS
January 18, 2000528 U. S.
No. 98-1845. State University of New York, College atNew Paltz, et al. v. Anderson. C. A. 2d Cir. Certiorari
granted, judgment vacated, and case remanded for further consid-eration in light of Kimel v. Florida Bd. of Regents, ante, p. 62.
Reported below: 169 F. 3d 117.

No. 99-61. Reno, Attorney General, et al. v. Pryor, At-torney General of Alabama, et al. C. A. 11th Cir. Certiorari granted, judgment vacated, and case remanded for furtherconsideration in light of Reno v. Condon, ante, p. 141. Reported
below: 171 F. 3d 1281.

No. 99-411. Board of Trustees of Southern IllinoisUniversity v. Wichmann et al. C. A. 7th Cir. Certiorari

granted, judgment vacated, and case remanded for further consid-eration in light of Kimel v. Florida Bd. of Regents, ante, p. 62.
Reported below: 180 F. 3d 791.

No. 99-519. Prescott et al. v. County of El Doradoet al. C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari granted, judgment vacated,

and case remanded for further consideration in light of Friendsof Earth, Inc. v. Laidlaw Environmental Services (TOC), Inc.,
ante, p. 167. Reported below: 177 F. 3d 1102.

No. 99-850. California Public Employees' RetirementSystem et al. v. Arnett et al. C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari

granted, judgment vacated, and case remanded for further consid-eration in light of Kimel v. Florida Bd. of Regents, ante, p. 62.
Justice Breyer took no part in the consideration or decision ofthis case. Reported below: 179 F. 3d 690.

Certiorari Dismissed

No. 99-7075. Karim-Panahi v. California. C. A. 9th Cir.Motion of petitioner for leave to proceed in forma pauperis denied, and certiorari dismissed. See this Court's Rule 39.8.

No. 99-7087. Kinnell v. West, Secretary of -eteransAffairs, et al. C. A. 10th Cir. Motion of petitioner for leave

to proceed in forma pauperis denied, and certiorari dismissed.See this Court's Rule 39.8. Reported below: 198 F. 3d 258.

No. 99-7401. Turner v. United States. C. A. Fed. Cir.Motion of petitioner for leave to proceed in forma pauperis
denied, and certiorari dismissed. See this Court's Rule 39.8.Reported below: 215 F. 3d 1342.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:23] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
1112 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

January 18, 2000 528 U. S.
Miscellaneous Orders

No. 99A525. Robinson et al. v. District of ColumbiaBoard of Zoning Adjustment. Ct. App. D. C. Application

for stay, addressed to Justice Ginsburg and referred to theCourt, denied.

No. D-2137. In re Disbarment of Gereighty. Thomas M.Gereighty, of New Orleans, La., is suspended from the practice of
law in this Court, and a rule will issue, returnable within 40 days,requiring him to show cause why he should not be disbarred from
the practice of law in this Court.

No. D-2138. In re Disbarment of Jones. Adair D. Jones,of Baton Rouge, La., is suspended from the practice of law in this

Court, and a rule will issue, returnable within 40 days, requiringhim to show cause why he should not be disbarred from the
practice of law in this Court.

No. D-2139. In re Disbarment of Hencke. Albert L.Hencke, of Blue Springs, Mo., is suspended from the practice

of law in this Court, and a rule will issue, returnable within 40days, requiring him to show cause why he should not be disbarred
from the practice of law in this Court.

No. 99M56. Munoz, aka Doe v. United States;No. 99M57. Kaferly v. U S WEST Technologies et al.;

No. 99M59. Guido v. California; andNo. 99M60. Williams v. Commissioner of Internal Reve-
nue. Motions to direct the Clerk to file petitions for writs ofcertiorari out of time denied.

No. 99M58. Lennix v. Big 3 Industries et al. Motion todirect the Clerk to file petition for writ of certiorari denied.
No. 98-1828. -ermont Agency of Natural Resources v.United States ex rel. Stevens. C. A. 2d Cir. [Certiorari
granted, 527 U. S. 1034.] Motion of Hamilton Securities Group,Inc., for leave to file a supplemental brief as amicus curiae out
of time denied.

No. 98-1949. Pegram et al. v. Herdrich. C. A. 7th Cir.[Certiorari granted, 527 U. S. 1068.] Motion of the Solicitor General for leave to participate in oral argument as amicus curiaeand for divided argument granted.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:23] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

1113ORDERS
January 18, 2000528 U. S.
No. 98-6322. Slack v. McDaniel, Warden, et al. C. A. 9thCir. [Certiorari granted, 525 U. S. 1138.] Motion of the Solicitor
General for leave to participate in oral argument as amicus cu-riae and for divided argument granted.

No. 99-62. Santa Fe Independent School District v.Doe, Individually and as Next Friend for Her Minor
Children, et al. C. A. 5th Cir. [Certiorari granted, ante,p. 1002.] Motion of Rutherford Institute for leave to file a brief
as amicus curiae granted.

No. 99-166. United States v. Hubbell. C. A. D. C. Cir.[Certiorari granted, ante, p. 926.] Motion of United States Department of Justice for leave to participate in oral argument asamicus curiae and for divided argument granted.

No. 99-1112. Miller, Attorney General of Iowa v.Planned Parenthood of Greater Iowa, Inc., et al. C. A.
8th Cir. Motion of respondents to expedite consideration of peti-tion for writ of certiorari denied.

No. 99-6615. Williams v. Taylor, Warden. C. A. 4th Cir.[Certiorari granted, ante, p. 960.] Motions of American Civil
Liberties Union et al., Legal Ethics Professors et al., and VirginiaCollege of Criminal Defense Attorneys et al. for leave to file
briefs as amici curiae granted.

No. 99-6988. Choudhary v. Equal Employment Opportu-nity Commission et al. C. A. 1st Cir. Motion of petitioner for

leave to proceed in forma pauperis denied. Petitioner is alloweduntil February 8, 2000, within which to pay the docketing fee
required by Rule 38(a) and to submit a petition in compliancewith Rule 33.1 of the Rules of this Court.

No. 99-7439. In re Miller;No. 99-7498. In re Schiano;
No. 99-7512. In re LeGrande; andNo. 99-7580. In re Cornell. Petitions for writs of habeas
corpus denied.

No. 99-7022. In re Weaver;No. 99-7284. In re Mosby; and

No. 99-7319. In re Kennedy. Petitions for writs of manda-mus denied.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:23] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
1114 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

January 18, 2000 528 U. S.
Certiorari Denied

No. 98-584. California State Board of Equalization v.Southern Pacific Transportation Co. et al. C. A. 9th Cir.

Certiorari denied.

No. 98-1235. United States v. Regents of the Universityof Minnesota et al. C. A. 8th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 152 F. 3d 822.

No. 98-1448. California State Board of Equalization v.Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe Railway Co. C. A. 9th Cir.

Certiorari denied.

No. 98-1747. Perez et al. v. Pasadena IndependentSchool District et al. C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 165 F. 3d 368.

No. 98-1760. Oklahoma Department of Public Safety v.United States. C. A. 10th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported

below: 161 F. 3d 1266.

No. 98-1818. Wisconsin Department of Transportation,Division of Motor -ehicles, et al. v. Reno, Attorney Gen-

eral, et al. C. A. 7th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reportedbelow: 163 F. 3d 1000.

No. 98-1971. Robinson et al. v. Administrative Commit-tee of the Sea Ray Employees' Stock Ownership and
Profit Sharing Plan et al. C. A. 6th Cir. Certiorari denied.Reported below: 164 F. 3d 981.

No. 98-1983. Gigante v. United States. C. A. 2d Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 166 F. 3d 75.
No. 98-1987. -aldespino et al. v. Alamo Heights Inde-pendent School District et al. C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari
denied. Reported below: 168 F. 3d 848.

No. 98-7501. Scott v. California. Ct. App. Cal., 2d App.Dist. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 64 Cal. App. 4th 550,

75 Cal. Rptr. 2d 315.

No. 98-9663. Davis v. Hopper, Commissioner, Alabama De-partment of Corrections, et al. C. A. 11th Cir. Certiorari

denied. Reported below: 171 F. 3d 1289.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:23] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

1115ORDERS
January 18, 2000528 U. S.
No. 99-251. Davis v. Nunez. C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari de-nied. Reported below: 169 F. 3d 1222.

No. 99-270. Collins v. Montgomery County Board ofPrison Inspectors et al. C. A. 3d Cir. Certiorari denied.
Reported below: 176 F. 3d 679.

No. 99-328. City of New York et al. v. United Stateset al. C. A. 2d Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 179

F. 3d 29.

No. 99-348. Kiel v. Scott, Warden. C. A. 10th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 172 F. 3d 879.

No. 99-528. Fields et al. v. Department of Labor, Ad-ministrative Review Board, et al. C. A. 11th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 173 F. 3d 811.

No. 99-543. Louis v. Commissioner of Internal Revenue.C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 170 F. 3d

1232.

No. 99-573. Seagate Technology, Inc. v. Rodime PLC.C. A. Fed. Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 174 F. 3d

1294.

No. 99-585. Branson v. City of Los Angeles et al.; andNo. 99-796. Lockheed Martin IMS et al. v. Branson.

C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 187 F. 3d 646.

No. 99-589. Sheppard v. Cook, Captain, Chief of TexasRangers. C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below:

179 F. 3d 360.

No. 99-598. Pacific Lumber Co. et al. v. Marbled Murre-let (Brachyramphus marmoratus) et al. C. A. 9th Cir.

Certiorari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 1091.

No. 99-602. Taylor, Executor of the Estate of Taylor,Deceased v. Paul B. Hall Regional Medical Center, dba

Paintsville Hospital Co., et al. C. A. 6th Cir. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 918.

No. 99-605. Thomas et al. v. Network Solutions et al.C. A. D. C. Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 176 F. 3d
500.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:23] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
1116 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

January 18, 2000 528 U. S.
No. 99-614. Tipp-It, Inc. v. Conboy, Omaha City Prosecu-tor. Sup. Ct. Neb. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 257
Neb. 219, 596 N. W. 2d 304.

No. 99-619. Sydnor et al. v. Smith, for Himself and AllPlan Participants Similarly Situated on Behalf of the

James McGraw, Inc., 401(k) Plan. C. A. 4th Cir. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 184 F. 3d 356.

No. 99-626. Gillespie v. City of Indianapolis et al.C. A. 7th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 185 F. 3d 693.
No. 99-630. Matassarin v. Lynch et al. C. A. 5th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 174 F. 3d 549.
No. 99-632. Browne et ux. v. United States. C. A. 2d Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 176 F. 3d 25.
No. 99-636. Yakama Indian Nation v. Washington De-partment of Revenue. C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 176 F. 3d 1241.

No. 99-640. Redwood Empire Life Support v. County ofSonoma et al. C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported

below: 190 F. 3d 949.

No. 99-655. Noel v. Federal Deposit Insurance Corpora-tion, as Receiver for Western Gulf Savings and Loan

Assn. C. A. 10th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 177F. 3d 911.

No. 99-656. New York Department Stores de PuertoRico, Inc. v. Almacenes Rodriguez, Inc., et al. Sup. Ct.
P. R. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-664. Farr et al. v. U S WEST, Inc., et al.; andNo. 99-853. U S WEST, Inc., et al. v. Farr et al. C. A.

9th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 151 F. 3d 908 and179 F. 3d 1252.

No. 99-681. Ackerley et al. v. Lambert et al. C. A. 9thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 180 F. 3d 997.
No. 99-685. Kent et ux. v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 185 F. 3d 867.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:23] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

1117ORDERS
January 18, 2000528 U. S.
No. 99-741. Harel v. Lawrence et al. C. A. 3d Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 191 F. 3d 444.

No. 99-751. Big River Minerals Corp. et al. v. Hollandet al. C. A. 4th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 181
F. 3d 597.

No. 99-756. Mims, Trustee of the Estate of CoastalPlains, Inc., et al. v. Browning Manufacturing. C. A. 5th

Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 179 F. 3d 197.

No. 99-792. NVR Homes, Inc. v. Clerks of the CircuitCourts for Anne Arundel County et al. C. A. 4th Cir.

Certiorari denied. Reported below: 189 F. 3d 442.

No. 99-794. Roberts v. Wooton, Administratrix of theEstate of Wooton, Deceased. Sup. Ct. App. W. Va. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 205 W. Va. 404, 518 S. E. 2d 645.

No. 99-798. Lippincott Adams v. Commissioner of Inter-nal Revenue. C. A. 3d Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported

below: 170 F. 3d 173.

No. 99-800. Pawlowski v. Northeast Illinois RegionalCommuter Railroad Corp. C. A. 7th Cir. Certiorari denied.

Reported below: 186 F. 3d 997.

No. 99-802. LaCuesta et al. v. Archuleta, PersonalRepresentative of the Estate of Archuleta, Deceased.

Ct. App. N. M. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 128 N. M.13, 988 P. 2d 883.

No. 99-803. Hamm et al. v. Rhone-Poulenc Rorer Phar-maceuticals, Inc., et al. C. A. 8th Cir. Certiorari denied.
Reported below: 187 F. 3d 941.

No. 99-805. Mitchell v. Total Action Against Povertyin Roanoke -alley et al. C. A. 4th Cir. Certiorari denied.

Reported below: 175 F. 3d 1015.

No. 99-806. Granberry et al. v. Islay Investments et al.Ct. App. Cal., 2d App. Dist. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-808. Farr v. NC Machinery Co. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 186 F. 3d 1165.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:23] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
1118 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

January 18, 2000 528 U. S.
No. 99-816. Koenick v. Felton et al. C. A. 4th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 190 F. 3d 259.

No. 99-821. County of Armstrong et al. v. Clark. C. A.3d Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 189 F. 3d 463.
No. 99-822. Sandberg et al. v. State Farm Mutual Auto-mobile Insurance Co. et al. C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 927.

No. 99-823. Nieman v. Dryclean U. S. A. Franchise Co.,Inc. C. A. 11th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 178

F. 3d 1126.

No. 99-827. Steinhilber v. McFarland et al. C. A. 8thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 187 F. 3d 642.

No. 99-828. Judds Brothers Construction Co. v. Burling-ton Northern Railroad Co. C. A. 8th Cir. Certiorari denied.
Reported below: 184 F. 3d 743.

No. 99-838. McCain v. City of Lafayette et al. Ct. App.La., 3d Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 741 So. 2d 720.

No. 99-843. Maple Lanes, Inc., dba Frankies, et al. v.Messer, Sheriff, Ogle County. C. A. 7th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 186 F. 3d 823.

No. 99-854. Mendez v. Commercial Credit Corp. C. A.10th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 189 F. 3d 478.

No. 99-861. Talyansky v. Mercury Print Production,Inc.; and Talyansky v. Syracuse Language Systems, Inc.
C. A. 2d Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 189 F. 3d 462(first judgment); 199 F. 3d 1323 (second judgment).

No. 99-870. Liddy v. Wells. C. A. 4th Cir. Certiorari de-nied. Reported below: 186 F. 3d 505.
No. 99-915. McMaster v. United States et al. C. A. 11thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 177 F. 3d 936.
No. 99-930. Morris v. United States. C. A. 6th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 190 F. 3d 483.
No. 99-943. Macaro v. New York. App. Div., Sup. Ct. N. Y.,2d Jud. Dept. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 260 App. Div.
2d 648, 687 N. Y. S. 2d 279.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:23] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

1119ORDERS
January 18, 2000528 U. S.
No. 99-946. Sohi v. Ohio State Dental Board. Ct. App.Ohio, Hamilton County. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 130
Ohio App. 3d 414, 720 N. E. 2d 187.

No. 99-997. Reilly v. Natwest Markets Group, Inc.,et al. C. A. 2d Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 181

F. 3d 253.

No. 99-1002. Lopez v. United States. C. A. Armed Forces.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 52 M. J. 435.

No. 99-1063. Boyle v. Internal Revenue Service et al.C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 194 F. 3d
1316.

No. 99-5395. Synek v. Gramley, Warden. C. A. 7th Cir.Certiorari denied.

No. 99-5774. Brooks v. United States. C. A. 8th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 175 F. 3d 605.
No. 99-6135. O'Shea v. Pennsylvania. Sup. Ct. Pa. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 556 Pa. 6, 726 A. 2d 376.
No. 99-6224. Nevarez-Gonzales v. United States. C. A.5th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 184 F. 3d 817.
No. 99-6370. Garner v. United States. C. A. 8th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 181 F. 3d 988.
No. 99-6383. Feliz v. United States. C. A. 1st Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 82.
No. 99-6444. Paveletz v. United States Court of Ap-peals for the Third Circuit. C. A. 3d Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 178 F. 3d 1280.

No. 99-6544. Lescs v. William R. Hughes, Inc., et al.C. A. 4th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 168 F. 3d 482.

No. 99-6560. Libby v. Nevada. Sup. Ct. Nev. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 115 Nev. ---, 975 P. 2d 833.
No. 99-6633. Paz-Aguilar v. United States. C. A. 11thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 189 F. 3d 480.
No. 99-6851. King v. Pennsylvania; and

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:23] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
1120 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

January 18, 2000 528 U. S.
No. 99-6897. Martin v. Pennsylvania. Sup. Ct. Pa. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 554 Pa. 331, 721 A. 2d 763.

No. 99-6924. Reed v. Mosley et al. C. A. 5th Cir. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 194 F. 3d 1309.
No. 99-6928. Springer v. Maricopa County Medical Cen-ter. C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 185
F. 3d 868.

No. 99-6933. Kehler v. Workers' Compensation AppealBoard (Department of Public Welfare). Commw. Ct. Pa.

Certiorari denied.

No. 99-6935. Maciel v. Terhune, Director, CaliforniaDepartment of Corrections, et al. C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 187 F. 3d 648.

No. 99-6939. Tibbs v. Corcoran, Warden. C. A. 4th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 187 F. 3d 631.

No. 99-6941. Reynolds v. Missouri. Sup. Ct. Mo. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 994 S. W. 2d 944.
No. 99-6946. Chinn v. Ohio. Sup. Ct. Ohio. Certiorari de-nied. Reported below: 85 Ohio St. 3d 548, 709 N. E. 2d 1166.
No. 99-6954. Rogers v. Gibson, Warden. C. A. 10th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 173 F. 3d 1278.
No. 99-6957. Nichols v. Presley et al. C. A. 10th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 194 F. 3d 1321.
No. 99-6958. Key v. Grayson, Warden, et al. C. A. 6thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 179 F. 3d 996.
No. 99-6962. Johnson v. Alabama. Ct. Crim. App. Ala.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 768 So. 2d 1026.
No. 99-6963. James v. Oklahoma. Ct. Crim. App. Okla.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-6964. Larry v. Texas. Ct. App. Tex., 1st Dist. Cer-tiorari denied.
No. 99-6966. Gilliam v. Mitchell, Warden. C. A. 6th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 179 F. 3d 990.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:23] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

1121ORDERS
January 18, 2000528 U. S.
No. 99-6967. Enoch v. Illinois. Sup. Ct. Ill. Certioraridenied.

No. 99-6971. Green et al. v. Sommers. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 937.
No. 99-6972. Fink v. California et al. C. A. 9th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied.
No. 99-6976. Mora v. Court of Appeal of California,Fourth Appellate District, Division One. Sup. Ct. Cal.
Certiorari denied.

No. 99-6985. Barton v. Missouri. Sup. Ct. Mo. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 998 S. W. 2d 19.

No. 99-6992. Mahon v. County of Los Angeles et al.C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 189 F. 3d 473.
No. 99-6998. Buchanan v. South Carolina et al. C. A.4th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 907.
No. 99-6999. Baker v. Alabama. Ct. Crim. App. Ala. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 767 So. 2d 423.
No. 99-7002. Philippe v. Lacy, Superintendent, BareHill Correctional Facility. C. A. 2d Cir. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-7009. Beets v. Johnson, Director, Texas Depart-ment of Criminal Justice, Institutional Division. C. A.
5th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 180 F. 3d 190.

No. 99-7011. Miner v. Schriro, Director, Missouri De-partment of Corrections. C. A. 8th Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-7015. -azquez v. Dufrain, Superintendent,Franklin Correctional Facility. C. A. 2d Cir. Certiorari
denied.

No. 99-7020. Thomas v. Kuhlmann, Superintendent, Sul-livan Correctional Facility, et al. C. A. 2d Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-7024. Duke v. Johnson, Director, Texas Depart-ment of Criminal Justice, Institutional Division. C. A.

5th Cir. Certiorari denied.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:23] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
1122 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

January 18, 2000 528 U. S.
No. 99-7025. Ellington v. Prunty et al. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 925.

No. 99-7027. Edmon v. McDaniel et al. C. A. 5th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-7029. Dunn v. Johnson, Director, Texas Depart-ment of Criminal Justice, Institutional Division. C. A.
5th Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-7030. Green v. New Jersey. Super. Ct. N. J., App.Div. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-7033. Ellison v. Smith, Warden. C. A. 6th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-7037. Gibson v. Sondalle, Warden. C. A. 7th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-7042. Parker v. Eleventh Avenue Medical Groupet al. Ct. App. Cal., 2d App. Dist. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-7043. Shaw v. Texas Board of Pardons. C. A. 5thCir. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-7044. Shea v. Wisconsin. Ct. App. Wis. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 226 Wis. 2d 161, 594 N. W. 2d 419.
No. 99-7048. Daft v. West -irginia. Cir. Ct. PrestonCounty, W. Va. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-7050. Englehart v. Duval. C. A. 1st Cir. Certio-rari denied.
No. 99-7054. -alenzuela Flores v. Johnson, Director,Texas Department of Criminal Justice, Institutional Di-
vision. C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-7056. Mims v. Apfel, Commissioner of Social Secu-rity. C. A. 2d Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 182

F. 3d 900.

No. 99-7058. Johnson v. Campbell, Commissioner, Tennes-see Department of Correction, et al. C. A. 6th Cir. Certiorari denied.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:23] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

1123ORDERS
January 18, 2000528 U. S.
No. 99-7060. McGuire v. Arkansas et al. C. A. 8th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 168 F. 3d 494.

No. 99-7061. Bradley v. Hofbauer, Warden. C. A. 6th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-7067. Peachlum v. Pennsylvania. Super. Ct. Pa.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 736 A. 2d 12.
No. 99-7068. Overholt v. Auglaize County et al. C. A.6th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 918.
No. 99-7071. -aldes v. Florida. Dist. Ct. App. Fla., 3dDist. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 736 So. 2d 1241.
No. 99-7074. Nottingham v. California. Sup. Ct. Cal.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-7076. Nelson v. Florida. Sup. Ct. Fla. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 748 So. 2d 237.
No. 99-7081. Shriner v. Wiley, Warden. C. A. 3d Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-7084. Jones v. California. Ct. App. Cal., 2d App.Dist. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-7088. Dobson v. Moore, Secretary, Florida De-partment of Corrections, et al. C. A. 11th Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-7092. Thomas v. Bush et al. C. A. 6th Cir. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 187 F. 3d 638.

No. 99-7096. Brown v. Kaltenbach et al. Ct. App. Ky.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-7111. Matthews v. California. Ct. App. Cal., 2dApp. Dist. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-7112. Jackson v. Champion, Warden. C. A. 10th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 932.
No. 99-7115. Jackson v. New York. C. A. 2d Cir. Certio-rari denied.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:23] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
1124 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

January 18, 2000 528 U. S.
No. 99-7116. Moses v. North Carolina. Sup. Ct. N. C.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 350 N. C. 741, 517 S. E. 2d
853.

No. 99-7122. Carr v. West -irginia. Cir. Ct. Wood County,W. Va. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-7123. Downs v. California. Ct. App. Cal., 1st App.Dist. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-7143. Jones v. United States;No. 99-7146. McKenith v. United States; and
No. 99-7233. England v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 187 F. 3d 649.

No. 99-7150. Crist v. California. Ct. App. Cal., 2d App.Dist. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-7155. Lyons, aka Johnson v. North Carolina; andNo. 99-7392. Lyons v. North Carolina. Gen. Ct. Justice,
Super. Ct. Div., Forsyth County, N. C. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-7157. Rasten v. Department of Labor. C. A. 1stCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 181 F. 3d 80.

No. 99-7158. Wilkerson v. Johnson, Director, Texas De-partment of Criminal Justice, Institutional Division.
C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 193 F. 3d 516.

No. 99-7161. Banks v. Grier. C. A. 11th Cir. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 174 F. 3d 204.

No. 99-7171. Brewer v. Johnson, Director, Texas Depart-ment of Criminal Justice, Institutional Division. C. A.
5th Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-7173. Chapman v. Angelone, Director, VirginiaDepartment of Corrections. C. A. 4th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 187 F. 3d 628.

No. 99-7174. Williams v. Hutchison. C. A. 11th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 199 F. 3d 442.

No. 99-7176. Willard v. West, Secretary of -eteransAffairs. C. A. Fed. Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below:
215 F. 3d 1349.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:23] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

1125ORDERS
January 18, 2000528 U. S.
No. 99-7179. Zimbovsky v. Massachusetts. C. A. 1st Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 181 F. 3d 81.

No. 99-7190. Soper v. Shanks, Warden, et al. C. A. 10thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 189 F. 3d 478.
No. 99-7195. Bacon v. North Carolina. Gen. Ct. Justice,Super. Ct. Div., Onslow County, N. C. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-7198. McEachin v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 201 F. 3d 438.
No. 99-7199. Polo v. United States. C. A. 2d Cir. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 189 F. 3d 462.
No. 99-7201. Nagib v. Conner, Warden, et al. C. A. 5thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 192 F. 3d 127.
No. 99-7219. Walker v. -irginia. Sup. Ct. Va. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 258 Va. 54, 515 S. E. 2d 565.
No. 99-7228. McGinnis v. Johnson, Director, Texas De-partment of Criminal Justice, Institutional Division.
C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 181 F. 3d 686.

No. 99-7230. Robbins v. Pennsylvania. Sup. Ct. Pa. Cer-tiorari denied.

No. 99-7232. Hill v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 193 F. 3d 522.
No. 99-7247. Johnson v. Thomas, Warden. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-7248. Moss v. Florida. Dist. Ct. App. Fla., 5th Dist.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 744 So. 2d 1012.
No. 99-7253. Patterson v. United States. C. A. 6th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-7254. Petta v. Louisiana. Ct. App. La., 5th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 729 So. 2d 29.
No. 99-7256. Phavong v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 191 F. 3d 462.
No. 99-7257. Sanders v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 194 F. 3d 1324.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:23] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
1126 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

January 18, 2000 528 U. S.

No. 99-7258. Marcinkowsky v. Union Carbide Corp. C. A.4th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 187 F. 3d 630.
No. 99-7259. Lopez-Gonzalez v. United States. C. A. 9thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 183 F. 3d 933.
No. 99-7260. Logan v. United States. C. A. 6th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 187 F. 3d 639.
No. 99-7267. Albers v. United States. C. A. 10th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 188 F. 3d 519.
No. 99-7271. Bowling v. United States. C. A. 7th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 175 F. 3d 1021.
No. 99-7272. Bryant v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 194 F. 3d 1323.
No. 99-7273. Chesnel v. Maine. Sup. Jud. Ct. Me. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 734 A. 2d 1131.
No. 99-7278. Cook v. United States. C. A. 6th Cir. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 181 F. 3d 105.
No. 99-7279. Raposo v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 198 F. 3d 262.
No. 99-7280. Rogers v. United States. C. A. 1st Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 180 F. 3d 349.
No. 99-7285. Lerro v. Board of Review, Department ofLabor, et al. Super. Ct. N. J., App. Div. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-7286. Kost v. Fanello, Warden. C. A. 3d Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 191 F. 3d 445.
No. 99-7287. McDonald v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 181 F. 3d 93.
No. 99-7289. Newman v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 178 F. 3d 1287.
No. 99-7292. Castellon v. United States. C. A. 10th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 189 F. 3d 479.
No. 99-7294. Sawyer v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 180 F. 3d 1319.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:23] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

1127ORDERS
January 18, 2000528 U. S.
No. 99-7295. Posey v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 189 F. 3d 469.

No. 99-7298. Turner v. United States. C. A. 6th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 188 F. 3d 510.
No. 99-7301. Palacio v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 187 F. 3d 650.
No. 99-7305. Anthony v. Department of Justice. C. A.Fed. Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 178 F. 3d 1312.
No. 99-7306. Mejia-Duarte v. United States. C. A. 9thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 191 F. 3d 461.
No. 99-7309. Trent v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 201 F. 3d 439.
No. 99-7311. White v. Godinez. C. A. 7th Cir. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 192 F. 3d 607.
No. 99-7312. Turks v. Illinois. App. Ct. Ill., 1st Dist. Cer-tiorari denied.
No. 99-7313. Perry v. United States. C. A. 8th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 181 F. 3d 896.
No. 99-7314. Roman v. United States;No. 99-7418. Sepulveda v. United States; and
No. 99-7421. Perry v. United States. C. A. 1st Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 181 F. 3d 183.

No. 99-7315. Stotts v. United States. C. A. 6th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 176 F. 3d 880.
No. 99-7317. Martinez v. United States. C. A. 2d Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 191 F. 3d 156.
No. 99-7318. Jones v. United States. C. A. 6th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 191 F. 3d 453.
No. 99-7320. Hernandez v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 185 F. 3d 307.
No. 99-7321. Fullerton v. United States. C. A. 6th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 187 F. 3d 587.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:23] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
1128 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

January 18, 2000 528 U. S.
No. 99-7323. Ivy v. United States. C. A. 8th Cir. Certio-rari denied.

No. 99-7325. Hunte v. United States. C. A. 3d Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 193 F. 3d 173.
No. 99-7326. Darity v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 181 F. 3d 92.
No. 99-7327. Figueroa v. United States. C. A. 3d Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 187 F. 3d 627.
No. 99-7329. Silo v. Shalala, Secretary of Health andHuman Services. C. A. 4th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported
below: 187 F. 3d 631.

No. 99-7331. Smith v. Bowersox, Superintendent, PotosiCorrectional Center. C. A. 8th Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-7334. Fleming v. United States. C. A. 6th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-7338. Hall v. Gammon, Superintendent, MoberlyCorrectional Center. C. A. 8th Cir. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-7341. Hamilton v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 178 F. 3d 1287.
No. 99-7344. Grayer v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-7346. Franklin v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 166 F. 3d 344.
No. 99-7356. Watts v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied.
No. 99-7359. Kratz v. United States. C. A. 7th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 179 F. 3d 1039.
No. 99-7365. Ray v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 183 F. 3d 1029 and 187 F. 3d 650.
No. 99-7375. Champion v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 192 F. 3d 125.
No. 99-7376. Cicero v. United States. C. A. 2d Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 198 F. 3d 233.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:23] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

1129ORDERS
January 18, 2000528 U. S.
No. 99-7377. -assell v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 187 F. 3d 633.

No. 99-7379. Martin v. Arkansas. Ct. App. Ark. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 67 Ark. App. xxiii.
No. 99-7382. Rowland v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 199 F. 3d 1329.
No. 99-7383. Padilla v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-7384. Smallwood v. United States. C. A. 7th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 188 F. 3d 905.
No. 99-7389. Mendez v. United States. C. A. 2d Cir. Cer-tiorari denied.
No. 99-7391. LeBlanc v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 201 F. 3d 445.
No. 99-7395. Pacheco-Camacho v. United States. C. A.9th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 199 F. 3d 1334.
No. 99-7410. Mobley v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 191 F. 3d 449.
No. 99-7411. Murphy v. United States. C. A. 3d Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 191 F. 3d 446.
No. 99-7413. Lundy v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 189 F. 3d 466.
No. 99-7414. LaFortune v. United States. C. A. 1st Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 192 F. 3d 157.
No. 99-7415. Pelaez Melo v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 188 F. 3d 504.
No. 99-7416. McGee v. United States. C. A. 10th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 194 F. 3d 1321.
No. 99-7420. Rodriguez v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 188 F. 3d 516.
No. 99-7422. Williams v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 185 F. 3d 945.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:23] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)
1130 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

January 18, 2000 528 U. S.
No. 99-7424. -asquez-Bernal v. United States. C. A. 5thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 197 F. 3d 169.

No. 99-7426. Belcher v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 187 F. 3d 631.
No. 99-7427. Brown v. United States; andNo. 99-7456. Banks v. United States. Ct. App. D. C. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 726 A. 2d 149.

No. 99-7428. Winfield v. Missouri. Sup. Ct. Mo. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 5 S. W. 3d 505.

No. 99-7432. Spence v. United States. C. A. 8th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 187 F. 3d 644.
No. 99-7433. Raulston v. United States. C. A. 2d Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-7434. Spry v. United States. C. A. 7th Cir. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 190 F. 3d 829.
No. 99-7435. Sena v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 196 F. 3d 1256.
No. 99-7442. Rivera v. United States. C. A. 2d Cir. Cer-tiorari denied.
No. 99-7443. Brown v. Money, Warden. C. A. 6th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-7446. Hooper v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 190 F. 3d 541.
No. 99-7448. Donaldson v. United States. C. A. 6th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 191 F. 3d 453.
No. 99-7449. Emery v. United States. C. A. 8th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 186 F. 3d 921.
No. 99-7451. Edwards et al. v. United States. C. A. 4thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 188 F. 3d 230.
No. 99-7452. Hernandez v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 196 F. 3d 1261.
No. 99-7453. Ferreras v. United States. C. A. 1st Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 192 F. 3d 5.

528ORD Unit: $PT1 [06-28-01 13:00:23] PGT: ORD1PP (Prelim. Print)

1131ORDERS
January 18, 2000528 U. S.
No. 99-7454. Gibbs v. United States. C. A. 3d Cir. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 190 F. 3d 188.

No. 99-7459. Chavez v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 196 F. 3d 1257.
No. 99-7460. Argueta v. United States. Ct. App. D. C.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-7467. Trobaugh v. United States. C. A. 8th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-296. Walker et al. v. City of Mesquite et al.C. A. 5th Cir. Motion of Lawyers' Committee for Civil Rights
Under Law for leave to file a brief as amicus curiae granted.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 169 F. 3d 973.

No. 99-416. Hanna v. Michigan. Sup. Ct. Mich. Certioraridenied. Justice O'Connor would grant certiorari. Reported
below: 458 Mich. 862, 587 N. W. 2d 637.

No. 99-557. Southeastern Pennsylvania TransportationAuthority v. Lanning et al. C. A. 3d Cir. Motion of Equal

Employment Advisory Council for leave to file a brief as amicuscuriae granted. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 181 F. 3d
478.

No. 99-795. Florida v. Ramirez. Sup. Ct. Fla. Motion ofrespondent for leave to proceed in forma pauperis granted. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 739 So. 2d 568.

No. 99-826. Pennsylvania v. Chmiel. Sup. Ct. Pa. Motionof respondent for leave to proceed in forma pauperis granted.

Certiorari denied. Reported below: 558 Pa. 478, 738 A. 2d 406.

No. 99-840. Sussman et al. v. American BroadcastingCos., Inc., dba KABC-T- Inc., et al. C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari denied. Justice Breyer took no part in the considerationor decision of this petition. Reported below: 186 F. 3d 1200.

No. 99-7105. Eaton v. Dakota County Housing Redevel-opment Authorities et al. C. A. 8th Cir. Certiorari before
judgment denied.

No. 99-7539 (99A558). Goodman v. Johnson, Director,Texas Department of Criminal Justice, Institutional Di-

528ORD Unit: $PT2 [06-23-01 20:25:42] PGT: ORDPP (Prelim. Print)
1132 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

January 18, 20, 21, 2000 528 U. S.
vision. C. A. 5th Cir. Application for stay of execution of sen-tence of death, presented to Justice Scalia, and by him referred
to the Court, denied. Certiorari denied. Justice Stevenswould grant the application for stay of execution.

Rehearing Denied

No. 99-525. Albert v. City of Sparks et al., ante, p. 968;No. 99-529. Talyansky v. Xerox Corp. et al., ante, p. 1020;

No. 99-533. Parker v. United States Air Force et al.,ante, p. 1020;
No. 99-583. Emerson v. Delta Airlines, Inc., et al., ante,p. 1022;
No. 99-5386. Wiley v. United States, ante, p. 1006;No. 99-5860. Gilbert v. Florida, ante, p. 970;
No. 99-6164. Romney v. Disessa et al., ante, p. 1007;No. 99-6462. Baker v. Toledo Board of Education, ante,
p. 1010; andNo. 99-6468. Roberts v. Ward, Warden, ante, p. 1050. Petitions for rehearing denied.

No. 98-1837. Diettrich v. Northwest Airlines, Inc., ante,p. 813; and

No. 98-9986. Dua v. United States et al., ante, p. 864. Mo-tions for leave to file petitions for rehearing denied.

January 20, 2000Certiorari Denied
No. 99-7845 (99A589). Hicks v. Johnson, Director, TexasDepartment of Criminal Justice, Institutional Division.
C. A. 5th Cir. Application for stay of execution of sentence ofdeath, presented to Justice Scalia, and by him referred to the
Court, denied. Certiorari denied. Justice Stevens and Jus-tice Ginsburg would grant the application for stay of execution.
Reported below: 186 F. 3d 634.

January 21, 2000Certiorari Granted
No. 98-829. Florida Department of Corrections v. Dick-son et al. C. A. 11th Cir. Certiorari granted. Brief of petitioner is to be filed with the Clerk and served upon opposing

528ORD Unit: $PT2 [06-23-01 20:25:42] PGT: ORDPP (Prelim. Print)

1133ORDERS
January 21, 24, 2000528 U. S.
counsel on or before 3 p.m., Friday, March 3, 2000. Brief of re-spondents is to be filed with the Clerk and served upon opposing
counsel on or before 3 p.m., Friday, March 31, 2000. A replybrief, if any, is to be filed with the Clerk and served upon opposing
counsel on or before 3 p.m., Monday, April 17, 2000. This Court'sRule 29.2 does not apply. Reported below: 139 F. 3d 1426.

No. 99-401. California Democratic Party et al. v. Jones,Secretary of State of California, et al. C. A. 9th Cir.
Motion of Republican Party of Alaska et al. for leave to file abrief as amici curiae granted. Certiorari granted. Brief of petitioners is to be filed with the Clerk and served upon opposingcounsel on or before 3 p.m., Friday, March 3, 2000. Brief of respondents is to be filed with the Clerk and served upon opposingcounsel on or before 3 p.m., Friday, March 31, 2000. A reply
brief, if any, is to be filed with the Clerk and served upon opposingcounsel on or before 3 p.m., Monday, April 17, 2000. This Court's
Rule 29.2 does not apply. Reported below: 169 F. 3d 646.

January 24, 2000
Certiorari Granted--Vacated and Remanded

No. 98-1427. Kramer, Warden v. Davis. C. A. 9th Cir.Motion of respondent for leave to proceed in forma pauperis

granted. Certiorari granted, judgment vacated, and case re-manded for further consideration in light of Smith v. Robbins,
ante, p. 259. Reported below: 167 F. 3d 494.

No. 99-451. Lewis, Warden, et al. v. Garcia Delgado.C. A. 9th Cir. Motion of respondent for leave to proceed in

forma pauperis granted. Certiorari granted, judgment vacated,and case remanded for further consideration in light of Smith v.
Robbins, ante, p. 259. Reported below: 181 F. 3d 1087.
Certiorari Dismissed

No. 99-6723. Bryan v. Moore, Secretary, Florida Depart-ment of Corrections. Sup. Ct. Fla. [Certiorari granted, ante,

p. 960.] In light of the representation by the State of Florida,through its Attorney General, that petitioner's "death sentence
will be carried out by lethal injection, unless petitioner affirma-tively elects death by electrocution" pursuant to the recent

528ORD Unit: $PT2 [06-23-01 20:25:42] PGT: ORDPP (Prelim. Print)
1134 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

January 24, 2000 528 U. S.
amendments to $ 922.10 of the Florida Statutes, the writ of certio-rari is dismissed as improvidently granted.

No. 99-7235. Bentley v. Burns et al. App. Div., Sup. Ct.N. Y., 1st Jud. Dept. Motion of petitioner for leave to proceed
in forma pauperis denied, and certiorari dismissed. See thisCourt's Rule 39.8. Reported below: 259 App. Div. 2d 1057, 685
N. Y. S. 2d 568.

No. 99-7402. Turner v. Virginia. C. A. D. C. Cir. Motionof petitioner for leave to proceed in forma pauperis denied, and

certiorari dismissed. See this Court's Rule 39.8. Reportedbelow: 203 F. 3d 53.

Miscellaneous Orders

No. 99M61. Collins v. Warner-Lambert Co. Motion to di-rect the Clerk to file petition for writ of certiorari out of time

denied.

No. 98-1167. Christensen et al. v. Harris County et al.C. A. 5th Cir. [Certiorari granted, ante, p. 926.] Motion of the

Solicitor General for leave to participate in oral argument as ami-cus curiae and for divided argument granted.

No. 98-1993. Florida v. J. L. Sup. Ct. Fla. [Certiorarigranted, ante, p. 963.] Motion of the Solicitor General for leave
to participate in oral argument as amicus curiae and for dividedargument granted.

No. 99-62. Santa Fe Independent School District v.Doe, Individually and as Next Friend for Her Minor
Children, et al. C. A. 5th Cir. [Certiorari granted, ante,p. 1002.] Motion of Students and Parents of Santa Fe Independent School District for leave to participate in oral argument asamicus curiae and for additional time for oral argument denied.

No. 99-312. Norfolk Southern Railway Co. v. Shanklin,Individually and as Next Friend of Shanklin. C. A. 6th
Cir. [Certiorari granted, ante, p. 949.] Motion of Texas et al.for leave to participate in oral argument as amici curiae and for
divided argument granted. Motion of the Solicitor General forleave to participate in oral argument as amicus curiae and for
divided argument granted.

528ORD Unit: $PT2 [06-23-01 20:25:42] PGT: ORDPP (Prelim. Print)

1135ORDERS
January 24, 2000528 U. S.
No. 99-6673. In re Tyler. Motion of petitioner for reconsid-eration of order denying leave to proceed in forma pauperis
[ante, p. 1017] denied.

No. 99-6705. Burgess v. Kitzhaber et al. Ct. App. Ore.Motion of petitioner for reconsideration of order denying leave to

proceed in forma pauperis [ante, p. 1042] denied.

No. 99-7178. Tsu et ux. v. Tracy Federal Bank et al.C. A. 9th Cir. Motion of petitioners for leave to proceed in forma

pauperis denied. Petitioners are allowed until February 14, 2000,within which to pay the docketing fee required by Rule 38(a) and
to submit a petition in compliance with Rule 33.1 of the Rules ofthis Court.

No. 99-7343. In re Ehnes; andNo. 99-7591. In re McNally. Petitions for writs of habeas
corpus denied.

No. 99-7133. In re Simon. Petition for writ of mandamusdenied.

No. 99-910. In re Tapia-Ortiz. Petition for writ of manda-mus and/or prohibition denied.
Certiorari Denied

No. 98-7579. Marroquin v. Prunty, Warden. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 163 F. 3d 606.

No. 98-8406. Barone v. Oregon. Sup. Ct. Ore. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 328 Ore. 68, 969 P. 2d 1013.
No. 98-8625. Wagenheim v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 166 F. 3d 352.
No. 98-8712. Sams v. United States. Ct. App. D. C. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 721 A. 2d 945.
No. 99-479. Ntakirutimana v. Reno, Attorney General,et al. C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 184
F. 3d 419.

No. 99-613. George et ux. v. City of Morro Bay et al.C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 177 F. 3d 885

and 185 F. 3d 866.

528ORD Unit: $PT2 [06-23-01 20:25:42] PGT: ORDPP (Prelim. Print)
1136 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

January 24, 2000 528 U. S.
No. 99-641. Steinhardt v. United States et al. C. A. 2dCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 184 F. 3d 131.

No. 99-671. Shelton v. Benefit Plan of Exxon Corpora-tion and Participating Affiliates et al. C. A. 5th Cir.
Certiorari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 915.

No. 99-680. Hsia v. United States. C. A. D. C. Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 176 F. 3d 517.

No. 99-731. Richards, Individually and as PersonalRepresentative of the Estate of Richards, Deceased v.
United States. C. A. 3d Cir. Certiorari denied. Reportedbelow: 176 F. 3d 652.

No. 99-747. Lewis v. Kmart Corp. C. A. 4th Cir. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 180 F. 3d 166.
No. 99-776. Giberna et ux. v. Carter et al. Super. Ct.N. J., App. Div. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-784. American Home Products Corp. v. Oregonet al. Ct. App. Ore. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 158
Ore. App. 292, 974 P. 2d 224, and 160 Ore. App. 19, 981 P. 2d 340.

No. 99-799. Washington v. Health Cost Controls of Illi-nois, Inc. C. A. 7th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below:

187 F. 3d 703.

No. 99-824. Boyd, Individually and as Personal Repre-sentative of the Estate of Boyd, Deceased v. Waterfront

Employers-I. L. A. Pension Plan, in the Ports of SouthCarolina. C. A. 4th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below:
182 F. 3d 907.

No. 99-833. Dain v. County of Ventura et al. Ct. App.Cal., 2d App. Dist. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-834. Conley v. Pitney Bowes, Inc., et al. C. A.8th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 176 F. 3d 1044.
No. 99-846. Piamba Cortes v. American Airlines, Inc.C. A. 11th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 177 F. 3d
1272.

No. 99-848. Blake et al. v. Wright. C. A. 6th Cir. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 179 F. 3d 1003.

528ORD Unit: $PT2 [06-23-01 20:25:42] PGT: ORDPP (Prelim. Print)

1137ORDERS
January 24, 2000528 U. S.
No. 99-849. v. Supreme Court of Guam
terest). C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below:191 F. 3d 1123.

No. 99-851. Sugarbaker v. SSM Healthcare, dba St.Marys Health Center. C. A. 8th Cir. Certiorari denied.
Reported below: 190 F. 3d 905.

No. 99-856. Lin v. Lin. Ct. App. N. C. Certiorari denied.Reported below: 128 N. C. App. 533, 496 S. E. 2d 849.

No. 99-857. Dayton Newspapers, Inc. v. General Truck-drivers, Chauffeurs, Warehousemen and Helpers, Local
Union No. 957. C. A. 6th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reportedbelow: 190 F. 3d 434.

No. 99-860. 31/32 Lexington Associates v. Tax AppealsTribunal of New York et al. App. Div., Sup. Ct. N. Y., 3d
Jud. Dept. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 258 App. Div. 2d684, 685 N. Y. S. 2d 329.

No. 99-865. Stinnett Enterprises, Inc. v. Dragon Tex-tile Mills. C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below:
192 F. 3d 127.

No. 99-868. Voit v. Kentucky. Cir. Ct. Jefferson County, Ky.Certiorari denied.

No. 99-871. Starr v. Pliler et al. C. A. 9th Cir. Certio-rari denied.
No. 99-872. Hill v. Kansas City Area TransportationAuthority. C. A. 8th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below:
181 F. 3d 891.

No. 99-873. Tyler v. O'Neill et al. C. A. 3d Cir. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 189 F. 3d 465.

No. 99 - 880. International Bank of Commerce-Brownsville v. International Energy Development Corp.
Ct. App. Tex., 13th Dist. Certiorari denied. Reported below:981 S. W. 2d 38.

No. 99-883. Bradley et al. v. Kelly, Director, ArizonaHealth Care Cost Containment System, et al. Ct. App.
Ariz. Certiorari denied.

528ORD Unit: $PT2 [06-23-01 20:25:42] PGT: ORDPP (Prelim. Print)
1138 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

January 24, 2000 528 U. S.
No. 99-884. Leverette v. Louisville Ladder Co. C. A.5th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 183 F. 3d 339.

No. 99-885. Yu v. California. Ct. App. Cal., 1st App. Dist.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-886. Hempstead Town Board et al. v. Goosbyet al. C. A. 2d Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 180
F. 3d 476.

No. 99-888. Davis v. Township of Hillside et al. C. A.3d Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 190 F. 3d 167.

No. 99-890. Columbia Falls Aluminum Co. et al. v. Ad-ministrator, Bonneville Power Administration. C. A. 9th
Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 175 F. 3d 1156.

No. 99-892. Mannatt et al. v. United States et al. C. A.9th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 185 F. 3d 868.

No. 99-894. Hartey v. Vaughn, Superintendent, StateCorrectional Institution at Graterford, et al. C. A. 3d
Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 186 F. 3d 367.

No. 99-895. Loomis Fargo & Co. v. Keeley et al. C. A.3d Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 183 F. 3d 257.

No. 99-900. Espy v. Borough of Roaring Spring. Commw.Ct. Pa. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 718 A. 2d 918.
No. 99-904. New Valley Corp. v. Corporate Property As-sociates 2 et al. C. A. 3d Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported
below: 181 F. 3d 517.

No. 99-918. East Lake Methodist Episcopal Church,Inc., et al. v. Trustees of the Peninsula-Delaware Annual Conference of the United Methodist Church, Inc.,et al. Sup. Ct. Del. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 731
A. 2d 798.

No. 99-923. Bright v. Norshipco et al. C. A. 4th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 178 F. 3d 1282.

No. 99-926. Lovell v. Hightower, Claiborne Parish As-sessor, et al. C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported
below: 193 F. 3d 520.

528ORD Unit: $PT2 [06-23-01 20:25:42] PGT: ORDPP (Prelim. Print)

1139ORDERS
January 24, 2000528 U. S.
No. 99-928. Cosmair, Inc. v. Michigan Department of theTreasury. Ct. App. Mich. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-931. Crefisa Inc. v. Washington Mutual Bank,F. A., et al. C. A. 1st Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below:
186 F. 3d 46.

No. 99-952. Murlin-Gardner v. Pennsylvania Depart-ment of Revenue. C. A. 3d Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported

below: 191 F. 3d 445.

No. 99-955. Classic Corp. v. American National Water-mattress Corp. et al. C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 191 F. 3d 459.

No. 99-976. Wilbanks v. A. H. Robbins Co., Inc. C. A. 5thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 196 F. 3d 1257.

No. 99-979. Wiesner v. Willkie, Farr & Gallagher et al.C. A. D. C. Cir. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-1008. Gehl Co. v. Kinser, Heir-at-Law and Per-sonal Representative of the Estate of Kinser, Deceased.
C. A. 10th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 184 F. 3d1259.

No. 99-1023. Kalan v. Bockhorst, Ehrlich & Kaminskee.Ct. App. Wis. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 230 Wis. 2d
746, 604 N. W. 2d 33.

No. 99-1028. Costa v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 189 F. 3d 481.

No. 99-1033. Bornfield v. United States. C. A. 10th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 184 F. 3d 1144.
No. 99-1050. Jasin v. United States. C. A. 3d Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 191 F. 3d 446.
No. 99-1057. Drucker v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 198 F. 3d 261.
No. 99-1061. Fogg v. United States. C. A. Armed Forces.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 52 M. J. 144.
No. 99-1080. Wiener v. United States. C. A. 3d Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 191 F. 3d 446.

528ORD Unit: $PT2 [06-23-01 20:25:42] PGT: ORDPP (Prelim. Print)
1140 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

January 24, 2000 528 U. S.
No. 99-6401. Taylor v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied.

No. 99-6515. Cocke v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 184 F. 3d 818.
No. 99-6572. Erickson v. Wisconsin. Sup. Ct. Wis. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 227 Wis. 2d 758, 596 N. W. 2d 749.
No. 99-6690. Davis v. United States. C. A. D. C. Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 141 F. 3d 1202.
No. 99-6898. Hunter v. Bowersox, Superintendent, Po-tosi Correctional Center. C. A. 8th Cir. Certiorari denied.
Reported below: 172 F. 3d 1016.

No. 99-7119. Ports v. Dean, Superintendent, Lake Cor-rectional Institution, et al. C. A. 11th Cir. Certiorari

denied.

No. 99-7130. Horton v. McCaughtry, Warden. C. A. 7thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 175 F. 3d 1019.

No. 99-7135. Oswald v. Pitcher, Warden. C. A. 6th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-7142. Johnson v. Reynolds, Warden, et al. C. A.10th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 189 F. 3d 477.
No. 99-7147. Moody v. McCrowskey et al. C. A. 4th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 173 F. 3d 851.
No. 99-7148. Kanazeh v. Sandground, Barondess & Westet al. Sup. Ct. Va. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-7153. Korotka v. Sondalle, Warden. C. A. 7th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-7156. Rabah v. Barbo, Administrator, NorthernState Prison. C. A. 3d Cir. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-7164. Smith v. Cain, Warden. C. A. 5th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied.
No. 99-7165. Benn v. Louisiana. Sup. Ct. La. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 735 So. 2d 629.

528ORD Unit: $PT2 [06-23-01 20:25:42] PGT: ORDPP (Prelim. Print)

1141ORDERS
January 24, 2000528 U. S.
No. 99-7166. Brown v. Carey, Warden, et al. C. A. 9thCir. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-7168. Winward v. Carr et al. (three judgments).C. A. 3d Cir. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-7170. Cooper v. Moore, Secretary, Florida De-partment of Corrections. Sup. Ct. Fla. Certiorari denied.
Reported below: 735 So. 2d 1284.

No. 99-7175. Vargas v. Linahan, Warden. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied.

No. 99-7184. WuChang et al. v. City of Redwood Cityet al. C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 185
F. 3d 872.

No. 99-7196. Boysiewick v. Schriro, Director, MissouriDepartment of Corrections, et al. C. A. 8th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 179 F. 3d 616.

No. 99-7202. Lee et al. v. Minnesota. Ct. App. Minn.Certiorari denied.

No. 99-7217. Weatherspoon v. United States;No. 99-7218. Wallace v. United States; and
No. 99-7296. Williams v. United States. C. A. 3d Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 191 F. 3d 446.

No. 99-7231. Burgess v. Cook, Director, Oregon Depart-ment of Corrections, et al. Sup. Ct. Ore. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-7255. Seaworth v. Commissioner of Internal Rev-enue. C. A. 8th Cir. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-7261. Long v. Dow Chemical Co., Inc., et al. C. A.2d Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 189 F. 3d 461.
No. 99-7262. Thornton v. Scardelletti et al. C. A. 4thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 201 F. 3d 437.
No. 99-7266. Clark v. AT Entertainment, Inc., et al.C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-7277. Allah v. Stachelek et al. C. A. 3d Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 178 F. 3d 1278.

528ORD Unit: $PT2 [06-23-01 20:25:42] PGT: ORDPP (Prelim. Print)
1142 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

January 24, 2000 528 U. S.
No. 99-7330. Swinson v. Angelone, Director, VirginiaDepartment of Corrections. C. A. 4th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 187 F. 3d 631.

No. 99-7348. Krueger v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 186 F. 3d 1136.

No. 99-7350. Vaile v. Walter, Superintendent, AirwayHeights Corrections Center. C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari
denied.

No. 99-7361. Harrold v. Nebraska. Sup. Ct. Neb. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 256 Neb. 829, 593 N. W. 2d 299.

No. 99-7431. Jared W. v. California. Ct. App. Cal., 6thApp. Dist. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-7461. Harris v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 196 F. 3d 1257.
No. 99-7464. Moreno v. United States. C. A. 2d Cir. Cer-tiorari denied.
No. 99-7471. LaFond v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 198 F. 3d 238.
No. 99-7480. Taylor, aka Bryant v. United States. C. A.11th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 189 F. 3d 484.
No. 99-7482. Armetta v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 191 F. 3d 448.
No. 99-7483. Allen v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 196 F. 3d 1258.
No. 99-7484. Campbell v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 194 F. 3d 1305.
No. 99-7491. Campbell v. United States. C. A. 6th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 181 F. 3d 100.
No. 99-7493. Clemmons v. O'Brien, Warden. C. A. 7th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 191 F. 3d 455.
No. 99-7501. Lacey v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 196 F. 3d 1257.

528ORD Unit: $PT2 [06-23-01 20:25:42] PGT: ORDPP (Prelim. Print)

1143ORDERS
January 24, 2000528 U. S.
No. 99-7503. Jimenez-Arreguin v. United States. C. A.5th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 199 F. 3d 439.

No. 99-7506. Lee v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir. Certio-rari denied.
No. 99-7508. Nickelson v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 188 F. 3d 516.
No. 99-7513. McColl v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 166 F. 3d 335.
No. 99-7514. Kelly v. United States. C. A. 3d Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 189 F. 3d 465.
No. 99-7516. James v. Bowersox, Superintendent, PotosiCorrectional Center. C. A. 8th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 187 F. 3d 866.

No. 99-7517. Simmons v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied.

No. 99-7519. Smith v. United States. C. A. 10th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 194 F. 3d 1321.
No. 99-7520. Valadez-Camarena v. United States. C. A.10th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 194 F. 3d 1321.
No. 99-7521. Cuevas-Zavala v. United States. C. A. 9thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 194 F. 3d 1318.
No. 99-7530. Jones v. Wisconsin. Sup. Ct. Wis. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 226 Wis. 2d 565, 594 N. W. 2d 738.
No. 99-7531. Moreno v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-7535. Coleman v. United States. C. A. 6th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 191 F. 3d 454.
No. 99-7540. Hatcher, aka Raymond v. United States.C. A. 11th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 190 F. 3d
541.

No. 99-7541. Drake v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 194 F. 3d 1306.

528ORD Unit: $PT2 [06-23-01 20:25:42] PGT: ORDPP (Prelim. Print)
1144 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

January 24, 2000 528 U. S.
No. 99-7543. Gonzalez v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 183 F. 3d 1315.

No. 99-7544. DuCharme v. United States. C. A. 2d Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 193 F. 3d 559.
No. 99-7546. Hall v. United States (two judgments). C. A.6th Cir. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-7548. Dawodu v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 194 F. 3d 1305.
No. 99-7549. Gutierrez-Orozco v. United States. C. A.5th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 191 F. 3d 578.
No. 99-7550. Johnson v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 194 F. 3d 1306.
No. 99-7551. Miller v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 191 F. 3d 449.
No. 99-7552. McCoy v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 199 F. 3d 444.
No. 99-7555. Ferebe v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 194 F. 3d 1306.
No. 99-7556. Goodley v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 196 F. 3d 1258.
No. 99-7563. Chacon v. United States. C. A. 10th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 194 F. 3d 1321.
No. 99-7565. Banks v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 191 F. 3d 448.
No. 99-7569. Stotts v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 911.
No. 99-7573. Trujillo Martinez v. United States. C. A.9th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 188 F. 3d 516.
No. 99-7574. Roach v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 181 F. 3d 94.
No. 99-449. Okunieff v. Skomorossky et al. C. A. 2d Cir.Motion of National Association for Rights Protection and Advo528ORD Unit: $PT2 [06-23-01 20:25:42] PGT: ORDPP (Prelim. Print)

1145ORDERS
January 24, 2000528 U. S.
cacy et al. for leave to file a brief as amici curiae granted. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 166 F. 3d 507.

No. 99-864. Ackerman et al. v. Coca-Cola Enterprises,Inc. C. A. 10th Cir. Certiorari denied. Justice Breyer took
no part in the consideration or decision of this petition. Reportedbelow: 179 F. 3d 1260.

No. 99-878. Crawford et ux. v. Signet Bank et al. C. A.D. C. Cir. Certiorari denied. The Chief Justice took no part
in the consideration or decision of this petition. Reported below:179 F. 3d 926.

No. 99-7425. Walker v. Clinton, President of the UnitedStates, et al. C. A. D. C. Cir. Certiorari before judgment
denied.

No. 99-7701 (99A555). Hughes v. Johnson, Director, TexasDepartment of Criminal Justice, Institutional Division.

C. A. 5th Cir. Application for stay of execution of sentence ofdeath, presented to Justice Scalia, and by him referred to the
Court, denied. Certiorari denied. Justice Stevens and Jus-tice Ginsburg would grant the application for stay of execution.
Reported below: 191 F. 3d 607.
Rehearing Denied

No. 98-9450. Franklin v. Goodwin, Warden, et al., ante,p. 835;

No. 98-9925. Bey et al. v. City of New York Departmentof Correction et al., ante, p. 860;
No. 99-5518. Johnson v. United States, ante, p. 909;No. 99-5833. Spears v. Marsh et al., ante, p. 955;
No. 99-5864. Guanipa v. United States, ante, p. 919;No. 99-6037. Lee v. Georgia, ante, p. 1006;
No. 99-6125. Zuker v. Andrews, ante, p. 1048;No. 99-6453. Wessinger v. Louisiana, ante, p. 1050;
No. 99-6490. Ceglarek v. John Crane, Inc., ante, p. 1051;and
No. 99-6640. Lineberger v. United States, ante, p. 1028.Petitions for rehearing denied.

No. 98-9583. Welch v. Lambert, Superintendent, Wash-ington State Penitentiary, ante, p. 840. Motion for leave to
file petition for rehearing denied.

528ORD Unit: $PT2 [06-23-01 20:25:42] PGT: ORDPP (Prelim. Print)
1146 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

January 25, 27, February 3, 7, 2000 528 U. S.

January 25, 2000Certiorari Granted

No. 99-423. Alsbrook v. Arkansas et al. C. A. 8th Cir.Certiorari granted limited to Question 1 presented by the petition, case consolidated with No. 98-829, Florida Department ofCorrections v. Dickson et al. [certiorari granted, ante, p. 1132],
and a total of one hour allotted for oral argument. Brief of peti-tioner is to be filed with the Clerk and served upon opposing
counsel on or before 3 p.m., Friday, March 3, 2000. Brief of re-spondents is to be filed with the Clerk and served upon opposing
counsel on or before 3 p.m., Friday, March 31, 2000. A replybrief, if any, is to be filed with the Clerk and served upon opposing
counsel on or before 3 p.m., Monday, April 17, 2000. This Court'sRule 29.2 does not apply. Reported below: 184 F. 3d 999.

Certiorari Denied

No. 99-7870 (99A599). McGinnis v. Texas. Ct. Crim. App.Tex. Application for stay of execution of sentence of death, presented to Justice Scalia, and by him referred to the Court,denied. Certiorari denied.

January 27, 2000Miscellaneous Order
No. 99-7902 (99A602). In re Moreland. Application forstay of execution of sentence of death, presented to Justice
Scalia, and by him referred to the Court, denied. Petition forwrit of habeas corpus denied.

February 3, 2000Miscellaneous Order
No. 99A625 (99-8044). In re Tarver. Application for stayof execution of sentence of death, presented to Justice Kennedy,
and by him referred to the Court, granted pending further orderof the Court.

February 7, 2000
Dismissal Under Rule 46

No. 99-145. South Carolina Law Enforcement Divisionv. Glover. C. A. 4th Cir. Certiorari dismissed under this

Court's Rule 46.1. Reported below: 170 F. 3d 411.

528ORD Unit: $PT2 [06-23-01 20:25:42] PGT: ORDPP (Prelim. Print)

1147ORDERS
February 9, 10, 15, 16, 18, 2000528 U. S.

February 9, 2000Certiorari Denied

No. 99-8054 (99A626). Roberts v. Gibson, Warden. C. A.10th Cir. Application for stay of execution of sentence of death,
presented to Justice Breyer, and by him referred to the Court,denied. Certiorari denied.

February 10, 2000
Dismissal Under Rule 46

No. 99-908. Martini v. Federal National Mortgage As-sociation et al.; and

No. 99-1100. Federal National Mortgage Associationet al. v. Martini. C. A. D. C. Cir. Certiorari dismissed under
this Court's Rule 46.1. Reported below: 178 F. 3d 1336.

February 15, 2000Certiorari Denied
No. 99-8169 (99A646). Chaney v. Arizona. Super. Ct. Ariz.,Maricopa County. Application for stay of execution of sentence
of death, presented to Justice O'Connor, and by her referredto the Court, denied. Certiorari denied.

February 16, 2000
Miscellaneous Order

No. 99-8242 (99A659). In re Chaney. Application for stayof execution of sentence of death, presented to Justice O'Connor, and by her referred to the Court, denied. Petition for writof habeas corpus denied.

February 18, 2000
Miscellaneous Orders

No. 8, Orig. Arizona v. California et al. Motion of WestBank Homeowners Association for leave to file a brief as amicus

curiae granted. Exceptions to the Report of the Special Masterare set for oral argument in due course. [For earlier order
herein, see, e. g., ante, p. 803.]

528ORD Unit: $PT2 [06-23-01 20:25:42] PGT: ORDPP (Prelim. Print)
1148 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

February 18, 22, 2000 528 U. S.
No. 99-312. Norfolk Southern Railway Co. v. Shanklin,Individually and as Next Friend of Shanklin. C. A. 6th
Cir. [Certiorari granted, ante, p. 949.] Motion of Kansas forleave to participate in oral argument as amicus curiae denied.

Certiorari Denied

No. 99-6675. Sims v. Moore, Secretary, Florida Depart-ment of Corrections. Sup. Ct. Fla. In light of the recent

amendments to $ 922.10 of the Florida Statutes (providing thatcapital prisoners will be executed by lethal injection unless they
affirmatively elect execution by electrocution), and the FloridaSupreme Court's recent conclusion that those amendments do not
violate Art. X, $ 9, of the Florida Constitution, Sims v. State, 754So. 2d 657 (2000), certiorari denied. Reported below: 744 So.
2d 456.

February 22, 2000
Certiorari Granted--Vacated and Remanded

No. 98-978. Bray v. Shrink Missouri Government PACet al. C. A. 8th Cir. Certiorari granted, judgment vacated,

and case remanded for further consideration in light of Nixon v.Shrink Missouri Government PAC, ante, p. 377. Reported
below: 161 F. 3d 519.
Certiorari Dismissed

No. 99-7396. Pizzo v. Louisiana. Ct. App. La., 5th Cir. Mo-tion of petitioner for leave to proceed in forma pauperis denied,

and certiorari dismissed. See this Court's Rule 39.8.

No. 99-7476. Steele v. California Department of SocialServices et al. C. A. 9th Cir. Motion of petitioner for leave

to proceed in forma pauperis denied, and certiorari dismissed.See this Court's Rule 39.8. Reported below: 185 F. 3d 869.

No. 99-7492. Abidekun v.C. A. 2d Cir. Motion of petitioner for leave to proceed in forma
pauperis denied, and certiorari dismissed. See this Court'sRule 39.8.

No. 99-7528. Omoike v. Louisiana State University Boardof Supervisors et al. C. A. 5th Cir. Motion of petitioner for
leave to proceed in forma pauperis denied, and certiorari dis528ORD Unit: $PT2 [06-23-01 20:25:42] PGT: ORDPP (Prelim. Print)

1149ORDERS
February 22, 2000528 U. S.
missed. See this Court's Rule 39.8. Reported below: 199 F. 3d438.

No. 99-7748. Burgess v. Montana. Sup. Ct. Mont. Motionof petitioner for leave to proceed in forma pauperis denied, and
certiorari dismissed. See this Court's Rule 39.8.
Miscellaneous Orders

No. 99A515. Askanazi v. United States. C. A. 6th Cir.Application for stay, addressed to Justice Ginsburg and referred to the Court, denied.

No. D-2101. In re Disbarment of Jacobs. Disbarmententered. [For earlier order herein, see ante, p. 801.]

No. D-2111. In re Disbarment of Kramer. Disbarmententered. [For earlier order herein, see ante, p. 948.]
No. D-2113. In re Disbarment of Sumner. Disbarmententered. [For earlier order herein, see ante, p. 961.]
No. D-2114. In re Disbarment of Beem. Disbarmententered. [For earlier order herein, see ante, p. 961.]
No. D-2116. In re Disbarment of Cato. Disbarmententered. [For earlier order herein, see ante, p. 983.]
No. D-2122. In re Disbarment of Arnold. Disbarmententered. [For earlier order herein, see ante, p. 1016.]
No. D-2123. In re Disbarment of Romm. Disbarmententered. [For earlier order herein, see ante, p. 1042.]
No. D-2124. In re Disbarment of Kinane. Disbarmententered. [For earlier order herein, see ante, p. 1043.]
No. D-2125. In re Disbarment of Tesseyman. Disbar-ment entered. [For earlier order herein, see ante, p. 1043.]
No. D-2126. In re Disbarment of Hanbery. Disbarmententered. [For earlier order herein, see ante, p. 1043.]
No. D-2128. In re Disbarment of Jackson. Disbarmententered. [For earlier order herein, see ante, p. 1043.]
No. D-2130. In re Disbarment of Malerba. Robert F.Malerba, of Huntington, N. Y., having requested to resign as a

528ORD Unit: $PT2 [06-23-01 20:25:42] PGT: ORDPP (Prelim. Print)
1150 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

February 22, 2000 528 U. S.
member of the Bar of this Court, it is ordered that his name bestricken from the roll of attorneys admitted to the practice of law
before this Court. The rule to show cause, issued on January 10,2000 [ante, p. 1071], is discharged.

No. D-2140. In re Disbarment of Moore. Franklin KeithPayne Moore, of Puerto Vallarta, Mexico, is suspended from the
practice of law in this Court, and a rule will issue, returnablewithin 40 days, requiring him to show cause why he should not
be disbarred from the practice of law in this Court.

No. D-2141. In re Disbarment of McGill. Michael E. Mc-Gill, of Toledo, Ohio, is suspended from the practice of law in this

Court, and a rule will issue, returnable within 40 days, requiringhim to show cause why he should not be disbarred from the
practice of law in this Court.

No. D-2142. In re Disbarment of Glazer. Jack D. Glazer,of Lindenhurst, N. Y., is suspended from the practice of law in

this Court, and a rule will issue, returnable within 40 days, re-quiring him to show cause why he should not be disbarred from
the practice of law in this Court.

No. D-2143. In re Disbarment of Spina. Nicholas M.Spina, of Melrose Park, Ill., is suspended from the practice of law

in this Court, and a rule will issue, returnable within 40 days,requiring him to show cause why he should not be disbarred from
the practice of law in this Court.

No. D-2144. In re Disbarment of Berman. John R. Ber-man, of Waltham, Mass., is suspended from the practice of law in

this Court, and a rule will issue, returnable within 40 days, re-quiring him to show cause why he should not be disbarred from
the practice of law in this Court.

No. D-2145. In re Disbarment of Mainini. Alfred J. Mai-nini, of Framingham, Mass., is suspended from the practice of law

in this Court, and a rule will issue, returnable within 40 days,requiring him to show cause why he should not be disbarred from
the practice of law in this Court.

No. D-2146. In re Disbarment of Scully. Roger TehanScully, of Rockville, Md., is suspended from the practice of law in

this Court, and a rule will issue, returnable within 40 days, re528ORD Unit: $PT2 [06-23-01 20:25:42] PGT: ORDPP (Prelim. Print)

1151ORDERS
February 22, 2000528 U. S.
quiring him to show cause why he should not be disbarred fromthe practice of law in this Court.

No. D-2147. In re Disbarment of Carlson. Glenn HerbertCarlson, of Washington, D. C., is suspended from the practice of
law in this Court, and a rule will issue, returnable within 40 days,requiring him to show cause why he should not be disbarred from
the practice of law in this Court.

No. 99M62. Brown v. United States;No. 99M64. Stewart v. Whitley, Warden;

No. 99M65. LaFevers v. Ward, Warden, et al.;No. 99M66. Williams v. Board of Education of Montgomery County et al.; andNo. 99M67. Hing Chun Ting v. College of Podiatric Medicine and Surgery et al. Motions to direct the Clerk to filepetitions for writs of certiorari out of time denied.

No. 99M63. Moore v. Texas. Motion for leave to proceed informa pauperis without an affidavit of indigency executed by
petitioner granted.

No. 126, Orig. Kansas v. Nebraska et al. First Report ofthe Special Master received and ordered filed. Exceptions to the

Report, with supporting briefs, may be filed by the parties within45 days. Replies, if any, with supporting briefs may be filed
within 30 days. [For earlier order herein, see, e. g., ante, p. 1001.]

No. 99-138. Troxel et vir v. Granville. Sup. Ct. Wash.[Certiorari granted, 527 U. S. 1069.] Motion of Debra Hein for

leave to file a brief as amicus curiae granted.

No. 99-387. Raleigh, Chapter 7 Trustee for the Estateof Stoecker v. Illinois Department of Revenue. C. A. 7th

Cir. [Certiorari granted, ante, p. 1068.] Motion of the partiesto dispense with printing the joint appendix granted.

No. 99-905. Armstrong Surgical Center, Inc. v. Arm-strong County Memorial Hospital et al. C. A. 3d Cir. The
Solicitor General is invited to file a brief in this case expressingthe views of the United States.

No. 99- 6940. Turner v. Internal Revenue Service.C. A. 4th Cir. Motion of petitioner for reconsideration of order
denying leave to proceed in forma pauperis [ante, p. 1069] denied.

528ORD Unit: $PT2 [06-23-01 20:25:42] PGT: ORDPP (Prelim. Print)
1152 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

February 22, 2000 528 U. S.
No. 99-7000. Ramdass v. Angelone, Director, VirginiaDepartment of Corrections. C. A. 4th Cir. [Certiorari
granted, ante, p. 1068.] Motion for appointment of counselgranted, and it is ordered that F. Nash Bilisoly, Esq., of Norfolk,
Va., be appointed to serve as counsel for petitioner in this case.

No. 99-7406. Williams v. City of Atlanta. C. A. 11th Cir.Motion of petitioner for leave to proceed in forma pauperis denied. Petitioner is allowed until March 14, 2000, within which topay the docketing fee required by Rule 38(a) and to submit a
petition in compliance with Rule 33.1 of the Rules of this Court.

No. 99-1222. In re Hirschfeld;No. 99-7373. In re Brown;

No. 99-7649. In re Gullion;No. 99-7794. In re Melendez;
No. 99-7830. In re Saleem;No. 99-7842. In re McSheffrey;
No. 99-7848. In re Vinson;No. 99-7865. In re Robinson; and
No. 99-7929. In re Thompson. Petitions for writs of habeascorpus denied.

No. 99-8044. In re Tarver. Petition for writ of habeas cor-pus denied. Justice Stevens, Justice Souter, Justice Ginsburg, and Justice Breyer would set the case for oral argument.Order of this Court heretofore entered February 3, 2000, vacated,
and application for stay of execution of sentence of death denied.

No. 99-8335 (99A678). In re Sims. Application for stay ofexecution of sentence of death, presented to Justice Kennedy,

and by him referred to the Court, denied. Petition for writ ofhabeas corpus denied.

No. 99-953. In re Ames;No. 99-7227. In re Woodard;
No. 99-7518. In re Siegel; andNo. 99-7659. In re Garcia-Beltran. Petitions for writs of
mandamus denied.

No. 99-7405. In re Traylor; andNo. 99-7661. In re Genco. Petitions for writs of mandamus

and/or prohibition denied.

528ORD Unit: $PT2 [06-23-01 20:25:42] PGT: ORDPP (Prelim. Print)

1153ORDERS
February 22, 2000528 U. S.
Certiorari Granted

No. 99-1030. City of Indianapolis et al. v. Edmond et al.C. A. 7th Cir. Certiorari granted. Reported below: 183 F. 3d

659.

No. 99-901. Brentwood Academy v. Tennessee Second-ary School Athletic Assn. et al. C. A. 6th Cir. Motion of

Memphis University School et al. for leave to file a brief as amicicuriae granted. Motion of petitioner for summary reversal denied. Certiorari granted. Reported below: 180 F. 3d 758.
Certiorari Denied

No. 98-1887. North Carolina Right to Life, Inc., et al.v. Bartlett, Executive Secretary-Director, North Carolina Board of Elections, et al. C. A. 4th Cir. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 168 F. 3d 705.

No. 98-1976. Fireman v. United States. C. A. 1st Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-128. Alaska Civil Liberties Union v. Alaska.Sup. Ct. Alaska. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 978 P. 2d
597.

No. 99-418. LaGuerre et al. v. Reno, Attorney General,et al. C. A. 7th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 164

F. 3d 1035.

No. 99-570. Lawrence Aviation Industries, Inc. v. Her-man, Secretary of Labor, et al. C. A. 2d Cir. Certiorari

denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 900.

No. 99-629. White v. Lachance, Director, Office of Per-sonnel Management. C. A. Fed. Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 174 F. 3d 1378.

No. 99-672. Blankenship v. McDonald, Judge, UnitedStates District Court for the Eastern District of Washington, et al. C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reportedbelow: 176 F. 3d 1192.

No. 99-694. Johnson, dba F. C. Johnson Construction Co.v. Herman, Secretary of Labor, et al. C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 914.

528ORD Unit: $PT2 [06-23-01 20:25:42] PGT: ORDPP (Prelim. Print)
1154 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

February 22, 2000 528 U. S.
No. 99-719. Frederick et al. v. United States. C. A. 7thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 496.

No. 99-739. Laborers' International Union of NorthAmerica v. Alexander et al. C. A. 6th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 177 F. 3d 394.

No. 99-742. Binder et ux. v. Wilson et al. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 184 F. 3d 1059.

No. 99-746. Lehman v. Maine. Sup. Jud. Ct. Me. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 736 A. 2d 256.
No. 99-783. Buchanan v. Washington; andNo. 99-964. Washington v. Buchanan. Sup. Ct. Wash.
Certiorari denied. Reported below: 138 Wash. 2d 186, 978 P. 2d1070.

No. 99-810. United Transportation Union, Local 60,et al. v. Ruocchio et al. C. A. 3d Cir. Certiorari denied.
Reported below: 181 F. 3d 376.

No. 99-815. Chimblo et al. v. Commissioner of InternalRevenue. C. A. 2d Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below:

177 F. 3d 119.

No. 99-829. Cervantes v. Jones; andNo. 99-1044. Jones v. Cervantes. C. A. 7th Cir. Certiorari

denied. Reported below: 188 F. 3d 805.

No. 99-836. Barfield v. Ormet Primary Aluminum Corp.C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 189 F. 3d 467.

No. 99-841. Primeaux, fka LaMont, fka Bad Wound v.United States. C. A. 8th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported
below: 181 F. 3d 876.

No. 99-858. City of Anaheim v. California Credit UnionLeague et al. C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported

below: 190 F. 3d 997.

No. 99-862. Welch v. California. Sup. Ct. Cal. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 20 Cal. 4th 701, 976 P. 2d 754.

No. 99-867. Kooritzky v. Herman, Secretary of Labor.C. A. D. C. Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 178 F. 3d
1315.

528ORD Unit: $PT2 [06-23-01 20:25:42] PGT: ORDPP (Prelim. Print)

1155ORDERS
February 22, 2000528 U. S.
No. 99-893. Statland et ux. v. United States. C. A. 7thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 178 F. 3d 465.

No. 99-896. Crump v. Best Temps. Sup. Ct. Del. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 748 A. 2d 406.
No. 99-906. Wilkinson et al. v. Russell et al. C. A. 2dCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 89.
No. 99-907. Ringo v. Washington State Liquor ControlBoard. Ct. App. Wash. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-912. Kline et al. v. City of Kansas City. C. A.8th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 175 F. 3d 660.
No. 99-913. Arctic Alaska Fisheries Corp. v. Hoddevik.Ct. App. Wash. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 94 Wash.
App. 268, 970 P. 2d 828.

No. 99-914. Kellenberg Memorial High School et al. v.Section VIII of the New York State Public High School

Athletic Assn., Inc. App. Div., Sup. Ct. N. Y., 2d Jud. Dept.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 255 App. Div. 2d 320, 679
N. Y. S. 2d 660.

No. 99-917. Pinkley Inc., t/a "Bradley Books" v. Serva-cek et al. C. A. 4th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below:

191 F. 3d 394.

No. 99-921. Howard v. Oakwood Homes Corp. Ct. App.N. C. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 134 N. C. App. 116,

516 S. E. 2d 879.

No. 99-924. Fields v. Pool Co. C. A. 5th Cir. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 353.

No. 99-925. Interstellar Starship Services, Ltd., et al.v. Epix, Inc. C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported
below: 184 F. 3d 1107.

No. 99-927. Ross et al. v. Alaska et al. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 189 F. 3d 1107.

No. 99-932. Stearns et al. v. City of Gig Harbor; and GigHarbor Marina, Inc., dba Arabella's Landing, et al. v.
City of Gig Harbor. Ct. App. Wash. Certiorari denied. Re528ORD Unit: $PT2 [06-23-01 20:25:42] PGT: ORDPP (Prelim. Print)
1156 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

February 22, 2000 528 U. S.
ported below: 94 Wash. App. 1051 (first judgment); 94 Wash. App.789, 973 P. 2d 1081 (second judgment).

No. 99-933. Hatley v. McCarter. Ct. App. Tex., 5th Dist.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-934. Hugh Chalmers Motors, Inc. v. Gulf StatesToyota, Inc. C. A. 8th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported
below: 184 F. 3d 761.

No. 99-938. Morrow et al. v. State Bar of Californiaet al. C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 188

F. 3d 1174.

No. 99-942. National American Insurance Co. et al. v.Ruppert Landscape Co., Inc. C. A. 4th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 187 F. 3d 439.

No. 99-948. Cimino et al. v. Pittsburgh Corning Corp.C. A. 3d Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 189 F. 3d 463.

No. 99-951. Anderson et ux. v. Ford Motor Co. C. A. 8thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 186 F. 3d 918.
No. 99-954. George v. National Association of LetterCarriers et al. C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported
below: 185 F. 3d 380.

No. 99-957. Chambley et al. v. Pike County et al. C. A.11th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 189 F. 3d 485.

No. 99-958. Ysleta del Sur Pueblo v. Texas. C. A. 5thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 192 F. 3d 126.
No. 99-962. Pettit et al. v. Bay Area Pipe Trades Pen-sion Trust Fund et al. C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari denied.
Reported below: 185 F. 3d 978 and 189 F. 3d 473.

No. 99-963. Bello v. University of Dayton School ofLaw et al. C. A. 6th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below:

182 F. 3d 916.

No. 99-965. Smith v. Faucheux et al. C. A. 5th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 194 F. 3d 1308.

No. 99-966. Julien v. County of Alameda et al. C. A.9th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 189 F. 3d 473.

528ORD Unit: $PT2 [06-23-01 20:25:42] PGT: ORDPP (Prelim. Print)

1157ORDERS
February 22, 2000528 U. S.
No. 99-968. Hernandez v. Texas. Ct. App. Tex., 5th Dist.Certiorari denied.

No. 99-970. Aiken v. City of Memphis. C. A. 6th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 190 F. 3d 753.
No. 99-972. Thompson v. Tennessee. Ct. Crim. App. Tenn.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-974. McKinley v. Northern Telecom. C. A. 5thCir. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-980. Milette v. Rhode Island. Sup. Ct. R. I. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 727 A. 2d 1236.
No. 99-982. Steinhilber v. McFarland et al. C. A. 8thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 187 F. 3d 642.
No. 99-983. Pulliam v. Ohio Casualty Insurance Co.C. A. 6th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 918.
No. 99-984. Finch v. Bob's Distributing Co., Inc., et al.C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 191 F. 3d 460.
No. 99-987. Smith v. County of Culpeper et al. C. A.4th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 191 F. 3d 448.
No. 99-988. Soudavar et al. v. Islamic Republic of Iranet al. C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 186
F. 3d 671.

No. 99-990. Spencer v. Board of Police Commissionersof Kansas City, Missouri, Police Department, et al. C. A.

8th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 183 F. 3d 902.

No. 99-992. Gomez v. Texas. Ct. App. Tex., 1st Dist. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 991 S. W. 2d 870.

No. 99-996. Robinson v. Metts, Sheriff, LexingtonCounty, et al. C. A. 4th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported
below: 188 F. 3d 503.

No. 99-999. Clair et al. v. Harris Trust and SavingsBank et al. C. A. 7th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported

below: 190 F. 3d 495.

528ORD Unit: $PT2 [06-23-01 20:25:43] PGT: ORDPP (Prelim. Print)
1158 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

February 22, 2000 528 U. S.
No. 99-1003. Weiss v. California. Sup. Ct. Cal. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 20 Cal. 4th 1073, 978 P. 2d 1257.

No. 99-1004. Michelfelder v. Thomas Jefferson Univer-sity et al. Super. Ct. Pa. Certiorari denied. Reported below:
736 A. 2d 22.

No. 99-1005. Aylward v. Bamberg. C. A. 7th Cir. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 921.

No. 99-1006. Nationwide Mutual Insurance Co. v. Berry-man Products, Inc. C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 196 F. 3d 1256.

No. 99-1007. McDuffie, dba D&M Contracting Co. v. Cityof Jacksonville. Dist. Ct. App. Fla., 1st Dist. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 740 So. 2d 533.

No. 99-1017. O'Shell v. United States et al. C. A. 7thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 175 F. 3d 1020.

No. 99-1018. Pennsylvania v. Huffman. Sup. Ct. Pa.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 558 Pa. 399, 737 A. 2d 733.
No. 99-1020. Pennsylvania v. Flanders. Sup. Ct. Pa.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 557 Pa. 508, 734 A. 2d 1280.
No. 99-1022. Young v. General Motors Corp. et al. C. A.6th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 191 F. 3d 454.
No. 99-1024. Voigt, Personal Representative of the Es-tate of Voigt, Deceased, et al. v. United States et al.
C. A. 11th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 192 F. 3d131.

No. 99-1026. Banks et al. v. New York Life InsuranceCo. Sup. Ct. La. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 737 So.
2d 1275.

No. 99-1027. B. A. T. Industries v. Superior Court ofCalifornia, County of San Diego (North Coast Trust Fund

et al., Real Parties in Interest). Ct. App. Cal., 4th App.Dist. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-1031. Gomez v. Dade County School Board. C. A.11th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 181 F. 3d 108.

528ORD Unit: $PT2 [06-23-01 20:25:43] PGT: ORDPP (Prelim. Print)

1159ORDERS
February 22, 2000528 U. S.
No. 99-1035. Houston v. Roe, Warden. C. A. 9th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 177 F. 3d 901.

No. 99-1036. Treasure Chest Casino et al. v. Mullenet al. C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 186
F. 3d 620.

No. 99-1047. Green v. Illinois Power Co. C. A. 7th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 175 F. 3d 1019.

No. 99-1051. Benedict v. Eau Claire Public Schools etal. C. A. 7th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 191 F.
3d 455.

No. 99-1053. Kennedy v. National Juvenile DetentionAssn. et al. C. A. 7th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported

below: 187 F. 3d 690.

No. 99-1055. Woosley v. Smith et al. C. A. 3d Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 191 F. 3d 446.

No. 99-1056. R. M. Taylor, Inc. v. General Motors Corp.C. A. 8th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 187 F. 3d 809.
No. 99-1058. v. Nevada Department ofMotor Vehicles and Public Safety. Sup. Ct. Nev. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 115 Nev. ---, 985 P. 2d 750.

No. 99-1059. Hooper v. Cargill, Inc. C. A. 6th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 187 F. 3d 635.

No. 99-1064. El-Ramly v. University of Hawaii et al.C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 925.
No. 99-1068. City of New York et al. v. Latino OfficersAssn. et al. C. A. 2d Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below:
196 F. 3d 458.

No. 99-1071. Henderson v. United States. C. A. ArmedForces. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 52 M. J. 14.

No. 99-1075. Amuso v. United States. C. A. 2d Cir. Cer-tiorari denied.
No. 99-1076. Wilson Partners et al. v. PennsylvaniaBoard of Finance and Revenue. Sup. Ct. Pa. Certiorari
denied. Reported below: 558 Pa. 462, 737 A. 2d 1215.

528ORD Unit: $PT2 [06-23-01 20:25:43] PGT: ORDPP (Prelim. Print)
1160 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

February 22, 2000 528 U. S.
No. 99-1077. Than v. University of Texas MedicalSchool at Houston et al. C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied.
Reported below: 188 F. 3d 633.

No. 99-1090. Kansas City Southern Railway Co. v. Rush-ing et ux. C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below:

185 F. 3d 496.

No. 99-1091. Hamil America, Inc. v. GFI, Inc., et al. C. A.2d Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 193 F. 3d 92.

No. 99-1094. Franklin v. Stainer, Warden, et al. C. A.9th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 161 F. 3d 12.
No. 99-1095. Redler v. Jackson County, Oregon. Ct. App.Ore. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 157 Ore. App. 723, 972
P. 2d 1231.

No. 99-1097. Roberts v. Slater, Secretary of Transpor-tation. C. A. 4th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 194

F. 3d 1305.

No. 99-1102. Salvatori v. Westinghouse Electric Corp.C. A. 11th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 190 F. 3d

1244.

No. 99-1103. Mann v. City of Chicago et al. C. A. 7thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 922.

No. 99-1104. White et ux. v. Security Pacific FinancialServices, Inc. Ct. App. Cal., 4th App. Dist. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-1105. Greene v. Berger & Montague et al. C. A.2d Cir. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-1107. Grine et al. v. Coombs et al. C. A. 3d Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 189 F. 3d 464.
No. 99-1108. Rockwood v. United States. C. A. ArmedForces. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 52 M. J. 98.
No. 99-1115. Scott v. United States. C. A. 7th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 191 F. 3d 457.
No. 99-1116. Braswell v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 198 F. 3d 263.

528ORD Unit: $PT2 [06-23-01 20:25:43] PGT: ORDPP (Prelim. Print)

1161ORDERS
February 22, 2000528 U. S.
No. 99-1118. Patel v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied.

No. 99-1119. Patterson v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 178 F. 3d 1288.
No. 99-1120. Bhutani et al. v. United States. C. A. 7thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 175 F. 3d 572.
No. 99-1121. Luna v. County of San Bernardino et al.C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 165 F. 3d 35.
No. 99-1126. Guzman v. Texas. Ct. App. Tex., 4th Dist.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 993 S. W. 2d 232.
No. 99-1127. Eastman Kodak Co. v. Thomas. C. A. 1st Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 183 F. 3d 38.
No. 99-1128. Tomeo v. Honeywell International, Inc.,et al. C. A. 2d Cir. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-1138. Rosenbaum v. Rosenbaum. App. Ct. Ill., 1stDist. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-1139. Moore v. United States. C. A. 8th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 184 F. 3d 790.
No. 99-1145. Root v. Arizona. Sup. Ct. Ariz. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 195 Ariz. 9, 985 P. 2d 494.
No. 99-1147. Knickerbocker v. Ovako-Ajax, Inc., et al.C. A. 6th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 187 F. 3d 636.
No. 99-1150. Alexander v. United States. C. A. 8th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 643.
No. 99-1154. Ford et ux. v. United States. C. A. 6th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 184 F. 3d 566.
No. 99-1155. Bicaksiz v. United States. C. A. 2d Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 194 F. 3d 390.
No. 99-1157. Amoia v. United States. C. A. 2d Cir. Cer-tiorari denied.
No. 99-1164. Raven v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 193 F. 3d 517.

528ORD Unit: $PT2 [06-23-01 20:25:43] PGT: ORDPP (Prelim. Print)
1162 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

February 22, 2000 528 U. S.

No. 99-1168. Scherping et al. v. United States. C. A. 8thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 187 F. 3d 796.
No. 99-1188. Garrison v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 191 F. 3d 449.
No. 99-1201. Austin v. Harper Hospital. C. A. 6th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 194 F. 3d 1311.
No. 99-1202. Henning v. United States. C. A. 6th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 198 F. 3d 247.
No. 99-1219. Trevino v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-1230. Blondheim v. Morgan, Warden. Sup. Ct.Ohio. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 87 Ohio St. 3d 1428,
718 N. E. 2d 446.

No. 99-5840. House v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied.

No. 99-5936. Napoli, aka Bianco v. United States. C. A.2d Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 173 F. 3d 847 and
179 F. 3d 1.

No. 99-6051. Clark v. Texas. Ct. Crim. App. Tex. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 994 S. W. 2d 166.

No. 99-6172. Neal v. Page, Warden. C. A. 7th Cir. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 170 F. 3d 659 and 179 F. 3d 1024.
No. 99-6349. Johnson v. Wing et al. C. A. 2d Cir. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 178 F. 3d 611.
No. 99-6425. Grant v. New York. App. Div., Sup. Ct. N. Y.,2d Jud. Dept. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 256 App. Div.
2d 418, 682 N. Y. S. 2d 232.

No. 99-6466. Stefonek v. United States. C. A. 7th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 179 F. 3d 1030.

No. 99-6469. Spence v. United States; andNo. 99-6485. Jackson v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir.
Certiorari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 910.

528ORD Unit: $PT2 [06-23-01 20:25:43] PGT: ORDPP (Prelim. Print)

1163ORDERS
February 22, 2000528 U. S.
No. 99-6527. McDowell v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 911.

No. 99-6546. Panchal et al. v. United States. C. A. 11thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 170 F. 3d 188.
No. 99-6629. Vieux v. Pepe, Superintendent, Massachu-setts Correctional Institution at Shirley, et al. C. A.
1st Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 184 F. 3d 59.

No. 99-6688. Hackett v. Pennsylvania. Sup. Ct. Pa. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 558 Pa. 78, 735 A. 2d 688.

No. 99-6737. Vaca-Hernandez v. United States. C. A. 9thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 185 F. 3d 871.
No. 99-6838. McGinn v. Johnson, Director, Texas Depart-ment of Criminal Justice, Institutional Division. C. A.
5th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 199 F. 3d 440.

No. 99-6844. Alejado v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 176 F. 3d 485.

No. 99-6846. McKendrick v. United States;No. 99-6887. Ries v. United States; and
No. 99-7006. Reed v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 177 F. 3d 824.

No. 99-6847. Lage v. United States; andNo. 99-6903. Diaz v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 183 F. 3d 374.

No. 99-6905. Friend v. Reno, Attorney General, et al.C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 172 F. 3d 638.

No. 99-6965. Ayers et al. v. Fordice, Governor of Missis-sippi, et al. C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-6991. Keaton v. Pennsylvania. Sup. Ct. Pa. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 556 Pa. 442, 729 A. 2d 529.
No. 99-6994. Lewis v. United States. C. A. 8th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 183 F. 3d 791.
No. 99-6995. Johnson v. Pennsylvania. Sup. Ct. Pa. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 556 Pa. 216, 727 A. 2d 1089.

528ORD Unit: $PT2 [06-23-01 20:25:43] PGT: ORDPP (Prelim. Print)
1164 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

February 22, 2000 528 U. S.
No. 99-7005. Peterson v. North Carolina. Sup. Ct. N. C.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 350 N. C. 518, 516 S. E. 2d
131.

No. 99-7017. Taylor v. North Carolina. Gen. Ct. Justice,Super. Ct. Div., Cumberland County, N. C. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-7055. Brewer v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 173 F. 3d 852.
No. 99-7062. Coleman v. Johnson, Director, Texas De-partment of Criminal Justice, Institutional Division.
C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-7109. DeCorso v. Utah. Sup. Ct. Utah. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 993 P. 2d 837.

No. 99-7180. Stevens v. Michigan. Sup. Ct. Mich. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 460 Mich. 626, 597 N. W. 2d 53.
No. 99-7197. Mekalonis v. Workers' Compensation Ap-peal Board et al. Commw. Ct. Pa. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-7200. Mills v. Kentucky. Sup. Ct. Ky. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 996 S. W. 2d 473.
No. 99-7210. Stancliff v. Johnson, Director, Texas De-partment of Criminal Justice, Institutional Division.
C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-7211. Wilson et al. v. Kraus Investments. Ct.App. Ariz. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-7216. Luczak v. Illinois. App. Ct. Ill., 1st Dist.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 306 Ill. App. 3d 319, 714
N. E. 2d 995.

No. 99-7221. Minske v. Sondalle, Warden. C. A. 7th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 191 F. 3d 456.

No. 99-7223. Maners v. Johnson, Director, Texas Depart-ment of Criminal Justice, Institutional Division. C. A.
5th Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-7224. Martinez v. Johnson, Director, Texas De-partment of Criminal Justice, Institutional Division.

C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied.

528ORD Unit: $PT2 [06-23-01 20:25:43] PGT: ORDPP (Prelim. Print)

1165ORDERS
February 22, 2000528 U. S.
No. 99-7225. Johnson v. Walker, Superintendent, Au-burn Correctional Facility. App. Div., Sup. Ct. N. Y., 4th
Jud. Dept. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 262 App. Div. 2d1005, 692 N. Y. S. 2d 632.

No. 99-7229. Seals v. Miranda et al. C. A. 9th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 198 F. 3d 255.
No. 99-7234. Ajiwoju v. Kunce. C. A. 10th Cir. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 198 F. 3d 257.
No. 99-7237. Weiner v. Michigan. Cir. Ct. Wayne County,Mich. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-7263. Tenerelli v. Minnesota. Sup. Ct. Minn. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 598 N. W. 2d 668.
No. 99-7264. Anderson v. Colorado Department of Cor-rections et al. C. A. 10th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported
below: 185 F. 3d 873.

No. 99-7265. Cannoy v. Lakeland Police Department.Dist. Ct. App. Fla., 2d Dist. Certiorari denied. Reported below:

743 So. 2d 515.

No. 99-7281. Ritt v. Minnesota. Sup. Ct. Minn. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 599 N. W. 2d 802.

No. 99-7282. Sirbaugh v. Elo, Warden. C. A. 6th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-7283. Shaara v. Moore, Secretary, Florida De-partment of Corrections. C. A. 11th Cir. Certiorari denied.
Reported below: 196 F. 3d 1262.

No. 99-7288. Montes-Campos v. Hatcher, Warden. C. A.9th Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-7290. Collins v. Michigan Parole Board. Ct. App.Mich. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-7291. Bean v. Texas. Ct. App. Tex., 1st Dist. Cer-tiorari denied.
No. 99-7293. Arreguin v. Prunty, Warden, et al. C. A.9th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 188 F. 3d 512.

528ORD Unit: $PT2 [06-23-01 20:25:43] PGT: ORDPP (Prelim. Print)
1166 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

February 22, 2000 528 U. S.
No. 99-7297. Valentino, aka Williams v. California. Ct.App. Cal., 4th App. Dist. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-7300. Slaughter v. Johnson, Director, Texas De-partment of Criminal Justice, Institutional Division.
C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-7302. Siler v. Sup.Ct. Ore. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-7304. Cameron v. Texas. Ct. App. Tex., 4th Dist.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 988 S. W. 2d 835.
No. 99-7307. Beckham v. Cain, Warden. C. A. 5th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-7308. Tyler v. Wiesman, Judge, Circuit Court ofMissouri, St. Louis County. Sup. Ct. Mo. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-7322. Watts v. Johnson, Director, Texas Depart-ment of Criminal Justice, Institutional Division. C. A.
5th Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-7335. Hicks v. Kentucky. Sup. Ct. Ky. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 995 S. W. 2d 377.

No. 99-7336. Hussey v. Norris, Director, Arkansas De-partment of Correction. C. A. 8th Cir. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-7337. Hutchins v. Linahan, Warden. C. A. 11thCir. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-7339. Hartline v. Orange County Corrections Di-vision et al. C. A. 11th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported
below: 182 F. 3d 935.

No. 99-7340. Gilbert v. Moody et al. Dist. Ct. App. Fla.,1st Dist. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 743 So. 2d 512.

No. 99-7342. Grinnell v. Brennan et al. C. A. 3d Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-7345. Glass v. City of Carlsbad et al. C. A. 9thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 178 F. 3d 1299.
No. 99-7353. Lau v. Moore, Secretary, Florida Depart-ment of Corrections. Sup. Ct. Fla. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 740 So. 2d 528.

528ORD Unit: $PT2 [06-23-01 20:25:43] PGT: ORDPP (Prelim. Print)

1167ORDERS
February 22, 2000528 U. S.
No. 99-7355. Jones v. Johnson, Director, Texas Depart-ment of Criminal Justice, Institutional Division. C. A.
5th Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-7357. Kulas v. Valdez et al. C. A. 9th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 159 F. 3d 453.

No. 99-7358. Longstreth v. Montana. Sup. Ct. Mont.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 295 Mont. 457, 984 P. 2d 157.
No. 99-7360. Pratt v. Texas. Ct. App. Tex., 14th Dist.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-7363. Randon v. Hubbard, Warden. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-7364. Ridgeway v. Kaiser, Warden, et al. C. A.10th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 188 F. 3d 519.
No. 99-7369. Boyd v. Gibson, Warden. C. A. 10th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 179 F. 3d 904.
No. 99-7370. Brooks v. Mikkelsen et al. C. A. 6th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 178 F. 3d 1293.
No. 99-7371. Bayramoglu v. Gomez, Director, CaliforniaDepartment of Corrections, et al. C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 188 F. 3d 512.

No. 99-7372. Bridges v. Booher, Warden. C. A. 10th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 189 F. 3d 477.

No. 99-7374. Black v. Kelly, Superintendent, AtticaCorrectional Facility. C. A. 2d Cir. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-7378. Middleton v. Missouri. Sup. Ct. Mo. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 998 S. W. 2d 520.
No. 99-7380. Rogers v. Texas. Ct. App. Tex., 14th Dist.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-7381. Swartz v. Iowa. Sup. Ct. Iowa. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 601 N. W. 2d 348.
No. 99-7385. Rayford v. Cain, Warden. C. A. 5th Cir.Certiorari denied.

528ORD Unit: $PT2 [06-23-01 20:25:43] PGT: ORDPP (Prelim. Print)
1168 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

February 22, 2000 528 U. S.
No. 99-7386. Singleton v. Hargett, Warden, et al. C. A.10th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 188 F. 3d 519.

No. 99-7387. Ruiz v. Hawaii. Sup. Ct. Haw. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 92 Haw. 632, 994 P. 2d 564.
No. 99-7388. Mathews v. Idaho. Sup. Ct. Idaho. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 133 Idaho 300, 986 P. 2d 323.
No. 99-7390. Kruelski v. Connecticut. Sup. Ct. Conn.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 250 Conn. 1, 737 A. 2d 377.
No. 99-7393. Straley v. Galetka, Warden, et al. C. A.10th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 188 F. 3d 519.
No. 99-7394. Patino v. Smith, Warden. C. A. 9th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied.
No. 99-7397. Sheppard v. Ohio. Ct. App. Ohio, HamiltonCounty. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-7399. Tearfie v. Whittlesea Blue Cab Co. C. A.9th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 176 F. 3d 485.
No. 99-7400. Wilson v. Illinois. App. Ct. Ill., 1st Dist.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 303 Ill. App. 3d 1035, 710
N. E. 2d 408.

No. 99-7403. Starling v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 174 F. 3d 203.

No. 99-7408. Wright v. Davis et al. C. A. 11th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 189 F. 3d 482.
No. 99-7412. Jackson v. Florida Department of Correc-tions et al. Sup. Ct. Fla. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-7417. Pedraglio Loli v. Citibank, Inc. C. A. 2dCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 173 F. 3d 845.
No. 99-7419. Rivera v. Texas. Ct. App. Tex., 3d Dist. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 990 S. W. 2d 882.
No. 99-7423. Williams v. Cain, Warden. C. A. 5th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-7429. Zubia v. Texas. Ct. Crim. App. Tex. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 998 S. W. 2d 226.

528ORD Unit: $PT2 [06-23-01 20:25:43] PGT: ORDPP (Prelim. Print)

1169ORDERS
February 22, 2000528 U. S.
No. 99-7436. Renusch v. Michigan. Ct. App. Mich. Certio-rari denied.

No. 99-7437. Joseph v. Johnson, Director, Texas Depart-ment of Criminal Justice, Institutional Division, et al.
C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 193 F. 3d 519.

No. 99-7438. Nelson v. Walker, Superintendent, AuburnCorrectional Facility. C. A. 2d Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-7440. Jones v. California et al. Ct. App. Cal., 2dApp. Dist. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-7441. Lofley v. Moore, Secretary, Florida De-partment of Corrections, et al. C. A. 11th Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-7444. Plummer v. Illinois. App. Ct. Ill., 1st Dist.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 306 Ill. App. 3d 574, 714

N. E. 2d 63.

No. 99-7445. Fink v. Terhune, Director, California De-partment of Corrections, et al. C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari

denied. Reported below: 187 F. 3d 646.

No. 99-7447. Hullum v. Maloney, Commissioner, Massa-chusetts Department of Correction, et al. C. A. 1st Cir.

Certiorari denied. Reported below: 201 F. 3d 427.

No. 99-7450. Fisher v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 188 F. 3d 504.

No. 99-7455. Costley v. Maryland. Ct. Sp. App. Md. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 123 Md. App. 797.
No. 99-7457. Colen v. Global Investments, LLC. Ct.App. Cal., 2d App. Dist. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-7458. Breakiron v. Pennsylvania. Sup. Ct. Pa.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 556 Pa. 519, 729 A. 2d 1088.
No. 99-7462. Lett v. Antwine et al. C. A. 5th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 196 F. 3d 1257.
No. 99-7463. Luedtke v. Bertrand, Warden. C. A. 7thCir. Certiorari denied.

528ORD Unit: $PT2 [06-23-01 20:25:43] PGT: ORDPP (Prelim. Print)
1170 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

February 22, 2000 528 U. S.
No. 99-7465. Mitchell v. Johnson, Director, Texas De-partment of Criminal Justice, Institutional Division.
C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-7466. Johnson v. Oklahoma et al. Ct. Crim. App.Okla. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-7468. Townsend v. Popper et al. Sup. Ct. Fla.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 737 So. 2d 552.
No. 99-7469. Townsend v. Chapin et al. Sup. Ct. Fla.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 737 So. 2d 552.
No. 99-7470. Lofton v. Johnson, Director, Texas Depart-ment of Criminal Justice, Institutional Division, et al.
C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 199 F. 3d 438.

No. 99-7473. Malave v. Connecticut. Sup. Ct. Conn. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 250 Conn. 722, 737 A. 2d 442.

No. 99-7474. Milligan v. Kitzhaber, Governor of Oregon,et al. C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 189
F. 3d 473.

No. 99-7477. Smart-Davis v. Johns Hopkins University.C. A. 4th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 175 F. 3d

1016.

No. 99-7478. Robinson v. Illinois. App. Ct. Ill., 1st Dist.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 302 Ill. App. 3d 1093, 746

N. E. 2d 911.

No. 99-7479. Roberson v. Shrael et al. C. A. 5th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 193 F. 3d 518.

No. 99-7481. Williams v. Indiana. Sup. Ct. Ind. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 714 N. E. 2d 644.
No. 99-7485. Madden v. Madden. Ct. App. Ky. Certioraridenied.
No. 99-7486. Cross v. Michigan. Cir. Ct. Muskegon County,Mich. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-7488. Quartararo v. Hanslmaier, Superintend-ent, Woodbourne Correctional Facility. C. A. 2d Cir.
Certiorari denied. Reported below: 186 F. 3d 91.

528ORD Unit: $PT2 [06-23-01 20:25:43] PGT: ORDPP (Prelim. Print)

1171ORDERS
February 22, 2000528 U. S.
No. 99-7490. Beaven v. Indiana. Ct. App. Ind. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 712 N. E. 2d 57.

No. 99-7494. Chaidez v. Weir, Judge, Superior Court ofCalifornia, Del Norte County, et al. C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-7495. Cisco v. Leonardo, Superintendent, GreatMeadow Correctional Facility. C. A. 2d Cir. Certiorari

denied.

No. 99-7496. Brown v. Johnson, Director, Texas Depart-ment of Criminal Justice, Institutional Division. C. A.

5th Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-7497. Steele v. Allen et al. C. A. 11th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied.

No. 99-7499. Smalley v. Merit Systems ProtectionBoard. C. A. Fed. Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below:
215 F. 3d 1349.

No. 99-7500. Richards v. Trustees of University of Mas-sachusetts et al. C. A. 1st Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 181 F. 3d 80.

No. 99-7502. Mitchell v. Connecticut. App. Ct. Conn.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 54 Conn. App. 361, 738

A. 2d 188.

No. 99-7507. Mitchell v. Cain, Warden. C. A. 5th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 189 F. 3d 469.

No. 99-7509. Johnson et al. v. Thaler, Warden, et al.C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 202 F. 3d 265.
No. 99-7515. Matic v. Meissner et al. C. A. 5th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 194 F. 3d 1309.
No. 99-7522. Zander v. Ohio. Ct. App. Ohio, HamiltonCounty. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-7524. Wronke v. Madigan, Sheriff, ChampaignCounty, Illinois. Sup. Ct. Ill. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-7525. Weeks v. Moore, Secretary, Florida De-partment of Corrections. Sup. Ct. Fla. Certiorari denied.

528ORD Unit: $PT2 [06-23-01 20:25:43] PGT: ORDPP (Prelim. Print)
1172 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

February 22, 2000 528 U. S.
No. 99-7526. Sutton v. Kooistra et al. C. A. 7th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 202 F. 3d 275.

No. 99-7527. Reliford v. Wantland et al. C. A. 8th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-7529. Shavers v. Florida. Dist. Ct. App. Fla., 4thDist. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 723 So. 2d 371.
No. 99-7532. Johnson v. Georgia. Sup. Ct. Ga. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 271 Ga. 375, 519 S. E. 2d 221.
No. 99-7533. Kibbe v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 198 F. 3d 238.
No. 99-7534. Adams v. Arizona. Sup. Ct. Ariz. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 194 Ariz. 408, 984 P. 2d 16.
No. 99-7536. Gulley v. Georgia. Sup. Ct. Ga. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 271 Ga. 337, 519 S. E. 2d 655.
No. 99-7538. Huggins v. South Carolina. Sup. Ct. S. C.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 336 S. C. 200, 519 S. E. 2d
574.

No. 99-7542. Dunkins v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 192 F. 3d 125.

No. 99-7553. Jones v. Suthers, Executive Director, Colo-rado Department of Corrections, et al. C. A. 10th Cir.
Certiorari denied. Reported below: 188 F. 3d 518.

No. 99-7557. Vigneau v. United States. C. A. 1st Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 187 F. 3d 70.

No. 99-7562. Cornwell v. Ohio. Sup. Ct. Ohio. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 86 Ohio St. 3d 560, 715 N. E. 2d 1144.
No. 99-7564. Garcia Ambriz v. Pliler, Warden. C. A. 9thCir. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-7570. Karanicolas v. United States. C. A. 3d Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 202 F. 3d 255.
No. 99-7575. Rodriguez v. Moore, Secretary, Florida De-partment of Corrections, et al. C. A. 11th Cir. Certiorari denied.

528ORD Unit: $PT2 [06-23-01 20:25:43] PGT: ORDPP (Prelim. Print)

1173ORDERS
February 22, 2000528 U. S.
No. 99-7576. O'Donnell v. Johnson, Director, Texas De-partment of Criminal Justice, Institutional Division.
C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-7577. Bonner v. Department of the Air Force.C. A. 6th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 181 F. 3d 99.

No. 99-7578. Cleveland v. Frazier, Director, ArkansasDepartment of Human Services. Sup. Ct. Ark. Certiorari
denied. Reported below: 338 Ark. 581, 999 S. W. 2d 188.

No. 99-7581. Gribble v. Johnson, Director, Texas De-partment of Criminal Justice, Institutional Division.

C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 196 F. 3d1258.

No. 99-7582. Sanchez v. Henderson, Postmaster Gen-eral. C. A. 7th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 188
F. 3d 740.

No. 99-7583. Sosa v. Johnson, Director, Texas Depart-ment of Criminal Justice, Institutional Division. C. A.

5th Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-7584. Shannon v. Florida. Dist. Ct. App. Fla., 4thDist. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 736 So. 2d 1202.

No. 99-7585. Rigsby v. United States. C. A. 7th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 175 F. 3d 1021.
No. 99-7587. Sharpe v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 193 F. 3d 852.
No. 99-7589. Lopez v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 196 F. 3d 1261.
No. 99-7590. Moody v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 198 F. 3d 261.
No. 99-7595. Weiss v. State Bar of California. Sup. Ct.Cal. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-7596. Valance v. Walker, Warden. Sup. Ct. Ohio.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 86 Ohio St. 3d 1486, 716
N. E. 2d 719.

528ORD Unit: $PT2 [06-23-01 20:25:43] PGT: ORDPP (Prelim. Print)
1174 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

February 22, 2000 528 U. S.
No. 99-7598. Beatty v. United States. C. A. 2d Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 198 F. 3d 235.

No. 99-7599. Sequeira v. United States. C. A. 1st Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-7601. Parrish v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 198 F. 3d 263.
No. 99-7604. Bomar v. United States. C. A. 6th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 191 F. 3d 453.
No. 99-7606. Taylor v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 198 F. 3d 241.
No. 99-7613. Orrelien v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 187 F. 3d 632.
No. 99-7614. Peters v. United States. C. A. 6th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 194 F. 3d 692.
No. 99-7615. Oliveira v. White, Warden. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 198 F. 3d 254.
No. 99-7616. Reyes-Valencia v. United States. C. A. 4thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 194 F. 3d 1306.
No. 99-7617. Robinson v. United States. C. A. 8th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 187 F. 3d 644.
No. 99-7619. McKinney v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-7621. Lewis v. Ohio. Ct. App. Ohio, Stark County.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-7625. Ioane et al. v. B. A. Properties, Inc. C. A.9th Cir. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-7628. Avilez-Reyes v. United States. C. A. 5thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 204 F. 3d 1118.
No. 99-7630. Riley v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 183 F. 3d 1155.
No. 99-7633. Wilson v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 198 F. 3d 240.

528ORD Unit: $PT2 [06-23-01 20:25:43] PGT: ORDPP (Prelim. Print)

1175ORDERS
February 22, 2000528 U. S.
No. 99-7634. Leon Zuniga v. United States. C. A. 3d Cir.Certiorari denied.

No. 99-7635. Griffith v. Department of Agriculture etal. C. A. 2d Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 198 F.
3d 233.

No. 99-7636. Davis v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 188 F. 3d 505.

No. 99-7638. Gray v. United States. C. A. 6th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 194 F. 3d 1314.
No. 99-7639. Gray v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied.
No. 99-7640. Harris v. County of Cook et al. C. A. 7thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 202 F. 3d 273.
No. 99-7648. Grisso v. Leary. C. A. D. C. Cir. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 203 F. 3d 52.
No. 99-7650. Dunlap v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 910.
No. 99-7651. Nixon v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 180 F. 3d 268.
No. 99-7654. McKinney v. State Employees' RetirementSystem. Ct. App. Mich. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-7657. Hill v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 193 F. 3d 522.
No. 99-7664. Fordham v. United States. C. A. 3d Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 187 F. 3d 344.
No. 99-7668. Frazier v. Lea County District Court. Sup.Ct. N. M. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-7669. Hazel v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 910.
No. 99-7672. Russel v. Unknown Federal District CourtJudges. C. A. D. C. Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below:
203 F. 3d 53.

528ORD Unit: $PT2 [06-23-01 20:25:43] PGT: ORDPP (Prelim. Print)
1176 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

February 22, 2000 528 U. S.
No. 99-7675. Lai v. Pitzer, Warden. C. A. 5th Cir. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 189 F. 3d 466.

No. 99-7678. Smith v. Cadwell. Ct. App. Cal., 2d App. Dist.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-7679. Bender v. Illinois. App. Ct. Ill., 1st Dist.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-7681. Williams v. United States. C. A. 6th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 188 F. 3d 510.
No. 99-7683. Hill et al. v. United States. C. A. 6th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 195 F. 3d 258.
No. 99-7684. Dick v. United States. C. A. 6th Cir. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 194 F. 3d 1314.
No. 99-7685. Escobar-De Jesus v. United States. C. A.1st Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 187 F. 3d 148.
No. 99-7686. Drayer v. United States. C. A. 6th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 190 F. 3d 410.
No. 99-7687. Gregg v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 179 F. 3d 1312.
No. 99-7689. French v. California. Ct. App. Cal., 4th App.Dist. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-7690. Hollis v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 198 F. 3d 262.
No. 99-7691. Barrett v. United States. C. A. 1st Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 178 F. 3d 34.
No. 99-7692. Haddad v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-7693. Del Rio v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 180 F. 3d 269.
No. 99-7694. Bradford v. Barrett et al. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 199 F. 3d 443.
No. 99-7699. Brown v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 191 F. 3d 448.

528ORD Unit: $PT2 [06-23-01 20:25:43] PGT: ORDPP (Prelim. Print)

1177ORDERS
February 22, 2000528 U. S.

No. 99-7702. Morin v. Johnson, Director, Texas Depart-ment of Criminal Justice, Institutional Division. C. A.
5th Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-7703. Kalway v. Moody, Superintendent, TaylorCorrectional Institution, et al. C. A. 11th Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-7707. Akinkoye v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 185 F. 3d 192.

No. 99-7708. McIver v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 186 F. 3d 1119.
No. 99-7709. Matthews v. Johnson, Director, Texas De-partment of Criminal Justice, Institutional Division.
C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-7711. Kelly v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 911.

No. 99-7712. Locskai v. United States. C. A. 3d Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 181 F. 3d 85.
No. 99-7714. Brown v. United States. C. A. 6th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 919.
No. 99-7721. Hernandez-Corona v. United States. C. A.9th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 194 F. 3d 1318.
No. 99-7722. Turner v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-7724. Trevino-Garcia v. United States. C. A. 5thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 196 F. 3d 1258.
No. 99-7727. Pillow v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 191 F. 3d 403.
No. 99-7729. Chacon Morales v. United States. C. A. 5thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 191 F. 3d 602.
No. 99-7730. Thomas v. United States. C. A. 3d Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 185 F. 3d 864.
No. 99-7731. Smiley v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 194 F. 3d 1323.

528ORD Unit: $PT2 [06-23-01 20:25:43] PGT: ORDPP (Prelim. Print)
1178 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

February 22, 2000 528 U. S.
No. 99-7732. Mosquera-Lopez v. United States. C. A.11th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 189 F. 3d 480.

No. 99-7733. Ramiro Muniz v. United States. C. A. 5thCir. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-7740. Standing Rock v. United States. C. A. 8thCir. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-7741. Rashid v. United States. C. A. 3d Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 191 F. 3d 446.
No. 99-7744. Carson v. United States Court of Appealsfor the Eleventh Circuit. C. A. 11th Cir. Certiorari
denied.

No. 99-7745. Cowen v. United States. C. A. 6th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 198 F. 3d 247.

No. 99-7746. Christoferson v. United States. C. A. 11thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 179 F. 3d 1320.
No. 99-7747. Barrios v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 198 F. 3d 261.
No. 99-7749. Brown v. United States. C. A. 10th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 200 F. 3d 700.
No. 99-7750. Payton v. United States. Ct. App. D. C.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-7757. Rhoads v. Barnett, Warden. C. A. 7th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-7758. Daniels v. United States. C. A. 3d Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 202 F. 3d 255.
No. 99-7759. Reaves v. United States. C. A. 6th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 194 F. 3d 1315.
No. 99-7761. Sierra-Hernandez v. United States. C. A.5th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 192 F. 3d 501.
No. 99-7764. Moore v. Reno, Attorney General. C. A.9th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 185 F. 3d 1054.
No. 99-7765. Mayberry v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 174 F. 3d 1215.

528ORD Unit: $PT2 [06-23-01 20:25:43] PGT: ORDPP (Prelim. Print)

1179ORDERS
February 22, 2000528 U. S.
No. 99-7770. Carroll v. Coyle, Warden. C. A. 6th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 187 F. 3d 635.

No. 99-7771. Shaw v. Corcoran, Warden, et al. C. A. 4thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 191 F. 3d 448.
No. 99-7772. Syvertson v. Heit. Sup. Ct. N. D. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 606 N. W. 2d 137.
No. 99-7773. Fiorani v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-7777. Trapp v. Supreme Court of Washington.Sup. Ct. Wash. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-7779. Schreibman v. Holmes et al. C. A. D. C. Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 203 F. 3d 53.
No. 99-7782. Waterhouse v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-7789. Van Hoorelbeke v. United States. C. A. 9thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 199 F. 3d 1334.
No. 99-7792. Justesen v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 198 F. 3d 238.
No. 99-7793. McDaniel v. United States. C. A. 7th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 923.
No. 99-7807. Garces-Garcia v. United States. C. A. 5thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 198 F. 3d 242.
No. 99-7811. Banda v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 199 F. 3d 437.
No. 99-7824. Williams v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 194 F. 3d 1307.
No. 99-7827. Pineda v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 191 F. 3d 462.
No. 99-7828. Sayakhom v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 186 F. 3d 928 and 197 F. 3d
959.

No. 99-7831. Adams v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 198 F. 3d 238.

528ORD Unit: $PT2 [06-23-01 20:25:43] PGT: ORDPP (Prelim. Print)
1180 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

February 22, 2000 528 U. S.
No. 99-7833. Landry v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 189 F. 3d 484.

No. 99-7837. Joyner v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 199 F. 3d 1329.
No. 99-7838. Gallardo v. United States Parole Commis-sion. C. A. 3d Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 202
F. 3d 253.

No. 99-7840. Kind, aka Swan v. United States. C. A. 8thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 194 F. 3d 900.

No. 99-7843. Jones v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied.
No. 99-7847. Talley v. United States. C. A. 6th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 194 F. 3d 758.
No. 99-7849. Williams v. United States. C. A. 6th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 198 F. 3d 248.
No. 99-7852. Torres et al. v. United States. C. A. 7thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 191 F. 3d 799.
No. 99-7859. Nix v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 193 F. 3d 852.
No. 99-7862. Ibrahim v. United States. C. A. D. C. Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-7868. Anderson v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-7880. Davis v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 910.
No. 99-7881. Davidson v. United States. C. A. 8th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 195 F. 3d 402.
No. 99-7888. Diaz, aka Luz Lucio de la Cruz v. UnitedStates. C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 199
F. 3d 439.

No. 99-7891. Hubert v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 202 F. 3d 264.

528ORD Unit: $PT2 [06-23-01 20:25:43] PGT: ORDPP (Prelim. Print)

1181ORDERS
February 22, 2000528 U. S.
No. 99-7892. Frogge v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 189 F. 3d 475.

No. 99-7907. Bekederemo v. United States. C. A. 10thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 201 F. 3d 449.
No. 99-7913. Vild v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 187 F. 3d 651.
No. 99-7915. Morel et al. v. United States. C. A. 3d Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 205 F. 3d 1330.
No. 99-7917. Tugwell v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 187 F. 3d 650.
No. 99-7922. Brown v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 189 F. 3d 483.
No. 99-7924. Camarena-Perales v. United States. C. A.9th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 188 F. 3d 515.
No. 99-7945. Putney v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 201 F. 3d 438.
No. 99-596. George Mason University v. Litman et al.C. A. 4th Cir. Motions of Pacific Legal Foundation and Center
for Original Intent of the Constitution for leave to file briefs asamici curiae granted. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 186
F. 3d 544.

No. 99-669. American Telephone & Telegraph Co. v. Se-curity Watch, Inc., et al. C. A. 6th Cir. Certiorari denied.

Justice O'Connor took no part in the consideration or decisionof this petition. Reported below: 176 F. 3d 369.

No. 99-1032. Abbott Laboratories v. Mylan Pharma-ceuticals, Inc. C. A. Fed. Cir. Certiorari denied. Justice
O'Connor took no part in the consideration or decision of thispetition. Reported below: 217 F. 3d 853.

No. 99-786. HJB, Inc., et al. v. AmeriSource Corp. et al.C. A. 7th Cir. Certiorari denied. The Chief Justice took no
part in the consideration or decision of this petition. Reportedbelow: 186 F. 3d 781.

No. 99-902. Florida v. Almeida. Sup. Ct. Fla. Motion ofrespondent for leave to proceed in forma pauperis granted. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 748 So. 2d 922.

528ORD Unit: $PT2 [06-23-01 20:25:43] PGT: ORDPP (Prelim. Print)
1182 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

February 22, 2000 528 U. S.
No. 99-903. Florida v. Almeida. Sup. Ct. Fla. Motion of
respondent for leave to proceed in forma pauperis granted. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 737 So. 2d 520.

No. 99-916. Enron Power Marketing, Inc. v. Northern
States Power Co. et al. C. A. 8th Cir. Motion of Electricity
Consumers Resource Council et al. for leave to file a brief
as amici curiae granted. Petitioner's memorandum suggesting
mootness and motion to vacate denied. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 176 F. 3d 1090.

No. 99-973. Baker v. John. Sup. Ct. Alaska. Motion of
Drue Pearce and Brian Porter for leave to file a brief as amici
curiae granted. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 982 P. 2d
738.

No. 99-994. Sysco Food Services of San Francisco, Inc.
v. Norris. C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari denied. Justice Breyer
took no part in the consideration or decision of this petition. Reported below: 191 F. 3d 1043.

No. 99-1042. Zahran et ux. v. Schmidt et al. C. A. 7th
Cir. Motion of petitioners to defer consideration of petition for
writ of certiorari denied. Certiorari denied. Reported below:
175 F. 3d 1022.

No. 99-1137. Metcalf v. Martin et al. C. A. 6th Cir.
Certiorari denied. Justice Souter took no part in the consideration or decision of this petition. Reported below: 188 F. 3d 508.

No. 99-1166. Crews v. Department of the Army. C. A.
Fed. Cir. Motion of petitioner for leave to proceed as a veteran
granted. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 217 F. 3d 854.

No. 99-6668. Provenzano v. Moore, Secretary, Florida
Department of Corrections. Sup. Ct. Fla. In light of the
recent amendments to $ 922.10 of the Florida Statutes (providing
that capital prisoners will be executed by lethal injection unless
they affirmatively elect execution by electrocution), and the Florida Supreme Court's recent conclusion that those amendments do
not violate Art. X, $ 9, of the Florida Constitution, Sims v. State,
754 So. 2d 657 (2000), certiorari denied. Reported below: 744 So.
2d 413.

528ORD Unit: $PT2 [06-23-01 20:25:43] PGT: ORDPP (Prelim. Print)

1183ORDERS
February 22, 2000528 U. S.
No. 99-7822 (99A577). Jimenez v. United States. C. A. 2dCir. Application for stay, addressed to Justice Souter and referred to the Court, denied. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-7953 (99A670). Sims v. Florida. Sup. Ct. Fla. Ap-plication for stay of execution of sentence of death, presented to

Justice Kennedy, and by him referred to the Court, denied.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 750 So. 2d 622.

No. 99-8043 (99A624). Tarver v. Alabama. Sup. Ct. Ala.Application for stay of execution of sentence of death, presented
to Justice Kennedy, and by him referred to the Court, denied.Certiorari denied.

No. 99-8330 (99A675). Sims v. Florida. Sup. Ct. Fla. Ap-plication for stay of execution of sentence of death, presented to
Justice Kennedy, and by him referred to the Court, denied.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 754 So. 2d 657.

Rehearing Denied

No. 98-1903. Benson v. Benson, ante, p. 816;No. 98-7256. In re Rice, 525 U. S. 1138;

No. 98-9269. Alexander v. Doe et al., ante, p. 830;No. 98-9523. Skibinski v. Bell Atlantic et al., ante, p. 838;
No. 98-10042. Skibinski v. Lazaroff et al., ante, p. 867;No. 99-151. Mensah v. United States, ante, p. 875;
No. 99-575. Moreton Rolleston, Jr., Living Trust, et al.v. Estate of Simms, Cherry, Executor, ante, p. 1046;
No. 99-634. Anderson v. Dallas Area Rapid Transit,ante, p. 1062;
No. 99-661. Willman v. Michigan Department of Correc-tions et al., ante, p. 1062;
No. 99-716. Ruiz Rivera v. Department of Educationet al., ante, p. 1047;
No. 99-911. Vey v. The Universe et al., ante, p. 1081;No. 99-5212. Jones v. Johnson, Director, Texas Department of Criminal Justice, Institutional Division, ante,p. 892;

No. 99-5652. Hatter v. New York City Housing Author-ity et al., ante, p. 936;
No. 99-5859. Foster v. Johnson, Director, Texas Depart-ment of Criminal Justice, Institutional Division, ante,
p. 940;

528ORD Unit: $PT2 [06-23-01 20:25:43] PGT: ORDPP (Prelim. Print)
1184 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

February 22, 23, 2000 528 U. S.
No. 99-5962. Long v. Kentucky, ante, p. 972;
No. 99-6028. Jarrett v. Hayward Manor Apartments et
al., ante, p. 973;

No. 99-6145. Corpuz v. Walter, Superintendent, Airway
Heights Corrections Center, ante, p. 1007;

No. 99-6266. Perry v. Zaentz et al., ante, p. 1024;
No. 99-6275. In re Lavertu, ante, p. 1018;
No. 99-6308. King v. MTA Bridges and Tunnels et al.,
ante, p. 1025;

No. 99-6344. Shed v. Johnson, Director, Texas Department of Criminal Justice, Institutional Division, ante,
p. 988;

No. 99-6406. Bass v. Thomas Jefferson University Hospital, ante, p. 1026;

No. 99-6419. Hemmerle v. Bakst, ante, p. 1049;
No. 99-6479. Re v. New Mexico, ante, p. 1051;
No. 99-6502. Palmer v. Georgia, ante, p. 1051;
No. 99-6535. Tisdale v. Ohio, ante, p. 1027;
No. 99-6538. Gardner et al. v. Nissan Motor Acceptance
Corp., ante, p. 1064;

No. 99-6551. Shockett v. Massachusetts, ante, p. 1027;
No. 99-6607. Porter v. Department of Labor, Benefits
Review Board, et al., ante, p. 1052;

No. 99-6700. Hawks v. Clark, Warden, et al., ante, p. 1052;
No. 99-6800. Dean v. United States, ante, p. 1053;
No. 99-6866. Cameron v. Garraghty, Warden, ante, p. 1065;
No. 99-6888. Patterson v. Rivers, Warden, ante, p. 1089;
No. 99-6916. In re Harris, ante, p. 1017;
No. 99-6961. Lewis v. United States et al., ante, p. 1090;
No. 99-7023. In re Warren, ante, p. 1073; and
No. 99-7362. In re Warren, ante, p. 1073. Petitions for
rehearing denied.

February 23, 2000
Dismissal Under Rule 46

No. 98-829. Florida Department of Corrections v. Dickson et al. C. A. 11th Cir. [Certiorari granted, ante, p. 1132.]
Writ of certiorari dismissed under this Court's Rule 46.1.

528ORD Unit: $PT2 [06-23-01 20:25:43] PGT: ORDPP (Prelim. Print)

1185ORDERS
February 23, 24, 2000528 U. S.
Miscellaneous Order

No. 99-8322 (99A684). In re Bryan. Application for stay of
execution of sentence of death, presented to Justice Kennedy,
and by him referred to the Court, denied. Petition for writ of
habeas corpus denied.

Certiorari Denied

No. 99-8231 (99A658). Goss v. Johnson, Director, Texas
Department of Criminal Justice, Institutional Division.
C. A. 5th Cir. Application for stay of execution of sentence of
death, presented to Justice Scalia, and by him referred to the
Court, denied. Certiorari denied. Justice Stevens, Justice
Souter, and Justice Ginsburg would grant the application for
stay of execution. Reported below: 199 F. 3d 439.

No. 99-8351 (99A682). Bryan v. Florida. Sup. Ct. Fla. Application for stay of execution of sentence of death, presented to
Justice Kennedy, and by him referred to the Court, denied.
Certiorari denied. Reported below: 753 So. 2d 1244.

No. 99-8352 (99A685). Bryan v. Florida. C. A. 11th Cir.
Application for stay of execution of sentence of death, presented
to Justice Kennedy, and by him referred to the Court, denied.
Certiorari denied. Reported below: 244 F. 3d 803.

February 24, 2000
Dismissal Under Rule 46

No. 99-1125. Kansas Public Employees Retirement System, Inc. v. Reimer & Koger Associates, Inc., et al. C. A.
8th Cir. Certiorari dismissed as to Shook, Hardy & Bacon; Frank
P. Sebree; and Blackwell, Sanders, Matheny, Weary & Lombardi
under this Court's Rule 46.1. Reported below: 194 F. 3d 922.

Miscellaneous Order

No. 99A688. Beets v. Texas Board of Pardons and Paroles et al. Application for stay of execution of sentence of
death, presented to Justice Scalia, and by him referred to the
Court, denied.

528ORD Unit: $PT2 [06-23-01 20:25:43] PGT: ORDPP (Prelim. Print)
1186 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

528 U. S.
February 28, 2000
Certiorari Granted--Vacated and Remanded

No. 98-1473. Carrillo, Warden v. Salmon. C. A. 9th Cir.
Certiorari granted, judgment vacated, and case remanded for further consideration in light of Roe v. Flores-Ortega, ante, p. 470.

No. 98-1967. F. W. Woolworth Co. et al. v. Franchise Tax
Board. Ct. App. Cal., 1st App. Dist. Certiorari granted, judgment vacated, and case remanded for further consideration in
light of Hunt-Wesson, Inc. v. Franchise Tax Bd. of Cal., ante,
p. 458.

No. 98-9701. Sarroca v. United States. C. A. 2d Cir. Motion of petitioner for leave to proceed in forma pauperis granted.
Certiorari granted, judgment vacated, and case remanded for further consideration in light of Roe v. Flores-Ortega, ante, p. 470.

No. 99-5699. Rice v. United States. C. A. 8th Cir. Motion
of petitioner for leave to proceed in forma pauperis granted.
Certiorari granted, judgment vacated, and case remanded for further consideration in light of Roe v. Flores-Ortega, ante, p. 470.

No. 99-5951. Radillo-Contreras v. United States. C. A.
11th Cir. Motion of petitioner for leave to proceed in forma
pauperis granted. Certiorari granted, judgment vacated, and
case remanded for further consideration in light of Roe v. FloresOrtega, ante, p. 470.

No. 99-6233. Miller v. Kaloroumakis, Administrator,
Eastern Correctional Institution, et al. C. A. 4th Cir.
Motion of petitioner for leave to proceed in forma pauperis
granted. Certiorari granted, judgment vacated, and case remanded for further consideration in light of Roe v. Flores-Ortega,
ante, p. 470. Reported below: 178 F. 3d 1284.

Certiorari Dismissed

No. 99-7909. Sindram v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir.
Motion of petitioner for leave to proceed in forma pauperis denied, and certiorari dismissed. See this Court's Rule 39.8. Reported below: 199 F. 3d 1329.

528ORD Unit: $PT2 [06-23-01 20:25:43] PGT: ORDPP (Prelim. Print)

1187ORDERS
February 28, 2000528 U. S.
Miscellaneous Orders

No. D-2073. In re Disbarment of Nunes, ante, p. 801. Pe-tition for reconsideration denied.

No. 99M68. Eljack v. Hammound. Motion to direct theClerk to file petition for writ of certiorari denied.
No. 99-62. Santa Fe Independent School District v.Doe, Individually and as Next Friend for Her Minor
Children, et al. C. A. 5th Cir. [Certiorari granted, ante,p. 1002.] Motion of Marian Ward for leave to intervene denied.

No. 99-6704. Burgess v. Baldwin, Superintendent, East-ern Oregon Correctional Institution. Ct. App. Ore. Motion of petitioner for reconsideration of order denying leave toproceed in forma pauperis [ante, p. 1069] denied.

No. 99-7814. In re Davage. Petition for writ of mandamusdenied.
Certiorari Granted

No. 99-936. Ferguson et al. v. City of Charleston et al.C. A. 4th Cir. Motion of American Public Health Association

et al. for leave to file a brief as amici curiae granted. Certiorarigranted. Reported below: 186 F. 3d 469.

Certiorari Denied

No. 99-696. American Grain Trimmers, Inc., et al. v. Of-fice of Workers' Compensation Programs et al. C. A. 7th

Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 181 F. 3d 810.

No. 99-729. City of West Haven et al. v. Thomas et al.Sup. Ct. Conn. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 249 Conn.

385, 734 A. 2d 535.

No. 99-765. CSC Consulting, Inc. v. Tingley Systems, Inc.C. A. 1st Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 181 F. 3d 174.

No. 99-809. LaTrieste Restaurant & Cabaret, Inc., dbaThe Diamond Club v. Village of Port Chester et al. C. A.
2d Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 188 F. 3d 65.

No. 99-855. Ray v. California. Sup. Ct. Cal. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 21 Cal. 4th 464, 981 P. 2d 928.

528ORD Unit: $PT2 [06-23-01 20:25:43] PGT: ORDPP (Prelim. Print)
1188 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

February 28, 2000 528 U. S.
No. 99-869. U S WEST Communications, Inc. v. FederalCommunications Commission et al. C. A. D. C. Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 177 F. 3d 1057.

No. 99-874. Nguyen v. Inova Alexandria Hospital. C. A.4th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 187 F. 3d 630.

No. 99-967. MacLeod v. Georgetown University MedicalCenter et al. Ct. App. D. C. Certiorari denied. Reported
below: 736 A. 2d 977.

No. 99-995. SMS Systems Maintenance Services, Inc. v.Digital Equipment Corp. C. A. 1st Cir. Certiorari denied.

Reported below: 188 F. 3d 11.

No. 99-1037. Anatian v. Coutts Bank (Switzerland) Ltd.,fka Coutts & Co. AG. C. A. 2d Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 193 F. 3d 85.

No. 99-1065. Sutton v. BellSouth Telecommunications,Inc., et al. C. A. 11th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported

below: 189 F. 3d 1318.

No. 99-1066. Johnny Blastoff, Inc. v. Los Angeles RamsFootball Co. et al. C. A. 7th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 188 F. 3d 427.

No. 99-1067. Intercontinental Bulktank Corp. et al. v.Selico. Ct. App. La., 4th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported

below: 733 So. 2d 1240.

No. 99-1073. Dent v. Consolidated Rail Corporation.C. A. 6th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 187 F. 3d 635.

No. 99-1079. Patel v. OMH Medical Center, Inc., et al.;and
No. 99-1101. Patel v. OMH Medical Center, Inc., et al.Sup. Ct. Okla. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 987 P. 2d
1185.

No. 99-1082. Crofts, Individually and as Statutory Ben-eficiary of and Personal Representative of the Estate

of Crofts, Deceased v. Dallas County Hospital District,dba Parkland Memorial Hospital. C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari
denied. Reported below: 192 F. 3d 125.

528ORD Unit: $PT2 [06-23-01 20:25:43] PGT: ORDPP (Prelim. Print)

1189ORDERS
February 28, 2000528 U. S.
No. 99-1083. Hull v. Fallon et al. C. A. 8th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 188 F. 3d 939.

No. 99-1086. D'Annunzio et vir v. Baylor University.
C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 193 F. 3d 517.

No. 99-1088. Bryan R. v. Watchtower Bible and Tract
Society of New York et al. Sup. Jud. Ct. Me. Certiorari
denied. Reported below: 738 A. 2d 839.

No. 99-1092. Taylor et al. v. Virginia Union University.
C. A. 4th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 193 F. 3d 219.

No. 99-1093. Rezzonico et ux. v. H & R Block, Inc., et al.
C. A. 2d Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 144.

No. 99-1106. Bastian et al. v. International Brotherhood of Teamsters, Chauffeurs, Warehousemen and Helpers of America, AFL-CIO, et al. C. A. 2d Cir. Certiorari
denied. Reported below: 175 F. 3d 1009.

No. 99-1109. Eimers v. New York. County Ct., Chautauqua
County, N. Y. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-1111. Semple, Administrator of the Estate of
Semple, Deceased, et al. v. City of Moundsville. C. A. 4th
Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 195 F. 3d 708.

No. 99-1114. Dick v. Commerce Bancshares, Inc., et al.
App. Ct. Ill., 4th Dist. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-1122. Soto-Rivera v. Santiago-Guadarrama,
School Superintendent, Rio Piedras I District, et al.
C. A. 1st Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 201 F. 3d 428.

No. 99-1135. Chappell, in Interest of A. M. K. v. Meese
et al. Ct. App. Colo. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-1141. Ferm v. United States Trustee. C. A. 9th
Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 194 F. 3d 954.

No. 99-1142. Electronic Data Systems et al. v. Sposato,
Administrator of the Estate of Sposato, Deceased. C. A.
9th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 188 F. 3d 1146.

528ORD Unit: $PT2 [06-23-01 20:25:43] PGT: ORDPP (Prelim. Print)
1190 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

February 28, 2000 528 U. S.

No. 99-1146. v. Bureau of Land Management et al.C. A. 9th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 183 F. 3d
1141 and 189 F. 3d 472.

No. 99-1149. Kennedy v. Dresser Rand Co. C. A. 2d Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 193 F. 3d 120.

No. 99-1151. Parks v. United States et al. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-1153. Huff v. Northwest Savings Bank, fka FirstNational Bank of Contre Hall. C. A. 3d Cir. Certiorari
denied.

No. 99-1161. Zirkind v. New York et al. C. A. 2d Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 199 F. 3d 1325.

No. 99-1167. Lavi v. Duncan, Warden. C. A. 9th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied.
No. 99-1182. Uribe v. Southern California PermanenteMedical Group et al. Ct. App. Cal., 2d App. Dist. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-1186. Shelton v. Nevada. Sup. Ct. Nev. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 114 Nev. 67, 988 P. 2d 862.

No. 99-1197. Spencer v. New York City Transit Author-ity et al. C. A. 2d Cir. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-1208. Lambert v. United States. C. A. 7th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 189 F. 3d 670.
No. 99-1216. Siewert v. West, Secretary of VeteransAffairs. C. A. Fed. Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below:
217 F. 3d 856.

No. 99-1224. Lefkowitz v. United States. C. A. 8th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 187 F. 3d 644.

No. 99-1231. Ambort v. United States. C. A. 10th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 193 F. 3d 1169.
No. 99-1233. Bramlett v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-1243. Lorefice v. United States. C. A. 7th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 192 F. 3d 647.

528ORD Unit: $PT2 [06-23-01 20:25:43] PGT: ORDPP (Prelim. Print)

1191ORDERS
February 28, 2000528 U. S.
No. 99-1255. Ross v. CareAmerica Health Plans, Inc.Ct. App. Cal., 2d App. Dist. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-1278. Juntunen v. Wagner et al. (two judgments).Ct. App. Ohio, Trumbull County. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-1284. Huerta v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-1288. Owens v. United States. C. A. 6th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 205 F. 3d 1342.
No. 99-1301. Jaffe v. United States. C. A. 2d Cir. Certio-rari denied.
No. 99-1308. Frega v. United States; andNo. 99-8023. Malkus v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir.
Certiorari denied. Reported below: 179 F. 3d 793.

No. 99-1310. Hammer v. Immigration and NaturalizationService. C. A. 6th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below:

195 F. 3d 836.

No. 99-6240. Flores v. United States. C. A. 8th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied.

No. 99-6511. Lages v. Florida. Dist. Ct. App. Fla., 2d Dist.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 743 So. 2d 518.
No. 99-6807. Huerta v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 182 F. 3d 361.
No. 99-6814. Osburn v. Apfel, Commissioner of SocialSecurity. C. A. 6th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below:
182 F. 3d 918.

No. 99-7182. Ybarra v. McDaniel, Warden. Sup. Ct. Nev.Certiorari denied.

No. 99-7220. Vallimont v. Eastman Kodak Co. C. A. 2dCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 198 F. 3d 235.
No. 99-7347. Malcolm v. Pennsylvania. Super. Ct. Pa.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 737 A. 2d 1275.
No. 99-7510. Robinson v. North Carolina. Gen. Ct. Jus-tice, Super. Ct. Div., Cumberland County, N. C. Certiorari
denied.

528ORD Unit: $PT2 [06-23-01 20:25:43] PGT: ORDPP (Prelim. Print)
1192 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

February 28, 2000 528 U. S.
No. 99-7559. Palmer v. Nebraska. Sup. Ct. Neb. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 257 Neb. 702, 600 N. W. 2d 756.

No. 99-7561. Black v. Tennessee. Ct. Crim. App. Tenn.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-7566. Sleppy v. Ohio. Ct. App. Ohio, Darke County.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-7567. Sullivan v. Oregon. Ct. App. Ore. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 160 Ore. App. 701, 981 P. 2d 399.
No. 99-7568. Smith v. Nevada. Sup. Ct. Nev. Certioraridenied.
No. 99-7571. Louis v. California. Ct. App. Cal., 5th App.Dist. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-7572. McFadden v. Ford Motor Co. et al. C. A.6th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 187 F. 3d 636.
No. 99-7586. Shanks v. Hubbard, Warden, et al. C. A.9th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 188 F. 3d 514.
No. 99-7593. Mayberry v. Stoner et al. Ct. Civ. App. Ala.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 777 So. 2d 329.
No. 99-7597. Williams v. Johnson, Director, Texas De-partment of Criminal Justice, Institutional Division.
C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-7600. Slaughter v. Kentucky. Sup. Ct. Ky. Cer-tiorari denied.

No. 99-7624. Molina v. Spanos et al. C. A. 10th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 208 F. 3d 226.
No. 99-7652. Martin v. Clinton, President of the UnitedStates. C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 199
F. 3d 439.

No. 99-7667. Howard v. Pennsylvania. Sup. Ct. Pa. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 560 Pa. 741, 747 A. 2d 366.

No. 99-7674. Lau v. Sullivan County District Attorneyet al. C. A. 2d Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 201
F. 3d 431.

528ORD Unit: $PT2 [06-23-01 20:25:43] PGT: ORDPP (Prelim. Print)

1193ORDERS
February 28, 2000528 U. S.
No. 99-7704. Martin v. Roe, Warden, et al. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied.

No. 99-7719. Rivera v. United States District Court forthe Western District of Texas. C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari
denied.

No. 99-7725. Ward v. Illinois. Sup. Ct. Ill. Certiorari de-nied. Reported below: 187 Ill. 2d 249, 718 N. E. 2d 117.

No. 99-7735. Murray v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 175 F. 3d 1015.
No. 99-7742. Simpson v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 187 F. 3d 633.
No. 99-7776. Winsett v. West, Secretary of VeteransAffairs. C. A. Fed. Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below:
217 F. 3d 854.

No. 99-7790. Weldon v. Holt, Warden, et al. C. A. 11thCir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 189 F. 3d 485.

No. 99-7796. Nagy v. Lappin. C. A. 4th Cir. Certiorari de-nied. Reported below: 181 F. 3d 89.
No. 99-7798. Bradley v. United States. C. A. 6th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-7801. Donley v. Illinois. App. Ct. Ill., 4th Dist.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-7809. Gardner v. Baskerville, Warden. Sup. Ct.Va. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-7810. Dickerson v. Johnson, Director, Texas De-partment of Criminal Justice, Institutional Division.
C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-7813. Felix v. Angelone, Director, Virginia De-partment of Corrections. C. A. 4th Cir. Certiorari denied.

Reported below: 175 F. 3d 1014.

No. 99-7815. Gutierrez-Gallegos v. United States. C. A.9th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 172 F. 3d 877.

528ORD Unit: $PT2 [06-23-01 20:25:43] PGT: ORDPP (Prelim. Print)
1194 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

February 28, 2000 528 U. S.
No. 99-7823. Jackson v. Massachusetts. Sup. Jud. Ct.Mass. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 430 Mass. 260, 717
N. E. 2d 1001.

No. 99-7836. Mendoza v. California. Ct. App. Cal., 2d App.Dist. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-7844. Cosmano v. California. Ct. App. Cal., 4thApp. Dist. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-7855. Petties v. United States Postal Serviceet al. C. A. 2d Cir. Certiorari denied.
No. 99-7856. Anderson v. Walker, Superintendent,Auburn Correctional Facility. C. A. 2d Cir. Certiorari
denied.

No. 99-7864. Ponder v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 198 F. 3d 262.

No. 99-7867. Simmons v. Taylor, Superintendent, AlgoaCorrectional Center, et al. C. A. 8th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 195 F. 3d 346.

No. 99-7883. Lawwell v. Ohio. Ct. App. Ohio, FranklinCounty. Certiorari denied.

No. 99-7886. Garcia v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 199 F. 3d 443.
No. 99-7895. Galloway v. Carter, Warden. C. A. 6th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-7899. Monjaras-Castaneda v. United States.C. A. 5th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 190 F. 3d 326.
No. 99-7903. Jones v. United States. C. A. 7th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 202 F. 3d 273.
No. 99-7904. Marulanda-Velasquez v. United States.C. A. 11th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 199 F. 3d
442.

No. 99-7906. Beach v. McCormick, Warden. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 191 F. 3d 459.

528ORD Unit: $PT2 [06-23-01 20:25:43] PGT: ORDPP (Prelim. Print)

1195ORDERS
February 28, 2000528 U. S.
No. 99-7910. Turner v. United States. C. A. 6th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 183 F. 3d 474.

No. 99-7911. Wardell v. Colorado. Ct. App. Colo. Certio-rari denied.
No. 99-7919. Yelverton v. United States. C. A. D. C. Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 197 F. 3d 531.
No. 99-7921. Cawley v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 199 F. 3d 1333.
No. 99-7923. Arvidson v. United States. C. A. 8th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-7925. Terry v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 187 F. 3d 650.
No. 99-7926. Moore v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 188 F. 3d 516.
No. 99-7931. Nagy v. Goldstein et al. C. A. 2d Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 181 F. 3d 83.
No. 99-7933. Long v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 201 F. 3d 438.
No. 99-7936. Baylis v. United States. C. A. 6th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 198 F. 3d 247.
No. 99-7937. Culp v. United States. C. A. 10th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 188 F. 3d 519.
No. 99-7941. Cook v. United States. C. A. 10th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 202 F. 3d 283.
No. 99-7943. Bernhardt v. United States. C. A. 10th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 198 F. 3d 259.
No. 99-7944. Suarez v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 200 F. 3d 814.
No. 99-7946. Powell v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 199 F. 3d 1334.
No. 99-7947. Rodriguez v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 199 F. 3d 438.

528ORD Unit: $PT2 [06-23-01 20:25:43] PGT: ORDPP (Prelim. Print)
1196 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

February 28, 2000 528 U. S.
No. 99-7948. Oliverio v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 198 F. 3d 255.

No. 99-7950. McQuay v. United States. C. A. 8th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-7955. Manning v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-7957. Stucky v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 199 F. 3d 1334.
No. 99-7965. Shepardson v. United States. C. A. 2d Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 196 F. 3d 306.
No. 99-7966. Stradwick v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 199 F. 3d 1329.
No. 99-7967. Serrano v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 189 F. 3d 476.
No. 99-7975. Trent v. United States; andNo. 99-8000. Davis v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 201 F. 3d 439.

No. 99-7979. Cook v. United States. C. A. 3d Cir. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 202 F. 3d 255.

No. 99-7980. Abbott v. United States. C. A. 7th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 195 F. 3d 946.
No. 99-7981. Carter v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 200 F. 3d 815.
No. 99-7984. Kayer v. Arizona. Sup. Ct. Ariz. Certioraridenied. Reported below: 194 Ariz. 423, 984 P. 2d 31.
No. 99-7985. James v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 200 F. 3d 819.
No. 99-7989. McKenzie v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 178 F. 3d 1287.
No. 99-7996. Mosby v. United States. C. A. 8th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 177 F. 3d 1067.
No. 99-7997. Masciandaro v. United States. C. A. 2d Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 189 F. 3d 462.

528ORD Unit: $PT2 [06-23-01 20:25:43] PGT: ORDPP (Prelim. Print)

1197ORDERS
February 28, 2000528 U. S.
No. 99-8001. Hollie v. United States. C. A. 6th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 198 F. 3d 248.

No. 99-8002. Hangs v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 189 F. 3d 480.
No. 99-8003. Harris v. United States. C. A. 2d Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 199 F. 3d 1324.
No. 99-8006. Diaz v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir. Certio-rari denied. Reported below: 204 F. 3d 1117.
No. 99-8007. Evans v. United States. C. A. 3d Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 202 F. 3d 255.
No. 99-8008. Gomez v. United States. C. A. 5th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 199 F. 3d 438.
No. 99-8009. Greer v. United States. C. A. 9th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 198 F. 3d 256.
No. 99-8010. Darnbush v. United States. C. A. 6th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 205 F. 3d 1343.
No. 99-8011. Devillasee v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 199 F. 3d 1328.
No. 99-8012. Mobley v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 199 F. 3d 442.
No. 99-8022. Nelson v. United States. C. A. 4th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 165 F. 3d 21.
No. 99-8024. Wallace v. United States. C. A. 3d Cir.Certiorari denied.
No. 99-8026. Okereke v. United States. C. A. 11th Cir.Certiorari denied. Reported below: 192 F. 3d 129.
No. 99-8027. Baker v. United States. C. A. 6th Cir. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 197 F. 3d 211.
No. 99-897. Lee, Warden, et al. v. Taylor. C. A. 4th Cir.Motion of respondent for leave to proceed in forma pauperis
granted. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 186 F. 3d 557.

528ORD Unit: $PT2 [06-23-01 20:25:43] PGT: ORDPP (Prelim. Print)
1198 OCTOBER TERM, 1999

February 28, 2000 528 U. S.
No. 99-1078. Kernan, Warden v. Henry. C. A. 9th Cir.Motion of respondent for leave to proceed in forma pauperis
granted. Certiorari denied. Reported below: 197 F. 3d 1021.

No. 99-1087. Lambert, Superintendent, WashingtonState Penitentiary v. Lord. C. A. 9th Cir. Motion of respondent for leave to proceed in forma pauperis granted. Cer-tiorari denied. Reported below: 184 F. 3d 1083.

No. 99-1085. Levan et al. v. Capital Cities/ABC, Inc.,et al. C. A. 11th Cir. Certiorari denied. Justice Breyer
took no part in the consideration or decision of this petition. Re-ported below: 190 F. 3d 1230.

No. 99-7884. Apple v. Glenn, Former United States Sen-ator, et al. C. A. 6th Cir. Certiorari denied. The Chief
Justice took no part in the consideration or decision of this peti-tion. Reported below: 183 F. 3d 477.

Rehearing Denied

No. 98-9855. Gibson v. Apfel, Commissioner of SocialSecurity, ante, p. 856;

No. 99-693. Lichtig v. California, ante, p. 1076;No. 99-727. Teng Li-Ann Lee v. City of Rancho Palos
Verdes et al., ante, p. 1077;No. 99-842. Schluneger v. United States, ante, p. 1080;

No. 99-891. Wilson v. California et al., ante, p. 1081;No. 99-5339. Graham v. Green et al., ante, p. 899;
No. 99-5915. Eldridge v. United States, ante, p. 1082;No. 99-6821. Jackson v. Texas Electric Utility Service
Co., ante, p. 1053;No. 99-6899. Ericson v. IDC Services, Inc., et al., ante,
p. 1090;No. 99-7108. Head v. United States, ante, p. 1094;

No. 99-7148. Kanazeh v. Sandground, Barondess & Westet al., ante, p. 1140;
No. 99-7262. Thornton v. Scardelletti et al., ante,p. 1141;
No. 99-7266. Clark v. AT Entertainment, Inc., et al.,ante, p. 1141; and
No. 99-7312. Turks v. Illinois, ante, p. 1127. Petitions forrehearing denied.

528IND Unit: $UBV [06-07-01 20:22:30] PGT: INDBV (Bound Volume)

I N D E X
ABROGATION OF SOVEREIGN IMMUNITY. See Constitutional

Law, X.

ADDRESSES OF ARRESTEES. See Constitutional Law, VI, 1.
ADMISSION TO STATE UNIVERSITY. See Civil Rights Act of

1871.

AGE DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT ACT OF 1967. See Constitutional Law, X.

APPEALS OF CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS. See Constitutional Law,

IV, 1.

ARKANSAS. See Federal-State Relations.
ARRESTEE ADDRESSES. See Constitutional Law, VI, 1.
ASSISTANCE OF COUNSEL. See Constitutional Law, VII, 1.
CALIFORNIA. See Constitutional Law, II; VI, 1; VII, 2.
CAMPAIGN CONTRIBUTIONS. See Constitutional Law, V, 2; VI, 2.
CAPITAL MURDER. See Constitutional Law, III.
CASE OR CONTROVERSY. See Constitutional Law, I.
CERTIFIED QUESTIONS. See Supreme Court, 2.
CITIZEN SUITS. See Constitutional Law, I, 2.
CIVIL RIGHTS ACT OF 1871.

Section 1983--Admission to state university--Discrimination based
on race.--Fifth Circuit's decision--that petitioners were not entitled to
summary judgment on Lesage's 42 U. S. C. $ 1983 claim for damages relating to a state university's rejection of his admission application even if
petitioners conclusively established that he would have been denied admission under a race-neutral policy--contradicts Mt. Healthy City Bd. of Ed.
v. Doyle, 429 U. S. 274. Texas v. Lesage, p. 18.

"CLASS OF ONE." See Constitutional Law, V, 1.
CLEAN WATER ACT. See Constitutional Law, I, 2.

1199

528IND Unit: $UBV [06-07-01 20:22:30] PGT: INDBV (Bound Volume)
1200 INDEX
COLORADO. See Constitutional Law, I, 1.
COMMERCE CLAUSE. See Constitutional Law, II.
CONSTITUTIONAL LAW.
I. Case or Controversy.

1. Mootness--Certification of Government contractors.--Tenth Circuit
erred in concluding that petitioner's suit--which alleged that United
States Department of Transportation's procedure for certifying contractors as disadvantaged business enterprises violated equal protection because a race-based presumption forms its foundation--should be dismissed
as moot after petitioner was so certified by Colorado's Department of
Transportation. Adarand Constructors, Inc. v. Slater, p. 216.

2. Mootness--Clean Water Act citizen suits.--Fourth Circuit erred in
concluding that a citizen suitor's Clean Water Act civil penalties claim
must be dismissed as moot when a defendant, after suit commences, comes
into compliance with its National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System
permit. Friends of Earth, Inc. v. Laidlaw Environmental Services (TOC),
Inc., p. 167.

II. Commerce Clause.

Discrimination against out-of-state businesses--State income taxes.--
California's rules for taxing its share of a multistate corporation's income
violate Commerce Clause. Hunt-Wesson, Inc. v. Franchise Tax Bd. of
Cal., p. 458.

III. Cruel and Unusual Punishment.

Death penalty--Jury instructions on mitigation.--Constitution is not
violated when a trial judge directs a capital jury's attention to a specific
paragraph of a constitutionally sufficient instruction in response to a question regarding proper consideration of mitigating evidence. Weeks v.
Angelone, p. 225.

IV. Due Process.

1. Right to self-representation on appeal.--Faretta v. California, 422
U. S. 806, does not require a State to recognize a due process right to selfrepresentation on direct appeal from a criminal conviction. Martinez v.
Court of Appeal of Cal., Fourth Appellate Dist., p. 152.

2. State income taxes--Multistate corporations.--California's rules for
taxing its share of a multistate corporation's income violate Due Process
Clause. Hunt-Wesson, Inc. v. Franchise Tax Bd. of Cal., p. 458.

V. Equal Protection of the Laws.

1. "Class of one."--Equal Protection Clause gives rise to a cause of
action on behalf of a "class of one," where a plaintiff alleges that she has
been intentionally treated differently from others similarly situated and
that there is no rational basis for such treatment. Village of Willowbrook
v. Olech, p. 562.

528IND Unit: $UBV [06-07-01 20:22:30] PGT: INDBV (Bound Volume)

1201INDEX
CONSTITUTIONAL LAW--Continued.

2. State limits on campaign contributions.--Buckley v. Valeo, 424 U. S.
1, is authority for comparable state limits on contributions to state political
candidates; such limits need not be pegged to federal limits approved in
Buckley. Nixon v. Shrink Missouri Government PAC, p. 377.

VI. Freedom of Speech and Association.

1. Law restricting public access to arrestee addresses--Facial attack.--
Respondent publisher could not prevail on a "facial attack" on a California
law restricting public access to arrestee addresses in possession of state
and local enforcement agencies. Los Angeles Police Dept. v. United Reporting Publishing Corp., p. 32.

2. State limits on campaign contributions.--Buckley v. Valeo, 424 U. S.
1, is authority for comparable state limits on contributions to state political
candidates; such limits need not be pegged to federal limits approved in
Buckley. Nixon v. Shrink Missouri Government PAC, p. 377.

VII. Right to Counsel.

1. Assistance of counsel--Filing of notice of appeal.--Proper framework for evaluating an ineffective-assistance-of-counsel claim, based on
counsel's failure to file a notice of appeal without defendant's consent,
is set out in Strickland v. Washington, 466 U. S. 668. Roe v. FloresOrtega, p. 470.

2. Indigent's appeal--Frivolousness determination.--Anders v. California, 386 U. S. 738, sets out one procedure for determining whether an
indigent's direct appeal is frivolous, but States are free to adopt other
procedures so long as they adequately safeguard a defendant's Fourteenth
Amendment right to appellate counsel; California's procedure is adequate.
Smith v. Robbins, p. 259.

VIII. Right to Vote.

Statewide election--Race-based voting qualification.--Hawaii electoral
qualification that permits only "Hawaiians"--descendants of persons inhabiting Hawaii in 1778--to vote for trustees of a state agency that administers programs benefiting "native Hawaiians" and "Hawaiians" violates
Fifteenth Amendment. Rice v. Cayetano, p. 495.

IX. Searches and Seizures.

1. Homicide crime scene--Warrantless search.--Trial court's ruling
that police were entitled to make a warrantless search of a homicide crime
scene and objects found there conflicts with rule that there is no "murder
scene exception" to Fourth Amendment's Warrant Clause. Flippo v. West
Virginia, p. 11.

528IND Unit: $UBV [06-07-01 20:22:30] PGT: INDBV (Bound Volume)
1202 INDEX
CONSTITUTIONAL LAW--Continued.

2. Stop and frisk--Narcotics trafficking area.--Officers did not violate
Fourth Amendment when they stopped and frisked respondent after
seeing him flee an area known for heavy narcotics trafficking. Illinois v.
Wardlow, p. 119.

X. States' Immunity from Suit.

Abrogation by Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967.--Although ADEA contains a clear statement of Congress' intent to abrogate
States' Eleventh Amendment immunity, that abrogation exceeded Congress' authority under $ 5 of Fourteenth Amendment. Kimel v. Florida
Bd. of Regents, p. 62.

XI. States' Powers.

Driver's Privacy Protection Act of 1994--Information in state motor
vehicle records.--Congress did not run afoul of federalism principles enunciated in New York v. United States, 505 U. S. 144, and Printz v. United
States, 521 U. S. 898, when it enacted DPPA, which restricts dissemination
and sale of information contained in state motor vehicle records. Reno v.
Condon, p. 141.

CORPORATE TAXES. See Constitutional Law, II; IV, 2.
COURTS OF APPEALS. See Jurisdiction.
CRIME SCENES. See Constitutional Law, IX, 1.
CRIMINAL LAW. See also Constitutional Law, III, IV, 1; VII; IX;

Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure.

Interstate Agreement on Detainers--Trial date outside IAD's time period.--Defense counsel's agreement to a trial date outside time period set
by IAD--an interjurisdictional compact establishing procedures for resolution of one State's outstanding charges against another State's prisoner--bars defendant from seeking dismissal on ground that trial did not
occur within that period. New York v. Hill, p. 110.

CRUEL AND UNUSUAL PUNISHMENT. See Constitutional Law,

III.

DEATH PENALTY. See Constitutional Law, III.
DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION. See Constitutional Law,

I, 1.

DETAINERS. See Criminal Law.
DISCRIMINATION AGAINST MULTISTATE BUSINESSES. See

Constitutional Law, II.

DISCRIMINATION BASED ON AGE. See Constitutional Law, X.

528IND Unit: $UBV [06-07-01 20:22:30] PGT: INDBV (Bound Volume)

1203INDEX
DISCRIMINATION BASED ON RACE. See Civil Rights Act of 1871;

Constitutional Law, I, 1; VIII.

DISCRIMINATION IN VOTING. See Constitutional Law, VIII; Voting Rights Act of 1965.

DRIVER'S PRIVACY PROTECTION ACT OF 1994. See Constitutional Law, XI.

DUE PROCESS. See Constitutional Law, IV.
EIGHTH AMENDMENT. See Constitutional Law, III.
ELECTIONS. See Constitutional Law, VIII; Organic Act of Guam.
ELEVENTH AMENDMENT. See Constitutional Law, X.
EQUAL PROTECTION OF THE LAWS. See Constitutional Law, V.
ESTATES. See Federal-State Relations.
ESTIMATED INCOME TAXES. See Taxes.
FACIAL ATTACK ON STATE LAW. See Constitutional Law, VI, 1.
FEDERAL COURTS. See Jurisdiction.
FEDERAL RULES OF CIVIL PROCEDURE. See Jurisdiction.
FEDERAL RULES OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE.

Jury selection--Peremptory challenges.--A defendant's exercise of peremptory challenges pursuant to Rule 24 is not denied or impaired when
defendant chooses to use such a challenge to remove a juror who should
have been excused for cause. United States v. Martinez-Salazar, p. 304.

FEDERAL-STATE RELATIONS. See also Constitutional Law, X; XI;

Supreme Court, 2.

State-law right to disclaim interest in estate--Federal tax lien.--Petitioner's interest as heir to his mother's estate constituted "property" or a
"righ[t] to property" to which federal tax liens attached under 26 U. S. C.

$ 6321, despite petitioner's exercise of prerogative accorded by Arkansas
law to disclaim interest retroactively. Drye v. United States, p. 49.

FEDERAL TAXES. See Federal-State Relations; Taxes.
FIFTEENTH AMENDMENT. See Constitutional Law, VIII.
FILING NOTICES OF APPEAL. See Constitutional Law, VII, 1.
FIRST AMENDMENT. See Constitutional Law, VI.
FLORIDA. See Constitutional Law, X.

528IND Unit: $UBV [06-07-01 20:22:30] PGT: INDBV (Bound Volume)
1204 INDEX
FOR-CAUSE CHALLENGES OF JURORS. See Federal Rules of

Criminal Procedure.

FOURTEENTH AMENDMENT. See Constitutional Law, IV; V; VII,

2; X.

FOURTH AMENDMENT. See Constitutional Law, IX.
FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION. See Constitutional Law, VI, 2.
FREEDOM OF SPEECH. See Constitutional Law, VI.
FRIVOLOUS APPEALS. See Constitutional Law, VII, 2.
GOVERNMENT CONTRACTORS. See Constitutional Law, I, 1.
GUAM. See Organic Act of Guam.
HAWAII. See Constitutional Law, VIII.
HAZARDOUS WASTE FACILITIES. See Supreme Court, 2.
HOMICIDE CRIME SCENES. See Constitutional Law, IX, 1.
IMMUNITY FROM SUIT. See Constitutional Law, X.
INCOME TAXES. See Constitutional Law, II; IV, 2; Taxes.
INDIGENTS' APPEALS. See Constitutional Law, VII, 2.
INEFFECTIVE ASSISTANCE OF COUNSEL. See Constitutional

Law, VII, 1.

IN FORMA PAUPERIS. See Supreme Court, 3.
"INJURY AND PATTERN DISCOVERY" RULE. See Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act.

INTEREST IN ESTATES. See Federal-State Relations.
INTERNAL REVENUE CODE. See Taxes.
INTERSTATE AGREEMENT ON DETAINERS. See Criminal Law.
JUDGMENT AS A MATTER OF LAW. See Jurisdiction.
JURISDICTION.

Federal Court of Appeals--Direction of judgment.--Federal Rule of
Civil Procedure 50 permits an appellate court to direct entry of judgment
as a matter of law when it determines that evidence was erroneously admitted at trial and that remaining, properly admitted, evidence is insufficient to constitute a submissible case. Weisgram v. Marley Co., p. 440.

JURY INSTRUCTIONS. See Constitutional Law, III.

528IND Unit: $UBV [06-07-01 20:22:30] PGT: INDBV (Bound Volume)

1205INDEX
JURY SELECTION. See Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure.
LIMITATIONS ON CAMPAIGN CONTRIBUTIONS. See Constitutional Law, V, 2; VI, 2.

LIMITATIONS PERIODS. See Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt

Organizations Act.

MISSOURI. See Constitutional Law, V, 2; VI, 2.
MITIGATING FACTORS. See Constitutional Law, III.
MOOTNESS. See Constitutional Law, I.
MOTOR VEHICLE RECORDS. See Constitutional Law, XI.
MULTISTATE BUSINESSES. See Constitutional Law, IV, 2.
MURDER CRIME SCENES. See Constitutional Law, IX, 1.
NOTICES OF APPEAL. See Constitutional Law, VII, 1.
ORGANIC ACT OF GUAM.

Election of Governor and Lieutenant Governor--Runoff election.--Act
does not require a runoff election when a candidate slate has received a
majority of votes cast for Governor and Lieutenant Governor of Territory,
but not a majority of number of ballots cast in simultaneous general election. Gutierrez v. Ada, p. 250.

PENNSYLVANIA. See Supreme Court, 2.
PEREMPTORY CHALLENGES OF JURORS. See Federal Rules of

Criminal Procedure.

PRECLEARANCE OF REDISTRICTING PLANS. See Voting Rights

Act of 1965.

PROPERTY RIGHTS. See Federal-State Relations.
RACE-BASED VOTING QUALIFICATIONS. See Constitutional

Law, VIII.

RACE DISCRIMINATION. See Civil Rights Act of 1871; Constitutional Law, I, 1; VIII.

RACKETEER INFLUENCED AND CORRUPT ORGANIZATIONS

ACT.

Civil actions--Limitations period.--Four-year limitations period for a
civil RICO claim is not governed by an injury and pattern discovery rule
that starts only when claimant discovers, or should discover, both an injury and pattern of RICO activity. Rotella v. Wood, p. 549.

REDISTRICTING PLANS. See Voting Rights Act of 1965.

528IND Unit: $UBV [06-07-01 20:22:30] PGT: INDBV (Bound Volume)
1206 INDEX
REMITTANCES OF TAXES. See Taxes.
REMOVAL OF JURORS. See Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure.
REPETITIOUS FILINGS. See Supreme Court, 3.
RETROGRESSION. See Voting Rights Act of 1965.
RIGHT TO APPELLATE COUNSEL. See Constitutional Law, VII, 2.
RUNOFF ELECTIONS. See Organic Act of Guam.
SALE OF DRIVER'S LICENSE INFORMATION. See Constitutional

Law, XI.

SEARCHES AND SEIZURES. See Constitutional Law, IX.
SELF-REPRESENTATION ON APPEAL. See Constitutional Law,

IV, 1.

SIXTH AMENDMENT. See Constitutional Law, IV, 1; VII, 1.
SOUTH CAROLINA. See Constitutional Law, XI.
SOVEREIGN IMMUNITY. See Constitutional Law, X.
STATE LIMITATIONS ON CAMPAIGN CONTRIBUTIONS. See Constitutional Law, V, 2; VI, 2.

STATE MOTOR VEHICLE RECORDS. See Constitutional Law, XI.
STATE TAXES. See Constitutional Law, II; IV, 2.
STATES' IMMUNITY FROM SUIT. See Constitutional Law, X.
STATES' POWERS. See Constitutional Law, XI.
STATUTES OF LIMITATIONS. See Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act.

STOP AND FRISK. See Constitutional Law, IX, 2.
SUPREME COURT.

1. Proceedings in memory of Justice Blackmun, p. v.
2. Certified question--Pennsylvania law--Operation of hazardous
waste facility without a permit.--Where Fiore and his codefendant Scarpone were convicted of violating a Pennsylvania law that forbade operating a hazardous waste facility without a permit, and where Pennsylvania
Supreme Court denied review of Fiore's case, but ruled in Scarpone's case
that statute did not apply to persons like Fiore and Scarpone, this Court
certifies question whether Pennsylvania Supreme Court's interpretation
of such statute in Scarpone's case was correct interpretation of Pennsylvania law on date Fiore's conviction became final. Fiore v. White, p. 23.

528IND Unit: $UBV [06-07-01 20:22:30] PGT: INDBV (Bound Volume)

1207INDEX
SUPREME COURT--Continued.

3. In forma pauperis--Repetitious filings.--Abusive filers are denied
in forma pauperis status in noncriminal cases. Antonelli v. Caridine, p. 3;
Brancato v. Gunn, p. 1; Dempsey v. Martin, p. 7; In re Bauer, p. 16; Judd
v. United States Dist. Court for Western Dist. of Tex., p. 5; Prunty v.
Brooks, p. 9.

TAXES. See also Constitutional Law, II; IV, 2; Federal-State

Relations.

Federal income taxes--Remittance date.--Remittances of estimated income tax and withholding tax are "paid" on due date of a calendar year
taxpayer's income tax return for purposes of Internal Revenue Code

$ 6511(b)(A)(2). Baral v. United States, p. 431.

TENTH AMENDMENT. See Constitutional Law, XI.
TEXAS. See Civil Rights Act of 1871.
TRANSPORTATION CONTRACTS. See Constitutional Law, I, 1.
TRIAL DATES. See Criminal Law.
VOTING DISCRIMINATION. See Constitutional Law, VIII; Voting

Rights Act of 1965.

VOTING RIGHTS ACT OF 1965.

Redistricting plan--Preclearance.--In light of $ 5's language and
Court's holding in Beer v. United States, 425 U. S. 130, $ 5 does not prohibit
preclearance of a redistricting plan enacted with a discriminatory but nonretrogressive purpose. Reno v. Bossier Parish School Bd., p. 320.

WARRANTLESS SEARCHES. See Constitutional Law, IX, 1.
WEST VIRGINIA. See Constitutional Law, IX, 1.
WITHHOLDING TAXES. See Taxes.
WORDS AND PHRASES.

1. "Paid." Internal Revenue Code, 26 U. S. C. $ 6511(b)(A)(2). Baral
v. United States, p. 431.

2. "Property and rights to property." Internal Revenue Code, 26
U. S. C. $ 6321. Drye v. United States, p. 49.

3. "Purpose . . . of denying or abridging the right to vote on account of
race or color." $ 5, Voting Rights Act of 1965, 42 U. S. C. $ 1973c. Reno
v. Bossier Parish School Bd., p. 320.