

UNITED
UNITED

J U S T I C E SSUPREME
TABLE

vi TABLE  OF  CASES  REPORTED  viiviii TABLE  OF  CASES  REPORTED  ixx TABLE  OF  CASES  REPORTED  xixii TABLE  OF  CASES  REPORTED  xiiixiv TABLE  OF  CASES  REPORTED  xvxvi TABLE  OF  CASES  REPORTED  xviixviii TABLE  OF  CASES  REPORTED  xixxx TABLE  OF  CASES  REPORTED  xxixxii TABLE  OF  CASES  REPORTED  xxiiixxiv TABLE  OF  CASES  REPORTED  xxvxxvi TABLE  OF  CASES  REPORTED  xxviixxviii TABLE  OF  CASES  REPORTED  xxixxxx TABLE  OF  CASES  REPORTED  xxxixxxii TABLE  OF  CASES  REPORTED  xxxiiixxxiv TABLE  OF  CASES  REPORTED  xxxvxxxvi TABLE  OF  CASES  REPORTED  xxxviixxxviii TABLE  OF  CASES  REPORTED  xxxixxl TABLE  OF  CASES  REPORTED  xlixlii TABLE  OF  CASES  REPORTED  xliiixliv TABLE  OF  CASES  REPORTED  xlvxlvi TABLE  OF  CASES  REPORTED  xlviixlviii TABLE  OF  CASES  REPORTED  xlixl TABLE  OF  CASES  REPORTED  lilii TABLE  OF  CASES  REPORTED  liiiliv TABLE  OF  CASES  REPORTED  lvlvi TABLE  OF  CASES  REPORTED  lviilviii TABLE  OF  CASES  REPORTED  lixlx TABLE  OF  CASES  REPORTED  lxilxii TABLE  OF  CASES  REPORTED  lxiiilxiv TABLE  OF  CASES  REPORTED  lxvlxvi TABLE  OF  CASES  REPORTED  lxviilxviii TABLE  OF  CASES  REPORTED  lxixlxx TABLE  OF  CASES  REPORTED  lxxilxxii TABLE  OF  CASES  REPORTED  lxxiiilxxiv TABLE  OF  CASES  REPORTED  lxxvlxxvi TABLE  OF  CASES  REPORTED  lxxviilxxviii TABLE  OF  CASES  REPORTED  lxxixlxxx TABLE  OF  CASES  REPORTED  lxxxilxxxii TABLE  OF  CASES  REPORTED  lxxxiiilxxxiv TABLE  OF  CASES  REPORTED  lxxxvlxxxvi TABLE  OF  CASES  REPORTED  lxxxviilxxxviii TABLE  OF  CASES  REPORTED  lxxxixxc TABLE  OF  CASES  REPORTED  xcixcii TABLE  OF  CASES  REPORTED  xciiixciv TABLE  OF  CASES  REPORTED  xcvxcvi TABLE  OF  CASES  REPORTED  xcviixcviii TABLE  OF  CASES  REPORTED  xcix

CASES
2  HEMI  GROUP,  LLC  v.  CITY  OF  NEW  YORK 

Syllabus 
Held:  The judgment is reversed, and the case is remanded. 
541 F. 3d 425, reversed and remanded. 

Chief

Cite as: 559 U. S. 1 (2010)  3 

Syllabus 
rate  parties.  The  City's  theory  thus  requires  that  the  Court  extend 
RICO  liability  to  situations  where  the  defendant's  fraud  on  the  third 
party (the State) has made it easier for a fourth party (the taxpayer) to 
cause harm to the plaintiff (the City).  Indeed, the fourth-party taxpay-
ers here only caused harm to the City in the first place if they decided 
not to pay taxes they were legally obligated to pay.  Put simply, Hemi's 
obligation  was  to  file  Jenkins  Act  reports  with  the  State,  not  the  City, 
and  the  City's  harm  was  directly  caused  by  the  customers,  not  Hemi. 
The Court has never before stretched the causal chain of a RICO viola-
tion  so  far,  and  declines  to  do  so  today.  See,  e. g.,  id.,  at  460-461. 
Pp. 8-12. 

(b)  The  City  attempts  to  avoid  this  conclusion  by  characterizing  the 
violation  not  merely  as  Hemi's  failure  to  file  Jenkins  Act  reports  with 
the State, but as a more general systematic scheme to defraud the City 
of  tax  revenue.  But  if  the  City  could  escape  the  proximate  cause  re-
quirement merely by alleging that the fraudulent scheme embraced all 
those indirectly harmed by the alleged conduct, the Court's RICO proxi-
mate cause precedent would become a mere pleading rule.  That prece-
dent  makes  clear  that  "the  compensable  injury  flowing  from  a  [RICO] 
violation . . .  `necessarily  is  the  harm  caused  by  [the]  predicate  acts.' " 
Anza, supra, at 457.  Because the only fraudulent conduct alleged here 
is  a  violation  of  the  Jenkins  Act,  the  City  must,  but  cannot,  show  that 
Hemi's failure to file the Jenkins Act reports led directly to its injuries. 

The  City  also  errs  in  relying  on  Bridge  v.  Phoenix  Bond  &  Indem-
nity  Co.,  553  U. S.  639.  There,  the  plaintiffs'  causation  theory  was 
"straightforward": The causal link in Bridge involved a direct and easily 
identifiable connection between the fraud at issue and the plaintiffs' in-
jury, id., at 647, 658; the plaintiffs there "were the only parties injured 
by petitioners' misrepresentations," id., at 658; and there were "no inde-
pendent  factors  that  account[ed]  for  [the]  injury,"  ibid.  The  City's 
theory in this case is anything but straightforward: Multiple steps sepa-
rate  the  alleged  fraud  from  the  asserted  injury.  And  in  contrast  to 
Bridge,  where  there were  "no independent factors  that account[ed] for 
[the plaintiffs'] injury," ibid., here there certainly were: The City's the-
ory of liability rests on the independent actions of third and even fourth 
parties.  Pp. 13-17. 

Roberts,

4  HEMI GROUP, LLC v.  CITY OF NEW YORK 

Opinion of the Court 
Randolph H. Barnhouse argued the cause and filed briefs 
for petitioners. 

Leonard  J.  Koerner  argued  the  cause  for  respondent. 
With  him  on  the  brief  were  Michael  A.  Cardozo,  Elizabeth 
Susan Natrella, Eric Proshansky, and Gail P. Rubin.* 

Chief

Cite as: 559 U. S. 1 (2010)  5 

Opinion of the Court 
"by reason of "  the a lleged  RICO  vi olati on, 18  U. S. C. 

$ 1964(c),  we  hold  that  the  City  cannot  state  a  claim  under 
RICO.  We therefore reverse the Court of Appeals' decision 
to the contrary. 

I  

A  

This  case  arises  from  a  motion  to  dismiss,  and  so  we  ac-
cept  as  true  the  factual  allegations  in  the  City's  second 
amended  complaint.  See  Leatherman  v.  Tarrant  County 
Narcotics Intelligence and Coordination Unit, 507 U. S. 163, 
164 (1993). 

New  York  State  authorizes  the  City  of  New  York  to  im-
pose its own taxes on cigarettes.  N. Y. Unconsol. Law Ann. 

$ 9436(1) (West Supp. 2009).  Under that authority, the City 
has  levied  a  $1.50  per  pack  tax  on  each  standard  pack  of 
cigarettes possessed within the City for sale or use.  N. Y. C. 
Admin.  Code  $ 11-1302(a)  (2008);  see  also  Record  A1016. 
When  purchasers  buy  cigarettes  from  in-state  vendors,  the 
seller  is  responsible  for  charging,  collecting,  and  remitting 
the  tax.  N.  Y.  Tax  Law  Ann.  $ 471(2)  (West  Supp.  2009). 
Out-of-state vendors, however, are not.  Ibid.; see New York 
v.  Smokes-Spirits.com,  Inc.,  541  F.  3d  425,  432-433  (CA2 
2008).  Instead,  the  City  is  responsible  for  recovering,  di-
rectly  from  the  customers,  use  taxes  on  cigarettes  sold  out-
side  New  York.  That  can  be  difficult,  as  those  customers 
are  often  reluctant  to  pay  and  tough  to  track  down.  One 
way  the  City  can  gather  information  that  would  assist  it  in 
collecting the back taxes is through the Jenkins Act, ch. 699, 
63 Stat. 884, as amended by 69 Stat. 627.  That Act requires 
out-of-state  cigarette  sellers  to  register  and  to  file  a  report 
with  state  tobacco  tax  administrators  listing  the  name,  ad-
dress,  and  quantity  of  cigarettes  purchased  by  state  resi-
dents.  15 U. S. C. $$ 375-378. 

New York State and the City have executed an agreement 
under which both parties undertake to "cooperate fully with 

6  HEMI GROUP, LLC v.  CITY OF NEW YORK 

Opinion of the Court 
each other and keep each other fully and promptly informed with  reference  to  any  person  or  transaction  subject  to  both 

State  and  City  cigarette  taxes  including  [i]nformation  ob-tained  which  may  result  in  additional  cigarette  tax  revenue 
to the State or City provided that the disclosure of that infor-mation  is  permissible  under  existing  laws  and  agreements." 
Record A1003.  The City asserts that under that agreement, the State forwards Jenkins Act information to the City. 

Id., at  A998;  Second  Amended  Compl.  || 54.  That  information 

helps  the  City  track  down  purchasers  who  do  not  pay  their taxes.  Id., |||| 58-59. 

Hemi Group is a New Mexico company that sells cigarettes online.  Hemi,  however,  does  not  file  Jenkins  Act  informa-
tion  with  the  State.  The  City  alleges  that  this  failure  has cost  it  "tens  if  not  hundreds  of  millions  of  dollars  a  year 
in  cigarette  excise  tax  revenue."  Record  A996.  Based  on Hemi's failure to file the information with the State, the City 
filed this federal RICO claim. 

B 
RICO  provides a private cause of action  for "[a]ny  person injured in his business or property by reason of a violation of 

section 1962 of this chapter."  18 U. S. C. $ 1964(c).  Section 1962,  in  turn,  contains  RICO's  criminal  provisions.  Specifi-
cally, $ 1962(c), which the City invokes here, makes it "unlaw-ful for any person employed by or associated with any enter-
prise engaged in, or the  activities of which affect, interstate .  .  .  commerce,  to  conduct  or  participate,  directly  or  indi-
rectly,  in  the  conduct  of  such  enterprise's  affairs  through  a pattern of racketeering activity."  "[R]acketeering activity" 
is  defined  to  include  a  number  of  so-called  predicate  acts, including the two at issue in this case--mail and wire fraud. 
See $ 1961(1). The City alleges that Hemi's "interstate sale  of cigarettes 
and  the  failure  to  file  Jenkins  Act  reports  identifying  those sales"  constitute  the  RICO  predicate  offenses  of  mail  and 

Cite as: 559 U. S. 1 (2010)  7 

Opinion of the Court 
wire  fraud  in  violation  of  $ 1962(c),  for  which  $ 1964(c)  pro-vides  a  private  cause  of  action.  Record  A980.  Invoking 

that private cause of action, the City asserts that it has suf-fered  injury  in  the  form  of  lost  tax  revenue--its  "business 
or property" in RICO terms--"by reason of " Hemi's fraud. Hemi  does  not  contest  the  City's  characterization  of  the 
Jenkins Act violations as predicate offenses actionable under 

$ 1964(c).  (We  therefore  assume,  without  deciding,  that failure to file Jenkins Act material can serve as a RICO pred-

icate  offense.)  Instead,  Hemi  argues  that  the  City's  as-serted  injury--lost  tax  revenue--is  not  "business  or  prop-
erty"  under  RICO,  and  that  the  City  cannot  show  that  it 
suffered any injury "by reason of " the failure to file Jenkins 
Act reports. 

The  District  Court  dismissed  the  City's  RICO  claims,  de-
termining that Hemi owner and officer Kai Gachupin did not 
have an individual duty to file Jenkins Act reports, and thus 
could  not  have  committed  the  alleged  predicate  acts.  New 
York  v.  Nexicon,  Inc.,  No.  03  CV  383  (DAB),  2006  WL 
647716,  *7-*8  (SDNY,  Mar.  15,  2006).  The  District  Court 
therefore  held  that  the  City  could  not  establish  that  Hemi 
and Gachupin formed an "enterprise" as required to establish 
RICO  liability.  Id.,  at  *7-*10.  Because  it  dismissed  on 
that  ground,  the  District  Court  did  not  address  whether 

the  City's  loss  of  tax  revenue  constitutes  an  injury  to  its 
"business  or  property"  under  $ 1964,  or  whether  that  injury 
was  caused  "by  reason  of "  Hemi's  failure  to  file  the  Jenkins 
Act reports. 

The Second Circuit vacated the District Court's judgment 
and  remanded  for  further  proceedings.  The  Court  of  Ap-
peals  held  that  the  City  had  established  that  Gachupin  and 
Hemi  operated  as  an  "enterprise"  and  that  the  enterprise 
committed  the  predicate  RICO  acts  of  mail  and  wire  fraud, 
based on the failure to file the Jenkins Act material with the 
State.  541  F.  3d,  at  447-448.  The  court  also  determined 
that  the  City's  asserted  injury,  lost  tax  revenue,  was  "busi-

8  HEMI GROUP, LLC v.  CITY OF NEW YORK 

Opinion of the Court 
ness  or  property"  under  RICO.  Id.,  at  444-445.  And  that 
injury,  the  court  concluded,  came  about  "by  reason  of "  the 
predicate  mail  and  wire  frauds.  Id.,  at  440-444.  The  City 
thus  had  stated  a  viable  RICO  claim.  Judge  Winter  dis-
sented  on  the  ground  that  the  alleged  RICO  violation  was 
not the proximate cause of the City's injury.  Id., at 458-461. 

Hemi  filed  a  petition  for  certiorari,  asking  this  Court  to 
determine whether the City had been "directly injured in its 
`business  or  property' "  by  reason  of  the  alleged  mail  and 
wire  frauds.  Pet.  for  Cert.  i.  We  granted  that  petition. 
556 U. S. 1220 (2009). 

II 

Though  framed  as  a  single  question,  Hemi's  petition  for 
certiorari raises  two distinct  issues:  First,  whether a  loss in 
tax  revenue  is  "business  or  property"  under  18  U. S. C. 

$ 1964(c);  and  second,  whether  the  City's  asserted  injury 
came about "by reason of " the allegedly fraudulent conduct, 
as  required  by  $ 1964(c).  We  determine  that  the  City  can-
not  satisfy  the  causation  requirement--that  any  injury  the 
City  suffered  must  be  "by  reason  of "  the  alleged  frauds-- 
and  therefore  do  not  decide  whether  the  City's  allegations 
of  lost  tax  revenue  constitute  an  injury  to  its  "business 
or property." 

A 

In Holmes v.  Securities Investor Protection Corporation, 
503  U. S.  258  (1992),  we  set  forth  the  standard  of  causation 
that  applies  to  civil  RICO  claims.  In  that  case,  we  ad-
dressed a RICO claim brought by Securities Investor Protec-
tion  Corporation  (SIPC)  against  defendants  whom  SIPC  al-
leged had manipulated stock prices.  Id., at 262-263.  SIPC 
had  a  duty  to  reimburse  customers  of  certain  registered 
broker-dealers  in  the  event  the  broker-dealers  were  unable 
to  meet  their  financial  obligations.  Id.,  at  261.  When  the 
conspiracy  by  the  stock  manipulators  was  detected,  stock 
prices collapsed, and two broker-dealers were unable to meet 

Cite as: 559 U. S. 1 (2010)  9 

Opinion of the Court 
their obligations to their customers.  SIPC, as insurer against  that  loss,  ultimately  was  on  the  hook  for  nearly  $13 

million to cover the customers' claims.  The Court held that SIPC  could  not  recover  against  the  conspirators  because  it 
could  not  establish  that  it  was  injured  "by  reason  of "  the alleged fraud, as that phrase is used in RICO. 

We  explained  that,  to  state  a  claim  under  civil  RICO,  the 
plaintiff  is  required  to  show  that  a  RICO  predicate  offense "not  only  was  a  `but  for'  cause  of  his  injury,  but  was  the 

proximate cause as well."  Id., at 268.  Proximate cause for RICO purposes, we  made clear, should be evaluated in light 
of  its  common-law  foundations;  proximate  cause  thus  re-
quires "some direct relation between the injury asserted and 
the  injurious  conduct  alleged."  Ibid.  A  link  that  is  "too 
remote,"  "purely  contingent,"  or  "indirec[t]"  is  insufficient. 
Id., at 271, 274. 

Applying  that  standard,  we  rejected  SIPC's  RICO  claim. 
The  alleged  conspiracy,  we  held,  directly  harmed  only  the 
broker-dealers; SIPC's injury,  on  the other  hand, was 
"purely contingent" on that harm.  Id., at 271.  The connec-
tion  between  the  alleged  conspiracy  and  SIPC's  injury  was 
therefore  "too  remote"  to  satisfy  RICO's  direct  relationship 
requirement.  Ibid. 

The  City's  causal  theory  is  far  more  attenuated  than  the 
one  we  rejected  in  Holmes.  According  to  the  City,  Hemi 
committed  fraud  by  selling  cigarettes  to  city  residents  and 
failing  to  submit  the  required  customer  information  to  the 
State.  Without  the  reports  from  Hemi,  the  State  could  not 
pass  on  the  information  to  the  City,  even  if  it  had  been  so 
inclined.  Some of the customers legally obligated to pay the 
cigarette  tax  to  the  City  failed  to  do  so.  Because  the  City 
did not receive the customer information, the City could not 
determine  which  customers  had  failed  to  pay  the  tax.  The 
City  thus  could  not  pursue  those  customers  for  payment. 
The  City  thereby  was  injured  in  the  amount  of  the  portion 
of  back  taxes  that  were  never  collected.  See  Record  A996. 

10  HEMI GROUP, LLC v.  CITY OF NEW YORK 

Opinion of the Court 
But as we reiterated in Holmes, "[t]he general tendency of the law, in regard to damages at least, is not to go beyond the 

first  step."  503  U. S.,  at  271-272  (quoting  Associated  Gen. 
Contractors  of  Cal.,  Inc.  v.  Carpenters,  459  U. S.  519,  534 
(1983),  in  turn  quoting  Southern  Pacific  Co.  v.  DarnellTaenzer Lumber Co., 245 U. S. 531, 533 (1918); internal quota-
tion  marks  omitted).  Our  cases  confirm  that  the  "general 
tendency" applies with full force to proximate cause inquiries under RICO. 

Holmes, supra, at 271-272; see also Bridge v. 
Phoenix  Bond  &  Indemnity  Co.,  553  U. S.  639,  657-659 (2008); 

Anza v.  Ideal Steel  Supply Corp.,  547  U. S. 451, 460- 
461  (2006).  Because  the  City's  theory  of  causation  requires 
us  to  move  well  beyond  the  first  step,  that  theory  cannot 
meet RICO's direct relationship requirement. 

Our  decision  in Anza,  supra,  confirms  that the  City's  the-
ory  of  causation  is  far  too  indirect.  There  we  considered  a 
RICO  claim  brought  by  Ideal  Steel  Supply  against  its  com-
petitor,  National  Steel  Supply.  Ideal  alleged  that  National 
had  defrauded  New  York  State  by  failing  to  charge  and  re-
mit sales taxes, and that National was thus able to undercut 
Ideal's  prices.  The  lower  prices  offered  by  National,  Ideal 
contended,  allowed  National  to  attract  customers  at  Ideal's 
expense.  Id., at 458. 

Finding  the  link  between  the  fraud  alleged  and  injury 
suffered  to  be  "attenuated,"  we  rejected  Ideal's  claim.  Id., 
at  459.  "The  direct  victim  of  this  conduct,"  we  held,  was 
"the  State  of  New  York,  not  Ideal."  Id.,  at  458.  "It  was 
the  State  that  was  being  defrauded  and  the  State  that  lost 
tax  revenue  as  a  result."  Ibid.  We  recognized  that  Ideal 
had asserted "its own harms when [National] failed to charge 
customers  for  the  applicable  sales  tax."  Ibid.  But  the 
cause  of  Ideal's  harm  was  "a  set  of  actions  (offering  lower 
prices) entirely distinct from the alleged RICO violation (de-
frauding the State)."  Ibid.  The alleged violation therefore 
had  not  "led  directly  to  the  plaintiff 's  injuries,"  and  Ideal 
accordingly had  failed  to meet  RICO's  "requirement of  a di-

Cite as: 559 U. S. 1 (2010)  11 

Opinion of the Court 
rect  causal  connection"  between  the  predicate  offense  and the alleged harm. 

Id., at 460-461. 
The City's claim suffers from the same defect as the claim in 

Anza.  Here,  the  conduct  directly  responsible  for  the 
City's  harm  was  the  customers'  failure  to  pay  their  taxes. And  the  conduct  constituting  the  alleged  fraud  was  Hemi's 

failure  to  file  Jenkins  Act  reports.  Thus,  as  in  Anza,  the 
conduct directly causing the harm was distinct from the con-duct giving rise to the fraud.  See 

id., at 458. 
Indeed,  the  disconnect  between  the  asserted  injury  and the  alleged  fraud  in  this  case  is  even  sharper  than  in 

Anza. 
There,  we  viewed  the  point  as  important  because  the  same 
party--National  Steel--had  both  engaged  in  the  harmful 
conduct and committed the fraudulent act.  We nevertheless 
found  the  distinction  between  the  relevant  acts  sufficient  to 
defeat Ideal's RICO claim.  Here, the City's theory of liabil-
ity  rests  not  just  on  separate  actions,  but  separate  actions 
carried out by separate parties. 

The  City's  theory thus requires  that  we  extend RICO lia-
bility  to  situations  where  the  defendant's  fraud  on  the  third 
party  (the  State)  has  made  it  easier  for  a  fourth  party  (the 
taxpayer) to cause harm to the plaintiff (the City).  Indeed, 
the  fourth-party  taxpayers  here  only  caused  harm  to  the 
City  in  the  first  place  if  they  decided  not  to  pay  taxes 
they were legally obligated to pay.  Put simply, Hemi's obli-
gation was to file the Jenkins Act reports with the State, not 
the  City,  and  the  City's  harm  was  directly  caused  by  the 
customers,  not  Hemi.  We  have  never  before  stretched  the 
causal chain of a RICO violation so far, and we decline to do 
so  today.  See  id.,  at  460-461;  cf.  Associated  Gen.  Contrac-
tors,  supra,  at  541,  n.  46  (finding  no  proximate  cause  in  the 
antitrust context where the plaintiff 's "harm stems most di-
rectly  from  the  conduct  of  persons  who  are  not  victims  of 
the conspiracy"). 

One  consideration  we  have  highlighted  as  relevant  to  the 
RICO  "direct  relationship"  requirement  is  whether  better 

12  HEMI GROUP, LLC v.  CITY OF NEW YORK 

Opinion of the Court 
situated  plaintiffs  would  have  an  incentive  to  sue.  See 
Holmes,  supra,  at  269-270.  The  State  certainly  is  better 
situated  than  the  City  to  seek  recovery  from  Hemi.  And the State has an incentive to sue--the State imposes its own 

$2.75 per  pack tax on  cigarettes possessed within  the  State, nearly  double  what  the  City  charges.  N. Y.  Tax  Law  Ann. 

$ 471(1) (West Supp. 2009).  We do not opine on whether the 
State  could  bring  a  RICO  action  for  any  lost  tax  revenue. Suffice  it  to  say  that  the  State  would  have  concrete  incen-

tives  to  try.  See  Anza,  supra,  at  460  ("Ideal  accuses  the Anzas of defrauding the State of New York out of a substan-
tial amount of money.  If the allegations are true, the State 
can be expected to pursue appropriate remedies"). 

The  dissent  would  have  RICO's  proximate  cause  require-
ment  turn  on  foreseeability,  rather  than  on  the  existence  of 
a sufficiently "direct relationship" between the fraud and the 
harm.  It would find that the City has satisfied that require-
ment  because  "the  harm  is  foreseeable;  it  is  a  consequence 
that  Hemi  intended,  indeed  desired;  and  it  falls  well  within 
the  set  of  risks  that  Congress  sought  to  prevent."  Post, 
at  24  (opinion  of  Breyer,

Cite as: 559 U. S. 1 (2010)  13 

Opinion of the Court 

B 
The City offers a number of responses.  It first challenges our  characterization  of  the  violation  at  issue.  In  the  City's 

view, the violation is not merely Hemi's failure to file Jenkins Act information with the State, but a more general "system-
atic  scheme  to  defraud  the  City  of  tax  revenue."  Brief  for Respondent  42.  Having  broadly  defined  the  violation,  the 
City  contends  that  it  has  been  directly  harmed by  reason of that systematic scheme.  Ibid. 

But  the  City  cannot  escape  the  proximate  cause  require-ment  merely  by  alleging  that  the  fraudulent  scheme  em-
braced  all  those  indirectly  harmed  by  the  alleged  conduct. Otherwise  our  RICO  proximate  cause  precedent  would  be-
come a mere pleading rule.  In Anza, for example, Ideal  al-leged that National's scheme "was to give National a compet-
itive  advantage  over  Ideal."  547  U. S.,  at  454-455.  But that  allegation  did  not  prevent  the  Court  from  concluding 
that  National's  fraud  directly  harmed  only  the  State,  not Ideal.  As the  Court explained, Ideal could not "circumvent 
the proximate-cause requirement simply by claiming that the defendant's  aim  was  to  increase  market  share  at  a  competi-
tor's expense."  Id., at 460.1 Our precedent makes clear, moreover, that "the compensa-
ble injury flowing from a [RICO] violation . . .  `necessarily is the harm caused by [the] predicate acts.' " 

Id., at 457 (quot-ing Sedima, S. P. R. L. v.  Imrex Co., 473 U. S. 479, 497 (1985)). 

In  its  RICO  statement,  the  City  alleged  that  Hemi's  failure to  file  Jenkins  Act  reports  constituted  the  predicate  act  of 
mail  and  wire  fraud.  Record  A980.  The  City  went  on  to 

1 Even  if  we  were  willing  to  look  to  Hemi's  intent,  as  the  dissent  sug-
gests  we  should,  the  City  would  fare  no  better.  Hemi's  aim  was  not  to 
defraud the City (or the State, for that matter) of tax revenue, but to sell 
more cigarettes.  Hemi itself neither owed taxes nor was obliged to collect 
and remit them.  This all suggests that Hemi's alleged fraud was aimed at 
Hemi's competitors, not the City.  But Anza teaches that the competitors' 
injuries in such a case are too attenuated to state a RICO claim. 

14  HEMI GROUP, LLC v.  CITY OF NEW YORK 

Opinion of the Court 
allege that this  predicate  act "directly  caused" its harm, id., at A996, but that assertion is a legal conclusion about proxi-

mate  cause--indeed,  the  very  legal  conclusion  before  us. The only fraudulent 

conduct alleged here is a violation of the 
Jenkins  Act.  See  541  F.  3d,  at  459  (Winter,  J.,  dissenting). Thus, the City must show that Hemi's failure to file the Jen-

kins  Act  reports  with  the  State  led  directly  to  its  injuries. 
This it cannot do. The City also relies on 

Bridge, 553 U. S. 639.  Bridge reaf-
firmed the requirement that there must be "a sufficiently di-rect  relationship  between  the  defendant's  wrongful  conduct 

and  the  plaintiff 's  injury."  Id.,  at  657.  The  case  involved 
competing bidders at a county tax-lien auction.  Because the 
liens were profitable even at the lowest possible bid, multiple 
bidders  offered  that  low  bid.  (The  bidding  took  the  form 
of  the  percentage  tax  penalty  the  bidder  would  require  the 
property  owner  to  pay,  so  the  lowest  possible  bid  was  0%.) 
To  decide  which  bidder  would  be  awarded  the  lien,  the 
county  devised  a  plan  to  allocate  the  liens  "on  a  rotational 
basis."  Id., at 643 (internal quotation marks omitted).  But 
as we noted in that case, this created a "perverse incentive": 
"Bidders  who,  in  addition  to  bidding  themselves,  sen[t] 
agents to bid on their behalf  [would] obtain a  disproportion-
ate  share  of liens."  Ibid.  The  county  therefore  prohibited 
bidders from using such agents.  Ibid. 

A  losing  bidder  alleged  that  a  competitor  had  defrauded 
the county by employing shadow bidders to secure a greater 
proportion  of  liens  than  it  was  due.  We  held  that  the 
bidder-plaintiff had met RICO's causation requirement. 
Distinguishing  that  claim from  the  one at issue in  Anza,  we 
noted  that  the  plaintiff 's  theory  of  causation  in  Bridge  was 
"straightforward":  Because  of  the  zero-sum  nature  of  the 
auction, and because the county awarded bids on a rotational 
basis, each time a fraud-induced bid was awarded, a particu-
lar legitimate bidder was necessarily passed over.  553 U. S., 
at  647,  658.  The  losing  bidders,  moreover,  "were  the  only 

Cite as: 559 U. S. 1 (2010)  15 

Opinion of the Court 
parties  injured  by  petitioners'  misrepresentations."  Id.,  at 658.  The  county  was  not;  it  received  the  same  revenue  re-

gardless of which bidder prevailed. The  City's  theory  in  this  case  is  anything  but  straight-
forward:  Multiple  steps,  as  we  have  detailed,  separate  the alleged  fraud  from  the  asserted  injury.  And  in  contrast  to 
Bridge,  where  there  were  "no  independent  factors  that  ac-
count[ed]  for  [the  plaintiff 's]  injury,"  ibid.,  here  there  cer-tainly  were:  The  City's  theory  of  liability  rests  on  the  inde-

pendent actions of third and even fourth parties. The  City  at  various  points  during  the  proceedings  below 
described  its  injury  as  the  lost  "opportunity  to  tax"  rather 
than  "lost  tax  revenue."  It  is  not  clear  that  there  is  a  sub-
stantive  distinction  between  the  two  descriptions.  In  any 
event, before  this Court, the City's argument turned on  lost 
revenue, not a lost opportunity to collect it.  See, e. g., Brief 
for  Respondent  i  ("Counter-Question  Presented[:]  Does  the 
City  of  New  York  have  standing  under  RICO  because  lost 
tax revenue constitutes a direct injury to the City's `business 
or  property'  in  accord  with  the  statute,  18  U. S. C.  $ 1964(c), 
and  this  Court's  authority?");  id.,  at  40  ("[T]he  City  alleges 
that it has been injured (the loss of tax revenues) by defend-
ants'  RICO  violations").  Indeed,  in  its  entire  brief  on  the 
merits,  the  City  never  uses the  word  "opportunity" (or  any-
thing similar) to describe its injury. 

Perhaps the  City  articulated its  argument in  terms of the 
lost  revenue  itself  to  meet  Hemi's  contention  that  an  injury 
to  the  mere  "opportunity  to  collect"  taxes  fell  short  of 
RICO's  injury  to  "property"  requirement.  Brief  for  Peti-
tioners 25 ("The opportunity to collect taxes from those who 
did owe them . . . falls within a class of expectation interests 
that  do  not  qualify  as  injury  to  business  or  property  and 
therefore do not confer civil RICO standing" (internal quota-
tion  marks  omitted));  see  Cleveland  v.  United  States,  531 
U. S. 12,  15 (2000) ("It does not  suffice . . . that the  object of 
the  fraud  may  become  property  in  the  recipient's  hands;  for 

16  HEMI GROUP, LLC v.  CITY OF NEW YORK 

Opinion of the Court 
purposes  of  the  mail  fraud  statute,  the  thing  obtained  must be property in the hands of the victim"). 

That  is  not  to  say,  however,  that  the  City  would  fare  any better on the  causation question  had it  framed its argument 
in  terms  of  a  lost  opportunity.  Hemi's  filing  obligation would  still  be  to  the  State,  and  any  harm  to  the  City  would 
still be caused directly by the customers' failure to pay their 
taxes.  See 541 F. 3d, at 461 (Winter, J., dissenting).  What-ever  the  City's  reasons  for  framing  its  merits  arguments  as 

it has, we will not reformulate them for it now.2 In  a  final  effort  to  save  its  claim,  the  City  has  shifted 
course  before  this  Court.  In  its  second  amended  complaint and RICO statement, the City relied solely on Hemi's failure 
to  file  Jenkins  Act  reports  with  the  State  to  form  the  basis of  the  predicate  act  mail  and  wire  frauds.  See  Second 
Amended  Compl.  |||| 99,  101,  118,  125;  Record  A980-A982. Before  this  Court,  however,  the  City  contends  that  Hemi 
made affirmative misrepresentations to city residents, which, 
the  City  now  argues,  comprise  part  of  the  RICO  predicate 
mail  and  wire  frauds.  See  Brief  for  Respondent  42-43. 
The  City's  counsel  pressed  the  point  at  oral  argument,  as-
serting that the City's injury was "caused by the seller's mis-
representation,  which  encourages  the  purchasers  not  to  pay 
taxes."  Tr. of Oral Arg. 44. 

2 The dissent recognizes that its position poses the troubling specter of 
turning  RICO  into  a  tax  collection  statute.  Post,  at  29  (opinion  of 
Breyer,

Cite as: 559 U. S. 1 (2010)  17 

Opinion of the Court 
The City, however, affirmatively disavowed below any reli-ance on misrepresentations to form the predicate RICO vio-

lation.  The alleged  false  statements, the  City there stated, "are  evidence  of  the  scheme  to  defraud,  but  are  not  part  of 
the fraud itself. . . . [T]he scheme to defraud would exist even absent  the  statements."  Record  A980.  The  City  reiter-
ated the point: "The scheme consists of the interstate sale of cigarettes and the failure to file Jenkins Act reports identify-
ing those sales."  Ibid.  "Related to the fraud, but not a cir-cumstance  `constituting'  the  fraud,  the  defendants  inform 
customers  that  [their]  purchases  will  be  concealed,  and  also seek  to  convince  their  customers  that  no  taxes  are  owed  by 
claiming,  falsely,  that  the  sales  are  tax-free."  Id.,  at  A982. Not  only  did  the  City  disclaim  any  reliance  upon  misrepre-
sentations to the customers to form the predicate acts under RICO,  but  the  City  made  clear  in  its  second  amended  com-
plaint that its two RICO claims rested solely on the Jenkins Act  violations  as  the  predicate  acts.  See  Second  Amended 
Compl. |||| 118, 125.  Because the City defined the predicate act  before  the  District  Court  as  Hemi's  failure  to  file  the 
Jenkins Act reports, and expressly disavowed reliance on the alleged misrepresentations themselves  as predicate acts, we 
decline  to  consider  Hemi's  alleged  misstatements  as  predi-cate acts at this late stage. 

* * * 
It bears remembering what this case is about.  It is about the RICO liability of a company for lost taxes it had no obli-

gation  to  collect,  remit,  or  pay,  which  harmed  a  party  to whom  it  owed  no  duty.  It  is  about  imposing  such  liability 
to substitute for or complement a governing body's uncertain ability or desire to collect taxes directly from those who owe 
them.  And it is about the fact that the liability comes with treble  damages  and  attorney's  fees  attached.  This  Court 
has interpreted RICO broadly, consistent with its terms, but we  have  also  held  that  its  reach  is  limited  by  the  "require-

18  HEMI  GROUP,  LLC  v.  CITY  OF  NEW  YORK 

Opinion of Ginsburg,
Cite as: 559 U. S. 1 (2010)  19 

Breyer,
20  HEMI GROUP, LLC v.  CITY OF NEW YORK 

Breyer,
Cite as: 559 U. S. 1 (2010)  21 

Breyer,
22  HEMI GROUP, LLC v.  CITY OF NEW YORK 

Breyer,
Cite as: 559 U. S. 1 (2010)  23 

Breyer,
24  HEMI GROUP, LLC v.  CITY OF NEW YORK 

Breyer,
Cite as: 559 U. S. 1 (2010)  25 

Breyer,
26  HEMI GROUP, LLC v.  CITY OF NEW YORK 

Breyer,
Cite as: 559 U. S. 1 (2010)  27 

Breyer,
28  HEMI GROUP, LLC v.  CITY OF NEW YORK 

Breyer,
Cite as: 559 U. S. 1 (2010)  29 

Breyer,
30  HEMI GROUP, LLC v.  CITY OF NEW YORK 

Breyer,
Cite as: 559 U. S. 1 (2010)  31 

Breyer,
32  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

Syllabus 

BRISCOE  et

Cite as: 559 U. S. 32 (2010)  33 

Per Curiam 
Per

34  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

Per  Curiam 

WILKINS  v.  GADDY 
on

Cite as: 559 U. S. 34 (2010)  35 

Per Curiam 
for the Western District of North Carolina pursuant to Rev. Stat. $ 1979, 42 U. S. C. $ 1983.  Wilkins' 

pro se complaint al-
leged that, on June 13, 2007, he was "maliciously and sadisti-cally" assaulted "[w]ithout any provocation" by a corrections 

officer, respondent Gaddy.1  App. to Pet. for Cert. C-4.  Ac-cording to the complaint, Gaddy, apparently angered by Wil-
kins'  request  for  a  grievance  form,  "snatched  [Wilkins]  off 
the ground and slammed him onto the concrete floor."  Ibid. Gaddy "then proceeded to punch, kick, knee and choke [Wil-

kins] until another officer had to physically remove him from [Wilkins]." 

Ibid.  Wilkins  further  alleged  that,  "[a]s  a  re-
sult  of  the  excessive  force  used  by  [Gaddy],  [he]  sustained multiple  physical  injuries  including  a  bruised  heel,  lower 

back pain, increased blood pressure as well as migraine head-aches  and  dizziness"  and  "psychological  trauma  and  mental 
anguish  including  depression,  panic  attacks  and  nightmares 
of the assault."  Ibid. 

The  District  Court,  on  its  own  motion  and  without  a 
response  from  Gaddy,  dismissed  Wilkins'  complaint  for  fail-
ure  to  state  a  claim.  Citing  Circuit  precedent,  the  court 
stated  that,  "[i]n  order  to  state  an  excessive  force  claim 
under  the  Eighth  Amendment,  a  plaintiff  must  establish 
that  he  received  more  than  a  de  minimus  [sic]  injury." 
No. 3:08-cv-00138  (WDNC, Apr. 16,  2008), pp. 1,  2  (footnote 
omitted;  citing  Taylor  v.  McDuffie,  155  F.  3d  479,  483  (CA4 
1998);  Riley  v.  Dorton,  115  F.  3d  1159,  1166  (CA4  1997)  (en 
banc)).  According  to  the  court,  Wilkins'  alleged  injuries 
were  no  more  severe  than  those  deemed  de  minimis  in  the 
Circuit's  Taylor  and  Riley  decisions.  Indeed,  the  court 
noted,  Wilkins  nowhere  asserted  that  his  injuries  had  re-
quired medical attention. 

In a motion for reconsideration, Wilkins stated that he was 
unaware  that  the  failure  to  allege  medical  treatment  might 
prejudice  his  claim.  He  asserted  that  he  had  been  pre-

1 The materials in the record do not disclose Gaddy's full name. 

36  WILKINS  v.  GADDY 

Per Curiam 
scribed, and  continued to take, medication for his headaches and  back  pain,  as  well  as  for  depression.  And  he  attached 

medical  records  purporting  to  corroborate  his  injuries  and course of treatment. 

Describing  reconsideration  as  " `an  extraordinary  rem-edy,' "  the  court  declined  to  revisit  its  previous  ruling. 
No.  3:08-cv-00138  (WDNC,  Aug.  25,  2008),  p.  1.  The  medi-cal  records,  the  court  observed,  indicated  that  some  of  Wil-
kins'  alleged  injuries  "were  pre-existing  conditions."  Id., at 3.  Wilkins had sought treatment for high blood pressure 
and mental health issues even before the assault.  The court acknowledged that Wilkins received an X ray after the inci-
dent  "to  examine  his  `bruised  heel,' "  but  it  "note[d]  that bruising is generally considered a de minimus [sic] injury." 
Id.,  at  4.  The  court  similarly  characterized  as  de  minimis Wilkins'  complaints  of  back  pain  and  headaches.  The  court 
denied Wilkins leave to amend his complaint.  In a summary disposition,  the  Court  of  Appeals  affirmed  "for  the  reasons 
stated by the district court."  308 Fed. Appx. 696, 697 (CA4 2009) (per curiam). 

II 
In  requiring  what  amounts  to  a  showing  of  significant  in-jury  in  order  to  state  an  excessive  force  claim,  the  Fourth 

Circuit  has  strayed  from  the  clear  holding  of  this  Court  in 
Hudson.  Like  Wilkins,  the  prisoner  in  Hudson  filed  suit under  $ 1983  alleging  that  corrections  officers  had  used  ex-

cessive  force  in  violation  of  the  Eighth  Amendment.  Evi-dence indicated  that  the  officers had  punched  Hudson  in  the 
mouth, eyes, chest, and stomach without justification, result-ing  in  "minor  bruises  and  swelling  of  his  face,  mouth,  and 
lip"  as  well  as  loosened  teeth  and  a  cracked  partial  dental plate.  503  U. S.,  at  4.  A  Magistrate  Judge  entered  judg-
ment  in  Hudson's  favor,  but  the  Court  of  Appeals  for  the Fifth  Circuit  reversed,  holding  that  an  inmate  must  prove 
"a  significant  injury"  in  order  to  state  an  excessive  force claim.  Hudson  v.  McMillian,  929  F.  2d  1014,  1015  (1990) 

Cite as: 559 U. S. 34 (2010)  37 

Per Curiam 
(per curiam).  According to the Court of Appeals, Hudson's injuries, which had not required medical attention, were too 

"minor" to warrant relief.  Ibid. Reversing  the  Court  of  Appeals,  this  Court  rejected  the 
notion  that  "significant  injury"  is  a  threshold  requirement for  stating  an  excessive  force  claim.  The  "core  judicial  in-
quiry," we held, was not whether a certain quantum of injury 
was  sustained,  but  rather  "whether  force  was  applied  in  a good-faith  effort  to  maintain  or  restore  discipline,  or  mali-

ciously  and  sadistically  to  cause  harm."  503  U. S.,  at  7;  see also 

Whitley v.  Albers, 475 U. S. 312, 319-321 (1986).  "When 
prison officials maliciously and sadistically use force to cause 
harm,"  the  Court  recognized,  "contemporary  standards  of 
decency  always  are  violated . . .  whether  or  not  significant 
injury is evident.  Otherwise, the Eighth Amendment would 
permit  any  physical  punishment,  no  matter  how  diabolic  or 
inhuman,  inflicting  less  than  some  arbitrary  quantity  of  in-
jury."  Hudson, 503 U. S., at 9; see also id., at 13-14 (Black-
mun,  J.,  concurring  in  judgment)  ("The  Court  today  appro-
priately  puts  to  rest  a  seriously  misguided  view  that  pain 
inflicted by an excessive use of force is actionable under the 
Eighth  Amendment  only  when  coupled  with  `significant  in-
jury,'  e. g.,  injury  that  requires  medical  attention  or  leaves 
permanent marks"). 

This  is  not  to  say  that  the  "absence  of  serious  injury"  is 
irrelevant to the Eighth Amendment inquiry.  Id., at 7 (opin-
ion  of  the  Court).  "[T]he  extent  of  injury  suffered  by  an 
inmate  is  one  factor  that  may  suggest  `whether  the  use  of 
force  could  plausibly  have  been  thought  necessary'  in  a  par-
ticular  situation."  Ibid.  (quoting  Whitley,  supra,  at  321). 
The extent of injury may also provide some indication of the 
amount  of  force  applied.  As  we  stated  in  Hudson,  not 
"every  malevolent  touch  by  a  prison  guard  gives  rise  to  a 
federal  cause  of  action."  503  U. S.,  at  9.  "The  Eighth 
Amendment's prohibition of `cruel and unusual' punishments 
necessarily excludes from constitutional recognition de mini-

38  WILKINS  v.  GADDY 

Per Curiam 
mis  uses  of  physical  force,  provided  that  the  use  of  force  is not  of a sort repugnant to the  conscience of mankind." 

Id., 
at  9-10  (some  internal  quotation  marks  omitted).  An  in-mate  who  complains  of  a  " `push  or  shove' "  that  causes  no 

discernible  injury  almost  certainly  fails  to  state  a  valid  ex-cessive force claim. 

Id., at 9 (quoting Johnson v.  Glick, 481 
F. 2d 1028, 1033 (CA2 1973)). 

Injury and force, however, are only imperfectly correlated, and  it  is  the  latter  that  ultimately  counts.  An  inmate  who 

is  gratuitously  beaten  by  guards  does  not  lose  his  ability to  pursue  an  excessive  force  claim  merely  because  he  has 
the  good  fortune  to  escape  without  serious  injury.  Accord-ingly,  the  Court  concluded  in 

Hudson  that  the  supposedly 
" `minor' " nature of the injuries "provide[d] no basis for dis-missal  of  [Hudson's]  $ 1983  claim"  because  "the  blows  di-

rected  at  Hudson,  which  caused  bruises,  swelling,  loosened 
teeth,  and  a  cracked  dental  plate,  are  not  de  minimis  for Eighth Amendment purposes."  503 U. S., at 10. 

The allegations made by Wilkins in this case are quite sim-ilar to the facts in 

Hudson, and the District Court's analysis 
closely resembles the approach Hudson disavowed.  Wilkins alleged  that  he  was  punched,  kicked,  kneed,  choked,  and 

body  slammed  "maliciously  and  sadistically"  and  "[w]ithout 
any  provocation."  Dismissing  Wilkins'  action  sua  sponte, 
the  District  Court  did  not  hold  that  this  purported  assault, 
which  allegedly  left  Wilkins  with  a  bruised  heel,  back  pain, 
and  other  injuries  requiring  medical  treatment,  involved  de 
minimis  force.  Instead,  the  court  concluded  that  Wilkins 
had failed to state a claim because "he simply has not alleged 
that  he  suffered  anything  more  than  a  de  minimus  [sic]  in-
jury."  No. 3:08-cv-00138 (WDNC, Apr. 16, 2008), at 2. 

In  giving  decisive  weight  to  the  purportedly  de  minimis 
nature  of  Wilkins'  injuries,  the  District  Court  relied  on  two 
Fourth  Circuit  cases.  See  Riley,  115  F.  3d,  at  1166-1168; 
Taylor,  155  F.  3d,  at  483-485.  Those  cases,  in  turn,  were 
based  upon  the  Fourth  Circuit's  earlier  decision  in  Norman 
v.  Taylor, 25 F. 3d 1259 (1994) (en banc), which approved the 

Cite as: 559 U. S. 34 (2010)  39 

Per Curiam 
practice  of  using  injury  as  a  proxy  for  force.  According  to the  Fourth  Circuit, 

Hudson  "does  not  foreclose  and  indeed 
is  consistent  with  [the]  view  .  .  .  that,  absent  the  most  ex-traordinary  circumstances,  a  plaintiff  cannot  prevail  on  an 

Eighth  Amendment  excessive  force  claim  if  his  injury  is  de 
minimis."  25 F. 3d, at 1263. 

The Fourth Circuit's strained reading of Hudson is not de-
fensible.  This Court's decision did not, as the Fourth Circuit 
would have it, merely serve to lower the injury threshold for 
excessive  force  claims  from  "significant"  to  "non-de  mini-
mis"--whatever  those  ill-defined  terms  might  mean.  In-
stead,  the  Court  aimed  to  shift  the  "core  judicial  inquiry" 
from  the  extent  of  the  injury  to  the  nature  of  the  force-- 
specifically,  whether  it  was  nontrivial  and  "was  applied . . .  
maliciously and sadistically to cause harm."  503  U. S., at 7. 
To conclude, as the District Court did here, that the absence 
of "some arbitrary quantity of injury" requires automatic dis-
missal  of  an  excessive  force  claim  improperly  bypasses  this 
core inquiry.  Id., at 9.2 

2 Most  Circuits to consider the  issue have  rejected the Fourth  Circuit's 
de minimis injury requirement.  See, e. g., Wright v. Goord, 554 F. 3d 255, 
269-270  (CA2  2009)  ("[O]ur  Court  has  reversed  summary  dismissals  of 
Eighth  Amendment  claims  of  excessive  force  even  where  the  plaintiff's 
evidence of injury was slight . . . .  [T]he absence of any significant injury 
to  [the  plaintiff]  does  not  end  the  Eighth  Amendment  inquiry,  for  our 
standards of decency are violated even in the absence of such injury if the 
defendant's  use  of  force  was  malicious  or  sadistic");  Smith  v.  Mensinger, 
293  F.  3d  641,  648-649  (CA3  2002)  ("[T]he  Eighth  Amendment  analysis 
must be driven by the extent of the force and the circumstances in which 
it  is  applied;  not  by  the  resulting  injuries.  .  .  .  [D]e  minimis  injuries  do 
not  necessarily  establish  de  minimis  force");  Oliver  v.  Keller,  289  F.  3d 
623,  628  (CA9  2002)  (rejecting  the  view  "that  to  support  an  Eighth 
Amendment excessive force claim a prisoner must have suffered from the 
excessive force  a more than de  minimis physical  injury" (internal quota-
tion marks omitted)); United States v.  LaVallee, 439 F. 3d 670, 687 (CA10 
2006) (same). 

The  Fifth  Circuit  has  sometimes  used  language  indicating  agreement 
with  the  Fourth  Circuit's  approach.  See,  e. g.,  Gomez  v.  Chandler,  163 
F. 3d 921, 924 (1999) ("[T]o support an Eighth Amendment excessive force 

40  WILKINS  v.  GADDY 

Thomas,

Cite as: 559 U. S. 34 (2010)  41 
Thomas,
42  WILKINS  v.  GADDY 

Thomas,

OCTOBER  TERM,  2009   43 

Syllabus 

THALER,  DIRECTOR,  TEXAS  DEPARTMENT  OF  

CRIMINAL  JUSTICE,  CORRECTIONAL  

INSTITUTIONS  DIVISION  v.

44  THALER  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 43 (2010)  45 

Per Curiam 
188.  Respondent's attorney did not dispute the prosecutor's characterization  of  Owens'  demeanor,  but  he  asserted  that 

her  answers  on  the  jury  questionnaire  "show[ed]  that  she was  a  juror  who  [was]  leaning  towards  the  State's  case." 
Ibid.

46  THALER  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 43 (2010)  47 

Per Curiam 
`factual  inquiry'  requirement.  See,

48  THALER  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 43 (2010)  49 

Per Curiam 
meanor  and,  in  light  of  the  particular  circumstances  of  the case,  we  held  that  the  peremptory  challenge  could  not  be 

sustained  on  the  demeanor-based  ground,  which  might  not have  figured  in  the  trial judge's  unexplained  ruling.  Id.,

50  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

Syllabus 

FLORIDA  v.  POWELL 
certiorari

Cite as: 559 U. S. 50 (2010)  51 

Syllabus 
463 U. S., at 1044.  The state-court opinion consistently trained on what 
Miranda  demands,  rather  than  on  what  Florida  law  independently  re-
quires.  This Court therefore cannot identify, "from the face of the opin-
ion," a clear statement that the decision rested on a state ground sepa-
rate from Miranda.  See Long, 463 U. S., at 1041.  Because the opinion 
does  not  "indicat[e]  clearly  and  expressly  that  it  is  alternatively  based 
on bona fide separate, adequate, and independent [state] grounds," ibid., 
this Court has jurisdiction.  Pp. 56-59. 

2.  Advice  that  a  suspect  has  "the  right  to  talk  to  a  lawyer  before 
answering any of [the law enforcement officers'] questions," and that he 
can invoke  this right "at any time . . .  during th[e]  interview," satisfies 
Miranda.  Pp. 59-64. 

(a)  Miranda requires that a suspect "be warned prior to any ques-
tioning  .  . . that  he  has  the right to  the presence  of  an attorney."  384 
U. S.,  at  479.  This  Miranda  warning  addresses  the  Court's  particular 
concern  that "[t]he  circumstances  surrounding in-custody  interrogation 
can operate very quickly to overbear the will of one merely made aware 
of  his  privilege  [to  remain  silent]  by  his  interrogators."  Id.,  at  469. 
Responsive to that concern, the Court stated, as "an absolute prerequi-
site to  interrogation,"  that an  individual  held for questioning  "must be 
clearly  informed  that  he  has  the  right  to  consult  with  a  lawyer  and  to 
have  the  lawyer  with  him  during  interrogation."  Id.,  at  471.  While 
the warnings prescribed by Miranda are invariable, this Court has not 
dictated the words in which the essential information must be conveyed. 
See,  e. g.,  California  v.  Prysock,  453  U. S.  355,  359.  In  determining 
whether police warnings were satisfactory, reviewing courts are not re-
quired to "examine [them] as if construing a will or defining the terms of 
an  easement.  The inquiry  is  simply  whether  the warnings  reasonably 
`conve[y]  to  [a  suspect]  his  rights  as  required  by  Miranda.' "   Duckworth v.  Eagan, 492 U. S. 195, 203.  Pp. 59-60. 

(b)  The  warnings  Powell  received  satisfy  this  standard.  By  in-
forming Powell that he had "the right to talk to a lawyer before answer-
ing  any  of  [their]  questions,"  the  Tampa  officers  communicated  that  he 
could  consult  with  a  lawyer  before  answering  any  particular  question. 
And the statement that Powell had "the right to use any of [his] rights 
at  any  time  [he]  want[ed]  during  th[e]  interview"  confirmed  that  he 
could  exercise his right to an  attorney while  the interrogation was un-
derway.  In  combination,  the  two  warnings  reasonably  conveyed  the 
right to have an attorney present, not only at the outset of interrogation, 
but at  all times.  To reach  the opposite conclusion, i. e., that the attor-
ney  would  not  be  present  throughout  the  interrogation,  the  suspect 
would  have  to  imagine  the  counterintuitive  and  unlikely  scenario  that, 
in  order  to  consult  counsel,  he  would  be  obliged  to  exit  and  reenter 
the interrogation room between each query.  Likewise unavailing is the 

52  FLORIDA  v.  POWELL 

Syllabus 
Florida  Supreme  Court's  conclusion  that  the  warning  was  misleading 
because the temporal language  that Powell  could  "talk  to a  lawyer be-
fore answering any of [the officers'] questions" suggested he could con-
sult with an attorney only before the interrogation started.  In context, 
the  term  "before"  merely  conveyed  that  Powell's  right  to  an  attorney 
became effective  before  he  answered  any  questions at  all.  Nothing in 
the  words  used  indicated  that  counsel's  presence  would  be  restricted 
after the questioning commenced.  Powell suggests that today's holding 
will tempt law enforcement agencies to end-run Miranda by amending 
their  warnings  to  introduce  ambiguity.  But,  as  the  Federal  Govern-
ment explains, it is in law enforcement's own interest to state warnings 
with maximum clarity in order to reduce the risk that a court will later 
find the advice inadequate and therefore suppress a suspect's statement. 
The standard warnings used by the Federal Bureau of Investigation are 
admirably  informative,  but  the  Court  declines  to  declare  their  pre-
cise formulation necessary to meet Miranda's requirements.  Different 
words were used in the advice Powell received, but they communicated 
the same message.  Pp. 60-64. 

998 So. 2d 531, reversed and remanded. 

Ginsburg,

Cite as: 559 U. S. 50 (2010)  53 

Opinion of the Court 
man, Cynthia J. Dodge, Mara V. J. Senn, Anthony J. Franze, and Craig A. Stewart.* 

Justice

54  FLORIDA  v.  POWELL 

Opinion of the Court 
"You  have  the  right  to  remain  silent.  If  you  give  up 
the right to remain silent, anything you say can be used 
against  you  in  court.  You  have  the  right  to  talk  to  a 
lawyer  before  answering  any  of  our  questions.  If  you 
cannot afford to hire a lawyer, one will be appointed for 
you without cost and before any questioning.  You have 
the right to use any of these rights at any time you want 
during  this  interview."  App.  3.  See  also  969  So.  2d, 
at 1064. 

Acknowledging  that  he  had  been  informed  of  his  rights, 
that  he  "underst[oo]d  them,"  and  that  he  was  "willing  to 
talk"  to  the  officers,  Powell  signed  the  form.  App.  3.  He 
then admitted that he owned the handgun found in the apart-
ment.  Powell  knew  he  was  prohibited  from  possessing  a 
gun  because  he  had  previously  been  convicted  of  a  felony, 
but said he had nevertheless purchased and carried the fire-
arm for his protection.  See 969 So. 2d, at 1064; App. 29. 

Powell  was  charged  in  state  court  with  possession  of  a 
weapon  by  a  prohibited  possessor,  in  violation  of  Fla.  Stat. 
Ann. $ 790.23(1) (West 2007).  Contending that the Miranda 
warnings were deficient because they did not adequately con-
vey his right to the presence of an attorney during question-
ing,  he moved  to suppress  his inculpatory  statements.  The 
trial court denied the motion, concluding that the officers had 
properly notified  Powell of his right to  counsel.  969  So. 2d, 
at  1064;  App.  28.  A  jury  convicted  Powell  of  the  gunpossession charge.  969 So. 2d, at 1064. 

On  appeal,  the  Florida  Second  District  Court  of  Appeal 
held  that  the  trial  court  should  have  suppressed  Powell's 
statements.  Id.,  at  1067.  The  Miranda  warnings,  the  ap-
pellate court concluded, did not  "adequately  inform [Powell] 
of his . . . right to have an attorney present throughout [the] 
interrogation."  969  So.  2d,  at  1063.  Considering  the  issue 
to  be  "one  of  great  public  importance,"  the  court  certified 
the following question to the Florida Supreme Court: 

Cite as: 559 U. S. 50 (2010)  55 

Opinion of the Court 
"Does  the  failure  to provide  express advice of  the  right to the presence of counsel during questioning vitiate Mi-

randa  warnings  which  advise  of  both  (A)  the  right  to talk  to  a  lawyer  `before  questioning'  and  (B)  the  `right 
to use' the right to consult a lawyer `at any time' during questioning?" 

Id.,  at  1067-1068  (some  internal  quota-tion marks and some capitalization omitted). 

Surveying decisions of this Court as well as Florida prece-dent,  the  Florida  Supreme  Court  answered  the  certified 
question  in  the  affirmative.  998  So.  2d  531,  532  (2008). "Both Miranda and article I, section 9 of the Florida Consti-
tution," 1  the  Florida  High Court  noted,  "require  that  a  sus-pect  be  clearly  informed  of  the  right  to  have  a lawyer  pres-
ent during questioning."  Id., at 542.  The court found that the  advice  Powell  received  was  misleading  because  it  sug-
gested  that  Powell  could  "only  consult  with  an  attorney  be-fore questioning" and did not convey Powell's entitlement to 
counsel's presence throughout the interrogation.  Id., at 541. Nor,  in  the  court's  view,  did  the  final  catchall  warning-- 
"[y]ou  have  the  right  to  use  any  of  these  rights  at  any  time you  want  during  this  interview"--cure  the  defect  the  court 
perceived in the right-to-counsel advice: "The catch-all phrase  did  not  supply  the  missing  warning  of  the  right  to 
have  counsel  present  during  police  questioning,"  the  court stated, for "a right that has never been expressed cannot be 
reiterated."  Ibid. Justice  Wells  dissented.  He  considered  it  "unreasonable 
to conclude that the broad, unqualified language read to Pow-ell  would  lead  a  person  of  ordinary  intelligence  to  believe 
that he or she had a limited right to consult with an attorney that could only be exercised before answering the first ques-
tion posed by law enforcement."  Id., at 544.  The final sen-tence  of  the  warning,  he  stressed,  "avoid[ed]  the  implica-

1 Article I, $ 9  of the Florida Constitution  states  that "[n]o person  shall 
. . . be compelled in any criminal matter to be a witness against oneself." 

56  FLORIDA  v.  POWELL 

Opinion of the Court 
tion--unreasonable as it may [have] be[en]--that advice con-cerning  the  right  of  access  to  counsel  before  questioning 

conveys the message that access to counsel is foreclosed dur-ing questioning."  Ibid. (internal  quotation marks  omitted). 
Criticizing  the  majority's  "technical  adherence  to  language .  .  .  that  has  no  connection  with  whether  the  person  who 
confessed  understood  his  or  her  rights,"  id.,  at  545,  he  con-cluded  that  "[t]he  totality  of  the  warning  reasonably  con-
veyed  to  Powell  his  continuing  right  of  access  to  counsel," 
id., at 544. We  granted  certiorari,  557  U. S.  918  (2009),  and  now  re-

verse the judgment of the Florida Supreme Court. 

II 
We  first  address  Powell's  contention  that  this  Court  lacks jurisdiction  to  hear  this  case  because  the  Florida  Supreme 

Court, by relying not only on Miranda but also on the Flor-ida Constitution, rested its decision on an adequate and inde-
pendent  state  ground.  Brief  for  Petitioner  15-23.  See Coleman v.  Thompson, 501 U. S. 722, 729 (1991) ("This Court 
will  not  review  a  question  of  federal  law  decided  by  a  state court  if  the  decision . . .  rests  on  a  state  law  ground  that  is 
independent of the federal question and adequate to support the  judgment.").  "It  is  fundamental,"  we  have  observed, 
"that state courts be left free and unfettered by us in inter-preting  their  state  constitutions." 

Minnesota  v.  National Tea  Co.,  309  U. S.  551,  557  (1940).  "But  it  is  equally  impor-

tant that ambiguous or obscure adjudications by state courts do not stand as barriers to a determination by this Court of 
the  validity  under  the  federal  constitution  of  state  action." 
Ibid. To that end, we announced, in Michigan v.  Long, 463 U. S. 

1032, 1040-1041 (1983), the following presumption: 

"[W]hen . . . a state  court decision fairly appears to rest primarily  on  federal  law,  or  to  be  interwoven  with  the 

federal law, and when the adequacy and independence of 

Cite as: 559 U. S. 50 (2010)  57 

Opinion of the Court 
any  possible  state  law ground is  not  clear  from the  face of  the  opinion,  we  will  accept  as  the  most  reasonable 

explanation  that  the  state  court  decided  the  case  the way  it  did  because it  believed  that federal  law required 
it to do so." 
At the same time, we adopted a plain-statement rule to avoid the presumption: "If the state court decision indicates clearly 

and expressly that it is alternatively based on bona fide sepa-rate, adequate, and independent  grounds, we, of course, will 
not undertake to review the decision."  Id., at 1041.2 Under  the  Long  presumption,  we  have  jurisdiction  to  en-
tertain  this  case.  Although  invoking  Florida's  Constitution and precedent in addition to this Court's decisions, the Flor-
ida  Supreme  Court  treated  state  and  federal  law  as  inter-changeable  and  interwoven;  the  court  at  no  point  expressly 
asserted  that  state-law  sources  gave  Powell  rights  distinct from,  or  broader  than,  those  delineated  in  Miranda.  See 
Long, 463 U. S., at 1044. Beginning with the certified question--whether the advice 
the  Tampa  police  gave  to  Powell  "vitiate[d]  Miranda,"  998 So. 2d, at 532 (internal quotation marks and some capitaliza-
tion  omitted)--and  continuing  throughout  its  opinion,  the Florida  Supreme  Court  trained  on  what 

Miranda  demands, 

2 Dissenting  in  Michigan  v.  Long,  463  U. S.  1032,  1065  (1983),  Justice

58  FLORIDA  v.  POWELL 

Opinion of the Court 
rather  than  on  what  Florida  law  independently  requires. See,  e. g.,  998  So.  2d,  at  533  ("The  issue  before  this  Court  is 

whether the failure to provide express advice of the right to the  presence  of  counsel  during  custodial  interrogation  vio-
lates  the  principles  espoused  in  Miranda  v.  Arizona,  384 U. S.  436."); 

id.,  at  538  ("[T]he  issue  of  [what]  Miranda  re-quires  . . . has  been addressed by  several of the Florida dis-

trict  courts  of  appeal.");  id.,  at  542  (Powell  received  a  "nar-rower  and  less  functional  warning  than  that  required  by 
Miranda.").3  We  therefore  cannot  identify,  "from  the  face of the opinion," a clear statement that the decision rested on 
a state ground separate from Miranda.  See Long, 463 U. S., at  1041  (the  state  court  "need  only  make  clear  by  a  plain 
statement  in  its  judgment  or  opinion  that  the  federal  cases are  being  used  only  for  the  purpose  of  guidance,  and  do  not 
themselves  compel  the  result  that  the  court  has  reached").4 "To  avoid  misunderstanding,  the  [Florida]  Supreme  Court 

3 Justice

Cite as: 559 U. S. 50 (2010)  59 

Opinion of the Court 
must  itself  speak  with  the  clarity  it  sought  to  require  of  its State's  police  officers." 

Ohio  v.  Robinette,  519  U. S.  33,  45 
(1996) (Ginsburg,

60  FLORIDA  v.  POWELL 

Opinion of the Court 
and  [4]  that  if  he  cannot  afford  an  attorney  one  will  be appointed  for  him  prior  to  any  questioning  if  he  so  de-

sires."  Id., at 479. 
Miranda's third warning--the only one at issue here--ad-dresses our particular concern that "[t]he circumstances sur-

rounding  in-custody  interrogation  can  operate  very  quickly to  overbear  the  will  of  one  merely  made  aware  of  his  privi-
lege  [to  remain  silent]  by  his  interrogators."  Id.,  at  469. Responsive  to  that  concern,  we  stated,  as  "an  absolute  pre-
requisite  to  interrogation,"  that  an  individual  held  for  ques-tioning  "must  be  clearly  informed  that  he  has  the  right  to 
consult  with  a  lawyer  and  to  have  the  lawyer  with  him during  interrogation."  Id.,  at  471.  The  question  before 
us  is  whether  the  warnings  Powell  received  satisfied  this requirement. 

The  four  warnings  Miranda  requires  are  invariable,  but this Court has not dictated the words in which the essential 
information  must  be  conveyed.  See  California v.  Prysock, 453  U. S.  355,  359  (1981) 

(per  curiam)  ("This  Court  has never  indicated  that  the  rigidity  of  Miranda  extends  to  the 

precise formulation of the warnings given a criminal defend-ant."  (internal  quotation  marks  omitted));  Rhode  Island  v. 
Innis,  446  U. S.  291,  297  (1980)  (safeguards  against  self-incrimination include "Miranda warnings . . . or their equiva-
lent").  In  determining  whether  police  officers  adequately conveyed the  four warnings,  we have  said, reviewing courts 
are  not  required  to  examine  the  words  employed  "as  if  con-struing  a  will  or  defining  the  terms  of  an  easement.  The 
inquiry is simply whether the warnings reasonably `conve[y] to  [a  suspect]  his  rights  as  required  by 

Miranda.' "   Duck-worth,  492  U. S.,  at  203  (quoting  Prysock,  453  U. S.,  at  361). 

B 
Our decisions in Prysock and Duckworth inform our judg-ment  here.  Both  concerned  a  suspect's  entitlement  to  ade-

Cite as: 559 U. S. 50 (2010)  61 

Opinion of the Court 
quate notification of the right to appointed counsel.  In Prysock, an officer informed  the suspect of,  inter alia, his  right 
to  a  lawyer's  presence  during  questioning  and  his  right  to 
counsel  appointed  at  no  cost.  453  U. S.,  at  356-357.  The 
Court of Appeals held the advice inadequate to comply with 
Miranda  because  it  lacked  an  express  statement  that  the 
appointment of an attorney would occur prior to the impend-
ing interrogation.  See 453 U. S., at 358-359.  We reversed. 
Id., at 362.  "[N]othing in the warnings," we observed, "sug-
gested  any  limitation  on  the  right  to  the  presence  of  ap-
pointed counsel different from the clearly conveyed rights to 
a  lawyer  in  general,  including  the  right  to  a  lawyer  before 
[the suspect is] questioned, . . . while  [he is] being  questioned, 
and  all  during  the  questioning."  Id.,  at  360-361  (internal 
quotation marks omitted). 

Similarly, in Duckworth, we upheld advice that, in relevant 
part,  communicated  the  right  to  have  an  attorney  present 
during the interrogation and the right to an appointed attor-
ney, but also informed the suspect that the lawyer would be 
appointed  "if  and  when  [the  suspect  goes]  to  court."  492 
U. S.,  at  198  (emphasis  deleted;  internal  quotation  marks 
omitted).  "The Court of Appeals thought th[e] `if and when 
you go to court' language  suggested that only those accused 
who can afford an attorney have the right to have one pres-
ent  before  answering  any  questions."  Id.,  at  203  (some  in-
ternal  quotation  marks  omitted).  We  thought  otherwise. 
Under the relevant state law, we noted, "counsel is appointed 
at  [a]  defendant's  initial  appearance  in  court."  Id.,  at  204. 
The  "if  and  when  you  go  to  court"  advice,  we  said,  "simply 
anticipate[d]"  a  question  the  suspect  might  be  expected  to 
ask  after  receiving  Miranda  warnings,  i. e.,  "when  [will  he] 
obtain  counsel."  492  U. S.,  at  204.  Reading  the  "if  and 
when"  language  together  with  the  other  information  con-
veyed, we held that the warnings, "in their totality, satisfied 
Miranda."  Id., at 205. 

62  FLORIDA  v.  POWELL 

Opinion of the Court 
We  reach  the  same  conclusion  in  this  case.  The  Tampa 
officers did not "entirely omi[t]," post, at 72, any information 
Miranda  required  them  to  impart.  They  informed  Powell 
that  he  had  "the  right  to  talk  to  a  lawyer  before  answering 
any  of  [their]  questions"  and  "the  right  to  use  any  of  [his] 
rights  at  any  time  [he]  want[ed]  during  th[e]  interview." 
App.  3.  The  first  statement  communicated  that  Powell 
could consult with a lawyer before answering any particular 
question,  and  the  second  statement  confirmed  that  he  could 
exercise  that  right  while  the  interrogation  was  underway. 
In combination, the two warnings reasonably conveyed Pow-
ell's right to have an attorney present, not only at the outset 
of interrogation, but at all times.5 

To  reach  the  opposite  conclusion,  i. e.,  that  the  attorney 
would  not  be  present  throughout the  interrogation,  the  sus-
pect  would have  to  imagine  an  unlikely  scenario: To  consult 
counsel, he would be obliged to exit and reenter the interro-
gation room between each query.  A reasonable suspect in a 
custodial  setting  who  has  just  been  read  his  rights,  we  be-
lieve, would not come to the counterintuitive conclusion that 
he  is  obligated,  or  allowed,  to  hop  in  and  out  of  the  holding 
area  to  seek  his  attorney's  advice.6  Instead,  the  suspect 

5 Justice

Cite as: 559 U. S. 50 (2010)  63 

Opinion of the Court 
would  likely assume  that  he  must stay  put  in  the interroga-tion  room  and  that  his  lawyer  would  be  there  with  him  the 

entire time.7 The Florida Supreme Court found the warning misleading 
because  it  believed  the  temporal  language--that  Powell could "talk to a lawyer before answering any of [the officers'] 
questions"--suggested Powell could consult with an attorney only  before  the  interrogation  started.  998  So.  2d,  at  541. 
See  also  Brief  for  Respondent  28-29.  In  context,  however, the  term  "before"  merely  conveyed  when  Powell's  right  to 
an  attorney  became  effective--namely,  before  he  answered 
any  questions  at  all.  Nothing  in  the  words  used  indicated that  counsel's  presence  would  be  restricted  after  the  ques-

tioning  commenced.  Instead,  the  warning  communicated 
that the right to counsel carried forward to and through the interrogation: Powell could seek his attorney's advice before 

responding  to  "any  of  [the  officers']  questions"  and  "at  any 
time  . . .  during  th[e]  interview."  App.  3  (emphasis  added). 
Although the warnings were not the clearest possible formu-lation  of 

Miranda's  right-to-counsel  advisement,  they  were 
sufficiently comprehensive and comprehensible when given a commonsense reading. 

Pursuing  a  different  line  of  argument,  Powell  points  out that  most  jurisdictions  in  Florida  and  across  the  Nation  ex-
pressly  advise  suspects  of  the  right  to  have  counsel  present 
both before and during interrogation.  Brief for Respondent 41-44.  If  we  find  the  advice  he  received  adequate,  Powell 

suggests,  law  enforcement  agencies,  hoping  to  obtain  unin-formed  waivers,  will  be  tempted  to  end-run 

Miranda  by 
amending  their  warnings  to  introduce  ambiguity.  Brief  for 

7 Although it does not bear on our decision, Powell seems to have under-
stood the warning this way.  The following exchange between Powell and 
his attorney occurred when Powell testified at his trial: 

"Q.  You waived the right to have an attorney present during your ques-
tioning by detectives; is that what you're telling this jury? 

"A.  Yes."  App. 80. 

64  FLORIDA  v.  POWELL 

Stevens,
Cite as: 559 U. S. 50 (2010)  65 

Stevens,
66  FLORIDA  v.  POWELL 

Stevens,
Cite as: 559 U. S. 50 (2010)  67 

Stevens,
68  FLORIDA  v.  POWELL 

Stevens,
Cite as: 559 U. S. 50 (2010)  69 

Stevens,
70  FLORIDA  v.  POWELL 

Stevens,
Cite as: 559 U. S. 50 (2010)  71 

Stevens,
72  FLORIDA  v.  POWELL 

Stevens,
Cite as: 559 U. S. 50 (2010)  73 

Stevens,
74  FLORIDA  v.  POWELL 

Stevens,
Cite as: 559 U. S. 50 (2010)  75 

Stevens,
76  FLORIDA  v.  POWELL 

Stevens,
OCTOBER  TERM,  2009  77 

Syllabus 

HERTZ  CORP.  v.

78  HERTZ  CORP.  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 77 (2010)  79 

Syllabus 
(1)  Three  sets  of  considerations,  taken  together,  convince  the 
Court that the "nerve center" approach, while imperfect, is superior to 
other possibilities.  First, $ 1332(c)(1)'s language supports the approach. 
The statute's word "place" is singular, not plural.  Its word "principal" 
requires  that  the  main,  prominent,  or  most  important  place  be  chosen. 
Cf.,  e.

80  HERTZ  CORP.  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 77 (2010)  81 

Opinion of the Court 
ically  called  that  place  the  corporation's  "nerve  center." See,  e.

82  HERTZ  CORP.  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 77 (2010)  83 

Opinion of the Court 
supra,

84  HERTZ  CORP.  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 77 (2010)  85 

Opinion of the Court 
persons who come into court, in this case, under their corpo-rate name." 

Id.,

86  HERTZ  CORP.  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 77 (2010)  87 

Opinion of the Court 
received  more  than  half  of  its  gross  income.  Id.,

88  HERTZ  CORP.  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 77 (2010)  89 

Opinion of the Court 

IV 
The  phrase  "principal  place  of  business"  has  proved  more 
difficult to apply than its originators  likely expected.  Deci-
sions  under  the  Bankruptcy  Act  did  not  provide  the  firm 
guidance  for  which  Judge  Maris  had  hoped  because  courts 
interpreting bankruptcy  law did  not  agree about how  to de-
termine a corporation's "principal place of business."  Com-
pare  Burdick

90  HERTZ  CORP.  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 77 (2010)  91 

Opinion of the Court 
supra,

92  HERTZ  CORP.  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 77 (2010)  93 

Opinion of the Court 
activities.  It is the place that Courts of Appeals have called 
the  corporation's  "nerve  center."  And  in  practice  it  should 
normally  be  the  place  where  the  corporation  maintains  its 
headquarters--provided  that  the  headquarters  is  the  actual 
center of direction, control, and coordination, i.

94  HERTZ  CORP.  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 77 (2010)  95 

Opinion of the Court 
dictability  of  result  while  generally  protecting  the  justified expectations  of  parties  with  interests  in  the  corporation"). 

Predictability also benefits plaintiffs deciding whether to file suit in a state or federal court. 

A  "nerve center"  approach,  which  ordinarily  equates  that "center"  with  a  corporation's  headquarters,  is  simple  to 
apply  comparatively

96  HERTZ  CORP.  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 77 (2010)  97 

Opinion of the Court 
tent  proof.  McNutt,

98   OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

Syllabus 

MARYLAND  v.  SHATZER 
certiorari

Cite as: 559 U. S. 98 (2010)  99 

Syllabus 
turned to his normal life for some time before the later attempted inter-
rogation, there is little reason to think that his change of heart has been 
coerced.  Because  the  Edwards  presumption  has  been  established  by 
opinion  of  this  Court,  it  is  appropriate  for  this  Court  to  specify  the 
period of release from custody that will terminate its application.  See 
County of Riverside v.  McLaughlin, 500 U. S. 44.  The Court concludes 
that  the  appropriate  period  is  14  days,  which  provides  ample  time  for 

the  suspect  to  get  reacclimated  to  his  normal  life,  consult  with  friends 
and  counsel,  and  shake  off  any  residual  coercive  effects  of  prior  cus-
tody.  Pp. 103-112. 

(b)  Shatzer's  release  back  into  the  general  prison  population  consti-
tutes a break in Miranda custody.  Lawful imprisonment imposed upon 
conviction does not create the coercive pressures produced by investiga-
tive custody that justify Edwards.  When previously incarcerated sus-
pects are released back into the general prison population, they return 
to  their  accustomed  surroundings  and  daily  routine--they  regain  the 
degree of control they had over their lives before the attempted interro-
gation.  Their continued detention is relatively disconnected from their 
prior  unwillingness  to  cooperate  in  an  investigation.  The  "inherently 
compelling  pressures"  of  custodial  interrogation  ended  when  Shatzer 
returned to his normal life.  Pp. 112-114. 

405 Md. 585, 954 A. 2d 1118, reversed and remanded. 

Scalia,

100  MARYLAND  v.  SHATZER 

Opinion of the Court 
Celia  Anderson  Davis  argued  the  cause  for  respondent. With  her  on  the  brief  were  Nancy  S.  Forster  and  Brian  L. 

Zavin.* 

Justice

Cite as: 559 U. S. 98 (2010)  101 

Opinion of the Court 
incarcerated at the Maryland Correctional InstitutionHagerstown,  serving  a  sentence  for  an  unrelated  child-
sexual-abuse offense.  Detective Shane Blankenship was as-
signed  to  the  investigation  and  interviewed  Shatzer  at  the 
correctional  institution  on  August  7,  2003.  Before  asking 
any  questions,  Blankenship  reviewed  Shatzer's  Miranda 
rights  with  him,  and  obtained  a  written  waiver  of  those 
rights.  When  Blankenship  explained  that  he  was  there  to 
question Shatzer about sexually abusing his son, Shatzer ex-
pressed  confusion--he  had  thought  Blankenship  was  an  at-
torney  there  to  discuss  the  prior  crime  for  which  he  was 
incarcerated.  Blankenship clarified the purpose of his visit, 
and Shatzer declined to speak without an attorney.  Accord-
ingly, Blankenship ended the interview, and Shatzer was re-
leased  back  into  the  general  prison  population.  Shortly 
thereafter, Blankenship closed the investigation. 

Two  years  and  six  months  later,  the  same  social  worker 
referred  more  specific  allegations  to  the  department  about 
the  same  incident  involving  Shatzer.  Detective  Paul  Hoo-
ver,  from  the  same  division,  was  assigned  to  the  investiga-
tion.  He and the social worker interviewed the victim, then 
eight  years  old,  who  described  the  incident  in  more  detail. 
With  this  new  information  in  hand,  on  March  2,  2006,  they 
went  to  the  Roxbury  Correctional  Institute,  to  which 
Shatzer had since been transferred, and interviewed Shatzer 
in a maintenance room outfitted with a desk and three chairs. 
Hoover  explained  that  he  wanted  to  ask  Shatzer  about  the 
alleged  incident  involving  Shatzer's  son.  Shatzer  was  sur-
prised  because  he  thought  that  the  investigation  had  been 
closed,  but  Hoover  explained  they  had  opened  a  new  file. 
Hoover  then  read  Shatzer  his  Miranda  rights  and  obtained 
a written waiver on a standard department form. 

Hoover  interrogated  Shatzer  about  the  incident  for  ap-
proximately 30 minutes.  Shatzer denied ordering his son to 
perform  fellatio  on  him,  but  admitted  to  masturbating  in 

102  MARYLAND  v.  SHATZER 

Opinion of the Court 
front of his son from a distance of less than three feet.  Be-
fore the interview ended, Shatzer agreed to Hoover's request 
that he submit to a polygraph examination.  At no point dur-
ing  the  interrogation  did  Shatzer  request  to  speak  with  an 
attorney  or  refer  to  his  prior  refusal  to  answer  questions 
without one. 

Five days later, on March 7, 2006, Hoover and another de-
tective  met  with  Shatzer  at  the  correctional  facility  to  ad-
minister the polygraph examination.  After reading Shatzer 
his Miranda rights and obtaining a written waiver, the other 
detective  administered  the  test  and  concluded  that  Shatzer 
had  failed.  When  the  detectives  then  questioned  Shatzer, 
he became upset, started to cry, and incriminated himself by 
saying,  " `I  didn't  force  him.  I didn't  force  him.' "  405  Md. 
585, 590, 954 A. 2d 1118, 1121 (2008).  After making this in-
culpatory  statement,  Shatzer  requested  an  attorney,  and 
Hoover promptly ended the interrogation. 

The  State's  Attorney  for  Washington  County  charged 
Shatzer  with  second-degree  sexual  offense,  sexual  child 
abuse,  second-degree  assault,  and contributing  to  conditions 
rendering  a  child  in  need  of  assistance.  Shatzer  moved  to 
suppress  his  March  2006  statements  pursuant  to  Edwards. 
The  trial  court  held  a  suppression  hearing  and  later  denied 
Shatzer's  motion.  The  Edwards  protections  did  not  apply, 
it reasoned, because Shatzer had experienced a break in cus-
tody for Miranda purposes between the 2003 and 2006 inter-
rogations.  No.  21-K-06-37799  (Cir.  Ct.  Washington  Cty., 
Md.,  Sept.  14,  2006),  App.  55.  Shatzer  pleaded  not  guilty, 
waived  his  right  to  a  jury  trial,  and  proceeded  to  a  bench 
trial  based  on  an  agreed  statement  of  facts.  In  accordance 
with  the  agreement,  the  State  described  the  interview  with 
the  victim  and  Shatzer's  2006  statements  to  the  detectives. 
Based on the proffered testimony of the victim and the "ad-
mission  of  the  defendant  as  to  the  act  of  masturbation,"  the 
trial  court  found  Shatzer  guilty  of  sexual  child  abuse  of  his 

Cite as: 559 U. S. 98 (2010)  103 

Opinion of the Court 
son.1  No.  21-K-06-37799  (Cir.  Ct.  Washington  Cty.,  Md., Sept. 21, 2006), id., at 70, 79. 

Over  the  dissent  of  two  judges,  the  Court  of  Appeals  of Maryland reversed and remanded.  The court held that "the 
passage  of  time  alone is  insufficient  to  [end]  the  protections 
afforded  by  Edwards,"  and  that,  assuming,  arguendo,  a break-in-custody exception to 

Edwards existed, Shatzer's re-
lease back into the general prison population between inter-rogations did not constitute a break in custody.  405 Md., at 

606-607, 954 A. 2d, at 1131.  We granted certiorari, 555 U. S. 1152 (2009). 

II 
The Fifth Amendment, which applies to the States by vir-
tue  of  the  Fourteenth  Amendment,  Malloy  v.  Hogan,  378 U. S. 1, 6 (1964), provides that "[n]o person . . . shall be com-

pelled in any  criminal  case to be a  witness  against  himself." U. S. Const., Amdt. 5.  In 

Miranda v.  Arizona, 384 U. S. 436 
(1966),  the  Court  adopted  a  set  of  prophylactic  measures  to protect a  suspect's Fifth  Amendment right from the  "inher-

ently  compelling  pressures"  of  custodial  interrogation.  Id., 
at  467.  The  Court  observed  that  "incommunicado  interro-gation"  in  an  "unfamiliar,"  "police-dominated  atmosphere," 

id., at 456-457, involves psychological pressures "which work to undermine the individual's will to resist and to compel him 
to speak  where  he would  not  otherwise  do so  freely,"  id.,  at 467.  Consequently,  it  reasoned,  "[u]nless  adequate  protec-
tive  devices are  employed  to  dispel the  compulsion  inherent in  custodial  surroundings,  no  statement  obtained  from  the 
defendant  can  truly  be  the  product  of  his  free  choice."  Id., at 458. 

To  counteract  the  coercive  pressure,  Miranda  announced 
that police officers must warn a suspect prior to questioning 

1 The  State  filed  a  nolle  prosequi  to  the  second-degree  sexual  offense 
charge, and consented to dismissal of the misdemeanor charges as barred 
by the statute of limitations. 

104  MARYLAND  v.  SHATZER 

Opinion of the Court 
that he has a  right to remain silent, and a right to the pres-ence  of  an  attorney. 

Id.,  at  444.  After  the  warnings  are 
given,  if  the  suspect  indicates  that  he  wishes  to  remain  si-lent,  the  interrogation  must  cease. 

Id.,  at  473-474.  Simi-
larly,  if  the  suspect  states  that  he  wants  an  attorney,  the interrogation  must  cease  until  an  attorney  is  present. 

Id., 
at  474.  Critically,  however,  a  suspect  can  waive  these 
rights.  Id.,  at  475.  To  establish  a  valid  waiver,  the  State must show that the waiver was knowing, intelligent, and vol-

untary under the "high standar[d] of proof for the waiver of constitutional rights [set forth in] 

Johnson v.  Zerbst, 304 U. S. 
458 (1938)."  Id., at 475. In 

Edwards,  the  Court  determined  that  Zerbst's  tradi-
tional standard for waiver was not sufficient to protect a sus-pect's right to have counsel present at a subsequent interro-

gation  if  he  had  previously  requested  counsel;  "additional 
safeguards"  were  necessary.  451  U. S.,  at  484.  The  Court therefore superimposed a "second layer of prophylaxis," 

Mc-
Neil  v.  Wisconsin, 501 U. S. 171, 176 (1991).  Edwards held: 

"[W]hen  an accused  has invoked  his right to have  coun-
sel present during custodial interrogation, a valid 
waiver  of  that  right  cannot  be  established  by  showing 
only that  he responded  to further police-initiated custo-
dial  interrogation  even  if  he  has  been  advised  of  his 
rights. . . . [He]  is not  subject  to  further  interrogation 
by the authorities until counsel has been made available 
to him, unless the accused himself initiates further com-
munication,  exchanges,  or  conversations  with  the  po-
lice."  451 U. S., at 484-485. 

The  rationale  of  Edwards  is  that  once  a  suspect  indicates 
that "he is not capable  of undergoing [custodial] questioning 
without advice of counsel," "any subsequent waiver that has 
come at the authorities' behest, and not at the suspect's own 
instigation, is itself the product of the `inherently compelling 

Cite as: 559 U. S. 98 (2010)  105 

Opinion of the Court 
pressures'  and  not  the  purely  voluntary  choice  of  the  sus-
pect."  Arizona  v.  Roberson,  486  U. S.  675,  681  (1988). 
Under this rule, a voluntary Miranda waiver is sufficient at 
the  time  of  an  initial  attempted  interrogation  to  protect  a 
suspect's right to have counsel present, but it is not sufficient 
at  the  time  of  subsequent  attempts  if  the  suspect  initially 
requested the presence of counsel.  The implicit assumption, 
of  course,  is  that  the  subsequent  requests  for  interrogation 
pose a significantly greater risk of coercion.  That increased 
risk  results  not  only  from  the  police's  persistence  in  trying 
to get  the  suspect to talk,  but also from  the  continued pres-
sure  that  begins  when  the  individual  is  taken  into  custody 
as  a  suspect  and  sought  to  be  interrogated--pressure  likely 
to  "increase  as  custody  is  prolonged,"  Minnick  v.  Missis-
sippi,  498  U. S.  146,  153  (1990).  The  Edwards  presumption 
of  involuntariness  ensures  that  police  will  not  take  advan-
tage of the mounting coercive pressures of "prolonged police 
custody," Roberson, 486 U. S., at 686, by repeatedly attempt-
ing  to  question  a  suspect  who  previously  requested  counsel 
until  the  suspect  is  "badgered  into  submission,"  id.,  at  690 
(Kennedy,

106  MARYLAND  v.  SHATZER 

Opinion of the Court 
A  judicially  crafted  rule  is  "justified  only  by  reference  to 
its  prophylactic  purpose,"  Davis  v.  United  States,  512  U. S. 
452,  458  (1994)  (internal  quotation  marks  omitted),  and  ap-
plies  only  where  its  benefits  outweigh  its  costs,  Montejo, 
supra,  at 793.  We  begin  with  the  benefits.  Edwards'  pre-
sumption of involuntariness has the incidental effect of "con-
serv[ing]  judicial  resources  which  would  otherwise  be  ex-
pended in making difficult determinations of voluntariness." 
Minnick, supra, at 151.  Its fundamental purpose, however, 
is to "[p]reserv[e] the integrity of an accused's choice to com-
municate with police only through counsel," Patterson v.  Illi-
nois,  487  U. S.  285,  291  (1988),  by  "prevent[ing]  police  from 
badgering  a  defendant  into  waiving  his  previously  asserted 
Miranda rights," Harvey, supra, at 350.  Thus, the benefits 
of  the  rule  are  measured  by  the  number  of  coerced  confes-
sions  it  suppresses  that  otherwise  would  have  been  ad-
mitted.  See Montejo, supra, at 793. 

It is easy to believe that a suspect may be coerced or bad-
gered  into  abandoning  his  earlier  refusal  to  be  questioned 
without  counsel  in  the  paradigm  Edwards  case.  That  is  a 
case in  which  the  suspect has  been  arrested for  a  particular 
crime  and  is  held  in  uninterrupted  pretrial  custody  while 
that  crime  is  being  actively  investigated.  After  the  initial 
interrogation,  and  up  to  and  including  the  second  one,  he 
remains cut off from his normal life and companions, "thrust 
into"  and  isolated  in  an  "unfamiliar,"  "police-dominated  at-
mosphere,"  Miranda,  384  U. S.,  at  456-457,  where  his  cap-
tors  "appear  to  control  [his]  fate,"  Illinois  v.  Perkins,  496 
U. S.  292,  297  (1990).  That  was  the  situation  confronted  by 
the suspects in  Edwards,  Roberson, and Minnick, the  three 
cases  in  which  we  have  held  the  Edwards  rule  applicable. 
Edwards was arrested pursuant to a warrant and taken to a 
police station, where he was interrogated until he requested 
counsel.  Edwards, 451 U. S., at 478-479.  The officer ended 

Cite as: 559 U. S. 98 (2010)  107 

Opinion of the Court 
the interrogation and took him to the county jail,2  but at 9:15 the  next  morning,  two  of  the  officer's  colleagues  reinterro-

gated  Edwards  at  the  jail.  Id.,  at  479.  Roberson  was  ar-rested "at the scene of a just-completed burglary" and inter-
rogated  there  until  he  requested  a  lawyer.  Roberson,  486 
U. S.,  at  678.  A  different  officer  interrogated  him  three days later  while  he "was  still  in  custody  pursuant to  the  ar-

rest."  Ibid.  Minnick  was  arrested  by  local  police  and taken  to  the  San  Diego  jail,  where  two  Federal  Bureau  of 
Investigation  agents  interrogated  him  the  next  morning until  he  requested  counsel. 

Minnick,  498  U. S.,  at  148-149. 
Two  days  later  a  Mississippi  deputy  sheriff  reinterrogated him  at  the  jail. 

Id.,  at  149.  None  of  these  suspects  re-
gained  a  sense  of  control  or  normalcy  after  they  were  ini-tially  taken  into  custody  for  the  crime  under  investigation. 

When,  unlike  what  happened  in  these  three  cases,  a  sus-
pect  has  been  released  from  his  pretrial  custody  and  has returned  to  his  normal  life  for  some  time  before  the  later 

attempted  interrogation,  there  is  little  reason  to  think  that his  change  of  heart  regarding  interrogation  without  counsel 
has  been coerced.  He  has  no  longer  been  isolated.  He has likely been able to seek advice from an attorney, family mem-
bers,  and  friends.3  And  he  knows  from  his  earlier  experi-ence that he need only demand counsel to bring the interro-

2 Jail  is  a  "local  government's detention center  where persons awaiting 
trial or those convicted of misdemeanors are confined."  Black's Law Dic-
tionary 910 (9th ed. 2009).  Prison, by contrast, is a "state or federal facil-
ity of confinement for convicted criminals, esp. felons."  Id., at 1314. 

3 Justice

108  MARYLAND  v.  SHATZER 

Opinion of the Court 
gation to a halt; and that investigative custody does not last indefinitely.  In these circumstances, it is farfetched to think 

that  a  police  officer's  asking  the  suspect  whether  he  would like  to  waive  his  Miranda  rights will  any  more  "wear down 
the  accused,"  Smith  v.  Illinois,  469  U. S.  91,  98  (1984)  (per 
curiam),  than  did  the  first  such  request  at  the  original  at-tempted interrogation--which is  of course  not  deemed  coer-

cive.  His  change  of  heart  is  less  likely  attributable  to "badgering" than it is to the fact that further deliberation in 
familiar  surroundings  has  caused  him  to  believe  (rightly  or wrongly) that cooperating with the investigation is in his in-
terest.  Uncritical  extension  of  Edwards  to  this  situation would not significantly increase the number of genuinely co-
erced  confessions  excluded.  The  "justification  for  a  conclu-sive  presumption  disappears  when  application  of  the  pre-
sumption will not reach the correct result most of the time." 
Coleman v.  Thompson, 501 U. S. 722, 737 (1991). At the  same time  that  extending  the  Edwards rule  yields 

diminished  benefits,  extending  the  rule  also  increases  its costs: the in-fact voluntary confessions it excludes from trial, 
and the voluntary confessions it deters law enforcement offi-cers  from  even  trying  to  obtain.  Voluntary  confessions  are 
not merely "a proper element in law enforcement," Miranda, 
supra,  at  478,  they  are  an  "unmitigated  good,"  McNeil,  501 U. S.,  at  181,  " `essential  to  society's  compelling  interest  in 

finding,  convicting,  and  punishing  those  who  violate  the law,' "  ibid.  (quoting  Moran  v.  Burbine,  475  U. S.  412,  426 
(1986)). The only logical endpoint of 

Edwards disability is termina-tion  of  Miranda  custody  and  any  of  its  lingering  effects. 

Without  that  limitation--and  barring  some  purely  arbitrary time limit 

4--every Edwards prohibition of custodial interro-

4 The  State's  alternative  argument  in  the  present  case  is  that  the  sub-
stantial lapse in time between the 2003 and 2006 attempts at interrogation 
independently  ended  the  Edwards  presumption.  Our  disposition  makes 
it unnecessary to address that argument. 

Cite as: 559 U. S. 98 (2010)  109 

Opinion of the Court 
gation of a particular suspect would be eternal.  The prohi-bition  applies,  of  course,  when  the  subsequent  interrogation 

pertains  to  a  different  crime,  Roberson,  supra,  when  it  is conducted  by  a  different  law  enforcement  authority,  Minnick, 498 U. S. 146, and even when the suspect has met with an  attorney  after  the  first  interrogation, 

ibid.  And  it  not only  prevents  questioning  ex  ante;  it  would  render  invalid, 

ex  post,  confessions  invited  and  obtained  from  suspects  who (unbeknownst  to  the  interrogators)  have  acquired  Edwards 
immunity  previously  in  connection  with  any  offense  in  any jurisdiction.

5  In  a  country  that  harbors  a  large  number  of 

repeat offenders,6  this consequence is disastrous. We conclude that such an extension of Edwards is not jus-

tified;  we  have  opened  its  " `protective  umbrella,' "  Solem, 465  U. S.,  at  644,  n.  4,  far  enough.  The  protections  offered 
by Miranda, which we have deemed sufficient to ensure that the  police  respect  the  suspect's  desire  to  have  an  attorney 
present  the  first  time  police  interrogate  him,  adequately ensure  that  result  when  a  suspect  who  initially  requested 
counsel  is  reinterrogated  after  a  break  in  custody  that  is  of sufficient duration to dissipate its coercive effects. 

5 This assumes that Roberson's extension of Edwards to subsequent in-
terrogation  for  a  different  crime and  Minnick's  extension  of  Edwards  to 
subsequent  interrogation  by  a  different  law  enforcement  agency  would 
apply  even  when  the  place  of  custody  and  the  identity  of  the  custodial 
agency are not the same (as they were in Roberson and Minnick) as those 
of the original interrogation.  That assumption would seem reasonable if 
the  Edwards-suspending  effect  of  a  termination  of  custody  is  rejected. 
Reinterrogation in different custody or by a different interrogating agency 
would seem, if anything, less likely than termination of custody to reduce 
coercive pressures.  At the original site, and with respect to the original 
interrogating agency, the suspect has already experienced cessation of in-
terrogation  when  he  demands  counsel--which  he  may  have  no  reason  to 
expect elsewhere. 

6 According to a recent study, 67.5% of prisoners released from 15 States 

in 1994 were rearrested within three years.  See Dept. of Justice, Bureau 
of Justice  Statistics,  Special  Report,  Recidivism of  Prisoners  Released in 
1994 (NCJ 193427, 2002). 

110  MARYLAND  v.  SHATZER 

Opinion of the Court 
If Shatzer's return to the general prison population quali-fied as a break in custody (a question we address in Part III, 

infra),  there  is  no  doubt  that  it  lasted  long  enough  (two years)  to  meet  that  durational  requirement.  But  what 
about  a  break  that  has  lasted  only  one  year?  Or  only  one week?  It is impractical to leave the answer to that question 
for  clarification  in  future  case-by-case  adjudication;  law  en-
forcement  officers  need  to  know,  with  certainty  and  before-hand,  when  renewed  interrogation  is  lawful.  And  while  it 

is  certainly  unusual  for  this  Court  to  set  forth  precise  time limits  governing  police  action,  it  is  not  unheard  of.  In 
County  of  Riverside  v.  McLaughlin,  500  U. S.  44  (1991),  we 
specified  48  hours  as  the  time  within  which  the  police  must 
comply  with  the  requirement  of  Gerstein  v.  Pugh,  420  U. S. 
103  (1975),  that  a  person  arrested  without  a  warrant  be 
brought  before  a  magistrate  to  establish  probable  cause  for 
continued detention. 

Like McLaughlin, this is a case in which the requisite po-
lice action (there, presentation to a magistrate; here, absten-
tion  from  further  interrogation)  has  not  been  prescribed  by 
statute  but  has  been  established  by  opinion  of  this  Court. 
We  think  it  appropriate  to  specify  a  period  of  time  to  avoid 
the consequence that continuation of the Edwards presump-
tion  "will  not  reach  the  correct  result  most  of  the  time." 
Coleman,  supra,  at  737.  It  seems  to  us  that  period  is  14 
days.  That  provides  plenty  of  time  for  the  suspect  to  get 
reacclimated  to  his  normal  life,  to  consult  with  friends  and 
counsel,  and  to  shake  off  any  residual  coercive  effects of  his 
prior custody. 

The  14-day  limitation  meets  Shatzer's  concern  that  a 
break-in-custody  rule  lends  itself  to  police  abuse.  He  envi-
sions that once a suspect invokes his Miranda right to coun-
sel,  the  police  will  release  the  suspect  briefly  (to  end  the 
Edwards  presumption)  and  then  promptly  bring  him  back 
into  custody  for  reinterrogation.  But  once  the  suspect  has 
been  out  of  custody  long  enough  (14  days)  to  eliminate  its 

Cite as: 559 U. S. 98 (2010)  111 

Opinion of the Court 
coercive effect, there will be nothing to gain by such gamesmanship--nothing,  that  is,  except  the  entirely  appropriate 
gain  of  being  able  to  interrogate  a  suspect  who  has  made  a 
valid waiver of his Miranda rights.7 

Shatzer  argues  that  ending  the  Edwards  protections  at  a 
break  in  custody  will  undermine  Edwards'  purpose  to  con-
serve  judicial  resources.  To  be  sure,  we  have  said  that 
"[t]he merit of the  Edwards decision  lies in  the clarity  of its 
command  and  the  certainty  of  its  application."  Minnick, 
498  U. S., at  151.  But clarity  and certainty are not  goals in 
themselves.  They  are  valuable  only  when  they  reasonably 
further the  achievement of some substantive  end--here, the 
exclusion  of  compelled  confessions.  Confessions  obtained 
after  a  2-week  break  in  custody  and  a  waiver  of  Miranda 
rights  are  most  unlikely  to  be  compelled,  and  hence  are  un-
reasonably excluded.  In any case, a break-in-custody excep-
tion will dim only marginally, if at all, the bright-line nature 
of  Edwards.  In  every  case  involving  Edwards,  the  courts 
must  determine  whether  the  suspect  was  in  custody  when 
he requested counsel and when he later made the statements 
he  seeks  to  suppress.  Now,  in  cases  where  there  is  an  al-
leged  break  in  custody,  they  simply  have  to  repeat  the  in-
quiry for the time between the initial invocation and reinter-
rogation.  In  most  cases  that  determination  will  be  easy. 
And  when  it  is  determined  that  the  defendant  pleading  Ed-
wards has been out of custody for two weeks before the con-
tested  interrogation,  the  court  is  spared  the  fact-intensive 

7 A defendant who experiences a 14-day break in custody after invoking 
the  Miranda  right  to  counsel  is  not  left  without  protection.  Edwards 
establishes  a  presumption  that  a  suspect's  waiver  of  Miranda  rights  is 
involuntary.  See  Arizona  v.  Roberson,  486  U. S.  675,  681  (1988).  Even 
without this "second layer of prophylaxis," McNeil v.  Wisconsin, 501 U. S. 
171, 176 (1991), a defendant is still free to claim the prophylactic protection 
of Miranda--arguing that his waiver of Miranda rights was in fact invol-
untary under  Johnson  v.  Zerbst,  304 U. S.  458  (1938).  See Miranda,  384 
U. S., at 475. 

112  MARYLAND  v.  SHATZER 

Opinion of the Court 
inquiry  into  whether  he  ever,  anywhere,  asserted  his  Mi-randa right to counsel. 

III 
The facts of this case present an additional issue.  No one questions that Shatzer was in custody for 

Miranda purposes during  the  interviews  with  Detective  Blankenship  in  2003 

and  Detective  Hoover  in  2006.  Likewise,  no  one  questions that  Shatzer  triggered  the  Edwards  protections  when,  ac-
cording  to  Detective  Blankenship's  notes  of  the  2003  inter-view, he stated that " `he would not talk about this case with-
out having an attorney present,' " 405 Md., at 589, 954 A. 2d, at  1120.  After  the  2003  interview,  Shatzer  was  released 
back  into  the  general  prison  population  where  he  was  serv-ing an unrelated sentence.  The issue is whether that consti-
tutes a break in Miranda custody. We  have  never  decided  whether  incarceration  constitutes 
custody  for  Miranda  purposes,  and  have  indeed  explicitly declined to address the issue.  See Perkins, 496 U. S., at 299. 
See  also  Bradley  v.  Ohio,  497  U. S.  1011,  1013  (1990)  (Mar-shall,  J.,  dissenting  from  denial  of  certiorari).  Whether  it 
does  depends  upon  whether  it  exerts  the  coercive  pressure that  Miranda  was  designed  to  guard  against--the  "danger 
of coercion [that] results from the interaction of custody and official  interrogation."  Perkins,  supra,  at  297  (emphasis 
added).  To  determine  whether  a  suspect  was  in  Miranda custody we have asked whether "there is a `formal arrest or 
restraint  on  freedom  of  movement'  of  the  degree  associated with  a  formal  arrest." 

New  York  v.  Quarles,  467  U. S.  649, 655  (1984);  see  also  Stansbury  v.  California,  511  U. S.  318, 

322 (1994) (per curiam).  This test, no doubt, is satisfied by all  forms  of  incarceration.  Our  cases  make  clear,  however, 
that  the  freedom-of-movement  test  identifies  only  a  neces-sary and not a sufficient condition for 

Miranda custody.  We have  declined  to  accord  it  "talismanic  power,"  because  Mi-

randa  is  to  be  enforced  "only  in  those  types  of  situations  in which  the  concerns  that  powered  the  decision  are  impli-

Cite as: 559 U. S. 98 (2010)  113 

Opinion of the Court 
cated."  Berkemer  v.  McCarty,  468  U. S.  420,  437  (1984). Thus, the temporary and relatively nonthreatening detention 

involved  in  a  traffic  stop  or  Terry  stop,  see  Terry  v.  Ohio, 392  U. S.  1  (1968),  does  not  constitute 

Miranda  custody. 
McCarty, supra, at 439- 440.  See also Perkins, supra, at 296. 

Here,  we  are  addressing  the  interim  period  during  which 
a suspect was not interrogated, but was subject to a baseline set  of  restraints  imposed  pursuant  to  a  prior  conviction. 

Without  minimizing  the  harsh  realities  of  incarceration,  we think  lawful  imprisonment  imposed  upon  conviction  of  a 
crime  does  not  create  the  coercive  pressures  identified  in 
Miranda. 

Interrogated suspects who have previously been convicted of  crime  live  in  prison.  When  they  are  released  back  into 

the  general  prison  population,  they  return  to  their  accus-
tomed  surroundings  and  daily  routine--they  regain  the  de-
gree of control they had over their lives prior to the interro-
gation.  Sentenced  prisoners,  in  contrast  to  the  Miranda 
paradigm,  are  not  isolated  with  their  accusers.  They  live 
among  other  inmates,  guards,  and  workers,  and  often  can 
receive visitors and communicate with people on the outside 
by mail or telephone. 

Their detention, moreover, is relatively disconnected from 
their  prior  unwillingness  to  cooperate  in  an  investigation. 
The  former  interrogator  has  no  power  to  increase  the  dura-
tion  of  incarceration,  which  was  determined  at  sentencing.8 
And  even  where  the  possibility  of  parole  exists,  the  former 
interrogator  has  no  apparent  power  to  decrease  the  time 

8 We distinguish the duration of incarceration from the duration of what 
might be termed interrogative custody.  When a prisoner is removed from 
the  general  prison  population  and  taken  to  a  separate  location  for  ques-
tioning,  the  duration  of  that  separation  is  assuredly  dependent  upon  his 
interrogators.  For which reason  once he has asserted a  refusal to speak 
without assistance of counsel Edwards prevents any efforts to get him to 
change his mind during that interrogative custody. 

114  MARYLAND  v.  SHATZER 

Opinion of the Court 
served.  This is in stark contrast to the circumstances faced by  the  defendants  in  Edwards,  Roberson,  and  Minnick, 

whose continued detention as suspects rested with those con-trolling  their  interrogation,  and  who  confronted  the  uncer-
tainties of what final charges they would face, whether they would  be  convicted,  and  what  sentence  they  would  receive. 

Shatzer's  experience  illustrates  the  vast  differences  be-tween 

Miranda  custody  and  incarceration  pursuant  to  con-viction.  At  the  time  of  the  2003  attempted  interroga-

tion,  Shatzer  was  already  serving  a  sentence  for  a  prior conviction.  After  that,  he  returned  to  the  general  prison 
populati on  in  the  Maryland  Correctional  Institution-Hagerstown and was later transferred, for unrelated reasons, 
down the street to the Roxbury Correctional Institute. Both are medium-security  state correctional facilities. 
See  Maryland  Div.  of  Correction  Inmate  Handbook  7 (2007),  online  at  http://dpscs.md.gov/rehabservs/doc/pdfs/ 
2007_Inmate_Handbook.pdf (all Internet materials as visited Feb.  22,  2010,  and  available  in  Clerk  of  Court's  case  file). 
Inmates in these facilities generally can visit the library each week, 

id.,  at  28;  have  regular  exercise  and  recreation  peri-ods, 
id.,  at  17;  can  participate  in  basic  adult  education  and occupational  training,  id.,  at  26,  7;  are  able  to  send  and 

receive  mail,  id.,  at  21-22,  16;  and  are  allowed  to  receive visitors  twice a week, see  http://dpscs.md.gov/ locations/ 
mcih.shtml;  http://www.dpscs.state.md.us/locations/rci.shtml. His continued detention after the 2003 interrogation did not 
depend  on  what  he  said  (or  did  not  say)  to  Detective  Blan-kenship,  and  he  has  not  alleged  that  he  was  placed  in  a 
higher level of security or faced any continuing restraints as a result  of the  2003 interrogation.  The  "inherently compel-
ling pressures" of custodial interrogation ended when he re-turned to his normal life. 

IV 
A  few  words  in  response  to  Justice

Cite as: 559 U. S. 98 (2010)  115 

Opinion of the Court 
suspect that he has the right to an attorney" and then "rein-terrogate"  him  without  providing  a  lawyer,  "the  suspect  is 

likely  to  feel  that  the  police  lied  to  him  and  that  he  really does  not  have  any  right  to  a  lawyer." 

Post,  at  121  (opin-
ion concurring in judgment) (hereinafter concurrence).  See also 

post,  at  123,  126,  n.  11,  130,  n.  16.  The  fallacy  here  is 
that we are not talking about "reinterrogating" the suspect; 
we  are  talking  about  asking  his  permission  to  be  interro-gated.  An  officer  has  in  no  sense  lied  to  a  suspect  when, 

after  advising,  as  Miranda  requires,  "You  have  the  right  to remain  silent, and if you choose to speak you have  the right 
to  the  presence  of  an  attorney,"  he  promptly  ends  the  at-
tempted interrogation because the suspect declines to speak 
without  counsel  present,  and  then,  two  weeks  later,  reap-
proaches the suspect and asks, "Are you now willing to speak 
without a lawyer present?" 

The "concer[n] that motivated the  Edwards line of cases," 
post,  at  121,  n.  2,  is  that  the  suspect  will  be  coerced  into 
saying  yes.  That  concern  guides  our  decision  today.  Con-
trary  to  the  concurrence's  conclusion,  post,  at  122,  124-125, 
there  is  no  reason  to  believe  a  suspect  will  view  confession 
as " `the only way to end his interrogation' " when, before the 
interrogation begins, he is told that he can avoid it by simply 
requesting that he not be interrogated without counsel pres-
ent--an  option  that  worked  before.  If,  as  the  concurrence 
argues will often be the case, post, at 124, a break in custody 
does not change the suspect's mind, he need only say so. 

The concurrence also accuses the Court of "ignor[ing] that 
when  a  suspect  asks  for  counsel,  until  his  request  is  an-
swered, there are still the same `inherently compelling' pres-
sures  of  custodial  interrogation  on  which  the  Miranda  line 
of  cases  is  based."  Post,  at  123.  We  do  not  ignore  these 
pressures;  nor do we suggest that they  disappear when cus-
tody  is  recommenced after  a  break,  see post,  at 124.  But if 
those  pressures  are  merely  "the  same"  as  before,  then  Mi-
randa  provides  sufficient  protection--as  it  did  before.  The 

116  MARYLAND  v.  SHATZER 

Opinion of the Court 
Edwards  presumption  of  involuntariness  is  justified  only  in circumstances  where  the  coercive  pressures  have  increased 

so much that suspects' waivers  of Miranda  rights are  likely to be involuntary most of the time.  Contrary to the concur-
rence's  suggestion,  post,  at  122,  it  is  only  in  those  narrow circumstances--when  custody  is  unbroken--that  the  Court 
has  concluded  a  " `fresh  se[t]  of  Miranda  warnings' "  is  not 
sufficient.  See Roberson, 486 U. S., at 686. In  the  last  analysis,  it  turns  out  that  the  concurrence  ac-

cepts our principal points.  It agrees that Edwards prophy-laxis  is  not  perpetual;  it  agrees  that  a  break  in  custody 
reduces  the  inherently  compelling  pressure  upon  which 
Edwards  was  based;  it  agrees  that  Shatzer's  release  back 
into the general prison population constituted a break in cus-
tody;  and  it  agrees  that  in  this  case  the  break  was  long 
enough  to  render  Edwards  inapplicable.  Post,  at  129-130. 
We  differ  in  two  respects:  Instead  of  terminating  Edwards 
protection  when  the  custodial  pressures  that  were the  basis 
for  that  protection  dissipate,  the  concurrence  would  termi-
nate  it  when  the  suspect  would  no  longer  "feel  that  he  has 
`been  denied  the  counsel  he  has  clearly  requested,' "  post, 
at  129.  This  is  entirely  unrelated  to  the  rationale  of  Ed-
wards.  If confidence in the police's promise to provide coun-
sel were the touchstone, Edwards would not have applied in 
Minnick,  where  the  suspect  in  continuing  custody  actually 
met  with  appointed  counsel.  The  concurrence's  rule  is  also 
entirely  unrelated  to  the  existence  of  a  break  in  custody. 
While  that  may  relieve  the  accumulated  coercive  pressures 
of custody that are the foundation for Edwards, it is hard to 
see  how  it  bolsters  the  suspect's  confidence  that  if  he  asks 
for counsel he will get one. 

And secondly, the concurrence differs from us in declining 
to  say  how long after  a  break  in  custody  the  termination  of 
Edwards protection occurs.  Two and one-half years, it says, 
is  clearly  enough--but  it  gives  law  enforcement  authorities 
no  further  guidance.  The  concurrence  criticizes  our  use  of 

Cite as: 559 U. S. 98 (2010)  117 

Opinion of Thomas,
118  MARYLAND  v.  SHATZER 

Opinion of Thomas,
Cite as: 559 U. S. 98 (2010)  119 

Opinion of Thomas,
120  MARYLAND  v.  SHATZER 

Stevens,

Cite as: 559 U. S. 98 (2010)  121 
Stevens,
122  MARYLAND  v.  SHATZER 

Stevens,

Cite as: 559 U. S. 98 (2010)  123 
Stevens,
124  MARYLAND  v.  SHATZER 

Stevens,

Cite as: 559 U. S. 98 (2010)  125 
Stevens,
126  MARYLAND  v.  SHATZER 

Stevens,

Cite as: 559 U. S. 98 (2010)  127 
Stevens,
128  MARYLAND  v.  SHATZER 

Stevens,

Cite as: 559 U. S. 98 (2010)  129 

Because, 

Stevens,
130  MARYLAND  v.  SHATZER 

Stevens,

OCTOBER  TERM,  2009  131 

Per  Curiam 

KIYEMBA  et

132  KIYEMBA  v.OCTOBER  TERM,  2009  133 

Syllabus 

JOHNSON  v.

134  JOHNSON  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 133 (2010)  135 

Opinion of the Court 
United

136  JOHNSON  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 133 (2010)  137 

Opinion of the Court 
"[i]ntentionally caus[ed] bodily harm," that he "intentionally 
str[uck]" the  victim, or that  he merely "[a]ctually  and inten-
tionally touche[d]" the victim. 

Since nothing in the record of Johnson's 2003 battery con-
viction  permitted  the  District  Court  to  conclude  that  it 
rested  upon  anything  more  than  the  least  of  these  acts,  see 
Shepard

138  JOHNSON  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 133 (2010)  139 

Opinion of the Court 
meaning  in  the  field  of  physics:  a  cause  of  the  acceleration of  mass.  Webster's  New  International  Dictionary  986  (2d 

ed.  1954)  (hereinafter  Webster's  Second).  In  more  general usage  it  means  "[s]trength  or  energy;  active  power;  vigor; 
often  an  unusual  degree  of  strength  or  energy,"  "[p]ower  to affect  strongly  in  physical  relations,"  or  "[p]ower,  violence, 
compulsion,  or  constraint  exerted  upon  a  person."  Id.,

140  JOHNSON  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 133 (2010)  141 

Opinion of the Court 
assault  and  battery  with  a  dangerous  weapon");  see  also United

142  JOHNSON  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 133 (2010)  143 

Opinion of the Court 
The Government also asks us to draw a negative inference from  the  presence  of  the  "bodily  injury"  specification  added 

to the phrase "physical force" in $ 922(g)(8)(C)(ii).  That pro-vision forbids the possession of firearms by a person subject 
to  a  court  order  explicitly  prohibiting  the  "use,  attempted use, or threatened use of physical force against [an] intimate 
partner or child that would reasonably be expected to cause bodily  injury." 

Ibid.

144  JOHNSON  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 133 (2010)  145 

Alito,
146  JOHNSON  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 133 (2010)  147 

Alito,
148  JOHNSON  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 133 (2010)  149 

Alito,
150  JOHNSON  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 133 (2010)  151 

Alito,
152  JOHNSON  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 133 (2010)  153 

Alito,
154  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

Syllabus 

REED  ELSEVIER,  INC.,  et

Cite as: 559 U. S. 154 (2010)  155 

Syllabus 
compel  the conclusion  that the  rule  nonetheless  was jurisdictional,  and 
the  requirement's  location  in  a  provision  separate  from  Title  VII's 
jurisdiction-granting section indicated that Congress had not ranked the 
rule as jurisdictional.  Pp. 160-163. 

(b)  Like  the  Title  VII  numerosity  requirement  in  Arbaugh,  $ 411(a) 
does  not  "clearly stat[e]"  that  its  registration requirement  is  "jurisdic-
tional."  546  U. S.,  at  515.  Although  $ 411(a)'s  last  sentence  contains 
the  word  "jurisdiction,"  that  sentence  speaks  to  a  court's  adjudicatory 
authority to determine a copyright claim's registrability and says noth-
ing  about  whether  a  federal  court  has  subject-matter  jurisdiction  to 
adjudicate  claims  for  infringement  of  unregistered  works.  Moreover, 

$ 411(a)'s registration requirement, like Title VII's employee numerosity 
requirement,  is  located  in  a  provision  "separate"  from  those  granting 
federal  courts subject-matter jurisdiction  over  those  respective claims, 
ibid.,  and  no  other  factor  suggests  that  $ 411(a)'s  registration  require-
ment can be read to " `speak in jurisdictional terms or refer in any way 
to  the jurisdiction of  the district courts,' "  ibid.  This conclusion is not 
affected  by  the  fact  that  the  employee  numerosity  requirement  in  Ar-
baugh  was  considered  an  element  of  a  Title  VII  claim  rather  than  a 
prerequisite to initiating a lawsuit.  See Zipes v.  Trans World Airlines, 
Inc., 455 U. S. 385, 393.  Pp. 163-166. 

(c)  A  contrary  result  is  not  required  by  Bowles  v.  Russell,  551  U. S. 
205.  There,  in  finding  that  Congress  had  ranked  as  jurisdictional  28 
U. S. C. $ 2107's requirement that parties in a civil action file a notice of 
appeal within 30 days of the judgment, this Court analyzed $ 2107's spe-
cific language and the historical treatment accorded to that type of limi-
tation.  That  analysis  is  consistent  with  the  Arbaugh  framework  be-
cause  context  is  relevant  to  whether  a  statute  "rank[s]"  a  requirement 
as jurisdictional.  Pp. 167-169. 

(d)  The Court declines to apply judicial estoppel to affirm the Second 
Circuit's judgment vacating the settlement.  While some of petitioners' 
arguments below are in tension with those made in this Court, accepting 
their  arguments  here  does  not  create  the  type  of  "inconsistent  court 
determinations"  in  their  favor  that  estoppel  is  meant  to  address.  See 
New Hampshire v.  Maine, 532 U. S. 742.  Pp. 169-170. 

(e)  Because $ 411(a) does not restrict a federal court's subject-matter 
jurisdiction, this Court need not address the question whether the Dis-
trict  Court  had  authority  to  approve  the  settlement  under  the  Second 
Circuit's erroneous reading of $ 411.  The Court also declines to decide 
whether $ 411(a)'s registration requirement is a mandatory precondition 
to  suit  that  district  courts  may  or  should  enforce  sua  sponte  by  dis-

156  REED  ELSEVIER,  INC.  v.  MUCHNICK 

Syllabus 
missing  copyright  infringement  claims  involving  unregistered  works. 
Pp. 170-171. 

509 F. 3d 116, reversed and remanded. 

Thomas,

Cite as: 559 U. S. 154 (2010)  157 

Opinion of the Court 
Justice

158  REED  ELSEVIER,  INC.  v.  MUCHNICK 

Opinion of the Court 
right  claim  has  been  made  in  accordance  with  this  title." 1 This  provision  is  part  of  the  Act's  remedial  scheme.  It  es-

tablishes a condition--copyright registration--that plaintiffs ordinarily  must  satisfy  before  filing  an  infringement  claim 
and  invoking  the  Act's  remedial  provisions.  We  address whether  $ 411(a)  also  deprives  federal  courts  of  subjectmatter jurisdiction to adjudicate infringement claims involv-ing unregistered works. 

B 
The  relevant  proceedings  in  this  case  began  after  we  is-sued our  opinion in  New York  Times  Co. v.  Tasini,  533  U. S. 

483 (2001).  In Tasini, we agreed with the Court of Appeals for  the  Second  Circuit  that  several  owners  of  online  data-
bases  and  print  publishers  had  infringed  the  copyrights  of six freelance authors by reproducing the authors' works elec-
tronically  without  first  securing  their  permission.  See  id., at  493.  In  so  holding,  we  affirmed  the  principal  theory  of 
liability  underlying  copyright  infringement  suits  that  other freelance  authors  had  filed  after  the  Court  of  Appeals  had 
issued  its  opinion  in  Tasini.  These  other  suits,  which  were stayed  pending  our  decision  in 

Tasini,  resumed  after  we  is-sued our opinion and were consolidated in the United States 

District Court for the Southern District of New York by the Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation. 

The  consolidated  complaint  alleged  that  the  named  plain-tiffs each own at least one copyright, typically in a freelance 
article written for a newspaper or a magazine, that they had registered  in  accordance  with  $ 411(a).  The  class,  however, 
included  both  authors  who  had  registered  their  copyrighted works and authors who had not.  See App. 94. 

Because of the growing size and complexity of the lawsuit, the  District  Court  referred  the  parties  to  mediation.  For 

1 Other sections of the Act--principally $$ 408-410--detail the registra-
tion  process,  and  establish  remedial  incentives  to  encourage  copyright 
holders  to  register  their  works,  see,  e. g.,  $ 410(c);  17  U. S. C.  $ 412  (2006 
ed. and Supp. II). 

Cite as: 559 U. S. 154 (2010)  159 

Opinion of the Court 
more than three years, the  freelance authors, the publishers (and  their  insurers),  and  the  electronic  databases  (and  their 

insurers)  negotiated.  Finally,  in  March  2005,  they  reached a settlement agreement that the parties intended "to achieve 
a  global  peace  in  the  publishing  industry."  In  re  Literary 
Works  in  Electronic  Databases  Copyright  Litigation,  509 
F. 3d 116, 119 (CA2 2007). 

The parties moved the District Court to certify a class for settlement  and  to  approve  the  settlement  agreement.  Ten 

freelance  authors,  including  Irvin  Muchnick  (hereinafter Muchnick respondents), objected.  The  District Court  over-
ruled the objections; certified a settlement class of freelance 
authors  under  Federal  Rules  of  Civil  Procedure  23(a)  and 
(b)(3);  approved  the  settlement  as  fair,  reasonable,  and  ade-
quate  under  Rule  23(e);  and  entered  final  judgment.  At  no 
time  did  the  Muchnick  respondents  or  any  other  party  urge 
the District Court to dismiss the case, or to refuse to certify 
the  class  or  approve  the  settlement,  for  lack  of  subjectmatter jurisdiction. 

The  Muchnick  respondents  appealed,  renewing  their  ob-
jections  to  the  settlement  on  procedural  and  substantive 
grounds.  Shortly  before  oral  argument,  the  Court  of  Ap-
peals  sua  sponte  ordered  briefing  on  the  question  whether 

$ 411(a) deprives federal courts of subject-matter jurisdiction 
over infringement claims  involving  unregistered copyrights. 
All parties filed  briefs asserting that the  District Court  had 
subject-matter jurisdiction to approve the settlement agree-
ment even though it included unregistered works. 

Relying  on  two  Circuit  precedents  holding  that  $ 411(a)'s 
registration requirement was jurisdictional, see 509 F. 3d, at 
121 (citing Well-Made Toy Mfg. Corp. v.  Goffa Int'l Corp., 354 
F. 3d 112, 114-115 (CA2 2003); Morris v.  Business Concepts, 
Inc.,  259  F.  3d  65,  72-73  (CA2  2001)),  the  Court  of  Appeals 
concluded  that  the  District  Court  lacked  jurisdiction  to  cer-
tify a class of claims arising from the infringement of unreg-
istered  works,  and  also  lacked  jurisdiction  to  approve  a  set-

160  REED  ELSEVIER,  INC.  v.  MUCHNICK 

Opinion of the Court 
tlement  with  respect  to  those  claims,  509  F.  3d,  at  121  (cit-ing  "widespread  agreement  among  the  circuits  that  section 

411(a) is jurisdictional").2 Judge  Walker  dissented.  He  concluded  "that  $ 411(a)  is 
more  like  the  [nonjurisdictional]  employee-numerosity  re-quirement in Arbaugh [v. Y &  H Corp.,  546 U. S. 500 (2006),]" 
than the jurisdictional statutory time limit in Bowles v.  Rus-
sell, 551 U. S. 205 (2007).  509 F. 3d, at 129.  Accordingly, he reasoned  that  $ 411(a)'s  registration  requirement  does  not 

limit  federal  subject-matter  jurisdiction  over  infringement suits involving unregistered works.  Ibid. 

We granted the owners' and publishers' petition for a writ of  certiorari,  and  formulated  the  question  presented  to  ask 
whether  $ 411(a)  restricts  the  subject-matter  jurisdiction  of the federal courts over copyright infringement actions.  555 
U. S.  1211  (2009).  Because  no  party  supports  the  Court  of Appeals'  jurisdictional  holding,  we  appointed  an 

amicus  cu-riae  to  defend  the  Court  of  Appeals'  judgment.
3  556  U. S. 

1161 (2009).  We now reverse. 

II 

A 
"Jurisdiction"  refers  to  "a  court's  adjudicatory  authority." Kontrick  v.  Ryan,  540  U. S.  443,  455  (2004).  Accordingly, 

the  term  "jurisdictional"  properly  applies  only  to  "prescrip-tions  delineating  the  classes  of  cases  (subject-matter  juris-

2 See  La  Resolana  Architects,  PA  v.  Clay  Realtors  Angel  Fire,  416 
F.  3d  1195,  1200-1201  (CA10  2005);  Positive  Black  Talk  Inc.  v.  Cash 
Money Records Inc., 394 F. 3d 357, 365 (CA5 2004); Xoom, Inc. v.  Imageline, Inc.,  323 F. 3d 279,  283 (CA4 2003); Murray Hill  Publications, Inc. 
v.  ABC  Communications,  Inc.,  264  F.  3d  622,  630,  and  n.  1  (CA6  2001); 
Brewer-Giorgio v.  Producers Video, Inc., 216 F. 3d 1281, 1285 (CA11 2000); 
Data Gen. Corp. v.  Grumman Systems Support Corp., 36 F. 3d 1147, 1163 
(CA1 1994). 

3 We  appointed  Deborah  Jones  Merritt  to  brief  and  argue  the  case, 

as  amicus  curiae,  in  support  of  the  Court  of  Appeals'  judgment. 
Ms. Merritt has ably discharged her assigned responsibilities. 

Cite as: 559 U. S. 154 (2010)  161 

Opinion of the Court 
diction)  and  the  persons  (personal  jurisdiction)"  implicating that authority.  Ibid.; see also Steel Co. v.  Citizens for Better 

Environment,  523  U. S.  83,  89  (1998)  ("subject-matter  juris-diction"  refers  to  "the  courts'  statutory  or  constitutional 
power  to  adjudicate  the  case"  (emphasis  in  original));  Land-
graf v.  USI Film Products, 511 U. S. 244, 274 (1994) ("[J]uris-dictional  statutes  `speak  to  the  power  of  the  court  rather 

than  to  the  rights  or  obligations  of  the  parties' "  (quoting Republic Nat. Bank of Miami v.  United States, 506 U. S. 80, 
100 (1992) (Thomas,

162  REED  ELSEVIER,  INC.  v.  MUCHNICK 

Opinion of the Court 
gress  does  not  rank  a  statutory  limitation  on  coverage as  jurisdictional,  courts  should  treat  the  restriction  as 

nonjurisdictional  in  character."  546  U. S.,  at  515-516 (citation and footnote omitted). 

The  plaintiff  in  Arbaugh  brought  a  claim  under  Title  VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, which makes it unlawful "for 
an  employer  .  .  . to  discriminate,"  inter  alia,  on  the basis  of sex.  42  U. S. C.  $ 2000e-2(a)(1).  But  employees  can  bring 
Title VII claims only against employers that have "fifteen or more employees."  $ 2000e(b). 

Arbaugh addressed whether that employee numerosity requirement "affects federal-court 

subject-matter jurisdiction or, instead, delineates a substan-tive ingredient of a Title VII claim for relief."  546 U. S., at 
503.  We held that it does the latter. Our  holding  turned  principally  on  our  examination  of  the 
text of $ 2000e(b), the section in which Title VII's numerosity requirement  appears.  Section  2000e(b)  does  not  "clearly 
stat[e]"  that  the  employee  numerosity  threshold  on  Title VII's  scope  "count[s]  as  jurisdictional." 

Id.,  at  515-516, and  n.  11.  And  nothing  in  our  prior  Title  VII  cases  com-

pelled  the  conclusion  that  even  though  the  numerosity  re-quirement lacks a clear jurisdictional label, it nonetheless im-
posed a jurisdictional limit.  See id., at 511-513.  Similarly, $ 2000e(b)'s text and structure did not demonstrate that Con-
gress "rank[ed]" that requirement as jurisdictional.  See id., at  513-516.  As  we  observed,  the  employee  numerosity  re-
quirement is  located in a  provision  "separate" from  $ 2000e- 5(f)(3),  Title  VII's  jurisdiction-granting  section,  distinguish-
ing  it  from  the  "amount-in-controversy  threshold  ingredient of  subject-matter jurisdiction  in  .  . .  diversity-of-jurisdiction 
under  28  U. S. C.  $ 1332."  Arbaugh,  546  U. S.,  at  514-515. Accordingly,  the numerosity  requirement could not fairly be 
read  to  " `speak  in  jurisdictional  terms  or  in  any  way  refer to the jurisdiction of the district courts.' "  Id., at 515 (quot-
ing  Zipes  v.  Trans  World  Airlines,  Inc.,  455  U. S.  385,  394 (1982)).  We  thus  "refrain[ed]  from"  construing  the  numer-

Cite as: 559 U. S. 154 (2010)  163 

Opinion of the Court 
osity requirement to "constric[t] $ 1331 or Title VII's jurisdic-tional  provision."  Arbaugh,  supra,  at  515  (internal  quota-

tion marks omitted). We now apply this same approach to $ 411(a). 

B 
Section 411(a) provides: 

"Except  for  an  action  brought  for  a  violation  of  the rights  of  the  author  under  section  106A(a),  and  subject 

to  the  provisions  of  subsection  (b),  no  civil  action  for infringement of the copyright in any United States work 
shall  be  instituted  until  preregistration  or  registration of the copyright claim has been made in accordance with 
this title.  In any case, however, where the deposit, ap-plication, and fee required for registration have been de-
livered to the Copyright Office in proper form and regis-tration  has  been  refused,  the  applicant  is  entitled  to 
institute a civil action for infringement if notice thereof, with  a  copy  of  the  complaint,  is  served  on  the  Register 
of Copyrights.  The  Register  may, at  his  or her  option, become  a  party  to  the  action  with  respect  to  the  issue 
of  registrability  of  the  copyright  claim  by  entering  an appearance within sixty days after such service, but the 
Register's  failure  to  become  a  party  shall  not  deprive the court of jurisdicti on  to  determine that issue. " 
(Footnote omitted.) 
We  must  consider  whether  $ 411(a)  "clearly  states"  that its  registration  requirement  is  "jurisdictional."  Arbaugh, 

supra,  at  515.  It  does  not.  Amicus  disagrees,  pointing  to the  presence  of  the  word  "jurisdiction"  in  the  last  sentence 
of  $ 411(a)  and  contending  that  the  use  of  the  term  there indicates the  jurisdictional cast of $ 411(a)'s first sentence  as 
well.  Brief for Court-Appointed Amicus Curiae in Support of Judgment Below 18 (hereinafter 

Amicus Brief).  But this reference to "jurisdiction" cannot bear the weight  that ami-

164  REED  ELSEVIER,  INC.  v.  MUCHNICK 

Opinion of the Court 
cus places  upon it.  The sentence  upon which amicus  relies states: 

"The Register [of Copyrights] may, at his or her option, become  a  party  to  the  [copyright  infringement]  action 
with  respect  to  the  issue  of  registrability  of  the  copy-right claim by entering an appearance within sixty days 
after  such  service,  but  the  Register's  failure  to  become a party shall not deprive the court of jurisdiction to de-
termine that issue."  $ 411(a) (emphasis added). 
Congress  added  this  sentence  to  the  Act  in  1976,  90  Stat. 2583, to clarify that a federal court can determine "the issue 

of registrability of the copyright claim" even if the Register does not appear in the infringement suit.  That clarification 
was necessary because courts had interpreted $ 411(a)'s pre-cursor  provision,

4  which  imposed  a  similar  registration  re-

quirement,  as  prohibiting  copyright  owners  who  had  been refused  registration  by  the  Register  of  Copyrights  from 

suing  for  infringement  until  the  owners  first  sought  manda-mus  against  the  Register.  See  Vacheron  &  Constantin-Le 
Coultre  Watches,  Inc.  v.  Benrus  Watch  Co.,  260  F.  2d  637, 640-641  (CA2  1958)  (construing  $ 411(a)'s  precursor).  The 
1976  amendment  made  it  clear  that  a  federal  court  plainly has adjudicatory authority to determine "

that issue," $ 411(a) (emphasis  added)--i. e.,  the  issue  of  registrability--regard-

less  of  whether  the  Register  is  a  party  to  the  infringement suit.  The word "jurisdiction," as used here, thus says noth-
ing  about  whether  a  federal  court  has  subject-matter  ju-risdiction  to  adjudicate  claims  for  infringement  of  unregis-
tered works. Moreover,  $ 411(a)'s  registration  requirement,  like  Title 
VII's  numerosity  requirement,  is  located  in  a  provision "separate" from those granting federal courts subject-matter 
jurisdiction  over  those  respective  claims.  See  Arbaugh, 
supra,  at  514-515.  Federal  district  courts  have  subject-

4 See Act of Mar. 4, 1909, $ 12, 35 Stat. 1078. 

Cite as: 559 U. S. 154 (2010)  165 

Opinion of the Court 
matter jurisdiction over copyright infringement actions based  on  28  U. S. C.  $$ 1331  and  1338.  But  neither  $ 1331, 

which  confers  subject-matter  jurisdiction  over  questions  of federal  law,  nor  $ 1338(a),  which  is  specific  to  copyright 
claims,  conditions  its  jurisdictional  grant  on  whether  copy-right  holders  have  registered  their  works  before  suing  for 
infringement.  Cf.  Arbaugh,  546  U. S.,  at  515  ("Title  VII's 
jurisdictional provision" does not "specif[y] any threshold in-gredient akin to 28 U. S. C. $ 1332's monetary floor"). 

Nor does any other factor suggest that 17 U. S. C. $ 411(a)'s registration  requirement  can  be  read  to  " `speak  in  jurisdic-
tional  terms  or  refer  in  any  way  to  the  jurisdiction  of  the district courts.' " 

Arbaugh, supra, at 515 (quoting Zipes, 455 
U. S.,  at  394).  First,  and  most  significantly,  $ 411(a)  ex-pressly 

allows  courts  to  adjudicate  infringement  claims  in-
volving  unregistered  works  in  three  circumstances:  where 
the  work  is  not  a  U. S.  work,  where  the  infringement  claim 
concerns rights of attribution and integrity under $ 106A, or 
where  the  holder  attempted  to  register  the  work  and  regis-
tration  was  refused.  Separately,  $ 411(c)  permits  courts  to 
adjudicate infringement actions over certain kinds of unreg-
istered  works  where  the  author  "declare[s]  an  intention  to 
secure  copyright  in  the  work"  and  "makes  registration  for 
the work, if required by subsection (a), within three months 
after  [the  work's]  first  transmission."  $$ 411(c)(1)-(2).  It 
would  be  at  least  unusual  to  ascribe  jurisdictional  signifi-
cance to a condition subject to these sorts of exceptions.5 

That the numerosity requirement in Arbaugh could be con-
sidered an element of a Title VII claim, rather than a prereq-

5 Cf. Zipes, 455 U. S., at 393-394, 397 (relying on the fact that Congress 
had "approved" at least some cases awarding Title VII relief to claimants 
who had not complied with the statute's  Equal Employment  Opportunity 
Commission (EEOC) filing requirement in holding that the filing require-
ment was not a jurisdictional prerequisite to suit); United States v. Cotton, 
535 U. S. 625, 630 (2002) ("[J]urisdiction" properly refers to a court's power 
to hear a case, a matter that "can never be forfeited or waived"). 

166  REED  ELSEVIER,  INC.  v.  MUCHNICK 

Opinion of the Court 
uisite to initiating a lawsuit, does not change this conclusion, 
as  our  decision  in  Zipes  demonstrates.  Zipes  (upon  which 
Arbaugh  relied)  held  that  Title  VII's  requirement  that  sexdiscrimination  claimants  timely  file  a  discrimination  charge 
with  the  EEOC  before  filing  a  civil  action  in  federal  court 
was  nonjurisdictional.  See  455  U. S.,  at  393;  42  U. S. C. 

$ 2000e-5(f)(1)  (establishing  specific  time  periods  within 
which  a  discrimination  claimant  must  file  a  lawsuit  after  fil-
ing  a  charge  with  the  EEOC).  A  statutory  condition  that 
requires  a  party  to  take  some  action  before  filing  a  lawsuit 
is  not  automatically  "a  jurisdictional  prerequisite  to  suit." 
Zipes, 455 U. S., at 393 (emphasis added).  Rather, the juris-
dictional  analysis  must  focus  on the  "legal  character"  of  the 
requirement,  id.,  at  395,  which  we  discerned  by  looking  to 
the  condition's  text,  context,  and  relevant  historical  treat-
ment, id., at 393-395; see also National Railroad Passenger 
Corporation  v.  Morgan,  536  U. S.  101,  119-121  (2002).  We 
similarly  have  treated  as  nonjurisdictional  other  types  of 
threshold requirements that claimants must complete, or ex-
haust, before filing a lawsuit.6 

The  registration  requirement  in  17  U. S. C.  $ 411(a)  fits  in 
this  mold.  Section  411(a)  imposes  a  precondition  to  filing  a 
claim  that  is  not  clearly  labeled  jurisdictional,  is  not  located 
in  a  jurisdiction-granting  provision,  and  admits  of  congres-
sionally  authorized  exceptions.  See  $$ 411(a)-(c).  Section 
411(a)  thus  imposes  a  type  of  precondition  to  suit  that  sup-
ports nonjurisdictional treatment under our precedents. 

6 See  Jones  v.  Bock,  549  U. S.  199,  211  (2007)  (treating  the  administra-
tive exhaustion  requirement  of  the Prison  Litigation  Reform  Act  of  1995 
(PLRA)--which  states  that  "[n]o  action  shall  be  brought  with  respect  to 
prison conditions under section  1983 of this title, or any other Federal law, 
by a  prisoner . . .  until such  administrative  remedies  as are available are 
exhausted,"  42 U. S. C.  $ 1997e(a)--as  an  affirmative defense  even  though 
"[t]here is no question that exhaustion is mandatory under the PLRA and 
that  unexhausted  claims  cannot  be  brought  in  court");  Woodford  v.  Ngo, 
548 U. S. 81, 93 (2006) (same). 

Cite as: 559 U. S. 154 (2010)  167 

Opinion of the Court 

C 
Amicus  insists  that  our  decision  in  Bowles,  551  U. S.  205, compels  a  conclusion  contrary  to  the  one  we  reach  today. 

Amicus  cites  Bowles  for  the  proposition  that  where  Con-gress did not explicitly label a statutory condition as jurisdic-
tional,  a  court  nevertheless  should  treat  it  as  such  if  that  is how  the  condition  consistently  has  been  interpreted  and  if 
Congress  has  not  disturbed  that  interpretation.  Amicus Brief 26.  Specifically, amicus relies on a footnote in Bowles 
to  argue  that  here,  as  in  Bowles,  it  would  be  improper  to characterize  the  statutory  condition  as  nonjurisdictional  be-
cause  doing  so  would  override  " `a  century's  worth  of  prece-dent' "  treating  $ 411(a)'s  registration  requirement  as  juris-
dictional.  Amicus  Brief  26  (quoting  Bowles,  supra,  at  209, n. 2).  This argument focuses on the result in 

Bowles, rather than on the analysis we employed. 

Bowles did not hold that any statutory condition devoid of an  express  jurisdictional  label  should  be  treated  as  juris-
dictional  simply  because  courts  have  long  treated  it  as such.  Nor did it hold that all statutory conditions imposing 
a  time  limit  should  be  considered  jurisdictional.7  Rather, 

7 Bowles,  for  example, distinguished  Scarborough  v.  Principi, 541  U. S. 
401  (2004),  which  characterized  as  nonjurisdictional  an  express  statutory 
time  limit  for  initiating  postjudgment  proceedings  for  attorney's  fees 
under  the  Equal  Access  to  Justice  Act.  See  551  U. S.,  at  211.  As  we 
explained, the time limit in Scarborough "concerned `a mode of relief . . .  
ancillary to the judgment of a court' that already had plenary jurisdiction." 
551  U. S.,  at  211  (quoting  Scarborough,  supra,  at  413;  emphasis  added). 
Bowles also distinguished Kontrick v.  Ryan, 540 U. S. 443 (2004), and Eb-
erhart v.  United States, 546 U. S. 12 (2005) (per curiam), as cases in which 
the  Court  properly  held  that  certain  time  limits  were  nonjurisdictional 
because  they  were  imposed  by  rules  that  did  not  purport  to  have  any 
jurisdictional significance.  See 551 U. S., at 210-211.  Kontrick involved 
"time  constraints  applicable  to  objections  to  discharge"  in  bankruptcy 
proceedings.  540 U. S., at 453.  In that case, we first examined 28 U. S. C. 

$ 157(b)(2)(J),  the  statute  "conferring  jurisdiction  over  objections  to  dis-
charge,"  and  observed  that  it  did  not  contain  a  timeliness  requirement. 
Kontrick,  540  U. S.,  at  453.  Rather,  the  "time  constraints  applicable  to 

168  REED  ELSEVIER,  INC.  v.  MUCHNICK 

Opinion of the Court 
Bowles stands for the proposition that context, including this Court's  interpretation  of  similar  provisions  in  many  years 

past,  is  relevant  to  whether  a  statute  ranks  a  requirement as jurisdictional. 

In Bowles, we considered 28 U. S. C. $ 2107, which requires parties  in  a  civil  action  to  file  a  notice  of  appeal  within  30 
days  of  the  judgment  being  appealed,  and  Rule  4  of  the Federal Rules  of Appellate Procedure, which "carries $ 2107 
into  practice."  551  U. S.,  at  208.  After  analyzing  $ 2107's specific  language  and  this  Court's  historical  treatment  of 

the  type  of  limitation  $ 2107  imposes  (i. e.,  statutory  dead-lines  for  filing  appeals),  we  concluded  that  Congress  had 
ranked  the  statutory  condition  as  jurisdictional.  Our  focus in Bowles on the historical treatment of statutory conditions 
for  taking  an  appeal  is  thus  consistent  with  the  Arbaugh framework.  Indeed, Bowles emphasized that this Court had 
long  treated  such  conditions  as  jurisdictional,  including  in statutes  other  than  $ 2107,  and  specifically  in  statutes  that 
predated  the  creation  of  the  courts  of  appeals.  See  551 U. S., at 209-210, and n. 2. 

Bowles therefore demonstrates that the relevant  question here is not (as 

amicus puts it) whether $ 411(a) itself has long been  labeled  jurisdictional,  but  whether  the  type  of  limita-

tion  that  $ 411(a)  imposes  is  one  that  is  properly  ranked  as jurisdictional absent an express designation.  The statutory 
limitation in Bowles was of a type that we had long held did "speak in jurisdictional terms" even absent a "jurisdictional" 
label,  and  nothing  about  $ 2107's  text  or  context,  or  the  his-torical treatment of that type of limitation, justified a depar-
ture  from  this  view.  That  was  not  the  case,  however,  for the types of conditions in 

Zipes and Arbaugh. 

objections  to  discharge"  were  contained  in  the  Bankruptcy  Rules,  which 
expressly  state  that  they  " `shall  not  be  construed  to  extend  or  limit  the 
jurisdiction  of  the  courts.' "  See  ibid.  (quoting  Fed.  Rule  Bkrtcy.  Proc. 
9030).  Eberhart,  in  turn,  treated  as  nonjurisdictional  certain  rules  that 
the  Court held  "closely  parallel[ed]"  those  in  Kontrick.  546  U. S., at  15. 

Cite as: 559 U. S. 154 (2010)  169 

Opinion of the Court 
Here, that same analysis leads us to conclude that $ 411(a) does  not  implicate  the  subject-matter  jurisdiction  of  federal 

courts.  Although $ 411(a)'s historical treatment as "jurisdic-tional"  is  a  factor  in  the  analysis,  it  is  not  dispositive.  The 
other factors discussed above demonstrate that $ 411(a)'s reg-istration  requirement  is  more  analogous  to  the  nonjurisdic-
tional  conditions  we  considered  in  Zipes  and  Arbaugh  than to the statutory time limit at issue in 

Bowles.8  We thus con-clude  that  $ 411(a)'s  registration  requirement  is  nonjurisdic-

tional, notwithstanding its prior jurisdictional treatment.9 

III 
Amicus  argues  that  even  if  $ 411(a)  is  nonjurisdictional, we should nonetheless affirm on estoppel grounds the Court 

of Appeals' judgment vacating the District Court's order ap-proving  the  settlement  and  dismissing  the  case.  According 
to amicus, petitioners asserted  previously in  these proceed-
ings  that  copyright  registration  was  jurisdictional,  and  this assertion  should  estop  them  from  now  asserting  a  right  to 

waive objections to the authors' failure to register.  Amicus urges us to prevent the parties "from `playing fast and loose 
with  the  courts'  by  `deliberately  changing  positions  accord-

8 This  conclusion  mirrors  our  holding  in  Zipes  that  Title  VII's  EEOC 
filing  requirement  was  nonjurisdictional,  even  though  some  of  our  own 
decisions had characterized it as jurisdictional.  See 455 U. S., at 395 (not-
ing that "the legal character of the requirement was not at issue in those" 
earlier cases); see also National Railroad Passenger Corporation v.  Mor-
gan, 536 U. S. 101, 109, 121 (2002) (relying on the analysis in Zipes). 

9 Amicus'  remaining  jurisdictional  argument--that the  policy goals  un-

derlying  copyright  registration  support  construing  $ 411(a)'s  registration 
provisions as jurisdictional, see Amicus Brief 45--is similarly unavailing. 
We do not agree that a condition should be ranked as jurisdictional merely 
because it promotes important congressional objectives.  See Arbaugh v. 
Y & H Corp.,  546  U. S.  500,  504,  515-516  (2006)  (holding  that  Title  VII's 
numerosity  requirement  is  nonjurisdictional  even  though  it  serves  the 
important  policy  goal  of  "spar[ing]  very  small  businesses  from  Title  VII 
liability"). 

170  REED  ELSEVIER,  INC.  v.  MUCHNICK 

Opinion of the Court 
ing  to  the  exigencies  of  the  moment.' "  Amicus  Brief  58 (quoting New Hampshire v.  Maine, 532 U. S. 742, 750 (2001)). 

We agree that some statements in the parties' submissions to the District Court and the Court of Appeals are in tension 
with their arguments here.  But we decline to apply judicial estoppel.  As we explained in 

New Hampshire, that doctrine typically applies when, among other things, a "party has suc-

ceeded  in  persuading  a  court  to  accept  that  party's  earlier position,  so  that  judicial  acceptance  of  an  inconsistent  posi-
tion  in  a  later  proceeding  would  create  the  perception  that either  the  first  or  the  second  court  was  misled."  Ibid.  (in-
ternal quotation marks omitted). Such  circumstances  do  not  exist  here  for  two  reasons. 
First,  the  parties  made  their  prior  statements  when  negoti-ating  or  defending  the  settlement  agreement.  We  do  not 
fault  the  parties'  lawyers  for  invoking  in  the  negotiations binding  Circuit  precedent  that  supported  their  clients'  posi-
tions.  Perhaps  more  importantly,  in  approving  the  settle-ment, the District Court did not adopt petitioners' interpre-
tation  of  $ 411(a)  as  jurisdictional.  Second,  when  the  Court of  Appeals  asked  petitioners  to  brief  whether  $ 411(a)  re-
stricted the District Court's subject-matter jurisdiction, they argued  that  it  did  not,  and  the  Court  of  Appeals  rejected 
their  arguments.  See  App.  to  Reply  Brief  for  Petitioners 3a-5a, and n. 2.  Accepting petitioners' arguments here thus 
cannot  create  "inconsistent  court  determinations"  in  their favor.  New  Hampshire,  supra,  at  751  (internal  quotation 
marks  omitted).  We  therefore  hold  that  the  District  Court had  authority  to  adjudicate  the  parties'  request  to  approve 
their settlement.  IV 

Our holding that $ 411(a) does not restrict a federal court's subject-matter  jurisdiction  precludes  the  need  for  us  to  ad-
dress  the  parties'  alternative  arguments  as  to  whether  the District Court had authority to approve the settlement even 
under  the  Court  of Appeals'  erroneous reading  of $ 411.  In 

Cite as: 559 U. S. 154 (2010)  171 

Opinion of Ginsburg,
172  REED  ELSEVIER,  INC.  v.  MUCHNICK 

Opinion of Ginsburg,
Cite as: 559 U. S. 154 (2010)  173 

Opinion of Ginsburg,
174  REED  ELSEVIER,  INC.  v.  MUCHNICK 

Opinion of Ginsburg,
OCTOBER  TERM,  2009  175 

Syllabus 

MAC'S  SHELL  SERVICE,  INC.,  et

176  MAC'S  SHELL  SERVICE,  INC.  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 175 (2010)  177 

Opinion of the Court 
there has been no "fail[ure] to renew," and thus no violation of the Act. 
The Act's structure and purpose confirm this interpretation.  Accepting 
the  dealers'  contrary  reading  would  greatly  expand  the  Act's  reach. 
Pp. 191-195. 

524 F. 3d 33, reversed in part, affirmed in part, and remanded. 

Alito,

178  MAC'S  SHELL  SERVICE,  INC.  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 175 (2010)  179 

Opinion of the Court 
franchisee  to  use  the  franchisor's  trademark,  as  well  as  any associated agreement  providing  for the  supply of  motor  fuel 

or  authorizing  the  franchisee  to  occupy  a  service  station owned  by  the  franchisor.

1  $ 2801(1).  The  Act  defines  a 

"franchise  relationship"  in  more  general  terms:  the  parties' "respective  motor  fuel  marketing  or  distribution  obligations 

and  responsibilities"  that  result  from  the  franchise  arrange-ment.  $ 2801(2). 

To  enforce  these  provisions,  a  franchisee  may  bring  suit in  federal  court  against  any  franchisor  that  fails  to  comply 
with the Act's restrictions on terminations and nonrenewals. See  $ 2805.  Successful  franchisees  can  benefit  from  a  wide 
range  of  remedies,  including  compensatory  and  punitive damages,  reasonable  attorney's  fees  and  expert  costs,  and 
equitable  relief.  See  $$ 2805(b),  (d).  The  Act  also  requires district  courts  to  grant  preliminary  injunctive  relief  to  ag-
grieved  franchisees,  if  there  are  "sufficiently  serious  ques-tions  going  to  the  merits"  that  present  "a  fair  ground  for 
litigation"  and  the  balance  of  hardships  favors  such  relief. $ 2805(b)(2). 

B 
This  litigation  involves  a  dispute  between  Shell  Oil  Com-pany  (Shell),  a  petroleum  franchisor,  and  several  Shell 

franchisees  in  Massachusetts.2  Pursuant  to  their  franchise agreements  with  Shell,  each  franchisee  was  required  to  pay 
Shell  monthly  rent  for  use  of  the  service-station  premises. For many years, Shell offered the franchisees a rent subsidy 
that  reduced  the  monthly  rent  by  a  set  amount  for  every gallon  of  motor  fuel  a  franchisee  sold  above  a  specified 
threshold.  Shell  renewed  the  subsidy  annually  through  no-

1 Courts  sometimes  describe  these  three  types  of  agreements  as  the 
"statutory  elements"  of  a  petroleum  franchise.  See,  e.

180  MAC'S  SHELL  SERVICE,  INC.  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 175 (2010)  181 

Opinion of the Court 
After a 2-week trial involving eight of the dealers, the jury found  against  Shell  and  Motiva  on  all  claims.  Both  before 

and  after  the  jury's  verdict,  Shell  and  Motiva  moved  for judgment  as  a  matter  of  law  on  the  dealers'  two  PMPA 
claims.  They argued that they could not be found liable for constructive  termination  under  the  Act  because  none  of  the 
dealers  had  abandoned  their  franchises  in  response  to  Moti-va's  elimination  of  the  rent  subsidy--something  Shell  and 
Motiva said was a necessary element of any constructive ter-mination  claim.  Similarly,  they  argued  that  the  dealers' 
constructive  nonrenewal  claims  necessarily  failed  because seven  of  the  eight  dealers  had  signed  and  operated  under 
renewal agreements with Motiva, and the eighth had sold his franchise prior to the  expiration  of his franchise  agreement. 
The District  Court denied these motions, and Shell and Mo-tiva appealed. 

The  First  Circuit  affirmed  in  part  and  reversed  in  part. In  affirming  the  judgment  on  the  dealers'  constructive  ter-
mination claims, the Court of Appeals held that a franchisee is  not  required  to  abandon  its  franchise  to  recover  for  con-
structive  termination  under  the  PMPA.  See  id.,

182  MAC'S  SHELL  SERVICE,  INC.  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 175 (2010)  183 

Opinion of the Court 
see  also  The  Random  House  Dictionary  of  the  English  Lan-guage  1465  (1967).  The  term  "cancel"  carries  a  similar 

meaning:  to  "annul  or  destroy."  Webster's,  supra,

184  MAC'S  SHELL  SERVICE,  INC.  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 175 (2010)  185 

Opinion of the Court 
As generally understood in these and other contexts, a ter-mination is deemed "constructive" because it is the plaintiff, 

rather  than  the  defendant,  who  formally  puts  an  end  to  the particular  legal relationship--not  because there  is no  end to 
the  relationship  at  all.  There  is  no  reason  why  a  different understanding  should  apply  to  constructive  termination 
claims  under  the  PMPA.  At  the  time  when  it  enacted  the 
statute,  Congress  presumably  was  aware  of  how  courts  ap-plied the doctrine of constructive termination in these analo-

gous  legal  contexts.  Cf.  Fitzgerald

186  MAC'S  SHELL  SERVICE,  INC.  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 175 (2010)  187 

Opinion of the Court 
Finally,  important  practical  considerations  inform  our  de-cision.  Adopting  the  dealers'  reading  of  the  PMPA  would 

require  us  to  articulate  a  standard  for  identifying  those breaches  of  contract  that  should  be  treated  as  effectively 
ending a franchise, even though the franchisee in fact contin-ues  to  use  the  franchisor's  trademark,  purchase  the  fran-
chisor's  fuel,  and  occupy  the  service-station  premises.8  We think  any  such  standard  would  be  indeterminate  and  un-
workable.  How is a court to determine whether a breach is serious enough effectively to end a franchise when  the fran-
chisee  is  still  willing  and  able  to  continue  its  operations? And how  is  a franchisor to know  in  advance which breaches 
a  court  will  later  determine  to  have  been  so  serious?  The dealers have not provided answers to these questions.  Nor 
could  they.  Any  standard  for  identifying  when  a  simple breach of contract amounts to a PMPA termination, when all 
three  statutory  elements  remain  operational,  simply  evades coherent formulation. 

B 
The dealers suggest  that this  interpretation of the  PMPA fails  to  provide  franchisees  with  much-needed  protection 

from  unfair  and  coercive  franchisor  conduct  that  does  not force  an end  to  the  franchise.  That argument,  however,  ig-
nores  the  fact  that  franchisees  still  have  state-law  remedies available  to  them.  The  pre-emptive  scope  of  the  PMPA  is 

of the statute, therefore, would turn everyday contract disputes into highstakes affairs. 

8 The  First  Circuit,  for  example,  approved  of  a  test  that  asks  whether 

the  breach  resulted  in  "such  a  material  change  that  it  effectively  ended 
the  lease,  even  though  the  plaintiffs  continued  to  operate  [their  fran-
chises]."  524  F.  3d,  at  46  (internal  quotation  marks  omitted).  That 
standard,  it  seems to  us,  does  little more  than restate  the relevant  ques-
tion.  While we do not decide whether the PMPA contemplates claims for 
constructive termination, we observe that the Court of Appeals' unwilling-
ness  or  inability  to  establish  a  more  concrete  standard  underscores  the 
difficulties and inherent contradictions involved in crafting a standard for 
finding a "termination" when no termination has in fact occurred. 

188  MAC'S  SHELL  SERVICE,  INC.  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 175 (2010)  189 

Opinion of the Court 
vide  franchisees  with  written  notice  of  termination  well in  advance  of  the  date  on  which  the  termination  "takes  ef-

fect."  $ 2804(a).  A  franchisee  that  receives  notice  of  ter-mination  "has  been  terminated"  within  the  meaning  of 

$ 2805(b)(2)(A)(i), even though the termination "takes effect" on  a  later  date,  just  as  an  employee  who  receives  notice  of 
discharge  can  be  accurately  described  as  having

190  MAC'S  SHELL  SERVICE,  INC.  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 175 (2010)  191 

Opinion of the Court 

III 
The  second  question  we  are  asked  to  decide  is  whether  a franchisee who is offered and signs a renewal agreement can 

nonetheless  maintain  a  claim  for  "constructive  nonrenewal" under the PMPA.  For reasons similar to those given above, 
we  agree  with  the  Court  of  Appeals  that  a  franchisee  that chooses to accept a renewal agreement cannot thereafter as-
sert a claim for unlawful nonrenewal under the Act.11 The  plain  text  of  the  statute  leaves  no  room  for  a  fran-
chisee  to  claim  that  a  franchisor  has  unlawfully  declined to  renew  a  franchise  relationship--constructively  or  otherwise--when  the  franchisee  has  in  fact  accepted  a  new  fran-chise agreement.  As relevant here, a franchisor violates the 
PMPA only when it "fail[s] to renew" a franchise relationship for a reason not provided for in the Act or after not providing 
the required notice.  See 15 U. S. C. $ 2802.  The Act defines the  term  "fail  to  renew,"  in  turn,  as  a  "failure  to  reinstate, 
continue,  or  extend  the  franchise  relationship."  $ 2801(14). Thus, the threshold requirement of any unlawful nonrenewal 
action--a requirement the franchisee bears the burden of es-tablishing, see $ 2805(c)--is that the franchisor did not "rein-
state,  continue,  or  renew"  the  franchise  relationship  once  a franchise agreement expired.  But if a franchisee signs a re-
newal  agreement,  the  franchisor  clearly  has  "reinstate[d], continue[d], or extend[ed]" the franchise relationship.  True, 
the  franchisee  might  find  some  of  the  terms  in  the  new agreement objectionable.  But the Act prohibits only unlaw-
ful  "fail[ures]  to  renew"  a  franchise  relationship,  not  renew-als  of  a  franchise  relationship  on  terms  that  are  less  than 
favorable  to  the  franchisee.  A  franchisee  that  signs  a  re-newal  agreement,  in  short,  cannot  carry  the  threshold  bur-
den of showing a "nonrenewal of the franchise relationship," 

11 As is true with respect to the dealers' constructive termination claims, 
it  is  not  necessary  for  us  to  decide  in  these  cases  whether  the  Act  at 
all recognizes claims for "constructive nonrenewal."  We therefore do not 
express a view on that question. 

192  MAC'S  SHELL  SERVICE,  INC.  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 175 (2010)  193 

Opinion of the Court 
relaxed injunctive standard, maintaining the status quo while  a  court  determines  the  lawfulness  of  the  proposed 

changes.  See $ 2805(b)(2); supra,

194  MAC'S  SHELL  SERVICE,  INC.  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 175 (2010)  195 

Opinion of the Court 

* * * 
We  hold  that  a  franchisee  who  is  offered  and  signs  a  re-newed  franchise  agreement  cannot  maintain  a  claim  for  un-

lawful  nonrenewal  under  the  PMPA.  We  therefore  affirm the  judgment  of  the  Court  of  Appeals  with  respect  to  the 
dealers' nonrenewal claims. 

IV 
The judgment of the  Court  of Appeals  is reversed in  part and  affirmed  in  part.  The  cases  are  remanded  for  further 

proceedings consistent with this opinion. 

It

196  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

Syllabus 

BLOATE  v.

Cite as: 559 U. S. 196 (2010)  197 

Syllabus 
judgment that pretrial motion-related delay is automatically excludable 
only

198  BLOATE  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 196 (2010)  199 

Opinion of the Court 
an  initial  appearance,  whichever  is  later,  see  $ 3161(c)(1), and  entitles  him  to  dismissal  of  the  charges  if  that  deadline 

is  not  met,  $ 3162(a)(2).  The  Act,  however,  excludes  from the  70-day  period  delays  due  to  certain  enumerated  events. 

$ 3161(h)  (2006  ed.  and  Supp.  II).  As  relevant  here,  "delay resulting from . . . proceedings concerning  the defendant" is 
automatically  excludable  from  a  Speedy  Trial  Act  calcula-tion.  $ 3161(h)(1)  (hereinafter  subsection  (h)(1)).

1  In  addi-

tion,  "delay  resulting  from  a  continuance"  granted  by  the district court may be excluded if the district court makes the 

findings required by $ 3161(h)(7) (2006 ed., Supp. II) (herein-after subsection (h)(7)). 

This  case  requires  us  to  decide  the  narrow  question whether time granted to a party to 

prepare

200  BLOATE  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 196 (2010)  201 

Opinion of the Court 
On October 4, the Magistrate Judge held a hearing to con-sider  petitioner's  "waiver,"  at  which  petitioner  confirmed 

that  he  wished  to  waive  his  right  to  file  pretrial  motions. After  a  colloquy,  the  Magistrate  Judge  found  that  petition-
er's waiver was voluntary and intelligent. Over the next three months, petitioner's trial was delayed 
for  several  reasons.  Though  these  delays  are  not  directly 
relevant to the question presented here, we recount them to explain  the  full  context  in  which  that  question  arises.  On 

November  8,  petitioner  moved  to  continue  the  trial  date, stating  that  his  counsel  needed  additional  time  to  prepare 
for  trial.  The  District  Court  granted  the  motion  and  reset the trial for December 18. 

The  parties  then  met  informally  and  prepared  a  plea agreement,  which they  provided  to the  court.  The  District 
Court  scheduled  a  change  of  plea  hearing  for  December  20. 
At  the  hearing,  however,  petitioner  declined  to  implement 
the  agreement and requested  a new  attorney.  The District 
Court  rescheduled  the  trial  for  February  26,  2007,  granted 
petitioner's  attorney's  subsequent  motion  to  withdraw,  and 
appointed new counsel. 

On  February  19,  2007--179  days  after  petitioner  was  in-
dicted--petitioner moved to dismiss the indictment, claiming 
that the Act's 70-day limit  had elapsed.  The District Court 
denied the motion.  In calculating how many of the 179 days 
counted toward the 70-day limit, the District Judge excluded 
the  period  from  September  7  through  October  4  as  "within 
the  extension  of  time  granted  to  file  pretrial  motions." 
Order in No. 4:06CR518-SNL (ED Mo.), Doc. 44, p. 2.3 

3 In  addition,  the  District  Judge  excluded  the  continuance  granted  on 
November  9  (resetting  the  trial  for  December  18)  under  $ 3161(h)(7)(A) 
(2006 ed., Supp. II), and excluded the time from November 9 through De-
cember 20 as delay resulting from a plea agreement under $ 3161(h)(1)(G). 
He further excluded the time from December 20 through February 26 "as 
it . .  . resulted from  [petitioner's] election not to implement  a plea agree-
ment,  and  his  request  to  the  court  to  have  new  counsel  appointed  for 

202  BLOATE  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 196 (2010)  203 

Opinion of the Court 
sion, the Eighth Circuit joined seven other Courts of Appeals that interpret subsection (h)(1) the same way.

5  Two Courts 

of  Appeals,  the  Fourth  and  Sixth  Circuits,  interpret  sub-section  (h)(1)  differently,  holding  that  time  for  preparing 

pretrial  motions  is  outside  subsection  (h)(1)'s  scope.6  We granted certiorari to resolve this conflict. 

II 
As  noted,  the  Speedy  Trial  Act  requires  that  a  criminal defendant's  trial  commence  within  70  days  of  a  defendant's 

initial  appearance  or  indictment,  but  excludes  from  the  70-day  period  days  lost  to  certain  types  of  delay.  Section 
3161(h) specifies the types of delays that are excludable from the calculation.  Some of these delays are excludable only if 
the  district  court  makes  certain  findings  enumerated  in  the statute.  See  $ 3161(h)(7).  Other  delays  are  automatically 
excludable, i.

204  BLOATE  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 196 (2010)  205 

Opinion of the Court 
The  delay  at  issue  was  granted  to  allow  petitioner  suffi-cient  time  to  file  pretrial  motions.

8  Subsection  (h)(1)(D) 

(2006  ed.,  Supp.  II)  (hereinafter  subparagraph  (D))  renders automatically  excludable  "delay  resulting  from  any  pretrial 

motion,  from  the  filing of the motion  through the  conclusion of  the  hearing  on,  or  other  prompt  disposition  of,  such  mo-
tion."  Read, as it  must be, in  the context of subsection (h), this  text  governs  the  automatic  excludability  of  delays  "re-
sulting"  from a  specific category of "proceedings  concerning the  defendant,"  namely,  proceedings  involving  pretrial  mo-
tions.9  Because the delay at issue here  results  from a  deci-

8 See  Defendant's  Request  for  Additional  Time  To  File  Pre-trial  Mo-
tions  in  No.  4:06CR518-SNL  (TCM)  (ED  Mo.),  Doc.  19;  Order  in 
No. 4:06CR518-SNL (ED Mo.), Doc. 44 (granting same). 

9 The dissent argues that this conclusion lacks "force" because "[i]t is at 

least  doubtful  .  .  .  that  the  delay  at  issue  in  the  present  case  is  delay 
`resulting  from  [a]  pretrial  motion.' "  Post,

206  BLOATE  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 196 (2010)  207 

Opinion of the Court 
sion.  In  subparagraph  (D),  by  contrast,  Congress  declined to use an expansive or illustrative term such as "including," 

and provided instead that only pretrial motion-related delay "from  the  filing"  of  a  motion  to  the  hearing  or  disposition 
point  specified  in  the  provision  is  automatically  excludable from the Act's 70-day limit. 

Thus,  although  the  period  of  delay  the  Government  seeks to  exclude  in  this  case  results  from  a  proceeding  governed 
by  subparagraph  (D),  that  period  precedes  the  first  day upon which Congress specified that such delay may be auto-
matically  excluded.  The  result  is  that  the  pretrial  motion preparation  time  at  issue  in  this  case  is  not  automatically 
excludable.11  B 

The  foregoing  analysis  resolves  our  inquiry  into  auto-matic  excludability  because  "[a]  specific  provision"  (here, 
subparagraph  (D))  "controls  one[s]  of  more  general  applica-tion"  (here,  subsections  (h)(1)  and  (h)(7)). 

Gozlon-Peretz

208  BLOATE  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 196 (2010)  209 

Opinion of the Court 
cluding but not limited to" clause would affect our conclusion only if one read it to modify the contents of subparagraph (D) 

as  well  as  the  list  itself.  As  noted,  such  a  reading  would violate  settled  principles  of  statutory  construction  because 
it  would  ignore  the  structure  and  grammar  of  subsection (h)(1),  and  in  so  doing  render  even  the  clearest  of  the  subparagraphs  indeterminate  and  virtually  superfluous.  See 
Gozlon-Peretz,

210  BLOATE  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 196 (2010)  211 

Opinion of the Court 
pect  adequate

212  BLOATE  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 196 (2010)  213 

Opinion of the Court 
delay  trial  indefinitely  merely  by  working  on  pretrial  mo-tions right up to the eve of trial' "). 

The  fact  that  courts  reading  subsection  (h)(1)  to  exclude preparation  time  have  imposed  extratextual  limitations  on 
excludability to avoid "creating a big loophole in the statute," 
Tibboel,

214  BLOATE  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 196 (2010)  215 

Ginsburg,
216  BLOATE  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 196 (2010)  217 

Alito,
218  BLOATE  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 196 (2010)  219 

Alito,
220  BLOATE  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 196 (2010)  221 

Alito,
222  BLOATE  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 196 (2010)  223 

Alito,
224  BLOATE  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 196 (2010)  225 

Alito,
226  BLOATE  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 196 (2010)  227 

Alito,
228  BLOATE  v.OCTOBER  TERM,  2009  229 

Syllabus 

MILAVETZ,  GALLOP  &  MILAVETZ,  P.  A.,  et

230  MILAVETZ,  GALLOP  &  MILAVETZ,  P.  A.  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 229 (2010)  231 

Opinion of the Court 
in  Zauderer.

232  MILAVETZ,  GALLOP  &  MILAVETZ,  P.  A.  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 229 (2010)  233 

Opinion of the Court 
vices  "provided  to  an  assisted  person  with  the  express  or implied  purpose  of  providing  information,  advice,  counsel, 

document  preparation,  or  filing,  or  attendance  at  a  credi-tors' meeting or appearing in a case or proceeding on behalf 
of another  or  providing  legal  representation  with respect to a  case  or  proceeding"  in  bankruptcy.  $ 101(4A).  An  "as-
sisted  person"  is  someone  with  limited  nonexempt  property 
whose  debts  consist  primarily  of  consumer  debts.  $ 101(3). The  BAPCPA  subjects  debt  relief  agencies  to  a  number  of 

restrictions and requirements, as set forth in $$ 526, 527, and 528.  As  relevant  here,  $ 526(a)  establishes  several  rules  of 
professional  conduct  for  persons  qualifying  as  debt  relief 
agencies.  Among  them,  $ 526(a)(4)  states  that  a  debt  relief 
agency shall not "advise an assisted person . . . to incur more 
debt in contemplation of such person filing a case under this 
title  or  to  pay  an  attorney  or  bankruptcy  petition  preparer 
fee or charge for services performed as part of preparing for 
or representing a debtor in a case under this title." 

Section  528  requires  qualifying  professionals  to  include 
certain  disclosures  in  their  advertisements.  Subsection  (a) 
provides  that  debt  relief  agencies  must  "clearly  and  con-
spicuously  disclose  in  any  advertisement  of  bankruptcy  as-
sistance services or of the benefits of bankruptcy directed to 
the  general public  . .  . that  the  services  or benefits  are with 
respect  to  bankruptcy  relief  under  this  title."  $ 528(a)(3). 
It  also  requires  them  to  include  the  following,  "or  a  sub-
stantially  similar  statement":  "We  are  a  debt  relief  agency. 
We  help  people  file  for  bankruptcy  relief  under  the  Bank-
ruptcy  Code."  $ 528(a)(4).  Subsection  (b)  requires  essen-
tially the same disclosures in advertisements "indicating that 
the  debt  relief  agency  provides  assistance  with  respect  to 
credit defaults,  mortgage foreclosures,  eviction proceedings, 
excessive  debt,  debt  collection  pressure,  or  inability  to  pay 
any  consumer  debt."  $ 528(b)(2).  Debt  relief  agencies  ad-
vertising  such  services  must  disclose  "that  the  assistance 
may  involve  bankruptcy  relief,"  $ 528(b)(2)(A),  and  must 

234  MILAVETZ,  GALLOP  &  MILAVETZ,  P.  A.  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 229 (2010)  235 

Opinion of the Court 
A  majority  of  the  Eighth  Circuit  panel,  however,  agreed with  the  District  Court  that  $ 526(a)(4)  is  invalid.  Deter-

mining  that  $ 526(a)(4)  "broadly  prohibits  a  debt  relief agency  from  advising  an  assisted  person  .  .  .  to  incur 

any

236  MILAVETZ,  GALLOP  &  MILAVETZ,  P.  A.  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 229 (2010)  237 

Opinion of the Court 
vetz does not contend, nor could it credibly, that only profes-sionals  expressly  included  in  the  definition  are  debt  relief 

agencies.  On  that  reading,  no  professional  other  than  a bankruptcy  petition  preparer would  qualify--an  implausible 
reading  given  that  the  statute  defines  "debt  relief  agency" as  "any  person  who  provides  any  bankruptcy  assistance 
to  an  assisted  person  .  .  .  or

238  MILAVETZ,  GALLOP  &  MILAVETZ,  P.  A.  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 229 (2010)  239 

Opinion of the Court 
All  else  failing,  Milavetz  urges  that  the  canon  of  constitu-tional  avoidance  requires  us  to  read  "debt  relief  agency"  to 

exclude  attorneys  in  order  to  forestall  serious  doubts  as  to the  validity  of  $$ 526  and  528.  The  avoidance  canon,  how-
ever, "is a tool for choosing between competing plausible in-
terpretations  of  a  statutory  text."  Clark

240  MILAVETZ,  GALLOP  &  MILAVETZ,  P.  A.  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 229 (2010)  241 

Opinion of the Court 
thought  of  declaring  bankruptcy  because  of  the  inability  to continue  current financial  operations,  often coupled  with  ac-

tion designed  to thwart  the  distribution of assets in  a bank-ruptcy proceeding."  Use of the phrase by Members of Con-
gress illustrates that traditional coupling.  See, e.

242  MILAVETZ,  GALLOP  &  MILAVETZ,  P.  A.  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 229 (2010)  243 

Opinion of the Court 
cates.  The  Government's  sources  show  that  the  phrase  "in contemplation  of "  bankruptcy has  so  commonly  been associ-

ated with abusive conduct that it may readily be understood to  prefigure  abuse.  As  used  in  $ 526(a)(4),  however,  we 
think  the  phrase  refers  to  a  specific  type  of  misconduct  de-signed  to  manipulate the  protections  of the  bankruptcy  sys-
tem.  In  light  of  our  decision  in  Pender,

244  MILAVETZ,  GALLOP  &  MILAVETZ,  P.  A.  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 229 (2010)  245 

Opinion of the Court 
The  Government's  contextual  arguments  provide  addi-tional  support  for  the  view  that  $ 526(a)(4)  was  meant  to 

prevent  this  type  of  conduct.  The  companion  rules  of  pro-fessional  conduct  in  $$ 526(a)(1)-(3)  and  the  remedies  for 
their  violation  in  $ 526(c)  indicate  that  Congress  was  con-cerned  with  actions  that  threaten  to  harm  debtors  or  credi-
tors.  Unlike the reasonable financial advice the Eighth Cir-
cuit's  broad  reading  would  proscribe,  advice  to  incur  more debt  because  of  bankruptcy  presents  a  substantial  risk  of 

injury to both  debtors  and  creditors.  See  Hersh,

246  MILAVETZ,  GALLOP  &  MILAVETZ,  P.  A.  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 229 (2010)  247 

Opinion of the Court 
Finally,  we  reject  Milavetz's  contention  that,  narrowly construed, $ 526(a)(4) is impermissibly vague.  Milavetz 

urges that the concept of abusive prefiling conduct is too in-definite to withstand constitutional  scrutiny and  that uncer-
tainty  regarding  the  scope  of  the  prohibition  will  chill  pro-tected speech.  We disagree. 

Under our reading of the statute, of course, the prohibited advice  is  not  defined  in  terms  of  abusive  prefiling  conduct 
but rather the incurrence of additional debt when the impel-ling  reason  is  the  anticipation  of  bankruptcy.  Even  if  the 
test depended upon the notion  of abuse, however, Milavetz's claim  would  be  fatally  undermined  by  other  provisions  of 

the  Bankruptcy  Code,  to  which  that  concept  is  no  stranger. As discussed above, the Code authorizes a bankruptcy court 
to  decline  to  discharge  fraudulent  debts,  see  $ 523(a)(2),  or to  dismiss  a  case  or  convert  it  to  a  case  under  another 
chapter if it finds that granting relief would constitute abuse, see $ 707(b)(1).  Attorneys and other professionals who give 
debtors  bankruptcy  advice  must  know  of  these  provisions and  their  consequences  for  a  debtor  who  in  bad  faith  incurs 
additional  debt  prior  to  filing.  Indeed,  $ 707(b)(4)(C)  states that an attorney's signature on bankruptcy filings "shall con-
stitute a certification that the attorney has" determined that the  filing  "does  not  constitute  an  abuse  under  [$ 707(b)(1)]." 
Against this  backdrop, it  is hard  to see how  a rule that nar-rowly prohibits an attorney from affirmatively advising a cli-
ent  to  commit  this  type  of  abusive  prefiling  conduct  could chill  attorney  speech  or  inhibit  the  attorney-client  relation-
ship.  Our  construction  of  $ 526(a)(4)  to  prevent  only  advice principally motivated by the prospect of bankruptcy further 
ensures  that  professionals  cannot  unknowingly  run  afoul  of 
Inc.

248  MILAVETZ,  GALLOP  &  MILAVETZ,  P.  A.  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 229 (2010)  249 

Opinion of the Court 
the  nature  of  its  challenge  is  not  entirely  clear  from  the briefing  or  decisions  below,  counsel  for  Milavetz  insisted  at 

oral  argument  that  this  is  "not  a  facial  challenge;  it's  an  as-applied  challenge."  Tr.  of  Oral  Arg.  26.  We  will  approach 
the question consistent with Milavetz's characterization.7 We  next  consider  the  standard  of  scrutiny  applicable  to 

$ 528's  disclosure  requirements.  The  parties  agree,  as  do we, that the challenged provisions regulate only commercial 
speech.  Milavetz  contends  that  our  decision  in  Central

250  MILAVETZ,  GALLOP  &  MILAVETZ,  P.  A.  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 229 (2010)  251 

Opinion of the Court 
through disclosure requirements, and it noted that advertise-ments  for  professional  services  pose  a  special  risk  of  decep-

tion.  See id.,

252  MILAVETZ,  GALLOP  &  MILAVETZ,  P.  A.  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 229 (2010)  253 

Opinion of Scalia,
254  MILAVETZ,  GALLOP  &  MILAVETZ,  P.  A.  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 229 (2010)  255 

Opinion of Thomas,
256  MILAVETZ,  GALLOP  &  MILAVETZ,  P.  A.  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 229 (2010)  257 

Opinion of Thomas,
258  MILAVETZ,  GALLOP  &  MILAVETZ,  P.  A.  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 229 (2010)  259 

Opinion of Thomas,
260  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

Syllabus 

UNITED  STUDENT  AID  FUNDS,  INC.  v.

Cite as: 559 U. S. 260 (2010)  261 

Syllabus 
have successfully appealed, but that such error was no basis for setting 
aside the order as void under Rule 60(b)(4).  It also held that Espinosa's 
failure to serve United was not a basis upon which to declare the judg-
ment  void  because  United  received  actual  notice  of  the  plan  and  failed 
to object. 

Held:

262  UNITED  STUDENT  AID  FUNDS,  INC.  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 260 (2010)  263 

Opinion of the Court 
Michael

264  UNITED  STUDENT  AID  FUNDS,  INC.  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 260 (2010)  265 

Opinion of the Court 
As  the  Federal  Rules  of  Bankruptcy  Procedure  require, 
the  clerk  of  the  Bankruptcy  Court  mailed  notice  and  a  copy 
of  Espinosa's  plan  to  petitioner  United  Student  Aid  Funds, 
Inc.  (United),  the  creditor  to  whom  Espinosa  owed  the  stu-
dent loan debt.1  Id.,

266  UNITED  STUDENT  AID  FUNDS,  INC.  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 260 (2010)  267 

Opinion of the Court 
nied  due  process  because  the  confirmation  order  was  issued 
without  service  of  the  summons  and  complaint  the  Bank-
ruptcy Rules require. 

Espinosa  appealed  to  the  Court  of  Appeals  for  the  Ninth 
Circuit,  which  issued  an  initial  per

268  UNITED  STUDENT  AID  FUNDS,  INC.  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 260 (2010)  269 

Opinion of the Court 
quire a party  seeking to determine  the  dischargeability  of a 
student  loan  debt  to  commence  an  adversary  proceeding 
by  serving  a  summons  and  complaint  on  affected  creditors. 
See supra,

270  UNITED  STUDENT  AID  FUNDS,  INC.  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 260 (2010)  271 

Opinion of the Court 
132  F.  3d  1225,  1229  (CA8  1997);  see  Moore's  $ 60.44[1][a], at  60-150.  Instead,  Rule  60(b)(4)  applies  only  in  the  rare 

instance  where  a  judgment  is  premised  either  on  a  certain type  of  jurisdictional  error  or  on  a  violation  of  due  process 
that  deprives  a  party  of  notice  or  the  opportunity  to  be heard.  See 

United

272  UNITED  STUDENT  AID  FUNDS,  INC.  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 260 (2010)  273 

Opinion of the Court 

B 
Unable to demonstrate a jurisdictional error or a due proc-ess  violation,  United  and  the  Government,  as 

amicus,

274  UNITED  STUDENT  AID  FUNDS,  INC.  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 260 (2010)  275 

Opinion of the Court 
only  that  the  bankruptcy  court  must  make  an  undue  hard-
ship finding even if the creditor does not request one; it does 
not  mean  that  a  bankruptcy  court's  failure  to  make  the 
finding  renders  its  subsequent  confirmation  order  void  for 
purposes of Rule 60(b)(4).12 

Given  the  Code's  clear  and self-executing  requirement  for 
an  undue  hardship  determination,  the  Bankruptcy  Court's 
failure  to  find  undue  hardship  before  confirming  Espinosa's 
plan was a legal error.  See Part  III,  infra.

276  UNITED  STUDENT  AID  FUNDS,  INC.  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 260 (2010)  277 

Opinion of the Court 
at  all.  See  Hood,

278  UNITED  STUDENT  AID  FUNDS,  INC.  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 260 (2010)  279 

Opinion of the Court 
tions prove inadequate to this task, Congress may enact ad-ditional provisions to address the difficulties United predicts 

will follow our decision. 

* * * 
The  judgment  of  the  Court  of  Appeals  for  the  Ninth  Cir-cuit is affirmed. 

It

280  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

Syllabus 

GRAHAM  COUNTY  SOIL  AND  WATER  CONSERVA-TION  DISTRICT 

et

Cite as: 559 U. S. 280 (2010)  281 

Syllabus 
activities.  But  since  "administrative"  is  not  itself  modified  by  "fed-
eral,"  there  is  no  immediately  apparent  basis  for  excluding  state  and 
local agency activities from its ambit.  The interpretive maxim noscitur 
a  sociis--"a  word  may  be  known  by  the  company  it  keeps,"  Russell 
Motor Car Co. v.  United States, 261 U. S. 514, 519--does not support the 
Fourth Circuit's more limited view.  In Category 2, "administrative" is 
sandwiched between the federal terms "congressional" and "[GAO]," but 
these  items  are  too  few  and  too  disparate  to  qualify  as  "a  string  of 
statutory terms," S. D. Warren Co. v.  Maine Bd. of Environmental Pro-
tection, 547 U. S. 370, 378, or "items in a list," Beecham v. United States, 
511 U. S. 368, 371, for noscitur a sociis purposes.  Furthermore, evalu-
ating "administrative" within the public disclosure bar's larger scheme, 
the Court observes that Category 2's terms are themselves sandwiched 
between phrases in Category 1 ("criminal, civil, or administrative hear-
ing")  and  Category  3  ("news  media")  that  are  generally  understood  to 
include nonfederal sources; and Category 1 contains the same term ("ad-
ministrative")  that  is  at  issue.  Even  if  Category  1  were  best  under-
stood to refer to adjudicative proceedings and Category 2 to legislative 
or quasi-legislative activities, state and local administrative sources of a 
legislative-type  character  are  presumably  just  as  public,  and  just  as 
likely  to  put the Federal  Government on  notice of  a potential  fraud, as 
state  and  local  administrative  hearings  of  an  adjudicatory  character. 
The FCA's overall federal focus shines no light on the specific question 
whether the public disclosure bar extends to nonfederal contexts.  And 
the fact that state legislative sources are not included in $ 3730(e)(4)(A) 
carries  no  clear  implications  for  the  status  of  state  administrative 
sources.  Pp. 286-293. 

(c)  The  legislative  record  does  not  support  an  exclusively  federal 
interpretation  of  "administrative."  The  current  $ 3730(e)(4)(A)  was 
enacted to strike a balance between encouraging private persons to root 
out fraud and stifling parasitic lawsuits.  How exactly the statute came 
to  strike  this  balance  as  it  did  is  uncertain,  as  significant  substantive 
changes--including the introduction of "administrative" in Category 2-- 
were  inserted  without  floor  debate  or  other  discussion,  as  "technical" 
amendments.  Though  Congress  wanted  "to  strengthen  the  Govern-
ment's  hand  in  fighting  false  claims," Cook  County  v.  United  States  ex 
rel. Chandler, 538 U. S. 119, 133-134, and encourage more qui tam suits, 
it also determined to bar a subset of those suits that it deemed unmeri-
torious  or  downright  harmful.  The  question  here  concerns  that  sub-
set's  precise  scope;  and  on  that  matter,  the  record  is  all  but  opaque, 
leaving no "evident legislative purpose" to  guide resolution of  this  dis-
crete issue, United States v.  Bornstein, 423 U. S. 303, 310.  Pp. 293-299. 

282  GRAHAM COUNTY SOIL AND WATER CONSERVATION 

DIST.  v.  UNITED  STATES  ex

Cite as: 559 U. S. 280 (2010)  283 

Opinion of the Court 
Justice

284  GRAHAM COUNTY SOIL AND WATER CONSERVATION 

DIST.  v.  UNITED  STATES  ex

Cite as: 559 U. S. 280 (2010)  285 

Opinion of the Court 
meaning  of  the  FCA's  public  disclosure  bar,  31  U. S. C. $ 3730(e)(4)(A). 

The  Court  of  Appeals  reversed  the  judgment  of  the  Dis-trict Court because the reports had been generated by state 
and  local  entities.  "[O]nly  federal  administrative  reports, audits or investigations, " the Fourth Circuit  concluded, 
"qualify  as  public  disclosures  under  the  FCA."  528  F.  3d 292,  301  (2008)  (emphasis  added).  The  Circuits  having  di-
vided  over  this  issue,2  we  granted  certiorari  to  resolve  the conflict.  557 U. S. 918 (2009). 

II 
We have examined the FCA's qui tam provisions in several recent  opinions.

3  At  issue  in  this  case  is  the  FCA's  public 

disclosure bar, which deprives courts of jurisdiction over qui 
tam suits when the relevant information has already entered the  public  domain  through  certain  channels.  The  statute 

contains three categories of jurisdiction-stripping disclo-

2 Compare 528 F. 3d, at 301-307 (limiting this portion of the public dis-
closure  bar  to  federal  sources),  and  United  States  ex  rel.  Dunleavy  v. 
County  of  Delaware,  123  F.  3d  734,  745-746  (CA3  1997)  (same),  with 
United  States  ex  rel.  Bly-Magee  v.  Premo,  470  F.  3d  914,  918-919  (CA9 
2006)  (concluding  that  state  and  local  sources  may  qualify),  cert.  denied, 
552 U. S. 1165 (2008), and Battle v.  Board of Regents for State of Ga., 468 
F.  3d 755,  762  (CA11  2006)  (per  curiam)  (assuming without  analysis  that 
state  audits  may  qualify).  The  Eighth  Circuit  appears  to  have  taken  a 
"middle  road"  on  this  issue,  528  F.  3d,  at  301,  holding  that  disclosures 
made in  nonfederal forums  may count  as  " `administrative  .  . . report[s]' " 
or " `audit[s]' " under $ 3730(e)(4)(A) in some instances, as when they relate 
to "a cooperative federal-state program through which the federal govern-
ment provides financial assistance," Hays v.  Hoffman, 325 F. 3d 982, 989, 
cert. denied, 540 U. S. 877 (2003). 

3 See,  e. g.,  Rockwell  Int'l  Corp.  v.  United  States,  549  U. S.  457  (2007) 

(construing  $ 3730(e)(4)(A)'s  original  source  exception);  Cook  County  v. 
United  States  ex  rel.  Chandler,  538  U. S.  119  (2003)  (holding  that  local 
governments are subject to qui tam liability); Vermont Agency of Natural 
Resources  v.  United  States  ex  rel.  Stevens,  529  U. S.  765  (2000)  (holding 
that States are not subject to private FCA actions). 

286  GRAHAM COUNTY SOIL AND WATER CONSERVATION 

DIST.  v.  UNITED  STATES  ex

Cite as: 559 U. S. 280 (2010)  287 

Opinion of the Court 
well  as  to  governmental  bodies.  When  used  to  modify  the 
nouns  "report,  hearing,  audit,  or  investigation,"  in  the  con-
text  of  a  statutory  provision  about  "the  public  disclosure" 
of  fraud  on  the  United  States,  the  term  is  most  naturally 
read  to  describe  the  activities  of  governmental  agencies. 
See  Black's  Law  Dictionary  49  (9th  ed.  2009)  (hereinafter 
Black's)  (defining  "administration,"  "[i]n  public  law,  [as]  the 
practical management and direction of the executive depart-
ment and  its agencies").  Given  that  "administrative"  is  not 
itself modified by "federal," there is no immediately apparent 
textual  basis  for  excluding  the  activities  of  state  and  local 
agencies (or their contractors) from its ambit.  As the Court 
of  Appeals  recognized,  "the  statute  by  its  express  terms 
does  not  limit  its  reach  to  federal  administrative  reports  or 
investigations."  528  F.  3d,  at  301.  "[T]here  is  nothing  in-
herently  federal  about  the  word  `administrative,'  and  Con-
gress did not define the term in the FCA."  Id., at 302. 

The  Court  of  Appeals'  conclusion  that  "administrative" 
nevertheless reaches only federal sources rested on its appli-
cation of the  interpretive maxim noscitur  a sociis.  See id., 
at 302-305.  This maxim, literally translated as " `it is known 
by  its  associates,' "  Black's  1160,  counsels  lawyers  reading 
statutes  that  "a  word  may  be  known  by  the  company  it 
keeps,"  Russell  Motor  Car  Co.  v.  United  States,  261  U. S. 
514,  519  (1923).  All  participants  in  this  litigation  acknowl-
edge that the terms "congressional" and "[GAO]" are federal 
in nature; Congress is the Legislative Branch of the Federal 
Government,5  and the GAO is a federal agency.6  Relying on 

5 See  U.  S.  Const.,  Art.  I,  $ 1;  id.,  $ 4,  cl.  1  (distinguishing  "State  .  .  . 
Legislature[s]" from "the Congress"). 

6 The  statute  refers  to  the  GAO,  mistakenly,  as  the  "Government  Ac-

counting Office."  It is undisputed that the intended referent was the Gen-
eral Accounting  Office,  now  renamed  the  Government  Accountability  Of-
fice.  See  31  U. S. C.  $ 3730,  p.  254,  n.  2  (compiler's  note);  528  F.  3d  292, 
300,  n.  4  (CA4  2008);  United  States  ex  rel.  Mistick  PBT  v.  Housing  Au-
thority of Pittsburgh, 186 F. 3d 376, 387 (CA3 1999) (Alito, J.), cert. denied, 

288  GRAHAM COUNTY SOIL AND WATER CONSERVATION 

DIST.  v.  UNITED  STATES  ex

Cite as: 559 U. S. 280 (2010)  289 

Opinion of the Court 
egory 2 are too few and too disparate to qualify as "a string 
of  statutory  terms,"  S.  D.  Warren  Co.,  547  U. S.,  at  378,  or 
"items in a list," Beecham, 511 U. S., at 371, in the sense that 
we used those phrases in the cited cases.7 

More  importantly,  we  need  to  evaluate  "administrative" 
within the larger scheme of the public disclosure bar.  Both 
parties  acknowledge,  as  they  must,  that  "[s]tatutory  lan-
guage  has  meaning  only  in  context,"  Graham  County  Soil, 
545  U. S.,  at  415;  where  they  differ  is  in  determining  the 
relevant  context.  The  Sandwich  Theory  presupposes  that 
Category  2  is  the  only  piece  of  $ 3730(e)(4)(A)  that  matters. 
We  agree  with  petitioners,  however,  that  all  of  the  sources 
listed  in  $ 3730(e)(4)(A)  provide  interpretive  guidance.  All 
of these sources drive at the same end: specifying the types 
of disclosures that can foreclose qui tam actions.  In light of 
the  public  disclosure  bar's  grammatical  structure,  it  may  be 
convenient  and  even  clarifying  to  parse  the  list  of  sources 
into three categories.  But it does not follow that we should 

7 In Jarecki v.  G. D. Searle & Co., 367 U. S. 303 (1961), the Court applied 
the  noscitur  a  sociis  maxim  in  construing  a  statutory  provision  that  re-
ferred  to  " `[i]ncome  resulting  from  exploration,  discovery,  or  prospect-
ing,' "  id.,  at  305  (quoting  $ 456(a)(2)(B)  of  the  Internal  Revenue  Code  of 
1939).  Justice

290  GRAHAM COUNTY SOIL AND WATER CONSERVATION 

DIST.  v.  UNITED  STATES  ex

Cite as: 559 U. S. 280 (2010)  291 

Opinion of the Court 
for United States as Amicus Curiae 25-26 (hereinafter Brief for  United  States).  Yet  even  if  this  reading  were  correct, 

state  and  local  administrative  reports,  hearings,  audits,  and investigations of a legislative-type character are presumably 
just  as  public,  and  just  as  likely  to  put  the  Federal  Govern-ment on notice of a potential fraud, as state and local admin-
istrative hearings of an adjudicatory character.9 Respondent and the Solicitor General  try to avoid  this in-
ference,  and  to  turn  a  weakness  into  a  strength,  by  further averring that the sources listed in Category 1 are themselves 
only  federal.  See  Brief  for  Respondent  23-24;  Brief  for United  States  25-26.  No  court  has  ever  taken  such  a  view 
of these sources.  See 528 F. 3d, at 303 (citing cases from the Third, Fourth, Fifth, Ninth, and Eleventh Circuits and stat-
ing  that  "[t]he  courts  have  easily  concluded  that  [Category 1] applies to state-level hearings"); Sylvia $ 11:37, at 643, n. 1 
(citing  additional  cases).10  The  arguments  in  favor  of  read-

9 See Bly-Magee,  470 F.  3d,  at  918 ("Indeed,  the  statute  would  seem  to 
be  inconsistent  if  it  included  state  and  local  administrative  hearings  as 
sources of public disclosures [in Category 1] and then, in the next breath, 
excluded  state  administrative  reports  as  sources");  In  re  Natural  Gas 
Royalties  Qui  Tam  Litigation,  467  F.  Supp.  2d  1117,  1143-1144  (Wyo. 
2006)  ("There  is  no  reason  to  conclude  that  Congress  intended  to  limit 
administrative reports, audits, and investigations to federal actions, while 
simultaneously allowing  all state and local civil litigation,  state and local 
administrative  hearings, and state  and local  news media  to  be treated as 
public  disclosures.  To  interpret  the  statute  so  narrowly  would  have  the 
anomalous result of allowing public disclosure status to the most obscure 
local  news  report  and  the  most  obscure  state  and  local  civil  lawsuit  or 
administrative  hearing,  but  denying  public  disclosure  status  to  a  formal 
public report of a state government agency"). 

10 Following the Court of Appeals, see 528 F. 3d, at 303, respondent as-

serts that only the Ninth Circuit, in A-1 Ambulance Serv., Inc. v.  Califor-
nia,  202  F.  3d  1238,  1244  (2000),  has  explicitly  considered  and  rejected 
the  argument  that  Category  1  is  limited  to  federal  sources.  Brief  for 
Respondent  23-24.  At  least  one  other  Circuit,  however,  has  done  the 
same, see United States ex rel. Hafter v.  Spectrum Emergency Care, Inc., 
190 F. 3d 1156, 1161, n. 6 (CA10 1999), and no lower court, as far as we are 
aware, has so much as suggested that an alternative construction might be 

292  GRAHAM COUNTY SOIL AND WATER CONSERVATION 

DIST.  v.  UNITED  STATES  ex

Cite as: 559 U. S. 280 (2010)  293 

Opinion of the Court 
rarely  gave  state  legislatures  a  meaningful  role  in  adminis-tering  or  overseeing  federally  funded  programs.  See  Brief 

for  Petitioners  36-39;  Brief  for  National  League  of  Cities et  al.  as  Amici  Curiae  8-13.  As  in  the  instant  case,  the 
Federal  Government  was  far  more  likely  to  enter  into  con-tracts  with,  and  to  provide  moneys  to,  state  and  local  ex-
ecutive  agencies.  Whether  or  not  state  legislative  sources 
should  have  been  included  in  $ 3730(e)(4)(A),  their  exclusion therefore carries no clear implications for the status of state 

administrative sources. In  sum,  although  the  term  "administrative"  may  be  sand-
wiched  in  Category  2  between  terms  that  are  federal  in nature,  those  terms  are  themselves  sandwiched  between 
phrases that have been generally understood to include non-federal  sources;  and  one  of  those  phrases,  in  Category  1, 
contains  the  exact  term  that  is  the  subject  of  our  inquiry. These textual clues negate the force of the 

noscitur a sociis canon,  as it was  applied by  the  Court of Appeals.

12  We  are 

not  persuaded  that  the  associates  with  which  "administra-tive"  keeps  company  in  $ 3730(e)(4)(A)  endow  it  with  an 

exclusively federal character. 

IV 
As  originally  enacted,  the  FCA  did  not  limit  the  sources from  which  a  relator  could  acquire  the  information  to  bring 

12 The  Court  of  Appeals  repeatedly  referred  to  the  three  categories  in 

$ 3730(e)(4)(A) as "clauses."  See 528 F. 3d, at 300-305.  Were they in fact 
clauses  rather  than  prepositional  phrases,  reliance  on  noscitur  a  sociis 
might  have  been  supported  by  one  of  our  earliest  cases  using  that  term, 
Watson v.  Mercer, 8 Pet. 88, 105 (1834) (Reporter's statement of the case), 
which  suggested  that  "different  clauses  of  the  same  sentence"  should  be 
presumed "to embrace the subject matter of the sentence."  The Court of 
Appeals' mistaken reference to "clauses" is of course less significant than 
its  failure  to  treat  the  public  disclosure  bar  as  an  integrated  whole. 
Cf. Stevens, The Shakespeare Canon of Statutory Construction, 140 U. Pa. 
L.  Rev.  1373,  1376  (1992)  (emphasizing  importance  of  reading  provisions 
in their broader statutory context). 

294  GRAHAM COUNTY SOIL AND WATER CONSERVATION 

DIST.  v.  UNITED  STATES  ex

Cite as: 559 U. S. 280 (2010)  295 

Opinion of the Court 
placed it with the public  disclosure bar in an effort to strike a  balance  between  encouraging  private  persons  to  root  out 

fraud  and stifling parasitic  lawsuits such  as  the  one in  Hess. How  exactly  $ 3730(e)(4)  came  to  strike  this  balance  in  the 
way  it  did  is  a  matter  of  considerable  uncertainty.  The House  and  Senate  Judiciary  Committees  each  reported  bills 
that contained very different public disclosure bars from the one  that  emerged  in  the  Statutes  at  Large;  the  Senate  bill, 
for  example,  did  not  include  the  words  "administrative," "audit,"  or  "investigation"  in  its  version  of  Category  2,  nor 
did  it  contain  an  original  source  exception.  See  S.  Rep.,  at 42-43 (text of proposed $ 3730(e)(4)).

13 

In respondent and her amici's view, this background coun-sels  in  favor  of  an  exclusively  federal  interpretation  of  "ad-

ministrative" for three separate reasons.  First, the drafting history  of  the  public  disclosure  bar  suggests  that  Congress 
intended  such  a  result.  Second,  a  major  aim  of  the  1986 amendments  was  to  limit  the  scope  of  the  Government 
knowledge  bar,  and  "[c]onstruing  [$ 3730(e)(4)(A)]  as  limited to disclosures in federal proceedings furthers Congress's pur-
pose `to encourage more private enforcement suits.' "  Brief for  United  States  21  (quoting  S.  Rep.,  at  23-24).  Third, 
whereas federal administrative proceedings can be presumed to  provide  the  Attorney  General  with  a  fair  opportunity  to 
decide whether to bring an FCA action based on revelations made  therein,  the  Attorney  General  is  much  less  likely  to 
learn  of  fraud  disclosed  in  state  proceedings.  Respondent and her 

amici further maintain that it would be perverse to include  nonfederal  sources  in  Category  2,  as  local  govern-

ments would then be able to shield themselves from qui tam liability  by  discretely  disclosing  evidence  of  fraud  in  "pub-
lic" reports.14 

13 See  also  H.  R.  Rep.  No.  99-660,  pp.  2-3  (1986)  (text  of  proposed 

$ 3730(b)(5)).  The public disclosure bar that was enacted more closely re-
sembles the version in the Senate bill. 

14 State governments  are already  shielded from  qui  tam  liability  under 

our precedent.  Stevens, 529 U. S. 765. 

296  GRAHAM COUNTY SOIL AND WATER CONSERVATION 

DIST.  v.  UNITED  STATES  ex

Cite as: 559 U. S. 280 (2010)  297 

Opinion of the Court 
Respondent  and  her  amici  place  particular  emphasis  on  a remark made by the lead sponsor of the Senate bill, Senator 

Grassley.  See  Brief  for  Respondent  29;  Brief  for  United States 20; Brief for American Center for Law and Justice as 
Amicus  Curiae  13-14;  Brief  for  Taxpayers  Against  Fraud Education Fund as 

Amicus Curiae 30-31.  In a floor  state-ment,  Grassley  said  that  "the  term  `Government'  in  the 

definition of original source is meant to include any Govern-ment source of disclosures cited in [the public disclosure bar]; 
that is, Government includes Congress, the General Account-ing  Office,  any  executive  or  independent  agency  as  well  as 
all  other  governmental  bodies  that  may  have  publicly  dis-closed  the  allegations."  132  Cong.  Rec.  20536  (1986).  Yet 
even if a single sentence  by a single legislator were entitled to any meaningful weight, Senator Grassley's remark merely 
begs  the  question  before  us.  His  formulation  fails  to  indi-cate whether the  "other governmental  bodies" may be state 
or local bodies.  It also turns on a term, "Government" with a capital "G,"  that does not appear in the  codified version of 
the  public  disclosure  bar,  which  Congress  subsequently  re-vised in numerous respects prior to passage. 

There  is,  in  fact,  only  one  item  in  the  legislative  record that  squarely  corroborates  respondent's  reading  of  the  stat-
ute: a letter sent by the primary sponsors of the 1986 amend-ments to the Attorney General in 1999.  See 145 Cong. Rec. 
16032  (1999)  (reproducing  text  of  letter  in  which  Rep.  Ber-man  and  Sen.  Grassley  state:  "We  did  intend,  and  any  fair 
reading  of  the  statute  will  confirm,  that the  disclosure  must 
lawsuits by those who learn of the fraud through public channels and seek 
remuneration  although  they  contributed  nothing  to  the  exposure  of  the 
fraud,"  United  States  ex  rel.  Doe  v.  John  Doe  Corp.,  960  F.  2d  318,  319 
(CA2  1992).  And  her  narrative  contains  no  account  of  why  Category  2 
emerged in the form that it did.  Any such account would necessarily be 
an  exercise  in  speculation,  as  the  record  is  silent  on  the  matter.  In  our 
view, neither the general  trajectory  of  20th-century FCA  reform nor the 
specific statements made during the 1986 legislative process clearly point 
one way or the other on the question before us. 

298  GRAHAM COUNTY SOIL AND WATER CONSERVATION 

DIST.  v.  UNITED  STATES  ex

Cite as: 559 U. S. 280 (2010)  299 

Opinion of the Court 
dent  legislative  purpose"  to  guide  our  resolution  of  the  dis-crete issue that confronts us. 

V 
Respondent and her amici likewise fail to prove their case that  petitioners'  reading  of  the  statute  will  lead  to  results 

that  Congress  could  not  have  intended.  Their  argument rests  on  an  empirical  proposition:  "While  federal  inquiries 
and  their  outcomes  are  readily  available  to  Department  of Justice  [(DOJ)]  attorneys,  many  state  and  local  reports  and 
investigations never come to the attention of federal authori-ties."  Brief  for  United  States  22;  see  also  528  F.  3d,  at  306 
("Because  the  federal  government  is  unlikely  to  learn  about 
state  and  local  investigations,  a  large  number  of  fraudulent claims against the government would go unremedied without 

the  financial  incentives  offered  by  the  qui  tam  provisions  of 
the  FCA").  This  proposition  is  not  implausible,  but  it  is 
sheer  conjecture.  Numerous  federal  investigations  may  be 
occurring at any given time, and DOJ attorneys may not reli-
ably  learn  about  their  findings.  DOJ  attorneys  may  learn 
about  quite  a  few  state  and  local  inquiries,  especially  when 
the inquiries  are  conducted pursuant  to a joint federal-state 
program financed in part by federal dollars, such as the pro-
gram  at  issue  in  this  case.18  Just  how  accessible  to  the  At-
torney General a typical state or local source will be, as com-
pared  to  a  federal  source,  is  an  open  question.  And  it  is 

18 In  some  instances,  federal  law  dictates  that  state  and  local  govern-
ments receiving federal funds perform an audit of their programs.  See 31 
U. S. C.  $ 7502(a)(1)(B)  (requiring  nonfederal  entities  that  expend  federal 
awards above a certain amount to "undergo a single audit" in accordance 
with specified conditions); Brief for State of Pennsylvania et al. as Amici 
Curiae 7-10 (discussing the  Single Audit Act  of 1984).  It bears mention 
that, to the extent one is worried about Federal Government ignorance of 
state  and  local  antifraud  efforts,  see  post,  at  312-313  (opinion  of  Sotomayor,

300  GRAHAM COUNTY SOIL AND WATER CONSERVATION 

DIST.  v.  UNITED  STATES  ex

Cite as: 559 U. S. 280 (2010)  301 

Opinion of the Court 
reveal  the  requisite  `allegations  or  transactions'  underlying the fraud in a public document").

19 

Our  conclusion  is  buttressed  by  the  fact  that  Congress carefully  preserved  the  rights  of  the  most  deserving  qui 

tam  plaintiffs:  those  whistle-blowers  who  qualify  as  origi-nal sources.  Notwithstanding public disclosure of the 
allegations  made  by  a  qui  tam  plaintiff,  her  case  may  go forward  if  she  is  "an  original  source  of  the  information." 

$ 3730(e)(4)(A).  It  is  therefore  flat  wrong  to  suggest  that  a finding for petitioners will " `in effect return us to the unduly 
restrictive  "government  knowledge"  standard' "  that  pre-vailed  prior  to  1986.  Brief  for  United  States  31  (quoting 
Dunleavy,  123  F.  3d,  at  746);  see  Brief  for  Respondent  34 (asserting  that  "petitioners'  construction  would  reimpose 
a  form  of  the  `government  knowledge'  bar"  (capitalization omitted)).  Today's  ruling  merely  confirms  that  disclosures 
made  in  one  type  of  context--a  state  or  local  report,  audit, or  investigation--may  trigger  the  public  disclosure  bar.  It 
has no bearing on disclosures made in  other contexts,  and it leaves  intact  the  ability  of  original  sources  to  prosecute  qui 
tam  actions  irrespective  of  the  state  of  Government  knowl-edge.  Whether respondent can qualify as an "original 
source," as that term is defined in $ 3730(e)(4), is one of many issues that remain open on remand. 

VI 
Respondent  and  the  Solicitor  General  have  given  numer-ous  reasons  why  they  believe  their  reading  of  the  FCA 

19 Petitioners and their amici also counter with public policy arguments 
of  their  own.  Under  the  Court  of  Appeals'  reading  of  the  statute,  they 
allege,  there  is  an  increased  likelihood  that  parasitic  relators  will  beat 
more  deserving  relators  to  the  courthouse,  Brief  for  Petitioners  31,  and 
that  state  and  local  governments  will  find  their  antifraud  investigations 
impeded,  or  will  decline  to  conduct  such  investigations  in  the  first  place, 
on  account  of  "opportunistic  potential  relators  trolling  state  records  and 
reports,  available  to  the  public,"  in  search  of  a  qui  tam  claim,  Brief  for 
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania et al. as Amici Curiae 11. 

302  GRAHAM COUNTY SOIL AND WATER CONSERVATION 

DIST.  v.  UNITED  STATES  ex

Cite as: 559 U. S. 280 (2010)  303 

Sotomayor,
304  GRAHAM COUNTY SOIL AND WATER CONSERVATION 

DIST.  v.  UNITED  STATES  ex

Cite as: 559 U. S. 280 (2010)  305 

Sotomayor,
306  GRAHAM COUNTY SOIL AND WATER CONSERVATION 

DIST.  v.  UNITED  STATES  ex

Cite as: 559 U. S. 280 (2010)  307 

Sotomayor,
308  GRAHAM COUNTY SOIL AND WATER CONSERVATION 

DIST.  v.  UNITED  STATES  ex

Cite as: 559 U. S. 280 (2010)  309 

Sotomayor,
310  GRAHAM COUNTY SOIL AND WATER CONSERVATION 

DIST.  v.  UNITED  STATES  ex

Cite as: 559 U. S. 280 (2010)  311 

Sotomayor,
312  GRAHAM COUNTY SOIL AND WATER CONSERVATION 

DIST.  v.  UNITED  STATES  ex

Cite as: 559 U. S. 280 (2010)  313 

Sotomayor,
314  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

Syllabus 

BERGHUIS,  WARDEN  v.

Cite as: 559 U. S. 314 (2010)  315 

Syllabus 
court set out the "comparative disparity" test, under which the absolute 
disparity (1.28%)  is divided by  the percentage of  African-Americans  in 
the jury-eligible population (7.28%).  The quotient (18%) indicated that, 
on average, African-Americans were 18% less likely, when compared to 
the  overall  jury-eligible  population,  to  be  on  the  jury-service  list.  In 
the  11  months  after  Kent  County  discontinued  the  district-court-first 
assignment policy, the comparative disparity, on average, dropped from 
18%  to  15.1%.  The  hearing  convinced  the  trial  court  that  AfricanAmericans were underrepresented on Circuit Court venires.  But 
Smith's evidence, the trial court held, was insufficient to prove that the 
juror-assignment order, or any other part of the jury-selection process, 
had  systematically  excluded  African-Americans.  The  court  therefore 
rejected Smith's fair-cross-section claim. 

The  state  intermediate  appellate  court  reversed  and  ordered  a  new 
trial  with  jurors  selected  under  the  Circuit-Court-first  assignment 
order.  Reversing in turn, the Michigan Supreme Court concluded that 
Smith  had  not  established  a  prima  facie  Sixth  Amendment  violation. 
This  Court,  the  state  high  court  observed,  has  specified  no  preferred 
method for measuring whether representation of a distinctive group in 
the jury pool is fair and reasonable.  The court noted that lower federal 
courts  had  applied  three  tests:  the  absolute  and  comparative  disparity 
tests and a standard deviation test.  Adopting a case-by-case approach 
allowing consideration of all three means of measuring underrepresenta-
tion, the court found that Smith had failed to establish a legally signifi-
cant disparity under any measurement.  Nevertheless giving Smith the 
benefit of the doubt on underrepresentation, the court determined that 
he had not shown systematic exclusion. 

Smith  then  filed  a  federal  habeas  petition.  The  Antiterrorism  and 
Effective Death Penalty Act of 1996 (AEDPA) prohibits federal habeas 
relief  unless  the  state  court's  adjudication  "resulted  in  a  decision  that 
was  contrary  to, or  involved  an  unreasonable  application  of,  clearly  es-
tablished  Federal  law,  as  determined  by  the  Supreme  Court  of  the 
United  States,"  28  U. S. C.  $ 2254(d)(1),  or  "resulted  in  a  decision  that 
was based on an unreasonable determination of the facts in light of the 
evidence presented  in  the  State court  proceeding,"  $ 2254(d)(2).  Find-
ing  no  infirmity  in  the  Michigan  Supreme  Court's  decision  when  as-
sessed under AEDPA's standards, the District Court dismissed Smith's 
petition.  The  Sixth  Circuit  reversed.  The  Court  of  Appeals  ruled, 
first,  that  courts  should  use  the  comparative  disparity  test  to  measure 
underrepresentation  where,  as  here,  the  allegedly  excluded  group  is 
small.  The court then held that Smith's comparative disparity statistics 
demonstrated that African-Americans' representation in County Circuit 
Court venires was unfair and unreasonable.  It next stated that Smith 

316  BERGHUIS  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 314 (2010)  317 

Syllabus 
doubt on underrepresentation in order to reach the issue ultimately dispositive  in  Duren:  To  the  extent  underrepresentation  existed,  was  it 
due  to  "systematic  exclusion"?  463  Mich.,  at  205,  615  N.  W.  2d,  at  3; 
see Duren,

318  BERGHUIS  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 314 (2010)  319 

Opinion of the Court 
Justice

320  BERGHUIS  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 314 (2010)  321 

Opinion of the Court 
In addition to renewal of his "siphoning" argument, Smith 
here urges that a host of factors combined to reduce system-
atically the number of African-Americans appearing on Kent 
County jury lists, for example, the Kent County court's prac-
tice  of  excusing  people  without  adequate  proof  of  alleged 
hardship,  and  the  refusal  of  Kent  County  police  to  enforce 
orders for prospective jurors to appear.  Brief for Respond-
ent 53-54.  Our decisions do not address factors of the kind 
Smith  urges.  We  have  cautioned,  however,  that  "[t]he  fair-
cross-section  principle  must  have  much  leeway  in  applica-
tion."  Taylor,

322  BERGHUIS  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 314 (2010)  323 

Opinion of the Court 
The  trial  court  considered  two  means  of  measuring  the extent  of  underrepresentation  of  African-Americans  on  Cir-

cuit  Court  venires:  "absolute  disparity"  and  "comparative disparity."  "Absolute disparity" is  determined by subtract-
ing  the  percentage  of  African-Americans  in  the  jury  pool (here, 6% in the six months leading up to Smith's trial) from 
the  percentage  of  African-Americans  in  the  local,  juryeligible  population  (here,  7.28%).  By  an  absolute  disparity measure,  therefore,  African-Americans  were  underrepre-

sented by 1.28%.  "Comparative disparity" is determined by dividing  the  absolute  disparity  (here,  1.28%)  by  the  group's 
representation  in  the  jury-eligible  population  (here,  7.28%). 
The  quotient  (here,  18%)  showed  that,  in  the  six  months 
prior  to  Smith's  trial,  African-Americans  were,  on  average, 
18%  less  likely,  when  compared  to  the  overall  jury-eligible 
population,  to  be  on  the  jury-service  list.  App.  to  Pet.  for 
Cert. 215a. 

Isolating the month Smith's jury was selected, Smith's sta-
tistics  expert  estimated  that  the  comparative  disparity  was 
34.8%.  App.  181a.  In  the  11  months  after  Kent  County 
discontinued  the  district-court-first  assignment  policy,  the 
comparative  disparity,  on  average,  dropped  from  18%  to 
15.1%.  Id.,

324  BERGHUIS  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 314 (2010)  325 

Opinion of the Court 
204-205,  615  N.  W.  2d,  at  3.  (The  parties  had  presented  no 
expert testimony regarding application of the standard devi-
ation  test.  Id.,

326  BERGHUIS  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 314 (2010)  327 

Opinion of the Court 
"there was no . . . systematic exclusion of African Americans from juries in Kent County, Michigan," id.,

328  BERGHUIS  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 314 (2010)  329 

Opinion of the Court 

III  

A  

As  the  Michigan  Supreme  Court  correctly  observed,  see 
supra,

330  BERGHUIS  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 314 (2010)  331 

Opinion of the Court 
though  the  record  established  that  some  officials  and  others 
in  Kent  County  believed

332  BERGHUIS  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 314 (2010)  333 

Opinion of the Court 
of  a  prima  face  case.  Instead,  it  addresses  what  the  State might  show  to

334  BERGHUIS  v.OCTOBER  TERM,  2009  335 

Syllabus 

JONES  et

336  JONES  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 335 (2010)  337 

Syllabus 
testing  investment-adviser  compensation,  and  it  has  provided  a  work-
able standard for nearly three decades.  P. 353. 

527 F. 3d 627, vacated and remanded. 

Alito,

338  JONES  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 335 (2010)  339 

Opinion of the Court 
"Congress adopted the [Investment Company Act of 1940] because  of  its  concern  with  the  potential  for  abuse  inherent 

in  the  structure  of  investment  companies."  Daily

340  JONES  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 335 (2010)  341 

Opinion of the Court 
1st Sess., $ 8(d) (as introduced May 1, 1967).  Industry repre-sentatives, however, objected to this proposal, fearing that it 

"might  in  essence  provide  the  Commission  with  ratemaking authority."  Daily

342  JONES  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 335 (2010)  343 

Opinion of the Court 
The Seventh Circuit denied rehearing en banc by an equally  divided  vote.  537  F.  3d  728  (2008)  (per

344  JONES  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 335 (2010)  345 

Opinion of the Court 
the  business  of  managing  a  fund  may  be  "virtually  non-existent," the court rejected the suggestion that "the princi-

pal  factor  to  be  considered  in  evaluating  a  fee's  fairness  is the price charged by other similar advisers to funds managed 
by them," although the court did not suggest that this factor could  not  be  "taken  into  account." 

Id.,

346  JONES  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 335 (2010)  347 

Opinion of the Court 
nant  or  controlling  shareholders,  we  held,  are  "fiduciar[ies]" whose "powers are powers [held] in trust." 

Id.,

348  JONES  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 335 (2010)  349 

Opinion of the Court 
interests and yet, where the `watchdogs' have done precisely that, require that they be totally muzzled"). 

From  this  formulation,  two  inferences  may  be  drawn. First,  a  measure  of  deference  to  a  board's  judgment  may 
be  appropriate  in  some  instances.  Second,  the  appropriate measure of deference varies depending on the circumstances. 

Gartenberg

350  JONES  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 335 (2010)  351 

Opinion of the Court 
fees, like those challenged, may not be the product of negoti-ations conducted at arm's length.  See 537 F. 3d, at 731-732 

(opinion  dissenting  from  denial  of  rehearing  en  banc);  Gar-
tenberg,

352  JONES  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 335 (2010)  353 

Thomas,
354  JONES  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 335 (2010)  355 

Thomas,
356  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

Syllabus 

PADILLA  v.  KENTUCKY 
certiorari

Cite as: 559 U. S. 356 (2010)  357 

Syllabus 
ance"  required  under  Strickland,  466  U. S.,  at  689.  The  question 
whether  that  distinction  is  appropriate  need  not  be  considered  in  this 
case  because  of  the  unique  nature  of  deportation.  Although  removal 
proceedings  are  civil,  deportation  is  intimately  related  to  the  criminal 
process,  which  makes  it  uniquely  difficult  to  classify  as  either  a  direct 
or  a  collateral  consequence.  Because  that  distinction  is  thus  ill  suited 
to evaluating a Strickland claim concerning the specific risk of deporta-
tion, advice regarding deportation is not categorically removed from the 
ambit of the Sixth Amendment right to counsel.  Pp. 364-366. 

(c)  To satisfy Strickland's two-prong inquiry, counsel's representation 
must  fall  "below  an  objective  standard  of  reasonableness,"  id.,  at  688, 
and  there  must  be  "a  reasonable  probability  that,  but  for  counsel's  un-
professional errors, the result of the proceeding would have been differ-
ent,"  id.,  at  694.  The  first,  constitutional  deficiency,  is  necessarily 
linked  to the  legal  community's practice and expectations.  Id., at 688. 
The  weight  of  prevailing  professional  norms  supports  the  view  that 
counsel must advise her client regarding the deportation risk.  And this 
Court has recognized the importance to the client of " `[p]reserving the 
. . . right to remain in the United States' " and "preserving the possibil-
ity of" discretionary relief from deportation.  INS v.  St. Cyr, 533 U. S. 
289, 322, 323.  Thus, this is not a hard case in which to find deficiency: 
The consequences of Padilla's plea could easily be determined from read-
ing the removal statute, his deportation was presumptively mandatory, 
and  his  counsel's  advice  was  incorrect.  There  will, however,  undoubt-
edly be numerous situations in which the deportation consequences of a 
plea  are  unclear.  In  those  cases,  a  criminal  defense  attorney  need  do 
no  more  than  advise  a  noncitizen  client  that  pending  criminal  charges 
may carry adverse immigration consequences.  But when the deporta-
tion consequence is truly clear, as it was here, the duty to give correct 
advice  is  equally  clear.  Accepting  Padilla's  allegations  as  true,  he  has 
sufficiently  alleged constitutional  deficiency to  satisfy Strickland's  first 
prong.  Whether  he  can  satisfy the  second  prong, prejudice,  is left  for 
the Kentucky courts to consider in the first instance.  Pp. 366-369. 

(d)  The Solicitor General's proposed rule--that Strickland should be 
applied to Padilla's claim only to the extent that he has alleged affirma-
tive misadvice--is unpersuasive.  And though this Court must be care-
ful  about  recognizing  new  grounds  for  attacking  the  validity  of  guilty 
pleas,  the  25  years  since  Strickland  was  first  applied  to  ineffectiveassistance  claims  at  the  plea  stage  have  shown  that  pleas  are  less  fre-
quently the subject of collateral challenges than convictions after a trial. 
Also, informed consideration of possible deportation can benefit both the 
State and noncitizen defendants, who may be able to reach agreements 
that better satisfy the interests of both parties.  This decision will not 

358  PADILLA  v.  KENTUCKY 

Syllabus 
open  the  floodgates  to  challenges  of  convictions  obtained  through  plea 
bargains.  Cf. Hill v.  Lockhart, 474 U. S. 52, 58.  Pp. 369-374. 

253 S. W. 3d 482, reversed and remanded. 

Stevens,

Cite as: 559 U. S. 356 (2010)  359 

Opinion of the Court 
Justice

360  PADILLA  v.  KENTUCKY 

Opinion of the Court 
sequence of his conviction.  Id., at 485.  In its view, neither counsel's  failure  to  advise  petitioner  about  the  possibility  of 

removal, nor counsel's incorrect advice, could provide a basis for relief. 

We  granted  certiorari,  555  U. S.  1169  (2009),  to  decide whether, as a  matter of federal law,  Padilla's  counsel  had an 
obligation  to  advise  him  that  the  offense  to  which  he  was pleading guilty would result in his removal from this country. 
We agree with Padilla  that constitutionally competent coun-sel  would  have  advised  him  that  his  conviction  for  drug 
distribution  made  him  subject  to  automatic  deportation. Whether  he  is  entitled  to  relief  depends  on  whether  he  has 
been prejudiced, a matter that we do not address. 

I 
The landscape of federal immigration law has changed dra-matically over the last 90 years.  While once there was only 

a  narrow  class  of  deportable  offenses  and  judges  wielded broad  discretionary  authority  to  prevent  deportation,  immi-
gration reforms over time have expanded the class of deport-able offenses and limited the authority of judges to alleviate 
the  harsh  consequences  of  deportation.  The  "drastic  meas-ure"  of  deportation  or  removal, 

Fong  Haw  Tan  v.  Phelan, 333  U. S.  6,  10  (1948),  is  now  virtually  inevitable  for  a  vast 

number of noncitizens convicted of crimes. The  Nation's  first  100  years  was  "a  period  of  unimpeded 
immigration."  C.  Gordon  &  H.  Rosenfield,  Immigration Law  and  Procedure  $ 1.2a,  p.  5  (1959).  An  early  effort  to 
empower  the  President  to  order  the  deportation  of  those immigrants  he  "judge[d]  dangerous  to  the  peace  and  safety 
of  the  United  States,"  Act  of  June  25,  1798,  ch.  58,  1  Stat. 571,  was  short  lived  and  unpopular.  Gordon  $ 1.2,  at  5.  It 
was  not  until  1875  that  Congress  first  passed  a  statute  bar-ring convicts and prostitutes from entering the country, Act 
of  Mar.  3,  1875,  ch.  141,  18  Stat.  477.  Gordon  $ 1.2b,  at  6. In  1891,  Congress  added  to  the  list  of  excludable  persons 
those "who have been convicted of a felony or other infamous 

Cite as: 559 U. S. 356 (2010)  361 

Opinion of the Court 
crime  or  misdemeanor  involving  moral  turpitude."  Act  of Mar. 3, 1891, ch. 551, 26 Stat. 1084.

2 

The  Immigration  Act  of  1917  (1917  Act)  brought  "radical changes" to our law.  S. Rep. No. 1515, 81st Cong., 2d Sess., 

54-55  (1950).  For  the  first  time  in  our  history,  Congress made  classes  of  noncitizens  deportable  based  on  conduct 
committed  on  American  soil.  Id.,  at  55.  Section  19  of  the 1917  Act  authorized  the  deportation  of  "any  alien  who  is 
hereafter  sentenced to  imprisonment for  a term  of one  year or  more  because  of  conviction  in  this  country  of  a  crime  in-
volving  moral  turpitude,  committed  within  five  years  after the  entry  of  the  alien  to  the  United  States  .  .  .  ."  39  Stat. 
889.  And  $ 19  also  rendered  deportable  noncitizen  recidi-vists  who  commit  two  or  more  crimes  of  moral  turpitude  at 
any time after entry.  Ibid.  Congress did not, however, de-fine the term "moral turpitude." 

While the 1917 Act was "radical" because it authorized de-portation  as  a  consequence  of  certain  convictions,  the  Act 
also  included  a  critically  important  procedural  protection  to minimize  the  risk  of  unjust  deportation:  At  the  time  of  sen-
tencing or within 30 days thereafter, the sentencing judge in both  state  and  federal  prosecutions  had  the  power  to  make 
a  recommendation  "that  such  alien  shall  not  be  deported." 
Id., at 890.3  This procedure, known as a judicial recommen-

2 In  1907,  Congress  expanded  the  class  of  excluded  persons  to  include 
individuals who "admit" to having  committed a crime of moral turpitude. 
Act of Feb. 20, 1907, ch. 1134, $ 2, 34 Stat. 899. 

3 As enacted, the statute provided: 

"That  the  provision  of  this  section  respecting  the  deportation  of  aliens 
convicted of a crime involving moral turpitude shall not apply to one who 
has been  pardoned, nor shall  such deportation be  made or directed if the 
court, or judge  thereof, sentencing such  alien for such  crime  shall, at the 
time  of  imposing  judgment  or  passing  sentence  or  within  thirty  days 
thereafter, . . .  make  a  recommendation  to  the  Secretary  of  Labor  that 
such  alien shall  not be  deported in  pursuance  of  this  Act."  1917  Act,  39 
Stat. 889-890. 

This provision was codified in 8 U. S. C. $ 1251(b) (1994 ed.) (transferred to 

$ 1227 (2006 ed.)).  The judge's nondeportation recommendation was bind-

362  PADILLA  v.  KENTUCKY 

Opinion of the Court 
dation against deportation, or JRAD, had the effect of bind-
ing  the  Executive  to  prevent  deportation;  the  statute  was 
"consistently . . . interpreted as giving the  sentencing judge 
conclusive  authority  to  decide  whether  a  particular  convic-
tion  should  be  disregarded  as  a  basis  for  deportation,"  Janvier v.  United  States,  793  F. 2d  449,  452  (CA2  1986).  Thus, 
from  1917  forward,  there  was  no  such  creature  as  an  auto-
matically  deportable  offense.  Even  as  the  class  of  deportable offenses expanded, judges retained discretion to amelio-
rate unjust results on a case-by-case basis. 

Although  narcotics  offenses--such  as  the  offense  at  issue 
in  this  case--provided  a  distinct  basis  for  deportation  as 
early as 1922,4  the  JRAD  procedure was generally available 
to  avoid  deportation  in  narcotics  convictions.  See  United 
States  v.  O'Rourke,  213  F.  2d  759,  762  (CA8  1954).  Except 
for "technical, inadvertent and insignificant violations of the 
laws  relating  to  narcotics,"  ibid.,  it  appears  that  courts 
treated  narcotics  offenses  as  crimes  involving  moral  turpi-
tude  for  purposes  of  the  1917  Act's  broad  JRAD  provision. 
See  ibid. (recognizing  that  until 1952  a  JRAD  in a  narcotics 

ing on the Secretary of Labor and, later, the Attorney General after con-
trol  of  immigration  removal  matters  was  transferred  from  the  former  to 
the  latter.  See  Janvier  v.  United  States,  793  F.  2d  449,  452  (CA2  1986). 

4 Congress  first  identified  narcotics  offenses  as  a  special  category  of 

crimes triggering deportation in the 1922 Narcotic Drug Act.  Act of May 
26, 1922, ch. 202, 42 Stat. 596.  After the 1922 Act took effect, there was 
some  initial  confusion  over  whether  a  narcotics  offense  also  had  to  be  a 
crime of moral turpitude for an individual to be deportable.  See Weedin 
v.  Moy Fat,  8  F.  2d  488,  489  (CA9  1925)  (holding  that  an  individual  who 
committed  narcotics  offense  was  not  deportable  because  offense  did  not 
involve  moral  turpitude).  However, lower  courts eventually  agreed that 
the  narcotics  offense  provision  was  "special,"  Chung  Que  Fong  v.  Nagle, 
15 F. 2d 789, 790 (CA9 1926); thus, a narcotics offense did not need also to 
be a crime of moral turpitude (or to satisfy other requirements of the 1917 
Act) to trigger deportation.  See United States ex rel. Grimaldi  v.  Ebey, 
12 F. 2d 922,  923 (CA7 1926); Todaro v.  Munster, 62 F.  2d 963,  964 (CA10 
1933). 

Cite as: 559 U. S. 356 (2010)  363 

Opinion of the Court 
case  "was  effective  to  prevent  deportation"  (citing  Dang 
Nam  v.  Bryan, 74 F. 2d 379, 380-381 (CA9 1934))). 

In  light  of  both  the  steady  expansion  of  deportable  of-
fenses  and  the  significant  ameliorative  effect  of  a  JRAD,  it 
is  unsurprising  that,  in  the  wake  of  Strickland  v.  Washing-
ton,  466  U. S.  668  (1984),  the  Second  Circuit  held  that  the 
Sixth Amendment right to effective assistance of counsel ap-
plies  to  a  JRAD  request  or  lack  thereof,  see  Janvier,  793 
F.  2d  449.  See  also  United  States  v.  Castro,  26  F.  3d  557 
(CA5  1994).  In  its  view,  seeking  a  JRAD  was  "part  of  the 
sentencing" process, Janvier, 793 F. 2d, at 452, even if depor-
tation itself is a civil action.  Under the Second Circuit's rea-
soning,  the  impact  of  a  conviction  on  a  noncitizen's  ability 
to  remain  in  the  country  was  a  central  issue  to  be  resolved 
during  the  sentencing  process--not merely  a collateral mat-
ter  outside  the  scope  of  counsel's  duty  to  provide  effective 
representation. 

However, the JRAD procedure is no longer part of our law. 
Congress first circumscribed the JRAD provision in the 1952 
Immigration  and  Nationality  Act  (INA),5  and  in  1990  Con-
gress  entirely  eliminated  it,  104  Stat.  5050.  In  1996,  Con-
gress  also  eliminated  the  Attorney  General's  authority  to 
grant  discretionary  relief  from  deportation,  110  Stat.  3009- 
596, an authority that had been exercised to prevent the de-
portation of over 10,000 noncitizens during the 5-year period 
prior  to  1996,  INS  v.  St.  Cyr,  533  U. S.  289,  296  (2001). 
Under contemporary law, if a noncitizen has committed a re-
movable offense after the 1996 effective date of these amend-

5 The INA separately codified the moral turpitude offense provision and 
the narcotics offense provision within 8 U. S. C. $ 1251(a) (1994 ed.) under 
subsections  (a)(4)  and  (a)(11),  respectively.  See  66  Stat.  201,  204,  206. 
The  JRAD  procedure,  codified  in  8  U. S. C.  $ 1251(b)  (1994  ed.),  applied 
only to the "provisions of subsection (a)(4)," the crimes-of-moral-turpitude 
provision.  66 Stat. 208; see United States v.  O'Rourke, 213 F. 2d 759, 762 
(CA8 1954) (recognizing that, under the 1952 INA, narcotics offenses were 
no longer eligible for JRADs). 

364  PADILLA  v.  KENTUCKY 

Opinion of the Court 
ments,  his  removal  is  practically  inevitable  but  for  the  pos-sible  exercise  of  limited  remnants  of  equitable  discretion 

vested  in  the  Attorney  General  to  cancel  removal  for  non-citizens  convicted  of  particular  classes  of  offenses.

6  See  8 

U. S. C.  $ 1229b.  Subject  to  limited  exceptions,  this  dis-cretionary  relief  is  not  available  for  an  offense  related  to 

trafficking  in  a  controlled  substance.  See  $ 1101(a)(43)(B); $ 1228. 

These  changes  to  our  immigration  law  have  dramatically raised  the  stakes  of  a  noncitizen's  criminal  conviction.  The 
importance  of  accurate  legal  advice  for  noncitizens  accused of  crimes  has  never  been  more  important.  These  changes 
confirm our view that, as a matter of federal law, deportation is  an  integral  part--indeed,  sometimes  the  most  important 
part7 --of the penalty that may be imposed on noncitizen de-fendants who plead guilty to specified crimes. 

II 
Before  deciding  whether  to  plead  guilty,  a  defendant  is entitled  to  "the  effective  assistance  of  competent  counsel." 

McMann  v.  Richardson,  397  U. S.  759,  771  (1970);  Strick-land,  466  U. S.,  at  686.  The  Supreme  Court  of  Kentucky 
rejected  Padilla's  ineffectiveness  claim  on  the  ground  that the advice he sought about the risk of deportation concerned 
only  collateral  matters,  i. e.,  those  matters  not  within  the sentencing authority of the state  trial court.

8  253  S. W. 3d, 

6 The  changes  to  our  immigration  law  have  also  involved  a  change  in 
nomenclature; the statutory text now uses the term "removal" rather than 
"deportation."  See  Calcano-Martinez  v.  INS,  533  U. S.  348,  350,  n.  1 
(2001). 

7 See  Brief  for  Asian  American  Justice  Center  et  al.  as  Amici  Curiae 

12-27 (providing real-world examples). 

8 There is some disagreement among the courts over how to distinguish 

between  direct  and  collateral  consequences.  See  Roberts,  Ignorance  Is 
Effectively Bliss: Collateral Consequences, Silence, and Misinformation in 
the Guilty-Plea Process,  95 Iowa  L. Rev.  119,  124, n. 15  (2009).  The dis-
agreement over how to apply the direct/collateral distinction has no bear-

Cite as: 559 U. S. 356 (2010)  365 

Opinion of the Court 
at 483-484 (citing Commonwealth v.  Fuartado, 170 S. W. 3d 384 (2005)).  In its view, "collateral consequences are outside 

the  scope  of  representation  required  by  the  Sixth  Amend-ment,"  and,  therefore,  the  "failure  of  defense  counsel  to  ad-
vise  the  defendant  of  possible  deportation  consequences  is not  cognizable  as  a  claim  for  ineffective  assistance  of  coun-
sel."  253  S. W. 3d,  at 483.  The  Kentucky high  court is  far from alone in this view.

9 

We, however, have never applied a distinction between di-rect  and  collateral  consequences  to  define  the  scope  of  con-

stitutionally  "reasonable  professional  assistance"  required under 

Strickland,  466  U. S.,  at  689.  Whether  that  distinc-tion is appropriate is a question we need not consider in this 

case because of the unique nature of deportation. We have long recognized that deportation is a particularly 
severe  "penalty,"  Fong  Yue  Ting  v.  United  States,  149  U. S. 698,  740  (1893);  but  it  is  not,  in  a  strict  sense,  a  criminal 
sanction.  Although removal proceedings are civil in nature, see 

INS  v.  Lopez-Mendoza,  468  U. S.  1032,  1038  (1984),  de-portation  is  nevertheless  intimately  related  to  the  criminal 

process.  Our  law  has  enmeshed  criminal  convictions  and 
ing on the disposition of this case because, as even Justice

366  PADILLA  v.  KENTUCKY 

Opinion of the Court 
the  penalty  of  deportation  for  nearly  a  century,  see  Part  I, supra, at 360-364.  And, importantly, recent changes in our 

immigration law have made removal nearly an automatic re-sult for a broad class of noncitizen offenders.  Thus, we find 
it "most difficult" to divorce the penalty from the conviction in  the  deportation  context. 

United  States  v.  Russell,  686 F. 2d 35, 38 (CADC 1982).  Moreover, we are quite confident 

that  noncitizen  defendants  facing  a  risk  of  deportation  for  a particular  offense  find  it  even  more  difficult.  See  St.  Cyr, 
533 U. S., at 322 ("There can be little doubt that, as a general matter, alien defendants considering whether to enter into a 
plea agreement  are acutely aware  of the  immigration conse-quences of their convictions"). 

Deportation  as  a  consequence  of  a  criminal  conviction  is, because  of  its  close  connection  to  the  criminal  process, 
uniquely difficult  to classify as  either  a  direct or  a  collateral consequence.  The collateral versus direct distinction is thus 
ill  suited  to  evaluating  a  Strickland  claim  concerning  the specific  risk  of  deportation.  We  conclude  that  advice  re-
garding  deportation  is  not  categorically  removed  from  the ambit of the Sixth Amendment right to counsel. 

Strickland applies to Padilla's claim. 

III 
Under  Strickland,  we  first  determine  whether  counsel's representation  "fell  below  an  objective  standard  of  reason-

ableness."  466  U. S.,  at  688.  Then  we  ask  whether  "there is  a  reasonable  probability  that,  but  for  counsel's  unprofes-
sional  errors,  the  result  of  the  proceeding  would  have  been different."  Id.,  at  694.  The  first  prong--constitutional  de-
ficiency--is  necessarily  linked  to  the  practice  and  expec-tations  of  the  legal  community:  "The  proper  measure  of 
attorney  performance  remains  simply  reasonableness  under prevailing  professional  norms." 

Id.,  at  688.  We  long  have recognized  that  "[p]revailing  norms  of  practice  as  reflected 

in  American  Bar  Association  standards  and  the  like  .  .  .  are guides  to  determining  what  is  reasonable  .  .  .  ."  Ibid.; 

Cite as: 559 U. S. 356 (2010)  367 

Opinion of the Court 
Bobby  v.  Van  Hook,  558  U. S.  4,  7  (2009)  (per  curiam); 
Florida v.  Nixon, 543 U. S. 175, 191, and n. 6 (2004); Wiggins 
v.  Smith,  539  U. S.  510,  524  (2003);  Williams  v.  Taylor,  529 U. S.  362,  396  (2000).  Although  they  are  "only  guides," 

Strickland,  466  U. S.,  at  688,  and  not  "inexorable  com-mands," 

Bobby,  558  U. S.,  at  8,  these  standards  may  be 
valuable  measures  of  the  prevailing  professional  norms  of 

effective  representation,  especially  as  these  standards  have been  adapted to  deal with  the  intersection  of modern  crimi-

nal prosecutions and immigration law. The  weight  of  prevailing  professional  norms  supports  the 
view  that  counsel  must  advise  her  client  regarding  the  risk 
of  deportation.  National  Legal  Aid  and  Defender  Assn., 
Performance  Guidelines  for  Criminal  Defense  Representa-
tion $ 6.2 (1995); G. Herman, Plea Bargaining $ 3.03, pp. 20-21 
(1997);  Chin  &  Holmes,  Effective  Assistance  of  Counsel  and 
the  Consequences  of  Guilty  Pleas,  87  Cornell  L.  Rev.  697, 
713-718  (2002);  A.  Campbell,  Law  of  Sentencing  $ 13:23, 
pp.  555,  560  (3d  ed.  2004);  Dept.  of  Justice,  Office  of  Justice 
Programs, 2 Compendium of Standards for Indigent Defense 
Systems, Standards for Attorney Performance, pp. D10, H8- 
H9, J8 (2000) (providing survey of guidelines across multiple 
jurisdictions); ABA Standards for Criminal Justice, Prosecu-
tion  Function  and  Defense  Function  4-5.1(a),  p.  197  (3d  ed. 
1993);  ABA  Standards  for  Criminal  Justice,  Pleas  of  Guilty 
14-3.2(f),  p.  116  (3d  ed.  1999).  "[A]uthorities  of  every 
stripe--including  the  American  Bar  Association,  criminal 
defense  and  public  defender  organizations,  authoritative 
treatises,  and  state  and  city  bar  publications--universally 
require  defense  attorneys  to  advise  as  to  the  risk  of  de-
portation  consequences  for  non-citizen  clients  .  .  .  ."  Brief 
for  Legal  Ethics,  Criminal  Procedure,  and  Criminal  Law 
Professors as Amici Curiae 12-14 (footnotes omitted) (citing, 
inter alia, National Legal Aid and Defender Assn., Perform-
ance  Guidelines  for  Criminal  Prosecution  $$ 6.2-6.4  (1997); 
S. Bratton & E. Kelley, Practice Points: Representing a Non-

368  PADILLA  v.  KENTUCKY 

Opinion of the Court 
citizen  in  a  Criminal  Case,  31  The  Champion  61  (Jan. /Feb. 2007); N. Tooby, Criminal Defense of Immigrants $ 1.3 (3d ed. 

2003); 2 Criminal Practice Manual $$ 45:3, 45:15 (West 2009)). We too have previously recognized that " `[p]reserving the 
client's  right  to  remain  in  the  United  States  may  be  more important  to  the  client  than  any  potential  jail  sentence.' " 
St. Cyr, 533 U. S., at 322 (quoting 3 Bender, Criminal Defense 
Techniques $$ 60A.01, 60A.02[2] (1999)).  Likewise, we have recognized that "preserving the possibility of " discretionary 

relief  from  deportation  under  $ 212(c)  of  the  1952  INA,  66 Stat.  187,  repealed  by  Congress  in  1996,  "would  have  been 
one  of  the  principal  benefits  sought  by  defendants  deciding 
whether to accept a plea offer or instead to proceed to trial." 
St.  Cyr,  533  U. S.,  at  323.  We  expected  that  counsel  who 
were  unaware  of  the  discretionary  relief  measures  would 
"follo[w]  the  advice  of  numerous  practice  guides"  to  advise 
themselves  of  the  importance  of  this  particular  form  of  dis-
cretionary relief.  Ibid., n. 50. 

In the instant case, the terms of the relevant immigration 
statute  are  succinct,  clear,  and  explicit  in  defining  the  re-
moval  consequence  for  Padilla's  conviction.  See  8  U. S. C. 

$ 1227(a)(2)(B)(i)  ("Any  alien  who  at  any  time  after  admis-
sion  has  been  convicted  of  a  violation  of  (or  a  conspiracy 
or  attempt  to  violate)  any  law  or  regulation  of  a  State,  the 
United  States,  or  a  foreign  country  relating  to  a  controlled 
substance  .  .  .  ,  other  than  a  single  offense  involving  pos-
session  for  one's  own  use  of  30  grams  or  less  of  marijuana, 
is  deportable").  Padilla's  counsel  could  have  easily  deter-
mined that his plea would make him eligible for deportation 
simply from reading the text of the statute, which addresses 
not  some  broad  classification  of  crimes  but  specifically  com-
mands  removal  for  all  controlled  substances  convictions  ex-
cept  for  the  most  trivial  of  marijuana  possession  offenses. 
Instead,  Padilla's  counsel  provided  him  false  assurance  that 
his  conviction  would  not  result  in  his  removal  from  this 
country.  This is  not a hard case in  which to find deficiency: 

Cite as: 559 U. S. 356 (2010)  369 

Opinion of the Court 
The  consequences  of  Padilla's  plea  could  easily  be  deter-mined  from  reading  the  removal  statute,  his  deportation 

was  presumptively  mandatory,  and  his  counsel's  advice  was incorrect. 

Immigration law can be complex, and it is a legal specialty of its own.  Some members of the bar who represent clients 
facing  criminal  charges,  in  either  state  or  federal  court  or both,  may  not  be  well  versed  in  it.  There  will,  therefore, 
undoubtedly  be  numerous  situations  in  which  the  deporta-tion  consequences  of  a  particular  plea  are  unclear  or  uncer-
tain.  The  duty  of  the  private  practitioner  in  such  cases  is more limited.  When the law is not succinct and straightfor-
ward  (as  it  is  in  many  of  the  scenarios  posited  by  Justice

370  PADILLA  v.  KENTUCKY 

Opinion of the Court 
chooses to discuss these matters.  Brief for United States as Amicus Curiae 10. 

Respondent  and  Padilla  both  find  the  Solicitor  General's proposed  rule  unpersuasive,  although  it  has  support  among 
the lower courts.  See, e. g., United States v.  Couto, 311 F. 3d 179,  188  (CA2  2002); 

United  States  v.  Kwan,  407  F.  3d  1005 (CA9  2005);  Sparks  v.  Sowders,  852  F.  2d  882  (CA6  1988); 

United States v.  Russell, 686 F. 2d 35 (CADC 1982); State v. Rojas-Martinez, 2005 UT 86, 125 P. 3d 930, 935; In re Resen-
diz,  25  Cal.  4th  230,  19  P.  3d  1171  (2001).  Kentucky  de-scribes  these  decisions  isolating  an  affirmative  misadvice 
claim  as  "result-driven,  incestuous . . .  [,  and]  completely lacking in legal or rational bases."  Brief for Respondent 31. 
We  do  not  share  that  view,  but  we  agree  that  there  is  no relevant difference "between an act of commission and an act 
of omission" in this context.  Id., at 30; Strickland, 466 U. S., at 690  ("The court must then  determine whether, in  light  of 
all  the  circumstances,  the  identified  acts  or  omissions  were outside  the  wide  range  of  professionally  competent  assist-
ance"); see also State v.  Paredez, 2004-NMSC-036, 136 N. M. 533, 538-539. 

A  holding  limited  to  affirmative  misadvice  would  invite two  absurd  results.  First,  it  would  give  counsel  an  incen-
tive  to  remain  silent  on  matters  of  great  importance,  even when  answers  are  readily  available.  Silence  under  these 
circumstances would be fundamentally at odds with the criti-cal  obligation  of  counsel  to  advise  the  client  of  "the  advan-
tages  and  disadvantages  of  a  plea  agreement."  Libretti  v. 
United  States,  516  U. S.  29,  50-51  (1995).  When  attorneys know  that  their  clients  face  possible  exile  from  this  country 

and  separation  from  their  families,  they  should  not  be  en-couraged  to  say  nothing  at  all.

11  Second,  it  would  deny  a 

11 As the Commonwealth conceded at oral argument, were a defendant's 
lawyer to know that a particular offense would result in the client's depor-
tation and that, upon deportation, the client and his family might well be 
killed due to circumstances in the client's home country, any decent attor-

Cite as: 559 U. S. 356 (2010)  371 

Opinion of the Court 
class  of  clients  least  able  to  represent  themselves  the  most rudimentary  advice  on  deportation  even  when  it  is  readily 

available.  It  is  quintessentially  the  duty  of  counsel  to  pro-vide  her  client  with  available  advice  about  an  issue  like  de-
portation,  and  the  failure  to  do  so  "clearly  satisfies  the  first prong  of  the 

Strickland  analysis."  Hill  v.  Lockhart,  474 U. S. 52, 62 (1985) (White, J., concurring in judgment). 

We  have  given  serious  consideration  to  the  concerns  that the  Solicitor  General,  respondent,  and  amici  have  stressed 
regarding the importance of protecting the finality of convic-tions  obtained  through  guilty  pleas.  We  confronted  a  simi-
lar "floodgates" concern in Hill, see id., at 58, but neverthe-less  applied 

Strickland  to  a  claim  that  counsel  had  failed  to advise  the  client  regarding  his  parole  eligibility  before  he 

pleaded guilty.12 A flood did not follow in that decision's wake.  Surmount-
ing  Strickland's  high  bar  is  never  an  easy  task.  See,  e. g., 466  U. S., at 689 ("Judicial scrutiny of counsel's performance 
must be highly deferential"); id., at 693 (observing that "[a]t-torney  errors  .  .  .  are  as  likely  to  be  utterly  harmless  in  a 

ney  would  inform  the  client  of  the  consequences  of  his  plea.  Tr.  of  Oral 
Arg. 37-38.  We think the same result should follow when the stakes are 
not life and death but merely "banishment or exile," Delgadillo v.  Carmi-
chael, 332 U. S. 388, 390-391 (1947). 

12 However, we concluded that, even  though Strickland applied to peti-

tioner's  claim,  he  had  not  sufficiently  alleged  prejudice  to  satisfy  Strick-
land's  second  prong.  Hill,  474  U. S.,  at  59-60.  This  disposition  further 
underscores the fact that it is often quite difficult for petitioners who have 
acknowledged their guilt to satisfy Strickland's prejudice prong. 

Justice

372  PADILLA  v.  KENTUCKY 

Opinion of the Court 
particular case as they are to be prejudicial").  Moreover, to 
obtain relief on this type of claim, a petitioner must convince 
the  court  that  a  decision  to  reject  the  plea  bargain  would 
have  been  rational  under  the  circumstances.  See  Roe  v. 
Flores-Ortega,  528  U. S.  470,  480,  486  (2000).  There  is  no 
reason  to  doubt  that  lower  courts--now  quite  experienced 
with applying Strickland--can effectively and efficiently use 
its  framework  to  separate  specious  claims  from  those  with 
substantial merit. 

It  seems  unlikely  that  our  decision  today  will  have  a  sig-
nificant  effect  on  those  convictions  already  obtained  as  the 
result  of plea  bargains.  For at least the  past 15  years, pro-
fessional  norms  have  generally  imposed  an  obligation  on 
counsel to provide advice on the deportation consequences of 
a  client's  plea.  See  supra,  at  368-371.  We  should,  there-
fore, presume that counsel satisfied their obligation to render 
competent  advice at  the  time  their  clients  considered  plead-
ing guilty.  Strickland, 466 U. S., at 689. 

Likewise,  although  we  must  be  especially  careful  about 
recognizing  new grounds for attacking  the  validity  of guilty 
pleas,  in  the  25  years  since  we  first  applied  Strickland  to 
claims of ineffective assistance at the plea stage, practice has 
shown that pleas are less frequently the subject of collateral 
challenges than convictions obtained after a trial.  Pleas ac-
count for nearly 95% of all criminal convictions.13  But they 
account  for  only  approximately  30%  of  the  habeas  petitions 
filed.14  The  nature  of  relief  secured  by  a  successful  collat-

13 See Dept. of Justice, Bureau of Justice Statistics, Sourcebook of Crimi-
nal Justice Statistics 2003, p. 418 (31st ed. 2005) (Table 5.17) (only approxi-
mately  5%,  or  8,612  out  of  68,533,  of  federal  criminal  prosecutions  go  to 
trial);  id.,  at  450  (Table  5.46)  (only  approximately  5%  of  all  state  felony 
criminal prosecutions go to trial). 

14 See  V.  Flango,  National  Center  for  State  Courts,  Habeas  Corpus  in 

State and Federal Courts 36-38 (1994) (demonstrating that 5% of defend-
ants whose conviction was the result of a trial  account for approximately 
70% of the habeas petitions filed). 

Cite as: 559 U. S. 356 (2010)  373 

Opinion of the Court 
eral  challenge  to  a  guilty  plea--an  opportunity  to  withdraw 
the  plea  and  proceed  to  trial--imposes  its  own  significant 
limiting  principle: Those  who collaterally  attack  their  guilty 
pleas  lose  the  benefit  of  the  bargain  obtained  as  a  result  of 
the  plea.  Thus,  a  different  calculus  informs  whether  it  is 
wise  to  challenge  a  guilty  plea  in  a  habeas  proceeding  be-
cause, ultimately, the challenge may result in a less favorable 
outcome for the defendant, whereas a collateral challenge to 
a conviction obtained after  a jury  trial has no similar  down-
side potential. 

Finally, informed consideration of possible deportation can 
only benefit both the State and noncitizen defendants during 
the  plea-bargaining  process.  By  bringing  deportation  con-
sequences into this process, the defense and prosecution may 
well  be  able  to  reach  agreements  that  better  satisfy  the  in-
terests  of  both  parties.  As  in  this  case,  a  criminal  episode 
may  provide  the  basis  for  multiple  charges,  of  which  only  a 
subset  mandate  deportation  following  conviction.  Counsel 
who possess the most rudimentary understanding of the de-
portation  consequences  of  a  particular  criminal  offense  may 
be  able  to  plea  bargain  creatively  with  the  prosecutor  in 
order to craft a conviction and sentence that reduce the like-
lihood  of  deportation,  as  by  avoiding  a  conviction  for  an  of-
fense  that  automatically  triggers  the  removal  consequence. 
At the same time, the threat of deportation may provide the 
defendant  with  a  powerful  incentive  to  plead  guilty  to  an 
offense  that  does  not  mandate  that  penalty  in  exchange  for 
a dismissal of a charge that does. 

In sum,  we have  long recognized  that the negotiation of a 
plea  bargain  is  a  critical  phase  of  litigation  for  purposes  of 
the Sixth Amendment right to effective assistance of counsel. 
Hill, 474 U. S., at 57; see also Richardson, 397 U. S., at 770- 
771.  The  severity  of  deportation--"the  equivalent  of  ban-
ishment  or  exile,"  Delgadillo  v.  Carmichael,  332  U. S.  388, 
390-391  (1947)--only  underscores how  critical it  is for coun-

374  PADILLA  v.  KENTUCKY 

Opinion of the Court 
sel  to  inform  her  noncitizen  client  that  he  faces  a  risk  of deportation.

15 

V 
It  is  our  responsibility  under  the  Constitution  to  ensure that no criminal defendant--whether a citizen or not--is left 

to  the  "mercies  of  incompetent  counsel."  Richardson,  397 U. S., at 771.  To satisfy this responsibility, we now hold that 
counsel must inform her client whether his plea carries a risk of  deportation.  Our  longstanding  Sixth  Amendment  prece-
dents,  the  seriousness  of  deportation  as  a  consequence  of  a criminal  plea,  and  the  concomitant  impact  of  deportation  on 
families living lawfully in this country demand no less. Taking  as  true  the  basis  for  his  motion  for  postconviction 
relief,  we  have  little  difficulty  concluding  that  Padilla  has sufficiently  alleged  that  his  counsel  was  constitutionally  de-
ficient.  Whether  Padilla  is  entitled  to  relief  will  depend  on whether he can  demonstrate  prejudice  as a result  thereof, a 
question we do not reach because it was not passed on below. 

15 To this end, we find it significant that the plea form currently used in 
Kentucky  courts  provides  notice  of  possible  immigration  consequences. 
Ky. Admin. Office of Courts, Motion to Enter Guilty Plea, Form AOC-491 
(rev.  Feb.  2003),  http://courts.ky.gov/NR/rdonlyres/55E1F54E-ED5C-
4A30-B1D5-4C43C7ADD63C/0/491.pdf (as visited Mar. 29, 2010, and avail-
able  in  Clerk  of  Court's  case  file).  Further,  many  States  require  trial 
courts  to  advise  defendants  of  possible  immigration  consequences.  See, 
e. g., Alaska Rule Crim. Proc. 11(c)(3)(C) (2009-2010); Cal. Penal Code Ann. 

$ 1016.5  (West  2008);  Conn.  Gen.  Stat.  $ 54-1j  (2009);  D.  C.  Code  $ 16-713 
(2001); Fla. Rule Crim. Proc. 3.172(c)(8) (Supp. 2010); Ga. Code Ann. $ 17-7- 
93(c) (1997); Haw. Rev. Stat. Ann. $ 802E-2 (2007); Iowa Rule Crim. Proc. 
2.8(2)(b)(3)  (Supp.  2009);  Md.  Rule  4-242  (Lexis  2009);  Mass.  Gen.  Laws, 
ch. 278, $ 29D (West 2009); Minn. Rule Crim. Proc. 15.01 (2009); Mont. Code 
Ann. $ 46-12-210 (West 2009); N. M. Rule Crim. Form 9-406 (2009); N. Y. 
Crim. Proc. Law Ann. $ 220.50(7) (West Supp. 2009); N. C. Gen. Stat. Ann. 

$ 15A-1022 (Lexis 2007); Ohio Rev. Code Ann. $ 2943.031 (West 2006); Ore. 
Rev. Stat. $ 135.385 (2007); R. I. Gen. Laws $ 12-12-22 (Lexis Supp. 2008); 
Tex. Code Crim. Proc. Ann., Art. 26.13(a)(4) (Vernon Supp. 2009); Vt. Stat. 
Ann., Tit. 13, $ 6565(c)(1) (Supp. 2009); Wash. Rev. Code $ 10.40.200 (2008); 
Wis. Stat. $ 971.08 (2005-2006). 

Cite as: 559 U. S. 356 (2010)  375 
Alito,
376  PADILLA  v.  KENTUCKY 

Alito,

Cite as: 559 U. S. 356 (2010)  377 
Alito,
378  PADILLA  v.  KENTUCKY 

Alito,

Cite as: 559 U. S. 356 (2010)  379 
Alito,
380  PADILLA  v.  KENTUCKY 

Alito,

Cite as: 559 U. S. 356 (2010)  381 
Alito,
382  PADILLA  v.  KENTUCKY 

Alito,

Cite as: 559 U. S. 356 (2010)  383 
Alito,
384  PADILLA  v.  KENTUCKY 

Alito,

Cite as: 559 U. S. 356 (2010)  385 
Alito,
386  PADILLA  v.  KENTUCKY 

Alito,

Cite as: 559 U. S. 356 (2010)  387 
Alito,
388  PADILLA  v.  KENTUCKY 

Scalia,
Cite as: 559 U. S. 356 (2010)  389 

Scalia,
390  PADILLA  v.  KENTUCKY 

Scalia,
Cite as: 559 U. S. 356 (2010)  391 

Scalia,
392  PADILLA  v.  KENTUCKY 

Scalia,
OCTOBER  TERM,  2009  393 

Syllabus 

SHADY  GROVE  ORTHOPEDIC  ASSOCIATES,  P.  A.  v. ALLSTATE  INSURANCE  CO. 
certiorari

394  SHADY  GROVE  ORTHOPEDIC  ASSOCIATES,  P.  A. 

v.  ALLSTATE  INS.  CO. 

Syllabus 

is  entirely  artificial  and,  in  any  event,  Rule  23  explicitly  empowers  a 
federal court  to  certify  a  class in  every case  meeting  its  criteria.  All-
state's  arguments  based  on  the  exclusion  of  some  federal  claims  from 
Rule 23's reach pursuant to federal statutes and on $ 901's structure are 
unpersuasive.  Pp. 398-401. 

(c)  The dissent's claim that $ 901(b) can coexist with Rule 23 because 
it addresses only the remedy available to class plaintiffs is foreclosed by 

$ 901(b)'s  text,  notwithstanding  its  perceived  purpose.  The  principle 
that courts should read ambiguous Federal Rules to avoid overstepping 
the  authorizing  statute,  28  U. S. C.  $ 2072(b),  does  not  apply  because 
Rule  23  is  clear.  The  dissent's  approach  does  not  avoid  a  conflict  be-
tween  $ 901(b)  and  Rule  23  but  instead  would  render  Rule  23  partially 
invalid.  Pp. 401-406. 

Justice

Cite as: 559 U. S. 393 (2010)  395 

Opinion of the Court 
Justice

396  SHADY  GROVE  ORTHOPEDIC  ASSOCIATES,  P.  A. 

v.  ALLSTATE  INS.  CO. 

Opinion of the Court 

which  The

Cite as: 559 U. S. 393 (2010)  397 

Opinion of the Court 

I 
The  petitioner's  complaint  alleged  the  following:  Shady Grove Orthopedic Associates, P. A., provided medical care to 

Sonia  E.  Galvez  for  injuries  she  suffered  in  an  automobile accident.  As partial payment for that care, Galvez assigned 
to Shady Grove her rights to insurance benefits under a pol-icy  issued  in  New  York  by  Allstate  Insurance  Co.  Shady 
Grove tendered a claim for the assigned benefits to Allstate, which  under  New  York  law  had  30  days  to  pay  the  claim 
or  deny  it.  See  N.  Y.  Ins.  Law  Ann.  $ 5106(a)  (West  2009). Allstate  apparently  paid,  but  not  on  time,  and  it  refused  to 
pay the statutory interest that accrued on the overdue bene-fits (at two percent per month), see ibid. 

Shady  Grove  filed  this  diversity  suit  in  the  Eastern  Dis-trict  of  New  York  to  recover  the  unpaid  statutory  interest. 
Alleging  that  Allstate  routinely  refuses  to  pay  interest  on overdue  benefits,  Shady  Grove  sought  relief  on  behalf  of  it-
self and a class of all others to whom Allstate owes interest. The District Court dismissed the suit for lack of jurisdiction. 
466 F. Supp. 2d 467 (2006).  It reasoned that N. Y. Civ. Prac. Law Ann. $ 901(b), which precludes a suit to recover a "pen-
alty"  from  proceeding  as  a  class  action,  applies  in  diversity suits  in  federal  court,  despite  Federal  Rule  of  Civil  Proce-
dure  23.  Concluding  that  statutory  interest  is  a  "penalty" under New York law, it held that $ 901(b) prohibited the pro-
posed  class  action.  And,  since  Shady  Grove  conceded  that its  individual  claim  (worth  roughly  $500)  fell  far  short  of 

the  amount-in-controversy  requirement  for  individual  suits under 28 U. S. C. $ 1332(a), the  suit did  not  belong in  federal 
court.3 

3 Shady  Grove  had  asserted  jurisdiction  under  28  U. S. C.  $ 1332(d)(2), 
which relaxes, for class actions seeking at least $5 million, the rule against 
aggregating separate claims for calculation of  the amount in  controversy. 
See  Exxon  Mobil  Corp.  v.  Allapattah  Services,  Inc.,  545  U. S.  546,  571 
(2005). 

398  SHADY  GROVE  ORTHOPEDIC  ASSOCIATES,  P.  A. 

v.  ALLSTATE  INS.  CO. 

Opinion of the Court 

The  Second  Circuit  affirmed.  549  F.  3d  137  (2008).  The court did not dispute that a Federal Rule adopted in compli-

ance  with  the  Rules  Enabling  Act,  28  U. S. C.  $ 2072,  would control  if  it  conflicted  with  $ 901(b).  But  there  was  no  con-
flict  because  (as  we  will  describe  in  more  detail  below)  the Second  Circuit  concluded  that  Rule  23  and  $ 901(b)  address 
different issues.  Finding no Federal Rule on point, the Court of  Appeals  held  that  $ 901(b)  is  "substantive"  within  the 
meaning of Erie R. Co. v.  Tompkins, 304 U. S. 64 (1938), and thus  must  be  applied  by  federal  courts  sitting  in  diversity. 

We granted certiorari.  556 U. S. 1220 (2009). 

II 
The framework for our decision is familiar.  We must first determine whether Rule 23 answers the question in dispute. 

Burlington Northern R. Co. v.  Woods, 480 U. S. 1, 4-5 (1987). If it does, it governs--New York's law notwithstanding--un-
less  it  exceeds  statutory  authorization  or  Congress's  rule-making  power. 

Id.,  at  5;  see  Hanna  v.  Plumer,  380  U. S. 460, 463-464 (1965).  We do not wade into Erie's murky wa-

ters unless  the  Federal Rule  is  inapplicable  or invalid.  See 380 U. S., at 469-471. 

A 
The question in dispute is whether Shady Grove's suit may proceed  as  a  class  action.  Rule  23  provides  an  answer.  It 

states that "[a] class action may be maintained" if two condi-tions  are  met:  The  suit  must satisfy  the  criteria  set  forth  in 
subdivision (a) (i. e., numerosity, commonality, typicality, and adequacy  of  representation),  and  it  also  must  fit  into  one  of 
the three categories described in subdivision (b).  Fed. Rule Civ. Proc. 23(b).  By its terms this creates a categorical rule 
entitling  a  plaintiff  whose  suit  meets  the  specified  criteria to  pursue  his  claim  as  a  class  action.  (The  Federal  Rules 
regularly  use  "may"  to  confer  categorical  permission,  see, 
e. g.,  Fed.  Rules  Civ.  Proc.  8(d)(2)-(3),  14(a)(1),  18(a)-(b), 20(a)(1)-(2),  27(a)(1),  30(a)(1),  as  do  federal  statutes  that  es-

Cite as: 559 U. S. 393 (2010)  399 

Opinion of the Court 
tablish  procedural  entitlements,  see,  e. g.,  29  U. S. C. $ 626(c)(1);  42  U. S. C.  $ 2000e-5(f )(1).)  Thus,  Rule  23  pro-

vides  a  one-size-fits-all  formula  for  deciding  the  class-action question.  Because  $ 901(b)  attempts  to  answer  the  same 
question--i. e., it states that Shady Grove's suit "may not be maintained as a class action" (emphasis added) because of the 
relief it seeks--it cannot apply in diversity suits unless Rule 
23 is ultra vires. The  Second  Circuit  believed  that  $ 901(b)  and  Rule  23  do 

not  conflict because  they  address  different  issues.  Rule  23, it said, concerns only the criteria for determining whether a 
given class can and should be certified; $ 901(b), on the other 
hand, addresses an antecedent question: whether the partic-
ular  type  of  claim  is  eligible  for  class  treatment  in  the  first 
place--a question on which Rule 23 is silent.  See 549 F. 3d, 
at 143-144.  Allstate embraces  this  analysis.  Brief for  Re-
spondent 12-13. 

We  disagree.  To  begin  with,  the  line  between  eligibility 
and  certifiability  is  entirely  artificial.  Both  are  precondi-
tions  for  maintaining  a  class  action.  Allstate  suggests  that 
eligibility  must  depend  on  the  "particular  cause  of  action" 
asserted,  instead  of  some  other  attribute  of  the  suit,  id., 
at 12.  But that is not so.  Congress could, for example, pro-
vide  that  only  claims  involving  more  than  a  certain  number 
of  plaintiffs  are  "eligible"  for  class  treatment  in  federal 
court.  In other words, relabeling Rule  23(a)'s prerequisites 
"eligibility  criteria"  would  obviate  Allstate's  objection-- 
a  sure  sign  that  its  eligibility-certifiability  distinction  is 
made-to-order. 

There  is  no  reason,  in  any  event,  to  read  Rule  23  as  ad-
dressing  only  whether  claims  made  eligible  for  class  treat-
ment  by  some  other law  should  be  certified  as  class  actions. 
Allstate asserts that Rule 23 neither explicitly nor implicitly 
empowers  a  federal  court  "to  certify  a  class  in  each  and 
every case" where the Rule's criteria are met.  Id., at 13-14. 
But  that  is  exactly  what  Rule  23  does:  It  says  that  if  the 

400  SHADY  GROVE  ORTHOPEDIC  ASSOCIATES,  P.  A. 

v.  ALLSTATE  INS.  CO. 

Opinion of the Court 

prescribed  preconditions  are  satisfied  "[a]  class  action  may 
be  maintained"  (emphasis  added)--not  "a  class  action  may 
be permitted."  Courts do not maintain actions; litigants do. The  discretion  suggested  by  Rule  23's  "may"  is  discretion 

residing  in  the  plaintiff:  He  may  bring  his  claim  in  a  class action  if  he wishes.  And  like  the  rest  of the  Federal  Rules 
of Civil Procedure, Rule 23 automatically applies "in all civil 
actions and proceedings in the United States district courts," Fed. Rule Civ. Proc. 1.  See 

Califano v.  Yamasaki, 442 U. S. 
682, 699-700 (1979). Allstate points out that Congress has carved out some fed-

eral  claims  from  Rule  23's  reach,  see,  e. g.,  8   U. S. C.  

$ 1252(e)(1)(B)--which shows, Allstate contends, that Rule 23 
does  not  authorize  class  actions  for  all  claims,  but  rather 
leaves  room  for  laws  like  $ 901(b).  But  Congress,  unlike 
New York, has ultimate authority over the Federal Rules of 
Civil Procedure; it can create exceptions to an individual rule 
as  it  sees  fit--either  by  directly  amending  the  rule  or  by 
enacting a separate statute overriding it in certain instances. 
Cf.  Henderson  v.  United  States,  517  U. S.  654,  668  (1996). 
The  fact  that  Congress  has  created  specific  exceptions  to 
Rule 23 hardly proves that the Rule does not apply generally. 
In  fact,  it  proves  the  opposite.  If  Rule  23  did  not  author-
ize  class  actions  across  the  board,  the  statutory  exceptions 
would be unnecessary. 

Allstate  next  suggests  that  the  structure  of  $ 901  shows 
that Rule  23 addresses only  certifiability.  Section 901(a),  it 
notes,  establishes  class-certification  criteria  roughly  analo-
gous to those in Rule 23 (wherefore it agrees that subsection 
is pre-empted).  But $ 901(b)'s rule  barring  class  actions  for 
certain  claims  is  set  off  as  its  own  subsection,  and  where  it 
applies, $ 901(a) does not.  This shows, according to Allstate, 
that  $ 901(b)  concerns  a  separate  subject.  Perhaps  it  does 
concern a subject separate from the subject of $ 901(a).  But 
the question before us is whether it concerns a subject sepa-
rate  from  the  subject  of  Rule  23--and  for  purposes  of  an-

Cite as: 559 U. S. 393 (2010)  401 

Opinion of the Court 
swering  that question  the  way  New York  has structured its statute is immaterial.  Rule 23 permits all class actions that 

meet its requirements, and a State cannot limit that permis-sion  by  structuring  one  part  of  its  statute  to  track  Rule  23 
and  enacting  another  part  that  imposes  additional  require-ments.  Both  of  $ 901's  subsections  undeniably  answer  the 
same  question  as  Rule  23:  whether  a  class  action  may  pro-ceed for a given suit.  Cf. 

Burlington, 480 U. S., at 7-8. The  dissent  argues  that  $ 901(b)  has  nothing  to  do  with 

whether Shady Grove may maintain its suit as a class action, but  affects  only  the  remedy  it  may  obtain  if  it  wins.  See 
post,  at  443-451  (opinion  of  Ginsburg,

402  SHADY  GROVE  ORTHOPEDIC  ASSOCIATES,  P.  A. 

v.  ALLSTATE  INS.  CO. 

Opinion of the Court 

quently,  a  court  bound  by  $ 901(b)  could  not  certify  a  class action  seeking  both  statutory  penalties  and  other  remedies 

even  if  it  announces  in  advance  that  it  will  refuse  to  award the  penalties  in  the  event  the  plaintiffs  prevail;  to  do  so 
would  violate  the  statute's  clear  prohibition  on  "maintain-[ing]" such suits as class actions. 

The dissent asserts that a plaintiff can avoid $ 901(b)'s bar-rier  by  omitting  from  his  complaint  (or  removing)  a  request 
for statutory penalties.  See post, at 449-450.  Even assum-ing all statutory penalties are waivable,

5  the fact that a com-

plaint omitting them could be brought as a class action would not  at  all  prove  that  $ 901(b)  is  addressed  only  to  remedies. 

If the state law instead banned class actions for fraud claims, a  would-be  class-action  plaintiff  could  drop  the  fraud  counts 
from his complaint and proceed with the remainder in a class action.  Yet  that  would  not  mean  the  law  provides  no  rem-
edy  for  fraud;  the  ban  would  affect  only  the  procedural means  by  which  the  remedy  may  be  pursued.  In  short,  al-
though  the  dissent  correctly  abandons  Allstate's  eligibility-certifiability  distinction,  the  alternative  it  offers  fares  no 
better. The dissent all but admits that the literal terms of $ 901(b) 
address  the  same  subject  as  Rule  23--i. e.,  whether  a  class action  may  be  maintained--but  insists  the  provision's 

pur-pose  is  to  restrict  only  remedies.  See  post,  at  447-448; 

post,  at  450  ("[W]hile  phrased  as  responsive  to  the  question whether  certain  class  actions  may  begin,  $ 901(b)  is  unmis-
takably  aimed  at  controlling  how  those  actions  must  end"). Unlike  Rule  23,  designed  to  further  procedural  fairness  and 
efficiency,  $ 901(b) (we  are  told)  "responds to  an entirely  dif-ferent concern": the fear that allowing statutory damages to 
be  awarded  on  a  classwide  basis  would  "produce  overkill." 
Post,  at  447,  444  (internal  quotation  marks  omitted).  The 

5 But see, e. g., Asher v.  Abbott Labs., 290 App. Div. 2d 208, 737 N. Y. S. 
2d 4  (2002) (treble  damages under N. Y. Gen. Bus.  Law  Ann. $ 340(5) are 
nonwaivable, wherefore class actions under that law are barred). 

Cite as: 559 U. S. 393 (2010)  403 

Opinion of the Court 
dissent reaches this conclusion on the basis of (1) constituent concern  recorded  in  the  law's  bill  jacket;  (2)  a  commentary 

suggesting  that  the  legislature  "apparently  fear[ed]"  that combining class actions and statutory penalties "could result 
in  annihilating  punishment  of  the  defendant,"  V.  Alexander, Practice Commentaries, C901:11, reprinted in 7B McKinney's 
Consolidated Laws of New York Ann., p. 104 (2006) (internal quotation  marks  omitted);  (3)  a  remark  by  the  Governor  in 
his  signing  statement  that  $ 901(b)  " `provides  a  controlled remedy,' " 

post,  at  444  (quoting  Memorandum  on  Approving L.  1975,  Ch.  207,  reprinted  in  1975  N. Y.  Laws,  p.  1748;  em-

phasis  deleted);  and  (4)  a  state  court's  statement  that  the final text of $ 901(b) " `was the result of a compromise among 
competing interests,' " post, at 444 (quoting Sperry v.  Cromp-
ton Corp., 8 N. Y. 3d 204, 211, 863 N. E. 2d 1012, 1015 (2007)). This  evidence  of  the  New  York  Legislature's  purpose  is 

pretty  sparse.  But  even  accepting  the  dissent's  account  of the  legislature's  objective  at  face  value,  it  cannot  override 
the  statute's  clear  text.  Even  if  its  aim  is  to  restrict  the remedy  a  plaintiff  can  obtain,  $ 901(b)  achieves  that  end  by 
limiting  a  plaintiff 's  power  to  maintain  a  class  action.  The manner in which the law "could have been written," 

post, at 457,  has  no  bearing;  what  matters  is  the  law  the  legislature 

did enact.  We cannot rewrite that to reflect our perception of  legislative  purpose,  see  Oncale  v.  Sundowner  Offshore 
Services, Inc., 523 U. S. 75, 79-80 (1998).6  The dissent's con-

6 Our decision in Walker v.  Armco Steel Corp., 446 U. S. 740 (1980), dis-
cussed by the dissent, post, at 441, 448, n. 8, is not to the contrary.  There 
we  held  that  Rule  3  (which  provides  that  a  federal  civil  action  is  " `com-
menced' "  by  filing  a  complaint  in  federal  court)  did  not  displace  a  state 
law  providing  that  " `[a]n  action  shall  be  deemed  commenced,  within  the 
meaning of this article [the statute of limitations], as to each defendant, 
at the date of  the summons  which is  served on  him  . . . .' "  446 U. S.,  at 
743,  n.  4  (quoting  Okla.  Stat.,  Tit.  12,  $ 97  (1971);  alteration  in  original; 
emphasis  added).  Rule  3,  we  explained,  "governs  the  date  from  which 
various timing  requirements of the Federal Rules begin  to run,  but does 
not  affect  state  statutes  of  limitations"  or  tolling  rules,  which  it  did  not 

404  SHADY  GROVE  ORTHOPEDIC  ASSOCIATES,  P.  A. 

v.  ALLSTATE  INS.  CO. 

Opinion of the Court 

cern  for  state  prerogatives  is  frustrated  rather  than  fur-thered  by  revising  state  laws  when  a  potential  conflict  with 

a  Federal  Rule  arises;  the  state-friendly  approach  would  be to accept the law as written and test the validity of the Fed-
eral Rule. The  dissent's  approach  of  determining  whether  state  and 
federal  rules  conflict  based  on  the  subjective  intentions  of 
the  state  legislature  is  an  enterprise  destined  to  produce "confusion  worse  confounded," 

Sibbach  v.  Wilson & Co.,  312 
U. S.  1,  14  (1941).  It  would  mean,  to  begin  with,  that  one State's  statute  could  survive  pre-emption  (and  accordingly 

affect  the  procedures in  federal court)  while  another State's identical  law  would  not,  merely  because  its  authors  had  dif-
ferent  aspirations.  It  would  also  mean  that  district  courts would  have  to  discern,  in  every  diversity  case,  the  purpose 
behind  any  putatively  pre-empted  state  procedural  rule, 
even  if  its  text  squarely  conflicts  with  federal  law.  That 
task  will  often  prove  arduous.  Many  laws  further  more 
than  one  aim,  and  the  aim  of  others  may  be  impossible  to 
discern.  Moreover,  to  the  extent  the  dissent's  purposedriven  approach depends on  its characterization of $ 901(b)'s 
aims  as  substantive,  it  would  apply  to  many  state  rules  os-
tensibly  addressed  to  procedure.  Pleading  standards,  for 
example, often embody policy preferences about the types of 
claims that should succeed--as do rules governing summary 
judgment, pretrial discovery, and the admissibility of certain 
evidence.  Hard cases will abound.  It is not even clear that 
a  state  supreme  court's  pronouncement of  the  law's  purpose 
would  settle  the  issue,  since  existence  of  the  factual  predi-

"purpor[t] to displace."  446 U. S., at 751, 750.  The texts were therefore 
not in conflict.  While our opinion observed that the State's actual-service 
rule was (in the State's judgment) an "integral part of the several policies 
served  by  the  statute  of  limitations,"  id.,  at  751,  nothing  in  our  decision 
suggested  that  a  federal  court  may  resolve  an  obvious  conflict  between 
the texts of state and federal rules by resorting to the state law's ostensi-
ble objectives. 

Cite as: 559 U. S. 393 (2010)  405 

Opinion of the Court 
cate for  avoiding  federal pre-emption  is  ultimately  a  federal 
question.  Predictably,  federal  judges  would  be  condemned 
to  poring  through  state  legislative  history--which  may  be 
less easily obtained,  less thorough, and less  familiar than  its 
federal  counterpart,  see  R.  Mersky  &  D.  Dunn,  Fundamen-
tals of Legal Research 233 (8th ed. 2002); Torres & Windsor, 
State  Legislative  Histories:  A  Select,  Annotated  Bibliogra-
phy, 85 L. Lib. J. 545, 547 (1993). 

But  while  the  dissent  does  indeed  artificially  narrow  the 
scope  of  $ 901(b)  by  finding  that  it  pursues  only  substantive 
policies, that is not the central difficulty of the dissent's posi-
tion.  The central difficulty is  that even artificial narrowing 
cannot  render  $ 901(b)  compatible  with  Rule  23.  Whatever 
the  policies  they  pursue,  they  flatly  contradict  each  other. 
Allstate  asserts  (and  the  dissent  implies,  see  post,  at  438, 
446)  that  we  can  (and  must)  interpret  Rule  23  in  a  manner 
that  avoids  overstepping  its  authorizing  statute.7  If  the 
Rule were susceptible of two meanings--one that would vio-

7 The dissent also suggests that we should read the Federal Rules " `with 
sensitivity to  important  state interests' "  and " `to  avoid  conflict  with im-
portant  state  regulatory  policies.' "  Post,  at  442  (quoting  Gasperini  v. 
Center  for  Humanities,  Inc.,  518  U. S.  415,  427,  n.  7,  438,  n.  22  (1996)). 
The search for state interests and policies that are "important" is just as 
standardless  as  the  "important  or  substantial"  criterion  we  rejected  in 
Sibbach  v.  Wilson  &  Co.,  312  U. S.  1,  13-14  (1941),  to  define  the  statecreated rights a Federal Rule may not abridge. 

If  all  the  dissent  means  is  that  we  should  read  an  ambiguous  Federal 
Rule to avoid "substantial variations [in outcomes] between state and fed-
eral litigation," Semtek Int'l Inc. v.  Lockheed Martin Corp., 531 U. S. 497, 
504  (2001)  (internal  quotation  marks  omitted),  we  entirely  agree.  We 
should do so not to avoid doubt as to the Rule's validity--since a Federal 
Rule  that  fails  Erie's  forum-shopping  test  is  not  ipso  facto  invalid,  see 
Hanna v.  Plumer, 380 U. S. 460, 469-472 (1965)--but because it is reason-
able  to  assume  that  "Congress  is  just  as  concerned  as  we  have  been  to 
avoid significant differences between state and federal courts in adjudicat-
ing claims," Stewart Organization, Inc. v.  Ricoh Corp., 487 U. S. 22, 37-38 
(1988)  (Scalia,

406  SHADY  GROVE  ORTHOPEDIC  ASSOCIATES,  P.  A. 

v.  ALLSTATE  INS.  CO. 

Opinion of Scalia,

Cite as: 559 U. S. 393 (2010)  407 

Opinion of Scalia,
408  SHADY  GROVE  ORTHOPEDIC  ASSOCIATES,  P.  A. 

v.  ALLSTATE  INS.  CO. 

Opinion of Scalia,

Cite as: 559 U. S. 393 (2010)  409 

Opinion of Scalia,
410  SHADY  GROVE  ORTHOPEDIC  ASSOCIATES,  P.  A. 

v.  ALLSTATE  INS.  CO. 

Opinion of Scalia,

Cite as: 559 U. S. 393 (2010)  411 

Opinion of Scalia,
412  SHADY  GROVE  ORTHOPEDIC  ASSOCIATES,  P.  A. 

v.  ALLSTATE  INS.  CO. 

Opinion of Scalia,

Cite as: 559 U. S. 393 (2010)  413 

Opinion of Scalia,
414  SHADY  GROVE  ORTHOPEDIC  ASSOCIATES,  P.  A. 

v.  ALLSTATE  INS.  CO. 

Opinion of Scalia,

Cite as: 559 U. S. 393 (2010)  415 

Opinion of Scalia,
416  SHADY  GROVE  ORTHOPEDIC  ASSOCIATES,  P.  A. 

v.  ALLSTATE  INS.  CO. 

Opinion of Stevens,

Cite as: 559 U. S. 393 (2010)  417 

Opinion of Stevens,
418  SHADY  GROVE  ORTHOPEDIC  ASSOCIATES,  P.  A. 

v.  ALLSTATE  INS.  CO. 

Opinion of Stevens,

Cite as: 559 U. S. 393 (2010)  419 

Opinion of Stevens,
420  SHADY  GROVE  ORTHOPEDIC  ASSOCIATES,  P.  A. 

v.  ALLSTATE  INS.  CO. 

Opinion of Stevens,

Cite as: 559 U. S. 393 (2010)  421 

Opinion of Stevens,
422  SHADY  GROVE  ORTHOPEDIC  ASSOCIATES,  P.  A. 

v.  ALLSTATE  INS.  CO. 

Opinion of Stevens,

Cite as: 559 U. S. 393 (2010)  423 

Opinion of Stevens,
424  SHADY  GROVE  ORTHOPEDIC  ASSOCIATES,  P.  A. 

v.  ALLSTATE  INS.  CO. 

Opinion of Stevens,

Cite as: 559 U. S. 393 (2010)  425 

Opinion of Stevens,
426  SHADY  GROVE  ORTHOPEDIC  ASSOCIATES,  P.  A. 

v.  ALLSTATE  INS.  CO. 

Opinion of Stevens,

Cite as: 559 U. S. 393 (2010)  427 

Opinion of Stevens,
428  SHADY  GROVE  ORTHOPEDIC  ASSOCIATES,  P.  A. 

v.  ALLSTATE  INS.  CO. 

Opinion of Stevens,

Cite as: 559 U. S. 393 (2010)  429 

Opinion of Stevens,
430  SHADY  GROVE  ORTHOPEDIC  ASSOCIATES,  P.  A. 

v.  ALLSTATE  INS.  CO. 

Opinion of Stevens,

Cite as: 559 U. S. 393 (2010)  431 

Opinion of Stevens,
432  SHADY  GROVE  ORTHOPEDIC  ASSOCIATES,  P.  A. 

v.  ALLSTATE  INS.  CO. 

Opinion of Stevens,

Cite as: 559 U. S. 393 (2010)  433 

Opinion of Stevens,
434  SHADY  GROVE  ORTHOPEDIC  ASSOCIATES,  P.  A. 

v.  ALLSTATE  INS.  CO. 

Opinion of Stevens,

Cite as: 559 U. S. 393 (2010)  435 

Opinion of Stevens,
436  SHADY  GROVE  ORTHOPEDIC  ASSOCIATES,  P.  A. 

v.  ALLSTATE  INS.  CO. 

Ginsburg,

Cite as: 559 U. S. 393 (2010)  437 

Ginsburg,
438  SHADY  GROVE  ORTHOPEDIC  ASSOCIATES,  P.  A. 

v.  ALLSTATE  INS.  CO. 

Ginsburg,

Cite as: 559 U. S. 393 (2010)  439 

Ginsburg,
440  SHADY  GROVE  ORTHOPEDIC  ASSOCIATES,  P.  A. 

v.  ALLSTATE  INS.  CO. 

Ginsburg,

Cite as: 559 U. S. 393 (2010)  441 

Ginsburg,
442  SHADY  GROVE  ORTHOPEDIC  ASSOCIATES,  P.  A. 

v.  ALLSTATE  INS.  CO. 

Ginsburg,

Cite as: 559 U. S. 393 (2010)  443 

Ginsburg,
444  SHADY  GROVE  ORTHOPEDIC  ASSOCIATES,  P.  A. 

v.  ALLSTATE  INS.  CO. 

Ginsburg,

Cite as: 559 U. S. 393 (2010)  445 

Ginsburg,
446  SHADY  GROVE  ORTHOPEDIC  ASSOCIATES,  P.  A. 

v.  ALLSTATE  INS.  CO. 

Ginsburg,

Cite as: 559 U. S. 393 (2010)  447 

Ginsburg,
448  SHADY  GROVE  ORTHOPEDIC  ASSOCIATES,  P.  A. 

v.  ALLSTATE  INS.  CO. 

Ginsburg,

Cite as: 559 U. S. 393 (2010)  449 

Ginsburg,
450  SHADY  GROVE  ORTHOPEDIC  ASSOCIATES,  P.  A. 

v.  ALLSTATE  INS.  CO. 

Ginsburg,

Cite as: 559 U. S. 393 (2010)  451 

Ginsburg,
452  SHADY  GROVE  ORTHOPEDIC  ASSOCIATES,  P.  A. 

v.  ALLSTATE  INS.  CO. 

Ginsburg,

Cite as: 559 U. S. 393 (2010)  453 

Ginsburg,
454  SHADY  GROVE  ORTHOPEDIC  ASSOCIATES,  P.  A. 

v.  ALLSTATE  INS.  CO. 

Ginsburg,

Cite as: 559 U. S. 393 (2010)  455 

Ginsburg,
456  SHADY  GROVE  ORTHOPEDIC  ASSOCIATES,  P.  A. 

v.  ALLSTATE  INS.  CO. 

Ginsburg,

Cite as: 559 U. S. 393 (2010)  457 

Ginsburg,
458  SHADY  GROVE  ORTHOPEDIC  ASSOCIATES,  P.  A. 

v.  ALLSTATE  INS.  CO. 

Ginsburg,

Cite as: 559 U. S. 393 (2010)  459 

Ginsburg,
460  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

Syllabus 

UNITED  STATES  v.

Cite as: 559 U. S. 460 (2010)  461 

Syllabus 
categories  of speech  that  survive an  ad  hoc  balancing  of relative  social 
costs  and  benefits.  The  Amendment  itself  reflects  a  judgment  by  the 
American people that the benefits of its restrictions on the Government 
outweigh  the  costs.  New

462  UNITED  STATES  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 460 (2010)  463 

Syllabus 
limited  but  is  instead  substantially  overbroad,  and  therefore  invalid 
under the First Amendment.  Pp. 481-482. 

533 F. 3d 218, affirmed. 

Roberts,

464  UNITED  STATES  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 460 (2010)  465 

Opinion of the Court 
gain" in interstate or foreign commerce.  $ 48(a).1  A depic-tion  of  "animal  cruelty"  is  defined  as  one  "in  which  a 

living  animal  is  intentionally  maimed,  mutilated,  tortured, wounded, or killed," if that conduct violates  federal or state 
law  where  "the  creation,  sale,  or  possession  takes  place." $ 48(c)(1).  In what is referred to as the "exceptions clause," 
the  law  exempts  from  prohibition  any  depiction  "that  has serious  religious,  political,  scientific,  educational,  journalis-
tic, historical, or artistic value."  $ 48(b). The legislative background of $ 48 focused primarily on the 
interstate  market  for  "crush  videos."  According  to  the House Committee Report on the bill, such videos feature the 
intentional  torture  and  killing  of  helpless  animals,  includ-ing  cats,  dogs,  monkeys,  mice,  and  hamsters.  H.  R.  Rep. 
No. 106-397, p. 2 (1999) (hereinafter H. R. Rep.).  Crush vid-eos  often  depict  women  slowly  crushing  animals  to  death 
"with  their  bare  feet  or  while  wearing  high  heeled  shoes," 

1 The statute reads in full: 
"$ 48.  Depiction of animal cruelty 
"(a)  Creation,

466  UNITED  STATES  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 460 (2010)  467 

Opinion of the Court 
Stevens moved to dismiss the indictment, arguing that $ 48 is facially invalid under the First Amendment.  The District 

Court denied the motion.  It held that the depictions subject to $ 48, like obscenity or child pornography, are categorically 
unprotected by the First Amendment.  2:04-cr-00051-ANB (WD  Pa.,  Nov.  10,  2004),  App.  to  Pet.  for  Cert.  65a-71a.  It 
went  on  to  hold  that  $ 48  is  not  substantially  overbroad,  be-
cause  the  exceptions  clause  sufficiently  narrows  the  statute to  constitutional  applications. 

Id.,

468  UNITED  STATES  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 460 (2010)  469 

Opinion of the Court 
and  narrowly  limited  classes  of  speech,  the  prevention  and punishment  of  which  have  never  been  thought  to  raise  any 

Constitutional problem," Chaplinsky

470  UNITED  STATES  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 460 (2010)  471 

Opinion of the Court 
But such descriptions are just that--descriptive.  They do not  set forth a  test that may  be applied  as a general matter 

to  permit  the  Government  to  imprison  any  speaker  so  long as his speech is deemed valueless or unnecessary, or so long 
as an ad hoc calculus of costs  and benefits tilts in a statute's favor. 

When we have identified categories of speech as fully out-
side the protection of the  First Amendment, it  has  not been on the basis of a simple cost-benefit analysis.  In 

Ferber,

472  UNITED  STATES  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 460 (2010)  473 

Opinion of the Court 
a  traditional  facial  analysis  would  require  us  to  resolve whether these applications of $ 48 are in fact consistent with 

the Constitution. In the First Amendment context, however, this Court rec-
ognizes  "a  second  type  of  facial  challenge,"  whereby  a  law may be invalidated as overbroad if "a substantial  number of 
its  applications  are  unconstitutional,  judged  in  relation  to the  statute's  plainly  legitimate  sweep." 

Washington

474  UNITED  STATES  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 460 (2010)  475 

Opinion of the Court 
tional  Dictionary  1242  (1993)).  We  agree  that  "wounded" and "killed" should be read according to their ordinary mean-

ing.  Cf.  Engine

476  UNITED  STATES  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 460 (2010)  477 

Opinion of the Court 
N.  Y.  Envir.  Conserv.  Law  Ann.  $ 11-0901(16)  (West  2005). Missouri  allows  the  "canned"  hunting  of  ungulates  held  in 

captivity, Mo. Code Regs. Ann., tit. 3, 10-9.560(1) (2009), but Montana restricts such hunting to certain bird species, Mont. 
Admin.  Rule  12.6.1202(1)  (2007).  The  sharp-tailed  grouse may  be  hunted  in  Idaho,  but  not  in  Washington.  Compare 
Idaho  Admin.  Code  $ 13.01.09.606  (2009)  with  Wash.  Admin. Code $ 232-28-342 (2009). 

The  disagreements  among  the  States--and  the  "common-wealth[s], territor[ies], or possession[s] of the United States," 
18  U. S. C.  $ 48(c)(2)--extend  well  beyond  hunting.  State agricultural  regulations  permit  different  methods  of  live-
stock  slaughter  in  different  places  or  as  applied  to  different animals.  Compare,  e.

478  UNITED  STATES  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 460 (2010)  479 

Opinion of the Court 
viewer,  marke[t]  hunting  equipment,  or  increas[e]  the  hunt-ing  community."  Brief  for  Safari  Club  International  et  al. 

as Amici

480  UNITED  STATES  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 460 (2010)  481 

Opinion of the Court 
Nor can  we  rely upon the canon  of construction that  "am-biguous  statutory  language  [should]  be  construed  to  avoid 

serious  constitutional  doubts."  FCC

482  UNITED  STATES  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 460 (2010)  483 

Alito,
484  UNITED  STATES  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 460 (2010)  485 

Alito,
486  UNITED  STATES  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 460 (2010)  487 

Alito,
488  UNITED  STATES  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 460 (2010)  489 

Alito,
490  UNITED  STATES  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 460 (2010)  491 

Alito,
492  UNITED  STATES  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 460 (2010)  493 

Alito,
494  UNITED  STATES  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 460 (2010)  495 

Alito,
496  UNITED  STATES  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 460 (2010)  497 

Alito,
498  UNITED  STATES  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 460 (2010)  499 

Alito,
500  UNITED  STATES  v. 501Cite as: 559 U. S. 460 (2010) 

Appendix to opinion of Alito,
502  UNITED  STATES  v.

Michigan 
Missouri 
Montana 
Nebraska 
Nevada 

New Hampshire 
New Jersey 

New Mexico 
New York 

North Carolina 

Cite as: 559 U. S. 460 (2010)  503 
Appendix to opinion of Alito,
504  UNITED  STATES  v. 505Cite as: 559 U. S. 460 (2010) 

Appendix to opinion of Alito,
506  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

Syllabus 

CONKRIGHT  et

Cite as: 559 U. S. 506 (2010)  507 

Syllabus 
stone

508  CONKRIGHT  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 506 (2010)  509 

Opinion of the Court 
Chief

510  CONKRIGHT  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 506 (2010)  511 

Opinion of the Court 
spondents had previously received.  But unlike the phantom account  method,  the  Plan  Administrator's  new  approach  did 

not  calculate  the  present  value  of  a  past  distribution  based on  events  that  occurred  after  the  distribution  was  made. 
Instead,  the  new  approach  used  an  interest  rate  that  was fixed at  the  time  of the  distribution,  thereby  calculating  the 
current  value  of  the  distribution  based  on  information  that 
was known at the time of the distribution.  See App. to Pet. for  Cert.  147a-153a.  Petitioners  argued  that  the  District 

Court  should  apply  a  deferential  standard  of  review  to  this approach,  and  accept  it  as  a  reasonable  interpretation  of 

the  Plan.  See  Defendants'  Pre-Hearing  Brief  Addressed 
to  Remedies  in  No.  00-CV-6311  (WDNY),  pp.  7-8;  Defend-
ants' Pre-Hearing Reply Brief Addressing Remedies in 
No. 00-CV-6311 (WDNY), p. 2. 

The District Court did not apply a deferential standard of 
review.  Nor did it accept the Plan Administrator's interpre-
tation.  Instead, after finding the Plan to be ambiguous, the 
District Court adopted an approach proposed by respondents 
that  did  not  account  for  the  time  value  of  money.  Under 
that  approach,  respondents'  present  benefits  were  reduced 
only  by  the  nominal  amount  of  their  past  distributions-- 
thereby  treating  a  dollar  distributed  to  respondents  in  the 
1980's  as  equal  in  value  to  a  dollar  distributed  today.  See 
472 F. Supp. 2d, at 457-458.  The Second Circuit affirmed in 
relevant  part,  holding  that  the  District  Court  was  correct 
not  to  apply  a  deferential  standard  on  remand,  and  that  the 
District  Court's  decision  on  the  merits  was  not  an  abuse  of 
discretion.  See 535 F. 3d 111, 119 (2008). 

Petitioners  asked  us  to  grant  certiorari  on  two  questions: 
(1)  whether  the  District  Court  owed  deference  to  the  Plan 
Administrator's  interpretation  of  the  Plan  on  remand,  and 
(2) whether the Court of Appeals properly granted deference 
to  the  District  Court  on  the  merits.  Pet.  for  Cert.  i.  We 
granted  certiorari  on  both,  557  U. S.  933  (2009),  but  find  it 
necessary to decide only the first. 

512  CONKRIGHT  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 506 (2010)  513 

Opinion of the Court 
the  Second Circuit held  that a court  need  not  apply a  defer-
ential  standard  "where  the  administrator  ha[s]  previously 
construed  the  same  [plan]  terms  and  we  found  such  a  con-
struction  to  have  violated  ERISA."  535  F.  3d,  at  119. 
Under that view, the District Court here was entitled to re-
ject  a  reasonable  interpretation  of  the  Plan  offered  by  the 
Plan Administrator, solely because the Court of Appeals had 
overturned  a  previous  interpretation  by  the  Administrator. 
Cf. ibid.

514  CONKRIGHT  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 506 (2010)  515 

Opinion of the Court 
Here  the  lower  courts  made  no  finding  that  the  Plan  Ad-
ministrator  had  acted  in  bad  faith  or  would  not  fairly  exer-
cise his discretion to interpret the terms of the Plan.  Thus, 
if  the  District  Court  had  followed  the  trust  law  principles 
set  out  in  Scott  and  Ascher,  it  should  not  have  "act[ed]  as  a 
substitute  trustee,"  Eaton

516  CONKRIGHT  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 506 (2010)  517 

Opinion of the Court 
Lockheed

518  CONKRIGHT  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 506 (2010)  519 

Opinion of the Court 
requiring  use  of  the  phantom  account  method  could  not  be applied to respondents due to a lack of notice.  See Brief for 

Petitioners  50-51.  Respondents  would  force  the  parties  to litigate  this  potentially  complicated  "same  issue"  or  "same 
terms"  question  before  a  district  court  could  even  decide whether  deference  is  owed  to  a  plan  administrator's  view. 
As we recognized in Glenn,

520  CONKRIGHT  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 506 (2010)  521 

Opinion of the Court 
"careful  balancing"  of  interests  that  ERISA  represents. Pilot Life Ins. Co.,

522  CONKRIGHT  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 506 (2010)  523 

Breyer,
524  CONKRIGHT  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 506 (2010)  525 

Breyer,
526  CONKRIGHT  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 506 (2010)  527 

Breyer,
528  CONKRIGHT  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 506 (2010)  529 

Breyer,
530  CONKRIGHT  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 506 (2010)  531 

Breyer,
532  CONKRIGHT  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 506 (2010)  533 

Breyer,
534  CONKRIGHT  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 506 (2010)  535 

Breyer,
536  CONKRIGHT  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 506 (2010)  537 

Breyer,
538  CONKRIGHT  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 506 (2010)  539 

Appendix to opinion of Breyer,
540  CONKRIGHT  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 506 (2010)  541 

Appendix to opinion of Breyer,
542  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

Syllabus 

PERDUE,  GOVERNOR  OF  GEORGIA,  et

Cite as: 559 U. S. 542 (2010)  543 

Syllabus 
Second, there is a "strong" presumption that the lodestar method yields 
a sufficient fee.  See, e.

544  PERDUE  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 542 (2010)  545 

Counsel 
len

546  PERDUE  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 542 (2010)  547 

Opinion of the Court 

I 
A 

Respondents (plaintiffs below) are children in the Georgia foster-care  system  and  their  next  friends.  They  filed  this 

class  action  on  behalf  of  3,000  children  in  foster  care  and named  as  defendants  the  Governor  of  Georgia  and  various 
state  officials  (petitioners  in  this  case).  Claiming  that  defi-ciencies  in  the  foster-care  system  in  two  counties  near  At-
lanta violated their federal and state constitutional and stat-utory  rights,  respondents  sought  injunctive  and  declaratory 
relief, as well as attorney's fees and expenses. The  United  States  District  Court  for  the  Northern  Dis-
trict  of  Georgia  eventually  referred  the  case  to  mediation, where  the  parties  entered  into  a  consent  decree,  which  the 
District  Court  approved.  The  consent  decree  resolved  all pending  issues  other  than  the  fees  that  respondents'  attor-
neys were entitled to receive under 42 U. S. C. $ 1988.2 

B 
Respondents  submitted  a  request  for  more  than  $14  mil-lion  in  attorney's  fees.  Half  of  that  amount  was  based  on 

their calculation of the lodestar--roughly 30,000 hours multi-plied  by  hourly  rates  of  $200  to  $495  for  attorneys  and  $75 
to  $150  for  nonattorneys.  In  support  of  their  fee  request, respondents  submitted  affidavits  asserting  that  these  rates 
were  within  the  range  of  prevailing  market  rates  for  legal services in the relevant market. 

2 Title 42 U. S. C. $ 1988(b) provides: 
"In  any  action  or  proceeding  to  enforce  a  provision  of  sections  1981, 
1981a, 1982, 1983, 1985, and 1986 of this title, title IX of Public Law 92-318, 
the  Religious  Freedom  Restoration  Act  of  1993,  the  Religious  Land  Use 
and Institutionalized Persons Act of 2000, title VI of the Civil Rights Act 
of 1964, or section 13981 of this title, the court, in its discretion, may allow 
the prevailing party, other than the United States, a reasonable attorney's 
fee as part of the costs . . . ."   (Citations  omitted.) 

548  PERDUE  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 542 (2010)  549 

Opinion of the Court 
years  as  a  practicing  attorney  and  federal  judge,  the  Court is  unaware  of  any  other  case  in  which  a  plaintiff  class  has 

achieved  such  a  favorable  result  on  such  a  comprehensive scale." 

Id.,

550  PERDUE  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 542 (2010)  551 

Opinion of the Court 
which listed 12 factors that a court should consider in deter-mining a reasonable fee.

4  This method, however, "gave very 

little  actual  guidance  to  district  courts.  Setting  attorney's fees by reference to a series of sometimes subjective factors 

placed unlimited discretion in trial judges and produced dis-parate results." 

Delaware

552  PERDUE  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 542 (2010)  553 

Opinion of the Court 
Fourth,  we  have  noted  that  "the  lodestar  figure  includes 
most, if not all, of the relevant factors constituting a `reason-
able'  attorney's  fee,"  Delaware

554  PERDUE  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 542 (2010)  555 

Opinion of the Court 
ney's true market value, as demonstrated in part during the 
litigation.5  This may occur if the hourly rate is determined 
by a formula that takes into account only a single factor (such 
as  years  since  admission  to  the  bar) 6  or  perhaps  only  a  few 
similar factors.  In such a case, an enhancement may be ap-
propriate so that an attorney is compensated at the rate that 
the attorney would receive in cases not governed by the fed-
eral fee-shifting statutes.  But in order to provide a calcula-
tion  that  is  objective  and  reviewable,  the  trial  judge  should 
adjust  the  attorney's  hourly  rate  in  accordance with  specific 
proof  linking  the  attorney's  ability  to  a  prevailing  market 
rate. 

Second,  an  enhancement  may  be  appropriate  if  the  attor-
ney's  performance  includes  an  extraordinary  outlay  of  ex-
penses  and  the  litigation  is  exceptionally  protracted.  As 
Judge  Carnes  noted  below,  when  an  attorney  agrees  to 
represent  a  civil  rights  plaintiff  who  cannot  afford  to  pay 
the  attorney,  the  attorney  presumably  understands  that  no 
reimbursement  is  likely  to  be  received  until  the  successful 
resolution  of  the  case,  532  F.  3d,  at  1227,  and  therefore  en-
hancements  to  compensate  for  delay  in  reimbursement  for 
expenses  must  be  reserved  for  unusual  cases.  In  such  ex-
ceptional  cases,  however,  an  enhancement  may  be  allowed, 
but the amount of the enhancement must be calculated using 
a  method  that  is  reasonable,  objective,  and  capable  of  being 
reviewed  on  appeal,  such  as  by  applying  a  standard  rate  of 
interest to the qualifying outlays of expenses. 

5 Respondents  correctly  note  that  an  attorney's  "brilliant  insights  and 
critical maneuvers sometimes matter far more than hours worked or years 
of  experience."  Brief  for  Respondents  14.  But  as  we  said  in  Blum

556  PERDUE  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 542 (2010)  557 

Opinion of the Court 
in  a  position  far  different  from  an  attorney  in  a  $ 1988  case who  is  compensated  at  the 

full

558  PERDUE  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 542 (2010)  559 

Opinion of the Court 
defendants  contemplating  the  possibility  of  settlement  will 
have  no  way  to  estimate  the  likelihood  of  having  to  pay  a 
potentially  huge  enhancement.  See  Marek

560  PERDUE  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 542 (2010)  561 

Opinion of Breyer,
562  PERDUE  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 542 (2010)  563 

Opinion of Breyer,
564   PERDUE  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 542 (2010)   565 

Opinion of Breyer,
566  PERDUE  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 542 (2010)  567 

Opinion of Breyer,
568  PERDUE  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 542 (2010)   569 

Opinion of Breyer,
570  PERDUE  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 542 (2010)  571 

Opinion of Breyer,
572  PERDUE  v.OCTOBER  TERM,  2009  573 

Syllabus 

JERMAN v. CARLISLE, McNELLIE, RINI, KRAMER & 

ULRICH, L. P. A., et

574  JERMAN  v.  CARLISLE,  McNELLIE,  RINI,  KRAMER 

&  ULRICH,  L. P. A. 

Syllabus 

Held:  The bona  fide error defense  in $ 1692k(c) does  not apply to a  viola-

tion resulting from a debt collector's mistaken interpretation of the legal 
requirements of the FDCPA.  Pp. 581-605. 

(a)  A  violation  resulting  from  a  debt  collector's  misinterpretation  of 
the legal requirements of the FDCPA cannot be "not intentional" under 

$ 1692k(c).  It  is  a  common  maxim  that  "ignorance  of  the  law  will  not 
excuse  any  person,  either  civilly  or  criminally."  Barlow  v.  United 
States,  7  Pet.  404,  411.  When  Congress  has  intended  to  provide  a 
mistake-of-law defense to civil liability, it has often done so more explic-
itly  than  here.  In  particular,  the  administrative-penalty  provisions  of 
the FTC Act, which are expressly incorporated into the FDCPA, apply 
only  when  a  debt  collector  acts  with  "actual  knowledge  or  knowledge 
fairly implied on the basis of objective circumstances" that the FDCPA 
prohibited its action.  $$ 45(m)(1)(A), (C).  Given the absence of similar 
language in $ 1692k(c), it is fair to infer that Congress permitted injured 
consumers to recover damages for "intentional" conduct, including viola-
tions  resulting  from  a  mistaken  interpretation  of  the  FDCPA,  while 
reserving the more onerous administrative penalties for debt collectors 
whose intentional actions reflected knowledge that the conduct was pro-
hibited.  Congress also did not confine FDCPA liability to "willful" vio-
lations,  a  term  more  often  understood  in  the  civil  context  to  exclude 
mistakes of law.  See, e. g., Trans World Airlines, Inc. v.  Thurston, 469 
U. S. 111, 125-126.  Section 1692k(c)'s requirement that a debt collector 
maintain "procedures reasonably adapted to avoid any such error" also 
more naturally evokes procedures to avoid mistakes like clerical or fac-
tual errors.  Pp. 581-586. 

(b)  Additional  support  for  this  reading  is  found  in  the  statute's  con-
text  and  history.  The  FDCPA's  separate  protection  from  liability  for 
"any  act  done  or  omitted  in  good  faith  in  conformity  with  any  [FTC] 
advisory  opinion,"  $ 1692k(e),  is  more  obviously  tailored  to  the  concern 
at issue (excusing civil liability when the FDCPA's prohibitions are un-
certain)  than  the  bona  fide  error  defense.  Moreover,  in  enacting  the 
FDCPA in 1977, Congress copied the pertinent portions of the bona fide 
error defense from the Truth in Lending Act (TILA), $ 1640(c).  At that 
time, the three Federal Courts of Appeals to have considered the ques-
tion interpreted the TILA provision as referring to clerical errors, and 
there is no reason to suppose Congress disagreed with those interpreta-
tions  when  it  incorporated  TILA's  language  into  the  FDCPA.  Al-
though in  1980  Congress  amended the defense in  TILA, but not in the 
FDCPA,  to  exclude  errors  of  legal  judgment,  it  is  not  obvious  that 
amendment  changed  the  scope  of  the  TILA  defense  in  a  way  material 
here,  given  the  prior  uniform  judicial  interpretation  of  that  provision. 
It is  also unclear why Congress would  have  intended  the FDCPA's de-

Cite as: 559 U. S. 573 (2010)  575 

Syllabus 
fense  to  be  broader  than  TILA's,  and  Congress  has  not  expressly  in-
cluded  mistakes  of  law  in  any  of  the  parallel  bona  fide  error  defenses 
elsewhere  in  the  U.  S.  Code.  Carlisle's  reading  is  not  supported  by 
Heintz v.  Jenkins, 514 U. S.  291, 292,  which had no occasion to  address 
the overall scope of the FDCPA bona fide error defense, and which did 
not depend on the premise that a misinterpretation of the requirements 
of the FDCPA would fall under that provision.  Pp. 587-596. 

(c)  Today's decision does not place unmanageable burdens on debt col-
lecting  lawyers.  The  FDCPA  contains  several  provisions  expressly 
guarding against abusive lawsuits, and gives courts discretion in calcu-
lating additional damages and attorney's fees.  Lawyers have recourse 
to the bona fide error defense in $ 1692k(c) when a violation results from 
a  qualifying  factual  error.  To  the  extent  the  FDCPA  imposes  some 
constraints on a lawyer's advocacy on behalf of a client, it is not unique; 
lawyers have a duty, for instance, to comply with the law and standards 
of professional conduct.  Numerous state consumer protection and debt 
collection statutes contain bona fide error defenses that are either silent 
as  to,  or  expressly  exclude,  legal  errors.  To  the  extent  lawyers  face 
liability  for  mistaken  interpretations  of  the  FDCPA,  Carlisle  and  its 
amici have not shown that "the result [will be] so absurd as to warrant" 
disregarding the weight of textual authority.  Heintz, 514 U. S., at 295. 
Absent such a showing, arguments that the FDCPA strikes an undesir-
able balance  in  assigning  the risks of  legal misinterpretation  are  prop-
erly addressed to Congress.  Pp. 596-605. 

538 F. 3d 469, reversed and remanded. 

Sotomayor,

576  JERMAN  v.  CARLISLE,  McNELLIE,  RINI,  KRAMER 

&  ULRICH,  L. P. A. 

Opinion of the Court 

George  S.  Coakley  argued  the  cause  for  respondents. 
With him on the brief were Clifford C. Masch, Brian D. Sul-
livan, Martin T. Galvin, and James O'Connor.* 

Justice

Cite as: 559 U. S. 573 (2010)  577 

Opinion of the Court 
sents  the  question  whether  the  "bona  fide  error"  defense  in $ 1692k(c)  applies  to a violation  resulting from  a  debt  collec-

tor's mistaken interpretation of the legal requirements of the FDCPA.  We conclude it does not. 

I  
A  

Congress  enacted  the  FDCPA  in  1977,  91  Stat.  874,  to eliminate  abusive  debt  collection  practices,  to  ensure  that 

debt collectors who abstain from such practices are not com-petitively disadvantaged, and to promote consistent state ac-
tion  to  protect  consumers.  15  U. S. C.  $ 1692(e).  The  Act regulates  interactions  between  consumer  debtors  and  "debt 
collector[s],"  defined  to  include  any  person  who  "regularly collects . . . debts owed or due or asserted to be owed or due 
another."  $$ 1692a(5),  (6).  Among  other  things,  the  Act prohibits  debt  collectors  from  making  false  representa-
tions  as  to  a  debt's  character,  amount,  or  legal  status, $ 1692e(2)(A); communicating with consumers at an "unusual 
time  or  place"  likely  to  be  inconvenient  to  the  consumer, $ 1692c(a)(1);  or  using  obscene  or  profane  language  or  vio-
lence  or  the  threat  thereof,  $$ 1692d(1),  (2).  See  generally $$ 1692b-1692j; 

Heintz  v.  Jenkins,  514  U. S.  291,  292-293 (1995). 

The  Act  is  enforced  through  administrative  action  and private  lawsuits.  With  some  exceptions  not  relevant  here, 
violations  of  the  FDCPA  are  deemed  to  be  unfair  or  decep-tive  acts  or  practices  under  the  Federal  Trade  Commission 
Act  (FTC  Act),  15  U. S. C.  $ 41  et  seq.,  and  are  enforced  by the  Federal  Trade  Commission  (FTC).  See  $ 1692

l.  As  a result,  a  debt  collector  who  acts  with  "actual  knowledge  or 

knowledge  fairly  implied  on  the  basis  of  objective  circum-stances  that  such  act  is  [prohibited  under  the  FDCPA]" 
is  subject  to  civil  penalties  of  up  to  $16,000  per  day. $$ 45(m)(1)(A),  (C);  74  Fed.  Reg.  858  (2009)  (amending  16 
CFR $ 1.98(d)). 

578  JERMAN  v.  CARLISLE,  McNELLIE,  RINI,  KRAMER 

&  ULRICH,  L. P. A. 

Opinion of the Court 

The  FDCPA  also  provides  that  "any  debt  collector  who fails  to  comply  with  any  provision  of  th[e]  [Act]  with  re-

spect  to  any  person  is  liable  to  such  person."  15  U. S. C. $ 1692k(a).  Successful plaintiffs are entitled to "actual dam-
age[s]," plus  costs  and  "a reasonable attorney's  fee  as deter-mined by the court." 

Ibid.  A court may also award "addi-tional  damages,"  subject  to  a  statutory  cap  of  $1,000  for 

individual actions, or, for class actions, "the lesser of $500,000 or  1  per  centum  of  the  net  worth  of  the  debt  collector." 

$ 1692k(a)(2).  In  awarding  additional  damages,  the  court must  consider  "the  frequency  and  persistence  of  [the  debt 
collector's]  noncompliance,"  "the  nature  of  such  noncompli-ance," and "the  extent to  which  such noncompliance was  in-
tentional."  $ 1692k(b). The  Act  contains  two  exceptions  to  provisions  imposing 
liability  on  debt  collectors.  Section  1692k(c),  at  issue  here, provides that 

"[a]  debt  collector  may  not  be  held  liable  in  any  action brought  under  [the  FDCPA]  if  the  debt  collector  shows 
by  a  preponderance  of  evidence  that  the  violation  was not  intentional  and  resulted  from  a  bona  fide  error  not-
withstanding the maintenance of procedures reasonably adapted to avoid any such error." 

The  Act  also  states  that  none  of  its  provisions  imposing  lia-bility  shall  apply  to  "any  act  done  or  omitted  in  good  faith 

in  conformity  with  any  advisory  opinion  of  the  [FTC]." $ 1692k(e). 

B 
Respondents in this case are a law firm, Carlisle, McNellie, Rini,  Kramer  &  Ulrich,  L.  P.  A.,  and  one  of  its  attorneys, 

Adrienne  S.  Foster  (collectively  Carlisle).  In  April  2006, Carlisle  filed  a  complaint  in  Ohio  state  court  on  behalf  of  a 
client, Countrywide Home Loans, Inc.  Carlisle sought fore-closure of a mortgage held by Countrywide in real property 
owned  by  petitioner  Karen  L.  Jerman.  The  complaint  in-

Cite as: 559 U. S. 573 (2010)  579 

Opinion of the Court 
cluded  a  "Notice,"  later  served  on  Jerman,  stating  that  the mortgage  debt would be assumed  to be valid unless  Jerman 

disputed it in writing.  Jerman's lawyer sent a letter disput-ing  the  debt,  and  Carlisle  sought  verification  from  Country-
wide.  When  Countrywide  acknowledged  that  Jerman  had, in  fact,  already  paid  the  debt  in  full,  Carlisle  withdrew  the 
foreclosure lawsuit. Jerman  then  filed  her  own  lawsuit  seeking  class  certifica-
tion  and  damages  under  the  FDCPA,  contending  that  Car-lisle  violated  $ 1692g  by  stating  that  her  debt  would  be 
assumed  valid  unless  she  disputed  it  in  writing.1  While acknowledging  a  division  of  authority  on  the  question,  the 
District Court  held that  Carlisle  had violated  $ 1692g  by re-quiring Jerman to dispute the debt in writing.  464 F. Supp. 
2d  720,  722-725  (ND  Ohio  2006).2  The  court  ultimately granted summary judgment to Carlisle, however, concluding 
that $ 1692k(c) shielded it from liability because the violation was  not  intentional,  resulted  from  a  bona  fide error,  and  oc-
curred  despite  the  maintenance  of  procedures  reasonably adapted  to  avoid  any  such  error.  502  F.  Supp.  2d  686,  695- 
697  (2007).  The  Court  of  Appeals  for  the  Sixth  Circuit affirmed.  538  F.  3d  469  (2008).  Acknowledging  that  the 

1 Section  1692g(a)(3)  requires  a  debt  collector,  within  five  days  of  an 
"initial  communication"  about  the  collection  of  a  debt,  to  send  the  con-
sumer a written notice containing, inter alia, "a statement that unless the 
consumer, within thirty days after receipt of the notice, disputes the valid-
ity  of  the  debt,  or  any  portion  thereof,  the  debt  will  be  assumed  to  be 
valid by the debt collector." 

2 The  District  Court  distinguished,  for  instance,  Graziano  v.  Harrison, 

950 F.  2d 107,  112 (CA3  1991), which held  a  consumer's  dispute of  a  debt 
under  $ 1692g  must  be  in  writing  to  be  effective.  Noting  that  district 
courts  within  the  Sixth  Circuit  had  reached  different  results,  and  distin-
guishing one unpublished Sixth Circuit decision which Carlisle suggested 
approved  a  form  with  an  in-writing  requirement,  the  court  adopted  the 
reasoning  from  Camacho  v.  Bridgeport  Financial,  Inc.,  430  F.  3d  1078, 
1080-1082  (CA9  2005),  and  held  that  the  plain  language  of  $ 1692g  does 
not impose an "in writing" requirement on consumers.  See 464 F. Supp. 
2d, at 725. 

580  JERMAN  v.  CARLISLE,  McNELLIE,  RINI,  KRAMER 

&  ULRICH,  L. P. A. 

Opinion of the Court 

Courts  of  Appeals  are  divided  regarding  the  scope  of  the bona  fide  error  defense,  and  that  the  "majority  view  is  that 

the  defense  is  available  for  clerical  and  factual  errors  only," the  Sixth Circuit nonetheless held  that  $ 1692k(c) extends  to 
"mistakes of law."  Id., at 473-476 (internal quotation marks omitted).  The  Court  of  Appeals  found  "nothing  unusual" 
about  attorney  debt  collectors  maintaining  "procedures" within  the  meaning  of  $ 1692k(c)  to  avoid  mistakes  of  law. 
Id., at 476.  Noting that a parallel bona fide error defense in the  Truth  in  Lending  Act  (TILA),  15  U. S. C.  $ 1640(c),  ex-
pressly  excludes  legal  errors,  the  court  observed  that  Con-gress  has  amended  the  FDCPA  several  times  since  1977 
without  excluding  mistakes  of  law  from  $ 1692k(c).  538  F. 3d, at 476.

3 

We  granted  certiorari  to  resolve  the  conflict  of  authority as to the scope of the FDCPA's bona fide error defense,

4  557 

3 Because  the  question  was  not  raised  on  appeal,  the  Court  of  Appeals 
did  not  address  whether  Carlisle's  inclusion  of  the  "in  writing"  require-
ment  violated  $ 1692g.  538  F.  3d,  at  472,  n.  2.  We  likewise  express  no 
view  about  whether  inclusion  of  an  "in  writing"  requirement  in  a  notice 
to a consumer violates $ 1692g, as that question was not presented in the 
petition  for  certiorari.  Compare  Graziano,  950  F.  2d,  at  112  (reading 

$ 1692g(a)(3) to require that "any dispute, to be effective, must be in writ-
ing"), with Camacho, 430 F. 3d, at 1082 (under $ 1692g(a)(3), "disputes need 
not be made in writing"). 

4 Compare, e. g., 538 F. 3d, at 476 (case below), with Baker v.  G.  C.  Servs. 

Corp., 677 F. 2d 775, 779 (CA9 1982), and Hulshizer v. Global Credit Servs., 
Inc., 728 F. 2d 1037, 1038 (CA8 1984) (per curiam). 

The  Courts  of  Appeals  have  also  expressed  different  views  about 
whether 15 U. S. C. $ 1692k(c) applies to violations of the FDCPA resulting 
from  a  misinterpretation  of  the  requirements  of  state  law.  Compare 
Johnson  v.  Riddle,  305  F.  3d  1107,  1121  (CA10  2002)  (concluding  that 

$ 1692k(c) applies where a debt collector's misinterpretation of a Utah dis-
honored check statute resulted in a violation of $ 1692f(1), which prohibits 
collection  of  any  amount  not  "permitted  by  law"),  with  Picht  v.  Jon  R. 
Hawks,  Ltd.,  236  F.  3d  446,  451-452  (CA8  2001)  (stating  that  $ 1692k(c) 
does  not  preclude  FDCPA  liability  resulting  from  a  creditor's  mistaken 
legal  interpretation  of  a  Minnesota  garnishment  statute).  The  parties 
disagree about whether $ 1692k(c) applies when a violation results from a 

Cite as: 559 U. S. 573 (2010)  581 

Opinion of the Court 
U. S.  933  (2009),  and now  reverse  the  judgment  of the  Sixth Circuit. 

II  

A  

The parties disagree about whether a "violation" resulting from a debt collector's misinterpretation of the legal require-

ments  of  the  FDCPA  can  ever  be  "not  intentional"  under $ 1692k(c).  Jerman  contends  that  when  a  debt  collector  in-
tentionally commits the act giving rise to the violation (here, sending  a  notice  that  included  the  "in  writing"  language),  a 
misunderstanding about what the Act requires cannot render the  violation  "not  intentional,"  given  the  general  rule  that 
mistake or  ignorance  of law  is no  defense.  Carlisle  and the 
dissent, in contrast, argue that nothing in the statutory text excludes  legal  errors  from  the  category  of  "bona  fide  er-

ror[s]" covered by $ 1692k(c) and note that the Act refers not to  an unintentional  "act"  but  rather  an  unintentional  "viola-
tion."  The  latter  term,  they  contend,  evinces  Congress'  in-tent to impose liability only when a party knows its conduct 
is  unlawful.  Carlisle  urges  us,  therefore,  to  read  $ 1692k(c) 
to encompass "all types of error," including mistakes  of law. 
Brief for Respondents 7. 

We  decline  to  adopt  the  expansive  reading  of  $ 1692k(c) 
that  Carlisle  proposes.  We  have  long  recognized  the  "com-
mon  maxim,  familiar  to  all  minds,  that  ignorance  of  the  law 
will  not  excuse  any  person,  either  civilly  or  criminally." 
Barlow  v.  United  States,  7  Pet.  404,  411  (1833)  (opinion  for 
the  Court  by  Story,  J.);  see  also  Cheek  v.  United  States,  498 
U. S. 192, 199 (1991) ("The general rule that ignorance of the 
law or a mistake of law is no defense to criminal prosecution 

debt collector's misinterpretation of the legal requirements of state law or 
federal  law  other  than the  FDCPA.  Compare  Brief for  Petitioner  47-49 
with  Brief  for  Respondents  60-62.  Because  this  case  involves  only  an 
alleged misinterpretation of the requirements of the FDCPA, we need not, 
and do not, reach those other questions. 

582  JERMAN  v.  CARLISLE,  McNELLIE,  RINI,  KRAMER 

&  ULRICH,  L. P. A. 

Opinion of the Court 

is  deeply  rooted  in  the  American  legal  system").5  Our  law 
is therefore no stranger to the possibility that an act may be 
"intentional"  for  purposes  of  civil  liability,  even  if  the  actor 

5 The  dissent  discounts  the  relevance  of  the  principle  here,  on  grounds 
that this case involves the scope of a statutory exception to liability, rather 
than  a  provision  "delineat[ing]  a  category  of  prohibited  conduct."  Post, 
at 625 (opinion of Kennedy,

Cite as: 559 U. S. 573 (2010)  583 

Opinion of the Court 
lacked  actual  knowledge  that  her  conduct  violated  the  law. In  Kolstad  v.  American  Dental  Assn.,  527  U. S.  526  (1999), 

for  instance,  we  addressed  a  provision  of  the  Civil  Rights Act of 1991 authorizing compensatory and punitive damages 
for "intentional discrimination," 42 U. S. C. $ 1981a, but limit-ing punitive damages to conduct undertaken "with malice or 
with  reckless  indifference  to  the  federally  protected  rights of an aggrieved individual," $ 1981a(b)(1).  We observed that 
in  some  circumstances  "intentional  discrimination"  could occur  without  giving  rise  to punitive  damages liability,  such 
as  where  an  employer  is  "unaware  of  the  relevant  federal prohibition" or acts with the "distinct belief that its discrimi-
nation  is  lawful."  527  U. S.,  at  536-537.  See  also  W.  Kee-ton,  D.  Dobbs,  R.  Keeton,  &  D.  Owen,  Prosser  and  Keeton 
on  Law  of  Torts  110  (5th  ed.  1984)  ("[I]f  one  intentionally interferes  with  the  interests  of  others,  he  is  often  subject 
to liability notwithstanding the invasion was made under an erroneous belief as to some . . . legal matter that would have 
justified  the  conduct");  Restatement (Second) of Torts $ 164, and Comment e (1963-1964) (intentional tort of trespass can 
be committed despite the actor's mistaken belief that she has a legal right to enter the property).

6 

Likely for this reason, when Congress has intended to pro-vide  a  mistake-of-law  defense  to  civil  liability,  it  has  often 

done  so  more  explicitly  than  here.  In  particular,  the  FTC Act's administrative-penalty provisions--which, as noted 
above,  Congress  expressly  incorporated  into  the  FDCPA-- 

6 Different considerations apply, of course, in interpreting criminal stat-
utes.  Safeco Ins. Co. of America v.  Burr, 551 U. S. 47, 57-58, n. 9 (2007). 
But  even  in  that  context,  we  have  not  consistently  required  knowledge 
that  the offending  conduct  is  unlawful.  See,  e. g.,  Ellis  v.  United  States, 
206 U. S. 246, 255, 257 (1907) (observing, in the context of a statute impos-
ing  liability  for  "intentiona[l]  violat[ions],"  that  "[i]f  a  man  intentionally 
adopts  certain  conduct  in  certain  circumstances  known  to  him,  and  that 
conduct  is  forbidden  by  the law  under  those  circumstances,  he  intention-
ally  breaks  the  law  in  the  only  sense  in  which  the  law  ever  considers 
intent"). 

584  JERMAN  v.  CARLISLE,  McNELLIE,  RINI,  KRAMER 

&  ULRICH,  L. P. A. 

Opinion of the Court 

apply only when a debt collector acts with "actual knowledge or knowledge fairly implied on the basis of objective circum-

stances"  that  its  action  was  "prohibited  by  [the  FDCPA]." 15 U. S. C.  $$ 45(m)(1)(A), (C).  Given the  absence  of similar 
language  in  $ 1692k(c),  it  is  a  fair  inference  that  Congress chose  to  permit  injured  consumers  to  recover  actual  dam-
ages,  costs,  fees,  and  modest  statutory  damages  for  "inten-
tional" conduct, including violations resulting from mistaken interpretation  of  the  FDCPA,  while  reserving  the  more 

onerous  penalties  of  the  FTC  Act  for  debt  collectors  whose intentional  actions  also  reflected  "knowledge  fairly  implied 
on the basis of objective circumstances" that the conduct was 
prohibited.  Cf.  29  U. S. C.  $ 260  (authorizing  courts  to  re-
duce  liquidated  damages  under  the  Portal-to-Portal  Act  of 
1947  if  an  employer  demonstrates  that  "the  act  or  omission 
giving  rise  to  such  action  was  in  good  faith  and  that  he  had 
reasonable grounds for believing that his act or omission was 
not  a  violation  of  the  Fair  Labor  Standards  Act  of  1938"); 
17  U. S. C.  $ 1203(c)(5)(A)  (provision  of  Digital  Millennium 
Copyright  Act  authorizing  court  to  reduce  damages  where 
"the  violator  was  not  aware  and  had  no  reason  to  believe 
that its acts constituted a violation"). 

Congress  also  did  not  confine  liability  under  the  FDCPA 
to  "willful"  violations,  a  term  more  often  understood  in  the 
civil  context  to  excuse  mistakes  of  law.  See,  e. g.,  Trans 
World  Airlines,  Inc.  v.  Thurston,  469  U. S.  111,  125-126 
(1985) (civil damages for "willful violations" of Age Discrimi-
nation  in  Employment  Act  of  1967  require  a  showing  that 
the  employer  "knew  or  showed  reckless  disregard  for  the 
matter of whether its conduct was prohibited" (internal quo-
tation  marks  omitted));  cf.  Safeco  Ins.  Co.  of  America  v. 
Burr,  551  U. S.  47,  57  (2007)  (although  " `willfully' "  is  a 
" `word of many meanings' " dependent on context, "we have 
generally taken it [when used as a statutory condition of civil 
liability]  to  cover  not  only  knowing  violations  of  a  standard, 
but  reckless  ones  as  well"  (quoting  Bryan  v.  United  States, 

Cite as: 559 U. S. 573 (2010)  585 

Opinion of the Court 
524 U. S. 184, 191 (1998))).  For this reason, the dissent mis-steps  in  relying  on 

Thurston  and  McLaughlin  v.  Richland 
Shoe Co., 486 U. S. 128, 133 (1988), as both cases involved the statutory phrase "willful violation." 

Post, at 613-614. 
The dissent reaches a contrary conclusion based on the in-teraction  of  the  words  "violation"  and  "not  intentional"  in 

$ 1692k(c).  Post,  at  613.  But  even  in  the  criminal  context, 
cf. n. 6, supra, reference to a "knowing" or "intentional" "vi-olation"  or  cognate  terms  has  not  necessarily  implied  a  de-

fense for legal errors.  See Bryan, 524 U. S., at 192 (" `[T]he knowledge requisite  to knowing violation of a statute is fac-
tual knowledge as distinguished from knowledge of the law' " 
(quoting  Boyce  Motor Lines,  Inc.  v.  United  States,  342  U. S. 
337,  345  (1952)  (Jackson,  J.,  dissenting)));  United  States  v. 
International  Minerals  &  Chemical  Corp.,  402  U. S.  558, 
559,  563  (1971)  (statute  imposing  criminal  liability  on  those 
who " `knowingly violat[e]' " regulations governing transpor-
tation  of  corrosive  chemicals  does  not  require  "proof  of  [the 
defendant's]  knowledge  of  the  law");  Ellis  v.  United  States, 
206 U. S. 246, 255, 257 (1907) (rejecting argument that crimi-
nal  penalty  applicable  to those  who "intentionally  violate" a 
statute "requires knowledge of the law"). 

The  dissent  advances  a  novel  interpretative  rule  under 
which the  combination of a "mens rea requirement" and the 
word  " `violation' "  (as  opposed  to  language  specifying  "the 
conduct  giving  rise  to  the  violation")  creates  a  mistake-of-
law  defense.  Post,  at  613.  Such  a  rule  would  be  remark-
able in its breadth, applicable to the many scores of civil and 
criminal  provisions  throughout  the  U.  S.  Code  that  employ 
such a combination of terms.  The dissent's theory draws no 
distinction  between  "knowing,"  "intentional,"  or  "willful" 
and  would  abandon  the  care  we  have  traditionally  taken  to 
construe  such  words  in  their  particular  statutory  context. 
See,  e. g.,  Safeco,  551  U. S.,  at  57.  More  fundamentally,  the 
dissent's  categorical  rule  is  at  odds  with  precedents  such  as 
Bryan,  524  U. S.,  at  192,  and  International  Minerals,  402 

586  JERMAN  v.  CARLISLE,  McNELLIE,  RINI,  KRAMER 

&  ULRICH,  L. P. A. 

Opinion of the Court 

U. S.,  at  559,  563,  in  which  we  rejected  a  mistake-of-law  de-
fense  when a  statute imposed  liability  for  a  "knowing  viola-
tion" or on those who "knowingly violat[e]" the law.7 

The dissent posits that the word "intentional," in the civil 
context, requires a higher showing of mens rea than "willful" 
and  thus  that  it  should  be  easier  to  avoid  liability  for  inten-
tional, rather than willful, violations.  Post, at 615.  Even if 
the dissent is correct that the phrase "intentional violation," 
standing  alone  in  a  civil  liability  statute,  might  be  read  to 
excuse mistakes of law, the FDCPA juxtaposes the term "not 
intentional"  "violation"  in  $ 1692k(c)  with  the  more  specific 
language of $ 45(m)(1)(A), which refers to "actual knowledge 
or knowledge fairly implied on the basis of objective circum-
stances"  that  particular  conduct  was  unlawful.  The  dis-
sent's  reading  gives  short  shrift  to  that  textual  distinction. 

7 Indeed, in International Minerals, the Court faced, and evidently re-
jected,  the  distinction  the  dissent  would  draw  today  between  the  term 
" `violation' " and a reference to "the conduct giving rise to the violation." 
Post, at 613.  As noted, in International Minerals, the Court rejected a 
mistake-of-law defense for a statute that applied to those who "knowingly 
violat[e]"  certain  regulations.  402  U. S.,  at  559,  563.  In  so  doing,  how-
ever, we expressly acknowledged the contrary view adopted by one lower 
court  opinion  that  knowledge  of  the  regulations  was  necessary.  Id.,  at 
562  (citing  St.  Johnsbury  Trucking  Co.  v.  United  States,  220  F.  2d  393, 
397 (CA1 1955) (Magruder, C. J., concurring)).  The dissenting opinion in 
International Minerals quoted extensively portions of the St. Johnsbury 
concurrence that reached its result by contrasting a statute  making it an 
offense  " ` "knowingly"  to  sell  adulterated  milk' "  with  one  that  makes  it 
an  offense  " `knowingly  [to]  violat[e]  a  regulation.' "  402  U. S.,  at  566 
(opinion of Stewart, J.) (quoting 220 F. 2d, at 398). 

Liparota  v.  United  States,  471  U. S.  419  (1985),  is  also  inapposite. 
Cf. post, at 614 (Kennedy,

Cite as: 559 U. S. 573 (2010)  587 

Opinion of the Court 
We  draw  additional  support  for  the  conclusion  that  bona fide  errors  in  $ 1692k(c)  do  not  include  mistaken  interpreta-

tions of the FDCPA, from the requirement that a debt collec-tor  maintain  "procedures  reasonably  adapted  to  avoid  any 
such error."  The dictionary defines "procedure" as "a series of  steps  followed  in  a  regular  orderly  definite  way."  Web-
ster's  Third  New  International  Dictionary  1807  (1976).  In 
that  light,  the  statutory  phrase  is  more  naturally  read  to apply to processes that have mechanical or other such "regu-

lar  orderly"  steps  to  avoid  mistakes--for  instance,  the  kind of internal controls a debt collector might adopt to ensure its 
employees do not communicate with consumers at the wrong 
time of day, $ 1692c(a)(1), or make false representations as to 
the amount of a debt, $ 1692e(2).  The dissent, like the Court 
of Appeals, finds nothing unusual in attorney debt collectors' 
maintaining  procedures  to  avoid  legal  error.  Post,  at  628; 
538 F. 3d, at 476.  We do not dispute that some entities may 
maintain procedures to avoid legal errors.  But legal reason-
ing  is  not  a  mechanical  or  strictly  linear  process.  For  this 
reason,  we  find  force  in  the  suggestion  by  the  Government 
(as  amicus  curiae supporting Jerman) that  the  broad  statu-
tory requirement of procedures reasonably designed to avoid 
"any"  bona  fide  error  indicates  that  the  relevant  procedures 
are ones that help to avoid errors like clerical or factual mis-
takes.  Such procedures  are more likely to avoid error than 
those  applicable  to  legal  reasoning,  particularly  in  the  con-
text of a comprehensive and complex federal statute such as 
the  FDCPA  that  imposes  open-ended  prohibitions  on,  inter 
alia, "false, deceptive," $ 1692e, or "unfair" practices, $ 1692f. 
See Brief for United States as Amicus Curiae 16-18. 

Even if the text of $ 1692k(c), read in isolation, leaves room 
for  doubt,  the  context  and  history  of  the  FDCPA  provide 
further  reinforcement  for  construing  that  provision  not  to 
shield violations resulting from misinterpretations of the re-
quirements  of  the  Act.  See  Dada  v.  Mukasey,  554  U. S.  1, 
16  (2008)  ("In  reading  a  statute  we  must  not  look  merely  to 

588  JERMAN  v.  CARLISLE,  McNELLIE,  RINI,  KRAMER 

&  ULRICH,  L. P. A. 

Opinion of the Court 

a  particular  clause,  but  consider  in  connection  with  it  the whole statute"  (internal quotation marks  omitted)).  As de-

scribed  above,  Congress  included  in  the  FDCPA  not  only the  bona  fide  error  defense  but  also  a  separate  protection 
from  liability  for  "any  act  done  or  omitted  in  good  faith in  conformity  with  any  advisory  opinion  of  the  [FTC]." 

$ 1692k(e).  In  our  view, the  Court  of Appeals'  reading  is  at 
odds  with  the  role  Congress  evidently  contemplated  for  the 
FTC  in  resolving  ambiguities  in  the  Act.  Debt  collectors 
would rarely need to consult the FTC if $ 1692k(c) were read 
to offer immunity for good-faith reliance on advice from pri-
vate counsel.  Indeed, debt collectors might have an affirm-
ative  incentive  not  to  seek  an  advisory  opinion  to  resolve 
ambiguity in the law, as receipt of such advice would prevent 
them  from  claiming  good-faith  immunity  for  violations  and 
would  potentially  trigger  civil  penalties  for  knowing  viola-
tions under the FTC Act.8  More importantly, the existence 
of a separate provision that, by its plain terms, is more obvi-
ously tailored to the concern at issue (excusing civil liability 
when  the  Act's  prohibitions  are  uncertain)  weighs  against 
stretching the language of the bona fide error defense to ac-
commodate Carlisle's expansive reading.9 

Any  remaining  doubt  about  the  proper  interpretation  of 

$ 1692k(c)  is  dispelled  by  evidence  of  the  meaning  attached 

8 One of Carlisle's amici suggests the FTC safe harbor would provide a 
more  categorical  immunity  than  $ 1692k(c),  obviating  the  need,  e. g.,  to 
maintain "procedures reasonably adapted to avoid any such error."  Brief 
for National Association of Retail Collection Attorneys as Amicus Curiae 
18-19  (NARCA  Brief).  Even  if  that  is  true,  we  need  not  conclude  that 
the  FTC  safe  harbor  would  be  rendered  entirely  superfluous  to  reason 
that  the  existence  of  that  provision  counsels  against  extending  the  bona 
fide error defense to serve an overlapping function. 

9 Carlisle raises concerns about whether, in light of contemporary admin-

istrative practice, the FTC safe harbor is a realistic way for debt collectors 
and  their  lawyers  to  seek  guidance  on  the  numerous  time-sensitive  legal 
issues that  arise in  litigation.  These practical  concerns, to  which  we  re-
turn  below,  do  not  change  our  understanding  of  the  statutory  text  itself 
or the likely intent of the enacting Congress. 

Cite as: 559 U. S. 573 (2010)  589 

Opinion of the Court 
to the language Congress copied into the FDCPA's bona fide error defense from a parallel provision in an existing statute. 

TILA,  82  Stat.  146,  was  the  first  of  several  statutes  collec-tively known as the Consumer Credit Protection Act (CCPA) 
that  now  include  the  FDCPA.  As  enacted  in  1968,  $ 130(c) of  TILA  provided  an  affirmative  defense  that  was  in  perti-
nent  part  identical  to  the  provision  Congress  later  enacted 
into  the  FDCPA:  "A  creditor  may  not  be  held  liable  in  any 
action brought under [TILA] if the  creditor shows by  a pre-
ponderance of evidence that the violation was not intentional 
and  resulted  from  a  bona  fide  error  notwithstanding  the 
maintenance  of  procedures  reasonably  adapted  to  avoid  any 
such  error."  82  Stat.  157  (codified  at  15  U. S. C.  $ 1640(c)). 

During the 9-year period between the enactment of TILA 
and passage of the FDCPA, the three Federal Courts of Ap-
peals  to  consider  the  question  interpreted  TILA's  bona  fide 
error  defense  as  referring  to  clerical  errors;  no  such  court 
interpreted  TILA  to  extend  to  violations  resulting  from  a 
mistaken  legal  interpretation  of  that  Act.10  We  have  often 

10 See Ives v.  W.  T.  Grant  Co.,  522 F. 2d 749, 757-758 (CA2 1975) (conclud-
ing  that  the  bona  fide  error  defense  in  $ 1640(c)  was  unavailable  despite 
creditor's  reliance,  in  selecting  language  for  credit  contract  forms,  on  a 
pamphlet issued by the Federal Reserve Board); Haynes v.  Logan Furni-
ture Mart, Inc., 503 F. 2d  1161, 1167  (CA7 1974) ("[Section] 1640(c) offers 
no shelter from liability for the defendant, whose error . . . was judgmental 
with respect to legal requirements of the Act and not clerical in nature"); 
Palmer v.  Wilson, 502 F. 2d 860, 861 (CA9 1974) (similar). 

Carlisle  contends  the  meaning  of  TILA's  defense  was  unsettled  at  the 
time  of  the  FDCPA's  enactment,  relying  first  on  several  District  Court 
opinions extending the defense to good-faith legal errors.  See, e. g., Wel-
maker v.  W.  T.  Grant  Co.,  365 F. Supp. 531, 544 (ND Ga. 1972).  But even 
assuming Congress would have looked to district court, rather than court 
of appeals,  opinions  in discerning the meaning  of  the statutory language, 
applicable Circuit precedent had cast some doubt on those decisions by the 
time the FDCPA was enacted.  See, e. g., Turner v. Firestone Tire & Rub-
ber Co., 537 F. 2d 1296, 1298 (CA5 1976) (per curiam) (referring to $ 1640(c) 
as the "so-called clerical error defense").  Carlisle also relies on the hold-
ing  in  Thrift  Funds  of  Baton  Rouge,  Inc.  v.  Jones,  274  So.  2d  150  (La. 
1973).  But in that case, the Louisiana Supreme Court concluded only that 

590  JERMAN  v.  CARLISLE,  McNELLIE,  RINI,  KRAMER 

&  ULRICH,  L. P. A. 

Opinion of the Court 

observed that when "judicial interpretations have settled the 
meaning of an existing statutory  provision, repetition of the 
same  language  in  a  new  statute  indicates,  as  a general  mat-
ter,  the  intent  to  incorporate  its . . .  judicial  interpretations 
as  well."  Bragdon  v.  Abbott,  524  U. S.  624,  645  (1998);  see 
also Rowe v.  New Hampshire Motor Transp. Assn., 552 U. S. 
364,  370  (2008).  While  the  interpretations  of  three  Federal 
Courts  of  Appeals  may  not  have  "settled"  the  meaning  of 
TILA's bona fide error defense, there is no reason to suppose 
that  Congress  disagreed  with  those  interpretations  when  it 
enacted  the  FDCPA.  Congress  copied  verbatim  the  perti-
nent  portions  of  TILA's  bona  fide  error  defense  into  the 
FDCPA.  Compare  15  U. S. C.  $ 1640(c)  (1976  ed.)  with 

$ 813(c),  91  Stat.  881.  This  close  textual  correspondence 
supports  an  inference  that  Congress  understood  the  statu-
tory formula it chose for the FDCPA consistent with Federal 
Court of Appeals interpretations of TILA.11 

a lender's mistaken interpretation of state usury law did not "amoun[t] to 
an intentional violation of [TILA's] disclosure requirements."  Id., at 161. 
The Louisiana court had no occasion to address the question analogous to 
the  one  we  consider  today:  whether  TILA's  bona  fide  error  defense  ex-
tended to violations resulting from mistaken interpretation of TILA itself. 
See n. 4, supra; see also Starks v.  Orleans Motors, Inc., 372 F. Supp. 928, 
931  (ED La.)  (distinguishing  Thrift  Funds  on  this basis),  aff 'd,  500 F.  2d 
1182  (CA5  1974).  These  precedents  therefore  do  not  convince  us  that 
Congress  would  have  ascribed  a  different  meaning  to  the  statutory  lan-
guage it chose for the FDCPA.  Compare post, at 607 (Scalia,

Cite as: 559 U. S. 573 (2010)  591 

Opinion of the Court 
Carlisle  and the  dissent urge  reliance, consistent with  the 
approach  taken  by  the  Court  of  Appeals,  on  a  1980  amend-
ment to TILA that added the following sentence to that stat-
ute's bona fide error defense: "Examples of a bona fide error 
include, but are not limited to, clerical, calculation, computer 
malfunction  and  program[m]ing,  and  printing  errors,  except 
that  an  error  of  legal  judgment  with  respect  to  a  person's 
obligations  under  [TILA]  is  not  a  bona  fide  error."  See 
Truth  in  Lending  Simplification  and  Reform  Act,  $ 615,  94 
Stat.  181.  The  absence  of  a  corresponding  amendment  to 
the FDCPA, Carlisle reasons, is evidence of Congress' intent 
to give a more expansive scope to the FDCPA defense.  For 
several  reasons,  we  decline  to  give  the  1980  TILA  amend-
ment such interpretative weight.  For one, it is not obvious 
that  the  amendment  changed  the  scope  of  TILA's  bona  fide 
error  defense  in  a  way  material  to  our  analysis,  given  the 
uniform  interpretations  of  three  Courts  of  Appeals  holding 
that the  TILA  defense does  not extend to mistakes  of law.12 

sole interpretative guide, here our conclusion also relies on common prin-
ciples  of  statutory  interpretation,  as well  as  the  statute's  text and  struc-
ture.  Moreover, the inference is supported by the fact that TILA and the 
FDCPA were enacted as complementary titles of the CCPA, a comprehen-
sive consumer protection statute.  While not necessary to our conclusion, 
evidence from the legislative record demonstrates  that some Members of 
Congress  understood  the  relationship  between  the  FDCPA  and  existing 
provisions of the CCPA.  See, e. g., 123 Cong. Rec. 10242 (1977) (remarks 
of  Rep.  Annunzio)  (civil  penalty  provisions  in  House  version  of  bill  were 
"consistent with those in the [CCPA]"); Fair Debt Collection Practices Act: 
Hearings on S. 656 et al. before the Subcommittee on Consumer Affairs of 
the  Senate  Committee  on  Banking,  Housing  and  Urban  Affairs,  95th 
Cong.,  1st  Sess.,  51,  707  (1977)  (statement  of  Rep.  Wylie)  (describing 
"[c]ivil  liability  provisions"  in  the  House  bill  as  "the  standard  provisions 
that attach to all the titles of the [CCPA]"). 

12 Although  again  not  necessary  to  our  conclusion,  evidence  from  the 

legislative  record  suggests  some  Members  of  Congress  understood  the 
amendment  to  "clarif[y]"  the  meaning  of  TILA's  bona  fide  error  defense 
"to make clear that it applies to mechanical and computer errors, provided 

592  JERMAN  v.  CARLISLE,  McNELLIE,  RINI,  KRAMER 

&  ULRICH,  L. P. A. 

Opinion of the Court 

(Contrary to the dissent's suggestion, post, at 631, this reading 
does not render the 1980 amendment surplusage.  Congress 
may  simply  have  intended  to  codify  existing  judicial  inter-
pretations to remove any potential for doubt in jurisdictions 
where  courts  had  not  yet  addressed  the  issue.)  It  is  also 
unclear why Congress would have intended the FDCPA's de-
fense to be broader than the one in TILA, which presents at 
least as significant a set  of concerns about imposing liability 
for uncertain legal obligations.  See, e. g., Ford Motor Credit 
Co.  v.  Milhollin,  444  U. S.  555,  566  (1980)  (TILA  is  " `highly 
technical' ").  Our  reluctance  to  give  controlling  weight  to 
the TILA amendment in construing the FDCPA is reinforced 

they are not the result of erroneous legal judgments as to the act's require-
ments."  S. Rep. No. 96-73, pp. 7-8 (1979); see also Lockhart, 153 A. L. R. 
Fed.  211-212,  $ 2[a]  (1999)  (amendment  "was  intended  merely  to  clarify 
what was then the prevailing view, that the bona fide error defense applies 
to  clerical  errors,  not  including  errors  of  legal  judgment"  (relying  on 
S. Rep. No. 96-368, p. 32 (1979))). 

The  concurring  and  dissenting  opinions  perceive  an  inconsistency  be-
tween these  references to  clerical  errors,  as well as  similar references in 
the pre-FDCPA precedents interpreting TILA, n. 10, supra, and reading 
the  FDCPA's  bona  fide  error  defense  to  include  factual  mistakes.  Post, 
at  608-609,  and  n.  2  (opinion  of  Scalia,

Cite as: 559 U. S. 573 (2010)  593 

Opinion of the Court 
by  the  fact  that  Congress  has  not  expressly  included  mis-
takes of law in any of the numerous bona fide error defenses, 
worded in pertinent  part identically to $ 1692k(c), elsewhere 
in  the  U.  S.  Code.  Compare,  e. g.,  12  U. S. C.  $ 4010(c)(2) 
(bona fide error defense in Expedited Funds Availability Act 
expressly excluding "an error of legal judgment with respect 
to [obligations under that Act]") with 15 U. S. C. $$ 1693m(c), 
1693h(c)  (bona  fide  error  provisions  in  the  Electronic  Fund 
Transfer Act that are silent as to errors of legal judgment).13 

Although Carlisle points out that Congress has amended the 
FDCPA  on  several  occasions  without  expressly  restricting 
the  scope  of  $ 1692k(c),  that  does  not  suggest  Congress 
viewed the statute as having the expansive reading Carlisle 
advances,  particularly  as  not  until  recently  had  a  Court  of 
Appeals interpreted the bona fide error defense to include a 
violation  of  the  FDCPA  resulting  from  a  mistake  of  law. 
See  Johnson  v.  Riddle,  305  F.  3d  1107,  1121-1124,  and 
nn. 14-15 (CA10 2002). 

Carlisle's reliance on Heintz, 514 U. S. 291, is also unavail-
ing.  We  held  in  that  case  that  the  FDCPA's  definition  of 
"debt collector" includes lawyers who regularly, through liti-
gation, attempt to collect consumer debts.  Id., at 292.  We 

13 The  Government  observes  that  several  federal  agencies  have  con-
strued similar bona fide error defenses in statutes they administer to ex-
clude errors of law.  See Brief for United States as Amicus Curiae 28-30. 
The Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, for instance, has pro-
mulgated  regulations  specifying  that  the  bona  fide  error  defense  in  the 
Real  Estate  Settlement  Procedures  Act  of  1974,  12  U. S. C.  $ 2607(d)(3), 
does not apply to "[a]n error of legal judgment," 24 CFR $ 3500.15(b)(1)(ii) 
(2009).  While administrative interpretations of other statutes do not con-
trol  our  reading  of  the  FDCPA,  we  find  it  telling  that  no  agency  has 
adopted the view of the Court of Appeals.  Of course, nothing in our opin-
ion  today  addresses  the  validity  of  such  regulations  or  the  authority  of 
agencies interpreting bona fide error provisions in other statutes to adopt 
a different reading.  See National Cable & Telecommunications Assn. v. 
Brand X Internet Services, 545 U. S. 967, 982-983 (2005). 

594  JERMAN  v.  CARLISLE,  McNELLIE,  RINI,  KRAMER 

&  ULRICH,  L. P. A. 

Opinion of the Court 

addressed a concern raised by the petitioner (as here, a law-
yer  collecting  a  debt  on  behalf  of  a  client)  that  our  reading 

would automatically render liable "any litigating lawyer who 
brought,  and  then  lost,  a  claim  against  a  debtor,"  on  the 
ground that $ 1692e(5) prohibits a debt collector from making 
any  " `threat  to  take  action  that  cannot  legally  be  taken.' " 
Id.,  at  295.  We  expressed  skepticism  that  $ 1692e(5)  itself 
demanded such a result.  But even assuming the correctness 
of  petitioner's  reading  of  $ 1692e(5),  we  suggested  that  the 
availability  of  the  bona  fide  error  defense  meant  that  the 
prospect  of  liability  for  litigating  lawyers  was  not  "so  ab-
surd" as to warrant implying a categorical exemption unsup-
ported by the statutory text.  Ibid.  We had no occasion in 
Heintz  to  address  the  overall  scope  of  the  bona  fide  error 
defense.  Our discussion  of $ 1692e(5) did not  depend on the 
premise  that  a  misinterpretation  of  the  requirements  of  the 
Act  would  fall  under  the  bona  fide  error  defense.  In  the 
mine-run  lawsuit,  a  lawyer  is  at  least  as  likely  to  be  unsuc-
cessful  because  of  factual  deficiencies  as  opposed  to  legal 
error.  Lawyers  can,  of  course,  invoke  $ 1692k(c)  for  viola-
tions resulting from qualifying factual errors. 

Carlisle's remaining  arguments do  not change  our view of 

$ 1692k(c).  Carlisle  perceives  an inconsistency  between  our 
reading  of  the  term  "intentional"  in  that  provision  and  the 
instruction  in  $ 1692k(b)  that  a  court  look  to  whether  "non-
compliance was intentional" in assessing statutory additional 
damages.  But  assuming  $ 1692k(b)  encompasses  errors  of 
law, we see no conflict, only congruence, in reading the Act to 
permit  a  court  to  adjust  statutory  damages  for  a  good-faith 
misinterpretation  of  law,  even  where  a  debt  collector  is  not 
entitled  to  the  categorical  protection  of  the  bona  fide  error 
defense.  Carlisle  is  also  concerned  that  under  our  reading, 

$ 1692k(c)  would  be  unavailable  to  a  debt  collector  who  vio-
lates  a provision  of  the  FDCPA  applying  to  acts taken  with 
particular  intent  because  in  such  instances  the  relevant  act 

Cite as: 559 U. S. 573 (2010)  595 

Opinion of the Court 
would  not  be  unintentional.  See,  e. g.,  $ 1692d(5)  (prohibit-
ing  a  debt  collector  from  "[c]ausing  a  telephone  to  ring  .  .  . 
continuously  with  intent  to  annoy,  abuse,  or  harass").  In-
cluding  mistakes  as  to  the  scope  of  such  a  prohibition,  Carlisle  urges,  would  ensure  that  $ 1692k(c)  applied  throughout 
the FDCPA.  We see no reason, however, why the bona fide 
error defense must cover every provision of the Act. 

The  parties  and  amici  make  arguments  concerning  the 
legislative history that we address for the sake of complete-
ness.  Carlisle  points  to  a  sentence  in  a  Senate  Committee 
Report  stating  that  "[a]  debt  collector  has  no  liability  . . . if  
he  violates  the  act  in  any  manner,  including  with  regard  to 
the  act's  coverage,  when  such  violation  is  unintentional  and 
occurred  despite  procedures  designed  to  avoid  such  viola-
tions."  S. Rep. No. 95-382, p. 5 (1977); see also post, at 609- 

611 (opinion of Scalia,

596  JERMAN  v.  CARLISLE,  McNELLIE,  RINI,  KRAMER 

&  ULRICH,  L. P. A. 

Opinion of the Court 

strong support to Carlisle's view.14  We therefore decline to give controlling weight to this isolated passage. 

B 
Carlisle, its amici, and the dissent raise the additional con-cern  that  our  reading  will  have  unworkable  practical  conse-

quences for debt collecting lawyers.  See, e. g., Brief for Re-spondents 40-41, 45-48; NARCA Brief 4-16; 

post, at 615-624. Carlisle claims the FDCPA's private enforcement provisions 

have fostered a " `cottage industry' " of professional plaintiffs 

14 For  instance,  an  amendment  was  proposed  and  rejected  during  the 
Senate Banking Committee's consideration of the FDCPA that would have 
required proof that a debt collector's violation was "knowin[g]."  Senator 
Riegle, one of the Act's primary sponsors, opposed the change, explaining 
that  the bill  reflected  the view  that  "certain things  ought  not to  happen, 
period.  .  .  .  [W]hether  somebody  does  it  knowingly,  willfully,  you  know, 
with a good heart, bad heart, is really quite incidental."  See Senate Com-
mittee on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs, Markup Session: S. 1130-- 
Debt  Collection  Legislation  60  (July  26,  1977)  (hereinafter  Markup);  see 
also  ibid.  ("We  have  left  a  way  for  these  disputes  to  be  adj[u]dicated  if 
they  are  brought,  where  somebody  can  say,  I  didn't  know  that,  or  my 
computer  malfunctioned,  something  happened,  I  didn't  intend  for  the  ef-
fect  to  be  as  it  was").  To  similar  effect,  a  House  Report  on  an  earlier 
version of the bill explained the need for new legislation governing use of 
the mails for debt collection on grounds that existing statutes "frequently 
require[d]"  a  showing  of  "specific  intent[,]  which  is  difficult  to  prove." 
H. R. Rep. No. 95-131, p. 3 (1977).  Elsewhere, to be sure, the legislative 
record  contains  statements  more  supportive  of  Carlisle's  interpretation. 
In particular, a concern was raised in the July 26 markup session that the 
TILA  bona  fide  error  defense  had  been  interpreted  "as  only  protecting 
against  a  mathematical  error,"  and  that  the  FDCPA  defense  should  "go 
beyond" TILA to "allow the courts discretion to dismiss a violation where 
it  was  a  technical  error."  Markup  20.  In  response,  a  staffer  explained 
that  the  FDCPA  defense  would  "apply  to  any  violation  of  the  act  which 
was unintentional," and answered affirmatively when the chairman asked: 
"So  it's  not  simply  a  mathematical  error  but  any  bona  fide  error  without 
intent?"  Id.,  at  21.  Whatever  the  precise  balance  of  these  statements 
may be, we can conclude that this equivocal evidence from legislative his-
tory  does  not  displace  the  clear  textual  and  contextual  authority  dis-
cussed above. 

Cite as: 559 U. S. 573 (2010)  597 

Opinion of the Court 
who sue debt collectors for trivial violations of the Act.  See Brief  for  Respondents  40-41.  If  debt  collecting  attorneys 

can  be  held  personally  liable  for  their  reasonable  misinter-pretations  of  the  requirements  of  the  Act,  Carlisle  and  its 
amici  foresee  a  flood  of  lawsuits  against  creditors'  lawyers by  plaintiffs  (and  their  attorneys)  seeking  damages  and  at-
torney's  fees.  The  threat  of  such  liability,  in  the  dissent's view, creates an irreconcilable conflict between an attorney's 
personal financial interest  and her  ethical obligation of zeal-ous  advocacy  on  behalf  of  a  client:  An  attorney  uncertain 
about  what  the  FDCPA  requires  must  choose  between,  on the  one hand,  exposing  herself to  liability  and,  on the  other, 
resolving the legal ambiguity against  her client's  interest or advising the client to settle--even where there is substantial 
legal  authority  for  a  position  favoring  the  client.  Post,  at 621-624.

15 

We  do  not  believe  our  holding  today  portends  such  grave consequences.  For one, the FDCPA contains several provi-

sions that expressly guard against abusive lawsuits, thereby mitigating  the  financial  risk  to  creditors'  attorneys.  When 
an  alleged  violation  is  trivial,  the  "actual  damage[s]"  sus-tained,  $ 1692k(a)(1),  will  likely  be  de  minimis  or  even  zero. 

15 The dissent also cites several other consumer protection statutes, such 
as  TILA  and  the  Fair  Credit  Reporting  Act,  15  U. S. C.  $ 1681  et  seq., 
which in its view create "incentives to file lawsuits even where no actual 
harm  has  occurred"  and  are  illustrative  of  what  the  dissent  perceives  to 
be  a  "troubling  dynamic  of  allowing  certain  actors  in  the  system  to  spin 
even  good-faith,  technical  violations  of  federal  law  into  lucrative  litiga-
tion."  Post,  at  616-617.  The  dissent's  concern  is  primarily  with  Con-
gress' policy choice, embodied in statutory text, to authorize private rights 
of  action  and  recovery  of  attorney's  fees,  costs,  and  in  some  cases,  both 
actual  and  statutory  damages.  As  noted,  in  one  of  the  statutes  the  dis-
sent cites, Congress explicitly barred reliance on a mistake-of-law defense 
notwithstanding  the  "highly  technical"  nature  of  the  scheme.  See  15 
U. S. C.  $ 1640(c)  (TILA);  Ford  Motor  Credit  Co.  v.  Milhollin,  444  U. S. 
555, 566 (1980).  Similarly, the plain text of the FDCPA authorizes a pri-
vate plaintiff to recover not only "actual damage[s]" for harm suffered but 
also "such additional damages as the court may allow," $ 1692k(a). 

598  JERMAN  v.  CARLISLE,  McNELLIE,  RINI,  KRAMER 

&  ULRICH,  L. P. A. 

Opinion of the Court 

The Act sets a cap on "additional" damages, $ 1692k(a)(2), and vests  courts  with  discretion  to  adjust  such  damages  where 

a  violation  is  based  on  a  good-faith  error,  $ 1692k(b).  One amicus suggests that attorney's fees may shape financial in-
centives even where actual and statutory damages are mod-est.  NARCA  Brief  11.  The  statute  does  contemplate  an 
award  of  costs  and  "a  reasonable  attorney's  fee  as  deter-mined  by  the  court"  in  the  case  of  "any  successful  action  to 
enforce  the  foregoing  liability."  $ 1692k(a)(3).  But  courts have  discretion  in  calculating  reasonable  attorney's  fees 
under  this  statute,16  and  $ 1692k(a)(3)  authorizes  courts  to 

16 The Courts of Appeals generally review a District Court's calculation 
of an attorney's fee award under $ 1692k for abuse of discretion.  See, e. g., 
Carroll v.  Wolpoff & Abramson, 53 F. 3d 626, 628-629 (CA4 1995); Eman-
uel v.  American Credit Exch., 870 F. 2d 805, 809 (CA2 1989).  Many Dis-
trict  Courts  apply  a  lodestar  method,  permitting  downward  adjustments 
in appropriate circumstances.  See, e. g., Schlacher v.  Law Offices of Phil-
lip J. Rotche & Assoc., P. C., 574 F. 3d 852 (CA7 2009) (relying on Hensley 
v.  Eckerhart, 461 U. S. 424 (1983)); Ferland v.  Conrad Credit Corp., 244 F. 
3d 1145, 1148-1151, and n. 4 (CA9 2001) (per curiam); see generally Hobbs, 
Fair Debt Collection $ 6.8.6.  In Schlacher, for instance, the court affirmed 
a downward adjustment for the "unnecessary use of multiple attorneys . . . 
in  a  straightforward,  short-lived  [FDCPA]  case."  574  F.  3d,  at  854-855. 
In  Carroll,  the  court  found  no  abuse  of  discretion  in  a  District  Court's 
award of a $500 attorney's fee, rather than the lodestar amount, where the 
lawsuit had recovered only $50 in damages for "at most a technical viola-
tion" of the FDCPA.  53 F. 3d, at 629-631. 

Lower  courts  have  taken  different  views  about  when,  and  whether, 

$ 1692k  requires  an  award  of  attorney's  fees.  Compare  Tolentino  v. 
Friedman, 46 F. 3d 645 (CA7 1995) (award of fees to a successful plaintiff 
"mandatory"), and Emanuel, 870 F. 2d, at 808-809 (same, even where the 
plaintiff suffered no actual damages), with Graziano, 950 F. 2d, at 114, and 
n.  13  (attorney's  fees  may  be  denied  for  plaintiff's  "bad  faith  conduct"), 
and Johnson v.  Eaton,  80 F. 3d 148, 150-152 (CA5 1996) ("attorney's fees 
. . . are only available [under $ 1692k] where the plaintiff has succeeded in 
establishing that the defendant is liable for actual and/or additional dam-
ages"; this reading "will deter suits brought only as a means of generating 
attorney's  fees").  We  need  not  resolve  these  issues  today  to  express 
doubt that our reading of $ 1692k(c) will impose unmanageable burdens on 
debt collecting lawyers. 

Cite as: 559 U. S. 573 (2010)  599 

Opinion of the Court 
award  attorney's  fees  to  the  defendant  if  a  plaintiff 's suit  "was  brought  in  bad  faith  and  for  the  purpose  of 

harassment." Lawyers  also  have  recourse  to  the  affirmative  defense  in 

$ 1692k(c).  Not  every  uncertainty  presented  in  litigation stems from  interpretation of the requirements of the  Act it-
self; lawyers  may invoke  the  bona  fide  error defense,  for  in-
stance,  where  a  violation  results  from  a  qualifying  factual error.  Jerman  and  the  Government  suggest  that  lawyers 

can entirely avoid the risk of misinterpreting the Act by ob-taining  an  advisory  opinion  from  the  FTC  under  $ 1692k(e). 
Carlisle  fairly  observes  that  the  FTC  has  not  frequently  is-
sued  such  opinions,  and  that  the  average  processing  time 
may  present  practical  difficulties.  Indeed,  the  Government 
informed  us  at  oral  argument  that  the  FTC  has  issued  only 
four  opinions  in  the  past  decade  (in  response  to  seven  re-
quests),  and  the  FTC's  response  time  has  typically  been 
three  or  four  months.  Tr.  of Oral  Arg.  27-28,  30.  Without 
disregarding  the  possibility  that  the  FTC  advisory  opinion 
process  might  be  useful  in  some  cases,  evidence  of  present 
administrative  practice  makes  us  reluctant  to  place  signifi-
cant  weight  on  $ 1692k(e)  as  a  practical  remedy  for  the  con-
cerns Carlisle has identified. 

We are unpersuaded by what seems an implicit premise of 
Carlisle's  arguments:  that  the  bona  fide  error  defense  is  a 
debt collector's sole recourse to avoid potential liability.  We 
addressed  a  similar  argument  in  Heintz,  in  which  the  peti-
tioner urged that certain of the Act's substantive provisions 
would  generate  " `anomalies' "  if  the  term  "debt  collector" 
was  read  to  include  litigating  lawyers.  514  U. S.,  at  295. 
Among other things, the petitioner in Heintz contended that 

$ 1692c(c)'s  bar  on  further  communication  with  a  consumer 
who  notifies  a  debt  collector  that  she  is  refusing  to  pay  the 
debt  would  prohibit  a  lawyer  from  filing a  lawsuit  to  collect 
the  debt.  Id.,  at  296-297.  We  agreed  it  would  be  "odd" 
if  the  Act  interfered  in  this  way  with  "an  ordinary  debt-

600  JERMAN  v.  CARLISLE,  McNELLIE,  RINI,  KRAMER 

&  ULRICH,  L. P. A. 

Opinion of the Court 

collecting  lawsuit"  but  suggested  $ 1692c(c)  did  not  demand 
such  a  reading  in  light  of  several  exceptions  in  the  text  of 
that  provision  itself.  Ibid.  As  in  Heintz,  we  need  not  au-
thoritatively  interpret  the  Act's  conduct-regulating  provi-
sions to observe that those provisions should not be assumed 
to  compel  absurd  results  when  applied  to  debt  collecting 
attorneys. 

To  the  extent  the  FDCPA  imposes  some  constraints  on  a 
lawyer's advocacy on behalf of a client, it is hardly unique in 
our  law.  "[A]n attorney's  ethical duty  to advance the inter-
ests of his client is limited by an equally solemn duty to com-
ply  with  the  law  and  standards  of  professional  conduct." 
Nix  v.  Whiteside,  475  U. S.  157,  168  (1986).  Lawyers  face 
sanctions,  among  other  things,  for  suits  presented  "for  any 
improper  purpose,  such  as  to  harass,  cause  unnecessary 
delay,  or  needlessly  increase  the  cost  of  litigation."  Fed. 
Rules  Civ.  Proc.  11(b),  (c).  Model  rules  of  professional  con-
duct adopted by many States impose outer bounds on an at-
torney's pursuit of a client's interests.  See, e. g., ABA Model 
Rules of Professional Conduct 3.1 (2009) (requiring nonfrivo-
lous  basis  in  law  and  fact  for  claims  asserted);  4.1  (truthful-
ness to third parties).  In some circumstances, lawyers may 
face  personal  liability  for  conduct  undertaken  during  repre-
sentation  of  a  client.  See,  e. g.,  Central  Bank  of  Denver, 
N.  A.  v.  First Interstate Bank of Denver, N. A., 511 U. S. 164, 
191 (1994) ("Any person or entity, including a lawyer, . . . who  
employs a manipulative device or makes a material misstate-
ment  (or  omission)  on  which  a  purchaser  or  seller  of  securi-
ties relies may be liable as a primary violator under [Securi-
ties and Exchange Commission Rule] 10b-5"). 

Moreover, a lawyer's interest in avoiding FDCPA liability 
may not always be adverse to her client.  Some courts have 
held  clients  vicariously  liable  for their  lawyers'  violations  of 
the  FDCPA.  See,  e. g.,  Fox  v.  Citicorp  Credit  Servs.,  Inc., 
15 F. 3d 1507, 1516 (CA9 1994); see also First Interstate Bank 

Cite as: 559 U. S. 573 (2010)  601 

Opinion of the Court 
of  Fort  Collins,  N.  A.  v.  Soucie,  924  P.  2d  1200,  1202  (Colo. 
App. 1996). 

The  suggestion  that  our  reading  of  $ 1692k(c)  will  create 
unworkable  consequences  is  also  undermined  by  the  exist-
ence of numerous state consumer protection and debt collec-
tion  statutes  that  contain  bona  fide  error  defenses  that  are 
either silent as to, or expressly exclude, legal errors.17  Sev-
eral States have enacted debt collection statutes that contain 
neither  an  exemption  for  attorney  debt  collectors  nor  any 
bona  fide  error  defense  at  all.  See,  e. g.,  Mass.  Gen.  Laws, 
ch.  93,  $ 49  (West  2008);  Md.  Com.  Law  Code  Ann.  $ 14-203 
(Lexis  2005);  Ore.  Rev.  Stat.  $ 646.641  (2007);  Wis.  Stat. 

$ 427.105  (2007-2008).  More  generally,  a  group  of  21  States 
as amici supporting Jerman inform us they are aware of "no 
[ judicial]  decisions  interpreting  a  parallel  state  bona  fide 
error  provision  [in  a  civil  regulatory  statute]  to  immunize  a 
defendant's mistake of law," except in a minority of statutes 
that expressly provide to the contrary.18  See Brief for State 
of  New  York  et  al.  as  Amici  Curiae  11,  and  n.  6.  Neither 
Carlisle and its amici nor the dissent demonstrates that law-
yers  have  suffered  drastic  consequences  under  these  state 
regimes. 

In  the  dissent's  view,  these  policy  concerns  are  evidence 
that  "Congress  could  not  have  intended"  the  reading  we 
adopt today.  Post, at 615.  But the dissent's reading raises 
concerns of its own.  The dissent focuses on the facts of this 
case,  in  which  an  attorney  debt  collector,  in  the  dissent's 

17 See  Brief  for  Ohio  Creditor's  Attorneys  Association  et  al.  as  Amici 
Curiae  4-6,  and  nn.  7-8  (identifying  "134  state  consumer  protection  and 
debt collection statutes," 42 of which expressly exclude legal errors from 
their defenses for bona fide errors). 

18 See,  e. g.,  Kan.  Stat.  Ann.  $ 16a-5-201(7)  (2007)  (provision  of  Kansas 

Consumer  Credit  Code  providing  a  defense  for  a  "bona  fide  error  of  law 
or  fact");  Ind.  Code  $ 24-9-5-5  (West  2004)  (defense  for  creditor's  "bona 
fide error of law or fact" in Indiana Home Loan Practices Act). 

602  JERMAN  v.  CARLISLE,  McNELLIE,  RINI,  KRAMER 

&  ULRICH,  L. P. A. 

Opinion of the Court 

view,  "acted  reasonably  at  every  step"  and  committed  a "technical  violation"  resulting  in  no  "actual  harm"  to  the 

debtor.  Post,  at  622,  617,  618.  But  the  dissent's  legal  the-ory  does  not  limit  the  defense  to  attorney  debt  collectors 
or "technical" violations.19  Under that approach, it appears, 
nonlawyer debt collectors could obtain blanket immunity for 
mistaken  interpretations  of  the  FDCPA  simply  by  seeking 
the advice of legal counsel.  Moreover, many debt collectors 
are compensated with a percentage of money recovered, and 
so  will  have  a  financial  incentive  to  press  the  boundaries  of 
the  Act's  prohibitions  on  collection  techniques.  It  is  far 
from obvious why immunizing debt collectors who adopt ag-
gressive  but  mistaken  interpretations  of  the  law  would  be 
consistent with the statute's broadly worded prohibitions on 
debt  collector  misconduct.  Jerman  and  her  amici  express 
further concern that the dissent's reading would give a com-
petitive  advantage  to  debt  collectors  who  press  the  bound-
aries of lawful conduct.  They foresee a "race to the bottom" 
driving  ethical  collectors  out  of  business.  Brief  for  Peti-
tioner  32;  Brief  for  Public  Citizen,  Inc.,  et  al.  as  Amici  Cu-
riae 16-18.  It is  difficult  to square such a  result with  Con-
gress'  express purpose  "to eliminate  abusive  debt  collection 
practices  by  debt  collectors,  [and]  to  insure  that  those  debt 
collectors  who  refrain  from  using  abusive  debt  collection 
practices are not competitively disadvantaged," $ 1692(e). 

The  dissent's  reading  also  invites  litigation  about  a  debt 
collector's  subjective  intent  to  violate  the  FDCPA  and  the 
adequacy  of  procedures  maintained  to  avoid  legal  error. 

19 The dissent also downplays the predicate fact that respondents in this 
case  brought  a  foreclosure  lawsuit  against  Jerman  for  a  debt  she  had  al-
ready repaid.  Neither the lower courts nor this Court has been asked to 
consider,  and  thus  we  express  no  view  about,  whether  Carlisle  could  be 
subject to liability under the FDCPA for that uncontested error--regard-
less  of  how  reasonably  Carlisle  may  have  acted  after  the  mistake  was 
pointed out by Jerman's (privately retained) lawyer. 

Cite as: 559 U. S. 573 (2010)  603 

Opinion of the Court 
Cf.  Barlow,  7  Pet.,  at  411  (maxim  that  ignorance  of  the  law 
will  not  excuse  civil  or  criminal  liability  "results  from  the 
extreme  difficulty  of  ascertaining  what  is,  bona  fide,  the  in-
terpretation  of  the  party").  Courts  that  read  $ 1692k(c)  to 
permit  a  mistake-of-law  defense  have  adopted  varying  for-
mulations  of what  legal  procedures are  "reasonably  adapted 
to  avoid  any  [legal]  error." 20  Among  other  uncertainties, 
the dissent does not explain whether it would read $ 1692k(c) 
to impose a heightened standard for the procedures attorney 
debt  collectors  must  maintain,  as  compared  to  nonattorney 
debt collectors.  The increased cost to prospective plaintiffs 
in  time,  fees,  and  uncertainty  of  outcome  may  chill  private 
suits  under  the  statutory  right  of  action,  undermining  the 
FDCPA's  calibrated  scheme  of  statutory  incentives  to  en-
courage  self-enforcement.  Cf.  FTC,  Collecting  Consumer 
Debts:  The  Challenges  of  Change  67  (2009)  ("Because  the 
[FTC]  receives  more  than  70,000  third-party  debt  collection 
complaints per year, it is not feasible for federal government 
law  enforcement  to  be  the  exclusive  or  primary  means  of 
deterring all possible law violations").  The state amici pre-
dict that, on the dissent's reading, consumers will have little 
incentive to bring enforcement actions "where the law [i]s at 
all unsettled,  because  in  such  circumstances a  debt  collector 
could easily claim bona fide error of law"; in the States' view, 
the  resulting  "enforcement  gap"  would  be  "extensive"  at 
both  the  federal  and  state  levels.  See  Brief  for  State  of 

20 Compare  Hartman  v.  Great  Seneca  Financial  Corp.,  569  F.  3d  606, 
614-615 (CA6 2009) (suggesting that reasonable procedures might include 
"perform[ing] ongoing FDCPA  training,  procur[ing] the most recent case 
law,  or  hav[ing]  an  individual  responsible  for  continuing  compliance  with 
the FDCPA"), with Johnson v.  Riddle, 443 F. 3d 723, 730-731 (CA10 2006) 
(suggesting that researching case law and filing a test case might be suffi-
cient,  but  remanding  for  a  jury  determination  of  whether  the  "limited 
[legal] analysis" undertaken was sufficient and whether the test case was 
in fact a "sham"). 

604  JERMAN  v.  CARLISLE,  McNELLIE,  RINI,  KRAMER 

&  ULRICH,  L. P. A. 

Opinion of the Court 

New York et al. as Amici Curiae 7-10.  In short, the policy 
concerns  identified  by  the  dissent  tell  only  half  the  story.21 

In sum, we do not foresee that our decision today will place 
unmanageable burdens on lawyers practicing in the debt col-
lection industry.  To the extent debt collecting lawyers face 
liability  for  mistaken  interpretations  of  the  requirements  of 
the  FDCPA,  Carlisle,  its  amici,  and  the  dissent  have  not 
shown  that  "the  result  [will  be]  so  absurd  as  to  warrant" 
disregarding the weight of textual authority discussed above. 
Heintz, 514 U. S., at 295.  Absent such a showing, arguments 
that  the  Act  strikes  an  undesirable  balance  in  assigning  the 
risks  of  legal  misinterpretation  are  properly  addressed  to 
Congress.  To  the  extent  Congress  is  persuaded  that  the 
policy concerns identified by the dissent require a recalibra-
tion  of the  FDCPA's  liability  scheme, it  is,  of  course, free  to 
amend  the  statute  accordingly.22  Congress  has  wide  lati-
tude,  for  instance,  to  revise  $ 1692k  to  excuse  some  or  all 
mistakes of law or grant broader discretion to district courts 
to  adjust  a  plaintiff 's  recovery.  This  Court  may  not,  how-
ever,  read  more  into  $ 1692k(c)  than  the  statutory  language 
naturally  supports.  We  therefore  hold  that  the  bona  fide 
error  defense  in  $ 1692k(c)  does  not  apply  to  a  violation  of 

21 The dissent adds in passing that today's decision "creates serious concerns . . . for  First  Amendment rights."  Post, at 623 (citing  Legal Serv-
ices Corporation v.  Velazquez, 531 U. S. 533, 545 (2001)).  That claim was 
neither  raised  nor  passed  upon  below,  and  was  mentioned  neither  in  the 
certiorari  papers  nor  the  parties'  merits  briefing  to  this  Court.  We  de-
cline  to  express  any  view on  it.  See  Cutter v.  Wilkinson, 544 U. S.  709, 
718, n. 7 (2005). 

22 The FDCPA has been amended some eight times since its enactment 

in 1977; the most recent amendment addressed a concern not unrelated to 
the question we consider today, specifying that a pleading in a civil action 
is not an  "initial  communication"  triggering obligations under  $ 1692g  re-
quiring  a  written  notice  to  the  consumer.  Financial  Services  Regula-
tory  Relief  Act  of  2006,  $ 802(a),  120  Stat.  2006  (codified  at  15  U. S. C. 

$ 1692g(d)). 

Cite as: 559 U. S. 573 (2010)  605 

Breyer,
606  JERMAN  v.  CARLISLE,  McNELLIE,  RINI,  KRAMER 

&  ULRICH,  L. P. A. 

Opinion of Scalia,

Cite as: 559 U. S. 573 (2010)  607 

Opinion of Scalia,
608  JERMAN  v.  CARLISLE,  McNELLIE,  RINI,  KRAMER 

&  ULRICH,  L. P. A. 

Opinion of Scalia,

Cite as: 559 U. S. 573 (2010)  609 

Opinion of Scalia,
610  JERMAN  v.  CARLISLE,  McNELLIE,  RINI,  KRAMER 

&  ULRICH,  L. P. A. 

Opinion of Scalia,

Cite as: 559 U. S. 573 (2010)  611 

Kennedy,
612  JERMAN  v.  CARLISLE,  McNELLIE,  RINI,  KRAMER 

&  ULRICH,  L. P. A. 

Kennedy,

Cite as: 559 U. S. 573 (2010)  613 

Kennedy,
614  JERMAN  v.  CARLISLE,  McNELLIE,  RINI,  KRAMER 

&  ULRICH,  L. P. A. 

Kennedy,

Cite as: 559 U. S. 573 (2010)  615 

Kennedy,
616  JERMAN  v.  CARLISLE,  McNELLIE,  RINI,  KRAMER 

&  ULRICH,  L. P. A. 

Kennedy,

Cite as: 559 U. S. 573 (2010)  617 

Kennedy,
618  JERMAN  v.  CARLISLE,  McNELLIE,  RINI,  KRAMER 

&  ULRICH,  L. P. A. 

Kennedy,

Cite as: 559 U. S. 573 (2010)  619 

Kennedy,
620  JERMAN  v.  CARLISLE,  McNELLIE,  RINI,  KRAMER 

&  ULRICH,  L. P. A. 

Kennedy,

Cite as: 559 U. S. 573 (2010)  621 

Kennedy,
622  JERMAN  v.  CARLISLE,  McNELLIE,  RINI,  KRAMER 

&  ULRICH,  L. P. A. 

Kennedy,

Cite as: 559 U. S. 573 (2010)  623 

Kennedy,
624  JERMAN  v.  CARLISLE,  McNELLIE,  RINI,  KRAMER 

&  ULRICH,  L. P. A. 

Kennedy,

Cite as: 559 U. S. 573 (2010)  625 

Kennedy,
626  JERMAN  v.  CARLISLE,  McNELLIE,  RINI,  KRAMER 

&  ULRICH,  L. P. A. 

Kennedy,

Cite as: 559 U. S. 573 (2010)  627 

Kennedy,
628  JERMAN  v.  CARLISLE,  McNELLIE,  RINI,  KRAMER 

&  ULRICH,  L. P. A. 

Kennedy,

Cite as: 559 U. S. 573 (2010)  629 

Kennedy,
630  JERMAN  v.  CARLISLE,  McNELLIE,  RINI,  KRAMER 

&  ULRICH,  L. P. A. 

Kennedy,

Cite as: 559 U. S. 573 (2010)  631 

Kennedy,
632  JERMAN  v.  CARLISLE,  McNELLIE,  RINI,  KRAMER 

&  ULRICH,  L. P. A. 

Kennedy,

OCTOBER  TERM,  2009  633 

Syllabus 

MERCK  &  CO.,  INC.,  et

634  MERCK  &  CO.  v.  REYNOLDS 

Syllabus 
but  also  to  the  hypothetical  discovery  of  facts  a  reasonably  diligent 
plaintiff would  know.  Congress  intended courts to  interpret the word 
"discovery"  in  $ 1658(b)(1)  similarly.  That  statute  was  enacted  after 
this Court determined a governing limitations period for private $ 10(b) 
actions,  Lampf,  Pleva,  Lipkind,  Prupis  &  Petigrow  v.  Gilbertson,  501 
U. S. 350, concluding that such actions "must be commenced within one 
year  after  the  discovery  of  the  facts  constituting  the  violation  .  . . ,"  
id.,  at  364  (emphasis  added).  Since  then,  Courts  of  Appeals  deciding 
the matter have held that "discovery" occurs both when a plaintiff actu-
ally  discovers  the  facts  and  when  a  hypothetical  reasonably  diligent 
plaintiff  would  have  discovered  them.  In  2002,  Congress  repeated 
Lampf 's  critical  language  in  enacting  the  present  limitations  statute. 
Normally, when Congress enacts statutes, it is aware of relevant judicial 
precedent.  See,  e. g.,  Edelman  v.  Lynchburg  College,  535  U. S.  106, 
116-117,  and  n.  13.  Given  the  history  and  precedent  surrounding  the 
use of "discovery" in the limitations context generally as well as in this 
provision,  the  reasons  for  making  this  assumption  are  particularly 
strong  here.  Merck's  claims  are  evaluated  accordingly.  Pp.  644-648. 

2.  In  determining  the  time  at  which  "discovery"  occurs,  terms  such 
as "inquiry notice" and "storm warnings" may be useful insofar as they 
identify  a  time  when  the facts  would  have  prompted  a  reasonably  dili-
gent  plaintiff  to  begin  investigating.  But  the  limitations  period  does 
not begin to run until the plaintiff thereafter discovers or a reasonably 
diligent plaintiff would have discovered "the facts constituting the viola-
tion," including scienter--irrespective of whether the actual plaintiff un-
dertook a reasonably diligent investigation.  Pp. 648-653. 

(a)  Contrary  to  Merck's  argument,  facts  showing  scienter  are 
among  those  that  "constitut[e]  the  violation."  Scienter  is  assuredly  a 
"fact."  In a $ 10(b) action, it refers to "a mental state embracing intent 
to  deceive,  manipulate,  or  defraud,"  Ernst  &  Ernst  v.  Hochfelder,  425 
U. S.  185,  194,  n.  12,  and  "constitut[es]"  an  important  and  necessary 
element  of  a  $ 10(b)  "violation."  See  Tellabs,  Inc.  v.  Makor  Issues  & 
Rights, Ltd., 551 U. S. 308, 319.  Because the scienter element of $ 10(b) 
fraud cases has special heightened pleading requirements, see 15 U. S. C. 

$ 78u-4(b)(2), unless a $ 10(b)  complaint sets  forth facts showing that it 
is "at least as likely as" not that the defendant acted with the relevant 
intent, the claim will fail.  Tellabs, supra, at 328 (emphasis deleted).  It 
would  frustrate  the  very  purpose  of  the  discovery  rule  codified  in 

$ 1658(b)(1) if the limitations period began to run regardless of whether 
a plaintiff had "discover[ed]" any facts suggesting scienter.  Pp. 648-649. 

(b)  The Court also rejects Merck's argument that, even if "discov-
ery" requires facts related to scienter, facts that tend to show a materi-
ally false or misleading statement (or material  omission) are ordinarily 

Cite as: 559 U. S. 633 (2010)  635 

Syllabus 
sufficient  to  show  scienter.  Where  $ 10(b)  is  at  issue,  the  relation  of 
factual falsity and state of mind is more context specific.  For instance, 
an incorrect prediction about a firm's future earnings, by itself, does not 
automatically  show  whether  the  speaker  deliberately  lied  or  made  an 
innocent  error.  Hence,  "discovery"  of  additional  scienter-related  facts 
may  be  required.  The  statute's  inclusion  of  an  unqualified  bar  on  ac-
tions instituted "5 years after such violation," $ 1658(b)(2), should dimin-
ish  Merck's  fear  that  this  requirement  will  give  life  to  stale  claims  or 
subject  defendants  to  liability  for  acts  taken  long  ago.  Pp.  649-650. 

(c)  And the Court cannot accept Merck's argument that the limita-
tions  period  begins  at  "inquiry  notice,"  meaning  the  point  where  the 
facts  would  lead  a  reasonably  diligent  plaintiff  to  investigate  further, 
because  that  point  is  not  necessarily  the  point  at  which  the  plaintiff 
would already have "discover[ed]" facts showing scienter or other "facts 
constituting  the  violation."  The  statute  says  that  the  plaintiff's  claim 
accrues only after the "discovery" of those latter facts.  It contains no 
indication  that  the  limitations  period  can  sometimes  begin  before  "dis-
covery"  can  take  place.  Merck  also  argues  that  determining  when  a 
hypothetical reasonably diligent plaintiff would have "discover[ed]" the 
necessary facts is too complicated for judges to undertake.  But courts 
applying  the  traditional  discovery  rule  have  long  had  to  ask  what  a 
reasonably diligent plaintiff would have known and done in myriad cir-
cumstances  and  already  undertake  this  kind  of  inquiry  in  securities 
fraud cases.  Pp. 650-653. 

3.  Prior  to  November  6,  2001,  the  plaintiffs  did  not  discover,  and 
Merck  has  not  shown  that  a  reasonably  diligent  plaintiff  would  have 
discovered, "the facts  constituting the  violation."  The FDA's Septem-
ber 2001 warning letter shows little or nothing about the here-relevant 
scienter,  i. e.,  whether  Merck  advanced  the  naproxen  hypothesis  with 
fraudulent intent.  The FDA itself described the hypothesis as a "possi-
ble explanation" for the VIGOR results, faulting Merck only for failing 
sufficiently to publicize the less favorable alternative, that Vioxx might 
be harmful.  The products-liability complaints' general statements 
about Merck's state of mind show little more.  Thus, neither these cir-
cumstances  nor any  of the other  pre-November  2001  circumstances re-
veal "facts" indicating the relevant scienter.  Pp. 653-654. 

543 F. 3d 150, affirmed. 

Breyer,

636  MERCK  &  CO.  v.  REYNOLDS 

Counsel 
Kannon K. Shanmugam argued the cause for petitioners. With him on the briefs were Richard A. Olderman, Thomas 

J.  Roberts,  Samuel  Bryant  Davidoff,  Christopher  R.  Hart, William  R.  Stein,  Eric  S.  Parnes,  Evan  R.  Chesler,  Robert 
H. Baron, Karin A. DeMasi, Martin L. Perschetz, Sung-Hee 
Suh, and William H. Gussman, Jr. David  C.  Frederick  argued  the  cause  for  respondents. 

With  him  on  the  brief  were  Max  W.  Berger,  William  C. Fredericks,  Elliott  J.  Weiss,  Bruce  D.  Bernstein,  Boaz  A. 
Weinstein,  Adam  H.  Wierzbowski,  David  A.  P.  Brower, Richard H. Weiss, and Roland W. Riggs. 

Deputy Solicitor General Stewart argued the cause for the United  States  as 

amicus  curiae  in  support  of  respondents. With him on the brief were Solicitor General Kagan, Doug-

las Hallward-Driemeier, Mark D. Cahn, Michael A. Conley, and Mark Pennington.* 

*Briefs  of  amici  curiae  urging  reversal  were  filed  for  the  Chamber  of 
Commerce of the United States of America by Deanne E. Maynard, Brian 
R.  Matsui,  Robin  S.  Conrad,  and  Amar  D.  Sarwal;  for  DRI-The  Voice 
of  the  Defense  Bar  by  Kevin  C.  Newsom  and  F.  M.  Haston  III;  for  the 
Pharmaceutical  and  Research  Manufacturers  of  America  by  Carter  G. 
Phillips and Jonathan F. Cohn; for the Securities Industry and Financial 
Markets  Association  by  Richard  D.  Bernstein,  Michael  R.  Young,  Mary 
Eaton,  and  Kevin  M.  Carroll;  and  for  the  Washington  Legal  Foundation 
by  Steven  G.  Bradbury,  Steven  A.  Engel,  Steven  B.  Fierson,  Michael  L. 
Kichline, Daniel J. Popeo, Richard Samp, and Andrew J. Levander. 

Briefs of amici curiae urging affirmance were filed for the State of Ohio 
et al. by Richard Cordray, Attorney General of Ohio, Benjamin C. Mizer, 
Solicitor  General,  Albert  G.  Lin,  General  Counsel,  Emily  S.  Schlesinger, 
Deputy Solicitor, and Jason P. Small and Alyson Terrell, Assistant Attor-
neys General, and by the Attorneys General for their respective States as 
follows: Terry  Goddard of Arizona, Edmund G. Brown,  Jr.,  of California, 
Richard  Blumenthal  of  Connecticut,  Joseph  R.  Biden  III  of  Delaware, 
Bill McCollum of Florida, Mark Bennett of Hawaii, Lisa Madigan of Illi-
nois, Tom Miller of Iowa, Steve Six of Kansas, Jack Conway of Kentucky, 
Janet Mills of Maine, Douglas F. Gansler of Maryland, Mike Cox of Michi-
gan,  Steve  Bullock  of  Montana,  Michael  E.  Delaney  of  New  Hampshire, 
Anne  Milgram  of  New  Jersey,  Gary  K.  King  of  New  Mexico,  John  R. 
Kroger of Oregon, Patrick C. Lynch of Rhode Island, Henry D. McMaster 

Cite as: 559 U. S. 633 (2010)  637 

Opinion of the Court 
Justice

638  MERCK  &  CO.  v.  REYNOLDS 

Opinion of the Court 
represented  the  risks  of  heart  attacks  accompanying  the use  of  Merck's  painkilling  drug,  Vioxx  (leading  to  economic 

losses when the risks later became apparent).  The plaintiffs brought  an  action  for  securities  fraud  under  $ 10(b)  of  the 
Securities  Exchange  Act  of  1934.  See  48  Stat.  891,  as amended,  15  U. S. C.  $ 78j(b);  SEC  Rule  10b-5,  17  CFR 

$ 240.10b-5(b) (2009); Dura Pharmaceuticals, Inc. v.  Broudo, 544 U. S. 336, 341-342 (2005). 

The  applicable  statute  of  limitations  provides  that  a  "pri-vate  right  of  action"  that,  like  the  present  action,  "involves 
a claim of fraud,  deceit,  manipulation, or contrivance  in  con-travention of a regulatory requirement concerning the secu-
rities laws . . . may be brought not later than the earlier of-- 

"(1)  2  years  af ter  the  discovery  of  the  facts constituting the violation; or 

"(2)  5  years  af ter  such  violation. "  28  U. S. C. $ 1658(b). 

The complaint in this case was filed on November  6, 2003, and  no  one  doubts  that  it  was  filed  within  five  years  of  the 
alleged violation.  Therefore, the critical date for timeliness purposes  is  November  6,  2001--two  years  before  this  com-
plaint  was  filed.  Merck  claims  that  before  this  date  the plaintiffs  had  (or  should  have)  discovered  the  "facts  consti-
tuting  the  violation."  If  so,  by  the  time  the  plaintiffs  filed their  complaint,  the  2-year  statutory  period  in  $ 1658(b)(1) 
had  run.  The  plaintiffs  reply  that  they  had  not,  and  could not have, discovered by the critical date those "facts," partic-
ularly  not  the  facts  related  to  scienter,  and  that  their  com-plaint was therefore timely. 

A 
We  first  set  out  the  relevant  pre-November  2001  facts,  as we  have  gleaned  them  from  the  briefs,  the  record,  and  the 

opinions below. 

1.  1990's.  In  the  mid-1990's,  Merck  developed  Vioxx.  In 1999,  the  Food  and  Drug  Administration  (FDA)  approved  it 

Cite as: 559 U. S. 633 (2010)  639 

Opinion of the Court 
for  prescription  use.  Vioxx  suppresses  pain  by  inhibiting the  body's  production  of  an  enzyme  called  COX-2  (cyclo-

oxygenase-2).  COX-2  is  associated  with  pain  and  inflam-mation.  Unlike  some  other  anti-inflammatory  drugs  in  its 
class  like  aspirin,  ibuprofen,  and  naproxen,  Vioxx  does not  inhibit  production  of  a  second  enzyme  called  COX-1 
(cyclooxygenase-1).  COX-1  plays  a  part  in  the  functioning 
of the  gastrointestinal tract and also  in  platelet aggregation (associated with blood clots).  App. 50-51. 

2.  March  2000.  Merck  announced  the  results  of  a  study, called  the  "VIGOR"  study. 

Id.,  at  291-294.  The  study 
compared  Vioxx  with  another  painkiller,  naproxen.  The 
study showed that persons taking Vioxx suffered fewer gas-
trointestinal  side  effects  (as  Merck  had  hoped).  But  the 
study  also  revealed  that  approximately  4  out  of  every  1,000 
participants  who  took  Vioxx  suffered  heart  attacks,  com-
pared  to  only  1  per  1,000  participants  who  took  naproxen. 
Id., at 296, 306; see Bombardier et al., Comparison of Upper 
Gastrointestinal  Toxicity  of  Rofecoxib  and  Naproxen  in  Pa-
tients With Rheumatoid Arthritis, 343 New England J. Medi-
cine 1520, 1523, 1526-1527 (2000). 

Merck's press release acknowledged VIGOR's adverse car-
diovascular  data.  But  Merck  said  that  these  data  were 
"consistent  with  naproxen's  ability  to  block  platelet  aggre-
gation."  App. 291.  Merck noted that, since "Vioxx, like all 
COX-2 selective medicines, does not block platelet aggrega-
tion[,  it]  would  not  be  expected  to  have  similar  effects." 
Ibid.  And  Merck  added  that  "safety  data  from  all  other 
completed and ongoing clinical trials . . . showed no indication 
of a difference in the incidence of thromboembolic events be-
tween  Vioxx"  and  either  a  placebo  or  comparable  drugs. 
Id., at 293 (emphasis deleted). 

This  theory--that  VIGOR's  troubling  cardiovascular  find-
ings  might  be  due  to  the  absence  of  a  benefit  conferred  by 
naproxen rather than  due to a harm caused by Vioxx--later 
became known as the "naproxen hypothesis."  In advancing 

640  MERCK  &  CO.  v.  REYNOLDS 

Opinion of the Court 
that  hypothesis,  Merck  acknowledged  that  the  naproxen benefit  "had  not  been  observed  previously." 

Id.,  at  291. 
Journalists  and  stock  market  analysts  reported  all  of  the above--the  positive  gastrointestinal  results,  the  troubling 

cardiovascular finding, the naproxen hypothesis, and the fact that  the  naproxen  hypothesis  was  unproved.  See 

id.,  at 
355-391, 508-557. 

3.  February  2001  to  August  2001.  Public  debate  about the  naproxen  hypothesis  continued.  In  February  2001,  the 

FDA's  Arthritis  Advisory  Committee  convened  to  consider Merck's  request  that  the  Vioxx  label  be  changed  to  reflect 
VIGOR's  positive  gastrointestinal  findings.  The  VIGOR 
cardiovascular findings were also discussed.  Id., at 392-395, 
558-577.  In May 2001, a group of plaintiffs filed a productsliability  lawsuit  against  Merck,  claiming  that  "Merck's  own 
research"  had  demonstrated  that  "users  of  Vioxx  were  four 
times  as  likely  to  suffer  heart  attacks  as  compared  to  other 
less  expensive  medications."  Id.,  at  869.  In  August  2001, 
the  Journal  of the  American Medical  Association  wrote that 
the  available  data  raised  a  "cautionary  flag"  and  strongly 
urged that "a trial specifically assessing cardiovascular risk" 
be done.  Id.,  at 331-332; Mukherjee, Nissen,  &  Topol, Risk 
of  Cardiovascular  Events  Associated  with  Selective  COX-2 
Inhibitors,  286  JAMA  954  (2001).  At  about  the  same  time, 
Bloomberg News quoted a Merck scientist who claimed that 
Merck  had  "additional  data"  that  were  "very,  very  reas-
suring,"  and  Merck  issued  a  press  release  stating  that  it 
stood  "behind  the  overall  and  cardiovascular  safety  profile 
.  .  .  of  Vioxx."  App.  434,  120  (emphasis  deleted;  internal 
quotation marks omitted). 

4.  September  and  October  2001.  The  FDA  sent  Merck  a 
warning letter released to the public on September 21, 2001. 
It said that, in respect to cardiovascular risks, Merck's Vioxx 
marketing  was  "false,  lacking  in  fair  balance,  or  otherwise 
misleading."  Id.,  at  339.  At  the  same  time,  the  FDA  ac-
knowledged  that  the  naproxen  hypothesis  was  a  "possi-

Cite as: 559 U. S. 633 (2010)  641 

Opinion of the Court 
ble explanation"  of the  VIGOR  results.  Id.,  at 340.  But it found  that  Merck's  "promotional  campaign  selectively  pre-

sent[ed]" that hypothesis without adequately acknowledging "another  reasonable  explanation,"  namely,  "that  Vioxx  may 
have  pro-thrombotic  [i. e.,  adverse  cardiovascular]  proper-ties." 

Ibid.  The  FDA  ordered  Merck  to  send  healthcare providers a corrective letter.  Id., at 353. 

After the FDA letter was released, more products-liability lawsuits  were  filed.  See  id.,  at  885-956.  Merck's  share 
price  fell  by  6.6%  over  several  days.  See  id.,  at  832.  By October  1,  the  price  rebounded.  See  ibid.  On  October  9, 
2001,  the  New  York  Times  said  that  Merck  had  reexamined its  own  data  and  "found  no  evidence  that  Vioxx  increased 
the risk of heart attacks."  Id., at 504.  It quoted the presi-dent of Merck Research Laboratories as positing " `two pos-
sible  interpretations' ":  " `Naproxen  lowers  the  heart  attack rate,  or  Vioxx  raises  it.' " 

Ibid.  Stock  analysts,  while  re-porting the warning letter, also noted that the FDA had not 

denied  that  the  naproxen  hypothesis  remained  an  unproven but possible explanation.  See id., at 614, 626, 628. 

B 
We  next  set  forth  three  important  events  that  occurred after the critical date. 

1.  October  2003.  The  Wall  Street  Journal  published  the results of a Merck-funded Vioxx study conducted at Boston's 
Brigham and Women's Hospital.  After examining the medi-cal records of more than 50,000 Medicare patients, research-
ers found that those given Vioxx for 30 to 90 days were 37% more likely to have suffered a heart attack than those given 
either  a  different  painkiller  or  no  painkiller  at  all.  Id.,  at 164-165.  (That  is  to  say,  if  patients  given  a  different  pain-
killer  or  given  no  painkiller  at  all  suffered 10  heart  attacks, then  the  same number  of  patients  given  Vioxx  would  suffer 
13 or 14 heart attacks.)  Merck defended Vioxx and pointed to the study's limitations.  Id., at 165-167. 

642  MERCK  &  CO.  v.  REYNOLDS 

Opinion of the Court 
2.  September  30,  2004.  Merck  withdrew  Vioxx  from  the market.  It  said  that  a  new  study  had  found  "an  increased 

risk  of  confirmed  cardiovascular  events  beginning  after  18 months  of  continuous  therapy."  Id.,  at  182  (internal  quota-
tion  marks  omitted).  A  Merck  representative  publicly  de-scribed the results as "totally unexpected." 

Id., at 186 (em-phasis  deleted).  Merck's  shares  fell  by  27%  the  same  day. 

Id., at 185, 856. 3.  November  1,  2004.  The  Wall  Street  Journal  published 
an article stating that "internal Merck e-mails and marketing materials  as  well  as  interviews  with  outside  scientists  show 
that  the  company  fought  forcefully  for  years  to  keep  safety concerns from destroying the drug's commercial prospects." 
Id.,  at  189-190.  The  article  said  that  an  early  e-mail  from Merck's  head  of  research  had  said  that  the  VIGOR  "results 
showed  that  the  cardiovascular  events  `are  clearly  there,' " that  it  was  " `a  shame  but  .  .  .  a  low  incidence,' "  and  that  it 
" `is  mechanism  based  as  we  worried  it  was.' "  Id.,  at  192. It also said that Merck had given its salespeople instructions 
to  " `DODGE' "  questions  about  Vioxx's  cardiovascular  ef-fects. 

Id., at 193.  C 

The  plaintiffs  filed  their  complaint  on  November  6,  2003. As subsequently amended, the complaint alleged that Merck 
had defrauded investors by promoting the naproxen hypoth-esis, knowing the hypothesis was false.  It said, for example, 
that  Merck  "knew,  at  least  as  early  as  1996,  of  the  serious safety  issues  with  Vioxx,"  and  that  a  "1998  internal  Merck 
clinical  trial  . . . revealed  that . . .  serious  cardiovascular events  .  .  .  occurred  six  times  more  frequently  in  patients 
given Vioxx than in patients given a different arthritis drug or  placebo." 

Id.,  at  56,  58-59  (emphasis  and  capitalization deleted). 

Merck,  believing  that  the  plaintiffs  knew  or  should  have known  the  "facts  constituting  the  violation"  at  least  two 
years  earlier,  moved to dismiss  the  complaint,  saying  it  was 

Cite as: 559 U. S. 633 (2010)  643 

Opinion of the Court 
filed too late.  The District Court granted the motion.  The 
court held that the (March 2001) VIGOR study, the (Septem-
ber  2001)  FDA  warning  letter,  and  Merck's  (October  2001) 
response  should  have  alerted  the  plaintiffs  to  a  "possibility 
that Merck had knowingly misrepresented material facts" no 
later than October 9, 2001, thus placing the plaintiffs on "in-
quiry notice" to look further.  In re Merck & Co. Securities, 
Derivative  &  "ERISA" Litigation,  483  F.  Supp. 2d  407, 423 
(NJ 2007) (emphasis added).  Finding that the plaintiffs had 
failed  to "show  that they  exercised  reasonable due  diligence 
but nevertheless were unable to discover their injuries," the 
court  took  October  9,  2001,  as  the  date  that  the  limitations 
period  began  to  run  and  therefore  found  the  complaint  un-
timely.  Id., at 424. 

The  Court  of  Appeals  for  the  Third  Circuit  reversed.  A 
majority held that the pre-November 2001 events, while con-
stituting  "storm  warning[s],"  did  not  suggest  much  by  way 
of  scienter,  and  consequently  did  not  put  the  plaintiffs  on 
"inquiry  notice,"  requiring  them  to  investigate  further. 
In re Merck & Co. Securities, Derivative & "ERISA" Litiga-
tion,  543  F.  3d  150,  172  (2008).  A  dissenting  judge  consid-
ered  the  pre-November  2001  events  sufficient  to  start  the 
2-year clock running.  Id., at 173 (opinion of Roth, J.). 

Merck  sought  review  in  this  Court,  pointing  to  disagree-
ments among the Courts of Appeals.  Compare Theoharous 
v.  Fong, 256 F. 3d 1219, 1228 (CA11 2001) (limitations period 
begins  to  run  when  information  puts  plaintiffs  on  "inquiry 
notice"  of  the  need  for  investigation),  with  Shah  v.  Meeker, 
435  F.  3d  244,  249  (CA2  2006)  (same;  but  if  plaintiff  does 
investigate,  period  runs  "from  the  date  such  inquiry  should 
have  revealed  the  fraud"  (internal  quotation  marks  omit-
ted)),  and  New  England  Health  Care  Employees  Pension 
Fund v.  Ernst & Young, LLP, 336 F. 3d 495, 501 (CA6 2003) 
(limitations period always begins to run only when a reason-
ably  diligent  plaintiff,  after  being  put  on  "inquiry  notice," 

644  MERCK  &  CO.  v.  REYNOLDS 

Opinion of the Court 
should  have  discovered  facts  constituting  violation  (internal quotation marks omitted)).  We granted Merck's petition. 

II 
Before turning to Merck's arguments, we consider a more basic  matter.  The  parties  and  the  Solicitor  General  agree 

that $ 1658(b)(1)'s word "discovery" refers not only to a plain-tiff 's  actual  discovery  of  certain  facts,  but  also  to  the  facts 
that  a  reasonably  diligent  plaintiff  would  have  discovered. We  agree.  But  because  the  statute's  language  does  not 
make this interpretation obvious, and because we cannot an-swer  the  question  presented  without  considering  whether 
the parties are right about this matter, we set forth the rea-sons for our agreement in some detail. 

We  recognize  that  one  might  read  the  statutory  words "after  the  discovery  of  the  facts  constituting  the  violation" 
as  referring  to  the  time  a  plaintiff  actually  discovered  the relevant facts.  But in the statute of limitations context, the 
word "discovery" is often used as a term of art in connection with  the  "discovery  rule,"  a  doctrine  that  delays  accrual  of 
a cause of action until the plaintiff has "discovered" it.  The rule arose in fraud cases as an exception to the general limi-
tations rule that a cause of action accrues once a plaintiff has a "complete and present cause of action," Bay Area Laundry 
and  Dry  Cleaning  Pension  Trust  Fund  v.  Ferbar  Corp.  of 
Cal.,  522  U. S.  192,  201  (1997)  (citing  Clark  v.  Iowa  City,  20 Wall.  583,  589  (1875);  internal  quotation  marks  omitted). 

This Court long ago recognized that something different was needed  in  the  case  of  fraud,  where  a  defendant's  deceptive 
conduct  may  prevent  a  plaintiff  from  even  knowing  that  he or she has been defrauded.  Otherwise, "the law which was 
designed  to  prevent  fraud"  could  become  "the  means  by which  it  is  made  successful  and  secure." 

Bailey  v.  Glover, 21 Wall. 342, 349 (1875).  Accordingly, "where a plaintiff has 

been injured by fraud and remains in ignorance of it without any fault or want of diligence or  care on his  part,  the bar  of 

Cite as: 559 U. S. 633 (2010)  645 

Opinion of the Court 
the  statute  does  not  begin  to  run  until  the  fraud  is  discov-
ered."  Holmberg v.  Armbrecht, 327 U. S. 392, 397 (1946) (in-
ternal  quotation  marks  omitted;  emphasis  added).  And  for more than a century, courts have understood that "[f]raud is 

deemed to be discovered . . . when, in the exercise of reason-able  diligence,  it  could  have  been  discovered."  2  H.  Wood, 
Limitation  of  Actions  $ 276b(11),  p.  1402  (4th  ed.  1916);  see 
id.,  at  1401-1403,  and  nn.  74-84  (collecting  cases  and  stat-utes);  see, 

e. g.,  Holmberg,  supra,  at  397;  Kirby  v.  Lake 
Shore & Michigan Southern R. Co., 120 U. S. 130, 138 (1887) (The rule "regard[s] the cause of action as having accrued at 

the time the fraud was or should have been discovered"). 

More  recently,  both  state  and  federal  courts  have  applied 
forms  of  the  "discovery  rule"  to  claims  other  than  fraud. 
See  2  C.  Corman,  Limitation  of  Actions  $$ 11.1.2.1,  11.1.2.3, 
pp. 136-142, and nn. 6-13, 18-23 (1991 and 1993 Supp.) (here-
inafter Corman) (collecting cases); see, e. g., United States v. 
Kubrick,  444  U. S.  111  (1979).  Legislatures  have  codified 
the  discovery  rule  in  various  contexts.  2  Corman  $ 11.2,  at 
170-171, and nn. 1-9 (collecting statutes); see, e. g., 28 U. S. C. 

$ 2409a(g)  (actions  to  quiet  title  against  the  United  States). 
In  doing  so,  legislators  have  written  the  word  "discovery" 
directly into the statute.  And when they have done so, state 
and  federal  courts  have  typically  interpreted  the  word  to 
refer not only to actual discovery, but also to the hypothetical 
discovery of facts a reasonably diligent plaintiff would know. 
See, e. g., Peacock v.  Barnes, 142 N. C. 215, 217-220, 55 S. E. 
99,  100  (1906);  Davis  v.  Hibernia  Sav.  &  Loan  Soc.,  21  Cal. 
App.  444,  448,  132  P.  462,  464  (1913);  Roether  v.  National 
Union  Fire  Ins.  Co.,  51  N.  D.  634,  640-642,  200  N.  W.  818, 
821  (1924);  Goldenberg  v.  Bache  &  Co.,  270  F.  2d  675,  681 
(CA5 1959); Mobley v.  Hall, 202 Mont. 227, 232, 657 P. 2d 604, 
606  (1983);  Tregenza  v.  Great  American  Communications 
Co.,  12  F.  3d  717,  721-722  (CA7  1993);  J.  Geils  Band  Em-
ployee Benefit Plan v.  Smith Barney Shearson, Inc., 76 F. 3d 
1245, 1254 (CA1 1996). 

646  MERCK  &  CO.  v.  REYNOLDS 

Opinion of the Court 
Thus,  treatise  writers  now  describe  "the  discovery  rule" as  allowing  a  claim  "to  accrue  when  the  litigant  first  knows 

or  with  due  diligence  should  know  facts  that  will  form the basis for an action."  2 Corman $ 11.1.1, at 134 (emphasis 
added);  see  also  ibid.,  n.  1  (collecting  cases);  37  Am.  Jur.  2d, Fraud and  Deceit $ 347, p. 354  (2001  and Supp. 2009) (noting 
that the various formulations of "discovery" all provide that 
"in addition to actual knowledge of the fraud, once a reason-ably diligent party is in a position that they should have suf-

ficient knowledge or information to have actually discovered the fraud, they are charged with discovery"); 

id., at 354-355, 
and nn. 2-11 (collecting cases). 

Like the parties, we believe that Congress intended courts 
to  interpret  the  word  "discovery"  in  $ 1658(b)(1)  similarly. 
Before  Congress  enacted  that  statute,  this  Court,  having 
found  in  the  federal  securities  laws  the  existence  of  an  im-
plied private $ 10(b) action, determined its governing limita-
tions  period  by  looking  to  other  limitations  periods  in  the 
federal  securities  laws.  Lampf,  Pleva,  Lipkind,  Prupis  & 
Petigrow v.  Gilbertson, 501 U. S. 350 (1991).  Noting the ex-
istence of various formulations "differ[ing] slightly in termi-
nology,"  the  Court  chose  the  language  in  15  U. S. C.  $ 78i(e), 
the statutory provision that governs securities price manipu-
lation  claims.  501  U. S.,  at  364,  n.  9.  And  in  doing  so,  the 
Court  said  that  private  $ 10(b)  actions  "must  be  commenced 
within one year after the discovery of the facts constituting 
the  violation  and  within  three  years  after  such  violation." 
Id.,  at  364  (emphasis  added).  (The  Court  listed  among  the 
various  formulations  the  one  in  15  U. S. C.  $ 77m,  on  which 
the  concurrence  relies.  See  post,  at  656-658  (Scalia,

Cite as: 559 U. S. 633 (2010)  647 

Opinion of the Court 
would  have  discovered  them.  See,  e. g.,  Law  v.  Medco  Re-
search,  Inc.,  113  F.  3d  781,  785-786  (CA7  1997);  Dodds  v. 
Cigna Securities, Inc., 12 F. 3d 346, 350, 353 (CA2 1993); see 
In re NAHC, Inc. Securities Litigation, 306 F. 3d 1314, 1325, 
n.  4  (CA3  2002)  (collecting  cases).  Some  of  those  courts noted that other limitations provisions in the federal securi-

ties  laws  explicitly  provide  that  the  period  begins  to  run 
" `after  the  discovery  of  the  untrue  statement  .  .  .  or  after 
such  discovery  should  have  been  made  by  [the]  exercise  of 
reasonable diligence,' " whereas the formulation adopted by the Court in 

Lampf from 15 U. S. C. $ 78i(e) does not.  Treg-
enza,  supra,  at  721  (quoting  $ 77m;  emphasis  added  in  Treg-
enza); see Lampf, supra, at 364, n. 9.  But, courts reasoned, 
because the term "discovery" in respect to statutes of limita-
tions for fraud has long been understood to include discover-
ies  a  reasonably  diligent  plaintiff  would  make,  the  omission 
of  an  explicit  provision  to  that  effect  did  not  matter.  Treg-
enza,  supra,  at  721;  accord,  New  England  Health  Care,  336 
F. 3d, at 499-500. 

In  2002,  when  Congress  enacted  the  present  limitations 
statute,  it  repeated  Lampf 's  critical  language.  The  statute 
says that an action based on fraud "may be brought not later 
than  the  earlier  of  .  .  .  2  years  after  the  discovery  of  the 

facts constituting the violation" (or "5 years after such vio-
lation").  $ 804 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, 116 Stat. 801, cod-
ified  at  28  U. S. C.  $ 1658(b)  (emphasis  added).  (This  statu-
tory  provision  does  not  make  the  linguistic  distinction  that 
the concurrence  finds in a different statute, $ 77m,  and upon 
which  its  argument  rests.  Cf.  29  U. S. C.  $ 1113(2)  (statute 
in which Congress provided that an action be brought "three 
years after the earliest date on which the plaintiff had actual 
knowledge  of  the  breach  or  violation"  (emphasis  added)).) 
Not  surprisingly,  the  Courts  of  Appeals  unanimously  have 
continued  to  interpret  the  word  "discovery"  in  this  statute 
as  including  not  only  facts  a  particular  plaintiff  knows,  but 
also  the  facts  any  reasonably  diligent  plaintiff  would  know. 

648  MERCK  &  CO.  v.  REYNOLDS 

Opinion of the Court 
See,  e. g.,  Staehr  v.  Hartford  Financial  Servs.  Group,  Inc., 547  F.  3d  406,  411  (CA2  2008);  Sudo  Properties,  Inc.  v. 

Terrebonne  Parish  Consolidated  Govt.,  503  F.  3d  371,  376 (CA5 2007). 

We normally assume that, when Congress enacts statutes, it  is  aware  of  relevant  judicial  precedent.  See, 

e. g.,  Edel-man v.  Lynchburg  College,  535  U. S. 106, 116-117,  and n. 13 

(2002);  Commissioner  v.  Keystone  Consol.  Industries,  Inc., 508  U. S.  152,  159  (1993).  Given  the  history  and  precedent 
surrounding  the  use  of  the  word  "discovery"  in  the  limita-tions context generally as well as in this provision in particu-
lar,  the  reasons  for  making  this  assumption  are  particularly strong here.  We consequently hold that "discovery" as used 
in this statute encompasses not only those facts the plaintiff actually  knew,  but  also  those  facts  a  reasonably  diligent 
plaintiff would have known.  And we evaluate Merck's claims accordingly. 

III 
We turn now to Merck's arguments in favor of holding that petitioners' claims accrued before November 6, 2001.  First, 

Merck  argues  that  the  statute  does  not  require  "discovery" of  scienter-related  "facts."  See  Brief for  Petitioners  19-28. 
We  cannot  agree,  however,  that  facts  about  scienter  are unnecessary. 

The statute says that the limitations period does not begin to  run  until  "discovery  of  the 

facts  constituting  the  vio-lation."  28 U. S. C. $ 1658(b)(1) (emphasis added).  Scienter 

is  assuredly  a  "fact."  In  a  $ 10(b)  action,  scienter  refers  to "a  mental  state  embracing  intent  to  deceive,  manipulate,  or 
defraud."  Ernst & Ernst, 425 U. S., at 194, n. 12.  And the " `state  of  a  man's  mind  is  as  much  a  fact  as  the  state  of  his 
digestion.' "  Postal Service Bd. of Governors v.  Aikens, 460 U. S.  711,  716  (1983)  (quoting 

Edgington  v.  Fitzmaurice, [1885] 29 Ch. Div. 459, 483). 

And this "fact" of scienter "constitut[es]" an important and necessary element of a $ 10(b) "violation."  A plaintiff cannot 

Cite as: 559 U. S. 633 (2010)  649 

Opinion of the Court 
recover  without  proving  that  a  defendant  made  a  material misstatement 

with  an  intent  to  deceive--not  merely  inno-
cently  or  negligently.  See  Tellabs,  Inc.  v.  Makor  Issues  & 
Rights, Ltd., 551 U. S. 308, 319 (2007); Ernst & Ernst, supra. 
Indeed,  Congress  has  enacted  special  heightened  pleading requirements  for  the  scienter element  of $ 10(b)  fraud cases. 

See  15  U. S. C.  $ 78u-4(b)(2)  (requiring  plaintiffs  to  "state 
with particularity facts giving rise to a strong inference that the  defendant  acted  with  the  required  state  of  mind"  (em-

phasis added)).  As a result, unless a $ 10(b) plaintiff can set forth  facts  in  the  complaint  showing  that  it  is  "at  least  as 
likely  as"  not  that  the  defendant  acted  with  the  relevant 
knowledge  or  intent,  the  claim  will  fail.  Tellabs,  supra,  at 
328  (emphasis  deleted).  It  would  therefore  frustrate  the 
very purpose of the discovery rule in this provision--which, 
after all, specifically applies only in cases "involv[ing] a claim 
of  fraud,  deceit,  manipulation,  or  contrivance,"  $ 1658(b)--if 
the  limitations  period  began  to  run  regardless  of  whether  a 
plaintiff  had  discovered  any  facts  suggesting  scienter.  So 
long  as  a  defendant  concealed  for  two  years  that  he  made  a 
misstatement  with  an  intent  to  deceive,  the  limitations  pe-
riod  would  expire  before  the  plaintiff  had  actually  "discov-
er[ed]" the fraud. 

We  consequently  hold  that  facts  showing  scienter  are 
among those that "constitut[e] the violation."  In so holding, 
we say nothing about other facts necessary to support a pri-
vate  $ 10(b)  action.  Cf.  Brief  for  United  States  as  Amicus 
Curiae 12, n. 1 (suggesting that facts concerning a plaintiff 's 
reliance,  loss,  and  loss  causation  are  not  among  those  that 
constitute "the violation" and therefore need not be "discov-
er[ed]" for a claim to accrue). 

Second,  Merck  argues  that,  even  if  "discovery"  requires 
facts related to scienter, facts that tend to show a materially 
false or misleading statement (or material omission) are ordi-
narily sufficient to show scienter as well.  See Brief for Peti-
tioners  22,  28-29.  But  we  do  not  see  how  that  is  so.  We 

650  MERCK  &  CO.  v.  REYNOLDS 

Opinion of the Court 
recognize  that  certain  statements  are  such  that,  to  show 
them  false  is  normally  to  show  scienter  as  well.  It  is  un-
likely, for example, that someone would falsely say "I am not 
married" without being aware of the fact that his statement 
is  false.  Where  $ 10(b)  is  at  issue,  however,  the  relation  of 
factual falsity and state of mind is more context specific.  An 
incorrect prediction about a firm's future earnings,  by itself, 
does  not  automatically  tell  us  whether  the  speaker  deliber-
ately lied or just made an innocent (and therefore nonaction-
able)  error.  Hence,  the  statute  may  require  "discovery"  of 
scienter-related facts beyond the facts that show a statement 
(or  omission)  to  be  materially  false  or  misleading.  Merck 
fears  that  this  requirement  will  give  life  to  stale  claims  or 
subject  defendants  to  liability  for  acts  taken  long  ago.  But 
Congress'  inclusion  in  the  statute  of  an  unqualified  bar  on 
actions instituted "5 years after such violation," $ 1658(b)(2), 
giving defendants total repose after five years, should dimin-
ish that fear.  Cf. Lampf, 501 U. S., at 363 (holding compara-
ble bar not subject to equitable tolling). 

Third,  Merck  says  that  the  limitations  period  began  to 
run prior to November 2001 because by that point the plain-
tiffs  were  on  "inquiry  notice."  Merck  uses  the  term  "in-
quiry  notice"  to  refer  to  the  point  "at  which  a  plaintiff 
possesses  a  quantum  of  information  sufficiently  suggestive 
of  wrongdoing  that  he  should  conduct  a  further  inquiry." 
Brief  for  Petitioners  20.  And  some,  but  not  all,  Courts  of 
Appeals  have  used  the  term  in  roughly  similar  ways.  See, 
e. g.,  Franze  v.  Equitable  Assurance,  296  F.  3d  1250,  1254 
(CA11 2002) ("[I]nquiry notice [is] `the term used for knowl-
edge  of  facts  that  would  lead  a  reasonable  person  to  begin 
investigating  the  possibility  that  his  legal  rights  had  been 
infringed' ").  Cf.  Dodds,  12  F.  3d,  at  350  ("duty  of  inquiry" 
arises  once  "circumstances  would  suggest  to  an  investor  of 
ordinary  intelligence  the  probability  that  she  had  been  de-
frauded");  Fujisawa  Pharmaceutical  Co.  v.  Kapoor,  115 

Cite as: 559 U. S. 633 (2010)  651 

Opinion of the Court 
F.  3d  1332,  1335-1336  (CA7  1997)  ("The  facts  constituting 
[inquiry] notice must be sufficien[t] . . . to incite the victim to 
investigate" and "to enable him to tie up any loose ends and 
complete  the  investigation  in  time  to  file  a  timely  suit"); 
Great  Rivers  Cooperative  of  Southeastern  Iowa  v.  Farm-
land Industries, Inc., 120 F. 3d 893, 896 (CA8 1997) ("Inquiry 
notice  exists  when  the  victim  is  aware  of  facts  that  would 
lead a reasonable person to investigate and consequently ac-
quire  actual  knowledge  of  the  defendant's  misrepresenta-
tions" (emphasis added)). 

If  the  term  "inquiry notice"  refers to  the  point  where the 
facts would lead a reasonably diligent plaintiff to investigate 
further,  that  point  is  not  necessarily  the  point  at  which  the 
plaintiff would already have  discovered facts showing scien-
ter or other "facts constituting the violation."  But the stat-
ute says that the plaintiff 's claim accrues only after the "dis-
covery"  of  those  latter  facts.  Nothing  in  the  text  suggests 
that the  limitations period  can sometimes begin before "dis-
covery"  can  take  place.  Merck  points  out  that,  as  we  have 
discussed,  see  supra,  at  644-645,  the  court-created  "discov-
ery rule" exception to ordinary statutes of limitations is not 
generally  available  to  plaintiffs  who  fail  to  pursue  their 
claims  with  reasonable  diligence.  But  we  are  dealing  here 
with  a  statute,  not  a  court-created  exception  to  a  statute. 
Because  the  statute  contains  no  indication  that  the  limita-
tions  period  should  occur  at  some  earlier  moment  before 
"discovery," when a plaintiff would have begun investigating, 
we cannot accept Merck's argument. 

As  a  fallback,  Merck  argues  that  even  if  the  limitations 
period  does  generally  begin  at  "discovery,"  it  should  none-
theless run from the point of "inquiry notice" in one particu-
lar situation, namely, where the actual plaintiff fails to under-
take  an  investigation  once  placed  on  "inquiry  notice."  In 
such  circumstances,  Merck  contends,  the  actual  plaintiff  is 
not  diligent,  and  the  law  should  not  "effectively  excuse  a 

652  MERCK  &  CO.  v.  REYNOLDS 

Opinion of the Court 
plaintiff 's failure to conduct a further investigation" by plac-ing that nondiligent plaintiff and a reasonably diligent plain-

tiff "in the same position."  Brief for Petitioners 48. We  cannot  accept  this  argument  for  essentially  the  same 
reason we reject "inquiry notice" as the standard generally: We  cannot  reconcile  it  with  the  statute,  which  simply  pro-
vides  that  "discovery"  is  the  event  that  triggers  the  2-year 
limitations  period--for  all  plaintiffs.  Cf.  United  States  v. 
Mack,  295  U. S.  480,  489  (1935)  ("Laches  within  the  term  of 
the  statute  of  limitations  is  no  defense  at  law").  Further-more,  the  statute  does 

not  place  all  plaintiffs  "in  the  same 
position"  no  matter  whether  they  investigate  when  investi-
gation  is  warranted.  The  limitations  period  puts  plaintiffs 
who fail to investigate once on "inquiry notice" at a disadvan-
tage  because  it  lapses  two  years  after  a  reasonably  diligent 
plaintiff  would  have  discovered  the  necessary  facts.  A 
plaintiff who fails entirely to investigate or delays investigat-
ing  may  well  not  have  discovered  those  facts  by  that  time 
or, at least,  may not  have found sufficient facts by that  time 
to be able to file a $ 10(b) complaint that satisfies the applica-
ble  heightened  pleading  standards.  Cf.  Young  v.  Lepone, 
305 F. 3d 1, 9 (CA1 2002) ("[A] reasonably diligent investiga-
tion . . . may consume as little as a few days or as much as a 
few years to get to the bottom of the matter"). 

Merck  further contends  that its  proposed "inquiry notice" 
standard is superior, because determining when a hypotheti-
cal  reasonably  diligent  plaintiff  would  have  "discover[ed]" 
the  necessary  facts  is  too  complicated  for  judges  to  under-
take.  But  courts  applying  the  traditional  discovery  rule 
have  long  had  to  ask  what  a  reasonably  diligent  plaintiff 
would have known and done in myriad circumstances.  And 
courts in at least five Circuits already ask this kind of ques-
tion in securities fraud cases.  See, e. g., Rothman v.  Gregor, 
220  F.  3d 81,  97  (CA2 2000);  New England  Health  Care, 336 
F. 3d, at 501; Young, supra, at 9-10; Sterlin v.  Biomune Sys-
tems, 154 F. 3d 1191, 1201 (CA10 1998); Marks v.  CDW Com-

Cite as: 559 U. S. 633 (2010)  653 

Opinion of the Court 
puter  Centers,  Inc.,  122  F.  3d  363,  367-368  (CA7  1997). Merck has not shown this precedent to be unworkable.  We 

consequently  find  that  the  "discovery"  of  facts  that  put  a plaintiff on "inquiry notice" does not automatically begin the 
running of the limitations period. We conclude  that  the  limitations  period in  $ 1658(b)(1)  be-
gins  to  run  once  the  plaintiff  did  discover  or  a  reasonably diligent plaintiff would have "discover[ed] the facts constitut-
ing  the  violation"--whichever  comes  first.  In  determining the  time  at  which  "discovery"  of  those  "facts"  occurred, 
terms such as "inquiry notice" and "storm warnings" may be useful to the extent that they identify a time when the facts 
would have prompted a reasonably diligent plaintiff to begin investigating.  But  the  limitations  period  does  not  begin  to 
run  until  the  plaintiff  thereafter  discovers  or  a  reasonably diligent  plaintiff  would  have  discovered  "the  facts  consti-
tuting  the  violation,"  including  scienter--irrespective  of whether  the  actual  plaintiff  undertook  a  reasonably  diligent 
investigation.  IV 

Finally, Merck argues that, even if all its other legal argu-ments  fail,  the  record  still  shows  that,  before  November  6, 
2001, the plaintiffs had discovered or should have discovered "the facts constituting the violation."  In respect to scienter 
Merck  primarily  relies  upon  (1)  the  FDA's  September  2001 warning letter, which said that Merck had " `minimized' " the 
VIGOR  study's  " `potentially  serious  cardiovascular  find-ings' "  and  (2)  pleadings  filed  in  products-liability  actions  in 
September and October 2001 alleging that Merck had " `omit-ted,  suppressed,  or  concealed  material  facts  concerning  the 
dangers  and  risks  associated  with  Vioxx' "  and  " `purpose-
fully  downplayed  and/or  understated  the  serious  nature  of the  risks  associated  with  Vioxx.' "  Brief  for  Petitioners 

36-37 (quoting App. 340, 893). The  FDA's  warning  letter,  however,  shows  little  or  noth-
ing  about  the  here-relevant  scienter,  i. e.,  whether  Merck 

654  MERCK  &  CO.  v.  REYNOLDS 

Opinion of the Court 
advanced  the  naproxen  hypothesis  with  fraudulent  intent. See Part I-A

(4), supra.  The FDA  itself described  the proVioxx  naproxen  hypothesis  as  a  "possible  explanation"  for the  VIGOR  results,  faulting  Merck  only  for  failing  suffi-

ciently  to  publicize  the  alternative  less  favorable  to  Merck, that Vioxx might be harmful.  App. 340. 

The products-liability complaints' statements about 
Merck's  knowledge  show  little  more.  See  Part  I-A(3), 
supra.  Merck  does  not  claim  that  these  complaints  con-
tained  any specific  information  suggesting the  fraud  alleged here, 

i. e.,  that  Merck  knew  the  naproxen  hypothesis  was 
false  even  as  it  promoted  it.  And,  without  providing  any 
reason  to  believe that  the  plaintiffs  had  special access  to  in-
formation  about  Merck's  state  of  mind,  the  complaints  al-
leged only in  general terms that Merck  had concealed  infor-
mation  about  Vioxx  and  "purposefully  downplayed  and/or 
understated"  the  risks  associated  with  Vioxx--the  same 
charge made in the FDA warning letter.  App. 893. 

In  our  view,  neither  these  two  circumstances  nor  any  of 
the  other  pre-November  2001  circumstances  that  we  have 
set  forth  in  Part  I-A,  supra,  whether  viewed  separately  or 
together,  reveal  "facts"  indicating  scienter.  Regardless  of 
which, if any, of the events following November 6, 2001, con-
stituted "discovery," we need only conclude that prior to No-
vember  6,  2001,  the  plaintiffs  did  not  discover,  and  Merck 
has not shown that a reasonably diligent plaintiff would have 
discovered,  "the  facts  constituting  the  violation."  In  light 
of  our  interpretation  of  the  statute,  our  holdings  in  respect 
to  scienter,  and  our  application  of  those  holdings  to  the  cir-
cumstances of this case, we must, and we do, reach that con-
clusion.  Thus, the  plaintiffs'  suit is  timely.  We need  not-- 
and do not--pass upon the Court of Appeals' suggestion that 
the November 2003 Brigham and Women's study might have 
triggered  the  statute  of  limitations.  The  judgment  of  the 
Court of Appeals is 

Affirmed. 

Cite as: 559 U. S. 633 (2010)  655 

Opinion of Scalia, J.  
Justice

656  MERCK  &  CO.  v.  REYNOLDS 

Opinion of Scalia, J.  
notes,  however,  ante,  at  644-646,  in  the  context  of  statutes of  limitations  "discovery"  has  long  carried  an  additional 

meaning:  It  also  occurs  when  a  plaintiff,  exercising  reason-able  diligence, 

should  have  discovered  the  facts  giving  rise 
to  his  claim.  See,  e. g.,  Wood  v.  Carpenter,  101  U. S.  135, 140-142 (1879); 2 H. Wood, Limitations of Actions $ 276b(11)- 

(13),  pp.  1401-1408  (4th  ed.  1916);  Dawson,  Undiscovered 
Fraud  and  Statutes  of  Limitation,  31  Mich.  L.  Rev.  591, 619,  and  n.  77  (1933).  Read  in  isolation,  "discovery"  in 

$ 1658(b)(1) might mean constructive discovery. In context, however, I do not believe it can.  Section 13 of 
the  Securities  Act  of 1933, 48 Stat.  84, explicitly established a  constructive-discovery  rule  for  claims  under  $$ 11  and  12 
of that Act: 

"No  action  shall  be  maintained  to  enforce  any  liability 
created under section 77k or 77l(a)(2) of this title unless brought  within  one  year  after  the  discovery  of  the  un-

true  statement  or  the  omission,  or  after  such  discovery should  have  been  made  by  the  exercise  of  reasonable 
diligence . . . ."   15 U.  S.  C. $  77m. 
"[D]iscovery"  in  $ 77m  obviously  cannot  mean  constructive 
discovery, since that would render superfluous the phrase "or after such discovery should have been made by the exercise 

of  reasonable  diligence."  Ibid.  With  $ 77m  already  on  the books,  Congress  added  limitations  periods  in  the  1934  Act, 
15 U. S. C. $$ 78i(e), 78r(c), that did not contain similar quali-fying  language;  instead,  each  established  a  time  bar  that 
runs from "discovery" simpliciter.  When Congress enacted 
28 U. S. C. $ 1658(b)(1)  in 2002, establishing  a limitations  pe-
riod  for  private  actions  for  "fraud,  deceit,  manipulation,  or 
contrivance  in  contravention  of  a  regulatory  requirement 
concerning  the  securities  laws,"  specifically  including  the 
1933  and  1934  Acts,  see  15  U. S. C.  $ 78c(a)(47),  it  likewise 
included no constructive-discovery caveat.  To interpret 

$ 1658(b)(1)  as  imposing  a  constructive-discovery  standard, 

Cite as: 559 U. S. 633 (2010)  657 

Opinion of Scalia, J.  
one  must  therefore  assume,  contrary  to  common  sense,  that the  same word means two  very different things in  the same 

statutory  context  of  limitations  periods  for  securities-fraud actions under the 1933 and 1934 Acts. 

True,  the  sensible  presumption  that  a  word  means  the same thing when it appears more than once in the same stat-
utory  context--or  even  in  the  very  same  statute--is  rebuttable.  See General Dynamics Land Systems, Inc. v.  Cline, 540 U. S. 581, 595-596 (2004).  Context may make clear that 

in one instance the word carries one meaning, and in a second instance another.  See, 

e. g., id., at 596-597.  But nothing in 
the context of $ 77m or $ 1658(b)(1) suggests that is the case. 
Both  provisions  impose  limitations  periods  for  federal-law 
claims based on various false statements or omissions involv-
ing  securities.  The  former  applies  to  false  statements  or 
omissions  in  registration  statements,  $ 77k,  and  offers  to 
sell  securities,  $ 77l(a)(2);  the  broad  language  of  the  latter 
("claim[s]  of  fraud,  deceit,  manipulation,  or  contrivance  in 
contravention  of  a  regulatory  requirement  concerning  the 
securities laws") covers other "manipulative or deceptive de-
vice[s]  or  contrivance[s]"  made  "in  connection  with  the  pur-
chase or sale" of a security in violation of Securities and Ex-
change Commission regulations, $ 78j(b), including SEC Rule 
10b-5, 17 CFR $ 240.10b-5(b) (2009).  There is good reason, 
moreover,  for  providing an  actual-discovery  rule  for  private 

$ 10(b)  claims  but  providing  (explicitly)  a  constructivediscovery  rule  for  claims  governed  by  $ 77m:  The  elements 
of  $ 10(b)  claims,  which  include  scienter,  are  likely  more  dif-
ficult  to  discover  than  the  elements  of  claims  under  $ 77k  or 

$ 77l(a)(2), which do not, see Herman & MacLean v.  Huddle-
ston, 459 U. S. 375, 382 (1983); Ernst & Ernst v.  Hochfelder, 
425  U. S.  185,  208-209  (1976);  In  re  Morgan  Stanley  Infor-
mation Fund Securities Litigation, 592 F. 3d 347, 359 (CA2 
2010).  And a constructive-discovery standard may be easier 
to apply to the claims covered by $ 77m.  Determining when 
the  plaintiff  should have  uncovered  an untrue assertion  in  a 

658  MERCK  &  CO.  v.  REYNOLDS 

Opinion of Scalia, J.  
registration  statement  or  prospectus  is  much  simpler  than assessing  when  a  plaintiff  should  have  learned  that  the  de-

fendant deliberately misled him using a deceptive device cov-ered by $ 10(b).

1 

Unable  to  identify  anything  in  the  statutory  context  that warrants  giving  "discovery"  two  meanings,  the  Court  re-

lies  on  the  historical  treatment  of  "discovery"  in  limitations 
periods  (particularly  for  fraud  claims)  as  incorporating  a constructive-discovery  rule. 

Ante,  at  644-646,  648.  But 
that history proves only that "discovery" can carry that tech-nical meaning, and that without $ 77m it would be reasonable 

(other  things  equal)  to  read  it  that  way  here.  It  does  not show  what  "discovery"  means  in  $ 1658(b)(1) 

in  light  of 

$ 77m's  codification  of  a  constructive-discovery  rule.  In  my view,  the  meaning  of  "discovery"  in  the  broader  context  of 

limitations  provisions  is  overcome  by  its  meaning  in  the 
more specific context of the federal securities laws. 

The  Court's  other  reason  for  rejecting  the  more  natural 
reading of $ 1658(b)(1) rests on a consensus among the Courts 
of Appeals before  the  provision's  enactment.  Ante, at  646- 
648.  In  Lampf,  Pleva,  Lipkind,  Prupis  &  Petigrow  v.  Gil-
bertson,  501  U. S.  350  (1991),  the  Court  notes,  we  explicitly 
adopted  the  terms  of  $ 78i(e)--which  like  $ 1658(b)(1)  refers 
only  to  discovery  with  no  mention  of  reasonable  diligence-- 

1 The  Court  appears  to  believe  that  $ 77m's  distinction  between  actual 
and  constructive  discovery  has  no  bearing  on  $ 1658(b)(1)'s  meaning  be-
cause  the  latter  does  not  itself  draw  the  same  distinction.  Ante,  at  647. 
The  point,  however,  is  that  both  provisions  use  the  same  word  ("discov-
ery")  with  no  contextual  clue  that  it  carries  different  meanings;  and  its 
use in $ 77m makes clear that the meaning is actual discovery. 

The Court suggests that usages of the same word in other statutes are 
irrelevant,  ibid.,  but  of  course  it  does  not  believe  that.  Its  entire  argu-
ment  rests  on  the  meaning  courts  have  ascribed  to  "discovery"  in  other 
limitations  provisions  (some  enacted  decades  ago  by  state  legislatures), 
ante,  at  644-646.  Yet  while  the  Court  considers  that  broader  context, 
it  provides  no  explanation  for  ignoring  the  more  specific  context  of 
securities-fraud claims under the 1933 and 1934 Acts. 

Cite as: 559 U. S. 633 (2010)  659 

Opinion of Scalia, J.  
as  the  limitations  period  for  the  private  $ 10(b)  cause  of  ac-
tion we created.  Id., at 364, and n. 9.2  Since every Circuit 
to address the issue between Lampf and $ 1658(b)(1)'s enact-
ment  11  years  later  had  held  constructive  discovery  appli-
cable  to  $ 10(b)  claims--and  since  Congress  copied  $ 78i(e)'s 
key  text  into  $ 1658(b)(1)  with  no  indication  it  intended  to 
adopt  a  contrary  rule--the  Court  assumes  Congress  meant 
to  codify  (or  at  least  not  to  disturb)  that  consensus.  Ante, 
at 646-648. 

Even assuming that Congress intended to incorporate the 
Circuits'  views--which  requires  the  further  unrealistic  as-
sumption that  a majority  of each House  knew of and agreed 
with the Courts of Appeals' opinions--that would be entirely 
irrelevant.  Congress's collective intent (if such a thing even 
exists) cannot trump the text it enacts, and in any event we 
have  no  reliable  way  to  ascertain  that  intent  apart  from 
reading the text.  See Graham County Soil and Water Con-
servation Dist.  v.  United  States  ex  rel.  Wilson,  ante,  p.  302 
(Scalia,

660  MERCK  &  CO.  v.  REYNOLDS 

Opinion of Scalia, J.  
But  as  amici  note,  that  is  not  so.  See  Brief  for  Faculty at Law and Business Schools as 

Amici Curiae 23-29 (herein-
after Faculty Brief).  Some Circuit cases cited by the Court and 

amici  can  conceivably  be  read  as  interpreting  the  lan-
guage Lampf adopted from $ 78i(e) as imposing some form of constructive  discovery.  See 

Theoharous  v.  Fong,  256  F.  3d 
1219, 1228 (CA11 2001); Menowitz v.  Brown, 991 F. 2d 36, 41 
(CA2  1993)  (per  curiam);  Howard  v.  Haddad,  962  F.  2d 328, 329-330 (CA4 1992); 

Anixter v.  Home-Stake Production 
Co.,  947  F.  2d  897,  898-899  (CA10  1991),  vacated  on  other grounds,  503  U. S.  978  (1992).  Others,  however,  cannot  be 

so  construed.  Two were  not  interpreting  $ 78i(e) at  all, but 
looked  directly  to  $ 77m,  despite  Lampf 's  explicit  selection 
of  $ 78i(e)'s  terms.  Great  Rivers  Cooperative  of  Southeast-
ern  Iowa  v.  Farmland  Industries,  Inc.,  120  F.  3d  893,  896 
(CA8 1997); Topalian v.  Ehrman, 954 F.  2d 1125, 1135 (CA5 
1992).  Another  court  candidly  acknowledged  that  $ 78i(e)'s 
text--unlike  $ 77m's--forecloses  constructive  discovery,  but 
it  nonetheless  held  that  courts  remain  "free  to  apply  to 
[$ 78i(e)]  the  judge-made  doctrine  of  inquiry  notice"  as  a 
"modest  and  traditional . . .  exercise  of  judicial  creativity," 
since  "Congress  could  not  have  known  when  it  enacted 
[$ 78i(e)]  that  this  section  would  someday  provide  the  stat-
ute  of  limitations  for  a  wide  range  of  securities  frauds." 
Tregenza  v.  Great  American  Communications  Co.,  12  F.  3d 

717, 721-722 (CA7 1993) (Posner, J.). 

The  rest  of  the  Circuits  apparently  had  not  decided  the 
issue  before  $ 1658(b)(1)'s  enactment.  See  Betz  v.  Trainer 
Wortham & Co., 519 F. 3d 863, 874 (CA9 2008); New England 
Health  Care  Employees  Pension  Fund  v.  Ernst  &  Young, 
LLP,  336  F.  3d  495,  500-501,  and  n.  3  (CA6  2003);  In  re 
NAHC, Inc. Securities Litigation, 306 F. 3d 1314, 1325 (CA3 
2002);  see  also  Cooperativa  de  Ahorro  y  Credito  Aguada 
v.  Kidder, Peabody & Co., 129 F. 3d 222, 224 (CA1 1997) (ap-
plying  pre-Lampf  rule  under  15  U. S. C.  $ 78aa-1).  And 
of  those  that  were  undecided,  two  had  cast  doubt  on  a 

Cite as: 559 U. S. 633 (2010)  661 

Opinion of Scalia, J.  
constructive-discovery  view  in  dicta--of  which  the  omnis-cient  Congress  of  the  Court's  imagining  should  also  have 

been  aware.  See  Berry  v.  Valence  Technology,  Inc.,  175 F.  3d 699,  703-705  (CA9  1999);  Gruber  v.  Price  Waterhouse, 
911 F. 2d 960, 964, n. 4 (CA3 1990). This motley assortment of approaches comes nowhere near 
establishing that the word "discovery" in $ 78i(e) meant con-structive  rather  than  actual  discovery  despite  $ 77m.  Ab-
sent  any  textual  or  contextual  reason  to  read  "discovery" differently  in  $ 1658(b)(1)  and  $ 77m,  I  would  hold  that  only 
actual  discovery  suffices  to  start  the  limitations  period  for $ 10(b)  claims.  Since  Merck  points  to  no  evidence  showing 
respondents  actually  discovered  scienter  more  than  two years  before  bringing  this  suit,  I  agree  with  the  Court  that 
the suit was not time barred. Respondents suggested at oral argument, Tr. of Oral Arg. 
29,  and  their  amici  imply,  see  Faculty  Brief  33-34,  that  in fraud-on-the-market  cases  there  is  little  if  any  difference 

between  actual  and  constructive  discovery  because  of  the presumption  of  reliance  applicable  in  such  cases,  see  Basic 
Inc.  v.  Levinson,  485  U. S.  224,  247  (1988).  It  seems  to  me 
Basic has no bearing on the question discussed here.  A pre-sumption  of  reliance  upon  market-price  signals  is  not  a  pre-

sumption  of  knowledge  of  all  public  information,  much  less knowledge  of  nonpublic  information  that  a  reasonably  dili-
gent investor would have independently uncovered.  In any event, whether or not a constructive-discovery standard will 
in many cases yield the same result, actual discovery is what $ 1658(b)(1) requires to start the limitations period. 

662  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

Syllabus 

STOLT-NIELSEN  S.  A.  et

Cite as: 559 U. S. 662 (2010)  663 

Syllabus 
Held:

664  STOLT-NIELSEN S.  A. v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 662 (2010)  665 

Syllabus 
"no agreement" on that issue.  The panel's conclusion is fundamentally 
at war with the foundational FAA principle that arbitration is a matter 
of  consent.  It  may be  appropriate to  presume that  parties to  an  arbi-
tration agreement implicitly authorize the arbitrator to adopt those pro-
cedures  necessary  to  give  effect  to  the  parties'  agreement.  See  How-
sam

666  STOLT-NIELSEN S.  A. v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 662 (2010)  667 

Opinion of the Court 
like  AnimalFeeds,  or  their  agents--not  the  shipowners-- typically  select  the  particular  charter  party  that  governs 

their shipments.  Accord, Trowbridge, Admiralty Law Insti-tute:  Symposium  on  Charter  Parties:  The  History,  Develop-
ment, and Characteristics of the Charter Concept, 49 Tulane L.  Rev.  743,  753  (1975)  ("Voyage  charter  parties  are  highly 
standardized, with many commodities and charterers having 
their own specialized forms"). Adopted in 1950, the Vegoilvoy charter party contains the 

following arbitration clause: 

"Arbitration.  Any  dispute  arising  from  the  making, 
performance  or  termination  of  this  Charter  Party  shall be  settled  in  New  York,  Owner  and  Charterer  each  ap-

pointing  an  arbitrator,  who  shall  be  a  merchant,  broker or  individual  experienced  in  the  shipping  business;  the 
two  thus  chosen,  if  they  cannot  agree,  shall  nominate a  third  arbitrator  who  shall  be  an  Admiralty  lawyer. 
Such  arbitration  shall  be  conducted  in  conformity  with the provisions and procedure of the United States Arbi-
tration Act [i.

668  STOLT-NIELSEN S.  A. v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 662 (2010)  669 

Opinion of the Court 
the  clause  made  no  express  reference  to  class  arbitration. Rather, he said, "[a]ll the parties agree that when a contract 

is silent on an issue there's been no agreement that has been reached on that issue." 

Id.,

670  STOLT-NIELSEN S.  A. v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 662 (2010)  671 

Opinion of the Court 

II 

A 
Petitioners  contend  that  the  decision  of  the  arbitration panel must be vacated, but in order to obtain that relief, they 

must clear a high hurdle.  It is not enough for petitioners to show  that  the  panel  committed  an  error--or  even  a  serious 
error.  See Eastern

672  STOLT-NIELSEN S.  A. v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 662 (2010)  673 

Opinion of the Court 
its  decision  on  AnimalFeeds'  public  policy  argument.  Be-cause the parties agreed their agreement was "silent" in the 

sense that they had not reached any agreement on the issue of class arbitration, the arbitrators' proper task was to iden-
tify the rule of law that governs in that situation.  Had they engaged  in  that  undertaking,  they  presumably  would  have 
looked  either  to  the  FAA  itself  or  to  one  of  the  two  bodies of  law  that  the  parties  claimed  were  governing, 

i.

674  STOLT-NIELSEN S.  A. v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 662 (2010)  675 

Opinion of the Court 
Id.,

676  STOLT-NIELSEN S.  A. v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 662 (2010)  677 

Opinion of the Court 
law,  the  arbitration  panel  imposed  its  own  policy  choice  and 
thus  exceeded  its  powers.  As  a  result,  under  $ 10(b)  of  the 
FAA, we must either "direct a rehearing by the arbitrators" 
or  decide  the  question  that  was  originally  referred  to  the 
panel.  Because we conclude that there can be only one pos-
sible outcome on the facts before us, we see no need to direct 
a rehearing by the arbitrators. 

III  

A  

The arbitration panel thought that Bazzle

678  STOLT-NIELSEN S.  A. v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 662 (2010)  679 

Opinion of the Court 
The  plurality  opinion  decided  only  the  first  question,  con-cluding  that  the  arbitrator  and  not  a  court  should  decide 

whether  the  contracts  were  indeed  "silent"  on  the  issue  of class arbitration.  The plurality noted that, "[i]n certain lim-
ited  circumstances,"  involving  "gateway  matters,  such  as whether the parties have a valid arbitration agreement at all 
or whether a concededly binding arbitration clause applies to 
a certain type of controversy," it is assumed "that the parties intended courts, not arbitrators," to make the decision.  539 

U. S.,  at  452.  But  the  plurality  opined  that  the  question whether  a  contract  with  an  arbitration  clause  forbids  class 
arbitration "does not fall into this narrow exception."  Ibid.

680  STOLT-NIELSEN S.  A. v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 662 (2010)  681 

Opinion of the Court 
permitted.8  The  decision  in  Bazzle

682  STOLT-NIELSEN S.  A. v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 662 (2010)  683 

Opinion of the Court 
their  authority  to  resolve  disputes  only  because  the  parties have agreed in advance to submit such grievances to arbitra-

tion");  Mitsubishi

684  STOLT-NIELSEN S.  A. v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 662 (2010)  685 

Opinion of the Court 
thorize  the  arbitrator  to  adopt  such  procedures  as  are necessary  to  give  effect  to  the  parties'  agreement.  Thus, 

we  have  said  that  " ` "procedural"  questions  which  grow  out of the dispute and bear on its final disposition' are presump-
tively  not

686  STOLT-NIELSEN S.  A. v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 662 (2010)  687 

Opinion of the Court 
though the scope of judicial review is much more limited, see 
Hall

688  STOLT-NIELSEN S.  A. v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 662 (2010)  689 

Ginsburg,
690  STOLT-NIELSEN S.  A. v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 662 (2010)  691 

Ginsburg,
692  STOLT-NIELSEN S.  A. v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 662 (2010)  693 

Ginsburg,
694  STOLT-NIELSEN S.  A. v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 662 (2010)  695 

Ginsburg,
696  STOLT-NIELSEN S.  A. v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 662 (2010)  697 

Ginsburg,
698  STOLT-NIELSEN S.  A. v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 662 (2010)  699 

Ginsburg,
700  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

Syllabus 

SALAZAR,  SECRETARY  OF  THE  INTERIOR,  et

Cite as: 559 U. S. 700 (2010)  701 

Syllabus 
Justice

702  SALAZAR  v.  BUONO 

Syllabus 
neither alternative satisfactory, Congress enacted the land-transfer stat-
ute.  The  statute  embodied  a  legislative  judgment  that  this  dispute  is 
best resolved through a framework and policy of accommodation.  The 
statute  should  not  have  been  dismissed  as  an  evasion,  for  it  brought 
about a change of law and a congressional statement of policy applicable 
to the case.  Pp. 713-717. 

(b)  Where  legislative  action undermines  the  basis  for  previous re-
lief, the relevant question is whether an ongoing exercise of the court's 
equitable  authority  is  supported  by  the  prior  showing  of  illegality, 
judged against the claim that changed circumstances render prospective 
relief  inappropriate.  The  District  Court  granted  the  2002  injunction 
based  solely  on  its conclusion  that  the  presence  of  the  cross  on  federal 
land  conveyed  an  impression  of governmental  endorsement  of  religion, 
and  the  Ninth  Circuit  affirmed  on  the  same  grounds.  Neither  court 
considered  whether  the  Government  had  acted  based  on  an  improper 
purpose.  Given  this  sole  reliance  on  perception,  any  further  relief 
grounded on the injunction should have rested on the same basis.  But 
the District Court used an injunction granted for one reason (perceived 
governmental endorsement) as the basis for enjoining conduct that was 
alleged to be objectionable for a different reason (an illicit governmental 
purpose).  Ordering  relief  under  such  circumstances  was  improper. 
The  court  failed  to  consider  whether  the  change  in  law  and  circum-
stances effected by the land-transfer statute had rendered the "reason-
able observer" standard inappropriate to resolve the dispute.  Nor did 
the court attempt to reassess Buono I's findings in light of the accommo-
dation policy embraced by Congress.  Rather, it concentrated solely on 
the  religious  aspects  of  the  cross,  divorced  from  its  background  and 
context.  Pp. 717-721. 

(c)  The  same  respect  for  a  coordinate  branch  of  Government  that 
forbids  striking  down  an  Act  of  Congress  except  upon  a  clear  showing 
of unconstitutionality, see, e. g., United States v. Morrison, 529 U. S. 598, 
607,  requires  that  a  congressional  command  be  given  effect  unless  no 
legal  alternative  exists.  Even  if,  contrary  to  the  congressional  judg-
ment,  the  land  transfer  were  thought  an  insufficient  accommodation  in 
light of the earlier endorsement finding, it was incumbent upon the Dis-
trict  Court  to  consider  less  drastic  relief  than  complete  invalidation  of 
the statute.  See, e. g., Ayotte v.  Planned Parenthood of Northern New 
Eng., 546 U. S. 320, 329.  On remand, that court should conduct a proper 
inquiry into  the continued  necessity  for  injunctive  relief  in  light  of the 
statute.  Pp. 721-722. 

Justice

Cite as: 559 U. S. 700 (2010)  703 

Syllabus 
ment  Clause.  Rather,  because  the  factual  record  has  been  sufficiently 
developed to permit resolution of these questions, he would decide them 
and  hold  that  the  statute  may  be  implemented.  The  case's  singular 
circumstances  presented  Congress  with  a  delicate  problem.  Its  solu-
tion was an  approach designed to eliminate any perception of religious 
sponsorship stemming from the location of the cross on federally owned 
land, while avoiding the disturbing symbolism that some would associate 
with  the  destruction  of  this  historic  monument.  The  mechanism  Con-
gress selected is quite common in the West, a "land exchange," whereby 
ownership of the land on which the cross is located would be transferred 
to the VFW in exchange for another nearby parcel of equal value.  The 
land transfer would not violate  the District Court  injunction, the obvi-
ous meaning of which was simply that the Government could not allow 
the cross to remain on federal land.  Nor would the statute's implemen-
tation  constitute  an  endorsement  of  religion  in  violation  of  the  Estab-
lishment Clause.  The so-called "endorsement test" views a challenged 
religious display through the eyes of a hypothetical reasonable observer 
aware of the history and all other pertinent facts relating to the display. 
Here,  therefore,  this  observer  would  be  familiar  with  the  monument's 
origin  and  history  and  thereby  appreciate  that  the  transfer  represents 
an effort by Congress to address a unique situation and to find a solution 
that  best  accommodates  conflicting  concerns.  Finally,  the  statute  was 
not enacted for the illicit purpose of embracing the monument's religious 
message  but  to  commemorate  the  Nation's  war  dead  and  to  avoid  the 
disturbing symbolism that would have been created by the monument's 
destruction.  Pp. 723-729. 

Justice

704  SALAZAR  v.  BUONO 

Syllabus 
they  have  issued  nor  this  District  Court's  characterization  of  its  2005 
order as merely enforcing the existing injunction makes any difference. 
If in fact a court awards new relief, it must have Article III jurisdiction 
to do so.  Pp. 729-735. 

Kennedy,

Cite as: 559 U. S. 700 (2010)  705 

Opinion of Kennedy,
706  SALAZAR  v.  BUONO 

Opinion of Kennedy,
Cite as: 559 U. S. 700 (2010)  707 

Opinion of Kennedy,
708  SALAZAR  v.  BUONO 

Opinion of Kennedy,
Cite as: 559 U. S. 700 (2010)  709 

Opinion of Kennedy,
710  SALAZAR  v.  BUONO 

Opinion of Kennedy,
Cite as: 559 U. S. 700 (2010)  711 

Opinion of Kennedy,
712  SALAZAR  v.  BUONO 

Opinion of Kennedy,
Cite as: 559 U. S. 700 (2010)  713 

Opinion of Kennedy,
714  SALAZAR  v.  BUONO 

Opinion of Kennedy,
Cite as: 559 U. S. 700 (2010)  715 

Opinion of Kennedy,
716  SALAZAR  v.  BUONO 

Opinion of Kennedy,
Cite as: 559 U. S. 700 (2010)  717 

Opinion of Kennedy,
718  SALAZAR  v.  BUONO 

Opinion of Kennedy,
Cite as: 559 U. S. 700 (2010)  719 

Opinion of Kennedy,
720  SALAZAR  v.  BUONO 

Opinion of Kennedy,
Cite as: 559 U. S. 700 (2010)  721 

Opinion of Kennedy,
722  SALAZAR  v.  BUONO 

Opinion of Kennedy,
Cite as: 559 U. S. 700 (2010)  723 

Opinion of Alito,
724  SALAZAR  v.  BUONO 

Opinion of Alito,
Cite as: 559 U. S. 700 (2010)  725 

Opinion of Alito,
726  SALAZAR  v.  BUONO 

Opinion of Alito,
Cite as: 559 U. S. 700 (2010)  727 

Opinion of Alito,
728  SALAZAR  v.  BUONO 

Opinion of Alito,
Cite as: 559 U. S. 700 (2010)  729 
Scalia,
730  SALAZAR  v.  BUONO 

Scalia,

Cite as: 559 U. S. 700 (2010)  731 
Scalia,
732  SALAZAR  v.  BUONO 

Scalia,

Cite as: 559 U. S. 700 (2010)  733 
Scalia,
734  SALAZAR  v.  BUONO 

Scalia,

Cite as: 559 U. S. 700 (2010)  735 

Stevens,
736  SALAZAR  v.  BUONO 

Stevens,
Cite as: 559 U. S. 700 (2010)  737 

Stevens,
738  SALAZAR  v.  BUONO 

Stevens,
Cite as: 559 U. S. 700 (2010)  739 

Stevens,
740  SALAZAR  v.  BUONO 

Stevens,
Cite as: 559 U. S. 700 (2010)  741 

Stevens,
742  SALAZAR  v.  BUONO 

Stevens,
Cite as: 559 U. S. 700 (2010)  743 

Stevens,
744  SALAZAR  v.  BUONO 

Stevens,
Cite as: 559 U. S. 700 (2010)  745 

Stevens,
746  SALAZAR  v.  BUONO 

Stevens,
Cite as: 559 U. S. 700 (2010)  747 

Stevens,
748  SALAZAR  v.  BUONO 

Stevens,
Cite as: 559 U. S. 700 (2010)  749 

Stevens,
750  SALAZAR  v.  BUONO 

Stevens,
Cite as: 559 U. S. 700 (2010)  751 

Stevens,
752  SALAZAR  v.  BUONO 

Stevens,
Cite as: 559 U. S. 700 (2010)  753 

Stevens,
754  SALAZAR  v.  BUONO 

Stevens,
Cite as: 559 U. S. 700 (2010)  755 

Stevens,
756  SALAZAR  v.  BUONO 

Stevens,
Cite as: 559 U. S. 700 (2010)  757 

Stevens,
758  SALAZAR  v.  BUONO 

Stevens,
Cite as: 559 U. S. 700 (2010)  759 

Stevens,
760  SALAZAR  v.  BUONO 

Breyer,
Cite as: 559 U. S. 700 (2010)  761 

Breyer,
762  SALAZAR  v.  BUONO 

Breyer,
Cite as: 559 U. S. 700 (2010)   763 

Breyer,
764   SALAZAR  v.  BUONO 

Breyer,
Cite as: 559 U. S. 700 (2010)  765 

Breyer,
766  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

Syllabus 

RENICO,  WARDEN  v.

Cite as: 559 U. S. 766 (2010)  767 

Syllabus 
Held:

768  RENICO  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 766 (2010)  769 

Opinion of the Court 
Joel

770  RENICO  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 766 (2010)  771 

Opinion of the Court 
"THE FOREPERSON: Oh, I'm sorry. "THE  COURT:  I  don't  want  to  know  what  your  ver-

dict might be, or how the split is, or any of that.  Thank you.  Okay?  Are you going to reach a unanimous ver-
dict, or not? "THE FOREPERSON: (No response) 

"THE COURT: Yes or no? "THE  FOREPERSON:  No,  Judge."  Tr.  in  No.  96- 
08252 (Recorder's Court, Detroit, Mich.), pp. 319-320. 
The judge then declared a mistrial, dismissed the jury, and scheduled a new trial for later that year.  Neither the prose-

cutor nor Lett's attorney made any objection. Lett's  second  trial  was  held  before  a  different  judge  and 
jury  in  November  1997.  This  time,  the  jury  was  able  to reach  a  unanimous  verdict--that  Lett  was  guilty  of  seconddegree  murder--after  deliberating  for  only  3  hours  and  15 minutes. 

Lett,

772  RENICO  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 766 (2010)  773 

Opinion of the Court 
abuse  of  discretion  for  her  to  have  done  so--the  applicable standard  on  direct  review.  The  question  under  AEDPA  is 

instead whether the determination of the Michigan Supreme Court  that  there  was  no  abuse  of  discretion  was  "an  un-
reasonable  application  of  .  .  .  clearly  established  Federal law."  $ 2254(d)(1). 

We  have  explained  that  "an  unreasonable

774  RENICO  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 766 (2010)  775 

Opinion of the Court 
This is not to say that we grant absolute

776  RENICO  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 766 (2010)  777 

Opinion of the Court 
jury foreperson expressly stated that the jury was not going to  reach  a  verdict."  Id.,

778  RENICO  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 766 (2010)  779 

Opinion of the Court 
of  abruptly."  316  Fed.  Appx.,  at  426.  It  then  cited  Ful-ton's interpretation of Washington

780  RENICO  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 766 (2010)  781 

Stevens,
782  RENICO  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 766 (2010)  783 

Stevens,
784  RENICO  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 766 (2010)  785 

Stevens,
786  RENICO  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 766 (2010)  787 

Stevens,
788  RENICO  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 766 (2010)  789 

Stevens,
790  RENICO  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 766 (2010)  791 

Stevens,
792  RENICO  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 766 (2010)  793 

Stevens,
794  RENICO  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 766 (2010)  795 

Stevens,
796  RENICO  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 766 (2010)  797 

Stevens,
798  RENICO  v.OCTOBER  TERM,  2009  799 

Syllabus 

HUI  et

800  HUI  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 799 (2010)  801 

Opinion of the Court 
an  individual  PHS  officer  or  employee  in  these  circumstances. 
Pp. 810-812. 

546 F. 3d 682, reversed and remanded. 

Sotomayor,

802  HUI  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 799 (2010)  803 

Opinion of the Court 
cialists  repeatedly  advised  that  Castaneda  needed  a  biopsy 
to  ascertain  whether  he  had  cancer.  Petitioners  denied  re-
quests  for  a  biopsy  and  other  recommended  procedures  as 
"elective."  App.  244,  249-251.  Instead,  Castaneda  was 
treated with ibuprofen and antibiotics and was given an addi-
tional ration of boxer shorts. 

After a fourth specialist recommended a biopsy in January 
2007,  the  procedure  was  finally  authorized.  Instead  of  pro-
viding  treatment,  however,  ICE  released  Castaneda  from 
custody  on  February  5.  A  week  later,  biopsy  results  con-
firmed  that  Castaneda  was  suffering  from  penile  cancer. 
The  next  day,  Castaneda  had  his  penis  amputated,  and  he 
began  chemotherapy  after  tests  confirmed  that  the  cancer 
had  metastasized  to  his  groin.  The  treatment  was  unsuc-
cessful, and Castaneda died in February 2008. 

Three  months  before  his  death,  Castaneda  filed  suit 
against  petitioners  in  the  United  States  District  Court  for 
the  Central  District  of  California.  As  relevant,  Castaneda 
raised  medical  negligence  claims  against  the  United  States 
under  the  FTCA  and  Bivens

804  HUI  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 799 (2010)  805 

Opinion of the Court 
For essentially  the  reasons  given  in  Carlson,

806  HUI  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 799 (2010)  807 

Opinion of the Court 
essentially  the  same  language  as  it  did  in  $ 233(a),  stating that  the  remedy  against  the  United  States  is  "exclusive  of 

any  other civil  action or  proceeding," $ 2679(b)(1).  Notably, Congress also provided an exception for constitutional viola-
tions.  Pursuant  to  $ 2679(b)(2),  the  immunity  granted  by $ 2679(b)(1) "does not extend or apply to a civil action against 
an  employee  of  the  Government  .  .  .  brought  for  a  violation of  the  Constitution  of  the  United  States."  $ 2679(b)(2)(A). 
The  Westfall  Act's  explicit  exception  for  Bivens

808  HUI  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 799 (2010)  809 

Opinion of the Court 
refers  to  "the  provisions  of  chapter  171,"  which  constitute the  FTCA,  including  the  Westfall  Act's  exception  for 

claims  "brought  for  a  violation  of  the  Constitution  of  the United States, " $ 2679(b)(2)(A).  Through  this  series  of 
cross-references,  respondents  would  read  that  exception  for 
Bivens

810  HUI  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 799 (2010)  811 

Opinion of the Court 
exception  for  Bivens

812  HUI  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 799 (2010)  813 

Opinion of the Court 

$ 233(a) plainly precludes a Bivens

Reporter's
ORDERS  FOR  JANUARY  25  THROUGH  MAY  12,  2010  

January

902  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

January  25,  2010  559  U. S. 
prejudice.  See Virginia v.  Maryland, 540 U. S. 56, 74, n. 9 (2003); Colorado  v.  New  Mexico,  459  U. S.  176,  187,  n.  13  (1982). 

No.  08-1521.  McDonald

ORDERS  903 
559  U. S.  January  25,  2010 

No.  09-6938.  Michalski

904  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

January  25,  2010  559  U. S. 
No.  09-21.  Powell

ORDERS  905 
559  U. S.  January  25,  2010 
Center

906  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

January  25,  2010  559  U. S. 
No.  09-721.  Rogerson

ORDERS  907 
559  U. S.  January  25,  2010 

No.  09-7276.  Sneed

908  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

January  25,  2010  559  U. S. 
No.  09-7658.  Calderon-Lopez

ORDERS  909 
559  U. S.  January  25,  2010 

No.  09-7706.  Fulton

910  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

January  25,  2010  559  U. S. 
No.  09-7736.  Bankes

ORDERS  911 
559  U. S.  January  25,  2010 

No.  09-7797.  Sheridan

912  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

January  25,  2010  559  U. S. 
No.  09-7939.  Albright-Lazzari

ORDERS  913 
559  U. S.  January  25,  2010 

No. 09-8018.  Scott

914  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

January  25,  2010  559  U. S. 
No.  09-8098.  Thomas

ORDERS  915 
559  U. S.  January  25,  2010 

No.  09-8127.  Rubio-Marchan

916  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

January  25,  2010  559  U. S. 
No.  09-8205.  Smith

ORDERS  917 
559  U. S.  January  25,  2010 

No.  09-8243.  Mitchell

918  OCTOBER TERM, 2009 

Thomas,

ORDERS  919 
917  Thomas,
920  OCTOBER TERM, 2009 

Thomas,

ORDERS  921 
917  Thomas,
922  OCTOBER TERM, 2009 

Thomas,

ORDERS  923 
917  Thomas,
924  OCTOBER TERM, 2009 

Thomas,

ORDERS  925 
917  Thomas,
926  OCTOBER TERM, 2009 

Thomas,

ORDERS  927 
917  Thomas,
928  OCTOBER TERM, 2009 

Thomas,

ORDERS  929 
559  U. S.  January  25,  2010 
case  and  decide  the  questions  presented  in  the  Solicitor  Gener-al's  brief.

16 

No.  09-548.  Wood

930  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

January  25,  2010  559  U. S. 
No.  09-8021.  White

ORDERS  931 
559  U. S.  January  25,  February  4,  12,  16,  2010 

No.  09-7050.  In

932  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

February  16,  19,  22,  2010  559  U. S. 
the  Court,  denied  without  prejudice  to  a  renewed  application  on June 1, 2010, or when the Court of Appeals has issued its decision 
on  the  merits  of  the  case,  whichever  date  is  earlier. 
Certiorari  Denied 

No.  09-8975  (09A739).  Grossman

ORDERS  933 
559  U. S.  February  22,  2010 
Certiorari  Dismissed 

No.  09-7785.  Albert

934  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

February  22,  2010  559  U. S. 
leave  to  proceed  in  forma  pauperis  with  declaration  of  indigency under  seal  denied. 

No.  08-998.  Hamilton,

ORDERS  935 
559  U. S.  February  22,  2010 

No.  09-7885.  In

936  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

February  22,  2010  559  U. S. 
No.  09-357.  Smith

ORDERS  937 
559  U. S.  February  22,  2010 

No.  09-621.  Minneapolis

938  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

February  22,  2010  559  U. S. 
No. 09-661.  Kasharian

ORDERS  939 
559  U. S.  February  22,  2010 

No.  09-695.  U.

940  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

February  22,  2010  559  U. S. 
Sup.  Ct.  Wash.  Certiorari  denied.  Reported  below:  166  Wash. 2d  255,  208  P.  3d  549. 

No.  09-743.  Jones

ORDERS  941 
559  U. S.  February  22,  2010 

No. 09-844.  Wood

942  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

February  22,  2010  559  U. S. 
No. 09-7066.  Gonzales

ORDERS  943 
559  U. S.  February  22,  2010 

No.  09-7801.  Rattis

944  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

February  22,  2010  559  U. S. 
No.  09-7842.  Williams

ORDERS  945 
559  U. S.  February  22,  2010 

No.  09-7892.  Kinnard

946  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

February  22,  2010  559  U. S. 
No.  09-7928.  Hensley

ORDERS  947 
559  U. S.  February  22,  2010 

No.  09-7967.  Jones

948  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

February  22,  2010  559  U. S. 
No. 09-8005.  Ridener

ORDERS  949 
559  U. S.  February  22,  2010 

No. 09-8049.  Davis

950  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

February  22,  2010  559  U. S. 
No.  09-8099.  Woolridge

ORDERS  951 
559  U. S.  February  22,  2010 

No.  09-8157.  Coleman

952  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

February  22,  2010  559  U. S. 
No.  09-8258.  Richardson

ORDERS  953 
559  U. S.  February  22,  2010 

No.  09-8295.  Bryant

954  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

February  22,  2010  559  U. S. 
No.  09-8336.  Rodriguez-Parra

ORDERS  955 
559  U. S.  February  22,  2010 

No.  09-8371.  Ledezma

956  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

February  22,  2010  559  U. S. 
No.  09-8401.  Atchison

ORDERS  957 
559  U. S.  February  22,  2010 

No.  09-8446.  Dawkins

958  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

February  22,  2010  559  U. S. 
No.  09-8480.  Davis

ORDERS  959 
559  U. S.  February  22,  2010 

No.  09-8509.  Garcia-Garcia

960  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

February  22,  2010  559  U. S. 
No.  09-8542.  Archuleta

ORDERS  961 
559  U. S.  February  22,  2010 

No. 09-8620.  Goodwin-Bey

962  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

February  22,  2010  559  U. S. 
No.  09-8666.  Hunn

ORDERS  963 
559  U. S.  February  22,  2010 
mayor

964  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

February  22,  2010  559  U. S. 
No.  08-10404.  Fultz

ORDERS  965 
559  U. S.  February  22,  23,  24,  March  1,  2010 

No.  09-7425.  McGriggs

966  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

March  1,  2010  559  U. S. 
Justice

ORDERS  967 
559  U. S.  March  1,  2010 
asserts was ignored by the Court of Appeals.  Petitioners argued below  that  their  counsel's  poor  performance  deprived  them  of 
their  constitutional  right  to  the  effective  assistance  of  counsel. But  they  did  not  explicitly  assert  a  right  to  effective  assistance 
based  on  any  source  of  law  other  than  the  Constitution.  In  their petition  for  certiorari,  moreover,  petitioners  disclaimed  any  nonconstitutional  basis  for  relief  when  they  argued  that,  by  denying the  existence  of  a  constitutional  right  to  the  effective  assistance 
of  counsel,  the  Fourth  Circuit's  decision  "allow[s]  no  recourse  for a  particular  alien  against  dishonest  or  corrupt  immigration  prac-
titioners."  Pet.  for  Cert.  11  (emphasis  added).  This  sentence would  make  no  sense  if  petitioners  were  advancing  both  constitu-
tional  and  nonconstitutional  grounds  for  relief  on  their  claim. Instead  of  granting,  vacating,  and  remanding,  I  would  deny the 
petition  for  certiorari. 

No.  08-9723.  Moore

968  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

March  1,  2010  559  U. S. 
No. 09-8158.  Dandar

ORDERS  969 
559  U. S.  March  1,  2010 
him  to  show  cause  why  he  should  not  be  disbarred  from  the practice  of  law  in  this  Court. 

No. 09-6338.  Dillon

970  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

March  1,  2010  559  U. S. 
No.  09-8793.  In

ORDERS  971 
559  U. S.  March  1,  2010 

No.  09-606.  Javitch,

972  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

March  1,  2010  559  U. S. 
No.  09-739.  Pennmont

ORDERS  973 
559  U. S.  March  1,  2010 

No. 09-782.  Magee

974  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

March  1,  2010  559  U. S. 
No.  09-878.  Ucciferri

ORDERS  975 
559  U. S.  March  1,  2010 

No. 09-7385.  Harris

976  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

March  1,  2010  559  U. S. 
No.  09-8140.  Flores

ORDERS  977 
559  U. S.  March  1,  2010 

No.  09-8173.  Smith

978  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

March  1,  2010  559  U. S. 
No.  09-8203.  Maxwell

ORDERS  979 
559  U. S.  March  1,  2010 

No.  09-8263.  Walters

980  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

March  1,  2010  559  U. S. 
No.  09-8301.  Tate

ORDERS  981 
559  U. S.  March  1,  2010 

No. 09-8362.  Payan

982  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

March  1,  2010  559  U. S. 
No.  09-8478.  Pitchford

ORDERS  983 
559  U. S.  March  1,  2010 

No.  09-8557.  Kirk

984  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

March  1,  2010  559  U. S. 
No. 09-8683.  Brown

ORDERS  985 
559  U. S.  March  1,  2010 

No.  09-8728.  Orosco-Ibarra

986  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

March  1,  2010  559  U. S. 
No.  09-8778.  McDaniels

ORDERS  987 
559  U. S.  March  1,  2010 

No.  09-8811.  Martinez

988  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

March  1,  2010  559  U. S. 
No.  09-8853.  Johnson

ORDERS  989 
559  U. S. 

March

990  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

March  8,  2010  559  U. S. 
No.  08-1554.  Union

ORDERS  991 
559  U. S.  March  8,  2010 

No. 09-152.  Bruesewitz

992  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

March  8,  2010  559  U. S. 
No.  09-770.  Boston

ORDERS  993 
559  U. S.  March  8,  2010 

No.  09-7007.  Barnett

994  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

March  8,  2010  559  U. S. 
No.  09-8356.  Little

ORDERS  995 
559  U. S.  March  8,  2010 

No.  09-8393.  Randle

996  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

March  8,  2010  559  U. S. 
No. 09-8573.  Martinez-Arellano

ORDERS  997 
559  U. S.  March  8,  2010 

No.  09-8757.  Giles

998  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

March  8,  11,  2010  559  U. S. 
No.  09-8921.  Franklin

ORDERS  999 
559  U. S.  March  15,  19,  22,  2010 

March

1000  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

March  22,  2010  559  U. S. 
certiorari  dismissed.  See  this  Court's  Rule  39.8.  As  petitioner has  repeatedly  abused  this  Court's  process,  the  Clerk  is  directed 
not  to  accept  any  further  petitions  in  noncriminal  matters  from petitioner  unless  the  docketing  fee  required  by  Rule  38(a)  is  paid 
and  the  petition  is  submitted  in  compliance  with  Rule  33.1.  See Martin  v.  District  of  Columbia  Court  of  Appeals,  506  U. S.  1 
(1992)  (per  curiam).  Justice

ORDERS  1001 
559  U. S.  March  22,  2010 
in  forma  pauperis  denied,  and  certiorari  dismissed.  See  this Court's  Rule  39.8. 

No.  09-8690.  Miles

1002  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

March  22,  2010  559  U. S. 
proceed in forma pauperis denied, and certiorari dismissed.  See this  Court's  Rule  39.8.  Reported  below:  351  Fed.  Appx.  975. 

No.  09-9067.  Santiago-Lugo

ORDERS  1003 
559  U. S.  March  22,  2010 

No. 09M78.  Bishop

1004  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

March  22,  2010  559  U. S. 
No.  09- 8972.  Dallal

ORDERS  1005 
559  U. S.  March  22,  2010 
for  leave  to  proceed  in  forma  pauperis  granted.  Certiorari granted.  Reported  below:  574  F.  3d  1092. 

No.  09-5801.  Flores-Villar

1006  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

March  22,  2010  559  U. S. 
No.  09-808.  Beck

ORDERS  1007 
559  U. S.  March  22,  2010 

No.  09-839.

1008  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

March  22,  2010  559  U. S. 
No.  09-897.  Narciso-Cabrera

ORDERS  1009 
559  U. S.  March  22,  2010 

No.  09-967.  US

1010  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

March  22,  2010  559  U. S. 
sion.

ORDERS  1011 
559  U. S.  March  22,  2010 

No.  09-8502.  P.

1012  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

March  22,  2010  559  U. S. 
No.  09-8558.  Miller

ORDERS  1013 
559  U. S.  March  22,  2010 

No.  09-8584.  Molina

1014  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

March  22,  2010  559  U. S. 
No.  09-8650.  Young

ORDERS  1015 
559  U. S.  March  22,  2010 

No.  09-8686.  Ranker

1016  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

March  22,  2010  559  U. S. 
No.  09-8775.  Western

ORDERS  1017 
559  U. S.  March  22,  2010 

No.  09-8842.  Lindsey

1018  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

March  22,  2010  559  U. S. 
No.  09-8924.  Correa-Alicea

ORDERS  1019 
559  U. S.  March  22,  2010 

No.  09-8964.  Schmidt

1020  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

March  22,  2010  559  U. S. 
No. 09-8995.  Solis-Garcia

ORDERS  1021 
559  U. S.  March  22,  2010 

No.  09-9034.  McCartney

1022  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

March  22,  2010  559  U. S. 
No.  09-9091.  James

ORDERS  1023 
559  U. S.  March  22,  2010 

No. 09-9131.  Wyatt

1024  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

March  22,  2010  559  U. S. 
No.  09-9183.  Johnson

ORDERS  1025 
559  U. S.  March  22,  2010 

No. 09-9250.  Alvarado-Garcia

1026  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

March  22,  2010  559  U. S. 
School

ORDERS  1027 
1025  Alito,
1028  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

Alito,

ORDERS  1029 
1025  Alito,
1030  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

March  22,  2010  559  U. S. 
The  decision  below  will  have  important  implications  for  the nearly  10  million  public  school  students  in  the  Ninth  Circuit. 
Even  if  the  decision  is  read  narrowly,  it  will  restrict  what  is purportedly  personal  student  expression  at  public  school  gradua-
tion  ceremonies.  And  as  Judge  Smith  noted,  the  Ninth  Circuit's reasoning  may  be  applied  to  almost  all  public  school  artistic  per-
formances.  580  F.  3d,  at  1099  (opinion  dissenting  in  part  and concurring  in  judgment).  The  audience  at  such  events,  which 
generally  consists  overwhelmingly  of  relatives  and  friends  of  the performers, may be regarded as no less "captive" than graduation 
attendees.  If the decision is applied to such performances, school administrators  in  some  communities  may  choose  to  avoid  "contro-
versy"  by  banishing  all  musical  pieces  with  "religious  connota-tions."  Id.,  at  1095,  1091  (majority  opinion). 

The  logic  of  the  Ninth  Circuit's  decision  has  even  broader implications.  Why,  for  example,  should  the  Ninth  Circuit's  rea-
soning  apply  only  to  musical  performances  and  not  to  other forms of  student expression,  including  student  speeches at  gradu-
ation  ceremonies  and  other  comparable  school  events?  More-over,  unless  discrimination  against  speech  expressing  a  religious 
viewpoint  is  less  objectionable  than  other  forms  of  viewpoint discrimination,  the  Ninth  Circuit's  decision  may  provide  the  basis 
for  wide-ranging  censorship  of  student  speech  that  expresses controversial  ideas.  A  reasonable  reading  of  the  Ninth  Circuit's 
decision  is  that  it  authorizes  school  administrators  to  ban  any controversial  student  expression  at  any  school  event  attended  by 
parents  and  others  who  feel  obligated  to  be  present  because  of the  importance  of  the  event  for  the  participating  students.  A 
decision  with  such  potentially  broad  and  troubling  implications merits  our  review. 

No.  09-806.  Wright

ORDERS  1031 
559  U. S.  March  22,  2010 

No.  09-856.  Montgomery

1032  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

March  22,  2010  559  U. S. 
No.  09-9135.  Mercede

ORDERS  1033 
559  U. S.  March  22,  24,  2010 

No.  09-7610.  Dillehay

1034  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

559  U. S. 
March

ORDERS  1035 
559  U. S.  March  29,  2010 

No.  09-9064.  Jackson

1036  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

March  29,  2010  559  U. S. 
to  submit  a  petition  in  compliance  with  Rule  33.1  of  the  Rules  of this  Court. 

No.  09-9394.  In

ORDERS  1037 
559  U. S.  March  29,  2010 

No.  09-859.  Windsor

1038  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

March  29,  2010  559  U. S. 
No.  09-969.  Brown

ORDERS  1039 
559  U. S.  March  29,  2010 

No.  09-8723.  Driessen

1040  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

March  29,  2010  559  U. S. 
No. 09-8798.  Slack

ORDERS  1041 
559  U. S.  March  29,  2010 

No.  09-8865.  Horton

1042  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

March  29,  2010  559  U. S. 
No.  09-9108.  Holt

ORDERS  1043 
559  U. S.  March  29,  2010 

No.  09-9228.  Phillips

1044  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

March  29,  2010  559  U. S. 
No.  09-9282.  Roselle

ORDERS  1045 
559  U. S.  March  29,  2010 

No. 09-9352.  Vasquez-Hernandez

1046  OCTOBER TERM, 2009 

March 29, 31, April 5, 2010  559 U. S. 
No.  09-7479.  Ketchum

ORDERS  1047 
559 U. S.  April 5, 2010 
Certiorari

1048  OCTOBER TERM, 2009 

April 5, 2010  559 U. S. 
ation  of  order  denying  leave  to  proceed  in

ORDERS  1049 
559 U. S.  April 5, 2010 

No.  09-959.  Heath

1050  OCTOBER TERM, 2009 

April 5, 2010  559 U. S. 
No.  09-7558.  Robinson

ORDERS  1051 
559 U. S.  April 5, 2010 

No.  09-8886.  Van

1052  OCTOBER TERM, 2009 

April 5, 2010  559 U. S. 
No.  09-8952.  Nunez

ORDERS  1053 
559 U. S.  April 5, 2010 

No.  09-9066.  Simone

1054  OCTOBER TERM, 2009 

April 5, 2010  559 U. S. 
No. 09-9288.  Van

ORDERS  1055 
559 U. S.  April 5, 2010 

No.  09-9389.  Gardner

1056  OCTOBER TERM, 2009 

April 5, 2010  559 U. S. 
No. 09-9433.  Brown

ORDERS  1057 
559 U. S.  April 5, 2010 

No. 09-9477.  Weston

1058  OCTOBER TERM, 2009 

April 5, 2010  559 U. S. 
City  of  Escondido for  leave  to  file  briefs  as  amici

ORDERS  1059 
559 U. S.  April 5, 12, 16, 2010 
Rehearing

1060  OCTOBER TERM, 2009 

April 16, 19, 2010  559 U. S. 
developments  discussed  in  the  letter  submitted  by  the  Solicitor General on March 29, 2010, on the proper disposition of this case?" 
Briefs,  in  letter  format,  limited  to  eight  pages,  are  to  be  filed simultaneously  with  the  Clerk  and  served  upon  opposing  counsel 
on  or  before  2  p.m.,  Monday,  April  26,  2010. 

No. 09-448.  Hardt

ORDERS  1061 
1060  Scalia
1062  OCTOBER TERM, 2009 

Ginsburg

ORDERS  1063 
1060  Ginsburg
1064  OCTOBER TERM, 2009 

April 19, 2010  559 U. S. 
"A state law that  bars suit in state court, like [CPLR] 901(b), .  .  .  effectively  eliminates  the  cause  of  action  created  under 
the  TCPA  because  it  eliminates  the  `may'  and  the  rest  of the  phrase  that  follows  (`bring  .  .  .  an  action').  Federal  law 
(the  TCPA's  cause  of  action)  directs  courts  to  look  to  `the laws'  and  `rules  of  court'  of  a  state.  Thus,  when  a  state 
refuses to recognize a cause of action, there remains no cause of action to which any grant of federal court jurisdiction could 
attach."  Id.,

ORDERS  1065 
559 U. S.  April 19, 2010 
and  certiorari  dismissed.  See  this  Court's  Rule  39.8.  As  peti-tioner  has  repeatedly  abused  this  Court's  process,  the  Clerk  is 
directed  not  to  accept  any  further  petitions  in  noncriminal  mat-ters  from  petitioner  unless  the  docketing  fee  required  by  Rule 
38(a) is paid and the petition is submitted in compliance with Rule 33.1.  See  Martin

1066  OCTOBER TERM, 2009 

April 19, 2010  559 U. S. 
No.  09-8604.  Doerr

ORDERS  1067 
559 U. S.  April 19, 2010 
Certiorari

1068  OCTOBER TERM, 2009 

April 19, 2010  559 U. S. 
No.  09-678.  Simon

ORDERS  1069 
559 U. S.  April 19, 2010 

No.  09-950.  Bittner

1070  OCTOBER TERM, 2009 

April 19, 2010  559 U. S. 
No. 09-1045.  Paland

ORDERS  1071 
559 U. S.  April 19, 2010 

No.  09-1153.  Carswell

1072  OCTOBER TERM, 2009 

April 19, 2010  559 U. S. 
No.  09-8206.  Mercer

ORDERS  1073 
559 U. S.  April 19, 2010 

No. 09-8992.  Barber

1074  OCTOBER TERM, 2009 

April 19, 2010  559 U. S. 
No.  09-9045.  Nieves

ORDERS  1075 
559 U. S.  April 19, 2010 

No.  09-9080.  Judd

1076  OCTOBER TERM, 2009 

April 19, 2010  559 U. S. 
No.  09-9129.  Collier

ORDERS  1077 
559 U. S.  April 19, 2010 
Department

1078  OCTOBER TERM, 2009 

April 19, 2010  559 U. S. 
No.  09-9327.  Parham

ORDERS  1079 
559 U. S.  April 19, 2010 

No.  09-9481.  Simmons

1080  OCTOBER TERM, 2009 

April 19, 2010  559 U. S. 
No.  09-9550.  Dorsey,

ORDERS  1081 
559 U. S.  April 19, 2010 

No.  09-9578.  Smith

1082  OCTOBER TERM, 2009 

April 19, 2010  559 U. S. 
No.  09-9610.  Roane

ORDERS  1083 
559 U. S.  April 19, 2010 

No.  09-9656.  Love

1084  OCTOBER TERM, 2009 

April 19, 2010  559 U. S. 
No.  09-9698.  Bertram

ORDERS  1085 
559 U. S.  April 19, 2010 

No.  09-9742.  Hernandez-Hernandez

1086  OCTOBER TERM, 2009 

April 19, 2010  559 U. S. 
No.  09-9792.  Phillips

ORDERS  1087 
559 U. S.  April 19, 2010 
took no part in the consideration or decision of this petition.  Re-ported  below:  583  F.  3d  167. 

No. 09-1080.  Porras

1088  OCTOBER TERM, 2009 

April 19, 2010  559 U. S. 
No.  09-273.  Thaler,

ORDERS  1089 
559 U. S.  April 19, 22, 26, 2010 

No.  09-8119.  Brown

1090  OCTOBER TERM, 2009 

April 26, 2010  559 U. S. 
Certiorari

ORDERS  1091 
559 U. S.  April 26, 2010 

No.  09M86.  Doster

1092  OCTOBER TERM, 2009 

April 26, 2010  559 U. S. 
No.  09-9174.  In

ORDERS  1093 
559 U. S.  April 26, 2010 

No.  09-1041.  Skendaj

1094  OCTOBER TERM, 2009 

April 26, 2010  559 U. S. 
No.  09-7698.  Fowler

ORDERS  1095 
559 U. S.  April 26, 2010 

No.  09-9176.  Usher

1096  OCTOBER TERM, 2009 

April 26, 2010  559 U. S. 
No.  09-9230.  Grandoit

ORDERS  1097 
559 U. S.  April 26, 2010 

No.  09-9299.  Willingham

1098  OCTOBER TERM, 2009 

April 26, 2010  559 U. S. 
No.  09-9445.  Cooper

ORDERS  1099 
559 U. S.  April 26, 2010 

No.  09-9622.  Miller

1100  OCTOBER TERM, 2009 

April 26, 2010  559 U. S. 
No. 09-9807.  Harris

ORDERS  1101 
559 U. S.  April 26, 2010 

No.  09-9840.  Dumont

1102  OCTOBER TERM, 2009 

April 26, 2010  559 U. S. 
No.  09-1007.  Mountain

ORDERS  1103 
559 U. S.  April 26, 27, 28, May 3, 2010 

No.  09-8304.  Tompson

1104  OCTOBER TERM, 2009 

May 3, 2010  559 U. S. 
Certiorari

ORDERS  1105 
559 U. S.  May 3, 2010 

No.  09M91.  In

1106  OCTOBER TERM, 2009 

May 3, 2010  559 U. S. 
Certiorari

ORDERS  1107 
559 U. S.  May 3, 2010 

No.  09-1029.  Massi

1108  OCTOBER TERM, 2009 

May 3, 2010  559 U. S. 
No. 09-8327.  Runge

ORDERS  1109 
559 U. S.  May 3, 2010 

No.  09-9341.  Davila

1110  OCTOBER TERM, 2009 

May 3, 2010  559 U. S. 
No.  09-9387.  Durschmidt

ORDERS  1111 
559 U. S.  May 3, 2010 

No.  09-9435.  Ruffin

1112  OCTOBER TERM, 2009 

May 3, 2010  559 U. S. 
No.  09-9659.  Murrell

ORDERS  1113 
559 U. S.  May 3, 2010 

No. 09-9894.  Disla

1114  OCTOBER TERM, 2009 

May 3, 2010  559 U. S. 
No.  09-9932.  Dove

ORDERS  1115 
559 U. S.  May 3, 2010 

No.  09-9976.  Branch

1116  OCTOBER TERM, 2009 

May 3, 2010  559 U. S. 
No.  09-10007.  Nichols

ORDERS  1117 
559 U. S.  May 3, 2010 
eration  or  decision  of  this  petition.  Reported  below:  359  Fed. Appx.  266. 

Rehearing

1118  OCTOBER TERM, 2009 

May 6, 10, 12, 2010  559 U. S. 

May

AMENDMENTS  TO FEDERAL  RULES  OF  APPELLATE  PROCEDURE 
The following amendments to the Federal Rules of Appellate Procedure 
were  prescribed  by  the  Supreme  Court  of  the  United  States  on  April 
28, 2010, pursuant to 28 U. S. C. $ 2072, and were reported to Congress by 
The

LETTER  OF  TRANSMITTAL 
Supreme
SUPREME  COURT  OF  THE  UNITED  STATES 

APRIL  28,  2010 
Ordered:

AMENDMENTS  TO  THE  FEDERAL  RULES  

OF  APPELLATE  PROCEDURE  

Rule

1124  RULES  OF  APPELLATE  PROCEDURE 

A*

RULES  OF  APPELLATE  PROCEDURE  1125 
(C)  a person--other  than  the amicus curiae, its mem-bers,  or  its  counsel--contributed  money  that  was  in-

tended to fund preparing or submitting the brief and, if so, identifies each such person; 

(6)  an argument, which may be preceded by a summary and  which  need  not  include  a  statement  of  the  applicable 
standard of review; and (7)  a  certificate of compliance,  if  required  by  Rule 

32(a)(7). . . . . . 

Form AMENDMENTS  TO FEDERAL  RULES  OF  BANKRUPTCY  PROCEDURE 

The  following  amendments  to  the  Federal  Rules  of  Bankruptcy  Proce-
dure were prescribed by the Supreme Court of the United States on April 
28, 2010, pursuant to 28 U. S. C. $ 2075, and were reported to Congress by 
The

LETTER  OF  TRANSMITTAL 
Supreme
SUPREME  COURT  OF  THE  UNITED  STATES 

APRIL  28,  2010 
Ordered:

AMENDMENTS  TO  THE  FEDERAL  RULES  

OF  BANKRUPTCY  PROCEDURE  

Rule

1132  RULES  OF  BANKRUPTCY  PROCEDURE 
motion  for  a  discharge  under  $ 1141(d)(5)(B)  or  $ 1328(b)  of the  Code.  The court may, at any time  and in  its discretion, 

enlarge  the  time  to  file  the  statement  required  by  subdivi-sion  (b)(7).  The  debtor  shall  file  the  statement  required  by 
subdivision (b)(8) no earlier than the date of the last payment made under the plan or the date of the filing of a motion for 
a  discharge  under  $$ 1141(d)(5)(B),  1228(b),  or  1328(b)  of  the Code.  Lists,  schedules,  statements,  and  other  documents 
filed prior to the conversion of a case to another chapter shall 
be deemed filed in the converted case unless the court directs otherwise.  Except  as  provided  in  $ 1116(3),  any  extension 

of  time  to  file  schedules,  statements,  and  other  documents required  under  this  rule  may  be  granted  only  on  motion  for 
cause shown and on notice to the United States trustee, any committee  elected  under  $ 705  or  appointed  under  $ 1102  of 
the Code, trustee, examiner, or other party as the court may direct.  Notice  of  an  extension  shall  be  given  to  the  United 
States trustee and to any committee, trustee, or other party 
as the court may direct. . . . . . 

Rule

RULES  OF  BANKRUPTCY  PROCEDURE  1133 
stayed  by the  courts in  which they  have  been  filed  until the 
determination is made. 

Rule

1134  RULES  OF  BANKRUPTCY  PROCEDURE 

(2)  New

RULES  OF  BANKRUPTCY  PROCEDURE  1135 
Unless  the  court  fixes  a  different  time,  objections  may  be 
filed within 14 days of the mailing of the notice. 

(3)  Disposition;

1136  RULES  OF  BANKRUPTCY  PROCEDURE 

(4)  In  a  chapter  11  case  in  which  the  debtor  is  an  indi-vidual,  or  a  chapter  13  case,  the  court  shall  not  grant  a 

discharge  if  the  debtor  has  not  filed  any  statement  re-quired by Rule 1007(b)(7). 

(d)  Applicability

RULES  OF  BANKRUPTCY  PROCEDURE  1137 
foreign  proceedings  of  the  debtor,  all  parties  to  litigation 
pending in the United States in which the debtor was a party 
at the  time of the  filing of the  petition,  and  such  other  enti-
ties  as  the  court  may  direct.  The  foreign  representative 
shall  file  a  certificate  with  the  court  that  notice  has  been 
given.  If  no  objection  has  been  filed  by  the  United  States 
trustee  or  a  party  in  interest  within  30  days  after  the  cer-
tificate  is  filed,  there  shall  be  a  presumption  that  the  case 
has been fully administered. 

Rule

1138  RULES  OF  BANKRUPTCY  PROCEDURE 
words  and  phrases  used  in  these  rules  have  the  meanings indicated: 

. . . . . 

AMENDMENTS  TO  FEDERAL  RULES  OF  CIVIL  PROCEDURE  
The following amendments to the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure were 
prescribed by the Supreme Court of the United States on April 28, 2010, 
pursuant  to  28  U. S. C.  $ 2072,  and  were  reported  to  Congress  by  The

LETTER  OF  TRANSMITTAL 
Supreme
SUPREME  COURT  OF  THE  UNITED  STATES 

APRIL  28,  2010 
Ordered:

AMENDMENTS  TO  THE  FEDERAL  RULES  

OF  CIVIL  PROCEDURE  

Rule

1144  RULES  OF  CIVIL  PROCEDURE 

(2)  Disclosure

RULES  OF  CIVIL  PROCEDURE  1145 
(D)  Time
1146  RULES  OF  CIVIL  PROCEDURE 

tain  the  person's  own  previous  statement  about  the  ac-
tion or its subject matter.  If the request is refused, the 
person  may  move  for  a  court  order,  and  Rule  37(a)(5) 
applies  to  the  award  of  expenses.  A  previous  state-
ment is either: 

(i)  a  written  statement  that  the  person  has  signed 
or otherwise adopted or approved; or 

(ii)  a contemporaneous stenographic, mechanical, 
electrical,  or  other  recording--or  a  transcription  of 
it--that  recites  substantially  verbatim  the  person's 
oral statement. 

(4)  Trial

RULES  OF  CIVIL  PROCEDURE  1147 
(D)  Expert
1148  RULES  OF  CIVIL  PROCEDURE 

(c)  Procedures.

RULES  OF  CIVIL  PROCEDURE  1149 
properly  address  another  party's  assertion  of  fact  as  re-quired by Rule 56(c), the court may: 

(1)  give  an  opportunity  to  properly  support  or  address the fact; 
(2)  consider  the  fact  undisputed  for  purposes  of  the motion; 
(3)  grant summary judgment if the motion and support-ing materials--including the facts considered undis-
puted--show that the movant is entitled to it; or 

(4)  issue any other appropriate order. 

( f

1150  RULES  OF  CIVIL  PROCEDURE 

3.  Discovery Plan.  The parties propose this discovery plan: 

(Use

AMENDMENTS  TO FEDERAL  RULES  OF  CRIMINAL  PROCEDURE 
The following amendments to the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure 
were prescribed by the Supreme Court of the United  States on April 28, 
2010,  pursuant  to  28  U. S. C.  $ 2072,  and  were  reported  to  Congress  by 
The

LETTER  OF  TRANSMITTAL 
Supreme
SUPREME  COURT  OF  THE  UNITED  STATES 

APRIL  28,  2010 
Ordered:

AMENDMENTS  TO  THE  FEDERAL  RULES  

OF  CRIMINAL  PROCEDURE  

Rule

1156  RULES  OF  CRIMINAL  PROCEDURE 

address,  and  telephone  number  of  any  additional  witness other than a victim--if: 

(A)  the  disclosing  party  learns  of  the  witness  before or during trial; and 
(B)  the  witness  should  have  been  disclosed  under Rule  12.3(a)(4)  if  the  disclosing  party  had  known  of  the 
witness earlier. 
(2)  Address

AMENDMENT

LETTERSUPREMEAMENDMENT

Reporter's
OPINION OF INDIVIDUAL JUSTICE  IN CHAMBERS  
JACKSON  et

1302  JACKSON  v.Cite as: 559 U. S. 1301 (2010)  1303 

Opinion in Chambers 
quired by the D. C. Charter, see $ 1-206.02(c)(1) (2001-2006). A joint resolution of disapproval by Congress would prevent 

the  Act  from  going  into  effect,  but  Congress  has  chosen  not to act.  The challenged provision purporting to exempt cer-
tain  D. C. Council actions  from  the  referendum process,  $ 1- 1001.16(b)(1)(C), was itself subject to review by Congress be-
fore  it  went  into  effect.  While  these  considerations  are  of course  not  determinative  of  the  legal  issues,  they  do  weigh 
against granting applicants' request for a stay, given that the concern  is  that  action  by  the  Council  violates  an  Act  of 
Congress. Finally, while applicants' challenge to the Act by way of a 
referendum apparently will become moot when the Act goes into  effect,  applicants  have  also  pursued  a  ballot  initiative, 
under  related  procedures  in  the  D.  C.  Charter,  that  would give  D.  C.  voters  a  similar  opportunity  to  repeal  the  Act  if 
they  so  choose.  See  $$ 1-204.101  to  1-204.107;  Jackson

I N D E X  
ADMINISTRATIVE  REPORTS  BARRING  QUI

1306  INDEX 
BIVENS

INDEX  1307 
CONSTITUTIONAL LAW--Continued.  
two  weeks  between  first  and  second  interrogation  attempts,  Edwards  v.  
Arizona, 451 U. S. 477--which created a presumption that once a suspect  
invokes  a  Miranda  right,  any  waiver  of  the  right  during  a  subsequent  
custodial  interrogation  is  involuntary--does  not  mandate  suppression  of  
statements made at his second interrogation.  Maryland v. Shatzer, p. 98.  

2.  Custodial interrogation--Contents of Miranda warning.--Police ad-
vice that a suspect has a "right to talk to a lawyer before answering any 
of [officers'] questions," and that he can invoke this right "at any time . . . 
during th[e] interview," satisfies Miranda v. Arizona, 384 U. S. 436.  Flor-
ida v. Powell, p. 50. 

V.  Right  to  Counsel. 

Ineffective  assistance  of  counsel--Failure  to  advise  immigrant  of 
guilty  plea's  consequences.--Because  counsel  must  inform  a  noncitizen 
criminal  client  whether  his  plea  carries  a  risk  of  deportation,  petitioner 
has  sufficiently  alleged  that  his  counsel  was  constitutionally  deficient 
under  Sixth  Amendment's  effective-assistance-of-counsel  guarantee;  but 
whether  petitioner  is  entitled  to  relief  depends  on  whether  he  has  been 
prejudiced,  a  matter  not  addressed  by  this  Court.  Padilla  v.  Kentucky, 
p. 356. 

CONSTRUCTIVE  TERMINATION  OF  SERVICE-STATION  FRAN-

CHISES.  See  Petroleum  Marketing  Practices  Act. 

CONSUMER  PROTECTION.  See  Bankruptcy,  1. 
COPYRIGHT. 

Infringement  claim--Unregistered  works--Subject-matter  jurisdic-
tion.--Title 17 U. S. C. $ 411(a)'s registration requirement is a precondition 
to  filing  a  copyright  infringement  claim;  a  copyright  holder's  failure  to 
comply  with  that requirement  does  not  restrict  a  federal  court's  subjectmatter  jurisdiction  over  infringement  claims  involving  unregistered 
works.  Reed Elsevier, Inc. v. Muchnick, p. 154. 

CORPORATION'S  "PRINCIPAL  PLACE  OF  BUSINESS" FOR  DIVER-

SITY  PURPOSES.  See  Jurisdiction,  2. 

CREDITORS  AND  DEBTORS.  See  Bankruptcy. 
CRIMINAL  LAW.  See  also  Constitutional  Law,  III,  IV,  V. 

1.  Sentence  enhancement--Physical  force  against  another--State  bat-
tery offense.--Because Florida felony offense of battery by "[a]ctually and 
intentionally touch[ing]" another person, Fla. Stat. $$ 784.03(1)(a), (2), does 
not  have  "as  an  element  the  use  .  .  .  of  physical  force  against  the  person 
of  another,"  18  U. S. C.  $ 924(e)(2)(B)(i),  it  does  not  constitute  a  "violent 
felony" for sentence enhancement purposes under  $ 924(e)(1).  Johnson v. 
United States, p. 133. 

1308  INDEX 
CRIMINAL LAW--Continued. 

2.  Speedy Trial Act of 1974--Excludable delay.--Under Act--which re-
quires  a  criminal  defendant's  trial  to  commence  within  70  days  of  his 
indictment  or  initial  appearance,  18  U. S. C.  $ 3161(c)(1),  entitles  him  to 
dismissal of charges if that deadline is not met, $ 3162(a)(2), and excludes 
certain  types  of  delay  from  70-day  period--time  granted  to  prepare  pre-
trial  motions  is  not  automatically  excludable  under  $ 3161(h)(1),  but  may 
be excluded only when a district court grants a continuance based on ap-
propriate findings under $ 3161(h)(7).  Bloate v. United States, p. 196. 

CRUEL  AND  UNUSUAL  PUNISHMENT.  See  Constitutional  Law,  I. 
CUSTODIAL  INTERROGATION.  See  Constitutional  Law,  IV. 
DEBT  COLLECTION.  See  Fair  Debt  Collection  Practices  Act. 
DEBTORS  AND  CREDITORS.  See  Bankruptcy. 
DEBT  RELIEF  AGENCIES.  See  Bankruptcy,  1. 
DEPARTMENT  OF  DEFENSE  APPROPRIATIONS  ACT,  2004.  See 

Constitutional  Law,  II. 

DEPORTATION.  See  Constitutional  Law,  V. 
DISCHARGE  OF  STUDENT  LOAN  DEBT.  See  Bankruptcy,  2. 
DIVERSITY  JURISDICTION.  See  Jurisdiction. 
EFFECTIVE  ASSISTANCE  OF  COUNSEL.  See  Constitutional 

Law,  V. 

EIGHTH  AMENDMENT.  See  Constitutional  Law,  I. 
EMPLOYEE  RETIREMENT  INCOME  SECURITY  ACT  OF  1974. 

Pension  plan  administrator's  interpretation  of  retirement  plan-- 
Standard  of  review.--District  Court,  on  remand,  should  have  applied  a 
deferential standard of review to a pension plan administrator's interpre-
tation of a retirement plan covered by ERISA even though administrator's 
initial interpretation had been found unreasonable under ERISA.  Conkright v. Frommert, p. 506. 

ESTABLISHMENT  OF  RELIGION.  See  Constitutional  Law,  II. 
EXCESSIVE  PHYSICAL  FORCE  AGAINST  PRISONERS.  See  Con-

stitutional  Law,  I. 

EXCLUDABLE  DELAY  IN  CRIMINAL  TRIAL'S  COMMENCEMENT. 

See  Criminal  Law,  2. 

INDEX  1309 
FAIR  DEBT  COLLECTION  PRACTICES  ACT. 

Bona  fide  error  defense--Application  to  mistaken  interpretation  of 
legal requirements.--Act's bona fide error defense, 15 U. S. C. $ 1692k(c)-- 
which relieves  a  debt collector  of liability for  prohibited  acts  if  it  "shows 
by a preponderance of the evidence that the violation was not intentional 
and  resulted  from  a  bona  fide  error  notwithstanding  the  maintenance  of 
procedures  reasonably  adapted  to avoid  any such  error"--does  not  apply 
to a  violation resulting  from a debt collector's mistaken interpretation of 
Act's  legal  requirements.  Jerman  v.  Carlisle,  McNellie,  Rini,  Kramer  & 
Ulrich, L. P. A., p. 573. 

FALSE  CLAIMS  ACT. 

Qui tam actions--Public disclosure of administrative reports.--Under 
Act--which permits private qui tam relators to recover from persons who 
make false or  fraudulent payment claims to United  States,  but bars  such 
actions  based  on  public  disclosure  of  allegations  or  transactions  in,  inter 
alia,  an  "administrative  .  .  .  report,  hearing,  audit,  or  investigation,"  31 
U. S. C. $ 3730(e)(4)(A)--"administrative" encompasses disclosures made in 
state  and  local  sources  as  well  as  federal  sources.  Graham  County  Soil 
and Water Conservation Dist. v. United States ex rel. Wilson, p. 280. 

FEDERAL  ARBITRATION  ACT. 

Imposition of class arbitration.--Imposing class arbitration on parties 
who have not agreed to authorize such arbitration is inconsistent with Act. 
Stolt-Nielsen S. A. v. AnimalFeeds Int'l Corp., p. 662. 

FEDERAL  RULES  OF  APPELLATE  PROCEDURE. 

Amendments to Rules, p. 1119. 

FEDERAL  RULES  OF  BANKRUPTCY  PROCEDURE. 

Amendments to Rules, p. 1127. 

FEDERAL  RULES  OF  CIVIL  PROCEDURE.  See  also  Bankruptcy,  2; 

Jurisdiction, 1. 

Amendments to Rules, p. 1139. 

FEDERAL  RULES  OF  CRIMINAL  PROCEDURE. 

Amendments to Rules, p. 1151. 

FEDERAL  RULES  OF  EVIDENCE. 

Amendment to Rules, p. 1157. 

FIDUCIARY  DUTIES  OF  INVESTMENT  ADVISERS.  See  Invest-

ment  Company  Act  of  1940. 

FIFTH  AMENDMENT.  See  Constitutional  Law,  IV. 
FIRST  AMENDMENT.  See  Constitutional  Law,  II,  III. 

1310  INDEX 
FLORIDA.  See  Criminal  Law,  1. 
FOURTEENTH  AMENDMENT.  See  Constitutional  Law,  IV. 
FRANCHISE  RELATIONSHIP  TERMINATION.  See  Petroleum  Mar-

keting  Practices  Act. 

FRAUD  ACTIONS.  See  Securities  Laws. 
FREEDOM  OF  SPEECH.  See  Constitutional  Law,  III. 
GUANTANAMO  BAY  DETAINEES.  See  Habeas  Corpus,  2. 
GUILTY  PLEAS.  See  Constitutional  Law,  V. 
HABEAS  CORPUS. 

1.  Clearly established federal law--Right to an impartial jury.--Sixth 
Circuit  erred  in  ruling  that  Michigan  Supreme  Court  failed  to  apply 
"clearly established Federal law, as determined by [this Court in Duren v. 
Missouri,  439  U. S.  357],"  28  U. S. C.  $ 2254(d)(1);  Duren  hardly  estab-
lishes--no  less  "clearly"  so--that  defendant  Smith  was  denied  his  Sixth 
Amendment right to an  impartial  jury drawn from  a fair cross section of 
community.  Berghuis v. Smith, p. 314. 

2.  Guantanamo Bay detainees--Change in facts underlying petition.-- 
This habeas case is remanded for a determination, in first instance, of what 
further proceedings in Court of Appeals or in District Court are necessary 
and appropriate for full and prompt disposition in light of change in under-
lying facts, namely that most of Guantanamo Bay detainees at issue have 
accepted resettlement offers in other countries, while a few have rejected 
such offers.  Kiyemba v. Obama, p. 131. 

3.  Jury  selection--Peremptory  challenge--Clearly  established  federal 
rule.--No decision of this Court clearly establishes a categorical rule that 
a  judge,  in  ruling  on  objection  to  a  peremptory  challenge  under  Batson 
v.  Kentucky,  476  U. S.  79,  must  reject  a  demeanor-based  explanation  for 
challenge unless judge personally observed and recalls aspect of prospec-
tive  juror's  demeanor  on  which  explanation  is  based;  and  by  apparently 
concluding that either Batson itself or Snyder v.  Louisiana, 552 U. S. 472, 
clearly established such a rule, Fifth Circuit read far too much into those 
decisions.  Thaler v. Haynes, p. 43. 

4.  Unreasonable  application  of  federal  law--Declaration  of  mistrial.--Because Michigan Supreme Court's decision that judge in respond-
ent's trial had not abused her discretion in declaring a mistrial because of 
a  deadlocked  jury  was  not  "an  unreasonable  application  of  .  .  .  clearly 
established Federal law" under Antiterrorism and Effective Death Penalty 
Act  of  1996,  28  U. S. C.  $ 2254(d)(1),  Sixth  Circuit  erred  in  granting  Lett 
habeas relief.  Renico v. Lett, p. 766. 

HEART  ATTACK  RISKS  OF  VIOXX.  See  Securities  Laws. 

INDEX  1311 
IMMIGRATION  LAW.  See  Constitutional  Law,  V. 
IMMUNITY  FROM  SUIT. 

Bivens  action--Public  Health  Service  employees  acting  within  scope 
of employment.--Immunity provided by 42 U. S. C. $ 233(a)--which speci-
fies that "[t]he remedy against the United States provided by [28 U. S. C. 

$$ 1346(b)  and  2672]  .  .  .  for  damage  for  personal  injury,  including  death, 
resulting from the performance of medical . . .  or  related functions . . . by  
any commissioned  officer or  employee  of  the  Public  Health  Service while 
acting  within  the  scope  of  his . . .  employment,  shall  be  exclusive  of  any 
other  civil  action  or  proceeding  by  reason  of  the  same  subject-matter 
against  the  officer  or  employee"--precludes  actions  under  Bivens  v.  Six 
Unknown  Fed.  Narcotics  Agents,  403  U. S.  388,  against  individual  PHS 
officers  or  employees  for  harms  arising  out  of  constitutional  violations 
committed  while  acting  within  their  employment's  scope.  Hui  v.  Cas-
taneda, p. 799. 

INEFFECTIVE  ASSISTANCE  OF  COUNSEL.  See  Constitutional 

Law,  V. 

INFRINGEMENT  OF  COPYRIGHT.  See  Copyright. 
INVESTMENT  ADVISERS'  FIDUCIARY  DUTIES.  See  Investment 

Company  Act  of  1940. 

INVESTMENT  COMPANY  ACT  OF  1940. 

Investment  advisers--Breach  of  fiduciary  duty.--Based  on  terms  of 

$ 36(b)  of  Act,  which  imposes  a  "fiduciary  duty  [on  investment  advisers] 
with respect to the receipt of compensation for services," and on role that 
a  shareholder  action  for  breach  of  investment  adviser's  fiduciary  duty 
plays in Act's overall structure, Gartenberg v.  Merrill Lynch Asset Man-
agement, Inc., 694 F. 2d 923, 928, applied correct standard for determining 
whether such a breach occurred.  Jones v. Harris Associates L. P., p. 335. 

JENKINS  ACT.  See  Racketeer  Influenced  and  Corrupt  Organiza-

tions  Act. 

JURISDICTION. 

1.  Diversity  jurisdiction--Class  action--Source  of  controlling  law.-- 
Second Circuit's holding that, despite Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 23's 
class-action provisions, federal courts sitting in diversity must apply N. Y. 
Civ.  Prac.  Law  Ann.  $ 901(b),  which  precludes  a  class  action  to  recover  a 
"penalty" such as statutory interest, is reversed.  Shady Grove Orthopedic 
Associates, P. A. v. Allstate Ins. Co., p. 393. 

2.  Diversity jurisdiction--Corporate domicile.--Phrase "principal 
place of business" in 28 U. S. C. $ 1332(c)(1) refers to place where a corpora-
tion's high level officers direct, control, and coordinate corporation's activi-

1312  INDEX 
JURISDICTION--Continued.  
ties, i. e., its "nerve center," which will typically be found at a corporation's  
headquarters.  Hertz Corp. v. Friend, p. 77.  

JURY  SELECTION.  See  Habeas  Corpus,  1,  3. 
LIMITATIONS  PERIODS.  See  Securities  Laws. 
"LODESTAR"  APPROACH  TO  COMPUTING  ATTORNEY'S  FEES. 

See  Civil  Rights  Attorney's  Fees  Awards  Act  of  1976. 

MIRANDA

INDEX  1313 
PUBLIC  DISCLOSURE  OF  ADMINISTRATIVE  REPORTS.  See 

False  Claims  Act. 

PUBLIC  HEALTH  SERVICE.  See  Immunity  from  Suit. 
QUI

1314  INDEX 
SIXTH AMENDMENT.  See Constitutional Law, V; Habeas Corpus, 1.  
SPEEDY  TRIAL  ACT  OF  1974.  See  Criminal  Law,  2.  
STATUTES  OF  LIMITATIONS.  See  Securities  Laws.  
STAYS.  

Attempt  to  stop  law  from  going  into  effect.--Applicants'  request  for  a 
stay  to prevent District of  Columbia's  Religious Freedom  and Civil  Mar-
riage  Equality  Amendment  Act  of  2009  from  going  into  effect  is  denied. 
Jackson  v.  District  of  Columbia  Bd.  of  Elections  and  Ethics  (Roberts,