

UNITED
UNITED

J U S T I C E SSUPREME
TABLE

vi TABLEviii TABLEx TABLExii TABLExiv TABLExvi TABLExviii TABLExx TABLExxii TABLExxiv TABLExxvi TABLExxviii TABLExxx TABLExxxii TABLExxxiv TABLExxxvi TABLExxxviii TABLExl TABLExlii TABLExliv TABLExlvi TABLExlviii

CASES
2  ABBOTT  v.  ABBOTT 

Syllabus 
under the Convention and, thus, that the return remedy was not author-
ized.  The Fifth Circuit affirmed. 

Held:  A parent has a right of custody under the Convention by reason of 

that parent's ne exeat right.  Pp. 8-22. 

(a)  The  Convention  applies  because  A.  J.  A.  is  under  16;  he  was  a 
habitual  resident  of  Chile;  and  both  Chile  and  the  United  States  are 
contracting states.  The ICARA instructs the state or federal court in 
which  a  petition  alleging  international  child  abduction  has  been  filed 
to  "decide  the  case  in  accordance  with  the  Convention."  $$ 11603(b), 
(d).  Pp. 9-10. 

(b)  That  A.  J.  A.  was  wrongfully  removed  from  Chile  in  violation  of 
a  "righ[t]  of  custody"  is  shown  by  the  Convention's  text,  by  the  U.  S. 
State Department's views, by contracting states' court decisions, and by 
the Convention's purposes.  Pp. 10-22. 

(1)  Chilean law determines the content of Mr. Abbott's right, while 
the  Convention's  text  and  structure  resolve  whether  that  right  is  a 
"righ[t] of  custody."  Minors Law 16,618,  Art. 49, provides that "[o]nce 
the court has decreed" that one of the parents has visitation rights, that 
parent's  "authorization"  generally  "shall  also  be  required"  before  the 
child may be taken out of the country.  Because Mr. Abbott has direct 
and  regular  visitation  rights,  it  follows  that  he  has  a  ne  exeat  right 
under  Article  49.  The  Convention  recognizes  that  custody  rights  can 
be  decreed  jointly  or  alone,  see  Art.  3(a),  and  Mr.  Abbott's  ne  exeat 
right is best classified as a "joint right of custody," which the Convention 
defines to "include rights relating to the care of the person of the child 
and, in particular, the right to determine the child's place of residence," 
Art.  5(a).  Mr.  Abbott's  right  to  decide  A.  J.  A.'s  country  of  residence 
allows him to "determine the child's place of residence," especially given 
the  Convention's  purpose  to  prevent  wrongful  removal  across  interna-
tional  borders.  It  also  gives  him  "rights  relating  to  the  care  of  the 
person  of  the  child,"  in  that  choosing  A.  J.  A.'s  residence  country  can 
determine the shape of his early and adolescent years and his language, 
identity, and culture and  traditions.  That a  ne exeat  right does not fit 
within  traditional  physical-custody  notions  is  beside  the  point  because 
the  Convention's  definition  of  "rights  of  custody"  controls.  This  uni-
form,  text-based  approach  ensures  international  consistency  in  inter-
preting  the  Convention,  foreclosing  courts  from  relying  on  local  usage 
to  undermine  recognition  of  custodial  arrangements  in  other  countries 
and under other legal traditions.  In any case, this country has adopted 
modern conceptions of custody, e. g., joint legal custody, that accord with 
the  Convention's  broad  definition.  Ms.  Abbott  mistakenly  claims  that 
a ne exeat right cannot qualify as a right of custody because the Conven-

3 Cite as: 560 U. S. 1 (2010) 
Syllabus 
tion requires that any such right be capable of "exercis[e]."  When one 
parent removes a child without seeking the ne exeat holder's consent, it 
is  an  instance  where  the  right  would  have  been  "exercised  but  for  the 
removal or retention,"  Art. 3(b).  The Fifth Circuit's  conclusion that a 
breach of a ne exeat right does not give rise to a return remedy would 
render  the  Convention  meaningless  in  many  cases  where  it  is  most 
needed.  Any  suggestion  that  a  ne  exeat  right  is  a  right  of  access  is 
atextual, as a ne exeat right is not even arguably a "right to take a child 
for  a  limited  period  of  time."  Art.  5(b).  Ms.  Abbott's  argument  that 
the  ne  exeat  order  in  this  case  cannot  create  a  right  of  custody  is  not 
dispositive because Mr. Abbott asserts rights under Minors Law 16,618, 
which do not derive from the order.  Pp. 10-15. 

(2)  This  Court's  conclusion  is  strongly  supported  and  informed  by 
the  longstanding  view  of  the  State  Department's  Office  of  Children's 
Issues,  this  country's  Convention  enforcement  entity,  that  ne  exeat 
rights  are  rights of  custody.  The Court  owes  deference  to  the  Execu-
tive  Branch's  treaty  interpretations.  See  Sumitomo  Shoji  America, 
Inc. v.  Avagliano, 457 U. S. 176, 185.  There is no reason to doubt this 
well-established  canon  here.  The  Executive,  when  dealing  with  deli-
cate  foreign  relations  matters  like  international  child  abductions,  pos-
sesses  a  great  store  of  information  on  practical  realities  such  as  the 
reactions from treaty partners to a particular treaty interpretation and 
the impact that interpretation may have on the State Department's abil-
ity to reclaim children abducted from this country.  P. 15. 

(3)  The Court's view is also substantially informed by the views of 
other contracting states on the issue,  see El Al Israel  Airlines, Ltd. v. 
Tsui  Yuan  Tseng,  525  U. S.  155,  176,  particularly  because  the  ICARA 
directs that "uniform international interpretation" of the Convention is 
part  of  its  framework,  see  $ 11601(b)(3)(B).  While the Supreme  Court 
of  Canada  has  reached  an  arguably  contrary  view,  and  French  courts 
are divided,  a  review  of the  international  law  confirms that  courts and 
other  legal  authorities  in  England,  Israel,  Austria,  South  Africa,  Ger-
many,  Australia,  and  Scotland  have  accepted  the  rule  that  ne  exeat 
rights are rights of custody within the Convention's meaning.  Scholars 
agree that there is an emerging international consensus on the matter. 
And the Convention's history is fully consistent with the conclusion that 
ne exeat rights are just one of the many ways in which custody of chil-
dren can be exercised.  Pp. 16-20. 

(4)  The Court's  holding also  accords  with  the Convention's objects 
and purposes.  There is no reason to doubt the ability of other contract-
ing states to carry out their duty to make decisions in the best interests 
of  the  children.  To  interpret  the  Convention  to  permit  an  abducting 
parent  to  avoid  a  return  remedy,  even  when  the  other  parent  holds  a 

4  ABBOTT  v.  ABBOTT 

Syllabus 
ne  exeat  right,  runs  counter  to  the  Convention's  purpose  of  deterring 
child abductions to a country that provides a friendlier forum.  Denying 
such  a  remedy  would  legitimize  the  very  action,  removal  of  the  child, 
that the Convention was designed to prevent, while requiring return of 
the child in cases like this  one helps deter abductions and respects the 
Convention's  purpose  to  prevent  harms  to  the  child  resulting  from  ab-
ductions.  Pp. 20-22. 

(c)  While a parent possessing a ne exeat right has a right of custody 
and may seek a return remedy, return will not automatically be ordered 
if  the  abducting  parent  can  establish  the  applicability  of  a  Convention 
exception, such as "a grave risk that . . . return would expose the child 
to . . . harm or [an]  otherwise . . . intolerable situation," or the objection 
to  removal  by  a  child  who  has  reached  a  sufficient  "age  and  degree  of 
maturity" to state a preference, Art. 13(b).  The proper interpretation 
and application of exceptions may be addressed on remand.  P. 22. 

542 F. 3d 1081, reversed and remanded. 

Kennedy,

5 Cite as: 560 U. S. 1 (2010) 
Opinion of the Court 
Justice

6  ABBOTT  v.  ABBOTT 

Opinion of the Court 
There  was  marital  discord,  and  the  parents  separated  in 
March  2003.  The  Chilean  courts  granted  the  mother  daily 
care  and  control  of  the  child,  while  awarding  the  father  "di-
rect and regular" visitation rights, including visitation every 
other  weekend  and  for  the  whole  month  of  February  each 
year.  App. 9. 

Chilean law conferred upon Mr. Abbott what is commonly 
known  as  a  ne  exeat  right:  a  right  to  consent  before  Ms. 
Abbott  could  take  A.  J.  A.  out  of  Chile.  See  Minors  Law 
16,618, Art. 49, App. to Pet. for Cert. 61a (granting a ne exeat 
right  to  any  parent  with  visitation  rights).  In  effect  a 
ne  exeat  right  imposes  a  duty  on  one  parent  that  is  a  right 
in  the  other.  After  Mr.  Abbott  obtained  a  British  passport 
for  A.  J.  A.,  Ms.  Abbott  grew  concerned  that  Mr.  Abbott 
would  take  the  boy  to  Britain.  She  sought  and  obtained  a 
"ne exeat of the minor" order from the Chilean family court, 
prohibiting  the  boy  from  being  taken  out  of  Chile.  App.  to 
Pet. for Cert. 68a-69a. 

In  August  2005,  while  proceedings  before  the  Chilean 
court were pending, the mother removed the boy from Chile 
without  permission  from  either  the  father  or  the  court.  A 
private  investigator  located  the  mother  and  the  child  in 
Texas.  In  February  2006,  the  mother  filed  for  divorce  in 
Texas state court.  Part of the relief she sought was a modi-
fication  of  the  father's  rights,  including  full  power  in  her  to 
determine the  boy's place of residence and an order limiting 
the father to supervised visitation in  Texas.  This litigation 
remains pending. 

Mr. Abbott brought an action in Texas state court, asking 
for  visitation  rights  and  an  order  requiring  Ms.  Abbott  to 
show  cause  why  the  court  should  not  allow  Mr.  Abbott  to 
return  to  Chile  with  A.  J.  A.  In  February  2006,  the  court 
denied Mr. Abbott's requested relief but granted him "liberal 
periods of possession" of A. J. A. throughout February 2006, 
provided Mr. Abbott remained in Texas.  App. 42. 

Cite as: 560 U. S. 1 (2010)  7 

Opinion of the Court 
In  May  2006,  Mr.  Abbott  filed  the  instant  action  in  the 
United  States  District  Court  for  the  Western  District  of 
Texas.  He  sought  an  order  requiring  his  son's  return  to 
Chile  pursuant  to  the  Convention  and  enforcement  provi-
sions  of  the  ICARA.  In  July  2007,  after  holding  a  bench 
trial  during  which  only  Mr.  Abbott  testified,  the  District 
Court  denied  relief.  The  court  held  that  the  father's  ne 
exeat  right  did  not  constitute  a  right  of  custody  under  the 
Convention and, as a result, that the return remedy was not 
authorized.  495 F. Supp. 2d 635, 640. 

The  United  States  Court  of  Appeals  for  the  Fifth  Circuit 
affirmed  on  the  same  rationale.  The  court  held  the  father 
possessed no rights of custody under the Convention because 
his ne exeat right was only "a veto right over his son's depar-
ture  from  Chile."  542  F.  3d  1081,  1087  (2008).  The  court 
expressed  substantial  agreement  with the  Court  of  Appeals 
for the Second Circuit in Croll  v.  Croll, 229 F. 3d 133 (2000). 
Relying on American dictionary definitions of "custody" and 
noting  that  ne  exeat  rights  cannot  be  " `actually  exercised' " 
within  the  meaning  of  the  Convention,  Croll  held  that 
ne  exeat  rights  are  not  rights  of  custody.  Id.,  at  138-141 
(quoting  Art.  3(b)).  A  dissenting  opinion  in  Croll  was  filed 
by  then-Judge  Sotomayor.  The  dissent  maintained  that  a 
ne  exeat  right  is  a  right  of  custody  because  it  "provides  a 
parent with decisionmaking authority regarding a child's in-
ternational relocation."  Id., at 146. 

The  Courts  of  Appeals  for  the  Fourth  and  Ninth  Circuits 
adopted  the  conclusion  of  the  Croll  majority.  See  Fawcett 
v.  McRoberts, 326 F. 3d 491, 500 (CA4 2003); Gonzalez v.  Gu-
tierrez, 311 F. 3d 942, 949 (CA9 2002).  The Court of Appeals 
for  the  Eleventh  Circuit  has  followed  the  reasoning  of  the 
Croll  dissent.  Furnes  v.  Reeves,  362  F.  3d  702,  720,  n.  15 
(2004).  Certiorari was granted to resolve the conflict.  557 
U. S. 933 (2009). 

8  ABBOTT  v.  ABBOTT 

Opinion of the Court 

II 
The  Convention  was  adopted  in  1980  in  response  to  the problem  of  international  child  abductions  during  domestic 

disputes.  The  Convention  seeks  "to  secure  the  prompt  re-turn  of  children  wrongfully  removed  to  or  retained  in  any 
Contracting State," and "to ensure that rights of custody and of  access  under  the  law  of  one  Contracting  State  are  effec-
tively  respected  in  the  other  Contracting  States."  Art.  1, Treaty Doc., at 7. 

The provisions of the Convention of most relevance at the outset of this discussion are as follows: 

"Article  3:  The  removal  or  the  retention  of  the  child  is to be considered wrongful where-- 
"a  it  is  in  breach  of  rights  of  custody  attributed  to  a person,  an  institution  or  any  other  body,  either  jointly 
or  alone,  under  the  law  of  the  State  in  which  the  child was habitually resident immediately before the removal 
or retention; and 
"b  at  the  time  of  removal  or  retention  those  rights were actually exercised, either jointly or alone, or would 

have been so exercised but for the removal or retention. . . . . . 

"Article 5: For the purposes of this Convention-- 
"a  `rights  of  custody'  shall  include  rights  relating  to the care of the person of the child and, in particular, the 

right to determine the child's place of residence; 
"b  `rights  of  access'  shall  include  the  right  to  take  a child  for  a  limited  period  of  time  to  a  place  other  than 

the child's habitual residence. 

. . . . . 

"Article 12: Where a child has been wrongfully removed or  retained  in  terms  of  Article 3 . .  . the  authority  con-

cerned  shall  order  the  return  of  the  child  forthwith." Id., at 7, 9. 

9 Cite as: 560 U. S. 1 (2010) 
Opinion of the Court 
The  Convention's  central  operating  feature  is  the  return remedy.  When a child under the age of 16 has been wrong-

fully removed or retained, the country to which the child has been brought must "order the return of the child forthwith," 
unless  certain  exceptions  apply.  See,  e. g.,  Arts.  4,  12,  ibid. A  removal  is  "wrongful"  where  the  child  was  removed  in 
violation  of  "rights  of  custody."  The  Convention  defines "rights  of  custody"  to  "include  rights  relating  to  the  care  of 
the person of the child and, in particular, the right to deter-mine the child's place of residence."  Art. 5

(a), id., at 7.  A return  remedy  does  not  alter  the  preabduction  allocation  of 

custody rights but leaves custodial decisions to the courts of the  country  of  habitual  residence.  Art.  19, 

id.,  at  11.  The Convention  also  recognizes  "rights  of  access,"  but  offers  no 

return  remedy  for  a  breach  of  those  rights.  Arts.  5(b),  21, id., at 7, 11. 

The United States has  implemented the Conventi on through  the  ICARA.  The  statute  authorizes  a  person  who 
seeks  a  child's  return  to  file  a  petition  in  state  or  federal court  and  instructs  that  the  court  "shall  decide  the  case  in 
accordance  with  the  Convention."  42  U. S. C.  $$ 11603(a), (b),  (d).  If  the  child  in  question  has  been  "wrongfully  re-
moved  or  retained  within  the  meaning  of  the  Convention," the  child  shall  be  "promptly  returned,"  unless  an  exception 
is applicable.  $ 11601(a)(4). 

III 
As  the  parties  agree,  the  Convention  applies  to  this  dis-pute.  A. J. A. is under 16  years old; he was  a habitual resi-

dent of Chile; and both Chile and the United States are con-tracting  states.  The  question  is  whether  A.  J.  A.  was 
"wrongfully  removed"  from  Chile,  in  other  words,  whether he  was  removed  in  violation  of  a  right  of  custody.  This 
Court's  inquiry is  shaped by  the  text of the  Convention;  the views  of  the  United  States  Department  of  State;  decisions 
addressing  the  meaning  of  "rights  of  custody"  in  courts  of 

10  ABBOTT  v.  ABBOTT 

Opinion of the Court 
other contracting states; and the purposes of the Convention. 
After  considering  these  sources,  the  Court  determines  that 
Mr.  Abbott's  ne  exeat  right  is  a  right  of  custody  under  the 
Convention. 

A 

"The  interpretation  of  a  treaty,  like  the  interpretation  of 
a statute, begins with its text."  Medelli'n v.  Texas, 552 U. S. 
491,  506  (2008).  This  Court  consults  Chilean  law  to  deter-
mine  the  content  of  Mr.  Abbott's  right,  while  following  the 
Convention's text  and structure  to decide  whether the  right 
at issue is a "righ[t] of custody." 

Chilean law granted Mr. Abbott a joint right to decide his 
child's  country  of  residence,  otherwise  known  as  a  ne  exeat 
right.  Minors  Law  16,618,  Art.  49,  App.  to  Pet.  for  Cert. 
61a,  62a,  provides  that  "[o]nce  the  court  has  decreed"  that 
one  of  the  parents  has  visitation  rights,  that  parent's  "au-
thorization . . . shall also be  required"  before  the  child  may 
be  taken  out  of  the  country,  subject  to  court  override  only 
where authorization "cannot be granted or is denied without 
good  reason."  Mr.  Abbott  has  "direct  and  regular"  visita-
tion  rights,  and  it  follows  from  Chilean  law  that  he  has  a 
shared  right  to  determine  his  son's  country  of  residence 
under  this  provision.  App.  9.  To  support  the  conclusion 
that  Mr.  Abbott's  right  under  Chilean  law  gives  him  a  joint 
right  to  decide  his  son's  country  of  residence,  it  is  notable 
that a Chilean agency has explained that Minors Law 16,618 
is  a  " `right  to  authorize  the  minors'  exit' "  from  Chile  and 
that  this  provision  means  that  neither  parent  can  "unilater-
ally" "establish the [child's] place of residence."  Letter from 
Paula  Strap  Camus,  Director  General,  Corporation  of  Judi-
cial  Assistance  of  the  Region  Metropolitana,  to  National 
Center  for  Missing  and  Exploited  Children  (Jan.  17,  2006), 
App.  to  Pet.  for  Cert.  in  Villegas  Duran  v.  Arribada  Beau-
mont,  No.  08-775,  pp.  35a-37a,  cert.  pending  [Reporter's

11 Cite as: 560 U. S. 1 (2010) 
Opinion of the Court 
The Convention  recognizes  that  custody  rights can  be de-creed  jointly  or  alone,  see  Art.  3

(a),  Treaty  Doc.,  at  7;  and 
Mr.  Abbott's  joint  right  to  determine  his  son's  country  of residence  is  best  classified  as  a  joint  right  of  custody,  as 

the  Convention  defines  that  term.  The  Convention  defines "rights  of  custody"  to  "include  rights  relating  to  the  care  of 
the  person  of  the  child  and,  in  particular,  the  right  to  de-
termine  the  child's  place  of  residence."  Art.  5(a),  ibid. Mr.  Abbott's 

ne  exeat  right  gives  him  both  the  joint  "right 
to determine the child's place of residence" and joint "rights relating to the care of the person of the child." 

Mr. Abbott's joint right to decide A. J. A.'s country of resi-
dence  allows  him  to  "determine  the  child's  place  of  resi-
dence."  The  phrase  "place  of  residence"  encompasses  the 
child's country of residence, especially in light of the Conven-
tion's  explicit  purpose  to  prevent  wrongful  removal  across 
international  borders.  See  Convention  Preamble,  Treaty 
Doc.,  at  7.  And  even  if  "place  of  residence"  refers  only  to 
the  child's  street  address  within  a  country,  a  ne  exeat  right 
still entitles Mr. Abbott to "determine" that place.  "[D]eter-
mine"  can  mean  "[t]o  fix  conclusively  or  authoritatively," 
Webster's New International Dictionary 711 (2d ed. 1954) (2d 
definition), but it can also mean "[t]o set bounds or limits to," 
ibid.  (1st  definition),  which  is  what  Mr.  Abbott's  ne  exeat 
right  allows  by  ensuring  that  A.  J.  A.  cannot  live  at  any 
street  addresses  outside  of  Chile.  It  follows  that  the  Con-
vention's  protection  of  a  parent's  custodial  "right  to  deter-
mine the child's place of residence" includes a ne exeat right. 

Mr.  Abbott's joint  right  to  determine A.  J.  A.'s  country  of 
residence  also  gives  him  "rights  relating  to  the  care  of  the 
person of the child."  Art. 5(a),  Treaty Doc., at 7.  Few de-
cisions  are  as  significant  as  the  language  the  child  speaks, 
the  identity  he  finds,  or  the  culture  and  traditions  she  will 
come to absorb.  These factors, so essential to self-definition, 
are  linked  in  an  inextricable  way  to  the  child's  country  of 
residence.  One  need  only  consider  the  different  childhoods 

12  ABBOTT  v.  ABBOTT 

Opinion of the Court 
an  adolescent  will  experience  if  he  or  she  grows  up  in  the United  States,  Chile,  Germany,  or  North  Korea,  to  under-

stand  how  choosing  a  child's  country  of  residence  is  a  right "relating to the care of the person of the child."  The Court 
of Appeals described Mr. Abbott's right to take part in mak-ing this decision as a mere "veto," 542 F. 3d, at 1087; but even 
by that truncated description, the father has an essential role 
in  deciding  the  boy's  country  of  residence.  For  example, Mr. Abbott could condition his consent to a change in country 

on A. J. A.'s moving to a city outside Chile where Mr. Abbott could obtain an astronomy position, thus allowing the father 
to have continued contact with the boy. 

That a ne exeat right does not fit within traditional notions 
of physical custody is beside the point.  The Convention de-
fines "rights of custody," and it is that definition that a court 
must  consult.  This  uniform,  text-based  approach  ensures 
international consistency in interpreting the Convention.  It 
forecloses  courts  from  relying  on  definitions  of  custody  con-
fined by local law usage, definitions that may undermine rec-
ognition  of  custodial  arrangements  in  other  countries  or  in 
different  legal  traditions,  including  the  civil-law  tradition. 
And,  in  any  case,  our  own  legal system  has  adopted  concep-
tions  of  custody  that  accord  with  the  Convention's  broad 
definition.  Joint legal custody, in which one parent cares for 
the child while the other has joint  decisionmaking authority 
concerning the child's welfare, has become increasingly com-
mon.  See  Singer,  Dispute  Resolution  and  the  Postdivorce 
Family: Implications of a Paradigm Shift, 47 Family Ct. Rev. 
363,  366  (2009)  ("[A]  recent  study  of  child  custody  outcomes 
in  North  Carolina  indicated  that  almost  70%  of  all  custody 
resolutions included joint legal custody, as did over 90% of all 
mediated  custody  agreements");  E.  Maccoby  &  R.  Mnookin, 
Dividing  the  Child:  Social  and  Legal  Dilemmas  of  Custody 
107 (1992) ("[F]or 79 percent of our entire sample, the [Cali-
fornia]  divorce decree provided  for  joint legal custody"); see 
generally Elrod, Reforming the System To Protect Children 

13 Cite as: 560 U. S. 1 (2010) 
Opinion of the Court 
in High Conflict Custody Cases, 28 Wm. Mitchell L. Rev. 495, 
505-508 (2001). 

Ms. Abbott gets the analysis backwards in claiming that a 
ne exeat right is not  a right of custody  because the  Conven-
tion  requires  that  any  right  of  custody  must  be  capable  of 
exercise.  The  Convention  protects  rights  of  custody  when 
"at the time of removal or retention those rights were actu-
ally exercised, either jointly or alone, or would have been so 
exercised  but  for  the  removal  or  retention."  Art.  3(b), 
Treaty Doc., at 7.  In cases like this one, a ne exeat right is 
by  its  nature  inchoate  and  so  has  no  operative  force  except 
when  the  other  parent  seeks  to  remove  the  child  from  the 
country.  If that occurs, the parent can exercise the ne exeat 
right  by  declining  consent  to  the  exit  or  placing  conditions 
to  ensure  the  move  will  be  in  the  child's  best  interests. 
When  one  parent  removes  the  child  without  seeking  the 
ne  exeat  holder's  consent,  it  is  an  instance  where  the  right 
would  have  been  "exercised  but  for  the  removal  or  reten-
tion."  Ibid. 

The  Court  of  Appeals'  conclusion  that  a  breach  of  a  ne 
exeat right does not give rise to a return remedy would ren-
der  the  Convention  meaningless  in  many  cases  where  it  is 
most  needed.  The  Convention  provides  a  return  remedy 
when  a  parent  takes  a  child  across  international  borders  in 
violation of a right of custody.  The Convention provides no 
return remedy when a parent removes a child in violation of 
a right of access but requires contracting states "to promote 
the peaceful enjoyment of access rights."  Art. 21, id., at 11. 
For  example,  a  court  may  force  the  custodial  parent  to  pay 
the  travel  costs  of visitation,  see,  e. g., Viragh  v.  Foldes,  415 
Mass. 96, 109-111, 612 N. E. 2d 241, 249-250 (1993), or make 
other  provisions  for  the  noncustodial  parent  to  visit  his  or 
her  child,  see  $ 11603(b)  (authorizing  petitions  to  "secur[e] 
the  effective  exercise  of  rights  of  access  to  a  child").  But 
unlike  rights  of  access,  ne  exeat  rights  can  only  be  honored 

14  ABBOTT  v.  ABBOTT 

Opinion of the Court 
with  a  return  remedy  because  these  rights  depend  on  the child's location being the country of habitual residence. 

Any suggestion that a ne exeat right is a "righ[t] of access" is  illogical  and  atextual.  The  Convention  defines  "rights  of 
access" as "includ[ing] the right to take a child for a limited period of time to a place other than the child's habitual resi-
dence," Art. 5(b), Treaty Doc., at 7,  and  the  ICARA  defines 
that  same  term  as  "visitation  rights,"  $ 11602(7).  The  joint right to decide a child's country of residence is not even argu-

ably a "right to take a child for a limited period of time" or a "visitation  righ[t]."  Reaching  the  commonsense  conclusion 
that  a  ne  exeat right  does  not  fit these  definitions  of "rights 
of access" honors the Convention's distinction between rights 
of access and rights of custody. 

Ms.  Abbott  argues  that  the  ne  exeat  order  in  this  case 
cannot  create  a  right  of  custody  because  it  merely  protects 
a  court's  jurisdiction  over  the  child.  Even if  this  argument 
were  correct,  it  would  not  be  dispositive.  Ms.  Abbott  con-
tends the Chilean court's ne exeat order contains no parental 
consent provision and so awards  the  father no  rights,  custo-
dial or otherwise.  See Brief for Respondent 22; but see 495 
F. Supp. 2d, at 638, n. 3 (the District Court treating the order 
as  containing  a  consent  provision);  542  F.  3d,  at  1084  (same 
for  the  Court  of  Appeals).  Even  a  ne  exeat  order  issued 
to  protect  a  court's  jurisdiction  pending  issuance  of  further 
decrees is consistent with allowing a parent to object to the 
child's  removal  from  the  country.  This  Court  need  not  de-
cide  the  status  of  ne  exeat  orders  lacking  parental  consent 
provisions,  however;  for  here  the  father  relies  on  his  rights 
under  Minors  Law  16,618.  Mr.  Abbott's  rights  derive  not 
from  the  order  but  from  Minors  Law  16,618.  That  law  re-
quires the father's consent before the mother can remove the 
boy  from  Chile,  subject  only  to  the  equitable  power  family 
courts retain to override any joint custodial arrangements in 
times  of  disagreement.  Minors  Law  16,618;  see  1  J.  Atkin-
son,  Modern  Child  Custody  Practice  $ 6-11,  p.  6-21  (2d  ed. 

15 Cite as: 560 U. S. 1 (2010) 
Opinion of the Court 
2009) ("[T]he court remains the final arbiter and may resolve 
the [dispute between joint custodians] itself or designate one 
parent  as  having  final  authority  on  certain  issues  affecting 
the child"); Lombardo v.  Lombardo, 202 Mich. App. 151, 159, 
507  N.  W.  2d  788,  792  (1993)  ("[W]here  the  parents  as  joint 
custodians cannot agree on important matters such as educa-
tion, it is  the court's duty to determine the issue in the best 
interests  of  the  child").  The  consent  provision  in  Minors 
Law  16,618  confers  upon  the  father  the  joint  right  to  deter-
mine his child's country of residence.  This is a right of cus-
tody under the Convention. 

B 
This  Court's  conclusion  that  Mr.  Abbott  possesses  a  right 
of  custody  under  the  Convention  is  supported  and  informed 
by  the  State  Department's  view  on  the  issue.  The  United 
States has endorsed the view that ne exeat rights are rights 
of custody.  In  its brief  before this  Court the United States 
advises that "the Department of State, whose Office of Chil-
dren's Issues serves as the Central Authority for the United 
States  under  the  Convention,  has  long  understood  the  Con-
vention  as  including  ne  exeat  rights  among  the  protected 
`rights of custody.' "  Brief for United States as Amicus Cu-
riae  21;  see  Sumitomo  Shoji  America,  Inc.  v.  Avagliano, 
457  U. S.  176,  184,  n.  10  (1982)  (deferring  to  the  Executive's 
interpretation  of  a  treaty  as  memorialized  in  a  brief  before 
this  Court).  It  is  well  settled  that  the  Executive  Branch's 
interpretation  of  a  treaty  "is  entitled  to  great  weight." 
Id.,  at  185.  There  is  no  reason  to  doubt  that  this  wellestablished canon of deference is appropriate here.  The Ex-
ecutive  is  well  informed  concerning  the  diplomatic  conse-
quences resulting from this Court's interpretation of "rights 
of custody," including the likely reaction of other contracting 
states  and  the  impact  on  the  State  Department's  ability  to 
reclaim children abducted from this country. 

16  ABBOTT  v.  ABBOTT 

Opinion of the Court 

C 
This  Court's  conclusion  that  ne  exeat  rights  are  rights  of custody is further informed by the views of other contracting 

states.  In interpreting any treaty, "[t]he `opinions of our sis-ter  signatories'  .  .  .  are  `entitled  to  considerable  weight.' " 
El Al Israel Airlines, Ltd. v.  Tsui Yuan Tseng, 525 U. S. 155, 176  (1999)  (quoting 

Air  France  v.  Saks,  470  U. S.  392,  404 (1985)).  The  principle  applies  with  special  force  here,  for 

Congress  has  directed  that  "uniform  international  interpre-tation  of  the  Convention"  is  part  of the  Convention's  frame-
work.  See $ 11601(b)(3)(B). A  review  of  the  international  case  law  confirms  broad 
acceptance of the rule that ne exeat rights are rights of cus-tody.  In an early decision, the English Court of Appeal ex-
plained  that  a  father's  "right  to  ensure  that  the  child  re-main[ed]  in  Australia  or  live[d]  anywhere  outside  Australia 
only with his approval" is a right of custody requiring return of  the  child  to  Australia.  C.  v.  C.,  [1989]  1  W.  L.  R.  654, 
658  (C. A.).  Lords  of the  House  of  Lords  have  agreed,  not-ing  that C.  v.  C.'s conclusion is  "settled, so far  as the  United 
Kingdom  is  concerned"  and  "appears  to  be  the  majority [view]  of  the  common  law  world."  See  In  re  D  (A  Child), 
[2007] 1 A. C. 619, |||| 14, 31, 37 (2006). The  Supreme  Court  of  Israel  follows  the  same  rule,  con-
cluding that  "the  term `custody'  should be  interpreted in  an expansive  way, so  that  it  will apply  [i]n  every  case  in  which 
there  is  a  need  for  the  consent  of  one  of  the  parents  to  re-move  the  children  from  one  country  to  another."  CA  5271/ 
92 Foxman v.  Foxman, [1992], $$ 3(D), 4 (K. Chagall transl.). The  High  Courts  of  Austria,  South  Africa,  and  Germany 
are  in  accord.  See  Oberster  Gerichtshof  [OGH]  [Supreme Court]  Feb.  5,  1992,  2  Ob  596/91  (Austria)  (Dept.  of  State 
transl.) ("Since the English Custody Court had ordered that the  children  must  not  be  removed  from  England  and  Wales 
without  the  father's  written  consent,  both  parents  had,  in effect,  been  granted  joint  custody  concerning  the  children's 

Cite as: 560 U. S. 1 (2010)  17 

Opinion of the Court 
place of residence"); Sonderup v.  Tondelli, 2001 (1) SA 1171, 1183 (Constitutional Ct., S. Afr. 2000) ("[The mother's] failure 

to return to British Columbia with the child . . . was a breach of the conditions upon which she was entitled to exercise her 
rights  of  custody  and  .  .  .  therefore  constituted  a  wrongful retention  .  .  .  as  contemplated  by  [Article  3]  of  the  Conven-
tion");  Bundesverfassungsgericht  [BVerfG]  [Fed.  Constitu-
tional Ct.] July 18, 1997, 2 BvR 1126/97, || 15 (Ger.) (Dept. of State  transl.)  (the  Convention  requires  a  return  remedy  for 

a  violation  of  the  "right  to  have  a  say  in  the  child's  place of  residence").  Appellate  courts  in  Australia  and  Scotland 
agree.  See  In  the  Marriage  of  Resina,  [1991],  FamCA  33, 
|||| 18-27  (Austl.);  A. J.  v.  F.  J.,  [2005]  CSIH  36,  2005  1  S. C. 
428, 435-436. 

It  is  true  that  some  courts  have  stated  a  contrary  view, 
or  at  least  a  more  restrictive  one.  The  Canadian  Supreme 
Court has said ne exeat orders are "usually intended" to pro-
tect  access  rights.  Thomson  v.  Thomson,  [1994]  3  S.  C.  R. 
551,  589-590,  119  D.  L.  R.  (4th)  253,  281;  see  D.  S.  v.  V.  W., 
[1996]  2  S.  C.  R.  108,  134  D.  L.  R.  (4th)  481.  But  the  Cana-
dian  cases  are  not  precisely  on  point  here.  Thomson  or-
dered  a  return  remedy  based  on  an  interim  ne  exeat  order, 
and only noted in dicta that it  may not order such a remedy 
pursuant  to  a  permanent  ne  exeat  order.  See  [1994]  3 
S. C. R., at 589-590, 119 D. L. R. (4th), at 281.  D.  S.  involved 
a  parent's  claim  based  on  an  implicit  ne  exeat  right  and,  in 
any event, the court ordered a return remedy on a different 
basis.  See  [1996]  2  S.  C.  R.,  at  140-141,  142,  134  D.  L.  R. 
(4th), at 503-504, 505. 

French  courts  are  divided.  A  French  Court  of  Appeals 
held  that  "the  right  to  accept  or  refuse  the  removal  of  the 
children's  residence"  outside  of  a  region  was  "a  joint  exer-
cise  of  rights  of  custody."  Ministe`re  public  v.  M.  B.  (CA, 
Aix-en-Provence,  6e  ch.,  Mar.  23,  1989),  in  79  revue  critique 
de  droit  international  prive'  529,  533-535  (July-Sept.  1990). 
A  trial  court  in  a  different  region  of  France  rejected  this 

18  ABBOTT  v.  ABBOTT 

Opinion of the Court 
view, relying on the mother's "fundamental liberty" to estab-lish her domicile.  See 

Procureur de la Re'publique de Pe'ri-
gueux v.  Mme S. (TGI, Pe' rigueux, Mar. 17, 1992), in 82 Revue Critique  de  Droit  International  Prive'  650,  651-653  (Oct.- 

Dec. 1993). Scholars agree that there is an emerging international con-
sensus that ne exeat rights are rights of custody, even if that 
view was not generally formulated when the Convention was drafted in 1980.  At that time, joint custodial arrangements 

were  unknown  in  many  of  the  contracting  states,  and  the status  of 

ne  exeat  rights  was  not  yet  well  understood.  See 
1980  Confe' rence  de  La  Haye  de  droit  international  prive' , 
Enle`vement d'enfants, morning meeting of Wed., Oct. 8, 1980 
(discussion  by  Messrs.  Leal  &  van  Boeschoten),  in  3  Actes 
et Documents  de la Quatorzie` me  Session, pp. 263-266 (1982) 
(Canadian  and  Dutch  delegates  disagreeing  whether  the 
Convention  protected  ne  exeat  rights,  while  agreeing  that 
it  should  protect  such  rights).  Since  1980,  however,  joint 
custodial  arrangements  have  become  more  common.  See 
supra,  at  12.  And,  within  this  framework,  most  contract-
ing  states  and  scholars  now  recognize  that  ne  exeat  rights 
are  rights  of  custody.  See,  e. g.,  Hague  Conference  on  Pri-
vate  International  Law:  Transfrontier  Contact  Concerning 
Children:  General  Principles  and  Guide  to  Good  Practice 

$ 9.3, p. 43 (2008) ("[P]reponderance of the case law supports 
the  view"  that  ne  exeat  rights  are  "rights  of  custody"  (foot-
note  omitted));  Hague  Conference  on  Private  International 
Law:  Overall  Conclusions  of  the  Special  Commission  of  Oct. 
1989  on  the  Operation  of  the  Hague  Convention  of  25  Oct. 
1980  on  the  Civil  Aspects  of  International  Child  Abduction, 
reprinted  in  29  I.  L.  M.  219,  222,  || 9  (1990);  Hague  Confer-
ence  on  Private  International  Law:  Report  of  the  Second 
Special Commission Meeting To Review the Operation of the 
Hague  Convention  on  the  Civil  Aspects  of  International 
Child Abduction 11 (1993), reprinted in 33 I. L. M. 225 (1994); 
Silberman,  The  Hague  Child  Abduction  Convention  Turns 

19 Cite as: 560 U. S. 1 (2010) 
Opinion of the Court 
Twenty: Gender Politics and Other Issues, 33 N. Y. U. J. Int'l L.  &  Politics  221,  226-232,  and  n.  13  (2000);  Whitman, 

Croll 
v.  Croll:  The Second Circuit Limits "Custody Rights" Under the  Hague  Convention on the  Civil Aspects of International 

Child  Abduction,  9  Tulane  J.  Int'l  &  Comp.  L.  605,  611-616 (2001). 

A history of the Convention, known as the Pe' rez-Vera Re-
port,  has  been  cited  both  by  the  parties  and  by  Courts  of Appeals  that  have  considered  this  issue.  See  1980  Confe' r-

ence  de  La  Haye  de  droit  international  prive' ,  Enle`vement d'enfants,  E.  Pe' rez-Vera,  Explanatory  Report  (Pe' rez-Vera 
Report  or  Report),  in  3  Actes  et  Documents  de  la  Quator-
zie` me  Session,  pp.  425-473  (1982).  We  need  not  decide 
whether  this  Report  should  be  given  greater  weight  than  a 
scholarly commentary.  Compare Hague International Child 
Abduction  Convention;  Text  and  Legal  Analysis,  51  Fed. 
Reg. 10503-10506 (1986) (identifying the Report as the "offi-
cial  history"  of  the  Convention  and  "a  source  of  background 
on  the  meaning  of  the  provisions  of  the  Convention"),  with 
Pe' rez-Vera  Report  || 8,  at  427-428  ("[The  Report]  has  not 
been  approved  by  the  Conference,  and  it  is  possible  that, 
despite the Rapporter's [sic] efforts to remain objective, cer-
tain  passages  reflect  a  viewpoint  which  is  in  part  subjec-
tive").  It suffices to note that the Report supports the con-
clusion  that  ne  exeat  rights  are  rights  of  custody.  The 
Report explains that rather than defining custody in precise 
terms or referring to the laws of different nations pertaining 
to parental rights, the  Convention  uses  the  unadorned term 
"rights  of custody"  to recognize  "all the  ways  in which  cus-
tody  of  children  can  be  exercised"  through  "a  flexible  inter-
pretation of the terms used, which allows the greatest possi-
ble  number  of  cases  to  be  brought  into  consideration."  Id., 
|||| 67,  71,  at  446,  447-448.  Thus  the  Report  rejects the  no-
tion that because ne exeat rights do not encompass the right 
to  make  medical  or  some  other  important  decisions  about  a 
child's life they cannot be rights of custody.  Indeed, the Re-

20  ABBOTT  v.  ABBOTT 

Opinion of the Court 
port  is  fully  consistent  with  the  conclusion  that  ne  exeat rights  are  just  one  of  the  many  "ways  in  which  custody  of 

children can be exercised."  Id., || 71, at 447. 

D 
Adopting  the  view  that  the  Convention  provides  a  return remedy for  violations  of 

ne exeat rights accords with  its ob-jects and purposes.  The Convention is based on the princi-

ple that the best interests of the child are well served when decisions  regarding  custody  rights  are  made  in  the  country 
of  habitual  residence.  See  Convention  Preamble,  Treaty Doc.,  at  7.  Ordering  a  return  remedy  does  not  alter  the 
existing  allocation  of  custody  rights,  Art.  19,  id.,  at  11,  but does  allow the  courts  of the  home country  to  decide  what  is 
in  the  child's  best  interests.  It  is  the  Convention's  premise that  courts  in  contracting  states  will  make  this  determina-
tion in a responsible manner. Custody  decisions  are  often  difficult.  Judges  must  strive 
always to avoid a common tendency to prefer their own soci-ety  and  culture,  a  tendency  that  ought  not  interfere  with 
objective  consideration  of  all  the  factors  that  should  be weighed in determining the best interests of the child.  This 
judicial  neutrality  is  presumed  from  the  mandate  of  the Convention,  which  affirms  that  the  contracting  states  are 
"[f]irmly convinced that the interests of children are of para-mount  importance  in  matters  relating  to  their  custody." 
Convention  Preamble,  id.,  at  7.  International  law  serves  a high  purpose  when  it  underwrites  the  determination  by  na-
tions  to rely upon their  domestic courts to enforce just  laws by legitimate and fair proceedings. 

To interpret the Convention to permit an abducting parent to avoid a return remedy,  even when  the other parent holds 
a ne exeat right, would run counter to the Convention's pur-pose  of  deterring  child  abductions  by  parents  who  attempt 
to  find  a  friendlier  forum  for  deciding  custodial  disputes. Ms.  Abbott  removed  A.  J.  A.  from  Chile  while  Mr.  Abbott's 

21 Cite as: 560 U. S. 1 (2010) 
Opinion of the Court 
request  to  enhance  his  relationship  with  his  son  was  still pending  before  Chilean  courts.  After  she  landed  in  Texas, 

the  mother  asked  the  state  court  to  diminish  or  eliminate the father's custodial and visitation rights.  The Convention 
should not be interpreted to permit a parent to select which country will adjudicate these questions by bringing the child 
to a different country, in violation of a ne exeat right.  Deny-
ing  a  return  remedy  for  the  violation  of  such  rights  would "legitimize  the  very  action--removal  of  the  child--that  the 

home  country,  through  its  custody  order  [or  other  provision of  law],  sought  to  prevent"  and  would  allow  "parents  to  un-
dermine  the  very  purpose  of  the  Convention."  Croll,  229 
F. 3d,  at 147  (Sotomayor, J., dissenting).  This Court should 
be  most  reluctant  to  adopt  an  interpretation  that  gives  an 
abducting  parent  an  advantage  by  coming  here  to  avoid  a 
return  remedy  that  is  granted,  for  instance,  in  the  United 
Kingdom,  Israel,  Germany,  and  South  Africa.  See  supra, 
at 16. 

Requiring  a  return  remedy  in  cases  like  this  one  helps 
deter child abductions and respects the Convention's purpose 
to  prevent  harms  resulting  from  abductions.  An  abduction 
can have devastating consequences for a child.  "Some child 
psychologists  believe  that  the  trauma  children  suffer  from 
these  abductions  is  one  of  the  worst  forms  of  child  abuse." 
H.  R.  Rep.  No.  103-390,  p.  2  (1993).  A  child  abducted  by 
one  parent  is  separated  from  the  second  parent  and  the 
child's support system.  Studies have shown that separation 
by abduction can cause psychological problems ranging from 
depression and acute stress disorder to posttraumatic stress 
disorder  and  identity-formation  issues.  See  N.  Faulkner, 
Parental Child Abduction is Child Abuse (1999-2006), http:// 
www.prevent-abuse-now.com/unreport.htm  (as  visited  May 
13, 2010, and available in Clerk of Court's case file).  A child 
abducted  at  an  early  age  can  experience  loss  of  community 
and  stability,  leading  to  loneliness,  anger,  and  fear  of  aban-
donment.  See  Huntington,  Parental  Kidnapping:  A  New 

22  ABBOTT  v.  ABBOTT 

Opinion of the Court 
Form  of  Child  Abuse  (1984),  in  American  Prosecutors  Re-
search  Institute's  National  Center  for  Prosecution  of  Child 
Abuse, Parental Abduction Project, Investigation and Prose-
cution  of  Parental  Abduction  (1995)  (App.  A).  Abductions 
may  prevent  the  child  from  forming  a  relationship  with  the 
left-behind  parent,  impairing  the  child's  ability  to  mature. 
See Faulkner, supra, at 5. 

IV 

While  a  parent  possessing  a  ne  exeat  right  has  a  right  of 
custody and may seek a return remedy, a return order is not 
automatic.  Return  is  not  required  if  the  abducting  parent 
can  establish  that  a  Convention  exception  applies.  One  ex-
ception states return of the child is not required when "there 
is a grave risk that his or her return would expose the child 
to  physical  or  psychological  harm  or  otherwise  place  the 
child  in  an  intolerable  situation."  Art.  13(b),  Treaty  Doc., 
at  10.  If,  for  example,  Ms.  Abbott  could  demonstrate  that 
returning  to  Chile  would  put  her  own  safety  at  grave  risk, 
the  court  could  consider  whether  this  is  sufficient  to  show 
that  the  child  too  would  suffer  "psychological  harm"  or  be 
placed  "in  an  intolerable  situation."  See,  e. g.,  Baran  v. 
Beaty,  526  F.  3d  1340,  1352-1353  (CA11  2008);  Walsh  v. 
Walsh,  221  F. 3d 204,  220-221  (CA1 2000).  The Convention 
also  allows  courts  to  decline  to  order  removal  if  the  child 
objects, if the  child has reached a  sufficient "age and degree 
of  maturity  at  which  it  is  appropriate  to  take  account  of  its 
views."  Art.  13(b),  Treaty  Doc.,  at  10.  The  proper  inter-
pretation  and  application  of  these  and  other  exceptions  are 
not  before this Court.  These  matters may  be addressed on 
remand. 

*  *  * 

The  judgment  of  the  Court  of  Appeals  is  reversed,  and 
the case is remanded for further proceedings consistent with 
this opinion. 

It is so ordered. 

23 Cite as: 560 U. S. 1 (2010) 
Stevens,
24  ABBOTT  v.  ABBOTT 

Stevens,

25 Cite as: 560 U. S. 1 (2010) 
Stevens,
26  ABBOTT  v.  ABBOTT 

Stevens,

27 Cite as: 560 U. S. 1 (2010) 
Stevens,
28  ABBOTT  v.  ABBOTT 

Stevens,

29 Cite as: 560 U. S. 1 (2010) 
Stevens,
30  ABBOTT  v.  ABBOTT 

Stevens,

31 Cite as: 560 U. S. 1 (2010) 
Stevens,
32  ABBOTT  v.  ABBOTT 

Stevens,

33 Cite as: 560 U. S. 1 (2010) 
Stevens,
34  ABBOTT  v.  ABBOTT 

Stevens,

35 Cite as: 560 U. S. 1 (2010) 
Stevens,
36  ABBOTT  v.  ABBOTT 

Stevens,

37 Cite as: 560 U. S. 1 (2010) 
Stevens,
38  ABBOTT  v.  ABBOTT 

Stevens,

39 Cite as: 560 U. S. 1 (2010) 
Stevens,
40  ABBOTT  v.  ABBOTT 

Stevens,

41 Cite as: 560 U. S. 1 (2010) 
Stevens,
42  ABBOTT  v.  ABBOTT 

Stevens,

43 Cite as: 560 U. S. 1 (2010) 
Stevens,
44  ABBOTT  v.  ABBOTT 

Stevens,

45 Cite as: 560 U. S. 1 (2010) 
Stevens,
46  ABBOTT  v.  ABBOTT 

Stevens,

47 Cite as: 560 U. S. 1 (2010) 
Stevens,
48  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

Syllabus 

GRAHAM  v.  FLORIDA 
certiorari

49 Cite as: 560 U. S. 48 (2010) 
Syllabus 
dents  and  by  the  Court's  own  understanding  and  interpretation  of  the 
Eighth  Amendment's  text,  history,  meaning,  and  purpose,"  Kennedy, 
supra, at 421, the Court determines in the exercise of its own independ-
ent judgment whether the punishment in question violates the Constitu-
tion,  Roper,  supra,  at  564.  Because  this  case  implicates  a  particular 
type  of  sentence  as  it  applies  to  an  entire  class  of  offenders  who  have 
committed a range of crimes, the appropriate analysis is the categorical 
approach used in Atkins, Roper, and Kennedy.  Pp. 58-62. 

(b)  Application  of  the  foregoing  approach  convinces  the  Court  that 
the sentencing practice at issue is unconstitutional.  Pp. 62-82. 

(1)  Six  jurisdictions  do  not  allow  life  without  parole  sentences  for 
any  juvenile  offenders.  Seven  jurisdictions  permit  life  without  parole 
for  juvenile  offenders,  but  only  for  homicide  crimes.  Thirty-seven 
States,  the  District  of  Columbia,  and  the  Federal  Government  permit 
sentences  of  life  without  parole  for  a  juvenile  nonhomicide  offender  in 
some  circumstances.  The  State  relies  on  these  data  to  argue  that  no 
national  consensus  against  the  sentencing  practice  in  question  exists. 
An examination of actual sentencing practices in those jurisdictions that 
permit life without parole for juvenile nonhomicide offenders, however, 
discloses a consensus against the sentence.  Nationwide, there are only 
123 juvenile offenders serving life without parole sentences for nonhomi-
cide  crimes.  Because  77  of  those  offenders  are  serving  sentences  im-
posed  in  Florida  and  the  other  46  are  imprisoned  in  just  10  States,  it 
appears that only 11 jurisdictions nationwide in fact impose life without 
parole sentences on juvenile nonhomicide offenders, while 26 States, the 
District of Columbia, and the Federal Government do not impose them 
despite apparent statutory authorization.  Given that the statistics re-
flect nearly all juvenile nonhomicide offenders who have received a life 
without  parole  sentence  stretching  back  many  years,  moreover,  it  is 
clear how rare these sentences are, even within the States that do some-
times impose them.  While more common in terms of absolute numbers 
than  the  sentencing  practices  in, e. g.,  Atkins  and  Enmund  v.  Florida, 
458  U. S.  782,  the  type  of sentence  at  issue  is  actually  as  rare  as  those 
other sentencing practices when viewed in proportion to the opportuni-
ties  for  its  imposition.  The  fact  that  many  jurisdictions  do  not  ex-
pressly  prohibit  the  sentencing  practice  at  issue  is  not  dispositive  be-
cause  it  does  not  necessarily  follow  that  the  legislatures  in  those 
jurisdictions  have  deliberately  concluded  that  such  sentences  would  be 
appropriate.  See  Thompson  v.  Oklahoma,  487  U. S.  815,  826,  n.  24, 
850.  Pp. 62-67. 

(2)  The inadequacy of penological theory to justify life without pa-
role sentences for juvenile nonhomicide offenders, the limited culpability 
of such offenders, and the severity of these sentences all lead the Court 

50  GRAHAM  v.  FLORIDA 

Syllabus 
to  conclude  that  the  sentencing  practice  at  issue  is  cruel  and  unusual. 
No  recent  data  provide  reason  to  reconsider  Roper's  holding  that  be-
cause juveniles have lessened culpability they are less deserving of the 
most  serious  forms  of  punishment.  543  U. S.,  at  551.  Moreover,  de-
fendants who do not kill, intend to kill, or foresee that life will be taken 
are  categorically  less  deserving  of  such  punishments  than  are  murder-
ers.  E. g., Kennedy, supra.  Serious nonhomicide crimes "may be dev-
astating  in  their  harm . . .  but `in terms of  moral  depravity  and  of  the 
injury to the person and to the public,' . . . they cannot be compared to 
murder in their `severity and irrevocability.' "  Id., at 438.  Thus, when 
compared  to an  adult murderer, a juvenile  offender who did not kill or 
intend  to  kill  has  a  twice  diminished  moral  culpability.  Age  and  the 
nature of the crime each bear on the analysis.  As for the punishment, 
life  without  parole  is  "the  second  most  severe  penalty  permitted  by 
law," Harmelin v.  Michigan, 501 U. S. 957, 1001, and is especially harsh 
for  a  juvenile  offender,  who  will  on  average  serve  more  years  and  a 
greater percentage of his life in prison than an adult offender, see, e. g., 
Roper,  supra,  at  572.  And  none  of  the  legitimate  goals  of  penal  sanc-
tions--retribution,  deterrence,  incapacitation,  and  rehabilitation,  see 
Ewing v.  California, 538 U. S. 11, 25--is adequate to justify life without 
parole  for  juvenile  nonhomicide  offenders,  see,  e. g.,  Roper,  543  U. S., 
at 571, 573.  Because age "18 is the point where society draws the line 
for  many  purposes  between  childhood  and  adulthood,"  it  is  the  age 
below  which  a  defendant  may  not  be  sentenced  to  life  without  parole 
for a nonhomicide crime.  Id., at 574.  A State is not required to guar-
antee  eventual  freedom  to  such  an  offender,  but  must  impose  a  sen-
tence  that  provides  some  meaningful  opportunity  for  release  based  on 
demonstrated  maturity  and  rehabilitation.  It  is  for  the  State,  in  the 
first  instance,  to  explore  the  means  and  mechanisms  for  compliance. 
Pp. 67-75. 

(3)  A  categorical  rule  is  necessary,  given  the  inadequacy  of  two 
alternative  approaches  to  address  the  relevant  constitutional  concerns. 
First, although  Florida  and other  States  have  made  substantial  efforts 
to  enact  comprehensive  rules  governing  the  treatment  of  youthful  of-
fenders, such laws allow the imposition of the type of sentence at issue 
based  only  on  a  discretionary,  subjective  judgment  by  a  judge  or  jury 
that  the  juvenile  offender  is  irredeemably  depraved,  and  are  therefore 
insufficient to prevent the possibility that the offender will receive such 
a  sentence  despite  a  lack  of  moral  culpability.  Second,  a  case-by-case 
approach requiring that the particular offender's age be weighed against 
the seriousness of the crime as part of a gross disproportionality inquiry 
would  not  allow  courts  to  distinguish  with  sufficient  accuracy  the  few 
juvenile offenders  having sufficient psychological maturity and deprav-
ity to merit a life without parole sentence from the many that have the 

51 Cite as: 560 U. S. 48 (2010) 
Syllabus 
capacity  for  change.  Cf.  Roper,  supra,  at  572-573.  Nor does  such  an 
approach  take  account  of  special  difficulties  encountered  by  counsel  in 
juvenile representation, given juveniles' impulsiveness, difficulty think-
ing  in  terms  of  long-term  benefits,  and  reluctance  to  trust  adults.  A 
categorical  rule  avoids  the  risk  that,  as  a  result  of  these  difficulties, 
a  court  or  jury  will  erroneously  conclude  that  a  particular  juvenile  is 
sufficiently  culpable  to  deserve  life  without  parole  for  a  nonhomicide. 
It also gives the juvenile offender a chance to demonstrate maturity and 
reform.  Pp. 75-79. 

(4)  Additional support for the Court's conclusion lies in the fact that 
the sentencing practice at  issue  has been  rejected the  world over: The 
United  States  is  the  only  Nation  that  imposes  this  type  of  sentence. 
While the judgments of other nations and the international community 
are  not  dispositive  as  to  the  meaning  of  the  Eighth  Amendment,  the 
Court  has  looked  abroad  to  support  its  independent  conclusion  that  a 
particular punishment is cruel and unusual.  See, e. g., Roper, supra, at 
575-578.  Pp. 80-82. 

982 So. 2d 43, reversed and remanded. 

Kennedy,

52  GRAHAM  v.  FLORIDA 

Opinion of the Court 
Justice

53 Cite as: 560 U. S. 48 (2010) 
Opinion of the Court 
without  parole  for  a  nonhomicide  crime.  The  sentence  was 
imposed  by  the  State  of  Florida.  Petitioner  challenges  the 
sentence under the Eighth Amendment's Cruel and Unusual 
Punishments  Clause,  made  applicable  to  the  States  by  the 
Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.  Robin-
son v.  California, 370 U. S. 660 (1962). 

I 
Petitioner  is  Terrance  Jamar  Graham.  He  was  born  on 
January  6,  1987.  Graham's  parents  were  addicted  to  crack 
cocaine,  and  their  drug  use  persisted  in  his  early  years. 
Graham  was  diagnosed  with  attention  deficit  hyperactivity 
disorder  in  elementary  school.  He  began  drinking  alcohol 
and using tobacco at age 9 and smoked marijuana at age 13. 

In July 2003, when Graham was age 16, he and three other 
school-age youths attempted to rob a barbeque restaurant in 
Jacksonville, Florida.  One youth, who worked at the restau-
rant,  left  the  back  door  unlocked  just  before  closing  time. 
Graham and another youth, wearing masks, entered through 
the unlocked door.  Graham's masked accomplice twice 
struck  the  restaurant  manager  in  the  back  of  the  head  with 
a  metal  bar.  When  the  manager  started  yelling  at  the  as-
sailant and Graham, the two youths ran out and escaped in a 
car driven by the third accomplice.  The restaurant manager 
required stitches for his head injury.  No money was taken. 

Graham  was  arrested  for  the  robbery  attempt.  Under 
Florida law, it is within a prosecutor's discretion whether to 
charge  16- and  17-year-olds  as  adults  or  juveniles  for  most 
felony crimes.  Fla. Stat. $ 985.227(1)(b) (2003) (subsequently 
renumbered  at  $ 985.557(1)(b)  (2007)).  Graham's  prosecutor 
elected to charge Graham as an adult.  The charges against 
Graham  were  armed  burglary  with  assault  or  battery,  a 
first-degree  felony  carrying  a  maximum  penalty  of  life  im-
prisonment  without  the  possibility  of  parole,  $$ 810.02(1)(b), 
(2)(a) (2003); and attempted armed robbery, a second-degree 

54  GRAHAM  v.  FLORIDA 

Opinion of the Court 
felony  carrying  a  maximum  penalty  of  15  years'  imprison-ment, $$ 812.13(2)(b), 777.04(1), (4)(a), 775.082(3)(c). 

On  December  18,  2003,  Graham  pleaded  guilty  to  both charges  under  a  plea  agreement.  Graham  wrote  a  letter  to 
the trial court.  After reciting "this is my first and last time getting  in  trouble,"  he  continued,  "I've  decided  to  turn  my 
life around."  App. 379-380.  Graham said, "I made a prom-
ise to God and myself that if I get a second chance, I'm going to  do  whatever  it  takes  to  get  to  the  [National  Football 

League]."  Id., at 380. The  trial  court  accepted  the  plea  agreement.  The  court 
withheld  adjudication  of  guilt  as  to  both  charges  and  sen-
tenced  Graham  to  concurrent  3-year  terms  of  probation. 
Graham  was  required  to  spend  the  first  12  months  of  his 
probation  in  the  county  jail,  but  he  received  credit  for  the 
time  he  had  served  awaiting  trial,  and  was  released  on 
June 25, 2004. 

Less  than  six  months  later,  on  the  night  of  December  2, 
2004,  Graham  again  was  arrested.  The  State's  case  was  as 
follows: Earlier that evening, Graham participated in a home 
invasion  robbery.  His  two  accomplices  were  Meigo  Bailey 
and  Kirkland  Lawrence,  both  20-year-old  men.  According 
to  the  State,  at 7  p.m. that  night, Graham,  Bailey,  and Law-
rence knocked on the door of the  home where Carlos Rodri-
guez lived.  Graham, followed by Bailey and Lawrence, forc-
ibly entered the home and held a pistol to Rodriguez's chest. 
For  the  next  30  minutes,  the  three  held  Rodriguez  and  an-
other  man,  a  friend  of  Rodriguez,  at  gunpoint  while  they 
ransacked  the  home  searching  for  money.  Before  leaving, 
Graham  and  his  accomplices  barricaded  Rodriguez  and  his 
friend inside a closet. 

The  State  further  alleged  that  Graham,  Bailey,  and  Law-
rence,  later  the  same  evening,  attempted  a  second  robbery, 
during  which Bailey  was shot.  Graham, who had borrowed 
his  father's  car,  drove  Bailey  and  Lawrence  to  the  hospital 
and  left  them  there.  As  Graham  drove  away,  a  police  ser-

55 Cite as: 560 U. S. 48 (2010) 
Opinion of the Court 
geant  signaled  him  to  stop.  Graham  continued  at  a  high speed  but  crashed  into  a  telephone  pole.  He  tried  to  flee 

on  foot  but  was  apprehended.  Three  handguns  were  found in his car. 

When  detectives  interviewed  Graham,  he  denied  involve-ment  in  the  crimes.  He  said  he  encountered  Bailey  and 
Lawrence  only  after  Bailey  had  been  shot.  One  of  the  de-
tectives  told  Graham  that  the  victims  of  the  home  invasion had identified him.  He asked Graham, "Aside from  the two 

robberies  tonight  how  many  more  were  you  involved  in?" Graham  responded,  "Two  to  three  before  tonight." 

Id.,  at 
160.  The  night  that  Graham  allegedly  committed  the  rob-
bery, he was 34 days short of his 18th birthday. 

On  December  13,  2004,  Graham's  probation  officer  filed 
with  the  trial  court  an  affidavit  asserting  that  Graham  had 
violated the conditions of his probation by possessing a  fire-
arm,  committing  crimes,  and  associating  with  persons  en-
gaged  in  criminal  activity.  The  trial  court  held  hearings 
on Graham's violations about a year later, in December 2005 
and  January  2006.  The  judge  who  presided  was  not  the 
same  judge  who  had  accepted  Graham's  guilty  plea  to  the 
earlier offenses. 

Graham  maintained  that  he  had  no  involvement  in  the 
home invasion robbery; but, even after the court underscored 
that the admission could expose him to a life sentence on the 
earlier  charges,  he  admitted  violating  probation  conditions 
by  fleeing.  The  State  presented  evidence  related  to  the 
home  invasion,  including  testimony  from  the  victims.  The 
trial  court  noted  that  Graham,  in  admitting  his  attempt  to 
avoid  arrest,  had  acknowledged  violating  his  probation. 
The court further found that Graham had violated his proba-
tion  by  committing  a  home  invasion  robbery,  by  possessing 
a firearm, and by associating with persons engaged in crimi-
nal activity. 

The trial court held a sentencing hearing.  Under Florida 
law  the  minimum  sentence  Graham  could  receive  absent  a 

56  GRAHAM  v.  FLORIDA 

Opinion of the Court 
downward  departure  by  the  judge  was  5  years'  imprison-ment.  The maximum was life imprisonment.  Graham's at-

torney  requested  the  minimum  nondeparture  sentence  of  5 years.  A  presentence  report  prepared  by  the  Florida  De-
partment  of  Corrections  recommended  that  Graham  receive an  even  lower  sentence--at  most  4  years'  imprisonment. 
The  State  recommended  that  Graham  receive  30  years  on 
the  armed  burglary  count  and  15  years  on  the  attempted armed robbery count. 

After  hearing  Graham's  testimony,  the  trial  court  ex-plained the sentence it was about to pronounce: 

"Mr.  Graham,  as  I  look  back  on  your  case,  yours  is really candidly a sad situation.  You had, as far as I can 
tell, you have quite a family structure.  You had a lot of people  who  wanted  to  try  and  help  you  get  your  life 
turned  around  including  the  court  system,  and  you  had a judge who took the  step to try and give  you direction 
through his  probation order to give you a chance to get back  onto  track.  And  at  the  time  you  seemed  through 
your letters that that is exactly what you wanted to do. 
And  I  don't  know  why  it  is  that  you  threw  your  life away.  I don't know why. 

"But  you  did,  and  that  is  what  is  so  sad  about  this today  is  that  you  have  actually  been  given  a  chance  to 
get  through  this,  the  original  charge,  which  were  very serious  charges  to  begin  with. . . .  The  attempted  rob-
bery with a weapon was a very serious charge. 

. . . . . 

"[I]n  a  very  short  period  of  time  you  were  back  before 
the Court on a violation of this probation, and then here 
you  are  two  years  later  standing  before  me,  literally 
the--facing  a  life  sentence  as  to--up  to  life  as  to  count 
1 and up to 15 years as to count 2. 

"And I don't understand why you would be given such 
a  great  opportunity  to  do  something  with  your  life  and 

57 Cite as: 560 U. S. 48 (2010) 
Opinion of the Court 
why  you  would  throw  it  away.  The  only  thing  that  I can  rationalize  is  that  you  decided  that  this  is  how  you 

were  going  to  lead  your  life  and  that  there  is  nothing that  we  can  do  for  you.  And  as  the  state  pointed  out, 
that this  is an escalating pattern  of criminal conduct  on your  part  and  that  we  can't  help  you  any  further.  We 
can't do anything to deter you.  This is the way you are going  to  lead  your  life,  and  I  don't  know  why  you  are 
going  to.  You've  made  that  decision.  I  have  no  idea. But, evidently, that is what you decided to do. 

"So  then  it  becomes  a  focus,  if  I  can't  do  anything  to help  you,  if  I  can't  do  anything  to  get  you  back  on  the 
right  path, then I have  to start focusing  on the commu-nity  and trying to protect the  community  from your  ac-
tions.  And,  unfortunately,  that  is  where  we  are  today is  I  don't  see  where  I  can  do  anything  to  help  you  any 
further.  You've  evidently  decided  this  is  the  direction you're going to take in life, and it's unfortunate that you 
made that choice. "I  have  reviewed  the  statute.  I  don't  see  where 
any  further  juvenile  sanctions  would  be  appropriate. I don't see where any youthful offender sanctions would 
be appropriate.  Given your escalating pattern of crimi-nal  conduct,  it  is  apparent  to  the  Court  that  you  have 
decided  that  this  is  the  way  you  are  going  to  live  your life  and  that  the  only  thing  I  can  do  now  is  to  try 
and  protect  the  community  from  your  actions."  Id.,  at 392-394. 

The  trial  court  found  Graham  guilty  of  the  earlier  armed burglary  and  attempted  armed  robbery  charges.  It  sen-
tenced  him  to  the  maximum  sentence  authorized  by  law  on each  charge:  life  imprisonment  for  the  armed  burglary  and 
15 years for the attempted armed robbery.  Because Florida has  abolished  its parole  system, see  Fla. Stat. $ 921.002(1)(e) 
(2003),  a life  sentence gives a  defendant no  possibility  of re-lease unless he is granted executive clemency. 

58  GRAHAM  v.  FLORIDA 

Opinion of the Court 
Graham  filed  a  motion  in  the  trial  court  challenging  his sentence  under  the  Eighth  Amendment.  The  motion  was 

deemed denied after the trial court failed to rule on it within 60  days.  The  First  District  Court  of  Appeal  of  Florida  af-
firmed,  concluding  that  Graham's  sentence  was  not  grossly disproportionate  to  his  crimes.  982  So.  2d  43  (2008).  The 
court  took  note  of  the  seriousness  of  Graham's  offenses  and their  violent  nature,  as  well  as  the  fact  that  they  "were  not 
committed  by  a  pre-teen,  but  a  seventeen-year-old  who  was ultimately  sentenced  at  the  age  of  nineteen." 

Id.,  at  52. The  court  concluded  further  that  Graham  was  incapable  of 

rehabilitation.  Although Graham "was given an unheard of probationary  sentence  for  a  life  felony,  .  .  .  wrote  a  letter 
expressing  his  remorse  and  promising  to  refrain  from  the commission  of  further  crime,  and  .  .  .  had  a  strong  family 
structure to support  him," the  court noted,  he "rejected  his second chance and chose to continue committing crimes at an 
escalating pace."  Ibid.  The Florida Supreme Court denied review.  990 So. 2d 1058 (2008) (table). 

We granted certiorari.  556 U. S. 1220 (2009). 

II 
The  Eighth  Amendment  states:  "Excessive  bail  shall  not be  required,  nor  excessive  fines  imposed,  nor  cruel  and  un-

usual punishments inflicted."  To determine whether a pun-ishment is cruel and unusual, courts must look beyond histor-
ical  conceptions  to  " `the  evolving  standards  of  decency  that mark the progress of a maturing society.' " 

Estelle v.  Gam-ble, 429 U. S. 97, 102 (1976) (quoting Trop v.  Dulles, 356 U. S. 

86,  101  (1958)  (plurality  opinion)).  "This  is  because  `[t]he standard  of  extreme  cruelty  is  not  merely  descriptive,  but 
necessarily embodies a moral judgment.  The standard itself remains  the  same,  but  its  applicability  must  change  as  the 
basic mores of society change.' "  Kennedy v.  Louisiana, 554 U. S.  407,  419  (2008)  (quoting 

Furman  v.  Georgia,  408  U. S. 238, 382 (1972) (Burger, C. J., dissenting)). 

59 Cite as: 560 U. S. 48 (2010) 
Opinion of the Court 
The Cruel  and Unusual  Punishments Clause  prohibits  the imposition  of  inherently  barbaric  punishments  under  all  cir-

cumstances.  See,  e. g.,  Hope  v.  Pelzer,  536  U. S.  730  (2002). "[P]unishments  of  torture,"  for  example,  "are  forbidden." 
Wilkerson  v.  Utah,  99  U. S.  130,  136  (1879).  These  cases underscore  the  essential  principle  that,  under  the  Eighth 
Amendment,  the  State  must  respect  the  human  attributes 
even of those who have committed serious crimes. For  the  most  part,  however,  the  Court's  precedents  con-

sider punishments challenged not as inherently barbaric but as  disproportionate  to  the  crime.  The  concept  of  propor-
tionality is central to the Eighth Amendment.  Embodied in 
the  Constitution's  ban  on  cruel  and  unusual  punishments  is 
the  "precept  of  justice  that  punishment  for  crime  should  be 
graduated  and  proportioned  to  [the]  offense."  Weems  v. 
United States, 217 U. S. 349, 367 (1910). 

The  Court's  cases  addressing  the  proportionality  of  sen-
tences  fall  within  two  general  classifications.  The  first  in-
volves  challenges  to  the  length  of  term-of-years  sentences 
given all the circumstances in a particular case.  The second 
comprises  cases  in  which  the  Court  implements  the  propor-
tionality  standard  by  certain  categorical  restrictions  on  the 
death penalty. 

In the first classification the Court considers all of the cir-
cumstances  of  the  case  to  determine  whether  the  sentence 
is  unconstitutionally  excessive.  Under  this  approach,  the 
Court  has  held  unconstitutional  a  life  without  parole  sen-
tence for the defendant's seventh nonviolent felony, the crime 
of passing a  worthless check.  Solem  v.  Helm, 463 U. S. 277 
(1983).  In other cases, however, it has been difficult for the 
challenger  to  establish  a  lack  of  proportionality.  A  leading 
case is Harmelin v.  Michigan, 501 U. S. 957 (1991), in which 
the  offender  was  sentenced  under  state  law  to  life  without 
parole  for  possessing  a  large  quantity  of  cocaine.  A  closely 
divided Court upheld the sentence.  The controlling opinion 
concluded  that  the  Eighth  Amendment  contains  a  "narrow 

60  GRAHAM  v.  FLORIDA 

Opinion of the Court 
proportionality  principle,"  that  "does  not  require  strict  pro-portionality between crime and sentence" but rather "forbids 

only extreme sentences that are `grossly disproportionate' to the crime." 

Id., at 997, 1000-1001 (Kennedy,

61 Cite as: 560 U. S. 48 (2010) 
Opinion of the Court 
offense,  the  Court  has  concluded  that  capital  punishment  is impermissible  for  nonhomicide  crimes  against  individuals. 

Kennedy, 551 U. S., at 437-438; see also Enmund v.  Florida, 458  U. S.  782  (1982); 

Coker  v.  Georgia,  433  U. S.  584  (1977). 
In  cases  turning  on  the  characteristics  of  the  offender,  the Court  has  adopted  categorical  rules  prohibiting  the  death 

penalty  for  defendants  who  committed  their  crimes  before 
the  age  of  18,  Roper  v.  Simmons,  543  U. S.  551  (2005),  or whose  intellectual  functioning  is  in  a  low  range, 

Atkins  v. 
Virginia, 536 U. S. 304 (2002).  See also Thompson v.  Okla-
homa, 487 U. S. 815 (1988). 

In  the  cases  adopting  categorical  rules  the  Court  has 
taken  the  following  approach.  The  Court  first  considers 
"objective  indicia  of  society's  standards,  as  expressed  in 
legislative enactments and state practice" to determine 
whether there is a national consensus against the sentencing 
practice  at  issue.  Roper,  supra,  at  563.  Next,  guided  by 
"the  standards  elaborated  by  controlling  precedents  and  by 
the  Court's  own  understanding  and  interpretation  of  the 
Eighth  Amendment's  text,  history,  meaning,  and  purpose," 
Kennedy,  554  U. S.,  at  421,  the  Court  must  determine  in 
the  exercise  of  its  own  independent  judgment  whether  the 
punishment  in  question  violates  the  Constitution.  Roper, 
supra, at 564. 

The  present case  involves  an issue the  Court  has  not  con-
sidered previously: a categorical challenge to a term-of-years 
sentence.  The  approach  in  cases  such  as  Harmelin  and 
Ewing is suited for considering a gross proportionality chal-
lenge  to  a  particular  defendant's  sentence,  but  here  a  sen-
tencing practice itself is in question.  This case implicates a 
particular  type  of  sentence  as  it  applies  to  an  entire  class 
of  offenders  who  have  committed  a  range  of  crimes.  As  a 
result,  a  threshold  comparison  between  the  severity  of  the 
penalty  and  the  gravity  of  the  crime  does  not  advance  the 
analysis.  Here,  in  addressing  the  question  presented,  the 
appropriate  analysis  is  the  one  used  in  cases  that  involved 

62  GRAHAM  v.  FLORIDA 

Opinion of the Court 
the  categorical  approach,  specifically  Atkins,  Roper,  and 
Kennedy. 

III  

A  

The analysis begins with objective  indicia of national con-
sensus.  "[T]he  `clearest  and  most  reliable  objective  evi-
dence  of  contemporary  values  is  the  legislation  enacted  by 
the  country's  legislatures.' "  Atkins,  supra,  at  312  (quoting 
Penry  v.  Lynaugh,  492  U. S.  302,  331  (1989)).  Six  jurisdic-
tions do not allow life without parole sentences for any juve-
nile offenders.  See Appendix, infra, Part III.  Seven juris-
dictions permit life without parole for juvenile offenders, but 
only for homicide crimes.  Id., Part II.  Thirty-seven States 
as  well  as  the  District  of  Columbia  permit  sentences  of  life 
without  parole  for  a  juvenile  nonhomicide  offender  in  some 
circumstances.  Id., Part I.  Federal law also allows for the 
possibility of life without parole for offenders as young as 13. 
See,  e. g.,  18  U. S. C.  $$ 2241  (2006  ed.  and  Supp.  II),  5032 
(2006  ed.).  Relying  on  this  metric,  the  State  and  its  amici 
argue  that  there  is  no  national  consensus  against  the  sen-
tencing practice at issue. 

This  argument  is  incomplete  and  unavailing.  "There  are 
measures  of  consensus  other  than  legislation."  Kennedy, 
supra, at 433.  Actual sentencing practices are an important 
part  of  the  Court's  inquiry  into  consensus.  See  Enmund, 
supra,  at  794-796;  Thompson,  supra,  at  831-832  (plurality 
opinion);  Atkins,  supra,  at  316;  Roper,  supra,  at  564-565; 
Kennedy, supra, at 433-434.  Here, an examination of actual 
sentencing  practices  in  jurisdictions  where  the  sentence  in 
question  is  permitted  by  statute  discloses  a  consensus 
against  its  use.  Although  these  statutory  schemes  contain 
no explicit prohibition on sentences of life without parole for 
juvenile nonhomicide offenders, those sentences are most in-
frequent.  According to a recent study, nationwide there are 
only 109  juvenile offenders serving sentences of life without 

63 Cite as: 560 U. S. 48 (2010) 
Opinion of the Court 
parole for nonhomicide offenses.  See P. Annino, D. Rasmus-sen,  &  C.  Rice,  Juvenile  Life  without  Parole  for  NonHomicide Offenses:  Florida Compared  to Nation 2  (Sept. 14, 2009) (hereinafter Annino). 

The State contends that this study's tally is inaccurate be-cause  it  does  not  count  juvenile  offenders  who  were  con-
victed  of  both  a  homicide  and  a  nonhomicide  offense,  even 
when  the  offender  received  a  life  without  parole  sentence for  the  nonhomicide.  See  Brief  for  Respondent  34;  Tr.  of 

Oral  Arg.  in  Sullivan  v.  Florida,  O.  T.  2009,  No.  08-7621, pp.  28-31.  This  distinction  is  unpersuasive.  Juvenile  of-
fenders  who  committed  both  homicide  and  nonhomicide 
crimes  present  a  different  situation  for  a  sentencing  judge 
than  juvenile  offenders  who  committed  no  homicide.  It  is 
difficult to say that a defendant who receives a life sentence 
on a nonhomicide offense but who was at the same time con-
victed  of  homicide  is  not  in  some  sense  being  punished  in 
part  for  the  homicide  when  the  judge  makes  the  sentencing 
determination.  The  instant  case  concerns  only  those  juve-
nile  offenders  sentenced  to  life  without  parole  solely  for  a 
nonhomicide offense. 

Florida  further  criticizes  this  study  because  the  authors 
were  unable  to  obtain  complete  information  on  some  States 
and because the study was not peer reviewed.  See Brief for 
Respondent  40.  The  State  does  not,  however,  provide  any 
data  of  its  own.  Although  in  the  first  instance  it  is  for  the 
litigants to provide data to aid the Court, we have been able 
to  supplement  the  study's  findings.  The  study's  authors 
were  not  able  to  obtain  a  definitive  tally  for  Nevada,  Utah, 
or  Virginia.  See  Annino  11-13.  Our  research  shows  that 
Nevada  has  five  juvenile  nonhomicide  offenders  serving  life 
without  parole  sentences,  Utah  has  none,  and  Virginia  has 
eight.  See  Letter  from  Alejandra  Livingston,  Offender 
Management  Division,  Nevada  Dept.  of  Corrections,  to  Su-
preme  Court  Library  (Mar.  26,  2010)  (available  in  Clerk  of 
Court's  case  file);  Letter  from  Steve  Gehrke,  Utah  Dept.  of 

64  GRAHAM  v.  FLORIDA 

Opinion of the Court 
Corrections,  to  Supreme  Court  Library  (Mar.  29,  2010) (same); Letter from Dr. Tama S. Celi, Virginia Dept. of Cor-

rections,  to  Supreme  Court  Library  (Mar.  30,  2010)  (same). Finally, since the study was completed, a defendant in Okla-
homa  has  apparently  been  sentenced  to  life  without  parole for a rape and stabbing he committed at the age of 16.  See 
Stogsdill, Delaware County Teen Sentenced in Rape, Assault Case, Tulsa World, May 5, 2010, p. A12. 

Thus, adding the individuals counted by the study to those we have been able to locate independently, there are 123 ju-
venile nonhomicide offenders serving life without parole sen-tences.  A significant majority of those, 77 in total, are serv-
ing sentences imposed in Florida.  Annino 2.  The other 46 are  imprisoned  in  just  10  States--California,  Delaware, 
Iowa,  Louisiana,  Mississippi,  Nebraska,  Nevada,  Oklahoma, South  Carolina,  and  Virginia.  Id.,  at  14;  supra, at 63  and  
this page; Letter from Thomas P. Hoey, Dept. of Corrections, Government  of  the  District  of  Columbia,  to  Supreme  Court 
Library  (Mar.  31,  2010)  (available  in  Clerk  of  Court's  case file); Letter from Judith Simon Garrett, U. S. Dept. of Justice, 
Federal Bureau of Prisons (BOP), to Supreme Court Library (Apr. 9, 2010) (same).  Thus, only 11 jurisdictions nationwide 
in fact impose life without parole sentences on juvenile non-homicide  offenders--and  most  of  those  do  so  quite  rarely-- 
while 26 States, the District of Columbia, and the Federal Gov-ernment do not impose them despite statutory authorization.* 

*When issued, the Court's opinion relied on a report from the BOP stat-
ing that there are six juvenile nonhomicide offenders serving life without 
parole in the federal system.  The Acting Solicitor General subsequently 
informed the Court that further review revealed that none of the six pris-
oners referred to in the earlier BOP report is serving a life without parole 
sentence solely for a juvenile nonhomicide crime completed before the age 
of  18.  Letter  from  Neal  Kumar  Katyal  to  William  K.  Suter,  Clerk  of 
Court (May  24,  2010) (available  in  Clerk  of Court's  case  file).  The letter 
further  stated  that  the  Government  was  not  aware  of  any  other  federal 
prisoners  serving  life  without  parole  sentences  solely  for  juvenile  nonhomicide  crimes.  Ibid.  The  opinion  was  amended  in  light  of  this  new 
information. 

65 Cite as: 560 U. S. 48 (2010) 
Opinion of the Court 
The  numbers  cited  above  reflect  all  current  convicts  in  a jurisdiction's  penal  system,  regardless  of  when  they  were 

convicted.  It  becomes  all  the  more  clear  how  rare  these sentences  are,  even  within  the  jurisdictions  that  do  some-
times  impose  them,  when  one  considers  that  a  juvenile  sen-tenced  to  life  without  parole  is  likely  to  live  in  prison  for 
decades.  Thus, these statistics likely reflect nearly all juve-
nile  nonhomicide  offenders  who  have  received a  life without parole  sentence  stretching  back  many  years.  It  is  not  cer-

tain  that this  opinion has  identified every  juvenile  nonhomi-cide  offender  nationwide  serving  a  life  without  parole  sen-
tence, for the  statistics are  not precise.  The available data, nonetheless,  are  sufficient  to  demonstrate  how  rarely  these 
sentences  are  imposed  even  if  there  are  isolated  cases  that have not been included in the presentations of the parties or 
the analysis of the Court. 

It  must  be  acknowledged  that  in  terms  of  absolute  num-bers  juvenile  life  without  parole  sentences  for  nonhomicides 

are  more  common  than  the  sentencing  practices  at  issue  in some  of  this  Court's  other  Eighth  Amendment  cases.  See, 
e. g.,  Enmund,  458  U. S.,  at  794  (only  six  executions  of  non-triggerman  felony  murderers  between  1954  and  1982), 

At-
kins,  536  U. S.,  at  316  (only  five  executions  of  mentally  re-
tarded  defendants  in  13-year  period).  This  contrast  can  be 
instructive,  however,  if  attention  is  first  given  to  the  base 
number  of  certain  types  of  offenses.  For  example,  in  the 
year 2007 (the most recent year for which statistics are avail-
able),  a  total  of  13,480  persons,  adult  and  juvenile,  were  ar-
rested  for  homicide  crimes.  That  same  year,  57,600  juve-
niles were arrested for aggravated assault; 3,580 for forcible 
rape; 34,500 for robbery; 81,900 for burglary; 195,700 for drug 
offenses;  and  7,200  for  arson.  See  Dept.  of  Justice,  Office 
of  Juvenile  Justice  and  Delinquency  Prevention,  Statistical 
Briefing  Book,  online  at  http://ojjdp.ncjrs.org/ojstatbb/  (as 
visited  May  14,  2010,  and  available  in  Clerk  of  Court's  case 
file).  Although  it  is  not  certain  how  many  of  these  numer-
ous  juvenile  offenders  were  eligible  for  life  without  parole 

66  GRAHAM  v.  FLORIDA 

Opinion of the Court 
sentences, the comparison suggests that in proportion to the opportunities for its imposition, life without parole sentences 

for  juveniles  convicted  of  nonhomicide  crimes  is  as  rare  as other sentencing practices found to be cruel and unusual. 

The  evidence  of  consensus  is  not  undermined  by  the  fact that  many  jurisdictions  do  not  prohibit  life  without  parole 
for juvenile nonhomicide offenders.  The Court confronted a 
similar  situation  in  Thompson,  where  a  plurality  concluded that  the  death  penalty  for  offenders  younger  than  16  was 

unconstitutional.  A  number  of  States  then  allowed  the  ju-venile death penalty if one considered the statutory scheme. 
As  is  the  case  here,  those  States  authorized  the  transfer  of 
some  juvenile  offenders  to  adult  court;  and  at  that  point 
there  was  no  statutory  differentiation  between  adults  and 
juveniles  with  respect  to  authorized  penalties.  The  plural-
ity  concluded  that  the  transfer  laws  show  "that  the  States 
consider  15-year-olds  to  be  old  enough  to  be  tried  in  crimi-
nal  court  for  serious  crimes  (or  too  old  to  be  dealt  with  ef-
fectively  in  juvenile  court),  but  tells  us  nothing  about  the 
judgment these States have made regarding the appropriate 
punishment for such youthful offenders."  487 U. S., at 826, 
n. 24.  Justice O'Connor, concurring in the judgment, took a 
similar  view.  Id.,  at  850  ("When  a  legislature  provides  for 
some 15-year-olds to be processed through the adult criminal 
justice system, and capital punishment is available for adults 
in that jurisdiction, the death penalty becomes at least theo-
retically  applicable  to  such  defendants.  .  .  .  [H]owever,  it 
does  not  necessarily  follow  that  the  legislatures  in  those 
jurisdictions  have  deliberately  concluded  that  it  would  be 
appropriate"). 

The same reasoning obtains here.  Many States have cho-
sen  to  move  away  from  juvenile  court  systems  and  to  allow 
juveniles  to  be  transferred  to,  or  charged  directly  in,  adult 
court  under  certain  circumstances.  Once  in  adult  court,  a 
juvenile offender may receive the same sentence as would be 
given  to  an  adult  offender,  including  a  life  without  parole 

67 Cite as: 560 U. S. 48 (2010) 
Opinion of the Court 
sentence.  But  the  fact  that  transfer  and  direct  charging laws make life without parole possible for some juvenile nonhomicide  offenders  does  not  justify  a  judgment  that  many States intended to subject such offenders to life without pa-
role sentences. For  example,  under  Florida  law  a  child  of  any  age  can  be 
prosecuted  as  an  adult  for  certain  crimes  and  can  be  sen-tenced  to  life  without  parole.  The  State  acknowledged  at 
oral argument that even a 5-year-old, theoretically, could re-ceive such a sentence under the letter of the law.  See Tr. of 
Oral  Arg.  36-37.  All  would  concede  this  to  be  unrealistic, but the example underscores that the statutory eligibility of 
a  juvenile  offender  for  life  without  parole  does  not  indicate that  the  penalty  has  been  endorsed  through  deliberate,  ex-
press, and full legislative consideration.  Similarly, the many States that allow life without parole for juvenile nonhomicide 
offenders  but  do  not  impose  the  punishment  should  not  be treated as if they have expressed the view that the sentence 
is  appropriate.  The  sentencing  practice  now  under  consid-eration  is  exceedingly  rare.  And  "it  is  fair  to  say  that  a 
national consensus has developed against it."  Atkins, supra, at 316. 

B 
Community consensus, while "entitled to great weight," is not itself determinative of whether a punishment is cruel and 

unusual.  Kennedy,  554  U. S.,  at  434  (internal  quotation marks  omitted).  In  accordance  with  the  constitutional  de-
sign,  "the  task  of  interpreting  the  Eighth  Amendment  re-mains  our  responsibility."  Roper,  543  U. S.,  at  575.  The 

judicial exercise of independent judgment requires consider-ation  of  the  culpability  of  the  offenders  at  issue  in  light  of 
their  crimes  and  characteristics,  along  with  the  severity  of the punishment in question. 

Id., at 568; Kennedy, supra, at 438;  cf.  Solem,  463  U. S.,  at  292.  In  this  inquiry  the  Court 

also  considers  whether  the  challenged  sentencing  practice serves  legitimate  penological  goals.  Kennedy,  supra,  at 

68  GRAHAM  v.  FLORIDA 

Opinion of the Court 
441-446; Roper, supra, at 571- 572; Atkins, 536 U. S.,  at 318-320. 

Roper  established  that  because  juveniles  have  lessened culpability they are less deserving of the most severe punish-
ments.  543 U. S., at 569.  As compared to adults, juveniles have  a  " `lack  of  maturity  and  an  underdeveloped  sense  of 
responsibility' "; they  "are more vulnerable or susceptible to 
negative  influences  and  outside  pressures,  including  peer pressure";  and  their  characters  are 

"not  as  well  formed." 
Id., at 569-570.  These salient characteristics mean that "[i]t is  difficult  even  for  expert  psychologists  to  differentiate  be-

tween the juvenile offender whose crime reflects unfortunate 
yet  transient  immaturity,  and  the  rare  juvenile  offender 
whose  crime  reflects  irreparable  corruption."  Id.,  at  573. 
Accordingly,  "juvenile  offenders  cannot  with  reliability  be 
classified among the worst offenders."  Id., at 569.  A juve-
nile  is  not  absolved  of  responsibility  for  his  actions,  but  his 
transgression  "is  not  as  morally  reprehensible  as  that  of  an 
adult."  Thompson, supra, at 835 (plurality opinion). 

No  recent  data  provide  reason  to  reconsider  the  Court's 
observations  in  Roper  about  the  nature  of  juveniles.  As 
petitioner's amici point out, developments in psychology and 
brain  science  continue  to  show  fundamental  differences  be-
tween  juvenile  and  adult  minds.  For  example,  parts  of  the 
brain  involved  in  behavior  control  continue  to  mature 
through  late  adolescence.  See  Brief  for  American  Medical 
Association  et  al.  16-24;  Brief  for  American  Psychological 
Association  et  al.  22-27.  Juveniles  are  more  capable  of 
change than are adults, and their actions are less likely to be 
evidence  of  "irretrievably  depraved  character"  than  are  the 
actions of adults.  Roper, 543 U. S., at 570.  It remains true 
that  "[f]rom  a  moral  standpoint  it  would  be  misguided  to 
equate  the  failings  of  a  minor  with  those  of  an  adult,  for  a 
greater possibility exists that a minor's character deficiencies 
will  be  reformed."  Ibid.  These  matters  relate  to  the  sta-
tus of the offenders in question; and it is relevant to consider 

Cite as: 560 U. S. 48 (2010)  69 

Opinion of the Court 
next  the  nature  of  the  offenses  to  which  this  harsh  penalty might apply. 

The Court has recognized that defendants who do not kill, intend to kill,  or foresee that life will be taken are categori-
cally less deserving of the most serious forms of punishment than  are  murderers. 

Kennedy,  supra;  Enmund,  458  U. S. 
782;  Tison  v.  Arizona, 481  U. S.  137  (1987);  Coker,  433  U. S. 
584.  There  is  a  line  "between  homicide  and  other  serious violent offenses against the individual." 

Kennedy, 554 U. S., 
at 438.  Serious nonhomicide crimes "may be devastating in their  harm  .  .  .  but  `in  terms  of  moral  depravity  and  of  the 

injury  to  the  person  and  to  the  public,'  .  .  .  they  cannot  be 
compared  to  murder  in  their  `severity  and  irrevocability.' " 
Ibid.  (quoting  Coker,  433  U. S.,  at  598  (plurality  opinion)). 
This is because "[l]ife is over for the victim of the murderer," 
but for the victim of even a very serious nonhomicide crime, 
"life . . . is not  over  and  normally  is  not  beyond  repair." 
Ibid.  (plurality  opinion).  Although  an  offense  like  robbery 
or  rape  is  "a  serious  crime  deserving  serious  punishment," 
Enmund,  supra,  at  797,  those  crimes  differ  from  homicide 
crimes in a moral sense. 

It  follows  that,  when  compared  to  an  adult  murderer,  a 
juvenile offender who did not kill or intend to kill has a twice 
diminished  moral  culpability.  The  age  of  the  offender  and 
the nature of the crime each bear on the analysis. 

As  for  the  punishment,  life  without  parole  is  "the  second 
most  severe  penalty  permitted  by  law."  Harmelin,  501 
U. S.,  at  1001  (Kennedy,

70  GRAHAM  v.  FLORIDA 

Opinion of the Court 
the  convict  of  the  most  basic  liberties  without  giving  hope of  restoration,  except  perhaps  by  executive  clemency--the 

remote  possibility  of  which  does  not  mitigate  the  harshness of the sentence. 

Solem, 463 U. S., at 300-301.  As one court 
observed in overturning  a life without  parole  sentence for  a juvenile  defendant,  this  sentence  "means  denial  of  hope;  it 

means  that  good  behavior  and  character  improvement  are 
immaterial; it means that whatever the future might hold in store  for  the  mind  and  spirit  of  [the  convict],  he  will  remain 

in  prison for  the  rest  of his  days."  Naovarath v.  State, 105 Nev. 525, 526, 779 P. 2d 944 (1989). 

The  Court  has  recognized  the  severity  of  sentences  that 
deny  convicts  the  possibility  of  parole.  In  Rummel,  445 
U. S.  263,  the  Court  rejected  an  Eighth  Amendment  chal-
lenge  to  a  life  sentence  for  a  defendant's  third  nonviolent 
felony but stressed that the sentence gave the defendant the 
possibility  of  parole.  Noting  that  "parole  is  an  established 
variation on imprisonment of convicted criminals," it was ev-
ident  that  an  analysis  of  the  petitioner's  sentence  "could 
hardly ignore the possibility that he will not actually be im-
prisoned  for  the  rest  of  his  life."  Id.,  at  280-281  (internal 
quotation marks omitted).  And in Solem, the only previous 
case striking down a sentence for a term of years as grossly 
disproportionate,  the  defendant's  sentence  was  deemed  "far 
more  severe  than  the  life  sentence  we  considered  in  Rum-
mel," because it did not give the defendant the possibility of 
parole.  463 U. S., at 297. 

Life  without  parole  is  an  especially  harsh  punishment  for 
a  juvenile.  Under  this  sentence  a  juvenile  offender  will  on 
average  serve  more  years  and  a  greater  percentage  of  his 
life  in  prison  than  an  adult  offender.  A  16-year-old  and  a 
75-year-old each sentenced to life without parole receive the 
same  punishment  in  name  only.  See  Roper,  supra,  at  572; 
cf. Harmelin, supra, at 996 ("In some cases . . . there will be 
negligible  difference  between  life  without  parole  and  other 
sentences of imprisonment--for example, . . .  a  lengthy term 

71 Cite as: 560 U. S. 48 (2010) 
Opinion of the Court 
sentence without eligibility for parole, given to a 65-year-old man").  This reality cannot be ignored. 

The  penological  justifications  for  the  sentencing  practice are  also  relevant  to  the  analysis. 

Kennedy,  supra,  at  420; 
Roper,  543  U. S.,  at  571-572;  Atkins,  536  U. S.,  at  318-320. Criminal  punishment  can  have  different  goals,  and  choosing 

among  them  is  within  a  legislature's  discretion.  See  Har-
melin, supra, at 999 (opinion of Kennedy,

72  GRAHAM  v.  FLORIDA 

Opinion of the Court 
clusion that retribution does not justify imposing the second most  severe  penalty  on  the  less  culpable  juvenile  nonhomi-

cide offender. Deterrence  does  not  suffice  to  justify  the  sentence  either. 
Roper noted that "the same characteristics that render juve-niles less culpable than adults suggest . . . that juveniles will 
be  less  susceptible  to  deterrence."  Ibid.  Because  juve-
niles'  "lack  of  maturity  and  an  underdeveloped  sense  of  re-sponsibility  .  .  .  often  result  in  impetuous  and  ill-considered 

actions  and  decisions,"  Johnson  v.  Texas,  509  U. S.  350,  367 (1993), they are less likely to take a possible punishment into 
consideration  when  making  decisions.  This  is  particularly 
so  when  that  punishment  is  rarely  imposed.  That  the  sen-
tence  deters  in  a  few  cases  is  perhaps  plausible,  but  "[t]his 
argument  does  not  overcome  other  objections."  Kennedy, 
554 U. S., at 441.  Even if the punishment has  some connec-
tion  to  a  valid  penological  goal,  it  must  be  shown  that  the 
punishment  is  not  grossly  disproportionate  in  light  of  the 
justification  offered.  Here,  in  light  of  juvenile  nonhomicide 
offenders' diminished moral responsibility, any limited deter-
rent  effect  provided  by  life  without  parole  is  not  enough  to 
justify the sentence. 

Incapacitation, a third legitimate reason for imprisonment, 
does  not  justify  the  life  without  parole  sentence  in  question 
here.  Recidivism  is  a  serious  risk  to  public  safety,  and  so 
incapacitation  is  an  important  goal.  See  Ewing,  supra,  at 
26  (plurality  opinion)  (statistics  show  67  percent  of  former 
inmates released from state prisons are charged with at least 
one serious new crime within three years).  But while inca-
pacitation  may  be  a  legitimate  penological  goal  sufficient  to 
justify life without parole  in  other contexts,  it  is inadequate 
to  justify  that punishment  for  juveniles  who did  not  commit 
homicide.  To  justify  life  without  parole  on  the  assumption 
that the juvenile offender forever will be a danger to society 
requires the sentencer to make a judgment that the juvenile 
is  incorrigible.  The  characteristics  of  juveniles  make  that 

73 Cite as: 560 U. S. 48 (2010) 
Opinion of the Court 
judgment questionable.  "It  is  difficult  even  for expert psy-
chologists  to  differentiate  between  the  juvenile  offender 
whose  crime  reflects  unfortunate  yet  transient  immaturity, 
and the rare juvenile offender whose crime reflects irrepara-
ble  corruption."  Roper,  supra,  at  573.  As  one  court  con-
cluded  in  a  challenge  to  a  life  without  parole  sentence  for 
a  14-year-old,  "incorrigibility  is  inconsistent  with  youth." 
Workman  v.  Commonwealth,  429  S.  W.  2d  374,  378  (Ky. 
App. 1968). 

Here  one  cannot  dispute  that  this  defendant  posed  an  im-
mediate  risk,  for  he  had  committed,  we  can  assume,  serious 
crimes  early  in  his  term  of  supervised  release  and  despite 
his own assurances of reform.  Graham deserved to be sepa-
rated  from  society  for  some  time  in  order  to  prevent  what 
the trial court described as an "escalating pattern of criminal 
conduct," App. 394, but it does not follow that he would be a 
risk  to  society  for  the  rest  of  his  life.  Even  if  the  State's 
judgment  that  Graham  was  incorrigible  were  later  corrobo-
rated  by  prison  misbehavior  or  failure  to  mature,  the  sen-
tence  was  still  disproportionate  because  that  judgment  was 
made at the outset.  A life without parole sentence improp-
erly  denies  the  juvenile  offender  a  chance  to  demonstrate 
growth  and  maturity.  Incapacitation  cannot  override  all 
other  considerations,  lest  the  Eighth  Amendment's  rule 
against disproportionate sentences be a nullity. 

Finally  there  is  rehabilitation,  a  penological  goal  that 
forms  the  basis of parole  systems.  See Solem, 463  U. S., at 
300;  Mistretta  v.  United  States,  488  U. S.  361,  363  (1989). 
The concept of rehabilitation is imprecise; and its utility and 
proper  implementation  are  the  subject  of  a  substantial,  dy-
namic field of inquiry and dialogue.  See, e. g., Cullen & Gen-
dreau,  Assessing  Correctional  Rehabilitation:  Policy,  Prac-
tice,  and  Prospects,  3  Criminal  Justice  2000,  pp.  119-133 
(2000)  (describing  scholarly  debates  regarding  the  effective-
ness  of  rehabilitation  over  the  last  several  decades).  It  is 

74  GRAHAM  v.  FLORIDA 

Opinion of the Court 
for  legislatures  to  determine  what  rehabilitative  techniques are appropriate and effective. 

A  sentence  of  life  imprisonment  without  parole,  however, cannot  be  justified  by  the  goal  of  rehabilitation.  The  pen-
alty forswears altogether the rehabilitative ideal.  By deny-ing  the  defendant  the  right  to  reenter  the  community,  the 
State  makes  an  irrevocable  judgment  about  that  person's 
value and place in society.  This judgment is not appropriate in  light  of  a  juvenile  nonhomicide  offender's  capacity  for 

change and limited moral culpability.  A State's rejection of rehabilitation,  moreover,  goes  beyond  a  mere  expressive 
judgment.  As  one  amicus  notes,  defendants  serving  life 
without  parole  sentences  are  often  denied  access  to  voca-
tional  training  and  other  rehabilitative  services  that  are 
available to other inmates.  See Brief for Sentencing Project 
11-13.  For  juvenile  offenders,  who  are  most  in  need  of 
and  receptive  to  rehabilitation,  see  Brief  for  J.  Lawrence 
Aber et al. as Amici Curiae 28-31 (hereinafter Aber Brief), 
the  absence  of  rehabilitative  opportunities  or  treatment 
makes  the  disproportionality  of  the  sentence  all  the  more 
evident. 

In  sum,  penological  theory  is  not  adequate  to  justify  life 
without parole for juvenile nonhomicide offenders.  This de-
termination;  the  limited  culpability  of  juvenile  nonhomicide 
offenders;  and  the  severity  of  life  without  parole  sentences 
all  lead to  the conclusion  that the  sentencing  practice  under 
consideration  is  cruel  and  unusual.  This  Court  now  holds 
that for a juvenile offender who did not commit homicide the 
Eighth  Amendment  forbids  the  sentence  of  life  without  pa-
role.  This  clear  line  is  necessary  to  prevent  the  possibility 
that life without parole sentences will be imposed on juvenile 
nonhomicide  offenders  who  are  not  sufficiently  culpable  to 
merit that punishment.  Because "[t]he age of 18 is the point 
where  society  draws  the  line  for  many  purposes  between 
childhood  and  adulthood,"  those  who  were  below  that  age 
when  the  offense  was  committed  may  not  be  sentenced  to 

75 Cite as: 560 U. S. 48 (2010) 
Opinion of the Court 
life  without  parole  for  a  nonhomicide  crime.  Roper,  543 U. S., at 574. 

A  State  is  not  required  to  guarantee  eventual  freedom  to a juvenile offender convicted of a nonhomicide crime.  What 
the  State  must  do,  however, is  give  defendants like  Graham some  meaningful  opportunity  to  obtain  release  based  on 
demonstrated  maturity  and  rehabilitation.  It  is  for  the State, in the first instance, to explore the means and mecha-
nisms  for  compliance.  It  bears  emphasis,  however,  that while  the  Eighth Amendment prohibits  a State from  impos-
ing  a life without  parole sentence  on a  juvenile  nonhomicide offender,  it  does  not  require  the  State  to  release  that  of-
fender during his natural life.  Those who commit truly hor-rifying crimes as juveniles may turn out to be irredeemable, 
and thus deserving  of incarceration for the  duration of their lives.  The Eighth Amendment does not foreclose the possi-
bility  that  persons  convicted  of  nonhomicide  crimes  com-mitted before adulthood will remain behind bars for life.  It 
does prohibit States from making the judgment at the outset that those offenders never will be fit to reenter society. 

C 
Categorical  rules  tend  to  be  imperfect,  but  one  is  neces-sary here.  Two alternative  approaches  are  not adequate  to 

address  the  relevant  constitutional  concerns.  First,  the State  argues  that  the  laws  of  Florida  and  other  States  gov-
erning  criminal  procedure  take  sufficient  account  of  the  age of  a  juvenile  offender.  Here,  Florida  notes  that  under  its 
law  prosecutors  are  required  to  charge  16- and  17-year-old offenders  as  adults  only  for  certain  serious  felonies;  that 
prosecutors  have  discretion  to  charge  those  offenders  as adults  for  other  felonies;  and  that  prosecutors  may  not 
charge  nonrecidivist  16- and  17-year-old  offenders  as  adults for  misdemeanors.  Brief  for  Respondent  54  (citing  Fla. 
Stat. $ 985.227 (2003)).  The State also stresses that "in only the narrowest of circumstances" does Florida law impose no 

76  GRAHAM  v.  FLORIDA 

Opinion of the Court 
age limit whatsoever for prosecuting juveniles in adult court. Brief for Respondent 54. 

Florida is correct to say that state laws requiring consider-ation of a defendant's age in charging decisions are salutary. 
An offender's age is relevant to the Eighth Amendment, and criminal  procedure  laws  that  fail  to  take  defendants'  youth-
fulness  into  account  at  all  would  be  flawed.  Florida,  like 
other  States,  has  made  substantial  efforts  to  enact  compre-hensive rules governing the treatment of youthful offenders 

by its criminal justice system.  See generally Fla. Stat. $ 958 
et seq. (2007). 

The  provisions  the  State  notes  are, nonetheless,  by  them-
selves  insufficient  to  address  the  constitutional  concerns  at 
issue.  Nothing  in  Florida's  laws  prevents  its  courts  from 
sentencing  a  juvenile  nonhomicide  offender  to  life  without 
parole  based  on  a  subjective  judgment  that  the  defendant's 
crimes  demonstrate  an  "irretrievably  depraved  character." 
Roper,  supra,  at  570.  This  is  inconsistent  with  the  Eighth 
Amendment.  Specific  cases  are  illustrative.  In  Graham's 
case the sentencing judge decided to impose life without pa-
role--a sentence greater than that requested by the prosecu-
tor--for  Graham's  armed  burglary  conviction.  The  judge 
did  so  because  he  concluded  that  Graham  was  incorrigible: 
"[Y]ou decided that this is  how you were going to lead your 
life  and  that  there  is  nothing  that  we  can  do  for  you.  .  .  . 
We can't do anything to deter you."  App. 394. 

Another  example  comes  from  Sull iv an  v.  Fl or ida, 
No.  08-7621.  Sullivan  was  argued  the  same  day  as  this 
case, but the Court has now dismissed the writ  of certiorari 
in  Sullivan  as  improvidently  granted.  Post,  p.  181.  The 
facts,  however,  demonstrate  the  flaws  of  Florida's  system. 
The petitioner, Joe Sullivan, was prosecuted as an adult for a 
sexual assault committed when he was 13 years old.  Noting 
Sullivan's past encounters with the law, the sentencing judge 
concluded  that,  although  Sullivan  had  been  "given  opportu-
nity after opportunity to upright himself and take advantage 

77 Cite as: 560 U. S. 48 (2010) 
Opinion of the Court 
of  the  second  and  third  chances  he's  been  given,"  he  had demonstrated  himself  to  be  unwilling  to  follow  the  law  and 

needed  to  be  kept  away  from  society  for  the  duration  of  his life.  Brief for Respondent in 

Sullivan v.  Florida, O. T. 2009, 
No. 08-7621, p. 6.  The judge sentenced Sullivan to life with-out  parole.  As  these  examples  make  clear,  existing  state 

laws,  allowing  the  imposition  of  these  sentences  based  only 
on  a  discretionary,  subjective  judgment  by  a  judge  or  jury that  the  offender  is  irredeemably  depraved,  are  insufficient 

to  prevent  the  possibility  that  the  offender  will  receive  a life  without  parole  sentence  for  which  he  or  she  lacks  the 
moral culpability. 

Another  possible  approach  would  be  to  hold  that  the 
Eighth  Amendment  requires  courts  to  take  the  offender's 
age into consideration as part of a case-specific gross dispro-
portionality  inquiry,  weighing  it  against  the  seriousness  of 
the crime.  This approach would allow courts to account for 
factual differences between cases and to impose life without 
parole sentences for particularly heinous crimes.  Few, per-
haps  no,  judicial  responsibilities  are  more  difficult  than  sen-
tencing.  The task is usually undertaken by trial judges who 
seek  with  diligence  and  professionalism  to  take  account  of 
the human existence of the offender and the just demands of 
a wronged society. 

The  case-by-case  approach  to  sentencing  must,  however, 
be  confined  by  some  boundaries.  The  dilemma  of  juvenile 
sentencing  demonstrates  this.  For  even  if  we  were  to  as-
sume  that  some  juvenile  nonhomicide  offenders  might  have 
"sufficient psychological maturity, and at the same time dem-
onstrat[e]  sufficient  depravity,"  Roper,  543  U. S.,  at  572,  to 
merit  a  life  without  parole  sentence,  it  does  not  follow  that 
courts  taking  a  case-by-case  proportionality  approach  could 
with sufficient accuracy distinguish the few incorrigible juve-
nile  offenders  from  the  many  that  have  the  capacity  for 
change.  Roper  rejected  the  argument  that  the  Eighth 
Amendment required only that juries be told they must con-

78  GRAHAM  v.  FLORIDA 

Opinion of the Court 
sider the defendant's age as a mitigating factor in sentencing. 
The  Court concluded  that  an "unacceptable  likelihood  exists 
that  the  brutality  or  cold-blooded  nature  of  any  particular 
crime  would  overpower  mitigating  arguments  based  on 
youth as a matter of course, even where the juvenile offend-
er's  objective  immaturity,  vulnerability,  and  lack  of  true  de-
pravity  should  require  a  sentence  less  severe  than  death." 
Id.,  at  573.  Here,  as  with  the  death  penalty,  "[t]he  differ-
ences  between  juvenile  and  adult  offenders  are  too  marked 
and  well  understood  to  risk  allowing  a  youthful  person  to 
receive"  a  sentence  of  life  without  parole  for  a  nonhomicide 
crime "despite insufficient culpability."  Id., at 572-573. 

Another  problem  with  a  case-by-case  approach  is  that  it 
does  not  take  account  of  special  difficulties  encountered  by 
counsel in juvenile representation.  As some amici note, the 
features that distinguish juveniles from adults also put them 
at a significant disadvantage in criminal proceedings.  Juve-
niles mistrust adults and have limited understandings of the 
criminal  justice  system  and  the  roles  of  the  institutional 
actors  within  it.  They  are  less  likely  than  adults  to  work 
effectively with their  lawyers to aid in their  defense.  Brief 
for  NAACP  Legal  Defense  &  Educational  Fund  et  al.  as 
Amici  Curiae  7-12;  Henning,  Loyalty,  Paternalism,  and 
Rights:  Client  Counseling  Theory  and  the  Role  of  Child's 
Counsel  in  Delinquency  Cases,  81  Notre  Dame  L.  Rev.  245, 
272-273  (2005).  Difficulty  in  weighing  long-term  conse-
quences;  a  corresponding  impulsiveness;  and  reluctance  to 
trust defense counsel, seen as part of the adult world a rebel-
lious  youth  rejects,  all  can  lead  to  poor  decisions  by  one 
charged with a juvenile offense.  Aber Brief 35.  These fac-
tors are likely to impair the quality of a juvenile defendant's 
representation.  Cf.  Atkins,  536  U. S.,  at  320  ("Mentally  re-
tarded  defendants  may  be  less  able  to  give  meaningful  as-
sistance  to  their  counsel").  A  categorical  rule  avoids  the 
risk that, as a result of these difficulties, a court or jury will 

79 Cite as: 560 U. S. 48 (2010) 
Opinion of the Court 
erroneously conclude that a particular juvenile is sufficiently 
culpable to deserve life without parole for a nonhomicide. 

Finally,  a  categorical  rule  gives  all  juvenile  nonhomicide 
offenders  a  chance  to  demonstrate  maturity  and  reform. 
The  juvenile  should  not  be  deprived  of  the  opportunity  to 
achieve maturity  of judgment and self-recognition of human 
worth  and  potential.  In  Roper,  that  deprivation  resulted 
from an execution that brought life to its end.  Here, though 
by  a  different  dynamic,  the  same  concerns  apply.  Life  in 
prison  without  the  possibility  of  parole  gives  no  chance  for 
fulfillment  outside  prison  walls,  no  chance  for  reconciliation 
with society, no hope.  Maturity can  lead to that considered 
reflection  which  is  the  foundation  for  remorse,  renewal,  and 
rehabilitation.  A  young  person  who  knows  that  he  or  she 
has no chance to leave prison before life's end has little incen-
tive  to  become  a  responsible  individual.  In  some  prisons, 
moreover,  the  system  itself  becomes  complicit  in  the  lack  of 
development.  As  noted  above,  see  supra,  at  74,  it  is  the 
policy in some prisons to withhold counseling, education, and 
rehabilitation  programs  for  those  who  are  ineligible  for  pa-
role  consideration.  A  categorical  rule  against  life  without 
parole  for  juvenile  nonhomicide  offenders  avoids  the  per-
verse  consequence  in  which  the  lack  of  maturity  that  led  to 
an offender's crime is reinforced by the prison term. 

Terrance  Graham's  sentence  guarantees  he  will  die  in 
prison without any meaningful opportunity to obtain release, 
no matter what he might do to demonstrate that the bad acts 
he committed as a teenager are not representative of his true 
character, even if he spends the next half century attempting 
to  atone  for  his  crimes  and  learn  from  his  mistakes.  The 
State  has  denied  him  any  chance  to  later  demonstrate  that 
he is fit to rejoin society based solely on a nonhomicide crime 
that  he  committed  while  he  was  a  child  in  the  eyes  of  the 
law.  This the Eighth Amendment does not permit. 

80  GRAHAM  v.  FLORIDA 

Opinion of the Court 

D 
There is support for our conclusion in the fact that, in con-
tinuing  to  impose  life  without  parole  sentences  on  juveniles 
who  did  not  commit  homicide,  the  United  States  adheres  to 
a  sentencing  practice  rejected  the  world  over.  This  obser-
vation  does  not  control  our  decision.  The  judgments  of 
other  nations  and  the  international  community  are  not  dispositive  as  to  the  meaning  of  the  Eighth  Amendment.  But 
" `[t]he  climate  of  international  opinion  concerning  the  ac-
ceptability  of  a  particular  punishment' "  is  also  " `not  irrele-
vant.' "  Enmund,  458  U. S.,  at  796,  n.  22.  The  Court  has 
looked beyond our  Nation's  borders for  support  for its  inde-
pendent conclusion that a particular punishment is cruel and 
unusual.  See,  e. g.,  Roper,  543  U. S.,  at  575-578;  Atkins, 
supra, at 316-318, n. 21; Thompson, 487 U. S., at 830 (plural-
ity  opinion);  Enmund,  supra,  at  796-797,  n.  22;  Coker,  433 
U. S., at 596, n. 10 (same); Trop, 356 U. S., at 102-103 (same). 

Today we continue that longstanding practice in noting the 
global consensus against the sentencing practice in question. 
A  recent study  concluded that  only 11  nations  authorize  life 
without  parole  for  juvenile  offenders  under  any  circum-
stances;  and  only  2  of  them,  the  United  States  and  Israel, 
ever impose the punishment in practice.  See M. Leighton & 
C.  de  la  Vega,  Sentencing  Our  Children  To  Die  in  Prison: 
Global  Law  and  Practice  4  (2007).  An  updated  version  of 
the  study  concluded  that  Israel's  "laws  allow  for  parole  re-
view of juvenile offenders serving life terms," but expressed 
reservations  about  how  that  parole  review  is  implemented. 
De  la  Vega  &  Leighton,  Sentencing  Our  Children  To  Die  in 
Prison:  Global  Law  and  Practice,  42  U.  S.  F.  L.  Rev.  983, 
1002-1003  (2008).  But  even  if  Israel  is  counted  as  allowing 
life  without  parole  for  juvenile  offenders,  that  nation  does 
not  appear  to  impose  that  sentence  for  nonhomicide  crimes; 
all  of  the  seven  Israeli  prisoners  whom  commentators  have 
identified  as  serving  life  sentences  for  juvenile  crimes  were 

81 Cite as: 560 U. S. 48 (2010) 
Opinion of the Court 
convicted of homicide or attempted homicide.  See Amnesty International,  Human  Rights  Watch,  The  Rest  of  Their 

Lives: Life Without Parole for Child Offenders in the United States 106, n. 322 (2005); Memorandum and Attachment from 
Ruth  Levush,  Law  Library  of  Congress,  to  Supreme  Court Library  (Feb.  16,  2010)  (available  in  Clerk  of  Court's  case 
file). 

Thus, as petitioner contends and respondent does not con-test,  the  United  States  is  the  only  Nation  that  imposes  life 

without parole  sentences on  juvenile  nonhomicide offenders. We  also  note,  as  petitioner  and  his 

amici  emphasize,  that 
Article 37(a) of the United Nations Convention on the Rights 
of  the  Child,  Nov.  20,  1989,  1577  U.  N.  T.  S.  3  (entered  into 
force  Sept.  2,  1990),  ratified  by  every  nation  except  the 
United  States  and  Somalia,  prohibits  the  imposition  of  "life 
imprisonment  without  possibility  of  release . . . for  offences 
committed  by  persons  below  eighteen  years  of  age."  Brief 
for  Petitioner  66;  Brief  for  Amnesty  International  et  al. 
15-17.  As we concluded in Roper with respect to the juve-
nile death penalty, "the United States now stands alone in a 
world that has turned its face against" life without parole for 
juvenile nonhomicide offenders.  543 U. S., at 577. 

The State's amici stress that no international legal agree-
ment that is binding on the United States prohibits life with-
out  parole  for  juvenile  offenders  and  thus  urge  us  to  ignore 
the international consensus.  See Brief for Solidarity Center 
for Law  and Justice et  al.  14-16;  Brief for  Sixteen  Members 
of United States House of Representatives 40-43.  These ar-
guments  miss  the  mark.  The  question  before  us  is  not 
whether  international  law  prohibits  the  United  States  from 
imposing the sentence at issue in this case.  The question is 
whether  that  punishment  is  cruel  and  unusual.  In  that  in-
quiry,  "the  overwhelming  weight  of  international  opinion 
against"  life  without  parole  for  nonhomicide  offenses  com-
mitted by juveniles "provide[s] respected and significant con-
firmation  for  our  own  conclusions."  Roper,  supra,  at  578. 

82  GRAHAM v.  FLORIDA 

Appendix to opinion of the Court 
The  debate  between  petitioner's  and  respondent's  amici over whether there is a binding jus cogens norm against this 

sentencing  practice  is  likewise  of  no  import.  See  Brief  for Amnesty  International  10-23;  Brief for  Sixteen  Members  of 
United  States  House  of  Representatives  4-40.  The  Court has treated the laws and practices of other nations and inter-
national  agreements  as  relevant  to  the  Eighth  Amendment not  because  those  norms  are  binding  or  controlling  but  be-
cause  the  judgment  of  the  world's  nations  that  a  particular sentencing  practice  is  inconsistent  with  basic  principles  of 
decency  demonstrates  that  the  Court's  rationale  has  re-spected reasoning to support it. 

* * * 
The Constitution prohibits the imposition of a life without parole  sentence  on  a  juvenile  offender  who  did  not  commit 

homicide.  A State need not guarantee the offender eventual release,  but  if  it  imposes  a  sentence  of  life  it  must  provide 
him or her with some realistic opportunity to obtain release before the end of that term.  The judgment of the First Dis-
trict  Court  of  Appeal  of  Florida  is  reversed,  and  the  case is  remanded  for  further  proceedings  not  inconsistent  with 
this opinion. 

It is so ordered. 

APPENDIX 
I.  JURISDICTIONS THAT PERMIT LIFE WITHOUT PAROLE FOR JUVENILE NONHOMICIDE 

OFFENDERS 
Alabama  Ala. Code $ 12-15-203 (Supp. 2009); $$ 13A-3-3, 13A- 

5-9(c), 13A-6-61 (2005); $ 13A-7-5 (Supp. 2009) 
Arizona  Ariz.  Rev.  Stat.  Ann.  $$ 13-501,  13-1423  (West  2010) 
Arkansas  Ark.  Code  $ 9-27-318(b)  (2009);  $ 5-4-501(c)  (Supp. 

2009) 
California  Cal.  Penal  Code  Ann.  $ 667.7(a)(2)  (West  1999); 

$ 1170.17 (West 2004) 
Delaware  Del.  Code  Ann.,  Tit.  10,  $ 1010  (Supp.  2008);  id.,  Tit. 

11, $ 773(c) (2003) 

83Cite as: 560 U. S. 48 (2010) 
Appendix to opinion of the Court 
District of  D. C. Code $ 16-2307 (2009 Supp. Pamphlet); $ 22-3020 
Columbia  (Supp. 2007) 
Florida  Fla. Stat. $$ 810.02, 921.002(1)(e), 985.557 (2007) 
Georgia  Georgia  Code  Ann.  $ 15-11-30.2  (2008);  $ 16-6-1(b) 

(2007) 
Idaho  Idaho Code $ 18-6503 (Lexis 2005); $$ 19-2513, 20-509 

(Lexis Supp. 2009) 
Illinois  Ill. Comp. Stat., ch. 705, $$ 405/5-805, 405/5-130 (West 

2008);  id.,  ch.  720,  $ 5/12-13(b)(3)  (West  2008);  id., 
ch. 730, $ 5/3-3-3(d) (West 2008) 
Indiana  Ind. Code $$ 31-30-3-6(1),  35-50-2-8.5(a) (West 2004) 
Iowa  Iowa Code $$ 232.45(6), 709.2, 902.1 (2009) 
Louisiana  La.  Child.  Code  Ann.,  Arts.  305,  857(A),  (B)  (West 

Supp. 2010); La. Rev. Stat. Ann. $ 14:44 (West 2007) 
Maryland  Md. Cts. & Jud. Proc. Code Ann. $$ 3-8A-03(d)(1), 3- 

8A-06(a)(2)  (Lexis  2006);  Md.  Crim.  Law  Code  Ann. 

$$ 3-303(d)(2), (3) (Lexis Supp. 2009) 
Michigan  Mich.  Comp.  Laws  Ann.  $ 712A.4  (West  2002); 

$ 750.520b(2)(c) (West Supp. 2009); $ 769.1 (West 2000) 
Minnesota  Minn. Stat. $$ 260B.125(1), 609.3455(2) (2008) 
Mississippi  Miss.  Code  Ann.  $ 43-21-157  (2009);  $$ 97-3-53,  99- 

19-81 (2007); $ 99-19-83 (2006) 
Missouri  Mo. Rev. Stat. $$ 211.071, 558.018 (2000) 
Nebraska  Neb. Rev. Stat. $$ 28-105, 28-416(8)(a), 29-2204(1), (3), 

43-247, 43-276 (2008) 
Nevada  Nev. Rev. Stat. $$ 62B.330, 200.366 (2009) 
New Hampshire  N.  H.  Rev.  Stat.  Ann.  $$ 169-B:24,  628:1  (2007); 

$$ 632-A:2, 651:6 (Supp. 2009) 
New York  N.  Y.  Penal  Law  Ann.  $$ 30.00,  60.06  (West  2009); 

$ 490.55 (West 2008) 
North Carolina  N.  C.  Gen.  Stat.  Ann.  $$ 7B-2200,  15A-1340.16B(a) 

(Lexis 2009) 
North Dakota  N.  D.  Cent.  Code  Ann.  $ 12.1-04-01  (Lexis  1997); 

$ 12.1-20-03  (Lexis  Supp.  2009);  $ 12.1-32-01  (Lexis 
1997) 
Ohio  Ohio  Rev.  Code  Ann. $ 2152.10  (Lexis  2007);  $ 2907.02 

(Lexis  2006);  $ 2971.03(A)(2)  (2010  Lexis  Supp. 
Pamphlet) 
Oklahoma  Okla.  Stat.,  Tit.  10A,  $$ 2-5-204,  2-5-205,  2-5-206 

(2009 West Supp.); id., Tit. 21, $ 1115 (2007 West Supp.) 
Oregon  Ore. Rev. Stat. $$ 137.707, 137.719(1) (2009) 
Pennsylvania  42  Pa.  Cons.  Stat.  $ 6355(a)  (2000);  18  id.,  $ 3121(e)(2) 

(2008); 61 id., $ 6137(a) (2009) 

84  GRAHAM v.  FLORIDA 

Appendix to opinion of the Court 
Rhode Island  R.  I.  Gen.  Laws  $$ 14-1-7,  14-1-7.1,  11-47-3.2  (Lexis 

2002) 

South Carolina  S.  C.  Code  Ann.  $ 63-19-1210  (2008  Supp.  Pamphlet); 

$ 16-11-311(B) (Westlaw 2009) 
South Dakota  S.  D.  Codified  Laws  $ 26-11-3.1  (Supp.  2009);  $ 26- 

11-4 (2004); $$ 22-3-1, 22-6-1(2), (3) (2006); $ 24-15-4 
(2004); $$ 22-19-1, 22-22-1 (2006) 

Tennessee  Tenn.  Code  Ann.  $$ 37-1-134,  40-35-120(g)  (Westlaw 

2010) 

Utah  Utah  Code  Ann.  $$ 78A-6-602,  78A-6-703,  76-5-302 

(Lexis 2008) 
Virginia  Va.  Code  Ann.  $$ 16.1-269.1,  18.2-61,  53.1-151(B1) 

(2009) 
Washington  Wash. Rev. Code $ 13.40.110 (2009 Supp.); $$ 9A.04.050, 

9.94A.030(34), 9.94A.570 (2008) 
West Virginia  W. Va. Code Ann. $ 49-5-10 (Lexis 2009); $ 61-2-14a(a) 

(Lexis 2005) 
Wisconsin  Wis. Stat. $$ 938.18, 938.183 (2007-2008); $ 939.62(2m)(c) 

(Westlaw 2005) 

Wyoming  Wyo. Stat. Ann. $$ 6-2-306(d), (e), 14-6-203 (2009) 
Federal  18 U. S. C. $ 2241 (2006 ed. and Supp. II); $ 5032 (2006 

ed.) 

II.  JURISDICTIONS  THAT  PERMIT  LIFE  WITHOUT  

PAROLE FOR JUVENILE OFFENDERS CONVICTED  

OF HOMICIDE CRIMES ONLY 

Connecticut  Conn. Gen. Stat. $ 53a-35a (2009) 
Hawaii  Haw.  Rev.  Stat.  $ 571-22(d)  (2006);  $ 706-656(1)  (2008 

Supp. Pamphlet) 
Maine  Me. Rev. Stat. Ann., Tit. 15, $ 3101(4) (Supp. 2009); id., 

Tit. 17-a, $ 1251 (2006) 

Massachusetts  Mass  Gen.  Laws  ch.  119,  $ 74,  id.,  ch.  265,  $ 2  (West 

2008) 

New Jersey  N. J. Stat. Ann. $ 2A:4A-26 (West Supp. 2009); $ 2C:11- 

3(b)(2) (West Supp. 2009) 

New Mexico  N.  M.  Stat.  Ann.  $ 31-18-14  (Supp.  2009);  $ 31-18- 

15.2(A) (Westlaw 2010) 
Vermont  Vt.  Stat.  Ann.,  Tit.  33,  $ 5204  (2009  Cum.  Supp.);  id., 

Tit. 13, $ 2303 (2009) 

85 Cite as: 560 U. S. 48 (2010)  
Stevens,
86  GRAHAM  v.  FLORIDA 

Roberts,

Cite as: 560 U. S. 48 (2010)  87 
Roberts,
88  GRAHAM  v.  FLORIDA 

Roberts,

89 Cite as: 560 U. S. 48 (2010) 
Roberts,
90  GRAHAM  v.  FLORIDA 

Roberts,

91 Cite as: 560 U. S. 48 (2010) 
Roberts,
92  GRAHAM  v.  FLORIDA 

Roberts,

93 Cite as: 560 U. S. 48 (2010) 
Roberts,
94  GRAHAM  v.  FLORIDA 

Roberts,

95 Cite as: 560 U. S. 48 (2010) 
Roberts,
96  GRAHAM  v.  FLORIDA 

Roberts,

97 Cite as: 560 U. S. 48 (2010) 
Thomas,
98  GRAHAM  v.  FLORIDA 

Thomas,

99 Cite as: 560 U. S. 48 (2010) 
Thomas,
100  GRAHAM  v.  FLORIDA 

Thomas,

101 Cite as: 560 U. S. 48 (2010) 
Thomas,
102  GRAHAM  v.  FLORIDA 

Thomas,

103 Cite as: 560 U. S. 48 (2010) 
Thomas,
104  GRAHAM  v.  FLORIDA 

Thomas,

105 Cite as: 560 U. S. 48 (2010) 
Thomas,
106  GRAHAM  v.  FLORIDA 

Thomas,

107 Cite as: 560 U. S. 48 (2010) 
Thomas,
108  GRAHAM  v.  FLORIDA 

Thomas,

109 Cite as: 560 U. S. 48 (2010) 
Thomas,
110  GRAHAM  v.  FLORIDA 

Thomas,

111 Cite as: 560 U. S. 48 (2010) 
Thomas,
112  GRAHAM  v.  FLORIDA 

Thomas,

113 Cite as: 560 U. S. 48 (2010) 
Thomas,
114  GRAHAM  v.  FLORIDA 

Thomas,

115 Cite as: 560 U. S. 48 (2010) 
Thomas,
116  GRAHAM  v.  FLORIDA 

Thomas,

117 Cite as: 560 U. S. 48 (2010) 
Thomas,
118  GRAHAM  v.  FLORIDA 

Thomas,

119 Cite as: 560 U. S. 48 (2010) 
Thomas,
120  GRAHAM  v.  FLORIDA 

Thomas,

121 Cite as: 560 U. S. 48 (2010) 
Thomas,
122  GRAHAM  v.  FLORIDA 

Thomas,

123 Cite as: 560 U. S. 48 (2010) 
Thomas,
124  GRAHAM  v.  FLORIDA 

Alito,

125 Cite as: 560 U. S. 48 (2010) 
Alito,
126  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

Syllabus 

UNITED  STATES  v.  COMSTOCK  et

127 Cite as: 560 U. S. 126 (2010) 
Syllabus 
may  be  affected  by  the  federal  imprisonment  of  others,  Congress  pos-
sesses  broad  authority  to  do  each  of  those  things  under  the  Clause. 
Pp. 133-137. 

(2)  Congress has long been involved in the delivery of mental-health 
care  to  federal  prisoners,  and  has long  provided for  their  civil commit-
ment.  See,  e. g.,  Act  of  Mar.  3,  1855,  10  Stat.  682;  Insanity  Defense 
Reform  Act  of  1984,  18  U. S. C.  $$ 4241-4247.  A  longstanding  history 
of related federal action does not demonstrate a statute's constitutional-
ity,  see,  e. g.,  Walz  v.  Tax  Comm'n  of  City  of  New  York,  397  U. S.  664, 
678,  but  can  be  "helpful  in  reviewing  the  substance  of  a  congressional 
statutory scheme," Gonzales v.  Raich, 545 U. S. 1, 21, and, in particular, 
the  reasonableness  of  the  relation  between  the  new  statute  and  pre-
existing federal interests.  Section 4248 differs from earlier statutes in 
that  it  focuses  directly  upon  persons  who,  due  to  a  mental  illness,  are 
sexually  dangerous.  Many  of  these  individuals,  however,  were  likely 
already subject to civil commitment under $ 4246, which, since 1949, has 
authorized  the  postsentence  detention  of  federal  prisoners  who  suffer 
from a mental illness and who are thereby dangerous (whether sexually 
or otherwise).  The similarities between $ 4246 and $ 4248 demonstrate 
that the latter is  a modest  addition to a  longstanding federal  statutory 
framework.  Pp. 137-142. 

(3)  There  are  sound  reasons  for  $ 4248's  enactment.  The  Federal 
Government, as custodian of its prisoners, has the constitutional power 
to act in order to protect nearby (and other) communities from the dan-
ger such prisoners may pose.  Moreover, $ 4248 is "reasonably adapted" 
to  Congress'  power  to  act  as  a  responsible  federal  custodian.  United 
States  v.  Darby,  312  U. S.  100,  121.  Congress  could  have  reasonably 
concluded  that  federal  inmates  who  suffer  from  a  mental  illness  that 
causes them to "have  serious difficulty in refraining from sexually vio-
lent conduct,"  $ 4247(a)(6),  would pose  an especially high danger  to the 
public if released.  And Congress could also have reasonably concluded 
that  a  reasonable  number  of  such  individuals  would  likely  not  be  de-
tained by the States if released from federal custody.  Congress' desire 
to address these specific challenges, taken together with its responsibil-
ities as a federal custodian, supports the conclusion that $ 4248 satisfies 
"review for  means-end rationality," Sabri, supra,  at 605.  Pp. 142-143. 

(4)  Respondents'  contention  that  $ 4248  violates  the  Tenth  Amend-
ment  because  it  invades  the  province  of  state  sovereignty  in  an  area 
typically  left  to  state  control  is  rejected.  That  Amendment  does  not 
"reserve to the States" those powers that are "delegated to the United 
States by the Constitution," including the powers delegated by the Nec-
essary  and  Proper  Clause.  See,  e. g.,  New  York  v.  United  States,  505 

128  UNITED  STATES  v.  COMSTOCK 

Syllabus 
U. S.  144,  159.  And  $ 4248  does  not  "invade"  state  sovereignty,  but 
rather requires accommodation of state interests: Among other things, 
it  directs the Attorney General to  inform the States  where the federal 
prisoner "is domiciled or was tried" of his detention, $ 4248(d), and gives 
either  State  the  right,  at  any  time,  to  assert  its  authority  over  the 
individual,  which  will  prompt  the  individual's  immediate  transfer  to 
state  custody,  $ 4248(d)(1).  In  Greenwood  v.  United  States,  350  U. S. 
366, 375-376, the Court rejected a similar challenge to $ 4248's predeces-
sor, the 1949 statute described above.  Because the version of the stat-
ute  at  issue  in  Greenwood  was  less  protective  of  state  interests  than 

$ 4248,  a  fortiori,  the  current  statute  does  not  invade  state  interests. 
Pp. 143-146. 

(5)  Section 4248 is narrow in scope.  The Court rejects respondents' 
argument that, when legislating pursuant to the Necessary and Proper 
Clause, Congress' authority can be no more than one step removed from 
a  specifically  enumerated  power.  See,  e. g.,  McCulloch,  supra,  at  417. 
Nor will the Court's holding today confer on Congress a general "police 
power,  which  the  Founders  denied  the  National  Government  and  re-
posed  in  the  States."  United  States  v.  Morrison,  529  U. S.  598,  618. 
Section 4248 has been applied to only a small fraction of federal prison-
ers,  and  its  reach  is  limited  to  individuals  already  "in  the  custody  of 
the"  Federal  Government,  $ 4248(a).  Thus,  far  from  a  "general  police 
power,"  $ 4248  is  a  reasonably  adapted  and  narrowly  tailored means  of 
pursuing the Government's legitimate interest as a federal custodian in 
the  responsible  administration  of  its  prison  system.  See  New  York, 
supra, at 157.  Pp. 146-149. 

The Court  does  not  reach  or decide  any claim  that  the statute  or its 
application denies equal protection, procedural or substantive due proc-
ess,  or  any  other  constitutional  rights.  Respondents  are  free  to  pur-
sue  those  claims  on  remand,  and  any  others  they  have  preserved. 
Pp. 149-150. 

551 F. 3d 274, reversed and remanded. 

Breyer,

129 Cite as: 560 U. S. 126 (2010) 
Opinion of the Court 
G. Alan DuBois argued the cause for respondents.  With him  on  the  brief  were  Thomas  P.  McNamara,  Jane  E. 

Pearce, Eric J. Brignac, and Robert A. Long, Jr.* 

Justice

130  UNITED  STATES  v.  COMSTOCK 

Opinion of the Court 
enumerated  powers."  McCulloch  v.  Maryland,  4  Wheat. 316,  405  (1819).  We  conclude  that  the  Constitution  grants 

Congress  the  authority  to  enact  $ 4248  as  "necessary  and proper  for  carrying  into  Execution"  the  powers  "vested  by" 
the  "Constitution  in  the  Government  of  the  United  States." Art. I, $ 8, cl. 18. 

I 
The  federal  statute  before  us  allows  a  district  court  to order the civil commitment of an individual who is currently 

"in  the  custody  of  the  [Federal]  Bureau  of  Prisons,"  $ 4248, if  that  individual  (1)  has  previously  "engaged  or  attempted 
to  engage  in  sexually  violent  conduct  or  child  molestation," (2)  currently  "suffers  from  a  serious  mental  illness,  abnor-
mality,  or  disorder,"  and  (3)  "as  a  result  of "  that  mental illness,  abnormality,  or  disorder  is  "sexually  dangerous  to 
others,"  in  that  "he  would  have  serious  difficulty  in  refrain-ing  from  sexually  violent  conduct  or  child  molestation  if  re-
leased," $$ 4247(a)(5)-(6). In  order  to  detain  such  a  person,  the  Government  (acting 
through the Department of Justice) must certify to a federal district  judge  that  the  prisoner  meets  the  conditions  just 
described, i. e., that he has engaged in sexually violent activ-ity  or  child molestation  in  the  past  and that  he  suffers  from 
a  mental  illness  that  makes  him  correspondingly  dangerous to  others.  $ 4248(a).  When such  a  certification is  filed,  the 
statute  automatically  stays  the  individual's  release  from prison, ibid., thereby giving the Government an opportunity 
to prove its claims at a hearing through psychiatric (or other) evidence,  $$ 4247(b)-(c),  4248(b).  The  statute  provides  that 
the  prisoner  "shall  be  represented  by  counsel"  and  shall have  "an  opportunity"  at  the  hearing  "to  testify,  to  pre-
sent  evidence,  to  subpoena  witnesses  on  his  behalf,  and  to confront  and  cross-examine"  the  Government's  witnesses. 

$$ 4247(d), 4248(c). If the Government proves its claims by "clear and convinc-
ing  evidence,"  the  court  will  order  the  prisoner's  continued 

131 Cite as: 560 U. S. 126 (2010) 
Opinion of the Court 
commitment  in  "the  custody  of  the  Attorney  General,"  who must "make all reasonable efforts to cause" the State where 

that person was tried, or the State where he is domiciled, to "assume responsibility for his custody, care, and treatment." 

$ 4248(d);  cf.  Sullivan  v.  Freeman,  944  F.  2d  334,  337  (CA7 1991).  If  either  State  is  willing to assume  that  responsibil-
ity,  the  Attorney  General  "shall  release"  the  individual  "to 
the  appropriate  official"  of  that  State.  $ 4248(d).  But  if, "notwithstanding  such  efforts,  neither  such  State  will  as-

sume  such  responsibility,"  then  "the  Attorney  General  shall place the person for treatment in a suitable [federal] facility." 
Ibid.; cf. $ 4247(i)(A). 

Confinement  in  the  federal  facility  will  last  until  either 
(1)  the  person's  mental  condition  improves  to  the  point 
where  he  is  no  longer  dangerous  (with  or  without  appro-
priate ongoing treatment), in which case he will be released; 
or  (2)  a  State  assumes  responsibility  for  his  custody,  care, 
and  treatment,  in  which  case  he  will  be  transferred  to  the 
custody  of  that  State.  $$ 4248(d)(1)-(2).  The  statute  es-
tablishes  a  system  for  ongoing  psychiatric  and  judicial  re-
view  of  the  individual's  case,  including  judicial  hearings  at 
the  request  of  the  confined  person  at  6-month  intervals. 

$$ 4247(e)(1)(B), (h). 

In  November  and  December  2006,  the  Government  insti-
tuted proceedings in the Federal District Court for the East-
ern  District  of  North  Carolina  against  the  five  respondents 
in this case.  Three of the five had previously pleaded guilty 
in  federal  court  to  possession  of  child  pornography,  see  507 
F. Supp. 2d 522, 526, and n. 2 (2007); $ 2252A(a), and a fourth 
had  pleaded  guilty  to  sexual  abuse  of  a  minor,  see  United 
States  v.  Vigil,  No. 1:99CR00509-001  (D  NM,  Jan.  26,  2000); 

$$ 1153, 2243(a).  With respect to each of them, the Govern-
ment  claimed  that  the  respondent  was  about  to  be  released 
from federal prison,  that he  had engaged in sexually violent 
conduct or child molestation in the past, and that he suffered 
from  a  mental  illness  that  made  him  sexually  dangerous  to 

132  UNITED  STATES  v.  COMSTOCK 

Opinion of the Court 
others.  App. 38-40, 44-52.  During that same time period, the  Government  instituted  similar  proceedings  against  the 

fifth respondent, who had been charged in federal court with aggravated sexual abuse of a minor, but was found mentally 
incompetent to stand trial.  See id., at 41-43; United States v. 

Catron, No. 04-778 (D Ariz., Mar. 27, 2006); $ 4241(d). 
Each  of  the  five  respondents  moved  to  dismiss  the  civilcommitment  proceeding  on  constitutional  grounds.  They claimed that the commitment proceeding is, in fact, criminal, 

not civil, in nature and consequently that it violates the Dou-ble Jeopardy Clause, the 

Ex Post Facto Clause, and the Sixth 
and  Eighth  Amendments.  507  F.  Supp.  2d,  at  528.  They 
claimed that the statute denies them substantive due process 
and equal  protection of  the  laws.  Ibid.  They  claimed that 
it violates their  procedural due process rights by allowing  a 
showing  of  sexual  dangerousness  to  be  made  by  clear  and 
convincing evidence, instead of by proof beyond a reasonable 
doubt.  Ibid.  And,  finally,  they  claimed  that,  in  enacting 
the  statute,  Congress  exceeded  the  powers  granted  to  it  by 
Article I, $ 8, of the Constitution, including those granted by 
the Commerce Clause and the Necessary and Proper Clause. 
507 F. Supp. 2d, at 528-529. 

The  District  Court,  accepting  two  of  the  respondents' 
claims,  granted  their  motion  to  dismiss.  It  agreed  with  re-
spondents  that  the  Constitution  requires  proof  beyond  a 
reasonable  doubt,  id.,  at  551-559  (citing  In  re  Winship,  397 
U. S.  358  (1970)),  and  it  agreed  that,  in  enacting  the  stat-
ute,  Congress  exceeded  its  Article  I  legislative  powers,  507 
F.  Supp.  2d,  at  530-551.  On  appeal,  the  Court  of  Appeals 
for  the  Fourth  Circuit  upheld  the  dismissal  on  this  latter, 
legislative-power ground.  551 F. 3d 274, 278-284 (2009).  It 
did  not  decide  the  standard-of-proof  question,  nor  did  it  ad-
dress  any  of  respondents'  other  constitutional  challenges. 
Id., at 276, n. 1. 

The Government sought certiorari, and we granted its re-
quest,  limited  to  the  question  of  Congress'  authority  under 

133 Cite as: 560 U. S. 126 (2010) 
Opinion of the Court 
Article  I,  $ 8,  of  the  Constitution.  Pet.  for  Cert.  i.  Since then, two other Courts of Appeals have considered that same 

question, each deciding it in the Government's favor, thereby creating a split of authority among the Circuits.  See United 
States  v.  Volungus,  595  F.  3d  1 (CA1  2010);  United  States  v. 
Tom,  565 F. 3d 497 (CA8 2009). 

II 
The  question  presented  is  whether  the  Necessary  and Proper  Clause,  Art.  I,  $ 8,  cl.  18,  grants  Congress  authority 

sufficient  to  enact  the  statute  before  us.  In  resolving  that question, we assume, but we do not decide, that other provi-
sions of the Constitution--such as the Due Process Clause-- do  not  prohibit  civil  commitment  in  these  circumstances. 
Cf.  Hendricks,  521  U. S.  346;  Addington  v.  Texas,  441  U. S. 418 (1979).  In other words, we assume for argument's sake 
that the Federal Constitution would permit a State to enact this statute, and we ask solely whether the Federal Govern-
ment,  exercising  its  enumerated  powers,  may  enact  such  a statute  as  well.  On  that  assumption,  we  conclude  that  the 
Constitution  grants  Congress  legislative  power  sufficient  to enact $ 4248.  We base this conclusion on five considerations, 
taken together. First,  the  Necessary  and  Proper  Clause  grants  Congress 
broad  authority  to  enact  federal  legislation.  Nearly  200 years ago, this Court stated that the Federal "[G]overnment 
is  acknowledged  by  all  to  be  one  of  enumerated  powers," 
McCulloch, 4 Wheat., at 405, which means that "[e]very law enacted by Congress must be based on one or more of " those 

powers, United States v.  Morrison, 529 U. S. 598, 607 (2000). But, at the same time, "a government, entrusted with such" 
powers  "must  also  be  entrusted  with  ample  means  for  their execution." 

McCulloch, 4 Wheat., at 408.  Accordingly, the Necessary and Proper Clause makes clear that the Constitu-

tion's  grants  of  specific  federal  legislative  authority  are  ac-companied  by  broad  power  to  enact  laws  that  are  "conven-

134  UNITED  STATES  v.  COMSTOCK 

Opinion of the Court 
ient,  or  useful"  or  "conducive"  to  the  authority's  "beneficial exercise." 

Id.,  at  413,  418;  see  also  id.,  at  421  ("[Congress 
can]  legislate  on  that  vast  mass  of  incidental  powers  which must  be  involved  in  the  constitution  .  .  .  ").  Chief  Justice 

Marshall  emphasized  that  the  word  "necessary"  does  not mean  "absolutely necessary." 

Id.,  at  413-415  (emphasis  de-
leted);  Jinks  v.  Richland  County,  538  U. S.  456,  462  (2003) 
("[W]e  long  ago  rejected  the  view  that  the  Necessary  and Proper  Clause  demands  that  an  Act  of  Congress  be  ` "

abso-
lutely necessary" ' to the exercise of an enumerated power"). In language  that  has  come to  define  the  scope of the  Neces-

sary and Proper Clause, he wrote: 

"Let  the  end be  legitimate, let it be  within  the  scope of 
the  constitution,  and  all  means  which  are  appropriate, which  are  plainly  adapted  to  that  end,  which  are  not 

prohibited,  but  consist  with  the  letter  and  spirit  of  the constitution, are constitutional." 

McCulloch,  supra, 
at 421. 

We have since made clear that, in determining whether the 
Necessary and Proper Clause grants Congress the legislative authority to enact a particular federal statute, we look to see 

whether  the  statute  constitutes  a  means  that  is  rationally related  to  the  implementation  of  a  constitutionally  enumer-
ated power.  Sabri v.  United States, 541 U. S. 600, 605 (2004) (using  term  "means-ends  rationality"  to  describe  the  nec-
essary  relationship);  ibid.  (upholding  Congress'  "authority under the Necessary and Proper Clause" to enact a criminal 
statute  in  furtherance  of  the  federal  power  granted  by  the 
Spending  Clause);  see  Gonzales  v.  Raich,  545  U. S.  1,  22 
(2005) (holding that  because "Congress  had a rational basis" 
for  concluding  that  a  statute  implements  Commerce  Clause 
power,  the  statute  falls  within  the  scope  of  congressional 
"authority  to  `make  all  Laws  which  shall  be  necessary  and 
proper'  to  `regulate  Commerce . . .  among  the  several 
States' "  (ellipsis  in  original));  see  also  United  States  v. 

135 Cite as: 560 U. S. 126 (2010) 
Opinion of the Court 
Lopez,  514  U. S.  549,  557  (1995);  Hodel  v.  Virginia  Surface 
Mining & Reclamation Assn., Inc., 452 U. S. 264, 276 (1981). 

Of  course,  as  Chief  Justice  Marshall  stated,  a  federal statute,  in  addition  to  being  authorized  by  Art.  I,  $ 8,  must 

also  "not  [be]  prohibited"  by  the  Constitution.  McCulloch, 
supra,  at  421.  But  as  we  have  already  stated,  the  present 
statute's  validity  under  provisions  of  the  Constitution  other 
than  the  Necessary  and  Proper  Clause  is  an  issue  that  is not  before  us.  Under  the  question  presented,  the  relevant 

inquiry is simply "whether the means chosen are `reasonably adapted'  to  the  attainment  of  a  legitimate  end  under  the 
commerce  power"  or  under  other  powers  that  the  Constitu-tion grants Congress the authority to implement. 

Gonzales, 
supra,  at  37  (Scalia,

136  UNITED  STATES  v.  COMSTOCK 

Opinion of the Court 
Art.  I,  $ 8,  cls.  6,  10;  Art.  III,  $ 3,  nonetheless  grants  Con-gress  broad  authority  to  create  such  crimes.  See 

McCul-
loch, 4  Wheat.,  at 416  ("All admit  that the  government  may, legitimately, punish any violation of its laws; and yet, this is 

not  among  the  enumerated  powers  of  Congress");  see  also 
United States v.  Fox, 95 U. S. 670, 672 (1878).  And Congress 
routinely  exercises  its  authority  to  enact  criminal  laws  in 
furtherance of, for  example, its  enumerated powers  to regu-late interstate and foreign commerce, to enforce civil rights, 

to  spend  funds  for  the  general  welfare,  to  establish  federal courts,  to  establish  post  offices,  to  regulate  bankruptcy,  to 
regulate naturalization, and so forth.  Art. I, $ 8, cls. 1, 3, 4, 
7,  9;  Amdts.  13-15.  See,  e. g.,  Lottery  Case,  supra  (uphold-
ing criminal statute enacted in furtherance of the Commerce 
Clause);  Ex  parte  Yarbrough,  110  U. S.  651  (1884)  (uphold-
ing  Congress'  authority  to enact  Rev. Stat.  $ 5508, currently 
18  U. S. C.  $ 241  (criminalizing  civil-rights  violations)  and 
Rev.  Stat.  $ 5520,  currently  42  U. S. C.  $ 1973j  (criminalizing 
voting-rights  violations)  in  furtherance  of  the  Fourteenth 
and  Fifteenth Amendments);  Sabri,  supra  (upholding  crimi-
nal  statute  enacted  in  furtherance  of  the  Spending  Clause); 
Jinks,  supra,  at  462,  n.  2  (describing  perjury  and  witness 
tampering  as  federal  crimes  enacted  in  furtherance  of  the 
power  to  constitute  federal  tribunals  (citing  McCulloch, 
supra,  at  417));  see  also  18  U. S. C.  $ 1691  et  seq.  (postal 
crimes); $ 151 et seq. (bankruptcy crimes); 8 U. S. C. $$ 1324- 
1328 (immigration crimes). 

Similarly,  Congress,  in  order  to  help  ensure  the  enforce-
ment  of  federal  criminal  laws  enacted  in  furtherance  of  its 
enumerated powers, "can cause a prison to be erected at any 
place  within  the  jurisdiction  of  the  United  States,  and  di-
rect  that  all  persons  sentenced  to  imprisonment  under  the 
laws of the United States shall be confined there."  Ex parte 
Karstendick,  93  U. S.  396,  400  (1876).  Moreover,  Congress, 
having established a prison system, can enact laws that seek 
to  ensure  that  system's  safe  and  responsible  administration 

137 Cite as: 560 U. S. 126 (2010) 
Opinion of the Court 
by,  for  example,  requiring  prisoners  to  receive  medical  care and  educational  training,  see, 

e. g.,  18  U. S. C.  $$ 4005-4006; 

$ 4042(a)(3),  and  can  also  ensure  the  safety  of  the  prisoners, prison  workers  and  visitors,  and  those  in  surrounding  com-

munities by, for example, creating further criminal laws gov-erning  entry,  exit,  and  smuggling,  and  by  employing  prison 
guards  to  ensure  discipline  and  security,  see,  e. g.,  $ 1791 
(prohibiting smuggling contraband); $ 751 et seq. (prohibiting escape  and  abetting  thereof);  28  CFR  $ 541.10 

et  seq.  (2009) 
(inmate discipline). Neither  Congress'  power  to  criminalize  conduct,  nor  its 

power  to  imprison  individuals  who  engage  in  that  conduct, 
nor its power to enact laws governing prisons and prisoners, 
is  explicitly  mentioned  in  the  Constitution.  But  Congress 
nonetheless  possesses  broad  authority  to  do  each  of  those 
things  in  the  course  of  "carrying  into  Execution"  the  enu-
merated  powers  "vested  by"  the  "Constitution  in  the  Gov-
ernment  of  the  United  States,"  Art.  I,  $ 8,  cl.  18--authority 
granted by the Necessary and Proper Clause. 

Second, the civil-commitment statute before us constitutes 
a  modest  addition  to  a  set  of  federal  prison-related  mentalhealth statutes that have existed for many decades.  We rec-
ognize  that  even  a  longstanding  history  of  related  federal 
action  does  not  demonstrate  a  statute's  constitutionality. 
See, e. g., Walz v.  Tax Comm'n of City of New York, 397 U. S. 
664,  678  (1970)  ("[N]o  one  acquires  a  vested  or  protected 
right  in  violation  of  the  Constitution  by  long  use . . . ");  
cf. Morrison, 529 U. S., at 612-614 (legislative history is nei-
ther necessary nor sufficient with respect to Art. I analysis). 
A history of involvement, however, can nonetheless be "help-
ful  in  reviewing  the  substance  of  a  congressional  statutory 
scheme," Gonzales, 545 U. S., at 21; Walz, supra, at 678, and, 
in particular, the reasonableness of the relation between the 
new statute and pre-existing federal interests. 

Here,  Congress  has  long  been  involved  in  the  delivery  of 
mental-health  care  to  federal  prisoners,  and  has  long  pro-

138  UNITED  STATES  v.  COMSTOCK 

Opinion of the Court 
vided  for  their  civil  commitment.  In  1855,  it  established Saint Elizabeth's Hospital in the District of Columbia to pro-

vide treatment to "the  insane of the army and navy . . . and of  the  District  of  Columbia."  Act  of  Mar.  3,  1855,  10  Stat. 
682;  39  Stat.  309.  In  1857,  it  provided  for  confinement  at Saint Elizabeth's of any person within the District of Colum-
bia who had been "charged with [a] crime" and who was "in-
sane"  or  later  became  "insane  during  the  continuance  of his or her sentence in the United States penitentiary."  Act 

of Feb. 7, 1857, $$ 5-6, 11 Stat. 158; see 17 Op. Atty. Gen. 211, 212-213  (1881).  In  1874,  expanding  the  geographic  scope 
of  its  statutes,  Congress  provided  for  civil  commitment  in 
federal facilities (or in state facilities if a State so agreed) of 
"all  persons  who  have  been  or  shall  be  convicted  of  any  of-
fense  in  any  court  of  the  United  States"  and  who  are  or 
"shall  become"  insane  "during  the  term  of  their  imprison-
ment."  Act of June 23, 1874, ch. 465, 18 Stat. 251 (emphasis 
added).  And in 1882, Congress provided for similar commit-
ment  of  those  "charged"  with  federal  offenses  who  become 
"insane"  while  in  the  "custody"  of  the  United  States.  Act 
of  Aug.  7,  1882,  22  Stat.  330  (emphasis  added).  Thus,  over 
the  span  of  three  decades,  Congress  created  a  national,  fed-
eral civil-commitment program under which any person who 
was  either  charged  with  or  convicted  of  any  federal  offense 
in  any  federal  court  could  be  confined  in  a  federal  mental 
institution. 

These  statutes  did  not  raise  the  question  presented  here, 
for  they  all  provided  that  commitment  in  a  federal  hospital 
would  end  upon  the  completion  of  the  relevant  "terms"  of 
federal "imprisonment" as set forth in the underlying crimi-
nal sentence or statute.  $$ 2-3, 18 Stat. 252; see 35 Op. Atty. 
Gen.  366,  368  (1927);  cf.  30  Op.  Atty.  Gen.  569,  571  (1916). 
But in the mid-1940's that proviso was eliminated. 

In 1945, the  Judicial Conference of the  United States pro-
posed  legislative  reforms  of  the  federal  civil-commitment 
system.  The  Judicial  Conference  based  its  proposals  upon 

139 Cite as: 560 U. S. 126 (2010) 
Opinion of the Court 
what this Court has described as a "long study by a conspicu-
ously  able  committee"  (chaired  by  Judge  Calvert  Magruder 
and  whose  members  included  Judge  Learned  Hand),  involv-
ing  consultation  "with  federal  district  and  circuit  judges" 
across the country as well as with the Department of Justice. 
Greenwood v.  United States, 350 U. S. 366, 373 (1956); Green-
wood  v.  United  States,  219  F.  2d  376,  380-384  (CA8  1955) 
(describing  the  committee's  work).  The  committee  studied, 
among  other  things,  the  "serious  problem  faced  by  the  Bu-
reau  of  Prisons,  namely,  what  to  do  with  insane  criminals 
upon  the  expiration  of  their  terms  of  confinement,  where  it 
would  be  dangerous  to  turn  them  loose  upon  society  and 
where no state will assume responsibility for their custody." 
Judicial  Conference,  Report  of  Committee  To  Study  Treat-
ment  Accorded  by  Federal  Courts  to  Insane  Persons 
Charged  With  Crime  11  (1945)  (hereinafter  Committee  Re-
port),  App.  73.  The  committee  provided  examples  of  in-
stances  in  which  the  Bureau  of  Prisons  had  struggled  with 
the  problem  of  " `paranoid' "  and  " `threatening' "  individuals 
whom  no  State  would  accept.  Id.,  at  9,  App.  71.  And  it 
noted  that,  in  the  Bureau's  "[e]xperience,"  States  would  not 
accept  an "appreciable number" of "mental[ly] incompetent" 
individuals  "nearing  expiration"  of  their  prison  terms,  be-
cause  of  their  "lack  of  legal  residence  in  any  State,"  even 
though  those  individuals  "ought  not  .  .  .  be  at  large  because 
they  constitute  a  menace  to  public  safety."  H.  R.  Rep. 
No. 1319, 81st Cong., 1st  Sess., 2  (1949) (statement of James 
V. Bennett, Director); see also Letter from Bennett to Judge 
Magruder,  attachment  to  Committee  Report,  App.  83-88. 
The committee, hence the Judicial Conference, therefore rec-
ommended  that  Congress  enact  "some  provision  of  law  au-
thorizing  the  continued  confinement  of  such  persons  after 
their  sentences  expired."  Committee  Report  11,  App.  73; 
see  also  Report  of  the  Judicial  Conference  of  Senior  Circuit 
Judges 13 (1945). 

140  UNITED  STATES  v.  COMSTOCK 

Opinion of the Court 
Between 1948 and 1949, following its receipt of the Judicial Conference  report,  Congress  modified  the  law.  See  Act  of 

June 25, 1948, 62 Stat. 855, 18 U. S. C. $$ 4241-4243 (1952 ed.); Act  of  Sept.  7,  1949,  63  Stat.  686,  18  U. S. C.  $$ 4244-4248. 
It provided for  the civil commitment of individuals who are, or who become, mentally incompetent at any time after their 
arrest  and  before  the  expiration  of  their  federal  sentence, 

$$ 4241,  4244,  4247-4248;  and  it  set  forth  various  proce-dural  safeguards,  $$ 4242,  4246,  4247.  With  respect  to  an 

individual  whose  prison  term  is  about  to  expire,  it  specified the following: 

"Whenever the Director of the Bureau of Prisons shall certify that a prisoner whose sentence is about to expire 
has  been examined [and] .  . . in the  judgment of the Di-rector and the board of examiners the prisoner is insane 
or  mentally  incompetent,  and . . . if  released  he  will probably  endanger  the  safety  of  the  officers,  the  prop-
erty,  or  other  interests  of  the  United  States,  and  that suitable  arrangements  for  the  custody  and  care  of  the 
prisoner are not otherwise available, the Attorney Gen-
eral shall transmit the certificate to . . . the  court for the district  in  which  the  prisoner  is  confined.  Whereupon 

the  court  shall  cause  the  prisoner  to  be  examined  .  .  . and shall . . . hold a hearing . . . .   If  upon such hearing 
the  court  shall  determine  that  the  conditions  specified above  exist,  the  court  may  commit  the  prisoner  to  the 
custody of the Attorney General or his authorized repre-sentative."  $ 4247. 

The  precondition  that  the  mentally  ill  individual's  release 
would  "probably  endanger  the  safety  of  the  officers,  the 
property,  or  other  interests  of  the  United  States"  was  uni-
formly interpreted by the Judiciary to mean that his "release 
would endanger the safety of persons, property or the public 
interest in general--not merely the interests peculiar to the 
United  States  as  such."  United  States  v.  Curry,  410  F.  2d 

141 Cite as: 560 U. S. 126 (2010) 
Opinion of the Court 
1372,  1374  (CA4  1969);  see  also  Royal  v.  United  States,  274 F. 2d 846, 851-852 (CA10 1960). 

In  1984,  Congress  modified  these  basic  statutes.  See  In-sanity Defense Reform Act of 1984, 98 Stat. 2057, 18 U. S. C. 

$$ 4241-4247 (2006 ed.).  As relevant here, it altered the pro-vision just discussed, regarding the  prisoner's danger to the 
"interests  of  the  United  States,"  to  conform more  closely  to 
the  then-existing  judicial  interpretation  of  that  language, 
i. e.,  it  altered  the  language  so  as  to  authorize  (explicitly) 
civil  commitment  if,  in  addition  to  the  other  conditions,  the prisoner's  "release  would  create  a  substantial  risk  of  bodily 

injury  to  another  person  or  serious  damage  to  the  property 
of another."  $ 4246(d). 

Congress also elaborated upon the required condition 
"that suitable arrangements . . . are not  otherwise available" 
by directing the Attorney General to seek alternative place-
ment  in  state  facilities,  as  we  have  set  forth  above.  See 
ibid.; supra, at 130-131.  With these modifications, the stat-
utes  continue  to  authorize  the  civil  commitment  of  individ-
uals  who  are  both  mentally  ill  and  dangerous,  once  they 
have  been  charged  with,  or  convicted  of,  a  federal  crime. 

$$ 4241(d), 4246; see also $ 4243(d).  They continue to provide 
for the continued civil commitment of those individuals when 
they are "due for release" from federal custody because their 
"sentence is about to expire."  $ 4246.  And, as we have pre-
viously set forth, they establish various procedural and other 
requirements.  E. g.,  $ 4247. 

In 2006, Congress enacted the particular statute before us. 

$ 302, 120 Stat. 619, 18 U. S. C. $ 4248.  It differs from earlier 
statutes  in  that it  focuses directly  upon persons who,  due to 
a  mental  illness,  are  sexually  dangerous.  Notably,  many  of 
these individuals were likely already subject to civil commit-
ment  under  $ 4246,  which,  since  1949,  has  authorized  the 
postsentence  detention  of  federal  prisoners  who  suffer  from 
a  mental  illness  and  who  are  thereby  dangerous  (whether 
sexually  or  otherwise).  But  cf.  H.  R.  Rep.  No.  109-218, 

142  UNITED  STATES  v.  COMSTOCK 

Opinion of the Court 
pt.  1,  p.  29  (2005).  Aside  from  its  specific  focus  on  sexually 
dangerous  persons,  $ 4248  is  similar  to  the  provisions  first 
enacted  in  1949.  Cf.  $ 4246.  In  that  respect,  it  is  a  mod-
est  addition  to  a  longstanding  federal  statutory  framework, 
which has been in place since 1855. 

Third, Congress reasonably extended its  longstanding 
civil-commitment  system  to  cover  mentally  ill  and  sexually 
dangerous  persons  who  are  already  in  federal  custody,  even 
if  doing  so  detains  them  beyond  the  termination  of  their 
criminal  sentence.  For  one  thing,  the  Federal  Government 
is the custodian of its prisoners.  As federal custodian, it has 
the  constitutional  power  to  act  in  order  to  protect  nearby 
(and  other)  communities  from  the  danger  federal  prisoners 
may pose.  Cf. Youngberg v.  Romeo, 457 U. S. 307, 320 (1982) 
("In operating an institution such as [a prison system], there 
are occasions in which it is necessary for the State to restrain 
the movement of residents--for example, to protect them as 
well as others from violence" (emphasis added)).  Indeed, at 
common  law,  one  "who  takes  charge  of  a  third  person"  is 
"under  a  duty  to  exercise  reasonable  care  to  control"  that 
person  to  prevent  him  from  causing  reasonably  foreseeable 
"bodily  harm  to  others."  2  Restatement  (Second)  of  Torts 

$ 319,  p.  129  (1963-1964);  see  Volungus,  595  F.  3d,  at  7-8 
(citing  cases);  see  also  United  States  v.  S.  A.,  129  F.  3d  995, 
999  (CA8  1997)  ("[Congress  enacted  $ 4246]  to  avert  the 
public danger likely to ensue from the release of mentally ill 
and dangerous detainees").  If a federal prisoner is infected 
with a communicable disease that threatens others, surely it 
would  be  "necessary  and  proper"  for  the  Federal  Govern-
ment to take action, pursuant to its role as federal custodian, 
to  refuse  (at  least  until  the  threat  diminishes)  to  release 
that  individual  among  the  general  public,  where  he  might 
infect others (even if not threatening an interstate epidemic, 
cf. Art. I, $ 8, cl. 3).  And if confinement of such an individual 
is a "necessary and proper" thing to do, then how could it not 

Cite as: 560 U. S. 126 (2010)  143 

Opinion of the Court 
be similarly "necessary and proper"  to confine an individual whose  mental  illness  threatens  others  to  the  same  degree? 

Moreover,  $ 4248  is  "reasonably  adapted,"  Darby,  312 U. S., at  121, to Congress' power  to act as a  responsible fed-
eral custodian (a power that rests, in turn, upon federal crimi-nal statutes that legitimately seek to implement constitution-
ally enumerated authority, see supra, at 135-136).  Congress 
could  have  reasonably  concluded  that  federal  inmates  who suffer  from  a  mental  illness  that  causes  them  to  "have  seri-

ous  difficulty  in  refraining  from  sexually  violent  conduct," $ 4247(a)(6), would pose an especially high danger to the pub-
lic  if  released.  Cf.  H.  R.  Rep.  No.  109-218,  at  22-23.  And 
Congress  could  also  have  reasonably  concluded  (as  detailed 
in the Judicial Conference's report) that a reasonable number 
of such individuals would likely not be detained by the States 
if released from federal custody, in part because the Federal 
Government  itself  severed  their  claim  to  "legal  residence  in 
any  State"  by  incarcerating  them  in  remote  federal  prisons. 
H.  R.  Rep.  No.  1319,  at  2;  Committee  Report  7-11,  App. 
69-75; cf. post, at 154 (Kennedy,

144  UNITED  STATES  v.  COMSTOCK 

Opinion of the Court 
York  v.  United States, 505 U. S. 144, 155 (1992); see Brief for Respondents  35-47; 

post,  at  164-165,  176-180  (Thomas,

145 Cite as: 560 U. S. 126 (2010) 
Opinion of the Court 
of "  either  State  "if  such  State  will  assume  [such]  respon-sibility." 

Ibid.  And  either  State  has  the  right,  at  any 
time,  to  assert  its  authority  over  the  individual,  which  will prompt  the  individual's  immediate  transfer  to  state  custody. 

$ 4248(d)(1).  Respondents contend that the States are none-theless  "powerless  to 

prevent  the  detention  of  their  citizens 
under $ 4248, even if detention is contrary to the States' pol-
icy  choices."  Brief  for  Respondents  11  (emphasis  added). But  that  is  not  the  most  natural  reading  of  the  statute,  see 

$$ 4248(d)(1)-(e), and the Solicitor General acknowledges that "the  Federal  Government  would  have  no  appropriate  role" 
with  respect  to  an  individual  covered  by  the  statute  once 
"the  transfer  to  State  responsibility  and  State  control  has 
occurred."  Tr. of Oral Arg. 9. 

In  Greenwood,  350  U. S.  366,  the  Court  rejected  a  chal-
lenge  to  the  current  statute's  predecessor--i. e.,  to  the  1949 
statute we described above, supra, at 140-141.  The petition-
ers  in  that  case  claimed,  like  the  respondents  here,  that  the 
statute  improperly  interfered  with  state  sovereignty.  See 
Brief  for  Petitioner  in  Greenwood  v.  United  States,  O.  T. 
1955, No. 460, pp. 2, 18-29.  But the Court rejected that ar-
gument.  See Greenwood, supra, at 375-376.  And the ver-
sion of the statute at issue in Greenwood was less protective 
of state interests than the current statute.  That statute au-
thorized  federal  custody  so long  as "suitable  arrangements" 
were  "not  otherwise  available"  in  a  State  or  otherwise. 
63  Stat.  687  (emphasis  added).  Cf.  Brief  for  Petitioner  in 
Greenwood,  supra, at 25  ("What has  really happened is that 
the  Federal  government  has  been  dissatisfied  with  the  care 
given by the states to those mentally incompetent who have 
been  released  by  the  Federal  authorities").  Here,  by  con-
trast,  as  we  have  explained,  $ 4248  requires  the  Attorney 
General  to  encourage  the  relevant  States  to take  custody  of 
the individual without inquiring into the "suitability" of their 
intended care or treatment, and to relinquish federal author-
ity  whenever  a  State  asserts  its  own.  $ 4248(d).  Thus,  if 

146  UNITED  STATES  v.  COMSTOCK 

Opinion of the Court 
the statute at issue in Greenwood did not invade state inter-ests, then, 

a fortiori, neither does $ 4248. 
Fifth, the links between $ 4248 and an enumerated Article I  power  are  not  too  attenuated.  Neither  is  the  statutory 

provision  too  sweeping  in  its  scope.  Invoking  the  caution-ary  instruction  that  we  may  not  "pile  inference  upon  in-
ference"  in  order  to  sustain  congressional  action  under 
Article  I,  Lopez,  514  U. S.,  at  567,  respondents  argue  that, when  legislating  pursuant  to  the  Necessary  and  Proper 

Clause,  Congress'  authority  can  be  no  more  than  one  step removed  from  a  specifically  enumerated  power.  See  Brief 
for Respondents 21-22; Tr. of Oral Arg. 27-28.  But this ar-gument  is  irreconcilable  with  our  precedents.  Again,  take 
Greenwood  as  an  example.  In  that  case  we  upheld  the (likely  indefinite)  civil  commitment  of  a  mentally  incompe-
tent federal defendant who was accused of robbing a United 
States  Post  Office.  350  U. S.,  at  369,  375.  The  underlying enumerated  Article  I  power  was  the  power  to  "Establish 

Post  Offices  and  post  Roads."  Art.  I,  $ 8,  cl.  7.  But,  as Chief Justice Marshall recognized in 

McCulloch, 

"the power `to establish post offices and post roads' . . . is  executed  by  the  single  act  of 

making  the  establish-
ment.  .  .  .  [F]rom  this  has  been  inferred  the  power  and duty  of 

carrying  the  mail  along  the  post  road,  from 
one  post  office  to  another.  And,  from  this  implied power, has 

again been inferred the right to punish those 
who  steal  letters  from  the  post  office,  or  rob  the  mail." 4 Wheat., at 417 (emphasis added). 

And,  as  we  have  explained,  from  the  implied  power  to  pun-
ish  we  have  further  inferred  both  the  power  to  imprison, 
see  supra,  at  136-137,  and,  in  Greenwood,  the  federal  civilcommitment power. 

Our necessary and proper jurisprudence contains multiple 
examples  of  similar  reasoning.  For  example,  in  Sabri  we 
observed  that  "Congress  has  authority  under  the  Spending 

147 Cite as: 560 U. S. 126 (2010) 
Opinion of the Court 
Clause  to  appropriate  federal  moneys"  and  that  it  therefore "has  corresponding  authority  under  the  Necessary  and 

Proper Clause to see to it that taxpayer dollars" are not "si-phoned  off "  by  "corrupt  public  officers."  541  U. S.,  at  605 
(citation  omitted).  We  then further held  that, in  aid of that implied  power  to  criminalize  graft  of  "taxpayer  dollars," 
Congress has the additional prophylactic power to criminal-
ize bribes or kickbacks even when the stolen funds have not been  "traceably  skimmed  from  specific  federal  payments." 

Id., at 605-606.  Similarly, in United States v.  Hall, 98 U. S. 343  (1879),  we  held  that  the  Necessary  and  Proper  Clause 
grants  Congress the  power, in furtherance of Art.  I,  $ 8,  cls. 
11-13, to award "pensions to the wounded and disabled" sol-
diers  of  the  armed  forces  and  their  dependents,  98  U. S.,  at 
351;  and  from  that  implied  power  we  further  inferred  the 
"[i]mplied  power"  "to  pass  laws  to . . .  punish"  anyone  who 
fraudulently  appropriated  such  pensions,  id.,  at  346.  See 
also Stewart v.  Kahn, 11 Wall. 493, 506-507 (1871). 

Indeed,  even  the  dissent  acknowledges  that  Congress  has 
the  implied  power  to  criminalize  any  conduct that  might  in-
terfere  with  the  exercise  of  an  enumerated  power,  and  also 
the  additional  power  to  imprison  people  who  violate  those 
(inferentially  authorized)  laws,  and  the  additional  power  to 
provide  for  the  safe  and  reasonable  management  of  those 
prisons,  and  the  additional  power  to  regulate  the  prisoners' 
behavior even after their release.  See post, at 169-170, 173- 
174, n. 12.  Of course, each of those powers, like the powers 
addressed  in  Sabri,  Hall,  and  McCulloch,  is  ultimately  "de-
rived  from"  an  enumerated  power,  Hall,  supra,  at  346. 
And,  as  the  dissent  agrees,  that  enumerated  power  is  "the 
enumerated  power  that  justifies  the  defendant's  statute  of 
conviction,"  post,  at  174,  n.  12.  Neither  we  nor  the  dissent 
can  point  to  a  single  specific  enumerated  power  "that  justi-
f[ies] a criminal defendant's arrest or conviction," post, at 169, 
in all cases because Congress relies on different enumerated 
powers  (often,  but  not  exclusively,  its  Commerce  Clause 

148  UNITED  STATES  v.  COMSTOCK 

Opinion of the Court 
power)  to  enact  its  various  federal  criminal  statutes,  see supra,  at  136.  But  every  such  statute  must  itself  be  legiti-

mately  predicated on  an  enumerated  power.  And  the  same enumerated  power  that  justifies  the  creation  of  a  federal 
criminal statute, and that justifies the additional implied fed-eral  powers  that  the  dissent  considers  legitimate,  justifies 
civil commitment under $ 4248 as well.  See supra, at 142-143. Thus, we must reject respondents' argument that the Neces-
sary  and  Proper  Clause  permits  no  more  than  a  single  step between an enumerated power and an Act of Congress. 

Nor  need  we  fear  that  our  holding  today  confers  on  Con-gress  a  general  "police  power,  which  the  Founders  denied 
the National Government and reposed in the States."  Mor-rison, 529 U. S., at 618.  As the Solicitor General repeatedly 
confirmed  at  oral  argument,  $ 4248  is  narrow  in  scope.  It has been applied to only a small fraction of federal prisoners. 
See Tr. of Oral Arg. 24-25 (105 individuals have been subject to $ 4248 out of over 188,000 federal inmates); see also Dept. 
of Justice, Bureau of Justice Statistics, W. Sabol, H. West, & M.  Cooper,  Prisoners  in  2008,  p.  8  (NCJ  228417,  Dec.  2009) 
(Table 8).  And its reach is limited to individuals already "in the  custody  of  the"  Federal  Government.  $ 4248(a);  Tr.  of 
Oral  Arg.  7  ("[Federal  authority  for  $ 4248]  has  always  de-pended  on  the  fact  of  Federal  custody,  on  the  fact  that  this 
person  has  entered  the  criminal  justice  system  .  .  .  ").  In-deed, the Solicitor General argues that "the Federal Govern-
ment would not have . . . the power to commit a person who . . . has been released from prison and whose period of super-
vised  release  is  also  completed."  Id.,  at  9.  Thus,  far  from a "general police power," $ 4248 is a reasonably adapted and 
narrowly tailored means of pursuing the Government's legiti-mate interest as a federal custodian in the responsible admin-
istration of its prison system. To be sure, as we have previously acknowledged: 

"The  Federal  Government  undertakes  activities  today that  would  have  been  unimaginable  to  the  Framers  in 

149 Cite as: 560 U. S. 126 (2010) 
Opinion of the Court 
two  senses;  first,  because  the  Framers  would  not  have conceived  that  any  government  would  conduct  such  ac-

tivities;  and  second,  because  the  Framers  would  not have believed that the Federal Government, rather than 
the States, would assume such responsibilities.  Yet the powers  conferred  upon  the  Federal  Government  by  the 
Constitution were phrased in language broad enough to allow  for  the  expansion  of  the  Federal  Government's 
role."  New York, 505 U. S., at 157. 
The  Framers  demonstrated  considerable  foresight  in  draft-ing  a  Constitution  capable  of  such  resilience  through  time. 

As  Chief  Justice  Marshall  observed  nearly  200  years  ago, the  Necessary  and  Proper  Clause  is  part  of  "a  constitution 
intended to endure for ages to come, and, consequently, to be adapted to the various crises of human affairs."  McCulloch, 
4 Wheat., at 415 (emphasis deleted). 

* * * 
We take these five considerations together.  They include: (1)  the  breadth  of  the  Necessary  and  Proper  Clause,  (2)  the 

long  history  of  federal  involvement  in  this  arena,  (3)  the sound reasons for the statute's enactment in light of the Gov-
ernment's custodial  interest  in  safeguarding  the  public from dangers  posed  by  those  in  federal  custody,  (4)  the  statute's 
accommodation  of  state  interests,  and  (5)  the  statute's  nar-row  scope.  Taken  together,  these  considerations  lead  us  to 
conclude that the statute is a "necessary and proper" means of  exercising  the  federal  authority  that  permits  Congress 
to  create  federal  criminal  laws,  to  punish  their  violation,  to imprison violators, to provide appropriately for those impris-
oned,  and  to  maintain  the  security  of  those  who  are  not  im-prisoned  but  who  may  be  affected  by  the  federal  imprison-
ment  of  others.  The  Constitution  consequently  authorizes Congress to enact the statute. 

We do not reach or decide any claim that the statute or its application denies equal protection of the laws, procedural or 

150  UNITED  STATES  v.  COMSTOCK 

Kennedy,

151 Cite as: 560 U. S. 126 (2010) 
Kennedy,
152  UNITED  STATES  v.  COMSTOCK 

Kennedy,

153 Cite as: 560 U. S. 126 (2010) 
Kennedy,
154  UNITED  STATES  v.  COMSTOCK 

Kennedy,

155 Cite as: 560 U. S. 126 (2010) 
Alito,
156  UNITED  STATES  v.  COMSTOCK 

Alito,

157 Cite as: 560 U. S. 126 (2010) 
Alito,
158  UNITED  STATES  v.  COMSTOCK 

Thomas,

159 Cite as: 560 U. S. 126 (2010) 
Thomas,
160  UNITED  STATES  v.  COMSTOCK 

Thomas,

161 Cite as: 560 U. S. 126 (2010) 
Thomas,
162  UNITED  STATES  v.  COMSTOCK 

Thomas,

163 Cite as: 560 U. S. 126 (2010) 
Thomas,
164  UNITED  STATES  v.  COMSTOCK 

Thomas,

165 Cite as: 560 U. S. 126 (2010) 
Thomas,
166  UNITED  STATES  v.  COMSTOCK 

Thomas,

167 Cite as: 560 U. S. 126 (2010) 
Thomas,
168  UNITED  STATES  v.  COMSTOCK 

Thomas,

169 Cite as: 560 U. S. 126 (2010) 
Thomas,
170  UNITED  STATES  v.  COMSTOCK 

Thomas,

171 Cite as: 560 U. S. 126 (2010) 
Thomas,
172  UNITED  STATES  v.  COMSTOCK 

Thomas,

173 Cite as: 560 U. S. 126 (2010) 
Thomas,
174  UNITED  STATES  v.  COMSTOCK 

Thomas,

175 Cite as: 560 U. S. 126 (2010) 
Thomas,
176  UNITED  STATES  v.  COMSTOCK 

Thomas,

177 Cite as: 560 U. S. 126 (2010) 
Thomas,
178  UNITED  STATES  v.  COMSTOCK 

Thomas,

179 Cite as: 560 U. S. 126 (2010) 
Thomas,
180  UNITED  STATES  v.  COMSTOCK 

Thomas,

181 OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 
Syllabus 

SULLIVAN  v.

182  SULLIVAN  v. 183 OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

Syllabus 

AMERICAN  NEEDLE,  INC.  v.  NATIONAL  FOOTBALL 

LEAGUE  et

184  AMERICAN  NEEDLE,  INC.  v.  NATIONAL  FOOTBALL 

LEAGUE 

Syllabus 

conduct  and  leaves  courts  to  examine  only  discrete  agreements.  An 
arrangement  must  therefore  embody  concerted  action  in  order  to  be  a 
"contract, combination . . . , or  conspiracy" under $ 1.  Pp. 189-191. 

(b)  In  determining  whether  there  is  concerted  action  under  $ 1,  the 
Court has eschewed formalistic distinctions, such as whether the alleged 
conspirators are legally distinct entities, in favor of a functional consid-
eration of how they actually operate.  The Court has repeatedly found 
instances in which members of a legally single entity violated $ 1 when 
the  entity  was  controlled  by  a  group  of  competitors  and  served,  in  es-
sence,  as  a  vehicle  for  ongoing  concerted  activity.  See,  e. g.,  United 
States v.  Sealy, Inc., 388 U. S. 350, 352-356.  Conversely, the Court has 
found that although the entities may be "separate" for purposes of incor-
poration or formal title, if they are controlled by a single center of deci-
sionmaking and they control a single aggregation of economic power, an 
agreement  between  them  does  not  constitute  a  "contract,  combination 
. . . , or  conspiracy."  Copperweld, 467 U. S., at 769.  Pp. 191-194. 

(c)  The relevant inquiry is therefore one of substance, not form, which 
does  not  turn  on  whether  the  alleged  parties  to  contract,  combination, 
or conspiracy are part of a legally single entity or seem like one firm or 
multiple  firms  in  any  metaphysical  sense.  The  inquiry  is  whether  the 
agreement  in  question joins together  "separate  economic  actors  pursu-
ing  separate  economic  interests,"  Copperweld,  467  U. S.,  at  768,  such 
that  it  "deprives  the  marketplace  of  independent  centers  of  decisionmaking," id., at 769, and therefore of diversity of entrepreneurial inter-
ests and thus of actual or potential competition.  If it does, then there 
is  concerted  action  covered  by  $ 1,  and  the  court  must  decide  whether 

the restraint of trade is unreasonable and therefore illegal.  Pp. 195-196. 

(d)  The NFL teams do not possess either the unitary decisionmaking 
quality  or  the  single  aggregation  of  economic  power  characteristic  of 
independent  action.  Each  of  them  is  a  substantial,  independently 
owned,  independently managed  business,  whose  "general  corporate  ac-
tions  are  guided  or  determined"  by  "separate  corporate  conscious-
nesses,"  and  whose  "objectives  are"  not  "common."  Copperweld,  467 
U. S., at 771.  They compete with one another, not only on the playing 
field, but to attract fans, for gate receipts, and for contracts with mana-
gerial  and  playing  personnel.  See,  e. g.,  Brown  v.  Pro  Football,  Inc., 
518  U. S.  231,  249.  Directly  relevant  here,  the  teams  are  potentially 
competing  suppliers  in  the  market  for  intellectual  property.  When 
teams license  such property, they are not pursuing the  "common inter-
ests of the whole" league, but, instead, the interests of each "corporation 
itself."  Copperweld, 467 U. S., at 770.  It is not dispositive, as respond-
ents  argue,  that,  by  forming  NFLP,  they  have  formed  a  single  entity, 

185 Cite as: 560 U. S. 183 (2010) 
Syllabus 
akin to a merger, and market their NFL brands through a single outlet. 
Although the NFL respondents may be similar in some sense to a single 
enterprise, they are not similar in the relevant functional sense.  While 
teams  have  common interests  such  as  promoting  the NFL  brand,  they 
are  still  separate,  profit-maximizing  entities,  and  their  interests  in  li-
censing team trademarks are not necessarily aligned.  Nor does it mat-
ter  that  the  teams  may  find  the  alleged  cooperation  necessary  to  com-
pete  against  other  forms  of  entertainment.  Although  decisions  made 
by NFLP are not as easily classified as concerted activity, NFLP's deci-
sions about licensing the teams' separately owned intellectual property 
are concerted activity and thus covered by $ 1 for the same reason that 
decisions made directly by the 32 teams are covered by $ 1.  In making 
the  relevant  licensing  decisions,  NFLP  is  "an  instrumentality"  of  the 
teams.  Sealy, 388 U. S., at 352-354.  Pp. 196-202. 

(e)  Football teams that need to cooperate are not trapped by antitrust 
law.  The  fact  that  the  NFL  teams  share  an  interest  in  making  the 
entire league successful and profitable, and that they must cooperate to 
produce  games,  provides  a  perfectly sensible  justification  for  making  a 
host of collective decisions.  Because some of these restraints on compe-
tition are necessary  to produce the NFL's product, the Rule of  Reason 
generally should  apply, and teams'  cooperation is  likely  to be permissi-
ble.  And depending upon the  activity in question,  the Rule of Reason 
can  at  times  be  applied  without  detailed  analysis.  But  the  activity  at 
issue  in  this  case  is  still  concerted  activity  covered  for  $ 1  purposes. 
Pp. 202-204. 

538 F. 3d 736, reversed and remanded. 

Stevens,

186  AMERICAN  NEEDLE,  INC.  v.  NATIONAL  FOOTBALL 

LEAGUE 

Opinion of the Court 

win  and  Eugene  E.  Gozdecki.  Timothy  B.  Hardwicke  and Lori  Alvino  McGill  filed  a  brief  for  respondent  Reebok  In-

ternational Ltd.* 

Justice

187 Cite as: 560 U. S. 183 (2010) 
Opinion of the Court 

I 
Originally  organized  in  1920,  the  NFL  is  an  unincorpo-rated association that now includes 32 separately owned pro-

fessional football teams.1  Each team has its own name, col-ors,  and  logo,  and  owns  related  intellectual  property.  Like 
each  of  the  other  teams  in  the  league,  the  New  Orleans Saints  and  the  Indianapolis  Colts,  for  example,  have  their 
own distinctive names, colors, and marks that are well known to millions of sports fans. 

Prior to 1963, the teams made their own arrangements for licensing  their  intellectual  property  and  marketing  trade-
marked items  such as caps  and jerseys.  In 1963, the  teams formed  National  Football  League  Properties  (NFLP)  to  de-
velop, license, and market their intellectual property.  Most, but  not  all, of  the  substantial  revenues  generated  by  NFLP 
have  either  been  given  to  charity  or  shared  equally  among the  teams.  However,  the  teams  are  able  to  and  have  at 
times sought to withdraw from this arrangement. Between  1963  and  2000,  NFLP  granted  nonexclusive  li-
censes to a number of vendors, permitting them to manufac-ture  and  sell  apparel  bearing  team  insignias.  Petitioner, 
American  Needle,  Inc.,  was  one  of  those  licensees.  In  De-cember  2000,  the  teams  voted  to  authorize  NFLP  to  grant 
exclusive licenses, and  NFLP granted Reebok International Ltd.  an  exclusive  10-year  license  to  manufacture  and  sell 
trademarked  headwear  for  all  32  teams.  It  thereafter  de-clined to renew American Needle's nonexclusive license. 

American Needle filed this action in the Northern District of  Illinois,  alleging  that  the  agreements  between  the  NFL, 
its teams, NFLP, and Reebok violated $$ 1 and 2 of the Sher-man  Act.  In  their  answer  to  the  complaint,  the  defendants 

1 The NFL was founded in Canton, Ohio, as the "American Professional 
Football  Association."  United  States Football  League v.  National Foot-
ball  League,  842  F.  2d  1335,  1343  (CA2  1988).  It  took  its  current  name 
in  1922.  Ibid.  Forty-one  franchises  failed  in  the  first  41  years  of  the 
league's existence.  Ibid. 

188  AMERICAN  NEEDLE,  INC.  v.  NATIONAL  FOOTBALL 

LEAGUE 

Opinion of the Court 

averred that the teams, the NFL, and NFLP were incapable of  conspiring  within  the  meaning  of  $ 1  "because  they  are  a 

single  economic  enterprise, at  least  with  respect to  the  con-duct  challenged."  App.  99.  After  limited  discovery,  the 
District  Court  granted  summary  judgment  on  the  question "whether,  with  regard  to  the  facet  of  their  operations  re-
specting  exploitation  of  intellectual  property  rights,  the 
NFL  and  its  32  teams  are,  in  the  jargon  of  antitrust  law, acting  as  a  single  entity." 

American  Needle,  Inc.  v.  New 
Orleans  La.  Saints,  496  F.  Supp.  2d  941,  943  (2007).  The court  concluded  "that  in  that  facet  of  their  operations  they 

have  so  integrated  their  operations  that  they  should  be 
deemed  a  single  entity  rather  than  joint  ventures  cooperat-
ing for a common purpose."  Ibid. 

The  Court  of  Appeals  for  the  Seventh  Circuit  affirmed. 
The  panel  observed  that  "in  some  contexts,  a  league  seems 
more  aptly  described  as  a  single  entity  immune  from  anti-
trust scrutiny, while in others a league appears to be a joint 
venture between independently owned teams that is subject 
to review under $ 1."  538 F. 3d 736, 741 (2008).  Relying on 
Circuit precedent, the court limited its inquiry to the particu-
lar conduct at issue, licensing of teams' intellectual property. 
The  panel  agreed  with  petitioner  that  "when  making  a 
single-entity  determination,  courts  must  examine  whether 
the conduct in question deprives the marketplace of the inde-
pendent  sources  of  economic  control  that  competition  as-
sumes."  Id.,  at  742.  The  court,  however,  discounted  the 
significance  of  potential  competition  among  the  teams  re-
garding  the  use  of  their  intellectual  property  because  the 
teams  "can  function  only  as  one  source  of  economic  power 
when  collectively  producing  NFL  football."  Id.,  at  743. 
The  court  noted  that  football  itself  can  only  be  carried  out 
jointly.  See  ibid.  ("Asserting  that  a  single  football  team 
could produce a football game . . . is a Zen riddle: Who wins 
when a football team plays itself ").  Moreover, "NFL teams 
share  a  vital  economic  interest  in  collectively  promoting 

189 Cite as: 560 U. S. 183 (2010) 
Opinion of the Court 
NFL football . . . [to]  compet[e] with other forms of entertain-ment."  Ibid.  "It thus follows," the court found, "that only 

one source of economic power controls the promotion of NFL football," and  "it  makes little  sense  to assert that  each indi-
vidual  team  has  the  authority,  if  not  the  responsibility,  to promote the jointly produced NFL football." 

Ibid.  Recog-nizing  that  NFL  teams  have  "license[d]  their  intellectual 

property  collectively"  since  1963,  the  court  held  that  $ 1  did not apply.  Id., at 744. 

We granted certiorari.  557 U. S. 933 (2009). 

II 
As  the  case  comes  to  us,  we  have  only  a  narrow  issue  to decide: whether the NFL respondents are capable of engag-

ing in a "contract, combination . . . ,  or  conspiracy" as defined by  $ 1  of  the  Sherman  Act,  15  U. S. C.  $ 1,  or,  as  we  have 
sometimes  phrased  it,  whether  the  alleged  activity  by  the NFL respondents "must be viewed as that of a single enter-
prise  for  purposes  of  $ 1."  Copperweld  Corp.  v.  Independ-ence Tube Corp., 467 U. S. 752, 771 (1984). 

Taken  literally,  the  applicability  of  $ 1  to  "every  contract, combination . . . , or  conspiracy" could be understood to cover 
every conceivable  agreement, whether it  be a group of com-peting  firms  fixing  prices  or  a  single  firm's  chief  executive 
telling her subordinate how to price their company's product. But even though, "read literally," $ 1 would address "the en-
tire  body  of  private  contract,"  that  is  not  what  the  statute means. 

National Soc. of Professional Engineers v.  United States,  435  U. S.  679,  688  (1978);  see  also  Texaco  Inc.  v. 

Dagher,  547  U. S.  1,  5  (2006)  ("This  Court  has  not  taken  a literal approach to this language"); cf. Board of Trade of Chi-
cago  v.  United  States,  246  U. S.  231,  238  (1918)  (reasoning that the term "restraint of trade" in $ 1 cannot possibly refer 
to  any  restraint  on  competition  because  "[e]very  agreement concerning  trade,  every  regulation  of  trade,  restrains.  To 
bind,  to  restrain,  is  of  their  very  essence").  Not  every  in-

190  AMERICAN  NEEDLE,  INC.  v.  NATIONAL  FOOTBALL 

LEAGUE 

Opinion of the Court 

stance of cooperation between two people is a potential "con-tract,  combination .  . . , or  conspiracy,  in  restraint of trade." 

15 U. S. C. $ 1. The  meaning  of  the  term  "contract,  combination . . .  , or  
conspiracy"  is  informed  by  the  " `basic  distinction' "  in  the Sherman Act " `between concerted and independent action' " 
that distinguishes $ 1 of the Sherman Act from $ 2.  Copperweld, 467  U. S.,  at  767  (quoting  Monsanto  Co.  v.  Spray-Rite Service  Corp.,  465  U. S.  752,  761  (1984)).  Section  1  applies 

only to concerted  action that  restrains trade.  Section 2,  by contrast,  covers  both  concerted  and  independent  action,  but 
only if that action "monopolize[s]," 15 U. S. C. $ 2, or "threat-ens  actual  monopolization," 

Copperweld,  467  U. S.,  at  767,  a category that is narrower than restraint of trade.  Monopoly 

power  may  be  equally  harmful  whether  it  is  the  product  of joint action or individual action. 

Congress  used  this  distinction  between  concerted  and  in-dependent  action  to  deter anticompetitive  conduct  and  com-
pensate  its  victims,  without  chilling  vigorous  competition through  ordinary  business  operations.  The  distinction  also 
avoids  judicial  scrutiny  of  routine,  internal  business decisions. 

Thus,  in  $ 1  Congress  "treated  concerted  behavior  more strictly  than  unilateral  behavior." 

Id.,  at  768.  This  is  so because  unlike  independent  action,  "[c]oncerted  activity  in-

herently  is  fraught  with  anticompetitive  risk"  insofar  as  it "deprives  the  marketplace  of  independent  centers  of  deci-
sionmaking that competition assumes and demands."  Id., at 768-769.  And  because  concerted  action  is  discrete  and  dis-
tinct, a limit on such activity leaves untouched a vast amount of business conduct.  As a result, there is less risk of deter-
ring  a  firm's  necessary  conduct;  courts  need  only  examine discrete  agreements;  and  such  conduct  may  be  remedied 
simply  through  prohibition.2  See  Areeda  &  Hovenkamp 

2 If Congress prohibited independent action that merely restrains trade 
(even if it does not  threaten monopolization), that prohibition could deter 
perfectly  competitive  conduct  by  firms  that  are  fearful  of  litigation  costs 

191 Cite as: 560 U. S. 183 (2010) 
Opinion of the Court 
|| 1464c,  at  206.  Concerted  activity  is  thus  "judged  more sternly  than  unilateral  activity  under  $ 2,"  Copperweld,  467 

U. S., at 768.  For these reasons, $ 1 prohibits any concerted action "in restraint of trade or commerce," even if the action 
does  not  "threate[n]  monopolization,"  ibid.  And  therefore, an  arrangement  must  embody  concerted  action  in  order  to 
be a "contract, combination . . . , or  conspiracy" under $ 1. 

III 
We  have  long  held  that  concerted  action  under  $ 1  does not  turn  simply  on  whether  the  parties  involved  are  legally 

distinct entities.  Instead, we have eschewed such formalis-tic  distinctions  in  favor  of  a  functional  consideration  of  how 
the  parties  involved  in  the  alleged  anticompetitive  conduct actually operate. 

As  a  result,  we  have  repeatedly  found  instances  in  which members  of  a  legally  single  entity  violated  $ 1  when  the  en-
tity was controlled by  a group  of competitors and served,  in essence,  as  a  vehicle  for  ongoing  concerted  activity.  In 
United States v.  Sealy, Inc., 388 U. S. 350 (1967), for example, a  group  of  mattress  manufacturers  operated  and  controlled 
Sealy,  Inc.,  a  company  that  licensed  the  Sealy  trademark  to the  manufacturers,  and  dictated  that  each  operate  within  a 
specific geographic area.  Id., at 352-353.  The Government alleged that the licensees and Sealy were conspiring in viola-
tion  of  $ 1,  and  we  agreed.  Id.,  at  352-354.  We  explained that  "[w]e  seek  the  central  substance  of  the  situation"  and 

and judicial error.  See Copperweld, 467 U. S., at 768 ("Judging unilateral 
conduct  in  this  manner  reduces  the  risk  that  the  antitrust  laws  will 
dampen  the  competitive  zeal  of  a  single  aggressive  entrepreneur"); 
cf.  United  States  v.  United  States  Gypsum  Co.,  438  U. S.  422,  441  (1978) 
("[S]alutary and procompetitive conduct . . . might be shunned by business-
men  who  chose  to  be  excessively  cautious  in  the  face  of  uncertainty"). 
Moreover, if every unilateral action that restrained trade were subject to 
antitrust scrutiny,  then courts  would  be  forced  to  judge almost  every in-
ternal  business  decision.  See  7  P.  Areeda  &  H.  Hovenkamp,  Antitrust 
Law || 1464c, p. 206 (2d ed. 2003) (hereinafter Areeda & Hovenkamp) (uni-
lateral behavior is "often difficult to evaluate or remedy"). 

192  AMERICAN  NEEDLE,  INC.  v.  NATIONAL  FOOTBALL 

LEAGUE 

Opinion of the Court 

therefore "we are moved by the identity of the persons who 
act,  rather  than  the  label  of  their  hats."  Id.,  at  353.  We 
thus  held  that  Sealy  was  not  a  "separate  entity,  but  .  .  .  an 
instrumentality  of  the  individual  manufacturers."  Id.,  at 
356.  In similar circumstances, we have found other formally 
distinct  business  organizations  covered  by  $ 1.  See,  e. g., 
Northwest  Wholesale  Stationers,  Inc.  v.  Pacific  Station-
ery & Printing Co., 472 U. S. 284 (1985); National Collegiate 
Athletic  Assn.  v.  Board  of  Regents  of  Univ.  of  Okla.,  468 
U. S.  85  (1984)  (NCAA);  United  States  v.  Topco  Associates, 
Inc.,  405  U. S.  596,  609  (1972);  Associated  Press  v.  United 
States,  326  U. S.  1  (1945);  id.,  at  26  (Frankfurter,  J.,  concur-
ring); United States v.  Terminal Railroad Assn. of St. Louis, 
224  U. S. 383  (1912);  see  also Rock, Corporate  Law Through 
an  Antitrust  Lens,  92  Colum.  L.  Rev.  497,  506-510  (1992) 
(discussing  cases).  We  have  similarly  looked  past  the  form 
of  a  legally  "single  entity"  when  competitors  were  part  of 
professional organizations 3  or trade groups.4 

Conversely,  there  is  not  necessarily  concerted  action  sim-
ply because more than one legally distinct entity is involved. 
Although,  under  a  now-defunct  doctrine  known  as  the  "in-
traenterprise conspiracy doctrine," we once treated coopera-
tion between legally separate entities as necessarily covered 
by $ 1, we now embark on a more functional analysis. 

The  roots  of  this  functional  analysis  can  be  found  in  the 
very decision that established the intraenterprise conspiracy 
doctrine.  In  United  States  v.  Yellow Cab Co., 332  U. S.  218 
(1947),  we  observed  that  "corporate  interrelationships  .  .  . 

3 See, e. g., FTC v.  Indiana Federation of Dentists, 476 U. S. 447 (1986); 
Arizona v.  Maricopa County Medical Soc., 457 U. S. 332 (1982); National 
Soc. of Professional Engineers v. United States, 435 U. S. 679 (1978); Gold-
farb v.  Virginia State Bar, 421 U. S. 773 (1975). 

4 See, e. g., Allied Tube & Conduit Corp. v.  Indian Head, Inc., 486 U. S. 

492  (1988);  Radiant  Burners,  Inc.  v.  Peoples  Gas  Light  &  Coke  Co.,  364 
U. S.  656  (1961)  (per  curiam);  Fashion  Originators'  Guild  of  America, 
Inc. v.  FTC, 312 U. S. 457 (1941). 

193 Cite as: 560 U. S. 183 (2010) 
Opinion of the Court 
are  not  determinative  of  the  applicability  of  the  Sherman Act"  because  the  Act  "is  aimed  at  substance  rather  than 

form."  Id.,  at  227.  We  nonetheless  held  that  cooperation between legally separate entities was necessarily covered by 

$ 1 because an unreasonable restraint of trade "may result as readily  from  a  conspiracy  among  those  who  are  affiliated  or 
integrated  under  common  ownership  as  from  a  conspiracy 
among  those  who  are  otherwise  independent."  Ibid.;  see also 

Kiefer-Stewart  Co.  v.  Joseph  E.  Seagram  &  Sons,  Inc., 
340 U. S. 211, 215 (1951). The  decline  of  the  intraenterprise  conspiracy  doctrine 

began in Sunkist Growers, Inc. v.  Winckler & Smith Citrus 
Products  Co.,  370  U. S.  19  (1962).  In  that  case,  several  ag-
ricultural cooperatives that were owned by the same farmers 
were  sued  for  violations  of  $ 1  of  the  Sherman  Act.  Id.,  at 
24-25.  Applying  a  specific  immunity  provision  for  agricul-
tural cooperatives, we held that the three cooperatives were 
"in practical effect" one "organization," even though the con-
trolling  farmers  "have  formally  organized  themselves  into 
three  separate  legal  entities."  Id.,  at  29.  "To  hold  other-
wise,"  we  explained,  "would  be  to  impose  grave  legal  con-
sequences  upon  organizational  distinctions  that  are  of  de 
minimis  meaning  and  effect"  insofar  as  "use  of  separate 
corporations had [no] economic significance."  Ibid. 

Next, in United States v.  Citizens & Southern Nat. Bank, 
422  U. S.  86  (1975),  a  large  bank,  Citizens  and  Southern 
(C&S), formed a holding company that operated de facto sub-
urban  branch  banks  in  the  Atlanta  area  through  ownership 
of  the  maximum  amount  of  stock  in  each  local  branch  that 
was  allowed  by  law,  "ownership  of  much  of  the  remaining 
stock by parties friendly to C&S, use by the suburban banks 
of the C&S logogram and all of C&S's banking services, and 
close  C&S  oversight  of  the  operation  and  governance  of  the 
suburban  banks."  Id.,  at  89  (footnote  omitted).  The  Gov-
ernment challenged the cooperation between the banks.  In 
our  analysis,  we  observed  that  " `corporate  interrelation-

194  AMERICAN  NEEDLE,  INC.  v.  NATIONAL  FOOTBALL 

LEAGUE 

Opinion of the Court 

ships . . . are not determinative,' " id., at 116, "looked to eco-
nomic substance," and observed that "because the sponsored 
banks  were  not  set  up  to  be  competitors,  $ 1  did  not  compel 
them  to  compete."  Areeda  &  Hovenkamp  || 1463g,  at  200- 
201;  see  also  Citizens  &  Southern,  422  U. S.,  at  119-120; 
Areeda,  Intraenterprise  Conspiracy  in  Decline,  97  Harv.  L. 
Rev. 451, 461 (1983). 

We finally reexamined the intraenterprise conspiracy doc-
trine  in  Copperweld  Corp.  v.  Independence  Tube  Corp.,  467 
U. S. 752  (1984),  and concluded  that  it was  inconsistent with 
the  " `basic  distinction  between  concerted  and  independent 
action.' "  Id.,  at  767.  Considering  it  "perfectly  plain  that 
an  internal  agreement  to  implement  a  single,  unitary  firm's 
policies does not raise the antitrust dangers that $ 1 was de-
signed  to  police,"  id.,  at  769, we  held  that  a  parent  corpora-
tion  and  its  wholly  owned  subsidiary  "are  incapable  of  con-
spiring  with  each  other  for  purposes  of  $ 1  of  the  Sherman 
Act,"  id.,  at  777.  We  explained  that  although  a  parent  cor-
poration  and  its  wholly  owned  subsidiary  are  "separate"  for 
the  purposes  of  incorporation  or  formal  title,  they  are  con-
trolled by a single center of decisionmaking and they control 
a  single  aggregation  of  economic  power.  Joint  conduct  by 
two  such  entities  does  not  "depriv[e]  the  marketplace  of  in-
dependent  centers  of  decisionmaking,"  id.,  at  769,  and  as  a 
result,  an  agreement  between  them  does  not  constitute  a 
"contract,  combination  . . . ,  or  conspiracy"  for  the  purposes 
of $ 1.5 

5 This  focus  on  "substance,  not  form,"  Copperweld,  467  U. S.,  at  773, 
n. 21, can also be seen in our cases about whether a company and its agent 
are capable of conspiring under $ 1.  See, e. g., Simpson v.  Union  Oil  Co. 
of Cal., 377 U. S. 13, 20-21 (1964); see also E. Elhauge & D. Geradin, Global 
Antitrust  Law  and  Economics  787-788,  and  n.  7  (2007)  (hereinafter  El-
hauge &  Geradin) (explaining  the functional  difference between Simpson 
and  United States  v.  General  Elec.  Co.,  272  U. S.  476  (1926),  in which  we 
treated a similar agreement as beyond the reach of $ 1). 

195 Cite as: 560 U. S. 183 (2010) 
Opinion of the Court 

IV 
As  Copperweld  exemplifies,  "substance,  not  form,  should determine  whether  a[n]  .  .  .  entity  is  capable  of  conspiring 

under  $ 1."  467  U. S.,  at  773,  n.  21.  This  inquiry  is  some-times  described  as  asking  whether  the  alleged  conspirators 
are  a  single  entity.  That  is  perhaps  a  misdescription,  how-ever, because the question is not whether the defendant is a 
legally single entity or has a single name; nor is the question whether the parties involved "seem" like one firm or multiple 
firms  in  any  metaphysical  sense.  The  key  is  whether  the alleged  "contract,  combination  .  .  .  ,  or  conspiracy"  is  con-
certed action--that is, whether it joins together separate de-cisionmakers.  The  relevant  inquiry,  therefore,  is  whether 
there is a "contract, combination . . . , or conspiracy" amongst "separate economic actors pursuing separate economic inter-
ests," id., at 769, such that the agreement "deprives the mar-ketplace  of  independent  centers  of  decisionmaking," 

ibid., and  therefore  of  "diversity  of  entrepreneurial  interests," 

Fraser  v.  Major  League  Soccer,  L.  L.  C.,  284  F.  3d  47,  57 (CA1  2002)  (Boudin,  C.  J.),  and  thus  of  actual  or  potential 
competition,  see  Freeman  v.  San  Diego  Assn.  of  Realtors, 322 F. 3d 1133, 1148-1149 (CA9 2003) (Kozinski, J.); Rothery 
Storage  &  Van  Co.  v.  Atlas  Van  Line,  Inc.,  792  F.  2d  210, 214-215  (CADC  1986)  (Bork,  J.);  see  also  Areeda  &  Hoven-
kamp  || 1462b,  at  193-194  (noting  that  the  "central  evil  ad-dressed by Sherman Act $ 1" is the "elimin[ation of] competi-
tion that would otherwise exist"). 

Thus,  while  the  president  and  a  vice  president  of  a  firm could (and regularly do) act in combination, their joint action 

generally is not the sort of "combination" that $ 1 is intended to  cover.  Such  agreements  might  be  described  as  "really 
unilateral  behavior  flowing  from  decisions  of  a  single  enter-prise." 

Copperweld, 467 U. S., at 767.  Nor, for this reason, 
does  $ 1  cover  "internally  coordinated  conduct  of  a  corpora-
tion and one of its  unincorporated  divisions,"  id., at 770,  be-

196  AMERICAN  NEEDLE,  INC.  v.  NATIONAL  FOOTBALL 

LEAGUE 

Opinion of the Court 

cause  "[a]  division  within  a  corporate  structure  pursues  the common  interests  of  the  whole,"  ibid.,  and  therefore  "coor-

dination  between  a  corporation  and  its  division  does  not represent  a  sudden  joining  of  two  independent  sources  of 
economic power previously pursuing separate interests," id., at  770-771.  Nor,  for  the  same  reasons,  is  "the  coordinated 
activity  of  a  parent  and  its  wholly  owned  subsidiary"  cov-ered.  See 

id., at 771.  They "have a complete unity of inter-est"  and  thus  "[w]ith  or  without  a  formal  `agreement,'  the 

subsidiary  acts  for  the  benefit  of  the  parent,  its  sole  share-holder."  Ibid. 

Because  the  inquiry  is  one  of  competitive  reality,  it  is  not determinative that two parties to an alleged $ 1 violation are 
legally  distinct  entities.  Nor,  however,  is  it  determinative that  two  legally  distinct  entities  have  organized  themselves 
under  a  single  umbrella  or  into  a  structured  joint  venture. The question is whether the agreement joins together "inde-
pendent centers of decisionmaking."  Id., at 769.  If it does, the entities are capable of conspiring under $ 1, and the court 
must  decide  whether  the  restraint  of  trade  is  an  unreason-able and therefore illegal one. 

V 
The NFL teams do not possess either the unitary decision-making quality  or the single  aggregation of economic power 

characteristic  of  independent  action.  Each  of  the  teams is  a  substantial,  independently  owned,  and  independently 
managed  business.  "[T]heir  general  corporate  actions  are guided  or  determined"  by  "separate  corporate  conscious-
nesses," and "[t]heir objectives are" not "common."  Copper-weld,  467  U. S.,  at  771;  see  also  North  American  Soccer 
League  v.  NFL,  670  F.  2d  1249,  1252  (CA2  1982)  (discussing ways that "the financial performance of each team, while re-
lated to that of the  others, does  not  . . .  necessarily rise and fall  with  that  of  the  others").  The  teams compete  with one 
another, not only on the playing field, but to attract fans, for 

197 Cite as: 560 U. S. 183 (2010) 
Opinion of the Court 
gate receipts, and for contracts with managerial and playing 
personnel.  See  Brown  v.  Pro  Football,  Inc.,  518  U. S.  231, 
249 (1996); Sullivan v.  NFL, 34 F. 3d 1091, 1098 (CA1 1994); 
Mid-South  Grizzlies v.  NFL, 720  F.  2d  772, 787  (CA3 1983); 
cf. NCAA, 468 U. S., at 99. 

Directly  relevant  to  this  case,  the  teams  compete  in  the 
market for intellectual property.  To a firm making hats, the 
Saints and the Colts are two potentially competing suppliers 
of  valuable  trademarks.  When  each  NFL  team  licenses  its 
intellectual  property,  it  is  not  pursuing  the  "common  inter-
ests of the whole" league but is instead pursuing interests of 
each  "corporation  itself,"  Copperweld,  467  U. S.,  at  770; 
teams are acting as "separate economic actors pursuing sepa-
rate economic interests," and each team therefore is a poten-
tial  "independent  cente[r]  of  decisionmaking,"  id.,  at  769. 
Decisions  by  NFL  teams  to  license  their  separately  owned 
trademarks collectively and to only one vendor are decisions 
that "depriv[e] the marketplace of independent centers of de-
cisionmaking," ibid., and therefore of actual or potential com-
petition.  See  NCAA,  468  U. S.,  at  109,  n.  39  (observing  a 
possible $ 1 violation if two separately owned companies sold 
their  separate  products  through  a  "single  selling  agent"); 
cf.  Areeda  &  Hovenkamp  || 1478a,  at  318  ("Obviously,  the 
most significant competitive threats arise when joint venture 
participants are actual or potential competitors"). 

In  defense,  respondents  argue  that  by  forming  NFLP, 
they have formed a single entity, akin to a merger, and mar-
ket their NFL brands through a single outlet.  But it is not 
dispositive that  the  teams  have  organized  and own  a legally 
separate entity that centralizes the  management of their  in-
tellectual  property.  An  ongoing  $ 1  violation  cannot  evade 

$ 1  scrutiny  simply  by  giving  the  ongoing  violation  a  name 
and  label.  "Perhaps  every  agreement  and  combination  in 
restraint  of  trade  could  be  so  labeled."  Timken  Roller 
Bearing Co. v.  United States, 341 U. S. 593, 598 (1951). 

198  AMERICAN  NEEDLE,  INC.  v.  NATIONAL  FOOTBALL 

LEAGUE 

Opinion of the Court 

The  NFL  respondents  may  be  similar  in  some  sense  to a  single  enterprise  that  owns  several  pieces  of  intellectual 

property  and  licenses  them  jointly,  but  they  are  not  similar in the relevant functional sense.  Although NFL teams have 
common  interests  such  as  promoting  the  NFL  brand,  they are  still  separate,  profit-maximizing  entities,  and  their  in-
terests  in  licensing  team  trademarks  are  not  necessarily 
aligned.  See  generally  Hovenkamp,  Exclusive  Joint  Ven-tures and Antitrust Policy, 1995 Colum. Bus. L. Rev. 1, 52-61 

(1995);  Shishido,  Conflicts  of  Interest  and  Fiduciary  Duties in  the  Operation  of  a  Joint  Venture,  39  Hastings  L.  J.  63, 
69-81  (1987).  Common  interests  in  the  NFL  brand  "par-
tially  unit[e]  the  economic  interests  of  the  parent  firms," 
Broadley,  Joint  Ventures  and  Antitrust  Policy,  95  Harv. 
L.  Rev.  1521,  1526  (1982)  (emphasis  added),  but  the  teams 
still have distinct, potentially competing interests. 

It  may  be,  as  respondents  argue,  that  NFLP  "has  served 
as  the  `single  driver' "  of  the  teams'  "promotional  vehicle, 
`pursu[ing]  the  common  interests  of  the  whole.' "  Brief  for 
NFL Respondents 28 (quoting Copperweld, 467 U. S., at 770- 
771; brackets in original).  But illegal restraints often are in 
the  common  interests  of  the  parties  to  the  restraint,  at  the 
expense of those who are not parties.  It is true, as respond-
ents  describe,  that  they  have  for  some  time  marketed  their 
trademarks jointly.  But a history of concerted activity does 
not immunize conduct from $ 1 scrutiny.  "Absence of actual 
competition  may  simply  be  a  manifestation  of  the  anticom-
petitive agreement itself."  Freeman, 322 F. 3d, at 1149. 

Respondents  argue  that  nonetheless,  as  the  Court  of  Ap-
peals  held,  they  constitute  a  single  entity  because  without 
their  cooperation,  there  would  be  no  NFL  football.  It  is 
true  that  "the  clubs  that  make  up  a  professional  sports 
league are not completely independent economic competitors, 
as  they  depend  upon  a  degree  of  cooperation  for  economic 
survival."  Brown,  518  U. S.,  at  248.  But the  Court  of  Ap-
peals' reasoning is unpersuasive. 

199 Cite as: 560 U. S. 183 (2010) 
Opinion of the Court 
The justification for cooperation is not relevant to whether that  cooperation  is  concerted  or  independent  action.

6  A 

"contract, combination . . . , or  conspiracy," $ 1, that is neces-sary or useful to a joint venture is still a "contract, combina-

tion  .  .  .  ,  or  conspiracy"  if  it  "deprives  the  marketplace  of independent  centers  of  decisionmaking," 

Copperweld,  467 
U. S., at 769.  See NCAA, 468 U. S., at 113 ("[J]oint ventures 
have no immunity from antitrust laws").  Any joint venture involves  multiple  sources  of  economic  power  cooperating  to 

produce a product.  And for many such ventures, the partic-ipation of others  is  necessary.  But that does  not  mean that 
necessity of cooperation transforms concerted action into in-dependent action; a nut and a bolt can only operate together, 
but an agreement between nut and bolt manufacturers is still subject to $ 1 analysis.  Nor does  it  mean that  once a group 
of  firms  agree  to  produce  a  joint  product,  cooperation 
amongst those firms must be treated as independent conduct. 
The  mere  fact  that  the  teams  operate  jointly  in  some  sense 
does not mean that they are immune.7 

6 As  discussed  infra,  necessity  of  cooperation  is  a  factor  relevant  to 
whether the agreement is subject to the Rule of Reason.  See NCAA, 468 
U. S. 85, 101 (1984) (holding that NCAA restrictions on televising college 
football  games  are  subject  to  Rule  of  Reason  analysis  for  the  "critical" 
reason that "horizontal restraints on competition are essential if the prod-
uct is to be available at all"). 

7 In  any  event,  it  simply  is  not  apparent  that  the  alleged  conduct  was 

necessary at all.  Although two teams are needed to play a football game, 
not  all  aspects  of  elaborate  interleague  cooperation  are  necessary  to 
produce a game.  Moreover, even if leaguewide agreements are necessary 
to produce football, it does not follow that concerted activity in marketing 
intellectual property is necessary to produce football. 

The Court of Appeals carved  out a  zone  of antitrust immunity for con-
duct arguably related to league operations by reasoning that coordinated 
team  trademark  sales  are  necessary  to  produce  "NFL  football,"  a  single 
NFL brand that competes against other forms of entertainment.  But de-
fining  the  product  as  "NFL  football"  puts  the  cart  before  the  horse:  Of 
course the NFL produces NFL football; but that does not mean that coop-
eration  amongst  NFL  teams  is  immune  from  $ 1  scrutiny.  Members  of 

200  AMERICAN  NEEDLE,  INC.  v.  NATIONAL  FOOTBALL 

LEAGUE 

Opinion of the Court 

The question whether NFLP decisions can constitute con-certed  activity  covered  by  $ 1  is  closer  than  whether  deci-

sions  made  directly  by  the  32  teams  are  covered  by  $ 1. This is so both because NFLP is a separate corporation with 
its  own  management  and  because  the  record  indicates  that most of the revenues generated by NFLP are shared by the 
teams on an equal basis.  Nevertheless we think it clear that for the same reasons the 32 teams' conduct is covered by $ 1, 
NFLP's actions also are subject to $ 1, at least with regards to  its  marketing  of  property  owned  by  the  separate  teams. 
NFLP's  licensing  decisions  are  made  by  the  32  potential competitors, and each of them actually owns its share of the 
jointly  managed  assets.  Cf.  Sealy,  388  U. S.,  at  352-354. Apart from their agreement to cooperate in exploiting those 
assets,  including  their  decisions  as  the  NFLP,  there  would be  nothing  to  prevent  each  of  the  teams  from  making  its 
own  market  decisions  relating  to  purchases  of  apparel  and headwear,  to  the  sale  of  such  items,  and  to  the  granting  of 
licenses to use its trademarks. We generally  treat agreements within  a  single  firm as  in-
dependent action on the presumption that the components of the firm will act to maximize the firm's profits.  But in rare 
cases,  that  presumption  does  not  hold.  Agreements  made within  a  firm can  constitute  concerted  action  covered  by  $ 1 
when the parties to the agreement act on interests separate from  those  of  the  firm  itself,

8  and  the  intrafirm  agreements 

may  simply  be  a  formalistic  shell  for  ongoing  concerted  acany  cartel  could  insist  that  their  cooperation  is  necessary  to  produce  the 
"cartel product" and compete with other products. 

8 See  Areeda  &  Hovenkamp  || 1471;  Elhauge  &  Geradin  786-787,  and 

n.  6; see  also  Capital  Imaging Assoc.  v.  Mohawk  Valley  Medical  Assoc., 
Inc.,  996  F.  2d  537,  544  (CA2  1993);  Bolt  v.  Halifax  Hospital  Medical 
Center, 891 F. 2d 810, 819 (CA11 1990); Oksanen v.  Page Memorial Hospi-
tal, 945 F. 2d 696, 706 (CA4 1991); Motive Parts Warehouse v. Facet Enter-
prises, 774 F. 2d 380, 387-388 (CA10 1985); Victorian House, Inc. v. Fisher 
Camuto Corp., 769 F. 2d 466, 469 (CA8 1985); Weiss v.  York Hospital, 745 
F. 2d 786, 828 (CA3 1984). 

201 Cite as: 560 U. S. 183 (2010) 
Opinion of the Court 
tion.  See,  e. g.,  Topco  Associates,  Inc.,  405  U. S.,  at  609; 
Sealy, 388 U. S., at 352-354. 

For  that  reason,  decisions  by  NFLP regarding  the  teams' separately  owned  intellectual  property  constitute  concerted 

action.  Thirty-two  teams  operating  independently  through the vehicle of NFLP are not like the components of a single 
firm  that  act  to  maximize  the  firm's  profits.  The  teams  re-
main  separately  controlled,  potential  competitors  with  eco-nomic interests that are distinct from NFLP's financial well-

being.  See generally Hovenkamp, 1995 Colum. Bus. L. Rev., at  52-61.  Unlike  typical  decisions  by  corporate  sharehold-
ers,  NFLP  licensing  decisions  effectively  require  the  assent 
of  more  than  a  mere  majority  of  shareholders.  And  each 
team's decision reflects not only an interest in NFLP's profits 
but  also  an  interest  in  the  team's  individual  profits.  See 
generally Shusido, 39 Hastings L. J., at 69-71.  The 32 teams 
capture individual economic benefits separate and apart from 
NFLP  profits  as  a  result  of  the  decisions  they  make  for 
NFLP.  NFLP's  decisions  thus  affect  each  team's  profits 
from  licensing  its  own  intellectual  property.  "Although  the 
business  interests  of "  the  teams  "will  often  coincide  with 
those  of "  NFLP  "as  an  entity  in  itself,  that  commonality  of 
interest  exists  in  every  cartel."  Los  Angeles  Memorial 
Coliseum  Comm'n  v.  NFL,  726  F.  2d  1381,  1389  (CA9  1984) 
(emphasis  added).  In  making  the  relevant  licensing  deci-
sions, NFLP is therefore  "an instrumentality" of the  teams. 
Sealy,  388 U. S., at 352-354; see also Topco  Associates, Inc., 
405 U. S., at 609. 

If  the  fact  that  potential  competitors  shared  in  profits  or 
losses  from  a  venture  meant  that  the  venture  was  immune 
from $ 1, then any cartel "could evade the antitrust laws sim-
ply  by  creating  a  `joint  venture'  to  serve  as  the  exclusive 
seller of their competing products."  Major League Baseball 
Properties,  Inc.  v.  Salvino,  Inc.,  542  F.  3d  290,  335  (CA2 
2008)  (Sotomayor,  J.,  concurring  in  judgment).  "So  long  as 
no agreement," other than one made by the cartelists sitting 

202  AMERICAN  NEEDLE,  INC.  v.  NATIONAL  FOOTBALL 

LEAGUE 

Opinion of the Court 

on the board of the joint venture, "explicitly listed the prices 
to be charged, the companies could act as monopolies through 
the  `joint venture.' "  Ibid.  (Indeed, a joint venture with  a 
single  management  structure  is  generally  a  better  way  to 
operate  a  cartel  because  it  decreases  the  risks  of  a  party  to 
an illegal agreement defecting from that agreement.)  How-
ever, competitors "cannot simply get around" antitrust liabil-
ity  by  acting  "through  a  third-party  intermediary  or  `joint 
venture'."  Id., at 336.9 

VI 

Football  teams  that  need  to  cooperate  are  not  trapped  by 
antitrust law.  "[T]he special characteristics of this industry 
may  provide  a  justification"  for  many  kinds  of  agreements. 
Brown, 518 U. S., at 252 (Stevens,

203 Cite as: 560 U. S. 183 (2010) 
Opinion of the Court 
certed activity  under  the  Sherman Act that  is  subject  to $ 1 analysis. 

When "restraints on competition are essential if the prod-uct  is  to  be  available  at  all,"  per  se  rules  of  illegality  are 
inapplicable,  and  instead  the  restraint  must  be  judged  ac-cording  to  the  flexible  Rule  of  Reason.

10  NCAA,  468  U. S., 

at  101;  see  id.,  at  117  ("Our  decision  not  to  apply  a  per  se rule  to  this  case  rests  in  large  part  on  our  recognition  that 

a  certain  degree  of  cooperation  is  necessary  if  the  type  of competition that petitioner and its member institutions seek 
to  market  is  to  be  preserved");  see  also  Dagher,  547  U. S., at  6.  In  such  instances,  the  agreement  is  likely  to  survive 
the Rule of Reason.  See Broadcast Music, Inc. v.  Columbia 
Broadcasting System, Inc., 441 U. S. 1, 23 (1979) ("Joint ven-tures  and  other  cooperative  arrangements  are  also  not  usu-

ally  unlawful  .  .  .  where  the  agreement  .  .  .  is  necessary  to market  the  product  at  all").  And  depending  upon  the  con-
certed  activity  in  question,  the  Rule  of  Reason  may  not  re-quire a detailed analysis; it "can sometimes be applied in the 
twinkling of an eye."  NCAA, 468 U. S., at 110, n. 39. 

10 Justice  Brandeis  provided  the  classic  formulation  of  the  Rule  of 
Reason in Board of Trade  of Chicago v.  United States,  246 U. S. 231, 238 
(1918): 

"The  true  test  of  legality  is  whether  the  restraint  imposed  is  such  as 
merely  regulates  and  perhaps  thereby  promotes  competition  or  whether 
it  is  such  as  may  suppress  or  even  destroy  competition.  To  determine 
that question the court  must ordinarily consider the  facts peculiar to  the 
business  to  which  the  restraint  is  applied;  its  condition  before  and  after 
the restraint  is imposed;  the nature of  the restraint and  its effect, actual 
or  probable.  The  history  of  the  restraint,  the  evil  believed  to  exist,  the 
reason  for  adopting  the  particular  remedy,  the  purpose  or  end  sought  to 
be  attained,  are  all  relevant  facts.  This  is  not  because  a  good  intention 
will save an otherwise objectionable regulation or the reverse; but because 
knowledge  of  intent  may  help  the  court  to  interpret  facts  and  to  predict 
consequences." 

See  also  Leegin Creative Leather Products,  Inc.  v.  PSKS,  Inc.,  551  U. S. 
877,  885-887  (2007);  National  Soc.  of  Professional  Engineers,  435  U. S., 
at 688-691. 

204  AMERICAN  NEEDLE,  INC.  v.  NATIONAL  FOOTBALL 

LEAGUE 

Opinion of the Court 

Other  features  of  the  NFL  may  also  save  agreements amongst the teams.  We have recognized, for example, "that 

the  interest  in  maintaining  a  competitive  balance"  among "athletic  teams  is  legitimate  and  important,"  id.,  at  117. 
While that same interest applies to the teams in the NFL, it does  not  justify  treating  them  as  a  single  entity  for  $ 1  pur-
poses when it comes to the marketing of the teams' individu-ally  owned  intellectual  property.  It  is,  however,  unques-
tionably  an  interest  that  may  well  justify  a  variety  of collective  decisions  made  by  the  teams.  What  role  it  prop-
erly  plays in  applying  the  Rule  of Reason  to the  allegations in this case is a matter to be considered on remand. 

* * * 
Accordingly,  the  judgment  of  the  Court  of  Appeals  is  re-versed,  and  the  case  is  remanded  for  further  proceedings 

consistent with this opinion.  It is so ordered. 

205 OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 
Syllabus 

LEWIS  et

206  LEWIS  v. 207 Cite as: 560 U. S. 205 (2010) 

Syllabus 
however,  must  give  effect  to  the  law  Congress  enacted,  not  assess  the 
consequences of each approach and adopt the one that produces the least 
mischief.  Pp. 216-217. 

(d)  It  is  left  to  the  Seventh  Circuit  to  determine  whether  the  judg-
ment  must  be  modified  to  the  extent  that  the  District  Court  awarded 
relief  based  on  the  first  round  of  hiring,  which  occurred  outside  the 
charging period even for the earliest EEOC charge.  P. 217. 

528 F. 3d 488, reversed and remanded. 

Scalia,

208  LEWIS  v. 209 Cite as: 560 U. S. 205 (2010) 

Opinion of the Court 
they  had  passed  the  examination  but  that,  based  on  the City's  projected  hiring  needs  and  the  number  of  "well-

qualified"  applicants,  it  was  not  likely  they  would  be  called for  further  processing.  The  individual  notices  added,  how-
ever,  that  because  it  was  not  possible  to  predict  how  many applicants would be hired in the next few years, each "quali-
fied"  applicant's  name  would  be  kept  on  the  eligibility  list maintained  by  the  department  of  personnel  for  as  long  as 
that  list  was  used.  Eleven  days  later,  the  City  officially adopted  an  "Eligible  List"  reflecting  the  breakdown  de-
scribed above. On  May  16,  1996,  the  City  selected  its  first  class  of  appli-
cants to advance to the  next  stage.  It selected  a second on October  1,  1996,  and  repeated  the  process  nine  more  times 
over the next six years.  As it had announced, in each round the City drew randomly from among those who scored in the 
"well-qualified"  range  on  the  1995  test.  In  the  last  round it  exhausted  that  pool,  so  it  filled  the  remaining  slots  with 
"qualified" candidates instead. On  March  31,  1997,  Crawford  M.  Smith,  an  AfricanAmerican  applicant  who  scored  in  the  "qualified"  range  and had  not  been  hired  as  a  candidate  firefighter,  filed  a  charge 
of discrimination with the EEOC.  Five others followed suit, and on July 28, 1998, the EEOC issued all six of them right-
to-sue letters.  Two months later, they filed this civil action against  the City, alleging (as relevant  here) that its  practice 
of  selecting  for  advancement  only  applicants  who  scored  89 or above caused a disparate impact on African-Americans in 
violation of Title VII.  The District Court certified a class-- petitioners here--consisting  of the more than 6,000 AfricanAmericans  who  scored  in  the  "qualified"  range  on  the  1995 examination but had not been hired.

2 

erans  in  the  "qualified"  range  had  five  points  added  to  their  scores  and 
therefore became "well qualified." 

2 In addition to the class members, the African American Fire Fighters 

League of Chicago, Inc., also joined the suit as a plaintiff. 

210  LEWIS  v. 211 Cite as: 560 U. S. 205 (2010) 

Opinion of the Court 
ing whether a plaintiff 's charge is timely thus requires "iden-tify[ing]  precisely  the  `unlawful  employment  practice'  of 

which  he  complains."  Delaware

212  LEWIS  v. 213 Cite as: 560 U. S. 205 (2010) 

Opinion of the Court 
The  City  argues  that  subsection  (k)  is  inapposite  because it  does  not  address  "accrual"  of  disparate-impact  claims. 

Section  2000e-5(e)(1), it  says,  specifies  when  the  time  to  file a charge starts running.  That is true but irrelevant.  Aside 
from the first round of selection in May 1996 (which all agree is  beyond  the  300-day  charging  period),  the  acts  petitioners 
challenge--the City's use of its cutoff score in selecting can-didates--occurred within the charging period.  Accordingly, 
no  one  disputes  that  if  petitioners  could  bring  new  claims based  on  those  acts,  their  claims  were  timely.  The  issue, 
in  other  words,  is  not  when

214  LEWIS  v. 215 Cite as: 560 U. S. 205 (2010) 

Opinion of the Court 
plaintiff  must  demonstrate  deliberate  discrimination  within the  limitations  period.  See 

Ledbetter,

216  LEWIS  v. 217 Cite as: 560 U. S. 205 (2010) 

Opinion of the Court 
ing or estoppel may allow some affected employees or appli-cants  to  sue,  but  many  others  will  be  left  out  in  the  cold. 

Moreover,  the  City's  reading  may  induce  plaintiffs  aware  of the  danger  of  delay  to  file  charges  upon  the  announcement 
of a hiring practice, before they have any basis for believing it will produce a disparate impact. 

In all events, it is not our task to assess the consequences of  each  approach  and  adopt  the  one  that  produces  the  least 
mischief.  Our  charge  is  to  give  effect  to  the  law  Congress enacted.  By  enacting  $ 2000e-2(k)(1)(A)(i), Congress al-
lowed  claims  to  be  brought  against  an  employer  who  uses  a practice that causes disparate impact, whatever the employ-
er's  motives  and  whether  or  not  he  has  employed  the  same practice  in  the  past.  If  that  effect  was  unintended,  it  is  a 
problem for Congress, not one that federal courts can fix. 

III 
The  City  asserts  that  one  aspect  of  the  District  Court's judgment  still  must  be  changed.  The  first  round  of  hiring 

firefighters occurred outside the charging period even for the earliest EEOC charge.  Yet the District Court, applying the 
continuing-violation  theory,  awarded  relief  based  on  those acts.  Petitioners  do  not  disagree,  and  they  do  not  oppose 
the  City's  request  for  a  remand  to  resolve  this  issue.  We therefore  leave  it  to  the  Seventh  Circuit  to  determine,  to 
the  extent  that  point  was  properly  preserved,  whether  the judgment must be modified in light of our decision. 

* * * 
The  judgment  of  the  Court  of  Appeals  is  reversed,  and the case is remanded for further proceedings consistent with 

this opinion. 

It

218  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

Syllabus 

UNITED  STATES  v.

219 Cite as: 560 U. S. 218 (2010) 
Syllabus 
begins with Castillo,

220  UNITED  STATES  v. 221 Cite as: 560 U. S. 218 (2010) 

Opinion of the Court 
Justice

222  UNITED  STATES  v. 223 Cite as: 560 U. S. 218 (2010) 

Opinion of the Court 
count  three,  the  court  could  determine  at  sentencing  that the particular firearm was a machinegun, thus activating the 

30-year mandatory minimum.  The District Court dismissed count  four,  as  the  Government  requested,  but  rejected  the 
Government's  position  that  the  machinegun  provision  was  a sentencing  enhancement  to  be  determined  by  the  court  at 
sentencing  once  there  was  a  conviction  on  count  three.  It 
ruled  that  the  machinegun  provision  states  an  element  of  a crime.  Thus,  to  invoke  the  30-year  minimum  sentence,  the 

Government  was  required  to  charge  in  the  indictment,  and then  prove  to  the  jury,  that  the  Cobray  was  a  machinegun. 

At  this  point,  after  the  District  Court  foreclosed  the  pos-
sibility  of  respondents'  facing  a  30-year  minimum,  respond-
ents pleaded guilty  to the  remaining counts, including count 
three.  The District Court sentenced O'Brien to a 102-month 
term for his $ 924(c) conviction, to run consecutively with his 
sentence  on  two  other  counts.  It  sentenced  Burgess  to  an 
84-month term for his $ 924(c) conviction, also to run consecu-
tively  to  his  sentence  on  the  other  charges.  The  Govern-
ment  appealed  the  District  Court's  ruling  that  the  $ 924 
machinegun  provision  constitutes  an  element  of  an  offense 
instead of a sentencing factor. 

The  United  States  Court  of  Appeals  for  the  First  Cir-
cuit affirmed.  It looked primarily to Castillo,

224  UNITED  STATES  v. 225 Cite as: 560 U. S. 218 (2010) 

Opinion of the Court 
Subject  to  this  constitutional  constraint,  whether  a  given 
fact  is  an  element  of  the  crime  itself  or  a  sentencing  factor 
is  a  question  for  Congress.  When  Congress  is  not  explicit, 
as  is  often  the  case  because  it  seldom  directly  addresses 
the  distinction  between  sentencing  factors  and  elements, 
courts look  to the provisions and the framework of the stat-
ute  to  determine  whether  a  fact  is  an  element  or  a  sentenc-
ing  factor.  Almendarez-Torres,

226  UNITED  STATES  v. 227 Cite as: 560 U. S. 218 (2010) 

Opinion of the Court 
The 1998 amendment did make substantive changes to the statute, to be  discussed  below; but  for purposes  of the pres-

ent  case  the  most  apparent  effect  of  the  amendment  was  to divide what was once a lengthy principal sentence into sepa-
rate  subparagraphs.  This  Court's  observation  in  consider-ing  the  first 

Castillo

228  UNITED  STATES  v. 229 Cite as: 560 U. S. 218 (2010) 

Opinion of the Court 
The  Government's  response,  that  permitting  a  judge  to 
make  this  finding  would  "streamlin[e]  guilt-stage  proceed-
ings,  without  interfering  with  the  accuracy  of  fact-finding," 
Brief for United States 33,  is unconvincing.  It does not ad-
dress  the  particular  unfairness  concern  expressed  in  Cas-
tillo,

230  UNITED  STATES  v.Cite as: 560 U. S. 218 (2010)  231 

Opinion of the Court 
ity  of  the  increase  in  this  case  counsels  in  favor  of  finding 
that the prohibition is an element, at least absent some clear 
congressional indication to the contrary. 

The  fifth  factor  considered  in  Castillo

232  UNITED  STATES  v. 233 Cite as: 560 U. S. 218 (2010) 

Opinion of the Court 
The  Court  in  Bailey

234  UNITED  STATES  v. 235 Cite as: 560 U. S. 218 (2010) 

Stevens,
236  UNITED  STATES  v. 237 Cite as: 560 U. S. 218 (2010) 

Stevens,
238  UNITED  STATES  v. 239 Cite as: 560 U. S. 218 (2010) 

Stevens,
240  UNITED  STATES  v. 241 Cite as: 560 U. S. 218 (2010) 

Thomas,
242  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

Syllabus 

HARDT  v.

243 Cite as: 560 U. S. 242 (2010) 
Syllabus 
to require a party to attain that status is contrary to $ 1132(g)(1)'s plain 
text.  The  words  "prevailing  party"  do  not  appear  in  the  provision. 
Nor  does  anything else  in  $ 1132(g)(1)'s  text  purport to  limit  the  avail-
ability  of  attorney's  fees  to  a  "prevailing  party."  Instead,  $ 1132(g)(1) 
expressly  grants  district  courts  "discretion"  to  award  attorney's  fees 
"to either

244  HARDT  v. 245 Cite as: 560 U. S. 242 (2010) 

Opinion of the Court 
trary  to  $ 1132(g)(1)'s  plain  text.  We  hold  instead  that  a 
court "in its discretion" may award fees and costs "to either 
party," ibid.,

246  HARDT  v. 247 Cite as: 560 U. S. 242 (2010) 

Opinion of the Court 
that  Hardt  had  been  diagnosed  with  neuropathy  after  her first evaluation. 

Hardt  appeared  for  the  updated  evaluation  in  December 2005,  and  appeared  for  another  evaluation  in  January  2006. 
The  evaluators  deemed  both  evaluations  invalid  because Hardt's efforts were "submaximal." 

Id.,

248  HARDT  v. 249 Cite as: 560 U. S. 242 (2010) 

Opinion of the Court 
Reliance did as instructed.  After conducting that review, Reliance  found  Hardt  eligible  for  long-term  disability  bene-

fits and paid her $55,250 in accrued, past-due benefits. Hardt  then  moved  for  attorney's  fees  and  costs  under 

$ 1132(g)(1).  The  District Court  assessed her  motion under the  three-step  framework  that  governed  fee  requests  in 
ERISA  cases  under  Circuit  precedent.  At  step  one  of  that framework, a district  court asks whether the  fee claimant is 
a  " `prevailing  party.' "  Id.,

250  HARDT  v. 251 Cite as: 560 U. S. 242 (2010) 

Opinion of the Court 
rectly identify the circumstances under which a fee claimant is entitled to attorney's fees under $ 1132(g)(1)?  We granted 

certiorari.  558 U. S. 1142 (2010). 

II 
Whether  $ 1132(g)(1)  limits  the  availability  of  attorney's fees  to  a  "prevailing  party"  is  a  question  of  statutory  con-

struction.  As  in  all  such  cases,  we  begin  by  analyzing  the statutory  language,  "assum[ing]  that  the  ordinary  meaning 
of  that  language  accurately  expresses  the  legislative  pur-pose." 

Gross

252  HARDT  v. 253 Cite as: 560 U. S. 242 (2010) 

Opinion of the Court 
torney's fees is the bedrock principle known as the " `Ameri-can  Rule' ":  Each  litigant  pays  his  own  attorney's  fees,  win 

or  lose,  unless  a  statute  or  contract  provides  otherwise. Ruckelshaus,

254  HARDT  v. 255 Cite as: 560 U. S. 242 (2010) 

Opinion of the Court 
these  five  factors  bear  no  obvious  relation  to  $ 1132(g)(1)'s text  or  to  our  fee-shifting  jurisprudence,  they  are  not  re-

quired for channeling a court's discretion when awarding fees under this section. 

Instead,  Ruckelshaus

256  HARDT  v. 257 Cite as: 560 U. S. 242 (2010) 

Opinion of Stevens,
258  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

Syllabus 

UNITED  STATES  v.

259 Cite as: 560 U. S. 258 (2010) 
Syllabus 
appellant's trial.  Id.,

260  UNITED  STATES  v. 261 Cite as: 560 U. S. 258 (2010) 

Opinion of the Court 
place  before,  and  some  of  which  took  place  after,  the  stat-ute's  enactment  date.  538  F.  3d,  at  101.  The  Constitution, 

it  said,  does  not  forbid  the  application  of  a  new  statute  to such  a  course  of  conduct  so  long  as  the  course  of  conduct 
continued  after

262  UNITED  STATES  v.Cite as: 560 U. S. 258 (2010)  263 

Opinion of the Court 
The Court of Appeals, however, would notice a "plain error" and set aside a conviction whenever there exists "any possi-

bility,  no  matter  how  unlikely,  that  the  jury  could  have  con-victed  based  exclusively  on  pre-enactment  conduct."  538 
F. 3d, at 102.  This standard is irreconcilable with our "plain error" precedent.  See, 

e.

264  UNITED  STATES  v. 265 Cite as: 560 U. S. 258 (2010) 

Opinion of the Court 
matically  "affec[t]  substantial  rights"  without  a  showing  of individual prejudice. 

That  is  because  errors  similar  to  the  one  at  issue  in  this case--

i.

266  UNITED  STATES  v. 267 Cite as: 560 U. S. 258 (2010) 

Stevens,
268  UNITED  STATES  v. 269 Cite as: 560 U. S. 258 (2010) 

Stevens,
270  UNITED  STATES  v. 271 Cite as: 560 U. S. 258 (2010) 

Stevens,
272  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

Per  Curiam 

ROBERTSON  v.

273 Cite as: 560 U. S. 272 (2010) 
Roberts,
274  ROBERTSON  v. 275 Cite as: 560 U. S. 272 (2010) 

Roberts,
276  ROBERTSON  v. 277 Cite as: 560 U. S. 272 (2010) 

Roberts,
278  ROBERTSON  v. 279 Cite as: 560 U. S. 272 (2010) 

Roberts,
280  ROBERTSON  v. 281 Cite as: 560 U. S. 272 (2010) 

Roberts,
282  ROBERTSON  v. 283 Cite as: 560 U. S. 272 (2010) 

Sotomayor
284  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

Per  Curiam 

JEFFERSON  v.

285 Cite as: 560 U. S. 284 (2010) 
Per Curiam 
yers were constitutionally inadequate  because they failed to investigate  a  traumatic  head  injury  that  he  suffered  as  a 

child.  The  state  court  rejected  that  claim  after  making  a finding  that  the  attorneys  were  advised  by  an  expert  that 
such  investigation  was  unnecessary.  Under  the  governing federal  statute,  that  factual  finding  is  presumed  correct  un-
less  any  one  of  eight  exceptions  applies.  See  28  U. S. C. $$ 2254(d)(1)-(8)  (1994  ed.).  But  the  Court  of  Appeals  con-
sidered only one of those exceptions (specifically $ 2254(d)(8)). And on that basis, it considered itself "duty-bound" to accept 
the state court's finding, and rejected Jefferson's claim.  Be-cause  the  Court  of  Appeals  did  not  fully  consider  several 
remaining  potentially  applicable  exceptions,  we  vacate  its judgment and remand. 

I 
When  Jefferson  was  a  child,  he  "suffered  a  serious  injury to his head." 

Jefferson

286  JEFFERSON  v. 287 Cite as: 560 U. S. 284 (2010) 

Per Curiam 
son did not suffer from brain damage or neurological impair-ment;  he  had  no  organic  disorders";  and  "his  emotional  sta-

bility, impulse control, and judgment were perfectly normal." 
Id.,

288  JEFFERSON  v. 289 Cite as: 560 U. S. 284 (2010) 

Per Curiam 
The  District  Court  ruled  in  Jefferson's  favor.  It  noted that  under  the  relevant  statute  "factual  findings  of  state 

courts  are  presumed  to  be  correct  unless  one  of  .  .  .  eight enumerated  exceptions . . .  applies."  490  F.  Supp.  2d,  at 
1280; see also  ibid., n. 5 (listing the exceptions).  And  it ac-knowledged  "the  state  habeas  corpus  court's  failure  to  ex-
plain  the  basis"  for  its  credibility  findings.  Id.,

290  JEFFERSON  v. 291 Cite as: 560 U. S. 284 (2010) 

Per Curiam 
court  of  competent  jurisdiction . . .  , shall be  presumed 
to  be  correct,  unless

292  JEFFERSON  v. 293 Cite as: 560 U. S. 284 (2010) 

Per Curiam 
"duty-bound"  to  defer  to  the  state  court's  findings  because "Jefferson has not argued that any of the state courts' factual 

findings  were  `not

294  JEFFERSON  v. 295 Cite as: 560 U. S. 284 (2010) 

Scalia,
296  JEFFERSON  v. 297 Cite as: 560 U. S. 284 (2010) 

Scalia,
298  JEFFERSON  v. 299 Cite as: 560 U. S. 284 (2010) 

Scalia,
300  JEFFERSON  v. 301 Cite as: 560 U. S. 284 (2010) 

Scalia,
302  JEFFERSON  v. 303 Cite as: 560 U. S. 284 (2010) 

Scalia,
304  JEFFERSON  v. 305 OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

Syllabus 

SAMANTAR  v.

306  SAMANTAR  v. 307 Cite as: 560 U. S. 305 (2010) 

Counsel 
Shay

308  SAMANTAR  v. 309 Cite as: 560 U. S. 305 (2010) 

Opinion of the Court 
tary  regime  collapsed,  fled  Somalia  in  1991  and  is  now  a resident of Virginia.  The United  States has  not  recognized 

any entity as the government of Somalia since the fall of the military  regime.  See  Brief  for  United  States  as  Amicus

310  SAMANTAR  v. 311 Cite as: 560 U. S. 305 (2010) 

Opinion of the Court 
govern  whether  petitioner  enjoys  immunity  from  suit,  the Court of Appeals remanded the case for further proceedings, 

including  a  determination  of  whether  petitioner  is  entitled to  immunity  under  the  common  law.  Id.,

312  SAMANTAR  v. 313 Cite as: 560 U. S. 305 (2010) 

Opinion of the Court 
mann,

314  SAMANTAR  v. 315 Cite as: 560 U. S. 305 (2010) 

Opinion of the Court 
could  be  read  to  include  a  foreign  official.  Although  we agree that petitioner's interpretation is literally possible, our 

analysis  of  the  entire  statutory  text  persuades  us  that  peti-tioner's  reading  is  not  the  meaning  that  Congress  enacted. 

We  turn  first  to  the  term  "agency  or  instrumentality  of  a foreign state," $ 1603(b).  It is true that an individual official 
could be an "agency or instrumentality," if that term is given 
the meaning of "any thing or person through which action is accomplished," 

In

316  SAMANTAR  v. 317 Cite as: 560 U. S. 305 (2010) 

Opinion of the Court 
that  the  definition  of  "foreign  state"  in  $ 1603(a)  sets  out  a nonexhaustive  list  that  "includes"  political  subdivisions  and 

agencies  or  instrumentalities  but  is  not  so  limited.  See Brief  for  Petitioner  22-23.  It  is  true  that  use  of  the  word 
"include"  can  signal  that  the  list that  follows  is  meant  to  be illustrative rather than exhaustive.

10  And, to be sure, there 

are fewer textual clues within $ 1603(a) than within $ 1603(b) from  which  to  interpret  Congress'  silence  regarding  foreign 

officials.  But  even  if  the  list  in  $ 1603(a)  is  merely  illustra-tive, it still suggests that "foreign state" does not encompass 
officials,  because  the  types  of  defendants  listed  are  all  enti-ties.  See 

Russell

318  SAMANTAR  v. 319 Cite as: 560 U. S. 305 (2010) 

Opinion of the Court 
reading  of  "foreign  state,"  we  would  subject  claims  against officials  to  the  more  limited  remedies  available  in  suits 

against states, without so much as a whisper from Congress on  the  subject.  (And  if  we  were  instead  to  adopt  petition-
er's  other  textual  argument,  we  would  subject  those  claims to  the  different,  more  expansive,  remedial  scheme  for  agen-
cies.)  The  Act's  careful  calibration  of  remedies  among  the listed  types  of  defendants  suggests  that  Congress  did  not 
mean to cover other types of defendants never mentioned in the text. 

In  sum,  "[w]e  do  not  .  .  .  construe  statutory  phrases  in isolation;  we  read  statutes  as  a  whole." 

United

320  SAMANTAR  v. 321 Cite as: 560 U. S. 305 (2010) 

Opinion of the Court 
Petitioner  argues  that  because  state  and  official  immuni-ties  are  coextensive,  Congress  must  have  codified  official 

immunity  when  it  codified  state  immunity.  See  Brief  for Petitioner 26-30.  But the relationship between a state's im-
munity  and  an  official's  immunity  is  more  complicated  than petitioner suggests, although we need not and do not resolve 
the  dispute  among  the  parties  as  to  the  precise  scope  of  an 
official's  immunity  at  common  law.  The  very  authority  to which  petitioner  points  us,  and  which  we  have  previously 

found instructive, see, e.

322  SAMANTAR  v. 323 Cite as: 560 U. S. 305 (2010) 

Opinion of the Court 
Petitioner  would  have  a  stronger  case  if  there  were  any indication that Congress' intent to enact a comprehensive so-

lution for suits against states extended to suits against indi-vidual  officials.  But  to  the  extent  Congress  contemplated 
the  Act's  effect  upon  officials  at  all,  the  evidence  points  in the  opposite  direction.  As  we  have  already  mentioned,  the 
legislative  history  points  toward  an  intent  to  leave  official immunity  outside  the  scope  of  the  Act.  See  n.  12, 

supra.

324  SAMANTAR  v. 325 Cite as: 560 U. S. 305 (2010) 

Opinion of the Court 
mune from suit under the FSIA, the district court may have to  dismiss  the  suit,  regardless  of  whether  the  official  is  im-

mune or not  under  the  common law.  See Republic

326  SAMANTAR  v. 327 Cite as: 560 U. S. 305 (2010) 

Scalia,
328  SAMANTAR  v. 329 Cite as: 560 U. S. 305 (2010) 

Scalia,
330  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

Syllabus 

ALABAMA  et

331 Cite as: 560 U. S. 330 (2010) 
Syllabus 
In  2003,  this  Court  granted  Alabama,  Florida,  Tennessee,  Virginia, 
and  the  Commission  (Plaintiffs)  leave  to  file  a  bill  of  complaint  against 
North  Carolina  under  this  Court's  original  jurisdiction,  U.  S.  Const., 
Art. III, $ 2, cl. 2; 28 U. S. C. $ 1251(a).  The complaint sets forth claims 
of violation of Plaintiffs' rights under the Compact (Count I), breach of 
contract (Count II), unjust enrichment (Count III), promissory estoppel 
(Count IV), and money had and received (Count V), and requests mone-
tary and other relief, including a declaration that North Carolina is sub-
ject to sanctions and that the Commission's sanctions resolution is valid 
and enforceable. 

The Court assigned the case to a Special Master,  who has conducted 
proceedings and has filed two reports.  The Preliminary Report recom-
mends denying without prejudice North Carolina's motion to dismiss the 
Commission's claims on sovereign immunity grounds; denying Plaintiffs' 
motion for summary judgment on Count I, which sought enforcement of 
the Commission's sanctions resolution; granting North Carolina's crossmotion  to  dismiss  Count  I and  other  portions  of  the  complaint  seeking 
such  enforcement;  and  denying  North  Carolina's  motion  to  dismiss  the 
claims in Counts II-V.  The Master's Second Report recommended de-
nying  Plaintiff's  motion  for  summary  judgment  and  granting  North 
Carolina's  motion  for  summary  judgment  on  Count  II;  and  denying 
North Carolina's motion for summary judgment on Plaintiffs' remaining 
claims  in  Counts III-V.  The  parties filed  a total  of  nine  exceptions to 
the Master's Reports. 

Held:

332  ALABAMA  v. 333 Cite as: 560 U. S. 330 (2010) 

Syllabus 
renders the sovereign immunity question with regard to any relief

334  ALABAMA  v. 335 Cite as: 560 U. S. 330 (2010) 

Opinion of the Court 
and criteria for identifying . . . a host [S]tate for the develop-ment  of  a  second  regional  disposal  facility,"  and  to  "seek  to 

ensure  that  such  facility  is  licensed  and  ready  to  operate  as soon  as  required  but  in  no  event  later  than  1991,"  Art. 
4(E)(6),  id.,

336  ALABAMA  v. 337 Cite as: 560 U. S. 330 (2010) 

Opinion of the Court 
responded  that  it  would  not  be  able  to  continue  without  ad-ditional  guarantees  of  external  funding.  On  December  1, 

1997,  the  parties  having  failed  to  agree  upon  a  long-term financing plan, the Commission ceased financial assistance to 
North Carolina.  By then it had provided almost $80 million. On December 19, 1997, North Carolina informed the Com-
mission it would commence an orderly shutdown of its licens-
ing  project,  and  since  that  date  has  taken  no  further  steps toward  obtaining  a  license  for  the  facility.  But  it  did  con-

tinue  to  fund  the  Authority  for  several  more  years,  in  the hope  that  the  project  would  resume  upon  the  restoration  of 
external  financial  assistance.  North  Carolina  maintained 
the  proposed  facility  site,  preserved  the  work  it  had  com-
pleted  to  date,  and  retained  the  Authority's  books  and  rec-
ords.  It  also  participated  in  discussions  with  the  Commis-
sion,  generators  of  low-level  radioactive  waste,  and  other 
stakeholders  regarding  options  to  resolve  the  financing 
shortfall.  From FY  1988  through FY 2000, North Carolina 
had expended almost $34 million toward obtaining a license. 

In  June  1999,  after  attempts  to  resolve  the  funding  im-
passe  had  failed,  Florida  and Tennessee  filed  with  the  Com-
mission  a  complaint  for  sanctions  against  North  Carolina. 
It  alleged  that  North  Carolina  had  failed  to  fulfill  its  obli-
gations  under  the  Compact,  and  requested  (among  other 
things) return of the almost  $80 million paid to North Caro-
lina  by  the  Commission,  plus  interest,  as  well  as  damages 
and attorney's  fees.  The next  month, North  Carolina with-
drew from the  Compact  by enacting  a  law repealing  its sta-
tus  as  a  party  State,  see  1999  N.  C.  Sess.  Laws  ch.  357,  as 
required by Article 7(G) of the Compact. 

More than four months later, in December 1999, the Com-
mission  held  a  sanctions  hearing.  North  Carolina  did  not 
participate.  After  the  hearing,  the  Commission  concluded 
that North Carolina had failed to fulfill its obligations under 
the Compact.  It adopted a resolution demanding that North 
Carolina  repay  approximately  $80  million,  plus  interest,  to 

338  ALABAMA  v. 339 Cite as: 560 U. S. 330 (2010) 

Opinion of the Court 
reports.  The Master's Preliminary Report addressed three motions  filed  by  the  parties.  He  recommended  denying 

without  prejudice  North  Carolina's  motion  to  dismiss  the Commission's  claims  against  North  Carolina  on  the  grounds 
of  sovereign  immunity.  Preliminary  Report  4-14.  He  rec-ommended denying Plaintiffs' motion for summary judgment 
on  Count  I,  which  sought  enforcement  of  the  Commission's sanctions resolution. 

Id.,

340  ALABAMA  v. 341 Cite as: 560 U. S. 330 (2010) 

Opinion of the Court 
efits,  or  the  imposition of  a nonmonetary  obligation, to  capi-tal punishment.  The Compact surely does not authorize the 

Commission to impose all of them. Ultimately,  context  dictates  precisely  which  "sanctions" 
are  authorized  under  Article  7(F),  and  nothing  in  the  Com-pact  suggests  that  these  include  monetary  measures.  The 
only two  "sanctions" specifically identified  as being  included 
within Article 7(F) are "suspension" of a State's rights under the  Compact and "revocation"  of its  status  as a party  State. 

These  are  arguably  merely  examples,  and  may  not  exhaust the  universe  of  sanctions  the  Commission  can  impose.  But 
they  do  establish  "illustrative  application[s]  of  the  general 
principle," Federal

342  ALABAMA  v. 343 Cite as: 560 U. S. 330 (2010) 

Opinion of the Court 
judge  of  the  qualifications  of  the  party  [S]tates  and  of  its 
members and of their compliance with the conditions and re-
quirements of this compact and the laws of the party [S]tates 
relating  to  the  enactment  of  this  compact."  99  Stat.  1879. 

Plaintiffs greatly overread this provision.  The limited na-
ture of the authority to "judge" that it confers upon the Com-
mission is clear from its context.  The first sentence of Arti-
cle  7(C)  states  that  an  eligible  State  "shall  be  declared"  a 
party State "upon enactment of this compact into law by the 
[S]tate and upon [the] payment of " a $25,000 fee, as "required 
by Article 4(H)(1)."  Ibid.

344  ALABAMA  v. 345 Cite as: 560 U. S. 330 (2010) 

Opinion of the Court 

1 
Plaintiffs  claim  North  Carolina  breached  the  Compact  in December  1997,  when  (as  it  admits)  it  ceased  all  efforts  to-

ward obtaining a license.  At that point, in their view, North Carolina was no longer "tak[ing] appropriate steps to ensure 
that  an  application  for  a  license  to  construct  and  operate  a [low-level  radioactive  waste  storage  facility]  is  filed  with 
and issued  by the  appropriate authority," Art. 5(C), 99  Stat. 1877.  North Carolina says that once the Commission ceased 
providing  financial  assistance  on  December  1,  and  once  it became  clear  there  was  insufficient  funding  to  complete  the 
licensing  phase,  there  were  no  more  "appropriate"  steps  to take.  The Special Master concluded that the phrase "appro-
priate  steps"  in  Article  5(C)  was  ambiguous,  and  that  the parties'  course  of performance  established that  North Caro-
lina  was  not  required  to  take  steps  toward  obtaining  a  li-cense  once  it  was  made  to  bear  the  remaining  financial  bur-
den  of  the  licensing  phase.  Second  Report  10-24,  35-36. Plaintiffs take exception to that conclusion. 

Article  5(C)  does  not  require  North  Carolina  to  take  any and all steps to license a regional-disposal facility; only those 
that are "appropriate."  Plaintiffs contend that this requires North Carolina to take the steps set forth in the regulations 
of  the  Nuclear  Regulatory  Commission  governing  the  filing and disposition of applications for licenses to operate radioac-
tive  waste  disposal  facilities,  10  CFR  pt.  61  (1997).  Those regulations  set  forth  some,  but  certainly  not  all,  of  the 
"steps"  the  State  would  have  to  take  to  obtain  a  license. But Article 5(C) does not incorporate the regulations by ref-
erence,  much  less  describe  them  as  the  appropriate

346  ALABAMA  v. 347 Cite as: 560 U. S. 330 (2010) 

Opinion of the Court 
previously (which Plaintiffs concede had satisfied North Car-olina's  obligation  to  take  "appropriate  steps").  Once  the 

Commission  refused  to  provide  any  further  financial  assist-ance, North Carolina would have had to assume an unlimited 
financial  commitment  to  cover  all  remaining  licensing  costs. Even  if  it  maintained  its  prior  rate  of  appropriations  going 
forward, it would not have come close to covering the at least 
$34  million  needed  for  the  last  steps  of  the  licensing  phase. And  since  the  income  from  the  South  Carolina  facility  had 

been terminated, there was no apparent prospect of funding for the construction phase (expected to cost at least $75 mil-
lion).  In connection with its August 1997 refusal to provide 
further  assistance,  the  Commission  itself  had  said,  "[I]t  will 
be  imprudent  to  continue  to  deplete  Commission  resources 
for  this  purpose  if  a  source  of  funds  is  not  established  soon 
for the ultimate completion of the project."  Id.,

348  ALABAMA  v. 349 Cite as: 560 U. S. 330 (2010) 

Opinion of the Court 
time  before  "each  [other]  party  [S]tate"  has  taken  a  turn. Ibid.

350  ALABAMA  v. 351 Cite as: 560 U. S. 330 (2010) 

Opinion of the Court 
never  informed  the  Commission  (or  any  party  State)  that  it would  not  fulfill  its  Article  5(C)  obligation  to  take  appro-

priate  steps  toward  obtaining  a  license.  Rather,  it  refused to  take  further  steps  that  were  not  appropriate.  Nor  did 
North  Carolina  take  an  affirmative  act  that  rendered  it  un-able  to  perform.  To  the  contrary,  it  continued  to  fund  the 
Authority for almost two years; it maintained the records of the  Authority;  and  it  preserved  the  work  completed  to  date 
while waiting for alternative funding sources that would en-able resumption of the project.  Plaintiffs further argue that 
a  repudiation  was  effected  by  North  Carolina's  refusal  to take  further  steps  toward  licensing  "except  on  conditions 
which go beyond" the terms of the Compact, id., $ 250, Com-ment  b

352  ALABAMA  v. 353 Cite as: 560 U. S. 330 (2010) 

Opinion of the Court 
A  comparison  of  the  Compact  with  other,  contemporane-ously enacted, compacts confirms  there is  no such  limitation 

on  North  Carolina's  right  to  withdraw.  See  Texas

354  ALABAMA  v. 355 Cite as: 560 U. S. 330 (2010) 

Opinion of the Court 
against  the  United  States,  and  "[t]he  Tribes  do  not  seek  to bring  new  claims  or  issues  against  the  States,  but  only  ask 

leave  to  participate  in  an  adjudication  of  their  vital  water rights  that  was  commenced  by  the  United  States."  Id.,

356  ALABAMA  v. 357 Cite as: 560 U. S. 330 (2010) 

Opinion of the Court 
With regard to Counts I and II, at least, we disagree.  The 
Commission's  claims  under  those  Compact-related  Counts 
are wholly derivative of the  States'  claims.  See Arizona

358  ALABAMA  v.Cite as: 560 U. S. 330 (2010)  359 

Opinion of Kennedy,
360  ALABAMA  v. 361 Cite as: 560 U. S. 330 (2010) 

Opinion of Roberts,
362  ALABAMA  v. 363 Cite as: 560 U. S. 330 (2010) 

Opinion of Breyer,
364  ALABAMA  v. 365 Cite as: 560 U. S. 330 (2010) 

Opinion of Breyer,
366  ALABAMA  v. 367 Cite as: 560 U. S. 330 (2010) 

Opinion of Breyer,
368  ALABAMA  v. 369 Cite as: 560 U. S. 330 (2010) 

Opinion of Breyer,
370  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

Syllabus 

BERGHUIS,  WARDEN  v.

371 Cite as: 560 U. S. 370 (2010) 
Syllabus 
unreasonable in finding an implied waiver of Thompkins' right to remain 
silent and in rejecting his ineffective-assistance-of-counsel claim. 

Held:

372  BERGHUIS  v. 373 Cite as: 560 U. S. 370 (2010) 

Opinion of the Court 
difference in light of other evidence of guilt.  The surviving victim iden-
tified Thompkins as the shooter, and the identification was supported by 
a  surveillance  camera  photograph.  A  friend  testified  that  Thompkins 
confessed  to  him,  and  the  details  of  that  confession  were  corroborated 
by  evidence  that Thompkins stripped and abandoned the  van after the 
shooting.  The jury, moreover, was capable of assessing Purifoy's credi-
bility, as it was instructed to do.  Pp. 389-391. 

547 F. 3d 572, reversed and remanded. 

Kennedy,

374  BERGHUIS  v. 375 Cite as: 560 U. S. 370 (2010) 

Opinion of the Court 
"2.  Anything  you  say  can  and  will  be  used  against  you in a court of law. 

"3.  You have  a  right  to talk  to a  lawyer before  answer-ing any questions and you have the right to have a law-
yer  present  with  you  while  you  are  answering  any questions. 
"4.  If  you  cannot  afford  to  hire  a  lawyer,  one  will  be appointed  to  represent  you  before  any  questioning,  if 
you wish one. "5.  You  have  the  right  to  decide  at  any  time  before  or 
during  questioning  to  use  your  right  to  remain  silent and your right to talk with a lawyer while you are being 
questioned."  Brief  for  Petitioner  60  (some  capitaliza-tion omitted). 

Helgert  asked  Thompkins  to  read  the  fifth  warning  out loud.  App.  8a.  Thompkins  complied.  Helgert  later  said 
this  was  to  ensure  that  Thompkins  could  read,  and  Helgert concluded  that  Thompkins  understood  English.  Id.,

376  BERGHUIS  v. 377 Cite as: 560 U. S. 370 (2010) 

Opinion of the Court 
So that the Thompkins jury could assess Purifoy's credibil-
ity  and  knowledge,  the  prosecution  elicited  testimony  from 
Purifoy that he had been tried earlier for the shooting under 
an  aiding-and-abetting  theory.  Purifoy  and  Detective  Hel-
gert  testified  that  a  jury  acquitted  him  of  the  murder  and 
assault  charges,  convicted  him  of  carrying  a  concealed 
weapon  in  a  motor  vehicle,  and  hung  on  two  other  firearms 
offenses to which he later pleaded guilty.  At Purifoy's trial, 
the  prosecution had argued that Purifoy was  the driver and 
Thompkins  was  the  shooter.  This  was  consistent  with  the 
prosecution's argument at Thompkins' trial. 

After  Purifoy's  trial  had  ended--but  before  Thompkins' 
trial began--Purifoy sent Thompkins some letters.  The let-
ters  expressed  Purifoy's  disappointment  that  Thompkins' 
family  thought  Purifoy  was  a  "snitch"  and  a  "rat."  Id.,

378  BERGHUIS  v.Cite as: 560 U. S. 370 (2010)  379 

Opinion of the Court 
during the interrogation.  It held further that the Michigan Court  of  Appeals  was  not  unreasonable  in  determining  that 

Thompkins had waived his right to remain silent. The  United  States  Court  of  Appeals  for  the  Sixth  Cir-
cuit  reversed,  ruling  for  Thompkins  on  both  his  Miranda

380  BERGHUIS  v. 381 Cite as: 560 U. S. 370 (2010) 

Opinion of the Court 
contends  that  he  "invoke[d]  his  privilege"  to  remain  silent by not saying anything for a sufficient period of time, so the 

interrogation  should  have  "cease[d]"  before  he  made  his  in-culpatory  statements. 

Id.,

382  BERGHUIS  v.Cite as: 560 U. S. 370 (2010)  383 

Opinion of the Court 
being  abandoned  and  the  consequences  of  the  decision  to abandon it." 

Burbine,

384  BERGHUIS  v. 385 Cite as: 560 U. S. 370 (2010) 

Opinion of the Court 
Although  Miranda

386  BERGHUIS  v. 387 Cite as: 560 U. S. 370 (2010) 

Opinion of the Court 
straight-backed chair for three hours, but there is no author-ity for the proposition that an interrogation of this length is 

inherently  coercive.  Indeed,  even  where  interrogations  of greater duration were held to be improper, they were accom-
panied,  as  this  one  was  not,  by  other  facts  indicating  coer-cion, such as an incapacitated and sedated suspect, sleep and 
food  deprivation,  and  threats.  Cf.  Connelly,

388  BERGHUIS  v. 389 Cite as: 560 U. S. 370 (2010) 

Opinion of the Court 
waives  the  right  to  remain  silent  by  making  an  uncoerced statement to the police.  Thompkins did not invoke his right 

to  remain  silent  and  stop  the  questioning.  Understanding his  rights  in  full,  he  waived  his  right  to  remain  silent  by 
making  a  voluntary  statement  to  the  police.  The  police, moreover,  were  not  required  to  obtain  a  waiver  of  Thomp-
kins'  right  to  remain  silent  before  interrogating  him.  The state  court's  decision  rejecting  Thompkins' 

Miranda

390  BERGHUIS  v. 391 Cite as: 560 U. S. 370 (2010) 

Sotomayor,
392  BERGHUIS  v. 393 Cite as: 560 U. S. 370 (2010) 

Sotomayor,
394  BERGHUIS  v. 395 Cite as: 560 U. S. 370 (2010) 

Sotomayor,
396  BERGHUIS  v. 397 Cite as: 560 U. S. 370 (2010) 

Sotomayor,
398  BERGHUIS  v. 399 Cite as: 560 U. S. 370 (2010) 

Sotomayor,
400  BERGHUIS  v. 401 Cite as: 560 U. S. 370 (2010) 

Sotomayor,
402  BERGHUIS  v. 403 Cite as: 560 U. S. 370 (2010) 

Sotomayor,
404  BERGHUIS  v.Cite as: 560 U. S. 370 (2010)  405 

Sotomayor,
406  BERGHUIS  v. 407 Cite as: 560 U. S. 370 (2010) 

Sotomayor,
408  BERGHUIS  v. 409 Cite as: 560 U. S. 370 (2010) 

Sotomayor,
410  BERGHUIS  v. 411 Cite as: 560 U. S. 370 (2010) 

Sotomayor,
412  BERGHUIS  v. 413 OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

Syllabus 

LEVIN, TAX COMMISSIONER OF OHIO v. COMMERCE 

ENERGY,  INC.,  et

414  LEVIN  v.  COMMERCE  ENERGY,  INC. 

Syllabus 
(a)  The  comity  doctrine  reflects  a  proper  respect  for  the  States  and 
their  institutions.  E. g.,  Fair  Assessment,  454  U. S.,  at  112.  Comity's 
constraint  has  particular  force  when  lower  federal  courts  are  asked  to 
pass  on  the  constitutionality  of  state  taxation  of  commercial  activity. 
States  rely  chiefly  on  taxation  to  fund  their  governments'  operations, 
therefore their  tax-enforcement methods should not be interfered  with 
absent strong cause.  See Dows v.  Chicago, 11 Wall. 108, 110.  The TIA 
was enacted specifically to constrain the issuance of federal injunctions 
in  state  tax  cases,  see  Fair  Assessment,  454  U. S.,  at  129,  and  is  best 
understood as but a partial codification of the federal reluctance to inter-
fere with state taxation, National Private Truck Council, Inc. v.  Okla-
homa Tax Comm'n, 515 U. S. 582, 590.  Pp. 421-424. 

(b)  Hibbs  does  not  restrict  comity's  compass.  Plaintiffs  in  Hibbs 
were  Arizona  taxpayers  who  challenged,  as  violative  of  the  Establish-
ment  Clause,  a  tax  credit  that  allegedly  served  to  support  parochial 
schools.  Their  federal-court  suit  for  declaratory  and  injunctive  relief 
did not implicate  in any way their  own tax liability, and the  relief they 
sought would not deplete the State's treasury.  Rejecting Arizona's plea 
that  the  TIA  barred  the  suit,  the  Court  found  that  the  case  was  "not 
rationally  distinguishable"  from  pathmarking  civil-rights  controversies 
in  which  federal  courts  had  entertained  challenges  to  state  tax  credits 
without conceiving of the TIA as a jurisdictional barrier.  542 U. S., at 
93-94, 110-112.  The Court also dispatched Arizona's comity argument 
in the footnote that moved the Sixth Circuit here to reverse the District 
Court's  comity-based  dismissal.  Id.,  at  107,  n.  9.  Neither  Hibbs  nor 
any  other  decision  of  this  Court,  however,  has  considered  the  comity 
doctrine's application to cases of the kind presented here.  Pp. 424-426. 

(c)  Respondents contend that state action "selects [them] out for dis-
criminatory  treatment  by  subjecting  [them]  to  taxes  not  imposed  on 
others  of  the  same  class."  Hillsborough  v.  Cromwell,  326  U. S.  620, 
623.  When economic legislation does not employ classifications subject 
to heightened scrutiny or impinge on fundamental rights, courts gener-
ally  view  constitutional  challenges  with  the  skepticism  due  respect  for 
legislative choices demands.  See, e. g., Hodel v.  Indiana, 452 U. S. 314, 
331-332.  And "in taxation, even more than in other fields, legislatures 
possess  the  greatest  freedom  in  classification."  Madden  v.  Kentucky, 
309  U. S.  83,  88.  Of  key  importance,  when  unlawful  discrimination 
infects tax classifications or other legislative prescriptions, the Constitu-
tion simply calls for equal treatment.  How equality is accomplished-- 
by extension or invalidation of the unequally distributed benefit or bur-
den,  or  some  other  measure--is  a  matter  on  which  the  Constitution  is 
silent.  See,  e. g.,  Heckler  v.  Mathews,  465  U. S.  728,  740.  On  finding 
unlawful discrimination, courts may attempt, within the bounds of their 

415 Cite as: 560 U. S. 413 (2010) 
Syllabus 
institutional competence, to implement what the legislature would have 
willed had it been apprised of the constitutional infirmity.  E. g., id., at 
739,  n.  5.  With  the  State's  legislative  prerogative  firmly  in  mind,  this 
Court, upon finding impermissible discrimination in a State's tax meas-
ure,  generally  remands  the  case,  leaving  the  interim  remedial  choice 
to  state  courts.  See,  e. g.,  McKesson  Corp.  v.  Division  of  Alcoholic 
Beverages and Tobacco, Fla. Dept. of Business Regulation, 496 U. S. 18, 
39-40.  If  lower  federal  courts  were  to  consider  the  merits  of  suits 
alleging  uneven  state  tax  burdens,  however,  recourse  to  state  court 
for  the  interim  remedial  determination  would  be  unavailable,  for  fed-
eral tribunals lack authority to remand to state court an action initiated 
in  federal  court.  Federal  judges,  moreover,  are  bound  by  the  TIA, 
which  generally  precludes  relief  that  would  diminish  state  revenues, 
even  if  such  relief  is  the  remedy  least  disruptive  of  the  state  legisla-
ture's  design.  These  limitations  on  the  remedial  competence  of  lower 
federal  courts  counsel  that  they  refrain  from  taking  up  cases  of  this 
genre,  so  long  as  state  courts  are  equipped  fairly  to  adjudicate  them. 
Pp. 426-428. 

(d)  Comity considerations warrant dismissal of respondents' suit.  If 
Ohio's scheme is unconstitutional, the Ohio courts are better positioned 
to determine--unless and until the Ohio Legislature weighs in--how to 
comply  with  the  mandate  of  equal  treatment.  See  Davis  v.  Michigan 
Dept.  of  Treasury,  489  U. S.  803,  817-818.  The  unelaborated  comity 
footnote in Hibbs does not counsel otherwise.  Hardly a run-of-the-mine 
tax  case,  Hibbs  was  essentially  an  attack  on  the  allocation  of  state  re-
sources  for  allegedly  unconstitutional  purposes.  Plaintiffs  there  were 
third  parties  whose  own  tax  liability  was  not  a  relevant  factor.  Here, 
by contrast, the very premise of respondents' suit is that they are taxed 
differently  from  LDCs.  The  Hibbs  footnote  is  most  sensibly  read  to 
affirm  that,  just  as  that  case  was  a  poor  fit  under  the  TIA,  so  it  was 
a  poor  fit  for  comity.  Respondents'  argument  that  this  case  is  fit  for 
federal-court adjudication  because of the  simplicity of the relief  sought 
is  unavailing.  Even  if  their  claims  had  merit,  respondents  would  not 
be  entitled  to  their  preferred  remedy.  In  Hibbs,  however,  if  the  Dis-
trict Court found the Arizona tax credit impermissible under the Estab-
lishment  Clause,  only  one  remedy  would  redress  the  plaintiffs'  griev-
ance: invalidation of the tax credit at issue.  Pp. 429-431. 

(e)  In sum, a confluence of factors in this case, absent in Hibbs, leads 
to  the  conclusion  that  the  comity  doctrine  controls  here.  First,  re-
spondents  seek  federal-court review of  commercial  matters over  which 
Ohio  enjoys  wide  regulatory  latitude;  their  suit  does  not  involve  any 
fundamental right or classification that attracts heightened judicial scru-
tiny.  Second,  while  respondents  portray  themselves  as  third-party 

416  LEVIN  v.  COMMERCE  ENERGY,  INC. 

Syllabus 
challengers to an allegedly unconstitutional tax scheme, they are in fact 
seeking  federal-court  aid  in  an  endeavor  to  improve  their  competitive 
position.  Third, the Ohio courts are better positioned than their federal 
counterparts  to  correct  any  violation  because  they  are  more  famil-
iar  with  state  legislative  preferences  and  because  the  TIA  does  not 
constrain  their  remedial  options.  Individually,  these  considerations 
may  not  compel  forbearance  by  federal  district  courts;  in  combination, 
however,  they  demand  deference  to  the  state  adjudicative  process. 
Pp. 431-432. 

(f)  The Sixth Circuit's concern that application of the comity doctrine 
here would render the TIA effectively superfluous overlooks Congress' 
aim, in enacting the TIA, to secure the comity doctrine against diminish-
ment.  Comity, moreover, is a prudential doctrine.  "If the State volun-
tarily chooses to submit to a  federal forum, principles of comity do not 
demand that the  federal  court  force the  case back  into the  State's own 
system."  Ohio Bureau of Employment Servs. v.  Hodory, 431 U. S. 471, 
480.  P. 432. 

(g)  In  light  of the  foregoing,  the  Court  need  not  decide  whether  the 
TIA would itself block this suit.  P. 432. 

554 F. 3d 1094, reversed and remanded. 

Ginsburg,

417 Cite as: 560 U. S. 413 (2010) 
Opinion of the Court 
Justice

418  LEVIN  v.  COMMERCE  ENERGY,  INC. 

Opinion of the Court 
distinguish  Hibbs  v.  Winn,  542  U. S.  88  (2004),  in  which  the Court  held  that  neither  the  TIA  nor  the  comity  doctrine 

barred  a  federal  district  court  from  adjudicating  an  Estab-lishment Clause challenge to a state tax credit that allegedly 
funneled public funds to parochial schools. 

I  
A  

Historically,  all  natural  gas  consumers  in  Ohio  purchased gas from the public utility, known as a local distribution com-

pany  (LDC),  serving  their  geographic  area.  In  addition  to selling gas as a commodity, LDCs own and operate networks 
of distribution pipelines to transport and deliver  gas to con-sumers.  LDCs  offer  customers  a  single,  bundled  product 
comprising both gas and delivery. Today,  consumers  in  Ohio's  major  metropolitan  areas  can 
alternatively  contract  with  an  independent  marketer  (IM) that  competes  with  LDCs  for  retail  sales  of  natural  gas. 
IMs  do  not  own  or  operate  distribution  pipelines;  they  use LDCs' pipelines.  When a customer goes with an IM, there-
fore, she purchases two "unbundled" products: gas (from the IM) and delivery (from the LDC). 

Ohio  treats  LDCs  and  IMs  differently  for  tax  purposes. Relevant here, Ohio affords LDCs three tax exemptions that 
IMs  do  not  receive.  First,  LDCs'  natural  gas  sales  are  ex-empt  from  sales  and  use  taxes.  Ohio  Rev.  Code  Ann. 

$ 5739.02(B)(7)  (Lexis  Supp.  2010);  $$ 5739.021(E),  .023(G), .026(F)  (Lexis  2008);  $$ 5741.02(C),  .021(A),  .022(A),  .023(A) 
(Lexis 2008).  LDCs owe instead a gross receipts excise tax, $ 5727.24,  which  is  lower  than  the  sales  and  use  taxes  IMs 
must collect.  Second, LDCs are not subject to the commer-cial  activities  tax  imposed  on  IMs'  taxable  gross  receipts. 

$$ 5751.01(E)(2),  .02  (Lexis  Supp.  2010).  Finally,  Ohio  law excludes inter-LDC natural gas sales from the gross receipts 
tax,  which  IMs  must  pay  when  they  purchase  gas  from LDCs.  $ 5727.33(B)(4) (Lexis 2008). 

419 Cite as: 560 U. S. 413 (2010) 
Opinion of the Court 

B 
Plaintiffs-respondents  Commerce  Energy,  Inc.,  a  Califor-nia  corporation,  and  Interstate  Gas  Supply,  Inc.,  an  Ohio 

company,  are  IMs  that  market  and  sell  natural  gas  to  Ohio consumers.  Plaintiff-respondent  Gregory  Slone  is  an  Ohio 
citizen  who  has  purchased  natural  gas  from  Interstate  Gas Supply since 1999.  Alleging discriminatory taxation of IMs 
and  their  patrons  in  violation  of  the  Commerce  and  Equal Protection  Clauses,  Complaint  |||| 35-39,  App.  11-13,  re-
spondents sued Richard A. Levin, Tax Commissioner of Ohio (Commissioner), in the U. S. District Court for the Southern 
District  of  Ohio.  Invoking  that  court's  federal-question  ju-risdiction under 28 U. S. C. $ 1331, Complaint || 6, App. 3, re-
spondents sought declaratory and injunctive relief invalidat-ing  the  three  tax  exemptions  LDCs  enjoy  and  ordering  the 
Commissioner to stop "recognizing and/or enforcing" the ex-emptions. 

Id., at 20-21.  Respondents named the Commis-sioner  as  sole  defendant;  they  did  not  extend  the  litigation 

to  include  the  LDCs  whose  tax  burden  their  suit  aimed  to increase.

1 

The  District Court  granted the  Commissioner's motion  to dismiss  the  complaint.  The  TIA  did  not  block  the  suit,  the 

District  Court  initially  held,  because  respondents,  like  the plaintiffs  in  Hibbs,  were  "third-parties  challenging  the  con-
stitutionality  of  [another's] tax  benefit," and  their  requested relief  "would  not  disrupt  the  flow  of  tax  revenue"  to  the 
State.  App. to Pet. for Cert. 24a. Nevertheless, the District Court "decline[d] to exercise ju-
risdiction"  as  a  matter  of  comity.  Id.,  at  32a.  Ohio's  Leg-islature,  the  District  Court  observed,  chose  to  provide 
the  challenged  tax  exemptions  to  LDCs.  Respondents  re-

1 In  moving  to  dismiss  the  complaint,  the  Commissioner  urged,  inter 
alia,  that  the  LDCs  were  parties  necessary  to  a  just  adjudication.  See 
Fed. Rule Civ. Proc. 19.  Ruling for the Commissioner on comity grounds, 
the  District  Court  did  not  reach  the  question  whether  the  LDCs  were 
indispensable parties.  App. to Pet. for Cert. 21a, 32a-33a. 

420  LEVIN  v.  COMMERCE  ENERGY,  INC. 

Opinion of the Court 
quested  relief  that  would  "requir[e]  Ohio  to  collect  taxes which  its  legislature  has  not  seen  fit  to  impose." 

Ibid.  (in-
ternal quotation marks omitted).  Such relief, the court said, would draw federal judges into "a particularly inappropriate 

involvement in a state's management of its fiscal operations." 
Ibid. (internal quotation marks omitted).  A state court, the 
District  Court  recognized,  could  extend  the  exemptions  to 
IMs,  but  the  TIA  proscribed  this  revenue-reducing  relief  in federal  court.  "Where  there  would  be  two  possible  reme-

dies,"  the  Court  concluded,  a  federal  court  should  not  "im-pose  its  own  judgment  on  the  state  legislature  mandating 
which remedy is appropriate."  Ibid. 

The U. S. Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit reversed. 
554 F. 3d 1094 (2009).  While agreeing that the TIA did not 
bar respondents' suit, the Sixth Circuit rejected the District 
Court's  comity  ruling.  A  footnote  in  Hibbs,  the  Court  of 
Appeals  believed, foreclosed the  District Court's "expansive 
reading"  of  this  Court's  comity  precedents.  554  F.  3d,  at 
1098.  The  footnote  stated  that  the  Court  "has  relied  upon 
`principles of comity' to preclude original federal-court juris-
diction only when plaintiffs have  sought district-court aid in 
order to arrest or countermand state tax collection."  Hibbs, 
542  U. S.,  at  107,  n.  9  (citation  omitted).  A  broad  view  of 
the  comity cases, the Sixth Circuit feared,  would render the 
TIA "effectively superfluous," and would "sub silentio over-
rule  a  series  of  important  cases"  presenting  challenges  to 
state tax measures.  554 F. 3d, at 1099, 1102 (citing Milliken 
v.  Bradley,  433  U. S.  267  (1977);  Mueller  v.  Allen,  463  U. S. 
388 (1983)); 554 F. 3d, at 1099-1100. 

In  so  ruling,  the  Sixth  Circuit  agreed  with  the  Seventh 
and  Ninth  Circuits,  which  had  similarly  read  Hibbs  to  rein 
in  the  comity  doctrine,  see  Levy  v.  Pappas,  510  F.  3d  755 
(CA7 2007); Wilbur v.  Locke, 423 F. 3d 1101 (CA9 2005), and 
it  disagreed  with  the  Fourth  Circuit,  which  had  concluded 
that  Hibbs  left  comity  doctrine  untouched,  see  DIRECTV, 
Inc.  v.  Tolson,  513  F.  3d  119  (2008).  Noting  that  respond-

421 Cite as: 560 U. S. 413 (2010) 
Opinion of the Court 
ents "challenge[d] only a few limited exemptions," and satis-fied,  therefore,  that  "[respondents']  success  would  not  sig-

nificantly intrude upon traditional matters of state taxation," the  Sixth  Circuit  remanded  the  case  for  adjudication  of  the 
merits.  554 F. 3d, at 1102. After  unsuccessfully  moving  for  rehearing  en  banc,  App. 
to  Pet.  for  Cert.  1a-2a,  the  Commissioner  petitioned  for certiorari.  By  then,  the  First  Circuit  had  joined  the  Sixth, 
Seventh,  and  Ninth  Circuits  in  holding  that  Hibbs  sharply limited  the  scope  of  the  comity  bar. 

Coors  Brewing  Co.  v. Me'ndez-Torres, 562 F. 3d 3 (2009).  We granted the Commis-

sioner's petition, 558 U. S. 989 (2009), to resolve the disagree-ment among the Circuits. 

II  

A  

Comity considerations, the  Commissioner  dominantly urges, preclude the exercise of lower federal-court adjudica-

tory authority over this controversy, given that an adequate state-court  forum  is  available  to  hear  and  decide  respond-
ents' constitutional claims.  We agree. The comity doctrine counsels lower federal courts to resist 
engagement in certain cases falling within their jurisdiction. The doctrine reflects 

"a  proper  respect  for  state  functions,  a  recognition  of the fact that the entire country is made up of a Union of 
separate  state  governments,  and  a  continuance  of  the belief that the National Government will fare best if the 
States  and  their  institutions  are  left  free  to  perform their  separate  functions  in  separate  ways." 

Fair  As-
sessment,  454  U. S.,  at  112  (quoting  Younger  v.  Harris, 401 U. S. 37, 44 (1971)). 

Comity's  constraint  has  particular  force  when  lower  federal courts are asked to pass on the constitutionality of state tax-
ation of commercial activity.  For "[i]t  is upon taxation that the  several  States  chiefly  rely  to  obtain  the  means  to  carry 

422  LEVIN  v.  COMMERCE  ENERGY,  INC. 

Opinion of the Court 
on their  respective governments,  and it is  of the utmost  im-
portance to all of them that the modes adopted to enforce the 
taxes  levied  should  be  interfered  with  as  little  as  possible." 
Dows v.  Chicago, 11 Wall. 108, 110 (1871). 

"An examination of [our] decisions," this Court wrote more 
than a century ago, "shows that a proper reluctance to inter-
fere by prevention with the fiscal operations of the state gov-
ernments has caused [us] to refrain from so doing in all cases 
where  the  Federal  rights  of  the  persons  could  otherwise  be 
preserved  unimpaired."  Boise  Artesian  Hot  &  Cold  Water 
Co.  v.  Boise  City,  213  U. S.  276,  282  (1909).  Accord  Mat-
thews  v.  Rodgers,  284  U. S.  521,  525-526  (1932)  (So  long  as 
the  state  remedy  was  "plain,  adequate,  and  complete,"  the 
"scrupulous  regard  for  the  rightful  independence  of  state 
governments  which  should  at  all  times  actuate  the  federal 
courts,  and  a  proper  reluctance  to  interfere  by  injunction 
with  their  fiscal  operations,  require  that  such  relief  should 
be denied in every case where the asserted federal right may 
be preserved without it.").2 

2 Justice  Brennan  cogently  explained,  in  practical  terms,  "[t]he  special 
reasons  justifying  the  policy  of  federal  noninterference  with  state  tax 
collection": 

"The procedures for mass assessment and collection of state taxes and for 
administration  and  adjudication  of  taxpayers'  disputes  with  tax  officials 
are  generally  complex  and  necessarily  designed  to  operate  according  to 
established  rules.  State  tax  agencies  are  organized  to  discharge  their 
responsibilities  in  accordance  with  the  state  procedures.  If  federal  de-
claratory  relief  were  available  to  test  state  tax  assessments,  state  tax 
administration might be thrown into disarray, and taxpayers might escape 
the ordinary procedural requirements imposed by state law.  During the 
pendency of the federal suit the collection of revenue under the challenged 
law  might  be  obstructed,  with  consequent  damage  to  the  State's  budget, 
and perhaps a shift to the State of the risk of taxpayer insolvency.  More-
over, federal  constitutional issues  are likely  to turn on  questions of  state 
tax law, which, like issues of state regulatory law, are more properly heard 
in  the  state  courts."  Perez  v.  Ledesma,  401  U. S.  82,  128,  n.  17  (1971) 
(opinion concurring in part and dissenting in part). 

423 Cite as: 560 U. S. 413 (2010) 
Opinion of the Court 
Statutes  conferring  federal  jurisdiction,  we  have  repeat-edly  cautioned,  should  be  read  with  sensitivity  to  "federalstate  relations"  and  "wise  judicial  administration."  Quack-enbush v.  Allstate Ins. Co., 517 U. S. 706, 716 (1996) (internal 
quotation  marks  omitted).  But  by  1937,  in  state  tax  cases, the  federal  courts  had  moved  in  a  different  direction:  They 
"had become free and easy with injunctions."  Fair Assess-
ment, 454 U. S., at 129 (Brennan, J., concurring in judgment) (internal  quotation  marks  omitted).

3  Congress  passed  the 

TIA  to  reverse  this  trend.  Id.,  at  109-110  (opinion  of  the Court). 

Our  post-Act  decisions,  however,  confirm  the  continuing sway  of  comity  considerations,  independent  of  the  Act. 
Plaintiffs  in  Great  Lakes  Dredge  &  Dock  Co.  v.  Huffman, 319 U. S. 293  (1943), for example, sought a federal judgment 
declaring  Louisiana's  unemployment  compensation  tax  un-constitutional.  Writing  six  years  after  the  TIA's  passage, 
we  emphasized  the  Act's  animating  concerns:  A  "federal court  of  equity,"  we  reminded,  "may  in  an  appropriate  case 
refuse  to  give  its  special  protection  to  private  rights  when the  exercise  of  its  jurisdiction  would  be  prejudicial  to  the 
public interest, [and] should stay its hand in the public inter-est  when  it  reasonably  appears  that  private  interests  will 
not suffer."  Id., at 297-298 (citations omitted).  In enacting the  TIA,  we  noted,  "Congress recognized  and gave  sanction 
to  this  practice."  Id.,  at  298.  We  could  not  have  thought Congress intended to cabin the comity doctrine, for we went 

3 Two features of federal  equity practice accounted  for the  courts' will-
ingness  to  grant  injunctive  relief.  First,  the  Court  had  held  that,  al-
though  "equity  jurisdiction  does  not  lie  where  there  exists  an  adequate 
legal remedy[,] . . . the `adequate legal remedy' must be one cognizable in 
federal  court."  Fair  Assessment  in  Real  Estate  Assn.,  Inc.  v.  McNary, 
454 U. S. 100, 129, n. 15 (1981) (Brennan, J., concurring in judgment) (em-
phasis  in  original).  Second,  federal  courts,  "construing  strictly  the  re-
quirement  that  the  remedy  available  at  law  be  `plain,  adequate  and  com-
plete,' had frequently concluded that the procedures provided by the State 
were not adequate."  Ibid. (citation omitted). 

424  LEVIN  v.  COMMERCE  ENERGY,  INC. 

Opinion of the Court 
on  to  instruct  dismissal  in  Great  Lakes  on  comity  grounds without deciding whether the  Act reached declaratory judg-

ment actions.  Id., at 299, 301-302.4 Decades  later,  in 

Fair  Assessment,  we  ruled,  based  on 
comity concerns, that  42 U. S. C. $ 1983  does  not permit  fed-eral  courts  to  award  damages  in  state  taxation  cases  when 

state  law  provides  an  adequate  remedy.  454  U. S.,  at  116. 
We clarified in Fair Assessment that "the principle of comity which  predated  the  Act  was  not  restricted  by  its  passage." 

Id., at 110.  And in National Private Truck Council, Inc. v. 
Oklahoma  Tax  Comm'n,  515  U. S.  582,  590  (1995),  we  said, 
explicitly,  that  "the  [TIA]  may  be  best  understood  as  but  a partial codification of the federal reluctance to interfere with 

state taxation."  B 

Although  our  precedents  affirm  that  the  comity  doctrine is more embracive than the  TIA, several Courts of Appeals, 
including the Sixth Circuit in the instant case, have compre-hended 

Hibbs  to  restrict  comity's  compass.  See  supra,  at 
420-421.  Hibbs, however, has a more modest reach. Plaintiffs in 

Hibbs were Arizona taxpayers who challenged 
a state law authorizing tax credits for payments to organiza-
tions that disbursed scholarship grants to children attending private  schools.  542  U. S.,  at  94-96.  These  organizations 

could fund attendance at institutions that provided religious instruction or gave admissions preference on the basis of re-
ligious  affiliation.  Id.,  at  95.  Ranking  the  credit  program as  state  subsidization  of  religion,  incompatible  with  the  Es-
tablishment Clause, plaintiffs sought declaratory and injunc-tive  relief  and  an  order  requiring  the  organizations  to  pay 
sums  still  in  their  possession  into  the  State's  general  fund. 
Id., at 96. 

4 We later held that the Act indeed does proscribe suits for declaratory 
relief that would thwart state tax collection.  California v.  Grace Breth-
ren Church, 457 U. S. 393, 411 (1982). 

425 Cite as: 560 U. S. 413 (2010) 
Opinion of the Court 
The  Director  of  Arizona's  Department  of  Revenue  sought to  escape  suit  in  federal  court  by  invoking  the  TIA.  We 

held  that  the  litigation  fell  outside  the  TIA's  governance. Our  prior  decisions  holding  suits  blocked  by  the  TIA,  we 
noted, were tied to the Act's "state-revenue-protective moor-ings." 

Id.,  at  106.  The  Act,  we  explained,  "restrain[ed] 
state  taxpayers  from  instituting  federal  actions  to  contest 
their [own] liability for state taxes,"  id., at 108, suits  that, if successful,  would deplete state  coffers.  But "third  parties" 

like  the  Hibbs  plaintiffs,  we  concluded,  were  not  impeded by  the  TIA  "from  pursuing  constitutional  challenges  to  tax 
benefits  in  a  federal  forum."  Ibid.  The  case,  we  stressed, 
was  "not  rationally  distinguishable"  from  a  procession  of 
pathmarking  civil-rights  controversies  in  which  federal 
courts  had  entertained  challenges  to  state  tax  credits  with-
out conceiving of the TIA as a jurisdictional barrier.  Id., at 
93-94,  110-112.  See,  e. g.,  Griffin  v.  School  Bd.  of  Prince 
Edward  Cty.,  377  U. S.  218  (1964)  (involving,  inter  alia,  tax 
credits for contributions to private segregated schools). 

Arizona's  Revenue  Director  also  invoked  comity  as  cause 
for  dismissing  the  action.  We  dispatched  the  Director's 
comity  argument  in  a  spare  footnote  that  moved  the  Sixth 
Circuit here to reverse the District Court's comity-based dis-
missal.  As  earlier  set  out,  see  supra,  at  420,  the  footnote 
stated: "[T]his Court has relied upon `principles of comity' to 
preclude  original  federal-court  jurisdiction  only  when  plain-
tiffs have sought district-court aid in order to arrest or coun-
termand state tax collection."  542 U. S., at 107, n. 9 (citation 
omitted) (citing Fair Assessment, 454 U. S., at 107-108; Great 
Lakes, 319 U. S., at 296-299). 

Relying  heavily  on  our  footnote  in  Hibbs,  respondents 
urge that "comity  should no more bar this action than it did 
the action in Hibbs."  Brief for Respondents 42.  As we ex-
plain below, however, the two cases differ markedly in ways 
bearing on the comity calculus.  We have had no prior occa-
sion to consider, under the comity doctrine, a taxpayer's com-

426  LEVIN  v.  COMMERCE  ENERGY,  INC. 

Opinion of the Court 
plaint  about  allegedly  discriminatory  state  taxation  framed as  a  request  to  increase  a  competitor's  tax  burden.  Now 

squarely  presented  with  the  question,  we  hold  that  comity precludes  the  exercise  of  original  federal-court  jurisdiction 
in cases of the kind presented here. 

III 

A 
Respondents  complain  that  they  are  taxed  unevenly  in comparison  to  LDCs  and their  customers.  Under  either  an 

equal  protection  or  dormant  Commerce  Clause  theory,  re-spondents' root objection is the same: State action, respond-
ents  contend,  "selects  [them]  out  for  discriminatory  treat-ment by subjecting [them] to taxes not imposed on others of 
the  same  class."  Hillsborough  v.  Cromwell,  326  U. S.  620, 623 (1946) (equal protection); see 

Dennis v. Higgins, 498 U. S. 439, 447-448 (1991) (dormant Commerce Clause). 

When  economic  legislation  does  not  employ  classifications subject  to  heightened  scrutiny  or  impinge  on  fundamental 
rights,5  courts generally view constitutional challenges  with the  skepticism  due  respect  for  legislative  choices  demands. 
See,  e. g.,  Hodel  v.  Indiana,  452  U. S.  314,  331-332  (1981); 
Williamson v.  Lee Optical of Okla., Inc., 348 U. S. 483, 488- 489 (1955).  And "in taxation, even more than in other fields, 

legislatures  possess  the  greatest  freedom  in  classification." Madden v.  Kentucky, 309 U. S. 83, 88 (1940). 

Of  key  importance,  when  unlawful  discrimination  infects tax classifications or other legislative prescriptions, the Con-
stitution  simply  calls  for  equal  treatment.  How  equality  is accomplished--by  extension or invalidation of the  unequally 
distributed  benefit  or  burden,  or  some  other  measure--is  a 

5 Cf.,  e. g.,  Loving  v.  Virginia,  388  U. S.  1  (1967);  United  States  v.  Vir-
ginia,  518  U. S.  515  (1996).  On  the  federal  courts'  role  in  safeguarding 
human  rights,  see,  e. g., Zwickler v.  Koota,  389  U. S.  241,  245-248  (1967); 
McNeese v.  Board of Ed. for Community Unit School Dist. 187, 373 U. S. 
668, 672-674, and n. 6 (1963). 

427 Cite as: 560 U. S. 413 (2010) 
Opinion of the Court 
matter  on  which  the  Constitution  is  silent.  See  Heckler  v. 
Mathews,  465  U. S.  728,  740  (1984)  ("[W]hen  the  right  in-
voked  is  that  to  equal treatment,  the  appropriate  remedy  is 
a  mandate  of  equal  treatment,  a  result  that  can  be  accom-
plished"  in  more  than  one  way.  (quoting  Iowa-Des  Moines 
Nat. Bank v.  Bennett, 284 U. S. 239, 247 (1931); internal quo-
tation marks omitted)). 

On  finding  unlawful  discrimination,  we  have  affirmed, 
courts may  attempt, within  the  bounds of  their  institutional 
competence,  to  implement  what  the  legislature  would  have 
willed  had  it  been  apprised  of  the  constitutional  infirmity. 
Mathews,  465  U. S.,  at  739,  n.  5;  Califano  v.  Westcott,  443 
U. S.  76,  92-93  (1979);  see  Stanton  v.  Stanton,  421  U. S.  7, 
17-18 (1975) (how State eliminates unconstitutional discrimi-
nation "plainly  is an issue of state law");  cf. United  States v. 
Booker,  543  U. S.  220,  246  (2005)  ("legislative  intent"  deter-
mines cure for constitutional violation).  The relief the com-
plaining  party  requests  does  not  circumscribe  this  inquiry. 
See  Westcott,  443  U. S.,  at  96,  n.  2  (Powell,  J.,  concurring  in 
part  and  dissenting  in  part)  ("This  issue  should  turn  on  the 
intent of  [the  legislature], not  the  interests of  the  parties."). 
With  the  State's  legislative  prerogative  firmly  in  mind,  this 
Court, upon finding impermissible discrimination in a State's 
allocation of benefits or burdens, generally remands the case, 
leaving the remedial choice in the hands of state authorities. 
See,  e. g.,  Wengler  v.  Druggists  Mut.  Ins.  Co.,  446  U. S.  142, 
152-153  (1980);  Orr  v.  Orr,  440  U. S.  268,  283-284  (1979); 
Stanton,  421  U. S.,  at  17-18;  Skinner  v.  Oklahoma  ex  rel. 
Williamson,  316  U. S.  535,  543  (1942).  But  see,  e. g.,  Levy 
v.  Louisiana, 391 U. S. 68 (1968). 

In  particular,  when  this  Court--on  review  of  a  state  high 
court's decision--finds a tax measure constitutionally infirm, 
"it has been our practice," for reasons of "federal-state com-
ity," "to abstain from deciding the remedial effects of such a 
holding."  American  Trucking  Assns.,  Inc.  v.  Smith,  496 

428  LEVIN  v.  COMMERCE  ENERGY,  INC. 

Opinion of the Court 
U. S.  167,  176  (1990)  (plurality  opinion).6  A  "State  found  to have  imposed  an  impermissibly  discriminatory  tax  retains 

flexibility  in  responding  to  this  determination."  McKesson Corp.  v.  Division  of  Alcoholic  Beverages  and  Tobacco,  Fla. 
Dept.  of  Business  Regulation,  496  U. S.  18,  39-40  (1990). Our remand leaves the interim solution in state-court hands, 
subject  to  subsequent  definitive  disposition  by  the  State's legislature. 

If lower federal courts were to give audience to the merits of suits alleging uneven state tax burdens, however, recourse 
to state  court  for the  interim remedial determination would be unavailable.  That is so because federal tribunals lack au-
thority  to  remand  to  the  state  court  system  an  action  initi-ated in federal  court.  Federal judges,  moreover, are  bound 
by the TIA; absent certain exceptions, see, e. g., Department of  Employment  v.  United  States,  385  U. S.  355,  357-358 
(1966), the Act precludes relief that would diminish state rev-enues,  even  if  such  relief  is  the  remedy  least  disruptive  of 
the  state  legislature's  design.7  These  limitations  on  the  re-medial competence of lower federal courts counsel that they 
refrain  from  taking  up  cases  of  this  genre,  so  long  as  state courts are equipped fairly to adjudicate them.

8 

6 See, e. g.,  Harper  v.  Virginia  Dept. of  Taxation,  509 U. S.  86,  100-102 
(1993);  McKesson Corp.  v.  Division  of Alcoholic  Beverages  and  Tobacco, 
Fla.  Dept.  of  Business  Regulation,  496  U. S.  18,  51-52  (1990);  Davis  v. 
Michigan Dept. of Treasury, 489 U. S. 803, 818 (1989); American Trucking 
Assns.,  Inc.  v.  Scheiner,  483 U. S.  266,  297-298  (1987);  Tyler  Pipe Indus-
tries,  Inc.  v.  Washington  State  Dept.  of  Revenue,  483  U. S.  232,  252-253 
(1987); Bacchus Imports, Ltd. v. Dias, 468 U. S. 263, 276-277 (1984); Exxon 
Corp.  v.  Eagerton,  462  U. S.  176,  196-197  (1983);  Louis K. Liggett  Co.  v. 
Lee, 288 U. S. 517, 540-541 (1933). 

7 State courts also have greater leeway to avoid constitutional holdings 

by  adopting  "narrowing  constructions  that  might  obviate  the  constitu-
tional  problem  and  intelligently  mediate  federal  constitutional  concerns 
and state interests."  Moore v.  Sims, 442 U. S. 415, 429-430 (1979). 

8 Any  substantial  federal  question,  of  course,  "could  be  reviewed  when 

the case [comes to this Court] through the hierarchy of state courts."  McNeese, 373 U. S., at 673. 

Cite as: 560 U. S. 413 (2010)  429 

Opinion of the Court 

B 
Comity  considerations,  as  the  District  Court  determined, warrant  dismissal  of  respondents'  suit.  Assuming, 

argu-endo,  that  respondents  could  prevail  on  the  merits  of  the 

suit,9  the  most  obvious  way  to  achieve  parity  would  be  to reduce respondents' tax liability.  Respondents did not seek 
such relief, for the TIA stands in the way of any decree that would "enjoin  .  . . collection of [a]  tax under  State  law."  28 
U. S. C.  $ 1341.10  A  more  ambitious  solution  would  reshape the  relevant  provisions  of  Ohio's  tax  code.  Were  a  federal 
court  to  essay  such  relief,  however,  the  court  would  engage in the very interference in state taxation the comity doctrine 
aims  to  avoid.  Cf.  State  Railroad  Tax  Cases,  92  U. S.  575, 614-615  (1876).  Respondents'  requested  remedy,  an  order 
invalidating  the  exemptions  enjoyed  by  LDCs,  App.  20-21, may  be  far  from  what  the  Ohio  Legislature  would  have 
willed.  See  supra,  at  427.  In  short,  if  the  Ohio  scheme  is indeed  unconstitutional,  surely  the  Ohio  courts  are  better 
positioned  to  determine--unless  and  until  the  Ohio  Legisla-ture  weighs  in--how  to  comply  with  the  mandate  of  equal 
treatment.  See  Davis  v.  Michigan  Dept.  of  Treasury,  489 U. S. 803, 817-818 (1989).

11 

9 But  see  General  Motors  Corp.  v.  Tracy,  519  U. S.  278,  279-280  (1997) 
(determining,  at  a  time  IMs  could  not  compete  with  LDCs  for  the  Ohio 
residential "captive" market, that IMs and LDCs were not "similarly situ-
ated"; and rejecting  industrial  IM customer's  dormant  Commerce Clause 
and  equal  protection  challenges  to  LDCs'  exemption  from  sales  and  use 
taxes). 

10 Previous  language  restricting  the  district  courts'  "jurisdiction"  was 

removed in the 1948 revision of Title 28.  Compare 28 U. S. C. $ 41(1) (1940 
ed.)  with  $ 1341,  62  Stat.  932.  This  Court  and  others  have  continued  to 
regard the Act as jurisdictional.  See, e. g.,  post, at 433  (Thomas,

430  LEVIN  v.  COMMERCE  ENERGY,  INC. 

Opinion of the Court 
As  earlier  noted,  our  unelaborated  footnote  on  comity  in Hibbs,  see  supra,  at  425,  led  the  Sixth  Circuit  to  conclude 

that  we  had  diminished  the  force  of  that  doctrine  and  made it inapplicable here.  We intended no such consequential rul-
ing.  Hibbs  was  hardly  a  run-of-the-mine  tax  case.  It  was essentially  an  attack  on  the  allocation  of  state  resources  for 
allegedly  unconstitutional  purposes.  In  Hibbs,  the  charge was  state  aid  in  alleged  violation  of  the  Establishment 
Clause;  in  other  cases  of  the  same  genre,  the  attack  was  on state  allocations  to  maintain  racially  segregated  schools. 
See  542  U. S.,  at  93-94,  110-112.  The  plaintiffs  in  Hibbs were outsiders to the tax expenditure, "third parties" whose 
own tax liability  was not  a relevant  factor.  In this case, by contrast,  the  very  premise  of  respondents'  suit  is  that  they 
are  taxed  differently  from  LDCs.  Unlike  the  Hibbs  plain-tiffs, respondents do object to their own tax situation, meas-
ured  by  the  allegedly  more  favorable  treatment  accorded LDCs. 

Hibbs  held  that  the  TIA  did  not  preclude  a  federal  chal-lenge by a third party who objected to a tax credit received 
by others, but in no  way objected  to her  own liability  under any  revenue-raising  tax  provision.  In  context,  we  clarify, 
the Hibbs footnote comment on comity is most sensibly read to affirm that, just as the case was a poor fit under the TIA, 
so  it  was  a  poor  fit  for  comity.  The  Court,  in  other  words, did  not  deploy  the  footnote  to  recast  the  comity  doctrine; 
it  intended  the  note  to  convey  only  that  the  Establishment Clause-grounded  case  cleared  both  the  TIA  and  comity 
hurdles. Respondents  steadfastly  maintain  that  this  case  is  fit  for 
federal-court adjudication because of the simplicity of the re-lief  they  seek,  i. e.,  invalidation  of  exemptions  accorded  the 

blunt  interim  relief  respondents  ask  the  District  Court  to  decree  "may 
[immediately]  derange  the  operations  of  government,  and  thereby  cause 
serious  detriment  to  the  public."  Dows  v.  Chicago,  11  Wall.  108,  110 
(1871). 

431 Cite as: 560 U. S. 413 (2010) 
Opinion of the Court 
LDCs.  But as we just explained, even if respondents' Com-merce Clause and equa l protec ti on clai ms had mer it, 

respondents  would  have  no  entitlement  to  their  preferred remedy.  See supra,  at 427.  In  Hibbs,  however, if  the  Dis-
trict  Court  found  the  Arizona  tax  credit  impermissible  un-der  the  Establishment  Clause,  only  one  remedy  would  re-
dress the plaintiffs' grievance: invalidation of the credit, which inevitably would increase the State's tax receipts.  Notably, 
redress in state court similarly would be limited to an order ending  the  allegedly  impermissible  state  support  for  paro-
chial schools.12  Because state courts would have no greater leeway  than  federal  courts  to  cure  the  alleged  violation, 
nothing  would  be  lost  in  the  currency  of  comity  or  state autonomy  by  permitting  the 

Hibbs  suit  to  proceed  in  a  fed-eral forum. 

Comity,  in  sum,  serves  to  ensure  that  "the  National  Gov-ernment,  anxious  though  it  may  be  to  vindicate  and  protect 
federal  rights  and  federal  interests,  always  endeavors  to  do so in ways that will not unduly interfere with the legitimate 
activities of the States."  Younger, 401 U. S., at 44.  A con-fluence  of  factors  in  this  case,  absent  in 

Hibbs,  leads  us  to conclude  that  the  comity  doctrine  controls  here.  First,  re-

spondents  seek  federal-court  review  of  commercial  matters over  which  Ohio  enjoys  wide  regulatory  latitude;  their  suit 
does not  involve any fundamental right or classification that attracts  heightened  judicial  scrutiny.  Second,  while  re-
spondents  portray  themselves  as  third-party  challengers  to an  allegedly  unconstitutional  tax  scheme,  they  are  in  fact 
seeking  federal-court  aid  in  an  endeavor  to  improve  their competitive position.  Third, the Ohio courts are better posi-
tioned  than  their  federal  counterparts  to  correct  any  viola-

12 No  refund suit  (or  other taxpayer mechanism)  was open  to the plain-
tiffs in Hibbs, who were financially disinterested "third parties"; they did 
not,  therefore,  improperly  bypass  any  state  procedure.  Respondents 
here, however, could have asserted their federal rights by seeking a reduc-
tion in their tax bill in an Ohio refund suit. 

432  LEVIN  v.  COMMERCE  ENERGY,  INC. 

Opinion of the Court 
tion  because  they  are  more  familiar  with  state  legislative preferences  and  because  the  TIA  does  not  constrain  their 

remedial  options.  Individually,  these  considerations  may not compel forbearance on the part of federal district courts; 
in combination, however, they demand deference to the state adjudicative process. 

C 
The Sixth Circuit expressed concern that application of the comity  doctrine  here  would  render  the  TIA  "effectively  su-

perfluous."  554  F.  3d,  at  1099;  see  id.,  at  1102.  This  con-cern  overlooks  Congress'  point  in  enacting  the  TIA.  The 
Act  was  passed  to  plug  two  large  loopholes  courts  had opened  in  applying  the  comity  doctrine.  See  supra,  at  423, 
and  n.  3.  By  closing  these  loopholes,  Congress  secured  the doctrine  against  diminishment.  Comity,  we  further  note,  is 
a  prudential  doctrine.  "If  the  State  voluntarily  chooses  to submit  to  a  federal  forum,  principles  of  comity  do  not  de-
mand  that  the  federal  court  force  the  case  back  into  the State's  own  system." 

Ohio  Bureau  of  Employment  Servs. v.  Hodory, 431 U. S. 471, 480 (1977). 

IV 
Because we conclude that the comity doctrine justifies dis-missal  of  respondents'  federal-court  action,  we  need  not  de-

cide whether the TIA would itself block the suit.  See Great Lakes,  319  U. S.,  at  299,  301  (reserving  judgment  on  TIA's 
application  where  comity  precluded  suit).  See  also  Sino-chem  Int'l  Co.  v.  Malaysia  Int'l  Shipping  Corp.,  549  U. S. 
422, 431 (2007) (federal court has flexibility to choose among threshold grounds for dismissal).

13 

13 The District Court  and Court of  Appeals  concluded  that our decision 
in Hibbs  placed  the  controversy  outside  the  TIA's  domain.  That  conclu-
sion,  we  note,  bears  reassessment  in  light  of  this  opinion's  discussion  of 

the significant differences between Hibbs and this case. 

Cite as: 560 U. S. 413 (2010)  433 
Thomas,
434  LEVIN  v.  COMMERCE  ENERGY,  INC. 

Thomas,

435 Cite as: 560 U. S. 413 (2010) 
Thomas,
436  LEVIN  v.  COMMERCE  ENERGY,  INC. 

Thomas,

437 Cite as: 560 U. S. 413 (2010) 
Alito,
438  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

Syllabus 

CARR  v.

439 Cite as: 560 U. S. 438 (2010) 
Syllabus 
stood to encompass a person whose only travel occurred before the stat-
ute took effect.  Indeed,  there  appears to be  no instance  in which this 
Court  has  construed  a  present-tense  verb  in  a  criminal  law  to  reach 
preenactment  conduct.  The  statutory  context  also  supports  a 
forward-looking construction of "travels."  First, the word "travels" is 
followed  in  $ 2250(a)(2)(B)  by  a  series  of  other  present-tense  verbs-- 
"enters or leaves, or resides."  A statute's "undeviating use of the pres-
ent  tense"  is  a  "striking  indic[ator]"  of  its  "prospective  orientation." 
Gwaltney

440  CARR  v. 441 Cite as: 560 U. S. 438 (2010) 

Opinion of the Court 
Curtis

442  CARR  v. 443 Cite as: 560 U. S. 438 (2010) 

Opinion of the Court 
claim,  asserted  that  $ 2250,  by  its  terms,  does  not  apply  to persons  whose  interstate  travel  preceded  SORNA's  enact-

ment.  Beginning with the statutory argument, the Court of Appeals  held  that  $ 2250  "does  not  require  that  the  defend-
ant's travel  postdate the Act."  United

444  CARR  v. 445 Cite as: 560 U. S. 438 (2010) 

Opinion of the Court 

II 
As relevant here, $ 2250 provides: 

"(a)  In

446  CARR  v. 447 Cite as: 560 U. S. 438 (2010) 

Opinion of the Court 

$ 2250(a)(1) (emphasis added).  In an attempt to reconcile its preferred  construction  with  the  words  of  the  statute,  the 

Government  insists  that  this  language  is  merely  "a  short-hand  way  of  identifying  those  persons  who  have  a  [sex-
offense]  conviction  in  the  classes  identified  by  SORNA." Brief for United States 19-20.  To reach this conclusion, the 
Government  observes  that  another  provision  of  SORNA,  42 
U. S. C. $ 16913(a), states that the Act's registration require-ments  apply  to  "sex  offender[s]."  A  "sex  offender"  is  else-

where  defined  as  "an  individual  who  was  convicted  of  a  sex offense."  $ 16911(1).  Thus, as the Government would have 
it, Congress used 12 words and two implied cross-references to establish that the first element of $ 2250(a) is that a person 
has  been  convicted  of  a  sex  offense.  Such  contortions  can scarcely  be  called  "shorthand."  It  is  far  more  sensible  to 
conclude that Congress meant the first precondition to $ 2250 
liability to be the one it listed first: a "require[ment] to regis-
ter  under  [SORNA]."  Once  a  person  becomes  subject  to 
SORNA's  registration  requirements,  which  can  occur  only 
after  the  statute's  effective  date,  that  person  can  be  con-
victed  under  $ 2250  if  he  thereafter  travels  and  then  fails 
to register.4 

That  $ 2250  sets  forth  the  travel  requirement  in  the  pres-
ent  tense ("travels")  rather  than  in  the  past  or present  per-

4 Offering  a  variation  on  the  Government's  argument,  the  dissent  con-
tends  that,  "[i]n  accordance  with  current  drafting  conventions,  $ 2250(a) 
speaks,  not  as  of  the  time  when  the  law  went  into  effect,  but  as  of  the 
time  when  the  first  act  necessary  for  conviction  is  committed."  Post,

448  CARR  v. 449 Cite as: 560 U. S. 438 (2010) 

Opinion of the Court 
In this instance, the statutory context strongly supports a 
forward-looking  construction  of  "travels."  First,  the  word 
"travels"  is  followed  in  $ 2250(a)(2)(B)  by  a  series  of  other 
present-tense verbs--"enters

450  CARR  v. 451 Cite as: 560 U. S. 438 (2010) 

Opinion of the Court 

III 
Echoing  the  Seventh  Circuit's  assessment  that  Congress' use  of present-tense  verbs  in  $ 2250  is  "not  very  revealing," 

Brief for United States 17, the Government offers two princi-pal  arguments  for  construing  the  statute  to  cover  preSORNA travel: First, such a reading avoids an "anomaly" in the  statute's  coverage  of  federal  versus  state  sex  offenders; 
and  second,  it  "better  effectuates  the  statutory  purpose," 
id.,

452  CARR  v. 453 Cite as: 560 U. S. 438 (2010) 

Opinion of the Court 
Identification Act of 1996, Pub. L. 104-236, $ 2, 110 Stat. 3095, 3096,  42  U. S. C.  $$ 14072(g)(3),  (i).

7  The  prospective  orien-

tation of this provision is apparent.  No statutory gap neces-sitated  coverage  of  unregistered  offenders  who  "change[d] 

address"  before  the  statute's  enactment;  the  prosecution  of such persons remained the province of the States. 

In enacting SORNA, Congress preserved this basic alloca-tion  of  enforcement  responsibilities.  To  strengthen  state 
enforcement  of  registration  requirements,  Congress  estab-lished, as a funding condition, that "[e]ach jurisdiction, other 
than  a  Federally  recognized  Indian  tribe,  shall  provide  a criminal penalty that includes a maximum term of imprison-
ment  that  is  greater  than  1  year  for  the  failure  of  a  sex  of-fender to comply with the requirements of this subchapter." 

$ 16913(e).8  Meanwhile,  Congress  in  $ 2250  exposed  to  fed-eral  criminal  liability,  with  penalties  of  up  to  10  years' 
imprisonment,  persons  required  to  register  under  SORNA over  whom  the  Federal  Government  has  a  direct  supervi-
sory  interest  or  who  threaten  the  efficacy  of  the  statutory scheme by traveling in interstate commerce. 

Understanding  the  act  of  travel  as  an  aspect  of  the  harm Congress  sought  to  punish serves  to distinguish  $ 2250  from 
the  felon-in-possession  statute  to  which  the  Seventh  Circuit analogized.  See  551  F.  3d,  at  582-583.  In  Scarborough,

454  CARR  v.Cite as: 560 U. S. 438 (2010)  455 

Opinion of the Court 
goal of tracking down missing sex offenders, the Government 
maintains,  "is  surely  better  served  by  making  Section  2250 
applicable  to  them  in  their  new  States  of  residence  immedi-
ately  than  by  waiting  for  them  to  travel  in  interstate  com-
merce  and  fail  to  register  yet  again."  Brief  for  United 
States  23-24.  The  Court  of  Appeals  expressed  a  similar 
view.  See 551 F. 3d, at 582.9 

The  Government's  argument  confuses  a  general  goal  of 
SORNA with the specific purpose of $ 2250.  Section 2250 is 
not  a  stand-alone  response  to  the  problem  of  missing  sex 
offenders;  it  is  embedded  in  a  broader  statutory  scheme 
enacted  to address  the  deficiencies in prior law that  had en-
abled  sex  offenders  to  slip  through  the  cracks.  See  42 
U. S. C. $ 16901 ("Congress in this chapter establishes a com-
prehensive  national  system  for  the  registration  of  [sex]  of-
fenders").  Among  its  many  provisions,  SORNA  instructs 
States  to  maintain  sex-offender  registries  that  compile  an 

9 Also  making  this  point,  the  dissent  maintains  that  "[i]nterpreting 

$ 2250(a)(2)(B)  to  reach  only  postenactment  travel  severely  impairs 

$ 2250(a)'s  effectiveness"  by  "plac[ing]  beyond  the  reach  of  the  federal 
criminal  laws"  "the  many  sex  offenders  who  had  managed  to  avoid  pre-
existing  registration  regimes."  Post,

456  CARR  v. 457 Cite as: 560 U. S. 438 (2010) 

Opinion of the Court 

C 
None  of the  legislative  materials  the  Government  cites  as 
evidence  of  SORNA's  purpose  calls  this  reading  into  ques-
tion.  To  the  contrary,  the  Report  of  the  House  Judiciary 
Committee suggests not only that a prohibition on postenact-
ment travel is  consonant with  Congress' goals, but also that 
it  is  the  rule  Congress  in  fact  chose  to  adopt.  As  the  Gov-
ernment  acknowledges,  the  bill  under  consideration  by  the 
Committee  contained  a  version  of  $ 2250  that  "would  not 
have  reached  pre-enactment  interstate  travel."  Brief  for 
United States 24, n. 9.  This earlier version imposed federal 
criminal penalties on any person who "receives a notice from 
an  official  that  such  person  is  required  to  register  under 
[SORNA]  and .  . . thereafter travels  in  interstate  or foreign 
commerce,  or  enters  or  leaves  Indian  country."  H.  R.  Rep. 
No.  109-218,  pt.  1,  at  9;  see  also  id.,

458  CARR  v. 459 Cite as: 560 U. S. 438 (2010) 

Alito,
460  CARR  v. 461 Cite as: 560 U. S. 438 (2010) 

Alito,
462  CARR  v. 463 Cite as: 560 U. S. 438 (2010) 

Alito,
464  CARR  v. 465 Cite as: 560 U. S. 438 (2010) 

Alito,
466  CARR  v. 467 Cite as: 560 U. S. 438 (2010) 

Alito,
468  CARR  v. 469 Cite as: 560 U. S. 438 (2010) 

Alito,
470  CARR  v. 471 Cite as: 560 U. S. 438 (2010) 

Alito,
472  CARR  v. 473 Cite as: 560 U. S. 438 (2010) 

Alito,
474  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

Syllabus 

BARBER  et

475 Cite as: 560 U. S. 474 (2010) 
Syllabus 
"credit" is  "earned"  "at  the end of" the  year based  on an  evaluation  of 
behavior  "during  that  year"--show  an  intent  to  move  from  a  prospec-
tive entitlement to a retrospective award.  The BOP's method also fur-
thers  the  basic  purpose  of  the  statute.  Section  3624  was  part  of  the 
comprehensive Sentencing Reform Act of 1984, which sought to achieve 
both increased sentencing uniformity and greater honesty by "mak[ing] 
all  sentences  basically  determinate."  Mistretta  v.  United  States,  488 
U. S.  361,  367.  Thereafter,  the  sentence  the  judge  imposed  would  be 
the  one  the  offender  actually  served,  with  a  sole  statutory  exception 
for good time credits.  Ibid.  Section 3624(b) states the reason for the 
exception: to provide an incentive for prisoners to "compl[y] with insti-
tutional disciplinary regulations."  The exception is limited and tailored 
to its purpose--credit is earned at the end of the year after compliance 
with institutional rules is demonstrated and thereby rewards and rein-
forces  a  readily  identifiable  period  of  good  behavior.  The  BOP's  ap-
proach  furthers  $ 3624's objectives  by  tying the award  directly to  good 
behavior during the preceding year.  In contrast, petitioners' approach 
would allow a prisoner to earn credit for both the portion of his sentence 
that  he  served  and  the  portion  offset  with  earned  credit,  which  would 
loosen  the  statute's  connection  between  good  behavior  and  the  good 
time award.  Pp. 480-483. 

(b)  Arguments  to  the  contrary  are  unconvincing.  Context  indicates 
that  the  phrase  "term  of  imprisonment"  as  used  in  the  portion  of 

$ 3624(b) at issue here refers to prison time actually served not, as peti-
tioners contend, to the sentence imposed by the judge.  Petitioners' re-
liance on legislative history is misplaced.  A U. S. Sentencing Commis-
sion Supplementary Report is not helpful to them either, because there 
is no indication that the Commission, in that report or in the Guidelines 
themselves,  considered  or  referred  to  the  particular  question  whether 
to base good time credit on time served or the sentence imposed.  Nor, 
in  light  of  the  statute's  text,  structure,  history,  and  purpose,  is  this  a 
case in which there is a "grievous ambiguity or uncertainty in the stat-
ute," Muscarello v.  United States, 524 U. S. 125, 139, permitting applica-
tion of the rule of lenity.  Because the BOP's calculation system applies 
the  statute  as  its  language  is  most  naturally  read,  and  in  accordance 
with the statute's basic purpose, this Court need not determine the ex-
tent to which Congress has granted the BOP authority to interpret the 
statute more broadly, or differently than it has done here.  Cf. Chevron 
U. S. A. Inc. v.  Natural Resources Defense Council, Inc., 467 U. S. 837, 
844-845.  And  because  the  BOP's  approach  reflects  the  statute's  most 
natural  reading  and  is  the  most  consistent  with  its  purpose,  it  is  also 
preferable to the dissent's alternative interpretation.  Pp. 483-492. 

Affirmed. 

476  BARBER  v.  THOMAS 

Opinion of the Court 
Breyer,

477 Cite as: 560 U. S. 474 (2010) 
Opinion of the Court 
shall be prorated and credited within the last six weeks of the sentence."  $ 3624(b)(1). 

The  Bureau  of  Prisons  (BOP)  applies  this  statute  using  a methodology that petitioners in this case challenge as unlaw-
ful.  In  order  to  explain  the  BOP  method,  we  shall  use  a simplified example that captures its essential elements.  The 
unsimplified  calculations  described  by  the  BOP  in  its  policy statement,  see  App.  96-100,  will  reach  approximately  the 
same results as, and are essentially the mathematical equiva-lent  of,  the  simplified  system  we  describe  (there  may  be 
other  ways  to  describe  the  calculation  as  well).  To  the  ex-tent that there are any differences between the methodology 
employed by the BOP and that reflected in our example, they are  of  no  consequence  to  the  resolution  of  petitioners'  chal-
lenge  and  are  therefore  not  before  us.  Similarly,  although petitioners  committed  their  crimes  before  the  current  ver-
sion  of  $ 3624  was  enacted  and  are  therefore  subject  to  a previous version that differed slightly in  certain details, see 
18 U. S. C. $ 3624 (1988 ed.), the differences between the two versions  are  immaterial  to  the  questions  presented  by  this 
case.  The  parties  refer  to  the  current  version  as  the  rele-vant provision of law, see Brief for Petitioners 2-3; Brief for 
Respondent 8, n. 2, and we shall do the same. In  our  example  we  shall  imagine  a  prisoner  who  has  re-
ceived  a  sentence  of  10  years'  imprisonment.  We  shall  as-sume that his behavior throughout his confinement is exem-
plary  and  that  prison  authorities  will  consequently  consider him to merit the maximum good time credit that the statute 
will allow.  And we shall ignore leap years. Thus,  at  the  end  of  the  first  year  (Year  1)  that  prisoner 
would  earn  the  statute's  maximum  credit  of  54  days.  The relevant  official  (whom  we  shall  call  the  "good  time  calcula-
tor")  would  note  that  fact  and,  in  effect,  preliminarily  put the  54  days  to  the  side.  At  the  end  of  Year  2  the  prisoner 
would  earn  an  additional  54  days  of  good  time  credit.  The good  time  calculator  would  add  this  54  days  to  the  first  54 

478  BARBER  v.  THOMAS 

Opinion of the Court 
days,  note  the  provisional  total  of  108  days,  and  again  put the  108  days'  credit  to  the  side.  By  the  end  of  Year  8,  the 

prisoner would have earned a total of 432 days of good time credit (8  years times  54  days).  At that  time, the  good  time 
calculator  would  note  that  the  difference  between  the  time remaining  in  the  sentence  (2  years,  or  730  days)  and  the 
amount  of  accumulated  good  time  credit  (432  days)  is  less 
than  1  year  (730  minus  432  equals  298  days,  which  is  less than  365).  The  432  days  of  good  time  credit  that  the  pris-

oner  has  earned  by  the  end  of  Year  8  are  sufficient  to  wipe out  all  of  the  last  year  of  the  10-year  prison  term  and  to 
shorten the prisoner's 9th year of imprisonment by 67 days. 

Year  9  of the sentence  will consequently become  the  pris-
oner's last year of imprisonment.  Further, because the pris-
oner  has  already  earned  67  days  of  credit  against  that  year 
(432 days  already  earned  minus 365  days  applied  to Year  10 
leaves 67 days to apply to Year 9), the prisoner will have no 
more  than  298  days  left  to  serve  in  Year  9.  Now  the  good 
time  calculator  will  have  to  work  out  just  how  much  good 
time the prisoner can earn, and credit against, these remain-
ing 298 days. 

As  we said, the  statute provides  that "good time" for this 
"last year or portion" thereof shall be "prorated."  Thus, the 
good time calculator must divide the 298 days into two parts: 
(1)  days  that  the  prisoner  will  have  to  serve  in  prison,  and 
(2) credit for good behavior the prisoner will earn during the 
days served in Year 9.  In other words, the number of days 
to  be  served  in  Year  9  plus  the  number  of  good  time  credit 
days  earned  will  be  equal  to  the  number  of  days  left  in  the 
sentence,  namely,  298.  And  to  keep  the  award  of  credit  in 
the last year proportional to awards in other years, the ratio 
of  these  two  parts  of  Year  9  (i. e.,  the  number  of  good  time 
days  divided  by  the  number  of  days  served)  must  be  54  di-
vided  by  365,  the  same  ratio  that  the  BOP  applies  to  full 
years  served.  We  can  use  some  elementary  algebra,  de-
scribed  in  the  Appendix,  infra,  to  work  out  the  rest.  The 

479 Cite as: 560 U. S. 474 (2010) 
Opinion of the Court 
result is that if the prisoner serves 260 days, he can earn an 
additional  38  days  of  credit  for  good  behavior.  That  is  to 
say,  of  the  298  days  remaining  in  his  sentence,  the  prisoner 
will have to serve 260 days in confinement, after which point, 
his sentence will be fully accounted for (given the additional 
38  days'  credit  earned),  and  he  will  be  released.  In  sum,  a 
prisoner subject to a 10-year (3,650-day) sentence who earns 
the maximum number of days the statute permits will serve 
3,180  days  in  confinement  and  receive  470  days  of  "good 
time"  credit,  about  15%  of  the  prison  time  actually  served. 

B 
In  this  case  petitioners  claim  that  the  BOP's  calculation 
method is unlawful.  They say that $ 3624(b)(1) (2006 ed.) re-
quires  a  straightforward  calculation  based  upon  the  length 
of  the  term  of  imprisonment  that  the  sentencing  judge  im-
poses,  not  the  length  of  time  that  the  prisoner  actually 
serves.  Thus,  if  a  sentencing  judge  imposes  a  prison  term 
of 10 years (as in our example), then, in petitioners' view, the 
statute permits a maximum good time award of 540 days (10 
years  times  54  days),  not  the  470  days  that  the  method  de-
scribed  above  would  allow.  And  if  the  judge  imposes  a 
prison  term  of  10  years  and 6  months,  then  the  statute  per-
mits 567 days (540 days for the 10 years plus 27 days for the 
extra  6  months),  not  the  494  days  that  the  method  above 
would  allow.  According  to  petitioners,  the  BOP's  method 
causes model prisoners to lose seven days of good time credit 
per  year  of  imprisonment,  and  because  their  sentences  are 
fairly  long  (one,  Michael  Barber,  was  sentenced  to  26  years 
and  8  months;  the  other,  Tahir  Jihad-Black,  was  sentenced 
to  21  years  and  10  months),  the  difference  in  their  cases 
amounts to several months of additional prison time. 

The District Court in each of these cases rejected the pris-
oner's challenge.  Civ. No. 08-226 MO (D Ore., Oct. 27, 2008), 
App. 13; Jihad-Black v.  Thomas, Civ. No. 08-227 MO (D Ore., 
Oct.  27,  2008),  App.  25.  And  in  each  instance  the  Court  of 

480  BARBER  v.  THOMAS 

Opinion of the Court 
Appeals  affirmed  the  District  Court.  Tablada  v.  Thomas, No.  07-35538  (CA9,  Apr.  10,  2009),  App.  11;  see  also  Tab-

lada  v.  Thomas,  533  F.  3d  800  (CA9  2008).  Because  the BOP's  administration  of  good  time  credits  affects  the  inter-
ests  of  a  large  number  of  federal  prisoners,  we  granted  the consolidated  petition  for  certiorari  to  consider  petitioners' 
challenge.  II 

Having  now  considered  petitioners'  arguments,  we  con-clude  that  that  we  must  reject  their  legal  challenge.  The 
statute's  language  and  its  purpose,  taken  together,  convince us  that  the  BOP's  calculation  method  is  lawful.  For  one 
thing,  that  method  tracks  the  language  of  $ 3624(b).  That provision says that a prisoner (serving a sentence of impris-
onment of more than a year and less than life) "may receive credit  .  .  .  of  up  to  54  days 

at  the  end  of  each  year"  subject to the "determination by the Bureau of Prisons that, 

during that  year,  the  prisoner"  has  behaved  in  an  exemplary  fash-

ion.  $ 3624(b)(1)  (emphasis added).  And  it  says that  credit for  the  "last  year  or  portion  of  a  year . . . shall be  prorated 
and  credited  within  the  last  six  weeks  of  the  sentence." Ibid.  As  the  example  in  Part  I  makes  clear,  the  BOP's  in-
terpretation  provides  a  prisoner  entitled  to  a  maximum  an-nual credit with 54 days of good time credit for each full year 
of imprisonment that he serves and a proportionally adjusted amount  of  credit  for  any  additional  time  served  that  is  less 
than a full year.  And, as $ 3624(b)  directs, the BOP  awards the  credit 

at  the  end  of  each  year  of  imprisonment  (except, of course, for Year 9, which is subject to the statute's special 

instruction requiring proration and crediting during the last six weeks of the sentence). 

We  are  unable  similarly  to  reconcile  petitioners'  approach with  the  statute.  Their  system  awards  credit  for  the  sen-
tence  imposed,  regardless  of  how  much  time  is  actually served.  Thus, a prisoner under petitioners' system could re-
ceive  54  days  of  credit  for  Year  10  despite  the  fact  that  he 

481 Cite as: 560 U. S. 474 (2010) 
Opinion of the Court 
would be  released after  less than  81/2  years in  prison.  The good  time  calculation  for  Year  10  would 

not  be  made  "at 
the  end  of "  Year  10  (nor  within  the  last  six  weeks  of  a sentence  ending  during  that  year).  Neither  could  the  BOP 

determine  whether  the  prisoner  had  behaved  in  exemplary fashion  "

during  that  year."  18  U. S. C.  $ 3624(b)(1)  (empha-
sis  added);  see  also  White  v.  Scibana,  390  F.  3d  997,  1001 
(CA7 2004) ("The Bureau cannot evaluate a prisoner's behav-ior  and  award  credit  for  good  conduct  if  the  prisoner  is  not 

still  in  prison");  cf.  McGinnis  v.  Royster,  410  U. S.  263,  273 (1973)  ("Where  there  is  no  evaluation  by  state  officials  and 
little  or  no  rehabilitative  participation  for  anyone  to  evalu-
ate,  there  is  a  rational  justification  for  declining  to  give 
good-time credit"). 

We cannot say that this language ("at the end of," "during 
that  year")  found  its  way  into  the  statute  by  accident. 
Under  the  previous  good  time  provision,  a  prisoner  was 
"entitled to a deduction from the term of his sentence begin-
ning with the day on which the sentence commences to run." 
18 U. S. C. $ 4161 (1982 ed.) (repealed 1984).  This deduction, 
granted at the outset of a prisoner's sentence, was then made 
subject to forfeiture if the prisoner "commit[ted] any offense 
or  violate[d]  the  rules  of  the  institution."  $ 4165  (repealed 
1984).  The  present  statute,  $ 3624  (2006  ed.),  in  contrast, 
creates  a  system  under  which  "credit"  is  "earned"  "at  the 
end of " the year based on an evaluation of behavior "during 
that year."  We agree with the Government that "[t]he tex-
tual  differences  between  the  two  statutes  reveal  a  purpose 
to  move  from  a  system  of  prospective  entitlement  to  a  sys-
tem  of  retrospective  award."  Brief  for  Respondent  33;  see 
also White, supra, at 1002, n. 3. 

For  another  thing,  the  BOP's  method  better  furthers  the 
statute's basic purpose.  The "good time" provision in $ 3624 
is  part  of  the  Sentencing  Reform  Act  of  1984,  98  Stat.  1987, 
18 U. S. C. $ 3551 et seq., 28 U. S. C. $$ 991-998, a comprehen-
sive  law  that  reformed  federal  sentencing  practice  and  di-

482  BARBER  v.  THOMAS 

Opinion of the Court 
rected the newly created United States Sentencing Commis-sion  "to  devise  guidelines  to  be  used  for  sentencing"  in 

district courts, Mistretta v.  United States, 488 U. S. 361, 367 (1989).  Under  the  previous  regime,  the  United  States  Pa-
role Commission, "as a general rule, [could] conditionally re-lease  a  prisoner  any  time  after  he  serve[d]  one-third  of  the 
judicially  fixed  term."  United  States  v.  Grayson,  438  U. S. 
41, 47 (1978).  If, for example, a judge imposed a prison term of 15 years, the  Parole  Commission  might have  released the 

prisoner  after  only  5  years.  And  it  routinely  did  so.  See United  States  Sentencing  Commission,  Guidelines  Manual 

$ 1A3,  p.  s.,  p.  1.2  (Oct.  1987)  (USSG)  ("[D]efendants  often 
serv[ed]  only  about  one-third  of  the  sentence  handed  down 
by  the  court").  The  result  was  "confusion  and  implicit  de-
ception."  Ibid.  With  the  Sentencing  Reform  Act,  Con-
gress sought to achieve both increased sentencing uniformity 
and greater honesty by "mak[ing] all sentences basically de-
terminate," Mistretta, supra, at 367.  See USSG $ 1A3, p. s., 
at 1.2 (statutory objectives included "honesty in sentencing," 
"uniformity," and "proportionality" (emphasis deleted)). 

Thereafter,  the  sentence  the  judge  imposed  would  be  the 
sentence the  offender actually served, with  a sole  statutory 
exception for good time credits.  Mistretta, supra, at 367 (a 
"prisoner is  to  be  released at the  completion  of his  sentence 
reduced only by any credit earned by good behavior while in 
custody"  (citing  $ 3624(b))).  The  reason  for  this  exception 
is  provided  in  $ 3624(b)(1)  itself:  to  provide  an  incentive  for 
prisoners to "compl[y] with  institutional disciplinary  regula-
tions."  The  good  time  exception  is  limited  (to  54  days  per 
year)  and  tailored  to  its  purpose--credit  is  earned  at  the 
end  of  the  year  after  compliance  with  institutional  rules  is 
demonstrated  and  thereby  rewards  and  reinforces  a  readily 
identifiable period of good behavior. 

The  BOP's  approach  furthers  the  objective  of  $ 3624.  It 
ties the award of good time credits directly to good behavior 
during  the  preceding  year  of  imprisonment.  By  contrast, 

483 Cite as: 560 U. S. 474 (2010) 
Opinion of the Court 
petitioners' approach, insofar as it would award up to 54 days 
per year of time sentenced as opposed to time served, allows 
a prisoner to earn credit for both the portion of his sentence 
that he serves and the portion of his sentence that he offsets 
with  earned  good  time  credit.  In  other  words,  petitioners 
argue  that  the  BOP  should  award  good  time  credit  not  only 
for the days  a prisoner spends  in prison and  behaves appro-
priately,  but  also  for  days  that  he  will  not  spend  in  prison 
at all, such as Year 10 in our example.  By doing so, it loos-
ens  the  statute's  connection  between  good  behavior  and  the 
award of good  time  and transforms the nature  of the  excep-
tion  to  the  basic  sentence-imposed-is-sentence-served  rule. 
And  to  that  extent,  it  is  inconsistent  with  the  statute's 
basic purpose. 

III  

A  

We  are  not  convinced  by  petitioners'  several  arguments 
against  the  BOP's  methodology.  First,  petitioners  point  to 
the  statement  in  $ 3624(b)(1)  that  a  prisoner  "may  receive 
credit  .  .  .  at  the  end  of  each  year  of  the  prisoner's  term  of 
imprisonment."  (Emphasis  added.)  The  words  "term  of 
imprisonment," they say, must refer to the years of the term 
that the sentencing judge imposed (10 years in our example), 
not  the  (less-than-10)  years  of  the  term  that  the  prisoner 
actually  served  once  good  time  credits  were  taken  into  ac-
count.  After  all,  the  very  first  phrase  of  that  provision 
makes eligible for good time credits "a prisoner who is serv-
ing a term  of imprisonment of  more than  1 year  other than 
a  term  of  imprisonment  for  the  duration  of  the  prisoner's 
life."  Ibid. (emphasis added; footnote omitted).  The words 

"term of imprisonment" in this phrase almost certainly refer 
to the sentence imposed, not to the time actually served (oth-
erwise  prisoners  sentenced  to  a  year  and  a  day  would  be-
come  ineligible  for  credit  as  soon  as  they  earned  it).  And, 
as petitioners emphasize, we have recognized a "presumption 

484  BARBER  v.  THOMAS 

Opinion of the Court 
that a given term is used to mean the same thing throughout a statute," 

Brown v.  Gardner, 513 U. S. 115, 118 (1994). 
The  problem  for  petitioners,  however,  is  that  this  pre-sumption  is  not  absolute.  It  yields  readily  to  indications 

that  the  same  phrase  used  in  different  parts  of  the  same statute  means  different  things,  particularly  where  the 
phrase  is  one  that  speakers  can  easily  use  in  different  ways 
without risk  of confusion.  Atlantic Cleaners &  Dyers, Inc. v. 

United States, 286 U. S. 427, 433 (1932); General Dynamics 
Land  Systems,  Inc.  v.  Cline,  540  U. S.  581,  595-596  (2004). See, 

e. g.,  id.,  at  596-597  ("age"  has  different  meanings  in 
the Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967); United 
States  v.  Cleveland  Indians  Baseball  Co.,  532  U. S.  200,  213 
(2001)  (same  for  " `wages  paid' "  in  the  Internal  Revenue 
Code);  Robinson  v.  Shell  Oil  Co.,  519  U. S.  337,  343-344 
(1997)  (same  for  "employee"  in  Title  VII  of  the  Civil  Rights 
Act of 1964). 

The  phrase  "term  of  imprisonment"  is  just  such  a  phrase. 
It can refer to the sentence that the judge imposes, see, e. g., 

$ 3624(a)  ("A  prisoner  shall  be  released"  at  the  end  of  "the 
prisoner's term of imprisonment, less any time credited" for 
good  behavior),  but  it  also  can  refer  to  the  time  that  the 
prisoner  actually  serves.  Thus,  $ 3624(d)  of  the  statute  be-
fore  us  requires  the  BOP  to  "furnish  [a]  prisoner  with . . .  
suitable  clothing[,] . . .  money,  . . . and . . .  transportation" 
"[u]pon  the  release  of  [the]  prisoner  on  the  expiration  of 

the  prisoner's  term  of  imprisonment."  (Emphasis  added.) 
The  statute  here  means  to  ensure  that  the  prisoner  is  pro-
vided with these necessities at the time of his actual release 
from prison (sometime during Year 9 in our example), not at 
the end of the term that the judge imposed (which would be 
over  a  year  later).  Since  the  statute  uses  the  same  phrase 
"term of imprisonment" in two different ways, the presump-
tion  cannot  help  petitioners  here.  And,  for  the  reasons  we 
have  given,  see  Part  II,  supra,  context  here  indicates  that 
the particular instance of the phrase "term of imprisonment" 

485 Cite as: 560 U. S. 474 (2010) 
Opinion of the Court 
at issue refers to prison time actually served rather than the sentence imposed by the judge. 

Second,  petitioners  seek  to  draw  support  from  the  stat-ute's legislative history.  But those who  consider legislative 
history  significant  cannot  find  that  history  helpful  to  peti-tioners here.  Petitioners point, for example, to a statement 
in  the  Senate  Report  accompanying  the  Sentencing  Reform 
Act, which says that the "method of calculation" of good time "will  be  considerably  less  complicated  than  under  current 

law in many respects," and that "credit toward early release is  earned  at  a  steady  and  easily  determined  rate  that  will 
have  an  obvious  impact  on  the  prisoner's  release  date." 
S. Rep. No. 98-225, pp. 146-147 (1983); see Brief for Petition-
ers  31-32.  But  these  statements  are  consistent  with  the 
BOP's  interpretation  of  the  statute.  Its  method,  as  we  un-
derstand it, is not particularly difficult to apply and it is cer-
tainly  less  complex  than  prior  law,  which  provided  for  the 
accumulation of two different kinds of good time credit (gen-
eral  and  industrial),  calculated  in  different  manners  (pro-
spectively  and  retrospectively),  and  awarded  at  different 
rates,  depending  on  the  length  of  sentence  imposed  on  the 
prisoner  (5 to  10 days  per  month  for general)  or the  year  of 
employment  (3  or  5  days  per  month  for  industrial).  See  18 
U. S. C. $$ 4161, 4162 (1982 ed.). 

Petitioners  also  point  to  various  statements  contained  in 
the Act's Conference Report and made by individual legisla-
tors that describe good time credit as providing sentence re-
ductions  of  15%.  See  Brief  for  Petitioners  34-36  (citing, 
e. g.,  H.  R.  Conf.  Rep.  No.  98-1159,  p.  415  (1984);  131  Cong. 
Rec.  488  (1985)  (remarks  of  Rep.  Hamilton)).  But  there  is 
nothing  in  the  context  of  these  statements  to  suggest  that 
they amounted to anything other than rough approximations 
or  that  they  were  made  with  the  present  controversy  in 
mind.  See, e. g., H. R. Conf. Rep. No. 98-1159, at 415 (noting 
simply  that  an  increase  in  the  amount  of  maximum  annual 
credit  from  36  days  to  54  days  "increases  `good  time'  that 

486  BARBER  v.  THOMAS 

Opinion of the Court 
accrues  from  10  percent  to  15  percent");  131  Cong.  Rec.  488 (statement  of  Rep.  Hamilton)  ("Under  [pre-Sentencing  Re-

form  Act]  law,  about  80%  of  all  criminals  are  paroled  after serving  one  third  of  their  time.  Now  sentences  will  be  re-
duced  only  15%  for  good  behavior").  And  whatever  inter-pretive  force  one  attaches  to  legislative  history,  the  Court 
normally  gives  little  weight  to  statements,  such  as  those  of 
the individual legislators, made after the bill in question has become law.  See, 

e. g.,  Heintz  v.  Jenkins, 514  U. S. 291, 298 
(1995). Third, petitioners rely on a statement in the United States 

Sentencing  Commission's Supplementary  Report  on the  Ini-
tial  Sentencing  Guidelines  and  Policy  Statements  issued  in 
1987  (hereinafter  Supplementary  Report).  In  that  Report, 
the  Commission  summarized  its  analysis  of  recent  preGuidelines  sentencing  practice,  which  it  had  used  to  help 
draft  the  Guidelines.  The  results  of  the  analysis  were  pre-
sented  in  a  table  that  permits  comparison  of  the  likely 
prison-time  consequences of  the  new Guidelines  with  prison 
time  actually  served  under  pre-Guidelines  practice  (specifi-
cally, by identifying the Guidelines "offense level that is clos-
est  to  the  average  time  .  .  .  served  by  first-time  offenders" 
convicted  of  a  particular  crime,  Supplementary  Report  23). 
Because  the  Guidelines  "refer  to  sentences  prior  to  the 
awarding  of  good  time"  (i. e.,  because  a  Guidelines  sentence 
of,  say,  30  months'  imprisonment  does  not  necessarily  mean 
that  the  offender  will  serve the  entire  30  months  in  prison), 
the Commission adjusted the average time served "by divid-
ing  by  0.85  good  time  when  the  term  exceeded  12  months." 
Ibid.  This  adjustment,  the  Commission  explained,  "made 
sentences  in  the  [t]able  comparable  with  those  in  the  guide-
lines."  Ibid. 

Pointing  to  this  adjustment  and  a  reference  in  later  edi-
tions of the Guidelines to a potential credit of "approximately 
fifteen  percent  for  good  behavior,"  see,  e. g.,  USSG  $ 1A3, 
p. s., at 3 (Nov. 2009), petitioners maintain that the Commis-

487 Cite as: 560 U. S. 474 (2010) 
Opinion of the Court 
sion  set  its  Guidelines  ranges  with  the  expectation  that well-behaved prisoners would receive good time credit of up 

to 15% of the sentence imposed, not 15% of the time actually served.  They  add  that,  in  setting  the  Guidelines  ranges  in 
this  way,  the  Commission  exercised  congressionally  dele-gated  power  to  interpret  the  Sentencing  Reform  Act,  see 
Mistretta, 488 U. S., at 371-379 (approving Congress' delega-
tion  of  the  power  to  promulgate  sentencing  guidelines),  and that as long as that interpretation is reasonable, courts must 

defer  to  it,  see  Chevron  U.  S.  A.  Inc.  v.  Natural  Resources 
Defense Council, Inc., 467 U. S. 837, 843-844 (1984). 

Again,  however,  we  can  find  no  indication  that  the  Com-
mission,  in  writing  its  Supplementary  Report  or  in  the 
Guidelines themselves, considered or referred to the particu-
lar question here before us, that is, whether good time credit 
is to be based on time served or the sentence imposed.  The 
Guidelines Manual itself, a more authoritative account of the 
Commission's  interpretive  views  than  the  Supplementary 
Report,  says  nothing  directly  on  that  subject.  Moreover, 
with  respect  to  comparisons  between  Guidelines  sentences 
and  pre-Guidelines  practice,  the  original  1987  Manual  cau-
tioned  that  the  Guidelines  did  not  "simply  cop[y]  esti-
mates  of  existing  practice  as  revealed  by  the  data,"  but 
rather "departed from the data at different points for various 
important  reasons."  USSG  $ 1A3,  p.  s.,  at  1.4;  see  also  id., 

$ 1A4(g),  p.  s.,  at  1.11  (while  "Guideline  sentences  in  many 
instances  will  approximate  existing  [i. e.,  pre-Guidelines] 
practice," the Commission did "not conside[r] itself bound by 
existing  sentencing  practice"  (emphasis  added)).  Because 
the  Commission  has  expressed  no  view  on  the  question  be-
fore  us,  we  need  not  decide  whether  it  would  be  entitled  to 
deference had it done so.  If it turns out that the calculation 
of good time  credit  based on prison time served rather  than 
the sentence imposed produces results that are more severe 
than  the  Commission  finds  appropriate,  the  Commission  re-
mains  free  to  adjust  sentencing  levels  accordingly.  See  id., 

488  BARBER  v.  THOMAS 

Opinion of the Court 

$ 1A2,  at  1.2  (acknowledging  that  "the  guideline-writing process [is] evolutionary" and that the Commission functions 

"as  a  permanent  agency  to  monitor  sentencing  practices  in the federal courts throughout the nation"). 

Fourth,  petitioners ask us  to invoke  the  rule of lenity  and construe $ 3624 (2006 ed.) in their favor, that is, in a way that 
will maximize the amount of available good time credit.  We 
may  assume  for  present  purposes  that  $ 3624(b)  can  be  con-strued  as  imposing  a  criminal  penalty.  See 

Bifulco  v. 
United States, 447 U. S. 381, 387 (1980) (rule of lenity applies to "interpretations of . . . the penalties" imposed by "criminal 

prohibitions"); but see Sash v.  Zenk, 428 F. 3d 132, 134 (CA2 
2005) (Sotomayor, J.) (holding that $ 3624(b) is not a criminal 
statute for the purposes of the rule of lenity).  Even so, the 
rule  of  lenity  only  applies  if,  after  considering  text,  struc-
ture,  history,  and  purpose,  there  remains  a  "grievous  ambi-
guity  or  uncertainty  in  the  statute,"  Muscarello  v.  United 
States,  524  U. S.  125,  139  (1998)  (internal  quotation  marks 
omitted), such that the Court must simply " `guess as to what 
Congress  intended,"  Bifulco,  supra,  at  387  (quoting  Ladner 
v.  United  States,  358  U. S.  169,  178  (1958)).  See  United 
States  v.  Hayes,  555  U. S.  415,  429  (2009);  United  States  v. 
R.  L.  C.,  503  U. S.  291,  305-306  (1992)  (plurality  opinion). 
Having  so  considered  the  statute,  we  do  not  believe  that 
there  remains  a  "grievous  ambiguity  or  uncertainty"  in  the 
statutory  provision  before  us.  Nor  need  we  now  simply 
"guess" what the statute means. 

Finally, we note that petitioners urge us not to defer to the 
BOP's  implementation  of  $ 3624(b).  In  our  view,  the  BOP's 
calculation  system  applies  that  statute  as  its  language  is 
most  naturally  read,  and  in  accordance  with  what  that  lan-
guage makes clear is its basic purpose.  No one doubts that 
the  BOP  has  the  legal  power  to  implement  the  statute  in 
accordance  with  its  language  and  purposes;  hence  we  need 
not determine the extent to which Congress has granted the 
BOP  authority  to  interpret  the  statute  more  broadly,  or 

489 Cite as: 560 U. S. 474 (2010) 
Opinion of the Court 
differently  than  it  has  done  here.  Cf.  Chevron,  supra,  at 
844-845. 

B 

Acknowledging  that  petitioners'  arguments  cannot  carry 
the  day,  the  dissent  has  proposed  a  "third  possibility,"  post, 
at  495  (opinion  of  Kennedy,

490  BARBER  v.  THOMAS 

Opinion of the Court 
require us to read words out of the statute, or give prisoners double credit, its definition cannot be used here. 

Second, $ 3624(b)(1) tells us that a prisoner receives credit "at  the  end  of  each  year"  based  on  behavior  "during  that 
year."  Under  the  dissent's  approach,  however,  a  prisoner may  receive  credit  at  the  end  of  each  "administrative  seg-
men[t]"  presumably  based  on  his  behavior  during  that  seg-
ment.  And  because  an  "administrative  segmen[t]"  is  made up of some "combination of service and credits," 

post, at 496, 
each one lasts less than a calendar year.  We do not see how a system in which "a prisoner may complete a particular year 

of his term in less than 365 calendar days," ibid., and receive 
full good time credit for doing so, can possibly represent the 
most natural reading of this statutory language.  Nor do we 
know,  because  the  BOP  has  not  had  an  opportunity  to  tell 
us, whether a system in which a "year" lasts anywhere from 
311 to 365 calendar days (and in which the "years" of a single 
prisoner's  sentence  may  all  be  of  different  lengths)  is  easily 
administrable.  (We  doubt  that  this  system  will  be  more 
comprehensible  to  prisoners  than  one,  like  the  BOP's,  that 
provides credit for actual years.) 

Third, under the dissent's approach, credit is earned at dif-
ferent rates during a single sentence.  For the first "admin-
istrative  segmen[t]"  in  its  10-year  example,  the  prisoner 
serves  365  days  and  earns  54  days  of  credit.  The  ratio  of 
credit  earned  to  days  served  is  0.148.  For  the  second  "ad-
ministrative  segmen[t],"  the  prisoner  serves  311  days  and 
earns 54 days of credit.  This time, the ratio of credit earned 
to  days  served  is  0.174.  (For  the  last  "administrative  seg-
men[t]," the  dissent tells us  the prisoner will receive "credit 
in  a  prorated  amount,"  but  it  does  not  tell  us  which  ratio 
should be used for the proration.  Post, at 496.)  The use of 
different  rates  finds  no  support  in  the  statute.  The  dissent 
objects that the statute "prescribes no particular rate," post, 
at 499, but in fact it does--54 days of credit per year of good 
behavior--and it further requires that credit for the last year 

491 Cite as: 560 U. S. 474 (2010) 
Opinion of the Court 
be  "prorated"  using  the  same  proportion.  Moreover,  the dissent's  application  of  different  rates  leads  to  odd  results. 

For  example,  a  model  prisoner  sentenced  on  two  separate 5-year terms (with a break in between) will serve a different 
number of days from one sentenced to a single 10-year term. How  can  this  be  if  both  prisoners  are  earning  54  days  of 
credit for each of their 10 years in prison? 

Fourth,  $ 3624(b)(2)  provides  that  good  time  credit  "shall vest  on  the  date  the  prisoner  is  released  from  custody." 

(This  provision  does  not  apply  to  prisoners,  like  petitioners, who committed their offenses before it was amended in 1996, 
but the dissent plainly intends for its approach to apply more 
broadly.  See post, at 501 (noting the effect on "almost 200,000 
federal prisoners").)  Yet under the dissent's approach, 
credit appears to vest immediately.  See post, at 496 (Days of 
credit  for  the  first  year  "go  toward  completion  of  the  next 
year" so that the prisoner "would need another 311 days be-
hind bars before the second year of his term of imprisonment 
is at an end").  And if it does not, then the situation quickly 
becomes complicated.  What happens if, say, on the last day 
of the 10th "administrative segmen[t]" (somewhere in the 8th 
calendar  year),  a  prisoner  badly  misbehaves  and  prison  offi-
cials punish him by taking away all of his previously earned 
credit?  Cf. 28 CFR $ 541.13 (2009) (prescribing sanctions for 
prohibited acts).  Does the BOP retroactively adjust the du-
ration  of  all  of  his  administrative  segments  to  365  days  so 
that  the  prisoner  now  finds  himself  in  the  middle  of  the  8th 
"administrative  segmen[t]"?  (Again  we  do  not  know  if  the 
BOP  would  find  such  a  system  administrable,  and  we  doubt 
that  this  system  would  be  more  comprehensible  to  a  pris-
oner.)  If  so,  does  the  prisoner  have  a  second  opportunity 
to  earn  credit  for  good  behavior  for  the  9th  "administrative 
segmen[t]"  that  he  had  previously  completed  but  now  must 
account  for  again?  Cf.  $ 3624(b)(1)  ("Credit  that  has  not 
been  earned  may  not  later  be  granted").  Or,  having  pre-
viously  awarded  (and  taken  away)  credit  for  that  segment, 

492  BARBER  v.  THOMAS 

Appendix to opinion of the Court 
are  prison  authorities  left  without  any  incentive  to  offer  for good behavior? 

Finally,  the  dissent,  like  petitioners,  invokes  the  rule  of lenity to support its interpretation.  But, the best efforts of 
the  dissent notwithstanding,  we  still  see no  "grievous  ambi-
guity  or  uncertainty"  that  would  trigger  the  rule's  applica-
tion.  We remain convinced that the BOP's approach reflects 
the  most  natural  reading  of  the  statutory  language  and  the 
most  consistent  with  its  purpose.  Whatever  the  merits  of 
the  dissent's  policy  arguments,  the  statute  does  not  require 
the BOP to accept them. 

For all of these reasons, we conclude that the BOP's meth-
odology is lawful.  The Ninth Circuit's judgment is 

Affirmed. 
APPENDIX 
A

493 Cite as: 560 U. S. 474 (2010) 
Kennedy,
494  BARBER  v.  THOMAS 

Kennedy,

495 Cite as: 560 U. S. 474 (2010) 
Kennedy,
496  BARBER  v.  THOMAS 

Kennedy,

497 Cite as: 560 U. S. 474 (2010) 
Kennedy,
498  BARBER  v.  THOMAS 

Kennedy,

499 Cite as: 560 U. S. 474 (2010) 
Kennedy,
500  BARBER  v.  THOMAS 

Kennedy,

501 Cite as: 560 U. S. 474 (2010) 
Kennedy,
502  BARBER  v.  THOMAS 

Kennedy,
Cite as: 560 U. S. 474 (2010)  503 

Kennedy,
504  BARBER  v.  THOMAS 

Kennedy,

505 OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 
Syllabus 

HAMILTON,  CHAPTER  13  TRUSTEE  v.

506  HAMILTON  v. 507 Cite as: 560 U. S. 505 (2010) 

Syllabus 
forward-looking  approach.  Because  respondent  would  have  far  less 
than $756 per month in disposable income during the plan period, peti-
tioner's  projection  does not  accurately  reflect  disposable income  "to be 
received."  In such  circumstances, the mechanical  approach effectively 
reads that phrase out of the statute.  Second, $ 1325(b)(1)'s direction to 
courts to determine projected disposable income "as of the effective date 
of  the  plan"--i.

508  HAMILTON  v.Cite as: 560 U. S. 505 (2010)  509 

Opinion of the Court 
the debtor either to pay unsecured creditors in full or to pay all  "projected  disposable  income"  to  be  received  by  the 

debtor over the duration of the plan. We  granted  certiorari  to  decide  how  a  bankruptcy  court 
should  calculate  a  debtor's  "projected  disposable  income." Some  lower  courts  have  taken  what  the  parties  term  the 
"mechanical  approach,"  while  most  have  adopted  what  has been  called  the  "forward-looking  approach."  We  hold  that 
the "forward-looking approach" is correct. 

I 
As previously noted, $ 1325 provides that if a trustee or an unsecured  creditor  objects  to  a  Chapter  13  debtor's  plan,  a 

bankruptcy  court  may  not  approve  the  plan  unless  it  pro-vides for the full repayment of unsecured claims or "provides 
that all of the debtor's projected disposable income to be re-ceived" over the duration of the plan "will be applied to make 
payments"  in  accordance  with  the  terms  of  the  plan.  11 U. S. C.  $ 1325(b)(1);  see  also  $ 1325(b)(1)  (2000  ed.).  Before 
the enactment of the Bankruptcy Abuse Prevention and Con-sumer  Protection  Act  of  2005  (BAPCPA),  119  Stat.  23,  the 
Bankruptcy Code (Code) loosely defined "disposable income" as "income which is received by the debtor and which is not 
reasonably  necessary  to  be  expended"  for  the  "maintenance or support of the debtor," for qualifying charitable contribu-
tions, or for business expenditures.  $$ 1325(b)(2)(A), (B). The  Code  did  not  define  the  term  "projected  disposable 
income,"  and  in  most  cases,  bankruptcy  courts  used  a  me-chanical approach in calculating projected disposable income. 
That is, they first multiplied monthly income by the number of  months  in  the  plan  and  then  determined  what  portion  of 
the  result  was  "excess"  or  "disposable."  See  2  K.  Lundin, Chapter  13  Bankruptcy  $ 164.1,  p.  164-1,  and  n.  4  (3d  ed. 
2000) (hereinafter Lundin (2000 ed.)) (citing cases). In exceptional cases, however, bankruptcy courts took into 
account  foreseeable  changes  in  a  debtor's  income  or  ex-

510  HAMILTON  v. 511 Cite as: 560 U. S. 505 (2010) 

Opinion of the Court 

II  

A  

Respondent  had  $36,793.36  in  unsecured  debt  when  she 
filed  for  Chapter  13  bankruptcy  protection  in  October  2006. 
In  the  six  months  before  her  filing,  she  received  a  one-time 
buyout from her former employer, and this payment greatly 
inflated  her  gross  income  for  April  2006  (to  $11,990.03)  and 
for  May  2006  (to  $15,356.42).  App.  84,  107.  As  a  result  of 
these payments, respondent's current monthly income, as av-
eraged  from  April  through  October  2006,  was  $5,343.70--a 
figure  that  exceeds  the  median  income  for  a  family  of  one 
in Kansas.  See id.,

512  HAMILTON  v.Cite as: 560 U. S. 505 (2010)  513 

Opinion of the Court 
this  figure  may  be  rebutted  by  evidence  of  a  substantial 
change in the debtor's circumstances.  Id.,

514  HAMILTON  v. 515 Cite as: 560 U. S. 505 (2010) 

Opinion of the Court 
12");  $$ 704(b)(2),  707(b)(6),  (7)(A)  (same);  $$ 707(b)(2)(A)(i), (B)(iv)  ("multiplied  by  60").  Accord,  2  U. S. C.  $ 58(b)(1)(B) 

("multiplied  by  the  number  of  months  in  such  year");  5 U. S. C. $ 8415(a) ("multiplied by such individual's total serv-
ice");  42  U. S. C.  $ 403(f )(3)  ("multiplied  by  the  number  of months in such year"). 

Third,  pre-BAPCPA  case  law  points  in  favor  of  the "forward-looking"  approach.  Prior  to  BAPCPA,  the  gen-
eral  rule  was  that  courts  would  multiply  a  debtor's  current monthly income by the number of months in the commitment 
period  as  the  first  step  in  determining  projected  disposable income.  See, 

e.

516  HAMILTON  v. 517 Cite as: 560 U. S. 505 (2010) 

Opinion of the Court 
1325-48  (15th  ed.  1986)).  Accord,  8  id.,  || 1325.08[4][b],  at 1325-53 (rev. 15th ed. 2007) ("As with the income side of the 

budget,  the  court  must  simply  use  the  debtor's  current  ex-penses,  unless

518  HAMILTON  v. 519 Cite as: 560 U. S. 505 (2010) 

Opinion of the Court 
in  the  calculated  monthly  amounts.  $ 1325(b)(1)(B).  But when, as of the  effective date of a plan, the debtor lacks the 

means to do so, this language is rendered a hollow command. 

C 
The  arguments  advanced  in  favor  of  the  mechanical  ap-proach  are  unpersuasive.  Noting  that  the  Code  now  pro-

vides a detailed and precise definition of "disposable income," proponents of the mechanical approach maintain that any de-
parture  from  this  method  leaves  that  definition  " `with  no apparent  purpose.' "  In

520  HAMILTON  v. 521 Cite as: 560 U. S. 505 (2010) 

Opinion of the Court 
the  plan  period  is  substantially  lower,  the  mechanical  ap-proach  would  deny  the  protection  of  Chapter  13  to  debt-

ors  who  meet  the  chapter's  main  eligibility  requirements. Here,  for  example,  respondent  is  an  "individual  whose  in-
come is sufficiently stable and regular" to allow her "to make payments  under  a  plan,"  $ 101(30),  and  her  debts  fall  below 
the limits set out in $ 109(e).  But if the mechanical approach were  used,  she  could  not  file  a  confirmable  plan.  Under 

$ 1325(a)(6),  a  plan  cannot  be  confirmed  unless  "the  debtor will be able to make all payments under the plan and to com-
ply with the plan."  And as petitioner concedes, respondent could  not  possibly  make  the  payments  that  the  mechanical 
approach prescribes. In  order  to  avoid  or  at  least  to  mitigate  the  harsh  results 
that the mechanical approach may produce for debtors, peti-tioner advances several possible escape strategies.  He pro-
poses  no  comparable  strategies  for  creditors  harmed  by  the mechanical  approach,  and  in  any  event  none  of  the  maneu-
vers that he proposes for debtors is satisfactory. 

1 
Petitioner  first  suggests  that  a  debtor  may  delay  filing  a petition  so as to place any extraordinary  income outside  the 

6-month  lookback  period.  We  see  at  least  two  problems with this proposal. 

First, delay is often not a viable option for a debtor sliding into bankruptcy. 

"Potential Chapter 13 debtors typically find a lawyer's office  when  they  are  one  step  from  financial  Armaged-
don: There is a foreclosure sale of the debtor's home the next day; the  debtor's only  car  was mysteriously repos-
sessed  in  the  dark  of  last  night;  a  garnishment  has  re-duced  the  debtor's  take-home  pay  below  the  ordinary 
requirements  of  food  and  rent.  Instantaneous  relief  is expected,  if  not  necessary."  K.  Lundin  &  W.  Brown, 
Chapter  13  Bankruptcy  $ 3.1[2]  (rev.  4th  ed.  2009), http://www.ch13online.com/Subscriber/Chapter_13_ 

522  HAMILTON  v. 523 Cite as: 560 U. S. 505 (2010) 

Opinion of the Court 

3 
Petitioner  suggests  that  a  debtor  can  dismiss  the  petition and  refile  at  a  later,  more  favorable  date.  But  petitioner 

offers  only  the  tepid  assurance  that  courts  "generally"  do not find this practice to be abusive.  Brief for Petitioner 53. 
This  questionable  stratagem  plainly  circumvents  the  statu-tory  limits  on  a  court's  ability  to  shift  the  lookback  period, 
see  supra,

524  HAMILTON  v. 525 Cite as: 560 U. S. 505 (2010) 

Scalia,
526  HAMILTON  v. 527 Cite as: 560 U. S. 505 (2010) 

Scalia,
528  HAMILTON  v. 529 Cite as: 560 U. S. 505 (2010) 

Scalia,
530  HAMILTON  v. 531 Cite as: 560 U. S. 505 (2010) 

Scalia,
532  HAMILTON  v. 533 Cite as: 560 U. S. 505 (2010) 

Scalia,
534  HAMILTON  v. 535 Cite as: 560 U. S. 505 (2010) 

Scalia,
536  HAMILTON  v. 537 Cite as: 560 U. S. 505 (2010) 

Scalia,
538  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

Syllabus 

KRUPSKI  v.

539 Cite as: 560 U. S. 538 (2010) 
Syllabus 
Krupski either knew or should have known of Costa Crociere's identity 
as  a  potential  party  because  she  furnished  the  ticket  identifying  it  to 
her counsel well before the limitations period ended.  It was therefore 
appropriate  to  treat  her  as  having  chosen  to  sue  one  potential  party 
over  another.  Additionally,  the  court  held  that  relation  back  was  not 
appropriate  because  of  Krupski's  undue  delay  in  seeking  to  amend  the 
complaint. 

Held:

540  KRUPSKI  v. 541 Cite as: 560 U. S. 538 (2010) 

Opinion of the Court 
Sotomayor,

542  KRUPSKI  v. 543 Cite as: 560 U. S. 538 (2010) 

Opinion of the Court 
Costa  Cruise  Lines'  address  in  Florida  and  stated  that  an entity  called  "Costa  Cruises"  was  "the  first  cruise  company 

in  the  world"  to  obtain  a  certain  certification  of  quality. 
Id.,

544  KRUPSKI  v. 545 Cite as: 560 U. S. 538 (2010) 

Opinion of the Court 
Rule  15(c)  and  was  therefore  untimely.  The  District  Court agreed.  App.  to  Pet.  for  Cert.  8a-22a.  Rule  15(c),  the 

court  explained,  imposes  three  requirements  before  an amended  complaint  against  a  newly  named  defendant  can 
relate  back  to  the  original  complaint.  First,  the  claim against  the  newly  named  defendant  must  have  arisen  "out 
of  the  conduct,  transaction,  or  occurrence  set  out--or  at-
tempted  to  be  set  out--in  the  original  pleading."  Fed. Rules Civ. Proc. 15(c)(1)(B), (C).  Second, "within the period 

provided  by  Rule  4(m)  for  serving  the  summons  and  com-plaint" (which is ordinarily 120 days from when the complaint 
is  filed,  see  Rule  4(m)),  the  newly  named  defendant  must 
have  "received  such  notice  of  the  action  that  it  will  not  be 
prejudiced  in  defending  on  the  merits."  Rule  15(c)(1)(C)(i). 
Finally,  the  plaintiff  must  show  that,  within  the  Rule  4(m) 
period,  the  newly  named  defendant  "knew  or  should  have 
known  that  the  action  would  have  been  brought  against  it, 
but  for  a  mistake  concerning  the  proper  party's  identity." 
Rule 15(c)(1)(C)(ii). 

The  first  two  conditions  posed  no  problem,  the  court  ex-
plained:  The  claim  against  Costa  Crociere  clearly  involved 
the  same  occurrence  as  the  original  claim  against  Costa 
Cruise,  and  Costa  Crociere  had  constructive  notice  of  the 
action  and  had  not  shown  that  any  unfair  prejudice  would 
result  from  relation  back.  App.  to  Pet.  for  Cert.  14a-18a. 
But  the  court  found  the  third  condition  fatal  to  Krupski's 
attempt  to  relate  back,  concluding  that  Krupski  had  not 
made a  mistake concerning  the  identity  of the  proper party. 
Id.,

546  KRUPSKI  v. 547 Cite as: 560 U. S. 538 (2010) 

Opinion of the Court 

II 
Under  the  Federal  Rules  of  Civil  Procedure,  an  amend-ment  to  a  pleading  relates  back  to  the  date  of  the  original 

pleading when: 

"(A)  the  law  that  provides  the  applicable  statute  of limitations allows relation back; 

"(B)  the  amendment  asserts  a  claim  or  defense  that arose  out  of  the  conduct,  transaction,  or  occurrence  set 
out--or  attempted  to  be  set  out--in  the  original  plead-ing; or 

"(C)  the amendment changes the party or the naming of  the  party  against  whom  a  claim  is  asserted,  if  Rule 
15(c)(1)(B) is satisfied and if, within the period provided by  Rule  4(m)  for  serving  the  summons  and  complaint, 
the party to be brought in by amendment: "(i)  received  such  notice  of  the  action  that  it  will  not 
be prejudiced in defending on the merits; and "(ii)  knew or should have known that the action would 
have been brought against it, but for a mistake concern-ing the proper party's identity."  Rule 15(c)(1). 

In  our  view,  neither  of  the  Court  of  Appeals'  reasons  for denying relation back under Rule 15(c)(1)(C)(ii) finds support 
in the text of the Rule.  We consider each reason in turn. 
back where plaintiff "was fully aware of the potential defendant's identity 
but not of its responsibility for the harm alleged"); Cornwell

548  KRUPSKI  v. 549 Cite as: 560 U. S. 538 (2010) 

Opinion of the Court 
ment,  inadequate  knowledge,  or  inattention";  "an  erroneous belief "; or "a state of mind not in accordance with the facts"). 

That  a  plaintiff  knows  of  a  party's  existence  does  not  pre-clude her from making a mistake with respect to that party's 
identity.  A  plaintiff  may  know  that  a  prospective  defend-ant--call  him  party  A--exists,  while  erroneously  believing 
him  to  have  the  status  of  party  B.  Similarly,  a  plaintiff 
may  know  generally  what  party  A  does  while  misunder-standing  the  roles  that  party  A  and  party  B  played  in  the 

"conduct, transaction, or occurrence" giving rise to her claim. If  the  plaintiff  sues  party  B  instead  of  party  A  under  these 
circumstances,  she  has  made  a  "mistake  concerning  the 
proper  party's  identity"  notwithstanding  her  knowledge  of 
the existence of both parties.  The only question under Rule 
15(c)(1)(C)(ii), then, is whether party A knew or should have 
known  that,  absent  some  mistake,  the  action  would  have 
been brought against him. 

Respondent  urges  that  the  key  issue  under  Rule  15(c)(1) 
(C)(ii)  is  whether  the  plaintiff  made  a  deliberate  choice  to 
sue  one  party  over  another.  Brief  for  Respondent  11-16. 
We  agree  that  making  a  deliberate  choice  to  sue  one  party 
instead of another while fully understanding the factual and 
legal differences between the two parties is the antithesis of 
making  a  mistake  concerning  the  proper  party's  identity. 
We  disagree,  however,  with  respondent's  position  that  any 
time  a  plaintiff  is  aware  of  the  existence  of  two  parties  and 
chooses  to  sue  the  wrong  one,  the  proper  defendant  could 
reasonably  believe  that  the  plaintiff  made  no  mistake.  The 
reasonableness  of  the  mistake  is  not  itself  at  issue.  As 
noted, a plaintiff might know that the prospective defendant 
exists  but  nonetheless  harbor  a  misunderstanding  about  his 
status or role in the  events giving rise  to the claim at issue, 
and  she  may mistakenly  choose  to  sue  a  different  defendant 
based  on  that  misimpression.  That  kind  of  deliberate  but 
mistaken  choice  does  not  foreclose  a  finding  that  Rule 
15(c)(1)(C)(ii) has been satisfied. 

550  KRUPSKI  v. 551 Cite as: 560 U. S. 538 (2010) 

Opinion of the Court 
Ibid.

552  KRUPSKI  v. 553 Cite as: 560 U. S. 538 (2010) 

Opinion of the Court 
tory  conduct  can  justify  the  denial  of  relation  back  under Rule  15(c)(1)(C),  and  we  find  none.  The  Rule  plainly  sets 

forth an exclusive list of requirements for relation back, and the  amending  party's  diligence  is  not  among  them.  More-
over,  the  Rule  mandates  relation  back  once  the  Rule's  re-quirements  are  satisfied;  it  does  not  leave  the  decision 
whether to grant relation back to the district court's equita-
ble  discretion.  See  Rule  15(c)(1)  ("An  amendment  .  .  .  re-
lates

554  KRUPSKI  v. 555 Cite as: 560 U. S. 538 (2010) 

Opinion of the Court 
defendant  in  that  complaint  only  because  of  Krupski's  mis-understanding  about  which  "Costa"  entity  was  in  charge  of 

the  ship--clearly  a  "mistake  concerning  the  proper  party's identity." 

Respondent  contends  that  because  the  original  complaint referred to the ticket's forum requirement and presuit claims 
notification procedure, Krupski was clearly aware of the con-tents  of  the  ticket,  and  because  the  ticket  identified  Costa 
Crociere  as  the  carrier  and  proper  party  for  a  lawsuit,  re-spondent  was  entitled  to  think  that  she  made  a  deliberate 
choice to sue Costa Cruise instead of Costa Crociere.  Brief 
for  Respondent  13.  As  we  have  explained,  however,  that Krupski may have known the contents of the ticket does not 

foreclose  the  possibility  that  she  nonetheless  misunderstood 
crucial facts regarding the two companies' identities.  Espe-cially because the face of the complaint plainly indicated such 

a  misunderstanding,  respondent's  contention  is  not  persua-sive.  Moreover, respondent has articulated no strategy that 
it  could  reasonably  have  thought  Krupski  was  pursuing  in suing  a  defendant  that  was  legally  unable  to  provide  relief. 

Respondent  also  argues  that  Krupski's  failure  to  move  to amend her complaint during the Rule 4(m) period shows that 
she  made  no  mistake  in  that  period.  Id.,

556  KRUPSKI  v. 557 Cite as: 560 U. S. 538 (2010) 

Opinion of Scalia,
558  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

Syllabus 

UNITED  STATES  v.

559 Cite as: 560 U. S. 558 (2010) 
Per Curiam 
Per

560  UNITED  STATES  v. 561 Cite as: 560 U. S. 558 (2010) 

Per Curiam 
tered  as  a  sex  offender  under  Montana  law.  ("By  the  time of the court of appeals' decision, respondent had become reg-

istered  as a  sex  offender in  Montana,  where  he continues  to be  registered  today."  Pet.  for  Cert.  29.)  We  thus  must 
know  whether  a  favorable  decision  in  this  case  would  make it sufficiently likely that respondent "could remove his name 
and  identifying  information  from  the  Montana  sex  offender 
registry."  Ibid.

562  UNITED  STATES  v. 563 OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

Syllabus 

CARACHURI-ROSENDO  v.

564  CARACHURI-ROSENDO  v. 565 Cite as: 560 U. S. 563 (2010) 

Syllabus 
practical  significance  with  respect  to the  conviction  itself  and are  inte-
gral to  the structure and design of federal  drug laws.  They authorize 
prosecutors  to  exercise  discretion  when  electing  whether  to  pursue  a 
recidivist  enhancement.  So  do  many  state  criminal  codes,  including 
Texas'.  Permitting  an  immigration  judge  to  apply  his  own  recidivist 
enhancement  after  the  fact  would  denigrate  state  prosecutors'  inde-
pendent judgment to  execute such  laws.  Third, the Fifth Circuit mis-
read  Lopez.

566  CARACHURI-ROSENDO  v. 567 Cite as: 560 U. S. 563 (2010) 

Opinion of the Court 
manent  resident  subject  to  removal  from  the  United  States may  apply  for  discretionary  cancellation  of  removal  if,  inter

568  CARACHURI-ROSENDO  v. 569 Cite as: 560 U. S. 563 (2010) 

Opinion of the Court 
conviction,  $$ 851(b)-(c),  are  mandatory  prerequisites  to  ob-
taining a punishment based on the fact of a prior conviction.6 
And they are also necessary prerequisites under federal law 
to  "authorize"  a  felony  punishment,  18  U. S. C.  $ 3559(a),  for 
the type of simple possession offense at issue in this case. 

Neither  the  definition  of  an  "illicit  trafficking"  offense 
under  8  U. S. C.  $ 1101(a)(43)(B)  nor  that  of  a  "drug  traffick-
ing  crime"  under  18  U. S. C.  $ 924(c)(2)  describes  or  refer-
ences  any  state  offenses.  The  "aggravated  felony"  defini-
tion  does  explain  that  the  term  applies  "to  an  offense 
described  in  this  paragraph  whether  in  violation  of  Federal 
or State law."  $ 1101(a)(43).  But in Lopez

570  CARACHURI-ROSENDO  v. 571 Cite as: 560 U. S. 563 (2010) 

Opinion of the Court 
(known  commercially  as  Xanax)  without  a  prescription,  a class  A  misdemeanor.  See  App.  31a-34a;  Tex.  Health  & 

Safety Code Ann. $$ 481.117(a) and (b).  Although Texas law, like  federal law, authorized  a  sentencing enhancement if the 
prosecutor  proved  that  Carachuri-Rosendo  had  been  pre-viously  convicted  of  an  offense  of  a  similar  class,  the  State 
did  not  elect  to  seek  an  enhancement  based  on  his  criminal history.  App. 32a. 

In  2006,  on  the  basis  of  Carachuri-Rosendo's  second  pos-session  offense,  the  Federal  Government  initiated  removal 
proceedings against him.  Appearing pro

572  CARACHURI-ROSENDO  v. 573 Cite as: 560 U. S. 563 (2010) 

Opinion of the Court 
elements  to  look  at  the  hypothetical  conduct  a  state  statute proscribes."  570 F. 3d, at 266, n. 3.  Accordingly, any "con-

duct"  that  "hypothetically"  "could  have  been  punished  as  a felony" "had [it] been prosecuted in federal court" is an "ag-
gravated felony" for federal immigration law purposes.  Id.,

574  CARACHURI-ROSENDO  v. 575 Cite as: 560 U. S. 563 (2010) 

Opinion of the Court 
more  than  one  year."  18  U. S. C.  $ 3559(a)(5).  While  it  is true  that  a  defendant's  criminal  history  might  be  seen  to 

make  an  offense  "worse"  by  virtue  thereof,  Black's  75,  it  is nevertheless unorthodox to classify this type of petty simple 
possession recidivism as an "aggravated felony." Of course, as Justice Souter observed in his opinion for the 
Court  in  Lopez,

576  CARACHURI-ROSENDO  v. 577 Cite as: 560 U. S. 563 (2010) 

Opinion of the Court 
law.11  Carachuri-Rosendo was not actually "convicted," $ 1229b(a)(3),  of  a  drug  possession  offense  committed  "after 

a prior conviction . . . has  become  final,"  $ 844(a),  and  no subsequent development can undo that history.

12 

11 Our  decision  last  Term  in  Nijhawan

578  CARACHURI-ROSENDO  v. 579 Cite as: 560 U. S. 563 (2010) 

Opinion of the Court 
so  long  as  they  may  be  satisfied  during  the  immigration proceeding. 

But  these  procedural  requirements  have  great  practical significance with respect to the conviction itself and are inte-
gral  to  the  structure  and  design  of  our  drug  laws.  They authorize  prosecutors  to  exercise  discretion  when  electing 
whether  to  pursue  a  recidivist  enhancement.  See  United

580  CARACHURI-ROSENDO  v. 581 Cite as: 560 U. S. 563 (2010) 

Opinion of the Court 
have exceeded one year and very likely would have been less than  six  months.  See  United  States  Sentencing  Commis-

sion,  Guidelines  Manual  $ 2D2.1(a)(3)  (Nov.  2009)  (base  of-fense level of 4).  And as was true in Lopez,

582  CARACHURI-ROSENDO  v.Cite as: 560 U. S. 563 (2010)  583 

Scalia,
584  CARACHURI-ROSENDO  v. 585 Cite as: 560 U. S. 563 (2010) 

Thomas,
586  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

Syllabus 

ASTRUE,  COMMISSIONER  OF  SOCIAL  SECURITY  v.

587 Cite as: 560 U. S. 586 (2010) 
Syllabus 
and  other  provisions  clearly  distinguish  the  party  who  receives  the 
fees  award  (the  litigant)  from  the  attorney  who  performed  the  work 
that  generated  the  fees.  The  Court  disagrees  with  Ratliff's  assertion 
that subsection  (d)(1)(A)'s use of the verb "award" nonetheless renders 

$ 2412(d) fees payable directly to a prevailing party's attorney.  The dic-
tionaries show that, in the litigation context, the transitive verb "award" 
has  the  settled  meaning  of  giving  or  assigning  by

588  ASTRUE  v. 589 Cite as: 560 U. S. 586 (2010) 

Opinion of the Court 
We consider whether an award of "fees and other expenses" to  a "prevailing party" under  $ 2412(d) is  payable to  the  liti-

gant or to his attorney.  We hold that a $ 2412(d) fees award is  payable  to  the  litigant  and  is  therefore  subject  to  a  Gov-
ernment offset to satisfy a pre-existing debt that the litigant owes the United States. 

I 
This case arises out of proceedings in which a Social Secu-
rity  claimant,  Ruby  Willow  Kills  Ree,  prevailed  on  a  claim for benefits against the United States.  Respondent Cather-

ine  Ratliff  was  Kills  Ree's  attorney  in  those  proceedings. 
The District Court granted Kills Ree's unopposed motion for 
a  $ 2412(d)  fees  award  in  the  amount  of  $2,112.60.  Before 
the  United  States  paid  the  fees  award,  however,  it  discov-
ered  that  Kills  Ree  owed  the  Government  a  debt  that  pre-
dated  the  District  Court's  approval  of  the  award.  Accord-
ingly,  the  United  States  sought  an  administrative  offset 
against the fees award to satisfy part of that debt. 

The  Government's  authority  to  use  administrative  offsets 
is  statutory.  See  31  U. S. C.  $$ 3711(a),  3716(a)  (authorizing 
an  agency  whose  debt  collection  attempts  are  unsuccessful 
to  "collect  the  claim  by  administrative  offset").1  Congress 
has  subjected  to  offset  all  "funds  payable  by  the  United 
States," $ 3701(a)(1), to an individual who owes certain delin-
quent  federal  debts,  see  $ 3701(b),  unless,  as  relevant  here, 
payment  is  exempted  by  statute,  see  $ 3716(e)(2).  No  such 

1 Section  3701  defines  an  administrative  offset  as  "withholding  funds 
payable  by  the  United  States"  to  the  debtor.  $ 3701(a)(1).  An  agency 
may effect such an offset by cooperating with another agency to withhold 
such funds, or by notifying the Treasury Department of the debt so Treas-
ury may include it in Treasury's centralized offset program.  See 31 CFR 

$$ 285.5(d)(2),  901.3(b)(1),  (c)  (2009).  Alternatively,  the  Treasury  Depart-
ment  may  attempt  an  administrative  offset  after  receiving  notice  from 
a  creditor  agency  that  a  legally  enforceable  nontax  debt  has  become 
more  than  180  days  delinquent.  See  31  U. S. C.  $ 3716(c)(6);  31  CFR 

$$ 285.5(d)(1), 901.3(b)(1). 

590  ASTRUE  v. 591 Cite as: 560 U. S. 586 (2010) 

Opinion of the Court 
v.  Astrue,

592  ASTRUE  v. 593 Cite as: 560 U. S. 586 (2010) 

Opinion of the Court 
above, and even the definitions Ratliff proffers, because each makes  clear  that  the  verb  "award"  in  subsection  (d)(1)(A) 

means  to  "give  by

594  ASTRUE  v. 595 Cite as: 560 U. S. 586 (2010) 

Opinion of the Court 
awards  under  that  statute  payable  directly  to  a  prevailing claimant's attorney.  See 42 U. S. C. $ 406(b)(1)(A) (providing 

that where a claimant "who was represented before the court by  an  attorney"  obtains  a  favorable  judgment,  "the  court 
may  determine  and  allow  as  part  of  its  judgment  a  reason-able  fee  for  such  representation,  not  in  excess  of  25  percent 
of " the benefits award and may certify the full amount of the 
statutory  fees  award  "for

596  ASTRUE  v. 597 Cite as: 560 U. S. 586 (2010) 

Opinion of the Court 
The  Government's  history  of  paying  EAJA  awards  di-rectly to attorneys in certain cases does not compel a differ-

ent  conclusion.  The  Government  concedes  that  until  2006, it  "frequently  paid  EAJA  fees  in  Social  Security  cases  di-
rectly  to  attorneys."  Reply  Brief  for  Petitioner  13.  But this  fact  does  not  alter  our  interpretation  of  subsection 
(d)(1)(A)'s  "prevailing  party"  language  or  the  Government's rights  and  obligations  under  the  statute.  As  the  Govern-
ment  explains,  it  most  often  paid  EAJA  fees  directly  to  at-torneys  in  cases  in  which  the  prevailing party  had  assigned 
its  rights  in  the  fees  award  to  the  attorney  (which  assign-ment would not be necessary if the statute rendered the fees 
award  payable  to  the  attorney  in  the  first  instance).  The fact  that  some  such  cases  involved  a  prevailing  party  with 
outstanding  federal  debts  is  unsurprising  given  that  it  was not  until  2005  that  the  Treasury  Department  modified  the 
TOP  to  require  offsets  against  "miscellaneous"  payments such  as  attorney's  fees  awards.  And  as  Ratliff  admits,  the 
Government has since continued the direct payment practice only  in  cases  where  "the  plaintiff  does  not  owe  a  debt  to 
the  government  and  assigns  the  right  to  receive  the  fees  to the  attorney."  Brief  for  Respondent  28  (boldface  deleted). 
The Government's decision to continue direct payments only in such cases is easily explained by the 2005 amendments to 
the TOP, and nothing about the Government's past payment practices  altered  the  statutory  text  that  governs  this  case 
or  estopped  the  Government  from  conforming  its  payment practices  to  the  Treasury  Department's  revised  regulations. 
For all of these reasons, neither EAJA nor the SSA supports Ratliff 's reading of subsection (d)(1)(A). 

Our  cases  interpreting  and  applying  42  U. S. C.  $ 1988, which contains language virtually identical to the EAJA pro 
vision we address here,5  buttress  this  conclusion.  Our 

5 Section  1988(b)  provides  that  in  actions  covered  by  the  statute  and 
subject  to exceptions not relevant here, "the  court, in its discretion,  may 
allow the prevailing party, other than the United States, a reasonable at-
torney's fee." 

598  ASTRUE  v. 599 Cite as: 560 U. S. 586 (2010) 

Sotomayor,
600  ASTRUE  v. 601 Cite as: 560 U. S. 586 (2010) 

Sotomayor,
602  ASTRUE  v. 603 Cite as: 560 U. S. 586 (2010) 

Sotomayor,
604  ASTRUE  v. 605 OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

Syllabus 

DOLAN  v.  UNITED  STATES 
certiorari

606  DOLAN  v.  UNITED  STATES 

Syllabus 
less a party points out that another litigant has missed such a deadline, 
the  party  forfeits  the  deadline's  protection.  See,  e. g.,  Kontrick  v. 
Ryan,  540  U. S.  443,  454-456.  In  other  instances,  a  deadline  seeks 
speed by creating a time-related directive that is legally enforceable but 
does not deprive the judge or other public official of the power  to take 
the  action  even  if  the  deadline  is  missed.  See,  e. g.,  United  States  v. 
Montalvo-Murillo, 495 U. S. 711, 722.  In light of its language, context, 
and purposes, the statute at issue sets forth this third kind of limitation. 
The  fact  that  a  sentencing  court  misses  the  90-day  deadline,  even 
through  its  own  or  the  Government's  fault,  does  not  deprive  the  court 
of the power to order restitution.  Pp. 609-611. 

(b)  Several  considerations  lead  to  this  conclusion.  First,  where,  as 
here, a statute "does not specify a consequence for noncompliance with" 
its  "timing  provisions,"  "federal  courts  will  not"  ordinarily  "impose 
their  own  coercive  sanction."  United  States  v.  James  Daniel  Good 
Real  Property,  510  U. S.  43,  63.  A  statute's  use  of  "shall"  alone,  see 

$ 3664(d)(5),  does  not  necessarily  bar  judges  from  taking  the  action  to 
which  the  missed  deadline  refers.  Second,  the  statute  places  primary 
weight on, and emphasizes the importance of, imposing restitution upon 
those  convicted  of  certain  federal  crimes.  See  $ 3663A.  Third,  the 
statute's  procedural  provisions  reinforce  this  substantive  purpose. 
They reveal that the statute seeks speed primarily to help crime victims 
secure  prompt  restitution,  not  to  provide  defendants  with  certainty  as 
to the amount of their liability.  Fourth, to read the statute as depriving 
the  sentencing court  of  the  power  to order  restitution  would harm  the 
victims, who likely bear no responsibility for the deadline's being missed 
and  whom  the  statute  seeks  to  benefit.  That  kind  of  harm  to  third 
parties  provides  a  strong  indication  that  Congress  did  not  intend  a 
missed deadline to work a forfeiture.  See Brock v.  Pierce County, 476 
U. S.  253,  262.  Fifth,  the  Court  has  interpreted  similar  statutes,  such 
as  the  Bail  Reform  Act  of  1984,  similarly.  See  Montalvo-Murillo, 
supra,  at  721.  Sixth,  the  defendant  normally  can  mitigate  potential 
harm by telling the court that he fears the deadline will be, or just has 
been, missed, and the court will likely set a timely hearing or take other 
statutorily required action.  Pp. 611-616. 

(c)  This Court has not understated the potential harm to a defendant 
of  a missed  deadline.  Petitioner  claims  that because the  sentence will 
not be a "final judgment" for appeal purposes without a definitive deter-
mination of the restitution amount, to delay that determination beyond 
the  deadline  is  to  delay  his  ability  to  appeal.  But  a  defendant  who 
knows  that  restitution  will be ordered  and is  aware  of  the  amount  can 
usually avoid additional delay by asking for a timely hearing; if the court 
refuses,  he  could  seek  mandamus.  And  in  the  unlikely  instance  that 
delay causes the defendant prejudice, he remains free to ask the appel-

607 Cite as: 560 U. S. 605 (2010) 
Opinion of the Court 
late court  to take that fact and any  other equitable considerations into 
account on review.  This does not mean that the Court accepts petition-
er's premise that a sentencing judgment is not "final" until the restitu-
tion amount is determined.  Although that question need not be decided 
here,  strong  arguments  favor  the  appealability  of  the  initial  judgment 
irrespective  of  the  delay  in  determining  the  restitution  amount.  A 
judgment  imposing  " `discipline' "  may  still  be  "freighted  with  suffi-
ciently  substantial  indicia  of  finality  to  support  an  appeal."  Corey  v. 
United  States,  375  U. S.  169,  174.  And  several  statutes  say  that  a 
"judgment  of  conviction"  that  "includes"  "imprisonment"  is  a  "final 
judgment."  E. g.,  18  U. S. C.  $ 3582(b).  Moreover,  $ 3664(o)  provides 
that a "sentence that imposes an order of restitution," such as the later 
restitution  order  here,  "is  a  final  judgment."  Even  assuming  that  the 
rule of lenity could be applied to a statutory time provision in the crimi-
nal  context,  here  there  is  no  statutory  ambiguity  sufficiently  grievous 
to warrant its application in this case.  Muscarello v.  United States, 524 
U. S. 125, 139.  Pp. 616-621. 

571 F. 3d 1022, affirmed. 

Breyer,

608  DOLAN  v.  UNITED  STATES 

Opinion of the Court 
shall  set  a  date  for  the  final  determination  of  the  victim's 
losses,  not  to  exceed  90  days  after  sentencing."  18  U. S. C. 

$ 3664(d)(5).  We  hold  that  a  sentencing  court  that  misses 
the  90-day  deadline  nonetheless  retains  the  power  to  order 
restitution--at  least  where,  as  here,  the  sentencing  court 
made  clear  prior  to  the  deadline's  expiration  that  it  would 
order  restitution,  leaving  open  (for  more  than  90  days)  only 
the amount. 

I 

On February 8, 2007, petitioner Brian Dolan pleaded guilty 
to  a  federal  charge  of  assault  resulting  in  serious  bodily  in-
jury.  18  U. S. C.  $$ 113(a)(6),  1153;  App.  17.  He  entered 
into a plea agreement that stated that "restitution . . . may be  
ordered by the Court."  Id., at 18.  The presentence report, 
provided to  the  court by  the  end  of May, noted  that  restitu-
tion  was  required.  But,  lacking  precise  information  about 
hospital costs and lost wages, it did not recommend a restitu-
tion amount.  Id., at 27. 

On  July  30,  the  District  Court  held  Dolan's  sentencing 
hearing.  The  judge  sentenced  Dolan  to  21  months'  impris-
onment along with 3 years of supervised release.  Id., at 38. 
The judge, aware that restitution was "mandatory," said that 
there was "insufficient information on the record at this time 
regarding possible restitution payments that may be owed," 
that  he  would  "leave  that  matter  open,  pending  the  receipt 
of  additional  information,"  and  that  Dolan  could  "anticipate 
that such an award  will be made  in  the future."  Id., at 39- 
40.  A  few  days  later  (August  8)  the  court  entered  a  judg-
ment, which, among other things, stated: 

"Pursuant to the Mandatory Restitution Act, restitution 
is applicable; however, no information has been received 
regarding  possible  restitution  payments  that  may  be 
owed.  Therefore,  the  Court  will  not  order  restitution 
at this time."  Id., at 49 (boldface deleted). 

609 Cite as: 560 U. S. 605 (2010) 
Opinion of the Court 
The probation office later prepared an addendum to the pre-sentence  report,  dated  October  5,  which  reflected  the  views 

of  the  parties,  and  which  the  judge  later  indicated  he  had received.  Id.,  at  54.  The  addendum  documents  the  "total 
amount of restitution" due in the case (about $105,000).  Id., at  52.  Its  date,  October  5,  is  67  days  after  Dolan's  July  30 
sentencing  and  23  days  before  the  statute's  "90  days  after sentencing" deadline would expire.  $ 3664(d)(5). 

The sentencing court nonetheless set a restitution hearing for  February  4,  2008--about  three  months  after  the  90-day 
deadline expired.  As far as the record shows, no one asked the  court  for  an  earlier  hearing.  At  the  hearing,  Dolan 
pointed out that the 90-day deadline had passed.  Id., at 54- 55.  And  he  argued  that  the  law  no  longer  authorized  the 
court to order restitution.  Id., at 60-64. The court disagreed and  ordered restitution.  See Memo-
randum  Opinion  and  Restitution  Order  in  No.  CR  06- 02173-RB (D NM, Apr. 24,  2008), App. to Pet. for Cert. 47a. 
The Court of Appeals affirmed.  571 F. 3d 1022 (CA10 2009). And,  in  light  of  differences  among  the  Courts  of  Appeals, 
we  granted  Dolan's  petition  for  certiorari  on  the  question. Compare 

United  States  v.  Cheal,  389  F.  3d  35  (CA1  2004) (recognizing court's authority to enter restitution order past 

90 days), and United States v.  Balentine, 569 F. 3d 801 (CA8 2009)  (same),  with  United  States  v.  Maung,  267  F.  3d  1113 
(CA11 2001) (finding no such authority), and United States v. Farr,  419 F. 3d 621 (CA7 2005) (same). 

II  

A  

There  is  no  doubt  in  this  case  that  the  court  missed  the 90-day statutory deadline "for the final determination of the 

victim's  losses."  $ 3664(d)(5).  No  one  has  offered  any  ex-cuse  for  the  court's  doing  so.  Nor  did  any  party  seek  an 
extension  or  "tolling"  of  the  90  days  for  equitable  or  for other reasons.  All the information needed to determine the 

610  DOLAN  v.  UNITED  STATES 

Opinion of the Court 
requisite restitution amount was available before the 90-day period  had  ended.  Thus,  the  question  before  us  concerns 

the  consequences of the  missed deadline where, as here, the statute does not specify them. 

In  answering  this  kind  of  question,  this  Court  has  looked to  statutory  language,  to  the  relevant  context,  and  to  what 
they reveal about  the purposes that a time limit is designed 
to serve.  The Court's answers have varied depending upon the  particular  statute  and  time  limit  at  issue.  Sometimes 

we have found that the statute in question imposes a "juris-dictional" condition upon, for example, a court's authority to 
hear  a  case,  to  consider  pleadings,  or  to  act  upon  motions 
that  a  party  seeks  to  file.  See,  e. g.,  Bowles  v.  Russell,  551 
U. S.  205  (2007).  But  cf.  Kontrick  v.  Ryan,  540  U. S.  443, 
455  (2004)  (finding  bankruptcy  rule  did  not  show  legislative 
intent  to  "delineat[e]  the  classes  of  cases"  and  "persons" 
properly  "within  a  court's  adjudicatory  authority");  see  also 
Reed  Elsevier,  Inc.  v.  Muchnick,  559  U. S.  154,  160-161 
(2010)  (discussing use of term "jurisdictional").  The expira-
tion  of  a  "jurisdictional"  deadline  prevents  the  court  from 
permitting or taking the action to which the statute attached 
the deadline.  The prohibition is absolute.  The parties can-
not waive it, nor can a court extend that deadline for equita-
ble  reasons.  See  John  R.  Sand  &  Gravel  Co.  v.  United 
States, 552 U. S. 130, 133-134 (2008). 

In  other  instances,  we  have  found  that  certain  deadlines 
are  more  ordinary  "claims-processing  rules,"  rules  that  do 
not limit a court's jurisdiction, but rather regulate the timing 
of  motions  or  claims  brought  before  the  court.  Unless  a 
party points out to the court that another litigant has missed 
such  a  deadline,  the  party  forfeits  the  deadline's  protection. 
See, e. g., Kontrick v.  Ryan, supra, at 454-456 (60-day bank-
ruptcy  rule  deadline  for  creditor's  objection  to  debtor  dis-
charge);  Eberhart  v.  United  States,  546  U. S.  12,  19  (2005) 
(per  curiam)  (7-day  criminal  rule  deadline  for  filing  motion 
for a new trial). 

611 Cite as: 560 U. S. 605 (2010) 
Opinion of the Court 
In  still  other  instances,  we  have  found  that  a  deadline seeks  speed  by  creating  a  time-related  directive  that  is  le-

gally enforceable but does not deprive a judge or other public official of the power to take the action to which the deadline 
applies if the deadline is missed.  See, e. g., United States v. 
Montalvo-Murillo, 495 U. S. 711, 722 (1990) (missed deadline for  holding  bail  detention  hearing  does  not  require  judge  to 

release  defendant);  Brock  v.  Pierce  County,  476  U. S.  253, 266  (1986)  (missed  deadline  for  making  final  determination 
as  to  misuse  of  federal  grant  funds  does  not  prevent  later recovery  of  funds);  Barnhart  v.  Peabody  Coal  Co.,  537  U. S. 
149,  171-172  (2003)  (missed  deadline  for  assigning  industry retiree benefits does not prevent later award of benefits). 

After  examining  the  language,  the  context,  and  the  pur-poses  of  the  statute,  we  conclude  that  the  provision  before 
us  sets  forth  this  third  kind  of  limitation.  The  fact  that  a sentencing  court  misses  the  statute's  90-day  deadline,  even 
through  its  own  fault  or  that  of  the  Government,  does  not deprive the court of the power to order restitution. 

B 
Several  considerations  lead  us  to  this  conclusion.  First, where, as here, a statute "does not specify a consequence for 

noncompliance with" its "timing provisions," "federal courts will  not  in  the  ordinary  course  impose  their  own  coercive 
sanction."  United States v.  James Daniel Good Real Prop-erty,  510  U. S.  43,  63  (1993);  see  also  Montalvo-Murillo, 
supra,  at  717-721.  Cf.,  e. g.,  Speedy  Trial  Act  of  1974, 18  U. S. C.  $ 3161(c)(1);  $ 3162(a)(2)  (statute  specifying  that 
missed  70-day  deadline  requires  dismissal  of  indictment); Zedner  v.  United  States,  547  U. S.  489,  507-509  (2006)  ("The 
sanction for a violation of the Act is dismissal"). We  concede  that  the  statute  here  uses  the  word  "shall," 

$ 3664(d)(5),  but  a  statute's  use  of  that  word  alone  has  not always led this Court to interpret statutes to bar judges (or 
other officials) from taking the action to which a missed stat-

612  DOLAN  v.  UNITED  STATES 

Opinion of the Court 
utory  deadline  refers.  See,  e. g.,  Montalvo-Murillo,  supra, at  718-719  (use  of  word  "shall"  in  context  of  bail  hearing 

makes  duty  "mandatory"  but  does  not  mean  that  the  "sanc-tion  for  breach"  is  "loss  of  all  later  powers  to  act"); 

Brock, 
supra,  at  262  (same  in  context  of  misuse  of  federal  funds); 
Barnhart, supra, at 158-163 (same in context  of benefits as-
signments).  See also Regions Hospital v.  Shalala, 522 U. S. 
448,  459,  n.  3  (1998)  (same  in  respect  to  federal  official's  re-porting date). 

Second, the statute's text places primary weight upon, and emphasizes  the  importance  of,  imposing  restitution  upon 
those  convicted  of  certain  federal  crimes.  Amending  an 
older provision that left restitution to the sentencing judge's 
discretion,  the  statute  before  us  (entitled  "The  Mandatory 
Victims  Restitution  Act  of  1996")  says  "[n]otwithstanding 
any  other  provision  of  law,  when  sentencing  a  defendant 
convicted  of  [a  specified]  offense . . . ,  the  court  shall  order 
.  .  .  that  the  defendant  make  restitution  to  the  victim  of 

the offense."  $ 3663A(a)(1) (emphasis added); cf. $ 3663(a)(1) 
(stating  that  a  court  "may"  order  restitution  when  sentenc-
ing  defendants  convicted  of  other  specified  crimes).  The 
Act  goes  on  to  provide  that  restitution  shall  be  ordered  in 
the "full amount of each victim's losses" and "without consid-
eration  of  the  economic  circumstances  of  the  defendant." 

$ 3664(f)(1)(A). 

Third,  the  Act's  procedural  provisions  reinforce  this  sub-
stantive purpose, namely, that the statute seeks primarily to 
ensure that victims of a crime receive full restitution.  To be 
sure speed is important.  The statute requires a sentencing 
judge  to  order  the  probation  office  to  prepare  a  report  pro-
viding  "a  complete  accounting  of  the  losses  to  each  victim, 
any  restitution  owed  pursuant  to  a  plea  agreement,  and  in-
formation relating to the economic circumstances of each de-
fendant."  $ 3664(a).  The  prosecutor,  after  consulting  with 
all  identified  victims,  must  "promptly  provide"  a  listing  of 
the  amount  subject  to  restitution  "not  later  than  60  days 

613 Cite as: 560 U. S. 605 (2010) 
Opinion of the Court 
prior  to  the  date  initially  set  for  sentencing."  $ 3664(d)(1) (emphasis added).  And the provision before us says: 

"If  the  victim's  losses  are  not  ascertainable  by  the  date that  is  10 days  prior to sentencing, the attorney for  the 
Government  or the  probation officer  shall  so inform the court, and the court shall set a date for the final determi-
nation of the victim's losses, not to exceed 90 days after sentencing."  $ 3664(d)(5). 

But the statute seeks speed primarily to help the victims of crime  and  only  secondarily  to  help  the  defendant.  Thus,  in 
the sentence following the language we have just quoted, the statute continues: 

"If the victim subsequently discovers further losses, the victim shall have 60 days after discovery of those losses 
in which to petition the court for an amended restitution order." 

Ibid. 

The  sentence  imposes  no  time  limit  on  the  victim's  subse-quent  discovery  of  losses.  Consequently,  a  court  might 

award restitution for those losses long after the original sen-tence  was  imposed  and  the  90-day  time  limit  has  expired. 
That  fact,  along  with  the  Act's  main  substantive  objectives, is why  we  say  that the  Act's  efforts to secure  speedy  deter-
mination of restitution is primarily designed to help victims of  crime  secure  prompt  restitution  rather  than  to  provide 
defendants with certainty as to the amount of their liability. Cf.  S.  Rep.  No.  104-179,  p.  20  (1995)  (recognizing  "the  need 
for finality and certainty in the sentencing process," but also stating  that  the  "sole  due  process  interest  of  the  defendant 
being  protected  .  .  .  is  the  right  not  to  be  sentenced  on  the basis of invalid premises or inaccurate information"); see also 
ibid.  ("[J]ustice  cannot  be  considered  served  until  full  resti-tution is made"). 

Fourth,  to  read  the  statute  as  depriving  the  sentencing court  of  the  power  to  order  restitution  would  harm  those-- 
the  victims  of  crime--who  likely  bear  no  responsibility  for 

614  DOLAN  v.  UNITED  STATES 

Opinion of the Court 
the deadline's being missed and whom the statute also seeks to  benefit.  Cf.  $ 3664(g)(1)  ("No  victim  shall  be  required  to 

participate in any phase of a restitution order").  The poten-tial  for  such  harm--to  third  parties--normally  provides  a 
strong indication that Congress did not intend a missed dead-line to work a forfeiture, here depriving a court of the power 
to  award  restitution  to  victims.  See  Brock,  476  U. S.,  at 
261-262  (parties  concede  and  court  assumes  that  official  can "proceed  after  the  deadline"  where  "inaction"  would  hurt 

third party); see also 3 N. Singer & J. Singer, Sutherland on Statutory  Construction  $ 57:19,  pp.  73-74  (7th  ed.  2008) 
(hereinafter Singer, Statutory Construction) (missing a 
deadline  does  not  remove  power  to  exercise  a  duty  where 
there is  no "language denying performance  after  a specified 
time," and especially "where a mandatory construction might 
do  great  injury  to  persons  not  at  fault,  as  in  a  case  where 
slight  delay  on  the  part  of  a  public  officer  might  prejudice 
private rights or the public interest" (footnote omitted)). 

Fifth, we have previously interpreted similar statutes sim-
ilarly.  In Montalvo-Murillo, 495 U. S. 711, for example, we 
considered  the  Bail Reform  Act  of  1984,  which  states  that  a 
"judicial  officer  shall  hold  a  hearing"  to  determine  whether 
to  grant  bail  to  an  arrested  person  and  that  "hearing  shall 
be  held  immediately  upon  the  person's  first  appearance  be-
fore  the  judicial  officer."  (A  continuance  of  up  to  five  days 
may also be granted.)  18 U. S. C. $ 3142(f) (emphasis added). 
The  judicial  officer  missed  this  deadline,  but  the  Court  held 
that the judicial officer need not release the detained person. 
Rather, "once the Government discovers that the time limits 
have  expired,  it  may  [still]  ask  for  a  prompt detention  hear-
ing and make its case to detain based upon the requirements 
set forth in the statute."  495 U. S., at 721. 

The  Court  reasoned  that  "a  failure  to  comply"  with  the 
hearing deadline "does not so subvert the procedural scheme 
.  .  .  as  to  invalidate  the  hearing."  Id.,  at  717.  Missing  the 
deadline  did  not  diminish  the  strength  of  the  Government's 

615 Cite as: 560 U. S. 605 (2010) 
Opinion of the Court 
interest in preventing release to avert the likely commission of  crimes--the  very  objective  of  the  Act. 

Id.,  at  720.  Nor 
would mandatory release of the detained person "proportion-[ately]"  repair  the  "inconvenience  and  uncertainty  a  timely 

hearing would have spared him."  Id., at 721. Here,  as  in 

Montalvo-Murillo,  neither  the  language  nor 
the structure of the statute requires denying the victim res-
titution  in  order  to  remedy  a  missed  hearing  deadline.  As in 

Montalvo-Murillo,  doing  so  would  defeat  the  basic  pur-
pose of the  Mandatory Victims  Restitution Act.  And, here, as  in 

Montalvo-Murillo,  that  remedy  does  not  "proportion-
[ately]" repair the harm caused the defendant through delay, 
particularly where, as here, the defendant "knew about resti-
tution,"  including  the  likely  amount,  well  before  expiration 
of the  90-day  time  limit.  App. 62.  Indeed,  our  result  here 
follows  from  Montalvo-Murillo  a  fortiori,  for  here  delay 
at worst postpones the day of financial reckoning.  In 
Montalvo-Murillo,  delay  postponed  a  constitutionally  guar-
anteed bail hearing with the attached risk that the defendant 
would  remain  improperly  confined  in  jail.  See  495  U. S.,  at 
728 (Stevens,

616  DOLAN  v.  UNITED  STATES 

Opinion of the Court 
tains the relevant information regarding the restitution 
amount  before  the  90-day  deadline  expires.  A  defendant 
who fears  the  deadline  will be  (or just  has  been)  missed  can 
simply  tell  the  court,  which  will  then  likely  set  a  timely 
hearing or take other statutorily required action.  See 

$ 3664(d)(4)  (providing  that  "court  may  require  additional 
documentation  or  hear  testimony");  $ 3664(d)(5).  Though  a 
deliberate failure of the sentencing court to comply with the 
statute  seems  improbable,  should  that  occur,  the  defendant 
can  also  seek  mandamus.  See  All  Writs  Act,  28  U. S. C. 

$ 1651(a); La Buy v.  Howes Leather Co., 352 U. S. 249 (1957). 
Cf.  Brock,  supra,  at  260,  n.  7  (noting  availability  of  district 
court  action  to  compel  agency  compliance  with  time-related 
directive). 

C 

Petitioner  Dolan,  however,  believes  we  have  understated 
the  harm  to  a  defendant  that  a  missed  deadline  can  cause. 
To show this he makes a three-part argument: (1) A defend-
ant cannot appeal a sentence unless it is part of a "final judg-
ment";  (2)  a  judgment  setting  forth  a  sentence  is  not  "final" 
until  it  contains  a  definitive  determination  of  the  amount  of 
restitution; and (3) to delay the determination of the amount 
of restitution beyond  the  90-day deadline is  to  delay the  de-
fendant's  ability  to  appeal  for  more  than  90  days--perhaps 
to  the  point  where  his  due  process  rights  are  threatened. 
Brief for Petitioner 28-33. 

The  critical  problem  with  this  argument  lies  in  its  third 
step.  As  we  have  said,  a  defendant  who,  like  petitioner 
here,  knows  that  restitution  will  be ordered  and is  aware of 
the  restitution  amount  prior  to  the  expiration  of  the  90-day 
deadline  can  usually  avoid  additional  delay  simply  by  point-
ing  to  the  statute  and  asking  the  court  to  grant  a  timely 
hearing.  That did not happen here.  And that minimal bur-
den on the defendant is  a small cost relative to the prospect 
of depriving  innocent  crime  victims  of  their  due  restitution. 

617 Cite as: 560 U. S. 605 (2010) 
Opinion of the Court 
(Should the court still refuse, the defendant could seek man-damus--which we believe will rarely be necessary.) 

Even in the unlikely instances where that delay does cause the  defendant  prejudice--perhaps  by  depriving  him  of  evi-
dence  to  rebut  the  claimed  restitution  amount--the  defend-ant  remains  free  to  ask  the  court  to  take  that  fact  into 
account  upon  review.  That  inquiry  might  also  consider  the 
reason  for  the  delay  and  the  party  responsible  for  its  cause, 
i. e.,  whether  the  Government  or  the  victim.  Cf.,  e. g., 
United  States  v.  Stevens,  211  F.  3d  1,  4-6  (CA2  2000)  (toll-ing  90-day  deadline  for  defendant's  bad-faith  delay); 

United 
States v.  Terlingo, 327 F. 3d 216, 218-223 (CA3 2003) (same). 
Adopting  the  dissent's  approach,  by  contrast,  would  permit 
a  defendant's  bad-faith  delay  to  prevent  a  timely  order  of 
restitution, potentially allowing the defendant to manipulate 
whether  restitution  could  be  awarded  at  all.  But  since  we 
are not presented with such a case here, we need not decide 
whether, or how, such potential harm or equitable considera-
tions should be taken into consideration. 

In  focusing  upon  the  argument's  third  step,  we  do  not 
mean  to  imply  that  we  accept  the  second  premise,  i. e.,  that 
a sentencing judgment is not "final" until it contains a defin-
itive determination of the amount of restitution.  To the con-
trary, strong arguments favor the appealability of the initial 
judgment irrespective of the delay  in  determining the  resti-
tution  amount.  The  initial  judgment  here  imposed  a  sen-
tence  of  imprisonment  and  supervised  release,  and  stated 
that  restitution  would  be  awarded.  This  Court  has  pre-
viously  said  that  a  judgment  that  imposes  "discipline"  may 
still  be  "freighted  with  sufficiently  substantial  indicia  of  fi-
nality  to  support  an  appeal."  Corey  v.  United  States,  375 
U. S. 169, 174, 175 (1963) (internal quotation marks omitted). 
And  the  Solicitor  General  points  to  statutes  that  say  that  a 
"judgment  of  conviction"  that  "includes"  a  "sentence  to  im-
prisonment" is a "final judgment."  18 U. S. C. $ 3582(b).  So 
is  a  judgment  that  imposes  supervised  release  (which  can 

618  DOLAN  v.  UNITED  STATES 

Opinion of the Court 
be imposed only  in  conjunction with  a sentence of imprison-ment). 

Ibid.;  $ 3583(a).  So  is  a  judgment  that  imposes  a 
fine.  $ 3572(c).  See Tr. of Oral Arg. 33-34. Moreover, $ 3664(

o) provides that a "sentence that imposes 
an  order  of  restitution,"  such  as  the  later  restitution  order here, "is a final judgment."  Thus, it is not surprising to find 

instances where  a defendant has  appealed from  the entry of 
a  judgment  containing  an  initial  sentence  that  includes  a term of imprisonment; that same defendant has subsequently 

appealed from a later order setting forth the final amount of restitution;  and  the  Court  of  Appeals  has  consolidated  the 
two  appeals  and  decided  them  together.  See,  e. g.,  United 
States  v.  Stevens,  supra;  United  States  v.  Maung,  267  F.  3d, 
at 1117; cf. United States v.  Cheal, 389 F. 3d, at 51-53. 

That the defendant can appeal from the earlier sentencing 
judgment  makes  sense,  for  otherwise  the  statutory  90-day 
restitution  deadline,  even  when  complied  with,  could  delay 
appeals  for  up  to  90  days.  Defendants,  that  is,  would  be 
forced  to  wait  three  months  before  seeking  review  of  their 
conviction  when  they  could  ordinarily  do  so  within  14  days. 
See  Fed.  Rule  App.  Proc.  4(b).  Nonetheless,  in  light  of  the 
fact  that  the  interaction  of  restitution  orders  with  appellate 
time  limits  could  have  consequences  extending  well  beyond 
cases like the present case (where there was no appeal from 
the  initial  conviction  and  sentence),  we  simply  note  the 
strength of the arguments militating against the second step 
of  petitioner's  argument  without  deciding  whether  or  when 
a party can, or must, appeal.  We leave all such matters for 
another day. 

The  dissent,  however,  creates  a  rule  that  could  adversely 
affect not just restitution, but other sentencing practices be-
yond  the  narrow  circumstances  presented  here.  Consider, 
for  example,  a  judge  who  (currently  lacking  sufficient  infor-
mation)  wishes to leave  open, say,  the  amount  of a fine, or a 
special  condition  of  supervised  release.  In  the  dissent's 
view, the entry of any such judgment would immediately de-

619 Cite as: 560 U. S. 605 (2010) 
Opinion of the Court 
prive  the judge of the authority  later  to fill in that blank,  in the  absence  of  a  statute  specifically  providing  otherwise. 

See  post,  at  622-624  (opinion of  Roberts,

620  DOLAN  v.  UNITED  STATES 

Opinion of the Court 
of  the  offense."  $ 3663A(a)(1)  (emphasis  added).  The  dis-sent  cannot  explain  why  a 

separate  statutory  provision  re-
garding  procedures  as  to  when  a  "court  shall  set  a  date  for the  final  determination  of  the  victim's  losses,"  $ 3664(d)(5), 

automatically divests a court of this  distinct substantive  au-thority.  While  of  course  that  provision  does  not  "plainly" 
confer "power to act after sentencing," post, at 625 (emphasis 
deleted),  neither  does  it  "plainly"  remove  it  or  require  that all  sentencing  matters  be  concluded  at  one  point  in  time. 

(And  the  dissent's  assertion,  see  post,  at  626--that  it  uses the  term  "authority"  not  in  its  "jurisdictional"  sense,  but 
rather in the sense that a court lacks "authority" to "impose 
a  sentence  above  the . . .  maximum"--introduces  a  tenuous 
analogy  that  may  well  confuse  this  Court's  precedents  re-
garding  the  term  "jurisdictional."  See  supra,  at  610-611.) 

In  any  event,  unless  one  reads  the  relevant  statute's  90-
day  deadline  as  an  ironclad  limit  upon  the  judge's  authority 
to make a final determination of the victim's losses, the stat-
ute  before  us  itself  provides  adequate  authority  to  do  what 
the sentencing judge did here--essentially fill in an amountrelated blank in a judgment that made clear that restitution 
was  "applicable."  App.  49  (boldface  deleted).  Since  the 
sentencing judge's later order did not "correct" an "error" in 
the  sentence,  Rule  35  does  not  apply.  Compare  Fed.  Rule 
Crim. Proc. 35(a) with post, at 622-623.  Hence the dissent's 
claim  that  there  is  no  other  statute  that  creates  authority 
(even  were  we  to  assume  all  else  in  its  favor,  which  we  do 
not) is merely to restate the question posed in this case, not 
to answer it. 

Moreover, the dissent's reading creates a serious statutory 
anomaly.  It  reads  the  statute  as  permitting  a  sentencing 
judge  to  order  restitution  for  a  "victim"  who  "subsequently 
discovers  further  losses"  a  month,  a  year,  or  10  years  after 
entry  of  the  original  judgment,  while  at  the  same  time  de-
priving  that  judge  of  the  power  to  award  restitution  to  a 
victim  whose  "losses  are  not  ascertainable"  within  90  days. 

621 Cite as: 560 U. S. 605 (2010) 
Roberts,
622  DOLAN  v.  UNITED  STATES 

Roberts,

623 Cite as: 560 U. S. 605 (2010) 
Roberts,
624  DOLAN  v.  UNITED  STATES 

Roberts,

625 Cite as: 560 U. S. 605 (2010) 
Roberts,
626  DOLAN  v.  UNITED  STATES 

Roberts,

627 Cite as: 560 U. S. 605 (2010) 
Roberts,
628  DOLAN  v.  UNITED  STATES 

Roberts,

629 Cite as: 560 U. S. 605 (2010) 
Roberts,
630  DOLAN  v.  UNITED  STATES 

Roberts,

631 OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 
Syllabus 

HOLLAND  v.  FLORIDA 
certiorari

632  HOLLAND  v.  FLORIDA 

Syllabus 
tion's strength is reinforced here by the fact that "equitable principles" 
have traditionally "governed" substantive habeas law.  Munaf v. Geren, 
553  U. S.  674,  693,  and  the  fact  that  Congress  enacted  AEDPA  after 
Irwin  and  therefore  was  likely  aware  that  courts,  when  interpreting 
AEDPA's  timing  provisions,  would  apply  the  presumption,  see,  e. g., 
Merck  &  Co.  v.  Reynolds,  559  U. S.  633,  648.  Second,  $ 2244(d)  differs 
significantly  from  the  statutes  at  issue  in  United  States  v.  Brockamp, 
519  U. S.  347,  350-352,  and  United  States  v.  Beggerly,  524  U. S.  38,  49, 
in  which  the  Court  held  that  Irwin's  presumption  had  been  overcome. 
For  example,  unlike  the  subject  matters  at  issue  in  those  cases--tax 
collection  and  land  claims--AEDPA's  subject  matter,  habeas  corpus, 
pertains  to  an  area  of  the  law  where  equity  finds  a  comfortable  home. 
See  Munaf,  supra,  at  693.  Brockamp,  supra,  at  352,  distinguished. 
Moreover,  AEDPA's  limitations  period  is  neither  unusually  generous 
nor unusually complex.  Finally, the Court disagrees with respondent's 
argument  that  equitable tolling  undermines AEDPA's  basic  purpose  of 
eliminating delays in the federal habeas review process, see, e. g., Day, 
supra,  at 205-206.  AEDPA  seeks to  do so  without  undermining basic 
habeas corpus principles and by harmonizing the statute with prior law, 
under which a petition's timeliness was always determined under equi-
table principles.  See, e. g., Slack v. McDaniel, 529 U. S. 473, 483.  Such 
harmonization, along with the Great Writ's importance as the only writ 
explicitly protected by the Constitution, counsels hesitancy before inter-
preting AEDPA's silence on equitable tolling as congressional intent to 
close  courthouse  doors  that  a  strong  equitable  claim  would  keep  open. 
Pp. 645-649. 

(b)  The  Eleventh  Circuit's  per  se  standard  is  too  rigid.  A  "peti-
tioner" is "entitled to equitable tolling" if he shows "(1) that he has been 
pursuing  his  rights  diligently,  and  (2)  that  some  extraordinary  circum-
stance  stood  in  his  way"  and  prevented  timely  filing.  Pace  v.  DiGug-
lielmo, 544 U. S. 408, 418.  Such "extraordinary circumstances" are not 
limited  to  those  that  satisfy  the  Eleventh  Circuit's  test.  Courts  must 
often "exercise [their] equity powers . . . on a case-by-case basis," Bag-
gett v.  Bullitt, 377 U. S. 360, 375, demonstrating "flexibility" and avoid-
ing  "mechanical  rules,"  Holmberg  v.  Armbrecht,  327  U. S.  392,  396,  in 
order to "relieve hardships . . .  aris[ing] from a hard and fast adherence" 
to more absolute legal rules, Hazel-Atlas Glass Co. v.  Hartford-Empire 
Co.,  322 U. S.  238, 248.  The Court's cases recognize that equity courts 
can and do draw upon decisions made in other similar cases for guidance, 
exercising  judgment  in  light  of  precedent,  but  with  awareness  of  the 
fact  that  specific  circumstances,  often  hard  to  predict,  could  warrant 
special  treatment  in  an  appropriate  case.  Coleman  v.  Thompson,  501 
U. S. 722, 753, distinguished.  No pre-existing rule of law or precedent 
demands the Eleventh Circuit's rule.  That rule is difficult to reconcile 

633 Cite as: 560 U. S. 631 (2010) 
Syllabus 
with more general equitable principles in that it fails to recognize that, 
at least sometimes, an attorney's unprofessional conduct can be so egre-
gious  as  to  create  an  extraordinary  circumstance  warranting  equitable 
tolling, as several other federal courts have specifically held.  Although 
equitable tolling is not warranted for "a garden variety claim of excus-
able  neglect,"  Irwin,  supra,  at  96,  this  case  presents  far  more  serious 
instances of attorney misconduct than that.  Pp. 649-652. 

2.  While  the  record  facts  suggest  that  this  case  may  well  present 
"extraordinary"  circumstances,  the  Court  does  not  state  its  conclusion 
absolutely  because  more  proceedings  may  be  necessary.  The  District 
Court incorrectly rested its ruling not on a  lack of such circumstances, 
but on  a  lack of  diligence.  Here, Holland diligently  pursued  his  rights 
by writing Collins numerous letters seeking crucial information and pro-
viding direction, by repeatedly requesting that Collins be removed from 
his  case,  and  by  filing  his  own  pro  se  habeas  petition  on  the  day  he 
learned  his  AEDPA  filing  period  had  expired.  Because  the  District 
Court erroneously concluded that Holland was not diligent, and because 
the  Court  of  Appeals  erroneously  relied  on  an  overly  rigid  per  se  ap-
proach, no lower court has yet considered whether the facts of this case 
indeed constitute extraordinary circumstances sufficient to warrant eq-
uitable  tolling.  The  Eleventh  Circuit  may  determine  on  remand 
whether such  tolling is appropriate, or  whether an evidentiary hearing 
and  other  proceedings  might  indicate  that  the  State  should  prevail. 
Pp. 652-654. 

539 F. 3d 1334, reversed and remanded. 

Breyer,

634  HOLLAND  v.  FLORIDA 

Opinion of the Court 
General, and Sandra S. Jaggard and Lisa-Marie Lerner, As-sistant Attorneys General.* 

Justice

635 Cite as: 560 U. S. 631 (2010) 
Opinion of the Court 
erans  Affairs,  498  U. S.  89,  96  (1990);  see  also  Lawrence  v. 
Florida, 549 U. S. 327, 336 (2007).  We therefore reverse the 
judgment  of  the  Court  of  Appeals  and  remand  for  further 
proceedings. 

I 

AEDPA  states  that  "[a]  1-year  period  of  limitation  shall 
apply to an application for a writ of habeas corpus by a per-
son  in  custody  pursuant  to  the  judgment  of  a  State  court." 

$ 2244(d)(1).  It  also  says  that  "[t]he  time  during  which  a 
properly  filed  application  for  State  post-conviction  .  .  .  re-
view"  is  "pending  shall  not  be  counted"  against  the  1-year 
period.  $ 2244(d)(2). 

On  January  19,  2006,  Albert  Holland  filed  a  pro se habeas 
corpus  petition  in  the  Federal  District  Court  for  the  South-
ern  District  of  Florida.  Both  Holland  (the  petitioner)  and 
the State of Florida (the respondent) agree that, unless equi-
tably  tolled,  the  statutory  limitations  period  applicable  to 
Holland's  petition  expired  approximately  five  weeks  before 
the petition was filed.  See Brief for Respondent 9, and n. 7; 
Brief  for  Petitioner  5,  and  n.  4.  Holland  asked  the  District 
Court  to  toll  the  limitations  period  for  equitable  reasons. 
We shall set forth in some detail the record facts that under-
lie Holland's claim. 

A 

In 1997, Holland was convicted of first-degree murder and 
sentenced  to  death.  The  Florida  Supreme  Court  affirmed 
that  judgment.  Holland  v.  State,  773  So.  2d  1065  (2000). 
On  October  1,  2001,  this  Court  denied  Holland's  petition  for 
certiorari.  534  U. S. 834.  And on that date--the date  that 
our denial of the petition ended further direct review of Hol-
land's conviction--the 1-year AEDPA limitations clock began 
to  run.  See  28  U. S. C.  $ 2244(d)(1)(A);  Jimenez  v.  Quarterman, 555 U. S. 113, 119 (2009). 

Thirty-seven days later, on November 7, 2001, Florida ap-
pointed  attorney Bradley  Collins to represent Holland in  all 

636  HOLLAND  v.  FLORIDA 

Opinion of the Court 
state  and federal postconviction proceedings.  Cf. Fla. Stat. $$ 27.710,  27.711(2)  (2007).  By 

September  19,  2002--316 
days  after  his  appointment  and  12  days  before  the  1-year AEDPA  limitations  period  expired--Collins,  acting  on  Hol-

land's  behalf,  filed  a  motion  for  postconviction  relief  in  the state  trial  court.  Cf.  Brief  for  Respondent  9,  n.  7.  That 
filing automatically stopped the running of the AEDPA limi-
tations  period,  $ 2244(d)(2),  with,  as  we  have  said,  12  days left on the clock. 

For  the  next  three  years,  Holland's  petition  remained pending  in  the  state  courts.  During  that  time,  Holland 
wrote  Collins  letters  asking  him  to  make  certain  that  all  of 
his  claims  would  be  preserved  for  any  subsequent  federal 
habeas corpus review.  Collins wrote back, stating, "I would 
like  to  reassure  you  that  we  are  aware  of  state  timelimitations  and  federal exhaustion  requirements."  App. 55. 
He  also  said  that  he  would  "presen[t]  .  .  .  to  the  .  .  .  federal 
courts"  any  of  Holland's  claims  that  the  state  courts  denied. 
Ibid.  In a second letter Collins added, "should your Motion 
for  Post-Conviction  Relief  be  denied"  by  the  state  courts, 
"your state habeas corpus claims will then be ripe for presen-
tation  in  a  petition  for  writ  of  habeas  corpus  in  federal 
court."  Id., at 61. 

In  mid-May  2003,  the  state  trial  court  denied  Holland  re-
lief, and Collins appealed that denial to the Florida Supreme 
Court.  Almost two years later, in February 2005, the Flor-
ida  Supreme  Court  heard  oral  argument  in  the  case.  See 
539  F. 3d,  at 1337.  But during  that 2-year period, relations 
between Collins and Holland began to break down.  Indeed, 
between April 2003 and January 2006, Collins communicated 
with  Holland  only  three  times--each  time  by  letter.  See 
No.  1:06-cv-20182-PAS  (SD  Fla.,  Apr.  27,  2007),  p.  7,  n.  6 
(hereinafter District Court opinion), App. 91, n. 6. 

Holland,  unhappy  with  this  lack  of  communication,  twice 
wrote  to  the  Florida  Supreme  Court,  asking  it  to  remove 
Collins from his case.  In the second letter, filed on June 17, 

637 Cite as: 560 U. S. 631 (2010) 
Opinion of the Court 
2004, he said that he and Collins had experienced "a complete breakdown in communication. "  App. 160.  Holland in-

formed  the  court  that  Collins  had  "not  kept  [him]  updated on the status of [his] capital case" and that Holland had "not 
seen  or  spoken  to"  Collins  "since  April  2003."  Id.,  at  150. He  wrote,  "Mr.  Collins  has  abandoned  [me]"  and  said,  "[I 
have]  no  idea  what  is  going  on  with  [my]  capital  case  on  ap-peal." 

Id., at  152.  He added  that  "Collins has never made any  reasonable  effort  to  establish  any  relationship  of  trust 

or confidence with [me]," id., at 155, and stated that he "does not  trust"  or  have  "any  confidence  in  Mr.  Collin's  ability  to 
represent  [him],"  id.,  at  152.  Holland  concluded  by  asking that  Collins be "dismissed  (removed)  off  his  capital  case"  or 
that  he  be  given  a  hearing  in  order  to  demonstrate  Collins' deficiencies. 

Id.,  at  155,  161.  The  State  responded  that Holland could not file any pro se papers with the court while 

he was represented by counsel, including papers seeking new counsel.  Id., at 42-45.  The Florida Supreme Court agreed 
and denied Holland's requests.  Id., at 46. During  this  same  period  Holland  wrote  various  letters  to 
the Clerk of the Florida Supreme Court.  In the last of these he  wrote,  "[I]f  I  had  a  competent,  conflict-free,  postconvic-
tion,  appellate  attorney  representing  me,  I  would  not  have to  write  you  this  letter.  I'm  not  trying  to  get  on  your 
nerves.  I just would like to know exactly what is happening with  my  case  on  appeal  to  the  Supreme  Court  of  Florida." 
Id., at 147.  During that same time period, Holland also filed a complaint against Collins with the Florida Bar Association, 
but the complaint was denied.  Id., at 65-67. Collins  argued  Holland's  appeal  before  the  Florida  Su-
preme  Court  on  February  10,  2005.  539  F.  3d,  at  1337. Shortly thereafter, Holland wrote to Collins emphasizing the 
importance  of  filing  a  timely  petition  for  habeas  corpus  in federal court once the Florida Supreme Court issued its rul-
ing.  Specifically, on March 3, 2005, Holland wrote: 

"Dear Mr. Collins, P. A.: 

638  HOLLAND  v.  FLORIDA 

Opinion of the Court 
"How are you?  Fine I hope. 
"I  write  this  letter  to  ask  that  you  please  write  me 
back, as soon as possible to let me know what the status 
of my case is on appeal to the Supreme Court of Florida. 

"If the Florida Supreme Court denies my [postconvic-
tion]  and  State  Habeas  Corpus  appeals,  please  file  my 
28  U. S. C.  2254  writ  of  Habeas  Corpus  petition,  before 
my deadline to file it runs out (expires). 

"Thank you very much.  
"Please have a nice day."  App. 210 (emphasis added).  

Collins did not answer this letter. 

On June 15, 2005, Holland wrote again: 

"Dear Mr. Collins: 

"How are you?  Fine I hope. 
"On  March  3,  2005  I  wrote  you  a  letter,  asking  that 
you  let me  know  the  status  of my case  on  appeal to the 
Supreme Court of Florida. 

"Also, have you begun preparing my 28 U. S. C. $ 2254 
writ  of  Habeas  Corpus  petition?  Please  let  me  know, 
as soon as possible. 

"Thank you."  Id., at 212 (emphasis added). 

But again, Collins did not reply. 

Five months later, in November 2005, the Florida Supreme 
Court affirmed the lower court decision denying Holland re-
lief.  Holland v.  State, 916 So. 2d 750 (per curiam).  Three 
weeks  after  that,  on  December  1,  2005,  the  court  issued  its 
mandate,  making  its  decision  final.  539  F.  3d,  at  1337.  At 
that  point,  the  AEDPA  federal  habeas  clock  again  began  to 
tick--with  12  days  left  on  the  1-year  meter.  See  Coates  v. 
Byrd,  211  F.  3d  1225  (CA11  2000)  (per  curiam)  (AEDPA 
clock restarts when state court completes postconviction re-

view);  Lawrence,  549  U. S.  327  (same).  Twelve  days  later, 
on December  13, 2005, Holland's  AEDPA  time  limit  expired. 

Cite as: 560 U. S. 631 (2010)  639 

Opinion of the Court 

B 
Four weeks after the AEDPA time limit expired, on Janu-
ary  9,  2006,  Holland,  still  unaware  of  the  Florida  Supreme 
Court  ruling  issued  in  his  case  two  months  earlier,  wrote 
Collins a third letter: 

"Dear Mr. Bradley M. Collins: 

"How are you?  Fine I hope. 
"I write this letter to ask that you please let me know 
the  status  of  my  appeals  before  the  Supreme  Court  of 
Florida.  Have my appeals been decided yet? 

"Please  send  me  the  [necessary  information] . . . so  
that I can determine when the deadline will be to file my 
28 U. S. C. Rule 2254 Federal Habeas Corpus Petition, in 
accordance  with  all  United  States  Supreme  Court  and 
Eleventh  Circuit  case  law and  applicable  `Antiterrorism 
and  Effective  Death  Penalty  Act,'  if  my  appeals  before 
the Supreme Court of Florida are denied. 

"Please  be  advised  that  I  want  to  preserve  my  privi-
lege to federal review of all of my state convictions and 
sentences. 

"Mr.  Collins,  would  you  please  also  inform  me,  as  to 
which  United States District Court my  28 U. S. C. Rule 
2254  Federal  Habeas  Corpus  Petition  will  have  to  be 
timely filed in and that court's address? 

"Thank you very much."  App. 214. 

Collins did not answer. 

Nine  days  later,  on  January  18,  2006,  Holland,  working  in 
the prison library, learned for the first time that the Florida 
Supreme  Court  had  issued  a  final  determination  in  his  case 
and  that  its  mandate  had  issued--five  weeks  prior.  539 
F.  3d,  at  1337.  He  immediately  wrote  out  his  own  pro  se 
federal habeas petition and mailed  it to the  Federal District 
Court  for  the  Southern  District  of  Florida  the  next  day. 
Ibid.  The petition begins by stating, 

640  HOLLAND  v.  FLORIDA 

Opinion of the Court 
"Comes  now  Albert  R.  Holland,  Jr.,  a  Florida  death row  inmate  and  states  that  court appointed  counsel  has 

failed  to  undertake  timely  action  to  seek  Federal  Re-view in my case by filing a 28 U. S. C. Rule 2254 Petition 
for Writ of Habeas Corpus on my behalf."  App. 181. 
It  then  describes  the  various  constitutional  claims  that  Hol-land hoped to assert in federal court. 

The  same  day  that  he  mailed  that  petition,  Holland  re-ceived a letter from Collins telling him that Collins intended 
to  file  a  petition  for  certiorari  in  this  Court  from  the  State Supreme  Court's  most  recent  ruling.  Holland  answered 
immediately: 

"Dear Mr. Bradley M. Collins: . . . . . 

"Since  recently,  the  Supreme  Court  of  Florida  has denied  my  [postconviction]  and  state  writ  of  Habeas 
Corpus  Petition.  I  am  left  to  understand  that  you  are planning to seek certiorari on these matters. 

"It's  my  understanding  that  the  AEDPA  time  limita-tions  is  not  tolled  during  discretionary  appellate  re-
views, such as certiorari applications resulting from de-nial of state post conviction proceedings. 

"Therefore, I advise you not to file  certiorari if doing so  affects  or  jeopardizes  my  one  year  grace  period  as 
prescribed by the AEDPA. "Thank  you  very  much."  Id.,  at  216  (some  emphasis 
deleted). 
Holland  was  right  about  the  law.  See  Coates,  supra,  at 1226-1227  (AEDPA  not  tolled  during  pendency  of  petition 

for  certiorari  from  judgment  denying  state  postconviction review);  accord, 

Lawrence  v.  Florida,  421  F.  3d  1221,  1225 (CA11 2005), aff 'd, 549 U. S., at 331-336. 

On  January  26,  2006,  Holland  tried  to  call  Collins  from prison.  But  he  called  collect  and  Collins'  office  would  not 
accept the call.  App. 218.  Five days later, Collins wrote to 

641 Cite as: 560 U. S. 631 (2010) 
Opinion of the Court 
Holland  and  told  him  for  the  very  first  time  that,  as  Collins understood AEDPA law, the limitations period applicable to 

Holland's  federal  habeas  application  had  in  fact  expired  in 2000--before  Collins had  begun to represent Holland.  Spe-
cifically, Collins wrote: 

"Dear Mr. Holland: "I am in receipt of your letter dated January 20, 2006 

concerning  operation of  AEDPA  time  limitations.  One hurdle  in  our  upcoming  efforts  at  obtaining  federal  ha-
beas  corpus  relief  will  be  that  the  one-year  statutory time  frame  for  filing  such  a  petition  began  to  run  after 
the  case  was  affirmed  on  October  5,  2000  [when  your] Judgment and Sentence . . . were affirmed by the Florida 
Supreme  Court.  However,  it  was  not  until  November 7,  2001,  that  I  received  the  Order  appointing  me  to  the 
case.  As  you  can  see,  I  was  appointed  about  a  year 
after your case became final. . . .  "[T]he AEDPA time-period [thus] had run before my ap-

pointment  and  therefore  before  your  [postconviction] motion was filed."  Id., at 78-79 (emphasis added). 

Collins  was  wrong  about  the  law.  As  we  have  said,  Hol-land's 1-year limitations period did not begin to run until this 
Court denied Holland's petition for  certiorari  from the  state courts'  denial  of  relief  on  direct  review,  which  occurred  on 
October  1,  2001.  See  28  U. S. C.  $ 2244(d)(1)(A);  Jimenez, 555  U. S.,  at  119;  Bond  v.  Moore,  309  F.  3d  770,  774  (CA11 
2002).  And  when  Collins  was  appointed  (on  November  7, 2001) the AEDPA clock therefore had 328 days left to go. 

Holland immediately wrote back to Collins, pointing this out. 

"Dear Mr. Collins: "I  received  your  letter  dated  January  31,  2006.  You 
are incorrect in stating that `the one-year statutory time frame  for filing my 2254  petition began  to run  after  my 
case  was  affirmed  on  October  5,  2000,  by  the  Florida 

642  HOLLAND  v.  FLORIDA 

Opinion of the Court 
Supreme  Court.'  As  stated  on  page  three  of  [the  re-cently  filed]  Petition  for  a  writ  of  certiorari,  October  1, 

2001  is  when  the  United  States  Supreme  Court  denied my initial petition for writ of certiorari and that is when 
my case became final.  That meant that the time would be  tolled  once  I  filed  my  [postconviction]  motion  in  the 
trial court. "Also, Mr. Collins you never told me that my time ran 
out  (expired).  I  told  you  to  timely  file  my  28  U. S. C. 2254 Habeas Corpus Petition before the deadline, so that 
I would not be time-barred. "You  never  informed  me  of  oral  arguments  or  of  the 
Supreme Court of Florida's November 10, 2005 decision denying my postconviction appeals.  You never kept me 
informed about the status of my case, although you told me that you would immediately inform me of the court's 
decision as soon as you heard anything. "Mr.  Collins,  I  filed  a  motion  on  January  19,  2006  [in 
federal  court]  to  preserve  my  rights,  because  I  did  not want  to  be  time-barred.  Have  you  heard  anything 
about the aforesaid motion?  Do you know what the sta-tus of aforesaid motion is? 

"Mr.  Collins,  please  file  my  2254  Habeas  Petition  im-mediately.  Please  do  not  wait  any  longer,  even  though 
it  will  be  untimely  filed  at  least  it  will  be  filed  without wasting anymore time.  (valuable time). 

"Again, please file my 2254 Petition at once. "Your letter is the first time that you have ever men-
tioned anything to me about my time had run out, before you  were  appointed  to  represent  me,  and  that  my  oneyear started to run on October 5, 2000. "Please  find  out  the  status  of  my  motion  that  I  filed 
on January 19, 2006 and let me know. "Thank you very much."  App. 222-223. 

Collins did not answer  this  letter.  Nor did  he  file  a  federal habeas petition as Holland requested. 

643 Cite as: 560 U. S. 631 (2010) 
Opinion of the Court 
On  March  1, 2006, Holland filed  another  complaint against Collins with the Florida Bar Association.  See Record, Doc. 

41, Exh. 1, p. 8.  This time the bar asked Collins to respond, which  he  did,  through  his  own  attorney,  on  March  21.  Id., 
at  2.  And  the  very  next  day,  over  three  months  after  Hol-land's  AEDPA  statute  of  limitations  had  expired,  Collins 
mailed a proposed federal habeas petition to Holland, asking him to review it.  See 

id., Doc. 20, Exh. W. But by that point Holland had already filed a pro se motion 

in the District Court asking that Collins be dismissed as his attorney.  App.  192.  The  State  responded  to  that  request 
by  arguing  once  again  that  Holland  could  not  file  a  pro  se motion seeking to have Collins removed while he was repre-
sented  by  counsel,  i. e.,  represented  by  Collins.  See  id.,  at 47-51.  But this time the court considered Holland's motion, 
permitted Collins to withdraw  from  the  case,  and appointed a  new  lawyer  for  Holland.  See  Record,  Docs.  9-10,  17-18, 
22.  And  it  also  received  briefing  on  whether  the  circum-stances  of  the  case  justified  the  equitable  tolling  of  the 
AEDPA  limitations  period  for  a  sufficient  period  of  time (approximately five weeks) to make Holland's petition timely. 

C 
After  considering  the  briefs,  the  Federal  District  Court held that the facts did not warrant equitable tolling and that 

consequently  Holland's  petition  was  untimely.  The  court, noting  that  Collins  had  prepared  numerous  filings  on  Hol-
land's behalf in the state courts, and suggesting that Holland was  a  difficult  client,  intimated,  but  did  not  hold,  that  Col-
lins'  professional  conduct  in  the  case  was  at  worst  merely "negligent."  See  District  Court  opinion  7-8,  App.  90-93. 
But  the  court  rested  its  holding  on  an  alternative  rationale: It  wrote  that,  even  if  Collins'  "behavior  could  be  charac-
terized  as  an  `extraordinary  circumstance,' "  Holland  "did not seek any help from the court system to find out the date 
[the]  mandate  issued  denying  his  state  habeas  petition,  nor 

644  HOLLAND  v.  FLORIDA 

Opinion of the Court 
did  he  seek  aid  from  `outside  supporters.' "  Id.,  at  8,  App. 92.  Hence,  the  court  held,  Holland  did  not  "demonstrate" 

the  "due  diligence"  necessary  to  invoke  "equitable  tolling." 
Ibid. 

On  appeal,  the  Eleventh  Circuit  agreed  with  the  District Court  that  Holland's  habeas  petition  was  untimely.  The 

Court of Appeals first agreed with Holland that " `[e]quitable 
tolling  can  be applied  to  .  .  .  AEDPA's  statutory  deadline.' " 539  F.  3d,  at  1338  (quoting 

Helton  v.  Secretary  for  Dept.  of 
Corrections, 259  F.  3d  1310,  1312  (CA11  2001)).  But  it  also held that equitable tolling could not be applied in a case, like 

Holland's,  that  involves  no  more  than  "[p]ure  professional negligence"  on  the  part  of  a  petitioner's  attorney  because 
such  behavior  can  never  constitute  an  "extraordinary  cir-cumstance."  539 F. 3d, at 1339.  The court wrote: 

"We  will  assume  that  Collins's  alleged  conduct  is  neg-ligent,  even  grossly  negligent.  But  in  our  view,  no 
allegation  of  lawyer  negligence  or  of  failure  to  meet  a lawyer's  standard  of  care--in  the  absence  of  an  allega-
tion  and  proof  of  bad  faith,  dishonesty,  divided  loyalty, 
mental  impairment  or  so  forth  on  the  lawyer's  part-- can  rise  to  the  level  of  egregious  attorney  misconduct 

that would entitle Petitioner to equitable tolling."  Ibid. 
Holland made "no allegation" that Collins had made a "know-ing or reckless factual misrepresentation,"  or that he exhib-

ited "dishonesty," "divided loyalty," or "mental impairment." 
Ibid.  Hence,  the  court  held,  equitable  tolling  was  per  se 
inapplicable to Holland's habeas petition.  The court did not 
address  the  District  Court's  ruling  with  respect  to  Hol-
land's diligence. 

Holland  petitioned  for  certiorari.  Because  the  Court  of 
Appeals'  application  of  the  equitable  tolling  doctrine  to  in-
stances  of  professional  misconduct  conflicts  with  the  ap-
proach  taken  by  other  Circuits,  we  granted  the  petition. 
Compare 539  F. 3d 1334  (case below) with, e. g.,  Baldayaque 

645 Cite as: 560 U. S. 631 (2010) 
Opinion of the Court 
v.  United States, 338 F. 3d 145, 152-153 (CA2 2003) (applying a less categorical approach); Spitsyn v.  Moore, 345 F. 3d 796, 

801-802 (CA9 2003) (same). 

II 
We  have  not  decided  whether  AEDPA's  statutory  limita-tions  period  may be tolled  for equitable reasons.  See 

Law-rence,  549  U. S.,  at  336;  Pace  v.  DiGuglielmo,  544  U. S.  408, 

418, n. 8 (2005).  Now, like all 11 Courts of Appeals that have considered  the  question,  we  hold  that  $ 2244(d)  is  subject  to 
equitable tolling in appropriate cases.  See Neverson v.  Far-
quharson,  366  F.  3d  32,  41  (CA1  2004);  Smith  v.  McGinnis, 208  F.  3d  13,  17  (CA2  2000)  (per  curiam);  Miller  v.  New 

Jersey  Dept.  of  Corrections,  145  F.  3d  616,  617  (CA3  1998); Harris  v.  Hutchinson,  209  F.  3d  325,  329-330  (CA4  2000); 
Davis v.  Johnson, 158 F. 3d 806, 810 (CA5 1998); McClendon v. 

Sherman, 329 F. 3d 490, 492 (CA6 2003); Taliani v.  Chrans, 189  F.  3d  597,  598  (CA7  1999);  Moore  v.  United  States,  173 

F. 3d 1131, 1134 (CA8 1999); Calderon v.  United States Dist. Ct. for Central Dist. of Cal., 128 F. 3d 1283, 1289 (CA9 1997); 
Miller  v.  Marr,  141  F.  3d  976,  978  (CA10  1998);  Sandvik v.  United  States,  177  F.  3d  1269,  1272  (CA11  1999)  (per 
curiam). We  base  our  conclusion  on  the  following  considerations. 
First,  the  AEDPA  "statute  of  limitations  defense  .  .  .  is  not `jurisdictional.' " 

Day  v.  McDonough,  547  U. S.  198,  205 (2006).  It  does  not  set  forth  "an  inflexible  rule  requiring 

dismissal  whenever"  its  "clock  has  run."  Id.,  at  208.  See also id., at 213 (

Scalia,

646  HOLLAND  v.  FLORIDA 

Opinion of the Court 
table  presumption"  in  favor  "of  equitable  tolling."  Irwin, 498 U. S., at 95-96; see also 

Young v.  United States, 535 U. S. 
43, 49 (2002) ("It is hornbook law that limitations periods are `customarily subject to "equitable  tolling" ' " (quoting 

Irwin, 
supra, at 95)). In the case of AEDPA, the presumption's strength is rein-

forced  by  the  fact  that  " `equitable  principles' "  have  tradi-
tionally  " `governed' "  the  substantive  law  of  habeas  corpus, 
Munaf  v.  Geren,  553  U. S.  674,  693  (2008),  for  we  will  "not 
construe  a  statute  to  displace  courts'  traditional  equitable authority  absent the  `clearest  command,' " 

Miller v.  French, 
530 U. S. 327, 340 (2000) (quoting Califano v.  Yamasaki, 442 
U. S.  682,  705  (1979)).  The  presumption's  strength  is  yet 
further reinforced by the fact that Congress enacted AEDPA 
after  this  Court  decided  Irwin  and  therefore  was  likely 
aware that courts, when interpreting AEDPA's timing provi-
sions, would apply the presumption.  See, e.  g., Merck & Co.  
v.  Reynolds, 559 U. S. 633, 648 (2010). 

Second, the statute here differs significantly from the stat-
utes  at  issue  in  United  States  v.  Brockamp,  519  U. S.  347 
(1997), and United States v.  Beggerly, 524 U. S. 38 (1998), two 
cases  in  which  we  held  that  Irwin's  presumption  had  been 
overcome.  In Brockamp, we interpreted a statute of limita-
tions  that  was  silent  on  the  question  of  equitable  tolling  as 
foreclosing application of that doctrine.  But in doing so we 
emphasized  that  the  statute  at  issue  (1)  "se[t]  forth  its  time 
limitations in unusually emphatic form"; (2) used "highly de-
tailed"  and  "technical"  language  "that,  linguistically  speak-
ing, cannot easily be read as containing implicit exceptions"; 
(3) "reiterate[d] its limitations several times in several differ-
ent ways"; (4) related to an "underlying subject matter," na-
tionwide  tax  collection,  with  respect  to  which  the  practical 
consequences of permitting tolling would have been substan-
tial;  and (5) would,  if tolled,  "require tolling, not only  proce-
dural  limitations,  but  also  substantive  limitations  on  the 
amount of recovery--a kind of tolling for which we . . .  found 

Cite as: 560 U. S. 631 (2010)  647 

Opinion of the Court 
no  direct  precedent."  519  U. S.,  at  350-352.  And  in  Beg-
gerly we held that Irwin's presumption was overcome where 
(1) the 12-year statute of limitations at issue was "unusually generous"  and  (2)  the  underlying  claim  "deal[t]  with  owner-

ship  of  land"  and  thereby  implicated  landowners'  need  to "know  with  certainty  what  their  rights  are,  and  the  period 
during which those rights may be subject to challenge."  524 
U. S., at 48-49. By way of contrast, AEDPA's statute of limitations, unlike 

the statute at issue in  Brockamp, does not contain language that  is  "unusually  emphatic,"  nor  does  it  "reiterat[e]"  its 
time limitation.  Neither would application of equitable toll-
ing  here  affect  the  "substance"  of  a  petitioner's  claim. 
Moreover,  in  contrast  to  the  12-year  limitations  period  at 
issue in Beggerly, AEDPA's limitations period is not particu-
larly  long.  And  unlike  the  subject  matters  at  issue  in  both 
Brockamp  and  Beggerly--tax  collection  and  land  claims-- 
AEDPA's subject matter, habeas corpus, pertains to an area 
of  the  law  where  equity  finds  a  comfortable  home.  See 
Munaf, supra, at 693.  In short, AEDPA's 1-year limit reads 
like  an  ordinary,  run-of-the-mill  statute  of  limitations.  See 
Calderon, supra, at 1288. 

Respondent, citing Brockamp, argues that AEDPA should 
be interpreted to foreclose equitable tolling because the stat-
ute  sets  forth  "explicit  exceptions  to  its  basic  time  limits" 
that  do  "not  include  `equitable  tolling.' "  519  U. S.,  at  351; 
see Brief for Respondent 27.  The statute does contain mul-
tiple  provisions  relating  to  the  events  that  trigger  its  run-
ning.  See  $ 2244(d)(1);  Clay  v.  United  States,  537  U. S.  522, 
529  (2003);  see  also  Cada  v.  Baxter  Healthcare  Corp.,  920 
F. 2d 446, 450 (CA7 1990) ("We must . . .  distinguish between 
the accrual of the plaintiff 's claim and the tolling of the stat-
ute  of  limitations  .  .  .  ");  Wims  v.  United  States,  225  F.  3d 
186,  190  (CA2  2000)  (same);  Wolin  v.  Smith  Barney  Inc.,  83 
F. 3d 847, 852 (CA7 1996) (same).  And we concede that it is 
silent  as  to  equitable  tolling  while  containing  one  provision 

648  HOLLAND  v.  FLORIDA 

Opinion of the Court 
that  expressly  refers  to  a  different  kind  of  tolling.  See $ 2244(d)(2)  (stating  that  "[t]he  time  during  which"  a  peti-

tioner  has  a  pending  request  for  state  postconviction  relief "shall  not  be  counted  toward"  his  "period  of  limitation" 
under  AEDPA).  But  the  fact  that  Congress  expressly  re-ferred  to  tolling  during  state  collateral  review  proceedings 
is  easily  explained  without  rebutting  the  presumption  in 
favor  of  equitable  tolling.  A  petitioner  cannot  bring  a  fed-eral  habeas  claim  without  first  exhausting  state  remedies-- 

a  process  that  frequently  takes  longer  than  one  year.  See 
Rose  v.  Lundy, 455  U. S. 509  (1982);  $ 2254(b)(1)(A).  Hence, 
Congress had to explain how the limitations statute accounts 
for  the  time  during  which  such  state  proceedings  are  pend-
ing.  This special need for an express provision undermines 
any  temptation  to  invoke  the  interpretive  maxim  inclusio 
unius est exclusio alterius (to include one item (i. e., suspen-
sion during state-court collateral review) is to exclude other 
similar items (i. e., equitable tolling)).  See Young, supra, at 
53  (rejecting  claim  that  an  "express  tolling  provision,  ap-
pearing  in  the  same  subsection  as  the  [limitations]  period, 
demonstrates  a  statutory  intent  not  to  toll  the  [limitations] 
period"). 

Third, and  finally, we  disagree  with  respondent  that  equi-
table tolling undermines AEDPA's basic purposes.  We rec-
ognize that AEDPA seeks to eliminate delays in the  federal 
habeas  review  process.  See  Day,  547  U. S.,  at  205-206; 
Miller-El v.  Cockrell, 537 U. S. 322, 337 (2003).  But AEDPA 
seeks  to  do  so  without  undermining  basic  habeas  corpus 
principles  and  while  seeking  to  harmonize  the  new  statute 
with  prior  law,  under  which  a  petition's  timeliness  was  al-
ways  determined  under  equitable  principles.  See  Slack  v. 
McDaniel, 529  U. S. 473,  483  (2000) ("AEDPA's present  pro-
visions . . . incorporate earlier habeas corpus principles"); see 
also  Day,  547  U. S.,  at  202,  n.  1;  id.,  at  214  (Scalia,

649 Cite as: 560 U. S. 631 (2010) 
Opinion of the Court 
When Congress codified new rules governing this previously judicially managed area of law, it did so without losing sight 

of  the fact  that the  "writ  of  habeas corpus  plays a  vital  role in protecting constitutional rights."  Slack, 529 U. S., at 483. 
It  did  not  seek  to  end  every  possible  delay  at  all  costs. Cf. 

id.,  at  483-488.  The  importance  of  the  Great  Writ,  the only writ explicitly protected by the Constitution, Art. I, $ 9, 

cl.  2,  along  with  congressional  efforts  to  harmonize  the  new statute  with  prior  law,  counsels  hesitancy  before  interpret-
ing  AEDPA's  statutory  silence  as  indicating  a  congressional intent to close courthouse doors that a strong equitable claim 
would ordinarily keep open. For these reasons we conclude  that neither AEDPA's tex-
tual  characteristics  nor  the  statute's  basic  purposes  "rebut" the basic presumption set forth in 

Irwin.  And we therefore join the Courts of Appeals in holding that $ 2244(d) is subject 

to equitable tolling.  III 

We have previously made clear that a "petitioner" is "enti-tled  to  equitable  tolling"  only  if  he  shows  "(1)  that  he  has 
been  pursuing  his  rights  diligently,  and  (2)  that  some  ex-traordinary  circumstance  stood  in  his  way"  and  prevented 
timely filing.  Pace, 544 U. S., at 418 (emphasis deleted).  In this case, the "extraordinary circumstances" at issue involve 
an attorney's failure to satisfy professional standards of care. The Court of Appeals held that, where that is so, even attor-
ney  conduct  that  is  "grossly  negligent"  can  never  warrant tolling absent "bad  faith,  dishonesty,  divided loyalty,  mental 
impairment or so  forth on the  lawyer's  part."  539  F. 3d,  at 1339.  But  in  our  view,  the  Court  of  Appeals'  standard  is 
too rigid. We  have  said  that  courts  of  equity  "must  be  governed  by 
rules  and  precedents  no  less  than  the  courts  of  law." Lonchar v.  Thomas, 517 U. S. 314, 323 (1996) (internal quota-
tion  marks  omitted).  But  we  have  also  made  clear  that often  the  "exercise  of  a  court's  equity  powers  .  .  .  must  be 

650  HOLLAND  v.  FLORIDA 

Opinion of the Court 
made on a case-by-case basis."  Baggett v.  Bullitt, 377 U. S. 360,  375  (1964).  In  emphasizing  the  need  for  "flexibility," 

for avoiding "mechanical rules," Holmberg v.  Armbrecht, 327 U. S.  392,  396  (1946),  we  have  followed  a  tradition  in  which 
courts  of  equity  have  sought  to  "relieve  hardships  which, from  time  to  time,  arise  from  a  hard  and  fast  adherence"  to 
more absolute legal rules, which, if strictly applied, threaten 
the  "evils  of  archaic  rigidity,"  Hazel-Atlas  Glass  Co.  v. 
Hartford-Empire  Co.,  322  U. S.  238,  248  (1944).  The  "flexi-
bility"  inherent  in  "equitable  procedure"  enables  courts  "to meet  new  situations  [that]  demand  equitable  intervention, 

and to accord all the relief necessary to correct . . . particular 
injustices."  Ibid.  (permitting  postdeadline  filing  of  bill  of 
review).  Taken  together,  these  cases  recognize  that  courts 
of equity can and do draw upon decisions made in other simi-
lar  cases  for  guidance.  Such  courts  exercise  judgment  in 
light of prior precedent,  but with awareness of the  fact that 
specific  circumstances,  often  hard  to  predict  in  advance, 
could warrant special treatment in an appropriate case. 

We recognize that, in the context of procedural default, we 
have  previously  stated,  without  qualification,  that  a  peti-
tioner "must `bear the risk of attorney error.' "  Coleman  v. 
Thompson, 501 U. S. 722, 752-753 (1991).  But Coleman was 
"a  case  about  federalism,"  id.,  at  726,  in  that  it  asked 
whether  federal  courts  may  excuse  a  petitioner's  failure  to 
comply  with  a  state  court's  procedural  rules,  notwithstand-
ing  the  state  court's  determination  that  its  own  rules  had 
been  violated.  Equitable  tolling, by contrast,  asks  whether 
federal  courts  may  excuse  a  petitioner's  failure  to  comply 
with federal timing rules, an inquiry that does not implicate 
a  state  court's  interpretation  of  state  law.  Cf.  Lawrence, 
549  U. S.,  at  341  (Ginsburg,

651 Cite as: 560 U. S. 631 (2010) 
Opinion of the Court 
how equity should be applied once the statute is recognized. And given  equity's resistance to  rigid rules, we  cannot read 

Coleman as requiring a per se approach in this context. In short, no pre-existing rule of law or precedent demands 
a  rule  like  the  one  set  forth  by  the  Eleventh  Circuit  in  this case.  That  rule  is  difficult  to  reconcile  with  more  general 
equitable principles in that it fails to recognize that, at least 
sometimes,  professional  misconduct  that  fails  to  meet  the Eleventh  Circuit's  standard  could  nonetheless  amount  to 

egregious  behavior  and  create  an  extraordinary  circum-stance that warrants equitable tolling.  And, given the long 
history  of judicial application of equitable tolling, courts can 
easily find precedents that can guide their judgments.  Sev-
eral  lower  courts  have  specifically  held  that  unprofessional 
attorney conduct may, in certain circumstances, prove "egre-
gious"  and  can  be  "extraordinary"  even  though  the  conduct 
in question may not satisfy the Eleventh Circuit's rule.  See, 
e. g., Nara v.  Frank, 264 F. 3d 310, 320 (CA3 2001) (ordering 
hearing  as  to  whether  client  who  was  "effectively  aban-
doned"  by  lawyer  merited  tolling);  Calderon,  128  F.  3d,  at 
1289  (allowing  tolling  where  client  was  prejudiced  by  a  last 
minute  change  in  representation  that  was  beyond  his  con-
trol);  Baldayaque,  338  F.  3d,  at  152-153  (finding  that  where 
an attorney failed to perform an essential service, to commu-
nicate  with  the  client,  and  to  do  basic legal  research,  tolling 
could,  under  the  circumstances, be  warranted);  Spitsyn,  345 
F. 3d, at 800-802 (finding that "extraordinary circumstances" 
may  warrant  tolling  where  lawyer  denied  client  access  to 
files,  failed  to  prepare  a  petition,  and  did  not  respond  to  his 
client's  communications);  United  States  v.  Martin,  408  F.  3d 
1089,  1096  (CA8  2005)  (client  entitled  to  equitable  tolling 
where  his  attorney  retained  files,  made  misleading  state-
ments, and engaged in similar conduct). 

We  have  previously  held  that  "a  garden  variety  claim  of 
excusable  neglect,"  Irwin,  498  U. S.,  at  96,  such  as  a  simple 
"miscalculation" that leads a lawyer to miss a filing deadline, 

652  HOLLAND  v.  FLORIDA 

Opinion of the Court 
Lawrence,  supra,  at  336,  does  not  warrant  equitable  tolling. But the case before us does not involve, and we are not con-

sidering,  a  "garden  variety  claim"  of  attorney  negligence. Rather,  the  facts  of  this  case  present  far  more  serious  in-
stances  of  attorney  misconduct.  And,  as  we  have  said,  al-though the  circumstances  of a  case must  be  "extraordinary" 
before  equitable  tolling  can  be  applied,  we  hold  that  such circumstances  are  not  limited  to  those  that  satisfy  the  test 
that the Court of Appeals used in this case. 

IV 
The  record  facts  that  we  have  set  forth  in  Part  I  of  this opinion  suggest  that  this  case  may  well  be  an  "extraordi-

nary"  instance  in  which  petitioner's  attorney's  conduct  con-stituted  far  more  than  "garden  variety"  or  "excusable  ne-
glect."  To be sure, Collins failed to file Holland's petition on time and appears to have been unaware of the date on which 
the  limitations  period  expired--two  facts  that,  alone,  might suggest simple negligence.  But, in these circumstances, the 
record  facts  we  have  elucidated  suggest  that  the  failure amounted  to  more:  Here,  Collins  failed  to  file  Holland's  fed-
eral  petition  on  time  despite Holland's  many  letters  that  re-peatedly emphasized the importance of his doing so.  Collins 
apparently  did not  do the  research necessary to find out the proper  filing  date,  despite  Holland's  letters  that  went  so  far 
as  to  identify  the  applicable  legal  rules.  Collins  failed  to inform Holland in a timely manner about the crucial fact that 
the  Florida  Supreme  Court  had  decided  his  case,  again  de-spite  Holland's  many  pleas  for  that  information.  And  Col-
lins  failed  to  communicate  with  his  client  over  a  period of  years,  despite  various  pleas  from  Holland  that  Collins 
respond to his letters. A group of teachers of legal ethics tells us that these vari-
ous  failures  violated  fundamental  canons  of  professional  re-sponsibility,  which  require  attorneys  to  perform  reasonably 
competent  legal  work,  to  communicate  with  their  clients,  to 

653 Cite as: 560 U. S. 631 (2010) 
Opinion of the Court 
implement  clients'  reasonable  requests,  to keep  their  clients informed  of  key  developments  in  their  cases,  and  never  to 

abandon  a  client.  See  Brief  for  Legal  Ethics  Professors et  al.  as 

Amici  Curiae  (describing  ethical  rules  set  forth  in 
case  law,  the  Restatements  of  Agency,  the  Restatement (Third)  of  the  Law  Governing  Lawyers  (1998),  and  in  the 

ABA  Model  Rules  of  Professional  Conduct  (2009)).  And  in 
this  case,  the  failures  seriously  prejudiced  a  client  who thereby  lost  what  was  likely  his  single  opportunity  for  fed-

eral habeas review of the lawfulness of his imprisonment and of his death sentence. 

We do not state our conclusion in absolute form, however, 
because  more  proceedings  may  be  necessary.  The  District 
Court rested its ruling not on a lack of extraordinary circum-
stances,  but  rather  on  a  lack  of  diligence--a  ruling  that  re-
spondent  does  not  defend.  See  Brief  for  Respondent  38, 
n.  19;  Tr.  of  Oral  Arg.  43,  52.  We  think  that  the  District 
Court's conclusion was incorrect.  The diligence required for 
equitable  tolling  purposes  is  " `reasonable  diligence,' "  see, 
e. g., Lonchar, 517 U. S., at 326, not " ` "maximum feasible dili-
gence," ' "  Starns  v.  Andrews,  524  F.  3d  612,  618  (CA5  2008) 
(quoting  Moore  v.  Knight,  368  F.  3d  936,  940  (CA7  2004)). 
Here,  Holland  not  only  wrote  his  attorney  numerous  letters 
seeking  crucial  information  and  providing  direction;  he  also 
repeatedly  contacted  the  state  courts,  their  clerks,  and  the 
Florida  State  Bar  Association  in  an  effort  to  have  Collins-- 
the  central  impediment to  the  pursuit  of his  legal remedy-- 
removed from his case.  And, the very day that Holland dis-
covered  that  his  AEDPA  clock  had  expired  due  to  Collins' 
failings, Holland prepared his own habeas petition pro se and 
promptly filed it with the District Court. 

Because the District Court erroneously relied on a lack of 
diligence,  and because  the  Court  of Appeals  erroneously  re-
lied  on  an  overly  rigid  per  se  approach,  no  lower  court  has 
yet  considered  in  detail  the  facts  of  this  case  to  determine 
whether they indeed constitute extraordinary circumstances 

654  HOLLAND  v.  FLORIDA 

Opinion of Alito,
Cite as: 560 U. S. 631 (2010)  655 

Opinion of Alito,
656  HOLLAND  v.  FLORIDA 

Opinion of Alito,

657 Cite as: 560 U. S. 631 (2010) 
Opinion of Alito,
658  HOLLAND  v.  FLORIDA 

Opinion of Alito,

659 Cite as: 560 U. S. 631 (2010) 
Opinion of Alito,
660  HOLLAND  v.  FLORIDA 

Scalia,

661 Cite as: 560 U. S. 631 (2010) 
Scalia,
662  HOLLAND  v.  FLORIDA 

Scalia,

663 Cite as: 560 U. S. 631 (2010) 
Scalia,
664  HOLLAND  v.  FLORIDA 

Scalia,

665 Cite as: 560 U. S. 631 (2010) 
Scalia,
666  HOLLAND  v.  FLORIDA 

Scalia,

667 Cite as: 560 U. S. 631 (2010) 
Scalia,
668  HOLLAND  v.  FLORIDA 

Scalia,

669 Cite as: 560 U. S. 631 (2010) 
Scalia,
670  HOLLAND  v.  FLORIDA 

Scalia,

671 Cite as: 560 U. S. 631 (2010) 
Scalia,
672  HOLLAND  v.  FLORIDA 

Scalia,

673 Cite as: 560 U. S. 631 (2010) 
Scalia,
674  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

Syllabus 

NEW  PROCESS  STEEL,  L.  P.  v.

675 Cite as: 560 U. S. 674 (2010) 
Syllabus 
clause  to  operate  to  provide  that  vacancies  do  not  impair  the  Board's 
ability  to  take  action,  so  long  as  the  quorum  is  satisfied.  And  it  does 
not render inoperative the group quorum provision, which continues to 
authorize a properly constituted three-member delegee group to issue a 
decision  with  only  two  members  participating  when  one  is  disqualified 
from a case.  The Government's contrary reading allows two members 
to act  as the Board ad

676  NEW  PROCESS  STEEL,  L.  P.  v. 677 Cite as: 560 U. S. 674 (2010) 

Opinion of the Court 
tive as of midnight December 28, 2007.  First, the Board del-egated to the general counsel continuing authority to initiate 

and  conduct  litigation  that  would  normally  require  case-by-case  approval  of  the  Board.  See  Minute  of  Board  Action 
(Dec.  20,  2007),  App.  to  Brief  for  Petitioner  4a-5a  (herein-after  Board  Minutes).  Second,  the  Board  delegated  "to 
Members  Liebman,  Schaumber  and  Kirsanow,  as  a  threemember  group,  all  of  the  Board's  powers,  in  anticipation  of the  adjournment  of  the  1st  Session  of  the  110th  Congress." 

Id.,

678  NEW  PROCESS  STEEL,  L.  P.  v. 679 Cite as: 560 U. S. 674 (2010) 

Opinion of the Court 

II 
The  Board's  quorum  requirements  and  delegation  proce-dure  are  set  forth  in  $ 3(b)  of  the  NLRA,  49  Stat.  451,  as 

amended by 61 Stat. 139, which provides: 

"The  Board  is  authorized  to  delegate  to  any  group  of three  or  more  members  any  or  all  of  the  powers  which 

it  may  itself  exercise.  .  .  .  A  vacancy  in  the  Board  shall not  impair the  right of the remaining members to exer-
cise  all  of  the  powers  of  the  Board,  and  three  members of  the  Board  shall,  at  all  times,  constitute  a  quorum  of 
the  Board,  except  that  two  members  shall  constitute  a quorum  of  any  group  designated  pursuant  to  the  first 
sentence hereof."  29 U. S. C. $ 153(b). 
It  is  undisputed  that  the  first  sentence  of  this  provision authorized  the  Board  to  delegate  its  powers  to  the  threemember  group  effective  on  December  28,  2007,  and  the  last sentence  authorized  two  members  of  that  group  to  act  as  a 
quorum of the group during the next three days if, for exam-ple, the third member had to recuse himself from a particular 
matter.  The  question  we  face  is  whether  those  two  mem-bers  could  continue  to  act  for  the  Board  as  a  quorum  of  the 
delegee  group  after  December  31,  2007,  when  the  Board's membership  fell  to  two  and  the  designated  three-member 
group  of  "Members  Liebman,  Schaumber,  and  Kirsanow" ceased  to  exist  due  to  the  expiration  of  Member  Kirsanow's 
term.  Construing  $ 3(b)  as  a  whole  and  in  light  of  the Board's  longstanding  practice,  we  are  persuaded  that  they 
could not. The  first  sentence  of  $ 3(b),  which  we  will  call  the  delega-
tion clause, provides that the Board may delegate its powers only  to  a  "group  of  three  or  more  members."  61  Stat.  139. 
There  are  two  different  ways  to  interpret  that  language. 
Snell

680  NEW  PROCESS  STEEL,  L.  P.  v. 681 Cite as: 560 U. S. 674 (2010) 

Opinion of the Court 
fect  to  the  three-member  requirement  in  the  delegation clause.  The vacancy clause still operates to provide that va-

cancies do not impair the ability of the Board to take action, so  long  as  the  quorum  is  satisfied.  And  the  interpretation 
does  not  render  inoperative  the  group  quorum  provision, which  still  operates  to  authorize  a  three-member  delegee 
group to issue a decision  with only  two members  participat-
ing,  so  long  as  the  delegee  group  was  properly  constituted. Reading  $ 3( b)  in  this  manner,  the  statute's  various 

pieces  hang  together--a  critical  clue  that  this  reading  is  a sound one. 

The contrary reading, on the other hand, allows two mem-
bers  to  act  as  the  Board  ad

682  NEW  PROCESS  STEEL,  L.  P.  v. 683 Cite as: 560 U. S. 674 (2010) 

Opinion of the Court 
That our interpretation of the delegation provision is consist-ent with the Board's longstanding practice is persuasive evi-

dence that it is the correct one, notwithstanding the Board's more  recent  view.  See  Bowen

684  NEW  PROCESS  STEEL,  L.  P.  v. 685 Cite as: 560 U. S. 674 (2010) 

Opinion of the Court 
The  Government  nonetheless  contends  that  quorum  rules "ordinarily" define the number of members that is both nec-

essary  and  sufficient  for  an  entity  to  take  an  action.  Brief for Respondent 20.  Therefore, because of the quorum provi-
sion,  if  "at  least  two  members  of  a  delegee  group  actually participate  in  a  decision . . .  that  should  be  the  end  of  the 
matter,"  regardless  of  vacancies  in  the  group  or  on  the 
Board.  Ibid.

686  NEW  PROCESS  STEEL,  L.  P.  v. 687 Cite as: 560 U. S. 674 (2010) 

Opinion of the Court 
ent 26.  In the Government's view, Congress' establishment of the  two-member quorum for  a delegee group  reflected its 

comfort  with  pre-Taft-Hartley  practice,  when  the  then-three-member  Board  regularly  issued  decisions  with  only 
two  members.  Id.,

688  NEW  PROCESS  STEEL,  L.  P.  v.Cite as: 560 U. S. 674 (2010)  689 

Kennedy,
690  NEW  PROCESS  STEEL,  L.  P.  v. 691 Cite as: 560 U. S. 674 (2010) 

Kennedy,
692  NEW  PROCESS  STEEL,  L.  P.  v. 693 Cite as: 560 U. S. 674 (2010) 

Kennedy,
694  NEW  PROCESS  STEEL,  L.  P.  v. 695 Cite as: 560 U. S. 674 (2010) 

Kennedy,
696  NEW  PROCESS  STEEL,  L.  P.  v. 697 Cite as: 560 U. S. 674 (2010) 

Kennedy,
698  NEW  PROCESS  STEEL,  L.  P.  v. 699 Cite as: 560 U. S. 674 (2010) 

Kennedy,
700  NEW  PROCESS  STEEL,  L.  P.  v. 701 Cite as: 560 U. S. 674 (2010) 

Kennedy,
702  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

Syllabus 

STOP  THE  BEACH  RENOURISHMENT,  INC.  v.  FLOR-IDA  DEPARTMENT  OF  ENVIRONMENTAL  

PROTECTION  et

703 Cite as: 560 U. S. 702 (2010) 
Syllabus 
this would be an unconstitutional taking and would require an additional 
administrative requirement to be met, it set aside the order, remanded 
the proceeding, and certified to the Florida Supreme Court the question 
whether  the  Act  unconstitutionally  deprived  the  Members  of  littoral 
rights without just compensation.  The State Supreme Court answered 
"no" and quashed the remand, concluding that the Members did not own 
the  property  supposedly  taken.  Petitioner  sought  rehearing  on  the 
ground  that  the  Florida  Supreme  Court's  decision  effected  a  taking 
of  the  Members'  littoral  rights  contrary  to  the  Fifth  and  Fourteenth 
Amendments; rehearing was denied. 

Held:  The judgment is affirmed. 
998 So. 2d 1102, affirmed. 

Justice

704  STOP  THE  BEACH  RENOURISHMENT,  INC.  v.  FLOR-

IDA  DEPT.  OF  ENVIRONMENTAL  PROTECTION 

Syllabus 

Members'  littoral  right  to  have  the  boundary  always  be  the  mean 
high-water line.  But petitioner's interpretation of that dictum contra-
dicts  the  clear  law  governing  avulsion.  One  cannot  say  the  Florida 
Supreme  Court  contravened  established  property  law  by  rejecting  it. 
Pp. 731-733. 

Justice

705 Cite as: 560 U. S. 702 (2010) 
Syllabus 
tion,  but  concluded  that  this  case  does  not  require  the  Court  to  deter-
mine whether, or when, a judicial decision determining property owners' 
rights  can violate  the  Takings Clause.  If  and when  future cases  show 
that the usual principles, including constitutional ones that constrain the 
judiciary  like  due  process,  are  inadequate  to  protect  property  owners, 
then the question whether a judicial decision  can effect a taking would 
be properly presented.  Pp. 733-742. 

Justice

706  STOP  THE  BEACH  RENOURISHMENT,  INC.  v.  FLOR-

IDA  DEPT.  OF  ENVIRONMENTAL  PROTECTION 

Counsel 

With him on the brief were Solicitor General Kagan, Acting 
Assistant  Attorney  General  Cruden,  Nicole  A.  Saharsky, 
and Katherine J. Barton.* 

*Briefs  of  amici  curiae  urging  reversal  were  filed  for  the  American 
Civil  Rights  Union  by  Peter  J.  Ferrara;  for  the  Coalition  for  Property 
Rights,  Inc.,  by  Menelaos  K.  Papalas  and  Sidney  F.  Ansbacher;  for  the 
Eagle  Forum  Education  and  Legal  Defense  Fund  by  Douglas  G.  Smith; 
for the New England Legal Foundation by Benjamin G. Robbins and Mar-
tin  J.  Newhouse;  for  the  Oregonians  in  Action  Legal  Center  by  Donald 
Joe  Willis;  for  the  Owners'  Counsel  of  America  by  Robert  H.  Thomas, 
Mark M. Murakami, and Tred R. Eyerly; and for Save Our Beaches et al. 
by Shannon Lee Goessling. 

Briefs  of  amici  curiae  urging  affirmance  were  filed  for  the  American 
Planning Association et al. by John D. Echeverria; for the Coastal States 
Organization by Richard M. Frank; for the National Association of Coun-
ties et al. by Richard Ruda, Douglas T. Kendall, and Elizabeth B. Wydra; 
and  for  the  Surfrider  Foundation  by  Bruce  J.  Berman  and  Jeffrey  W. 
Mikoni. 

Briefs  of  amici  curiae  were  filed  for  the  State  of  California  et  al.  by 
Edmund G. Brown, Jr., Attorney General of California, Daniel L. Siegel, 
Supervising  Deputy  Attorney  General,  Manuel  M.  Medeiros,  Solicitor 
General,  J.  Matthew  Rodriquez,  Chief  Assistant  Attorney  General,  Jan 
Stevens, Senior Assistant Attorney General, and Joseph Barbieri, Super-
vising  Deputy  Attorney  General,  by  Richard  S.  Gebelein,  Chief  Deputy 
Attorney  General  of  Delaware,  and  by  the  Attorneys  General  for  their 
respective States as follows: Dustin McDaniel of Arkansas, Lisa Madigan 
of Illinois, Tom Miller of Iowa, James D. "Buddy" Caldwell of Louisiana, 
Janet T. Mills  of Maine, Douglas F. Gansler of Maryland, Martha Coakley 
of  Massachusetts,  Michael  A.  Cox  of  Michigan,  Jim  Hood  of  Mississippi, 
Steve  Bullock  of  Montana,  Jon  Bruning  of  Nebraska,  Catherine  Cortez 
Masto of Nevada, Michael A. Delaney of New Hampshire, Anne Milgram 
of New Jersey, Richard Cordray of Ohio, John R. Kroger of Oregon, Pat-
rick  C.  Lynch  of  Rhode  Island,  Henry  D.  McMaster  of  South  Carolina, 
Marty  J.  Jackley  of  South  Dakota,  Robert  E.  Cooper,  Jr.,  of  Tennessee, 
William C. Mims of Virginia, Robert M. McKenna of Washington, Darrell 
V. McGraw, Jr., of West Virginia, and Bruce A. Salzburg of Wyoming; for 
Brevard  County,  Florida,  by  Scott  L.  Knox;  for  the  Cato  Institute  et  al. 
by  James  S.  Burling,  Steven  Geoffrey  Gieseler,  Ilya  Shapiro,  Karen  R. 
Harned, and Elizabeth Milito; for the Center for Constitutional Jurispru-
dence  by  Anthony  T.  Caso,  Edwin  Meese  III,  and  John  C.  Eastman;  for 
Citizens  for  Constitutional  Property  Rights  Legal  Foundation,  Inc.,  by 
John  J.  Delaney  and  Emily  J.  Vaias;  for  the  Florida  Shore  and  Beach 

707 Cite as: 560 U. S. 702 (2010) 
Opinion of the Court 
Justice

708  STOP  THE  BEACH  RENOURISHMENT,  INC.  v.  FLOR-

IDA  DEPT.  OF  ENVIRONMENTAL  PROTECTION 

Opinion of the Court 

land.  See  Miller  v.  Bay-To-Gulf,  Inc.,  141  Fla.  452,  458- 460,  193  So.  425,  427-428  (1940) 

(per  curiam);  Fla.  Stat. 

$$ 177.27(14)-(15), 177.28(1) (2007). Littoral owners have, in addition  to the rights of the pub-

lic, certain "special rights" with regard to the water and the foreshore, 

Broward,  58  Fla.,  at  410,  50  So.,  at  830,  rights 
which  Florida  considers  to  be  property,  generally  akin  to 
easements, see ibid.; Thiesen v.  Gulf, Fla. & Ala. R. Co., 75 Fla.  28,  57,  78,  78  So.  491,  500,  507  (1918)  (on  rehearing). 

These  include  the  right  of  access  to  the  water,  the  right  to use  the  water  for  certain  purposes,  the  right  to  an  unob-
structed  view  of  the  water,  and  the  right  to  receive  accre-tions  and  relictions  to  the  littoral  property. 

Id.,  at  58-59, 
78  So.,  at  501;  Board  of  Trustees  of  Internal  Improvement 
Trust  Fund  v.  Sand  Key  Assoc.,  Ltd.,  512  So.  2d  934, 
936  (Fla.  1987).  This  is  generally  in  accord  with  wellestablished  common  law,  although  the  precise  property rights vary among jurisdictions.  Compare 

Broward, supra, 
at  409-410,  50  So.,  at  830,  with  1  J.  Lewis,  Law  of  Eminent Domain $ 100 (3d ed. 1909); 1 H. Farnham, Law of Waters and 

Water Rights $ 62, pp. 278-280 (1904) (hereinafter Farnham). At  the  center  of  this  case  is  the  right  to  accretions  and 
relictions.  Accretions  are  additions  of  alluvion  (sand,  sedi-
ment,  or  other  deposits)  to  waterfront  land;  relictions  are 
lands  once  covered  by  water  that  become  dry  when  the 
water recedes.  F. Maloney, S.  Plager,  &  F. Baldwin, Water 
Law  and  Administration:  The  Florida  Experience  $ 126, 
pp. 385-386 (1968) (hereinafter Maloney); 1 Farnham $ 69, at 
320.  (For simplicity's  sake, we shall refer  to accretions  and 
relictions collectively as accretions, and the process whereby 
they  occur  as  accretion.)  In  order  for  an  addition  to  dry 
land to qualify as an accretion, it must have occurred gradu-
ally and imperceptibly--that is, so slowly that one could not 
see  the  change  occurring,  though  over  time  the  difference 
became  apparent.  Sand  Key,  supra,  at  936;  County  of 
St. Clair v.  Lovingston, 23 Wall. 46, 66-67 (1874).  When, on 
the  other  hand,  there  is  a  "sudden  or  perceptible  loss  of  or 

709 Cite as: 560 U. S. 702 (2010) 
Opinion of the Court 
addition  to  land  by  the  action  of  the  water  or  a  sudden change  in  the  bed  of  a  lake  or  the  course  of  a  stream,"  the 

change  is  called  an  avulsion.  Sand  Key,  supra,  at  936;  see also 1 Farnham $ 69, at 320. 

In Florida, as at common law, the littoral owner automati-cally  takes  title  to  dry  land  added  to  his  property  by  accre-
tion; but formerly submerged land that has become dry land by  avulsion  continues  to  belong  to  the  owner  of  the  seabed 
(usually the State).  See, e. g., Sand Key, supra, at 937; Ma-loney  $ 126.6,  at  392;  2  W.  Blackstone,  Commentaries  on  the 
Laws  of  England  261-262  (1766)  (hereinafter  Blackstone). Thus,  regardless  of  whether  an  avulsive  event  exposes  land 
previously  submerged  or  submerges  land  previously  ex-posed, the boundary between littoral property and sovereign 
land  does  not  change;  it  remains  (ordinarily)  what  was  the mean  high-water  line  before  the  event.  See  Bryant  v. 
Peppe,  238  So.  2d  836,  838-839  (Fla.  1970);  J.  Gould,  Law  of Waters  $ 158,  p.  290  (1883).  It  follows  from  this  that,  when 
a new strip of land has been added to the shore by avulsion, the  littoral  owner  has  no  right  to  subsequent  accretions. 
Those  accretions  no  longer  add  to  his  property,  since  the property  abutting  the  water  belongs  not  to  him  but  to  the 
State.  See Maloney $ 126.6, at 393; 1 Farnham $ 71a, at 328. 

B 
In 1961, Florida's Legislature passed the Beach and Shore Preservation  Act,  1961  Fla.  Laws  ch.  61-246,  as  amended, 

Fla. Stat. $$ 161.011-161.45 (2007).  The Act establishes pro-cedures  for  "beach  restoration  and  nourishment  projects," 

$ 161.088, designed to deposit sand on eroded beaches (resto-ration)  and  to  maintain  the  deposited  sand  (nourishment). 

$ 161.021(3),  (4).  A  local  government  may  apply  to  the  De-partment of Environmental Protection (Department) for the 
funds  and  the  necessary  permits  to  restore  a  beach,  see $$ 161.101(1), 161.041(1).  When the  project involves placing 
fill on the State's submerged lands, authorization is required from  the  Board  of  Trustees  of  the  Internal  Improvement 

710  STOP  THE  BEACH  RENOURISHMENT,  INC.  v.  FLOR-

IDA  DEPT.  OF  ENVIRONMENTAL  PROTECTION 

Opinion of the Court 

Trust Fund (Board), see $ 253.77(1), which holds title to those lands, $ 253.12(1). 

Once  a  beach  restoration  "is  determined  to  be  under-taken,"  the  Board  sets  what  is  called  "an  erosion  control 
line."  $ 161.161(3)-(5).  It  must  be  set  by  reference  to  the existing  mean  high-water  line,  though  in  theory  it  can  be 
located  seaward  or  landward  of  that.2  See  $ 161.161(5). Much  of  the  project  work  occurs  seaward  of  the  erosioncontrol line, as sand is dumped on what was once submerged land.  See  App.  87-88.  The  fixed  erosion-control  line  re-
places  the  fluctuating  mean  high-water  line  as  the  bound-
ary  between  privately  owned  littoral  property  and  state property.  $ 161.191(1).  Once  the  erosion-control  line  is  re-

corded,  the  common  law  ceases  to  increase  upland  property by accretion (or decrease it by erosion).  $ 161.191(2).  Thus, 
when accretion to the shore moves the mean high-water line 
seaward,  the  property  of  beachfront  landowners  is  not  ex-tended  to  that  line  (as  the  prior  law  provided),  but  remains 

bounded by the permanent erosion-control line.  Those land-owners  "continue  to  be  entitled,"  however,  "to  all  commonlaw  riparian  rights"  other  than  the  right  to  accretions. $ 161.201.  If  the  beach  erodes  back  landward  of  the 
erosion-control  line  over  a  substantial  portion  of  the  shore-line covered by the project, the Board may, on its own initia-
tive, or must, if asked by the owners or lessees of a majority 
of  the  property  affected,  direct  the  agency  responsible  for maintaining  the  beach  to  return  the  beach  to  the  condition 

contemplated  by  the  project.  If  that  is  not  done  within  a year,  the  project  is  canceled  and  the  erosion-control  line  is 
null  and  void.  $ 161.211(2),  (3).  Finally,  by  regulation,  if 

2 We  assume,  as  the  parties  agree  we  should,  that  in  this  case  the 
erosion-control line is the pre-existing mean high-water line.  Tr. of Oral 
Arg.  11-12.  Respondents  concede  that,  if  the  erosion-control  line  were 
established landward of that, the State would have taken property.  Brief 
for  Respondent  Department  et  al.  15;  Brief  for  Respondent  Walton 
County et al. 6. 

711 Cite as: 560 U. S. 702 (2010) 
Opinion of the Court 
the  use  of  submerged  land  would  "unreasonably  infringe  on riparian  rights,"  the  project  cannot  proceed  unless  the  local 

governments show that they own or have a property interest in  the  upland  property  adjacent  to  the  project  site.  Fla. 
Admin. Code Rule 18-21.004(3)(b) (2009). 

C 
In  2003,  the  city  of  Destin  and  Walton  County  applied  for the  necessary  permits  to  restore  6.9  miles  of  beach  within 

their  jurisdictions  that  had  been  eroded  by  several  hurri-canes.  The  project  envisioned  depositing  along  that  shore 
sand dredged from further out.  See Walton Cty. v.  Stop the Beach Renourishment, Inc., 998 So. 2d 1102, 1106 (Fla. 2008). 
It would add about 75 feet of dry sand seaward of the mean high-water line (to be denominated the erosion-control line). 
The  Department  issued  a  notice  of  intent  to  award  the  per-mits, App. 27-41, and the Board approved the erosion-control 
line, id., at 49-50. Petitioner  here,  Stop  the  Beach  Renourishment,  Inc.,  is  a 
nonprofit corporation formed  by people who own beachfront property  bordering  the  project  area  (we  shall  refer  to  them 
as Members).  It brought an administrative challenge to the proposed  project,  see 

id.,  at  10-26,  which  was  unsuccessful; the  Department  approved  the  permits.  Petitioner  then 

challenged  that  action  in  state  court  under  the  Florida  Ad-ministrative  Procedure  Act,  Fla.  Stat.  $ 120.68  (2007).  The 
District  Court  of  Appeal  for  the  First  District  concluded that,  contrary  to the  Act's  preservation of  " `all common-law 
riparian  rights,' " the  order had eliminated  two of the  Mem-bers'  littoral  rights:  (1)  the  right  to  receive  accretions  to 
their property; and (2) the right to have the contact of their property with the  water remain  intact. 

Save Our Beaches, 
Inc. v.  Florida Dept. of Environmental Protection, 27 So. 3d 48, 58 (2006) (emphasis deleted).  This, it believed, would be 

an  unconstitutional  taking,  which  would  "unreasonably  in-fringe on riparian rights," and therefore require the showing 

712  STOP  THE  BEACH  RENOURISHMENT,  INC.  v.  FLOR-

IDA  DEPT.  OF  ENVIRONMENTAL  PROTECTION 

Opinion of the Court 

under  Fla.  Admin.  Code  Rule  18-21.004(3)(b)  that  the  local governments owned or had a property interest in the upland 

property.  It set  aside the  Department's final order approv-ing  the permits  and remanded  for  that showing  to be  made. 
27  So.  3d,  at  60.  It  also  certified  to  the  Florida  Supreme Court  the  following  question  (as  rephrased  by  the  latter 
court): 

"On  its  face,  does  the  Beach  and  Shore  Preservation Act  unconstitutionally deprive  upland owners  of littoral 

rights without just compensation?" 3  998 So. 2d, at 1105 (footnotes omitted). 

The  Florida  Supreme  Court  answered  the  certified  ques-tion in the negative, and quashed the First District's remand. 
Id., at 1121.  It faulted the Court of Appeal for not consider-ing  the  doctrine  of  avulsion,  which  it  concluded  permitted 
the State to reclaim the restored beach on behalf of the pub-lic.  Id.,  at  1116-1118.  It  described  the  right  to  accretions 
as  a  future  contingent  interest,  not  a vested  property  right, and  held  that  there  is  no  littoral  right  to  contact  with  the 
water  independent  of  the  littoral  right  of  access,  which  the Act  does  not  infringe. 

Id.,  at  1112,  1119-1120.  Petitioner sought  rehearing  on  the  ground  that  the  Florida  Supreme 

Court's decision itself effected a taking of the Members' litto-ral rights contrary to the Fifth and Fourteenth Amendments 
to the Federal Constitution.4  The request for rehearing was denied.  We granted certiorari, 557 U. S. 903 (2009). 

3 The  Florida  Supreme  Court  seemingly  took  the  question  to  refer  to 
constitutionality  under  the  Florida  Constitution,  which  contains  a  clause 
similar to the Takings Clause of the Federal Constitution.  Compare Fla. 
Const., Art. X, $ 6, cl. (a), with U. S. Const., Amdt. 5. 

4 We ordinarily do not consider an issue first presented to a state court 

in  a  petition  for  rehearing  if  the  state  court  did  not  address  it.  See 
Adams v. Robertson, 520 U. S. 83, 89, n. 3 (1997) (per curiam).  But where 
the state-court decision itself is claimed to constitute a violation of federal 
law, the state court's refusal to address that claim put forward in a petition 
for  rehearing  will  not  bar  our  review.  See  Brinkerhoff-Faris  Trust  & 
Sav. Co. v.  Hill, 281 U. S. 673, 677-678 (1930). 

713 Cite as: 560 U. S. 702 (2010) 
Opinion of Scalia,
714  STOP  THE  BEACH  RENOURISHMENT,  INC.  v.  FLOR-

IDA  DEPT.  OF  ENVIRONMENTAL  PROTECTION 

Opinion of Scalia,

715 Cite as: 560 U. S. 702 (2010) 
Opinion of Scalia,
716  STOP  THE  BEACH  RENOURISHMENT,  INC.  v.  FLOR-

IDA  DEPT.  OF  ENVIRONMENTAL  PROTECTION 

Opinion of Scalia,

717 Cite as: 560 U. S. 702 (2010) 
Opinion of Scalia,
718  STOP  THE  BEACH  RENOURISHMENT,  INC.  v.  FLOR-

IDA  DEPT.  OF  ENVIRONMENTAL  PROTECTION 

Opinion of Scalia,

719 Cite as: 560 U. S. 702 (2010) 
Opinion of Scalia,
720  STOP  THE  BEACH  RENOURISHMENT,  INC.  v.  FLOR-

IDA  DEPT.  OF  ENVIRONMENTAL  PROTECTION 

Opinion of Scalia,

721 Cite as: 560 U. S. 702 (2010) 
Opinion of Scalia,
722  STOP  THE  BEACH  RENOURISHMENT,  INC.  v.  FLOR-

IDA  DEPT.  OF  ENVIRONMENTAL  PROTECTION 

Opinion of Scalia,

723 Cite as: 560 U. S. 702 (2010) 
Opinion of Scalia,
724  STOP  THE  BEACH  RENOURISHMENT,  INC.  v.  FLOR-

IDA  DEPT.  OF  ENVIRONMENTAL  PROTECTION 

Opinion of Scalia,

725 Cite as: 560 U. S. 702 (2010) 
Opinion of Scalia,
726  STOP  THE  BEACH  RENOURISHMENT,  INC.  v.  FLOR-

IDA  DEPT.  OF  ENVIRONMENTAL  PROTECTION 

Opinion of Scalia,

727 Cite as: 560 U. S. 702 (2010) 
Opinion of Scalia,
728  STOP  THE  BEACH  RENOURISHMENT,  INC.  v.  FLOR-

IDA  DEPT.  OF  ENVIRONMENTAL  PROTECTION 

Opinion of Scalia,

729 Cite as: 560 U. S. 702 (2010) 
Opinion of the Court 

IV 
We come at last to petitioner's takings attack on the deci-sion  below.  At  the  outset,  respondents  raise  two  prelimi-

nary points which need not detain us long.  The city and the county  argue  that  petitioner  cannot  state  a  cause  of  action 
for a taking because, though the Members own private prop-erty,  petitioner  itself  does  not;  and  that  the  claim  is  unripe 
because  petitioner  has  not  sought  just  compensation.  Nei-ther objection appeared in the briefs in opposition to the pe-
tition  for  writ  of  certiorari,  and  since  neither  is  jurisdic-tional,

10  we  deem  both  waived.  See  this  Court's  Rule  15.2; 

cf.  Oklahoma  City  v.  Tuttle,  471  U. S.  808,  815-816  (1985). Petitioner  argues  that  the  Florida  Supreme  Court  took 

two of the property rights of the Members by declaring that those  rights  did  not  exist:  the  right  to  accretions,  and  the 
right  to  have  littoral  property  touch  the  water  (which  peti-tioner  distinguishes  from  the  mere  right  of  access  to  the 
water).11  Under  petitioner's  theory,  because  no  prior  Flor-ida  decision  had  said  that  the  State's  filling  of  submerged 

10 Petitioner meets the two requirements necessary for an association to 
assert  the Article III standing  of its  Members.  See Food and Commer-
cial  Workers  v.  Brown  Group,  Inc.,  517  U. S.  544,  555-557  (1996).  And 
the  claim  here  is  ripe  insofar  as  Article  III  standing  is  concerned,  since 
(accepting petitioner's version of Florida law as true) petitioner has been 
deprived of property. 

11 Petitioner  raises  two  other  claims  that  we  do  not  directly  address. 

First, petitioner tries to revive its challenge to the beach-restoration proj-
ect, contending that it (rather than the Florida Supreme Court's opinion) 
constitutes a taking.  Petitioner's arguments on this score are simply ver-
sions  of  two  arguments  it  makes  against  the  Florida  Supreme  Court's 
opinion: that the Department has replaced the Members' littoral-property 
rights with versions that are inferior because statutory; and that the Mem-
bers  previously  had  the  right  to  have  their  property  contact  the  water. 
We reject both, infra, at 732-733, and n. 12.  Second, petitioner attempts 
to  raise  a  challenge  to  the  Act  as  a  deprivation  of  property  without  due 
process.  Petitioner  did  not  raise  this  challenge  before  the  Florida  Su-
preme  Court,  and  only  obliquely  raised  it  in  the  petition  for  certiorari. 
We therefore do not reach it.  See Adams, 520 U. S., at 86-87. 

730  STOP  THE  BEACH  RENOURISHMENT,  INC.  v.  FLOR-

IDA  DEPT.  OF  ENVIRONMENTAL  PROTECTION 

Opinion of the Court 

tidal lands could have the effect of depriving a littoral owner of contact with the water and denying him future accretions, 

the  Florida  Supreme  Court's  judgment  in  the  present  case abolished  those  two  easements  to  which  littoral-property 
owners  had  been  entitled.  This  puts  the  burden  on  the wrong party.  There is no taking unless petitioner can show 
that,  before  the  Florida  Supreme  Court's  decision,  littoralproperty owners had rights to future  accretions and contact with the water superior to the State's right to fill in its sub-

merged land.  Though some may think the question close, in our view the showing cannot be made. 

Two  core  principles  of  Florida  property  law  intersect  in 
this  case.  First,  the  State  as  owner  of the  submerged  land 
adjacent to littoral property has the right to fill that land, so 
long as it does not interfere with the rights of the public and 
the rights of littoral landowners.  See Hayes v.  Bowman, 91 
So. 2d 795, 799-800 (Fla. 1957) (right to fill conveyed by State 
to private party); State ex rel. Buford v.  Tampa, 88 Fla. 196, 
210-211,  102  So.  336,  341  (1924)  (same).  Second,  as  we  de-
scribed supra, at 709, if an avulsion exposes land seaward of 
littoral  property  that  had  previously  been  submerged,  that 
land  belongs  to  the  State  even  if  it  interrupts  the  littoral 
owner's  contact with  the  water.  See Bryant, 238  So. 2d,  at 
837,  838-839.  The  issue  here  is  whether  there  is  an  excep-
tion to this rule when the State is the cause of the avulsion. 
Prior law suggests there is not.  In Martin v.  Busch, 93 Fla. 
535, 112 So. 274 (1927), the Florida Supreme Court held that 
when  the  State  drained  water  from  a  lakebed  belonging  to 
the  State,  causing  land  that  was  formerly  below  the  mean 
high-water  line  to  become  dry  land,  that  land  continued  to 
belong  to  the  State.  Id.,  at  574,  112  So.,  at  287;  see  also 
Bryant, supra, at 838-839 (analogizing the situation in Mar-
tin to an avulsion).  " `The riparian rights doctrine of accre-
tion  and  reliction,' "  the  Florida  Supreme  Court  later  ex-
plained, " `does not apply to such lands.' "  Bryant, supra, at 
839  (quoting  Martin,  supra,  at  578,  112  So.,  at  288  (Brown, 

Cite as: 560 U. S. 702 (2010)  731 

Opinion of the Court 
J.,  concurring)).  This  is  not  surprising,  as  there  can  be  no accretions to land that no longer abuts the water. 

Thus,  Florida  law  as  it  stood  before  the  decision  below allowed the  State to fill in its own seabed, and the resulting 
sudden  exposure  of  previously  submerged  land  was  treated like an avulsion for purposes of ownership.  The right to ac-
cretions was therefore subordinate to the State's right to fill. 
Thiesen v.  Gulf, Fla. & Ala. R. Co. suggests the same result. That  case  involved  a  claim  by  a  riparian  landowner  that 

a  railroad's  state-authorized  filling  of  submerged  land  and construction  of  tracks  upon  it  interfered  with  the  riparian 
landowners'  rights  to  access  and  to  wharf  out  to  a  shipping 
channel.  The  Florida  Supreme  Court  determined  that  the 
claimed  right  to  wharf  out  did  not  exist  in  Florida,  and 
that therefore only the right of access was compensable.  75 
Fla.,  at  58-65,  78  So.,  at  501-503.  Significantly,  although 
the  court  recognized  that  the  riparian-property  owners  had 
rights  to  accretion,  see  id.,  at  64-65,  78  So.,  at  502-503,  the 
only rights it even suggested would be infringed by the rail-
road  were  the  right  of  access  (which  the  plaintiff  had 
claimed)  and  the  rights  of  view  and  use  of  the  water  (which 
it  seems  the  plaintiff  had  not  claimed),  see  id.,  at  58-59,  78, 
78 So., at 501, 507. 

The  Florida  Supreme  Court  decision  before  us  is  consist-
ent  with  these  background  principles  of  state  property  law. 
Cf.  Lucas,  505  U. S.,  at 1028-1029;  Scranton  v.  Wheeler,  179 
U. S. 141, 163  (1900).  It did  not  abolish  the  Members' right 
to  future  accretions,  but  merely  held  that  the  right  was  not 
implicated by the beach-restoration project, because the doc-
trine of avulsion applied.  See 998 So. 2d, at 1117, 1120-1121. 
The Florida Supreme Court's opinion describes beach resto-
ration  as  the  reclamation  by  the  State  of  the  public's  land, 
just  as  Martin  had  described  the  lake  drainage  in  that 
case.  Although  the  opinion  does  not  cite  Martin and  is  not 
always clear on this point, it suffices that its characterization 
of  the  littoral  right  to  accretion  is  consistent  with  Martin 

732  STOP  THE  BEACH  RENOURISHMENT,  INC.  v.  FLOR-

IDA  DEPT.  OF  ENVIRONMENTAL  PROTECTION 

Opinion of the Court 

and  the  other  relevant  principles  of  Florida  law  we  have discussed. 

What we have said shows that the rule of Sand Key, which petitioner repeatedly invokes, is inapposite.  There the Flor-
ida  Supreme  Court  held  that  an  artificial  accretion  does  not change  the  right  of  a  littoral-property  owner  to  claim  the 
accreted land as his own (as long as the owner did not cause 
the  accretion himself ).  512  So. 2d,  at 937-938.  The reason 
Martin did not apply, Sand Key explained, is that the drain-
age  that  had  occurred  in  Martin  did  not  lower  the  water level by " `imperceptible degrees,' " and so did not qualify as 

an accretion.  512 So. 2d, at 940-941. 

The  result  under  Florida  law  may  seem  counterintuitive. 
After  all,  the  Members'  property  has  been  deprived  of  its 
character  (and  value)  as  oceanfront  property  by  the  State's 
artificial  creation  of  an  avulsion.  Perhaps  state-created 
avulsions  ought  to  be  treated  differently  from  other  avul-
sions insofar as the property right to accretion is concerned. 
But  nothing  in  prior  Florida  law  makes  such  a  distinction, 
and Martin suggests, if it does not indeed hold, the contrary. 
Even  if  there  might  be  different  interpretations  of  Martin 
and other Florida property-law cases that would prevent this 
arguably  odd  result,  we  are  not  free  to  adopt  them.  The 
Takings Clause only protects property rights as they are es-
tablished under state law, not as they might have been estab-
lished  or  ought  to  have  been  established.  We  cannot  say 
that the Florida Supreme Court's decision eliminated a right 
of accretion established under Florida law. 

Petitioner also contends that the State took the Members' 
littoral right to have their property continually maintain con-
tact  with  the water.  To  be  clear, petitioner does  not  allege 
that  the  State  relocated  the  property  line,  as  would  have 
happened if the erosion-control line were landward of the old 
mean high-water line (instead  of identical to it).  Petitioner 
argues  instead  that  the  Members  have  a  separate  right  for 
the  boundary of their property to be always  the mean  high-

733 Cite as: 560 U. S. 702 (2010) 
Opinion of Kennedy,
734  STOP  THE  BEACH  RENOURISHMENT,  INC.  v.  FLOR-

IDA  DEPT.  OF  ENVIRONMENTAL  PROTECTION 

Opinion of Kennedy,

735 Cite as: 560 U. S. 702 (2010) 
Opinion of Kennedy,
736  STOP  THE  BEACH  RENOURISHMENT,  INC.  v.  FLOR-

IDA  DEPT.  OF  ENVIRONMENTAL  PROTECTION 

Opinion of Kennedy,

737 Cite as: 560 U. S. 702 (2010) 
Opinion of Kennedy,
738  STOP  THE  BEACH  RENOURISHMENT,  INC.  v.  FLOR-

IDA  DEPT.  OF  ENVIRONMENTAL  PROTECTION 

Opinion of Kennedy,

739 Cite as: 560 U. S. 702 (2010) 
Opinion of Kennedy,
740  STOP  THE  BEACH  RENOURISHMENT,  INC.  v.  FLOR-

IDA  DEPT.  OF  ENVIRONMENTAL  PROTECTION 

Opinion of Kennedy,

741 Cite as: 560 U. S. 702 (2010) 
Opinion of Kennedy,
742  STOP  THE  BEACH  RENOURISHMENT,  INC.  v.  FLOR-

IDA  DEPT.  OF  ENVIRONMENTAL  PROTECTION 

Opinion of Breyer,

743 Cite as: 560 U. S. 702 (2010) 
Opinion of Breyer,
744  STOP  THE  BEACH  RENOURISHMENT,  INC.  v.  FLOR-

IDA  DEPT.  OF  ENVIRONMENTAL  PROTECTION 

Opinion of Breyer,

745 Cite as: 560 U. S. 702 (2010) 
Opinion of Breyer,
746  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

Syllabus 

CITY  OF  ONTARIO,  CALIFORNIA,  et

747 Cite as: 560 U. S. 746 (2010) 
Syllabus 
work-related  costs.  After the  jury  concluded  that  Scharf's intent  was 
legitimate,  the  court  granted  petitioners  summary  judgment  on  the 
ground they did not violate the Fourth Amendment.  The Ninth Circuit 
reversed.  Although it  agreed that  Quon  had  a  reasonable  expectation 
of  privacy  in  his  text  messages,  the  appeals  court  concluded  that  the 
search was not reasonable even though it was conducted on a legitimate, 
work-related  rationale.  The  opinion  pointed  to  a  host  of  means  less 
intrusive than the audit that Scharf could have used.  The court further 
concluded that Arch Wireless had violated the SCA by giving the City 
the transcript. 

Held:

748  ONTARIO  v. 749 Cite as: 560 U. S. 746 (2010) 

Syllabus 
controlling precedents.  See,

750  ONTARIO v. 751 Cite as: 560 U. S. 746 (2010) 

Opinion of the Court 
sent  or  received  each  month.  Usage  in  excess  of  that amount  would  result  in  an  additional  fee.  The  City  issued 

pagers to Quon and other SWAT  Team members  in  order to help  the  SWAT  Team  mobilize  and  respond  to  emergency 
situations. Before  acquiring  the  pagers,  the  City  announced  a  "Com-
puter Usage, Internet and E-Mail Policy" (Computer Policy) 
that  applied  to  all  employees.  Among  other  provisions,  it specified that the City "reserves the right to monitor and log 

all  network  activity  including  e-mail  and  Internet  use,  with or without notice.  Users should have no expectation of pri-
vacy  or  confidentiality  when  using  these  resources."  App. 
to  Pet.  for  Cert.  151,  152.  In  March  2000,  Quon  signed  a 
statement  acknowledging  that  he  had  read  and  understood 
the Computer Policy. 

The  Computer  Policy  did  not  apply,  on  its  face,  to  text 
messaging.  Text  messages  share  similarities  with  e-mails, 
but  the  two  differ  in  an  important  way.  In  this  case,  for 
instance, an e-mail sent on a City computer was transmitted 
through the City's own data servers, but a text message sent 
on  one  of  the  City's  pagers  was  transmitted  using  wireless 
radio frequencies from an individual pager to a receiving sta-
tion  owned  by  Arch  Wireless.  It  was  routed  through  Arch 
Wireless' computer network, where it remained until the re-
cipient's pager or cellular telephone was ready to receive the 
message, at which point Arch Wireless transmitted the mes-
sage  from  the  transmitting  station  nearest  to  the  recipient. 
After  delivery,  Arch  Wireless  retained  a  copy  on  its  com-
puter  servers.  The  message  did  not  pass  through  comput-
ers owned by the City. 

Although the Computer Policy did not cover text messages 
by  its  explicit  terms,  the  City  made  clear  to  employees,  in-
cluding  Quon,  that  the  City  would  treat  text  messages  the 
same  way  as  it  treated  e-mails.  At  an  April  18,  2002,  staff 
meeting  at  which  Quon  was  present,  Lieutenant  Steven 
Duke,  the  OPD  officer  responsible  for  the  City's  contract 

752  ONTARIO v. 753 Cite as: 560 U. S. 746 (2010) 

Opinion of the Court 
scripts  and  discovered  that  many  of  the  messages  sent  and received  on  Quon's  pager  were  not  work  related,  and  some 

were sexually explicit.  Duke reported his findings to Scharf,  who,  along  with  Quon's  immediate  supervisor,  re-
viewed the transcripts himself.  After his review, Scharf re-ferred  the  matter  to  OPD's  internal  affairs  division  for  an 
investigation into whether Quon was violating OPD rules by pursuing personal matters while on duty. 

The  officer  in  charge  of  the  internal  affairs  review  was Sergeant  Patrick  McMahon.  Before  conducting  a  review, 
McMahon  used  Quon's  work  schedule  to  redact  the  tran-scripts  in  order  to  eliminate  any  messages  Quon  sent  while 
off  duty.  He  then  reviewed  the  content  of  the  messages Quon sent during work hours.  McMahon's report noted that 
Quon  sent  or  received  456  messages  during  work  hours  in the  month  of  August  2002,  of  which  no  more  than  57  were 
work related; he sent as many as 80 messages during a single day  at  work;  and  on  an  average  workday,  Quon  sent  or  re-
ceived  28  messages,  of  which  only  3  were  related  to  police business.  The  report  concluded  that  Quon  had  violated 
OPD rules.  Quon was allegedly disciplined. 

B 
Raising  claims  under  Rev.  Stat.  $ 1979,  42  U. S. C.  $ 1983; 18 U. S. C. $ 2701 

et

754  ONTARIO v. 755 Cite as: 560 U. S. 746 (2010) 

Opinion of the Court 
ale," the Court of Appeals concluded, it "was not reasonable in  scope."  Id.,

756  ONTARIO v. 757 Cite as: 560 U. S. 746 (2010) 

Opinion of the Court 
able expectation of privacy must be addressed on a case-by-
case  basis."  Id.,

758  ONTARIO v. 759 Cite as: 560 U. S. 746 (2010) 

Opinion of the Court 
The  Court  must  proceed  with  care  when  considering  the whole  concept  of  privacy  expectations  in  communications 

made  on  electronic  equipment  owned  by  a  government  em-ployer.  The judiciary risks error by elaborating too fully on 
the Fourth Amendment implications of emerging technology before  its  role  in  society  has  become  clear.  See, 

e.

760  ONTARIO v.Cite as: 560 U. S. 746 (2010)  761 

Opinion of the Court 
justify  one  such  exception.  O'Connor,

762  ONTARIO v. 763 Cite as: 560 U. S. 746 (2010) 

Opinion of the Court 
or  pager,  or  a  wiretap  on  his  home  phone  line,  would  have been.  That the  search  did  reveal  intimate details  of Quon's 

life  does  not  make  it  unreasonable,  for  under  the  circum-stances  a  reasonable  employer  would  not  expect  that  such 
a  review  would  intrude  on  such  matters.  The  search  was permissible in its scope. 

The Court of Appeals erred in finding the search unreason-
able.  It pointed to a "host of simple ways to verify the effi-cacy  of  the  25,000  character  limit  .  .  .  without  intruding  on 

[respondents']  Fourth  Amendment  rights."  529  F.  3d,  at 909.  The  panel  suggested  that  Scharf  "could  have  warned 
Quon that for the month of September he was forbidden from 
using  his  pager  for  personal  communications,  and  that  the 
contents of all of his  messages would be reviewed to ensure 
the  pager  was  used  only  for  work-related  purposes  during 
that  timeframe.  Alternatively,  if  [OPD]  wanted  to  review 
past usage, it could have asked Quon to count the characters 
himself, or asked him to redact personal messages and grant 
permission  to  [OPD]  to  review  the  redacted  transcript." 
Ibid.

764  ONTARIO v. 765 Cite as: 560 U. S. 746 (2010) 

Stevens,
766  ONTARIO  v. 767 Cite as: 560 U. S. 746 (2010) 

Opinion of Scalia,
768  ONTARIO  v. 769 Cite as: 560 U. S. 746 (2010) 

Opinion of Scalia,
770  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

Syllabus 

SCHWAB  v.

771 Cite as: 560 U. S. 770 (2010) 
Syllabus 
jecting his argument that neither the Code nor Rule 4003(b) requires a 
trustee to  object to  a claimed exemption where  the amount the  debtor 
declares  as  the  exemption's  value  is  within  the  limits  the  Code  pre-
scribes.  Affirming,  the  Third  Circuit  agreed  that  Reilly's  Schedule  C 
entries indicated her intent to exempt the equipment's full value.  Rely-
ing on Taylor,

772  SCHWAB  v. 773 Cite as: 560 U. S. 770 (2010) 

Syllabus 
nomic harm that exemptions visit on creditors.  This Court should not 
alter that balance by requiring trustees to object to claimed exemptions 
based  on  form  entries  beyond  those  governing  an  exemption's  validity 
under the Code.  In rejecting Reilly's approach, the Court does not cre-
ate  incentives  for  trustees  and  creditors  to  sleep  on  their  rights.  The 
decision reached here encourages a debtor wishing to exempt an asset's 
full market  value or the asset itself to  declare the value of  the claimed 
exemption in a way that makes  its scope clear.  Such declarations will 
encourage  the  trustee  to  object  promptly  and  preserve  for  the  estate 
any value in the asset beyond relevant statutory limits.  If the trustee 
fails to  object, or  his objection is overruled, the debtor will be entitled 
to  exclude  the  asset's  full  value.  If  the  objection  is  sustained,  the 
debtor  will  be  required  either  to  forfeit  the  portion  of  the  exemption 
exceeding the statutory allowance or to revise other exemptions or ar-
rangements with creditors to permit the exemption.  See Rule 1009(a). 
Either  result  will  facilitate  the  expeditious  and  final  disposition  of 
assets, and thus enable the debtor and creditors to achieve a fresh start 
free of Reilly's finality and clouded-title concerns.  Pp. 791-795. 

534 F. 3d 173, reversed and remanded. 

Thomas,

774  SCHWAB  v. 775 Cite as: 560 U. S. 770 (2010) 

Opinion of the Court 
require  debtors  to  list  the  property  they  wish  to  reclaim  as exempt.  The assets Reilly listed on Schedule B included an 

itemized list of cooking and other kitchen equipment that she described  as  "business  equipment,"  and  to  which  she  as-
signed  an  estimated  market  value  of  $10,718.  App.  40a, 49a-55a. 

On  Schedule  C,  Reilly  claimed  two  exempt  interests  in this  equipment  pursuant  to  different  sections  of  the  Code. 
Reilly claimed a "tool[s] of the trade" exemption of $1,850 in the  equipment  under  $ 522(d)(6),  which  permits  a  debtor  to 
exempt  his  "aggregate  interest,  not  to  exceed  [$1,850]  in value, in any implements, professional books, or tools, of [his] 
trade."  See also 69 Fed. Reg. 8482 (2004) (Table).  And she claimed  a  miscellaneous  exemption  of  $8,868  in  the  equip-
ment under $ 522(d)(5), which, at the time she filed for bank-ruptcy,  permitted  a  debtor  to  take  a  "wildcard"  exemption 
equal to the "debtor's aggregate interest in any property, not to  exceed"  $10,225  "in  value." 

1  See  App.  58a.  The  total 

value  of  these  claimed  exemptions  ($10,718)  equaled  the value  Reilly  separately  listed  on  Schedules  B  and  C  as  the 

equipment's estimated market value, see id.,

776  SCHWAB  v. 777 Cite as: 560 U. S. 770 (2010) 

Opinion of the Court 
dismiss her bankruptcy case if doing so was the only way to 
avoid the equipment's sale at auction.3 

The  Bankruptcy  Court  denied  both  Schwab's  motion  to 
auction the equipment and Reilly's conditional motion to dis-
miss  her  case.  See  In

778  SCHWAB  v. 779 Cite as: 560 U. S. 770 (2010) 

Opinion of the Court 

II 
The starting point for  our analysis  is the proper interpre-
tation of Reilly's Schedule C.  If we read the Schedule Reil-ly's  way,  she  claimed  exemptions  in  her  business  equipment 

that  could exceed  statutory limits,  and thus  claimed exemp-tions  to  which  Schwab  should  have  objected  if  he  wished  to 
enforce those limits for the benefit of the estate.  If we read Schedule C Schwab's way, Reilly claimed valid exemptions to 
which Schwab had no duty to object.  The Court of Appeals construed  Schedule  C  Reilly's  way  and  interpreted  her 
claimed  exemptions  as  improper,  and  therefore  objection-
able,  even  though  their  declared  value  was  facially  within 
the  applicable  Code  limits.  In  so  doing,  the  Court  of  Ap-
peals  held  that  trustees  evaluating  the  validity  of  exemp-
tions  in  cases  like  this  cannot  take  a  debtor's  claim  at  face 
value, and specifically cannot rely on the fact that the amount 
the debtor declares as the "value of [the] claimed exemption" 
is within statutory limits.  Instead, the trustee's duty to ob-
ject  turns  on  whether  the  interplay  of  various  schedule  en-
tries supports an inference that the debtor "intended" to ex-
empt  a  dollar  value  different  than  the  one  she  wrote  on  the 
form.  534 F. 3d, at 178.  This complicated view of the trust-
ee's  statutory  obligation,  and the  strained reading  of Sched-
ule C on which it rests, is inconsistent with the Code.5 

The  parties  agree  that  this  case  is  governed  by  $ 522(l), 
which states that a Chapter 7 debtor must "file a list of prop-
erty that the debtor claims as exempt under subsection (b) of 
this  section,"  and further  states that "[u]nless  a party  in  in-
terest objects, the property claimed as exempt on such list is 
exempt."  The parties further agree that the "list" to which 

$ 522(l) refers is the "list of property . . .  claim[ed] as exempt" 

5 The forms, rules, treatise excerpts, and policy considerations on which 
the dissent relies, see post,

780  SCHWAB  v. 781 Cite as: 560 U. S. 770 (2010) 

Opinion of the Court 
According  to  Reilly,  Schwab  was  required  to  treat  the  esti-mate of market value she entered in column 4 as part of her 

claimed  exemption  in  identifying  the  "property  claimed  as exempt"  under  $ 522(

l).  See  Brief  for  Respondent  22-28. 
Relying  on  this  premise,  Reilly  argues  that  where,  as  here, a  debtor  equates  the  total  value  of  her  claimed  exemptions 

in a certain asset (column 3) with her estimate of the asset's 
market  value  (column  4),  she  establishes  the  "property claimed  as  exempt"  as  the  full  value  of  the  asset,  whatever 

that  turns  out  to  be.  See  ibid.

782  SCHWAB  v. 783 Cite as: 560 U. S. 770 (2010) 

Opinion of the Court 
Reilly's  contrary  view  of  Schwab's  obligations  under $ 522(l)  does  not  withstand  scrutiny  because  it  defines  the 

target of a trustee's objection--the "property claimed as ex-empt"--based  on  language  in  Schedule  C  and  dictionary 
definitions  of  "property,"  see  Brief  for  Respondent  24-25, 40-41,  that  the  definition  in  the  Code  itself  overrides.

8  Al-

though  we  may  look  to  dictionaries  and  the  Bankruptcy Rules to determine the meaning of words the Code does not 

define, see, e.

784  SCHWAB  v. 785 Cite as: 560 U. S. 770 (2010) 

Opinion of the Court 
For all of these reasons, we conclude that Schwab was enti-tled  to  evaluate  the  propriety  of  the  claimed  exemptions 

based  on  three,  and  only  three,  entries  on  Reilly's  Schedule C: the description of the business equipment in which Reilly 
claimed the exempt interests; the Code provisions governing the claimed exemptions; and the amounts Reilly listed in the 
column  titled  "value  of  claimed  exemption."  In  reaching this conclusion, we do not render the market value estimate 
on  Reilly's  Schedule  C  superfluous.  We  simply  confine  the estimate to its proper role: aiding the trustee in administer-
ing  the  estate  by  helping  him identify  assets  that  may  have value beyond the dollar amount the debtor claims as exempt, 
or  whose  full  value  may  not  be  available  for  exemption  be-cause  a  portion  of  the  interest  is,  for  example,  encumbered 
by an unavoidable lien.  See, e.

786  SCHWAB  v. 787 Cite as: 560 U. S. 770 (2010) 

Opinion of the Court 
23.12  Throughout  these  periods,  debtors  have  validly  ex-
empted property based on forms that required the debtor to 
list the value of a claimed exemption without also estimating 
the  market  value  of  the  asset  in  which  the  debtor  claimed 
the exempt interest.  See Brief for Respondent 46, n. 7 (cit-
ing  Sup.  Ct.  Bkrtcy.  Form  20  (1877)).13  Indeed,  it  was  not 
until  1991  that  Schedule  B-4  was  redesignated  as  Sched-
ule  C  and  amended  to  require  the  estimate  of  market  value 
on  which  Reilly  so  heavily  relies.  See  Schedule  C.  This 
amendment  was  not  occasioned  by  legislative  changes  that 
altered the Code's definition of "the property claimed as ex-
empt"  in  this  case  as  an  "interest,"  not  to  exceed  a  certain 
dollar  amount,  in  Reilly's  business  equipment.14  Accord-
ingly, we agree with Schwab and the United States that this 
recent  amendment  to  the  exemption  form  does  not  compel 
Reilly's view of Schwab's statutory obligations, or render the 
claimed  exemptions  in  this  case  objectionable  under  the 

12 See also Act of Aug. 19, 1841, ch. 9, $ 3, 5 Stat. 442; Act of Mar. 2, 1867, 
ch.  176,  $ 11,  14  Stat.  521,  amended  by  Act  of  June  22,  1874,  18  Stat.,  pt. 
3,  p.  182;  Bankruptcy  Act  of  July  1,  1898,  ch.  541,  $ 6,  30  Stat.  548,  11 
U. S. C. $ 24 (1926 ed.); Chandler Act, ch. 575, $ 1, 52 Stat. 847, 11 U. S. C. 

$ 24  (1934  ed.,  Supp.  IV);  $ 522  (1976  ed.,  Supp.  II);  $ 522  (2000  ed.  and 
Supp. V). 

13 See  also  General  Orders  and  Forms  in  Bankruptcy,  Official  Form  1, 

Schedule  B  (5)  (1898);  Fed.  Rule  Bkrtcy.  Proc.  Official  Form  6,  Schedule 
B-4 (1971). 

14 The  precise  reason  for  the  amendment  is  unclear.  See  Communica-

tion from The

788  SCHWAB  v. 789 Cite as: 560 U. S. 770 (2010)  

Opinion of the Court  
Schedule B-4. -Property Claimed Exempt  
Type of 
Property 

Location, Description, 
and, So Far as Relevant 
to the Claim of Exemp-
tion, Present Use of 
Property 

Specify the 
Statute 
Creating the 
Exemption 

Value Claimed 
Exempt 

Proceeds from 
lawsuit 

Winn v. TWA Claim for 
lost wages 

11 U. S. C. 
522(b)(d) 

$  unknown

790  SCHWAB  v. 791 Cite as: 560 U. S. 770 (2010) 

Opinion of the Court 
at face value and find them unobjectionable under the Code, so the objection deadline we enforced in Taylor

792  SCHWAB  v. 793 Cite as: 560 U. S. 770 (2010) 

Opinion of the Court 
"full  fair  market  value  (FMV)"  or  "100%  of  FMV." 19  Such a  declaration  will  encourage  the  trustee  to  object  promptly 

to the exemption if he wishes to challenge it and preserve for the  estate  any  value  in  the  asset  beyond  relevant  statutory 
limits.20  If  the  trustee  fails  to  object,  or  if  the  trustee  ob-jects and the objection is  overruled, the  debtor will be  enti-
tled  to  exclude  the  full  value  of  the  asset.  If  the  trustee objects and the objection is sustained, the debtor will be re-
quired  either  to  forfeit  the  portion  of  the  exemption  that exceeds  the  statutory  allowance,  or  to  revise  other  exemp-
tions  or  arrangements  with  her  creditors  to  permit  the  ex-emption.  See  Fed.  Rule  Bkrtcy.  Proc.  1009(a).  Either  re-

19 The dissent's observations about the poor fit between our admonition 
and a form entry calling for a dollar amount, see post,

794  SCHWAB  v. 795 Cite as: 560 U. S. 770 (2010) 

Ginsburg,
796  SCHWAB  v. 797 Cite as: 560 U. S. 770 (2010) 

Ginsburg,
798  SCHWAB  v. 799 Cite as: 560 U. S. 770 (2010) 

Ginsburg,
800  SCHWAB  v. 801 Cite as: 560 U. S. 770 (2010) 

Ginsburg,
802  SCHWAB  v. 803 Cite as: 560 U. S. 770 (2010) 

Ginsburg,
804  SCHWAB  v. 805 Cite as: 560 U. S. 770 (2010) 

Ginsburg,
806  SCHWAB  v. 807 Cite as: 560 U. S. 770 (2010) 

Ginsburg,
808  SCHWAB  v. 809 Cite as: 560 U. S. 770 (2010) 

Ginsburg,
810  SCHWAB  v. 811 Cite as: 560 U. S. 770 (2010)  

Appendix to opinion of Ginsburg,
812  SCHWAB  v. 813 Cite as: 560 U. S. 770 (2010) 

Appendix to opinion of Ginsburg,
814  SCHWAB  v. 815 Cite as: 560 U. S. 770 (2010) 

Appendix to opinion of Ginsburg,
816  SCHWAB  v. 817 OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

Syllabus 

DILLON  v.  UNITED  STATES 
certiorari

818  DILLON  v.  UNITED  STATES 

Syllabus 
by  $ 1B1.10,  and  then  (2)  consider  whether  the  authorized  reduction  is 
warranted  according  to  the  applicable  $ 3553(a)  factors.  At  step  one, 
the  court  must  follow  the  Commission's  instructions  in  $ 1B1.10  to  im-
pose a term of imprisonment within the amended Guidelines range un-
less  the  sentencing  court  originally  imposed  a  below-Guidelines  sen-
tence.  $ 1B1.10(b)(2).  Because  reference  to  $ 3553(a)  is  appropriate 
only at step two, that provision does not transform $ 3582(c)(2) proceed-
ings into plenary resentencing proceedings.  Pp. 824-828. 

(b)  Given $ 3582(c)(2)'s  limited scope and purpose, proceedings under 
that section do not implicate Booker.  The section represents a congres-
sional act of lenity intended to give prisoners the benefit of later enacted 
adjustments  to  the  judgments  reflected  in  the  Guidelines.  Taking  the 
original  sentence  as  given,  any  facts  found  by  a  judge  at  a  $ 3582(c)(2) 
proceeding do not serve to increase the prescribed range of punishment; 
instead,  they  affect  only  the  judge's  exercise  of  discretion  within  that 
range.  That exercise does not contravene the Sixth Amendment, even 
if  it  is  informed  by  judge-found  facts.  Apprendi  v.  New  Jersey,  530 
U. S.  466,  481.  Thus,  Dillon's  Sixth  Amendment  rights  were  not  vio-
lated by the District Court's adherence to $ 1B1.10's instruction to con-
sider  a  reduction  only  within  the  amended  Guidelines  range.  Dillon's 
argument  that  Booker's  remedial  opinion  nonetheless  requires  the 
Guidelines to be treated as advisory in such proceedings is unpersuasive 
given  that  proceedings  under  $ 3582(c)(2)  are  readily  distinguishable 
from other sentencing proceedings.  Pp. 828-830. 

(c)  Also  rejected  is Dillon's  argument  that the District  Court  should 
have corrected other mistakes in his original sentence, namely, a Booker 
error  resulting  from  the  initial  sentencing  court's  treatment  of  the 
Guidelines  as  mandatory  and  an  alleged  error  in  the  calculation  of  his 
criminal-history  category.  Because  those  aspects  of  Dillon's  sentence 
were not affected by the crack-cocaine Guidelines amendment, they are 
outside  the  scope  of  the  $ 3582(c)(2)  proceeding, and  the  District  Court 
properly declined to address them.  P. 831. 

572 F. 3d 146, affirmed. 

Sotomayor,

819 Cite as: 560 U. S. 817 (2010) 
Opinion of the Court 
Leondra  R.  Kruger  argued  the  cause  for  the  United 
States.  With  her  on  the  brief  were  Solicitor  General 
Kagan,  Assistant  Attorney  General  Breuer,  Deputy  Solici-
tor General Dreeben, and Deborah Watson.* 

Justice

820  DILLON  v.  UNITED  STATES 

Opinion of the Court 

I 
The Sentencing Reform Act of 1984 (SRA or Act), 98 Stat. 1987, established the Sentencing Commission and authorized 

it  to  promulgate  Sentencing  Guidelines  and  to  issue  policy statements  regarding  the  Guidelines'  application.  See  28 
U. S. C.  $$ 991,  994(a).  The  Act  also  charged  the  Commis-sion with periodically reviewing and revising the Guidelines. 
See $ 994(o).  When a revision reduces the Guidelines range for a given offense, the Commission must determine "in what 
circumstances  and  by  what  amount  the  sentences  of  prison-ers  serving  terms  of  imprisonment  for  the  offense  may  be 
reduced."  $ 994(u). As  enacted,  the  SRA  made  the  Sentencing  Guidelines 
binding.  See Booker, 543 U. S., at 233-234.  Except in lim-ited circumstances, district courts lacked discretion to depart 
from the Guidelines range.  See Burns v.  United States, 501 U. S.  129,  133  (1991).  Under  that  regime,  facts  found  by  a 
judge  by  a  preponderance  of  the  evidence  often  increased the  mandatory Guidelines  range  and  permitted  the  judge  to 
impose  a  sentence  greater  than  that  supported  by  the  facts established  by  the  jury  verdict  or  guilty  plea.  See 

Booker, 543  U. S.,  at  235.  We  held  in  Booker  that  treating  the 

Guidelines as mandatory in these circumstances violated the Sixth  Amendment  right  of  criminal  defendants  to  be  tried 
by  a  jury  and  to  have  every  element  of  an  offense  proved by  the  Government  beyond  a  reasonable  doubt. 

Id.,  at 243-244. 

To  remedy  the  constitutional  problem,  we  rendered  the Guidelines  advisory  by  invalidating  two  provisions  of  the 
SRA: 18 U. S. C. $ 3553(b)(1) (2000 ed., Supp. IV), which gen-erally  required  a  sentencing  court  to  impose  a  sentence 
within  the  applicable  Guidelines  range,  and  $ 3742(e)  (2000 ed.  and  Supp.  IV),  which  prescribed  the  standard  of  review 
on  appeal,  including  de  novo  review  of  Guidelines  depar-tures.  543  U. S.,  at  259.  "With  these  two  sections  excised 
(and  statutory  cross-references  to  the  two  sections  conse-quently invalidated)," we held that "the remainder of the Act 

821 Cite as: 560 U. S. 817 (2010) 
Opinion of the Court 
satisfies the  Court's constitutional requirements."  Ibid. Booker  thus  left  intact  other  provisions  of  the  SRA,  includ-

ing  those  giving  the  Commission  authority  to  revise  the Guidelines,  28  U. S. C.  $ 994(o)  (2006  ed.),  and  to  determine 
when  and  to  what  extent  a  revision  will  be  retroactive, $ 994(u). 

With  respect  to  drug-trafficking  offenses,  the  Sentencing Guidelines  establish  a  defendant's  base  offense  level  ac-
cording  to  the  type  and  weight  of  the  drug.  See  USSG $$ 2D1.1(a),  (c).  When  the  Commission  first  promulgated 
the Guidelines in 1987, it adopted the 100-to-1 ratio selected by Congress in setting mandatory minimum sentences in the 
Anti-Drug  Abuse  Act  of  1986,  100  Stat.  3207.  Under  that framework,  the  Commission  "treated  every  gram  of  crack 
cocaine  as  the  equivalent  of  100  grams  of  powder  cocaine." Kimbrough  v.  United  States,  552  U. S.  85,  96  (2007).  The 
Commission  later  sought  to alleviate  the  disparity  produced by  this  ratio.  After  several  failed  attempts  at  reform,  see 
id., at 99, the Commission in 2007 amended the Guidelines to reduce  by  two  levels  the  base  offense  level  associated  with 
each  quantity  of  crack  cocaine.  See  USSG  Supp.  App.  C, Amdt. 706 (effective Nov. 1, 2007).  In 2008, the Commission 
made  that  amendment  retroactive.  See  id.,  Amdt.  713  (ef-fective Mar. 3, 2008). 

When the Commission makes a Guidelines amendment ret-roactive, 18 U. S. C. $ 3582(c)(2) authorizes a district court to 
reduce  an  otherwise  final  sentence  that  is  based  on  the amended provision.  Any reduction must be consistent with 
applicable  policy  statements  issued  by  the  Sentencing  Com-mission.  The relevant policy statement, USSG $ 1B1.10, in-
structs  courts  proceeding  under  $ 3582(c)(2)  to  substitute the  amended  Guidelines  range  while  "leav[ing]  all  other 
guideline  application  decisions  unaffected."  $ 1B1.10(b)(1).1 

1 The  Sentencing  Commission  substantially  revised  $ 1B1.10  in  March 
2008,  see  USSG  Supp.  App.  C,  Amdt.  712  (Nov.  2009)  (effective  Mar.  3, 
2008),  roughly  three  months  before  the  District  Court's  decision  in  this 
case.  Because  the  current  version  of  the  relevant  Guidelines  provisions 

822  DILLON  v.  UNITED  STATES 

Opinion of the Court 
Under $ 3582(c)(2), a court may then grant a reduction within the  amended  Guidelines  range  if  it  determines  that  one  is 

warranted "after considering the factors set forth in section 3553(a)  to  the  extent  that  they  are  applicable." 

2  Except  in 

limited  circumstances,  however,  $ 1B1.10(b)(2)(A)  forecloses a  court  acting  under  $ 3582(c)(2)  from  reducing  a  sentence 

"to  a  term  that  is  less  than  the  minimum  of  the  amended 
guideline range."  II 

A jury convicted petitioner Percy Dillon in 1993 of conspir-
acy to distribute and to possess with the intent to distribute 
more  than  500  grams  of  powder  cocaine  and  more  than  50 grams  of  crack  cocaine  in  violation  of  21  U. S. C.  $ 846,  pos-

session with the intent to distribute more than 500 grams of powder cocaine in violation of $ 841(a)(1), and use of a firearm 
during  and  in  relation  to  a  drug-trafficking  offense  in  viola-tion  of  18  U. S. C.  $ 924(c)(1).  Dillon's  convictions  exposed 
him  to  a  statutory  sentencing  range  of  10  years  to  life  for the  conspiracy,  5  to  40  years  for  cocaine  possession,  and  a 
mandatory  minimum  sentence  of  5  years  for  the  firearm  of-
fense,  to  be  served  consecutively  to  the  sentence  for  the drug offenses. 

At sentencing, the District Court made additional findings of fact and concluded that Dillon was responsible for 1.5 kilo-
grams of crack and 1.6 kilograms of powder cocaine.  Under USSG $ 2D1.1, those drug quantities produced a base offense 
level  of  38.  After  offsetting  adjustments  for  acceptance  of 
is not meaningfully different from the version in effect at the time of the 
District Court's decision, references in this opinion are to the current, 2009 
edition of the Guidelines. 

2 Section  3553(a)  provides  that  a  "court  shall  impose  a  sentence  suffi-

cient,  but  not  greater  than  necessary,  to  comply  with  the  purposes  set 
forth  in  paragraph  (2)  of this  subsection,"  and  it  enumerates  several  fac-
tors  a  court  "shall  consider"  in  determining  an  appropriate  sentence,  in-
cluding "the nature  and circumstances of the offense and the history  and 
characteristics of the defendant," $ 3553(a)(1). 

Cite as: 560 U. S. 817 (2010)  823 

Opinion of the Court 
responsibility,  $ 3E1.1,  and  reckless  endangerment  during flight, $ 3C1.2, Dillon's total offense level remained 38.  Cou-

pled with a criminal-history category of II,3  that offense level produced  a  then-mandatory  Guidelines  range  of  262  to  327 
months' imprisonment for the drug counts. The court sentenced Dillon at the bottom of the Guidelines 
range  for  those  counts,  followed  by  a  mandatory  60-month sentence  for  the  firearm  count,  for  a  total  sentence  of  322 
months' imprisonment.  At Dillon's sentencing, the court de-scribed  the  term  of  imprisonment  as  "entirely  too  high  for 
the  crime  [Dillon]  committed."  App.  13.  Perceiving  no basis  for  departing  from  the  then-mandatory  Sentencing 
Guidelines,  the  District  Court  felt  constrained  to  impose  a sentence  within  the  prescribed  range.  The  Court  of  Ap-
peals  for  the  Third  Circuit  affirmed  Dillon's  convictions  and sentence on appeal.  See 100 F. 3d 949 (1996). 

After the Sentencing Commission made the amendment to the  crack-cocaine  Guidelines  retroactive  in  2008,  Dillon  filed 
a  pro  se  motion  for  a  sentence  reduction  pursuant  to $ 3582(c)(2).  In  the  motion,  Dillon  asked  the  court  to  grant 
not  just  the  two-level  reduction  authorized  by  the  amend-ment  but  also  a  further  reduction  consistent  with  the  sen-
tencing factors found in $ 3553(a).  Based largely on his post-sentencing  conduct,  including  his  determined  pursuit  of 
educational  and  community-outreach  opportunities,  Dillon contended  that  a  variance  from  the  amended  Guidelines 
range  was  warranted  in  his  case.  He  further  urged  that, after 

Booker, the court was authorized to grant such a vari-ance  because  the  amended  Guidelines  range  was  advisory 

notwithstanding any contrary statement in $ 1B1.10. The  District  Court  reduced  Dillon's  sentence  to  270 
months--the  term  at  the  bottom  of  the  revised  Guidelines 

3 The probation office based Dillon's criminal-history assessment on two 
prior  misdemeanor  convictions,  one  for  possession  of  marijuana  and  one 
for  resisting  arrest.  Dillon  did  not  object  to  that  calculation  of  his 
criminal-history score. 

824  DILLON  v.  UNITED  STATES 

Opinion of the Court 
range.4  But  the  court  declined  to  go  further.  Concluding that  the  sentencing  proceedings  at  issue  in  Booker  are 

readily  distinguishable  from  those  under  $ 3582(c)(2),  the court found Booker's holdings inapplicable to the instant pro-
ceeding  and  accordingly  held  that  it  lacked  authority  to  im-pose a sentence inconsistent with $ 1B1.10. 

The  Third  Circuit  affirmed.  572  F.  3d  146,  150  (2009). The court noted that $ 3582(c)(2) is codified in a different sec-
tion  than  the  provisions  invalidated  in  Booker  and  contains no cross-reference to those provisions.  Finding no other in-
dication  that  Booker  "obviate[d]  the  congressional  direc-tive in $ 3582(c)(2) that a sentence reduction pursuant to that 
section  be  consistent  with  Sentencing  Commission  policy statements,"  572  F.  3d,  at  149,  the  Third  Circuit  held  that 

$ 1B1.10  is  binding.  It  therefore  agreed  that  the  District Court  lacked  authority  to  reduce  Dillon's  sentence  below 
the amended Guidelines range. We granted certiorari to consider Booker's applicability to 

$ 3582(c)(2) proceedings.  558 U. S. 1076 (2009). 

III  

A  

"[A]  judgment  of  conviction  that  includes  [a  sentence  of imprisonment] constitutes  a final judgment" and  may not be 

modified by  a district court  except in limited  circumstances. $ 3582(b).  Section 3582(c)(2) establishes an exception to the 
general  rule  of  finality  "in  the  case  of  a  defendant  who  has been  sentenced  to  a  term  of  imprisonment  based  on  a  sen-
tencing  range  that  has  subsequently  been  lowered  by  the Sentencing  Commission  pursuant  to  28  U. S. C.  994(

o)"  and made  retroactive  pursuant  to  $ 994(u).  In  such  cases,  Con-

gress has authorized courts to "reduce the term of imprison-

4 The  revised  sentence  reflects  a  210-month  term  of  imprisonment  for 
the narcotics offenses and a mandatory, consecutive 60-month term for the 
firearm offense. 

825 Cite as: 560 U. S. 817 (2010) 
Opinion of the Court 
ment,  after  considering  the  factors  set  forth  in  section 3553(a) to the extent that they are applicable, if such a reduc-

tion is consistent with applicable policy statements issued by the Sentencing Commission."  $ 3582(c)(2). 

Characterizing  proceedings  under  $ 3582(c)(2)  as  "resen-tencing"  proceedings,  Dillon  contends  that  "[t]here  is  no 
practical  or  functional  difference  between  a  resentencing 
pursuant  to  $ 3582(c)(2)  and  any  other  resentencing."  Brief for Petitioner 18.  Accordingly, Dillon urges, the same prin-

ciples  that  govern  other  sentencing  proceedings  likewise govern  $ 3582(c)(2)  proceedings,  and  courts  have  authority 
under $ 3582(c)(2)  to vary from  the  revised  Guidelines  range 
consistent  with  $ 3553(a),  see  Kimbrough,  552  U. S.,  at  101. 
Dillon cites as support for this view $ 3582(c)(2)'s instruction 
to consider the factors in $ 3553(a) in determining whether a 
sentence  reduction  is  warranted.  Under  Dillon's  approach, 
Booker would preclude the Commission from issuing a policy 
statement  that  generally  forecloses  below-Guidelines  sen-
tences at $ 3582(c)(2) proceedings, as USSG $ 1B1.10 purports 
to do.  Dillon thus asks us to excise the mandatory language 
of $ 1B1.10(b)(2)(A) and treat that provision as advisory, just 
as we did the offending statutory provisions in Booker. 

The language of $ 3582(c)(2) belies Dillon's characterization 
of proceedings under that section.  By its terms, $ 3582(c)(2) 
does  not  authorize  a  sentencing  or  resentencing  proceeding. 
Instead,  it  provides  for  the  "modif[ication  of]  a  term  of  im-
prisonment" by  giving  courts the  power  to "reduce"  an  oth-
erwise final sentence in circumstances specified by the Com-
mission.  Compare  28  U. S. C.  $ 994(a)(2)(C)  (referring  to 

$ 3582(c)(2)  as  a  "sentence  modification  provisio[n]")  with  18 
U. S. C.  $ 3742(f )  (authorizing  courts  of  appeals  to  remand 
"for  further  sentencing"  upon  a  finding  of  error)  and 

$ 3742(g)  (establishing  the  terms  of  "sentencing  upon  re-
mand"  and  describing  the  proceeding  as  a  "resentenc[ing]" 
(capitalization  omitted)).  It  is  also  notable  that  the  provi-
sion  applies  only  to  a  limited  class  of  prisoners--namely, 

826  DILLON  v.  UNITED  STATES 

Opinion of the Court 
those whose  sentence was based  on a  sentencing  range  sub-sequently  lowered  by  the  Commission.  Section  3582(c)(2)'s 

text,  together  with  its  narrow  scope,  shows  that  Congress intended  to  authorize  only  a  limited  adjustment  to  an 
otherwise  final  sentence  and  not  a  plenary  resentencing proceeding. 

The  substantial  role  Congress  gave  the  Commission  with respect  to  sentence-modification  proceedings  further  sup-
ports  this  conclusion.  The  SRA  charges  the  Commission both  with  deciding  whether  to  amend  the  Guidelines, 

$ 994(o),  and  with  determining  whether  and  to  what  extent an amendment will be retroactive, $ 994(u).

5  A court's  

power  under  $ 3582(c)(2)  thus  depends  in  the  first  instance on  the  Commission's  decision  not  just  to  amend  the  Guide-

lines  but to make the  amendment retroactive.  The court is also  constrained  by  the  Commission's  statements  dictating 
"by what amount" the sentence of a prisoner serving a term of  imprisonment  affected  by  the  amendment  "may  be  re-
duced."  $ 994(u);  see  also  Braxton  v.  United  States,  500 U. S.  344,  348  (1991)  (noting  that  the  Commission  imple-
mented that power through $ 1B1.10). Read  in  this  context,  $ 3582(c)(2)'s  reference  to  $ 3553(a) 
does  not  undermine  our  narrow  view  of  proceedings  under the former provision.  Section 3582(c)(2) instructs a district 
court  to  "conside[r]  the  factors  set  forth  in  section  3553(a) to  the  extent  that  they  are  applicable,"  but  it  authorizes  a 
reduction on that basis only "if such a reduction is consistent with  applicable  policy  statements  issued  by  the  Sentencing 
Commission"--namely,  $ 1B1.10.  The  statute  thus  estab-lishes a two-step inquiry.  A court must first determine that 
a reduction is consistent with $ 1B1.10 before it may consider whether  the  authorized  reduction  is  warranted,  either  in 
whole  or  in  part,  according  to  the  factors  set  forth  in $ 3553(a). 

5 We do not respond to the dissent's separation-of-powers discussion, see 
post, at 841-846 (opinion of Stevens,

827 Cite as: 560 U. S. 817 (2010) 
Opinion of the Court 
Following this two-step approach, a district court proceed-ing  under  $ 3582(c)(2)  does  not  impose  a  new  sentence  in 

the usual sense.  At step one, $ 3582(c)(2) requires the court to follow the  Commission's instructions  in $ 1B1.10 to deter-
mine  the  prisoner's  eligibility  for  a  sentence  modification and  the  extent  of  the  reduction  authorized.  Specifically, 

$ 1B1.10(b)(1)  requires  the  court  to  begin  by  "determin[ing] 
the  amended  guideline  range  that  would  have  been  applica-ble  to  the  defendant"  had  the  relevant  amendment  been  in 

effect at the time of the initial sentencing.  "In making such determination,  the  court  shall  substitute  only  the  amend-
ments listed in subsection (c) for the corresponding guideline provisions  that  were  applied  when  the  defendant  was  sen-
tenced  and  shall  leave  all  other  guideline  application  deci-sions unaffected."  $ 1B1.10(b)(1). 

Consistent  with the  limited  nature of $ 3582(c)(2) proceed-
ings,  $ 1B1.10(b)(2)  also  confines  the  extent  of  the  reduction authorized.  Courts  generally  may  "not  reduce  the  defend-

ant's term of imprisonment under  18 U. S. C. $ 3582(c)(2) . . .  to  a  term  that  is  less  than  the  minimum  of  the  amended 
guideline  range"  produced  by  the  substitution.  $ 1B1.10(b) (2)(A).  Only  if  the  sentencing  court  originally  imposed  a 
term  of  imprisonment  below  the  Guidelines  range  does 

$ 1B1.10  authorize  a  court  proceeding  under  $ 3582(c)(2)  to 
impose  a  term  "comparably"  below  the  amended  range. 

$ 1B1.10(b)(2)(B). 

At step two of the inquiry, $ 3582(c)(2) instructs a court to 
consider  any  applicable  $ 3553(a)  factors  and  determine 
whether, in its discretion, the reduction authorized by refer-
ence  to  the  policies  relevant  at  step  one  is  warranted  in 
whole  or  in  part  under  the  particular  circumstances  of  the 
case.  Because  reference  to  $ 3553(a)  is  appropriate  only  at 
the second step of this circumscribed inquiry, it cannot serve 
to  transform  the  proceedings  under  $ 3582(c)(2)  into  plenary 
resentencing proceedings. 

This understanding of $ 3582(c)(2) as a narrow exception to 
the rule  of finality finds further support outside  the statute. 

828  DILLON  v.  UNITED  STATES 

Opinion of the Court 
Federal  Rule  of  Criminal  Procedure  43  requires  that  a  de-fendant  be  present  at  "sentencing,"  see  Rule  43(a)(3),  but  it 

excludes  from  that  requirement  proceedings  that  "involv[e] the  correction  or  reduction  of  sentence  under  Rule  35  or  18 
U. S. C.  $ 3582(c),"  Rule  43(b)(4).  Like  $ 3582(c)(2),  Rule  35 delineates a limited set of circumstances in which a sentence 
may  be  corrected  or  reduced.  Specifically,  it  authorizes  a court to "correct a sentence that resulted from arithmetical, 
technical, or other clear error" within 14 days after sentenc-ing,  Rule  35(a),  and  it  authorizes  a  reduction  for  substantial 
assistance on the Government's motion, Rule 35(b).  Rule 43 therefore sets the proceedings authorized by $ 3582(c)(2) and 
Rule 35 apart from other sentencing proceedings. 

B 
Given the limited scope and purpose of $ 3582(c)(2), we con-clude  that  proceedings  under  that  section  do  not  implicate 

the  interests  identified  in  Booker.  Notably,  the  sentence-modification  proceedings  authorized  by  $ 3582(c)(2)  are  not 
constitutionally  compelled.  We  are  aware  of  no  constitu-tional  requirement  of  retroactivity  that  entitles  defendants 
sentenced to a term of imprisonment to the benefit of subse-quent  Guidelines  amendments.  Rather,  $ 3582(c)(2)  repre-
sents a congressional act of lenity intended to give prisoners the  benefit  of  later  enacted  adjustments  to  the  judgments 
reflected in the Guidelines. Viewed that way, proceedings under $ 3582(c)(2) do not im-
plicate  the  Sixth  Amendment  right  to  have  essential  facts found  by  a  jury  beyond  a  reasonable  doubt.  Taking  the 
original  sentence  as  given,  any  facts  found  by  a  judge  at  a $ 3582(c)(2)  proceeding  do  not  serve  to  increase  the  pre-
scribed  range  of  punishment;  instead,  they  affect  only  the judge's  exercise  of  discretion  within  that  range.  "[J]udges 
in  this  country  have  long exercised  discretion  of this  nature in imposing sentence 

within [established] limits in the indi-vidual  case,"  and  the  exercise  of  such  discretion  does  not 

829 Cite as: 560 U. S. 817 (2010) 
Opinion of the Court 
contravene  the  Sixth  Amendment  even  if  it  is  informed  by judge-found  facts.  Apprendi  v.  New  Jersey,  530  U. S.  466, 

481  (2000)  (emphasis  in  original).  Because  $ 3582(c)(2)  pro-ceedings give judges no more than this circumscribed discre-
tion,  "[t]here  is  no  encroachment  here  by  the  judge  upon facts  historically  found  by  the  jury,  nor  any  threat  to  the 
jury's  domain  as  a  bulwark  at  trial  between  the  State  and the  accused." 

Oregon v.  Ice,  555  U. S. 160,  169  (2009).  Ac-cordingly,  Dillon's  Sixth  Amendment  rights  were  not  vio-

lated  by  the  District  Court's  adherence  to  the  instruction in  $ 1B1.10  to  consider  a  reduction  only  within  the  amended 
Guidelines range. Dillon contends that, even if $ 3582(c)(2) does not implicate 
the  constitutional  rights  vindicated  in  Booker--something the  dissent  appears  to  concede--the  remedial  aspect  of  the 
Court's  decision  applies  to  proceedings  under  that  section and  requires  that  the  Guidelines  be  treated  as  advisory  in 
such  proceedings  just  as  they  are  in  other  sentencing  pro-ceedings.  In  support  of  his  position,  Dillon  invokes  the 
Ninth Circuit's reasoning in United States v.  Hicks, 472 F. 3d 1167,  1170  (2007).

6  Relying  on  our  rejection  in  Booker  of  a 

remedy  that  would  have  made  the  Guidelines  advisory  only in  certain  cases--namely,  when  treating  them  as  binding 

would  run  afoul  of  the  Sixth  Amendment,  see  543  U. S.,  at 265-267--the Ninth Circuit held that 

Booker precludes treat-ing  the  Guidelines  as  mandatory  for  purposes  of  $ 3582(c)(2) 

and  advisory  in  other  contexts,  see  Hicks,  472  F.  3d,  at 1171-1172. 

This  argument  is  unpersuasive.  The  incomplete  remedy we  rejected  in 

Booker  would  have  required  courts  to  treat the Guidelines differently in similar proceedings, leading po-

tentially  to  unfair  results  and  considerable  administrative 

6 The  Ninth  Circuit  subsequently  agreed  to  consider  en  banc  Booker's 
applicability  to  $ 3582(c)(2)  proceedings.  See  United  States  v.  Fox,  583 
F. 3d 596 (2009).  The matter was stayed pending our decision in this case. 
No. 08-30445 (CA9, Dec. 8, 2009). 

830  DILLON  v.  UNITED  STATES 

Opinion of the Court 
challenges.  See  543  U. S.,  at  266.  As  already  explained, the  sentence-modificati on  proceedings  authorized  by 

$ 3582(c)(2) are readily distinguishable from other sentencing proceedings.  Given  the  substantially  different  purpose  of 

$ 3582(c)(2)  and  the  circumscribed  nature  of  proceedings under that section, requiring courts to honor $ 1B1.10(b)(2)'s 
instruction not to depart from the amended Guidelines range 
at  such  proceedings  will  create  none  of  the  confusion  or  un-fairness  that  led  us  in 

Booker  to  reject  the  Government's 
argument for a partial fix. The  dissent's  contrary  conclusion  rests  on  two  erroneous 

premises.  First, the dissent ignores the fundamental differ-
ences  between  sentencing  and  sentence-modification  pro-
ceedings  and  asserts  without  explanation  that  "[n]othing 
turns on"  the  distinction  between  them.  Post,  at 841.  For 
the  reasons  stated  above, the  statutory  differences  between 
the proceedings are highly significant. 

Second, the dissent gives short shrift to the fact that, after 
Booker,  the  Commission  retains  at  least  some  authority  to 
bind  the  courts.  Through  $ 994(u),  Congress  charged  the 
Commission  with  determining  "in  what  circumstances  and 
by  what  amount"  the  sentences  of  prisoners  affected  by 
Guidelines amendments "may be reduced."  No one disputes 
that  the  Commission's  retroactivity  determinations  made 
pursuant  to  the  first  part  of  that  authorization  are  binding. 
See  post,  at  846-847,  and  n.  8.  This  aspect  of  the  Commis-
sion's  power  emphatically  undermines  the  dissent's  insist-
ence  that  the  Guidelines  after  Booker  are  "completely  advi-
sory."  Post,  at  839.  Moreover,  while  the  dissent  criticizes 
our approach for leaving the Commission with only "the tini-
est sliver of lawmaking power," post, at 841, the dissent would 
leave the Commission with an even smaller and less explica-
ble sliver by dissecting the authority granted by $ 994(u). 

For all of these reasons, we conclude that neither Booker's 
constitutional  nor  remedial  holding  requires  the  result  that 
Dillon urges. 

831 Cite as: 560 U. S. 817 (2010) 
Stevens,
832  DILLON  v.  UNITED  STATES 

Stevens,

833 Cite as: 560 U. S. 817 (2010) 
Stevens,
834  DILLON  v.  UNITED  STATES 

Stevens,

835 Cite as: 560 U. S. 817 (2010) 
Stevens,
836  DILLON  v.  UNITED  STATES 

Stevens,

837 Cite as: 560 U. S. 817 (2010) 
Stevens,
838  DILLON  v.  UNITED  STATES 

Stevens,

839 Cite as: 560 U. S. 817 (2010) 
Stevens,
840  DILLON  v.  UNITED  STATES 

Stevens,

841 Cite as: 560 U. S. 817 (2010) 
Stevens,
842  DILLON  v.  UNITED  STATES 

Stevens,

843 Cite as: 560 U. S. 817 (2010) 
Stevens,
844  DILLON  v.  UNITED  STATES 

Stevens,

845 Cite as: 560 U. S. 817 (2010) 
Stevens,
846  DILLON  v.  UNITED  STATES 

Stevens,

847 Cite as: 560 U. S. 817 (2010) 
Stevens,
848  DILLON  v.  UNITED  STATES 

Stevens,

849 Cite as: 560 U. S. 817 (2010) 
Stevens,
850  DILLON  v.  UNITED  STATES 

Stevens,
926 944 946 950  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

June  1,  7,  2010  560  U. S. 
No.  09-9372.  Lindsey

ORDERS  951 
560  U. S.  June  7,  2010 
of  petitioner  for  leave  to  proceed  in  forma  pauperis  denied,  and certiorari  dismissed.  See  this  Court's  Rule  39.8.  As  petitioner 
has  repeatedly  abused  this  Court's  process,  the  Clerk  is  directed not  to  accept  any  further  petitions  in  noncriminal  matters  from 
petitioner  unless  the  docketing  fee  required  by  Rule  38(a)  is  paid and  the  petition  is  submitted  in  compliance  with  Rule  33.1.  See 
Martin  v.  District  of  Columbia  Court  of  Appeals,  506  U. S.  1 (1992)  (per  curiam).  Justice

952  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

June  7,  2010  560  U. S. 
No.  09-10363.  In

ORDERS  953 
560  U. S.  June  7,  2010 

No.  09-1217.  Biliski

954  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

June  7,  2010  560  U. S. 
No.  09-1301.  Cecena

ORDERS  955 
560  U. S.  June  7,  2010 

No.  09-9959.  Petit-Homme

956  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

June  7,  2010  560  U. S. 
No.  09-10010.  Ingle

ORDERS  957 
560  U. S.  June  7,  2010 

No.  09-10051.  Mullaly

958  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

June  7,  2010  560  U. S. 
No.  09-10397.  Alexander

ORDERS  959 
560  U. S.  June  7,  2010 

No.  09-10633.  Pounds

960  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

June  7,  2010  560  U. S. 
Statement  of  Justice

ORDERS  961 
560  U. S.  June  7,  8,  2010 

No.  09-10646.  Stone

962  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

June  8,  9,  10,  14,  2010  560  U. S. 
District Court's  injunction and  to  stay  the mandate  of  the  United States  Court  of  Appeals  for  the  Ninth  Circuit  in  case  No.  10- 
15165,  presented  to  Justice

ORDERS  963 
560  U. S.  June  14,  2010 

No.  09-10217.  Johnson

964  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

June  14,  2010  560  U. S. 
No.  09-10203.  Mitrano

ORDERS  965 
560  U. S.  June  14,  2010 

No.  09-866.  Pendergrass

966  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

June  14,  2010  560  U. S. 
No. 09-1249.  Harris

ORDERS  967 
560  U. S.  June  14,  2010 

No.  09-10071.  Ochoa

968  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

June  14,  2010  560  U. S. 
No.  09-10112.  Hill

ORDERS  969 
560  U. S.  June  14,  2010 

No.  09-10142.  Hedgespeth

970  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

June  14,  2010  560  U. S. 
No.  09-10183.  Wise

ORDERS  971 
560  U. S.  June  14,  2010 

No.  09-10286.  Dwyer

972  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

June  14,  2010  560  U. S. 
No.  09-10532.  Carrillo

ORDERS  973 
560  U. S.  June  14,  2010 

No.  09-10571.  Prince

974  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

June  14,  2010  560  U. S. 
No.  09-10642.  Pitchford

ORDERS  975 
560  U. S.  June  14,  2010 

No.  09-10699.  Nicholson

976  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

June  14,  2010  560  U. S. 
No.  09-10735.  Delgado

ORDERS  977 
560  U. S.  June  14,  2010 

No.  09-10770.  Nenninger

978  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

June  14,  2010  560  U. S. 
No.  09-10815.  Hyacinth

ORDERS  979 
560  U. S.  June  14,  2010 

No.  09-1187.  McBrearty

980  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

June  14,  15,  16,  2010  560  U. S. 
No. 09-9221.

ORDERS  981 
560  U. S.  June  16,  17,  2010 

No.  09-1126.  DePree

I N D E X

984  INDEX 
CASES

INDEX  985 
CONSTITUTIONAL
986  INDEX  
CRIMINAL

INDEX  987 
EROSION-CONTROL
988  INDEX 
HABEAS

INDEX  989 
LABOR.
990  INDEX 
PREVAILING

INDEX  991 
SUPREME