

UNITED
UNITED

J U S T I C E S

NOTES
SUPREMESUPREMESUPREMERETIREMENT
x RETIREMENT

RETIREMENT  OF  REPORTER  OF  DECISIONS 

Supreme

DEATH  OF  MR.  GINSBURG 
Supreme

xvi

APPOINTMENT  OF  JUSTICE  KAGAN 

Supreme

xviii APPOINTMENT  OF  JUSTICE  KAGAN  xix

TABLE

xxii TABLExxiv TABLExxvi TABLExxviii TABLExxx TABLExxxii TABLExxxiv TABLExxxvi TABLExxxviii TABLExl TABLExlii TABLExliv TABLExlvi TABLExlviii TABLE

CASES
2  HOLDER  v.  HUMANITARIAN  LAW  PROJECT 

Syllabus 
Among  the  entities  the  Secretary  of  State  has  designated  "foreign 
terrorist  organization[s]"  are  the  Partiya  Karkeran  Kurdistan  (PKK) 
and the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE), which aim to estab-
lish independent states for, respectively, Kurds in Turkey and Tamils in 
Sri Lanka.  Although both groups engage in political and humanitarian 
activities, each has also committed numerous terrorist attacks, some of 
which have harmed American citizens.  Claiming they wish to support 
those groups' lawful, nonviolent activities, two U. S. citizens and six do-
mestic  organizations (hereinafter plaintiffs) initiated this constitutional 
challenge to the material-support statute.  The litigation has had a com-
plicated  12-year  history.  Ultimately,  the  District  Court  partially  en-
joined the enforcement of the material-support statute against plaintiffs. 
After  the  Ninth  Circuit  affirmed,  plaintiffs  and  the  Government  crosspetitioned for certiorari.  The Court granted both petitions. 

As the litigation now stands, plaintiffs challenge $ 2339B's prohibition 
on providing four types of material support--"training," "expert advice 
or  assistance,"  "service,"  and  "personnel"--asserting  violations  of  the 
Fifth  Amendment's  Due  Process  Clause  on  the  ground  that  the  statu-
tory  terms  are  impermissibly  vague,  and  violations  of  their  First 
Amendment  rights  to  freedom  of  speech  and  association.  They  claim 
that  $ 2339B  is  invalid  to  the  extent  it  prohibits  them  from  engaging 
in  certain  specified  activities,  including  training  PKK  members  to  use 
international law to resolve disputes peacefully; teaching PKK members 
to petition the United Nations and other representative bodies for relief; 
and engaging in  political  advocacy on  behalf of  Kurds living  in Turkey 
and Tamils living in Sri Lanka. 

Held:  The material-support statute, $ 2339B, is constitutional as applied to 

the particular forms of support that plaintiffs seek to provide to foreign 
terrorist organizations.  Pp. 14-40. 

(a)  This  preenforcement  challenge  to  $ 2339B  is  a  justiciable  Article 
III  case  or  controversy.  Plaintiffs  face  "a  credible  threat  of  prosecu-
tion" and "should not be required to await and undergo a criminal prose-
cution  as the sole means  of seeking relief."  Babbitt v.  Farm  Workers, 
442 U. S. 289, 298.  Pp. 15-16. 

(b)  The Court cannot avoid the constitutional issues in this litigation 
by  accepting  plaintiffs'  argument  that  the  material-support  statute, 
when  applied  to  speech,  should  be  interpreted  to  require  proof  that  a 
defendant  intended  to  further  a  foreign  terrorist  organization's  illegal 
activities.  That  reading  is  inconsistent  with  $ 2339B's  text,  which 
prohibits  "knowingly"  providing  material  support  and  demonstrates 
that  Congress  chose  knowledge  about  the  organization's  connection  to 
terrorism,  not  specific  intent  to  further  its  terrorist  activities,  as  the 

Cite as: 561 U. S. 1 (2010)  3 

Syllabus 
necessary mental state for a violation.  Plaintiffs' reading is also unten-
able  in  light  of  the  sections  immediately  surrounding  $ 2339B,  which-- 
unlike  $ 2339B--do  refer  to  intent  to  further  terrorist  activity.  See 

$$ 2339A(a), 2339C(a)(1).  Finally, there is no textual basis for plaintiffs' 
argument  that the same  language  in  $ 2339B  should be  read  to require 
specific intent with regard to speech, but not with regard to other forms 
of material support.  Pp. 16-18. 

(c)  As applied to plaintiffs, the material-support statute is not uncon-
stitutionally  vague.  The  Ninth  Circuit  improperly  merged  plaintiffs' 
vagueness  challenge  with  their  First  Amendment  claims,  holding  that 
"training,"  "service,"  and  a  portion  of  "expert  advice  or  assistance" 
were  impermissibly  vague  because  they  applied  to  protected  speech-- 
regardless of whether those applications were clear.  The Court of Ap-
peals  also contravened the rule that "[a]  plaintiff  who engages in some 
conduct  that  is  clearly  proscribed  cannot  complain  of  the  vagueness  of 
the law as applied to the conduct of others."  Hoffman Estates v.  Flipside, Hoffman Estates, Inc., 455 U. S. 489, 495. 

The  material-support  statute,  in  its  application  to  plaintiffs,  "pro-
vide[s]  a  person  of  ordinary  intelligence  fair  notice  of  what  is  prohib-
ited."  United  States  v.  Williams,  553  U. S.  285,  304.  The  statutory 
terms  at  issue  here--"training,"  "expert  advice  or  assistance,"  "serv-
ice,"  and  "personnel"--are  quite  different  from  the  sorts  of  terms,  like 
" `annoying' "  and  " `indecent,' "  that  the  Court  has  struck  down  for  re-
quiring "wholly subjective judgments without statutory definitions, nar-
rowing context, or settled legal meanings."  Id., at 306.  Congress has 
increased the clarity of $ 2339B's terms by adding narrowing definitions, 
and $ 2339B's knowledge requirement  further reduces any potential for 
vagueness, see Hill v.  Colorado, 530 U. S. 703, 732. 

Although the statute may not be clear in every application, the dispos-
itive  point  is  that  its  terms  are  clear  in  their  application  to  plaintiffs' 
proposed  conduct.  Most  of  the  activities  in  which  plaintiffs  seek  to 
engage  readily  fall  within  the  scope  of  "training"  and  "expert  advice 
or  assistance."  In  fact,  plaintiffs  themselves  have  repeatedly  used 
those  terms  to  describe  their  own  proposed  activities.  Plaintiffs'  re-
sort  to  hypothetical  situations  testing the  limits  of  "training" and  "ex-
pert advice or assistance" is beside the point because this litigation does 
not concern such situations.  See Scales v.  United States, 367 U. S. 203, 
223.  Gentile  v.  State  Bar  of  Nev.,  501  U. S.  1030,  1049-1051,  distin-
guished.  Plaintiffs'  further contention, that the  statute is vague in  its 
application to the political advocacy they wish to undertake, runs afoul 
of  $ 2339B(h),  which  makes  clear  that  "personnel"  does  not  cover  ad-
vocacy by those acting entirely independently of a foreign terrorist or-
ganization, and the ordinary meaning of "service," which refers to con-

4  HOLDER  v.  HUMANITARIAN  LAW  PROJECT 

Syllabus 
certed  activity,  not  independent  advocacy.  Context  confirms  that 
meaning: Independently advocating for a cause is different from the pro-
hibited  act  of  providing  a  service  "to  a  foreign  terrorist  organization." 

$ 2339B(a)(1). 

Thus, any independent advocacy in which plaintiffs wish to engage is 
not  prohibited  by  $ 2339B.  On  the  other  hand,  a  person  of  ordinary 
intelligence would understand the term "service" to cover advocacy per-
formed  in  coordination  with,  or  at  the  direction  of,  a  foreign  terrorist 
organization.  Plaintiffs  argue  that  this  construction  of  the  statute 
poses  difficult  questions  of  exactly  how  much  direction  or  coordination 
is necessary for an activity to constitute a "service."  Because plaintiffs 
have  not provided any  specific  articulation of  the degree to which they 
seek  to  coordinate  their  advocacy  with  the  PKK  and  LTTE,  however, 
they  cannot  prevail  in  their  preenforcement  challenge.  See  Washing-
ton State Grange v.  Washington State Republican Party, 552 U. S. 442, 
454.  Pp. 18-25. 

(d)  As applied to plaintiffs, the material-support statute does not vio-
late  the  freedom  of  speech  guaranteed  by  the  First  Amendment. 
Pp. 25-39. 

(1)  Both  plaintiffs  and  the  Government  take  extreme  positions  on 
this question.  Plaintiffs claim that Congress has banned their pure po-
litical  speech.  That  claim  is  unfounded  because,  under  the  materialsupport statute, they may say anything they wish on any topic.  Section 
2339B  does  not  prohibit  independent  advocacy  or  membership  in  the 
PKK and LTTE.  Rather, Congress has prohibited "material support," 
which most often does not take the form of speech.  And when it does, 
the statute is carefully drawn to cover only a narrow category of speech 
to,  under  the  direction  of,  or  in  coordination  with  foreign  groups  that 
the  speaker  knows  to  be  terrorist  organizations.  On  the  other  hand, 
the  Government  errs  in  arguing  that  the  only  thing  actually  at  issue 
here  is  conduct,  not  speech,  and  that  the  correct  standard  of  review  is 
intermediate scrutiny, as  set out  in  United States  v.  O'Brien,  391 U. S. 
367,  377.  That  standard  is not  used to  review a  content-based regula-
tion of speech,  and $ 2339B regulates plaintiffs' speech to the PKK and 
LTTE on the basis of its content.  Even if the material-support statute 
generally  functions  as  a  regulation  of  conduct,  as  applied  to  plaintiffs 
the conduct triggering coverage under the statute consists of communi-
cating  a  message.  Thus,  the  Court  "must  [apply]  a  more  demanding 
standard"  than  the  one  described  in  O'Brien.  Texas  v.  Johnson,  491 
U. S. 397, 403.  Pp. 25-28. 

(2)  The parties agree that the Government's interest in combating 
terrorism is an urgent objective of the highest order, but plaintiffs argue 
that this objective does not justify prohibiting their speech, which they 

Cite as: 561 U. S. 1 (2010)  5 

Syllabus 
say  will  advance  only  the  legitimate  activities  of  the  PKK  and  LTTE. 
Whether foreign terrorist organizations meaningfully segregate support 
of  their  legitimate  activities  from  support  of  terrorism  is  an  empirical 
question.  Congress  rejected plaintiffs'  position on that question when 
it  enacted  $ 2339B,  finding  that  "foreign  organizations  that  engage  in 
terrorist activity are so tainted by their criminal conduct that any con-
tribution  to  such  an  organization  facilitates  that  conduct."  $ 301(a)(7), 
110  Stat.  1247,  note  following  $ 2339B.  The  record  confirms  that  Con-
gress  was  justified  in  rejecting  plaintiffs'  view.  The  PKK  and  LTTE 
are deadly groups.  It is not difficult to conclude, as Congress did, that 
the taint of their violent activities is so great that working in coordina-
tion with  them  or at  their  command  legitimizes and furthers  their  ter-
rorist means.  Moreover, material support meant to promote peaceable, 
lawful  conduct  can  be  diverted  to  advance  terrorism  in  multiple  ways. 
The record shows that designated foreign terrorist organizations do not 
maintain organizational firewalls between social, political, and terrorist 
operations, or financial firewalls between funds raised for humanitarian 
activities  and  those  used  to  carry  out  terrorist  attacks.  Providing 

material  support  in  any  form  would  also  undermine  cooperative  inter-
national  efforts  to  prevent  terrorism  and  strain  the  United  States' 
relationships  with  its  allies,  including  those  that  are  defending  them-
selves  against  violent  insurgencies  waged  by  foreign  terrorist  groups. 
Pp. 28-33. 

(3)  The  Court  does  not  rely  exclusively  on  its  own  factual  infer-
ences  drawn  from  the  record  evidence,  but  considers  the  Executive 
Branch's  stated  view  that  the  experience  and  analysis  of  Government 
agencies charged with combating terrorism strongly support Congress's 
finding  that  all  contributions  to  foreign  terrorist  organizations--even 
those  for  seemingly  benign  purposes--further  those  groups'  terrorist 
activities.  That  evaluation  of  the  facts,  like  Congress's  assessment,  is 
entitled  to  deference,  given  the  sensitive  national  security  and  foreign 
relations  interests  at  stake.  The  Court  does  not  defer  to  the  Govern-
ment's  reading  of  the  First  Amendment.  But  respect  for  the  Govern-
ment's  factual  conclusions  is  appropriate  in  light  of  the  courts'  lack  of 
expertise  with respect  to  national  security  and  foreign  affairs, and  the 
reality that efforts to confront terrorist threats occur in an area where 
information can be difficult to obtain, the impact of certain conduct can 
be  difficult  to assess,  and conclusions must often be  based on  informed 
judgment  rather  than  concrete  evidence.  The  Court  also  finds  it  sig-
nificant  that  Congress  has  been  conscious  of  its  own  responsibility  to 
consider  how  its  actions  may  implicate  constitutional  concerns.  Most 
importantly, Congress has avoided any restriction on independent advo-
cacy, or  indeed any  activities not  directed to,  coordinated  with, or  con-

6  HOLDER  v.  HUMANITARIAN  LAW  PROJECT 

Syllabus 
trolled by foreign terrorist groups.  Given the sensitive interests in na-
tional  security  and  foreign  affairs  at  stake,  the  political  branches  have 
adequately  substantiated  their  determination  that  prohibiting  material 
support in the form of training, expert advice, personnel, and services to 
foreign terrorist groups serves the Government's interest in preventing 
terrorism, even if those providing the support mean to promote only the 
groups' nonviolent ends. 

As  to  the  particular  speech  plaintiffs  propose  to  undertake,  it  is 
wholly foreseeable that directly training the PKK on how to use interna-
tional law to resolve disputes would provide that group with information 
and techniques that it could use as part of a broader strategy to promote 
terrorism, and to threaten, manipulate, and disrupt.  Teaching the PKK 
to petition international bodies for relief also could help the PKK obtain 
funding  it  would  redirect  to  its  violent  activities.  Plaintiffs' proposals 
to  engage in  political  advocacy on  behalf  of Kurds  and  Tamils,  in  turn, 
are phrased so generally that they cannot prevail in this preenforcement 
challenge.  The Court does not decide whether any future applications 
of the material-support statute to speech or advocacy will survive First 
Amendment scrutiny.  It simply holds that $ 2339B does not violate the 
freedom  of  speech  as  applied  to  the  particular  types  of  support  these 
plaintiffs seek to provide.  Pp. 33-39. 

(e)  Nor  does  the  material-support  statute  violate  plaintiffs'  First 
Amendment  freedom  of  association.  Plaintiffs  argue  that  the  statute 
criminalizes the mere fact of their associating with the PKK and LTTE, 
and  thereby  runs  afoul  of  this  Court's  precedents.  The  Ninth  Circuit 
correctly  rejected  this  claim  because  $ 2339B  does  not  penalize  mere 
association, but prohibits the act of giving foreign terrorist groups ma-
terial support.  Any burden on plaintiffs' freedom of association caused 
by preventing them from supporting designated foreign terrorist orga-
nizations,  but  not  other  groups,  is  justified  for  the  same  reasons  the 
Court rejects their free speech challenge.  Pp. 39-40. 

552 F. 3d 916, affirmed in part, reversed in part, and remanded. 

Roberts,

Cite as: 561 U. S. 1 (2010)  7 

Opinion of the Court 
Taranto,  Carol  Sobel,  Paul  Hoffman,  and  Visuvanathan Rudrakumaran. 

Solicitor General Kagan argued the cause for respondents in  No.  09-89  and  petitioners  in  No.  08-1498.  With  her  on 
the  briefs  were  Assistant  Attorney  General  West,  Deputy 
Solicitor  General  Katyal,  Jeffrey  B.  Wall,  and  Douglas  N. Letter.# 

Chief

8  HOLDER  v.  HUMANITARIAN  LAW  PROJECT 

Opinion of the Court 
seek  to  provide  support  to  two  such  organizations.  Plain-tiffs  claim  that  they  seek  to  facilitate  only  the  lawful,  non-

violent  purposes  of  those  groups,  and  that  applying  the material-support law to prevent them from doing so violates 
the  Constitution.  In  particular,  they  claim  that  the  statute is  too  vague,  in  violation  of  the  Fifth  Amendment,  and  that 
it infringes their rights to freedom of speech and association, in violation of the First Amendment.  We conclude that the 
material-support  statute  is  constitutional  as  applied  to  the particular activities plaintiffs have told us they wish  to pur-
sue.  We  do  not,  however,  address  the  resolution  of  more difficult cases that may arise under the statute in the future. 

I 
This  litigation  concerns  18  U. S. C.  $ 2339B,  which  makes it  a  federal  crime  to  "knowingly  provid[e]  material  support 

or resources to a foreign terrorist organization." 1  Congress has  amended  the  definition  of  "material  support  or  re-
sources"  periodically,  but  at  present  it  is  defined  as  follows: 

"[T]he  term  `material  support  or  resources'  means  any property,  tangible  or  intangible,  or  service,  including 

currency  or  monetary  instruments  or  financial  secur-ities,  financial  services,  lodging,  training,  expert  ad-
vice  or  assistance,  safehouses,  false  documentation  or identification, communications equipment, facilities, 

1 In  full,  18  U. S. C.  $ 2339B(a)(1)  provides:  "Unlawful

Cite as: 561 U. S. 1 (2010)  9 

Opinion of the Court 
weapons,  lethal  substances,  explosives,  personnel  (1  or more  individuals  who  may  be  or  include  oneself),  and 

transportation,  except  medicine  or  religious  materials." $ 2339A(b)(1); see also $ 2339B(g)(4). 

The  authority  to  designate  an  entity  a  "foreign  terrorist organization"  rests  with  the  Secretary  of  State.  8  U. S. C. 

$$ 1189(a)(1),  (d)(4).  She  may,  in  consultation  with  the  Sec-retary  of  the  Treasury  and  the  Attorney  General,  so  desig-
nate  an  organization upon  finding  that  it  is  foreign,  engages in "terrorist activity" or "terrorism," and thereby "threatens 
the  security of United States  nationals  or the national secu-rity  of  the  United  States."  $$ 1189(a)(1),  (d)(4).  " `[N]a-
tional security' means the national defense, foreign relations, or  economic  interests  of  the  United  States."  $ 1189(d)(2). 
An  entity  designated  a  foreign  terrorist  organization  may seek  review  of  that  designation  before  the  D.  C.  Circuit 
within 30 days of that designation.  $ 1189(c)(1). In  1997,  the  Secretary  of  State  designated  30  groups  as 
foreign  terrorist  organizations.  See  62  Fed.  Reg.  52650. Two of those groups are the Kurdistan Workers' Party (also 
known as the Partiya Karkeran Kurdistan, or PKK) and the Liberation  Tigers  of  Tamil  Eelam  (LTTE).  The  PKK  is  an 
organization founded in 1974 with the aim of establishing an independent  Kurdish  state  in  southeastern  Turkey.  Hu-
manitarian  Law  Project  v.  Reno,  9  F.  Supp.  2d  1176,  1180- 1181  (CD  Cal.  1998);  Brief  for  Petitioners  in  No.  08-1498, 
p.  6  (hereinafter  Brief  for  Government).  The  LTTE  is  an organization  founded  in  1976  for  the  purpose  of  creating  an 
independent  Tamil  state  in  Sri  Lanka.  9  F.  Supp.  2d,  at 1182;  Brief  for  Government  6.  The  District  Court  in  this 
action found that the PKK and LTTE engage in political and humanitarian  activities.  See  9  F.  Supp.  2d,  at  1180-1182. 
The  Government  has  presented  evidence  that  both  groups have  also  committed  numerous  terrorist  attacks,  some  of 
which  have  harmed  American  citizens.  See  App.  128-133. The LTTE sought judicial review of its designation as a for-

10  HOLDER  v.  HUMANITARIAN  LAW  PROJECT 

Opinion of the Court 
eign terrorist organization; the D. C. Circuit upheld that des-ignation.  See  People's  Mojahedin  Organization  of  Iran  v. 

Department of State, 182 F. 3d 17, 18-19, 25 (1999).  The PKK did not challenge its designation.  9 F. Supp. 2d, at 1180. 

Plaintiffs  in  this  litigation  are  two  U.  S.  citizens  and  six domestic organizations: the Humanitarian Law Project 
(HLP) (a human rights organization with consultative status to  the  United  Nations);  Ralph  Fertig  (the  HLP's  president, 
and a retired Administrative Law Judge); Nagalingam Jeya-lingam  (a  Tamil  physician,  born  in  Sri  Lanka  and  a  natural-
ized U. S. citizen); and five nonprofit groups dedicated to the interests  of  persons  of  Tamil  descent.  Brief  for  Petitioners 
in No. 09-89, pp. ii, 10 (hereinafter Brief for Plaintiffs); App. 48.  In 1998, plaintiffs filed suit in federal court challenging 
the constitutionality of the material-support statute, $ 2339B. Plaintiffs claimed that they wished to provide support for the 
humanitarian and political activities of the PKK and LTTE in the form of monetary contributions, other tangible aid, legal 
training, and political advocacy, but that they could not do so for  fear  of  prosecution  under  $ 2339B.  9  F.  Supp.  2d,  at 
1180-1184.2 As  relevant  here,  plaintiffs  claimed  that  the  materialsupport  statute  was  unconstitutional  on  two  grounds:  First, it violated their freedom of speech and freedom of association 
under  the  First  Amendment,  because  it  criminalized  their 

2 At  the  time  plaintiffs  first  filed  suit,  18  U. S. C.  $ 2339B(a)  (2000  ed.) 
provided:  "Whoever,  within  the  United  States  or  subject  to  the  jurisdic-
tion  of  the  United  States,  knowingly  provides  material  support  or  re-
sources to a foreign terrorist organization, or attempts or conspires to do 
so, shall be fined under this title or imprisoned not more than 10 years, or 
both."  See Humanitarian Law Project v.  Reno, 9 F. Supp. 2d 1205, 1207 
(CD  Cal.  1998).  And  18  U. S. C.  $ 2339A(b)  (2000  ed.)  defined  "material 
support  or  resources"  to  mean  "currency  or  other  financial  securities, 
financial  services,  lodging,  training,  safehouses,  false  documentation  or 
identification,  communications  equipment,  facilities,  weapons,  lethal  sub-
stances,  explosives,  personnel,  transportation,  and  other  physical  assets, 
except medicine or religious materials." 

Cite as: 561 U. S. 1 (2010)  11 

Opinion of the Court 
provision of material support to the PKK and LTTE, without requiring the Government to prove that plaintiffs had a spe-

cific  intent  to  further  the  unlawful  ends  of  those  organiza-tions. 

Id., at 1184.  Second, plaintiffs argued that the stat-
ute was unconstitutionally vague.  Id., at 1184-1185. Plaintiffs  moved  for  a  preliminary  injunction,  which  the 

District  Court  granted  in  part.  The  District  Court  held 
that  plaintiffs  had  not  established  a  probability  of  success on  their  First  Amendment  speech  and  association  claims. 

See id., at 1196-1197.  But the court held that plaintiffs had established  a  probability  of  success  on  their  claim  that,  as 
applied to them, the statutory terms "personnel" and "train-
ing" in the definition of "material support" were impermissi-
bly vague.  See id., at 1204. 

The Court of Appeals affirmed.  205 F. 3d 1130, 1138 (CA9 
2000).  The  court  rejected  plaintiffs'  speech  and  association 
claims,  including  their  claim  that  $ 2339B  violated  the  First 
Amendment in barring them from contributing money to the 
PKK  and  LTTE.  See  id.,  at  1133-1136.  But  the  Court  of 
Appeals agreed with the District Court that the terms "per-
sonnel"  and  "training"  were  vague  because  it  was  "easy  to 
imagine  protected  expression  that  falls  within  the  bounds" 
of those terms.  Id., at 1138; see id., at 1137. 

With  the  preliminary  injunction  issue  decided,  the  action 
returned  to  the  District  Court,  and  the  parties  moved  for 
summary  judgment  on  the  merits.  The  District  Court  en-
tered  a  permanent  injunction  against  applying  to  plain-
tiffs  the  bans  on  "personnel"  and  "training"  support.  See 
No. CV-98-1971 ABC (BQRx), 2001  WL 36105333 (CD Cal., 
Oct.  2,  2001).  The  Court  of  Appeals  affirmed.  352  F.  3d 
382 (CA9 2003). 

Meanwhile,  in  2001,  Congress  amended  the  definition  of 
"material  support  or  resources"  to  add  the  term  "expert 

advice  or  assistance."  Uniting  and  Strengthening  America 
by  Providing  Appropriate  Tools  Required  to  Intercept  and 
Obstruct  Terrorism  Act  of  2001  (USA  PATRIOT  ACT), 

12  HOLDER  v.  HUMANITARIAN  LAW  PROJECT 

Opinion of the Court 

$ 805(a)(2)(B), 115 Stat. 377.  In 2003, plaintiffs filed a second action  challenging  the  constitutionality  of  that  term  as  ap-

plied  to  them.  309  F.  Supp.  2d  1185,  1192  (CD  Cal.  2004). In  that  action,  the  Government  argued  that  plaintiffs 
lacked  standing  and  that  their  preenforcement  claims  were not  ripe. 

Id.,  at  1194.  The  District  Court  held  that  plain-
tiffs'  claims  were  justiciable  because  plaintiffs  had  suffi-
ciently demonstrated a "genuine threat of imminent prosecu-tion," 

id.,  at  1195  (internal  quotation  marks  omitted),  and 
because $ 2339B had the potential to chill plaintiffs' protected expression,  see 

id.,  at  1197-1198.  On  the  merits,  the  Dis-
trict Court  held that  the  term "expert advice or assistance" 
was impermissibly vague.  Id., at 1201.  The District Court 
rejected,  however,  plaintiffs'  First  Amendment  claims  that 
the  new  term  was  substantially  overbroad  and  criminalized 
associational speech.  See id., at 1202, 1203. 

The parties cross-appealed.  While the cross-appeals 
were  pending,  the  Ninth  Circuit  granted  en  banc  rehearing 
of  the  panel's  2003  decision  in  plaintiffs'  first  action  (invol-
ving  the  terms  "personnel"  and  "training").  See  382  F.  3d 
1154,  1155  (2004).  The  en  banc  court  heard  reargument 
on  December  14,  2004.  See  380  F.  Supp.  2d  1134,  1138 
(CD  Cal.  2005).  Three  days  later,  Congress  again  amended 

$ 2339B and the definition of "material support or resources." 
Intelligence  Reform  and  Terrorism  Prevention  Act  of  2004 
(IRTPA), $ 6603, 118 Stat. 3762-3764. 

In  IRTPA,  Congress  clarified  the  mental  state  necessary 
to violate $ 2339B, requiring knowledge of the foreign group's 
designation  as  a  terrorist  organization  or  the  group's  com-
mission of terrorist acts.  $ 2339B(a)(1).  Congress also 
added  the  term  "service"  to  the  definition  of  "material  sup-
port  or  resources,"  $ 2339A(b)(1),  and  defined  "training"  to 
mean  "instruction  or  teaching  designed  to  impart  a  specific 
skill,  as  opposed  to  general  knowledge,"  $ 2339A(b)(2).  It 
also defined "expert advice or assistance" to mean "advice or 
assistance  derived from scientific, technical  or other special-

Cite as: 561 U. S. 1 (2010)  13 

Opinion of the Court 
ized  knowledge."  $ 2339A(b)(3).  Finally,  IRTPA  clarified the scope of the term "personnel" by providing: 

"No  person  may  be  prosecuted  under  [$ 2339B]  in  con-nection with the term `personnel' unless that person has 
knowingly provided, attempted to provide, or conspired to  provide  a  foreign  terrorist  organization  with  1  or 
more  individuals  (who  may  be  or  include  himself)  to work  under  that  terrorist  organization's  direction  or 
control  or  to  organize,  manage,  supervise,  or  otherwise direct  the  operation  of  that  organization.  Individuals 
who  act  entirely  independently  of  the  foreign  terrorist 
organization  to advance  its  goals  or objectives  shall not be considered to be working under the foreign terrorist 

organization's direction and control."  $ 2339B(h). 
Shortly after Congress enacted IRTPA, the en banc Court of  Appeals  issued  an  order  in  plaintiffs'  first  action.  393 

F.  3d  902,  903  (CA9  2004).  The  en  banc  court  affirmed  the 
rejection  of  plaintiffs'  First  Amendment  claims  for  the  rea-sons  set  out  in  the  Ninth  Circuit's  panel  decision  in  2000. 

See  ibid.  In  light  of  IRTPA,  however,  the  en  banc  court vacated  the  panel's  2003  judgment  with  respect  to  vague-
ness,  and  remanded  to  the  District  Court  for  further  pro-ceedings. 

Ibid.  The  Ninth  Circuit  panel  assigned  to  the 
cross-appeals in  plaintiffs' second action (relating to "expert advice or assistance") also remanded in light of IRTPA.  See 

380 F. Supp. 2d, at 1139. The  District  Court  consolidated  the  two  actions  on  re-
mand.  See  ibid.  The  court  also  allowed  plaintiffs  to  chal-
lenge the  new  term "service."  See  id.,  at 1151, n. 24.  The 
parties  moved  for  summary  judgment,  and  the  District 
Court granted partial relief to plaintiffs on vagueness 
grounds.  See id., at 1156. 

The Court of Appeals affirmed once more.  552 F. 3d 916, 
933  (CA9  2009).  The  court  first  rejected  plaintiffs'  claim 
that  the  material-support  statute  would  violate  due  process 

14  HOLDER  v.  HUMANITARIAN  LAW  PROJECT 

Opinion of the Court 
unless it were read to require a specific intent to further the illegal  ends  of  a  foreign  terrorist  organization.  See  id.,  at 

926-927.  The  Ninth  Circuit  also  held  that  the  statute  was not overbroad in violation of the First Amendment.  See id., 
at  931-932.  As  for  vagueness,  the  Court  of  Appeals  noted that  plaintiffs  had  not  raised  a  "facial  vagueness challenge." 
Id., at 929, n. 6.  The court held that, as applied to plaintiffs, the terms "training," "expert advice or assistance" (when de-
rived  from  "other  specialized  knowledge"),  and  "service" were vague  because  they  "continue[d] to  cover constitution-
ally  protected  advocacy,"  but  the  term  "personnel"  was  not vague  because  it  "no  longer  criminalize[d]  pure  speech  pro-
tected by the First Amendment."  Id., at 929-931. The  Government  petitioned  for  certiorari,  and  plaintiffs 
filed a conditional cross-petition.  We granted both petitions. 557 U. S. 966 (2009). 

II 
Given the complicated 12-year history of this litigation, we pause to clarify the questions before us.  Plaintiffs challenge 

$ 2339B's  prohibition  on  four  types  of  material  support-- "training,"  "expert  advice  or  assistance,"  "service,"  and 
"personnel."  They raise three constitutional claims.  First, plaintiffs claim that $ 2339B violates the Due Process Clause 
of the Fifth Amendment because these four statutory terms are impermissibly  vague.  Second, plaintiffs claim  that 

$ 2339B  violates  their  freedom  of  speech  under  the  First Amendment.  Third,  plaintiffs  claim  that  $ 2339B  violates 
their First Amendment freedom of association. Plaintiffs do not challenge the above statutory terms in all 
their  applications.  Rather,  plaintiffs  claim  that  $ 2339B  is invalid to the extent it prohibits them from engaging in cer-
tain specified activities.  See Brief for Plaintiffs 16-17, n. 10. With  respect  to  the  HLP  and  Judge  Fertig,  those  activities 
are:  (1)  "train[ing]  members  of  [the]  PKK  on  how  to  use humanitarian  and  international  law  to  peacefully  resolve 
disputes";  (2)  "engag[ing]  in  political  advocacy  on  behalf  of 

Cite as: 561 U. S. 1 (2010)  15 

Opinion of the Court 
Kurds  who  live  in  Turkey";  and  (3)  "teach[ing]  PKK  mem-bers  how  to  petition  various  representative  bodies  such  as 

the  United  Nations  for  relief."  552  F.  3d,  at  921,  n.  1;  see 380  F.  Supp.  2d,  at  1136.  With  respect  to  the  other  plain-
tiffs,  those  activities  are:  (1)  "train[ing]  members  of  [the] LTTE to present claims for tsunami-related aid to mediators 
and international bodies"; (2) "offer[ing] their legal expertise 
in negotiating peace agreements between the LTTE and the Sri Lankan government"; and (3) "engag[ing] in political ad-

vocacy  on  behalf  of  Tamils  who  live  in  Sri  Lanka."  552 F. 3d, at 921, n. 1; see 380 F. Supp. 2d, at 1137. 

Plaintiffs also state that "the LTTE was recently defeated 
militarily in Sri Lanka," so "[m]uch of the support the Tamil 
organizations  and  Dr.  Jeyalingam  sought  to  provide  is  now 
moot."  Brief  for  Plaintiffs  11,  n.  5.  Plaintiffs  thus  seek 
only  to  support  the  LTTE  "as  a  political  organization  out-
side  Sri  Lanka  advocating  for  the  rights  of  Tamils."  Ibid. 
Counsel  for  plaintiffs  specifically  stated  at  oral  argument 
that plaintiffs no longer seek to teach the LTTE how to pre-
sent  claims  for  tsunami-related  aid,  because  the  LTTE  now 
"has  no  role  in  Sri  Lanka."  Tr.  of  Oral  Arg.  63.  For  that 
reason, helping the LTTE negotiate a peace agreement with 
Sri Lanka appears to be moot as well.  Thus, we do not con-
sider the application of $ 2339B to those activities here. 

One  last  point.  Plaintiffs  seek  preenforcement  review  of 
a  criminal  statute.  Before  addressing  the  merits,  we  must 
be  sure  that  this  is  a  justiciable  case  or  controversy  under 
Article III.  We conclude that it is: Plaintiffs face "a credible 
threat  of  prosecution"  and  "should  not  be  required  to  await 
and  undergo  a  criminal  prosecution  as  the  sole  means  of 
seeking relief."  Babbitt v.  Farm Workers, 442 U. S. 289, 298 
(1979) (internal quotation marks omitted).  See also MedIm-
mune,  Inc.  v.  Genentech,  Inc.,  549  U. S.  118,  128-129  (2007). 

Plaintiffs claim that they provided support to the PKK and 
LTTE  before  the  enactment  of  $ 2339B  and  that  they  would 
provide  similar  support  again  if  the  statute's  allegedly  un-

16  HOLDER  v.  HUMANITARIAN  LAW  PROJECT 

Opinion of the Court 
constitutional bar were lifted.  See 309 F. Supp. 2d, at 1197. The  Government  tells  us  that  it  has  charged  about  150  per-

sons with violating $ 2339B, and that  several of those prose-cutions  involved  the  enforcement  of  the  statutory  terms  at 
issue here.  See Brief for Government 5.  The Government has not argued to this Court that plaintiffs will not be prose-
cuted  if  they  do  what  they  say  they  wish  to  do.  Cf.  Tr.  of Oral Arg.  57-58.  See 

Babbitt,  supra,  at  302.  See also Mi-lavetz,  Gallop  &  Milavetz,  P.  A.  v.  United  States,  559  U. S. 

229,  234,  248-249  (2010)  (considering  an  as-applied  preen-forcement  challenge  brought  under  the  First  Amendment). 
Based  on  these  considerations,  we  conclude  that  plaintiffs' claims  are  suitable  for  judicial  review  (as  one  might  hope 
after 12 years of litigation). 

III 
Plaintiffs  claim,  as  a  threshold  matter,  that  we  should  af-firm  the  Court  of  Appeals  without  reaching  any  issues  of 

constitutional  law.  They  contend  that  we  should  interpret the  material-support  statute,  when  applied  to  speech,  to  re-
quire  proof  that  a  defendant  intended  to  further  a  foreign terrorist  organization's  illegal  activities.  That  interpreta-
tion,  they  say,  would  end  the  litigation  because  plaintiffs' proposed  activities  consist  of  speech,  but  plaintiffs  do  not 
intend to further unlawful conduct by the PKK or LTTE. We  reject  plaintiffs'  interpretation  of  $ 2339B  because 
it  is  inconsistent  with  the  text  of  the  statute.  Section 2339B(a)(1)  prohibits  "knowingly"  providing  material  sup-
port.  It  then  specifically  describes  the  type  of  knowledge that  is  required:  "To  violate  this  paragraph,  a  person  must 
have knowledge that the organization is a designated terror-ist  organization  .  .  .  ,  that  the  organization  has  engaged  or 
engages  in  terrorist  activity  .  .  .  ,  or  that  the  organization has engaged or engages in terrorism . . . ."   Ibid.  Congress 
plainly  spoke  to  the  necessary  mental  state  for  a  violation of  $ 2339B,  and  it  chose  knowledge  about  the  organization's 

Cite as: 561 U. S. 1 (2010)  17 

Opinion of the Court 
connection to terrorism, not specific intent to further the or-ganization's terrorist activities. 

Plaintiffs'  interpretation  is  also  untenable  in  light  of  the sections  immediately  surrounding  $ 2339B,  both  of  which  do 
refer  to  intent  to  further  terrorist  activity.  See  $ 2339A(a) (establishing  criminal  penalties  for  one  who  "provides  ma-
terial  support  or  resources  .  .  .  knowing  or  intending  that 
they  are  to  be  used  in  preparation  for,  or  in  carrying  out, a  violation  of "  statutes  prohibiting  violent  terrorist  acts); 

$ 2339C(a)(1) (setting criminal penalties for one who "unlaw-fully  and  willfully  provides  or  collects  funds  with  the  inten-
tion  that  such  funds  be  used,  or  with  the  knowledge  that 
such funds are to be used, in full or in part, in order to carry 
out"  other  unlawful  acts).  Congress  enacted  $ 2339A  in 
1994  and  $ 2339C  in  2002.  See  $ 120005(a),  108  Stat.  2022 
($ 2339A); $ 202(a), 116 Stat. 724 ($ 2339C).  Yet Congress did 
not  import  the  intent  language  of  those  provisions  into 

$ 2339B,  either  when  it  enacted  $ 2339B  in  1996,  or  when  it 
clarified $ 2339B's knowledge requirement in 2004. 

Finally,  plaintiffs  give  the  game  away  when  they  argue 
that  a  specific  intent  requirement  should  apply  only  when 
the material-support statute applies to speech.  There is no 
basis whatever in the text of $ 2339B to read the same provi-
sions  in  that  statute  as  requiring  intent  in  some  circum-
stances  but  not  others.  It  is  therefore  clear  that  plaintiffs 
are asking us not to interpret $ 2339B, but to revise it.  "Al-
though this Court will often strain to construe legislation so 
as  to  save  it  against  constitutional  attack,  it  must  not  and 
will  not  carry  this  to  the  point  of  perverting  the  purpose  of 
a statute."  Scales v.  United States, 367 U. S. 203, 211 (1961). 

Scales is the case on which plaintiffs most heavily rely, but 
it  is  readily  distinguishable.  That  case  involved  the  Smith 
Act, which prohibited membership in a group advocating the 
violent overthrow  of the  government.  The Court  held that 
a  person  could  not  be  convicted  under  the  statute  unless  he 
had  knowledge  of  the  group's  illegal  advocacy  and  a  specific 

18  HOLDER  v.  HUMANITARIAN  LAW  PROJECT 

Opinion of the Court 
intent  to  bring  about  violent  overthrow.  Id.,  at  220-222, 229.  This  action  is  different: Section  2339B does  not  crimi-

nalize mere membership in a designated foreign terrorist or-ganization.  It  instead  prohibits  providing  "material  sup-
port" to such a group.  See infra, at 26, 39.  Nothing about 
Scales suggests the need for a specific intent requirement in such  a  case.  The  Court  in  Scales,  moreover,  relied  on  both 

statutory text and precedent that had interpreted closely re-lated  provisions  of  the  Smith  Act  to  require  specific  intent. 
367  U. S.,  at  209,  221-222.  Plaintiffs  point  to  nothing  simi-lar here. 

We cannot avoid the constitutional issues in this litigation through plaintiffs' proposed interpretation of $ 2339B.

3 

IV 
We  turn  to  the  question  whether  the  material-support statute, as applied to plaintiffs, is impermissibly vague under 

the  Due  Process  Clause  of  the  Fifth  Amendment.  "A  con-viction fails to comport with due process if the statute under 
which it  is  obtained  fails  to  provide a  person of ordinary  in-telligence fair notice of what is prohibited, or is so standardless that it authorizes or encourages seriously discriminatory enforcement." 

United States v.  Williams, 553 U. S. 285, 304 (2008).  We  consider  whether  a  statute  is  vague  as  applied 

to the particular facts at issue, for "[a] plaintiff who engages 

3 The  dissent  would  interpret  the  statute  along  the  same  lines  as  the 
plaintiffs,  to  prohibit  speech  and  association  "only  when  the  defendant 
knows or intends that those activities will assist the organization's unlaw-
ful terrorist actions."  Post, at  56 (opinion of Breyer,

Cite as: 561 U. S. 1 (2010)  19 

Opinion of the Court 
in some conduct that is clearly proscribed cannot complain of the vagueness of the law as applied to the conduct of others." 

Hoffman  Estates  v.  Flipside,  Hoffman  Estates,  Inc.,  455 U. S. 489, 495 (1982).  We have said that when a statute "in-
terferes  with  the  right  of  free  speech  or  of  association, a  more  stringent  vagueness  test  should  apply." 

Id.,  at 
499.  "But  `perfect  clarity  and  precise  guidance  have  never 
been  required  even  of  regulations  that  restrict  expressive activity.' " 

Williams,  supra,  at  304  (quoting  Ward  v.  Rock 
Against Racism, 491 U. S. 781, 794 (1989)). The  Court  of  Appeals  did  not  adhere  to  these  principles. 

Instead,  the  lower  court  merged  plaintiffs'  vagueness  chal-
lenge  with  their  First  Amendment  claims,  holding  that  por-
tions of the material-support statute were unconstitutionally 
vague because they applied to protected speech--regardless 
of  whether  those  applications  were  clear.  The  court  stated 
that,  even if persons of ordinary intelligence  understood the 
scope  of  the  term  "training,"  that  term  would  "remai[n]  im-
permissibly  vague"  because  it  could  "be  read  to  encompass 
speech  and  advocacy  protected  by  the  First  Amendment." 
552  F.  3d,  at  929.  It  also  found  "service"  and  a  portion  of 
"expert  advice  or  assistance"  to  be  vague  because  those 
terms covered protected speech.  Id., at 929-930. 

Further,  in  spite  of  its  own  statement  that  it  was  not  ad-
dressing  a  "facial vagueness  challenge,"  id.,  at  929,  n. 6,  the 
Court of Appeals considered the statute's application to facts 
not  before  it.  Specifically,  the  Ninth  Circuit  relied  on  the 
Government's  statement  that  $ 2339B  would  bar  filing  an 
amicus brief in support of a foreign terrorist organization-- 
which  plaintiffs have  not  told us  they  wish  to  do,  and  which 
the Ninth Circuit did not say plaintiffs wished to do--to con-
clude  that  the  statute  barred  protected  advocacy  and  was 
therefore vague.  See id., at 930.  By deciding how the stat-
ute  applied  in  hypothetical  circumstances,  the  Court  of  Ap-
peals'  discussion  of  vagueness  seemed  to  incorporate  ele-
ments  of  First  Amendment  overbreadth  doctrine.  See  id., 

20  HOLDER  v.  HUMANITARIAN  LAW  PROJECT 

Opinion of the Court 
at  929-930  (finding  it  "easy  to  imagine"  protected  expres-sion  that  would  be  barred  by  $ 2339B  (internal  quotation 

marks  omitted));  id.,  at  930  (referring  to  both  vagueness and overbreadth). 

In  both  of  these  respects,  the  Court  of  Appeals  contra-vened  the  rule  that  "[a]  plaintiff  who  engages  in  some  con-
duct that is clearly proscribed cannot complain of the vague-
ness  of  the  law  as  applied  to  the  conduct  of  others." 
Hoffman Estates, supra, at 495.  That rule makes no excep-
tion for conduct in the form of speech.  See Parker v.  Levy, 417  U. S.  733,  755-757  (1974).  Thus,  even  to  the  extent  a 

heightened  vagueness  standard  applies,  a  plaintiff  whose 
speech is clearly proscribed cannot raise a successful vague-
ness  claim  under  the  Due  Process  Clause  of  the  Fifth 
Amendment  for  lack  of  notice.  And  he  certainly  cannot  do 
so based on the speech of others.  Such a plaintiff may have 
a  valid  overbreadth  claim  under  the  First  Amendment,  but 
our  precedents  make  clear  that  a  Fifth  Amendment  vague-
ness  challenge  does  not  turn  on  whether  a  law  applies  to  a 
substantial amount of protected expression.  See Williams, 
supra,  at  304;  Hoffman  Estates,  supra,  at  494-495,  497. 
Otherwise  the  doctrines  would  be  substantially  redundant. 

Under  a  proper  analysis,  plaintiffs'  claims  of  vagueness 
lack  merit.  Plaintiffs  do  not  argue  that  the  materialsupport  statute  grants  too  much  enforcement  discretion  to 
the  Government.  We  therefore  address  only  whether  the 
statute  "provide[s]  a  person  of  ordinary  intelligence  fair  no-
tice of what is prohibited."  Williams, 553 U. S., at 304. 

As a general matter, the statutory terms at issue here are 
quite  different  from  the  sorts  of  terms  that  we  have  pre-
viously  declared  to  be  vague.  We  have  in  the  past  "struck 
down  statutes  that  tied  criminal  culpability  to  whether  the 
defendant's  conduct  was  `annoying'  or  `indecent'--wholly 
subjective  judgments  without  statutory  definitions,  narrow-
ing context, or settled legal meanings."  Id., at 306; see also 
Papachristou v.  Jacksonville, 405 U. S. 156, n. 1 (1972) (hold-

Cite as: 561 U. S. 1 (2010)  21 

Opinion of the Court 
ing  vague  an  ordinance  that  punished  "vagrants,"  defined to  include  "[r]ogues  and  vagabonds,"  "persons  who  use  jug-

gling,"  and  "common  night  walkers"  (internal  quotation marks  omitted)).  Applying  the  statutory  terms  in  this  ac-
tion--"training,"  "expert  advice  or  assistance,"  "service," and "personnel"--does not require similarly untethered, sub-
jective judgments. 

Congress  also  took  care  to  add  narrowing  definitions to  the  material-support  statute  over  time.  These  defini-

tions  increased  the  clarity  of  the  statute's  terms.  See $ 2339A(b)(2)  (" `training'  means  instruction  or  teaching  de-
signed to impart a specific skill, as opposed to general knowl-
edge");  $ 2339A(b)(3)  (" `expert  advice  or  assistance'  means 
advice  or  assistance  derived  from  scientific,  technical  or 
other  specialized  knowledge");  $ 2339B(h)  (clarifying  the 
scope  of  "personnel").  And  the  knowledge  requirement  of 
the  statute  further  reduces  any  potential  for  vagueness,  as 
we have held with respect to other statutes containing a sim-
ilar  requirement.  See  Hill  v.  Colorado,  530  U. S.  703,  732 
(2000);  Posters  `N'  Things,  Ltd.  v.  United  States,  511  U. S. 
513, 523, 526 (1994); see also Hoffman Estates, supra, at 499. 

Of  course,  the  scope  of  the  material-support  statute  may 
not  be  clear  in  every  application.  But  the  dispositive  point 
here  is  that  the  statutory  terms  are  clear  in  their  applica-
tion  to plaintiffs'  proposed  conduct,  which  means  that  plain-
tiffs'  vagueness  challenge  must  fail.  Even  assuming  that  a 
heightened  standard  applies  because  the  material-support 
statute  potentially  implicates  speech,  the  statutory  terms 
are  not vague  as applied  to plaintiffs.  See  Grayned  v.  City 
of Rockford, 408 U. S. 104, 114-115 (1972) (rejecting a vague-
ness  challenge  to  a  criminal  law  that  implicated  First 
Amendment activities); Scales, 367 U. S., at 223 (same). 

Most  of  the  activities  in  which  plaintiffs  seek  to  engage 
readily fall within the scope of the terms "training" and "ex-
pert  advice  or  assistance."  Plaintiffs  want  to  "train  mem-
bers  of  [the]  PKK  on  how  to  use  humanitarian  and  interna-

22  HOLDER  v.  HUMANITARIAN  LAW  PROJECT 

Opinion of the Court 
tional  law  to  peacefully  resolve  disputes,"  and  "teach  PKK members how to petition various representative bodies such 

as the United Nations for relief."  552 F. 3d, at 921, n. 1.  A person  of  ordinary  intelligence  would  understand  that  in-
struction  on  resolving  disputes  through  international  law falls  within  the  statute's  definition  of  "training"  because 
it  imparts  a  "specific  skill,"  not  "general  knowledge." 

$ 2339A(b)(2).  Plaintiffs' activities also fall comfortably within  the  scope  of  "expert advice  or  assistance": A  reason-

able  person  would  recognize  that  teaching  the  PKK  how  to petition  for  humanitarian  relief  before  the  United  Nations 
involves advice derived from, as the statute puts it, "special-
ized  knowledge."  $ 2339A(b)(3).  In  fact,  plaintiffs  them-
selves  have  repeatedly  used  the  terms  "training"  and  "ex-
pert advice" throughout this litigation to describe their own 
proposed activities, demonstrating that these common terms 
readily  and  naturally  cover  plaintiffs'  conduct.  See,  e. g., 
Brief  for  Plaintiffs  10,  11;  App.  56,  58,  59,  61,  62,  63,  80,  81, 
98, 99, 106, 107, 117. 

Plaintiffs  respond  by  pointing  to  hypothetical  situations 
designed  to  test  the  limits  of  "training"  and  "expert  advice 
or assistance."  They argue that the statutory definitions of 
these  terms  use  words  of  degree--like  "specific,"  "general," 
and "specialized"--and that it is difficult to apply those defi-
nitions  in  particular  cases.  See  Brief  for  Plaintiffs  27  (de-
bating whether teaching a course on geography would consti-
tute training); id., at 29.  And they cite Gentile v.  State Bar 
of  Nev.,  501  U. S.  1030  (1991),  in  which  we  found  vague  a 
state  bar  rule  providing  that  a  lawyer  in  a  criminal  case, 
when  speaking  to  the  press,  "may  state  without  elaboration 
.  .  .  the  general  nature  of  the . . .  defense."  Id.,  at  1048 
(internal quotation marks omitted). 

Whatever  force  these  arguments  might  have  in  the  ab-
stract, they are beside the point here.  Plaintiffs do not pro-
pose to teach a course on geography, and cannot seek refuge 
in imaginary cases that straddle the boundary between "spe-

Cite as: 561 U. S. 1 (2010)  23 

Opinion of the Court 
cific  skills"  and  "general  knowledge."  See  Parker  v.  Levy, 417 U. S., at 756.  We emphasized this point in 

Scales, hold-
ing that even if there might be  theoretical doubts regarding the  distinction  between  "active"  and  "nominal"  membership 

in  an  organization--also  terms  of  degree--the  defendant's vagueness  challenge  failed  because  his  "case  present[ed]  no 
such problem."  367 U. S., at 223. 

Gentile was different.  There the asserted vagueness in a state  bar  rule  was  directly  implicated  by  the  facts  before 

the Court: Counsel had reason to suppose that his particular statements  to  the  press  would  not  violate  the  rule,  yet  he 
was  disciplined  nonetheless.  See  501  U. S.,  at  1049-1051. 
We  did  not  suggest  that  counsel  could  escape  discipline  on 
vagueness grounds if his own speech were plainly prohibited. 

Plaintiffs also contend that they want to engage in "politi-
cal advocacy" on behalf of Kurds living in Turkey and Tamils 
living  in  Sri  Lanka.  552  F.  3d,  at  921,  n.  1.  They  are  con-
cerned  that  such  advocacy  might  be  regarded  as  "material 
support" in the form of providing "personnel" or "service[s]," 
and  assert  that  the  statute  is  unconstitutionally  vague  be-
cause they cannot tell. 

As  for "personnel,"  Congress enacted  a limiting definition 
in IRTPA that answers plaintiffs' vagueness concerns.  Pro-
viding  material  support  that  constitutes  "personnel"  is  de-
fined  as  knowingly  providing  a  person  "to  work  under  that 
terrorist  organization's  direction  or  control  or  to  organize, 
manage, supervise, or otherwise direct the operation of that 
organization."  $ 2339B(h).  The  statute  makes  clear  that 
"personnel" does not cover independent advocacy: "Individu-
als  who  act  entirely  independently  of  the  foreign  terrorist 
organization  to  advance  its  goals  or  objectives  shall  not  be 
considered to be working under the foreign terrorist organi-
zation's direction and control."  Ibid. 

"[S]ervice" similarly refers to concerted activity, not inde-
pendent  advocacy.  See  Webster's  Third  New  International 
Dictionary  2075  (1993)  (defining  "service"  to  mean  "the 

24  HOLDER  v.  HUMANITARIAN  LAW  PROJECT 

Opinion of the Court 
performance  of  work  commanded  or  paid  for  by  another:  a servant's duty: attendance on a superior"; or "an act done for 

the  benefit  or  at  the  command  of  another").  Context  con-firms  that  ordinary  meaning  here.  The  statute  prohibits 
providing  a  service  "to  a  foreign  terrorist  organization." $ 2339B(a)(1)  (emphasis  added).  The  use  of  the  word  "to" 
indicates  a  connection  between  the  service  and  the  foreign 
group.  We think a person of ordinary intelligence would un-derstand that independently advocating for a cause is differ-

ent  from  providing  a  service  to  a  group  that  is  advocating for that cause. 

Moreover, if independent activity in support of a terrorist 
group  could  be  characterized  as  a  "service,"  the  statute's 
specific exclusion  of independent  activity in the  definition of 
"personnel"  would  not  make  sense.  Congress  would  not 
have  prohibited  under  "service"  what  it  specifically  ex-
empted  from  prohibition  under  "personnel."  The  other 
types  of  material  support  listed  in  the  statute,  including 
"lodging,"  "weapons,"  "explosives,"  and  "transportation," 

$ 2339A(b)(1),  are  not  forms  of  support  that  could  be  pro-
vided independently of a foreign terrorist organization.  We 
interpret  "service"  along  the  same  lines.  Thus,  any  inde-
pendent  advocacy  in  which  plaintiffs  wish  to  engage  is  not 
prohibited by $ 2339B.  On the other hand, a person of ordi-
nary  intelligence  would  understand  the  term  "service"  to 
cover advocacy performed in coordination with, or at the di-
rection of, a foreign terrorist organization. 

Plaintiffs argue that this construction of the statute poses 
difficult questions of exactly how much direction or coordina-
tion  is  necessary  for  an  activity  to  constitute  a  "service." 
See  Reply  Brief  for  Petitioners  in  No.  09-89,  p.  14  (herein-
after  Reply  Brief  for  Plaintiffs)  ("Would any  communication 
with  any  member  be  sufficient?  With  a  leader?  Must  the 
`relationship'  have  any  formal  elements,  such  as  an  employ-
ment  or  contractual  relationship?  What  about  a  relation-
ship  through  an  intermediary?").  The  problem  with  these 

Cite as: 561 U. S. 1 (2010)  25 

Opinion of the Court 
questions  is  that  they  are  entirely  hypothetical.  Plaintiffs have  not  provided  any  specific  articulation  of  the  degree 

to  which  they  seek  to  coordinate  their  advocacy  with the PKK and LTTE.  They have instead described the form 
of  their  intended  advocacy  only  in  the  most  general  terms. See, 

e. g.,  Brief  for  Plaintiffs  10-11  (plaintiffs  "would  like, among  other  things,  to  offer  their  services  to  advocate 

on  behalf  of  the  rights  of  the  Kurdish  people  and  the  PKK before  the  United  Nations and  the  United  States  Congress" 
(internal  quotation  marks  and  alteration  omitted));  App. 59  (plaintiffs  would  like  to  "write  and  distribute  publica-
tions supportive of the PKK and the cause of Kurdish libera-tion"  and  "advocate  for  the  freedom  of  political  prisoners  in 
Turkey"). Deciding  whether  activities  described  at  such  a  level  of 
generality would constitute prohibited "service[s]" under the statute  would  require  "sheer  speculation"--which  means 
that  plaintiffs  cannot  prevail  in  their  preenforcement  chal-lenge.  See 

Washington  State  Grange  v.  Washington  State Republican  Party,  552  U. S.  442,  454  (2008).  It  is  apparent 

with  respect  to  these  claims  that  "gradations  of  fact  or charge would make a difference as to criminal liability," and 
so  "adjudication  of  the  reach  and  constitutionality  of  [the statute]  must  await  a  concrete  fact  situation." 

Zemel  v. Rusk, 381 U. S. 1, 20 (1965). 

V 
A 

We  next  consider  whether  the  material-support  statute, as applied  to plaintiffs,  violates  the  freedom of speech guar-

anteed  by  the  First  Amendment.  Both  plaintiffs  and  the Government take extreme positions on this question.  Plain-
tiffs  claim  that  Congress  has  banned  their  "pure  political speech." 

E. g.,  Brief  for  Plaintiffs  2,  25,  43.  It  has  not. Under  the  material-support  statute,  plaintiffs  may  say  any-

thing  they  wish  on  any  topic.  They  may  speak  and  write 

26  HOLDER  v.  HUMANITARIAN  LAW  PROJECT 

Opinion of the Court 
freely about the PKK and LTTE, the Governments of Turkey and  Sri  Lanka,  human  rights,  and  international  law.  They 

may  advocate  before  the  United  Nations.  As  the  Govern-ment states: "The statute does not prohibit independent ad-
vocacy  or  expression  of  any  kind."  Brief  for  Government 13.  Section  2339B  also  "does  not  prevent  [plaintiffs]  from 
becoming  members  of  the  PKK  and  LTTE  or  impose  any sanction  on  them  for  doing  so." 

Id.,  at  60.  Congress  has not,  therefore,  sought  to  suppress  ideas  or  opinions  in  the 

form  of  "pure  political  speech."  Rather,  Congress  has  pro-hibited  "material  support,"  which  most  often  does  not  take 
the  form  of  speech  at  all.  And  when  it  does,  the  statute  is carefully  drawn  to  cover  only  a  narrow  category  of  speech 
to,  under  the  direction  of,  or  in  coordination  with  foreign 
groups that the speaker knows to be terrorist organizations.4 For  its  part,  the  Government  takes  the  foregoing  too  far, 

claiming  that  the  only  thing  truly  at  issue  in  this  litigation 
is conduct, not speech.  Section 2339B is directed at the fact 
of  plaintiffs'  interaction  with  the  PKK  and  LTTE,  the  Gov-ernment  contends,  and  only  incidentally  burdens  their  ex-

pression.  The Government argues that the proper standard of  review  is  therefore  the  one  set  out  in 

United  States  v. 
O'Brien,  391  U. S.  367  (1968).  In  that  case,  the  Court  re-jected a First Amendment challenge to a conviction under a 

generally  applicable  prohibition  on  destroying  draft  cards, even  though  O'Brien  had  burned  his  card  in  protest  against 
the draft.  See id., at 370, 376, 382.  In so doing, we applied 
what  we  have  since  called  "intermediate  scrutiny,"  under which  a  "content-neutral  regulation  will  be  sustained  under 

the First Amendment if it advances important governmental 

4 The dissent also analyzes the statute as if it prohibited "[p]eaceful po-
litical  advocacy"  or  "pure  speech  and  association,"  without  more.  Post, 
at  48,  56.  Section  2339B  does  not  do  that,  and  we  do  not  address  the 
constitutionality  of  any  such  prohibitions.  The  dissent's  claim  that  our 
decision  is  inconsistent  with  this  Court's  cases  analyzing  those  sorts  of 
restrictions, post, at 50-51, is accordingly unfounded. 

Cite as: 561 U. S. 1 (2010)  27 

Opinion of the Court 
interests  unrelated  to  the  suppression  of  free  speech  and does  not  burden  substantially  more  speech  than  necessary 

to  further  those  interests."  Turner  Broadcasting  System, Inc. v.  FCC, 520  U. S. 180,  189  (1997) (citing O'Brien,  supra, 
at 377). The  Government  is  wrong  that  the  only  thing  actually  at 
issue  in  this  litigation  is  conduct,  and  therefore  wrong  to argue that 

O'Brien provides the correct standard of review.5 O'Brien does not provide the applicable standard for review-

ing  a  content-based  regulation  of  speech,  see  R.  A.  V.  v. St. Paul, 505 U. S. 377, 385-386 (1992); Texas v.  Johnson, 491 
U. S.  397,  403,  406-407  (1989),  and  $ 2339B  regulates  speech on  the  basis  of  its  content.  Plaintiffs  want  to  speak  to  the 
PKK and LTTE, and whether they may do so under $ 2339B depends  on  what  they  say.  If  plaintiffs'  speech  to  those 
groups imparts a "specific skill"  or communicates advice  de-rived  from  "specialized  knowledge"--for  example,  training 
on  the  use  of  international  law  or  advice  on  petitioning  the United  Nations--then  it  is  barred.  See  Brief  for  Govern-
ment  33-34.  On  the  other  hand,  plaintiffs'  speech  is  not barred if it imparts only general or unspecialized knowledge. 
See id., at 32. The  Government  argues  that  $ 2339B  should  nonetheless 
receive intermediate  scrutiny because it  generally functions as  a  regulation  of  conduct.  That  argument  runs  headlong 
into  a  number  of  our  precedents,  most  prominently  Cohen 

5 The Government suggests in  passing that,  to the extent plaintiffs'  ac-
tivities  constitute  speech,  that speech  is  wholly unprotected  by the  First 
Amendment.  The  Government  briefly  analogizes  speech  coordinated 
with  foreign  terrorist  organizations  to  speech  effecting  a  crime,  like  the 
words that constitute a conspiracy.  Brief for Government 46; Reply Brief 
for Government 31-32, and n. 8.  See, e. g., Giboney v.  Empire Storage & 
Ice Co., 336 U. S. 490, 498, 502 (1949).  We do not consider any such argu-
ment because the Government does not develop it: The Government's sub-
mission  is  that  applying  $ 2339B  to  plaintiffs  triggers  intermediate  First 
Amendment scrutiny--not  that it  triggers  no  First  Amendment  scrutiny 
at all. 

28  HOLDER  v.  HUMANITARIAN  LAW  PROJECT 

Opinion of the Court 
v.  California,  403  U. S.  15  (1971).  Cohen  also  involved  a generally applicable  regulation of  conduct, barring  breaches 

of  the  peace.  See  id.,  at  16.  But  when  Cohen  was  con-victed  for  wearing  a  jacket  bearing  an  epithet,  we  did  not 
apply O'Brien.  See 403 U. S., at 16, 18.  Instead, we recog-nized  that  the  generally  applicable  law  was  directed  at 
Cohen  because  of  what  his  speech  communicated--he  vio-lated the breach of the peace statute because of the offensive 
content  of  his  particular  message.  We  accordingly  applied more rigorous scrutiny and reversed his conviction.  See 

id., at 18-19, 26. 

This  suit falls into  the  same category.  The law here  may be described as directed at conduct, as the law in 

Cohen  was directed at breaches of the peace, but as applied to plaintiffs 

the  conduct  triggering  coverage  under  the  statute  consists of  communicating  a  message.  As  we  explained  in  Texas  v. 
Johnson:  "If  the  [Government's]  regulation  is  not  related  to expression,  then  the  less  stringent  standard  we  announced 
in  United  States  v.  O'Brien  for  regulations  of  noncommuni-cative  conduct  controls.  If  it  is,  then  we  are  outside  of 
O'Brien's test, and we must [apply] a more demanding stand-ard."  491 U. S., at 403 (citation omitted). 

B 
The First Amendment issue before us is more refined than either plaintiffs or the Government would have it.  It is not 

whether the Government may prohibit pure political speech, or may prohibit material support in the form of conduct.  It 
is instead whether the Government may prohibit what plain-tiffs  want  to  do--provide  material  support  to  the  PKK  and 
LTTE in the form of speech. Everyone  agrees  that  the  Government's  interest  in  com-
bating terrorism is an urgent objective of the highest order. See  Brief  for  Plaintiffs  51.  Plaintiffs'  complaint  is  that  the 
ban on material support,  applied  to what they  wish  to do,  is not  "necessary  to  further  that  interest."  Ibid.  The  objec-

Cite as: 561 U. S. 1 (2010)  29 

Opinion of the Court 
tive of combating terrorism does not justify prohibiting their speech,  plaintiffs  argue,  because  their  support  will  advance 

only  the  legitimate  activities  of  the  designated  terrorist  or-ganizations, not their terrorism. 

Id., at 51-52. 
Whether foreign terrorist organizations meaningfully seg-regate  support  of  their  legitimate  activities  from  support  of 

terrorism is an empirical question.  When it enacted $ 2339B 
in  1996,  Congress  made  specific  findings  regarding  the  seri-ous  threat  posed  by  international  terrorism.  See  AEDPA 

$$ 301(a)(1)-(7),  110  Stat.  1247,  note  following  18  U. S. C. $ 2339B  (Findings  and  Purpose).  One  of  those  findings  ex-
plicitly rejects plaintiffs' contention that their support would 
not  further  the  terrorist  activities  of  the  PKK  and  LTTE: 
"[F]oreign organizations that engage in terrorist activity are 
so tainted by their criminal conduct that any contribution to 
such  an  organization  facilitates  that  conduct."  $ 301(a)(7) 
(emphasis added). 

Plaintiffs  argue  that  the  reference  to  "any  contribution" 
in  this  finding  meant  only  monetary  support.  There  is  no 
reason  to  read  the  finding  to  be  so  limited,  particularly  be-
cause  Congress  expressly  prohibited  so  much  more  than 
monetary  support  in  $ 2339B.  Congress's  use  of  the  term 
"contribution"  is  best  read  to  reflect  a  determination  that 
any form of material support furnished "to" a foreign terror-
ist  organization  should  be  barred,  which  is  precisely  what 
the  material-support  statute  does.  Indeed,  when  Congress 
enacted  $ 2339B,  Congress  simultaneously  removed  an  ex-
ception that had existed in $ 2339A(a) (1994 ed.) for the provi-
sion of material support in the form of "humanitarian assist-
ance  to  persons  not  directly  involved  in"  terrorist  activity. 
AEDPA  $ 323,  110  Stat.  1255;  205  F.  3d,  at  1136.  That  re-
peal  demonstrates  that  Congress  considered  and  rejected 
the  view  that  ostensibly  peaceful  aid  would  have  no  harm-
ful effects. 

We are convinced that Congress  was justified in rejecting 
that  view.  The  PKK  and  LTTE  are  deadly  groups.  "The 

30  HOLDER  v.  HUMANITARIAN  LAW  PROJECT 

Opinion of the Court 
PKK's  insurgency  has  claimed  more  than  22,000  lives." 
Declaration  of  Kenneth  R.  McKune,  App.  128,  || 5  (herein-
after McKune  Affidavit).  The LTTE has  engaged in exten-
sive  suicide  bombings  and  political  assassinations,  including 
killings  of  the  Sri  Lankan  President,  Security  Minister,  and 
Deputy Defense Minister.  Id., at 130-132; Brief for Govern-
ment  6-7.  "On  January  31,  1996,  the  LTTE  exploded  a 
truck  bomb  filled  with  an  estimated  1,000  pounds  of  explo-
sives at the Central Bank in Colombo, killing 100 people and 
injuring  more  than  1,400.  This  bombing  was  the  most 
deadly terrorist incident in the world in 1996."  McKune Af-
fidavit, App. 131, || 6.h.  It is not difficult to conclude as Con-
gress  did  that  the  "tain[t]"  of  such  violent  activities  is  so 
great  that  working  in  coordination  with  or  at  the  command 
of the PKK and LTTE serves to legitimize and further their 
terrorist means.  AEDPA $ 301(a)(7), 110 Stat. 1247. 

Material  support  meant  to  "promot[e]  peaceable,  lawful 
conduct,"  Brief  for  Plaintiffs  51,  can  further  terrorism  by 
foreign  groups  in  multiple  ways.  "Material  support"  is  a 
valuable  resource  by  definition.  Such  support  frees  up 
other  resources  within  the  organization  that  may  be  put  to 
violent  ends.  It  also  importantly  helps  lend  legitimacy  to 
foreign terrorist groups--legitimacy that makes it easier for 
those  groups  to  persist,  to  recruit  members,  and  to  raise 
funds--all  of  which  facilitate  more  terrorist  attacks.  "Ter-
rorist  organizations  do  not  maintain  organizational  `fire-
walls'  that  would prevent  or deter  . .  .  sharing and  commin-
gling of support and benefits."  McKune Affidavit, App. 135, 
|| 11.  "[I]nvestigators  have  revealed  how  terrorist  groups 
systematically  conceal  their  activities  behind  charitable,  so-
cial, and political fronts."  M. Levitt, Hamas: Politics, Char-
ity,  and  Terrorism  in  the  Service  of  Jihad  2-3  (2006).  "In-
deed,  some  designated  foreign  terrorist  organizations  use 
social and  political components to recruit  personnel to carry 

Cite as: 561 U. S. 1 (2010)  31 

Opinion of the Court 
out  terrorist  operations,  and  to  provide  support  to  criminal 
terrorists  and  their  families  in  aid  of  such  operations." 
McKune Affidavit, App. 135, || 11; Levitt, supra, at 2 ("Mud-
dying the waters between its political activism, good works, 
and terrorist attacks, Hamas is able to use its overt political 
and charitable organizations as a financial and logistical sup-
port network for its terrorist operations"). 

Money is  fungible,  and  "[w]hen  foreign  terrorist organiza-
tions  that  have  a  dual  structure  raise  funds,  they  highlight 
the  civilian  and  humanitarian  ends  to  which  such  moneys 
could be put. "  McKune Affidavit, App. 134, || 9.  But 
"there  is  reason  to  believe  that  foreign  terrorist  organiza-
tions do not maintain legitimate financial firewalls between 
those  funds  raised  for  civil,  nonviolent  activities,  and  those 
ultimately  used  to  support  violent,  terrorist  operations." 
Id., at 135, || 12.  Thus, "[f]unds raised ostensibly for charita-
ble  purposes  have  in  the  past  been  redirected  by  some  ter-
rorist  groups  to  fund  the  purchase  of  arms  and  explosives." 
Id., at 134, || 10.  See also Brief for Anti-Defamation League 
as Amicus Curiae 19-29 (describing fundraising activities by 
the  PKK,  LTTE,  and  Hamas);  Regan  v.  Wald, 468  U. S.  222, 
243  (1984)  (upholding  President's  decision  to  impose  travel 
ban to Cuba "to curtail  the flow of hard currency to Cuba-- 
currency that could then be used in support of Cuban adven-
turism").  There  is  evidence  that  the  PKK  and  LTTE,  in 
particular, have  not  "respected the  line between  humanitar-
ian and violent activities."  McKune Affidavit, App. 135, || 13 
(discussing PKK); see id., at 134 (LTTE). 

The  dissent  argues  that  there  is  "no  natural  stopping 
place" for the proposition that aiding a foreign terrorist orga-
nization's lawful activity promotes the terrorist organization 
as  a  whole.  Post,  at  49.  But  Congress  has  settled  on  just 
such a natural stopping place: The statute reaches only mate-
rial  support  coordinated  with  or  under  the  direction  of 
a designated foreign terrorist  organization.  Independent 

32  HOLDER  v.  HUMANITARIAN  LAW  PROJECT 

Opinion of the Court 
advocacy  that  might  be  viewed as  promoting  the  group's  le-
gitimacy is not covered.  See supra, at 25-28.6 

Providing  foreign  terrorist  groups  with  material  support 
in  any  form  also  furthers  terrorism  by  straining  the  United 
States' relationships with its allies and undermining coopera-
tive  efforts  between  nations  to  prevent  terrorist  attacks. 
We see no reason to question Congress's finding that "inter-
national  cooperation  is  required  for  an  effective  response  to 
terrorism,  as  demonstrated  by  the  numerous  multilateral 
conventions in force providing universal prosecutive jurisdic-
tion  over  persons  involved  in  a  variety  of  terrorist  acts,  in-
cluding  hostage  taking,  murder  of  an  internationally  pro-
tected  person,  and  aircraft  piracy  and  sabotage."  AEDPA 

$ 301(a)(5),  110  Stat.  1247,  note  following  18  U. S. C.  $ 2339B 
(Findings  and  Purpose).  The  material-support  statute  fur-
thers  this  international  effort  by  prohibiting  aid  for  for-
eign terrorist groups  that harm  the  United States' partners 
abroad:  "A  number  of  designated  foreign  terrorist  orga-
nizations  have  attacked  moderate  governments  with  which 
the  United  States  has  vigorously  endeavored  to  maintain 
close  and  friendly  relations,"  and  those  attacks  "threaten 
[the]  social,  economic  and  political  stability"  of  such  govern-
ments.  McKune Affidavit, App. 137, || 16.  "[O]ther foreign 
terrorist  organizations  attack  our  NATO  allies,  thereby  im-
plicating  important  and  sensitive  multilateral  security  ar-
rangements."  Ibid. 

For  example,  the  Republic  of  Turkey--a  fellow  member 
of  NATO--is  defending  itself  against  a  violent  insurgency 

6 The dissent also contends that  the  particular sort of  material  support 
plaintiffs seek to provide cannot be diverted to terrorist activities, in the 
same  direct  way  as  funds  or  goods.  Post,  at  47-48.  This  contention 
misses the point.  Both common sense and the evidence submitted by the 
Government make clear that material support of a terrorist group's lawful 
activities facilitates the group's ability to attract "funds," "financing," and 
"goods"  that  will  further  its  terrorist  acts.  See  McKune  Affidavit,  App. 
134-136. 

Cite as: 561 U. S. 1 (2010)  33 

Opinion of the Court 
waged  by  the  PKK.  Brief  for  Government  6;  App.  128. That  nation  and  our  other  allies  would  react  sharply  to 

Americans furnishing material support to foreign groups like the  PKK,  and  would  hardly  be  mollified  by  the  explanation 
that  the  support  was  meant  only  to  further  those  groups' "legitimate"  activities.  From  Turkey's  perspective,  there 
likely are no such activities.  See 352 F. 3d, at 389 (observing that  Turkey  prohibits  membership  in  the  PKK  and  prose-
cutes those who provide support to that group, regardless of whether the support is directed to lawful activities). 

C 
In  analyzing  whether  it  is  possible  in  practice  to  distin-guish material support for a foreign terrorist group's violent 

activities  and  its  nonviolent  activities,  we  do  not  rely  ex-clusively  on  our  own  inferences  drawn  from  the  record  evi-
dence.  We have before us an affidavit stating the Executive Branch's  conclusion  on  that  question.  The  State  Depart-
ment  informs  us  that  "[t]he  experience  and  analysis  of  the U.  S.  government  agencies  charged  with  combating  terror-
ism  strongly  suppor[t]"  Congress's  finding  that  all  contribu-tions  to  foreign  terrorist  organizations  further  their  terror-
ism.  McKune Affidavit, App. 133, || 8.  See Winter v. Natural Resources Defense Council, Inc., 555 U. S. 7, 24-25 
(2008)  (looking  to  similar  affidavits  to  support  according weight  to  national  security  claims).  In  the  Executive's 
view:  "Given  the  purposes,  organizational  structure,  and clandestine  nature  of  foreign  terrorist  organizations,  it  is 
highly  likely  that  any  material  support  to  these  organiza-tions  will  ultimately  inure  to  the  benefit  of  their  criminal, 
terrorist functions--regardless of whether such support was ostensibly  intended  to  support non-violent,  non-terrorist  ac-
tivities."  McKune Affidavit, App. 133, || 8. That  evaluation  of  the  facts  by  the  Executive,  like  Con-
gress's  assessment,  is  entitled  to  deference.  This  litigation implicates  sensitive  and  weighty  interests  of  national  secu-

34  HOLDER  v.  HUMANITARIAN  LAW  PROJECT 

Opinion of the Court 
rity  and  foreign  affairs.  The  PKK  and  LTTE  have  com-mitted  terrorist  acts  against  American  citizens  abroad,  and 

the  material-support  statute  addresses  acute  foreign  policy concerns  involving  relationships  with  our  Nation's  allies. 
See  id.,  at  128-133,  137.  We  have  noted  that  "neither  the Members  of  this  Court  nor  most  federal  judges  begin  the 
day with briefings that may describe new and serious threats 
to  our  Nation  and  its  people."  Boumediene  v.  Bush,  553 U. S. 723, 797  (2008).  It is vital  in this context  "not  to sub-

stitute  .  .  .  our  own  evaluation  of  evidence  for  a  reasonable evaluation  by  the  Legislative  Branch." 

Rostker  v.  Gold-
berg,  453  U. S.  57,  68  (1981).  See  Wald,  468  U. S.,  at  242; 
Haig  v.  Agee, 453 U. S. 280, 292 (1981). 

Our  precedents,  old  and  new,  make  clear  that  concerns  of 
national  security  and  foreign  relations  do  not  warrant  abdi-
cation  of  the  judicial  role.  We  do  not  defer  to  the  Govern-
ment's reading of the First Amendment, even when such in-
terests  are  at  stake.  We  are  one  with  the  dissent  that  the 
Government's  "authority  and  expertise  in  these  matters  do 
not automatically trump the Court's own obligation to secure 
the  protection  that  the  Constitution  grants  to  individuals." 
Post,  at  61.  But  when  it  comes  to  collecting  evidence 
and drawing factual inferences in this area, "the lack of com-
petence  on  the  part  of  the  courts  is  marked,"  Rostker, 
supra,  at  65,  and  respect  for  the  Government's  conclusions 
is appropriate. 

One  reason  for  that  respect  is  that  national  security  and 
foreign  policy  concerns  arise  in  connection  with  efforts  to 
confront  evolving  threats  in  an  area  where  information  can 
be difficult to obtain  and the  impact  of certain  conduct  diffi-
cult  to  assess.  The  dissent  slights  these  real  constraints  in 
demanding  hard  proof--with  "detail,"  "specific  facts,"  and 
"specific  evidence"--that  plaintiffs'  proposed  activities  will 
support  terrorist  attacks.  See  post,  at  48,  55,  62.  That 
would be a dangerous requirement.  In this context, conclu-
sions must often be based on informed judgment rather than 

Cite as: 561 U. S. 1 (2010)  35 

Opinion of the Court 
concrete evidence, and that reality affects what we may rea-sonably  insist  on from  the Government.  The materialsupport statute is, on its face, a preventive measure--it crim-inalizes not terrorist attacks themselves, but aid that makes 
the  attacks  more  likely  to  occur.  The  Government,  when seeking to prevent imminent harms in the context of interna-
tional affairs and national security, is not required to conclu-
sively link all the pieces in the puzzle before we grant weight to  its  empirical  conclusions.  See 

Zemel,  381  U. S.,  at  17 
("[B]ecause  of  the  changeable  and  explosive  nature  of  con-temporary international  relations, . .  . Congress  . . .  must of 

necessity paint with a brush broader than that it customarily 
wields in domestic areas"). 

This context is different from that in decisions like Cohen. 
In  that  case,  the  application  of  the  statute  turned  on  the 
offensiveness  of  the  speech  at  issue.  Observing  that  "one 
man's  vulgarity  is  another's  lyric,"  we  invalidated  Cohen's 
conviction in part because we concluded that "governmental 
officials  cannot  make  principled  distinctions  in  this  area." 
403 U. S., at 25.  In this litigation, by contrast, Congress and 
the Executive are uniquely positioned to make principled dis-
tinctions  between  activities  that  will  further  terrorist  con-
duct  and  undermine  United  States  foreign  policy,  and  those 
that will not. 

We also find it significant that Congress has been conscious 
of its own responsibility to consider how its actions may im-
plicate  constitutional  concerns.  First,  $ 2339B  only  applies 
to designated foreign terrorist organizations.  There is, and 
always  has  been,  a  limited  number  of  those  organizations 
designated  by  the  Executive  Branch,  see,  e. g.,  74  Fed.  Reg. 
29742  (2009);  62  Fed.  Reg.  52650  (1997),  and  any  groups  so 
designated  may  seek  judicial  review  of  the  designation. 
Second, in response to the lower courts' holdings in this liti-
gation,  Congress  added  clarity  to  the  statute  by  providing 
narrowing  definitions  of  the  terms  "training,"  "personnel," 
and  "expert  advice  or  assistance,"  as  well  as  an  explanation 

36  HOLDER  v.  HUMANITARIAN  LAW  PROJECT 

Opinion of the Court 
of  the  knowledge  required  to  violate  $ 2339B.  Third,  in  ef-
fectuating its stated intent not to abridge First Amendment 
rights,  see  $ 2339B(i),  Congress  has  also  displayed  a  careful 
balancing  of  interests  in  creating  limited  exceptions  to  the 
ban on material support.  The definition of material support, 
for example, excludes medicine and religious materials.  See 

$ 2339A(b)(1).  In this area perhaps more than any other, the 
Legislature's  superior  capacity  for  weighing  competing  in-
terests  means  that  "we  must  be  particularly  careful  not  to 
substitute our judgment of what is desirable for that of Con-
gress."  Rostker,  supra,  at  68.  Finally,  and  most  impor-
tantly, Congress has avoided  any restriction  on independent 
advocacy,  or  indeed  any  activities  not  directed  to,  coordi-
nated with, or controlled by foreign terrorist groups. 

At  bottom,  plaintiffs  simply  disagree  with  the  considered 
judgment of Congress and the Executive that providing ma-
terial  support  to  a  designated  foreign  terrorist  organiza-
tion--even seemingly benign support--bolsters the terrorist 
activities  of  that  organization.  That  judgment,  however,  is 
entitled  to  significant  weight,  and  we  have  persuasive  evi-
dence  before  us  to  sustain  it.  Given  the  sensitive  interests 
in national security and foreign affairs at stake, the political 
branches have adequately substantiated their determination 
that,  to  serve  the  Government's  interest  in  preventing  ter-
rorism,  it  was  necessary  to  prohibit providing  material  sup-
port  in  the  form  of  training,  expert  advice,  personnel,  and 
services  to  foreign  terrorist  groups,  even  if  the  supporters 
meant to promote only the groups' nonviolent ends. 

We  turn  to  the  particular  speech  plaintiffs  propose  to  un-
dertake.  First, plaintiffs propose to "train members of [the] 
PKK  on  how  to  use  humanitarian  and  international  law  to 
peacefully  resolve  disputes."  552  F.  3d,  at  921,  n.  1.  Con-
gress  can,  consistent  with  the  First  Amendment,  prohibit 
this  direct  training.  It  is  wholly  foreseeable  that  the  PKK 
could  use  the  "specific  skill[s]"  that  plaintiffs  propose  to 

Cite as: 561 U. S. 1 (2010)  37 

Opinion of the Court 
impart,  $ 2339A(b)(2),  as  part  of  a  broader  strategy  to  pro-mote terrorism.  The PKK could, for example, pursue peace-

ful  negotiation  as  a  means  of  buying  time  to  recover  from short-term  setbacks,  lulling  opponents  into  complacency, 
and  ultimately  preparing  for  renewed  attacks.  See  gener-ally A. Marcus, Blood and Belief: The PKK and the Kurdish 
Fight for Independence 286-295 (2007) (describing the PKK's 
suspension of armed struggle  and subsequent  return to vio-lence).  A  foreign  terrorist  organization  introduced  to  the 

structures  of  the  international  legal  system  might  use  the information to threaten, manipulate, and disrupt.  This pos-
sibility is real, not remote. 

Second,  plaintiffs  propose  to  "teach  PKK  members  how 
to petition various representative bodies  such as the United 
Nations  for  relief."  552  F.  3d,  at  921,  n.  1.  The  Govern-
ment  acts  within  First  Amendment  strictures  in  banning 
this proposed speech because it teaches the organization how 
to  acquire  "relief,"  which  plaintiffs  never  define  with  any 
specificity,  and  which  could  readily  include  monetary  aid. 
See Brief for Plaintiffs 10-11, 16-17, n. 10; App. 58-59, 80-81. 
Indeed,  earlier  in  this  litigation,  plaintiffs  sought  to  teach 
the LTTE "to present claims for tsunami-related aid to medi-
ators and international bodies," 552 F. 3d, at 921, n. 1, which 
naturally included monetary relief.  Money is fungible, 
supra, at  31, and Congress  logically concluded that  money a 
terrorist group such as the PKK obtains using the techniques 
plaintiffs propose to teach could be redirected to funding the 
group's violent activities. 

Finally, plaintiffs  propose  to  "engage in  political advocacy 
on behalf of Kurds who live in Turkey," and "engage in politi-
cal advocacy on behalf of Tamils who live in Sri Lanka."  552 
F.  3d,  at  921,  n.  1.  As  explained  above,  supra,  at  25,  plain-
tiffs  do not  specify  their  expected  level  of coordination  with 
the PKK or LTTE or suggest what exactly their "advocacy" 
would  consist  of.  Plaintiffs'  proposals  are  phrased  at  such 
a  high  level  of  generality  that  they  cannot  prevail  in  this 

38  HOLDER  v.  HUMANITARIAN  LAW  PROJECT 

Opinion of the Court 
preenforcement  challenge.  See  supra,  at  25;  Grange,  552 U. S., at 454; 

Zemel, 381 U. S., at 20. 
In responding to the foregoing, the dissent fails to address the real dangers at stake.  It instead considers only the pos-

sible benefits of plaintiffs' proposed activities in the abstract. See 

post,  at  52-54.  The  dissent  seems  unwilling  to  enter-
tain the prospect that training and advising a designated for-
eign  terrorist  organization  on  how  to  take  advantage  of  in-ternational entities might  benefit that  organization in a way 

that  facilitates  its  terrorist  activities.  In  the  dissent's world,  such  training  is  all  to  the  good.  Congress  and  the 
Executive,  however,  have  concluded  that  we  live  in  a  dif-
ferent  world:  one  in  which  the  designated  foreign  terrorist 
organizations  "are  so  tainted  by  their  criminal  conduct  that 
any contribution to such an organization facilitates that con-
duct."  AEDPA  $ 301(a)(7).  One  in  which,  for  example, 
"the  United  Nations  High  Commissioner  for  Refugees  was 
forced to close  a Kurdish refugee camp in  northern  Iraq be-
cause the camp had come under the control of the PKK, and 
the  PKK had  failed  to  respect  its  `neutral and  humanitarian 
nature.' "  McKune  Affidavit,  App.  135-136,  || 13.  Training 
and  advice  on  how  to  work  with  the  United  Nations  could 
readily have helped the PKK in its efforts to use the United 
Nations camp as a base for terrorist activities. 

If  only  good  can  come  from  training  our  adversaries  in 
international  dispute  resolution,  presumably  it  would  have 
been  unconstitutional  to  prevent  American  citizens  from 
training the Japanese Government on using international or-
ganizations  and  mechanisms  to  resolve  disputes  during 
World War II.  It would, under the dissent's reasoning, have 
been  contrary  to  our  commitment  to  resolving  disputes 
through " `deliberative forces,' " post, at 52 (quoting Whitney 
v.  California, 274  U. S.  357,  375  (1927) (Brandeis,  J.,  concur-
ring)), for  Congress to conclude that assisting Japan on  that 
front  might  facilitate  its  war  effort  more  generally.  That 
view is not one the First Amendment requires us to embrace. 

Cite as: 561 U. S. 1 (2010)  39 

Opinion of the Court 
All  this  is  not  to  say  that  any  future  applications  of  the material-support  statute  to  speech  or  advocacy  will  survive 

First  Amendment  scrutiny.  It  is  also  not  to  say  that  any other statute relating to speech and terrorism would satisfy 
the First Amendment.  In particular, we in no way suggest that a regulation of independent speech would pass constitu-
tional  muster,  even  if  the  Government  were  to  show  that such  speech  benefits  foreign  terrorist  organizations.  We 
also  do  not  suggest  that  Congress  could  extend  the  same prohibition on material support at issue here to domestic or-
ganizations.  We simply hold that, in prohibiting the particu-lar forms of support that plaintiffs seek to provide to foreign 
terrorist  groups,  $ 2339B  does  not  violate  the  freedom  of speech. 

VI 
Plaintiffs'  final  claim  is  that  the  material-support  statute violates their freedom of association under the First Amend-

ment.  Plaintiffs  argue  that  the  statute  criminalizes  the mere  fact  of  their  associating  with  the  PKK  and  LTTE, 
thereby  running  afoul  of  decisions  like  De  Jonge  v.  Oregon, 299 U. S. 353 (1937), and cases in which we have overturned 
sanctions  for  joining  the  Communist  Party,  see,  e. g.,  Keyi-
shian v.  Board of Regents of Univ. of State of N. Y., 385 U. S. 589 (1967); United States v.  Robel, 389 U. S. 258 (1967). 

The Court of Appeals correctly rejected this claim because the statute does not penalize mere association with a foreign 
terrorist  organization.  As  the  Ninth  Circuit  put  it:  "The statute does not prohibit being a member of one of the desig-
nated groups or vigorously promoting and supporting the po-litical goals of the group. . . . What [$ 2339B] prohibits is the 
act  of  giving  material  support . . .  ."   205 F. 3d, at  1133. Plaintiffs  want  to  do  the  latter.  Our  decisions  scrutinizing 
penalties on simple association or assembly are therefore in-apposite.  See, e. g., Robel, supra, at 262 ("It is precisely be-
cause  th[e]  statute  sweeps  indiscriminately  across  all  types of association with Communist-action groups, without regard 

40  HOLDER  v.  HUMANITARIAN  LAW  PROJECT 

Breyer,
Cite as: 561 U. S. 1 (2010)  41 

Breyer,
42  HOLDER  v.  HUMANITARIAN  LAW  PROJECT 

Breyer,
Cite as: 561 U. S. 1 (2010)  43 

Breyer,
44  HOLDER  v.  HUMANITARIAN  LAW  PROJECT 

Breyer,
Cite as: 561 U. S. 1 (2010)  45 

Breyer,
46  HOLDER  v.  HUMANITARIAN  LAW  PROJECT 

Breyer,
Cite as: 561 U. S. 1 (2010)  47 

Breyer,
48  HOLDER  v.  HUMANITARIAN  LAW  PROJECT 

Breyer,
Cite as: 561 U. S. 1 (2010)  49 

Breyer,
50  HOLDER  v.  HUMANITARIAN  LAW  PROJECT 

Breyer,
Cite as: 561 U. S. 1 (2010)  51 

Breyer,
52  HOLDER  v.  HUMANITARIAN  LAW  PROJECT 

Breyer,
Cite as: 561 U. S. 1 (2010)  53 

Breyer,
54  HOLDER  v.  HUMANITARIAN  LAW  PROJECT 

Breyer,
Cite as: 561 U. S. 1 (2010)  55 

Breyer,
56  HOLDER  v.  HUMANITARIAN  LAW  PROJECT 

Breyer,
Cite as: 561 U. S. 1 (2010)  57 

Breyer,
58  HOLDER  v.  HUMANITARIAN  LAW  PROJECT 

Breyer,
Cite as: 561 U. S. 1 (2010)  59 

Breyer,
60  HOLDER  v.  HUMANITARIAN  LAW  PROJECT 

Breyer,
Cite as: 561 U. S. 1 (2010)  61 

Breyer,
62  HOLDER  v.  HUMANITARIAN  LAW  PROJECT 

Breyer,
OCTOBER  TERM,  2009  63 

Syllabus 

RENT-A-CENTER,  WEST,  INC.  v.

64  RENT-A-CENTER,  WEST,  INC.  v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 63 (2010)  65 

Opinion of the Court 
Justice

66  RENT-A-CENTER,  WEST,  INC.  v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 63 (2010)  67 

Opinion of the Court 
the  authority  to  decide  whether  the  Agreement  is  enforce-able.  It  noted  that  "Jackson  does  not  dispute  that  the  lan-

guage of the Agreement clearly assigns the arbitrability de-termination to the arbitrator," but held that where  "a party 
challenges  an  arbitration  agreement  as  unconscionable,  and thus  asserts  that  he  could  not  meaningfully  assent  to  the 
agreement, the threshold question of unconscionability is for the court." 

Id.,

68  RENT-A-CENTER,  WEST,  INC.  v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 63 (2010)  69 

Opinion of the Court 
way" questions of "arbitrability," such as whether the parties have agreed to arbitrate or whether their  agreement covers 

a  particular  controversy.  See,  e.

70  RENT-A-CENTER,  WEST,  INC.  v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 63 (2010)  71 

Opinion of the Court 
eral  arbitration  law,  an  arbitration  provision  is  severable from  the  remainder  of  the  contract." 

Buckeye,

72  RENT-A-CENTER,  WEST,  INC.  v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 63 (2010)  73 

Opinion of the Court 
"[Jackson's  response]  fails  to  rebut  or  otherwise  address  in 
any  way  [Rent-A-Center's]  argument  that  the  Arbitrator 
must decide [Jackson's] challenge to the enforceability of the 
Agreement.  Thus,

74  RENT-A-CENTER,  WEST,  INC.  v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 63 (2010)  75 

Opinion of the Court 
7-8.  Finally, he repeated the argument made in his District Court filings, that under state law the unconscionable clauses 

could not be severed from the arbitration agreement, see id.,

76  RENT-A-CENTER,  WEST,  INC.  v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 63 (2010)  77 

Stevens,
78  RENT-A-CENTER,  WEST,  INC.  v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 63 (2010)  79 

Stevens,
80  RENT-A-CENTER,  WEST,  INC.  v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 63 (2010)  81 

Stevens,
82  RENT-A-CENTER,  WEST,  INC.  v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 63 (2010)  83 

Stevens,
84  RENT-A-CENTER,  WEST,  INC.  v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 63 (2010)  85 

Stevens,
86  RENT-A-CENTER,  WEST,  INC.  v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 63 (2010)  87 

Stevens,
88  RENT-A-CENTER,  WEST,  INC.  v.OCTOBER  TERM,  2009  89 

Syllabus 

KAWASAKI  KISEN  KAISHA  LTD.  et

90  KAWASAKI KISEN KAISHA LTD. v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 89 (2010)  91 

Syllabus 
the shipment would have to issue its own separate bill.  This would be 
contrary  to  Carmack's  purpose  of  making  the  receiving  and  delivering 
carriers liable under a single, initial bill for damage caused by any car-
rier  within  a  single  course  of  shipment.  This  conclusion  is  consistent 
with Mexican

92  KAWASAKI KISEN KAISHA LTD. v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 89 (2010)  93 

Opinion of the Court 
Justice

94  KAWASAKI KISEN KAISHA LTD. v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 89 (2010)  95 

Opinion of the Court 
The  containers  were  then  loaded  onto  a  Union  Pacific  train 
and  that  train,  or  some  other  train  operated  by  Union  Pa-
cific,  derailed  in  Tyrone,  Oklahoma,  allegedly  destroying 
the cargo. 

The cargo owners filed four separate lawsuits in the Supe-
rior  Court  of  California,  County  of  Los  Angeles.  The  suits 
named "K" Line and Union Pacific as defendants.  Union Pa-
cific  removed  the  suits  to  the  United  States  District  Court 
for the Central District of California.  Union Pacific and "K" 
Line  then  moved  to  dismiss  based  on  the  parties'  Tokyo 
forum-selection clause.  The District Court granted the mo-
tion  to  dismiss.  It  decided  that  the  forum-selection  clause 
was reasonable and applied to Union Pacific pursuant to the 
Himalaya  Clause  in  "K"  Line's  bills  of  lading.  462  F.  Supp. 
2d 1098, 1102-1103 (2006). 

The United States  Court of Appeals for  the Ninth Circuit 
reversed  and  remanded.  557  F.  3d  985  (2009).  The  court 
concluded  that  the  Carmack  Amendment  applied  to  the  in-
land  portion  of  an  international  shipment  under  a  through 
bill  of  lading  and  thus  trumped  the  parties'  forum-selection 
clause.  Id.,

96  KAWASAKI KISEN KAISHA LTD. v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 89 (2010)  97 

Opinion of the Court 
"(a)  A rail carrier providing transportation or service 
subject  to  the  jurisdiction  of  the  [Surface  Transporta-
tion  Board  (STB)]  under  this  part  shall  issue  a  receipt 
or  bill  of  lading  for  property  it  receives  for  transporta-
tion  under  this  part.  That  rail  carrier  and  any  other 
carrier that delivers the property and is providing trans-
portation  or  service  subject  to  the  jurisdiction  of  the 
[STB] under this part are liable to the person entitled to 
recover under the receipt or bill of lading.  The liability 
imposed  under  this  subsection  is  for  the  actual  loss  or 
injury to the property caused by-- 

"(1)  the receiving rail carrier; 
"(2)  the delivering rail carrier; or 
"(3)  another  rail  carrier  over  whose  line  or  route  the 
property  is  transported  in  the  United  States  or  from 
a  place  in  the  United  States  to  a  place  in  an  adjacent 
foreign  country  when  transported  under  a  through  bill 
of lading. 

"Failure to issue a receipt or bill of lading does not affect 
the  liability  of  a  rail  carrier."  49  U. S. C.  $ 11706;  see 
also $ 14706(a) (motor carriers). 

The Carmack Amendment thus requires a rail carrier that 
"receives  [property]  for  transportation  under  this  part"  to 
issue a bill of lading.  $ 11706(a).  The provision "this part" 
refers  to  is  the  STB's  jurisdiction  over  rail  transportation 
within  the  United  States.  See  $ 10501  (2006  ed.  and  Supp. 
II).  The  STB  is  the  successor  to  the  Interstate  Commerce 
Commission.  The STB has "exclusive" jurisdiction to regu-
late "transportation by rail carrier[s]" between places in the 
United  States  as  well  as  between  a  place  in  "the  United 
States  and  a  place  in  a  foreign  country."  $$ 10501(a)(1), 
(a)(2)(F),  (b)  (2006  ed.).  Regulated  rail  carriers  must  pro-
vide  transportation  subject  to  STB  rail  carrier  jurisdiction 
"on  reasonable  request,"  $ 11101(a),  at  reasonable  rates, 

$$ 10702, 10707(b), 11101(a), (e). 

98  KAWASAKI KISEN KAISHA LTD. v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 89 (2010)  99 

Opinion of the Court 
they  may  contract  out  of  Carmack's  venue  provisions  and other  requirements,  see  $$ 10502,  10709;  but  in  light  of  the 

disposition  and  ruling  to  follow,  those  matters  need  not  be discussed or further explored. 

III 
In Kirby,

100  KAWASAKI KISEN KAISHA LTD. v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 89 (2010)  101 

Opinion of the Court 
shall  issue  a  receipt  or  bill  of  lading  for  property  it  re-ceives  for  transportation  under  this  part."  $ 11706(a). 

This critical first sentence requires a Carmack-compliant bill of  lading  if  two  conditions  are  satisfied.  First,  the  rail  car-
rier must "provid[e] transportation or service subject  to the jurisdiction  of  the  [STB]."  Second,  that  carrier  must  "re-
ceiv[e]"  the  property  "for  transportation  under  this  part," where "this part" is the STB's jurisdiction over domestic rail 
transport.  Carmack  thus  requires  the  receiving  rail  car-rier--but  not  the  delivering  or  connecting  rail  carrier--to 
issue  a  bill  of  lading.  As  explained  below,  ascertaining  the shipment's point of origin  is critical to deciding whether the 
shipment includes a receiving rail carrier. The  conclusion  that  Carmack's  bill  of  lading  requirement 
only  applies  to  the  receiving  rail  carrier  is  dictated  by  the text  and  is  consistent  with  this  Court's  precedent.  See 
St.

102  KAWASAKI KISEN KAISHA LTD. v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 89 (2010)  103 

Opinion of the Court 
of  property  for  which  Carmack  requires  a  receiving  carrier to  issue  a  bill  of  lading,  regardless  of  whether  that  carrier 

erroneously  fails  to  issue  such  a  bill.  See  ibid.

104  KAWASAKI KISEN KAISHA LTD. v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 89 (2010)  105 

Opinion of the Court 
Line,  it  is  unclear  whether  the  cargo  owners  (the  parties Carmack is  designed to  protect)  would be  able  to  sue  under 

the  terms  governing  that  bill,  especially  in  light  of  their different  through  bill  with  "K"  Line.  These  difficulties  are 
reason  enough  to  reject  this  novel  interpretation  of  Car-mack,  which  was  neither  urged  by  any  party  nor  adopted 
by  any  authority  that  has  been  called  to  this  Court's 
attention. This  would  be  a  quite  different  case  if,  as  in 

Reider,

106  KAWASAKI KISEN KAISHA LTD. v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 89 (2010)  107 

Opinion of the Court 
through  bill.  None  of  Carmack's  legislative  versions  have applied to the inland domestic rail segment of an import ship-

ment from overseas under a through bill. Congress  enacted  Carmack  in  1906,  as  an  amendment  to 
the  Interstate  Commerce  Act.  At  that  time,  the  amend-ment's  provisions  applied  only  to  "property  for  transporta-
tion  from  a  point  in  one  State  to  a  point  in  another  State." 

$ 7,  34  Stat.  595.  Congress  amended  Carmack  in  1915,  $ 1, 38 Stat. 1197, and the relevant language remained unchanged 

until  Carmack  was  recodified  in  1978.  Under  the  pre-1978 language, Carmack's bill of lading provisions applied not only 
to  wholly  domestic  rail  transport  but  also  to  cargo  "re-
ceive[d] . . . for transportation" "from any point in the United 
States to a point in an adjacent foreign country."  49 U. S. C. 

$ 20(11) (1976 ed.). 

Even  if  there  could  be  some  argument  that  the  Carmack 
Amendment before 1978 applied to imports from Canada and 
Mexico  because  the  phrase  "from  .  .  .  to"  could  also  mean 
"between,"  cf.  Reider,

108  KAWASAKI KISEN KAISHA LTD. v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 89 (2010)  109 

Opinion of the Court 
aged at sea (COGSA) and another almost always would apply when  the  damage  occurs  on  land  (Carmack).  Rather  than 

making  claims  by  cargo  owners  easier  to  resolve,  a  court would  have  to  decide  where  the  damage  occurred  to  deter-
mine which law applied.  As a practical matter, this require-ment  often  could  not  be  met;  for  damage  to  the  content  of 
containers  can  occur  when  the  contents  are  damaged  by 
rough  handling,  seepage,  or  theft,  at  some  unknown  point. See  H.  Kindred  &  M.  Brooks,  Multimodal  Transport  Rules 

143  (1997).  Indeed,  adopting  the  Court  of  Appeals'  ap-proach would seem to require rail carriers to open containers 
at  the  port  to  check  if  damage  has  been  done  during  the 
sea voyage.  This disruption would undermine international 
container-based  transport.  The  Court  will  not  read  Con-
gress'  nonsubstantive  recodification  of  Carmack  in  1978  to 
create such a drastic sea change in practice in this area. 

Applying  Carmack's  provisions  to  international  import 
shipping  transport  would  also  undermine  the  "purpose  of 
COGSA,  to  facilitate  efficient  contracting  in  contracts  for 
carriage by sea."  Kirby,

110  KAWASAKI KISEN KAISHA LTD. v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 89 (2010)  111 

Opinion of the Court 
which has yet to be "ratified by the President with the advice and consent of the Senate."  Brief for United States as Ami-

cus

112  KAWASAKI KISEN KAISHA LTD. v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 89 (2010)  113 

Sotomayor,
114  KAWASAKI KISEN KAISHA LTD. v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 89 (2010)  115 

Sotomayor,
116  KAWASAKI KISEN KAISHA LTD. v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 89 (2010)  117 

Sotomayor,
118  KAWASAKI KISEN KAISHA LTD. v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 89 (2010)  119 

Sotomayor,
120  KAWASAKI KISEN KAISHA LTD. v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 89 (2010)  121 

Sotomayor,
122  KAWASAKI KISEN KAISHA LTD. v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 89 (2010)  123 

Sotomayor,
124  KAWASAKI KISEN KAISHA LTD. v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 89 (2010)  125 

Sotomayor,
126  KAWASAKI KISEN KAISHA LTD. v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 89 (2010)  127 

Sotomayor,
128  KAWASAKI KISEN KAISHA LTD. v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 89 (2010)  129 

Sotomayor,
130  KAWASAKI KISEN KAISHA LTD. v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 89 (2010)  131 

Sotomayor,
132  KAWASAKI KISEN KAISHA LTD. v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 89 (2010)  133 

Sotomayor,
134  KAWASAKI KISEN KAISHA LTD. v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 89 (2010)  135 

Sotomayor,
136  KAWASAKI KISEN KAISHA LTD. v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 89 (2010)  137 

Sotomayor,
138  KAWASAKI KISEN KAISHA LTD. v.OCTOBER  TERM,  2009   139 

Syllabus 

MONSANTO  CO.  et

140  MONSANTO  CO.  v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 139 (2010)  141 

Syllabus 
deregulation  petition,  even  in  part,  the  agency  must  prepare  an  EIS. 
That part of the judgment inflicts an injury not also caused by the vaca-
tur.  Pp. 149-153. 

(b)  Respondents have constitutional standing to seek injunctive re-
lief from the complete deregulation order at issue here.  The Court dis-
agrees with petitioners' argument that respondents have failed to show 
that  any  of  them  is  likely  to  suffer  a  constitutionally  cognizable  injury 
absent  injunctive  relief.  The  District  Court  found  that  respondent 
farmers had established a reasonable probability that their conventional 
alfalfa  crops  would  be  infected  with  the  engineered  Roundup  Ready 
gene  if  RRA were  completely  deregulated.  A  substantial risk of  such 
gene flow injures respondents in several ways that are sufficiently con-
crete  to  satisfy  the  injury-in-fact  prong  of  the  constitutional  standing 
analysis.  Moreover,  those  harms  are  readily  attributable  to  APHIS's 
deregulation decision, which gives rise to a significant risk of gene flow 
to non-genetically-engineered alfalfa varieties.  Finally, a judicial order 
prohibiting the planting or deregulation of all or some genetically engi-
neered  alfalfa  would  redress  respondents'  injuries  by  eliminating  or 
minimizing the risk of gene flow to their crops.  Pp. 153-156. 

2.  The District Court abused its discretion in enjoining APHIS from 
effecting a partial deregulation and in prohibiting the planting of RRA 
pending  the  agency's  completion  of  its  detailed  environmental  review. 
Pp. 156-166. 

(a)  Because  petitioners  and  the  Government  do  not  argue  other-
wise, the Court assumes without deciding that the District Court acted 
lawfully  in  vacating  the  agency's  decision  to  completely  deregulate 
RRA.  The  Court  therefore  addresses  only  the  injunction  prohibiting 
APHIS from deregulating RRA pending completion of the EIS, and the 
nationwide  injunction  prohibiting  almost  all  RRA  planting  during  the 
pendency of the EIS process.  P. 156. 

(b)  Before  a court  may grant  a permanent injunction,  the plaintiff 
must  satisfy  a  four-factor  test,  demonstrating:  "(1)  that  it  has  suffered 
an irreparable injury; (2) that remedies available  at law, such  as mone-
tary  damages,  are  inadequate  to  compensate  for  that  injury;  (3)  that, 
considering  the  balance  of  hardships  between  the  plaintiff  and  defend-
ant,  a  remedy  in  equity  is  warranted;  and  (4)  that  the  public  interest 
would not be disserved by a permanent injunction."  eBay

142  MONSANTO  CO.  v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 139 (2010)  143 

Counsel 
Bress,

144  MONSANTO  CO.  v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 139 (2010)  145 

Opinion of the Court 
under  the  PPA--until  APHIS  determines  otherwise.  See 
ibid.;

146  MONSANTO  CO.  v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 139 (2010)  147 

Opinion of the Court 
In resolving respondents' NEPA claim, the District Court accepted  APHIS's  determination  that  RRA  does  not  have 

any harmful health effects on humans or livestock.  App. to Pet. for Cert. 43a; accord, 

id.,

148  MONSANTO  CO.  v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 139 (2010)  149 

Opinion of the Court 
mitted  clear  error  in  making  any  of  the  subsidiary  factual findings on which its assessment of the four relevant factors 

was  based.  And  the  panel  rejected  the  claim  that  the  Dis-trict  Court  had  not  given  sufficient  deference  to  APHIS's 
expertise concerning the likely effects of allowing continued planting  of  RRA  on  a  limited  basis.  In  the  panel's  view, 
APHIS's  proposed  interim  measures  would  have  perpetu-ated  a  system  that  had  been  found  by  the  District  Court  to 
have  caused  environmental  harm  in  the  past.  Id.,

150  MONSANTO  CO.  v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 139 (2010)  151 

Opinion of the Court 
Oral  Arg.  6,  25-27,  53-54.  That  judgment  would  have  re-placed  the  vacated  deregulation  decision  with  an  order 

expressly  allowing  continued  planting  of  RRA  subject  to certain  limited  conditions.  App.  to  Pet.  for  Cert.  184a 
(proposed judgment providing that "[the federal] defendants' 14  June  2005  Determination  of  Nonregulated  Status  for  Al-
falfa  Genetically  Engineered  for  Tolerance  to  the  Herbicide Glyphosate  is  hereby  vacated 

and

152  MONSANTO  CO.  v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 139 (2010)  153 

Opinion of the Court 
stitutionally  cognizable  injury.  Moreover,  as  respondents essentially  conceded  at  oral  argument,  that  injury  would  be 

redressed  by  a  favorable  decision  here,  since  "vacating  the current  injunction  .  .  .  will  allow  [petitioners]  to  go  back  to 
the agency, [to] seek a partial deregulation," even if the Dis-trict Court's vacatur of APHIS's deregulation decision is left 
intact.  Id.,

154  MONSANTO  CO.  v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 139 (2010)  155 

Opinion of the Court 
to  potential  for  genetic  contamination");  id.,

156  MONSANTO  CO.  v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 139 (2010)  157 

Opinion of the Court 
(3)  that,  considering  the  balance  of  hardships  between  the plaintiff and defendant, a remedy in equity is warranted; and 

(4) that the public interest would not be disserved by a per-manent  injunction." 

eBay

158  MONSANTO  CO.  v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 139 (2010)  159 

Opinion of the Court 
ronmental  impact  statement."  App.  to  Pet.  for  Cert.  108a (emphasis added); see also 

id.,

160  MONSANTO  CO.  v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 139 (2010)  161 

Opinion of the Court 
Nor  can  the  District  Court's  injunction  be  justified  as  a 
prophylactic measure needed to guard against the possibility 
that the  agency would seek  to  effect on its  own the  particu-
lar  partial  deregulation  scheme  embodied  in  the  terms  of 
APHIS's  proposed  judgment.  Even  if  the  District  Court 
was not required to adopt that judgment, there was no need 
to  stop  the  agency  from  effecting  a  partial  deregulation  in 
accordance  with  the  procedures  established  by  law.  More-
over,  the  terms  of  the  District  Court's  injunction  do  not 

just  enjoin  the  particular

162  MONSANTO  CO.  v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 139 (2010)  163 

Opinion of the Court 
of  the  partial  deregulation  is  sufficiently  limited,  the  risk  of gene flow to their crops could be virtually nonexistent.  For 

example,  suppose  that  APHIS  deregulates  RRA  only  in  a remote  part  of  the  country  in  which  respondents  neither 
grow  nor  intend  to  grow  non-genetically-engineered  alfalfa, and  in  which  no  conventional  alfalfa  farms  are  currently  lo-
cated.  Suppose  further  that  APHIS  issues  an  accompany-ing  administrative  order  mandating  isolation  distances  so 
great as to eliminate any appreciable risk of gene flow to the crops of conventional farmers who  might someday  choose to 
plant in the surrounding area.  See, e.

164  MONSANTO  CO.  v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 139 (2010)  165 

Opinion of the Court 

D 
We  now  turn  to  petitioners'  claim  that  the  District  Court erred  in  entering  a  nationwide  injunction  against  planting 

RRA.  Petitioners  argue  that  the  District  Court  did  not apply the right test for determining whether to enter perma-
nent injunctive relief; that, even if the District Court identi-fied the operative legal standard, it erred as a matter of law 
in  applying  that  standard  to  the  facts  of  this  case;  and  that the  District  Court  was  required  to  grant  petitioners  an  evi-
dentiary hearing to resolve contested issues of fact germane to the remedial dispute between the parties.  We agree that 
the District Court's injunction against planting went too far, but we come to that conclusion for two independent reasons. 

First, the impropriety of the District Court's broad injunc-tion against planting flows from the impropriety of its injunc-
tion  against  partial  deregulation.  If  APHIS  may  partially deregulate RRA before preparing a full-blown EIS--a ques-
tion  that  we  need  not  and  do  not  decide  here--farmers should be able to grow and sell RRA in accordance with that 
agency determination.  Because it was inappropriate for the District  Court  to  foreclose  even  the  possibility  of  a  partial 
and  temporary  deregulation,  it  necessarily  follows  that  it was likewise inappropriate to enjoin any and all parties from 
acting  in  accordance  with  the  terms  of  such  a  deregulation decision. 

Second,  respondents  have  represented  to  this  Court  that the District Court's injunction against planting does not have 
any  meaningful  practical  effect  independent  of  its  vacatur. See  Brief  for  Respondents  24;  see  also  Tr.  of  Oral  Arg.  38 
("[T]he  mistake  that  was  made  [by  the  District  Court]  was in not appreciating . . . that the vacatur did have [the] effect" 
of  independently  prohibiting  the  growth  and  sale  of  almost all RRA).  An injunction is a drastic and extraordinary rem-
edy, which should not be granted as a matter of course.  See, 
e.

166  MONSANTO  CO.  v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 139 (2010)  167 

Stevens,
168  MONSANTO  CO.  v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 139 (2010)  169 

Stevens,
170  MONSANTO  CO.  v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 139 (2010)  171 

Stevens,
172  MONSANTO  CO.  v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 139 (2010)  173 

Stevens,
174  MONSANTO  CO.  v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 139 (2010)  175 

Stevens,
176  MONSANTO  CO.  v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 139 (2010)  177 

Stevens,
178  MONSANTO  CO.  v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 139 (2010)  179 

Stevens,
180  MONSANTO  CO.  v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 139 (2010)  181 

Stevens,
182  MONSANTO  CO.  v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 139 (2010)  183 

Stevens,
184  MONSANTO  CO.  v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 139 (2010)  185 

Stevens,
186  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

Syllabus 

DOE  et

Cite as: 561 U. S. 186 (2010)  187 

Syllabus 
tiffs  were  unlikely  to  succeed  on  their  claim  that  the  PRA  is  unconsti-
tutional  as  applied  to  referendum  petitions  in  general,  and  therefore 
reversed. 

Held:  Disclosure  of  referendum  petitions  does  not  as  a  general  matter 

violate the First Amendment.  Pp. 194-202. 

(a)  Because plaintiffs' Count I claim and the relief that would follow-- 
an injunction barring the secretary of state from releasing referendum 
petitions  to  the  public--reach  beyond  the  particular  circumstances  of 
these plaintiffs, they must satisfy this Court's standards for a facial chal-
lenge  to  the  extent  of  that  reach.  See  United  States  v.  Stevens,  559 
U. S. 460, 472-473.  P. 194. 

(b)  The compelled disclosure of signatory information on referendum 
petitions  is  subject  to  review  under  the  First  Amendment.  In  most 
cases, the individual's signature will express the view that the law sub-
ject to the petition should be overturned.  Even if the signer is agnostic 
as to the merits of the underlying law, his signature still expresses the 
political view that the question should be considered "by the whole elec-
torate."  Meyer v. Grant, 486 U. S. 414, 421.  In either case, the expres-
sion of a political view implicates a First Amendment right. 

Petition  signing  remains  expressive  even  when  it  has  legal  effect  in 
the electoral process.  But that does not mean that the electoral context 
is  irrelevant  to  the  nature  of  this  Court's  First  Amendment  review. 
States have significant flexibility in implementing their own voting sys-
tems.  To the extent a regulation concerns the legal effect of a particu-
lar activity in that process, the government is afforded substantial lati-
tude to enforce that regulation.  Also pertinent is the fact that the PRA 
is  not  a  prohibition  on  speech,  but  a  disclosure  requirement  that  may 
burden "the ability to speak, but [does] `not prevent anyone from speak-
ing.' "  Citizens United v.  Federal Election Comm'n, 558 U. S. 310, 366. 
This Court has reviewed First Amendment challenges to disclosure re-
quirements in the electoral context under an "exacting scrutiny" stand-
ard,  requiring  "a  `substantial  relation'  between  the  disclosure  require-
ment  and  a  `sufficiently  important'  governmental  interest."  Id.,  at 
366-367.  To  withstand  this  scrutiny,  "the  strength  of  the  govern-
mental  interest  must  reflect  the  seriousness  of  the  actual  burden  on 
First  Amendment  rights."  Davis  v.  Federal  Election  Comm'n,  554 
U. S. 724, 744.  Pp. 194-196. 

(c)  The  State's  interest  in  preserving  the  integrity  of  the  electoral 
process suffices to defeat the argument that the PRA is unconstitutional 
with respect  to  referendum petitions  in  general.  That  interest  is  par-
ticularly  strong  with  respect  to  efforts  to  root  out  fraud.  But  the 
State's  interest  is  not  limited  to  combating  fraud;  it  extends  to  efforts 

188  DOE  v.  REED 

Syllabus 
to ferret out invalid signatures caused not by fraud but by simple mis-
take,  such  as  duplicate  signatures  or  signatures  of  individuals  who  are 
not  registered  to  vote  in  the  State.  The  State's  interest  also  extends 
more  generally  to  promoting  transparency  and  accountability  in  the 
electoral process. 

Plaintiffs  contend  that disclosure  is not sufficiently  related to  the in-
terest  of  protecting  the  integrity  of  the  electoral  process  to  withstand 
First  Amendment  scrutiny.  They  argue  that  disclosure  is  not  neces-
sary  because  the  secretary  of  state  is  already  charged  with  verifying 
and canvassing the names on a petition, a measure's advocates and oppo-
nents can observe that process, any citizen can challenge the secretary's 
actions  in  court,  and  criminal  penalties  reduce  the  danger  of  fraud  in 
the  petition  process.  But  the  secretary's  verification  and  canvassing 
will  not catch  all  the  invalid  signatures,  and  public  disclosure  can  help 
cure the inadequacies of the secretary's process.  Disclosure also helps 
prevent difficult-to-detect  fraud such  as  outright forgery and "bait and 
switch" fraud, in which an individual signs the petition based on a mis-
representation of the underlying issue.  And disclosure promotes trans-
parency  and  accountability  in  the  electoral  process  to  an  extent  other 
measures cannot.  Pp. 197-199. 

(d)  Plaintiffs' main objection is that "the strength of the governmen-
tal  interest"  does  not  "reflect  the  seriousness  of  the  actual  burden  on 
First  Amendment  rights."  Davis,  supra,  at  744.  According  to  plain-
tiffs,  the  objective  of  those  seeking  disclosure  is  not  to  prevent  fraud, 
but  to  publicly  identify  signatories  and  broadcast  their  political  views 
on the  subject  of  the  petition.  Plaintiffs allege,  for example,  that sev-
eral groups plan to post the petitions in searchable form on the Internet, 
and  then  encourage  other  citizens  to  seek  out  R-71  petition  signers. 
That,  plaintiffs  argue,  would  subject  them  to  threats,  harassment,  and 
reprisals. 

The problem for plaintiffs is that their argument rests almost entirely 
on the specific harm that would attend the disclosure of information on 
the  R-71  petition.  But  the  question  before  the  Court  at  this  stage  of 
the  litigation  is  whether  disclosure  of  referendum  petitions  in  general 
violates the  First Amendment.  Faced  with the State's unrebutted  ar-
guments  that  only  modest  burdens  attend  the  disclosure  of  a  typical 
petition, plaintiffs' broad challenge to the PRA must be rejected.  But 
upholding  the  PRA  against  a  broad-based  challenge  does  not  foreclose 
success  on  plaintiffs'  narrower  challenge  in  Count  II,  which  is  pend-
ing  before  the  District  Court.  See  Buckley  v.  Valeo,  424  U. S.  1,  74. 
Pp. 199-202. 

586 F. 3d 671, affirmed. 

Cite as: 561 U. S. 186 (2010)  189 

Syllabus 
Roberts,

190  DOE  v.  REED 

Opinion of the Court 
Chief

Cite as: 561 U. S. 186 (2010)  191 

Opinion of the Court 
names and addresses of the signers, is then submitted to the government  for  verification  and  canvassing,  to  ensure  that 

only lawful signatures are counted.  The Washington Public Records Act (PRA) authorizes private parties to obtain cop-
ies  of  government  documents,  and  the  State  construes  the PRA to cover submitted referendum petitions. 

This case arises out of a state law extending certain bene-fits to same-sex couples, and a corresponding referendum pe-
tition  to  put  that  law  to  a  popular  vote.  Respondent  inter-venors invoked the PRA to obtain copies of the petition, with 
the  names  and  addresses  of  the  signers.  Certain  petition signers and the petition sponsor objected, arguing that such 
public  disclosure  would  violate  their  rights  under  the  First Amendment. 

The course of this litigation, however, has framed the legal question before  us more broadly.  The issue at this  stage of 
the  case is  not  whether disclosure  of  this  particular  petition would violate the First Amendment,  but whether disclosure 
of  referendum  petitions  in  general  would  do  so.  We  con-clude  that  such  disclosure  does  not  as  a  general  matter  vio-
late the First Amendment, and we therefore affirm the judg-ment  of  the  Court  of  Appeals.  We  leave  it  to  the  lower 
courts  to  consider  in  the  first  instance  the  signers'  more  fo-cused  claim  concerning  disclosure  of the  information  on  this 
particular  petition,  which  is  pending  before  the  District Court. 

I 
The  Washington  Constitution  reserves  to  the  people  the power  to  reject  any  bill,  with  a  few  limited  exceptions 

not  relevant  here,  through  the  referendum  process.  Wash. Const., Art. II, $ 1(b).  To initiate a referendum, proponents 
must file  a petition  with the secretary  of state  that contains valid signatures of registered Washington voters equal to or 
exceeding four percent of the votes cast for the office of Gov-ernor  at  the  last  gubernatorial  election.  $$ 1(b),  (d).  A 
valid  submission  requires  not  only  a  signature,  but  also  the 

192  DOE  v.  REED 

Opinion of the Court 
signer's  address  and  the  county  in  which he  is  registered to vote.  Wash. Rev. Code $ 29A.72.130 (2008). 

In  May  2009,  Washington  Governor  Christine  Gregoire signed  into  law  Senate  Bill  5688,  which  "expand[ed]  the 
rights  and  responsibilities"  of  state-registered  domestic partners,  including  same-sex  domestic  partners.  586  F.  3d 
671,  675  (CA9  2009).  That  same  month,  Protect  Marriage 
Washington,  one  of  the  petitioners  here,  was  organized  as a  "State  Political  Committee"  for  the  purpose  of  collect-

ing  the  petition  signatures  necessary  to  place  a  referen-dum  on  the  ballot,  which  would  give  the  voters  themselves 
an opportunity to vote on SB 5688.  App. 8-9.  If the refer-endum  made  it  onto  the  ballot,  Protect  Marriage  Washing-
ton  planned  to  encourage  voters  to  reject  SB  5688.  Id., at 7, 9. 

On July 25, 2009, Protect Marriage Washington submitted 
to  the  secretary  of  state  a  petition  containing  over  137,000 signatures.  See  586  F.  3d,  at  675;  Brief  for  Respondent 

Washington  Families  Standing  Together  6.  The  secretary of  state  then  began  the  verification  and  canvassing  process, 
as  required  by  Washington  law,  to  ensure  that  only  legal signatures  were  counted.  Wash.  Rev.  Code  $ 29A.72.230. 
Some  120,000  valid  signatures  were  required  to  place  the 
referendum  on  the  ballot.  Sam  Reed,  Washington  Secre-
tary of State, Certification of Referendum 71 (Sept. 2, 2009). 
The  secretary  of  state  determined  that  the  petition  con-
tained a sufficient number of valid signatures, and the refer-
endum  (R-71)  appeared  on  the  November  2009  ballot.  The 
voters  approved  SB  5688  by  a  margin  of  53  percent  to  47 
percent. 

The PRA, Wash. Rev. Code $ 42.56.001 et seq. (2008), makes 
all "public  records" available  for  public  inspection and  copy-
ing.  $ 42.56.070(1).  The  Act  defines  "[p]ublic  record"  as 
"any  writing  containing  information  relating  to  the  conduct 
of  government  or  the  performance  of  any  governmental 
or  proprietary  function  prepared,  owned,  used,  or  retained 
by  any  state  or  local  agency."  $ 42.56.010(2).  Washington 

Cite as: 561 U. S. 186 (2010)  193 

Opinion of the Court 
takes the position that referendum petitions are "public rec-ords."  Brief for Respondent Reed 5. 

By  August  20,  2009,  the  secretary  had  received  requests for  copies  of  the  R-71  petition  from  an  individual  and  four 
entities,  including  Washington  Coalition  for  Open  Govern-ment  (WCOG)  and  Washington  Families  Standing  Together 
(WFST),  two  of  the  respondents  here.  586  F.  3d,  at  675. 
Two entities, WhoSigned.org and KnowThyNeighbor.org, is-sued  a  joint  press release  stating their  intention to  post  the 

names  of  the  R-71  petition  signers  online,  in  a  searchable format.  See App. 11; 586 F. 3d, at 675. 

The  referendum  petition  sponsor  and  certain  signers  filed a complaint and a motion for a preliminary injunction in the 
United  States  District  Court  for  the  Western  District  of Washington,  seeking  to  enjoin  the  secretary  of  state  from 
publicly  releasing  any  documents  that  would  reveal  the 
names and  contact information of  the  R-71  petition signers. App.  4.  Count  I  of  the  complaint  alleges  that  "[t]he  Public 

Records Act is unconstitutional as applied to referendum pe-titions." 

Id.,  at  16.  Count  II  of  the  complaint  alleges  that 
"the Public Records Act is unconstitutional as applied to the Referendum 71 petition because there is a reasonable proba-

bility that the signatories of the Referendum 71 petition will 
be  subjected  to  threats,  harassment,  and  reprisals."  Id., 
at  17.  Determining  that  the  PRA  burdened  core  political 
speech,  the  District  Court held  that plaintiffs  were likely  to 
succeed on the merits of Count I and granted them a prelimi-
nary injunction on that count, enjoining release of the infor-
mation  on  the  petition.  661  F.  Supp.  2d  1194,  1205-1206 
(WD Wash. 2009). 

The United States  Court of Appeals for  the Ninth Circuit 
reversed.  Reviewing  only  Count  I  of  the  complaint,  the 
Court of Appeals held that plaintiffs were unlikely to succeed 
on their claim that the PRA is unconstitutional as applied to 
referendum  petitions  generally.  It  therefore  reversed  the 
District  Court's  grant  of  the  preliminary  injunction.  586 
F. 3d, at 681.  We granted certiorari.  558 U. S. 1142 (2010). 

194  DOE  v.  REED 

Opinion of the Court 

II 
It  is  important  at  the  outset  to  define  the  scope  of  the challenge before us.  As noted, Count I of the complaint con-

tends  that  the  PRA  "violates  the  First  Amendment  as  ap-plied  to  referendum  petitions."  App.  16.  Count  II  asserts 
that the PRA "is unconstitutional as applied to the Referen-dum  71  petition." 

Id.,  at  17.  The  District  Court  decision was  based  solely  on  Count  I;  the  Court  of  Appeals  decision 

reversing  the  District  Court  was  similarly  limited.  586 F. 3d, at 676, n. 6.  Neither court addressed Count II. 

The  parties  disagree  about  whether  Count  I  is  properly viewed  as  a  facial  or  as-applied  challenge.  Compare  Reply 
Brief  for  Petitioners  8  ("Count  I  expressly  made  an  as-applied challenge") with Brief for Respondent Reed 1 ("This 
is  a  facial  challenge  to  Washington's  Public  Records  Act"). It obviously  has  characteristics of both: The  claim  is  "as ap-
plied"  in  the  sense  that  it  does  not  seek  to  strike  the  PRA in all its applications, but only to the extent it covers referen-
dum petitions.  The claim is  "facial"  in that  it is  not  limited to plaintiffs' particular case, but challenges application of the 
law more broadly to all referendum petitions. The  label  is  not  what  matters.  The  important  point  is 
that plaintiffs' claim and the relief that would follow--an in-junction  barring  the  secretary  of  state  "from  making  refer-
endum petitions available to the public," App. 16 (Complaint Count  I)--reach  beyond  the  particular  circumstances  of 
these  plaintiffs.  They  must  therefore  satisfy  our  standards for a facial challenge to the extent of that reach.  See 

United States v.  Stevens, 559 U. S. 460, 472-473 (2010). 

III 

A 
The  compelled  disclosure  of  signatory  information  on  ref-erendum  petitions  is  subject  to  review  under  the  First 

Amendment.  An  individual  expresses  a  view  on  a  political matter when he signs a petition under Washington's referen-

Cite as: 561 U. S. 186 (2010)  195 

Opinion of the Court 
dum  procedure.  In  most  cases,  the  individual's  signature will  express  the  view  that  the  law  subject  to  the  petition 

should  be  overturned.  Even  if  the  signer  is  agnostic  as  to the merits of the underlying law, his signature still expresses 
the political view that the question should be considered "by the  whole  electorate." 

Meyer  v.  Grant,  486  U. S.  414,  421 
(1988).  In either case, the expression of a political view im-
plicates a First Amendment  right.  The State, having  "cho-[sen]  to  tap  the  energy  and  the  legitimizing  power  of  the 

democratic process, . . .  must accord the  participants  in  that process  the  First  Amendment  rights  that  attach  to  their 
roles."  Republican  Party  of  Minn.  v.  White,  536  U. S.  765, 
788 (2002) (internal quotation marks and ellipsis omitted). 

Respondents  counter  that  signing  a  petition  is  a  legally 
operative legislative act and therefore "does not involve any 
significant expressive element."  Brief for Respondent Reed 
31.  It  is  true  that  signing  a  referendum  petition  may  ulti-
mately have the legal consequence of requiring the secretary 
of  state  to  place  the  referendum  on  the  ballot.  But  we  do 
not see how adding such legal effect to an expressive activity 
somehow deprives that activity of its expressive component, 
taking  it  outside  the  scope  of  the  First  Amendment.  Re-
spondents themselves implicitly recognize that the signature 
expresses  a  particular  viewpoint,  arguing  that  one  purpose 
served by disclosure is to allow the public to engage signers 
in  a  debate  on  the  merits  of  the  underlying  law.  See,  e. g., 
id., at 45; Brief for Respondent WCOG 49; Brief for Respond-
ent WFST 58. 

Petition signing remains expressive even when it has legal 
effect  in  the  electoral  process.  But  that  is  not  to  say  that 
the  electoral  context  is  irrelevant  to  the  nature  of  our  First 
Amendment  review.  We  allow  States  significant  flexibility 
in  implementing  their  own  voting  systems.  See  Burdick  v. 
Takushi, 504 U. S. 428, 433-434 (1992).  To the extent a reg-
ulation  concerns  the  legal  effect  of  a  particular  activity  in 
that process, the government will be afforded substantial lat-

196  DOE  v.  REED 

Opinion of the Court 
itude to enforce that regulation.  Also pertinent to our anal-ysis  is  the  fact  that  the  PRA  is  not  a  prohibition  on  speech, 

but instead a disclosure  requirement.  "[D]isclosure re-quirements  may  burden  the  ability  to  speak,  but  they . . .  
do  not  prevent  anyone  from  speaking."  Citizens  United  v. 
Federal Election Comm'n, 558 U. S. 310, 366 (2010) (internal quotation marks omitted). 

We  have  a  series  of  precedents  considering  First  Amend-ment  challenges  to  disclosure  requirements  in  the  electoral 
context.  These  precedents  have  reviewed  such  challenges under what has been termed "exacting scrutiny."  See, e. g., 
Buckley v.  Valeo, 424 U. S. 1, 64 (1976) (per curiam) ("Since 
NAACP v.  Alabama [ex rel. Patterson, 357 U. S. 449 (1958),] we  have  required  that  the  subordinating  interests  of  the 

State [offered to justify compelled disclosure] survive exact-ing  scrutiny");  Citizens  United,  supra,  at  366  ("The  Court 
has  subjected  [disclosure]  requirements  to  `exacting  scru-tiny' "  (quoting  Buckley,  supra,  at  64));  Davis  v.  Federal 
Election  Comm'n,  554  U. S.  724,  744  (2008)  (governmental interest  in  disclosure  " `must  survive  exacting  scrutiny' " 
(quoting  Buckley, supra,  at  64));  Buckley v.  American  Con-

stitutional  Law  Foundation,  Inc.,  525  U. S.  182,  204  (1999) (ACLF) (finding that disclosure rules "fail[ed] exacting scru-

tiny" (internal quotation marks omitted)). That  standard  "requires  a  `substantial  relation'  between 
the disclosure requirement and a `sufficiently important' gov-ernmental  interest."  Citizens  United,  supra,  at  366-367 
(quoting Buckley, supra, at 64, 66).  To withstand this scru-tiny, "the strength of the governmental interest must reflect 
the  seriousness  of  the  actual  burden  on  First  Amendment rights." 

Davis,  supra,  at  744  (citing  Buckley,  supra,  at 68, 71).
1 

1 Justice

Cite as: 561 U. S. 186 (2010)  197 

Opinion of the Court 

B 
Respondents assert two interests to justify the burdens of 
compelled  disclosure  under  the  PRA  on  First  Amendment rights:  (1)  preserving  the  integrity  of  the  electoral  process 

by  combating  fraud,  detecting  invalid  signatures,  and  fos-tering  government  transparency  and  accountability;  and 
(2)  providing  information  to  the  electorate  about  who  sup-ports the petition.  See, 

e. g., Brief for Respondent Reed 39- 
42,  44-45.  Because  we  determine  that  the  State's  interest in  preserving  the  integrity  of  the  electoral  process  suffices 

to defeat the argument that the PRA is unconstitutional with 
respect to referendum petitions in general, we need not, and 
do not, address the State's "informational" interest. 

The State's interest in preserving the integrity of the elec-
toral  process  is  undoubtedly  important.  "States  allowing 
ballot  initiatives  have  considerable  leeway  to  protect  the 
integrity  and  reliability  of  the  initiative  process,  as  they 
have  with  respect  to  election  processes  generally."  ACLF, 
supra,  at  191.  The  State's  interest  is  particularly  strong 
with respect to efforts to root out fraud, which not only may 
produce  fraudulent  outcomes,  but  has  a  systemic  effect  as 
well: It "drives honest citizens out of the democratic process 
and breeds distrust  of our  government."  Purcell v.  Gonza-
lez,  549  U. S.  1,  4  (2006)  (per  curiam);  see  also  Crawford  v. 
Marion County Election Bd., 553 U. S. 181, 196 (2008) (opin-
ion  of  Stevens,

198  DOE  v.  REED 

Opinion of the Court 
not  merely  hypothetical;  respondents  and  their  amici  cite  a number  of cases  of petition-related  fraud across  the  country 

to  support  the  point.  See  Brief  for  Respondent  Reed  43; Brief for State of Ohio et al. as 

Amici Curiae 22-24. 
But  the  State's  interest  in  preserving  electoral  integrity is not  limited  to combating  fraud.  That  interest extends  to 

efforts  to  ferret  out  invalid  signatures  caused  not  by  fraud 
but by simple mistake, such as duplicate signatures or signa-tures  of  individuals  who  are  not  registered  to  vote  in  the 

State.  See  Brief  for  Respondent  Reed  42.  That  interest also  extends  more  generally  to  promoting  transparency  and 
accountability  in  the  electoral  process,  which  the  State  ar-
gues is "essential to the proper functioning of a democracy." 
Id., at 39. 

Plaintiffs  contend  that  the  disclosure  requirements  of  the 
PRA are not "sufficiently related" to the interest of protect-
ing the integrity of the electoral process.  Brief for Petition-
ers 51.  They argue that disclosure is not necessary because 
the  secretary  of state  is  already  charged with verifying  and 
canvassing the names on a petition, advocates and opponents 
of  a  measure  can  observe  that  process,  and  any  citizen  can 
challenge  the  secretary's  actions  in  court.  See  Wash.  Rev. 
Code $$ 29A.72.230, 29A.72.240.  They also stress that exist-
ing criminal penalties reduce the danger of fraud in the peti-
tion  process.  See  Brief  for  Petitioners  50;  $$ 29A.84.210, 
29A.84.230, 29A.84.250. 

But  the  secretary's  verification  and  canvassing  will  not 
catch all invalid signatures: The job is large and difficult (the 
secretary  ordinarily  checks  "only  3  to  5%  of  signatures," 
Brief for Respondent WFST 54), and the secretary can make 
mistakes, too, see Brief for Respondent Reed 42.  Public dis-
closure can help cure the inadequacies of the verification and 
canvassing process. 

Disclosure  also  helps  prevent  certain  types  of  petition 
fraud  otherwise  difficult  to  detect,  such  as  outright  forgery 
and "bait and switch" fraud, in which an individual signs the 

Cite as: 561 U. S. 186 (2010)  199 

Opinion of the Court 
petition  based  on  a  misrepresentation  of  the  underlying issue.  See  Brief  for  Respondent  WFST  9-11,  53-54;  cf. 

Brief  for  Massachusetts  Gay  and  Lesbian  Political  Caucus et  al.  as  Amici  Curiae  18-22  (detailing  "bait  and  switch" 
fraud in a petition drive in Massachusetts).  The signer is in the  best  position  to  detect  these  types  of  fraud,  and  public 
disclosure can bring the issue to the signer's attention. Public  disclosure  thus  helps  ensure  that  the  only  signa-
tures  counted  are  those  that  should  be,  and  that  the  only referenda placed  on the  ballot  are  those that  garner  enough 
valid  signatures.  Public  disclosure  also  promotes  transpar-ency and accountability in the electoral process to an extent 
other measures cannot.  In light of the foregoing, we reject plaintiffs'  argument  and  conclude  that  public  disclosure  of 
referendum  petitions  in  general  is  substantially  related  to the important interest of preserving the integrity of the elec-
toral process.2  C 

Plaintiffs'  more  significant  objection  is  that  "the  strength of  the  governmental  interest"  does  not  "reflect  the  serious-
ness  of  the  actual  burden  on  First  Amendment  rights." Davis, 554  U. S., at 744  (citing  Buckley, 424  U. S., at 68,  71); 
see, e. g., Brief for Petitioners 12-13, 30.  According to plain-tiffs,  the  objective  of  those  seeking  disclosure  of  the  R-71 

petition is not to prevent fraud, but to publicly identify those who had validly signed and to broadcast the signers' political 
views  on  the  subject  of  the  petition.  Plaintiffs  allege,  for example,  that  several  groups  plan  to  post  the  petitions  in 
searchable  form  on  the  Internet,  and  then  encourage  other citizens to seek out the R-71 signers.  See App. 11; Brief for 
Petitioners 8, 46-47. 

2 Justice

200  DOE  v.  REED 

Opinion of the Court 
Plaintiffs  explain  that  once  on  the  Internet,  the  petition signers' names and addresses "can be combined with publicly 

available phone numbers and maps," in what will effectively become  a  blueprint  for  harassment  and  intimidation. 

Id., 
at  46.  To  support  their  claim  that  they  will  be  subject  to reprisals, plaintiffs cite examples from the history  of a simi-

lar proposition in California, see, e. g., id., at 2-6, 31-32, and 
from  the  experience  of  one  of  the  petition  sponsors  in  this case, see App. 9. 

In related contexts, we have explained that those resisting disclosure  can  prevail  under  the  First  Amendment  if  they 
can show "a reasonable probability that the compelled disclo-
sure  [of  personal  information]  will  subject  them  to  threats, 
harassment, or reprisals from either Government officials or 
private  parties."  Buckley,  supra,  at  74;  see  also  Citizens 
United, 558  U. S.,  at 367.  The question before  us,  however, 
is  not  whether  PRA  disclosure  violates  the  First  Amend-
ment  with  respect  to  those  who  signed  the  R-71  petition, 
or  other  particularly  controversial  petitions.  The  question 
instead  is  whether  such  disclosure  in  general  violates  the 
First  Amendment  rights  of  those  who  sign  referendum 
petitions. 

The  problem  for  plaintiffs  is  that  their  argument  rests  al-
most  entirely  on  the  specific  harm  they  say  would  attend 
disclosure of the information on the R-71 petition, or on simi-
larly  controversial  ones.  See,  e. g.,  Brief  for  Petitioners  10, 
26-29,  46,  56.  But  typical  referendum  petitions  "concern 
tax  policy,  revenue,  budget,  or  other  state  law  issues." 
Brief  for  Respondent  WFST  36  (listing  referenda);  see  also 
App.  26  (stating  that  in  recent  years  the  State  has  received 
PRA requests for petitions supporting initiatives concerning 
limiting  motor  vehicle  charges;  government  regulation  of 
private  property;  energy  resource  use  by  certain  electric 
utilities;  long-term care services for the  elderly and persons 
with  disabilities;  and  state,  county,  and  city revenue);  id.,  at 
26-27  (stating  that  in  the  past  20  years,  referendum  meas-

Cite as: 561 U. S. 186 (2010)  201 

Opinion of the Court 
ures that have qualified for the ballot in the State concerned land-use regulation; unemployment insurance; charter public 

schools;  and  insurance  coverage  and  benefits).  Voters  care about such issues, some quite deeply--but there is no reason 
to assume that any burdens imposed by disclosure of typical referendum  petitions  would  be  remotely  like  the  burdens 
plaintiffs fear in this case. 

Plaintiffs  have  offered  little  in  response.  They  have  pro-vided  us  scant  evidence  or  argument  beyond  the  burdens 

they assert disclosure would impose on R-71 petition signers or the signers of other similarly controversial petitions.  In-
deed,  what  little  plaintiffs  do  offer  with  respect  to  typical 
petitions in Washington hurts, not helps: Several other peti-
tions  in  the  State  "have  been  subject  to  release  in  recent 
years,"  plaintiffs  tell  us,  Brief  for  Petitioners  50,  but  appar-
ently  that  release  has  come  without  incident.  Cf.  Citizens 
United,  supra,  at  370  ("Citizens  United  has  been  disclosing 
its donors for years and has identified no instance of harass-
ment or retaliation"). 

Faced  with  the  State's  unrebutted  arguments  that  only 
modest  burdens  attend  the  disclosure  of  a  typical  petition, 
we  must  reject  plaintiffs'  broad  challenge  to  the  PRA.  In 
doing  so,  we  note--as  we  have  in  other  election  law  disclo-
sure  cases--that  upholding  the  law  against  a  broad-based 
challenge does not foreclose a litigant's success in a narrower 
one.  See  Buckley,  supra,  at  74  ("minor  parties"  may  be 
exempt  from  disclosure  requirements  if  they  can  show 
"a  reasonable  probability  that  the  compelled  disclosure  of  a 
party's contributors' names will subject them to threats, har-
assment, or reprisals from either Government officials or pri-
vate  parties");  Citizens  United,  supra,  at  370  (disclosure 
"would  be  unconstitutional  as  applied  to  an  organization  if 
there  were  a  reasonable  probability  that  the  group's  mem-
bers  would  face  threats,  harassment,  or  reprisals  if  their 
names were disclosed" (citing McConnell v.  Federal Election 
Comm'n,  540  U. S.  93,  198  (2003))).  The  secretary  of  state 

202  DOE  v.  REED 

Alito,
Cite as: 561 U. S. 186 (2010)  203 

Alito,
204  DOE  v.  REED 

Alito,
Cite as: 561 U. S. 186 (2010)  205 

Alito,
206  DOE  v.  REED 

Alito,
Cite as: 561 U. S. 186 (2010)  207 

Alito,
208  DOE  v.  REED 

Alito,
Cite as: 561 U. S. 186 (2010)  209 

Alito,
210  DOE  v.  REED 

Alito,
Cite as: 561 U. S. 186 (2010)  211 

Alito,
212  DOE  v.  REED 

Sotomayor,
Cite as: 561 U. S. 186 (2010)  213 

Sotomayor,
214  DOE  v.  REED 

Sotomayor,
Cite as: 561 U. S. 186 (2010)  215 

Opinion of Stevens,
216  DOE  v.  REED 

Opinion of Stevens,
Cite as: 561 U. S. 186 (2010)  217 

Opinion of Stevens,
218  DOE  v.  REED 

Opinion of Stevens,
Cite as: 561 U. S. 186 (2010)  219 
Scalia,
220  DOE  v.  REED 

Scalia,

Cite as: 561 U. S. 186 (2010)  221 
Scalia,
222  DOE  v.  REED 

Scalia,

Cite as: 561 U. S. 186 (2010)  223 
Scalia,
224  DOE  v.  REED 

Scalia,

Cite as: 561 U. S. 186 (2010)  225 
Scalia,
226  DOE  v.  REED 

Scalia,

Cite as: 561 U. S. 186 (2010)  227 
Scalia,
228  DOE  v.  REED 

Thomas,
Cite as: 561 U. S. 186 (2010)  229 

Thomas,
230  DOE  v.  REED 

Thomas,
Cite as: 561 U. S. 186 (2010)  231 

Thomas,
232  DOE  v.  REED 

Thomas,
Cite as: 561 U. S. 186 (2010)  233 

Thomas,
234  DOE  v.  REED 

Thomas,
Cite as: 561 U. S. 186 (2010)  235 

Thomas,
236  DOE  v.  REED 

Thomas,
Cite as: 561 U. S. 186 (2010)  237 

Thomas,
238  DOE  v.  REED 

Thomas,
Cite as: 561 U. S. 186 (2010)  239 

Thomas,
240  DOE  v.  REED 

Thomas,
Cite as: 561 U. S. 186 (2010)  241 

Thomas,
242  DOE  v.  REED 

Thomas,
Cite as: 561 U. S. 186 (2010)  243 

Thomas,
244  DOE  v.  REED 

Thomas,
Cite as: 561 U. S. 186 (2010)  245 

Thomas,
246  DOE  v.  REED 

Thomas,
OCTOBER  TERM,  2009   247 

Syllabus 

MORRISON  et

248  MORRISON  v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 247 (2010)  249 

Syllabus 
(c)  The domestic  activity in this case--Florida is where HomeSide 
and its executives engaged in the alleged deceptive conduct and where 
some misleading public statements were made--does not mean petition-
ers only seek  domestic application of the Act.  It is a rare case of pro-
hibited  extraterritorial  application  that  lacks  all

250  MORRISON  v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 247 (2010)  251 

Opinion of the Court 
foreign  and  American  defendants  for  misconduct  in  connec-tion with securities traded on foreign exchanges. 

I 
Respondent  National  Australia  Bank  Limited  (National) was, during the relevant time, the largest bank in Australia. 

Its Ordinary Shares--what in America would be called "com-mon  stock"--are  traded  on  the  Australian  Stock  Exchange 
Limited  and  on  other  foreign  securities  exchanges,  but  not on  any  exchange  in  the  United  States.  There  are  listed  on 
the  New  York  Stock  Exchange,  however,  National's  Ameri-can  Depositary  Receipts  (ADRs),  which  represent  the  right 
to receive a specified number of National's Ordinary Shares. 547 F. 3d 167, 168, and n. 1 (CA2 2008). 

The complaint alleges the following facts, which we accept as  true.  In  February  1998,  National  bought  respondent 
HomeSide Lending, Inc., a mortgage-servicing company headquartered  in  Florida.  HomeSide's  business  was  to  re-
ceive  fees  for  servicing  mortgages  (essentially  the  adminis-trative  tasks  associated  with  collecting  mortgage  payments, 
see J. Rosenberg, Dictionary of Banking and Financial Serv-ices 600 (2d ed. 1985)).  The rights to receive those fees, socalled  mortgage-servicing  rights,  can  provide  a  valuable  in-come stream.  See 2 The New Palgrave Dictionary of Money 
and  Finance  817  (P.  Newman,  M.  Milgate,  &  J.  Eatwell  eds. 1992).  How  valuable  each  of  the  rights  is  depends,  in  part, 
on  the  likelihood  that  the  mortgage  to  which  it  applies  will be  fully  repaid  before  it  is  due,  terminating  the  need  for 
servicing.  HomeSide  calculated  the  present  value  of  its mortgage-servicing  rights  by  using  valuation  models  de-
signed  to  take  this  likelihood  into  account.  It  recorded  the value  of  its  assets,  and  the  numbers  appeared  in  National's 
financial statements. From 1998 until 2001, National's annual reports and other 
public documents touted the success of HomeSide's business, and  respondents  Frank  Cicutto  (National's  managing  direc-

252  MORRISON  v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 247 (2010)  253 

Opinion of the Court 
of 1934, 48 Stat. 891, 15 U. S. C. $$ 78j(b) and 78t(a), and Secu-rities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Rule 10b-5, 17 CFR 

$ 240.10b-5  (2009),  promulgated  pursuant  to  $ 10(b).2  They sought  to  represent  a  class  of  foreign  purchasers  of  Nation-
al's Ordinary Shares during a specified period up to the Sep-tember writedown.  547 F. 3d, at 169. 

Respondents  moved  to  dismiss  for  lack  of  subject-matter jurisdiction  under  Federal  Rule  of  Civil  Procedure  12(b)(1) 
and  for  failure  to  state  a  claim  under  Rule  12(b)(6).  The District  Court  granted  the  motion  on  the  former  ground, 
finding no jurisdiction because the acts in this country were, "at  most,  a  link  in  the  chain  of  an  alleged  overall  securities 
fraud  scheme  that  culminated  abroad."  In

254  MORRISON  v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 247 (2010)  255 

Opinion of the Court 

III  

A  

It is a "longstanding principle of American law `that legis-
lation of Congress, unless a contrary intent appears, is meant 
to apply only within the territorial jurisdiction of the United 
States.' "  EEOC

256  MORRISON  v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 247 (2010)  257 

Opinion of the Court 
in  the  United  States  but  the  corporation  whose  securities 
were  traded  (abroad)  was  not  listed  on  any  domestic  ex-
change.  Leasco

258  MORRISON  v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 247 (2010)  259 

Opinion of the Court 
duct" and "effects" tests than the Second Circuit's own decla-ration  that  "the  presence  or  absence  of  any  single  factor 

which  was  considered  significant  in  other  cases  .  .  .  is  not necessarily  dispositive  in  future  cases."  IIT

260  MORRISON  v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 247 (2010)  261 

Opinion of the Court 
more fundamentally, have  noted that  using congressional  si-lence as a justification for judge-made rules violates the tra-

ditional  principle  that  silence  means  no  extraterritorial  ap-plication.  See, e.

262  MORRISON  v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 247 (2010)  263 

Opinion of the Court 
broad  language  in  their  definitions  of  `commerce'  that  ex-
pressly  refer  to  `foreign

264  MORRISON  v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 247 (2010)  265 

Opinion of the Court 
Subsection  30(a)  contains  what  $ 10(b)  lacks:  a  clear  state-ment  of  extraterritorial  effect.  Its  explicit  provision  for  a 

specific  extraterritorial  application  would  be  quite  superflu-ous if the rest of the Exchange Act already applied to trans-
actions  on  foreign  exchanges--and  its  limitation  of  that application  to  securities  of  domestic  issuers  would  be  in-
operative.  Even  if  that  were  not  true,  when  a  statute  pro-vides  for  some  extraterritorial  application,  the  presumption 
against extraterritoriality operates to limit that provision to its terms.  See 

Microsoft

266  MORRISON  v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 247 (2010)  267 

Opinion of the Court 
813,  820  (2002).  Those  purchase-and-sale  transactions  are 
the  objects  of  the  statute's  solicitude.  It  is  those  transac-
tions  that  the  statute  seeks  to  "regulate,"  see  Superintend-
ent of

268  MORRISON  v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 247 (2010)  269 

Opinion of the Court 
15 U. S. C. $ 77e(a)(1).  The Commission has interpreted that requirement  "not  to  include . . . sales  that  occur  outside  the 

United States."  17 CFR $ 230.901 (2009). Finally,  we  reject  the  notion  that  the  Exchange  Act 
reaches conduct in this country affecting exchanges or trans-actions  abroad  for  the  same  reason  that 

Aramco

270  MORRISON  v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 247 (2010)  271 

Opinion of the Court 
10-16;  Coffee,  Securities  Policeman  to  the  World?  The  Cost 
of  Global  Class  Actions,  N.  Y.  L.  J.  5  (2008);  S.  Grant  & 
D.  Zilka,  The  Current  Role  of  Foreign  Investors  in  Federal 
Securities  Class  Actions,  PLI  Corporate  Law  and  Practice 
Handbook Series, PLI Order No. 11072, pp. 15-16 (Sept.-Oct. 
2007); Buxbaum, Multinational Class Actions Under Federal 
Securities  Law:  Managing  Jurisdictional  Conflict,  46  Colum. 
J. Transnat'l L. 14, 38-41 (2007). 

As case support for the "significant and material conduct" 
test,  the  Solicitor  General  relies  primarily  on  Pasquantino

272  MORRISON  v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 247 (2010)  273 

Opinion of Breyer,
274  MORRISON  v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 247 (2010)  275 

Stevens,
276  MORRISON  v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 247 (2010)  277 

Stevens,
278  MORRISON  v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 247 (2010)  279 

Stevens,
280  MORRISON  v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 247 (2010)  281 

Stevens,
282  MORRISON  v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 247 (2010)  283 

Stevens,
284  MORRISON  v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 247 (2010)  285 

Stevens,
286  MORRISON  v. OCTOBER  TERM,  2009  287 

Syllabus 

GRANITE  ROCK  CO.  v.

288  GRANITE  ROCK  CO.  v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 287 (2010)  289 

Syllabus 
may  submit  to  arbitration  "only  those  disputes . . .  the parties  have 
agreed  to  submit,"  First

290  GRANITE  ROCK  CO.  v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 287 (2010)  291 

Opinion of the Court 
this  Court  to  do  so.  That  is  particularly  true  here  because  the 
complained-of course of conduct has already prompted judgments favor-
able to Granite Rock from the jury below and from the NLRB in sepa-
rate  proceedings  concerning  the  union's  attempts  to  delay  the  new 
CBA's  ratification.  Those  proceedings,  and  others  to  be  conducted  on 
remand, buttress the conclusion that Granite Rock's assumptions about 
the  adequacy  of  other  avenues  of  relief  are  questionable,  and  that  the 
Court  of  Appeals  did  not  err  in declining  to  recognize  the  new  federal 
tort Granite Rock requests.  Pp. 309-313. 

546 F. 3d 1169, reversed in part, affirmed in part, and remanded. 

Thomas,

292  GRANITE  ROCK  CO.  v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 287 (2010)  293 

Opinion of the Court 
contained  a  no-strike  clause  but  did  not  directly  address union  members'  liability  for  any  strike-related  damages 

Granite  Rock  may  have  incurred  before  the  new  CBA  was negotiated but after the prior CBA had expired.  At the end 
of the  negotiating session on the  new CBA, Local's  business representative, George Netto, approached Granite Rock 
about  executing  a  separate  "back-to-work"  agreement  that 
would, among other things, hold union members harmless for damages  incurred  during  the  June  2004  strike.  Netto  did 

not  make  execution  of  such an  agreement  a  condition  of Lo-cal's  ratification  of  the  CBA,  or  of  Local's  decision  to  cease 
picketing.  Thus, Local did not have a back-to-work or holdharmless agreement in place when it voted to ratify the CBA 
on July 2, 2004. 

Respondent IBT, which had advised Local throughout the 
CBA  negotiations  and  whose  leadership  and  members  sup-
ported the June strike, opposed Local's decision to return to 
work without a back-to-work agreement shielding both Local 
and  IBT  members  from  liability  for  strike-related  damages. 
In  an  effort  to  secure  such  an  agreement,  IBT  instructed 
Local's  members  not  to  honor  their  agreement  to  return  to 
work  on  July  5,  and  instructed  Local's  leaders  to  continue 
the  work  stoppage  until  Granite  Rock  agreed  to  hold  Local 
and  IBT  members  free  from  liability  for  the  June  strike. 
Netto  demanded  such  an  agreement  on  July  6,  but  Granite 
Rock  refused  the  request  and  informed  Local  that  the  com-
pany would view any continued strike activity as a violation 
of  the  new  CBA's  no-strike  clause.  IBT  and  Local  re-
sponded  by  announcing  a  companywide  strike  that  involved 
numerous facilities and hundreds of workers, including mem-
bers of IBT locals besides Local 287. 

According  to  Granite  Rock,  IBT  not  only  instigated  this 
strike;  it  supported  and  directed  it.  IBT  provided  pay  and 
benefits  to  union  members  who  refused  to  return  to  work, 
directed  Local's  negotiations  with  Granite  Rock,  supported 
Local financially during the strike period with a $1.2 million 

294  GRANITE  ROCK  CO.  v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 287 (2010)  295 

Opinion of the Court 
their strike.  Although their return to work mooted Granite Rock's  request  for  an  injunction,  the  District  Court  pro-

ceeded  with  the  hearing  and  granted  Granite  Rock  a  new trial on its damages claims.  The parties proceeded with dis-
covery,  and  Granite  Rock  amended  its  complaint,  which  al-ready alleged  federal 

2  claims  for breach of the  CBA  against 

both Local and IBT, to add federal inducement of breach and 
interference with contract (hereinafter tortious interference) claims against IBT. 

IBT  and  Local  both  moved  to  dismiss.  Among  other things, IBT argued that Granite Rock could not plead a fed-
eral tort claim under $ 301(a) because that provision supports a  federal  cause  of  action  only  for  breach  of  contract.  The 
District Court agreed and dismissed Granite Rock's tortious interference  claims.  The  District  Court  did  not,  however, 
grant  Local's  separate  motion  to  send  the  parties'  dispute 
over  the  CBA's  ratification  date  to  arbitration.3  The  Dis-
trict  Court  held  that  whether  the  CBA  was  ratified  on  July 
2  or  August  22  was  an  issue  for  the  court  to  decide,  and 
submitted the question to a jury.  The jury reached a unani-
mous  verdict  that  Local  ratified  the  CBA  on  July  2,  2004. 
The District Court entered the verdict and ordered the par-
ties to proceed with arbitration on Granite Rock's breach-of-
contract claims for strike-related damages. 

The  Court  of  Appeals  for  the  Ninth  Circuit  affirmed  in 
part and  reversed in  part.  See  546  F. 3d  1169 (2008).  The 
Court  of  Appeals  affirmed  the  District  Court's  dismissal  of 
Granite  Rock's  tortious  interference  claims  against  IBT. 
See  id.,

296  GRANITE  ROCK  CO.  v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 287 (2010)  297 

Opinion of the Court 
contract  containing  an  arbitration  clause  was  illegal  when formed,  which  question  we  held  to  be  arbitrable  in  certain 

circumstances). These  principles  would  neatly  dispose  of  this  case  if  the 
formation  dispute  here  were  typical.  But  it  is  not.  It  is based on when (not whether) the CBA that contains the par-
ties'  arbitration  clause  was  ratified  and  thereby  formed.4 And  at  the  time  the  District  Court  considered  Local's  de-
mand  to  send  this  issue  to  an  arbitrator,  Granite  Rock,  the party resisting arbitration, conceded both the formation and 
the validity of the CBA's arbitration clause. These  unusual  facts  require  us  to reemphasize  the  proper 
framework  for  deciding  when  disputes  are  arbitrable  under our  precedents.  Under  that  framework,  a  court  may  order 
arbitration  of  a  particular  dispute  only  where  the  court  is satisfied  that  the  parties  agreed  to  arbitrate  that

298  GRANITE  ROCK  CO.  v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 287 (2010)  299 

Opinion of the Court 
treat the arbitration clause as severable from the contract in 
which  it  appears,  and  thus  apply  the  clause  to  all  disputes 
within  its  scope  " `[u]nless  the  [validity]  challenge  is  to  the 
arbitration  clause  itself ' "  or  the  party  "disputes  the  forma-
tion  of  [the]  contract,"  546  F.  3d,  at  1176  (quoting  Buckeye,

300  GRANITE  ROCK  CO.  v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 287 (2010)  301 

Opinion of the Court 
matters within its scope.  See id.,

302  GRANITE  ROCK  CO.  v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 287 (2010)  303 

Opinion of the Court 
at  650-651  (applying  the  same  rule  to  the  "presumption  of arbitrability  for  labor  disputes").  Nor  have  we  held  that 

courts may use policy considerations as a substitute for party agreement.  See,  e.

304  GRANITE  ROCK  CO.  v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 287 (2010)  305 

Opinion of the Court 
CBA's  existence,  would  seem  plainly  to  cover  a  dispute  that "arises  under"  a  specific  substantive  provision  of  the  CBA, 

but  does  not  so  obviously  cover  disputes  about  the  CBA's own  formation.  Accordingly,  the  Court  of  Appeals  relied 
upon the ratification dispute's relationship to Granite Rock's claim that Local breached the CBA's no-strike clause (a claim 
the  Court  of  Appeals  viewed  as  clearly  "arising  under"  the CBA)  to  conclude  that  "the  arbitration  clause  is  certainly 
`susceptible  of  an  interpretation'  that  covers"  Local's formation-date defense.  546 F. 3d, at 1177, n. 4. 

The Court of Appeals overlooked the fact that this theory of the ratification dispute's arbitrability fails if the CBA was 
not  formed  at  the  time  the  unions  engaged  in  the  acts  that gave rise to Granite Rock's strike claims.  The unions began 
their  strike  on  July  6,  2004,  and  Granite  Rock  filed  its  suit on July 9.  If, as Local asserts, the CBA containing the par-
ties' arbitration clause was not ratified, and thus not formed, until  August  22,  there  was  no  CBA  for  the  July  no-strike 
dispute  to  "arise  under,"  and  thus  no  valid  basis  for  the Court  of  Appeals'  conclusion  that  Granite  Rock's  July  9 
claims  arose  under  the  CBA  and  were  thus  arbitrable  along with,  by  extension,  Local's  formation-date  defense  to  those 
claims.12  See ibid.

306  GRANITE  ROCK  CO.  v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 287 (2010)  307 

Opinion of the Court 

C 
Although  the  foregoing  is  sufficient  to  reverse  the  Court of Appeals' judgment, there is an additional reason to do so: 

The dispute here, whether labeled a formation dispute or not, falls  outside  the  scope  of  the  parties'  arbitration  clause  on 
grounds  the  presumption  favoring  arbitration  cannot  cure. Section  20  of  the  CBA  provides  in  relevant  part  that  "[a]ll 
disputes  arising

308  GRANITE  ROCK  CO.  v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 287 (2010)  309 

Opinion of the Court 
the  CBA's  arbitration  clause.  The  mere  fact  that  Local raised  the  formation-date  dispute  as  a  defense  to  Granite 

Rock's suit does not make that dispute attributable to Gran-ite Rock in the waiver or estoppel sense the Court of Appeals 
suggested,  see  546  F.  3d,  at  1178,  much  less  establish  that Granite  Rock  agreed  to  arbitrate  it  by  suing  to  enforce  the 
CBA  as  to  other  matters.  Accordingly,  we  hold  that  the parties'  dispute  over  the  CBA's  formation  date  was  for  the 
District Court, not  an arbitrator, to resolve, and remand  for proceedings consistent with that conclusion. 

III 
We turn now to the claims available on remand.  The par-ties  agree  that  Granite  Rock  can  bring  a  breach-of-contract 

claim  under  LMRA  $ 301(a)  against  Local  as  a  CBA  signa-tory,  and  against  IBT  as  Local's  agent  or  alter  ego.  See 
Brief  for  Respondent  IBT  10-13;  Reply  Brief  for  Petitioner 12-13,  and  n.  11.

15  The  question  is  whether  Granite  Rock 

may  also  bring  a  federal  tort  claim  under  $ 301(a)  for IBT's  alleged  interference  with  the  CBA.

16  Brief  for  Peti-

15 Although  the  parties  concede  the  general  availability  of  such  a  claim 
against IBT, they dispute whether Granite Rock abandoned its agency or 
alter  ego  allegations  in  the  course  of  this  litigation.  Compare  Brief  for 
Respondent IBT 10 with Reply Brief for Petitioner 12-13, n. 11.  Granite 
Rock  concedes  that  it  has  abandoned  its  claim  that  IBT  acted  as  Local's 
undisclosed  principal  in  orchestrating  the  ratification  response  to  the 
July  2,  2004,  CBA.  See  Plaintiff  Granite  Rock's  Memorandum  of  Points 
and  Authorities  in  Opposition  to  Defendant  IBT's  Motion  To  Dismiss  in 
No. 5:04-cv-02767-JW (ND Cal., Aug. 7, 2006), Doc. 178, pp. 6, 8 (herein-
after Points and Authorities).  But Granite Rock insists that it preserved 
its  argument  that  Local  served  as  IBT's  agent  or  alter  ego  when  Local 
denied  ratification  and  engaged  in  unauthorized  strike  activity  in  July 
2004.  Nothing  in  the  record  before  us  unequivocally  refutes  this  asser-
tion.  See App. 306, 311-315, 318; Points and Authorities 6, n. 3.  Accord-
ingly,  nothing  in  this  opinion  forecloses  the  parties  from  litigating  these 
claims on remand. 

16 IBT  argues  that  we  should  dismiss  this  question  as  improvidently 

granted  because  Granite  Rock  abandoned  its  tortious  interference  claim 
when it declared its intention to seek only contractual (as opposed to puni-

310  GRANITE  ROCK  CO.  v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 287 (2010)  311 

Opinion of the Court 
choice  of  either  recognizing  the  federal  common-law  tort claim Granite Rock seeks or sanctioning conduct inconsistent 

with  federal  labor  statutes  and  our  own  precedents.  See Brief for Petitioner 13-14. 

We  do  not  believe  the  choice  is  as  stark  as  Granite  Rock implies.  It  is  of  course  true  that  we  have  construed  "[s]ec-
tion  301  [to]  authoriz[e]  federal  courts  to  fashion  a  body  of 
federal  law  for  the  enforcement  of  collective  bargaining agreements." 

Lewis

312  GRANITE  ROCK  CO.  v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 287 (2010)  313 

Opinion of the Court 
Reply Brief for Petitioner 16.  But Granite Rock did not liti-gate  below,  and  thus  does  not  present  us  with  occasion  to 

address,  whether  state  law  might  provide  a  remedy.  See, e.

314  GRANITE  ROCK  CO.  v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 287 (2010)  315 

Opinion of Sotomayor,
316  GRANITE  ROCK  CO.  v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 287 (2010)  317 

Opinion of Sotomayor,
318  GRANITE  ROCK  CO.  v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 287 (2010)  319 

Opinion of Sotomayor,
320  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

Syllabus 

MAGWOOD  v.

Cite as: 561 U. S. 320 (2010)  321 

Syllabus 
on  "behalf  of  a  person  in  custody  pursuant  to  the  judgment  of  a  State 
court," $ 2254(b)(1).  Both $ 2254(b)'s text and the relief it provides indi-
cate that "second or successive" must be interpreted with respect to the 
judgment challenged.  A $ 2254 petitioner "seeks invalidation . . . of the 
judgment authorizing [his] confinement," Wilkinson

322  MAGWOOD  v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 320 (2010)  323 

Opinion of the Court 
Justice

324  MAGWOOD  v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 320 (2010)  325 

Opinion of the Court 
399  So.  2d  330  (Ala.  1981),  to  find  that  murder  of  a  sheriff while "on duty or because of some official or job-related act," 

$ 13-11-2(a)(5), is a capital felony that, by definition, involves aggravation sufficient for a death sentence.

3  The trial court 

found  that  Magwood's  young  age  (27  at  the  time  of  the  of-fense)  and  lack  of  significant  criminal  history  qualified  as 

mitigating  factors,  but  found  no  mitigation  related  to  Mag-wood's mental state.  Weighing the aggravation against the 
two  mitigating  factors,  the  court  approved  the  sentence  of death.  The  Alabama  courts  affirmed. 

Magwood

326  MAGWOOD  v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 320 (2010)  327 

Opinion of the Court 
Rule  Crim.  Proc.  32)  (Rule  20  petition)  claiming,  inter

328  MAGWOOD  v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 320 (2010)  329 

Opinion of the Court 
found  the  state  court's  grounds  for  rejecting  Magwood's ineffective-assistance claim unreasonable in light of clearly es-

tablished federal law, noting that Magwood's attorney in fact had engaged substantively in the "complete and new" resen-
tencing,  and  although  the  attorney  could not  be  expected  to object on state-law grounds foreclosed by precedent, he was 
clearly ineffective for failing to raise the federal fair-warning 
claim.  Id.,

330  MAGWOOD  v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 320 (2010)  331 

Opinion of the Court 
cation  is  "second  or  successive,"  the  petitioner  must  obtain leave  from  the  court  of  appeals  before  filing it  with the dis-

trict  court.  See  $ 2244(b)(3)(A).  The  district  court  must dismiss  any  claim  presented  in  an  authorized  second  or  suc-
cessive application unless the applicant shows that the claim satisfies  certain  statutory  requirements.  See  $ 2244(b)(4). 
Thus,  if  Magwood's  application  was  "second  or  successive," 
the  District  Court  should  have  dismissed  it  in  its  entirety because  he  failed  to  obtain  the  requisite  authorization  from 

the  Court  of  Appeals.  If,  however,  Magwood's  application was  not  second  or successive,  it  was  not  subject  to  $ 2244(b) 
at all, and his fair-warning claim was reviewable (absent pro-
cedural default). 

The State contends that although $ 2244(b), as amended by 
AEDPA, applies the phrase "second or successive" to "appli-
cation[s],"  it "is a claim-focused  statute,"  Brief for Respond-
ents  22-24,  and  "[c]laims,  not  applications,  are  barred  by 

$ 2244(b),"  id.,

332  MAGWOOD  v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 320 (2010)  333 

Opinion of the Court 
that  the  phrase  "second  or  successive"  must  be  interpreted with respect to the judgment challenged. 

The State disagrees, contending that if the cross-reference to  $ 2254  is  relevant,  we  should  focus  not  on  the  statute's 
reference to a  "judgment"  but on its  reference  to "custody," Brief  for  Respondents  53;  compare  $$ 2254(a),  (b)  (establish-
ing  rules  for  review  of  "[a]n application  for  a  writ  of  habeas 
corpus"  on  "behalf  of  a  person  in  custody  pursuant  to  the 
judgment

334  MAGWOOD  v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 320 (2010)  335 

Opinion of the Court 
on  claims,  that  does  not  entitle  us  to  rewrite  the  statute  to make  the  phrase  "second  or  successive"  modify  claims  as 

well.10 The  State's  reading  leads  to  a  second,  more  fundamental 
error.  Under the State's "one opportunity" rule, the phrase "second  or  successive"  would  apply  to  any  claim  that  the 
petitioner  had  a  full  and  fair  opportunity  to  raise  in  a  prior application.  And  the  phrase  "second  or  successive"  would 
not

336  MAGWOOD  v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 320 (2010)  337 

Opinion of Thomas,
338  MAGWOOD  v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 320 (2010)  339 

Opinion of the Court 
dismissed as an unauthorized "second or successive" applica-tion.  Id.,

340  MAGWOOD  v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 320 (2010)  341 

Opinion of the Court 
Ironically,  in  an  effort  to  effectuate  what  they  believe  is Congress' intent not to give any unfair benefit to habeas peti-

tioners, the State and the dissent propose an alternative rule that  would  "close  our  doors  to  a  class  of  habeas  petitioners 
seeking  review  without  any  clear  indication  that  such  was Congress'  intent." 

Castro

342  MAGWOOD  v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 320 (2010)  343 

Kennedy,
344  MAGWOOD  v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 320 (2010)  345 

Kennedy,
346  MAGWOOD  v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 320 (2010)  347 

Kennedy,
348  MAGWOOD  v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 320 (2010)  349 

Kennedy,
350  MAGWOOD  v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 320 (2010)  351 

Kennedy,
352  MAGWOOD  v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 320 (2010)  353 

Kennedy,
354  MAGWOOD  v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 320 (2010)  355 

Kennedy,
356  MAGWOOD  v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 320 (2010)  357 

Kennedy,
358  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

Syllabus 

SKILLING  v.  UNITED  STATES 
certiorari

Cite as: 561 U. S. 358 (2010)  359 

Syllabus 
questions, the court converted Skilling's submission, with slight modifi-
cations, into a 77-question, 14-page document.  The questionnaire asked 
prospective jurors about  their sources of news and exposure to  Enronrelated publicity, beliefs concerning Enron and what caused its collapse, 
opinions  regarding  the  defendants  and  their  possible  guilt  or  inno-
cence,  and  relationships  to  the  company  and  to  anyone  affected  by 

its  demise.  The  court  then  mailed  the  questionnaire  to  400  prospec-
tive jurors and received responses from nearly all of them.  It granted 
hardship  exemptions  to  about  90  individuals,  and  the  parties,  with 
the  court's  approval,  further  winnowed  the  pool  by  excusing  another 
119  for  cause,  hardship,  or  physical  disability.  The  parties  agreed  to 
exclude,  in  particular,  every  prospective  juror  who  said  that  a  pre-
existing opinion about Enron or the defendants would prevent her from 
being impartial. 

In  December  2005,  three  weeks  before  the  trial  date,  one  of  Skil-
ling's  codefendants,  Richard  Causey,  pleaded  guilty.  Skilling renewed 
his  change-of-venue  motion,  arguing  that  the  juror  questionnaires  re-
vealed  pervasive  bias  and  that  news  accounts  of  Causey's  guilty  plea 
further  tainted  the  jury  pool.  The  court  again  declined  to  move  the 
trial,  ruling  that  the  questionnaires  and  voir  dire  provided  safeguards 
adequate to ensure an impartial jury.  The court also denied Skilling's 
request  for  attorney-led  voir  dire  on  the  ground  that  potential  jurors 
were more forthcoming with judges than with lawyers.  But the court 
promised  to  give  counsel  an  opportunity  to  ask  followup  questions, 
agreed that venire members should be examined individually about pre-
trial  publicity,  and  allotted  the  defendants  jointly  two  extra  peremp-
tory challenges. 

Voir  dire  began  in  January 2006.  After  questioning  the  venire  as  a 
group,  the  court  examined  prospective  jurors  individually,  asking  each 
about  her  exposure  to  Enron-related  news,  the  content  of  any  stories 
that stood out in her mind, and any questionnaire answers that raised a 
red flag signaling possible bias.  The court then permitted each side to 
pose  followup  questions  and  ruled  on  the  parties'  challenges  for  cause. 
Ultimately,  the  court  qualified  38  prospective  jurors,  a  number  suffi-
cient,  allowing  for  peremptory  challenges,  to  empanel  12  jurors  and  4 
alternates.  After  a  four-month  trial,  the  jury  found  Skilling  guilty  of 
19  counts,  including  the  honest-services-fraud  conspiracy  charge,  and 
not guilty of 9 insider-trading counts. 

On  appeal,  Skilling  raised  two  arguments  relevant  here.  First,  he 
contended  that  pretrial  publicity  and  community  prejudice  prevented 
him  from  obtaining  a  fair  trial.  Second,  he  alleged  that  the  jury  im-
properly  convicted  him  of  conspiracy  to  commit  honest-services  wire 
fraud.  As to the former, the Fifth Circuit initially determined that the 

360  SKILLING  v.  UNITED  STATES 

Syllabus 
volume  and negative tone of media  coverage generated  by Enron's  col-
lapse created a presumption of juror prejudice.  Stating, however, that 
the presumption  is  rebuttable, the court  examined the  voir dire, found 
it  "proper and thorough," and held that the District  Court had  empan-
eled  an  impartial  jury.  The  Court  of  Appeals  also  rejected  Skilling's 
claim that his conduct did not indicate any conspiracy to commit honestservices fraud.  It did not address Skilling's argument that the honestservices statute, if not interpreted to exclude his actions, should be in-
validated as unconstitutionally vague. 

Held: 

1.  Pretrial publicity and community prejudice did not prevent Skilling 
from obtaining a fair trial.  He did not establish that a presumption of 
juror prejudice arose or that actual bias infected the jury that tried him. 
Pp. 377-399. 

(a)  The District Court did not err in denying Skilling's requests for 
a venue transfer.  Pp. 377-385. 

(1)  Although the Sixth Amendment and Article III, $ 2, cl. 3, pro-
vide  for  criminal  trials  in  the  State  and  district  where  the  crime  was 
committed,  these  place-of-trial  prescriptions  do  not  impede  transfer  of 
a proceeding to a different district if extraordinary local prejudice will 
prevent a fair trial.  Pp. 377-378. 

(2)  The  foundation  precedent  for  the  presumption  of  prejudice 
from  which  the  Fifth  Circuit's  analysis  proceeded  is  Rideau  v.  Louisi-
ana,  373  U. S.  723.  Wilbert  Rideau  robbed  a  small-town  bank,  kid-
naped  three  bank  employees,  and  killed  one  of  them.  Police  interro-
gated Rideau in jail without counsel present and obtained his confession, 
which,  without  his  knowledge,  was  filmed  and  televised  three  times  to 
large  local  audiences  shortly  before  trial.  After  the  Louisiana  trial 
court  denied  Rideau's  change-of-venue  motion,  he  was  convicted,  and 
the  conviction  was  upheld  on  direct  appeal.  This  Court  reversed. 
"[T]o the tens of thousands of people who saw and heard it," the Court 
explained,  the  interrogation  "in  a  very  real  sense  was  Rideau's 
trial--at which he pleaded guilty."  Id., at 726.  "[W]ithout pausing to 
examine  .  .  .  the  voir  dire,"  the  Court  held  that  the  "kangaroo  court 
proceedings" trailing the televised confession violated due process.  Id., 
at  726-727.  The  Court  followed  Rideau  in  two  other  cases  in  which 

media  coverage  manifestly  tainted  criminal  prosecutions.  However,  it 
later  explained  that  those  decisions  "cannot  be  made  to  stand  for  the 
proposition  that  juror  exposure  to  .  .  .  news  accounts  of  the  crime . . .  
alone presumptively deprives the defendant of due process."  Murphy v. 
Florida, 421 U. S. 794, 798-799.  Thus, prominence does not necessarily 
produce  prejudice,  and  juror  impartiality  does  not  require  ignorance. 

Cite as: 561 U. S. 358 (2010)  361 

Syllabus 
See, e. g., Irvin v.  Dowd, 366 U. S. 717, 722.  A presumption of prejudice 
attends only the extreme case.  Pp. 378-381. 

(3)  Important  differences  separate  Skilling's  prosecution  from 
those  in  which  the  Court  has  presumed  juror  prejudice.  First,  the 
Court  has emphasized the  size and  characteristics of  the community in 
which the crime occurred.  In contrast to the small-town setting in Ri-
deau, for example, the record shows that Houston is the Nation's fourth 
most  populous  city.  Given  the  large,  diverse  pool  of  residents  eligible 
for jury duty, any suggestion that 12 impartial individuals could not be 
empaneled  in  Houston  is  hard  to  sustain.  Second,  although  news  sto-
ries  about  Skilling were  not  kind,  they contained  no blatantly  prejudi-
cial information such as Rideau's dramatically staged admission of guilt. 
Third,  unlike  Rideau  and  other  cases  in  which  trial  swiftly  followed  a 
widely  reported crime,  over  four  years  elapsed  between  Enron's  bank-
ruptcy and Skilling's trial.  Although reporters  covered Enron-related 
news throughout this period, the decibel level of media attention dimin-
ished somewhat in the years following Enron's collapse.  Finally, and of 
prime significance, Skilling's jury acquitted him of nine insider-trading 
counts.  Similarly, earlier instituted Enron-related prosecutions yielded 
no overwhelming  victory for the Government.  It would be odd for an 
appellate  court  to  presume  prejudice  in  a  case  in  which  jurors'  actions 
run counter to that presumption.  Pp. 381-384. 

(4)  The  Fifth  Circuit  presumed  juror  prejudice  based  primarily 
on  the  magnitude  and  negative  tone  of  the  media  attention  directed 
at Enron.  But "pretrial publicity--even pervasive, adverse publicity-- 
does  not  inevitably  lead  to  an  unfair  trial."  Nebraska  Press  Assn.  v. 
Stuart, 427 U. S. 539, 554.  Here, news stories about Enron did not pre-
sent  the  kind  of  vivid,  unforgettable  information  the  Court  has  recog-
nized as particularly likely to produce prejudice, and Houston's size and 
diversity diluted the media's impact.  Nor did Enron's sheer number of 
victims  trigger  a  presumption.  Although  the  widespread  community 
impact  necessitated  careful  identification  and  inspection  of  prospective 
jurors' connections to Enron, the extensive screening questionnaire and 
followup  voir  dire  yielded  jurors  whose  links  to  Enron  were  either 
nonexistent or attenuated.  Finally, while Causey's well-publicized deci-
sion to plead guilty shortly before trial created a danger of juror preju-
dice,  the  District  Court  took  appropriate  steps  to  mitigate  that  risk. 
Pp. 384-385. 

(b)  No  actual  prejudice  contaminated  Skilling's  jury.  The  Court 
rejects Skilling's assertions that voir dire did not adequately detect and 
defuse  juror  prejudice  and  that  several  seated  jurors  were  biased. 
Pp. 385-399. 

362  SKILLING  v.  UNITED  STATES 

Syllabus 
(1)  No  hard-and-fast  formula  dictates  the  necessary  depth  or 
breadth of voir dire.  Jury selection is "particularly within the province 
of  the  trial  judge."  Ristaino  v.  Ross,  424  U. S.  589,  594-595  (inter-
nal  quotation  marks  omitted).  When  pretrial  publicity  is  at  issue, 
moreover,  "primary  reliance  on  the  judgment  of  the  trial  court  makes 
[especially]  good  sense"  because  the  judge  "sits  in  the  locale  where 
the publicity is said to have had its effect" and may base her evaluation 
on  her  "own  perception  of  the  depth  and  extent  of  news  stories  that 
might influence a juror."  Mu'Min v.  Virginia, 500 U. S. 415, 427.  The 
Court  considers the  adequacy of jury selection in Skilling's case  atten-
tive  to  the  respect  due  to  district-court  determinations  of  juror  im-
partiality  and  of  the  measures  necessary  to  ensure  that  impartiality. 
Pp. 385-387. 

(2)  Skilling failed to show that his voir dire fell short of constitu-
tional  requirements.  The  jury-selection  process  was  insufficient,  Skil-
ling maintains, because voir dire lasted only five hours, most of the Dis-
trict  Court's  questions  were  conclusory  and  failed  adequately  to  probe 
jurors' true feelings, and the court consistently took prospective jurors 
at their word once they claimed they could be fair, no matter any other 
indications of bias.  This Court's  review of the record,  however, yields 
a  different  appraisal.  The  District  Court  initially  screened  venire 
members by eliciting their responses to a comprehensive questionnaire 
drafted  in  large  part  by  Skilling.  That  survey  helped  to  identify  pro-
spective jurors excusable for cause and served as a springboard for fur-
ther questions; voir dire thus was the culmination of a lengthy process. 
Moreover,  inspection  of  the  questionnaires  and  voir  dire  of  the  seated 
jurors  reveals  that,  notwithstanding  the  flaws  Skilling  lists,  the  selec-
tion  process  secured  jurors  largely  uninterested  in  publicity  about 
Enron and untouched by the corporation's collapse.  Whatever commu-
nity  prejudice  existed  in  Houston  generally,  Skilling's  jurors  were  not 
under  its  sway.  Relying on  Irvin  v.  Dowd,  366  U. S.,  at  727-728,  Skil-
ling asserts the District Court should not have accepted jurors' promises 
of fairness.  But a number of factors show that the District Court had 
far  less  reason  than  the  trial  court  in  Irvin  to  discredit  jurors'  assur-
ances  of  impartiality:  News  stories  about  Enron  contained  nothing  re-
sembling the horrifying information rife in reports about Leslie Irvin's 
rampage  of  robberies  and  murders;  Houston  shares  little  in  common 
with  the  rural  community  in  which  Irvin's  trial  proceeded;  circulation 
figures for Houston media sources were far lower than the 95% satura-
tion level recorded in Irvin; and Skilling's seated jurors exhibited noth-
ing like the  display  of  bias shown in  Irvin.  In  any  event, the District 
Court did not simply take venire members at their word.  It questioned 
each juror individually to uncover concealed bias.  This face-to-face op-

Cite as: 561 U. S. 358 (2010)  363 

Syllabus 
portunity  to  gauge  demeanor  and  credibility,  coupled  with  information 
from  the  questionnaires  regarding  jurors'  backgrounds,  opinions,  and 
news  sources,  gave  the  court  a  sturdy  foundation  to  assess  fitness  for 
jury service.  Pp. 387-395. 

(3)  Skilling's  allegation  that  several  jurors  were  openly  biased 
also fails.  In reviewing such claims, the deference due to district courts 
is  at  its  pinnacle:  "A  trial  court's  findings  of  juror  impartiality  may  be 
overturned only for manifest error."  Mu'Min, 500 U. S., at 428 (inter-
nal quotation marks omitted).  Skilling, moreover, unsuccessfully chal-
lenged only one of the seated jurors for cause, "strong evidence that he 
was  convinced  the  [other]  jurors  were  not  biased  and  had  not  formed 
any  opinions  as  to  his  guilt."  Beck  v.  Washington,  369 U. S.  541,  557- 
558.  A  review  of  the  record  reveals  no  manifest  error  regarding  the 
empaneling of Jurors 11, 20, and 63, each of whom indicated, inter alia, 
that he or she would be fair to Skilling and would require the Govern-
ment to prove its case.  Four other jurors Skilling claims he would have 
excluded with extra peremptory strikes, Jurors 38, 67, 78, and 84, exhib-
ited no signs of prejudice this Court can discern.  Pp. 395-399. 

2.  Section  1346, which  proscribes  fraudulent deprivations  of  "the  in-
tangible  right  of  honest  services,"  is  properly  confined  to  cover  only 
bribery  and  kickback  schemes.  Because  Skilling's  alleged  misconduct 
entailed  no  bribe  or  kickback,  it  does  not  fall  within  the  Court's  con-
finement of $ 1346's proscription.  Pp. 399-414. 

(a)  To place Skilling's claim that $ 1346 is unconstitutionally vague 
in  context,  the  Court  reviews  the  origin  and  subsequent  application  of 
the honest-services doctrine.  Pp. 399-402. 

(1)  In a series of decisions beginning in the 1940's, the Courts of 
Appeals, one after another, interpreted the mail-fraud statute's prohibi-
tion  of  "any  scheme  or  artifice  to  defraud"  to  include  deprivations  not 
only  of  money  or  property,  but  also  of  intangible  rights.  See,  e. g., 
Shushan v.  United States, 117 F. 2d 110, which stimulated the develop-
ment  of  the  "honest-services"  doctrine.  Unlike  traditional  fraud,  in 
which  the  victim's  loss  of  money  or  property  supplied  the  defendant's 
gain,  with  one  the  mirror  image  of  the  other,  the  honest-services  doc-
trine targeted corruption that lacked similar symmetry.  While the of-
fender profited, the betrayed party suffered no deprivation of money or 
property;  instead,  a  third  party,  who  had  not  been  deceived,  provided 
the  enrichment.  Even  if  the  scheme  occasioned  a  money  or  property 
gain for the betrayed party, courts reasoned, actionable harm lay in the 
denial  of  that  party's  right  to  the  offender's  "honest  services."  Most 
often these cases involved bribery of public officials, but over time, the 
courts  increasingly  recognized  that  the  doctrine  applied  to  a  private 
employee who breached his allegiance to his employer, often by accept-

364  SKILLING  v.  UNITED  STATES 

Syllabus 
ing bribes or kickbacks.  By 1982, all Courts of Appeals had embraced 
the honest-services theory of fraud.  Pp. 399-401. 

(2)  In 1987, this Court halted the development of the intangiblerights  doctrine  in  McNally  v.  United  States,  483  U. S.  350,  360,  which 
held that the mail-fraud statute was "limited in scope to the protection 
of  property  rights."  "If  Congress  desires  to  go  further,"  the  Court 
stated, "it must speak more clearly."  Ibid.  Pp. 401-402. 

(3)  Congress  responded  the  next  year  by  enacting $ 1346,  which 
provides:  "For  the  purposes  of  th[e]  chapter  [of  the  U.  S.  Code  that 
prohibits, inter alia, mail fraud, $ 1341, and wire fraud, $ 1343], the term 
`scheme  or  artifice  to  defraud'  includes  a  scheme  or  artifice  to  deprive 
another of the intangible right of honest services."  P. 402. 

(b)  Section 1346, properly confined to core cases, is not unconstitu-
tionally vague.  Pp. 402-413. 

(1)  To satisfy due process, "a penal statute [must] define the crim-
inal offense [1] with sufficient definiteness that ordinary people can un-
derstand  what  conduct  is  prohibited  and  [2]  in  a  manner that  does  not 
encourage  arbitrary  and  discriminatory  enforcement."  Kolender  v. 
Lawson, 461 U. S. 352, 357.  The void-for-vagueness doctrine embraces 
these requirements.  Skilling contends that $ 1346 meets neither of the 
two due process essentials.  But this Court must, if possible, construe, 
not  condemn,  Congress'  enactments.  See,  e. g.,  Civil  Service  Comm'n 
v.  Letter  Carriers,  413  U. S.  548,  571.  Alert  to  $ 1346's  potential 
breadth,  the  Courts  of  Appeals  have  divided  on  how  best  to  interpret 
the  statute.  Uniformly,  however,  they  have  declined  to  throw  out  the 
statute as irremediably vague.  This Court agrees that $ 1346 should be 
construed rather than invalidated.  Pp. 402-404. 

(2)  The  Court  looks  to  the  doctrine  developed  in  pre-McNally 
cases in an endeavor to ascertain the meaning of the phrase "the intan-
gible  right  of  honest  services."  There  is  no  doubt  that  Congress  in-
tended  $ 1346  to  refer  to  and  incorporate  the  honest-services  doctrine 
recognized in Courts of Appeals' decisions before McNally derailed the 
intangible-rights theory of fraud.  Congress, it bears emphasis, enacted 

$ 1346 on the heels of McNally and drafted the statute using that deci-
sion's terminology.  See 483 U. S., at 355, 362.  Pp. 404-405. 

(3)  To preserve what Congress certainly intended $ 1346 to cover, 
the Court pares the pre-McNally body of precedent down to its core: In 
the main, the pre-McNally cases involved fraudulent schemes to deprive 
another  of  honest  services  through  bribes  or  kickbacks  supplied  by  a 
third  party  who  had  not  been  deceived.  In  parsing  the  various  preMcNally  decisions,  the  Court  acknowledges  that  Skilling's  vagueness 
challenge  has  force,  for  honest-services  decisions  were  not  models  of 
clarity  or  consistency.  It  has  long been  the Court's  practice, however, 

Cite as: 561 U. S. 358 (2010)  365 

Syllabus 
before  striking  a  federal  statute  as  impermissibly  vague,  to  consider 
whether  the  prescription  is  amenable  to  a  limiting  construction.  See, 
e. g., Hooper v.  California, 155 U. S. 648, 657.  Arguing against any lim-
iting  construction,  Skilling  contends  that  it  is  impossible  to  identify  a 
salvageable honest-services core because the pre-McNally cases are in-
consistent and hopelessly unclear.  This Court rejected an argument of 
the  same  tenor  in  Letter  Carriers,  413  U. S.,  at  571-572.  Although 
some  applications  of  the  pre-McNally  honest-services  doctrine  occa-
sioned  disagreement  among  the  Courts  of  Appeals,  these  decisions  do 
not  cloud  the  fact  that  the  vast  majority  of  cases  involved  offenders 
who, in violation of a fiduciary duty, participated in bribery or kickback 
schemes.  Indeed,  McNally  itself  presented  a  paradigmatic  kickback 
fact pattern.  483 U. S., at 352-353, 360.  In view of this history, there 
is  no  doubt  that  Congress  intended  $ 1346  to  reach  at  least  bribes  and 
kickbacks.  Because  reading  the  statute  to  proscribe  a  wider  range  of 
offensive conduct would raise vagueness concerns, the Court holds that 

$ 1346 criminalizes only the bribe-and-kickback core of the pre-McNally 
case law.  Pp. 405-409. 

(4)  The  Government  urges  the  Court  to  go  further  by  reading 

$ 1346 to proscribe another category of conduct: undisclosed self-dealing 
by  a  public  official  or  private  employee.  Neither  of  the  Government's 
arguments in support of this position withstands close inspection.  Con-
trary  to  the  first,  McNally  itself  did  not  center  on  nondisclosure  of  a 
conflicting  financial  interest,  but  rather  involved  a  classic  kickback 
scheme.  See  483  U. S.,  at  352-353,  360.  Reading  $ 1346  to  proscribe 
bribes and kickbacks--and nothing more--satisfies Congress' undoubted 
aim  to  reverse  McNally  on  its  facts.  Nor  is  the  Court  persuaded  by 
the  Government's  argument  that  the  pre-McNally  conflict-of-interest 
cases  constitute  core  applications  of  the  honest-services  doctrine.  Al-
though  the  Courts  of  Appeals  upheld  honest-services  convictions  for 
some  conflict-of-interest  schemes,  they  reached  no  consensus  on  which 
schemes qualified.  Given the relative infrequency of those prosecutions 
and the intercircuit  inconsistencies  they produced, the Court  concludes 
that a reasonable limiting construction of $ 1346 must exclude this amor-
phous  category of cases.  Further dispelling  doubt  on this point is  the 
principle  that  "ambiguity  concerning  the  ambit  of  criminal  statutes 
should  be  resolved  in  favor  of  lenity."  Cleveland  v.  United  States, 
531  U. S.  12,  25  (internal  quotation  marks  omitted).  The  Court  there-
fore resists the Government's less constrained construction of $ 1346 ab-
sent Congress' clear instruction otherwise.  "If Congress desires to go 
further," the Court reiterates, "it must speak more clearly than it has." 
McNally, 483 U. S., at 360.  Pp. 409-411. 

366  SKILLING  v.  UNITED  STATES 

Syllabus 
(5)  Interpreted to encompass only bribery and kickback schemes, 

$ 1346  is  not  unconstitutionally  vague.  A  prohibition  on  fraudulently 
depriving another of  one's  honest  services by accepting  bribes or  kick-
backs  presents  neither  a  fair-notice  nor  an  arbitrary-prosecution  prob-
lem.  See  Kolender,  461  U. S.,  at 357.  As  to  fair  notice,  it  has  always 
been  clear  that  bribes  and  kickbacks  constitute  honest-services  fraud, 
Williams v.  United States, 341 U. S. 97, 101, and the statute's mens rea 
requirement  further  blunts  any  notice  concern,  see,  e. g.,  Screws  v. 
United States, 325 U. S. 91, 101-104.  As to arbitrary prosecutions, the 
Court  perceives  no  significant  risk  that  the  honest-services  statute,  as 
here  interpreted,  will  be  stretched  out  of  shape.  Its  prohibition  on 
bribes and kickbacks draws content not only from the pre-McNally case 
law,  but  also  from  federal  statutes  proscribing  and  defining  similar 
crimes.  Pp. 412-413. 

(c)  Skilling did not violate $ 1346, as the Court interprets the stat-
ute.  The Government charged Skilling with conspiring to defraud En-
ron's shareholders by misrepresenting the company's fiscal health to his 
own  profit,  but  the  Government  never  alleged  that  he  solicited  or  ac-
cepted side payments  from a third party in exchange for making these 
misrepresentations.  Because  the  indictment  alleged  three  objects  of 
the  conspiracy--honest-services  wire  fraud,  money-or-property  wire 
fraud,  and  securities  fraud--Skilling's  conviction  is flawed.  See  Yates 
v.  United States, 354 U. S. 298.  This determination, however, does not 
necessarily  require  reversal  of  the  conspiracy  conviction,  for  errors  of 
the  Yates  variety  are  subject  to  harmless-error  analysis.  The  Court 
leaves  the parties'  dispute about  whether  the error  here  was  harmless 
for  resolution  on  remand,  along with  the  question  whether  reversal  on 
the  conspiracy  count  would  touch  any  of  Skilling's  other  convictions. 
Pp. 413-414. 

554 F. 3d 529, affirmed in part, vacated in part, and remanded. 

Ginsburg,

Cite as: 561 U. S. 358 (2010)  367 

Opinion of the Court 
Sri Srinivasan argued the cause for petitioner.  With him on  the  briefs  were 

Walter  Dellinger,  Jonathan  D.  Hacker, 
Irving  L.  Gornstein,  Daniel  M.  Petrocelli,  M.  Randall  Op-
penheimer, Matthew T. Kline, and David J. Marroso. 

Deputy  Solicitor  General  Dreeben  argued  the  cause  for the  United  States.  With  him  on  the  brief  were 

Solici-
tor  General  Kagan,  Acting  Assistant  Atttorney  General 
Raman,  former  Assistant  Attorney  General  Breuer,  Nina 
Goodman,  David  A.  O'Neil,  Joel  Gershowitz,  and  Kevin 
Gingras.* 

Justice

368  SKILLING  v.  UNITED  STATES 

Opinion of the Court 
Skilling,  we  hold,  did  not  establish  that  a  presumption  of juror  prejudice  arose  or  that  actual  bias  infected  the  jury 

that  tried  him.  But  we  disagree  with  the  Fifth  Circuit's honest-services  ruling.  In  proscribing  fraudulent  depriva-
tions of "the intangible right of honest services," $ 1346, Con-gress intended at least to reach schemes to defraud involving 
bribes  and  kickbacks.  Construing  the  honest-services  stat-ute to extend beyond that core meaning, we conclude, would 
encounter a vagueness shoal.  We therefore hold that $ 1346 covers  only  bribery  and  kickback  schemes.  Because  Skil-
ling's  alleged  misconduct  entailed  no  bribe  or  kickback,  it does  not  fall  within  $ 1346's  proscription.  We  therefore  af-
firm in part and vacate in part. 

I 
Founded  in  1985,  Enron  Corporation  grew  from  its  head-quarters  in  Houston,  Texas,  into  one  of  the  world's  leading 

energy  companies.  Skilling  launched  his  career  there  in 1990  when  Kenneth  Lay,  the  company's  founder,  hired  him 
to head an Enron subsidiary.  Skilling steadily rose through the corporation's ranks, serving as president and chief oper-
ating  officer,  and  then,  beginning  in  February  2001,  as  chief executive  officer.  Six  months  later,  on  August  14,  2001, 
Skilling resigned from Enron. Less  than  four  months  after  Skilling's  departure,  Enron 
spiraled  into  bankruptcy.  The  company's  stock,  which  had traded  at  $90  per  share  in  August  2000,  plummeted  to  pen-
nies  per  share  in  late  2001.  Attempting  to  comprehend what caused the corporation's collapse, the U. S. Department 
of Justice formed an Enron Task Force, comprising prosecu-tors and Federal Bureau of Investigation agents from around 
the  Nation.  The  Government's  investigation  uncovered  an elaborate  conspiracy  to  prop  up  Enron's  short-run  stock 
prices by overstating the company's financial well-being.  In the  years  following  Enron's  bankruptcy,  the  Government 
prosecuted  dozens  of  Enron  employees  who  participated  in the  scheme.  In  time,  the  Government  worked  its  way  up 

Cite as: 561 U. S. 358 (2010)  369 

Opinion of the Court 
the corporation's chain of command: On July 7, 2004, a grand jury indicted Skilling, Lay, and Richard Causey, Enron's for-

mer chief accounting officer. These three defendants, the indictment alleged, 

"engaged  in  a  wide-ranging  scheme  to  deceive  the  in-vesting public, including Enron's shareholders, . . . about 
the  true  performance  of  Enron's  businesses  by:  (a)  ma-nipulating  Enron's  publicly  reported  financial  results; 
and  (b)  making  public  statements  and  representations about  Enron's  financial  performance  and  results  that 
were false and misleading."  App. || 5, p. 277a. 
Skilling  and  his  co-conspirators,  the  indictment  continued, "enriched  themselves  as  a  result  of  the  scheme  through  sal-

ary, bonuses, grants of stock and stock options, other profits, and prestige." 

Id., || 14, at 280a. Count 1 of the indictment charged Skilling with conspiracy 

to commit securities  and wire  fraud; in  particular, it  alleged that  Skilling  had  sought  to  "depriv[e]  Enron  and  its  share-
holders of the intangible right of [his] honest services."  Id., 
|| 87, at 318a.1  The indictment further charged Skilling with more  than  25  substantive  counts  of  securities  fraud,  wire 

fraud, making false representations to Enron's auditors, and insider trading. 

In November 2004,  Skilling moved to transfer  the  trial to another  venue;  he  contended  that  hostility  toward  him  in 
Houston,  coupled  with  extensive  pretrial  publicity,  had  poi-soned  potential  jurors.  To  support  this  assertion,  Skilling, 
aided by media experts, submitted hundreds of news reports 
detailing Enron's downfall; he also presented affidavits from 

1 The  mail- and  wire-fraud  statutes  criminalize  the  use  of  the  mails  or 
wires in furtherance of "any scheme or artifice to defraud, or for obtaining 
money or property by means of false or fraudulent pretenses, representa-
tions,  or  promises."  18  U. S. C.  $ 1341  (mail  fraud);  $ 1343  (wire  fraud). 
The  honest-services  statute,  $ 1346,  defines  "the  term  `scheme  or  artifice 
to defraud' " in these provisions to include "a scheme or artifice to deprive 
another of the intangible right of honest services." 

370  SKILLING  v.  UNITED  STATES 

Opinion of the Court 
the  experts  he  engaged  portraying  community  attitudes  in 
Houston in comparison to other potential venues. 

The  U.  S.  District  Court  for  the  Southern  District  of 
Texas,  in  accord  with  rulings  in  two  earlier  instituted 
Enron-related  prosecutions,2  denied  the  venue-transfer  mo-
tion.  Despite  "isolated  incidents  of  intemperate  commen-
tary,"  the  court  observed,  media  coverage  "ha[d]  [mostly] 
been  objective  and  unemotional,"  and  the  facts  of  the  case 
were  "neither  heinous  nor  sensational."  App.  to  Brief 
for  United  States  10a-11a.3  Moreover,  "courts  ha[d]  com-
monly"  favored  "effective  voir  dire  .  .  .  to  ferret  out  any 
[ juror] bias."  Id., at 18a.  Pretrial publicity about the case, 
the court concluded, did not warrant a presumption that Skil-
ling  would  be  unable  to  obtain  a  fair  trial  in  Houston.  Id., 
at 22a. 

In  the  months  leading  up  to  the  trial,  the  District  Court 
solicited  from  the  parties  questions  the  court  might  use  to 
screen  prospective  jurors.  Unable  to  agree  on  a  question-

2 See United States v.  Fastow, 292  F. Supp.  2d 914,  918 (SD Tex.  2003); 
Order  in  United  States  v.  Hirko,  No.  4:03-cr-00093  (SD  Tex.,  Nov.  24, 
2004),  Record,  Doc.  484,  p.  6.  These  rulings  were  made  by  two  other 
judges of the same District.  Three judges residing in the area thus inde-
pendently found that defendants in Enron-related cases could obtain a fair 
trial in Houston. 

3 Painting a different picture of the media coverage surrounding Enron's 

collapse,  Justice

Cite as: 561 U. S. 358 (2010)  371 

Opinion of the Court 
naire's format and content, Skilling and the Government sub-
mitted  dueling  documents.  On  venire  members'  sources  of 
Enron-related  news,  for  example,  the  Government  proposed 
that  they  tick  boxes  from  a  checklist  of  generic  labels  such 
as  "[t]elevision,"  "[n]ewspaper,"  and  "[r]adio,"  Record  8415; 
Skilling  proposed  more  probing  questions  asking  venire 
members to list the specific names of their media sources and 
to  report  on  "what  st[ood]  out  in  [their]  mind[s]"  of  "all  the 
things  [they]  ha[d]  seen,  heard  or  read  about  Enron,"  id., 
at 8404-8405. 

The  District  Court  rejected  the  Government's  sparer  in-
quiries  in  favor  of  Skilling's  submission.  Skilling's  ques-
tions  "[we]re  more  helpful,"  the  court  said,  "because  [they] 
[we]re generally . . . open-ended and w[ould] allow the poten-
tial jurors to give us more meaningful information."  Id., at 
9539.  The court converted Skilling's submission, with slight 
modifications,  into  a  77-question,  14-page  document  that 
asked  prospective  jurors  about,  inter  alia,  their  sources  of 

news  and  exposure  to  Enron-related  publicity,  beliefs  con-
cerning Enron and what caused its collapse, opinions regard-
ing the defendants and their possible guilt or innocence, and 
relationships  to  the  company  and  to  anyone  affected  by  its 
demise.4 

4 Questions  included  the  following:  "What  are  your  opinions  about  the 
compensation  that  executives of  large  corporations  receive?"; "Have  you, 
any family members, or friends ever worked for or applied for work with," 
"done business with," or "owned stock in Enron Corporation or any Enron 
subsidiaries  and  partnership?";  "Do  you  know  anyone . . . who has  been 
negatively affected or hurt in any way by what happened at Enron?"; "Do 
you  have  an  opinion  about  the  cause  of  the  collapse  of  Enron?  If  YES, 
what  is  your  opinion?  On  what  do  you  base  your  opinion?";  "Have  you 
heard  or  read  about  any  of  the  Enron  cases?  If  YES,  please  tell  us  the 
name  of  all  sources  from  which  you  have  heard  or  read  about  the  Enron 
cases.";  "Have  you  read  any  books  or  seen  any  movies  about  Enron?  If 
YES, please describe."; "Are you angry about what happened with Enron? 
If YES, please explain."; "Do you have an opinion about . . .  Jeffrey Skil-
ling  .  .  .  [?]  If  YES,  what  is  your  opinion?  On  what  do  you  base  your 

372  SKILLING  v.  UNITED  STATES 

Opinion of the Court 
In November 2005, the District Court mailed the question-
naire  to 400  prospective  jurors and  received responses  from 
nearly  all  the  addressees.  The  court  granted  hardship  ex-
emptions  to  approximately  90  individuals,  id.,  at  11773- 
11774,  and  the  parties,  with  the  court's  approval,  further 
winnowed  the  pool  by excusing  another  119  for  cause, hard-
ship, or physical disability, id., at 11891, 13594.  The parties 
agreed  to  exclude,  in  particular,  "each  and  every"  prospec-
tive  juror  who  said  that  a  pre-existing  opinion  about  Enron 
or the defendants would prevent her from impartially consid-
ering the evidence at trial.  Id., at 13668. 

On December 28, 2005, three weeks before the date sched-
uled  for  the  commencement  of  trial,  Causey  pleaded  guilty. 
Skilling's  attorneys  immediately  requested  a  continuance, 
and the District Court agreed to delay the proceedings until 
the  end  of  January  2006.  Id.,  at  14277.  In  the  interim, 
Skilling  renewed  his  change-of-venue  motion,  arguing  that 
the  juror  questionnaires  revealed  pervasive  bias  and  that 
news  accounts  of  Causey's  guilty  plea  further  tainted  the 
jury  pool.  If  Houston  remained  the  trial  venue,  Skilling 
urged that "jurors need to be questioned individually by both 
the  Court  and  counsel"  concerning  their  opinions  of  Enron 
and "publicity issues."  Id., at 12074. 

The District Court again declined to move the trial.  Skil-
ling,  the  court  concluded,  still  had  not  "establish[ed]  that 
pretrial publicity and/or community prejudice raise[d] a pre-
sumption  of  inherent  jury  prejudice."  Id.,  at  14115.  The 
questionnaires  and  voir  dire,  the  court  observed,  provided 

opinion?"; "Based on anything you have heard, read, or been told[,] do you 
have any opinion about the guilt or innocence of . . . Jeffrey Skilling[?]  If 
. . .  YES . . . ,  please explain."; "[W]ould any opinion you may have formed 
regarding  Enron  or  any  of  the  defendants  prevent  you  from  impartially 
considering  the  evidence  presented  during  the  trial  of . . . Jeffrey  Skil-
ling[?]  If  YES  or  UNSURE  .  .  .  ,  please  explain.";  "Is  there  anything 
else  you  feel  is  important  for  the  court  to  know  about  you?"  Record 
13013-13026. 

Cite as: 561 U. S. 358 (2010)  373 

Opinion of the Court 
safeguards  adequate  to  ensure  an  impartial  jury.  Id.,  at 14115-14116. 

Denying  Skilling's  request  for  attorney-led  voir  dire,  the court said that in 17 years on the bench: 

"I've  found  . . . I  get  more  forthcoming  responses  from potential jurors than the lawyers on either side.  I don't 
know  whether  people  are  suspicious  of  lawyers--but  I think  if  I  ask  a  person  a  question,  I  will  get  a  candid 
response  much  easier  than  if  a  lawyer  asks  the  ques-tion." 

Id., at 11805. 

But the court promised to give counsel an opportunity to ask followup questions, ibid., and it agreed that venire members 

should  be  examined  individually  about  pretrial  publicity, 
id.,  at  11051-11053.  The  court  also  allotted  the  defendants jointly  14  peremptory  challenges,  2  more  than  the  standard 

number  prescribed  by  Federal  Rule  of  Criminal  Procedure 24(b)(2) and (c)(4)(B).  Id., at 13673-13675. 

Voir  dire began  on  January 30,  2006.  The  District  Court first emphasized to the venire the importance of impartiality 
and explained the presumption of innocence and the Govern-ment's burden of proof.  The trial, the court next instructed, 
was not  a forum  "to  seek vengeance  against  Enron's  former officers,"  or  to  "provide  remedies  for"  its  victims.  App. 
823a.  "The  bottom  line,"  the  court  stressed,  "is  that  we want  .  .  .  jurors  who . . .  will  faithfully,  conscientiously  and 
impartially  serve  if  selected."  Id.,  at  823a-824a.  In  re-sponse  to  the  court's  query  whether  any  prospective  juror 
questioned  her  ability  to  adhere  to  these  instructions,  two individuals  indicated  that  they  could  not  be  fair;  they  were 
therefore excused for cause, id., at 816a, 819a-820a. After  questioning  the  venire  as  a  group,

5  the  District 

Court  brought  prospective  jurors  one  by  one  to  the  bench 

5 Among other questions, the court asked whether sympathy toward the 
victims of Enron's collapse or a desire to see justice done would overpower 
prospective jurors' impartiality.  App. 839a-840a. 

374  SKILLING  v.  UNITED  STATES 

Opinion of the Court 
for  individual  examination.  Although  the  questions  varied, the  process  generally  tracked  the  following  format:  The 

court  asked  about  exposure  to  Enron-related  news  and  the content  of  any  stories  that  stood  out  in  the  prospective  ju-
ror's  mind.  Next,  the  court  homed  in  on  questionnaire  an-swers  that  raised  a  red  flag  signaling  possible  bias.  The 
court  then  permitted  each  side  to  pose  followup  questions. Finally,  after  the  venire  member  stepped  away,  the  court 
entertained  and  ruled  on  challenges  for  cause.  In  all,  the court  granted  one  of  the  Government's  for-cause  challenges 
and  denied  four;  it  granted  three  of  the  defendants'  chal-lenges  and  denied  six.  The  parties  agreed  to  excuse  three 
additional jurors for cause and one for hardship. By  the  end of  the  day,  the  court  had qualified 38  prospec-
tive  jurors,  a  number  sufficient,  allowing  for  peremptory challenges,  to  empanel  12  jurors  and  4  alternates.

6  Before 

the jury was sworn in, Skilling objected to the seating of six jurors.  He  did  not  contend  that  they  were  in  fact  biased; 

instead,  he  urged  that  he  would  have  used  peremptories  to exclude  them  had  he  not  exhausted  his  supply  by  striking 

6 Selection  procedures  of  similar  style  and  duration  took  place  in  three 
Enron-related  criminal  cases  earlier  prosecuted  in  Houston--United 
States  v.  Arthur  Andersen  LLP,  No.  4:02-cr-00121-1  (SD  Tex.)  (charges 
against  Enron's  outside  accountants);  United  States  v.  Bayly,  No.  4:03- 

cr-00363 (SD Tex.)  (charges against Merrill Lynch  and Enron  executives 
for  alleged  sham  sales  of  Nigerian  barges);  United  States  v.  Hirko, 
No.  4:03-cr-00093  (SD  Tex.)  (fraud  and  insider-trading  charges  against 
five Enron Broadband Services executives).  See Brief for United States 
9 (In all three cases, the District Court "distributed a jury questionnaire 
to a pool of several hundred potential jurors; dismissed individuals whose 
responses  to  the  questionnaire  demonstrated  bias  or  other  disqualifying 
characteristics;  and,  after  further  questioning  by  the  court  and  counsel, 
selected  a  jury  from  the  remaining  venire  in  one  day.");  Government's 
Memorandum of Law in Response to Defendants' Joint Motion to Transfer 
Venue  in  United  States  v.  Skilling,  No.  4:04-cr-00025  (SD  Tex.,  Dec.  3, 
2004),  Record,  Doc.  231,  pp. 21-28  (describing  in  depth  the  jury-selection 
process in the Arthur Andersen and Bayly trials). 

Cite as: 561 U. S. 358 (2010)  375 

Opinion of the Court 
several  venire  members  after  the  court  refused  to  excuse them  for  cause.  Supp.  App.  3sa-4sa  (Sealed).

7  The  court 

overruled this objection. After  the  jurors  took  their  oath,  the  District  Court  told 

them  they  could  not  discuss  the  case  with  anyone  or  follow 
media  accounts  of  the  proceedings.  "[E]ach  of  you,"  the court explained, "needs to be absolutely sure that your deci-

sions concerning the facts will be based only on the evidence that you hear and read in this courtroom."  App. 1026a. 

Following a four-month trial and nearly five days of delib-eration, the jury found Skilling guilty of 19 counts, including 
the  honest-services-fraud  conspiracy  charge,  and  not  guilty of  9  insider-trading  counts.  The  District  Court  sentenced 
Skilling  to  292  months'  imprisonment,  3  years'  supervised release, and $45 million in restitution. 

On  appeal,  Skilling  raised  a  host  of  challenges  to  his  con-
victions,  including  the  fair-trial  and  honest-services  argu-ments  he  presses  here.  Regarding  the  former,  the  Fifth 

Circuit  initially  determined  that  the  volume  and  negative tone  of  media  coverage  generated  by  Enron's  collapse  cre-
ated  a  presumption  of  juror  prejudice.  554  F.  3d  529,  559 (2009).

8  The  court  also noted  potential  prejudice  stemming 

from  Causey's  guilty  plea  and  from  the  large  number  of victims in Houston--from the "[t]housands of Enron employ-

7 Skilling had requested  an  additional  peremptory  strike  each  time  the 
District  Court  rejected  a  for-cause  objection.  The  court,  which  had  al-
ready  granted  two  extra  peremptories,  see  supra,  at  373,  denied  each 
request. 

8 The Fifth Circuit described the media coverage as follows: 

"Local newspapers ran many personal interest stories in which sympa-
thetic  individuals  expressed  feelings  of  anger  and  betrayal  toward 
Enron. . . . Even the [Houston] Chronicle's sports page wrote of Skilling's 
guilt  as  a  foregone  conclusion.  Similarly,  the  Chronicle's  `Pethouse  Pet 
of  the  Week'  section  mentioned  that  a  pet  had  `enjoyed  watching  those 
Enron jerks being led away in handcuffs.'  These are but a few examples 
of the Chronicle's coverage."  554 F. 3d, at 559 (footnote omitted). 

376  SKILLING  v.  UNITED  STATES 

Opinion of the Court 
ees . . . [who] lost their jobs, and . . . saw their 401(k) accounts 
wiped  out,"  to  Houstonians  who  suffered  spillover  economic 
effects.  Id., at 559-560. 

The Court of Appeals stated, however, that "the presump-
tion  [of  prejudice]  is  rebuttable,"  and  it  therefore  examined 
the  voir  dire  to  determine  whether  "the  District  Court  em-
paneled  an  impartial  jury."  Id.,  at  561  (internal  quotation 
marks,  italics,  and  some  capitalization  omitted).  The  voir 
dire was, in the Fifth Circuit's view, "proper and thorough." 
Id.,  at  562.  Moreover,  the  court  noted,  Skilling  had  chal-
lenged  only  one  seated  juror--Juror  11--for  cause.  Al-
though Juror 11 made some troubling comments about corpo-
rate  greed,  the  District  Court  "observed  [his]  demeanor, 
listened to his answers, and believed he would make the gov-
ernment prove its case."  Id., at 564.  In sum, the Fifth Cir-
cuit found that the Government had overcome the presump-
tion of prejudice and that Skilling had not "show[n] that any 
juror  who  actually  sat  was  prejudiced  against  him."  Ibid. 

The  Court  of  Appeals  also  rejected  Skilling's  claim  that 
his  conduct  did  not  indicate  any  conspiracy  to  commit 
honest-services  fraud.  "[T]he  jury  was  entitled  to  convict 
Skilling," the court stated, "on these elements": "(1) a mate-
rial  breach  of  a  fiduciary  duty . . . (2)  that  results  in  a  det-
riment  to  the  employer,"  including  one  occasioned  by  an 
employee's  decision  to  "withhold  material  information,  i. e., 
information  that  he  had  reason  to  believe  would  lead  a  rea-
sonable  employer  to  change  its  conduct."  Id.,  at  547.  The 
Fifth  Circuit  did  not  address  Skilling's  argument  that  the 
honest-services  statute,  if  not  interpreted  to  exclude  his 
actions,  should  be  invalidated  as  unconstitutionally  vague. 
Brief  for  Defendant-Appellant  Skilling  in  No.  06-20885 
(CA5), p. 65, n. 21. 

Arguing  that  the  Fifth  Circuit  erred  in  its  consideration 
of  these  claims,  Skilling  sought  relief  from  this  Court.  We 
granted  certiorari,  558  U. S.  945  (2009),  and  now  affirm  in 

Cite as: 561 U. S. 358 (2010)  377 

Opinion of the Court 
part,  vacate  in  part,  and  remand  for  further  proceedings.9 We consider first Skilling's allegation of juror prejudice, and 

next, his honest-services argument. 

II 
Pointing  to  "the  community  passion  aroused  by  Enron's collapse  and  the  vitriolic  media  treatment"  aimed  at  him, 

Skilling  argues  that  his  trial  "never  should  have  proceeded in  Houston."  Brief  for  Petitioner  20.  And  even  if  it  had 
been  possible  to  select  impartial  jurors  in  Houston,  "[t]he truncated voir dire . . . did almost nothing to weed out preju-
dices," he contends, so "[f]ar from rebutting the presumption of  prejudice,  the  record  below  affirmatively  confirmed  it." 
Id., at 21.  Skilling's fair-trial claim thus raises two distinct questions.  First,  did  the  District  Court  err  by  failing  to 
move  the  trial  to  a  different  venue  based  on  a  presumption of pre judice?  Second, did  actual  pre judice contaminate 
Skilling's jury?10  A 

1 
The Sixth Amendment secures  to criminal defendants  the right to trial by an impartial jury.  By constitutional design, 

that  trial  occurs  "in  the  State  where  the . . . Crimes . . .  

9 We also granted certiorari and heard arguments this Term in two other 
cases  raising  questions  concerning  the  honest-services  statute's  scope. 
See  Black  v.  United  States,  No.  08-876;  Weyhrauch  v.  United  States, 
No. 08-1196.  Today we vacate and remand those decisions in light of this 
opinion.  Black, post, p. 465; Weyhrauch, post, p. 476. 

10 Assuming, as the Fifth Circuit found, that a presumption of prejudice 

arose in  Houston,  the  question  presented  in  Skilling's petition  for  certio-
rari  casts his  actual-prejudice  argument  as an  inquiry  into when, if  ever, 
that  presumption  may  be  rebutted.  See  Pet.  for  Cert.  i.  Although  we 
find a presumption of prejudice unwarranted in this case, we consider the 
actual-prejudice issue to be fairly subsumed within the question we agreed 
to decide.  See this Court's Rule 14.1(a). 

378  SKILLING  v.  UNITED  STATES 

Opinion of the Court 
have  been  committed."  Art.  III,  $ 2,  cl.  3.  See  also  Amdt. 6  (right  to  trial  by  "jury  of  the  State  and  district  wherein 

the  crime  shall  have  been  committed").  The  Constitution's place-of-trial prescriptions, however, do not  impede transfer 
of  the  proceeding  to  a  different  district  at  the  defendant's request  if  extraordinary  local  prejudice  will  prevent  a  fair 
trial--a  "basic  requirement  of  due  process,"  In  re  Murchi-
son, 349 U. S. 133, 136 (1955).11 

2 
"The theory of our [trial] system is that the conclusions to be  reached  in  a  case  will  be  induced  only  by  evidence  and 

argument  in  open  court,  and  not  by  any  outside  influence, whether of private talk or public print." 

Patterson v.  Colo-
rado  ex  rel.  Attorney  General  of  Colo.,  205  U. S.  454,  462 (1907) (opinion for the Court by Holmes, J.).  When does the 

11 Venue transfer in federal court is governed by Federal Rule of Crimi-
nal Procedure 21, which instructs that a "court must transfer the proceed-
ing . . . to another district if the court is satisfied that so great a prejudice 
against  the  defendant  exists  in  the  transferring  district  that  the  defend-
ant  cannot  obtain  a  fair  and  impartial  trial  there."  As  the  language  of 
the  Rule  suggests,  district-court  calls  on  the  necessity  of  transfer  are 
granted a healthy measure of appellate-court respect.  See Platt v.  Min-
nesota Mining & Mfg. Co., 376 U. S. 240, 245 (1964).  Federal courts have 
invoked  the  Rule  to  move certain  highly  charged  cases,  for  example,  the 
prosecution  arising  from  the  bombing  of  the  Alfred  P.  Murrah  Federal 
Office  Building  in  Oklahoma  City.  See  United  States  v.  McVeigh,  918 
F. Supp. 1467, 1474 (WD Okla. 1996).  They have also exercised discretion 
to  deny  venue-transfer  requests  in  cases  involving  substantial  pretrial 
publicity  and  community  impact,  for  example,  the  prosecutions  resulting 
from the 1993 World Trade Center bombing, see United States v. Salameh, 
No. S5 93 Cr. 0180 (KTD) (SDNY, Sept. 15, 1993); United States v.  Yousef, 
No.  S12  93  Cr.  180  (KTD)  (SDNY,  July  18,  1997),  aff 'd  327  F.  3d  56,  155 
(CA2 2003), and the prosecution of John Walker Lindh, referred to in the 
press  as  the  American  Taliban,  see  United  States  v.  Lindh,  212  F.  Supp. 
2d 541, 549-551 (ED Va. 2002).  Skilling does not argue, distinct from his 
due process challenge, that the District Court abused its discretion under 
Rule 21 by declining to move his trial.  We therefore review the District 
Court's venue-transfer decision only for compliance with the Constitution. 

Cite as: 561 U. S. 358 (2010)  379 

Opinion of the Court 
publicity  attending  conduct  charged  as  criminal  dim  pros-pects that the trier can judge a case, as due process requires, 

impartially,  unswayed  by  outside  influence?  Because  most cases of consequence garner at least  some pretrial publicity, 
courts  have  considered  this  question  in  diverse  settings. We  begin  our  discussion  by  addressing  the  presumption  of 
prejudice from which the Fifth Circuit's analysis in Skilling's 
case  proceeded.  The  foundation  precedent  is  Rideau  v. 
Louisiana, 373 U. S. 723 (1963). 

Wilbert  Rideau  robbed  a  bank  in  a  small  Louisiana  town, kidnaped three bank employees, and killed one of them.  Po-

lice  interrogated  Rideau  in  jail  without  counsel  present  and 
obtained his  confession.  Without informing Rideau,  no less 
seeking his consent, the police filmed the interrogation.  On 
three separate occasions shortly before the trial, a local tele-
vision  station  broadcast  the  film  to  audiences  ranging  from 
24,000  to  53,000  individuals.  Rideau  moved  for  a  change  of 
venue,  arguing  that  he  could  not  receive  a  fair  trial  in  the 
parish  where  the  crime  occurred,  which  had  a  population  of 
approximately  150,000  people.  The  trial  court  denied  the 
motion,  and  a  jury  eventually  convicted  Rideau.  The  Su-
preme Court of Louisiana upheld the conviction. 

We  reversed.  "What  the  people  [in  the  community]  saw 
on  their  television  sets,"  we  observed,  "was  Rideau,  in  jail, 
flanked  by  the  sheriff  and  two  state  troopers,  admitting  in 
detail  the  commission  of  the  robbery,  kidnapping,  and  mur-
der."  Id., at 725.  "[T]o the tens of thousands of people who 
saw and heard it," we explained, the interrogation "in a very 
real  sense  was  Rideau's  trial--at  which  he  pleaded  guilty." 
Id., at 726.  We therefore "d[id] not hesitate to hold, without 
pausing  to  examine  a  particularized  transcript  of  the  voir 
dire,"  that  "[t]he  kangaroo  court  proceedings"  trailing  the 
televised  confession  violated  due  process.  Id.,  at  726-727. 

We  followed  Rideau's  lead  in  two  later  cases  in  which 
media  coverage  manifestly  tainted  a  criminal  prosecution. 
In Estes v.  Texas, 381 U. S. 532, 538 (1965), extensive public-

380  SKILLING  v.  UNITED  STATES 

Opinion of the Court 
ity  before  trial  swelled  into  excessive  exposure  during  pre-liminary court proceedings as reporters and television crews 

overran the courtroom and "bombard[ed] . . . the community with  the  sights  and  sounds  of "  the  pretrial  hearing.  The 
media's  overzealous  reporting  efforts,  we  observed,  "led  to considerable  disruption"  and  denied  the  "judicial  serenity 
and  calm  to  which  [Billie  Sol  Estes]  was  entitled."  Id., at 536. 

Similarly,  in  Sheppard  v.  Maxwell,  384  U. S.  333  (1966), news  reporters  extensively  covered  the  story  of  Sam  Shep-
pard,  who  was  accused  of  bludgeoning  his  pregnant  wife  to death.  "[B]edlam reigned at the courthouse during the trial 
and  newsmen  took  over  practically  the  entire  courtroom," thrusting  jurors  "into  the  role  of  celebrities."  Id.,  at  353, 
355.  Pretrial  media  coverage,  which  we  characterized  as "months [of] virulent publicity about Sheppard and the mur-
der," did not alone deny due process, we noted.  Id., at 354. But  Sheppard's  case  involved  more  than  heated  reporting 
pretrial: We upset the murder conviction because a "carnival atmosphere" pervaded the trial, id., at 358. 

In  each  of  these  cases,  we  overturned  a  "conviction  ob-tained  in  a  trial  atmosphere that  [was]  utterly  corrupted  by 
press coverage"; our decisions, however, "cannot be made to stand  for  the  proposition  that  juror  exposure  to  .  .  .  news 
accounts  of  the  crime  .  .  .  alone  presumptively  deprives  the defendant  of  due  process." 

Murphy  v.  Florida,  421  U. S. 794,  798-799  (1975).
12  See  also,  e. g.,  Patton  v.  Yount,  467 

12 Murphy involved the robbery prosecution of the notorious Jack Mur-
phy,  a  convicted  murderer  who  helped  mastermind  the  1964  heist  of  the 
Star  of  India  sapphire  from  New  York's  American  Museum  of  Natural 
History.  Pointing  to  "extensive  press  coverage"  about  him,  Murphy 
moved  to  transfer  venue.  421  U. S.,  at  796.  The  trial  court  denied  the 
motion, and  a jury  convicted Murphy.  We  affirmed.  Murphy's trial,  we 
explained, was markedly different from the proceedings at issue in Rideau 
v.  Louisiana, 373 U. S. 723 (1963), Estes v.  Texas, 381 U. S. 532 (1965), and 
Sheppard v.  Maxwell, 384 U. S. 333 (1966), which "entirely lack[ed] . . . the  
solemnity  and  sobriety  to  which  a  defendant  is  entitled  in  a  system  that 

Cite as: 561 U. S. 358 (2010)  381 

Opinion of the Court 
U. S.  1025  (1984).13  Prominence  does  not  necessarily  pro-
duce  prejudice,  and  juror  impartiality,  we  have  reiterated, 
does  not  require  ignorance.  Irvin  v.  Dowd,  366  U. S.  717, 
722 (1961) (Jurors are not required to be "totally ignorant of 
the  facts  and  issues  involved";  "scarcely  any  of  those  best 
qualified  to  serve  as  jurors  will  not  have  formed  some  im-
pression or opinion as to the merits of the case."); Reynolds 
v.  United  States,  98  U. S.  145,  155-156  (1879)  ("[E]very  case 
of public interest is almost, as a matter of necessity, brought 
to  the  attention  of  all  the  intelligent  people  in  the  vicinity, 
and  scarcely  any  one  can  be  found  among  those  best  fitted 
for  jurors  who  has  not  read  or  heard  of  it,  and  who  has  not 
some  impression  or  some  opinion  in  respect  to  its  merits."). 
A  presumption  of  prejudice,  our  decisions  indicate,  attends 
only the extreme case. 

3 

Relying  on  Rideau,  Estes,  and  Sheppard,  Skilling  asserts 
that  we  need  not  pause  to  examine  the  screening  question-
naires  or  the  voir  dire  before  declaring  his  jury's  verdict 
void.  We  are  not  persuaded.  Important  differences  sepa-

subscribes to any notion of fairness and rejects the verdict of a mob."  421 
U. S.,  at  799.  Voir  dire  revealed  no  great  hostility  toward  Murphy; 
"[s]ome  of  the  jurors  had  a  vague  recollection  of  the  robbery  with  which 
[he]  was  charged  and  each  had  some  knowledge  of  [his]  past  crimes,  but 
none betrayed any belief in the relevance of [his] past to the present case." 
Id., at 800 (footnote omitted). 

13 In  Yount,  the  media  reported  on  Jon  Yount's  confession  to  a  brutal 

murder  and  his  prior  conviction  for  the  crime,  which  had  been  reversed 
due  to  a  violation  of  Miranda  v.  Arizona,  384  U. S.  436  (1966).  During 
voir  dire,  77%  of  prospective  jurors  acknowledged  they  would  carry  an 
opinion  into  the  jury  box,  and  8  of  the  14  seated  jurors  and  alternates 
admitted  they  had  formed  an  opinion  as  to  Yount's  guilt.  467  U. S.,  at 
1029-1030.  Nevertheless,  we  rejected  Yount's  presumption-of-prejudice 
claim.  The adverse publicity and community outrage, we noted, were at 
their height prior to Yount's first trial, four years before the second prose-
cution;  time  had  helped  "sooth[e]  and  eras[e]"  community  prejudice,  id., 
at 1034. 

382  SKILLING  v.  UNITED  STATES 

Opinion of the Court 
rate Skilling's prosecution from those in which we have pre-
sumed juror prejudice.14 

First,  we  have  emphasized  in  prior  decisions  the  size  and 
characteristics  of  the  community  in  which  the  crime  oc-
curred.  In  Rideau,  for  example,  we  noted  that  the  murder 
was committed in a parish  of only 150,000  residents.  Hous-
ton,  in  contrast,  is  the  fourth  most  populous  city  in  the  Na-
tion:  At  the  time  of  Skilling's  trial,  more  than  4.5  million 
individuals eligible for jury duty resided in the Houston area. 
App. 627a.  Given this large, diverse pool of potential jurors, 
the suggestion that 12 impartial individuals could not be em-
paneled  is  hard  to  sustain.  See  Mu'Min  v.  Virginia,  500 
U. S. 415, 429 (1991) (potential for prejudice mitigated by the 
size of the "metropolitan Washington [D. C.] statistical area, 
which has a population of over 3 million, and in which, unfor-
tunately,  hundreds  of  murders  are  committed  each  year"); 
Gentile v.  State Bar of Nev., 501 U. S. 1030, 1044 (1991) (plu-
rality opinion) (reduced likelihood of prejudice where venire 
was drawn from a pool of over 600,000 individuals).15 

Second,  although  news  stories  about  Skilling  were  not 
kind, they contained no confession or other blatantly prejudi-
cial information of the type readers or viewers could not rea-
sonably  be  expected  to  shut  from  sight.  Rideau's  dramati-

14 Skilling's  reliance  on  Estes  and  Sheppard  is  particularly  misplaced; 
those cases involved media interference with courtroom proceedings dur-
ing trial.  See supra, at 379-380.  Skilling does not assert that news cov-
erage reached and influenced his jury after it was empaneled. 

15 According  to  a  survey  commissioned  by  Skilling  in  conjunction  with 

his first motion for a venue change, only 12.3% of Houstonians named him 
when asked to list Enron executives they believed guilty of crimes.  App. 
375a-376a.  In  response  to  the  followup  question  "[w]hat  words  come  to 
mind  when  you  hear  the  name  Jeff  Skilling?",  two-thirds  of  respondents 
failed  to  say  a  single  negative  word,  id.,  at  376a:  43%  either  had  never 
heard  of  Skilling  or  stated  that  nothing  came  to  mind  when  they  heard 
his  name,  and  another  23%  knew  Skilling's  name  was  associated  with 
Enron  but  reported  no  opinion  about  him,  Record  3210-3211;  see  App. 
417a-492a. 

Cite as: 561 U. S. 358 (2010)  383 

Opinion of the Court 
cally  staged  admission  of  guilt,  for  instance,  was  likely imprinted  indelibly  in  the  mind  of  anyone  who  watched  it. 

Cf.  Parker  v.  Randolph,  442  U. S.  62,  72  (1979)  (plurality opinion) ("[T]he defendant's own confession [is] probably the 
most probative and damaging evidence that can be admitted against him." (internal quotation marks omitted)).  Pretrial 
publicity about Skilling was less memorable and prejudicial. 
No  evidence  of  the  smoking-gun  variety  invited  prejudg-ment  of  his  culpability.  See 

United  States  v.  Chagra,  669 
F. 2d 241, 251-252, n. 11 (CA5 1982) ("A jury may have diffi-culty  in  disbelieving  or  forgetting  a  defendant's  opinion  of 

his own guilt but have no difficulty in rejecting the opinions of others because they may not be well-founded."). 

Third, unlike cases in which trial swiftly followed a widely reported  crime, 

e. g.,  Rideau,  373  U. S.,  at  724,  over  four 
years  elapsed  between  Enron's  bankruptcy  and  Skilling's 
trial.  Although reporters  covered Enron-related  news 
throughout  this  period,  the  decibel  level  of  media  attention 
diminished somewhat in the years following Enron's collapse. 
See  App.  700a;  id.,  at  785a;  Yount,  467  U. S.,  at  1032,  1034. 

Finally, and of prime significance, Skilling's jury acquitted 
him  of  nine  insider-trading  counts.  Similarly,  earlier  insti-
tuted  Enron-related  prosecutions  yielded  no  overwhelming 
victory  for  the  Government.16  In  Rideau,  Estes,  and  Shep-
pard,  in  marked  contrast,  the  jury's  verdict  did  not  under-
mine  in  any  way  the  supposition of  juror  bias.  It  would  be 
odd for  an appellate  court  to  presume prejudice  in  a case  in 
which jurors' actions run counter to that presumption.  See, 
e. g.,  United  States  v.  Arzola-Amaya,  867  F.  2d  1504,  1514 

16 As  the  United  States  summarizes,  "[I]n  Hirko,  the  jury  deliberated 
for several days and did not convict any Enron defendant; in Bayly, which 
was  routinely  described  as  `the  first  Enron  criminal  trial,'  the  jury  con-
victed  five  defendants,  .  .  .  but  acquitted  a  former  Enron  executive.  At 
the  sentencing  phase  of  Bayly,  the  jury  found  a  loss  amount  of  slightly 
over  $13  million,  even  though  the  government  had  argued  that  the  true 
loss . . . was $40 million."  Brief for United States 9-10 (citation omitted). 

384  SKILLING  v.  UNITED  STATES 

Opinion of the Court 
(CA5  1989)  ("The  jury's  ability  to  discern  a  failure  of  proof of guilt of some of the alleged crimes indicates a fair minded 

consideration of the issues and reinforces our belief and con-clusion  that  the  media  coverage  did  not  lead  to  the  depriva-
tion of [the] right to an impartial trial."). 

4 
Skilling's trial, in short, shares little in common with those in  which  we  approved  a  presumption  of  juror  prejudice. 

The Fifth Circuit reached the opposite conclusion based pri-marily  on  the  magnitude  and  negative  tone  of  media  atten-
tion  directed  at  Enron.  But  "pretrial  publicity--even  per-vasive,  adverse  publicity--does  not  inevitably  lead  to  an 
unfair trial."  Nebraska Press Assn. v.  Stuart, 427 U. S. 539, 554  (1976).  In  this  case,  as  just  noted,  news  stories  about 
Enron did not present the kind of vivid, unforgettable infor-mation  we  have  recognized  as particularly  likely to  produce 
prejudice,  and  Houston's  size  and  diversity  diluted  the  me-dia's impact.

17 

Nor  did  Enron's  "sheer  number  of  victims,"  554  F.  3d,  at 560, trigger a presumption of prejudice.  Although the wide-

spread  community  impact  necessitated  careful  identification and  inspection  of  prospective  jurors'  connections  to  Enron, 
the extensive screening questionnaire and followup voir dire were well  suited  to  that task.  And  hindsight shows  the  ef-
ficacy  of  these  devices;  as  we  discuss  infra,  at  389-390, jurors' links to Enron were either nonexistent or attenuated. 

Finally, although Causey's "well-publicized decision  to plead  guilty"  shortly  before  trial  created  a  danger  of  juror 

17 The  Fifth  Circuit,  moreover,  did  not  separate  media  attention  aimed 
at  Skilling  from  that  devoted  to  Enron's  downfall  more  generally.  Data 
submitted  by  Skilling  in  support  of  his  first  motion  for  a  venue  transfer 
suggested  that  a  slim  percentage  of  Enron-related  stories  specifically 
named  him.  App.  572a.  "[W]hen  publicity  is  about  the  event,  rather 
than  directed  at  individual  defendants,  this  may  lessen  any  prejudicial 
impact."  United States v.  Hueftle, 687 F. 2d 1305, 1310 (CA10 1982). 

Cite as: 561 U. S. 358 (2010)  385 

Opinion of the Court 
prejudice,  554  F.  3d,  at  559,  the  District  Court  took  appro-
priate steps to reduce that risk.  The court delayed the pro-
ceedings  by  two  weeks,  lessening  the  immediacy  of  that  de-
velopment.  And  during  voir  dire,  the  court  asked  about 
prospective  jurors'  exposure  to  recent  publicity,  including 
news regarding Causey.  Only two venire members recalled 
the  plea;  neither  mentioned  Causey  by  name,  and  neither 
ultimately  served  on  Skilling's  jury.  App.  888a,  993a.  Al-
though  publicity  about  a  codefendant's  guilty  plea  calls  for 
inquiry  to  guard  against  actual  prejudice,  it  does  not  ordi-
narily--and,  we  are  satisfied,  it  did  not  here--warrant  an 
automatic presumption of prejudice. 

Persuaded  that  no  presumption  arose,18  we  conclude  that 
the District Court, in declining to order a venue change, did 
not exceed constitutional limitations.19 

B 
We  next  consider  whether  actual  prejudice  infected  Skil-
ling's  jury.  Voir  dire,  Skilling  asserts,  did  not  adequately 
detect and defuse juror bias.  "[T]he record . . . affirmatively 
confirm[s]"  prejudice,  he  maintains,  because  several  seated 
jurors  "prejudged  his  guilt."  Brief  for  Petitioner  21.  We 
disagree with Skilling's characterization of the voir dire and 
the jurors selected through it. 

18 The parties disagree about whether a presumption of prejudice can be 
rebutted, and, if it can, what standard of proof governs that issue.  Com-
pare Brief for Petitioner 25-35 with Brief for United States 24-32, 35-36. 
Because we hold that no presumption arose, we need not, and do not, reach 
these questions. 

19 The  dissent  acknowledges  that  "the  prospect  of  seating  an  unbiased 

jury  in  Houston  was  not  so  remote  as  to  compel  the  conclusion  that  the 
District  Court  acted  unconstitutionally  in  denying  Skilling's  motion  to 
change  venue."  Post,  at  445.  The  dissent's  conclusion  that  Skilling  did 
not receive a fair trial accordingly turns on its perception of the adequacy 
of the jury-selection process. 

386  SKILLING  v.  UNITED  STATES 

Opinion of the Court 

1 
No  hard-and-fast  formula  dictates  the  necessary  depth  or breadth  of 

voir  dire.  See  United  States  v.  Wood,  299  U. S. 123,  145-146  (1936)  ("Impartiality  is  not  a  technical  concep-

tion.  It  is  a  state  of  mind.  For  the  ascertainment  of  this mental attitude of appropriate indifference, the Constitution 
lays  down  no  particular  tests  and  procedure  is  not  chained to  any  ancient  and  artificial  formula.").  Jury  selection,  we 
have  repeatedly  emphasized,  is  "particularly  within  the province  of  the  trial  judge." 

Ristaino  v.  Ross,  424  U. S. 589,  594-595  (1976)  (internal  quotation  marks  omitted);  see, 

e. g.,  Mu'Min,  500  U. S.,  at  424;  Yount,  467  U. S.,  at  1038; Rosales-Lopez v.  United States, 451 U. S. 182, 188-189 (1981) 
(plurality  opinion);  Connors  v.  United  States,  158  U. S.  408, 408-413 (1895). 

When  pretrial  publicity  is  at  issue,  "primary  reliance  on the  judgment  of  the  trial  court  makes  [especially]  good 
sense" because the judge "sits in the locale where the public-ity is said to have had its effect" and may base her evaluation 
on her "own perception of the depth and extent of news sto-ries  that  might  influence  a  juror." 

Mu'Min,  500  U. S.,  at 427.  Appellate courts making after-the-fact assessments of 

the  media's  impact  on  jurors  should  be  mindful  that  their judgments  lack  the  on-the-spot  comprehension  of  the  situa-
tion possessed by trial judges. 

Reviewing  courts  are  properly  resistant  to  second-guessing the trial judge's estimation of a juror's impartiality, 

for  that  judge's  appraisal  is  ordinarily  influenced  by  a  host of  factors  impossible  to  capture  fully  in  the  record--among 
them, the  prospective juror's  inflection,  sincerity, demeanor, candor, body language, and apprehension of duty.  See 
Reynolds, 98 U. S., at 156-157.  In contrast to the cold tran-script  received  by  the  appellate  court,  the  in-the-moment 
voir dire affords the trial court a more intimate and immedi-
ate  basis  for  assessing  a  venire  member's  fitness  for  jury 

Cite as: 561 U. S. 358 (2010)  387 

Opinion of the Court 
service.  We consider the adequacy of jury selection in Skil-ling's  case,  therefore,  attentive  to  the  respect  due  to 

district-court determinations of juror impartiality and of the measures necessary to ensure that impartiality.

20 

2 
Skilling  deems  the  voir  dire  insufficient  because,  he  ar-gues,  jury  selection  lasted  "just  five  hours,"  "[m]ost  of  the 

court's questions were conclusory[,] high-level, and failed ad-equately  to  probe  jurors'  true  feelings,"  and  the  court  "con-
sistently  took  prospective  jurors  at  their  word  once  they claimed they  could be  fair,  no matter what other  indications 
of bias were present."  Brief for Petitioner 10-11 (emphasis 

20 The dissent recognizes "the `wide discretion' owed to trial courts when 
it comes to jury-related issues," post, at 447 (quoting Mu'Min v.  Virginia, 
500 U. S. 415, 427 (1991)), but its analysis of the District Court's voir dire 
sometimes fails to demonstrate that awareness.  For example, the dissent 
faults the District Court for not questioning prospective jurors regarding 
their "knowledge of or feelings about" Causey's guilty plea.  Post, at 453. 
But  the  court  could  reasonably  decline  to  ask  direct  questions  involving 
Causey's  plea  to  avoid  tipping  off  until-that-moment  uninformed  venire 
members that the  plea had occurred.  Cf. App. 822a  (counsel for Skilling 
urged District Court to find a way to question venire members about Cau-
sey  "without  mentioning  anything").  Nothing  inhibited  defense  counsel 
from inquiring about venire members' knowledge of the plea; indeed, coun-
sel posed such a question, id., at 993a; cf. post, at 453, n. 14 (acknowledging 
that  counsel  "squeeze[d]  in"  an  inquiry  whether  a  venire  member  had 
"read  about  any  guilty  pleas  in  this  case  over  the  last  month  or  two" 
(internal  quotation  marks  omitted)).  From  this  Court's  lofty  and  "pan-
oramic" vantage point, post, at 447, lines of  voir dire inquiry that "might 
be helpful in  assessing whether a juror is impartial"  are not hard  to con-
ceive.  Mu'Min,  500  U. S.,  at  425.  "To  be  constitutionally  compelled, 
however,  it  is  not  enough  that  such  questions  might  be  helpful.  Rather, 
the trial court's failure to ask these questions must render the defendant's 
trial fundamentally unfair."  Id., at 425-426.  According appropriate def-
erence to the District Court, we cannot characterize jury selection in this 
case as fundamentally unfair.  Cf. supra, at 374, n. 6 (same selection proc-
ess was used in other Enron-related prosecutions). 

388  SKILLING  v.  UNITED  STATES 

Opinion of the Court 
deleted).  Our review of the record, however, yields a differ-
ent appraisal.21 

As  noted,  supra,  at  370-372,  and  n.  4,  the  District  Court 
initially  screened  venire  members  by  eliciting  their  re-
sponses  to  a  comprehensive  questionnaire  drafted  in  large 
part by Skilling.  That survey helped to identify prospective 
jurors  excusable  for  cause  and  served  as  a  springboard  for 
further  questions  put  to  remaining  members  of  the  array. 
Voir dire thus was, in the  court's words, the  "culmination of 
a  lengthy  process."  App.  841a;  see  554  F.  3d,  at  562,  n.  51 
("We  consider the  . . . questionnaire  in assessing the  quality 
of  voir  dire  as  a  whole.").22  In  other  Enron-related  prose-

21 In addition to focusing on the adequacy of voir dire, our decisions have 
also "take[n] into account . . . other measures [that] were used to mitigate 
the  adverse  effects  of  publicity."  Nebraska  Press  Assn.  v.  Stuart,  427 
U. S. 539, 565 (1976).  We have noted, for example, the prophylactic effect 
of  "emphatic  and  clear  instructions  on  the  sworn  duty  of  each  juror  to 
decide the issues only on evidence presented in open court."  Id., at 564. 
Here,  the  District  Court's  instructions  were  unequivocal;  the  jurors,  the 
court emphasized,  were  dutybound  "to reach  a fair  and impartial  verdict 
in  this  case  based  solely  on  the  evidence  [they]  hear[d]  and  read  in  th[e] 
courtroom."  App. 1026a.  Peremptory challenges, too, "provid[e] protec-
tion  against [prejudice],"  United States ex rel. Darcy v.  Handy, 351 U. S. 
454, 462 (1956); the District Court, as earlier noted, exercised its discretion 
to  grant  the  defendants  two  extra  peremptories,  App.  1020a;  see  supra, 
at 373. 

22 The dissent's analysis undervalues the 77-item questionnaire, a part of 

the selection process difficult to portray as "cursory," post, at 455, or "ane-
mic," post, at 460.  Notably, the "open-ended questions about [prospective 
jurors'] impressions of Enron or Skilling" that the dissent contends should 
have  been  asked,  post,  at  455,  were  asked--on  the  questionnaire,  see 
supra,  at  371-372,  n.  4.  Moreover,  the  District  Court  gave  Skilling's 
counsel  relatively  free  rein  to  ask  venire  members  about  their  responses 
on  the  questionnaire.  See,  e. g.,  App.  869a-870a;  id.,  at  878a,  911a,  953a. 
The  questionnaire  plus  followup  opportunity  to  interrogate  potential  ju-
rors  surely  gave  Skilling's  counsel  "clear  avenue[s]  for  .  .  .  permissible 
inquiry."  But  see  post,  at  456,  n.  17.  See  also  App.  967a  (counsel  for 
Skilling) ("Judge,  for the record,  if I don't  ask any questions,  it's because 
the Court and other counsel have covered it."). 

Cite as: 561 U. S. 358 (2010)  389 

Opinion of the Court 
cutions,  we  note,  District  Courts,  after  inspecting  venire members'  responses  to  questionnaires,  completed  the  juryselection  process  within  one  day.  See  supra,  at  374,  n.  6.23 The  District  Court  conducted  voir  dire,  moreover,  aware 
of  the  greater-than-normal  need,  due  to  pretrial  publicity, to  ensure  against  jury  bias.  At  Skilling's urging, the court 
examined  each  prospective  juror  individually,  thus  prevent-ing the spread of any prejudicial information to other venire 
members.  See  Mu'Min,  500  U. S.,  at  425.  To  encourage candor, the court repeatedly admonished that there were "no 
right  and  wrong  answers  to  th[e]  questions."  E. g.,  App. 843a.  The  court  denied  Skilling's  request  for  attorney-led 
voir  dire  because,  in  its  experience,  potential  jurors  were "more  forthcoming"  when  the  court,  rather  than  counsel, 
asked  the  question.  Record  11805.  The  parties,  however, were  accorded  an  opportunity  to  ask  followup  questions  of 
every  prospective  juror  brought  to  the  bench  for  colloquy. Skilling's counsel declined to ask anything of more than half 
of  the  venire  members  questioned  individually,  including eight eventually selected for the jury, because, he explained, 
"the  Court  and  other  counsel  have  covered"  everything  he wanted to know.  App. 967a. 

Inspection  of  the  questionnaires  and  voir  dire  of  the  indi-viduals  who  actually  served  as  jurors  satisfies  us  that,  not-
withstanding  the  flaws  Skilling  lists,  the  selection  process successfully  secured  jurors  who  were  largely  untouched  by 
Enron's  collapse.24  Eleven  of  the  seated  jurors  and  alter-

23 One of the earlier prosecutions targeted the "Big Five" public account-
ing firm Arthur Andersen.  See supra, at 374, n. 6.  Among media read-
ers  and  auditors,  the  name  and  reputation  of  Arthur  Andersen  likely 
sparked no less attention than the name and reputation of Jeffrey Skilling. 
Cf. supra, at 382, n. 15. 

24 In considering whether Skilling was tried before an impartial jury, the 

dissent  relies  extensively  on  venire  members  not  selected  for  that  jury. 
See, e. g.,  post, at 432,  n. 4 (quoting  the questionnaires of 10 venire mem-
bers; all were excused for cause  before  voir dire commenced,  see Record 
11891); post, at 433, n. 6 (quoting the questionnaires of 15 venire members; 

390  SKILLING  v.  UNITED  STATES 

Opinion of the Court 
nates reported no connection at all to Enron, while all other jurors  reported  at  most  an  insubstantial  link.  See,  e. g., 

Supp. App. 101sa  (Juror 63)  ("I once  met  a  guy  who worked for  Enron.  I  cannot  remember  his  name.").

25  As  for  pre-

trial  publicity,  14  jurors  and  alternates  specifically  stated that  they  had  paid  scant  attention  to  Enron-related  news. 

See, e. g., App. 859a-860a (Juror 13) (would "[b]asically" start out knowing nothing about the case because "I just . . . didn't 
follow  [it]  a  whole  lot");  id.,  at  969a  (Juror  78)  ("[Enron] wasn't  anything  that  I  was  interested  in  reading  [about]  in 
detail.  .  .  .  I  don't  really  know  much  about  it.").26  The  renone sat on Skilling's jury); post, at 436, n. 7 (quoting voir dire testimony 
of 6 venire members; none sat on Skilling's jury); post, at 453-458 (report-
ing  at  length  voir  dire  testimony  of  Venire  Members  17,  29,  61,  74,  75, 
and  101;  none  sat  on  Skilling's  jury).  Statements  by  nonjurors  do  not 
themselves  call  into  question  the  adequacy  of  the  jury-selection  process; 
elimination of these venire members is indeed one indicator that the proc-
ess  fulfilled  its  function.  Critically,  as  discussed  infra,  at  391-392,  the 
seated jurors showed little knowledge of or interest in, and were person-
ally unaffected by, Enron's downfall. 

25 See  also  Supp.  App.  11sa  (Juror  10)  ("knew  some  casual  co-workers 

that  owned  Enron  stock");  id.,  at  26sa  (Juror  11)  ("work[s]  with  someone 
who worked at Enron"); id., at 117sa; App. 940a (Juror 64) (two acquaint-
ances  lost  money  due  to  Enron's  collapse);  Supp.  App.  236sa  (Juror  116) 
(work colleague lost money as a result of Enron's bankruptcy). 

26 See  also  App.  850a  (Juror  10)  ("I  haven't  followed  [Enron-related 

news] in  detail or  to any extreme at  all."); id.,  at 856a  (Juror 11) (did not 
"get into the details of [the Enron case]" and "just kind of tune[d] [it] out"); 
id., at 873a (Juror 20) ("I was out of [the] state when [Enron collapsed], and 
then  personal  circumstances  kept  me  from  paying  much  attention.");  id., 
at 892a (Juror 38) (recalled "nothing in particular" about media coverage); 
id., at 913a (Juror 50) ("I would hear it on the news and just let it filter in 
and  out.");  id.,  at  935a  (Juror  63)  ("I  don't  really  pay  attention.");  id.,  at 
940a-941a (Juror 64) (had "[n]ot really" been keeping up with and did not 
recall  any  news  about  Enron);  id.,  at 971a  (Juror  84)  (had  not read  "any-
thing  at  all  about  Enron"  because  he  did  not  "want  to  read  that  stuff" 
(internal quotation marks omitted)); id., at 983a (Juror 90) ("seldom" read 
the Houston Chronicle and did not watch news programs); id., at 995a-996a 
(Juror 99) (did not read newspapers or watch the news; "I don't know the 
details  on  what  [this  case]  is  or  what  made  it  what  it  is");  id.,  at  1010a 

Cite as: 561 U. S. 358 (2010)  391 

Opinion of the Court 
maining two jurors indicated that nothing in the news  influ-
enced their opinions about Skilling.27 

The  questionnaires  confirmed  that,  whatever  community 
prejudice  existed  in  Houston  generally,  Skilling's  jurors 
were  not  under  its  sway.28  Although  many  expressed  sym-
pathy for victims of Enron's bankruptcy and speculated that 
greed  contributed  to  the  corporation's  collapse,  these  senti-
ments did not translate into animus toward Skilling.  When 
asked whether they "ha[d] an opinion about . . . Jeffrey Skil-
ling,"  none  of  the  seated  jurors  and  alternates  checked  the 
"yes"  box.29  And in response to the  question whether "any 
opinion  [they]  may  have  formed  regarding  Enron  or  [Skil-

(Juror  113)  ("never  really  paid  that  much  attention  [to]  it");  id.,  at  1013a 
(Juror 116) (had "rea[d] a number of different articles," but "since it hasn't 
affected me personally," could not "specifically recall" any of them). 

27 Id., at 944a (Juror 67) (had not read the Houston Chronicle in the three 

months preceding the trial and volunteered: "I don't form an opinion based 
on  what  .  .  .  I  hear  on  the  news");  id.,  at  974a-975a  (Juror  87)  (had  not 
"formed any opinions" about Skilling's guilt from news stories). 

28 As the D. C. Circuit observed, reviewing the impact on jurors of media 

coverage of the Watergate scandal, "[t]his may come as a surprise to law-
yers and judges, but it is simply a fact of life that matters which interest 
them  may  be  less  fascinating  to  the  public  generally."  United  States  v. 
Haldeman,  559  F.  2d  31,  62-63,  n.  37  (1976).  See  also  In  re  Charlotte 
Observer, 882 F. 2d 850, 855-856 (CA4 1989) ("[R]emarkably in the eyes of 
many," "[c]ases such as those involving the Watergate defendants, the Abscam  defendants,  and  .  .  .  John  DeLorean,  all  characterized  by  massive 
pretrial media reportage and commentary, nevertheless proceeded to trial 
with juries which . . .  were satisfactorily disclosed to have been unaffected 
(indeed,  in  some  instances  blissfully  unaware  of  or  untouched)  by  that 
publicity."); Brief for ABC, Inc., et al. as Amici Curiae 25-31 (describing 
other examples). 

29 One juror did not check any box, explaining that she lived in another 

State  when  Enron  went  bankrupt  and  therefore  "was  not  fully  aware  of 
all the facts regarding Enron's fall [and] the media coverage."  Supp. App. 
62sa  (Juror  20).  Two  other  jurors,  Juror  10  and  Juror  63,  indicated  in 
answer  to  a  different  question  that  they  had  an  opinion  about  Skilling's 
guilt,  but  voir  dire  established  they  could  be  impartial.  See  infra,  at 
397-398, and 398, n. 33. 

392  SKILLING  v.  UNITED  STATES 

Opinion of the Court 
ling]  [would]  prevent"  their  impartial  consideration  of  the evidence at trial, every juror--despite options to mark "yes" 

or "unsure"--instead checked "no." The  District  Court,  Skilling  asserts,  should  not  have  "ac-
cept[ed]  at  face  value  jurors'  promises  of  fairness."  Brief for  Petitioner  37.  In 

Irvin  v.  Dowd,  366  U. S.,  at  727-728, Skilling points out, we found actual prejudice despite jurors' 

assurances  that  they  could  be  impartial.  Brief  for  Peti-tioner  26. 

Justice

Cite as: 561 U. S. 358 (2010)  393 

Opinion of the Court 
murders  and the similarity  noted).  One  story dramati-
cally relayed the promise of a sheriff to devote his life to 
securing [Irvin's] execution . . . .  Another characterized 
[Irvin]  as  remorseless  and  without  conscience  but  also 
as having been found sane by a court-appointed panel of 
doctors.  In  many  of  the  stories  [Irvin]  was  described 
as  the  `confessed  slayer  of  six,'  a  parole  violator  and 
fraudulent-check artist.  [Irvin's] court-appointed coun-
sel  was  quoted  as  having  received  `much  criticism  over 
being  Irvin's  counsel'  and  it  was  pointed  out,  by  way 
of  excusing  the  attorney,  that  he  would  be  subject  to 
disbarment should he refuse to represent Irvin.  On the 
day  before  the  trial  the  newspapers  carried  the  story 
that  Irvin  had  orally  admitted  [to]  the  murder  of  [one 
victim] as well as `the robbery-murder of [a second indi-
vidual];  the  murder  of  [a  third  individual],  and  the 
slaughter  of  three  members  of  [a  different  family].' " 
Ibid. 

"[N]ewspapers in which the[se] stories appeared were deliv-
ered regularly to approximately 95% of the dwellings in" the 
county  where  the  trial  occurred,  which  had  a  population  of 
only 30,000; "radio and TV stations, which likewise blanketed 
that  county,  also  carried  extensive  newscasts  covering  the 
same incidents."  Id., at 725. 

Reviewing  Irvin's  fair-trial  claim,  this  Court  noted  that 
"the pattern of deep and bitter prejudice" in the community 
"was clearly reflected in the sum total of the voir dire": "370 
prospective  jurors  or  almost  90%  of  those  examined  on  the 
point . . . entertained some opinion as to guilt," and "[8] out 
of  the  12  [ jurors]  thought  [Irvin]  was  guilty."  Id.,  at  727 
(internal  quotation  marks  omitted).  Although  these  jurors 
declared  they  could  be  impartial,  we  held  that,  "[w]ith  his 
life at stake, it is not requiring too much that [Irvin] be tried 
in  an  atmosphere  undisturbed  by  so  huge  a  wave  of  public 
passion  and  by  a  jury  other than  one  in  which  two-thirds  of 

394  SKILLING  v.  UNITED  STATES 

Opinion of the Court 
the  members  admit,  before  hearing  any  testimony,  to  pos-sessing a belief in his guilt." 

Id., at 728. 
In  this  case,  as  noted  supra,  at  382-383,  news  stories about Enron contained nothing resembling the horrifying in-

formation rife in reports about Irvin's  rampage of robberies and  murders.  Of  key  importance,  Houston  shares  little  in 
common with the rural community in which Irvin's trial pro-
ceeded,  and  circulation  figures  for  Houston  media  sources were  far  lower  than  the  95%  saturation  level  recorded  in 

Irvin, see App. to Brief for United States 15a ("The Houston 
Chronicle . . . reaches less than one-third of occupied house-
holds in Houston. " (internal quotation marks  omitted)). Skilling's seated jurors, moreover, exhibited nothing like the 

display of bias shown  in Irvin.  See supra, at 389-392  (not-ing, 

inter alia, that none of Skilling's jurors answered "yes" 
when  asked  if  they  "ha[d]  an  opinion  about  . . . Skilling"). 
See  also  post,  at  444  (dissent)  (distinguishing  Mu'Min  from 
Irvin on similar bases: the "offense occurred in [a large] met-
ropolitan  .  .  .  area,"  media  "coverage  was  not  as  pervasive as  in 

Irvin  and  did  not  contain  the  same  sort  of  damaging 
information,"  and  "the  seated  jurors  uniformly  disclaimed having ever formed an opinion about the case" (internal quo-

tation  marks  omitted)).  In  light  of  these  large  differences, the District Court had far less reason than did the trial court 
in Irvin to discredit jurors' promises of fairness. 

The  District  Court,  moreover,  did  not  simply  take  venire members  who  proclaimed  their  impartiality  at  their  word.

30 

As  noted,  all  of  Skilling's  jurors  had  already  affirmed  on 
their  questionnaires that they  would have  no trouble basing 

30 The court viewed with skepticism, for example, Venire Member 104's 
promises that she could "abide by law," follow the court's instructions, and 
find  Skilling  not  guilty  if  the  Government  did  not  prove  its  case,  App. 
1004a; "I have to gauge . . . demeanor, all the answers she gave me," the 
court stated, and "[s]he persuaded me that she could not be fair and impar-
tial, so she's excused," id., at 1006a. 

Cite as: 561 U. S. 358 (2010)  395 

Opinion of the Court 
a  verdict  only  on  the  evidence  at  trial.  Nevertheless,  the 
court  followed  up  with  each  individually  to  uncover  con-
cealed bias.  This face-to-face opportunity to gauge de-
meanor  and  credibility,  coupled  with  information  from  the 
questionnaires  regarding  jurors'  backgrounds,  opinions,  and 
sources of news, gave the court a sturdy foundation to assess 
fitness  for  jury  service.  See  554  F.  3d,  at  562  (The  District 
Court  made  "thorough"  credibility  determinations  that  "re-
quir[ed]  more  than  just  the  [venire  members']  statements 
that [they] could be fair.").  The jury's not-guilty verdict  on 
nine insider-trading counts after nearly five days of delibera-
tion, meanwhile, suggests the court's assessments were accu-
rate.  See United States v.  Haldeman, 559 F. 2d 31, 60, n. 28 
(CADC 1976).  Skilling, we conclude, failed to show that his 
voir dire fell short of constitutional requirements.31 

3 
Skilling  also  singles  out  several  jurors  in  particular  and 
contends  they  were  openly  biased.  See  United  States  v. 
Martinez-Salazar,  528  U. S.  304,  316  (2000)  ("[T]he  seating 
of  any  juror  who  should  have  been  dismissed  for  cause  .  .  . 

31 Skilling  emphasizes  that  voir  dire  did  not  weed  out  every  juror  who 
suffered  from Enron's  collapse  because  the  District  Court  failed to  grant 
his  for-cause  challenge  to  Venire  Member 29,  whose  retirement  fund lost 
$50,000 due to ripple effects from the decline in the value of Enron stock. 
App.  880a.  Critically,  however,  Venire  Member  29  did  not  sit  on  Skil-
ling's  jury:  Instead,  Skilling  struck  her  using  a  peremptory  challenge. 
"[I]f [a] defendant elects to cure [a trial judge's erroneous for-cause ruling] 
by  exercising  a  peremptory  challenge,  and  is  subsequently  convicted  by 
a  jury  on  which  no  biased  juror  sat,"  we  have  held,  "he  has  not  been 
deprived  of  any  .  .  .  constitutional  right."  United  States  v.  MartinezSalazar,  528  U. S.  304,  307  (2000).  Indeed,  the  "use  [of]  a  peremptory 
challenge  to  effect  an  instantaneous  cure  of  the  error"  exemplifies 
"a  principal  reason  for  peremptories:  to  help  secure  the  constitutional 
guarantee of trial by an impartial jury."  Id., at 316. 

396  SKILLING  v.  UNITED  STATES 

Opinion of the Court 
require[s]  reversal.").  In  reviewing  claims  of  this  type,  the deference  due  to  district  courts  is  at  its  pinnacle:  "A  trial 

court's findings of juror impartiality may be overturned only for manifest error." 

Mu'Min, 500 U. S., at 428 (internal quo-
tation  marks  omitted).  Skilling,  moreover,  unsuccessfully challenged  only  one  of  the  seated  jurors  for  cause,  "strong 

evidence  that  he  was  convinced  the  [other]  jurors  were  not 
biased  and  had  not  formed  any  opinions  as  to  his  guilt." 
Beck  v.  Washington,  369  U. S.  541,  557-558  (1962).  With 
these  considerations  in  mind,  we  turn  to  Skilling's  specific allegations of juror partiality. 

Skilling  contends  that  Juror  11--the  only  seated  juror  he challenged  for  cause--"expressed  the  most  obvious  bias." 
Brief  for  Petitioner  35.  See  also  post,  at  460-461  (dissent). Juror  11  stated  that  "greed  on  Enron's  part"  triggered  the 
company's bankruptcy and that corporate executives, driven 
by avarice, "walk a line that stretches sometimes the legality of  something."  App.  854a-855a.  But,  as  the  Fifth  Circuit 

accurately summarized, Juror 11 

"had  `no  idea'  whether  Skilling  had  `crossed  that  line,' 
and  he  `didn't  say  that'  every  CEO  is  probably  a  crook. He  also  asserted  that  he  could  be  fair  and  require  the 

government  to  prove  its  case,  that  he  did  not  believe everything he read in the paper, that he did not `get into 
the details' of the Enron coverage, that he did not watch television,  and  that  Enron  was  `old  news.' "  554  F.  3d, 
at 563-564. 
Despite  his  criticism  of  greed,  Juror  11  remarked  that  Skil-
ling  "earned  [his]  salar[y],"  App.  857a,  and  said  he  would 
have "no problem" telling his co-worker, who had lost 401(k) 
funds due to Enron's collapse, that the jury voted to acquit, if 
that scenario came to pass, id., at 854a.  The District Court, 
noting that it had "looked [Juror 11] in the eye and . . . heard 
all  his [answers],"  found  his  assertions  of  impartiality  credi-
ble.  Id., at 858a; cf. supra, at 394, n. 30.  We agree with the 

Cite as: 561 U. S. 358 (2010)  397 

Opinion of the Court 
Court  of  Appeals  that  "[t]he  express  finding  that  Juror  11 was fair is not reversible error."  554 F. 3d, at 564.

32 

Skilling also objected  at trial to the  seating  of six  specific jurors  whom,  he  said,  he  would  have  excluded  had  he  not 

already  exhausted  his  peremptory  challenges.  See  supra, at  374-375.  Juror  20,  he  observes,  "said  she  was  `angry' 
about Enron's collapse and that  she, too, had been  `forced to forfeit  [her]  own  401(k)  funds  to  survive  layoffs.' "  Reply 
Brief 13.  But Juror 20 made clear during voir dire that she did not "personally blame" Skilling for the loss of her retire-
ment  account.  App.  875a.  Having  not  "pa[id]  much  atten-tion"  to  Enron-related  news,  she  "quite  honestly"  did  not 
"have  enough  information  to  know"  whether  Skilling  was probably  guilty, 

id.,  at  873a,  and  she  "th[ought]  [she]  could be"  fair  and  impartial, 

id.,  at  875a.  In  light  of  these  an-swers,  the  District  Court  did  not  commit  manifest  error  in 

finding Juror 20 fit for jury service. The  same  is  true  of  Juror  63,  who,  Skilling  points  out, 
wrote  on  her  questionnaire  "that  [Skilling]  `probably  knew [he] w[as] breaking the law.' "  Reply Brief 13.  During voir 
dire, however, Juror 63 insisted that she did not "really have an opinion [about Skilling's guilt] either way," App. 936a; she 
did not "know what [she] was thinking" when she completed the questionnaire, but she "absolutely" presumed Skilling in-
nocent  and  confirmed  her  understanding  that  the  Govern-ment  would  "have  to  prove"  his  guilt, 

id.,  at  937a.  In  re-sponse  to  followup  questions  from  Skilling's  counsel,  she 

again  stated  she  would  not  presume  that  Skilling  violated any  laws  and  could  "[a]bsolutely"  give  her  word  that  she 
could  be  fair.  Id.,  at  937a-938a.  "Jurors,"  we  have  recog-nized, "cannot be expected invariably to express themselves 
carefully  or  even  consistently."  Yount,  467  U. S.,  at  1039. See  also 

id.,  at  1040  ("It  is  here  that  the  federal  [appellate] 

32 Skilling's trial counsel and jury consultants apparently did not regard 
Juror 11 as so "obvious[ly] bias[ed]," Brief for Petitioner 35, as to warrant 
exercise of a peremptory challenge. 

398  SKILLING  v.  UNITED  STATES 

Opinion of the Court 
court's  deference  must  operate,  for  while  the  cold  record arouses  some  concern,  only  the  trial  judge  could  tell  which 

of  these  answers  was  said  with  the  greatest  comprehension and  certainty.").  From  where  we  sit,  we  cannot  conclude 
that Juror 63 was biased. The four remaining jurors Skilling said he would have ex-
cluded  with  extra  peremptory  strikes  exhibited  no  sign  of prejudice  we  can  discern.  See  App.  891a-892a  (Juror  38) 
(remembered no media coverage about Enron and said noth-ing in her experience would prevent her from being fair and 
impartial); Supp. App. 131sa-133sa, 136sa  (Juror 67) (had no connection  to  Enron  and  no  anger  about  its  collapse);  App. 
969a  (Juror  78)  (did  not  "know  much  about"  Enron);  Supp. App. 165sa; App. 971a (Juror 84) (had not heard or read any-
thing  about  Enron  and  said  she  did  not  "know  enough  to answer" the question whether she was angry about the com-
pany's  demise).  Skilling's  counsel  declined  to  ask  followup questions of any of these jurors and, indeed, told Juror 84 he 
had nothing to ask because she "gave all the right answers." Id.,  at  972a.  Whatever  Skilling's  reasons  for  wanting  to 
strike these four individuals from his jury, he cannot credibly assert they displayed a disqualifying bias.

33 

In  sum,  Skilling  failed  to  establish  that  a  presumption  of prejudice  arose  or  that  actual  bias  infected  the  jury  that 

tried  him.  Jurors,  the  trial  court  correctly  comprehended, need  not  enter  the  box  with  empty  heads  in  order  to  deter-
mine the facts impartially.  "It is sufficient if the juror[s] can lay aside [their] impression[s] or opinion[s] and render a ver-

33 Although Skilling raised no objection to Juror 10 and Juror 87 at trial, 
his  briefs  in  this  Court  impugn  their  impartiality.  Brief  for  Petitioner 
14-15;  Reply  Brief  13.  Even  if  we  allowed  these  tardy  pleas,  the  voir 
dire testimony of the two jurors gives sufficient assurance that they were 
unbiased.  See,  e. g.,  App.  850a-853a  (Juror  10)  (did  not  prejudge  Skil-
ling's guilt, indicated he could follow the court's instructions and make the 
Government prove its case, stated he could be fair to Skilling, and said he 
would  "judge  on  the  facts");  id.,  at  974a  (Juror  87)  (had  "not  formed  an 
opinion" on whether Skilling was guilty and affirmed she could adhere to 
the presumption of innocence). 

Cite as: 561 U. S. 358 (2010)  399 

Opinion of the Court 
dict  based  on  the  evidence  presented  in  court."  Irvin,  366 U. S., at 723.  Taking account of the full record, rather than 

incomplete  exchanges  selectively  culled  from  it,  we  find  no cause  to  upset  the  lower  courts'  judgment  that  Skilling's 
jury  met  that  measure.  We  therefore  affirm  the  Fifth  Cir-cuit's ruling that Skilling received a fair trial.

34 

III 
We  next  consider  whether  Skilling's  conspiracy  convic-tion was premised  on an  improper theory of honest-services 

wire  fraud.  The  honest-services  statute,  $ 1346,  Skilling maintains, is unconstitutionally vague.  Alternatively, he 
contends  that  his  conduct  does  not  fall  within  the  statute's compass. 

A 
To  place  Skilling's  constitutional  challenge  in  context,  we first  review  the  origin  and  subsequent  application  of  the 

honest-services doctrine.  1 

Enacted  in  1872,  the  original  mail-fraud  provision,  the predecessor  of  the  modern-day  mail- and  wire-fraud  laws, 
proscribed,  without  further  elaboration,  use  of  the  mails  to advance  "any  scheme  or  artifice  to  defraud."  See 

McNally v.  United States, 483 U. S. 350, 356 (1987) (internal quotation 

marks  omitted).  In  1909,  Congress  amended  the  statute  to prohibit, as it does today, "any scheme or artifice to defraud, 
or  for  obtaining  money  or  property  by  means  of  false  or fraudulent pretenses, representations, or promises."  $ 1341 

34 Our decisions have rightly set a high bar for allegations of juror preju-
dice due to pretrial publicity.  See, e. g., Mu'Min, 500 U. S. 415; Patton v. 
Yount,  467  U. S.  1025  (1984);  Murphy  v.  Florida,  421  U. S.  794  (1975). 
News  coverage  of  civil  and  criminal  trials  of  public  interest  conveys  to 
society at  large how our justice  system operates.  And it  is a premise of 
that system that jurors will set aside their preconceptions when they enter 
the  courtroom  and  decide  cases  based  on  the  evidence  presented.  Trial 
judges  generally  take  care  so  to  instruct  jurors,  and  the  District  Court 
did just that in this case.  App. 1026a. 

400  SKILLING  v.  UNITED  STATES 

Opinion of the Court 
(emphasis  added);  see  id.,  at  357-358.  Emphasizing  Con-gress' disjunctive phrasing, the Courts of Appeals, one after 

the  other,  interpreted  the  term  "scheme  or  artifice  to  de-fraud" to include deprivations not only of money or property, 
but also of intangible rights. In  an  opi ni on  credited  w ith  f irst  presenti ng  the 
intangible-rights theory, Shushan v.  United States, 117 F. 2d 
110  (1941),  the  Fifth  Circuit  reviewed  the  mail-fraud  prose-cution of a public official who allegedly accepted bribes from 

entrepreneurs  in  exchange  for  urging  city  action  beneficial to  the  bribe  payers.  "It  is  not  true  that  because  the  [city] 
was to make and did  make  a  saving by the  operations  there could not  have  been  an intent  to defraud," the  Court  of Ap-
peals  maintained.  Id.,  at  119.  "A  scheme  to  get  a  public contract  on  more  favorable  terms  than  would  likely  be  got 
otherwise  by  bribing  a  public  official,"  the  court  observed, 
"would not only be a plan to commit the crime of bribery, but would  also  be  a  scheme  to  defraud  the  public." 

Id.,  at  115. 
The Fifth  Circuit's opinion  in  Shushan  stimulated  the  de-velopment of an "honest-services" doctrine.  Unlike fraud in 

which  the  victim's  loss  of  money  or  property  supplied  the defendant's  gain,  with  one  the  mirror  image  of  the  other, 
see, e. g., United States v.  Starr, 816 F. 2d 94, 101 (CA2 1987), 
the  honest-services  theory  targeted  corruption  that  lacked 
similar  symmetry.  While  the  offender  profited,  the  be-
trayed  party  suffered  no  deprivation  of  money  or  property; 
instead,  a  third  party,  who  had  not  been  deceived,  provided 
the enrichment.  For example, if a city mayor (the offender) 
accepted a bribe from a third party in exchange for awarding 
that  party  a  city  contract,  yet  the  contract  terms  were  the 
same as any that could have been negotiated at arm's length, 
the  city  (the  betrayed  party)  would  suffer  no  tangible  loss. 
Cf.  McNally,  483  U. S.,  at  360.  Even  if  the  scheme  occa-
sioned  a  money  or  property  gain  for  the  betrayed  party, 
courts  reasoned,  actionable  harm  lay  in  the  denial  of  that 
party's  right  to  the  offender's  "honest  services."  See,  e. g., 
United States v.  Dixon, 536 F. 2d 1388, 1400 (CA2 1976). 

Cite as: 561 U. S. 358 (2010)  401 

Opinion of the Court 
"Most often these cases . . . involved bribery of public offi-cials,"  United  States  v.  Bohonus,  628  F.  2d  1167,  1171  (CA9 

1980),  but  courts  also  recognized  private-sector  honest-services  fraud.  In  perhaps  the  earliest  application  of  the 
theory to private actors, a  District Court,  reviewing a  brib-ery scheme, explained: 

"When  one  tampers  with  [the  employer-employee]  rela-tionship  for  the  purpose  of  causing  the  employee  to 
breach his duty [to his employer,] he in effect is defraud-ing  the  employer  of  a  lawful  right.  The  actual  decep-
tion  that  is  practised  is  in  the  continued  representation of  the  employee  to  the  employer  that  he  is  honest  and 
loyal  to  the  employer's  interests."  United  States  v. 

Procter & Gamble Co., 47 F. Supp. 676, 678 (Mass. 1942). 

Over  time,  "[a]n  increasing  number  of  courts"  recognized that  "a  recreant  employee"--public  or  private--"c[ould]  be 

prosecuted under [the mail-fraud statute] if he breache[d] his allegiance  to  his  employer  by  accepting  bribes  or  kickbacks 
in the course of his employment," United States v.  McNeive, 536  F.  2d  1245,  1249  (CA8  1976);  by  1982,  all  Courts  of  Ap-
peals had embraced the honest-services theory of fraud, Hur-son, Limiting the Federal Mail Fraud Statute--A Legislative 
Approach, 20 Am. Crim. L. Rev. 423, 456 (1983).35 

2 
In  1987,  this  Court,  in  McNally  v.  United  States,  stopped the  development  of  the  intangible-rights  doctrine  in  its 

tracks.  McNally  involved  a  state  officer  who,  in  selecting Kentucky's  insurance  agent,  arranged  to  procure  a  share  of 
the agent's commissions via kickbacks paid to companies the 

35 In  addition  to  upholding  honest-services  prosecutions,  courts  also  in-
creasingly approved use of the mail-fraud statute to attack corruption that 
deprived  victims  of  other  kinds  of  intangible  rights,  including  election 
fraud  and  privacy  violations.  See,  e. g.,  Cleveland  v.  United  States,  531 
U. S. 12, 18, n. 2 (2000); McNally v.  United States, 483 U. S. 350, 362-364, 
and nn. 1-4 (1987) (Stevens,

402  SKILLING  v.  UNITED  STATES 

Opinion of the Court 
official partially controlled.  483 U. S., at 360.  The prosecu-tor  did  not  charge  that,  "in  the  absence  of  the  alleged 

scheme[,]  the  Commonwealth  would  have  paid  a  lower premium or secured better insurance. "  Ibid.  Instead, 
the  prosecutor  maintained  that  the  kickback  scheme  "de-fraud[ed]  the  citizens  and  government  of  Kentucky  of  their 
right  to  have  the  Commonwealth's  affairs  conducted  hon-estly." 

Id., at 353. We  held  that  the  scheme  did  not  qualify  as  mail  fraud. 

"Rather  than  constru[ing]  the  statute  in  a  manner  that leaves its outer boundaries ambiguous and involves the Fed-
eral Government in setting standards of disclosure and good government for local and state officials," we read the statute 
"as  limited  in  scope  to  the  protection  of  property  rights." 
Id.,  at  360.  "If  Congress  desires  to  go  further,"  we  stated, "it must speak more clearly."  Ibid. 

3 
Congress  responded  swiftly.  The  following  year,  it  en-acted  a  new  statute  "specifically  to  cover  one  of  the  `intan-

gible  rights'  that  lower  courts  had  protected  .  .  .  prior  to 
McNally:  `the  intangible  right of  honest services.' "  Cleve-land v.  United States, 531 U. S. 12, 19-20 (2000).  In full, the 

honest-services statute stated: 

"For  the  purposes  of  th[e]  chapter  [of  the  United States Code that prohibits, 

inter alia, mail fraud, $ 1341, and  wire  fraud,  $ 1343],  the  term  `scheme  or  artifice  to 

defraud' includes a scheme or artifice to deprive another of the intangible right of honest services."  $ 1346. 

B 
Congress, Skilling charges, reacted quickly but not clearly: He  asserts  that  $ 1346  is  unconstitutionally  vague.  To  sat-

isfy  due  process,  "a  penal  statute  [must]  define  the  criminal offense  [1]  with  sufficient  definiteness  that  ordinary  people 
can  understand  what  conduct  is  prohibited  and  [2]  in  a manner  that  does  not  encourage  arbitrary  and  discrimina-

Cite as: 561 U. S. 358 (2010)  403 

Opinion of the Court 
tory  enforcement."  Kolender  v.  Lawson,  461  U. S.  352,  357 (1983).  The void-for-vagueness doctrine embraces these 

requirements. According to Skilling, $ 1346 meets neither of the two due 
process  essentials.  First,  the  phrase  "the  intangible  right of honest  services,"  he  contends,  does  not  adequately  define 
what behavior it bars.  Brief for Petitioner 38-39.  Second, he alleges, $ 1346's "standardless sweep . . . allows policemen, 
prosecutors,  and  juries  to  pursue  their  personal  predilec-tions,"  thereby  "facilitat[ing]  opportunistic  and  arbitrary 
prosecutions."  Id.,  at  44  (quoting  Kolender,  461  U. S.,  at 358). 

In urging invalidation of $ 1346, Skilling swims against our case law's current, which requires us, if we can, to construe, 
not  condemn,  Congress'  enactments.  See,  e. g.,  Civil  Serv-ice  Comm'n  v.  Letter  Carriers,  413  U. S.  548,  571  (1973). 
See  also  United  States  v.  National  Dairy  Products  Corp., 372 U. S. 29, 32 (1963) (stressing, in response to a vagueness 
challenge, "[t]he strong presumptive validity that attaches to an  Act  of  Congress").  Alert  to  $ 1346's  potential  breadth, 
the Courts of Appeals have divided on how best to interpret the  statute.

36  Uniformly,  however,  they  have  declined  to 

throw out the statute as irremediably vague.37 

36 Courts  have  disagreed  about  whether  $ 1346  prosecutions  must  be 
based on a violation of state law, compare, e. g., United States v.  Brumley, 
116  F.  3d  728,  734-735  (CA5  1997)  (en  banc),  with,  e. g.,  United  States  v. 
Weyhrauch, 548 F. 3d 1237, 1245-1246 (CA9 2008), vacated and remanded, 
post, p. 476; whether a defendant must contemplate that the victim suffer 
economic harm, compare, e. g., United States v.  Sun-Diamond Growers of 
Cal.,  138  F.  3d  961,  973  (CADC  1998),  with,  e. g.,  United  States  v.  Black, 
530 F. 3d 596, 600-602 (CA7 2008), vacated and remanded, post, p. 465; and 
whether the defendant must act in pursuit of private gain, compare, e. g., 
United States v.  Bloom, 149 F. 3d 649, 655 (CA7 1998), with, e. g., United 
States v.  Panarella, 277 F. 3d 678, 692 (CA3 2002). 

37 See, e. g.,  United States v.  Rybicki, 354 F. 3d 124, 132 (CA2  2003) (en 

banc); United States v.  Hausmann, 345 F. 3d 952, 958 (CA7 2003); United 
States  v.  Welch,  327 F.  3d 1081,  1109,  n. 29  (CA10  2003);  United States  v. 
Frega,  179  F.  3d  793,  803  (CA9  1999);  Brumley,  116  F.  3d,  at  732-733; 

404  SKILLING  v.  UNITED  STATES 

Opinion of the Court 
We  agree  that  $ 1346  should  be  construed  rather  than  in-validated.  First,  we  look  to  the  doctrine  developed  in  preMcNally  cases  in  an  endeavor  to  ascertain  the  meaning  of the  phrase  "the  intangible  right  of  honest  services."  Sec-
ond, to preserve what Congress certainly  intended the  stat-ute  to  cover,  we  pare  that  body  of  precedent  down  to  its 
core:  In  the  main,  the  pre-McNally  cases  involved  fraudu-lent  schemes  to  deprive  another  of  honest  services  through 
bribes  or  kickbacks  supplied  by  a  third  party  who  had  not been  deceived.  Confined  to  these  paramount  applications, 

$ 1346 presents no vagueness problem. 

1 
There  is  no  doubt  that  Congress  intended  $ 1346  to  refer to  and  incorporate  the  honest-services  doctrine  recognized 

in Courts of Appeals' decisions before McNally derailed the intangible-rights  theory  of  fraud.  See  Brief  for  Petitioner 
39;  Brief  for  United  States  37-38;  post,  at  416,  422  (Scalia,

Cite as: 561 U. S. 358 (2010)  405 

Opinion of the Court 
of  that  `intangible  right  of  honest  services,'  which  had been protected before McNally, not all intangible rights 

of  honest  services  whatever  they  might  be  thought  to be."  United  States  v.  Rybicki,  354  F.  3d  124,  137-138 
(2003) (en banc).39  2 

Satisfied that Congress, by enacting $ 1346, "meant to rein-state the body of pre-McNally honest-services law," post, at 
422  (opinion  of  Scalia,

406  SKILLING  v.  UNITED  STATES 

Opinion of the Court 
e. g.,  Hooper  v.  California,  155  U. S.  648,  657  (1895)  ("The 
elementary  rule  is  that every  reasonable  construction must 
be  resorted  to,  in  order  to  save  a  statute  from  unconstitu-
tionality."  (emphasis  added)).  See  also  Boos  v.  Barry,  485 
U. S.  312,  330-331  (1988);  Schneider  v.  Smith,  390  U. S.  17, 
26  (1968).40  We  have  accordingly  instructed  "the  federal 
courts  .  .  .  to  avoid  constitutional  difficulties  by  [adopting  a 
limiting interpretation] if such  a  construction is fairly possi-
ble."  Boos,  485  U. S.,  at  331;  see  United  States  v.  Harriss, 
347  U. S.  612,  618  (1954)  ("[I]f  the  general  class  of  offenses 
to  which  the  statute  is  directed  is  plainly  within  its  terms, 
the  statute  will  not  be  struck  down  as  vague . . .  .   And if  
this  general  class  of  offenses  can  be  made  constitutionally 
definite  by  a  reasonable  construction  of  the  statute,  this 
Court is under a duty to give the statute that construction."). 

Arguing  against  any  limiting  construction,  Skilling  con-
tends  that  it  is  impossible  to  identify  a  salvageable  honestservices  core;  "the  pre-McNally  caselaw,"  he  asserts,  "is  a 

40 "This cardinal principle has its roots in Chief Justice Marshall's opin-
ion  for  the  Court  in  Murray  v.  The  Charming  Betsy,  2  Cranch  64,  118 
(1804),  and  has  for  so  long  been  applied  by  this  Court  that  it  is  beyond 
debate."  Edward J.  DeBartolo  Corp.  v.  Florida  Gulf  Coast  Building & 
Constr. Trades Council, 485 U. S. 568, 575 (1988).  See, e. g., New York v. 
Ferber, 458  U. S.  747,  769,  n. 24  (1982);  NLRB  v.  Catholic  Bishop  of  Chi-
cago,  440  U. S.  490,  500-501  (1979);  United  States  v.  Thirty-seven  Photo-
graphs,  402  U. S.  363,  368-370 (1971);  Machinists  v.  Street,  367  U. S.  740, 
749-750  (1961);  United States  v.  Rumely,  345 U. S.  41,  45 (1953);  Winters 
v.  New York, 333 U. S. 507, 517 (1948); Crowell v.  Benson, 285 U. S. 22, 62 
(1932);  Lucas  v.  Alexander,  279  U. S.  573,  577  (1929);  Richmond  Screw 
Anchor  Co.  v.  United  States,  275  U. S.  331,  346  (1928);  Panama  R. Co.  v. 
Johnson, 264 U. S. 375, 390 (1924); United States ex rel. Attorney General 
v.  Delaware & Hudson Co., 213 U. S. 366, 407-408 (1909); United States v. 
Coombs,  12  Pet.  72,  76  (1838)  (Story,  J.);  Parsons  v.  Bedford,  3  Pet.  433, 
448-449  (1830)  (Story,  J.).  Cf.  Chaplinsky  v.  New  Hampshire,  315  U. S. 
568,  569,  573  (1942)  (statute  made  it  criminal  to  address  "any  offensive, 
derisive  or  annoying  word"  to  any  person  in  a  public  place;  vagueness 
obviated  by  state-court  construction  of  the  statute  to  cover  only  words 
having "a direct tendency to cause acts of violence" by the addressee (in-
ternal quotation marks omitted)). 

Cite as: 561 U. S. 358 (2010)  407 

Opinion of the Court 
hodgepodge  of  oft-conflicting  holdings"  that  are  "hopelessly unclear."  Brief  for  Petitioner  39  (some  capitalization  and 

italics omitted).  We have rejected an argument of the same tenor  before.  In  Civil  Service  Comm'n  v.  Letter  Carriers, 
federal  employees  challenged  a  provision  of  the  Hatch  Act that incorporated earlier decisions of the United States Civil 
Service Commission enforcing a similar law.  "[T]he several thousand adjudications of the Civil Service Commission," the 
employees maintained, were "an impenetrable jungle"--"un-discoverable,  inconsistent,  [and]  incapable  of  yielding  any 
meaningful rules to govern present or future conduct."  413 U. S.,  at  571.  Mindful  that  "our  task  [wa]s  not  to  destroy 
the  Act  if  we  c[ould],  but  to  construe  it,"  we  held  that  "the rules  that had evolved over  the years from repeated adjudi-
cations were subject to sufficiently clear and summary state-ment."  Id., at 571-572. 

A similar observation may be made here.  Although some applications of the pre-McNally honest-services doctrine oc-
casioned  disagreement  among  the  Courts  of  Appeals,  these cases do not cloud the doctrine's solid core: The "vast major-
ity"  of  the  honest-services  cases  involved  offenders  who,  in violation of  a fiduciary  duty,  participated  in  bribery  or kick-
back  schemes.  United  States  v.  Runnels,  833  F.  2d  1183, 1187  (CA6  1987);  see  Brief  for  United  States  42,  and  n.  4 
(citing  dozens  of  examples).41  Indeed,  the  McNally  case  it-self,  which  spurred  Congress  to  enact  $ 1346,  presented  a 
paradigmatic  kickback  fact  pattern.  483  U. S.,  at  352-353, 

41 Justice

408  SKILLING  v.  UNITED  STATES 

Opinion of the Court 
360.  Congress'  reversal  of  McNally  and  reinstatement  of the  honest-services  doctrine,  we  conclude,  can  and  should 

be  salvaged  by  confining  its  scope  to  the  core  pre-McNally applications. 

As  already  noted,  supra,  at  400-401,  the  honest-services doctrine had its genesis in prosecutions involving bribery al-
legations.  See  Shushan,  117  F.  2d,  at  115  (public  sector); 
Procter  &  Gamble  Co.,  47  F.  Supp.,  at  678  (private  sector). See  also  United  States  v.  Orsburn,  525  F.  3d  543,  546  (CA7 

2008).  Both  before  McNally  and  after  $ 1346's  enactment, Courts  of  Appeals  described  schemes  involving  bribes  or 
kickbacks  as  "core  .  .  .  honest  services  fraud  precedents," 
United States v.  Czubinski, 106 F. 3d 1069, 1077 (CA1 1997); "paradigm case[s]," United States v.  deVegter, 198 F. 3d 1324, 

1327-1328  (CA11  1999);  "[t]he  most  obvious  form  of  hon-est  services  fraud,"  United  States  v.  Carbo,  572  F.  3d  112, 
115  (CA3  2009);  "core  misconduct  covered  by  the  statute," United  States  v.  Urciuoli,  513  F.  3d  290,  294  (CA1  2008); 
"most [of the] honest services cases," United States v.  Sorich, 523  F.  3d  702,  707  (CA7  2008);  "typical,"  United  States  v. 
Brown,  540  F.  2d  364,  374  (CA8  1976);  "clear-cut,"  United 
States v.  Mandel, 591  F. 2d  1347, 1363 (CA4  1979); and "uni-formly  .  .  .  cover[ed],"  United  States  v.  Paradies,  98  F.  3d 

1266,  1283,  n.  30  (CA11  1996).  See  also  Tr.  of  Oral  Arg.  43 (counsel  for  the  Government)  ("[T]he  bulk  of  pre-McNally 
honest  services  cases"  entailed  bribes  or  kickbacks);  Brief for  Petitioner  49  ("Bribes  and  kickbacks  were  the  paradigm 
[pre-McNally]  cases,"  constituting  "[t]he  overwhelming  ma-jority of prosecutions for honest-services fraud."). 

In  view  of  this  history,  there  is  no  doubt  that  Congress intended  $ 1346  to  reach 

at  least  bribes  and  kickbacks. Reading  the  statute  to  proscribe  a  wider  range  of  offensive 

conduct,  we  acknowledge,  would  raise  the  due  process  con-cerns underlying the vagueness doctrine.

42  To preserve the 

42 Apprised  that  a  broader  reading  of  $ 1346  could  render  the  statute 
impermissibly vague, Congress, we believe, would have drawn the honestservices line, as we do now, at bribery and kickback schemes.  Cf. Levin 

Cite as: 561 U. S. 358 (2010)  409 

Opinion of the Court 
statute without transgressing constitutional  limitations, we  now  hold  that  $ 1346  criminalizes  only  the  bribe-and-

kickback core of the pre-McNally case law.43 

3 
The Government urges us to go further by locating within $ 1346's  compass  another  category  of  proscribed  conduct: 

"undisclosed  self-dealing  by  a  public  official  or  private  em-ployee--

i. e.,  the  taking  of  official  action  by  the  employee that  furthers  his  own  undisclosed  financial  interests  while 

purporting to  act  in the  interests of those  to whom he  owes a  fiduciary  duty."  Brief  for  United  States  43-44.  "[T]he 

v.  Commerce  Energy,  Inc.,  560  U. S.  413,  427  (2010)  ("[C]ourts  may  at-
tempt . . . to implement what the legislature would have willed had it been 
apprised  of  the  constitutional  infirmity.");  United  States  v.  Booker,  543 
U. S.  220,  246  (2005)  ("We  seek  to  determine  what  `Congress  would  have 
intended' in light of the Court's constitutional holding."). 

43 Justice

410  SKILLING  v.  UNITED  STATES 

Opinion of the Court 
theory  of  liability  in  McNally  itself  was  nondisclosure  of  a 
conflicting financial interest," the Government observes, and 
"Congress clearly intended to revive th[at] nondisclosure the-
ory."  Id., at 44.  Moreover, "[a]lthough not as numerous as 
the  bribery  and  kickback  cases,"  the  Government  asserts, 
"the  pre-McNally  cases  involving  undisclosed  self-dealing 
were abundant."  Ibid. 

Neither  of  these  contentions  withstands  close  inspection. 
McNally,  as  we  have  already  observed,  supra,  at  401-402, 
407,  involved  a  classic  kickback  scheme:  A  public  official,  in 
exchange for routing Kentucky's insurance business through 
a  middleman  company,  arranged  for  that  company  to  share 
its  commissions  with  entities  in  which  the  official  held  an 
interest.  483 U. S., at 352-353, 360.  This was no mere fail-
ure  to  disclose  a  conflict  of  interest;  rather,  the  official  con-
spired  with  a  third  party  so  that  both  would  profit  from 
wealth  generated  by  public  contracts.  See  id.,  at  352-353. 
Reading $ 1346 to proscribe bribes and kickbacks--and noth-
ing more--satisfies Congress' undoubted aim to reverse 
McNally on its facts. 

Nor  are  we  persuaded  that  the  pre-McNally  conflict-of-
interest  cases  constitute  core  applications  of  the  honestservices  doctrine.  Although  the  Courts  of  Appeals  upheld 
honest-services  convictions  for  "some  schemes  of  nondis-
closure  and  concealment  of  material  information,"  Man-
del,  591  F.  2d,  at  1361,  they  reached  no  consensus  on  which 
schemes  qualified.  In  light  of  the  relative  infrequency  of 
conflict-of-interest prosecutions in comparison to bribery and 
kickback  charges,  and  the  intercircuit  inconsistencies  they 
produced,  we  conclude  that  a  reasonable  limiting  construc-
tion of $ 1346 must exclude this amorphous category of cases. 

Further dispelling doubt on this point is the familiar prin-
ciple  that  "ambiguity  concerning  the  ambit  of  criminal  stat-
utes  should  be  resolved  in  favor  of  lenity."  Cleveland,  531 
U. S.,  at  25  (quoting  Rewis  v.  United  States,  401  U. S.  808, 

Cite as: 561 U. S. 358 (2010)  411 

Opinion of the Court 
812  (1971)).  "This  interpretive  guide  is  especially  appro-
priate in construing [$ 1346] because . . . mail [and wire] fraud 
[are]  predicate  offense[s]  under  [the  Racketeer  Influenced 
and  Corrupt  Organizations  Act],  18  U. S. C.  $ 1961(1)  (1994 
ed.,  Supp.  IV),  and  the  money  laundering  statute,  $ 1956(c) 
(7)(A)."  Cleveland,  531  U. S.,  at  25.  Holding  that  honestservices fraud  does not  encompass  conduct  more wide rang-
ing  than the  paradigmatic cases of bribes and kickbacks,  we 
resist the Government's less constrained construction absent 
Congress'  clear  instruction  otherwise.  E. g.,  United  States 
v.  Universal  C.  I.  T.  Credit  Corp.,  344  U. S.  218,  221-222 
(1952). 

In sum, our construction of $ 1346 "establish[es] a uniform 
national  standard,  define[s]  honest  services  with  clarity, 
reach[es] only  seriously culpable conduct,  and accomplish[es] 
Congress's  goal  of  `overruling'  McNally."  Brief  for  Albert 
W.  Alschuler  as  Amicus  Curiae  in  Weyhrauch  v.  United 
States, O. T. 2009, No. 08-1196, pp. 28-29.  "If Congress de-
sires to go further," we reiterate, "it must speak more clearly 
than it has."  McNally, 483 U. S., at 360.44 

44 If  Congress  were  to  take  up  the  enterprise  of  criminalizing  "undis-
closed  self-dealing  by  a  public  official  or  private  employee,"  Brief  for 
United States 43, it would have to employ standards of sufficient definite-
ness and specificity to overcome due process concerns.  The Government 
proposes  a  standard  that  prohibits  the  "taking  of  official  action  by  the 
employee  that  furthers  his  own  undisclosed financial  interests  while pur-
porting to act in the interests of those to whom he owes a fiduciary duty," 
so  long  as  the  employee  acts  with  a  specific  intent  to  deceive  and  the 
undisclosed conduct could influence the victim to change its behavior.  Id., 
at  43-44.  See  also  id.,  at  40-41.  That  formulation,  however,  leaves 
many questions unanswered.  How direct or significant does the conflict-
ing financial interest have to be?  To what extent does the official action 
have  to  further  that  interest  in  order  to  amount  to  fraud?  To  whom 
should  the  disclosure  be  made,  and  what  information  should  it  convey? 
These questions and others call for particular care in attempting to formu-
late an adequate criminal prohibition in this context. 

412  SKILLING  v.  UNITED  STATES 

Opinion of the Court 

4 
Interpreted to encompass  only  bribery and  kickback schemes, $ 1346 is not unconstitutionally vague.  Recall that 

the  void-for-vagueness  doctrine  addresses  concerns  about (1)  fair  notice  and  (2)  arbitrary  and  discriminatory  prosecu-
tions.  See  Kolender,  461  U. S.,  at  357.  A  prohibition  on fraudulently  depriving  another  of  one's  honest  services  by 
accepting bribes or kickbacks does not present a problem on either score. 

As to fair notice, "whatever the school of thought concern-ing  the  scope  and  meaning  of "  $ 1346,  it  has  always  been 
"as plain as a pikestaff that" bribes and kickbacks constitute honest-services  fraud,  Williams  v.  United  States,  341  U. S. 
97,  101  (1951),  and  the  statute's  mens  rea  requirement  fur-ther  blunts  any  notice  concern,  see,  e. g.,  Screws  v.  United 
States,  325  U. S.  91,  101-104  (1945)  (plurality  opinion).  See also 

Broadrick  v.  Oklahoma,  413  U. S.  601,  608  (1973) ("[E]ven if the outermost boundaries of [a statute are] impre-

cise, any such  uncertainty has little relevance . . . where ap-pellants'  conduct  falls  squarely  within  the  `hard  core'  of  the 
statute's  proscriptions.").  Today's  decision  clarifies  that  no other misconduct falls within $ 1346's province.  See United 
States  v.  Lanier,  520  U. S.  259,  266  (1997)  ("[C]larity  at  the requisite level may be supplied by judicial gloss on an other-
wise uncertain statute."). As  to  arbitrary  prosecutions,  we  perceive  no  significant 
risk  that  the  honest-services  statute,  as  we  interpret  it today,  will  be  stretched  out  of  shape.  Its  prohibition  on 
bribes  and  kickbacks  draws  content  not  only  from  the  preMcNally  case  law,  but  also  from  federal  statutes  proscrib-ing--and  defining--similar  crimes.  See,  e. g.,  18  U. S. C. 

$$ 201(b),  666(a)(2);  41  U. S. C.  $ 52(2)  ("The  term  `kickback' means  any  money,  fee,  commission,  credit,  gift,  gratuity, 
thing  of  value,  or  compensation  of  any  kind  which  is  pro-vided,  directly  or  indirectly,  to  [enumerated  persons]  for 

the  purpose  of  improperly  obtaining  or  rewarding  favor-

Cite as: 561 U. S. 358 (2010)  413 

Opinion of the Court 
able treatment in connection with [enumerated circum-stances].").

45  See  also,  e. g.,  United  States  v.  Ganim,  510 

F.  3d  134,  147-149  (CA2  2007)  (Sotomayor,  J.)  (reviewing honest-services  conviction  involving  bribery  in  light  of  ele-

ments of bribery under other federal statutes); United States v. 

Whitfield, 590 F. 3d 325, 352-353 (CA5 2009); United States v.  Kemp, 500 F. 3d 257, 281-286 (CA3 2007).  A criminal de-

fendant  who  participated  in  a  bribery  or  kickback  scheme, in  short,  cannot  tenably  complain  about  prosecution  under 

$ 1346 on vagueness grounds. 

C 
It  remains  to  determine  whether  Skilling's  conduct  vio-lated $ 1346.  Skilling 's honest-services prosecution, the 

Government  concedes,  was  not  "prototypical."  Brief  for United  States  49.  The  Government  charged  Skilling  with 
conspiring to defraud Enron's shareholders by misrepresent-ing  the  company's  fiscal  health,  thereby  artificially  inflating 
its stock price.  It was the Government's theory at trial that Skilling  "profited  from  the  fraudulent  scheme . . .  through 
the  receipt  of  salary  and  bonuses, . . .  and  through  the  sale of  approximately  $200  million  in  Enron  stock,  which  netted 
him $89 million."  Id., at 51. The Government  did  not, at  any  time,  allege  that  Skilling 
solicited  or  accepted  side  payments  from  a  third  party  in exchange for making these misrepresentations.  See Record 
41328 (May 11, 2006 Letter from the Government to the Dis-trict Court) ("[T]he indictment does not allege, and the gov-
ernment's  evidence  did  not  show,  that  [Skilling]  engaged  in bribery.").  It is therefore clear that, as we read $ 1346, Skil-
ling did not commit honest-services fraud. 

45 Overlap  with  other  federal  statutes  does  not  render  $ 1346  superflu-
ous.  The  principal  federal  bribery  statute,  $ 201,  for  example,  generally 
applies  only  to  federal  public  officials,  so  $ 1346's  application  to  state  and 
local corruption and to private-sector fraud reaches misconduct that might 
otherwise go unpunished. 

414  SKILLING  v.  UNITED  STATES 

Opinion of the Court 
Because  the  indictment  alleged  three  objects  of  the  con-
spiracy--honest-services wire fraud, money-or-property 
wire  fraud,  and  securities  fraud--Skilling's  conviction  is 
flawed.  See Yates v.  United States, 354 U. S. 298 (1957) (con-
stitutional error occurs when a jury is instructed on alterna-
tive theories of guilt and returns a general verdict that may 
rest  on  a  legally  invalid  theory).  This  determination,  how-
ever, does not necessarily require reversal of the conspiracy 
conviction; we recently confirmed, in Hedgpeth v.  Pulido, 555 
U. S.  57  (2008)  (per  curiam),  that  errors  of  the  Yates  vari-
ety are subject to harmless-error analysis.  The parties vig-
orously  dispute  whether  the  error  was  harmless.  Compare 
Brief for United States 52 ("[A]ny juror who voted for convic-
tion  based  on  [the  honest-services  theory]  also  would  have 
found  [Skilling]  guilty  of  conspiring  to  commit  securities 
fraud.") with Reply Brief 30 (The Government "cannot show 
that the  conspiracy conviction rested only on the securitiesfraud theory, rather than  the distinct,  legally-flawed honestservices  theory.").  We  leave  this  dispute  for  resolution  on 
remand.46 

Whether  potential  reversal  on  the  conspiracy  count 
touches  any  of  Skilling's  other  convictions  is  also  an  open 
question.  All  of  his  convictions,  Skilling  contends,  hinged 
on  the  conspiracy  count  and,  like  dominoes,  must  fall  if  it 
falls.  The District Court, deciding Skilling's motion for bail 
pending  appeal,  found  this  argument  dubious,  App.  1141a- 
1142a,  but  the  Fifth  Circuit  had  no  occasion  to  rule  on  it. 
That court may do so on remand. 

46 The Fifth Circuit appeared to prejudge this issue, noting that, "if any 
of  the  three  objects  of  Skilling's  conspiracy  offers  a  legally  insufficient 
theory," it  "must set  aside his conviction."  554 F. 3d,  at 543.  That  rea-
soning relied on the mistaken  premise that Hedgpeth v.  Pulido,  555 U. S. 
57 (2008) (per curiam), governs only cases on collateral review.  See 554 
F.  3d,  at  543,  n.  10.  Harmless-error  analysis,  we  clarify,  applies  equally 
to  cases  on  direct  appeal.  Accordingly,  the  Fifth  Circuit,  on  remand, 
should take a fresh look at the parties' harmless-error arguments. 

Cite as: 561 U. S. 358 (2010)  415 

Opinion of Scalia,
416  SKILLING  v.  UNITED  STATES 

Opinion of Scalia,
Cite as: 561 U. S. 358 (2010)  417 

Opinion of Scalia,
418  SKILLING  v.  UNITED  STATES 

Opinion of Scalia,
Cite as: 561 U. S. 358 (2010)  419 

Opinion of Scalia,
420  SKILLING  v.  UNITED  STATES 

Opinion of Scalia,
Cite as: 561 U. S. 358 (2010)  421 

Opinion of Scalia,
422  SKILLING  v.  UNITED  STATES 

Opinion of Scalia,
Cite as: 561 U. S. 358 (2010)  423 

Opinion of Scalia,
424  SKILLING  v.  UNITED  STATES 

Opinion of Scalia,
Cite as: 561 U. S. 358 (2010)  425 

Opinion of Alito,
426  SKILLING  v.  UNITED  STATES 

Opinion of Alito,
Cite as: 561 U. S. 358 (2010)  427 

Opinion of Sotomayor,
428  SKILLING  v.  UNITED  STATES 

Opinion of Sotomayor,
Cite as: 561 U. S. 358 (2010)  429 

Opinion of Sotomayor,
430  SKILLING  v.  UNITED  STATES 

Opinion of Sotomayor,
Cite as: 561 U. S. 358 (2010)  431 

Opinion of Sotomayor,
432  SKILLING  v.  UNITED  STATES 

Opinion of Sotomayor,
Cite as: 561 U. S. 358 (2010)  433 

Opinion of Sotomayor,
434  SKILLING  v.  UNITED  STATES 

Opinion of Sotomayor,
Cite as: 561 U. S. 358 (2010)  435 

Opinion of Sotomayor,
436  SKILLING  v.  UNITED  STATES 

Opinion of Sotomayor,
Cite as: 561 U. S. 358 (2010)  437 

Opinion of Sotomayor,
438  SKILLING  v.  UNITED  STATES 

Opinion of Sotomayor,
Cite as: 561 U. S. 358 (2010)  439 

Opinion of Sotomayor,
440  SKILLING  v.  UNITED  STATES 

Opinion of Sotomayor,
Cite as: 561 U. S. 358 (2010)  441 

Opinion of Sotomayor,
442  SKILLING  v.  UNITED  STATES 

Opinion of Sotomayor,
Cite as: 561 U. S. 358 (2010)  443 

Opinion of Sotomayor,
444  SKILLING  v.  UNITED  STATES 

Opinion of Sotomayor,
Cite as: 561 U. S. 358 (2010)  445 

Opinion of Sotomayor,
446  SKILLING  v.  UNITED  STATES 

Opinion of Sotomayor,
Cite as: 561 U. S. 358 (2010)  447 

Opinion of Sotomayor,
448  SKILLING  v.  UNITED  STATES 

Opinion of Sotomayor,
Cite as: 561 U. S. 358 (2010)  449 

Opinion of Sotomayor,
450  SKILLING  v.  UNITED  STATES 

Opinion of Sotomayor,
Cite as: 561 U. S. 358 (2010)  451 

Opinion of Sotomayor,
452  SKILLING  v.  UNITED  STATES 

Opinion of Sotomayor,
Cite as: 561 U. S. 358 (2010)  453 

Opinion of Sotomayor,
454  SKILLING  v.  UNITED  STATES 

Opinion of Sotomayor,
Cite as: 561 U. S. 358 (2010)  455 

Opinion of Sotomayor,
456  SKILLING  v.  UNITED  STATES 

Opinion of Sotomayor,
Cite as: 561 U. S. 358 (2010)  457 

Opinion of Sotomayor,
458  SKILLING  v.  UNITED  STATES 

Opinion of Sotomayor,
Cite as: 561 U. S. 358 (2010)  459 

Opinion of Sotomayor,
460  SKILLING  v.  UNITED  STATES 

Opinion of Sotomayor,
Cite as: 561 U. S. 358 (2010)  461 

Opinion of Sotomayor,
462  SKILLING  v.  UNITED  STATES 

Opinion of Sotomayor,
Cite as: 561 U. S. 358 (2010)  463 

Opinion of Sotomayor,
464  SKILLING  v.  UNITED  STATES 

Opinion of Sotomayor,

OCTOBER  TERM,  2009  465 

Syllabus 

BLACK  et

466  BLACK  v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 465 (2010)  467 

Opinion of the Court 
Miguel

468  BLACK  v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 465 (2010)  469 

Opinion of the Court 
At  the  close  of  the  four-month  trial,  the  U.  S.  District Court  for  the  Northern  District  of  Illinois  instructed  the 

jury, discretely, on the thef t-of-money-or-property and honest-services-deprivation  theories  advanced  by  the  Gov-
ernment.  Id.,

470  BLACK  v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 465 (2010)  471 

Opinion of the Court 
on honest-services fraud, and requesting general verdicts in-stead,  the  Seventh  Circuit  concluded,  Defendants  had  "for-

feited their objection to the [honest-services] instruction[s]." Id.,

472  BLACK  v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 465 (2010)  473 

Opinion of the Court 
While  the  Criminal  Rules  are  silent  on  special  verdicts, they  are  informative  on  objections  to  instructions.  Rule 

30(d) "clarifies what . . . counsel must do to preserve a claim of  error  regarding  an  instruction."  Advisory  Committee's 
Notes  on  2002  Amendment  on  Fed.  Rule  Crim.  Proc.  30(d), 18  U. S. C.  App.,  p.  915.  The  Rule  provides:  "A  party  who 
objects  to  any  portion  of  the  instructions  or  to  a  failure  to give  a  requested  instruction  must  inform  the  court  of  the 
specific  objection  and  the  grounds  for  the  objection  before the jury retires to deliberate."  Defendants here, it is undis-
puted, complied with that requirement.12 The Court of Appeals, in essence, added a further require-
ment  for  preservation  of  a  meaningful  objection  to  jury  in-structions.  It devised a forfeiture sanction unmoored to any 
federal statute or criminal rule.  And it placed in the prose-cutor's hands authority to trigger the sanction simply by re-
questing a special verdict.  See 530 F. 3d, at 603.13  To boot, 
Corrupt  Organizations  Act  cases,  "it  can  be  extremely  useful  for  a  trial 
judge to request the jury to record their specific dispositions of the sepa-
rate  predicate  acts  charged,  in  addition  to  their  verdict  of  guilt  or  inno-
cence"); id.,

474  BLACK  v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 465 (2010)  475 

Opinion of Kennedy,
476  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

Per  Curiam 

WEYHRAUCH  v.

OCTOBER  TERM,  2009  477 

Syllabus 

FREE  ENTERPRISE  FUND  et

478  FREE  ENTERPRISE  FUND  v.  PUBLIC  COMPANY 

ACCOUNTING  OVERSIGHT  BD. 

Syllabus 

challenge  was  that  Board  members  were  insulated  from  Presidential 
control  by  two  layers  of  tenure  protection:  Board  members  could  only 
be removed by the Commission for good cause, and the Commissioners 
could  in  turn  only  be  removed  by  the  President  for  good  cause.  Peti-
tioners  also  challenged  the  Board's  appointment  as  violating  the  Ap-
pointments Clause, which requires officers to be appointed by the Presi-
dent  with  the  Senate's  advice  and  consent,  or--in  the  case  of  "inferior 
Officers"--by  "the  President  alone,  .  .  .  the  Courts  of  Law,  or  .  .  .  the 
Heads  of  Departments,"  Art.  II,  $ 2,  cl.  2.  The  United  States  inter-
vened to defend  the statute.  The District Court found  it had jurisdic-
tion and granted summary judgment to respondents.  The Court of Ap-
peals affirmed.  It first agreed that the District Court had jurisdiction. 
It  then  ruled  that  the  dual  restraints  on  Board  members'  removal  are 
permissible,  and  that  Board  members  are  inferior  officers  whose  ap-
pointment is consistent with the Appointments Clause. 
Held: 

1.  The District  Court had jurisdiction over  these  claims.  The Com-
mission may review any Board rule or sanction, and an aggrieved party 
may  challenge  the  Commission's  "final  order"  or  "rule"  in  a  court  of 
appeals under 15 U. S. C. $ 78y.  The Government reads $ 78y as an ex-
clusive  route  to  review,  but  the  text  does  not  expressly  or  implicitly 
limit the jurisdiction that other statutes confer on district courts.  It is 
presumed that Congress does not intend to limit jurisdiction if "a finding 
of  preclusion could  foreclose  all  meaningful  judicial  review";  if the  suit 
is  " `wholly  "collateral" '  to  a  statute's  review  provisions";  and  if  the 
claims  are  "outside  the  agency's  expertise."  Thunder  Basin  Coal  Co. 
v.  Reich, 510 U. S. 200, 212-213. 

These  considerations  point  against  any  limitation  on  review  here. 
Section  78y  provides  only  for  review  of  Commission  action,  and  peti-
tioners' challenge is "collateral" to any Commission orders or rules from 
which review might be sought.  The Government advises petitioners to 
raise  their  claims  by  appealing  a  Board  sanction,  but  petitioners  have 
not  been  sanctioned,  and  it  is  no  "meaningful"  avenue  of  relief,  id., 
at  212,  to  require  a  plaintiff  to  incur  a  sanction  in  order  to  test  a 

law's  validity,  MedImmune,  Inc.  v.  Genentech,  Inc.,  549  U. S.  118,  129. 
Petitioners'  constitutional  claims  are  also  outside  the  Commission's 
competence and  expertise, and the  statutory questions involved do  not 
require technical considerations of agency policy.  Pp. 489-491. 

2.  The  dual  for-cause  limitations  on  the  removal  of  Board  members 
contravene the Constitution's separation of powers.  Pp. 492-508. 

(a)  The Constitution  provides that "[t]he executive  Power  shall  be 
vested  in  a  President  of  the  United  States  of  America."  Art.  II,  $ 1, 
cl. 1.  Since 1789, the Constitution has been understood to empower the 

Cite as: 561 U. S. 477 (2010)  479 

Syllabus 
President  to  keep  executive  officers  accountable--by  removing  them 
from  office,  if  necessary.  See  generally  Myers  v.  United  States,  272 
U. S. 52.  This Court has determined that this authority is not without 
limit.  In  Humphrey's Executor, supra,  this  Court held that Congress 
can,  under  certain  circumstances,  create  independent  agencies  run  by 
principal officers appointed by  the President, whom  the President  may 
not  remove  at  will  but  only  for  good  cause.  And  in  United  States  v. 
Perkins, 116 U. S. 483, and Morrison v.  Olson, 487 U. S. 654, the Court 
sustained  similar  restrictions  on  the  power  of  principal  executive  offi-
cers--themselves responsible to the President--to remove their own in-
feriors.  However,  this  Court  has  not  addressed  the  consequences  of 
more than one level of good-cause tenure.  Pp. 492-495. 

(b)  Where  this  Court has  upheld limited  restrictions on the Presi-
dent's removal power, only one level of  protected  tenure separated  the 
President from an officer exercising executive power.  The President-- 
or a subordinate he could remove at will--decided whether the officer's 
conduct merited removal under the good-cause standard.  Here, the Act 
not only  protects Board  members  from  removal  except  for good  cause, 
but  withdraws  from  the  President  any  decision  on  whether  that  good 
cause  exists.  That  decision  is  vested  in  other  tenured  officers--the 
Commissioners--who  are  not  subject  to  the  President's  direct  control. 
Because  the  Commission  cannot  remove  a  Board  member  at  will,  the 
President cannot hold the Commission fully accountable for the Board's 
conduct.  He  can  only  review  the  Commissioner's  determination  of 
whether  the  Act's  rigorous  good-cause  standard  is  met.  And  if  the 
President  disagrees  with  that  determination,  he  is  powerless  to  intervene--unless the determination is so unreasonable as to constitute " `in-
efficiency, neglect of duty, or malfeasance in office.' "  Humphrey's Ex-
ecutor, supra, at 620. 

This  arrangement  contradicts  Article  II's  vesting  of  the  executive 
power  in  the  President.  Without  the  ability  to  oversee  the  Board,  or 
to attribute the Board's failings to those whom he can oversee, the Pres-
ident  is  no  longer  the  judge  of  the  Board's  conduct.  He  can  neither 
ensure that the laws are faithfully executed, nor be held responsible for 
a  Board  member's  breach  of  faith.  If  this  dispersion  of  responsibility 
were allowed to stand, Congress could multiply it further by adding still 
more layers of good-cause tenure.  Such diffusion of power carries with 
it  a  diffusion  of  accountability;  without  a  clear  and  effective  chain  of 
command, the public cannot determine where the blame for a pernicious 
measure should  fall.  The Act's restrictions are  therefore incompatible 
with the Constitution's separation of powers.  Pp. 495-498. 

(c)  The " `fact that a given law or procedure is efficient, convenient, 
and  useful  in  facilitating  functions  of  government,  standing  alone,  will 

480  FREE  ENTERPRISE  FUND  v.  PUBLIC  COMPANY 

ACCOUNTING  OVERSIGHT  BD. 

Syllabus 

not  save  it  if  it  is  contrary  to  the  Constitution."  Bowsher  v.  Synar, 
478  U. S.  714,  736.  The  Act's  multilevel  tenure  protections  provide  a 
blueprint  for  the  extensive  expansion  of  legislative  power.  Congress 
controls  the  salary,  duties,  and  existence  of  executive  offices,  and  only 
Presidential oversight  can  counter  its influence.  The Framers created 
a structure in which "[a] dependence on the people" would be the "pri-
mary controul  on the government," and that dependence is maintained 
by giving each branch "the necessary constitutional means, and personal 
motives, to resist encroachments of the others."  The Federalist No. 51, 
p. 349.  A key "constitutional means" vested in the President was "the 
power  of  appointing,  overseeing,  and  controlling  those  who  execute 
the  laws."  1  Annals  of  Cong.  463.  While  a  government  of  "opposite 
and  rival  interests"  may  sometimes  inhibit  the  smooth  functioning  of 
administration,  The  Federalist  No.  51,  at  349,  "[t]he  Framers  recog-
nized  that,  in  the  long  term,  structural  protections  against  abuse  of 
power  were  critical  to  preserving  liberty,"  Bowsher,  supra,  at  730. 
Pp. 498-502. 

(d)  The Government errs in arguing that, even if some constraints 
on the removal of inferior executive officers might violate the Constitu-
tion, the restrictions here do not.  There is no construction of the Com-
mission's good-cause removal power that is broad enough to avoid invali-
dation.  Nor is the Commission's broad power over Board functions the 
equivalent of a power to remove Board members.  Altering the Board's 
budget or powers is not a meaningful way to control an inferior officer; 
the  Commission  cannot  supervise  individual  Board  members  if  it  must 
destroy the Board in order to fix it.  Moreover, the Commission's power 
over  the  Board  is  hardly  plenary,  as  the  Board  may  take  significant 
enforcement actions  largely independently of  the Commission.  Enact-
ing new SEC rules through the required notice and comment procedures 
would be a poor means of micromanaging the Board, and without certain 
findings, the Act forbids any general rule requiring SEC preapproval of 
Board  actions.  Finally,  the  Sarbanes-Oxley  Act  is  highly  unusual  in 
committing substantial executive authority to officers protected by two 
layers of good-cause removal.  Pp. 502-508. 

3.  The  unconstitutional  tenure  provisions  are  severable  from  the  re-
mainder  of  the statute.  Because "[t]he unconstitutionality of  a part  of 
an Act does not necessarily defeat or affect the validity of its remaining 
provisions,"  Champlin  Refining  Co.  v.  Corporation  Comm'n  of  Okla., 
286 U. S.  210, 234, the "normal rule" is  "that partial  . . . invalidation is 
the  required  course,"  Brockett  v.  Spokane  Arcades,  Inc.,  472  U. S.  491, 
504.  The  Board's  existence  does  not  violate  the  separation  of  powers, 
but  the  substantive  removal  restrictions  imposed  by  $$ 7211(e)(6)  and 
7217(d)(3) do.  Concluding that the removal restrictions here are invalid 

Cite as: 561 U. S. 477 (2010)  481 

Syllabus 
leaves the Board removable by the Commission at will.  With the ten-
ure  restrictions  excised,  the  Act  remains  " `fully  operative  as  a  law,' " 
New  York  v.  United States, 505 U. S. 144, 186,  and nothing in the Act's 
text or historical context makes it "evident" that Congress would have 
preferred no Board  at all to a Board whose  members are removable at 
will,  Alaska  Airlines,  Inc.  v.  Brock,  480  U. S.  678,  684.  The  conse-
quence  is  that  the  Board  may  continue  to  function  as  before,  but  its 
members may be removed at will by the Commission.  Pp. 508-510. 

4.  The  Board's  appointment  is  consistent  with  the  Appointments 
Clause.  Pp. 510-513. 

(a)  The  Board  members  are  inferior  officers  whose  appointment 
Congress may permissibly vest in a "Hea[d] of Departmen[t]."  Inferior 
officers  "are  officers  whose  work  is  directed  and  supervised  at  some 
level"  by  superiors  appointed  by  the  President  with  the  Senate's  con-
sent.  Edmond  v.  United  States,  520  U. S.  651,  662-663.  Because  the 
good-cause  restrictions  discussed  above  are  unconstitutional  and  void, 
the Commission possesses the power to remove Board members at will, 
in addition to its other oversight authority.  Board members are there-
fore directed and supervised by the Commission.  P. 510. 

(b)  The  Commission  is  a  "Departmen[t]"  under  the  Appointments 
Clause.  Freytag  v.  Commissioner,  501  U. S.  868,  887,  n.  4,  specifically 
reserved the question whether a "principal agenc[y], such as" the SEC, 
is  a  "Departmen[t]."  The  Court  now  adopts  the  reasoning  of  the  con-
curring Justices in Freytag, who would have concluded that the SEC is 
such  a  "Departmen[t]"  because  it  is  a  freestanding  component  of  the 
Executive  Branch  not  subordinate  to  or  contained  within  any  other 
such  component.  This  reading  is  consistent  with  the  common,  nearcontemporary  definition  of  a  "department";  with  the  early  practice  of 
Congress,  see  $ 3,  1  Stat.  234;  and  with  this  Court's  cases,  which  have 
never invalidated an appointment made by the head of such an establish-
ment.  Pp. 510-511. 

(c)  The several Commissioners, and not the Chairman, are the Com-
mission's  "Hea[d]."  The  Commission's  powers  are  generally  vested  in 
the  Commissioners  jointly,  not  the  Chairman  alone.  The  Commission-
ers  do  not  report  to  the  Chairman,  who  exercises  administrative  func-
tions subject to the full Commission's policies.  There is no reason why 
a multimember body may not be the "Hea[d]" of a "Departmen[t]" that it 
governs.  The Appointments Clause necessarily contemplates collective 
appointments by the "Courts of Law," Art. II, $ 2, cl. 2, and each House 
of  Congress  appoints  its  officers  collectively,  see,  e. g.,  Art.  I,  $ 2,  cl.  5. 
Practice  has  also  sanctioned  the  appointment  of  inferior  officers  by 
multimember agencies.  Pp. 511-513. 

537 F. 3d 667, affirmed in part, reversed in part, and remanded. 

482  FREE  ENTERPRISE  FUND  v.  PUBLIC  COMPANY 

ACCOUNTING  OVERSIGHT  BD. 

Syllabus 

Roberts,

Cite as: 561 U. S. 477 (2010)  483 

Opinion of the Court 
Chief

484  FREE  ENTERPRISE  FUND  v.  PUBLIC  COMPANY 

ACCOUNTING  OVERSIGHT  BD. 

Opinion of the Court 

President  be  restricted  in  his  ability  to  remove  a  principal officer,  who  is  in  turn  restricted  in  his  ability  to  remove  an 

inferior  officer,  even  though  that  inferior  officer  determines the policy and enforces the laws of the United States? 

We  hold  that  such  multilevel  protection  from  removal  is contrary to Article II's vesting of the executive power in the 
President.  The President cannot "take Care that the Laws be  faithfully  executed"  if  he  cannot  oversee  the  faithfulness 
of  the  officers  who  execute  them.  Here  the  President  can-not  remove  an  officer  who  enjoys  more  than  one  level  of 
good-cause protection, even if the President determines that the  officer  is  neglecting  his  duties  or  discharging  them  im-
properly.  That  judgment  is  instead  committed  to  another officer, who may or may not agree with the President's deter-
mination, and whom the President cannot remove simply be-cause that officer disagrees with him.  This contravenes the 
President's  "constitutional  obligation  to  ensure  the  faithful execution of the laws."  Id., at 693. 

I 
A 

After a series of celebrated accounting debacles, Congress enacted  the  Sarbanes-Oxley  Act  of  2002,  116  Stat.  745. 

Among  other  measures,  the  Act  introduced  tighter  regula-tion  of  the  accounting  industry  under  a  new  Public  Com-
pany  Accounting  Oversight  Board.  The  Board  is  composed of  five  members,  appointed  to  staggered  5-year  terms  by 
the  Securities  and  Exchange  Commission.  It  was  modeled on  private  self-regulatory  organizations  in  the  securities 
industry--such  as  the  New  York  Stock  Exchange--that investigate  and  discipline  their  own  members  subject  to 
Commission  oversight.  Congress  created  the  Board  as  a private "nonprofit corporation," and Board members and em-
ployees are not considered Government "officer[s] or employ-ee[s]"  for  statutory  purposes.  15  U. S. C.  $$ 7211(a),  (b). 
The Board can thus recruit its members and employees from 

Cite as: 561 U. S. 477 (2010)  485 

Opinion of the Court 
the private sector by paying salaries far above the standard Government pay scale.  See $$ 7211(f )(4), 7219.

1 

Unlike  the  self-regulatory  organizations,  however,  the Board  is  a  Government-created,  Government-appointed  en-

tity,  with  expansive  powers  to  govern  an  entire  industry. Every  accounting  firm--both  foreign  and  domestic--that 
participates  in  auditing  public  companies  under  the  securi-ties laws must register with the Board, pay it an annual fee, 
and comply with its rules and oversight.  $$ 7211(a), 7212(a), (f),  7213,  7216(a)(1).  The  Board  is  charged  with  enforcing 
the  Sarbanes-Oxley  Act,  the  securities  laws,  the  Commis-sion's rules, its own rules, and professional accounting stand-
ards.  $$ 7215(b)(1), (c)(4).  To this end, the Board may reg-ulate  every  detail  of  an  accounting  firm's  practice,  including 
hiring and professional development, promotion, supervision of audit work, the acceptance of new business and the contin-
uation  of  old,  internal  inspection  procedures,  professional ethics rules, and "such other requirements as the Board may 
prescribe."  $ 7213(a)(2)(B). The Board promulgates auditing and ethics standards, per-
forms  routine  inspections  of  all  accounting  firms,  demands documents and testimony, and initiates formal investigations 
and  disciplinary  proceedings.  $$ 7213-7215  (2006  ed.  and Supp. II).  The willful violation of any Board rule is treated 
as a willful violation of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, 48 Stat. 881, 15 U. S. C. $ 78a 

et seq.--a federal crime punish-able  by  up  to  20  years'  imprisonment  or  $25  million  in  fines 

($5 million for a natural person).  $$ 78ff(a), 7202(b)(1) (2006 ed.).  And  the  Board  itself  can  issue  severe  sanctions  in 
its  disciplinary  proceedings,  up  to  and  including  the  perma-nent  revocation  of  a  firm's  registration,  a  permanent  ban 
on  a  person's  associating  with  any  registered  firm,  and money  penalties  of  $15  million  ($750,000  for  a  natural  per-
son).  $ 7215(c)(4).  Despite  the  provisions  specifying  that 

1 The current  salary for  the Chairman  is $673,000.  Other  Board mem-
bers receive $547,000.  Brief for Petitioners 3. 

486  FREE  ENTERPRISE  FUND  v.  PUBLIC  COMPANY 

ACCOUNTING  OVERSIGHT  BD. 

Opinion of the Court 

Board  members  are  not  Government  officials  for  statutory purposes,  the  parties  agree  that  the  Board  is  "part  of  the 

Government"  for  constitutional  purposes,  Lebron  v.  Na-
tional  Railroad  Passenger  Corporation,  513  U. S.  374,  397 
(1995),  and  that  its  members  are  " `Officers  of  the  United States' " who "exercis[e] significant authority pursuant to the 

laws  of  the  United  States,"  Buckley  v.  Valeo,  424  U. S.  1, 
125-126  (1976)  (per  curiam)  (quoting  Art.  II,  $ 2,  cl.  2); cf.  Brief  for  Petitioners  9,  n.  1;  Brief  for  United  States 

29, n. 8. The Act places the Board under the SEC's oversight, par-
ticularly  with  respect  to  the  issuance  of  rules  or  the  im-position  of  sanctions  (both  of  which  are  subject  to  Com-
mission  approval  and  alteration).  $$ 7217(b)-(c).  But  the individual members of the Board--like the officers and direc-
tors  of  the  self-regulatory  organizations--are  substantially 
insulated  from  the  Commission's  control.  The  Commission cannot  remove  Board  members  at  will,  but  only  "for  good 

cause  shown,"  "in  accordance  with"  certain  procedures. $ 7211(e)(6). 

Those  procedures  require  a  Commission  finding,  "on  the record" and "after notice and opportunity for a hearing," that 
the Board member 

"(A)  has  willfully  violated  any  provision  of  th[e]  Act, 
the rules of the Board, or the securities laws; "(B)  has  willfully  abused  the  authority  of  that  mem-

ber; or "(C)  without  reasonable  justification  or  excuse,  has 
failed  to  enforce  compliance  with  any  such  provision  or 
rule,  or  any  professional  standard  by  any  registered 
public  accounting  firm  or  any  associated  person 
thereof."  $ 7217(d)(3). 

Removal  of  a  Board  member  requires  a  formal  Commission 
order  and  is  subject  to  judicial  review.  See  5  U. S. C. 

$$ 554(a),  556(a),  557(a),  (c)(B);  15  U. S. C.  $ 78y(a)(1).  Simi-

Cite as: 561 U. S. 477 (2010)  487 

Opinion of the Court 
lar  procedures  govern  the  Commission's  removal  of  officers and  directors  of  the  private  self-regulatory  organizations. 

See  $ 78s(h)(4).  The  parties  agree  that  the  Commissioners cannot  themselves  be  removed  by  the  President  except 
under  the  Humphrey's  Executor  standard  of  "inefficiency, neglect  of  duty,  or  malfeasance  in  office,"  295  U. S.,  at  620 
(internal quotation marks omitted); see Brief for Petitioners 31;  Brief  for  United  States  43;  Brief  for  Respondent  Pub-
lic  Company  Accounting  Oversight  Board  31  (hereinafter PCAOB  Brief);  Tr.  of  Oral  Arg.  47,  and  we  decide  the  case 
with that understanding.  B 

Beckstead  and  Watts,  LLP,  is  a  Nevada  accounting  firm registered  with  the  Board.  The  Board  inspected  the  firm, 
released  a  report  critical  of  its  auditing  procedures,  and began a formal investigation.  Beckstead and Watts and the 
Free Enterprise Fund, a nonprofit organization of which the firm  is  a  member,  then  sued  the  Board  and  its  members, 
seeking  (among  other  things)  a  declaratory  judgment  that the  Board  is  unconstitutional  and  an  injunction  preventing 
the Board from exercising its powers.  App. 71. Before  the  District  Court,  petitioners  argued  that  the 
Sarbanes-Oxley Act contravened the separation of powers by conferring wide-ranging executive power on Board members 
without subjecting  them to Presidential control.  Id.,  at 67- 68.  Petitioners  also  challenged  the  Act  under  the  Appoint-
ments Clause, which requires "Officers of the United States" to  be  appointed  by  the  President  with  the  Senate's  advice 
and consent.  Art. II, $ 2, cl. 2.  The Clause provides an ex-ception for  "inferior Officers," whose  appointment  Congress 
may choose to vest "in the President alone, in the  Courts of Law, or in the Heads of Departments." 

Ibid.  Because the Board  is  appointed  by  the  SEC,  petitioners  argued  that 

(1)  Board  members  are  not  "inferior  Officers"  who  may  be appointed  by  "Heads  of  Departments";  (2)  even  if  they  are, 
the Commission is not a "Departmen[t]"; and (3) even if it is, 

488  FREE  ENTERPRISE  FUND  v.  PUBLIC  COMPANY 

ACCOUNTING  OVERSIGHT  BD. 

Opinion of the Court 

the several Commissioners (as opposed to the Chairman) are 
not  its  "Hea[d]."  See  App.  68-70.  The  United  States  in-
tervened  to  defend  the  Act's  constitutionality.  Both  sides 
moved  for  summary  judgment;  the  District  Court  deter-
mined  that  it  had  jurisdiction  and  granted  summary  judg-
ment to respondents.  App. to Pet. for Cert. 110a-117a. 

A  divided  Court  of  Appeals  affirmed.  537  F.  3d  667 
(CADC  2008).  It  agreed  that  the  District  Court  had  juris-
diction over petitioners' claims.  Id., at 671.  On the merits, 
the Court of Appeals recognized that the removal issue was 
"a  question  of  first  impression,"  as  neither  that  court  nor 
this one "ha[d] considered a  situation where a restriction on 
removal  passes  through  two  levels  of  control."  Id.,  at  679. 
It ruled that the dual restraints on Board members' removal 
are  permissible  because  they  do  not  "render  the  President 
unable  to  perform  his  constitutional  duties."  Id.,  at  683. 
The majority reasoned that although the President "does not 
directly select or supervise the Board's members," id., at 681, 
the  Board  is  subject  to  the  comprehensive  control  of  the 
Commission,  and  thus  the  President's  influence  over  the 
Commission  implies  a  constitutionally  sufficient  influence 
over the Board as well.  Id., at 682-683.  The majority also 
held that Board members are  inferior officers  subject to the 
Commission's  direction  and  supervision,  id.,  at  672-676,  and 
that  their  appointment  is  otherwise  consistent  with  the  Ap-
pointments Clause, id., at 676-678. 

Judge Kavanaugh dissented.  He agreed that the case was 
one of first impression, id., at 698, but argued that "the dou-
ble  for-cause  removal  provisions  in  the  [Act]  .  .  .  combine 
to  eliminate  any  meaningful  Presidential  control  over  the 
[Board],"  id.,  at  697.  Judge  Kavanaugh  also  argued  that 
Board  members  are  not  effectively  supervised  by  the  Com-
mission  and  thus  cannot  be  inferior  officers  under  the  Ap-
pointments Clause.  Id., at 709-712. 

We granted certiorari.  556 U. S. 1234 (2009). 

Cite as: 561 U. S. 477 (2010)  489 

Opinion of the Court 

II 
We  first  consider  whether  the  District  Court  had  juris-
diction.  We  agree  with  both  courts  below  that  the  stat-
utes  providing  for  judicial  review  of  Commission  action  did 
not  prevent the  District Court  from considering petitioners' 
claims. 

The  Sarbanes-Oxley  Act  empowers  the  Commission  to 
review  any  Board  rule  or  sanction.  See  15  U. S. C. 

$$ 7217(b)(2)-(4), (c)(2).  Once the Commission has acted, ag-
grieved parties may challenge "a final  order of the  Commis-
sion"  or  "a  rule  of  the  Commission"  in  a  court  of  appeals 
under $ 78y, and "[n]o objection . . . may be  considered by the 
court  unless  it  was  urged  before  the  Commission  or  there 
was  reasonable  ground  for  failure  to  do  so."  $$ 78y(a)(1), 
(b)(1), (c)(1). 

The  Government  reads  $ 78y  as  an  exclusive  route  to  re-
view.  But the text does not expressly limit the jurisdiction 
that  other  statutes  confer  on  district  courts.  See,  e. g.,  28 
U. S. C.  $$ 1331,  2201.  Nor  does  it  do  so  implicitly.  Provi-
sions for agency review do not restrict judicial review unless 
the  "statutory  scheme"  displays  a  "fairly  discernible"  intent 
to limit jurisdiction,  and the claims  at issue "are of the type 
Congress  intended  to  be  reviewed  within  th[e]  statutory 
structure."  Thunder Basin Coal Co. v.  Reich, 510 U. S. 200, 
207,  212  (1994)  (internal  quotation  marks  omitted).  Gener-
ally, when Congress  creates procedures  "designed to permit 
agency  expertise  to  be  brought  to  bear  on  particular  prob-
lems,"  those  procedures  "are  to  be  exclusive."  Whitney 
Nat.  Bank  in  Jefferson  Parish  v.  Bank  of  New  Orleans  & 
Trust  Co.,  379  U. S.  411,  420  (1965).  But  we  presume  that 
Congress does not intend to limit jurisdiction if "a finding of 
preclusion  could  foreclose  all  meaningful  judicial  review";  if 
the suit is "wholly collateral to a statute's review provisions"; 
and  if  the  claims  are  "outside  the  agency's  expertise." 
Thunder Basin, supra, at 212-213 (internal quotation marks 

490  FREE  ENTERPRISE  FUND  v.  PUBLIC  COMPANY 

ACCOUNTING  OVERSIGHT  BD. 

Opinion of the Court 

omitted).  These considerations point against any limitation on review here. 

We  do  not  see  how  petitioners  could  meaningfully  pursue their  constitutional  claims  under  the  Government's  theory. 
Section 78y provides only for judicial review of Commission action,  and not  every  Board  action is  encapsulated  in a  final 
Commission order or rule. 

The Government suggests that petitioners could first have sought  Commission  review  of  the  Board's  "auditing  stand-

ards,  registration  requirements,  or  other  rules."  Brief  for United States  16.  But petitioners object  to the  Board's  ex-
istence,  not  to  any  of  its  auditing  standards.  Petitioners' 
general challenge to the Board is "collateral" to any Commis-
sion  orders  or  rules  from  which  review  might  be  sought. 
Cf.  McNary  v.  Haitian  Refugee  Center,  Inc.,  498  U. S.  479, 
491-492  (1991).  Requiring  petitioners  to  select  and  chal-
lenge  a  Board  rule  at  random  is  an  odd  procedure  for  Con-
gress  to  choose,  especially  because  only  new  rules,  and  not 
existing  ones,  are  subject  to  challenge.  See  15  U. S. C. 

$$ 78s(b)(2), 78y(a)(1), 7217(b)(4). 

Alternatively, the Government advises petitioners to raise 
their  claims  by  appealing  a  Board  sanction.  Brief  for 
United  States  16-17.  But  the  investigation  of  Beckstead 
and  Watts  produced  no  sanction,  see  id.,  at  7,  n.  5;  Reply 
Brief  for  Petitioners  29,  n.  11,  and  an  uncomplimentary 

inspection  report  is  not  subject  to  judicial  review,  see 

$ 7214(h)(2).  So  the  Government  proposes  that  Beckstead 
and Watts  incur a sanction (such as a  sizable fine)  by ignor-
ing  Board requests  for  documents  and testimony.  Brief  for 
United States  17.  If  the  Commission then  affirms,  the  firm 
will win access to a court of appeals--and severe punishment 
should its challenge fail.  We normally do not require plain-
tiffs  to  "bet  the  farm  .  .  .  by  taking  the  violative  action" 
before "testing the validity of the law," MedImmune, Inc. v. 
Genentech,  Inc.,  549  U. S.  118,  129  (2007);  accord,  Ex  parte 
Young,  209  U. S.  123  (1908),  and  we  do  not  consider  this  a 

Cite as: 561 U. S. 477 (2010)  491 

Opinion of the Court 
"meaningful"  avenue  of  relief,  Thunder  Basin,  510  U. S., 
at 212. 

Petitioners' constitutional claims are also outside the Com-
mission's competence and expertise.  In Thunder Basin, the 
petitioner's primary claims were statutory; "at root . . . [they] 
ar[o]se  under  the  Mine  Act  and  f[e]ll  squarely  within  the 
[agency's]  expertise,"  given  that  the  agency  had  "extensive 
experience"  on  the  issue  and  had  "recently  addressed  the 
precise . . .  claims  presented."  Id.,  at  214-215.  Likewise, 
in  United  States  v.  Ruzicka,  329  U. S.  287  (1946),  on  which 
the  Government  relies,  we  reserved  for  the  agency  factbound  inquiries  that,  even  if  "formulated  in  constitutional 
terms," rested ultimately on "factors that call for [an] under-
standing  of  the  milk  industry,"  to  which  the  Court  made  no 
pretensions.  Id.,  at  294.  No  similar  expertise  is  required 
here,  and  the  statutory  questions  involved  do  not  require 
"technical  considerations  of  [agency]  policy."  Johnson  v. 
Robison, 415  U. S. 361, 373  (1974).  They are  instead stand-
ard  questions  of  administrative  law,  which  the  courts  are  at 
no disadvantage in answering. 

We therefore conclude that $ 78y did not strip the District 
Court  of  jurisdiction  over  these  claims,  which  are  properly 
presented for our review.2 

2 The Government asserts that "petitioners have not pointed to any case 
in  which  this  Court  has  recognized  an  implied  private  right  of  action 
directly  under  the  Constitution  to  challenge  governmental  action  under 
the  Appointments  Clause  or  separation-of-powers  principles."  Brief  for 
United  States  22.  The  Government  does  not  appear  to  dispute  such  a 
right to relief as a general matter, without regard to the particular consti-
tutional  provisions  at  issue  here.  See,  e. g.,  Correctional  Services  Corp. 
v.  Malesko,  534  U. S.  61,  74  (2001)  (equitable  relief  "has long  been  recog-
nized as the proper means for preventing entities from acting unconstitu-
tionally"); Bell v.  Hood, 327 U. S. 678, 684 (1946) ("[I]t is established prac-
tice  for  this  Court  to  sustain  the  jurisdiction  of  federal  courts  to  issue 
injunctions  to  protect  rights  safeguarded  by  the  Constitution");  see  also 
Ex parte Young, 209 U. S. 123, 149, 165, 167 (1908).  If the Government's 
point is that an Appointments Clause or separation-of-powers claim should 

492  FREE  ENTERPRISE  FUND  v.  PUBLIC  COMPANY 

ACCOUNTING  OVERSIGHT  BD. 

Opinion of the Court 

III 
We hold that the dual for-cause limitations on the removal of  Board  members  contravene  the  Constitution's  separation 

of powers.  A 

The  Constitution  provides  that  "[t]he  executive  Power shall  be  vested  in  a  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America."  Art. II, $ 1, cl. 1.  As Madison stated on the floor of  the  First  Congress,  "if  any  power  whatsoever  is  in  its 
nature  Executive,  it  is  the  power  of  appointing,  overseeing, and  controlling  those  who  execute  the  laws."  1  Annals  of 
Cong. 463 (1789). The  removal  of  executive  officers  was  discussed  exten-
sively  in  Congress  when  the  first  executive  departments were created.  The view that "prevailed, as most consonant 
to the text of the Constitution" and "to the requisite respon-sibility  and  harmony  in  the  Executive  Department,"  was 
that the executive power included a power to oversee execu-tive officers through removal; because that traditional execu-
tive power was not "expressly taken away, it remained with the President."  Letter from James Madison to Thomas Jef-
ferson  (June  30,  1789),  16 Documentary  History  of the  First Federal  Congress  893  (2004).  "This  Decision  of  1789  pro-
vides  contemporaneous  and  weighty  evidence  of  the  Consti-tution's  meaning  since  many  of  the  Members  of  the  First 
Congress  had  taken  part  in  framing  that  instrument." 
Bowsher  v.  Synar,  478  U. S.  714,  723-724  (1986)  (internal quotation  marks  omitted).  And  it  soon  became  the  "set-

tled  and  well  understood  construction  of  the  Constitution." 
Ex parte Hennen, 13 Pet. 230, 259 (1839). The  landmark  case  of  Myers  v.  United  States  reaffirmed 

the  principle  that  Article  II  confers  on  the  President  "the general  administrative  control  of  those  executing  the  laws." 

be  treated  differently  than  every  other  constitutional  claim,  it  offers  no 
reason and cites no authority why that might be so. 

Cite as: 561 U. S. 477 (2010)  493 

Opinion of the Court 
272  U. S.,  at  164.  It  is  his  responsibility  to  take  care  that the  laws  be  faithfully  executed.  The  buck  stops  with  the 

President,  in  Harry  Truman's  famous  phrase.  As  we  ex-plained  in 

Myers,  the  President  therefore  must  have  some 
"power  of  removing  those  for  whom  he  can  not  continue  to be responsible." 

Id., at 117. 
Nearly a decade later in Humphrey's Executor, this Court 
held  that  Myers  did  not  prevent  Congress  from  conferring good-cause  tenure  on  the  principal  officers  of  certain  inde-

pendent agencies.  That case concerned the members of the Federal Trade Commission, who held 7-year terms and could 
not  be  removed  by  the  President  except  for  " `inefficiency, 
neglect of duty, or malfeasance in office.' "  295 U. S., at 620 
(quoting  15  U. S. C.  $ 41).  The  Court  distinguished  Myers 
on  the  ground  that  Myers  concerned  "an  officer  [who]  is 
merely  one  of  the  units  in  the  executive  department  and, 
hence,  inherently  subject  to  the  exclusive  and  illimitable 
power of removal by the Chief Executive, whose subordinate 
and  aid  he  is."  295  U. S.,  at  627.  By  contrast,  the  Court 
characterized the  FTC as "quasi-legislative and  quasijudicial"  rather  than  "purely  executive,"  and  held  that  Con-
gress could require it "to act . . . independently of executive 
control."  Id., at 627-629.  Because "one who holds his office 
only  during  the  pleasure  of  another,  cannot  be  depended 
upon to maintain an attitude of independence against the lat-
ter's  will,"  the  Court  held  that  Congress  had  power  to  "fix 
the  period  during  which  [the  Commissioners]  shall  continue 
in  office,  and  to  forbid  their  removal  except  for  cause  in  the 
meantime."  Id., at 629. 

Humphrey's Executor did not address the removal of infe-
rior officers, whose appointment Congress may vest in heads 
of departments.  If Congress does so, it is ordinarily the de-
partment  head,  rather  than  the  President,  who  enjoys  the 
power  of  removal.  See  Myers,  supra,  at  119,  127;  Hennen, 
supra,  at  259-260.  This  Court  has  upheld  for-cause  limita-
tions on that power as well. 

494  FREE  ENTERPRISE  FUND  v.  PUBLIC  COMPANY 

ACCOUNTING  OVERSIGHT  BD. 

Opinion of the Court 

In  Perkins,  a  naval  cadet-engineer  was  honorably  dis-charged  from  the  Navy  because  his  services were  no  longer 

required.  116  U. S. 483.  He  brought  a claim  for his  salary under  statutes  barring  his  peacetime  discharge  except  by  a 
court-martial  or  by  the  Secretary  of  the  Navy  "for  miscon-duct."  Rev. Stat. $$ 1229, 1525.  This Court adopted verba-
tim the reasoning of the Court of Claims, which had held that when Congress " `vests the appointment of inferior officers in 
the  heads  of  Departments[,]  it  may  limit  and  restrict  the power  of  removal  as  it  deems  best  for  the  public  interest.' " 
116 U. S., at 485.  Because Perkins had not been " `dismissed for  misconduct  .  .  .  [or  upon]  the  sentence  of  a  courtmartial,' "  the  Court  agreed  that  he  was  " `still  in  office  and . . . entitled to [his] pay.' "  Ibid.

3 

We again considered the status of inferior officers in Mor-
rison.  That  case  concerned  the  Ethics in  Government  Act, which provided for an independent counsel to investigate al-

legations  of  crime  by  high  executive  officers.  The  counsel 
was appointed by  a special court,  wielded  the full powers  of a  prosecutor,  and  was  removable  by  the  Attorney  General 

only " `for good cause.' "  487 U. S., at 663 (quoting 28 U. S. C. $ 596(a)(1)).  We  recognized  that  the  independent  counsel 
was  undoubtedly  an  executive  officer,  rather  than  " `quasi-legislative' " or " `quasi-judicial,' " but we stated as "our pres-
ent  considered  view"  that  Congress  had  power  to  impose 

3 When  Perkins  was  decided  in  1886,  the  Secretary  of  the  Navy  was  a 
principal  officer  and  the  head  of  a  department,  see  Rev.  Stat.  $ 415,  and 
the  Tenure  of  Office  Act  purported  to  require  Senate  consent  for  his  re-
moval.  Ch.  154,  14  Stat.  430,  Rev.  Stat.  $ 1767.  This  requirement  was 
widely regarded as unconstitutional and void (as it is universally regarded 
today), and it was repealed the next year.  See Act of Mar. 3, 1887, ch. 353, 
24 Stat. 500; Myers v.  United States, 272 U. S. 52, 167-168 (1926); see also 
Bowsher  v.  Synar,  478  U. S.  714,  726  (1986).  Perkins  cannot  be  read  to 
endorse  any  such  restriction,  much  less  in  combination  with  further  re-
strictions  on  the  removal  of  inferiors.  The  Court  of  Claims  opinion 
adopted verbatim by this Court addressed only the authority of the Secre-
tary of the Navy to remove inferior officers. 

Cite as: 561 U. S. 477 (2010)  495 

Opinion of the Court 
good-cause  restrictions  on  her  removal.  487  U. S.,  at  689- 691.  The Court noted that the statute "g[a]ve the Attorney 

General," an officer directly responsible to the President and "through [whom]" the President could act, "several means of 
supervising or controlling" the independent counsel--"[m]ost importantly  .  .  .  the  power  to  remove  the  counsel  for  good 
cause."  Id.,  at  695-696  (internal  quotation  marks  omitted). Under those circumstances, the Court sustained the statute. 
Morrison  did  not,  however,  address  the  consequences  of more than one level of good-cause tenure--leaving the issue, 
as  both  the  court  and  dissent  below  recognized,  "a  question of  first  impression"  in  this  Court.  537  F.  3d,  at  679;  see 

id., at 698 (dissenting opinion). 

B 
As  explained,  we  have  previously  upheld  limited  restric-tions  on  the  President's  removal  power.  In  those  cases, 

however,  only  one  level  of  protected  tenure  separated  the President  from  an  officer  exercising  executive  power.  It 
was  the  President--or  a  subordinate  he  could  remove  at will--who  decided  whether  the  officer's  conduct  merited  re-
moval under the good-cause standard. The Act before  us  does  something  quite different.  It not 
only protects  Board  members from  removal  except for  good cause,  but  withdraws  from  the  President  any  decision  on 
whether that good cause exists.  That  decision  is vested in-stead in other tenured officers--the Commissioners--none of 
whom  is  subject  to  the  President's  direct  control.  The  re-sult  is  a  Board  that is  not  accountable  to  the  President,  and 
a President who is not responsible for the Board. The  added  layer  of  tenure  protection  makes  a  difference. 
Without  a  layer  of  insulation  between  the  Commission  and the  Board,  the  Commission  could  remove  a  Board  member 
at  any  time,  and  therefore  would  be  fully  responsible  for what  the  Board  does.  The  President  could  then  hold  the 
Commission  to  account  for  its  supervision  of  the  Board,  to 

496  FREE  ENTERPRISE  FUND  v.  PUBLIC  COMPANY 

ACCOUNTING  OVERSIGHT  BD. 

Opinion of the Court 

the same extent that he may hold the Commission to account for everything else it does. 

A  second  level  of  tenure  protection  changes  the  nature  of the  President's  review.  Now  the  Commission  cannot  re-
move a Board member at will.  The President therefore can-not  hold  the  Commission  fully  accountable  for  the  Board's 
conduct,  to  the  same  extent  that  he  may  hold  the  Commis-
sion accountable for everything else that it does.  The Com-missioners are not responsible for the Board's actions.  They 

are only responsible for their  own determination of whether the  Act's  rigorous  good-cause  standard  is  met.  And  even 
if  the  President  disagrees  with  their  determination,  he  is 
powerless  to  intervene--unless  that  determination  is  so  un-
reasonable  as  to  constitute  "inefficiency,  neglect  of  duty,  or 

malfeasance  in  office."  Humphrey's  Executor,  295  U. S.,  at 
620 (internal quotation marks omitted). 

This  novel  structure  does  not  merely  add  to  the  Board's 
independence, but transforms it.  Neither the President, nor 
anyone directly responsible to him, nor even an officer whose 
conduct  he  may  review  only  for  good  cause,  has  full  control 
over the Board.  The President is stripped of the power our 
precedents  have  preserved,  and  his  ability  to  execute  the 
laws--by holding his subordinates accountable for their con-
duct--is impaired. 

That arrangement is contrary to Article II's vesting of the 
executive  power  in  the  President.  Without  the  ability  to 
oversee  the  Board,  or  to  attribute  the  Board's  failings  to 
those  whom  he  can  oversee,  the  President  is  no  longer  the 
judge of the Board's conduct.  He is not the one who decides 
whether Board members are abusing their offices or neglect-
ing  their  duties.  He  can  neither  ensure  that  the  laws  are 
faithfully executed, nor be held responsible for a Board mem-
ber's  breach  of  faith.  This  violates  the  basic  principle  that 
the President "cannot delegate ultimate responsibility or the 
active obligation to supervise that goes with it," because Ar-
ticle II "makes a single President responsible for the actions 

Cite as: 561 U. S. 477 (2010)  497 

Opinion of the Court 
of  the  Executive  Branch."  Clinton  v.  Jones,  520  U. S.  681, 712-713 (1997) (

Breyer,

498  FREE  ENTERPRISE  FUND  v.  PUBLIC  COMPANY 

ACCOUNTING  OVERSIGHT  BD. 

Opinion of the Court 

United States."  Art. II, $ 2, cl. 2.  They instead look to the President to guide the "assistants or deputies . . . subject to 

his  superintendence."  The  Federalist  No.  72,  p.  487  (J. Cooke  ed.  1961)  (A.  Hamilton).  Without  a  clear  and  effec-
tive  chain  of  command,  the  public  cannot  "determine  on whom the blame or the punishment of a pernicious measure, 
or  series  of  pernicious  measures  ought  really  to  fall."  Id., No.  70,  at  476  (same).  That  is  why  the  Framers  sought  to 
ensure that "those who are employed in the execution of the law will be in their proper situation, and the chain of depend-
ence be preserved; the lowest officers, the middle grade, and the highest, will depend, as they ought, on the President, and 
the President on the community."  1 Annals of Cong., at 499 (J. Madison). 

By granting the Board executive power without the Exec-utive's oversight, this Act subverts the President's ability to 
ensure  that  the  laws  are  faithfully  executed--as  well  as  the public's  ability  to  pass  judgment  on  his  efforts.  The  Act's 
restrictions are incompatible with the Constitution's separa-tion of powers. 

C 
Respondents  and  the  dissent  resist  this  conclusion,  por-traying  the  Board  as  "the  kind  of  practical  accommodation 

between  the  Legislature  and  the  Executive  that  should be  permitted  in  a  `workable  government.' " 

Metropolitan 
Washington  Airports  Authority  v.  Citizens  for  Abatement of  Aircraft  Noise,  Inc.,  501  U. S.  252,  276  (1991)  (MWAA) 

(quoting  Youngstown  Sheet  &  Tube  Co.  v.  Sawyer,  343  U. S. 579,  635  (1952)  (Jackson,  J.,  concurring));  see,  e. g.,  post,  at 
519  (opinion  of Breyer,

Cite as: 561 U. S. 477 (2010)  499 

Opinion of the Court 
quotation marks omitted).  In this respect the statute creat-ing the Board is, we are told, simply one example of the "vast 

numbers  of  statutes  governing  vast  numbers  of  subjects, concerned  with  vast  numbers  of  different  problems,  [that] 
provide  for,  or  foresee,  their  execution  or  administration through  the  work  of  administrators  organized  within  many 
different  kinds  of  administrative  structures,  exercising  dif-
ferent kinds of administrative authority, to achieve their leg-islatively mandated objectives." 

Post, at 521. 
No one doubts Congress's power to create a vast and var-ied  federal  bureaucracy.  But  where,  in  all  this,  is  the  role 

for oversight by an elected President?  The Constitution re-
quires that a President chosen  by the  entire Nation  oversee 
the  execution  of  the  laws.  And  the  " `fact  that  a  given  law 
or procedure is efficient, convenient, and useful in facilitating 
functions  of  government,  standing  alone,  will  not  save  it 
if  it  is  contrary  to  the  Constitution,' "  for  " `[c]onvenience 
and  efficiency  are  not  the  primary  objectives--or  the  hall-
marks--of democratic government.' "  Bowsher, 478 U. S., at 
736 (quoting Chadha, 462 U. S., at 944). 

One  can  have  a  government  that  functions  without  being 
ruled by functionaries, and a government that benefits from 
expertise without being ruled by experts.  Our Constitution 
was  adopted  to  enable  the  people  to  govern  themselves, 
through their elected leaders.  The growth of the Executive 
Branch,  which  now  wields  vast  power  and  touches  almost 
every  aspect  of  daily  life,  heightens  the  concern  that  it  may 
slip  from  the  Executive's  control,  and  thus  from  that  of  the 
people.  This  concern  is  largely  absent  from  the  dissent's 
paean to the administrative state. 

For  example,  the  dissent  dismisses  the  importance  of  re-
moval  as  a  tool  of  supervision,  concluding  that  the  Presi-
dent's "power to get something done" more often depends on 
"who controls the agency's budget requests and funding, the 
relationships  between  one  agency  or  department  and  an-
other, . . . purely political factors (including Congress' ability 

500  FREE  ENTERPRISE  FUND  v.  PUBLIC  COMPANY 

ACCOUNTING  OVERSIGHT  BD. 

Opinion of the Court 

to  assert  influence),"  and  indeed  whether  particular  un-elected  officials  support  or  "resist"  the  President's  policies. 

Post,  at  524,  526  (emphasis  deleted).  The  Framers  did  not rest our liberties on such bureaucratic minutiae.  As we said 
in  Bowsher,  supra,  at  730,  "[t]he  separated  powers  of  our Government  cannot  be  permitted  to  turn  on  judicial  assess-
ment  of  whether  an  officer  exercising  executive  power  is  on good terms with Congress." 

In fact, the multilevel protection that the dissent endorses "provides  a blueprint  for extensive  expansion  of  the  legisla-
tive power."  MWAA, supra, at 277.  In a system of checks and  balances,  "[p]ower  abhors  a  vacuum,"  and  one  branch's 
handicap is another's strength.  537 F. 3d, at 695, n. 4 (Kava-naugh,  J.,  dissenting)  (internal  quotation  marks  omitted). 
"Even  when  a  branch  does  not  arrogate  power  to  itself," therefore, it must not "impair another in the performance of 
its constitutional duties."  Loving v.  United States, 517 U. S. 748, 757 (1996).

5  Congress has plenary control over the sal-

ary,  duties,  and  even  existence  of  executive  offices.  Only Presidential  oversight  can  counter  its  influence.  That  is 

why  the  Constitution  vests  certain  powers  in  the  President that  "the  Legislature  has  no  right  to  diminish  or  modify." 
1 Annals of Cong., at 463 (J. Madison).6 

5 The  dissent  quotes  Buckley  v.  Valeo,  424  U. S.  1,  138  (1976)  (per  cu-
riam),  for  the  proposition  that  Congress  has  "broad  authority  to  `create' 
governmental  ` "offices" '  and  to  structure  those  offices  `as  it  chooses.' " 
Post, at 515.  The Buckley Court put " `offices' " in quotes because it was 
actually describing legislative positions that are not really offices at all (at 
least not under Article II).  That is why the very next sentence of Buck-
ley said,  "But  Congress' power . . . is inevitably bounded  by  the  express 
language" of the Constitution.  424 U. S., at 138-139 (emphasis added). 

6 The dissent attributes to Madison a belief that some executive officers, 

such  as  the  Comptroller,  could  be  made  independent  of  the  President. 
See post, at 530.  But Madison's actual proposal, consistent with his view 
of  the  Constitution,  was  that  the  Comptroller  hold  office  for  a  term  of 
"years,  unless  sooner  removed  by  the  President";  he  would  thus  be  "de-
pendent upon the President, because he can be removed by him," and also 
"dependent upon the Senate, because they must consent to his [reappoint-
ment] for every term of years."  1 Annals of Cong. 612 (1789). 

Cite as: 561 U. S. 477 (2010)  501 

Opinion of the Court 
The Framers created a structure in which "[a] dependence on  the  people"  would  be  the  "primary  controul  on  the  gov-

ernment."  The Federalist No. 51, at 349 (J. Madison).  That dependence is maintained, not just by "parchment barriers," 
id.,  No.  48,  at  333  (same),  but  by  letting  "[a]mbition  .  .  . counteract  ambition,"  giving  each  branch  "the  necessary 
constitutional  means,  and  personal  motives,  to  resist  en-
croachments  of  the  others,"  id.,  No.  51,  at  349.  A  key "constitutional means" vested in the President--perhaps 

the 
key  means--was  "the  power  of  appointing,  overseeing,  and controlling those who execute the laws."  1 Annals of Cong., 

at  463.  And  while  a  government  of  "opposite  and  rival  in-terests" may sometimes inhibit the smooth functioning of ad-
ministration,  The  Federalist  No.  51,  at  349,  "[t]he  Framers recognized  that,  in  the  long  term,  structural  protections 
against  abuse  of  power  were  critical  to  preserving  liberty." 
Bowsher, supra, at 730. Calls  to  abandon  those  protections  in  light  of  "the  era's 

perceived  necessity,"  New  York,  505  U. S.,  at  187,  are  not unusual.  Nor  is  the  argument  from  bureaucratic  expertise 
limited  only  to  the  field  of  accounting.  The  failures  of  ac-counting  regulation  may  be  a  "pressing  national  problem," 
but "a judiciary that licensed extraconstitutional government 
with each issue of comparable gravity would, in the long run, 
be  far  worse."  Id.,  at  187-188.  Neither  respondents  nor 
the  dissent  explains  why  the  Board's  task,  unlike  so  many 
others,  requires  more  than  one  layer  of  insulation  from  the 
President--or,  for  that  matter,  why  only  two.  The  point  is 
not to take issue with for-cause limitations in general; we do 
not  do  that.  The  question  here  is  far  more  modest.  We 
deal  with  the  unusual  situation,  never  before  addressed  by 
the Court, of two layers of for-cause tenure.  And though it 
may be criticized as "elementary arithmetical logic," post, at 
535, two layers are not the same as one. 

The President has been given the power to oversee execu-
tive officers; he is not  limited, as in Harry Truman's lament, 
to  "persuad[ing]"  his  unelected  subordinates  "to  do  what 

502  FREE  ENTERPRISE  FUND  v.  PUBLIC  COMPANY 

ACCOUNTING  OVERSIGHT  BD. 

Opinion of the Court 

they ought to do without persuasion."  Post, at 524 (internal quotation  marks  omitted).  In  its  pursuit  of  a  "workable 

government,"  Congress  cannot  reduce  the  Chief  Magistrate to a cajoler-in-chief. 

D 
The  United  States  concedes  that  some  constraints  on  the removal of inferior executive officers might violate the Con-

stitution.  See  Brief  for  United  States  47.  It  contends, however,  that  the  removal  restrictions  at  issue  here  do  not. 

To  begin  with,  the  Government  argues  that  the  Commis-sion's removal power over the Board is "broad," and could be 
construed as broader still, if necessary to avoid invalidation. See,  e. g.,  id.,  at  51,  and  n. 19;  cf.  PCAOB  Brief  22-23.  But 
the  Government  does  not  contend  that  simple  disagreement with the Board's policies or priorities could constitute "good 
cause"  for  its  removal.  See  Tr.  of  Oral  Arg.  41-43,  45-46. Nor do our precedents suggest as much. 

Humphrey's Exec-utor, for  example,  rejected  a  removal  premised  on  a  lack  of 

agreement  " `on  either  the  policies  or  the  administering  of the  Federal  Trade  Commission,' "  because  the  FTC  was  de-
signed to be " `independent in character,' " "free from `politi-cal domination  or control,' "  and not  " `subject  to  anybody in 
the government' " or " `to the orders of the President.' "  295 U. S.,  at 619,  625.  Accord,  Morrison, 487  U. S.,  at 693  (not-
ing  that  "the  congressional  determination  to  limit  the  re-moval  power  of  the  Attorney  General  was  essential  .  .  .  to 
establish  the  necessary  independence of  the  office");  Wiener v. 

United  States,  357  U. S.  349,  356  (1958)  (describing  for-cause  removal  as  "involving  the  rectitude"  of  an  officer). 

And  here  there  is  judicial  review  of  any  effort  to  remove Board  members,  see  15  U. S. C.  $ 78y(a)(1),  so  the  Commis-
sion will not have the final word on the propriety of its own removal  orders.  The  removal  restrictions  set  forth  in  the 
statute mean what they say. Indeed,  this  case  presents  an  even  more  serious  threat  to 
executive control than an "ordinary" dual for-cause standard. 

Cite as: 561 U. S. 477 (2010)  503 

Opinion of the Court 
Congress  enacted  an  unusually  high  standard  that  must  be met  before  Board  members  may  be  removed.  A  Board 

member  cannot  be  removed  except  for  willful  violations  of the  Act,  Board  rules,  or  the  securities  laws;  willful  abuse  of 
authority; or unreasonable failure to enforce  compliance--as determined  in  a  formal  Commission  order,  rendered  on  the 
record  and  after  notice  and  an  opportunity  for  a  hearing. $ 7217(d)(3);  see  $ 78y(a).  The  Act  does  not  even  give  the 
Commission  power  to  fire  Board  members  for  violations  of 
other laws that  do not  relate  to  the Act,  the  securities  laws, or  the  Board's  authority.  The  President  might  have  less 

than  full  confidence  in,  say,  a  Board  member  who  cheats  on his taxes; but that discovery is not listed among the grounds 
for removal under $ 7217(d)(3).7 The  rigorous  standard  that  must  be  met  before  a  Board 
member may be removed was drawn from statutes concern-ing private organizations like the New York Stock Exchange. 
Cf.  $$ 78s(h)(4),  7217(d)(3).  While  we  need  not  decide  the question  here,  a  removal  standard  appropriate  for  limiting 
Government  control  over  private  bodies  may  be  inappropri-ate  for  officers  wielding  the  executive  power  of  the  United 
States. Alternatively, respondents portray the Act's limitations on 
removal  as  irrelevant,  because--as  the  Court  of  Appeals held--the  Commission  wields  "at-will  removal  power  over 
Board  functions  if  not  Board  members."  537  F.  3d,  at  683 (emphasis  added);  accord,  Brief  for  United  States  27-28; 

7 The  Government  implausibly  argues  that  $ 7217(d)(3)  "does  not  ex-
pressly  make  its  three  specified  grounds  of  removal  exclusive,"  and  that 
"the  Act  could be  construed  to permit other  grounds."  Brief  for United 
States 51, n. 19.  But having provided in $ 7211(e)(6) that Board members 
are  to  be  removed  "in  accordance  with  [$ 7217(d)(3)],  for  good  cause 
shown,"  Congress  would  not  have  specified  the  necessary  Commission 
finding  in  $ 7217(d)(3)--including  formal  procedures  and  detailed  condi-
tions--if  Board  members  could  also  be  removed  without  any  finding  at 
all.  Cf. PCAOB Brief 6 ("Cause exists where" the $ 7217(d)(3) conditions 
are met). 

504  FREE  ENTERPRISE  FUND  v.  PUBLIC  COMPANY 

ACCOUNTING  OVERSIGHT  BD. 

Opinion of the Court 

PCAOB Brief 48.  The Commission's general "oversight and 
enforcement  authority  over  the  Board,"  $ 7217(a),  is  said  to 
"blun[t]  the  constitutional  impact  of  for-cause  removal,"  537 
F.  3d,  at  683,  and  to  leave  the  President  no  worse  off  than 
"if  Congress  had  lodged  the  Board's  functions  in  the  SEC's 
own staff," PCAOB Brief 15. 

Broad power over Board functions is not equivalent to the 
power  to  remove  Board  members.  The  Commission  may, 
for  example,  approve  the  Board's  budget,  $ 7219(b),  issue 
binding  regulations,  $$ 7202(a),  7217(b)(5),  relieve  the  Board 
of authority, $ 7217(d)(1), amend Board sanctions, $ 7217(c), or 
enforce Board rules on its own, $$ 7202(b)(1), (c).  But alter-
ing  the budget or powers of an  agency as a  whole is  a  prob-
lematic  way  to  control  an  inferior  officer.  The  Commission 
cannot wield a  free hand to supervise  individual members  if 
it must destroy the Board in order to fix it. 

Even if Commission power over Board activities could sub-
stitute for authority over its members, we would still reject 
respondents'  premise  that  the  Commission's  power  in  this 
regard  is  plenary.  As  described  above,  the  Board  is  em-
powered  to  take  significant  enforcement  actions,  and  does 
so  largely  independently  of  the  Commission.  See  supra,  at 
485-486.  Its  powers  are,  of  course,  subject  to  some  latent 
Commission  control.  See  supra,  at  486-487.  But  the  Act 
nowhere gives the Commission effective power to start, stop, 
or  alter  individual  Board  investigations,  executive  activities 
typically carried out by officials within the Executive Branch. 

The Government and the dissent suggest that the Commis-
sion  could  govern  and  direct  the  Board's  daily  exercise  of 
prosecutorial  discretion by promulgating new SEC rules,  or 
by amending those of the Board.  Brief for United States 27; 
post,  at  528.  Enacting  general  rules  through  the  required 
notice and comment procedures is obviously a poor means of 
micromanaging the Board's affairs.  See $$ 78s(c), 7215(b)(1), 
7217(b)(5);  cf.  5  U. S. C.  $ 553,  15  U. S. C.  $ 7202(a),  PCAOB 

Cite as: 561 U. S. 477 (2010)  505 

Opinion of the Court 
Brief 24, n. 6.8  So the Government offers another proposal, that  the  Commission  require  the  Board  by  rule  to  "secure 

SEC  approval  for  any  actions  that  it  now  may  take  itself." Brief  for  United  States  27.  That  would  surely  constitute 
one of the "limitations upon the activities, functions, and op-erations  of the  Board"  that  the  Act  forbids,  at  least  without 
Commission findings equivalent to those required to fire the Board instead.  $ 7217(d)(2).  The Board thus has significant 
independence  in  determining  its  priorities  and  intervening in the affairs of regulated firms (and the lives of their associ-
ated persons) without Commission preapproval or direction. Finally, respondents suggest that our conclusion is contra-
dicted by the past practice of Congress.  But the Sarbanes-Oxley Act is highly unusual in committing substantial execu-
tive authority to officers protected by two layers of for-cause removal--including  at  one  level  a  sharply  circumscribed 
definition of what constitutes "good cause," and rigorous pro-cedures that must be followed prior to removal. 

The parties have identified only a handful of isolated posi-tions  in  which  inferior  officers  might  be  protected  by  two 
levels  of  good-cause  tenure.  See,  e. g.,  PCAOB  Brief  43. As Judge Kavanaugh noted in dissent below: 

"Perhaps the most telling indication of the severe consti-tutional problem with the PCAOB is the lack of histori-
cal  precedent  for  this  entity.  Neither  the  majority opinion nor  the  PCAOB  nor  the  United States  as inter-
venor has located any historical analogues for this novel structure.  They  have  not  identified  any  independent 
agency  other  than  the  PCAOB  that  is  appointed  by 
8 Contrary to the dissent's assertions, see post, at 528-529, the Commis-
sion's  powers  to  conduct  its  own  investigations  (with  its  own  resources), 
to  remove  particular  provisions  of  law  from  the  Board's  bailiwick,  or  to 
require the Board to perform functions "other" than inspections and inves-
tigations,  $ 7211(c)(5),  are  no  more  useful  in  directing  individual  enforce-

ment actions. 

506  FREE  ENTERPRISE  FUND  v.  PUBLIC  COMPANY 

ACCOUNTING  OVERSIGHT  BD. 

Opinion of the Court 

and  removable  only  for  cause  by  another  independent agency."  537 F. 3d, at 699. 

The dissent here suggests that other such positions might exist,  and  complains  that  we  do  not  resolve  their  status  in 
this opinion.  Post, at 536-544.  The dissent itself, however, stresses  the  very  size  and  variety  of  the  Federal  Govern-
ment,  see  post,  at  520-521,  and  those  features  discourage general  pronouncements  on  matters  neither  briefed  nor  ar-
gued  here.  In  any  event,  the  dissent  fails  to  support  its premonitions  of  doom;  none  of  the  positions  it  identifies  are 
similarly situated to the Board.  See post, at 540-543. For  example,  many  civil  servants  within  independent 
agencies would not qualify as "Officers of the United States," who "exercis[e]  significant authority  pursuant  to  the  laws  of 
the United States," Buckley, 424 U. S., at 126.9  The parties here  concede  that  Board  members  are  executive  "Officers," 
as that term is used in the Constitution.  See supra, at 485- 486;  see  also  Art. II,  $ 2,  cl.  2.  We  do  not  decide  the  status 
of  other  Government  employees,  nor  do  we  decide  whether "lesser  functionaries  subordinate  to  officers  of  the  United 
States" must be subject  to the  same sort of control as those who  exercise  "significant  authority  pursuant  to  the  laws." 
Buckley, supra, at 126, and n. 162. Nor do the employees referenced by the dissent enjoy the 
same  significant  and  unusual  protections  from  Presidential oversight as members of the Board.  Senior or policymaking 
positions in government may be excepted from the competi-tive  service  to  ensure  Presidential  control,  see  5  U. S. C. 

$$ 2302(a)(2)(B), 3302,  7511(b)(2), and  members of  the  Senior Executive Service may be reassigned or reviewed by agency 
heads (and entire agencies may be excluded from that Serv-

9 One "may be an agent or employe'  working for the government and paid 
by  it,  as  nine-tenths  of  the  persons  rendering  service  to  the  government 
undoubtedly  are,  without  thereby  becoming  its  office[r]."  United  States 
v.  Germaine,  99  U. S.  508,  509  (1879).  The  applicable  proportion  has  of 
course increased dramatically since 1879. 

Cite as: 561 U. S. 477 (2010)  507 

Opinion of the Court 
ice  by  the  President),  see,  e. g.,  $$ 3132(c),  3395(a),  4312(d), 4314(b)(3), (c)(3); cf. $ 2302(a)(2)(B)(ii).  While the full extent 

of  that  authority  is  not  before  us,  any  such  authority  is  of course wholly absent with respect to the Board.  Nothing in 
our  opinion,  therefore,  should  be  read  to  cast  doubt  on  the use of what is colloquially  known as the civil service system 
within independent agencies.10 Finally,  the  dissent  wanders  far  afield  when  it  suggests 
that today's opinion might increase the President's authority to  remove  military  officers.  Without  expressing  any  view 
whatever on the scope of that authority, it is enough to note that we see little analogy between our Nation's armed serv-
ices  and  the  Public  Company  Accounting  Oversight  Board. Military  officers  are  broadly  subject  to  Presidential  control 
through  the  chain  of  command  and  through  the  President's powers as Commander  in  Chief.  Art. II, $ 2,  cl. 1;  see, 

e. g., 
10  U. S. C.  $$ 162,  164(g).  The  President  and  his  subordi-nates  may  also  convene  boards  of  inquiry  or  courts-martial 

to  hear  claims  of  misconduct  or  poor  performance  by  those officers.  See, 

e. g.,  $$ 822(a)(1),  823(a)(1),  892(3),  933-934, 
1181-1185.  Here, by  contrast, the  President has  no author-ity to initiate a Board member's removal for cause. 

There  is  no  reason  for  us  to  address  whether  these  posi-tions  identified  by  the  dissent,  or  any  others  not  at  issue  in 
this  case,  are  so  structured  as  to  infringe  the  President's 

10 For  similar  reasons,  our  holding  also  does  not  address  that  subset  of 
independent  agency  employees  who  serve  as  administrative  law  judges. 
See,  e. g.,  5  U. S. C.  $$ 556(c),  3105.  Whether  administrative  law  judges 
are  necessarily  "Officers  of  the  United  States"  is  disputed.  See,  e. g., 
Landry  v.  FDIC,  204  F.  3d  1125  (CADC  2000).  And  unlike  members  of 
the Board, many administrative law judges of course perform adjudicative 
rather than enforcement or policymaking functions, see $$ 554(d), 3105, or 
possess purely recommendatory powers.  The Government below refused 
to identify either "civil service tenure-protected employees in independent 
agencies"  or  administrative  law  judges  as  "precedent  for  the  PCAOB." 
537 F. 3d 667, 699, n. 8 (CADC 2008) (Kavanaugh, J., dissenting); see Tr. of 
Oral Arg. in No. 07-5127 (CADC), pp. 32, 37-38, 42. 

508  FREE  ENTERPRISE  FUND  v.  PUBLIC  COMPANY 

ACCOUNTING  OVERSIGHT  BD. 

Opinion of the Court 

constitutional  authority.  Nor  is  there  any  substance  to  the dissent's concern that the "work of all these various officials" 

will  "be  put  on  hold."  Post,  at  544.  As  the  judgment  in this case demonstrates, restricting certain officers to a single 
level  of  insulation  from  the  President  affects  the  conditions under  which  those  officers  might  someday  be  removed,  and 
would  have  no  effect,  absent  a  congressional  determination to the contrary, on the validity of any officer's continuance in 
office.  The only issue in this case is whether Congress may deprive  the  President  of  adequate  control  over  the  Board, 
which  is  the  regulator  of  first  resort  and  the  primary  law enforcement authority for a vital sector of our economy.  We 
hold that it cannot.  IV 

Petitioners'  complaint  argued  that  the  Board's  "freedom from Presidential oversight and control" rendered it "and all 
power and authority exercised by it" in violation of the Con-stitution.  App.  46.  We  reject  such  a  broad  holding.  In-
stead,  we  agree  with  the  Government  that  the  unconstitu-tional tenure provisions are severable from the remainder of 
the statute. "Generally  speaking,  when  confronting  a  constitutional 
flaw in a statute, we try to limit the solution to the problem," severing  any  "problematic  portions  while  leaving  the  re-
mainder  intact."  Ayotte  v.  Planned  Parenthood  of  North-
ern New Eng., 546 U. S. 320, 328-329 (2006).  Because "[t]he unconstitutionality  of  a  part  of  an  Act  does  not  necessarily 

defeat  or  affect  the  validity  of  its  remaining  provisions," 
Champlin Refining Co. v.  Corporation Comm'n of Okla., 286 
U. S.  210,  234  (1932),  the  "normal  rule"  is  "that  partial, rather  than  facial,  invalidation  is  the  required  course," 

Brockett  v.  Spokane  Arcades,  Inc.,  472  U. S.  491,  504  (1985). Putting  to  one  side  petitioners'  Appointments  Clause  chal-
lenges  (addressed  below),  the  existence  of  the  Board  does 
not violate the separation of powers, but the substantive re-

Cite as: 561 U. S. 477 (2010)  509 

Opinion of the Court 
moval  restrictions  imposed  by  15  U. S. C.  $$ 7211(e)(6)  and 
7217(d)(3) do.  Under the traditional default rule, removal is 
incident  to  the  power  of  appointment.  See,  e. g.,  Sampson 
v.  Murray, 415 U. S. 61, 70, n. 17 (1974); Myers,  272 U. S., at 
119; Ex parte Hennen, 13 Pet., at 259-260.  Concluding that 
the removal restrictions are invalid leaves the Board remov-
able  by  the  Commission  at  will,  and  leaves  the  President 
separated  from  Board  members  by  only  a  single  level  of 
good-cause  tenure.  The  Commission  is  then  fully  responsi-
ble  for  the  Board's  actions,  which  are  no  less  subject  than 
the Commission's own functions to Presidential oversight. 

The  Sarbanes-Oxley  Act  remains  " `fully  operative  as  a 
law' " with these tenure restrictions excised.  New York, 505 
U. S., at 186 (quoting Alaska Airlines, Inc. v.  Brock, 480 U. S. 
678,  684  (1987)).  We  therefore  must  sustain  its  remaining 
provisions  "[u]nless  it  is  evident  that  the  Legislature  would 
not  have  enacted  those  provisions  . .  . independently  of that 
which  is  [invalid]."  Ibid.  (internal  quotation  marks  omit-
ted).  Though  this  inquiry  can  sometimes  be  "elusive," 
Chadha,  462  U. S.,  at  932, the  answer  here  seems  clear:  The 
remaining provisions  are  not  "incapable  of functioning  inde-
pendently,"  Alaska  Airlines,  480  U. S.,  at  684,  and  nothing 
in  the  statute's  text or  historical context  makes it  "evident" 
that  Congress,  faced  with  the  limitations  imposed  by  the 
Constitution,  would  have  preferred  no  Board  at  all  to  a 
Board whose members are removable at will.  Ibid.; see also 
Ayotte, supra, at 330. 

It  is  true  that  the  language  providing  for  good-cause  re-
moval  is  only  one  of  a  number  of  statutory  provisions  that, 
working  together,  produce  a  constitutional  violation.  In 
theory,  perhaps,  the  Court  might  blue-pencil  a  sufficient 
number  of  the  Board's  responsibilities  so  that  its  members 
would  no  longer  be  "Officers  of  the  United  States."  Or  we 
could  restrict  the  Board's  enforcement  powers,  so  that  it 
would  be  a  purely  recommendatory  panel.  Or  the  Board 

510  FREE  ENTERPRISE  FUND  v.  PUBLIC  COMPANY 

ACCOUNTING  OVERSIGHT  BD. 

Opinion of the Court 

members  could  in  future  be  made  removable  by  the  Presi-dent, for good cause or at will.  But such editorial freedom-- 

far  more  extensive  than  our  holding  today--belongs  to  the Legislature,  not  the  Judiciary.  Congress  of  course  remains 
free to pursue any of these options going forward. 

V 
Petitioners raise three more challenges to the Board under the Appointments Clause.  None has merit. 

First, petitioners argue that Board members are principal officers requiring Presidential appointment with the Senate's 
advice  and  consent.  We  held  in  Edmond  v.  United  States, 520 U. S. 651, 662-663 (1997), that "[w]hether one is an `infe-
rior' officer depends on whether he has a superior," and that " `inferior  officers'  are  officers  whose  work  is  directed  and 
supervised  at  some  level"  by  other  officers  appointed  by the  President  with  the  Senate's  consent.  In  particular,  we 
noted that "[t]he power to remove officers" at will and with-out cause "is a powerful tool for control" of an inferior. 

Id., at  664.  As  explained  above,  the  statutory  restrictions  on 

the  Commission's  power  to  remove  Board  members  are  un-constitutional and void.  Given that the Commission is prop-
erly viewed, under the Constitution, as possessing the power to  remove  Board  members  at  will,  and  given  the  Commis-
sion's other oversight authority, we have no hesitation in con-cluding that under 

Edmond the Board members are inferior officers  whose  appointment  Congress  may  permissibly  vest 

in a "Hea[d] of Departmen[t]." But,  petitioners  argue,  the  Commission  is  not  a  "Depart-
men[t]" like the "Executive departments" (e. g., State, Treas-ury, Defense) listed in 5 U. S. C. $ 101.  In Freytag, 501 U. S., 
at 887,  n. 4,  we  specifically reserved  the  question  whether a "principal agenc[y], such as . . . the  Securities and Exchange 
Commission,"  is  a  "Departmen[t]"  under  the  Appointments 
Clause.  Four  Justices, however,  would have concluded that 

Cite as: 561 U. S. 477 (2010)  511 

Opinion of the Court 
the  Commission  is  indeed  such  a  "Departmen[t],"  see  id.,  at 918  (

Scalia,

512  FREE  ENTERPRISE  FUND  v.  PUBLIC  COMPANY 

ACCOUNTING  OVERSIGHT  BD. 

Opinion of the Court 

mission's  "Hea[d]." 12  The  Commission's  powers,  however, 
are  generally  vested  in  the  Commissioners  jointly,  not  the 
Chairman  alone.  See,  e. g.,  15  U. S. C.  $$ 77s,  77t,  78u,  78w. 
The  Commissioners  do  not  report  to  the  Chairman,  who  ex-
ercises administrative and executive functions subject to the 
full  Commission's  policies.  See  Reorg.  Plan  No.  10  of  1950, 

$ 1(b)(1),  64  Stat.  1265.  The  Chairman  is  also  appointed 
from  among  the  Commissioners  by  the  President  alone,  id., 

$ 3, at 1266, which means that he cannot be regarded as "the 
head  of  an  agency"  for  purposes  of  the  Reorganization  Act. 
See  5  U. S. C.  $ 904.  (The  Commission  as  a  whole,  on  the 
other  hand,  does  meet  the  requirements  of  the  Act,  includ-
ing  its  provision  that  "the  head  of  an  agency  [may]  be  an 
individual  or  a  commission  or  board  with  more  than  one 
member.") 13 

As a constitutional matter, we see no reason why a multimember  body  may  not  be  the  "Hea[d]"  of  a  "Departmen[t]" 

12 The  Board  argued  below  that  petitioners  lack  standing  to  raise  this 
claim, because no member of the Board has been appointed over the Chair-
man's  objection,  and so  petitioners' injuries are not fairly  traceable  to an 
invalid  appointment.  See  Defendants'  Memorandum  of  Points  and  Au-
thorities  in  Support  of  Motion  to  Dismiss  the  Complaint  in  Civil  Action 
No.  1:06-cv-00217-JR  (DC),  Doc.  17,  pp.  42-43;  Brief  for  Appellees 
PCAOB et al. in No. 07-5127 (CADC), pp. 32-33.  We cannot assume, how-
ever, that the Chairman would  have  made the same  appointments acting 
alone; and petitioners' standing does not require precise proof of what the 
Board's policies might have been in that counterfactual world.  See Glid-
den Co. v.  Zdanok, 370 U. S. 530, 533 (1962) (plurality opinion). 

13 Petitioners  contend  that  finding  the  Commission  to  be  the  head  will 

invalidate  numerous  appointments  made  directly  by  the  Chairman,  such 
as those of the "heads of major [SEC] administrative units."  Reorg. Plan 
No.  10,  $ 1(b)(2),  at  1266.  Assuming, however,  that  these individuals  are 
officers  of  the  United  States,  their  appointment  is  still  made  "subject  to 
the approval of the Commission."  Ibid.  We have previously found that 
the  department  head's  approval  satisfies  the  Appointments  Clause,  in 
precedents  that  petitioners  do  not  ask  us  to  revisit.  See,  e. g.,  United 
States  v.  Smith,  124  U. S.  525,  532  (1888);  Germaine,  99  U. S.,  at  511; 
United States v.  Hartwell, 6 Wall. 385, 393-394 (1868). 

Cite as: 561 U. S. 477 (2010)  513 

Opinion of the Court 
that it  governs.  The Appointments Clause necessarily con-
templates  collective  appointments  by  the  "Courts  of  Law," 
Art.  II,  $ 2,  cl.  2,  and  each  House  of  Congress,  too,  appoints 
its  officers  collectively,  see  Art.  I,  $ 2,  cl.  5;  id.,  $ 3,  cl.  5. 
Petitioners argue that the Framers vested the nomination of 
principal officers in the President to avoid the perceived evils 
of  collective  appointments,  but  they  reveal  no  similar  con-
cern  with  respect  to  inferior  officers,  whose  appointments 
may  be  vested  elsewhere,  including  in  multimember  bodies. 
Practice has also sanctioned the appointment of inferior offi-
cers by multimember agencies.  See Freytag, 501 U. S., at 918 
(Scalia,

514  FREE  ENTERPRISE  FUND  v.  PUBLIC  COMPANY 

ACCOUNTING  OVERSIGHT  BD. 

Breyer,

Cite as: 561 U. S. 477 (2010)  515 

Breyer,
516  FREE  ENTERPRISE  FUND  v.  PUBLIC  COMPANY 

ACCOUNTING  OVERSIGHT  BD. 

Breyer,

Cite as: 561 U. S. 477 (2010)  517 

Breyer,
518  FREE  ENTERPRISE  FUND  v.  PUBLIC  COMPANY 

ACCOUNTING  OVERSIGHT  BD. 

Breyer,

Cite as: 561 U. S. 477 (2010)  519 

Breyer,
520  FREE  ENTERPRISE  FUND  v.  PUBLIC  COMPANY 

ACCOUNTING  OVERSIGHT  BD. 

Breyer,

Cite as: 561 U. S. 477 (2010)  521 

Breyer,
522  FREE  ENTERPRISE  FUND  v.  PUBLIC  COMPANY 

ACCOUNTING  OVERSIGHT  BD. 

Breyer,

Cite as: 561 U. S. 477 (2010)  523 

Breyer,
524  FREE  ENTERPRISE  FUND  v.  PUBLIC  COMPANY 

ACCOUNTING  OVERSIGHT  BD. 

Breyer,

Cite as: 561 U. S. 477 (2010)  525 

Breyer,
526  FREE  ENTERPRISE  FUND  v.  PUBLIC  COMPANY 

ACCOUNTING  OVERSIGHT  BD. 

Breyer,

Cite as: 561 U. S. 477 (2010)  527 

Breyer,
528  FREE  ENTERPRISE  FUND  v.  PUBLIC  COMPANY 

ACCOUNTING  OVERSIGHT  BD. 

Breyer,

Cite as: 561 U. S. 477 (2010)  529 

Breyer,
530  FREE  ENTERPRISE  FUND  v.  PUBLIC  COMPANY 

ACCOUNTING  OVERSIGHT  BD. 

Breyer,

Cite as: 561 U. S. 477 (2010)  531 

Breyer,
532  FREE  ENTERPRISE  FUND  v.  PUBLIC  COMPANY 

ACCOUNTING  OVERSIGHT  BD. 

Breyer,

Cite as: 561 U. S. 477 (2010)  533 

Breyer,
534  FREE  ENTERPRISE  FUND  v.  PUBLIC  COMPANY 

ACCOUNTING  OVERSIGHT  BD. 

Breyer,

Cite as: 561 U. S. 477 (2010)  535 

Breyer,
536  FREE  ENTERPRISE  FUND  v.  PUBLIC  COMPANY 

ACCOUNTING  OVERSIGHT  BD. 

Breyer,

Cite as: 561 U. S. 477 (2010)  537 

Breyer,
538  FREE  ENTERPRISE  FUND  v.  PUBLIC  COMPANY 

ACCOUNTING  OVERSIGHT  BD. 

Breyer,

Cite as: 561 U. S. 477 (2010)  539 

Breyer,
540  FREE  ENTERPRISE  FUND  v.  PUBLIC  COMPANY 

ACCOUNTING  OVERSIGHT  BD. 

Breyer,

Cite as: 561 U. S. 477 (2010)  541 

Breyer,
542  FREE  ENTERPRISE  FUND  v.  PUBLIC  COMPANY 

ACCOUNTING  OVERSIGHT  BD. 

Breyer,

Cite as: 561 U. S. 477 (2010)  543 

Breyer,
544  FREE  ENTERPRISE  FUND  v.  PUBLIC  COMPANY 

ACCOUNTING  OVERSIGHT  BD. 

Breyer,

Cite as: 561 U. S. 477 (2010)  545 

Breyer,
546  FREE  ENTERPRISE  FUND  v.  PUBLIC  COMPANY 

ACCOUNTING  OVERSIGHT  BD. 

Breyer,

Cite as: 561 U. S. 477 (2010)  547 

Breyer,
548  FREE  ENTERPRISE  FUND  v.  PUBLIC  COMPANY 

ACCOUNTING  OVERSIGHT  BD. 

Breyer,

Cite as: 561 U. S. 477 (2010)  549 
Appendix A to opinion of Breyer,
550  FREE  ENTERPRISE  FUND  v.  PUBLIC  COMPANY 

ACCOUNTING  OVERSIGHT  BD. 

Appendix A to opinion of Breyer,

Cite as: 561 U. S. 477 (2010)  551 
Appendix A to opinion of Breyer,
552  FREE  ENTERPRISE  FUND  v.  PUBLIC  COMPANY 

ACCOUNTING  OVERSIGHT  BD. 

Appendix A to opinion of Breyer,

Cite as: 561 U. S. 477 (2010)  553 
Appendix A to opinion of Breyer,
554  FREE  ENTERPRISE  FUND  v.  PUBLIC  COMPANY 

ACCOUNTING  OVERSIGHT  BD. 

Appendix A to opinion of Breyer,

Cite as: 561 U. S. 477 (2010)  555 
Appendix A to opinion of Breyer,
556  FREE  ENTERPRISE  FUND  v.  PUBLIC  COMPANY 

ACCOUNTING  OVERSIGHT  BD. 

Appendix B to opinion of Breyer,

Cite as: 561 U. S. 477 (2010)  557 
Appendix B to opinion of Breyer,
558  FREE  ENTERPRISE  FUND  v.  PUBLIC  COMPANY 

ACCOUNTING  OVERSIGHT  BD. 

Appendix B to opinion of Breyer,

Cite as: 561 U. S. 477 (2010)  559 
Appendix B to opinion of Breyer,
560  FREE  ENTERPRISE  FUND  v.  PUBLIC  COMPANY 

ACCOUNTING  OVERSIGHT  BD. 

Appendix B to opinion of Breyer,

Cite as: 561 U. S. 477 (2010)  561 
Appendix B to opinion of Breyer,
562  FREE  ENTERPRISE  FUND  v.  PUBLIC  COMPANY 

ACCOUNTING  OVERSIGHT  BD. 

Appendix B to opinion of Breyer,

Cite as: 561 U. S. 477 (2010)  563 
Appendix B to opinion of Breyer,
564  FREE  ENTERPRISE  FUND  v.  PUBLIC  COMPANY 

ACCOUNTING  OVERSIGHT  BD. 

Appendix B to opinion of Breyer,

Cite as: 561 U. S. 477 (2010)  565 
Appendix B to opinion of Breyer,
566  FREE  ENTERPRISE  FUND  v.  PUBLIC  COMPANY 

ACCOUNTING  OVERSIGHT  BD. 

Appendix B to opinion of Breyer,

Cite as: 561 U. S. 477 (2010)  567 
Appendix B to opinion of Breyer,
568  FREE  ENTERPRISE  FUND  v.  PUBLIC  COMPANY 

ACCOUNTING  OVERSIGHT  BD. 

Appendix B to opinion of Breyer,

Cite as: 561 U. S. 477 (2010)  569 
Appendix B to opinion of Breyer,
570  FREE  ENTERPRISE  FUND  v.  PUBLIC  COMPANY 

ACCOUNTING  OVERSIGHT  BD. 

Appendix B to opinion of Breyer,

Cite as: 561 U. S. 477 (2010)  571 
Appendix B to opinion of Breyer,
572  FREE  ENTERPRISE  FUND  v.  PUBLIC  COMPANY 

ACCOUNTING  OVERSIGHT  BD. 

Appendix B to opinion of Breyer,

Cite as: 561 U. S. 477 (2010)  573 
Appendix B to opinion of Breyer,
574  FREE  ENTERPRISE  FUND  v.  PUBLIC  COMPANY 

ACCOUNTING  OVERSIGHT  BD. 

Appendix B to opinion of Breyer,

Cite as: 561 U. S. 477 (2010)  575 
Appendix B to opinion of Breyer,
576  FREE  ENTERPRISE  FUND  v.  PUBLIC  COMPANY 

ACCOUNTING  OVERSIGHT  BD. 

Appendix B to opinion of Breyer,

Cite as: 561 U. S. 477 (2010)  577 
Appendix B to opinion of Breyer,
578  FREE  ENTERPRISE  FUND  v.  PUBLIC  COMPANY 

ACCOUNTING  OVERSIGHT  BD. 

Appendix B to opinion of Breyer,

Cite as: 561 U. S. 477 (2010)  579 
Appendix B to opinion of Breyer,
580  FREE  ENTERPRISE  FUND  v.  PUBLIC  COMPANY 

ACCOUNTING  OVERSIGHT  BD. 

Appendix B to opinion of Breyer,

Cite as: 561 U. S. 477 (2010)  581 
Appendix B to opinion of Breyer,
582  FREE  ENTERPRISE  FUND  v.  PUBLIC  COMPANY 

ACCOUNTING  OVERSIGHT  BD. 

Appendix B to opinion of Breyer,

Cite as: 561 U. S. 477 (2010)  583 
Appendix B to opinion of Breyer,
584  FREE  ENTERPRISE  FUND  v.  PUBLIC  COMPANY 

ACCOUNTING  OVERSIGHT  BD. 

Appendix B to opinion of Breyer,

Cite as: 561 U. S. 477 (2010)  585 
Appendix B to opinion of Breyer,
586  FREE  ENTERPRISE  FUND  v.  PUBLIC  COMPANY 

ACCOUNTING  OVERSIGHT  BD. 

Appendix C to opinion of Breyer,

Cite as: 561 U. S. 477 (2010)  587 
Appendix C to opinion of Breyer,
588  FREE  ENTERPRISE  FUND  v.  PUBLIC  COMPANY 

ACCOUNTING  OVERSIGHT  BD. 

Appendix D to opinion of Breyer,

Cite as: 561 U. S. 477 (2010)  589 
Appendix D to opinion of Breyer,
590  FREE  ENTERPRISE  FUND  v.  PUBLIC  COMPANY 

ACCOUNTING  OVERSIGHT  BD. 

Appendix D to opinion of Breyer,

Cite as: 561 U. S. 477 (2010)  591 
Appendix D to opinion of Breyer,
592  FREE  ENTERPRISE  FUND  v.  PUBLIC  COMPANY 

ACCOUNTING  OVERSIGHT  BD. 

Appendix D to opinion of Breyer,

OCTOBER  TERM,  2009  593 

Syllabus 

BILSKI  et

594  BILSKI  v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 593 (2010)  595 

Syllabus 
ter and before consulting  other Patent Act  limitations and this  Court's 
precedents, may include at least some methods of doing business.  The 
Court  is  unaware  of  any  argument  that  the  "ordinary,  contemporary, 
common meaning," Diehr,

596  BILSKI  v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 593 (2010)  597 

Opinion of the Court 
Justice

598  BILSKI  v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 593 (2010)  599 

Opinion of the Court 

I 
Petitioners'  application  seeks  patent  protection  for  a claimed  invention  that  explains  how  buyers  and  sellers  of 

commodities  in  the  energy  market  can  protect,  or  hedge, against the risk of price changes.  The key claims are claims 
1 and 4.  Claim 1 describes a series of steps instructing how to hedge risk.  Claim 4 puts the concept articulated in claim 
1  into  a  simple  mathematical  formula.  Claim  1  consists  of the following steps: 

"(a)  initiating  a  series  of  transactions  between  said commodity  provider  and  consumers  of  said  commodity 
wherein  said  consumers  purchase  said  commodity  at  a fixed rate based upon historical averages, said fixed rate 
corresponding to a risk position of said consumers; "(b)  identifying market participants for said commod-
ity having a counter-risk position to said consumers; and "(c)  initiating  a  series  of  transactions  between  said 
commodity  provider  and  said  market  participants  at  a second fixed rate such that said series of market partici-
pant  transactions  balances  the  risk  position  of  said  se-ries of consumer transactions."  App. 19-20. 

The remaining claims  explain  how claims 1 and 4  can  be ap-plied  to  allow  energy  suppliers  and  consumers  to  minimize 
the  risks  resulting  from  fluctuations  in  market  demand  for energy.  For  example, claim  2  claims  "[t]he method  of  claim 
1 wherein said commodity is energy and said market partici-pants  are  transmission  distributors." 

Id.,

600  BILSKI  v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 593 (2010)  601 

Opinion of the Court 
Rader  would  have  found  petitioners'  claims  were  an  unpat-entable  abstract  idea.  Id.,

602  BILSKI  v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 593 (2010)  603 

Opinion of the Court 
182 (1981) (quoting Chakrabarty,

604  BILSKI  v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 593 (2010)  605 

Opinion of Kennedy,
606  BILSKI v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 593 (2010)  607 

Opinion of the Court 
The  term  "method,"  which  is  within  $ 100(b)'s  definition  of "process," at least as a textual matter and before consulting 

other  limitations  in  the  Patent  Act  and  this  Court's  prece-dents, may  include at least  some methods of doing  business. 
See,  e.

608  BILSKI v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 593 (2010)  609 

Opinion of the Court 
patent abstract ideas, this conclusion might well be in accord with  controlling  precedent.  See  ibid.

610  BILSKI v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 593 (2010)  611 

Opinion of the Court 
ment" or adding "insignificant postsolution activity."  Diehr,

612  BILSKI v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 593 (2010)  613 

Stevens,
614  BILSKI  v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 593 (2010)  615 

Stevens,
616  BILSKI  v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 593 (2010)  617 

Stevens,
618  BILSKI  v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 593 (2010)  619 

Stevens,
620  BILSKI  v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 593 (2010)  621 

Stevens,
622  BILSKI  v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 593 (2010)  623 

Stevens,
624  BILSKI  v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 593 (2010)  625 

Stevens,
626  BILSKI  v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 593 (2010)  627 

Stevens,
628  BILSKI  v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 593 (2010)  629 

Stevens,
630  BILSKI  v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 593 (2010)  631 

Stevens,
632  BILSKI  v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 593 (2010)  633 

Stevens,
634  BILSKI  v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 593 (2010)  635 

Stevens,
636  BILSKI  v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 593 (2010)  637 

Stevens,
638  BILSKI  v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 593 (2010)  639 

Stevens,
640  BILSKI  v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 593 (2010)  641 

Stevens,
642  BILSKI  v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 593 (2010)  643 

Stevens,
644  BILSKI  v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 593 (2010)  645 

Stevens,
646  BILSKI  v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 593 (2010)  647 

Stevens,
648  BILSKI  v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 593 (2010)  649 

Stevens,
650  BILSKI  v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 593 (2010)  651 

Stevens,
652  BILSKI  v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 593 (2010)  653 

Stevens,
654  BILSKI  v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 593 (2010)  655 

Stevens,
656  BILSKI  v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 593 (2010)  657 

Breyer,
658  BILSKI  v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 593 (2010)  659 

Breyer,
660  BILSKI  v.OCTOBER  TERM,  2009  661 

Syllabus 

CHRISTIAN  LEGAL  SOCIETY  CHAPTER  OF  THE  UNIVERSITY  OF  CALIFORNIA,  HASTINGS  COL-

LEGE  OF  THE  LAW,  aka

662  CHRISTIAN  LEGAL  SOC.  CHAPTER  OF  UNIV.  OF 

CAL.,  HASTINGS  COLLEGE  OF  LAW  v.  MARTINEZ 

Syllabus 

The court held that the all-comers condition on access to a limited public 
forum was both reasonable and viewpoint neutral, and therefore did not 
violate  CLS's  right  to  free  speech.  Nor,  in  the  court's  view,  did  Has-
tings  impermissibly  impair  CLS's  right  to  expressive  association:  Has-
tings  did  not  order  CLS  to  admit  any  student,  nor  did  the  school  pro-
scribe  any  speech;  Hastings  merely  placed  conditions  on  the  use  of 
school facilities and funds.  The court also rejected CLS's free exercise 
argument,  stating  that the  Nondiscrimination Policy  did not  single  out 
religious  beliefs,  but  rather  was  neutral  and  of  general  applicability. 
The Ninth Circuit affirmed, ruling that the all-comers condition on RSO 
recognition was reasonable and viewpoint neutral. 

Held: 

1.  The  Court  considers  only  whether  a  public  institution's  condition-
ing  access  to  a  student-organization  forum  on  compliance  with  an  allcomers  policy  violates  the  Constitution.  CLS  urges  the  Court  to  re-
view,  instead,  the  Nondiscrimination  Policy  as  written--prohibiting 
discrimination on enumerated bases, including religion and sexual orien-
tation.  The  policy's  written  terms,  CLS  contends,  target  solely  those 
groups that organize around religious beliefs or that disapprove of par-
ticular sexual behavior, and leave other associations free to limit mem-
bership  to  persons  committed  to  the  group's  ideology.  This  argument 
flatly  contradicts  the  joint  stipulation  of  facts  the  parties  submitted  at 
the  summary-judgment  stage,  which  specified:  "Hastings  requires  that 
[RSOs]  allow  any  student  to  participate,  .  .  .  regardless  of  [her]  status 
or  beliefs.  For  example,  the  Hastings  Democratic  Caucus  cannot  bar 
students holding Republican political beliefs . . . ."  This Court has long 
recognized that parties are bound by, and cannot contradict, their stipu-
lations.  See, e. g.,  Board of Regents of  Univ. of Wis.  System v.  Southworth,  529  U. S.  217,  226.  The  Court  therefore  rejects  CLS's  attempt 
to escape from the stipulation and shift its target to Hastings' policy as 
written.  Pp. 675-678. 

2.  The  all-comers  policy  is  a  reasonable,  viewpoint-neutral  condition 
on  access  to  the  RSO  forum;  it  therefore  does  not  transgress  First 
Amendment limitations.  Pp. 678-697. 

(a)  The  Court's  limited-public-forum  decisions  supply  the  appro-
priate framework for assessing both CLS's free-speech and expressiveassociation claims; those decisions recognize that a governmental entity, 
in regulating property in its charge, may impose restrictions on speech 
that are reasonable in light of the purposes of the forum and viewpoint 
neutral,  e. g.,  Rosenberger  v.  Rector  and  Visitors  of  Univ.  of  Va.,  515 
U. S.  819,  829.  CLS  urges  the  Court  to  apply  to  its  expressiveassociation claim a different line of cases--decisions in which the Court 

Cite as: 561 U. S. 661 (2010)  663 

Syllabus 
has rigorously reviewed restrictions on associational freedom in the con-
text  of  public  accommodations,  e. g.,  Roberts  v.  United  States  Jaycees, 
468 U. S. 609, 623.  But, because CLS's expressive-association and freespeech arguments merge--who speaks on its behalf, CLS reasons, colors 
what  concept  is  conveyed--it  makes  little  sense  to  treat  the  claims  as 
discrete.  Instead,  three  observations  lead the  Court  to  analyze  CLS's 
arguments under limited-public-forum precedents. 

First, the same considerations that have led the Court to apply a less 
restrictive level  of scrutiny to speech in limited public  forums, as com-
pared to other environments, apply with equal force to expressive asso-
ciation  occurring  in  a  limited  public  forum.  Speech  and  expressiveassociation  rights  are  closely  linked.  See  id.,  at  622.  When  these 
intertwined rights arise in exactly the same context, it would be anoma-
lous for a speech restriction to survive constitutional  review under the 
limited-public-forum test only to be invalidated as an impermissible in-
fringement  of  expressive  association.  Second,  the  strict  scrutiny  the 
Court has applied in some settings to laws that burden expressive asso-
ciation  would,  in  practical  effect,  invalidate  a  defining  characteristic  of 
limited public forums--the State's authority to "reserv[e] [them] for cer-
tain groups."  Rosenberger, 515 U. S., at 829.  Third, this case fits com-
fortably within the limited-public-forum category, for CLS may exclude 
any person for any reason if it forgoes the benefits of official recognition. 
The Court's expressive-association decisions, in contrast, involved regu-
lations  that  compelled  a  group  to  include  unwanted  members,  with  no 
choice  to  opt out.  See, e. g., Boy  Scouts  of  America v.  Dale, 530 U. S. 
640, 648.  Application of the less restrictive limited-public-forum analy-
sis better accounts for the fact that Hastings, through its RSO program, 
is  dangling  the  carrot  of  subsidy,  not  wielding  the  stick  of  prohibition. 
Pp. 678-683. 

(b)  In  three  cases,  this  Court  held  that  public  universities  had 
unconstitutionally  singled  out  student  groups  for  disfavored  treatment 
because  of  their  points  of  view.  See  Healy  v.  James,  408  U. S.  169; 
Widmar v.  Vincent, 454 U. S. 263; and Rosenberger.  Most recently and 
comprehensively, in Rosenberger, the Court  held that a university gen-
erally  may  not  withhold  benefits  from  student  groups  because  of  their 
religious  outlook.  "Once  it  has  opened  a  limited  [public]  forum,"  the 
Court emphasized, "the State must respect the lawful boundaries it has 
itself  set."  515  U. S.,  at  829.  It  may  "not  exclude  speech  where  its 
distinction is not reasonable in light of the purpose served by the forum, 
. . . nor may it discriminate against speech on the basis of . . . viewpoint." 
Ibid.  Pp. 683-685. 

(c)  Hastings' all-comers policy is reasonable, taking into account the 
RSO forum's function and "all the surrounding circumstances."  Corne-

664  CHRISTIAN  LEGAL  SOC.  CHAPTER  OF  UNIV.  OF 

CAL.,  HASTINGS  COLLEGE  OF  LAW  v.  MARTINEZ 

Syllabus 

lius  v.  NAACP  Legal  Defense  &  Ed.  Fund,  Inc.,  473  U. S.  788,  809. 
Pp. 685-694. 

(1)  The  Court's  inquiry  is  shaped  by  the  educational  context  in 
which  it  arises:  "First  Amendment  rights  must  be  analyzed  in  light  of 
the  special  characteristics  of  the  school  environment."  Widmar,  454 
U. S.,  at  268,  n.  5.  This  Court  is  the  final  arbiter  of  whether  a  public 
university  has  exceeded  constitutional  constraints.  The  Court  has, 
however, cautioned courts to resist "substitut[ing] their  own notions of 
sound educational policy for those of . . . school authorities," for judges 
lack  the  on-the-ground  expertise  and  experience  of  school  administra-
tors.  Board  of  Ed.  of  Hendrick  Hudson  Central  School  Dist.,  West-
chester  Cty.  v.  Rowley,  458  U. S.  176,  206.  Because  schools  enjoy  "a 
significant  measure  of  authority  over  the  type  of  officially  recognized 
activities in which their students participate," Board of Ed. of Westside 
Community Schools (Dist. 66) v.  Mergens, 496 U. S. 226, 240, the Court 
approaches its task here mindful that Hastings' decisions about the char-
acter of its student-group program are due decent respect.  Pp. 685-687. 

(2)  The justifications Hastings asserts in support of its all-comers 
policy are reasonable in  light of the RSO forum's purposes.  First, the 
policy ensures that the leadership, educational, and social opportunities 
afforded  by  RSOs  are  available  to  all  students.  RSOs  are  eligible  for 
financial  assistance  drawn  from  mandatory  student-activity  fees;  the 
policy  ensures  that  no  Hastings  student  is  forced  to  fund  a  group  that 
would reject her as a member.  Second, the policy helps Hastings police 
the written terms of its Nondiscrimination Policy without inquiring into 
an RSO's motivation for membership restrictions.  CLS's proposal that 
Hastings  permit  exclusion  because  of  belief  but  forbid  discrimination 
due  to  status  would  impose  on  Hastings  the  daunting  task  of  trying 
to determine  whether a  student organization  cloaked prohibited  status 
exclusion  in  belief-based  garb.  Third,  Hastings  reasonably  adheres  to 
the view that its policy, to the extent it brings together individuals with 
diverse backgrounds and beliefs, encourages tolerance, cooperation, and 
learning among students.  Fourth, the policy incorporates state-law dis-
crimination  proscriptions,  thereby  conveying  Hastings'  decision  to  de-
cline to subsidize conduct disapproved by the State.  So long as a public 
school  does  not  contravene  constitutional  limits,  its  choice  to  advance 
state-law goals stands on firm footing.  Pp. 687-690. 

(3)  Hastings'  policy  is  all  the  more  creditworthy  in  light  of  the 
"substantial  alternative  channels  that  remain  open  for  [CLS-student] 
communication to take place."  Perry Ed. Assn. v.  Perry Local Educa-
tors'  Assn.,  460  U. S.  37,  53.  Hastings  offered  CLS  access  to  school 
facilities  to  conduct  meetings  and  the  use  of  chalkboards  and  certain 
bulletin boards  to advertise events.  Although CLS  could not take  ad-

Cite as: 561 U. S. 661 (2010)  665 

Syllabus 
vantage of  RSO-specific methods of communication, the advent of  elec-
tronic media and social-networking sites lessens the importance of those 
channels.  Private groups, such as fraternities and sororities, commonly 
maintain  a  presence  at  universities  without  official  school  affiliation. 
CLS  was  similarly  situated:  It  hosted  a  variety  of  activities  the  year 
after Hastings denied it recognition, and the number of students attend-
ing those meetings and events doubled.  "The variety and type of alter-
native modes of access present here," in short, "compare favorably with 
those in other [limited public] forum cases where [the Court has] upheld 
restrictions."  Id., at 53-54.  Pp. 690-691. 

(4)  CLS's arguments that the all-comers policy is not reasonable 
are  unavailing.  CLS  contends  that  there  can  be  no  diversity  of  view-
points in a forum when groups are not permitted to form around view-
points, but this argument confuses CLS's preferred policy with constitu-
tional  limitation--the  advisability  of  Hastings'  policy  does  not  control 
its  permissibility.  A  State's  restriction  on  access  to  a  limited  public 
forum, moreover, "need not be the most reasonable or the only reason-
able  limitation."  Cornelius,  473  U. S.,  at  808.  CLS's  contention  that 
Hastings' policy will facilitate hostile takeovers of RSOs by student sab-
oteurs  bent  on  subverting  a  group's  mission  is  more  hypothetical  than 
real;  there  is  no  history  or  prospect  of  RSO  hijackings  at  Hastings. 
Cf.  National  Endowment  for  Arts  v.  Finley,  524  U. S.  569,  584.  Fi-
nally, CLS's assertion that Hastings lacks any legitimate interest in urg-
ing  religious  groups  not  to  favor  co-religionists  erroneously  focuses  on 
the benefits the group must forgo, while ignoring the interests of those 
it  seeks  to  fence  out.  Hastings,  caught  in  the  crossfire  between  a 
group's  desire  to  exclude  and  students'  demand  for  equal  access,  may 
reasonably  draw  a  line  in  the  sand  permitting  all  organizations  to  ex-
press  what  they  wish  but  no  group  to  discriminate  in  membership. 
Pp. 692-694. 

(d)  Hastings'  all-comers  policy  is  viewpoint  neutral.  Pp.  694-697. 

(1)  The  policy  draws  no  distinction  between  groups  based  on 
their  message  or  perspective;  its  requirement  that  all  student  groups 
accept all comers is textbook viewpoint neutral.  Pp. 694-695. 

(2)  Conceding  that  the  policy  is  nominally  neutral,  CLS  asserts 
that it systematically--and impermissibly--burdens most heavily those 
groups whose viewpoints are out of favor with the campus mainstream. 
This  argument  fails  because  "[a]  regulation  that  serves purposes  unre-
lated  to  the  content  of  expression  is  deemed  neutral,  even  if  it  has  an 
incidental effect on some speakers or messages but not others."  Ward 
v. Rock Against Racism, 491 U. S. 781, 791.  Hastings' requirement that 
RSOs accept all comers, the Court is satisfied, is "justified without refer-
ence  to  the  content  [or  viewpoint]  of  the  regulated  speech."  Ibid. 

666  CHRISTIAN  LEGAL  SOC.  CHAPTER  OF  UNIV.  OF 

CAL.,  HASTINGS  COLLEGE  OF  LAW  v.  MARTINEZ 

Syllabus 

It targets  the act  of  rejecting would-be group  members  without refer-
ence to the reasons motivating that behavior.  Pp. 695-697. 

3.  Neither  lower  court  addressed  CLS's  argument  that  Hastings  se-
lectively  enforces  its  all-comers  policy.  This  Court  is  not  the  proper 
forum to air the issue in the first instance.  On remand, the Ninth Cir-
cuit  may  consider  this  argument  if,  and  to  the  extent,  it  is  preserved. 
Pp. 697-698. 

319 Fed. Appx. 645, affirmed and remanded. 

Ginsburg,

Cite as: 561 U. S. 661 (2010)  667 

Opinion of the Court 
Justice

668  CHRISTIAN  LEGAL  SOC.  CHAPTER  OF  UNIV.  OF 

CAL.,  HASTINGS  COLLEGE  OF  LAW  v.  MARTINEZ 

Opinion of the Court 

ties  from  denying  student  organizations  access  to  school-sponsored  forums  because  of  the  groups'  viewpoints.  See 

Rosenberger v.  Rector and Visitors of Univ. of Va., 515 U. S. 819  (1995);  Widmar  v.  Vincent,  454  U. S.  263  (1981);  Healy 
v.  James,  408  U. S.  169  (1972).  This  case  concerns  a  novel question  regarding  student  activities  at  public  universities: 
May a public law school condition its official recognition of a student  group--and  the  attendant  use  of  school  funds  and 
facilities--on the organization's agreement to open eligibility for membership and leadership to all students? 

In  the  view  of  petitioner  Christian  Legal  Society  (CLS), an  accept-all-comers  policy  impairs  its  First  Amendment 
rights  to  free  speech,  expressive  association,  and  free  exer-cise  of  religion  by  prompting  it,  on  pain  of  relinquishing 

the  advantages  of  recognition,  to  accept  members  who do  not  share  the  organization's  core  beliefs  about  religion 
and sexual orientation.  From the perspective of respondent Hastings  College  of  the  Law  (Hastings  or  the  Law  School), 
CLS  seeks  special  dispensation  from  an  across-the-board open-access  requirement  designed  to  further  the  reasona-
ble  educational  purposes  underpinning  the  school's  student-organization program. 

tional School Boards Association et al. by Lisa S. Blatt, Trenton H. Nor-
ris,  Francisco  M.  Negro' n,  Jr.,  and  Naomi E. Gittins;  and  for  State 
Universities  et  al.  by  Andrew  J.  Pincus,  Charles  Rothfeld,  and  Scott  L. 
Shuchart. 

Briefs  of  amici  curiae  were  filed  for  the  Commonwealth  of  Massachu-
setts et al. by Martha Coakley, Attorney General of Massachusetts, Irving 
L. Gornstein, Kathryn E. Tarbert, and Walter Dellinger, and by the Attor-
neys General for their respective States as follows: Douglas F. Gansler of 
Maryland and William H. Sorrell of Vermont; for the Association of Chris-
tian  Schools  International  et  al.  by  Stuart  J.  Lark;  for  the  Baptist  Joint 
Committee  for  Religious  Liberty  et  al.  by  J.  Brent  Walker,  K.  Hollyn 
Hollman,  and  James  T.  Gibson; for  the  Eagle Forum  Education &  Legal 
Defense Fund by Andrew L. Schlafly; for Gays and Lesbians for Individual 
Liberty by Thomas G. Hungar; for the Society of American Law Teachers 
by  Robert  M.  Abrahams  and  Daniel  L.  Greenberg;  and  for  Students  for 
Life America et al. by James Bopp, Jr. 

Cite as: 561 U. S. 661 (2010)  669 

Opinion of the Court 
In  accord  with  the  District  Court  and  the  Court  of  Ap-peals,  we  reject  CLS's  First  Amendment  challenge.  Com-

pliance  with  Hastings'  all-comers  policy,  we  conclude,  is  a reasonable,  viewpoint-neutral  condition  on  access  to  the 
student-organization forum.  In requiring CLS--in common with  all  other  student  organizations--to  choose  between 
welcoming  all  students  and  forgoing  the  benefits  of  official recognition,  we  hold,  Hastings  did  not  transgress  constitu-
tional limitations.  CLS, it bears emphasis, seeks not parity with  other  organizations,  but  a  preferential  exemption  from 
Hastings'  policy.  The  First  Amendment  shields  CLS against state prohibition of the organization's expressive ac-
tivity, however exclusionary that activity may be.  But CLS enjoys  no  constitutional  right  to  state  subvention  of  its 
selectivity.  I 

Founded  in  1878,  Hastings  was  the  first  law  school  in  the University  of  California  public  school  system.  Like  many 
institutions  of  higher  education,  Hastings  encourages  stu-dents  to  form  extracurricular  associations  that  "contribute 
to  the  Hastings  community  and  experience."  App.  349. These  groups  offer  students  "opportunities  to  pursue  aca-
demic  and  social  interests  outside  of  the  classroom  [to]  fur-ther their education" and to help them "develo[p] leadership 
skills."  Ibid. Through  its  "Registered  Student  Organization"  (RSO) 
program,  Hastings  extends  official  recognition  to  student groups.  Several benefits attend this school-approved status. 
RSOs  are  eligible  to  seek  financial  assistance  from  the  Law School,  which  subsidizes  their  events  using  funds  from  a 
mandatory student-activity fee imposed on all students.  Id., at  217.  RSOs  may  also  use  Law-School  channels  to  com-
municate  with  students:  They  may  place  announcements  in a  weekly  Office-of-Student-Services  newsletter,  advertise 
events  on  designated  bulletin  boards,  send  e-mails  using  a Hastings-organization  address,  and  participate  in  an  annual 

670  CHRISTIAN  LEGAL  SOC.  CHAPTER  OF  UNIV.  OF 

CAL.,  HASTINGS  COLLEGE  OF  LAW  v.  MARTINEZ 

Opinion of the Court 

Student Organizations Fair designed to advance recruitment efforts.  Id.,  at  216-219.  In  addition,  RSOs  may  apply  for 

permission  to  use  the  Law  School's  facilities  for  meetings and  office  space.  Id.,  at  218-219.  Finally,  Hastings  allows 
officially  recognized  groups  to  use  its  name  and  logo.  Id., at 216. 

In  exchange  for  these  benefits,  RSOs  must  abide  by  cer-tain conditions.  Only a "non-commercial organization whose 
membership is limited to Hastings students may become [an RSO]."  App.  to  Pet.  for  Cert.  83a.  A  prospective  RSO 
must submit its bylaws to Hastings for approval, id., at 83a- 84a;  and  if  it  intends  to  use  the  Law  School's  name  or  logo, 
it  must  sign  a  license  agreement,  App.  219.  Critical  here, all RSOs must undertake to comply with Hastings' "Policies 
and  Regulations  Applying  to  College  Activities,  Organiza-tions and Students."  Ibid.

1 

The  Law  School's  Policy  on  Nondiscrimination  (Nondis-crimination Policy), which binds RSOs, states: 

"[Hastings]  is  committed  to  a  policy  against  legally  im-permissible,  arbitrary  or  unreasonable  discriminatory 
practices.  All groups, including administration, faculty, student  governments,  [Hastings]-owned  student  resi-
dence  facilities  and  programs  sponsored  by  [Hastings], are governed by this policy of nondiscrimination.  [Has-
tings']  policy  on  nondiscrimination  is  to  comply  fully with applicable law. 
"[Hastings]  shall  not  discriminate  unlawfully  on  the basis  of  race,  color,  religion,  national  origin,  ancestry, 
disability,  age,  sex  or  sexual  orientation.  This  nondis-crimination  policy  covers  admission,  access  and  treat-
ment  in  Hastings-sponsored  programs  and  activities." 
Id., at 220. 

1 These  policies  and  regulations  address  a  wide  range  of  matters,  for 
example,  alcoholic  beverages  at  campus  events,  bake  sales,  and  blood 
drives.  App. 246. 

Cite as: 561 U. S. 661 (2010)  671 

Opinion of the Court 
Hastings interprets the Nondiscrimination Policy, as it re-
lates to the RSO program, to mandate acceptance of all com-
ers: School-approved groups must "allow any student to par-
ticipate,  become  a  member,  or  seek  leadership  positions  in 
the  organization,  regardless  of  [her]  status  or  beliefs."  Id., 
at  221.2  Other  law  schools  have  adopted  similar  all-comers 
policies.  See,  e. g.,  Georgetown  University  Law  Center, 
Office  of  Student  Life:  Student  Organizations,  available 
at  http://www.law.georgetown.edu/StudentLife/StudentOrgs/ 

NewGroup.htm  (All  Internet  materials  as  visited  June  24, 
2010,  and  included  in  Clerk  of  Court's  case  file)  (Member-
ship  in  registered  groups  must  be  "open  to  all  students."); 
Hofstra  Law  School  Student  Handbook  2009-2010,  p.  49, 
available at http://law.hofstra.edu/pdf/StudentLife/Student 
Affairs/Handbook/stuhb_handbook.pdf  ("[Student]  organiza-
tions  are  open  to  all  students.").  From  Hastings'  adoption 
of its Nondiscrimination  Policy in 1990  until  the  events stir-

2 "Th[is]  policy,"  Hastings  clarifies,  "does  not  foreclose  neutral  and 
generally applicable membership requirements unrelated to `status or be-
liefs.' "  Brief for Hastings 5.  So long  as  all  students have  the opportu-
nity to participate on equal terms, RSOs may require them, inter alia, to 
pay  dues,  maintain  good  attendance,  refrain  from  gross  misconduct,  or 
pass  a  skill-based  test,  such  as  the  writing competitions  administered  by 
law  journals.  See  ibid.  The  dissent  trumpets  these  neutral,  generally 
applicable membership requirements, arguing that, in truth, Hastings has 
a  "some-comers,"  not  an  all-comers,  policy.  Post,  at  707,  708,  713-714, 
715, 727-728, 737 (opinion of Alito,

672  CHRISTIAN  LEGAL  SOC.  CHAPTER  OF  UNIV.  OF 

CAL.,  HASTINGS  COLLEGE  OF  LAW  v.  MARTINEZ 

Opinion of the Court 

ring this litigation, "no student organization at Hastings . . . ever sought an exemption from the Policy."  App. 221. 

In 2004, CLS became the first student group to do so.  At the  beginning  of  the  academic  year,  the  leaders  of  a  prede-
cessor  Christian  organization--which  had  been  an  RSO  at Hastings  for  a  decade--formed  CLS  by  affiliating  with  the 
national  Christian  Legal  Society  (CLS-National).  Id.,  at 222-223,  225.  CLS-National,  an  association  of  Christian 
lawyers  and  law  students,  charters  student  chapters  at  law schools throughout the  country. 

Id., at 225.  CLS chapters must adopt bylaws that, inter alia, require members and of-

ficers  to  sign  a  "Statement  of  Faith"  and  to  conduct  their lives  in  accord  with  prescribed  principles. 

Id.,  at  225-226; App. to Pet. for Cert. 101a.
3  Among those tenets is the be-

lief that sexual activity should not occur outside of marriage between a man and a woman; CLS thus interprets its bylaws 

to exclude from  affiliation anyone who  engages in  "unrepen-tant  homosexual  conduct."  App.  226.  CLS  also  excludes 
students who hold  religious convictions  different  from those in the Statement of Faith.  Id., at 227. 

On September 17, 2004, CLS submitted to Hastings an ap-plication  for  RSO  status,  accompanied  by  all  required  doc-
uments,  including  the  set  of  bylaws  mandated  by  CLS-National.  Id.,  at  227-228.  Several  days  later,  the  Law 
School  rejected  the  application;  CLS's  bylaws,  Hastings  ex-plained,  did  not  comply  with  the  Nondiscrimination  Policy 

3 The Statement of Faith provides: 
"Trusting in Jesus Christ as my Savior, I believe in: 
A*

Cite as: 561 U. S. 661 (2010)  673 

Opinion of the Court 
because  CLS  barred  students  based  on  religion  and  sexual orientation.  Id., at 228. 

CLS  formally  requested  an  exemption  from  the  Nondis-crimination Policy, id., at 281, but Hastings declined to grant 
one.  "[T]o be one of our student-recognized organizations," Hastings  reiterated,  "CLS  must  open  its  membership  to  all 
students  irrespective  of  their  religious  beliefs  or  sexual  ori-entation." 

Id., at 294.  If CLS instead chose to operate out-side  the  RSO  program,  Hastings  stated,  the  school  "would 

be pleased to provide [CLS] the use of Hastings facilities for its  meetings  and  activities."  Ibid.  CLS  would  also  have 
access  to  chalkboards  and  generally  available  campus  bulle-tin boards to announce its events. 

Id., at 219, 233.  In other words, Hastings would do nothing to suppress CLS's endeav-

ors, but neither would it lend RSO-level support for them. Refusing to alter its bylaws, CLS did not obtain RSO sta-
tus.  It  did,  however,  operate  independently  during  the 2004-2005  academic  year.  CLS  held  weekly  Bible-study 
meetings  and  invited  Hastings students  to Good  Friday and Easter Sunday church services.  Id.,  at 229.  It also hosted 
a  beach  barbeque,  Thanksgiving  dinner,  campus  lecture  on the  Christian  faith  and the  legal practice,  several fellowship 
dinners,  an  end-of-year  banquet,  and  other  informal  social activities. 

Ibid. On  October  22,  2004,  CLS  filed  suit  against  various  Has-

tings  officers  and  administrators  under  42  U. S. C.  $ 1983. Its  complaint  alleged  that  Hastings'  refusal  to  grant  the  or-
ganization  RSO  status  violated  CLS's  First  and  Fourteenth Amendment  rights  to  free  speech,  expressive  association, 
and free exercise of religion.  The suit sought injunctive and declaratory relief.

4 

On cross-motions for summary judgment, the U. S. District Court  for  the  Northern  District  of  California  ruled  in  favor 

4 The District Court allowed respondent Hastings Outlaw, an RSO com-
mitted  to  "combating  discrimination  based  on  sexual  orientation,"  id.,  at 
97, to intervene in the suit, id., at 104. 

674  CHRISTIAN  LEGAL  SOC.  CHAPTER  OF  UNIV.  OF 

CAL.,  HASTINGS  COLLEGE  OF  LAW  v.  MARTINEZ 

Opinion of the Court 

of  Hastings.  The  Law  School's  all-comers  condition  on  ac-cess to  a limited  public  forum,  the  court held, was  both rea-

sonable and viewpoint neutral, and therefore did not  violate CLS's  right  to  free  speech.  App.  to  Pet.  for  Cert.  27a-38a. 

Nor,  in  the  District  Court's  view,  did  the  Law  School impermissibly  impair  CLS's  right  to  expressive  associa-
tion.  "Hastings is  not directly ordering CLS  to admit [any] 
studen[t]," the court observed, id., at 42a; "[r]ather, Hastings has  merely  placed  conditions  on"  the  use  of  its  facilities 

and  funds,  ibid.  "Hastings'  denial  of  official  recognition," the  court  added,  "was  not  a  substantial  impediment  to 
CLS's  ability  to  meet  and  communicate  as  a  group."  Id., at 49a. 

The  court  also  rejected  CLS's  Free  Exercise  Clause  ar-gument.  "[T]he  Nondiscrimination  Policy  does  not  target 
or  single  out  religious  beliefs,"  the  court  noted;  rather, 
the  policy  "is  neutral  and  of  general  applicability."  Id.,  at 63a.  "CLS  may  be  motivated  by  its  religious  beliefs  to  ex-

clude students based on their religion or sexual orientation," the  court  explained,  "but  that  does  not  convert  the  reason 
for  Hastings'  [Nondiscrimination  Policy]  to  be  one  that  is religiously-based." 

Id., at 63a-64a. 
On  appeal,  the  Ninth  Circuit  affirmed  in  an  opinion  that stated, in full: 

"The  parties stipulate  that  Hastings  imposes an  open membership rule on all student groups--all groups must 
accept  all  comers as voting  members even if  those indi-viduals  disagree  with  the  mission  of  the  group.  The 
conditions  on  recognition  are  therefore  viewpoint  neu-
tral and reasonable.  Truth v. Kent Sch. Dist., 542 F. 3d 

634,  649-50  (9th  Cir.  2008)."  Christian  Legal  Soc. 
Chapter  of  Univ.  of  Cal.  v.  Kane,  319  Fed.  Appx.  645, 
645-646 (CA9 2009). 

We  granted  certiorari,  558  U. S.  1076  (2009),  and  now  af-
firm the Ninth Circuit's judgment. 

Cite as: 561 U. S. 661 (2010)  675 

Opinion of the Court 

II 
Before  considering  the  merits  of  CLS's  constitutional  ar-guments, we must resolve a preliminary issue: CLS urges us 

to review the Nondiscrimination Policy as written--prohibit-ing  discrimination  on  several  enumerated  bases,  including 
religion  and  sexual  orientation--and  not  as  a  requirement that  all  RSOs  accept  all  comers.  The  written  terms  of  the 
Nondiscrimination  Policy,  CLS  contends,  "targe[t]  solely those groups whose beliefs are based on religion or that dis-
approve  of  a  particular  kind  of  sexual  behavior,"  and  leave other  associations  free  to  limit  membership  and  leadership 
to  individuals  committed  to  the  group's  ideology.  Brief  for Petitioner  19  (internal  quotation  marks  omitted).  For  ex-
ample, "[a] political . . . group can insist that its leaders sup-port  its  purposes  and  beliefs,"  CLS  alleges,  but  "a  religious 
group cannot."  Id., at 20. CLS's assertion runs headlong into the stipulation of facts 
it jointly submitted with Hastings at the summary-judgment stage.  In that filing, the parties specified: 

"Hastings  requires  that  registered  student  organiza-tions  allow 

any  student  to  participate,  become  a  mem-ber, or seek leadership positions in the organization, re-

gardless  of  [her]  status  or  beliefs.  Thus,  for  example, the  Hastings  Democratic  Caucus  cannot  bar  students 
holding Republican political beliefs  from becoming members  or  seeking  leadership  positions  in  the  organi-
zation."  App.  221  (Joint  Stipulation  || 18)  (emphasis added; citations omitted).

5 

5 In its briefs before the District Court and the Court of Appeals, CLS 
several times affirmed that Hastings imposes an all-comers rule on RSOs. 
See, e. g., Plaintiff's Notice of  Motion for Summary  Judgment and Memo-
randum  in  Support  of  Motion  for  Summary  Judgment  in  No.  C  04  4484 
JSW (ND  Cal.), p. 4  ("Hastings interprets  the [Nondiscrimination  Policy] 
such  that  student  organizations  must  allow  any  student,  regardless  of 
their status or beliefs, to participate in the group's activities and meetings 
and to become voting members and leaders of the group."); Brief for Ap-

676  CHRISTIAN  LEGAL  SOC.  CHAPTER  OF  UNIV.  OF 

CAL.,  HASTINGS  COLLEGE  OF  LAW  v.  MARTINEZ 

Opinion of the Court 

Under  the  District  Court's  local  rules,  stipulated  facts  are 
deemed  "undisputed."  Civil  Local  Rule  56-2  (ND  Cal. 
2010).  See also  Pet. for  Cert.  2  ("The  material facts of this 
case are undisputed.").6 

Litigants, we have long recognized, "[a]re entitled to have 
[their]  case  tried  upon  the  assumption  that . . .  facts,  stipu-
lated into the record, were established."  H. Hackfeld & Co. 
v.  United States, 197 U. S. 442, 447 (1905).7  This entitlement 

pellant in No. 06-15956 (CA9), pp. 29-30 ("Hastings illustrates the applica-
tion  of  the  Nondiscrimination  Policy  by  explaining  that  for  the  Hastings 
Democratic  Caucus  to  gain  recognition,  it  must  open  its  leadership  and 
voting  membership  to  Republicans.").  In  a  hearing  before  the  District 
Court,  CLS's  counsel  reiterated  that  "it's  important  to  understand  what 
Hastings'  policy  is.  According  to  .  .  .  the  stipulated  facts,  Hastings  re-
quires . . . that registered student organizations allow any student to par-
ticipate, become a member or seek leadership positions in the organization 
regardless of  their  status or beliefs."  App. 438  (capitalization and inter-
nal quotation marks omitted).  And at oral argument in this Court, coun-
sel for CLS acknowledged that "the Court needs to reach the constitution-
ality of the all-comers policy as applied to CLS in this case."  Tr. of Oral 
Arg.  59  (emphasis  added).  We  repeat,  in  this  regard,  that  Hastings'  allcomers  policy  is  hardly  novel.  Other  law  schools  have  adopted  similar 
requirements.  See supra, at 671; Brief for Association of American Law 
Schools as Amicus Curiae 20, n. 5. 

6 The  dissent  spills  considerable  ink  attempting  to  create  uncertainty 

about when the all-comers policy was adopted.  See post, at 707, 708, 710, 
711-712, 712, 713, 715, 716.  What counts, however, is the parties' unquali-
fied agreement that the all-comers policy currently governs.  CLS's suit, 
after  all,  seeks  only  declaratory  and  injunctive--that  is,  prospective-- 
relief.  See  App.  80  (First  Amended  Verified  Complaint  for  Declaratory 
and Injunctive Relief). 

7 Record evidence, moreover, corroborates the joint stipulation concern-

ing  Hastings'  all-comers  policy.  The  Law  School's  then-Chancellor  and 
Dean testified, for example, that "in order to be a registered student orga-
nization  you  have  to  allow  all  of  our  students  to  be  members  and  full 
participants  if  they  want  to."  App.  343.  Hastings'  Director  of  Student 
Services  confirmed  that  RSOs  must  "be  open  to  all  students"--"even  to 
students who may disagree with [an RSO's] purposes."  Id., at 320 (inter-
nal  quotation  marks  omitted).  See  also  id.,  at  349  ("Hastings  interprets 
the Nondiscrimination Policy as requiring that student organizations wish-

Cite as: 561 U. S. 661 (2010)  677 

Opinion of the Court 
is  the  bookend  to  a  party's  undertaking  to  be  bound  by  the factual  stipulations  it  submits.  See  post,  at  715  (

Alito,

678  CHRISTIAN  LEGAL  SOC.  CHAPTER  OF  UNIV.  OF 

CAL.,  HASTINGS  COLLEGE  OF  LAW  v.  MARTINEZ 

Opinion of the Court 

cessions . . . that have  the  effect of withdrawing  a fact from issue  and  dispensing  wholly  with  the  need  for  proof  of  the 

fact.  Thus,  a  judicial  admission  .  .  .  is  conclusive  in  the case."  2 K. Broun, McCormick on Evidence $ 254, p. 181 (6th 
ed.  2006)  (footnote  omitted).  See  also,  e. g.,  Oscanyan  v. 
Arms Co., 103 U. S. 261, 263 (1881) ("The power of the court to  act  in  the  disposition  of  a  trial  upon  facts  conceded  by 

counsel  is  as  plain  as  its  power  to  act  upon  the  evidence produced.").

9 

In  light  of  the  joint  stipulation,  both  the  District  Court and  the  Ninth  Circuit  trained  their  attention  on  the  con-

stitutionality  of  the  all-comers  requirement,  as  described in  the  parties'  accord.  See  319  Fed.  Appx.,  at  645-646; 
App.  to  Pet.  for  Cert.  32a;  id.,  at  36a.  We  reject  CLS's unseemly  attempt  to  escape  from  the  stipulation  and  shift 
its  target  to  Hastings'  policy  as  written.  This  opinion, therefore,  considers  only  whether  conditioning  access  to  a 
student-organization forum on compliance with an all-comers policy violates the Constitution.

10 

III 

A 

In  support  of  the  argument  that  Hastings'  all-comers  pol-icy treads on its First Amendment rights to free speech and 

9 The  dissent  indulges  in  make-believe  when  it  suggests  that  we  are 
making  factual  findings  about  Hastings'  all-comers  policy.  Post,  at  707, 
708.  As  CLS's  petition  for  certiorari  stressed,  "[t]he  material  facts  of 
this  case  are  undisputed."  Pet.  for  Cert.  2  (emphasis  added).  We  take 
the facts as the joint stipulation describes them, see supra, at 675-677 and 
this page; our decision respects, while the  dissent ignores, the conclusive 
effect of the parties' accord. 

10 The dissent, in contrast, devotes considerable attention to CLS's argu-

ments  about  the  Nondiscrimination  Policy  as  written.  Post,  at  707,  708, 
710,  723-727.  We  decline  to  address  these  arguments,  not  because  we 
agree  with  the  dissent  that  the  Nondiscrimination  Policy  is  "plainly"  un-
constitutional,  post,  at  723,  but  because,  as  noted,  supra,  at  675-677  and 
this page, that constitutional question is not properly presented. 

Cite as: 561 U. S. 661 (2010)  679 

Opinion of the Court 
expressive association, CLS draws on two lines of decisions. 
First,  in  a  progression  of  cases,  this  Court  has  employed 
forum analysis to determine when a governmental entity, in 
regulating  property  in  its  charge,  may  place  limitations  on 
speech.11  Recognizing a State's right "to preserve the prop-
erty under its control for the use to which it is lawfully dedi-
cated,"  Cornelius  v.  NAACP  Legal  Defense  &  Ed.  Fund, 
Inc., 473 U. S. 788, 800 (1985) (internal quotation marks omit-
ted), the Court has permitted restrictions on access to a lim-
ited public forum, like the RSO program here, with this key 
caveat: Any access barrier must be reasonable and viewpoint 
neutral,  e. g.,  Rosenberger,  515  U. S.,  at  829.  See  also,  e. g., 
Good  News  Club  v.  Milford  Central  School,  533  U. S.  98, 
106-107  (2001);  Lamb's  Chapel  v.  Center  Moriches  Union 
Free  School  Dist.,  508  U. S.  384,  392-393  (1993);  Perry  Ed. 
Assn.  v.  Perry  Local  Educators'  Assn.,  460  U. S.  37,  46 
(1983).12 

11 In  conducting  forum  analysis,  our  decisions  have  sorted  government 
property  into  three  categories.  First,  in  traditional  public  forums,  such 
as  public  streets  and  parks,  "any  restriction  based  on  the  content  of  .  .  . 
speech  must  satisfy  strict  scrutiny,  that  is,  the  restriction  must  be  nar-
rowly  tailored  to  serve  a  compelling  government  interest."  Pleasant 
Grove  City  v.  Summum,  555  U. S.  460,  469  (2009).  Second,  govern-
mental entities create designated public forums when "government prop-
erty  that  has  not  traditionally  been  regarded  as  a  public  forum  is  inten-
tionally  opened up  for that purpose"; speech  restrictions in  such a  forum 
"are  subject  to  the  same  strict  scrutiny  as  restrictions  in  a  traditional 
public  forum."  Id.,  at  469-470.  Third,  governmental  entities  establish 
limited  public  forums  by  opening  property  "limited  to  use  by  certain 
groups  or  dedicated  solely  to  the  discussion  of  certain  subjects."  Id., 
at  470.  As  noted  in  text,  "[i]n  such  a  forum,  a  governmental  entity 
may  impose  restrictions  on  speech  that  are  reasonable  and  viewpointneutral."  Ibid. 

12 Our  decisions  make  clear,  and  the  parties  agree,  that  Hastings, 

through its RSO program, established a limited public forum.  See Rosen-
berger  v.  Rector  and  Visitors  of  Univ.  of  Va.,  515  U. S.  819,  829  (1995); 
Tr. of Oral Arg. 24 (counsel for CLS); Brief for Petitioner 25-26; Brief for 
Hastings 27-28; Brief for Hastings Outlaw 27. 

680  CHRISTIAN  LEGAL  SOC.  CHAPTER  OF  UNIV.  OF 

CAL.,  HASTINGS  COLLEGE  OF  LAW  v.  MARTINEZ 

Opinion of the Court 

Second,  as  evidenced  by  another  set  of  decisions,  this Court has rigorously reviewed laws and regulations that con-

strain  associational  freedom.  In  the  context  of  public  ac-commodations,  we  have  subjected  restrictions  on  that  free-
dom to close scrutiny; such restrictions are permitted only if they  serve  "compelling  state  interests"  that  are  "unrelated 
to  the  suppression  of  ideas"--interests  that  cannot  be  ad-
vanced  "through  .  .  .  significantly  less  restrictive  [means]." 
Roberts  v.  United  States  Jaycees,  468  U. S.  609,  623  (1984). 
See also, e. g., Boy Scouts of America v.  Dale, 530 U. S. 640, 648  (2000).  "Freedom  of  association,"  we  have  recognized, 

"plainly  presupposes  a  freedom  not  to  associate."  Roberts, 
468 U. S., at 623.  Insisting that an organization embrace un-
welcome  members,  we  have  therefore  concluded,  "directly 
and  immediately  affects  associational  rights."  Dale,  530 
U. S., at 659. 

CLS  would  have  us  engage  each  line  of  cases  independ-
ently,  but  its  expressive-association  and  free-speech  argu-
ments merge: Who speaks on its behalf, CLS reasons, colors 
what  concept  is  conveyed.  See  Brief  for  Petitioner  35  (ex-
pressive association in this case is "the functional equivalent 
of  speech  itself ").  It  therefore  makes  little  sense  to  treat 
CLS's  speech  and  association  claims  as  discrete.  See  Citi-
zens  Against  Rent  Control/Coalition  for  Fair  Housing  v. 
Berkeley, 454  U. S. 290,  300  (1981).  Instead, three observa-
tions lead us to conclude that our limited-public-forum prece-
dents  supply  the  appropriate  framework  for  assessing  both 
CLS's speech and association rights. 

First, the  same considerations  that  have led  us to  apply a 
less  restrictive  level  of  scrutiny  to  speech  in  limited  public 
forums as compared to other environments, see supra, at 679, 
and  n.  11,  apply  with  equal  force  to  expressive  association 
occurring  in  limited  public  forums.  As  just  noted,  speech 
and  expressive-association  rights  are  closely  linked.  See 
Roberts, 468  U. S., at 622  (Associational freedom is  "implicit 
in  the  right  to  engage  in  activities  protected  by  the  First 

Cite as: 561 U. S. 661 (2010)  681 

Opinion of the Court 
Amendment.").  When  these  intertwined  rights  arise  in exactly  the  same  context,  it  would  be  anomalous  for  a  re-

striction  on  speech  to  survive  constitutional  review  under our limited-public-forum test only to be invalidated as an im-
permissible  infringement  of  expressive  association.  Accord Brief  for  State  Universities  et  al.  as 

Amici  Curiae  37-38. 
That  result  would  be  all  the  more  anomalous  in  this  case, 
for  CLS  suggests  that  its  expressive-association claim  plays a  part  auxiliary  to  speech's  starring  role.  See  Brief  for 

Petitioner 18. Second,  and  closely  related,  the  strict  scrutiny  we  have 
applied in some settings to laws that burden expressive asso-
ciation would, in practical effect, invalidate a defining charac-
teristic  of  limited  public  forums--the  State  may  "reserv[e] 
[them]  for  certain  groups."  Rosenberger,  515  U. S.,  at  829. 
See  also  Perry  Ed.  Assn.,  460  U. S.,  at  49  ("Implicit  in  the 
concept"  of  a  limited  public  forum  is  the  State's  "right  to 
make distinctions in access on the basis of . . .  speaker iden-
tity.");  Cornelius,  473  U. S.,  at  806  ("[A]  speaker  may  be  ex-
cluded  from"  a  limited  public  forum  "if  he  is  not  a  member 
of the class of speakers for whose especial benefit the forum 
was created."). 

An example sharpens the tip of this point: Schools, includ-
ing  Hastings,  see  App.  to  Pet.  for  Cert.  83a,  ordinarily,  and 
without  controversy,  limit  official  student-group  recognition 
to  organizations  comprising  only  students--even  if  those 
groups  wish  to  associate  with  nonstudents.  See,  e. g.,  Vo-
lokh,  Freedom  of  Expressive  Association  and  Government 
Subsidies,  58  Stan.  L.  Rev.  1919,  1940  (2006).  The  same 
ground  rules  must  govern  both  speech  and  association  chal-
lenges  in  the  limited-public-forum  context,  lest  strict  scru-
tiny trump a public university's ability to "confin[e] a [speech] 
forum  to  the  limited  and  legitimate  purposes  for  which  it 
was  created."  Rosenberger,  515  U. S.,  at  829.  See  also 
Healy,  408 U. S., at 189 ("Associational activities need not be 
tolerated  where  they  infringe  reasonable  campus  rules."). 

682  CHRISTIAN  LEGAL  SOC.  CHAPTER  OF  UNIV.  OF 

CAL.,  HASTINGS  COLLEGE  OF  LAW  v.  MARTINEZ 

Opinion of the Court 

Third, this case fits comfortably within the limited-public-
forum  category,  for  CLS,  in  seeking  what  is  effectively  a 
state subsidy, faces only indirect pressure to modify its mem-
bership  policies;  CLS  may  exclude  any  person  for  any  rea-
son  if  it  forgoes  the  benefits  of  official  recognition.13  The 
expressive-association  precedents  on  which  CLS  relies,  in 
contrast,  involved  regulations  that  compelled  a  group  to  in-
clude  unwanted  members,  with  no  choice  to  opt  out.  See, 
e. g.,  Dale,  530  U. S.,  at  648  (regulation  "forc[ed]  [the  Boy 
Scouts] to accept members it [did] not desire" (internal  quo-
tation marks omitted)); Roberts, 468 U. S., at 623 ("There can 
be no clearer example of an intrusion into the internal struc-
ture or affairs  of an association  than" forced inclusion of un-
welcome participants.).14 

In  diverse  contexts,  our  decisions  have  distinguished  be-
tween  policies  that  require  action  and  those  that  withhold 
benefits.  See,  e. g.,  Grove  City  College  v.  Bell,  465  U. S. 
555,  575-576  (1984);  Bob  Jones  Univ.  v.  United  States,  461 

13 The fact that a university "expends funds to encourage a diversity of 
views  from  private  speakers,"  this  Court  has  held,  does  not  justify  it  in 
"discriminat[ing] based on the viewpoint of private persons whose speech 
it  facilitates."  Rosenberger,  515  U. S.,  at  834.  Applying  limited-public-
forum  analysis  (which  itself  prohibits  viewpoint  discrimination)  to  CLS's 
expressive-association claim,  we emphasize, does  not upset  this principle. 

14 CLS also brackets with expressive-association precedents our decision 

in  Hurley  v.  Irish-American  Gay,  Lesbian  and  Bisexual  Group  of  Bos-
ton,  Inc.,  515  U. S.  557  (1995).  There,  a  veterans  group  sponsoring  a 
St. Patrick's  Day parade  challenged  a state law requiring it  to allow gay 
individuals to march in the parade behind a banner celebrating their Irish 
heritage  and  sexual  orientation.  Id.,  at  572.  In  evaluating  that  chal-
lenge,  the  Hurley  Court  focused  on  the  veterans  group's  interest  in  con-
trolling  the  message  conveyed  by  the  organization.  See  id.,  at  573-581. 
Whether Hurley is best conceptualized as a speech or association case (or 
both), however, that  precedent  is of  little help  to CLS.  Hurley involved 
the application of a statewide public-accommodations law to the most tra-
ditional of public forums: the street.  That context differs markedly from 
the limited public forum at issue here: a university's application of an allcomers policy to its student-organization program. 

Cite as: 561 U. S. 661 (2010)  683 

Opinion of the Court 
U. S. 574, 602-604 (1983).  Application of the less restrictive 
limited-public-forum  analysis  better  accounts  for  the  fact 
that  Hastings,  through  its  RSO  program,  is  dangling  the 
carrot  of  subsidy,  not  wielding  the  stick  of  prohibition. 
Cf. Norwood v.  Harrison, 413 U. S. 455, 463 (1973) ("That the 
Constitution may compel toleration of private discrimination 
in  some  circumstances  does  not  mean  that  it  requires  state 
support for such discrimination."). 

In  sum,  we  are  persuaded  that  our  limited-public-forum 
precedents adequately respect  both CLS's speech and 
expressive-association rights, and fairly balance those rights 
against  Hastings'  interests  as  property  owner  and  educa-
tional institution.  We  turn to the  merits of the  instant  dis-
pute,  therefore,  with  the  limited-public-forum  decisions  as 
our guide. 

B 

As  earlier  pointed  out,  supra,  at  667-668,  678-679,  we  do 
not write on a blank slate; we have three times before consid-
ered clashes between public  universities and student groups 
seeking  official  recognition  or  its  attendant  benefits.  First, 
in Healy, a state college denied school affiliation to a student 
group  that  wished  to  form  a  local  chapter  of  Students  for  a 
Democratic  Society  (SDS).  408  U. S.,  at  170.  Characteriz-
ing  SDS's  mission  as  violent  and  disruptive,  and  finding  the 
organization's  philosophy  repugnant,  the  college  completely 
banned  the  SDS  chapter  from  campus;  in  its  effort  to  sever 
all  channels  of  communication  between  students  and  the 
group, university officials went so far as to disband a meeting 
of  SDS  members  in  a  campus  coffee  shop.  Id.,  at  174-176. 
The  college,  we  noted,  could  require  "that  a  group  seeking 
official  recognition  affirm  in  advance  its  willingness  to  ad-
here to reasonable campus law," including "reasonable stand-
ards  respecting  conduct."  Id.,  at  193.  But  a  public  educa-
tional  institution  exceeds  constitutional  bounds,  we  held, 
when  it  "restrict[s]  speech  or  association  simply  because 

684  CHRISTIAN  LEGAL  SOC.  CHAPTER  OF  UNIV.  OF 

CAL.,  HASTINGS  COLLEGE  OF  LAW  v.  MARTINEZ 

Opinion of the Court 

it  finds  the  views  expressed  by  [a]  group  to  be  abhorrent." 
Id., at 187-188.15 

We later relied on Healy  in Widmar.  In that case, a pub-
lic university, in an effort to avoid state support for religion, 
had  closed  its  facilities  to  a  registered  student  group  that 
sought to use university space for religious worship and dis-
cussion.  454  U. S.,  at  264-265.  "A  university's  mission  is 
education,"  we  observed,  "and  decisions  of  this  Court  have 
never  denied  a  university's  authority  to  impose  reasonable 
regulations  compatible with that mission upon the  use of its 
campus  and  facilities."  Id.,  at  268,  n.  5.  But  because  the 
university singled out religious organizations for disadvanta-
geous treatment, we subjected the university's regulation to 

15 The dissent relies heavily on Healy, post, at 718-721, but its otherwise 
exhaustive account of the case elides the very fact the Healy Court identi-
fied  as dispositive:  The President  of the  college explicitly  denied  the  stu-
dent group official recognition because of the group's viewpoint.  See 408 
U. S.,  at  187  ("The  mere  disagreement  of  the  President  with  the  group's 
philosophy  affords  no  reason  to  deny  it  recognition.").  In  this  case,  in 
contrast, Hastings denied CLS recognition not because the school wanted 
to silence the "viewpoint that CLS sought to express through its member-
ship requirements," post, at 721, n. 2, but because CLS, insisting on prefer-
ential treatment, declined to comply with the open-access policy applicable 
to all RSOs, see R. A. V. v.  St. Paul, 505 U. S. 377, 390 (1992) ("Where the 
[State] does not target conduct on the basis of its expressive content, acts 
are not shielded from regulation merely because they express a discrimi-
natory . . .  philosophy." (emphasis added)).  As discussed infra, at 694-698, 
Hastings'  all-comers  policy  is  paradigmatically  viewpoint  neutral.  The 
dissent's  contention  that  "the  identity  of  the  student  group"  is  the  only 
"way of distinguishing Healy," post, at 721, is thus untenable. 

The dissent's description of Healy also omits the Healy Court's observa-
tion  that  "[a]  college  administration  may  .  .  .  requir[e]  .  .  .  that  a  group 
seeking  official  recognition affirm  in  advance  its  willingness  to  adhere  to 
reasonable  campus  law.  Such  a  requirement  does  not  impose  an  imper-
missible condition on the students' associational rights. . . .  It  merely con-
stitutes  an  agreement  to  conform  with  reasonable  standards  respecting 
conduct. . . . [T]he benefits of participation in the internal life of the college 
community may be denied to any group that reserves the right to violate 
any valid campus rules with which it disagrees."  408 U. S., at 193-194. 

Cite as: 561 U. S. 661 (2010)  685 

Opinion of the Court 
strict  scrutiny.  Id.,  at  269-270.  The  school's  interest  "in maintaining strict  separation  of church and  State," we  held, 

was  not  "sufficiently  compelling  to  justify  .  .  .  [viewpoint] discrimination against . . . religious speech."  Id., at 270, 276 
(internal quotation marks omitted). Most recently and comprehensively, in 

Rosenberger, we re-iterated  that  a  university  generally  may  not  withhold  bene-

fits  from  student  groups  because  of  their  religious  outlook. The  officially  recognized  student  group  in  Rosenberger  was 
denied  student-activity-fee  funding  to  distribute  a  newspa-per because the publication discussed issues from a Christian 
perspective.  515 U. S.,  at 825-827.  By "select[ing] for dis-favored treatment those student journalistic efforts with re-
ligious  editorial  viewpoints,"  we  held,  the  university  had engaged  in  "viewpoint  discrimination,  which  is  presumed 
impermissible when directed against speech otherwise within the forum's limitations." 

Id., at 831, 830. In  all  three  cases,  we  ruled  that  student  groups  had  been 

unconstitutionally singled out because of their points of view. "Once  it  has  opened  a  limited  [public]  forum,"  we  empha-
sized,  "the  State  must  respect  the  lawful  boundaries  it  has itself  set." 

Id.,  at  829.  The  constitutional  constraints  on the boundaries the State may set bear repetition here: "The 

State  may  not  exclude  speech  where  its  distinction  is  not reasonable  in  light  of  the  purpose  served  by  the  forum, . . .  
nor  may  it  discriminate  against  speech  on  the  basis  of . . .  viewpoint."  Ibid. (internal quotation marks omitted). 

C 
We  first  consider  whether  Hastings'  policy  is  reasonable taking  into  account  the  RSO  forum's  function  and  "all  the 

surrounding circumstances."  Cornelius, 473 U. S., at 809. 

1 
Our inquiry is shaped by the educational context in which it  arises:  "First  Amendment  rights,"  we  have  observed, 

686  CHRISTIAN  LEGAL  SOC.  CHAPTER  OF  UNIV.  OF 

CAL.,  HASTINGS  COLLEGE  OF  LAW  v.  MARTINEZ 

Opinion of the Court 

"must  be  analyzed  in  light  of  the  special  characteristics  of the  school  environment." 

Widmar,  454  U. S.,  at  268,  n.  5 
(internal  quotation  marks  omitted).  This  Court  is  the  final arbiter  of  the  question  whether  a  public  university  has  ex-

ceeded  constitutional  constraints,  and  we  owe  no  deference to  universities  when  we  consider  that  question.  Cf. 

Pell 
v.  Procunier,  417  U. S.  817,  827  (1974)  ("Courts  cannot,  of 
course,  abdicate  their  constitutional  responsibility  to  delin-eate  and  protect  fundamental  liberties.").  Cognizant  that 

judges  lack  the  on-the-ground  expertise  and  experience  of school administrators, however, we have cautioned courts in 
various  contexts  to  resist  "substitut[ing]  their  own  notions 
of  sound  educational  policy  for  those  of  the  school  authori-
ties  which  they  review."  Board  of  Ed.  of  Hendrick  Hud-
son  Central  School  Dist.,  Westchester  Cty.  v.  Rowley,  458 
U. S. 176, 206 (1982).  See also, e. g., Hazelwood School Dist. 
v.  Kuhlmeier,  484  U. S.  260,  273  (1988)  (noting  our  "oft-
expressed  view  that  the  education  of  the  Nation's  youth  is 
primarily  the  responsibility  of  parents,  teachers,  and  state 
and  local  school  officials,  and  not  of  federal  judges");  Healy, 
408 U. S., at 180 ("[T]his Court has long recognized `the need 
for  affirming  the  comprehensive  authority  of  the  States  and 
of school officials, consistent with fundamental constitutional 
safeguards, to prescribe and control conduct in the schools.' " 
(quoting  Tinker  v.  Des  Moines  Independent  Community 
School Dist., 393 U. S. 503, 507 (1969))). 

A  college's  commission--and  its  concomitant  license  to 
choose among pedagogical approaches--is not confined to the 
classroom, for extracurricular programs are, today, essential 
parts of the educational process.  See Board of Ed. of Inde-
pendent  School  Dist.  No.  92  of  Pottawatomie  Cty.  v.  Earls, 
536 U. S. 822, 831, n. 4 (2002) (involvement in student groups 
is "a significant contributor to the breadth and quality of the 
educational experience" (internal quotation marks omitted)). 
Schools,  we  have  emphasized,  enjoy  "a  significant  measure 
of authority over the type of officially recognized activities in 

Cite as: 561 U. S. 661 (2010)  687 

Opinion of the Court 
which their students participate."  Board of Ed. of Westside Community Schools (Dist. 66) v.  Mergens, 496 U. S. 226, 240 

(1990).  We  therefore  "approach  our  task  with  special  cau-tion,"  Healy,  408  U. S.,  at  171,  mindful  that  Hastings'  deci-
sions  about  the  character  of  its  student-group  program  are due decent respect.

16 

2 
With  appropriate  regard  for  school  administrators'  judg-ment, we review the justifications Hastings offers in defense 

of  its  all-comers  requirement.17  First,  the  open-access  pol-

16 The  dissent  mischaracterizes  the  nature  of  the  respect  we  accord  to 
Hastings.  See  post,  at  707,  720-721,  732.  As  noted  supra,  at  685-686 
and this page, this Court, exercising its independent judgment, must "in-
terpre[t]  and  appl[y]  .  .  .  the  right  to  free  speech."  Post,  at  721.  But 
determinations of what constitutes sound educational policy or what goals 
a  student-organization  forum  ought  to  serve  fall  within  the  discretion  of 
school administrators and educators.  See, e. g., Board of Ed. of Hendrick 
Hudson  Central  School  Dist.,  Westchester  Cty.  v.  Rowley,  458  U. S.  176, 
206 (1982). 

17 Although the dissent maintains it is "content to address the constitu-

tionality of Hastings' actions under our limited public forum cases," post, 
at  722,  it  resists  the  import  of  those  cases  at  every  turn.  For  example, 
although  the  dissent acknowledges  that a  university  has  the authority  to 
set the boundaries of a limited public forum, post, at 722, 729, the dissent 
refuses  to  credit  Hastings'  all-comers  policy  as  one  of  those  boundaries. 
See post, at 729 (insisting that "Hastings' regulations . . . impose only two 
substantive limitations: A group . . . must have student members and must 
be noncommercial.").  In short, "the design of the RSO forum," post, at 731, 
which the dissent discusses at length, post, at 729-735, is of its own tailoring. 

Another example: The dissent pointedly observes that "[w]hile there can 
be no question that the State of California could not impose [an all-comers] 
restrictio[n] on all religious groups in the State, the Court now holds that 
Hastings,  a  state  institution,  may  impose  these  very  same  requirements 
on students who wish to participate in  a forum  that is designed to foster 
the expression of diverse viewpoints."  Post, at 731.  As noted supra, at 
678-679, and n. 11, this difference reflects the lesser standard of scrutiny 
applicable  to  limited  public  forums  compared  to  other  forums.  The  dis-
sent  fights  the  distinction  between  state  prohibition  and  state  support, 
but its real quarrel is with our limited-public-forum doctrine, which recog-
nizes  that  distinction.  CLS,  it  bears  repetition,  remains  free  to  express 

688  CHRISTIAN  LEGAL  SOC.  CHAPTER  OF  UNIV.  OF 

CAL.,  HASTINGS  COLLEGE  OF  LAW  v.  MARTINEZ 

Opinion of the Court 

icy  "ensures  that  the  leadership,  educational,  and  social  op-portunities  afforded by registered student  organizations are 

available  to  all  students."  Brief  for  Hastings  32;  see  Brief for  American  Civil  Liberties  Union  et  al.  as 

Amici  Curiae 
11.  Just  as  "Hastings  does  not  allow  its  professors  to  host classes  open  only  to  those  students  with  a  certain  status  or 

belief,"  so  the  Law  School  may  decide,  reasonably  in  our 
view,  "that  the  .  .  .  educational  experience  is  best  promoted when all participants in the forum must provide equal access 

to all students."  Brief for Hastings 32.  RSOs, we count it significant,  are  eligible  for  financial  assistance  drawn  from 
mandatory  student-activity  fees,  see  supra,  at  669;  the  all-comers  policy  ensures  that  no  Hastings  student  is  forced  to 
fund a group that would reject her as a member.18 Second,  the  all-comers  requirement  helps  Hastings  police 
the  written  terms  of  its  Nondiscrimination  Policy  without inquiring  into  an  RSO's  motivation  for  membership  restric-
tions.  To bring the RSO program within CLS's view of the 
Constitution's limits, CLS proposes that Hastings permit ex-
clusion because of belief but forbid discrimination due to sta-
tus.  See  Tr.  of  Oral  Arg.  18.  But  that  proposal  would  im-
pose  on  Hastings  a  daunting  labor.  How  should  the  Law 
School go about determining whether a student organization 
cloaked prohibited status exclusion in belief-based garb?  If 
a  hypothetical  Male-Superiority  Club  barred  a  female  stu-
dent from running for its presidency, for example, how could 
the  Law  School  tell  whether  the  group  rejected  her  bid  be-
cause of her sex or because, by seeking to lead the club, she 
manifested a lack of belief in its fundamental philosophy? 

whatever it will, but it cannot insist on an exemption from Hastings' em-
bracive all-comers policy. 

18 CLS  notes  that  its  "activities--its  Bible  studies,  speakers,  and  din-

ners--are  open  to  all  students," even  if  attendees  are  barred  from  mem-
bership and leadership.  Reply Brief 20.  Welcoming all comers as guests 
or auditors,  however, is hardly equivalent to accepting all comers as fullfledged participants. 

Cite as: 561 U. S. 661 (2010)  689 

Opinion of the Court 
This  case  itself  is  instructive  in  this  regard.  CLS  con-tends  that  it  does  not  exclude  individuals  because  of  sexual 

orientation, but rather "on the  basis of a conjunction of con-duct  and  the  belief  that  the  conduct  is  not  wrong."  Brief 
for Petitioner 35-36 (emphasis deleted).  Our decisions have declined  to  distinguish  between  status  and  conduct  in  this 
context.  See  Lawrence  v.  Texas,  539  U. S.  558,  575  (2003) ("When  homosexual 

conduct  is  made  criminal  by  the  law  of the  State,  that  declaration  in  and  of  itself  is  an  invitation 

to subject homosexual persons to discrimination." (emphasis added)); 

id.,  at  583  (O'Connor,  J.,  concurring  in  judgment) 
("While  it  is  true  that  the  law  applies  only  to  conduct,  the conduct targeted by this law is conduct that is closely corre-

lated  with  being  homosexual.  Under  such  circumstances, 
[the]  law  is  targeted  at  more  than  conduct.  It  is  instead directed toward gay persons as a class."); cf. 

Bray v.  Alexan-
dria Women's Health Clinic, 506 U. S. 263, 270 (1993) ("A tax on  wearing  yarmulkes  is  a  tax  on  Jews.").  See  also  Brief 

for  Lambda  Legal  Defense  and  Education  Fund,  Inc.,  et  al. as 

Amici Curiae 7-20. 
Third, the Law School reasonably adheres to the view that an all-comers policy, to the extent it brings together individ-

uals  with  diverse  backgrounds  and  beliefs,  "encourages  tol-
erance,  cooperation,  and  learning  among  students."  App. 349.

19  And  if  the  policy  sometimes  produces  discord,  Has-

tings can rationally rank among RSO-program goals develop-
ment of conflict-resolution skills, toleration, and readiness to find common ground. 

Fourth, Hastings' policy, which incorporates--in fact, subsumes--state-law  proscriptions  on  discrimination,  conveys 

19 CLS's  predecessor  organization,  the  Hastings  Christian  Fellowship 
(HCF),  experienced  these  benefits  firsthand when  it  welcomed  an  openly 
gay student as a member during the 2003-2004 academic year.  That stu-
dent,  testified  another  HCF  member,  "was  a  joy  to  have"  in  the  group 
and  brought  a  unique  perspective  to  Bible-study  discussions.  See  App. 
325, 327. 

690  CHRISTIAN  LEGAL  SOC.  CHAPTER  OF  UNIV.  OF 

CAL.,  HASTINGS  COLLEGE  OF  LAW  v.  MARTINEZ 

Opinion of the Court 

the Law School's decision "to decline to subsidize with public monies and benefits conduct of which the people of California 

disapprove."  Brief  for  Hastings  35;  id.,  at  33-34  (citing Cal. Educ. Code Ann. $ 66270 (West Supp. 2010) (prohibiting 
discrimination on various bases)).  State law, of course, may not 

command  that public universities take action impermis-sible  under  the  First  Amendment.  But  so  long  as  a  public 

university  does  not  contravene  constitutional  limits,  its choice to advance state-law goals through the school's educa-
tional endeavors stands on firm footing. In  sum,  the  several  justifications  Hastings  asserts  in  sup-
port  of  its  all-comers  requirement  are  surely  reasonable  in light of the RSO forum's purposes.

20 

3 
The  Law  School's  policy  is  all  the  more  creditworthy  in view  of  the  "substantial  alternative  channels  that  remain 

open for [CLS-student] communicati on to take place. " 
Perry  Ed.  Assn.,  460  U. S.,  at  53.  If  restrictions  on  access to  a  limited  public  forum  are  viewpoint  discriminatory,  the 

ability  of  a  group  to  exist  outside  the  forum  would  not  cure the  constitutional  shortcoming.  But  when  access  barriers 
are  viewpoint  neutral,  our  decisions  have  counted  it  sig-nificant  that  other  available  avenues  for  the  group  to  exer-
cise  its  First  Amendment  rights  lessen  the  burden  created by  those  barriers.  See 

ibid.;  Cornelius,  473  U. S.,  at  809; Greer  v.  Spock,  424  U. S.  828,  839  (1976);  Pell,  417  U. S.,  at 

827-828. In  this  case,  Hastings  offered  CLS  access  to  school  facili-
ties to conduct meetings and the use of chalkboards and gen-erally  available  bulletin  boards  to  advertise  events.  App. 
232-233.  Although  CLS  could  not  take  advantage  of  RSO-specific  methods  of  communication,  see 

supra,  at  669-670, 

20 Although the Law School has offered multiple justifications for its allcomers  policy,  we  do  not  suggest  that  each  of  them  is  necessary  for  the 
policy to survive constitutional review. 

Cite as: 561 U. S. 661 (2010)  691 

Opinion of the Court 
the  advent  of  electronic  media  and  social-networking  sites 
reduces  the  importance  of  those  channels.  See  App.  114- 
115 (CLS maintained a Yahoo! message group to disseminate 
information to students.); Christian Legal Society v.  Walker, 
453  F.  3d  853,  874  (CA7  2006)  (Wood,  J.,  dissenting)  ("Most 
universities  and  colleges,  and  most  college-aged  students, 
communicate  through  email,  websites,  and  hosts  like 
MySpace . . . .   If CLS  had its own  website,  any  student  at 
the school with access to Google--that is, all of them--could 
easily  have  found  it.").  See  also  Brief  for  Associated  Stu-
dents  of  the  University  of  California,  Hastings  College  of 
Law, as Amicus Curiae 14-18 (describing host of ways CLS 
could  communicate  with  Hastings'  students  outside  official 
channels). 

Private  groups,  from  fraternities  and  sororities  to  social 
clubs  and  secret  societies,  commonly  maintain  a  presence  at 
universities without official school affiliation.21  Based on the 
record  before  us,  CLS  was  similarly  situated:  It  hosted  a 
variety of activities the  year after  Hastings denied it recog-
nition, and the number of students attending those meetings 
and  events  doubled.  App.  224,  229-230.  "The  variety  and 
type  of  alternative  modes  of  access  present  here,"  in  short, 
"compare  favorably  with  those  in  other  [limited  public] 
forum  cases  where  we  have  upheld  restrictions  on  access." 
Perry  Ed.  Assn.,  460  U. S.,  at  53-54.  It  is  beyond  dissent-
er's license, we note again, see supra, at 687-688, n. 17, con-
stantly to maintain that nonrecognition of a student organiza-
tion is equivalent to prohibiting its members from speaking. 

21 See,  e. g.,  Baker,  Despite  Lack  of  University  Recognition,  Pi  Kappa 
Theta  Continues  To  Grow,  The  New  Hampshire,  Sept.  28,  2009,  pp.  1,  5 
(unrecognized  fraternity  able  to  grow  despite  severed  ties  with  the  Uni-
versity  of  New  Hampshire);  Battey,  Final  Clubs  Provide  Controversial 
Social Outlet, Yale Daily News, Apr. 5, 2006, pp. 1, 4 (Harvard social clubs, 
known as "final clubs," "play a large role in the experience of . . .  students" 
even  though  "they  became  completely  disassociated  from  the  university 
in 1984"). 

692  CHRISTIAN  LEGAL  SOC.  CHAPTER  OF  UNIV.  OF 

CAL.,  HASTINGS  COLLEGE  OF  LAW  v.  MARTINEZ 

Opinion of the Court 

4 
CLS nevertheless deems Hastings' all-comers policy "frankly  absurd."  Brief  for  Petitioner  49.  "There  can  be 

no diversity  of viewpoints in a forum," it  asserts,  "if groups are  not  permitted  to  form  around  viewpoints." 

Id.,  at  50; accord post, at 730 (
Alito,

Cite as: 561 U. S. 661 (2010)  693 

Opinion of the Court 
personal beliefs.  And if a  rogue  student  intent on  sabotag-ing  an  organization's  objectives  nevertheless  attempted  a 

takeover,  the  members  of  that  group  would  not  likely  elect her as an officer. 

RSOs,  moreover,  in  harmony  with  the  all-comers  policy, may  condition  eligibility  for  membership  and  leadership  on 
attendance,  the  payment  of  dues,  or  other  neutral  require-ments designed to ensure that students join because of their 
commitment to a group's vitality, not its demise.  See supra, at 671, n. 2.  Several RSOs at Hastings limit their member-
ship rolls  and officer slates in just this way.  See, e. g., App. 192  (members  must "[p]ay  their  dues  on  a  timely  basis"  and 
"attend meetings regularly"); id., at 173 (members must com-plete an application and pay dues; "[a]ny active member who 
misses  a  semester  of  regularly  scheduled  meetings  shall  be dropped from rolls"); App. to Pet. for Cert. 129a ("Only Has-
tings  students  who  have  held  membership  in  this  organiza-tion  for  a  minimum  of  one  semester  shall  be  eligible  to  be 
an officer.").23 Hastings, furthermore, could reasonably expect more from 
its law  students than  the  disruptive  behavior CLS  hypothe-sizes--and  to  build  this  expectation  into  its  educational 
approach.  A  reasonable  policy  need  not  anticipate  and preemptively  close  off  every  opportunity  for  avoidance  or 
manipulation.  If students begin to exploit an all-comers pol-icy by hijacking organizations to distort or destroy their mis-
sions,  Hastings  presumably  would  revisit  and  revise  its  pol-icy.  See  Tr.  of  Oral  Arg.  41  (counsel  for  Hastings);  Brief 
for Hastings 38. Finally, CLS asserts (and the dissent repeats, 

post, at 733- 734)  that  the  Law  School  lacks  any  legitimate  interest--let 

23 As  Hastings notes,  other  "checks  [are also]  in  place"  to  prevent  RSO 
sabotage.  Brief for Hastings 43, n. 16.  "The [Law] School's student code 
of conduct applies to RSO activities and, inter alia, prohibits obstruction 
or disruption, disorderly conduct, and threats."  Ibid. (internal quotation 
marks and brackets omitted). 

694  CHRISTIAN  LEGAL  SOC.  CHAPTER  OF  UNIV.  OF 

CAL.,  HASTINGS  COLLEGE  OF  LAW  v.  MARTINEZ 

Opinion of the Court 

alone one reasonably related to the RSO forum's purposes-- in  urging  "religious  groups  not  to  favor  co-religionists  for 

purposes  of  their  religious  activities."  Brief  for  Petitioner 43;  id.,  at  50.  CLS's  analytical  error  lies  in  focusing  on  the 
benefits it must forgo while ignoring the interests of those it seeks to fence out: Exclusion, after all, has two sides.  Has-
tings,  caught  in  the  crossfire  between  a  group's  desire  to exclude and students' demand for equal access, may reasona-
bly  draw  a  line  in  the  sand  permitting  all  organizations  to express  what  they  wish  but 

no  group  to  discriminate  in membership.
24 

D 

We  next  consider  whether  Hastings'  all-comers  policy  is viewpoint neutral. 

1 
Although  this  aspect  of  limited-public-forum  analysis  has been  the  constitutional  sticking  point  in  our  prior  decisions, 

as earlier recounted, supra, at 683-685, we need not dwell on it  here.  It  is,  after  all,  hard  to  imagine  a  more  viewpointneutral  policy  than  one  requiring  all  student  groups  to  ac-cept all comers.  In contrast to Healy, Widmar, and Rosen-
berger,  in  which  universities  singled  out  organizations  for disfavored  treatment  because  of  their  points  of  view,  Has-
tings'  all-comers  requirement  draws  no  distinction  between groups  based  on  their  message  or  perspective.  An  all-

24 In arguing that the all-comers  policy is not  reasonable in light of the 
RSO  forum's  purposes,  the  dissent  notes  that  Title  VII,  which  prohibits 
employment  discrimination  on  the  basis  of  religion,  among  other  catego-
ries,  provides  an  exception  for  religious  associations.  Post,  at  733,  n.  8. 
The  question  here,  however,  is  not  whether  Hastings  could,  consistent 
with the Constitution, provide religious groups dispensation from the allcomers  policy  by  permitting  them  to  restrict  membership  to  those  who 
share their faith.  It is instead whether Hastings must grant that exemp-
tion.  This  Court's  decision  in  Employment  Div.,  Dept.  of  Human  Re-
sources  of  Ore. v.  Smith, 494  U. S.  872,  878-882 (1990),  unequivocally an-
swers no to that latter question.  See also infra, at 697, n. 27. 

Cite as: 561 U. S. 661 (2010)  695 

Opinion of the Court 
comers  condition  on  access  to  RSO  status,  in  short,  is  text-book viewpoint neutral.

25 

2 
Conceding  that  Hastings'  all-comers  policy  is  "nominally neutral," CLS attacks the regulation by pointing to its effect: 

The  policy  is  vulnerable  to  constitutional  assault,  CLS  con-tends,  because  "it  systematically  and  predictably  burdens 
most heavily those groups whose viewpoints are out of favor with  the  campus  mainstream."  Brief  for  Petitioner  51; 
cf. post, at 706 (Alito,

696  CHRISTIAN  LEGAL  SOC.  CHAPTER  OF  UNIV.  OF 

CAL.,  HASTINGS  COLLEGE  OF  LAW  v.  MARTINEZ 

Opinion of the Court 

a  particular  viewpoint  does  not  itself  render  the  injunction content or viewpoint based."). 

Even  if  a  regulation  has  a  differential  impact  on  groups wishing  to  enforce  exclusionary  membership  policies, 
"[w]here  the  [State]  does  not  target  conduct  on  the  basis  of its expressive content, acts are not shielded from regulation 
merely because they express a discriminatory idea or philos-ophy." 

R. A.  V.  v.  St.  Paul,  505  U. S.  377,  390  (1992).  See also Roberts, 468 U. S., at 623 (State's nondiscrimination law 

did not "distinguish between prohibited and permitted activ-ity on the basis of viewpoint."); Board of Directors of Rotary 
Int'l  v.  Rotary  Club  of  Duarte,  481  U. S.  537,  549  (1987) (same). 

Hastings' requirement that student groups accept all com-ers,  we  are  satisfied,  "is  justified  without  reference  to  the 
content  [or  viewpoint]  of the  regulated  speech."  Ward,  491 U. S., at 791 (internal quotation marks omitted; emphasis de-
leted).  The  Law  School's  policy  aims  at  the  act  of  reject-ing  would-be  group  members  without  reference  to  the  rea-
sons  motivating  that  behavior:  Hastings'  "desire  to  redress th[e]  perceived  harms"  of  exclusionary  membership  policies 
"provides  an  adequate  explanation  for  its  [all-comers  condi-tion]  over  and  above  mere  disagreement  with  [any  student 
group's] beliefs or biases."  Wisconsin v.  Mitchell, 508 U. S. 476,  488  (1993).  CLS's  conduct--not  its  Christian  perspec-
tive--is, from Hastings' vantage point, what stands between the  group  and  RSO  status.  "In  the  end,"  as  Hastings  ob-
serves,  "CLS  is  simply  confusing  its  own  viewpoint-based objections to . . . nondiscrimination laws (which it is entitled 
to  have  and  [to]  voice)  with  viewpoint  discrimination." Brief for Hastings 31.

26 

26 Although registered student groups must conform their conduct to the 
Law  School's  regulation  by  dropping  access  barriers,  they  may  express 
any viewpoint they wish--including a  discriminatory one.  Cf.  Rumsfeld 
v.  Forum  for  Academic  and  Institutional  Rights,  Inc.,  547  U. S.  47,  60 

Cite as: 561 U. S. 661 (2010)  697 

Opinion of the Court 
Finding  Hastings'  open-access  condition  on  RSO  status reasonable  and  viewpoint  neutral,  we  reject  CLS's  freespeech and expressive-association claims.27 

IV 
In  its  reply  brief,  CLS  contends  that  "[t]he  peculiarity, incoherence,  and  suspect  history  of  the  all-comers  policy 

all  point  to  pretext."  Reply  Brief  23.  Neither  the  Dis-trict  Court  nor  the  Ninth  Circuit  addressed  an  argument 
that  Hastings  selectively  enforces  its  all-comers  policy,  and this  Court  is  not  the  proper  forum  to  air  the  issue  in  the 
first  instance.28  On  remand,  the  Ninth  Circuit  may  con-
(2006) ("As a general matter, the Solomon Amendment regulates conduct, 
not  speech.  It  affects  what  law  schools  must  do--afford  equal  access  to 
military recruiters--not what they may or may not say.").  Today's deci-
sion  thus  continues  this  Court's  tradition  of  "protect[ing]  the  freedom  to 
express `the  thought  that we  hate.' "  Post, at  706 (Alito,

698  CHRISTIAN  LEGAL  SOC.  CHAPTER  OF  UNIV.  OF 

CAL.,  HASTINGS  COLLEGE  OF  LAW  v.  MARTINEZ 

Stevens,

Cite as: 561 U. S. 661 (2010)  699 

Stevens,
700  CHRISTIAN  LEGAL  SOC.  CHAPTER  OF  UNIV.  OF 

CAL.,  HASTINGS  COLLEGE  OF  LAW  v.  MARTINEZ 

Stevens,

Cite as: 561 U. S. 661 (2010)  701 

Stevens,
702  CHRISTIAN  LEGAL  SOC.  CHAPTER  OF  UNIV.  OF 

CAL.,  HASTINGS  COLLEGE  OF  LAW  v.  MARTINEZ 

Stevens,

Cite as: 561 U. S. 661 (2010)  703 

Kennedy,
704  CHRISTIAN  LEGAL  SOC.  CHAPTER  OF  UNIV.  OF 

CAL.,  HASTINGS  COLLEGE  OF  LAW  v.  MARTINEZ 

Kennedy,

Cite as: 561 U. S. 661 (2010)  705 

Kennedy,
706  CHRISTIAN  LEGAL  SOC.  CHAPTER  OF  UNIV.  OF 

CAL.,  HASTINGS  COLLEGE  OF  LAW  v.  MARTINEZ 

Alito,

Cite as: 561 U. S. 661 (2010)  707 

Alito,
708  CHRISTIAN  LEGAL  SOC.  CHAPTER  OF  UNIV.  OF 

CAL.,  HASTINGS  COLLEGE  OF  LAW  v.  MARTINEZ 

Alito,

Cite as: 561 U. S. 661 (2010)  709 

Alito,
710  CHRISTIAN  LEGAL  SOC.  CHAPTER  OF  UNIV.  OF 

CAL.,  HASTINGS  COLLEGE  OF  LAW  v.  MARTINEZ 

Alito,

Cite as: 561 U. S. 661 (2010)  711 

Alito,
712  CHRISTIAN  LEGAL  SOC.  CHAPTER  OF  UNIV.  OF 

CAL.,  HASTINGS  COLLEGE  OF  LAW  v.  MARTINEZ 

Alito,

Cite as: 561 U. S. 661 (2010)  713 

Alito,
714  CHRISTIAN  LEGAL  SOC.  CHAPTER  OF  UNIV.  OF 

CAL.,  HASTINGS  COLLEGE  OF  LAW  v.  MARTINEZ 

Alito,

Cite as: 561 U. S. 661 (2010)  715 

Alito,
716  CHRISTIAN  LEGAL  SOC.  CHAPTER  OF  UNIV.  OF 

CAL.,  HASTINGS  COLLEGE  OF  LAW  v.  MARTINEZ 

Alito,

Cite as: 561 U. S. 661 (2010)  717 

Alito,
718  CHRISTIAN  LEGAL  SOC.  CHAPTER  OF  UNIV.  OF 

CAL.,  HASTINGS  COLLEGE  OF  LAW  v.  MARTINEZ 

Alito,

Cite as: 561 U. S. 661 (2010)  719 

Alito,
720  CHRISTIAN  LEGAL  SOC.  CHAPTER  OF  UNIV.  OF 

CAL.,  HASTINGS  COLLEGE  OF  LAW  v.  MARTINEZ 

Alito,

Cite as: 561 U. S. 661 (2010)  721 

Alito,
722  CHRISTIAN  LEGAL  SOC.  CHAPTER  OF  UNIV.  OF 

CAL.,  HASTINGS  COLLEGE  OF  LAW  v.  MARTINEZ 

Alito,

Cite as: 561 U. S. 661 (2010)  723 

Alito,
724  CHRISTIAN  LEGAL  SOC.  CHAPTER  OF  UNIV.  OF 

CAL.,  HASTINGS  COLLEGE  OF  LAW  v.  MARTINEZ 

Alito,

Cite as: 561 U. S. 661 (2010)  725 

Alito,
726  CHRISTIAN  LEGAL  SOC.  CHAPTER  OF  UNIV.  OF 

CAL.,  HASTINGS  COLLEGE  OF  LAW  v.  MARTINEZ 

Alito,

Cite as: 561 U. S. 661 (2010)  727 

Alito,
728  CHRISTIAN  LEGAL  SOC.  CHAPTER  OF  UNIV.  OF 

CAL.,  HASTINGS  COLLEGE  OF  LAW  v.  MARTINEZ 

Alito,

Cite as: 561 U. S. 661 (2010)  729 

Alito,
730  CHRISTIAN  LEGAL  SOC.  CHAPTER  OF  UNIV.  OF 

CAL.,  HASTINGS  COLLEGE  OF  LAW  v.  MARTINEZ 

Alito,

Cite as: 561 U. S. 661 (2010)  731 

Alito,
732  CHRISTIAN  LEGAL  SOC.  CHAPTER  OF  UNIV.  OF 

CAL.,  HASTINGS  COLLEGE  OF  LAW  v.  MARTINEZ 

Alito,

Cite as: 561 U. S. 661 (2010)  733 

Alito,
734  CHRISTIAN  LEGAL  SOC.  CHAPTER  OF  UNIV.  OF 

CAL.,  HASTINGS  COLLEGE  OF  LAW  v.  MARTINEZ 

Alito,

Cite as: 561 U. S. 661 (2010)  735 

Alito,
736  CHRISTIAN  LEGAL  SOC.  CHAPTER  OF  UNIV.  OF 

CAL.,  HASTINGS  COLLEGE  OF  LAW  v.  MARTINEZ 

Alito,

Cite as: 561 U. S. 661 (2010)  737 

Alito,
738  CHRISTIAN  LEGAL  SOC.  CHAPTER  OF  UNIV.  OF 

CAL.,  HASTINGS  COLLEGE  OF  LAW  v.  MARTINEZ 

Alito,

Cite as: 561 U. S. 661 (2010)  739 

Alito,
740  CHRISTIAN  LEGAL  SOC.  CHAPTER  OF  UNIV.  OF 

CAL.,  HASTINGS  COLLEGE  OF  LAW  v.  MARTINEZ 

Alito,

Cite as: 561 U. S. 661 (2010)  741 

Alito,
742  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

Syllabus 

McDONALD  et

Cite as: 561 U. S. 742 (2010)  743 

Syllabus 
Amendment  right.  Chicago  and  Oak  Park  (municipal  respondents) 
maintain that a right set out in the Bill of Rights applies to the States 
only when it is an indispensable attribute of any " `civilized' " legal sys-
tem.  If it is possible to imagine a civilized country that does not recog-
nize the right, municipal respondents assert, that right is not protected 
by  due  process.  And  since  there  are  civilized  countries  that  ban  or 
strictly regulate the private possession of handguns, they maintain that 
due process does not preclude such measures.  P. 753. 

(b)  The  Bill  of  Rights,  including  the  Second  Amendment,  originally 
applied  only  to  the  Federal  Government,  not  to  the  States,  see,  e. g., 
Barron  ex  rel.  Tiernan  v.  Mayor  of  Baltimore,  7  Pet.  243,  247,  but 
the  constitutional  Amendments  adopted  in  the  Civil  War's  aftermath 
fundamentally altered  the federal  system.  Four  years  after  the  adop-
tion  of  the  Fourteenth  Amendment,  this  Court  held  in  the  SlaughterHouse  Cases  that  the  Privileges  or  Immunities  Clause  protects  only 
those rights "which owe their existence to the Federal government, its 
National  character,  its  Constitution,  or  its  laws,"  16  Wall.,  at  79,  and 
that the fundamental rights predating the creation of the Federal Gov-
ernment were not protected by the Clause, id., at 76.  Under this nar-
row  reading,  the  Court  held  that  the  Privileges  or  Immunities  Clause 
protects  only  very  limited  rights.  Id.,  at  79-80.  Subsequently,  the 
Court held that the Second Amendment applies only to the Federal Gov-
ernment  in  Cruikshank,  supra,  Presser,  supra,  and  Miller,  supra,  the 
decisions on which the Seventh Circuit relied in this case.  Pp. 754-758. 

(c)  Whether the Second Amendment right to keep and bear arms ap-
plies to the States is considered in light of the Court's precedents apply-
ing the Bill of Rights' protections to the States.  Pp. 759-766. 

(1)  In the late 19th century, the Court  began to  hold that the Due 
Process Clause  prohibits  the States from  infringing Bill  of  Rights pro-
tections.  See,  e. g.,  Hurtado  v.  California,  110  U. S.  516.  Five  fea-
tures  of  the  approach  taken  during  the  ensuing  era  are  noted.  First, 
the  Court  viewed  the  due  process  question  as  entirely  separate  from 
the  question  whether  a  right  was  a  privilege  or  immunity  of  national 
citizenship.  See Twining v.  New Jersey, 211 U. S. 78, 99.  Second, the 
Court explained that the only rights due process protected against state 
infringement were those "of such a nature that they are included in the 
conception of due process of law."  Ibid.  Third, some cases during this 
era  "can  be  seen  as  having  asked . . . if a civilized  system  could  be 
imagined  that  would  not  accord  the  particular  protection"  asserted 
therein.  Duncan  v.  Louisiana,  391  U. S.  145,  149,  n.  14.  Fourth,  the 
Court  did not  hesitate  to  hold  that a  Bill  of  Rights  guarantee  failed  to 
meet the test for Due Process Clause protection, finding, e. g., that free-
dom  of  speech  and  press  qualified,  Gitlow  v.  New  York,  268  U. S.  652, 

744  McDONALD  v.  CHICAGO 

Syllabus 
666; Near v.  Minnesota ex rel. Olson, 283 U. S. 697, but the grand jury 
indictment  requirement  did  not,  Hurtado,  supra.  Finally,  even  when 
such  a  right  was  held  to  fall  within  the  conception  of  due  process,  the 
protection  or  remedies  afforded  against  state  infringement  sometimes 
differed  from  those  provided  against  abridgment  by  the  Federal  Gov-
ernment.  Pp. 759-761. 

(2)  Justice  Black  championed  the  alternative  theory  that  $ 1  of 
the  Fourteenth  Amendment  totally  incorporated  all  of  the  Bill  of 
Rights' provisions, see, e. g., Adamson v.  California, 332 U. S. 46, 71-72 
(Black,  J.,  dissenting),  but  the  Court  never  has  embraced  that  theory. 
Pp. 761-763. 

(3)  The Court eventually moved in the direction advocated by Jus-
tice Black, by adopting a theory of selective incorporation by which the 
Due Process Clause incorporates particular rights contained in the first 
eight Amendments.  See, e. g., Gideon v. Wainwright, 372 U. S. 335, 341. 
These  decisions  abandoned  three  of  the  characteristics  of  the  earlier 
period.  The  Court  clarified  that  the  governing  standard  is  whether  a 
particular Bill of Rights protection  is fundamental to  our Nation's  par-
ticular  scheme  of  ordered  liberty  and  system  of  justice.  Duncan, 
supra,  at  149,  n.  14.  The  Court  eventually  held  that  almost  all  of  the 
Bill  of  Rights'  guarantees  met  the  requirements  for  protection  under 
the Due Process Clause.  The Court also held that Bill of Rights protec-
tions must "all . . . be  enforced against the States under the Fourteenth 
Amendment  according  to  the  same  standards  that  protect  those  per-
sonal rights against federal encroachment."  Malloy v. Hogan, 378 U. S. 
1, 10.  Under this approach, the Court overruled earlier decisions hold-
ing that particular Bill of Rights guarantees or remedies did not apply 
to the States.  See, e. g., Gideon, supra, which overruled Betts v. Brady, 
316 U. S. 455.  Pp. 763-766. 

(d)  The Fourteenth Amendment makes the Second Amendment right 
to keep and bear arms fully applicable to the States.  Pp. 767-780. 

(1)  The Court must decide whether that right is fundamental to the 
Nation's  scheme  of  ordered  liberty,  Duncan,  supra,  at  149,  or,  as  the 
Court has said in a related context, whether it is "deeply rooted in this 
Nation's history and tradition," Washington v. Glucksberg, 521 U. S. 702, 
721.  Heller points unmistakably to the answer.  Self-defense is a basic 
right, recognized by many legal systems from ancient times to the pres-
ent, and the Heller Court held that individual self-defense is "the central 
component"  of  the  Second  Amendment  right.  554  U. S.,  at  599.  Ex-
plaining  that  "the  need  for  defense  of  self,  family,  and  property  is 
most  acute"  in  the  home,  id.,  at  628,  the  Court  found  that  this  right 
applies to handguns because they are "the most preferred firearm in the 
nation to `keep' and use for protection of one's home and family," id., at 

Cite as: 561 U. S. 742 (2010)  745 

Syllabus 
628-629.  It  thus  concluded  that  citizens  must  be  permitted  "to  use 
[handguns]  for  the  core  lawful  purpose  of  self-defense."  Id.,  at  630. 
Heller  also  clarifies  that  this  right  is  "deeply  rooted  in  this  Nation's 
history  and  tradition,"  Glucksberg,  supra,  at  721.  Heller explored  the 
right's origins in English law and noted the esteem with which the right 
was regarded during the colonial era and at the time of the ratification 
of the Bill of Rights.  This is powerful evidence that the right was re-
garded as fundamental in the sense relevant here.  That understanding 
persisted in the years immediately following the Bill of Rights' ratifica-
tion and  is confirmed by  the state constitutions  of  that era,  which pro-
tected the right to keep and bear arms.  Pp. 767-770. 

(2)  A  survey  of  the  contemporaneous  history  also  demonstrates 
clearly that the Fourteenth Amendment's Framers and ratifiers counted 
the right to keep and bear arms among those fundamental rights neces-
sary to the Nation's system of ordered liberty.  Pp. 770-780. 

(i)  By  the  1850's,  the  fear  that  the  National  Government  would 
disarm  the  universal  militia  had  largely  faded,  but  the  right  to  keep 
and bear arms was highly valued for self-defense.  Abolitionist authors 
wrote in support of the right, and attempts to disarm "Free-Soilers" in 
"Bloody Kansas" met with outrage that the constitutional right to keep 
and  bear  arms  had  been  taken  from  the  people.  After  the  Civil  War, 
the Southern States engaged in systematic efforts to disarm and injure 
African-Americans,  see  Heller,  supra,  at  614-615.  These  injustices 
prompted the 39th Congress to pass the Freedmen's Bureau Act of 1866 
and  the  Civil  Rights Act  of  1866  to  protect  the  right  to  keep  and  bear 
arms.  Congress,  however,  ultimately  deemed  these  legislative  reme-
dies  insufficient,  and  approved  the  Fourteenth  Amendment.  Today,  it 
is  generally  accepted that that  Amendment was understood  to provide 
a constitutional basis for protecting the rights set out in the Civil Rights 
Act.  See  General  Building  Contractors  Assn.,  Inc.  v.  Pennsylvania, 
458  U. S.  375,  389.  In  congressional  debates  on  the  proposed  Amend-
ment,  its  legislative  proponents  in  the  39th  Congress  referred  to  the 
right to keep and bear arms as a fundamental right deserving of protec-
tion.  Evidence  from  the  period  immediately  following  the  Amend-
ment's  ratification  confirms  that  that  right  was  considered  fundamen-
tal.  Pp. 770-778. 

(ii)  Despite  all  this  evidence,  municipal  respondents  argue  that 
Members  of  Congress  overwhelmingly  viewed  $ 1  of  the  Fourteenth 
Amendment  as  purely  an  antidiscrimination  rule.  But  while  $ 1  does 
contain  an antidiscrimination rule,  i. e.,  the Equal  Protection Clause, it 
can hardly be said that the section does no more than prohibit discrimi-
nation.  If what municipal respondents mean is that the Second Amend-
ment  should  be  singled  out  for  special--and  specially  unfavorable-- 

746  McDONALD  v.  CHICAGO 

Syllabus 
treatment,  the  Court  rejects  the  suggestion.  The  right  to  keep  and 
bear arms must be regarded as a substantive guarantee, not a prohibi-
tion  that  could  be  ignored  so  long  as  the  States  legislated  in  an  even-
handed manner.  Pp. 778-780. 

Justice

Cite as: 561 U. S. 742 (2010)  747 

Syllabus 
authorities plainly shows  that, at that time, the ratifying public under-
stood  the  Clause  to  protect  constitutionally  enumerated  rights,  includ-
ing the right to keep and bear arms.  Pp. 805-838. 

Alito,

748  McDONALD  v.  CHICAGO 

Opinion of the Court 
Justice

Cite as: 561 U. S. 742 (2010)  749 

Opinion of the Court 
tice

750  McDONALD  v.  CHICAGO 

Opinion of the Court 
right  to keep  and bear  arms  for  the  purpose  of  self-defense, and we struck down  a District  of Columbia  law that banned 

the  possession  of  handguns  in  the  home.  The  city  of  Chi-cago (Chicago or City) and the village of Oak Park, a Chicago 
suburb,  have  laws  that  are  similar  to  the  District  of  Colum-bia's,  but  Chicago  and  Oak  Park  argue  that  their  laws  are 
constitutional  because  the  Second  Amendment  has  no  appli-cation  to  the  States.  We  have  previously  held  that  most  of 
the  provisions  of  the  Bill  of  Rights  apply  with  full  force  to both the Federal Government and the States.  Applying the 
standard that is well established in our case law, we hold that the Second Amendment right is fully applicable to the States. 

I 
Otis  McDonald,  Adam  Orlov,  Colleen  Lawson,  and  David Lawson  (Chicago  petitioners)  are  Chicago  residents  who 

would  like  to  keep  handguns  in  their  homes  for  self-defense but are prohibited from doing so by Chicago's firearms laws. 
A City ordinance provides that "[n]o person shall . . . possess .  .  .  any  firearm  unless  such  person  is  the  holder  of  a  valid 
registration certificate for such firearm."  Chicago, Ill., Mu-nicipal  Code  $ 8-20-040(a)  (2009).  The  Code  then  prohibits 
registration  of  most  handguns,  thus  effectively  banning 
handgun possession by almost all private citizens who reside in  the  City.  $ 8-20-050(c).  Like  Chicago,  Oak  Park  makes 

it  "unlawful  for  any  person  to  possess  .  .  .  any  firearm,"  a term  that  includes  "pistols,  revolvers,  guns  and  small  arms 
.  .  .  commonly  known  as  handguns."  Oak  Park,  Ill.,  Village Code $$ 27-2-1 (2007), 27-1-1 (2009). 

Chicago  enacted  its  handgun  ban  to  protect  its  residents "from  the  loss  of  property  and  injury  or  death  from  fire-

tice by William H. Mellor, Clark M. Neily III, and Robert J. McNamara; 
for Law Professor and Students by Douglas A. Berman, pro se, and Wil-
liam B. Saxbe; for the  NAACP Legal Defense & Educational Fund,  Inc., 
by John Payton, Debo P. Adegbile, Dale E. Ho, and Joshua Civin; and for 
the Rutherford Institute by John W. Whitehead. 

Cite as: 561 U. S. 742 (2010)  751 

Opinion of the Court 
arms."  See Chicago, Ill., Journal of Proceedings of the City Council,  p.  10049  (Mar.  19,  1982).  The  Chicago  petitioners 

and  their  amici,  however,  argue  that  the  handgun  ban  has left  them  vulnerable  to  criminals.  Chicago  Police  Depart-
ment  statistics,  we  are  told,  reveal  that  the  City's  handgun murder  rate  has  actually  increased  since  the  ban  was  en-
acted 1  and that  Chicago residents  now  face  one of  the  high-est  murder  rates  in  the  country  and  rates  of  other  violent 
crimes that exceed the average in comparable cities.2 Several  of  the  Chicago  petitioners  have  been  the  targets 
of  threats  and  violence.  For  instance,  Otis  McDonald,  who is  in  his  late  seventies,  lives  in  a  high-crime  neighborhood. 
He is a community activist involved with alternative policing strategies, and his efforts to improve his neighborhood have 
subjected  him  to  violent  threats  from  drug  dealers.  App. 16-17; Brief for State Firearm Associations as 

Amici Curiae 20-21;  Brief  for  State  of  Texas  et  al.  as 
Amici  Curiae  7-8. Colleen  Lawson  is  a  Chicago  resident  whose  home  has  been 

targeted  by  burglars.  "In  Mrs.  Lawson's  judgment,  pos-sessing a handgun in Chicago would decrease her chances of 
suffering  serious  injury  or  death  should  she  ever  be  threat-ened  again  in  her  home." 

3  McDonald,  Lawson,  and  the 

other Chicago petitioners own handguns that they store out-side of the city limits, but they would like to keep their hand-

guns  in  their  homes  for  protection.  See  App.  16-19,  43-44 (McDonald),  20-24  (C.  Lawson),  19,  36  (Orlov),  20-21,  40 
(D. Lawson). 

1 See  Brief  for  Heartland  Institute  as  Amicus  Curiae  6-7  (noting  that 
handgun murder rate per 100,000 persons was 9.65 in 1983 and 13.88 in 2008). 

2 Brief  for  Buckeye  Firearms  Foundation,  Inc.,  et  al.  as  Amici  Curiae 

8-9 ("In 2002 and again in 2008, Chicago had more murders than any other 
city  in  the  U.  S.,  including  the  much  larger  Los  Angeles  and  New  York" 
(internal  quotation marks omitted)); see also Brief for International Law 
Enforcement  Educators  and  Trainers  Association  et  al.  as  Amici  Curiae 
17-21,  and  App.  A  (providing  comparisons  of  Chicago's  rates  of  assault, 
murder, and robbery to average crime rates in 24 other large cities). 

3 Brief for Women State Legislators et al. as Amici Curiae 2. 

752  McDONALD  v.  CHICAGO 

Opinion of the Court 
After  our  decision  in  Heller,  the  Chicago  petitioners  and two  groups 

4  filed  suit  against  the  City  in  the  United  States 

District  Court  for  the  Northern  District  of  Illinois.  They sought  a  declaration  that  the  handgun  ban  and  several  re-

lated Chicago ordinances violate the Second and Fourteenth Amendments  to  the  United  States  Constitution.  Another 
action  challenging  the  Oak  Park  law  was  filed  in  the  same District Court  by the  National  Rifle Association (NRA)  and 
two  Oak  Park  residents.  In  addition,  the  NRA  and  others filed a third action challenging the Chicago ordinances.  All 
three cases were assigned to the same District Judge. The  District  Court  rejected  plaintiffs'  argument  that  the 
Chicago  and  Oak  Park  laws  are  unconstitutional.  See  App. 83-84; 

NRA, Inc. v.  Oak Park, 617 F. Supp. 2d 752, 754 (ND Ill.  2008).  The  court  noted  that  the  Seventh  Circuit  had 

"squarely  upheld  the  constitutionality  of  a  ban  on  handguns a  quarter  century  ago," 

id.,  at  753  (citing  Quilici v.  Morton Grove, 695 F. 2d 261 (CA7 1982)), and that Heller had explic-

itly refrained from "opin[ing] on the subject of incorporation vel  non  of  the  Second  Amendment,"  NRA,  617  F.  Supp.  2d, 
at 754.  The court observed that a district judge has a "duty to  follow  established  precedent  in  the  Court  of  Appeals  to 
which  he  or  she  is  beholden,  even  though  the  logic  of  more recent  caselaw  may  point  in  a  different  direction." 

Id., at 753. 

The  Seventh  Circuit  affirmed,  relying  on  three  19th-century  cases--United  States  v.  Cruikshank,  92  U. S.  542 
(1876), Presser v.  Illinois, 116 U. S. 252 (1886), and Miller v. 
Texas,  153  U. S.  535  (1894)--that  were  decided  in  the  wake of this Court's interpretation of the Privileges or Immunities 

Clause  of  the  Fourteenth  Amendment  in  the  Slaughter-House  Cases,  16  Wall.  36  (1873).  The  Seventh  Circuit  de-
scribed  the  rationale  of  those  cases  as  "defunct"  and  recog-nized  that  they  did  not  consider  the  question  whether  the 

4 The  Illinois  State  Rifle  Association  and  the  Second  Amendment 
Foundation, Inc. 

Cite as: 561 U. S. 742 (2010)  753 

Opinion of the Court 
Fourteenth  Amendment's  Due  Process  Clause  incorporates the Second Amendment right to keep and bear arms.  NRA, 

Inc. v.  Chicago, 567 F. 3d 856, 857, 858 (2009).  Nevertheless, the  Seventh  Circuit observed  that it  was obligated to follow 
Supreme  Court  precedents  that  have  "direct  application," and it declined to predict how the Second Amendment would 
fare under this Court's modern "selective incorporation" ap-proach. 

Id., at 857-858 (internal quotation marks omitted). We granted certiorari.  557 U. S. 965 (2009). 

II 

A 

Petitioners argue that the Chicago and Oak Park laws vio-late  the  right  to  keep  and  bear  arms  for  two  reasons.  Pe-

titioners'  primary  submission  is  that  this  right  is  among the  "privileges  or  immunities  of  citizens  of  the  United 
States"  and  that  the  narrow  interpretation  of  the  Privi-leges or  Immunities Clause adopted  in  the 

Slaughter-House 
Cases, supra, should now be rejected.  As a secondary argu-ment, petitioners contend that the Fourteenth Amendment's 

Due  Process  Clause  "incorporates"  the  Second  Amendment right. 

Chicago  and  Oak  Park  (municipal  respondents)  maintain that a right set out in the Bill of Rights applies to the States 
only  if that  right  is an  indispensable  attribute  of any  " `civi-lized' " legal system.  Brief for Municipal Respondents 9.  If 
it  is  possible  to  imagine  a  civilized  country  that  does  not recognize  the  right,  the  municipal  respondents  tell  us,  then 
that right is not protected by due process.  Ibid.  And since there are civilized countries that ban or strictly regulate the 
private  possession  of  handguns,  the  municipal  respondents maintain  that  due  process does  not  preclude  such  measures. 
Id.,  at  21-23.  In  light  of  the  parties'  far-reaching  argu-ments, we begin by recounting this Court's analysis over the 
years  of  the  relationship  between  the  provisions  of  the  Bill of Rights and the States. 

754  McDONALD  v.  CHICAGO 

Opinion of the Court 

B 
The Bill of Rights, including the Second Amendment, orig-
inally  applied  only  to  the  Federal  Government.  In  Barron 
ex rel. Tiernan v.  Mayor of Baltimore, 7 Pet. 243 (1833), the 
Court,  in  an  opinion  by  Chief  Justice  Marshall,  explained 
that  this  question  was  "of  great  importance"  but  "not  of 
much  difficulty."  Id.,  at  247.  In  less  than  four  pages,  the 
Court  firmly  rejected  the  proposition  that  the  first  eight 
Amendments  operate  as  limitations  on  the  States,  holding 
that  they  apply  only  to  the  Federal  Government.  See  also 
Lessee  of  Livingston  v.  Moore,  7  Pet.  469,  551-552  (1833) 
("[I]t  is  now  settled  that  those  amendments  [in  the  Bill  of 
Rights] do not extend to the states"). 

The  constitutional  Amendments  adopted in  the  aftermath 
of the Civil War fundamentally altered our country's federal 
system.  The provision at issue in this case, $ 1 of the Four-
teenth  Amendment,  provides,  among  other  things,  that  a 
State  may  not  abridge  "the  privileges  or  immunities  of  citi-
zens  of  the  United  States"  or  deprive  "any  person  of  life, 
liberty, or property, without due process of law." 

Four  years  after  the  adoption  of  the  Fourteenth  Amend-
ment,  this  Court  was  asked  to  interpret  the  Amendment's 
reference  to  "the  privileges  or  immunities  of  citizens  of 

the United States."  The Slaughter-House Cases, supra, in-
volved challenges to a Louisiana law permitting the creation 
of a state-sanctioned monopoly on the butchering of animals 
within  the  city  of  New  Orleans.  Justice  Samuel  Miller's 
opinion  for  the  Court  concluded  that  the  Privileges  or  Im-
munities  Clause protects only those  rights "which owe  their 
existence to the Federal government, its National character, 
its  Constitution,  or  its  laws."  Id.,  at  79.  The  Court  held 
that other fundamental rights--rights that predated the cre-
ation of the Federal Government and that "the State govern-
ments were created to establish and secure"--were not pro-
tected by the Clause.  Id., at 76. 

Cite as: 561 U. S. 742 (2010)  755 

Opinion of the Court 
In  drawing  a  sharp  distinction  between  the  rights  of  fed-eral  and  state  citizenship,  the  Court  relied  on  two  principal 

arguments.  First,  the  Court  emphasized  that  the  Four-teenth Amendment's  Privileges or Immunities  Clause spoke 
of  "the  privileges  or  immunities  of  citizens  of  the  United 
States,"  and  the  Court  contrasted  this  phrasing  with  the wording in  the first sentence  of the  Fourteenth Amendment 

and  in  the  Privileges  and  Immunities  Clause  of  Article  IV, both of which refer to state citizenship.

5  (Emphasis added.) 

Second, the Court stated that a contrary reading would "rad-ically chang[e] the whole theory of the relations of the State 

and  Federal  governments  to  each  other  and  of  both  these governments  to  the  people,"  and  the  Court  refused  to  con-
clude  that  such  a  change  had  been  made  "in  the  absence  of language  which  expresses  such  a  purpose  too  clearly  to 
admit of doubt."  Id., at 78.  Finding the phrase "privileges or  immunities  of  citizens  of  the  United  States"  lacking  by 
this high standard, the Court reasoned that the phrase must mean something more limited. 

Under  the  Court's  narrow  reading,  the  Privileges  or  Im-munities Clause protects such things as the right 

"to  come  to  the  seat  of  government  to  assert  any  claim [a  citizen]  may  have  upon  that  government,  to  transact 
any business he may have with it, to seek its protection, to  share  its  offices,  to  engage  in  administering  its  func-
tions . . . [and to]  become  a  citizen  of  any  State  of  the Union by a  bona^  fide  residence  therein,  with  the  same 
rights as other citizens of that State."  Id., at 79-80 (in-ternal quotation marks omitted). 

5 The first sentence of the Fourteenth Amendment makes "[a]ll persons 
born  or  naturalized  in  the  United  States  and  subject  to  the  jurisdiction 
thereof  .  .  .  citizens  of  the  United  States  and  of  the  State  wherein  they 
reside."  (Emphasis  added.)  The  Privileges  and  Immunities  Clause  of 
Article IV  provides that  "[t]he Citizens  of each  State shall  be entitled  to 
all Privileges and Immunities of Citizens in the several States."  (Empha-
sis added.) 

756  McDONALD  v.  CHICAGO 

Opinion of the Court 
Finding  no  constitutional  protection  against  state  intru-sion  of  the  kind  envisioned  by  the  Louisiana  statute,  the 

Court upheld the statute.  Four Justices dissented.  Justice Field, joined by Chief Justice Chase and Justices Swayne and 
Bradley,  criticized the  majority  for  reducing  the  Fourteenth Amendment's Privileges or Immunities Clause to "a vain and 
idle enactment, which accomplished nothing, and most unnec-
essarily  excited  Congress  and  the  people  on  its  passage." 
Id., at 96; see also id., at 104.  Justice Field opined that the 
Privileges or Immunities Clause protects rights that are "in their  nature . . .  fundamental,"  including  the  right  of  every 

man  to  pursue  his  profession  without  the  imposition  of  un-
equal  or  discriminatory  restrictions.  Id.,  at  96-97  (inter-
nal quotation marks omitted).  Justice Bradley's dissent ob-
served that "we are not bound to resort to implication . . . to 
find  an  authoritative declaration  of some  of the  most  impor-
tant  privileges  and  immunities  of  citizens  of  the  United 
States.  It  is  in  the  Constitution  itself."  Id.,  at  118.  Jus-
tice Bradley would have construed the Privileges or Immuni-
ties Clause to include those rights enumerated in the Consti-
tution  as  well  as  some  unenumerated  rights.  Id.,  at  119. 
Justice  Swayne  described  the  majority's  narrow  reading  of 
the  Privileges  or  Immunities  Clause  as  "turn[ing]  .  .  .  what 
was  meant  for  bread  into  a  stone."  Id.,  at  129  (dissenting 
opinion). 

Today,  many  legal  scholars  dispute  the  correctness  of  the 
narrow Slaughter-House interpretation.  See, e. g., Saenz v. 
Roe, 526 U. S. 489, 522, n. 1,  527 (1999)  (Thomas,

Cite as: 561 U. S. 742 (2010)  757 

Opinion of the Court 
tutional  scholars"  that  the  opinion  is  "egregiously  wrong"); 
C. Black, A New Birth of Freedom 74-75 (1997). 

Three  years  after  the  decision  in  the  Slaughter-House 
Cases,  the  Court  decided  Cruikshank,  the  first  of  the  three 
19th-century  cases  on  which  the  Seventh  Circuit  relied.  92 
U. S.  542.  In  that  case,  the  Court  reviewed  convictions 
stemming  from  the  infamous  Colfax  Massacre  in  Louisiana 
on  Easter  Sunday  1873.  Dozens  of  blacks,  many  unarmed, 
were  slaughtered  by  a  rival  band  of  armed  white  men.6 
Cruikshank  himself  allegedly  marched  unarmed  AfricanAmerican  prisoners  through  the  streets  and  then  had  them 
summarily  executed.7  Ninety-seven  men  were  indicted  for 
participating  in  the  massacre,  but  only  nine  went  to  trial. 
Six  of  the  nine  were  acquitted  of  all  charges;  the  remaining 
three were acquitted of murder but convicted under the En-
forcement Act of 1870, 16 Stat. 140, for banding and conspir-
ing  together  to  deprive  their  victims  of  various  constitu-
tional rights, including the right to bear arms.8 

The  Court  reversed  all  of  the  convictions,  including  those 
relating to the deprivation of the victims' right to bear arms. 
Cruikshank, 92 U. S., at 553, 559.  The Court wrote that the 
right  of  bearing  arms  for  a  lawful  purpose  "is  not  a  right 
granted  by  the  Constitution"  and  is  not  "in  any  manner  de-
pendent upon that instrument for its existence."  Id., at 553. 
"The  second  amendment,"  the  Court  continued,  "declares 
that  it  shall  not  be  infringed;  but  this  .  .  .  means  no  more 
than  that  it  shall  not  be  infringed  by  Congress."  Ibid. 
"Our later  decisions  in  Presser  v.  Illinois, 116  U. S.  252, 265 

6 See  C.  Lane,  The  Day  Freedom  Died  265-266  (2008);  see  also  Brief 
for NAACP Legal Defense & Education Fund, Inc., as Amicus Curiae 3, 
and n. 2. 

7 See Lane, supra, at 106. 

8 United  States  v.  Cruikshank,  92  U. S.  542,  544-545  (statement  of  the 

case),  548,  553  (opinion  of  the  Court)  (1876);  Lawrence,  Civil  Rights  and 
Criminal  Wrongs:  The  Mens  Rea  of  Federal  Civil  Rights  Crimes,  67  Tu-
lane L. Rev. 2113, 2153 (1993). 

758  McDONALD v.  CHICAGO 

Opinion of Alito,
Cite as: 561 U. S. 742 (2010)  759 

Opinion of the Court 
right  to  keep  and  bear  arms  applies  to  the  States  under that theory. 

Indeed,  Cruikshank  has  not  prevented  us  from  holding that other rights that were at issue in that  case are  binding 
on  the  States  through  the  Due  Process  Clause.  In  Cruik-
shank,  the  Court  held  that  the  general  "right  of  the  people peaceably  to  assemble  for  lawful  purposes,"  which  is  pro-

tected  by  the  First  Amendment,  applied  only  against  the Federal  Government  and  not  against  the  States.  See  92 
U. S.,  at  551-552.  Nonetheless,  over  60  years  later  the Court held that the right of peaceful assembly was a "funda-
mental  righ[t] . . .  safeguarded  by  the  due  process  clause  of the Fourteenth Amendment." 

De Jonge v.  Oregon, 299 U. S. 353, 364 (1937).  We follow the same path here and thus con-

sider whether the right to keep and bear arms applies to the States under the Due Process Clause. 

D 

1 
In  the  late  19th  century,  the  Court  began  to  consider whether  the  Due  Process  Clause  prohibits  the  States  from 

infringing rights set out in the Bill of Rights.  See Hurtado v. 

California, 110  U. S.  516  (1884)  (due  process  does  not  re-quire grand jury indictment); Chicago, B. & Q. R. Co. v.  Chi-

cago, 166 U. S. 226 (1897) (due process  prohibits States from taking  of  private  property  for  public  use  without  just  com-
pensation).  Five features of the approach taken  during the ensuing era should be noted. 

First,  the  Court  viewed  the  due  process  question  as  en-tirely separate from the question whether a right was a priv-
ilege  or  immunity  of  national  citizenship.  See  Twining  v. 
New Jersey, 211 U. S. 78, 99 (1908). Second, the Court explained that the only rights protected 

against  state  infringement  by  the  Due  Process  Clause  were those  rights  "of  such  a  nature  that  they  are  included  in  the 
conception of due process of law."  Ibid.  See also, e. g., Ad-

760  McDONALD v.  CHICAGO 

Opinion of the Court 
amson v.  California, 332 U. S. 46 (1947); Betts v.  Brady, 316 U. S.  455  (1942); 

Palko  v.  Connecticut,  302  U. S.  319  (1937); 
Grosjean v.  American Press Co., 297 U. S. 233 (1936); Powell v. 

Alabama, 287 U. S. 45 (1932).  While it was "possible that 
some  of  the  personal  rights  safeguarded  by  the  first  eight Amendments  against  National  action  [might]  also  be  safe-

guarded  against  state  action,"  the  Court  stated,  this  was 
"not  because  those  rights  are  enumerated  in  the  first  eight Amendments." 

Twining, 211 U. S., at 99. 
The  Court  used  different  formulations  in  describing  the boundaries  of  due  process.  For  example,  in 

Twining,  the 
Court  referred to  "immutable principles  of justice  which  in-
here  in  the  very  idea  of  free  government  which  no  member 
of  the  Union  may  disregard."  Id.,  at  102  (internal  quota-
tion marks omitted).  In Snyder v.  Massachusetts, 291 U. S. 
97,  105  (1934),  the  Court  spoke  of  rights that  are  "so  rooted 
in  the  traditions  and  conscience  of  our  people  as  to  be 
ranked as fundamental."  And in Palko, the Court famously 
said  that  due  process  protects  those  rights  that  are  "the 
very  essence  of  a  scheme  of  ordered  liberty"  and  essential 

to  "a  fair  and  enlightened  system  of  justice."  302  U. S., 
at 325. 

Third,  in  some  cases  decided  during  this  era  the  Court 
"can  be  seen  as  having  asked,  when  inquiring  into  whether 
some  particular  procedural  safeguard  was  required  of  a 
State, if a civilized system could be imagined that would not 
accord  the  particular  protection."  Duncan  v.  Louisiana, 
391  U. S.  145,  149,  n.  14  (1968).  Thus,  in  holding  that  due 
process prohibits a State from taking private property with-
out  just  compensation,  the  Court  described  the  right  as 
"a  principle  of  natural  equity,  recognized  by  all  temperate 
and  civilized  governments,  from  a  deep  and  universal  sense 
of its justice."  Chicago, B. & Q. R. Co., supra, at 238.  Simi-
larly,  the  Court  found  that  due  process  did  not  provide  a 
right  against  compelled  incrimination  in  part  because  this 
right "has no place in the jurisprudence of civilized and free 

Cite as: 561 U. S. 742 (2010)  761 

Opinion of the Court 
countries outside the domain of the common law."  Twining, supra, at 113. 

Fourth, the Court during this era was not hesitant to hold that  a  right  set  out  in  the  Bill  of  Rights  failed  to  meet  the 
test  for  inclusion  within  the  protection  of  the  Due  Process Clause.  The  Court  found  that  some  such  rights  qualified. 
See, e. g., Gitlow v.  New York, 268 U. S. 652, 666 (1925) (free-dom  of  speech  and  press); 

Near  v.  Minnesota  ex  rel.  Olson, 283 U. S. 697 (1931) (same); Powell, supra (assistance of coun-

sel in  capital cases);  De Jonge, supra (freedom of assembly); Cantwell  v.  Connecticut,  310  U. S.  296  (1940)  (free  exercise 
of religion).  But others did not.  See, e. g., Hurtado, supra (grand jury indictment requirement); 

Twining, supra (privi-lege against self-incrimination). 

Finally, even when a right set out in the Bill of Rights was held to fall within the conception of due process, the protec-
tion  or  remedies  afforded  against  state  infringement  some-times  differed  from  the  protection  or  remedies  provided 
against  abridgment  by  the  Federal  Government.  To  give one example, in Betts the Court held that, although the Sixth 
Amendment  required  the  appointment  of  counsel  in  all  fed-eral criminal cases in which the defendant was unable to re-
tain  an  attorney,  the  Due  Process  Clause  required  appoint-ment  of  counsel  in  state  criminal  proceedings  only  where 
"want  of  counsel  in  [the]  particular  case . . .  result[ed]  in  a conviction  lacking  in  .  .  .  fundamental  fairness."  316  U. S., 
at  473.  Similarly,  in  Wolf  v.  Colorado,  338  U. S.  25  (1949), the  Court  held  that  the  "core  of  the  Fourth  Amendment" 
was  implicit  in  the  concept  of  ordered  liberty  and  thus "enforceable  against  the  States  through  the  Due  Process 
Clause" but that the exclusionary rule, which applied in fed-eral cases, did not apply to the States.  Id., at 27-28, 33. 

2 
An alternative  theory regarding  the  relationship between the Bill of Rights and $ 1 of the Fourteenth Amendment was 

762  McDONALD v.  CHICAGO 

Opinion of the Court 
championed by Justice Black.  This theory held that $ 1 of the Fourteenth Amendment totally incorporated all of the provi-

sions  of  the  Bill  of  Rights.  See,  e. g.,  Adamson,  supra,  at 71-72 (Black, J., dissenting); Duncan, supra, at 166 (Black, J., 
concurring).  As Justice Black noted, the chief congressional proponents of the Fourteenth Amendment espoused the view 
that the Amendment made the Bill of Rights applicable to the States and, in so doing, overruled this Court's decision in 

Bar-ron.
9  Adamson, supra, at 72 (dissenting opinion).10  None-

9 Senator Jacob Howard, who spoke on behalf of the Joint Committee on 
Reconstruction and sponsored the Amendment in the Senate, stated that 
the  Amendment  protected  all  of  "the  personal  rights  guarantied  and  se-
cured  by  the  first  eight  amendments  of  the  Constitution."  Cong.  Globe, 
39th Cong., 1st Sess., 2765 (1866) (hereinafter 39th Cong. Globe).  Repre-
sentative  John  Bingham,  the  principal  author  of  the  text  of  $ 1,  said  that 
the Amendment would "arm the Congress . . . with the power to enforce 
the bill of rights as it stands in the Constitution today."  Id., at 1088; see 
also  id.,  at  1089-1090;  A.  Amar,  The  Bill  of  Rights:  Creation  and  Recon-
struction 183 (1998) (hereinafter Amar, Bill of Rights).  After ratification 
of the Amendment, Bingham maintained the view that the rights guaran-
teed by $ 1 of the Fourteenth Amendment "are chiefly defined in the first 
eight  amendments  to  the  Constitution  of  the  United  States."  Cong. 
Globe, 42d Cong., 1st Sess., App. 84 (1871).  Finally, Representative Thad-
deus  Stevens,  the  political  leader  of  the  House  and  acting  chairman  of 
the Joint Committee on Reconstruction, stated during the debates on the 
Amendment that "the Constitution limits only the action of Congress, and 
is  not  a  limitation  on  the  States.  This  amendment  supplies  that  defect, 
and allows Congress to correct the unjust legislation of the States."  39th 
Cong. Globe 2459;  see also M.  Curtis,  No  State Shall  Abridge:  The Four-
teenth Amendment and the Bill of Rights 112 (1986) (counting at least 30 
statements during the debates in Congress interpreting $ 1 to incorporate 
the Bill of Rights); Brief for Constitutional Law Professors as Amici Cu-
riae 20  (collecting  authorities  and  stating  that  "[n]ot  a  single  senator  or 
representative disputed [the incorporationist] understanding" of the Four-
teenth Amendment). 

10 The  municipal  respondents  and  some  of  their  amici  dispute  the  sig-

nificance  of  these  statements.  They  contend  that  the  phrase  "privileges 
or immunities" is not naturally read to mean the rights set out in the first 
eight Amendments, see Brief for Historians et al. as Amici Curiae 13-16, 
and that "there is `support in the legislative history for no fewer than four 

Cite as: 561 U. S. 742 (2010)  763 

Opinion of the Court 
theless, the Court never has embraced Justice Black's "total 
incorporation" theory. 

3 

While Justice Black's theory was never adopted, the Court 
eventually  moved  in  that  direction  by  initiating  what  has 
been  called  a  process  of  "selective  incorporation,"  i. e.,  the 
Court began to hold that the Due Process Clause fully incor-
porates particular rights contained in the first eight Amend-
ments.  See,  e. g.,  Gideon  v.  Wainwright,  372  U. S.  335,  341 
(1963);  Malloy  v.  Hogan,  378  U. S.  1,  5-6  (1964);  Pointer  v. 
Texas,  380  U. S.  400,  403-404  (1965);  Washington  v.  Texas, 
388 U. S. 14, 18 (1967); Duncan, 391 U. S., at 147-148; Benton 
v.  Maryland, 395 U. S. 784, 794 (1969). 

interpretations  of  the . . . Privileges  or  Immunities  Clause,' "  Brief  for 
Municipal Respondents 69 (quoting Currie, The Reconstruction Congress, 
75  U.  Chi.  L.  Rev.  383,  406  (2008);  brackets  omitted).  They  question 
whether  there  is  sound  evidence  of  " `any  strong  public  awareness  of  na-
tionalizing  the  entire  Bill  of  Rights.' "  Brief  for  Municipal  Respondents 
69  (quoting  Wildenthal,  Nationalizing  the  Bill  of  Rights:  Revisiting  the 
Original  Understanding  of  the  Fourteenth  Amendment  in  1866-67,  68 
Ohio  St.  L.  J.  1509,  1600  (2007)).  Scholars  have  also  disputed  the  total 
incorporation  theory.  See,  e. g.,  Fairman,  Does  the  Fourteenth  Amend-
ment  Incorporate  the  Bill  of  Rights?  2  Stan.  L.  Rev.  5  (1949);  Berger, 
Incorporation  of  the  Bill  of  Rights  in  the  Fourteenth  Amendment:  A 
Nine-Lived Cat, 42 Ohio St. L. J. 435 (1981). 

Proponents  of  the  view  that  $ 1  of  the  Fourteenth  Amendment  makes 
all of the provisions of the Bill of Rights applicable to the States respond 
that the terms privileges, immunities, and rights were  used  interchange-
ably  at  the  time,  see,  e. g.,  Curtis,  supra,  at  64-65,  and  that  the  position 
taken  by  the  leading  congressional  proponents  of  the  Amendment  was 
widely  publicized  and  understood,  see,  e. g.,  Wildenthal,  supra,  at  1564- 
1565,  1590;  Hardy,  Original  Popular  Understanding  of  the  Fourteenth 
Amendment as Reflected in the Print Media of 1866-1868, 30 Whittier L. 
Rev.  695  (2009).  A  number  of  scholars  have  found  support  for  the  total 
incorporation of the Bill  of Rights.  See Curtis, supra, at 57-130;  Aynes, 
On  Misreading  John  Bingham  and  the  Fourteenth  Amendment,  103  Yale 
L.  J.  57,  61  (1993);  see  also  Amar,  Bill  of  Rights  181-230.  We  take  no 
position with respect to this academic debate. 

764  McDONALD v.  CHICAGO 

Opinion of the Court 
The decisions during this time abandoned three of the pre-viously  noted  characteristics  of  the  earlier  period.

11  The 

Court  made  it  clear  that  the  governing  standard  is  not whether any  "civilized system [can] be  imagined that would 

not accord the particular protection."  Duncan, 391 U. S., at 149, n. 14.  Instead, the Court inquired whether a particular 
Bill  of  Rights  guarantee  is  fundamental  to  our  scheme  of ordered liberty and system of justice. 

Id., at 149, and n. 14; see  also  id.,  at  148  (referring  to  those  "fundamental  prin-

ciples  of  liberty  and  justice  which  lie  at  the  base  of  all our civil and political institutions" (emphasis added; internal 
quotation marks omitted)). The Court also shed any reluctance to hold that rights guar-
anteed by the Bill of Rights met the requirements for protec-tion under the Due Process Clause.  The Court eventually in-
corporated almost all of the provisions of the Bill of Rights.12 

11 By contrast, the Court has never retreated from the proposition that 
the  Privileges  or  Immunities  Clause  and  the  Due  Process  Clause  pre-
sent  different  questions.  And  in  recent  cases  addressing  unenumerated 
rights,  we  have  required  that  a  right  also  be  "implicit  in  the  concept  of 
ordered liberty."  See, e. g., Washington v.  Glucksberg, 521 U. S. 702, 721 
(1997) (internal quotation marks omitted). 

12 With respect to the First Amendment, see Everson v.  Board of Ed. of 

Ewing, 330 U. S. 1 (1947) (Establishment Clause); Cantwell v. Connecticut, 
310 U. S. 296 (1940) (Free Exercise Clause); De Jonge v.  Oregon, 299 U. S. 
353 (1937) (freedom of assembly); Gitlow v.  New York, 268 U. S. 652 (1925) 
(free speech); Near v.  Minnesota ex rel. Olson, 283 U. S. 697 (1931) (free-
dom of the press). 

With respect to the Fourth Amendment, see Aguilar v.  Texas, 378 U. S. 
108 (1964) (warrant requirement);  Mapp v.  Ohio,  367 U. S. 643 (1961) (ex-
clusionary rule); Wolf v. Colorado, 338 U. S. 25 (1949) (freedom from unrea-
sonable searches and seizures). 

With  respect  to  the  Fifth  Amendment,  see  Benton  v.  Maryland,  395 
U. S.  784  (1969)  (Double  Jeopardy  Clause);  Malloy  v.  Hogan,  378  U. S.  1 
(1964)  (privilege  against  self-incrimination);  Chicago,  B.  &  Q.  R.  Co.  v. 
Chicago, 166 U. S. 226 (1897) (Just Compensation Clause). 

With  respect  to  the  Sixth  Amendment,  see  Duncan  v.  Louisiana,  391 
U. S.  145  (1968)  (trial  by  jury  in  criminal  cases);  Washington  v.  Texas, 
388  U. S.  14  (1967)  (compulsory  process);  Klopfer  v.  North  Carolina,  386 

Cite as: 561 U. S. 742 (2010)  765 

Opinion of the Court 
Only  a  handful  of  the  Bill  of  Rights  protections  remain unincorporated.

13 

Finally,  the  Court  abandoned  "the  notion  that  the  Four-teenth  Amendment  applies  to  the  States  only  a  watereddown, subjective  version of the  individual guarantees of the Bill  of  Rights,"  stating  that  it  would  be  "incongruous"  to 
apply  different  standards  "depending  on  whether  the  claim was asserted in a state or federal court." 

Malloy, 378 U. S., at  10-11  (internal  quotation  marks  omitted).  Instead,  the 

Court decisively held that incorporated Bill of Rights protec-tions  "are  all  to  be  enforced  against  the  States  under  the 
Fourteenth  Amendment  according  to  the  same  standards that  protect  those  personal  rights  against  federal  encroach-
ment."  Id., at 10; see also Mapp v.  Ohio, 367 U. S. 643, 655- 656  (1961); 

Ker  v.  California,  374  U. S.  23,  33-34  (1963); 

U. S. 213 (1967) (speedy trial); Pointer v.  Texas, 380 U. S. 400 (1965) (right 
to  confront  adverse  witness);  Gideon  v.  Wainwright,  372  U. S.  335  (1963) 
(assistance  of  counsel);  In re Oliver, 333  U. S.  257  (1948)  (right  to  a  pub-
lic trial). 

With  respect  to  the  Eighth  Amendment,  see  Robinson  v.  California, 
370 U. S. 660 (1962) (cruel and unusual punishment); Schilb v.  Kuebel, 404 
U. S. 357 (1971) (prohibition against excessive bail (assumed)). 

13 In addition to the right to keep and bear arms (and the Sixth Amend-

ment right to  a  unanimous  jury verdict, see n. 14,  infra), the  only rights 
not  fully  incorporated  are  (1)  the  Third  Amendment's  protection  against 
quartering  of  soldiers;  (2)  the  Fifth  Amendment's  grand  jury  indictment 
requirement;  (3)  the  Seventh  Amendment  right  to  a  jury  trial  in  civil 
cases; and (4) the Eighth Amendment's prohibition on excessive fines. 

We  never  have  decided  whether  the  Third  Amendment  or  the  Eighth 
Amendment's prohibition  of excessive  fines applies to the States  through 
the Due Process Clause.  See  Browning-Ferris  Industries  of  Vt., Inc. v. 
Kelco  Disposal,  Inc.,  492  U. S.  257,  276,  n.  22  (1989)  (declining  to  decide 
whether the excessive-fines protection applies to the States); see also Eng-
blom v.  Carey, 677 F. 2d 957, 961 (CA2 1982) (holding as a matter of first 
impression  that  the  "Third  Amendment  is  incorporated  into  the  Four-
teenth Amendment for application to the states"). 

Our  governing decisions  regarding  the Grand  Jury  Clause  of the  Fifth 
Amendment  and  the  Seventh  Amendment's  civil  jury  requirement  long 
predate the era of selective incorporation. 

766  McDONALD v.  CHICAGO 

Opinion of the Court 
Aguilar v.  Texas, 378 U. S. 108, 110 (1964); Pointer, 380 U. S., at 406; Duncan, supra, at 149, 157-158; Benton, 395 U. S., at 

794-795; Wallace v.  Jaffree, 472 U. S. 38, 48-49 (1985).14 Employing  this  approach,  the  Court  overruled  earlier  de-
cisions  in  which  it  had  held  that  particular  Bill  of  Rights guarantees  or  remedies  did  not  apply  to  the  States.  See, 
e. g.,  Mapp,  supra  (overruling  in  part  Wolf,  338  U. S.  25); 
Gideon,  372  U. S.  335  (overruling Betts, 316  U. S.  455);  Mal-loy, supra (overruling Adamson, 332  U. S. 46,  and Twining, 

211 U. S. 78); Benton, 395 U. S., at 794 (overruling Palko, 302 U. S. 319). 

14 There is one exception to this general rule.  The Court has held that 
although the Sixth Amendment right to trial by jury requires a unanimous 
jury verdict in federal criminal trials, it does not require a unanimous jury 
verdict  in  state  criminal  trials.  See  Apodaca  v.  Oregon,  406  U. S.  404 
(1972);  see  also  Johnson  v.  Louisiana,  406  U. S.  356  (1972)  (holding  that 
the  Due  Process  Clause  does  not  require  unanimous  jury  verdicts  in 
state criminal trials).  But that ruling was the result of  an unusual  divi-
sion  among  the  Justices,  not  an  endorsement  of  the  two-track  approach 
to  incorporation.  In  Apodaca,  eight  Justices  agreed  that  the  Sixth 
Amendment  applies  identically  to  both  the  Federal  Government  and  the 
States.  See  Johnson,  supra,  at  395  (Brennan,  J.,  dissenting).  Nonethe-
less, among those eight, four Justices took the view that the Sixth Amend-
ment  does  not  require  unanimous  jury  verdicts  in  either  federal  or  state 
criminal  trials,  Apodaca,  406  U. S.,  at  406  (plurality  opinion),  and  four 
other  Justices  took  the  view  that  the  Sixth  Amendment  requires  unani-
mous  jury  verdicts  in  federal  and  state  criminal  trials,  id.,  at  414-415 
(Stewart, J., dissenting); Johnson, supra, at 381-382 (Douglas, J., dissent-
ing).  Justice Powell's concurrence in the judgment broke the tie, and he 
concluded that the Sixth Amendment requires juror unanimity in federal, 
but  not  state,  cases.  Apodaca,  therefore,  does  not  undermine  the  wellestablished rule that incorporated Bill of Rights protections apply identi-
cally to the States and the Federal Government.  See Johnson, supra, at 
395-396 (Brennan, J., dissenting) ("In any event, the affirmance must not 
obscure that the majority of the Court remains of the view that, as in the 
case of every specific of the Bill of Rights that extends to the States, the 
Sixth  Amendment's  jury  trial  guarantee,  however  it  is  to  be  construed, 
has  identical  application  against  both  State  and  Federal  Governments" 
(footnote omitted)). 

Cite as: 561 U. S. 742 (2010)  767 

Opinion of the Court 

III 
With this framework in mind, we now turn directly to the question whether the  Second Amendment  right to keep  and 

bear arms is incorporated in the concept of due process.  In answering  that  question,  as  just  explained,  we  must  decide 
whether  the  right  to  keep  and  bear  arms  is  fundamental  to 
our scheme  of  ordered  liberty,  Duncan, 391  U. S.,  at  149,  or as  we  have  said  in  a  related  context,  whether  this  right  is 

"deeply rooted in this Nation's history and tradition," Wash-
ington v.  Glucksberg, 521 U. S. 702, 721 (1997) (internal quo-tation marks omitted). 

A 
Our decision in Heller  points  unmistakably to the  answer. Self-defense  is  a  basic  right,  recognized  by  many  legal  sys-

tems  from  ancient  times  to  the  present  day,15  and  in  Heller, we  held  that  individual  self-defense  is  "the 

central  compo-
nent" of the Second Amendment right.  554 U. S., at 599; see 
also  id.,  at  628  (stating  that  the  "inherent  right  of  self-defense  has  been  central  to  the  Second  Amendment  right"). 

Explaining  that  "the  need  for  defense  of  self,  family,  and property  is  most  acute"  in  the  home, 

ibid.,  we  found  that 
this  right  applies  to  handguns  because  they  are  "the  most preferred  firearm  in  the  nation  to `keep'  and  use  for  protec-

tion of one's home and family," id., at 628-629 (some internal quotation  marks  omitted);  see  also 

id.,  at  628  (noting  that 
handguns  are  "overwhelmingly  chosen  by  American  society 
for  [the]  lawful  purpose"  of  self-defense);  id.,  at  629  ("[T]he American  people  have  considered  the  handgun  to  be  the 

quintessential  self-defense  weapon").  Thus,  we  concluded, 

15 Citing Jewish, Greek, and Roman law, Blackstone wrote that if a per-
son  killed  an  attacker,  "the  slayer  is  in  no  kind  of  fault  whatsoever,  not 
even  in  the  minutest  degree;  and  is  therefore  to  be  totally acquitted  and 
discharged,  with  commendation  rather  than  blame."  4  W.  Blackstone, 
Commentaries on the Laws of England 182 (1769). 

768  McDONALD v.  CHICAGO 

Opinion of the Court 
citizens  must  be  permitted  "to  use  [handguns]  for  the  core lawful purpose of self-defense." 

Id., at 630. 
Heller  makes  it  clear  that  this  right  is  "deeply  rooted  in this  Nation's  history  and  tradition.

"  Glucksberg,  supra,  at 
721 (internal quotation marks omitted).  Heller explored the right's  origins,  noting  that  the  1689  English  Bill  of  Rights 

explicitly protected a right to keep arms for self-defense, 554 
U. S.,  at  592-593,  and  that  by  1765,  Blackstone  was  able  to 
assert that  the right to  keep and  bear arms was "one  of the 
fundamental rights of Englishmen," id., at 594. 

Blackstone's assessment was shared by the American colo-
nists.  As  we  noted  in  Heller,  King  George  III's  attempt  to 
disarm  the  colonists  in  the  1760's  and  1770's  "provoked  po-
lemical reactions by Americans invoking their rights as Eng-
lishmen to keep arms." 16  Ibid.; see also L. Levy, Origins of 
the Bill of Rights 137-143 (1999) (hereinafter Levy). 

The  right  to  keep  and  bear  arms  was  considered  no  less 
fundamental  by  those  who  drafted  and  ratified  the  Bill  of 
Rights.  "During the 1788 ratification debates, the fear that 
the federal government would disarm the people in order to 
impose  rule  through  a  standing  army  or  select  militia  was 
pervasive  in  Antifederalist  rhetoric."  Heller,  supra,  at  598 
(citing  Letters from The Federal Farmer III  (Oct. 10, 1787), 
in  2  The  Complete  Anti-Federalist  234,  242  (H.  Storing  ed. 
1981));  see  also  Federal  Farmer:  An  Additional  Number  of 
Letters  to  the  Republican,  Letter  XVIII  (Jan.  25,  1788),  in 
17  Documentary  History  of  the  Ratification  of the  Constitu-
tion  360,  362-363  (J.  Kaminski  &  G.  Saladino  eds.  1995); 
S.  Halbrook,  The  Founders'  Second  Amendment  171-278 

16 For  example,  an  article in  the Boston Evening  Post  stated: "For  it  is 
certainly  beyond  human  art  and  sophistry,  to  prove  the  British  subjects, 
to whom the priviledge of possessing arms is expressly recognized by the 
Bill of Rights, and, who live in a province where the law requires them to 
be  equip'd  with  arms,  &c.  are  guilty  of  an  illegal  act,  in  calling  upon  one 
another  to  be  provided  with  them,  as  the  law  directs."  Boston  Evening 
Post, Feb. 6, 1769, in  Boston Under Military Rule 1768-1769, p. 61 (1936) 
(emphasis deleted). 

Cite as: 561 U. S. 742 (2010)  769 

Opinion of the Court 
(2008).  Federalists responded, not by arguing that the right was  insufficiently  important  to  warrant  protection  but  by 

contending  that  the  right  was  adequately  protected  by  the Constitution's assignment of only limited powers to the Fed-
eral  Government.  Heller,  supra,  at  599;  cf.  The  Federalist No.  46,  p.  296  (C.  Rossiter  ed.  1961)  (J.  Madison).  Thus, 
Antifederalists and Federalists alike agreed that the right to 
bear  arms  was  fundamental  to  the  newly  formed  system  of government.  See  Levy  143-149;  J.  Malcolm,  To  Keep  and 

Bear  Arms:  The  Origins  of  an  Anglo-American  Right  155- 164  (1994).  But  those  who  were  fearful  that  the  new  Fed-
eral  Government  would  infringe  traditional  rights  such  as the  right  to  keep  and  bear  arms  insisted  on  the  adoption  of 
the Bill of Rights as a condition for ratification of the Consti-tution.  See  1  Debates  in  the  Several  State  Conventions  on 
the  Adoption  of  the  Federal  Constitution  327-331  (J.  Elliot 
2d ed. 1854); 3 id., at 657-661; 4 id., at 242-246, 248-249; see also  Levy  26-34;  1  A.  Kelly,  W.  Harbison,  &  H.  Belz,  The 

American  Constitution:  Its  Origins  and  Development  110, 118 (7th ed. 1991).  This is surely powerful evidence that the 
right  was  regarded  as  fundamental  in  the  sense  relevant here. 

This understanding persisted in the years immediately fol-
lowing  the  ratification  of  the  Bill  of  Rights.  In  addition  to 
the  four  States  that  had  adopted  Second  Amendment  ana-
logues  before  ratification,  nine  more  States  adopted  state 
constitutional  provisions  protecting  an  individual  right  to 
keep and bear arms between  1789 and 1820.  Heller, supra, 
at 600-603.  Founding-era legal commentators confirmed 
the importance of the right to early Americans.  St. George 
Tucker,  for  example,  described  the  right  to  keep  and  bear 
arms  as  "the  true  palladium  of  liberty"  and  explained  that 
prohibitions  on  the  right  would  place  liberty  "on  the  brink 
of destruction. "  1 Blackstone's Commentaries,  Editor's 
App.  300 (S. Tucker ed. 1803);  see also W. Rawle, A View of 
the Constitution of the United States of America 125-126 (2d 
ed.  1829);  3  J.  Story,  Commentaries  on  the  Constitution  of 

770  McDONALD v.  CHICAGO 

Opinion of the Court 
the  United  States  $ 1890,  p.  746  (1833)  ("The  right  of  the citizens to keep and bear arms has justly been considered, as 

the  palladium  of  the  liberties  of  a  republic;  since  it  offers  a strong  moral  check  against  the  usurpation  and  arbitrary 
power of rulers; and will generally, even if these are success-ful  in  the  first  instance,  enable  the  people  to  resist  and  tri-
umph over them"). 

B 

1 
By the 1850's, the perceived threat that had prompted the inclusion  of  the  Second  Amendment  in  the  Bill  of  Rights-- 

the  fear  that  the  National  Government  would  disarm  the universal  militia--had  largely  faded  as  a  popular  concern, 
but  the  right  to  keep  and  bear  arms  was  highly  valued for  purposes  of  self-defense.  See  M.  Doubler,  Civilian  in 
Peace, Soldier in War 87-90 (2003); Amar, Bill of Rights 258- 259.  Abolitionist  authors  wrote  in  support  of  the  right. 
See L. Spooner, The Unconstitutionality of Slavery 66 (1860); J. Tiffany, A Treatise on the Unconstitutionality of American 
Slavery  117-118  (1849).  And  when  attempts  were  made  to disarm  "Free-Soilers"  in  "Bloody  Kansas,"  Senator  Charles 
Sumner,  who  later  played  a  leading  role  in  the  adoption  of the  Fourteenth  Amendment,  proclaimed  that  "[n]ever  was 
[the rifle] more needed in just self-defense than now in Kan-sas."  The  Crime  Against  Kansas:  The  Apologies  for  the 
Crime:  The  True  Remedy,  Speech  of  Hon.  Charles  Sumner in the Senate of the United States 64-65 (1856).  Indeed, the 
1856 Republican Party Platform protested that in Kansas the constitutional  rights  of  the  people  had  been  "fraudulently 
and violently taken  from  them" and the  "right of the  people to  keep  and  bear  arms"  had  been  "infringed."  National 
Party  Platforms  1840-1972,  p.  27  (D.  Johnson  &  K.  Porter comp. 5th ed. 1973).

17 

17 Abolitionists  and  Republicans  were  not  alone  in  believing  that  the 
right  to  keep  and  bear  arms  was  a  fundamental  right.  The  1864  Demo-
cratic  Party  Platform  complained  that  the  confiscation  of  firearms  by 

Cite as: 561 U. S. 742 (2010)  771 

Opinion of the Court 
After  the  Civil  War,  many  of  the  over  180,000  AfricanAmericans  who  served  in  the  Union  Army  returned  to  the 
States of the old Confederacy, where systematic efforts were 
made  to  disarm  them  and  other  blacks.  See  Heller,  554 
U. S., at 614; E. Foner, Reconstruction: America's Unfinished 
Revolution  1863-1877,  p.  8  (1988)  (hereinafter  Foner).  The 
laws  of  some  States  formally  prohibited  African-Americans 
from  possessing  firearms.  For  example,  a  Mississippi  law 
provided that "no freedman, free negro or mulatto, not in the 
military  service  of  the  United  States  government,  and  not 
licensed so  to do  by the  board  of  police of his  or her  county, 
shall keep or carry fire-arms of any kind, or any ammunition, 
dirk  or  bowie  knife."  Certain  Offenses  of  Freedmen,  1865 
Miss.  Laws  p.  165,  $ 1,  in  1  Documentary  History  of  Recon-
struction 289 (W. Fleming ed. 1950); see also Regulations for 
Freedmen  in  Louisiana,  in  id.,  at  279-280;  H.  R.  Exec.  Doc. 
No.  70,  39th  Cong.,  1st  Sess.,  233,  236  (1866)  (describing  a 
Kentucky  law);  E.  McPherson,  The  Political  History  of  the 
United  States  of  America  During  the  Period  of  Reconstruc-
tion 40 (1871) (describing a Florida law); id., at 33 (describing 
an Alabama law).18 

Union  troops  occupying  parts  of  the  South  constituted  "the  interference 
with and denial of  the right of the people to bear arms in  their defense." 
National Party Platforms 1840-1972, at 34. 

18 In  South  Carolina,  prominent  black  citizens  held  a  convention  to  ad-

dress  the  State's  Black  Code.  They  drafted  a  memorial  to  Congress,  in 
which  they  included  a  plea  for  protection  of  their  constitutional  right  to 
keep  and  bear  arms:  " `We  ask  that,  inasmuch  as  the  Constitution  of  the 
United  States  explicitly  declares  that  the  right  to  keep  and  bear  arms 
shall  not  be  infringed  .  .  .  that  the  late  efforts  of  the  Legislature  of  this 
State to pass an act to deprive us [of] arms be forbidden, as a plain viola-
tion  of  the  Constitution.' "  S.  Halbrook,  Freedmen,  The  Fourteenth 
Amendment, and The Right to Bear Arms, 1866-1876, p. 9 (1998) (herein-
after Halbrook, Freedmen) (quoting 2 Proceedings of the Black State Con-
ventions,  1840-1865,  p.  302  (P.  Foner  &  G.  Walker  eds.  1980)).  Senator 
Charles  Sumner  relayed  the  memorial  to  the  Senate  and  described  the 
memorial as a request that black citizens "have the constitutional protec-
tion in keeping arms."  39th Cong. Globe 337. 

772  McDONALD v.  CHICAGO 

Opinion of the Court 
Throughout  the  South,  armed  parties,  often  consisting  of ex-Confederate soldiers serving in the state militias, forcibly 

took  firearms  from  newly  freed  slaves.  In  the  first  session of  the  39th  Congress,  Senator  Henry  Wilson  told  his  col-
leagues:  "In  Mississippi  rebel  State  forces,  men  who  were in  the  rebel  armies,  are  traversing  the  State,  visiting  the 
freedmen,  disarming  them,  perpetrating  murders  and  out-rages upon them; and the same things are done in other sec-
tions of the country."  39th Cong. Globe 40 (1865).  The Re-port  of  the  Joint  Committee  on  Reconstruction--which  was 
widely reprinted in the press and distributed by Members of the  39th  Congress  to  their  constituents  shortly  after  Con-
gress  approved  the  Fourteenth  Amendment 19--contained numerous  examples  of  such  abuses.  See,  e. g.,  H.  R.  Rep. 
No.  30,  39th  Cong.,  1st  Sess.,  pt.  2,  pp.  219,  229,  272,  pt.  3, pp.  46,  140,  pt.  4,  pp.  49-50  (1866);  see  also  S.  Exec.  Doc. 
No.  2,  39th  Cong.,  1st  Sess.,  23-24,  26,  36  (1865).  In  one town, the "marshal [took] all arms from returned colored sol-
diers, and [was] very prompt in shooting the blacks whenever an opportunity occur[red]."  H. R. Exec. Doc. No. 70, at 238 
(internal quotation marks omitted).  As Senator Wilson put it during the debate on a failed proposal to disband Southern 
militias:  "There  is  one  unbroken  chain  of  testimony  from  all people  that  are  loyal  to  this  country,  that  the  greatest  out-
rages  are  perpetrated  by  armed  men  who  go  up  and  down the  country searching  houses,  disarming  people,  committing 
outrages  of  every  kind  and  description."  39th  Cong.  Globe 915 (1866).

20 

19 See B. Kendrick, Journal of the Joint Committee of Fifteen on Recon-
struction  265-266  (1914);  Adamson  v.  California,  332  U. S.  46,  108-109 
(1947) (appendix to dissenting opinion of Black, J.). 

20 Disarmament  by  bands  of  former  Confederate  soldiers  eventually 

gave  way  to  attacks  by  the  Ku  Klux  Klan.  In  debates  over  the  later 
enacted  Enforcement  Act  of  1870,  Senator  John  Pool  observed  that  the 
Klan  would  "order  the  colored  men  to  give  up  their  arms;  saying  that 
everybody  would  be  Kukluxed  in  whose  house  fire-arms  were  found." 
Cong.  Globe,  41st  Cong.,  2d  Sess.,  2719  (1870);  see  also  H.  R.  Exec.  Doc. 
No. 268, 42d Cong., 2d Sess., 2 (1872). 

Cite as: 561 U. S. 742 (2010)  773 

Opinion of the Court 
Union Army commanders took steps to secure the right of all  citizens  to  keep  and  bear  arms,

21  but  the  39th  Congress 

concluded  that  legislative  action  was  necessary.  Its  efforts to  safeguard  the  right  to  keep  and  bear  arms  demonstrate 

that the right was still recognized to be fundamental. The most explicit evidence of Congress' aim appears in $ 14 
of  the  Freedmen's  Bureau  Act  of  1866,  which  provided  that "the  right  .  .  .  to  have  full  and  equal  benefit  of  all  laws  and 
proceedings  concerning  personal  liberty,  personal  security, and the acquisition, enjoyment, and disposition of estate, real 
and  personal,  including  the  constitutional  right  to  bear 
arms, shall be secured to and enjoyed by all the citizens . . .  without respect to race or color, or previous condition of slav-

ery."  14 Stat. 176-177 (emphasis added).22  Section 14 thus explicitly guaranteed that "all the citizens," black and white, 
would have "the constitutional right to bear arms." 

21 For  example,  the  occupying  Union  commander  in  South  Carolina  is-
sued an order stating that "[t]he constitutional rights of all loyal and well 
disposed inhabitants to bear arms, will not be infringed."  General Order 
No. 1,  Department  of South  Carolina,  January 1, 1866,  in  1  Documentary 
History  of  Reconstruction  208  (W.  Fleming  ed.  1950).  Union  officials  in 
Georgia issued a similar order, declaring that " `[a]ll men, without the dis-
tinction of color, have the right to keep arms to defend their homes, fami-
lies  or  themselves.' "  Cramer,  Johnson,  &  Mocsary,  "This  Right  is  Not 
Allowed  by  Governments  That  Are  Afraid  of  The  People":  The  Public 
Meaning  of  the  Second  Amendment  When  the  Fourteenth  Amendment 
Was Ratified, 17 Geo. Mason L. Rev. 823, 854 (2010) (hereinafter Cramer) 
(quoting  Right  To  Bear  Arms,  Phila.,  Pa.,  Christian  Recorder,  Feb.  24, 
1866, pp. 1-2).  In addition, when made aware of attempts by armed par-
ties  to  disarm  blacks,  the  head  of  the  Freedmen's  Bureau  in  Alabama 
"made public [his] determination to maintain the right of the negro to keep 
and  to  bear  arms,  and  [his]  disposition  to  send  an  armed  force  into  any 
neighborhood  in  which  that  right  should  be  systematically  interfered 
with."  Joint Committee on Reconstruction, H. R. Rep. No. 30, 39th Cong., 
1st Sess., pt. 3, p. 140 (1866). 

22 The Freedmen's Bureau bill was amended to include an express refer-

ence  to  the right  to  keep  and bear  arms,  see  39th Cong.  Globe  654  (Rep. 
Thomas Eliot), even though at least some Members believed that the un-
amended version alone would have protected the right, see id., at 743 (Sen. 
Lyman Trumbull). 

774  McDONALD v.  CHICAGO 

Opinion of the Court 
The Civil Rights Act of 1866, 14 Stat. 27, which was consid-ered  at  the  same  time  as  the  Freedmen's  Bureau  Act,  simi-

larly  sought  to  protect  the  right  of  all  citizens  to  keep  and bear  arms.

23  Section  1  of  the  Civil  Rights  Act  guaranteed 

the  "full  and  equal  benefit  of  all  laws  and  proceedings  for the  security  of  person  and  property,  as  is  enjoyed  by  white 

citizens."  Ibid.  This  language  was  virtually  identical  to 
language  in $ 14  of the  Freedmen's Bureau  Act,  14  Stat. 176 ("the  right  .  . . to have  full and equal benefit  of all laws  and 

proceedings  concerning  personal  liberty,  personal  security, and the acquisition, enjoyment, and disposition of estate, real 
and  personal").  And  as  noted,  the  latter  provision  went  on to explain that  one of the  "laws  and proceedings concerning 
personal  liberty,  personal  security,  and  the  acquisition,  en-joyment,  and  disposition  of  estate,  real  and  personal"  was 
"the constitutional right to bear arms."  Ibid.  Representa-
tive  Bingham  believed  that  the  Civil  Rights  Act  protected 
the  same  rights  as  enumerated  in  the  Freedmen's  Bureau 
bill,  which  of  course  explicitly  mentioned  the  right  to  keep 

23 There  can  be  no  doubt  that  the  principal  proponents  of  the  Civil 
Rights  Act  of  1866  meant  to  end  the  disarmament  of  African-Americans 
in the South.  In introducing the bill, Senator Trumbull described its pur-
pose as securing to blacks the "privileges which are essential to freemen." 
Id.,  at  474.  He  then  pointed  to  the  previously  described  Mississippi  law 
that  "prohibit[ed]  any  negro  or  mulatto  from  having  fire-arms"  and  ex-
plained that the bill would "destroy" such laws.  Ibid.  Similarly, Repre-
sentative  Sidney  Clarke  cited  disarmament  of  freedmen  in  Alabama  and 
Mississippi as a reason to support the Civil Rights Act and to continue to 
deny  Alabama  and  Mississippi  representation  in  Congress:  "I  regret,  sir, 
that justice compels me to say, to the disgrace of the Federal Government, 
that  the  `reconstructed'  State  authorities  of  Mississippi  were  allowed  to 
rob  and  disarm  our  veteran  soldiers  and  arm  the  rebels  fresh  from  the 
field of treasonable strife.  Sir, the disarmed loyalists of Alabama, Missis-
sippi, and Louisiana are powerless to-day, and oppressed by the pardoned 
and encouraged rebels of those States.  They appeal to the American Con-
gress for protection.  In response to this appeal I shall vote for every just 
measure  of  protection,  for  I  do  not  intend  to  be  among  the  treacherous 
violators of the solemn pledge of the nation."  Id., at 1838-1839. 

Cite as: 561 U. S. 742 (2010)  775 

Opinion of the Court 
and  bear  arms.  39th  Cong.  Globe  1292.  The  unavoidable conclusion  is  that  the  Civil  Rights  Act,  like  the  Freedmen's 

Bureau  Act,  aimed  to  protect  "the  constitutional  right  to bear  arms"  and  not  simply  to  prohibit  discrimination.  See 
also  Amar,  Bill  of  Rights  264-265  (noting  that  one  of  the "core  purposes  of  the  Civil  Rights  Act  of  1866  and  of  the 
Fourteenth  Amendment  was  to  redress  the  grievances"  of freedmen who had been stripped of their arms and to "affirm 
the full and equal right of every citizen to self-defense"). Congress,  however,  ultimately  deemed  these  legislative 
remedies insufficient.  Southern  resistance, Presidential ve-toes,  and  this  Court's  pre-Civil-War  precedent  persuaded 
Congress that  a constitutional amendment  was necessary to provide  full  protection  for  the  rights  of  blacks.

24  Today,  it 

is  generally  accepted  that  the  Fourteenth  Amendment  was understood  to  provide  a  constitutional  basis  for  protecting 

the rights set out in the Civil Rights Act of 1866.  See Gen-eral  Building  Contractors  Assn.,  Inc.  v.  Pennsylvania,  458 
U. S. 375, 389 (1982); see also Amar, Bill of Rights 187; Cala-bresi & Fine, Two Cheers for Professor Balkin's Originalism, 
103 Nw. U. L. Rev. 663, 669-670 (2009). In  debating  the  Fourteenth  Amendment,  the  39th  Con-
gress referred to the right to keep and bear arms as a funda-mental right deserving of protection.  Senator Samuel Pom-
eroy  described  three  "indispensable"  "safeguards  of  liberty under  our  form  of  Government."  39th  Cong.  Globe  1182. 
One  of  these,  he  said,  was  the  right  to  keep  and  bear  arms: 

"Every  man  .  .  .  should  have  the  right  to  bear  arms for the defense of himself and family and his homestead. 

And  if  the  cabin  door  of  the  freedman  is  broken  open 
24 For  example,  at  least  one  Southern  court  had  held  the  Civil  Rights 
Act to be unconstitutional.  That court did so, moreover, in the course of 
upholding the conviction of an African-American man for violating Missis-
sippi's law against firearm possession by freedmen.  See Decision of Chief 
Justice  Handy,  Declaring  the  Civil  Rights  Bill  Unconstitutional,  N.  Y. 
Times, Oct. 26, 1866, p. 2, col. 3. 

776  McDONALD v.  CHICAGO 

Opinion of the Court 
and  the  intruder  enters  for  purposes  as  vile  as  were known  to  slavery,  then  should  a  well-loaded  musket  be 

in  the hand of the  occupant to send  the  polluted wretch to  another  world,  where  his  wretchedness  will  forever 
remain complete."  Ibid. 
Even those who thought the Fourteenth Amendment unnec-essary believed that blacks, as citizens,  "have  equal right to 

protection, and to keep and bear arms for self-defense."  Id., at 1073 (Sen. James Nye); see also Foner 258-259.

25 

Evidence  from  the  period  immediately  following  the  rati-fication of the Fourteenth Amendment only confirms that the 

right  to  keep  and  bear  arms  was  considered  fundamental. In an 1868  speech addressing  the  disarmament  of freedmen, 
Representative  Stevens  emphasized  the  necessity  of  the right:  "Disarm a community  and  you rob  them of the  means 
of  defending  life.  Take  away  their  weapons  of  defense  and you  take  away  the  inalienable  right  of  defending  liberty." 
"The fourteenth amendment, now so happily adopted, settles the  whole  question."  Cong.  Globe,  40th  Cong.,  2d  Sess., 
1967.  And  in  debating  the  Civil  Rights  Act  of  1871,  Con-gress  routinely  referred  to  the  right  to  keep  and  bear  arms 
and  decried  the  continued  disarmament  of  blacks  in  the 
South.  See  Halbrook,  Freedmen  120-131.  Finally,  legal commentators  from  the  period  emphasized  the  fundamental 

nature of the right.  See, e. g., T. Farrar, Manual of the Con-stitution of the United States of America $ 118, p. 145 (1867); 

25 Other  Members  of  the  39th  Congress  stressed  the  importance  of  the 
right  to  keep  and  bear  arms  in  discussing  other  measures.  In  speaking 
generally  on  Reconstruction,  Representative  Roswell  Hart  listed  the 
" `right of the people to keep and bear arms' " as among those rights neces-
sary to a "republican form of government."  39th Cong. Globe 1629.  Sim-
ilarly, in objecting to a bill designed to disarm Southern militias, Senator 
Willard  Saulsbury  argued  that  such  a  measure  would  violate  the  Second 
Amendment.  Id.,  at  914-915.  Indeed,  the  bill  "ultimately  passed  in  a 
form  that  disbanded  militias  but  maintained  the  right  of  individuals  to 
their private firearms."  Cramer 858. 

Cite as: 561 U. S. 742 (2010)  777 

Opinion of the Court 
J. Pomeroy, An Introduction to the Constitutional Law of the United States $ 239, pp. 152-153 (3d ed. 1875). 

The right to keep and bear arms was also widely protected by  state  constitutions  at  the  time  when  the  Fourteenth 
Amendment was ratified.  In 1868, 22 of the 37 States in the Union  had  state  constitutional  provisions  explicitly  protect-
ing  the  right  to  keep  and  bear  arms.  See  Calabresi  & Agudo,  Individual  Rights  Under  State  Constitutions  When 
the  Fourteenth  Amendment  Was  Ratified  in  1868:  What Rights  Are  Deeply  Rooted  in  American  History  and  Tradi-
tion?  87  Texas  L.  Rev.  7,  50  (2008).26  Quite  a  few  of  these state  constitutional  guarantees,  moreover,  explicitly  pro-
tected the right to keep and bear arms as an individual right to  self-defense.  See  Ala.  Const.,  Art.  I,  $ 28  (1868);  Conn. 
Const.,  Art.  I,  $ 17  (1818);  Ky.  Const.,  Art.  XIII,  $ 25  (1850); Mich. Const., Art. XVIII, $ 7 (1850); Miss. Const., Art. I, $ 15 
(1868); Mo. Const., Art. I, $ 8 (1865); Tex. Const., Art. I, $ 13 (1869);  see  also  Mont.  Const.,  Art.  III,  $ 13  (1889);  Wash. 
Const., Art. I, $ 24 (1889); Wyo. Const., Art. I, $ 24 (1889); see also  State  v.  McAdams,  714  P.  2d  1236,  1238  (Wyo.  1986). 
What is more, state constitutions adopted during the Recon-struction era  by former Confederate  States included  a right 
to  keep  and  bear  arms.  See,  e. g.,  Ark.  Const.,  Art.  I,  $ 5 (1868);  Miss.  Const.,  Art.  I,  $ 15  (1868);  Tex.  Const.,  Art.  I, 

$ 13  (1869).  A  clear  majority  of  the  States  in  1868,  there-fore,  recognized  the  right  to  keep  and  bear  arms  as  being 
among  the  foundational  rights  necessary  to  our  system  of government.

27 

26 More generally worded provisions in  the constitutions of  seven other 
States may also have encompassed a right to bear arms.  See Calabresi & 
Agudo, 87 Texas L. Rev., at 52. 

27 These state constitutional protections often reflected a lack of law en-

forcement in many sections of the country.  In the frontier towns that did 
not have an effective police force, law enforcement often could not pursue 
criminals  beyond  the  town  borders.  See  Brief  for  Rocky  Mountain  Gun 
Owners  et  al.  as  Amici  Curiae  15.  Settlers  in  the  West  and  elsewhere, 
therefore,  were  left  to  "repe[l]  force  by  force  when  the  intervention  of 

778  McDONALD v.  CHICAGO 

Opinion of the Court 
In  sum,  it  is  clear  that  the  Framers  and  ratifiers  of  the 
Fourteenth  Amendment  counted  the  right  to  keep  and  bear 
arms  among  those  fundamental  rights  necessary  to  our  sys-
tem of ordered liberty. 

2 

Despite  all  this  evidence,  municipal  respondents  contend 
that  Congress,  in  the  years  immediately  following  the  Civil 
War,  merely  sought  to  outlaw  "discriminatory  measures 
taken  against  freedmen,  which  it  addressed  by  adopting  a 
non-discrimination  principle"  and  that  even  an  outright  ban 
on  the  possession  of  firearms  was  regarded  as  acceptable, 
"so  long  as  it  was  not  done  in  a  discriminatory  manner." 
Brief  for  Municipal  Respondents  7.  They  argue  that  Mem-
bers  of  Congress  overwhelmingly  viewed  $ 1  of  the  Four-
teenth Amendment "as an antidiscrimination rule," and they 
cite  statements  to  the  effect  that  the  section  would  out-
law discriminatory measures.  Id., at 64.  This argument is 
implausible. 

First,  while  $ 1  of  the  Fourteenth  Amendment  contains 
"an  antidiscrimination  rule,"  namely,  the  Equal  Protection 
Clause, municipal respondents can hardly mean that $ 1 does 
no more than prohibit discrimination.  If that were so, then 
the  First  Amendment,  as  applied  to  the  States,  would  not 
prohibit nondiscriminatory abridgments of the rights to free-
dom  of  speech  or  freedom  of  religion;  the  Fourth  Amend-
ment,  as  applied  to  the  States,  would  not  prohibit  all  un-
reasonable  searches  and  seizures  but  only  discriminatory 
searches  and  seizures--and  so  on.  We  assume  that  this  is 
not  municipal  respondents'  view,  so  what  they  must  mean 
is  that  the  Second  Amendment  should  be  singled  out  for 

society . . . [was] too late to prevent an injury."  District of Columbia v. 
Heller, 554 U. S. 570, 595 (2008) (internal quotation marks omitted).  The 
settlers' dependence on game for food and economic livelihood, moreover, 
undoubtedly  undergirded  these  state  constitutional  guarantees.  See  id., 
at 599, 609, 615. 

Cite as: 561 U. S. 742 (2010)  779 

Opinion of the Court 
special--and  specially  unfavorable--treatment.  We  reject that suggestion. 

Second, municipal respondents' argument ignores the clear terms of the Freedmen's Bureau Act of 1866, which acknowl-
edged  the  existence  of  the  right  to  bear  arms.  If  that  law had used language such as "the equal benefit of laws concern-
ing  the  bearing  of  arms,"  it  would  be  possible  to  interpret 
it  as  simply  a  prohibition  of  racial  discrimination.  But  $ 14 speaks  of  and  protects  "the  constitutional  right  to  bear 

arms,"  an  unmistakable  reference  to  the  right  protected  by the Second Amendment.  And it protects the "full and equal 
benefit"  of  this  right  in  the  States.  14  Stat.  176-177.  It 
would  have  been  nonsensical  for  Congress  to  guarantee  the 
full  and  equal  benefit  of  a  constitutional  right  that  does  not 
exist. 

Third,  if  the  39th  Congress  had  outlawed  only  those  laws 
that  discriminate  on  the  basis  of  race  or  previous  condition 
of  servitude,  African-Americans  in  the  South  would  likely 
have  remained  vulnerable  to  attack  by  many  of  their  worst 
abusers:  the  state  militia  and  state  peace  officers.  In  the 
years immediately following the Civil War, a law banning the 
possession  of  guns  by  all  private  citizens  would  have  been 
nondiscriminatory only in the formal sense.  Any such law-- 
like the Chicago and Oak Park ordinances challenged here-- 
presumably would have permitted the possession of guns by 
those acting under the authority of the State and would thus 
have left firearms in the hands of the militia and local peace 
officers.  And  as  the  Report  of  the  Joint  Committee  on  Re-
construction  revealed,  see  supra,  at  772,  those  groups  were 
widely involved in harassing blacks in the South. 

Fourth,  municipal  respondents'  purely  antidiscrimination 
theory  of  the  Fourteenth  Amendment  disregards  the  plight 
of whites in the South who opposed the Black Codes.  If the 
39th Congress and the ratifying public had simply prohibited 
racial  discrimination  with  respect  to  the  bearing  of  arms, 
opponents  of  the  Black  Codes  would  have  been  left  without 

780  McDONALD v.  CHICAGO 

Opinion of Alito,
Cite as: 561 U. S. 742 (2010)  781 

Opinion of Alito,
782  McDONALD v.  CHICAGO 

Opinion of Alito,
Cite as: 561 U. S. 742 (2010)  783 

Opinion of Alito,
784  McDONALD v.  CHICAGO 

Opinion of Alito,
Cite as: 561 U. S. 742 (2010)  785 

Opinion of Alito,
786  McDONALD v.  CHICAGO 

Opinion of Alito,
Cite as: 561 U. S. 742 (2010)  787 

Opinion of Alito,
788  McDONALD v.  CHICAGO 

Opinion of Alito,
Cite as: 561 U. S. 742 (2010)  789 

Opinion of Alito,
790  McDONALD v.  CHICAGO 

Opinion of Alito,
Cite as: 561 U. S. 742 (2010)  791 

Scalia,
792  McDONALD  v.  CHICAGO 

Scalia,
Cite as: 561 U. S. 742 (2010)  793 

Scalia,
794  McDONALD  v.  CHICAGO 

Scalia,
Cite as: 561 U. S. 742 (2010)  795 

Scalia,
796  McDONALD  v.  CHICAGO 

Scalia,
Cite as: 561 U. S. 742 (2010)  797 

Scalia,
798  McDONALD  v.  CHICAGO 

Scalia,
Cite as: 561 U. S. 742 (2010)  799 

Scalia,
800  McDONALD  v.  CHICAGO 

Scalia,
Cite as: 561 U. S. 742 (2010)  801 

Scalia,
802  McDONALD  v.  CHICAGO 

Scalia,
Cite as: 561 U. S. 742 (2010)  803 

Scalia,
804  McDONALD  v.  CHICAGO 

Scalia,
Cite as: 561 U. S. 742 (2010)  805 

Opinion of Thomas,
806  McDONALD  v.  CHICAGO 

Opinion of Thomas,
Cite as: 561 U. S. 742 (2010)  807 

Opinion of Thomas,
808  McDONALD  v.  CHICAGO 

Opinion of Thomas,
Cite as: 561 U. S. 742 (2010)  809 

Opinion of Thomas,
810  McDONALD  v.  CHICAGO 

Opinion of Thomas,
Cite as: 561 U. S. 742 (2010)  811 

Opinion of Thomas,
812  McDONALD  v.  CHICAGO 

Opinion of Thomas,
Cite as: 561 U. S. 742 (2010)  813 

Opinion of Thomas,
814  McDONALD  v.  CHICAGO 

Opinion of Thomas,
Cite as: 561 U. S. 742 (2010)  815 

Opinion of Thomas,
816  McDONALD  v.  CHICAGO 

Opinion of Thomas,
Cite as: 561 U. S. 742 (2010)  817 

Opinion of Thomas,
818  McDONALD  v.  CHICAGO 

Opinion of Thomas,
Cite as: 561 U. S. 742 (2010)  819 

Opinion of Thomas,
820  McDONALD  v.  CHICAGO 

Opinion of Thomas,
Cite as: 561 U. S. 742 (2010)  821 

Opinion of Thomas,
822  McDONALD  v.  CHICAGO 

Opinion of Thomas,
Cite as: 561 U. S. 742 (2010)  823 

Opinion of Thomas,
824  McDONALD  v.  CHICAGO 

Opinion of Thomas,
Cite as: 561 U. S. 742 (2010)  825 

Opinion of Thomas,
826  McDONALD  v.  CHICAGO 

Opinion of Thomas,
Cite as: 561 U. S. 742 (2010)  827 

Opinion of Thomas,
828  McDONALD  v.  CHICAGO 

Opinion of Thomas,
Cite as: 561 U. S. 742 (2010)  829 

Opinion of Thomas,
830  McDONALD  v.  CHICAGO 

Opinion of Thomas,
Cite as: 561 U. S. 742 (2010)  831 

Opinion of Thomas,
832  McDONALD  v.  CHICAGO 

Opinion of Thomas,
Cite as: 561 U. S. 742 (2010)  833 

Opinion of Thomas,
834  McDONALD  v.  CHICAGO 

Opinion of Thomas,
Cite as: 561 U. S. 742 (2010)  835 

Opinion of Thomas,
836  McDONALD  v.  CHICAGO 

Opinion of Thomas,
Cite as: 561 U. S. 742 (2010)  837 

Opinion of Thomas,
838  McDONALD  v.  CHICAGO 

Opinion of Thomas,
Cite as: 561 U. S. 742 (2010)  839 

Opinion of Thomas,
840  McDONALD  v.  CHICAGO 

Opinion of Thomas,
Cite as: 561 U. S. 742 (2010)  841 

Opinion of Thomas,
842  McDONALD  v.  CHICAGO 

Opinion of Thomas,
Cite as: 561 U. S. 742 (2010)  843 

Opinion of Thomas,
844  McDONALD  v.  CHICAGO 

Opinion of Thomas,
Cite as: 561 U. S. 742 (2010)  845 

Opinion of Thomas,
846  McDONALD  v.  CHICAGO 

Opinion of Thomas,
Cite as: 561 U. S. 742 (2010)  847 

Opinion of Thomas,
848  McDONALD  v.  CHICAGO 

Opinion of Thomas,
Cite as: 561 U. S. 742 (2010)  849 

Opinion of Thomas,
850  McDONALD  v.  CHICAGO 

Opinion of Thomas,
Cite as: 561 U. S. 742 (2010)  851 

Opinion of Thomas,
852  McDONALD  v.  CHICAGO 

Opinion of Thomas,
Cite as: 561 U. S. 742 (2010)  853 

Opinion of Thomas,
854  McDONALD  v.  CHICAGO 

Opinion of Thomas,
Cite as: 561 U. S. 742 (2010)  855 

Opinion of Thomas,
856  McDONALD  v.  CHICAGO 

Opinion of Thomas,
Cite as: 561 U. S. 742 (2010)  857 

Opinion of Thomas,
858  McDONALD  v.  CHICAGO 

Stevens,
Cite as: 561 U. S. 742 (2010)  859 

Stevens,
860  McDONALD  v.  CHICAGO 

Stevens,
Cite as: 561 U. S. 742 (2010)  861 

Stevens,
862  McDONALD  v.  CHICAGO 

Stevens,
Cite as: 561 U. S. 742 (2010)  863 

Stevens,
864  McDONALD  v.  CHICAGO 

Stevens,
Cite as: 561 U. S. 742 (2010)  865 

Stevens,
866  McDONALD  v.  CHICAGO 

Stevens,
Cite as: 561 U. S. 742 (2010)  867 

Stevens,
868  McDONALD  v.  CHICAGO 

Stevens,
Cite as: 561 U. S. 742 (2010)  869 

Stevens,
870  McDONALD  v.  CHICAGO 

Stevens,
Cite as: 561 U. S. 742 (2010)  871 

Stevens,
872  McDONALD  v.  CHICAGO 

Stevens,
Cite as: 561 U. S. 742 (2010)  873 

Stevens,
874  McDONALD  v.  CHICAGO 

Stevens,
Cite as: 561 U. S. 742 (2010)  875 

Stevens,
876  McDONALD  v.  CHICAGO 

Stevens,
Cite as: 561 U. S. 742 (2010)  877 

Stevens,
878  McDONALD  v.  CHICAGO 

Stevens,
Cite as: 561 U. S. 742 (2010)  879 

Stevens,
880  McDONALD  v.  CHICAGO 

Stevens,
Cite as: 561 U. S. 742 (2010)  881 

Stevens,
882  McDONALD  v.  CHICAGO 

Stevens,
Cite as: 561 U. S. 742 (2010)  883 

Stevens,
884  McDONALD  v.  CHICAGO 

Stevens,
Cite as: 561 U. S. 742 (2010)  885 

Stevens,
886  McDONALD  v.  CHICAGO 

Stevens,
Cite as: 561 U. S. 742 (2010)  887 

Stevens,
888  McDONALD  v.  CHICAGO 

Stevens,
Cite as: 561 U. S. 742 (2010)  889 

Stevens,
890  McDONALD  v.  CHICAGO 

Stevens,
Cite as: 561 U. S. 742 (2010)  891 

Stevens,
892  McDONALD  v.  CHICAGO 

Stevens,
Cite as: 561 U. S. 742 (2010)  893 

Stevens,
894  McDONALD  v.  CHICAGO 

Stevens,
Cite as: 561 U. S. 742 (2010)  895 

Stevens,
896  McDONALD  v.  CHICAGO 

Stevens,
Cite as: 561 U. S. 742 (2010)  897 

Stevens,
898  McDONALD  v.  CHICAGO 

Stevens,
Cite as: 561 U. S. 742 (2010)  899 

Stevens,
900  McDONALD  v.  CHICAGO 

Stevens,
Cite as: 561 U. S. 742 (2010)  901 

Stevens,
902  McDONALD  v.  CHICAGO 

Stevens,
Cite as: 561 U. S. 742 (2010)  903 

Stevens,
904  McDONALD  v.  CHICAGO 

Stevens,
Cite as: 561 U. S. 742 (2010)  905 

Stevens,
906  McDONALD  v.  CHICAGO 

Stevens,
Cite as: 561 U. S. 742 (2010)  907 

Stevens,
908  McDONALD  v.  CHICAGO 

Stevens,
Cite as: 561 U. S. 742 (2010)  909 

Stevens,
910  McDONALD  v.  CHICAGO 

Stevens,
Cite as: 561 U. S. 742 (2010)  911 

Stevens,
912  McDONALD  v.  CHICAGO 

Breyer,
Cite as: 561 U. S. 742 (2010)  913 

Breyer,
914  McDONALD  v.  CHICAGO 

Breyer,
Cite as: 561 U. S. 742 (2010)  915 

Breyer,
916  McDONALD  v.  CHICAGO 

Breyer,
Cite as: 561 U. S. 742 (2010)  917 

Breyer,
918  McDONALD  v.  CHICAGO 

Breyer,
Cite as: 561 U. S. 742 (2010)  919 

Breyer,
920  McDONALD  v.  CHICAGO 

Breyer,
Cite as: 561 U. S. 742 (2010)  921 

Breyer,
922  McDONALD  v.  CHICAGO 

Breyer,
Cite as: 561 U. S. 742 (2010)  923 

Breyer,
924  McDONALD  v.  CHICAGO 

Breyer,
Cite as: 561 U. S. 742 (2010)  925 

Breyer,
926  McDONALD  v.  CHICAGO 

Breyer,
Cite as: 561 U. S. 742 (2010)  927 

Breyer,
928  McDONALD  v.  CHICAGO 

Breyer,
Cite as: 561 U. S. 742 (2010)  929 

Breyer,
930  McDONALD  v.  CHICAGO 

Breyer,
Cite as: 561 U. S. 742 (2010)  931 

Breyer,
932  McDONALD  v.  CHICAGO 

Breyer,
Cite as: 561 U. S. 742 (2010)  933 

Breyer,
934  McDONALD  v.  CHICAGO 

Breyer,
Cite as: 561 U. S. 742 (2010)  935 

Breyer,
936  McDONALD  v.  CHICAGO 

Breyer,
Cite as: 561 U. S. 742 (2010)  937 

Breyer,
938  McDONALD  v.  CHICAGO 

Breyer,
Cite as: 561 U. S. 742 (2010)  939 

Breyer,
940  McDONALD  v.  CHICAGO 

Breyer,
Cite as: 561 U. S. 742 (2010)  941 
Appendix to opinion of Breyer,
942   McDONALD  v.  CHICAGO 

Appendix to opinion of Breyer,

Cite as: 561 U. S. 742 (2010)   943 
Appendix to opinion of Breyer,
944   McDONALD  v.  CHICAGO 

Appendix to opinion of Breyer,

OCTOBER  TERM,  2009  945 

Per  Curiam 

SEARS  v.

946  SEARS  v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 945 (2010)  947 

Per Curiam 

I 
In 1993, a  Georgia  jury  convicted  Sears of armed  robbery 
and  kidnaping  with  bodily  injury  (which  also  resulted  in 
death),  a capital crime  under  state  law.  See Ga.  Code Ann. 

$ 16-5-40(d)(4)  (2006).2  During  the  penalty  phase  of  Sears' 
capital  trial,  his  counsel  presented  evidence  describing  his 
childhood  as stable,  loving,  and essentially  without  incident. 
Seven witnesses offered testimony along the following lines: 
Sears  came  from  a  middle-class  background;  his  actions 
shocked  and  dismayed  his  relatives;  and  a  death  sentence, 
the  jury was  told,  would devastate  the  family.  See  Pet.  for 
Cert. 6-7.  Counsel's mitigation theory, it seems, was calcu-
lated  to  portray  the  adverse  impact  of  Sears'  execution  on 
his  family  and  loved  ones.  20 Record  5181.  But  the  strat-
egy backfired.  The prosecutor ultimately used the evidence 
of  Sears'  purportedly  stable  and  advantaged  upbringing 
against  him  during  the  State's  closing  argument.  With 
Sears,  the  prosecutor  told  the  jury,  "[w]e  don't  have  a  de-
prived  child  from an  inner  city;  a  person who[m] society  has 
turned  its  back  on  at  an  early  age.  But,  yet,  we  have  a 
person, privileged in every  way, who has  rejected every  op-

2 Sears  was  sentenced  to  death  for  the  Kentucky  murder  of  a  woman 
whom  he  and  an  accomplice  kidnaped  in  Georgia.  Under  Georgia  law,  a 
jury  may  "impose  a  death  sentence  for  the  offense  of  kidnapping  with 
bodily  injury  on  the  ground  that  the  offense  of  kidnapping  with  bodily 
injury was committed while  the offender was engaged in the commission 
of  the  capital  felon[y]  of  murder  .  .  .  ."  Potts

948  SEARS  v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 945 (2010)  949 

Per Curiam 
Environmental  factors  aside,  and  more  significantly,  evi-dence produced during the state postconviction relief process 

also revealed that Sears suffered "significant frontal lobe ab-normalities."  Exh. 1, 

id.,

950  SEARS  v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 945 (2010)  951 

Per Curiam 
Finally,  the  fact  that  along  with  this  new  mitigation  evi-dence there was also some adverse evidence is unsurprising, 

post,

952  SEARS  v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 945 (2010)  953 

Per Curiam 
There are two errors in the state court's analysis of Sears' Sixth  Amendment  claim.  First,  the  court  curtailed  a  more 

probing  prejudice  inquiry  because  it  placed  undue  reliance on the assumed reasonableness of counsel's mitigation theory. 
The court's determination that counsel had conducted a con-stitutionally  deficient  mitigation  investigation  should  have, 
at  the  very  least,  called  into  question  the  reasonableness  of this  theory.  Cf. 

Wiggins

954  SEARS  v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 945 (2010)  955 

Per Curiam 
v.  McCollum,

956  SEARS  v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 945 (2010)  957 

Scalia,
958  SEARS  v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 945 (2010)  959 

Scalia,
960  SEARS  v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 945 (2010)  961 

Scalia,
962  SEARS  v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 945 (2010)  963 

Scalia,
964  SEARS  v.

Reporter's
ORDERS  FOR  JUNE  21  THROUGH  SEPTEMBER  28,  2010  

June

1002   OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

June  21,  2010   561  U. S. 
No.  09-8235.  Garza-Gonzalez

ORDERS  1003 
561  U. S.  June  21,  2010 
United

1004  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

June  21,  2010  561  U. S. 
No.  D-2471.  In

ORDERS  1005 
561  U. S.  June  21,  2010 
38(a)  and  to  submit  a  petition  in  compliance  with Rule  33.1  of  the Rules  of  this  Court. 

No.  09-11024.  In

1006  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

June  21,  2010  561  U. S. 
No.  09-1065.  United

ORDERS  1007 
561  U. S.  June  21,  2010 

No. 09-1260.  Mohamed

1008  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

June  21,  2010  561  U. S. 
No.  09-1344.  Fischer

ORDERS  1009 
561  U. S.  June  21,  2010 

No.  09-7445.  Williams

1010  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

June  21,  2010  561  U. S. 
No. 09-8297.  Clark

ORDERS  1011 
561  U. S.  June  21,  2010 

No. 09-8762.  Heard

1012  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

June  21,  2010  561  U. S. 
No.  09-9702.  Johnson

ORDERS  1013 
561  U. S.  June  21,  2010 

No.  09-10260.  Reaves

1014  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

June  21,  2010  561  U. S. 
No.  09-10313.  Patterson

ORDERS  1015 
561  U. S.  June  21,  2010 

No.  09-10437.  Guillory

1016  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

June  21,  2010  561  U. S. 
No.  09-10649.  Bowman

ORDERS  1017 
561  U. S.  June  21,  2010 

No.  09-10860.  Cotton

1018  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

June  21,  2010  561  U. S. 
No.  09-10913.  Charles

ORDERS  1019 
561  U. S.  June  21,  2010 

No.  09-10963.  Jose-Milan

1020  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

June  21,  24,  28,  2010  561  U. S. 
No. 09-1037.  Wilson

ORDERS  1021 
561  U. S.  June  28,  2010 
since  the  only  qualified  Justice  is  of  the  opinion  that  the  case cannot  be  heard  and  determined  at  the  next  Term  of  the  Court, 
the  judgment  is  affirmed  under  28  U. S. C.  $ 2109,  which  provides that  under  these  circumstances  "the  court  shall  enter  its  order 
affirming  the  judgment  of  the  court  from  which  the  case  was brought for review  with the same  effect as  upon affirmance by  an 
equally  divided  court."  The

1022  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

June  28,  2010  561  U. S. 
is directed not to accept any further petitions in noncriminal mat-ters  from  petitioner  unless  the  docketing  fee  required  by  Rule 
38(a) is paid and the petition is submitted in compliance with Rule 33.1.  See  Martin

ORDERS  1023 
561  U. S.  June  28,  2010 

No. 09M111.  Byler

1024  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

June  28,  2010  561  U. S. 
No. 09-11036.  In

ORDERS  1025 
561  U. S.  June  28,  2010 

No.  09-683.  Carmichael,

1026  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

June  28,  2010  561  U. S. 
No.  09-1164.  Norfolk

ORDERS  1027 
561  U. S.  June  28,  2010 

No.  09-1315.  Bauer

1028  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

June  28,  2010  561  U. S. 
No.  09-1441.  Atkin

ORDERS  1029 
561  U. S.  June  28,  2010 

No. 09-10300.  Cole

1030  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

June  28,  2010  561  U. S. 
No. 09-10368.  Ellison

ORDERS  1031 
561  U. S.  June  28,  2010 

No.  09-10444.  McAfee

1032  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

June  28,  2010  561  U. S. 
No.  09-10568.  Fletcher

ORDERS  1033 
561  U. S.  June  28,  2010 

No.  09-10777.  Gandy

1034  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

June  28,  2010  561  U. S. 
No.  09-10928.  Clark

ORDERS  1035 
561  U. S.  June  28,  2010 

No.  09-11004.  Salas

1036  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

June  28,  2010  561  U. S. 
No. 09-11054.  Doody

ORDERS  1037 
561  U. S.  June  28,  2010 

No.  09-11097.  Stanko

1038  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

June  28,  2010  561  U. S. 
No.  09-438.  Providence

ORDERS  1039 
561  U. S.  June  28,  2010 
nied.  Justice

1040  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

June  28,  29,  2010  561  U. S. 
No.  09-9520.  Thompson

ORDERS  1041 
561  U. S.  June  29,  2010 

No.  09-929.  Hargrove

1042  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

June  29,  July  1,  16,  21,  22,  2010  561  U. S. 
brief  as  amici

ORDERS  1043 
561  U. S. 

July

1044  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

July  26,  2010  561  U. S. 
requiring him to show cause why he should not be disbarred from the  practice  of  law  in  this  Court. 

No. D-2478.  In

ORDERS  1045 
561  U. S.  July  26,  2010 

No.  D-2485.  In

1046  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

July  26,  2010  561  U. S. 
in  this  Court,  and  a  rule  will  issue,  returnable  within  40  days, requiring him to show cause why he should not be disbarred from 
the  practice  of  law  in  this  Court. 

No.  D-2493.  In

ORDERS  1047 
561  U. S.  July  26,  2010 

No.  09-9466.  Cutaia

1048  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

July  26,  August  4,  6,  9,  12,  16,  2010  561  U. S. 
No.  09-10613.  In

ORDERS  1049 
561  U. S.  August  16,  2010 

No. D-2477.  In

1050  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

August  16,  2010  561  U. S. 
No.  09-7117.  Adams

ORDERS  1051 
561  U. S.  August  16,  19,  26,  September  3,  2010 

No. 09-10776.  Hallford

1052  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

September  3,  2010  561  U. S. 
No.  10A109  (09-10544).  Ysais

ORDERS  1053 
561  U. S.  September  3,  2010 

No. 09-7073.  Gould

1054  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

September  3,  9,  10,  2010  561  U. S. 
No.  09-10445.  Mendenhall

ORDERS  1055 
561  U. S.  September  10,  14,  16,  21,  22,  24,  2010 
tence  of  death,  presented  to  Justice

1056  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

September  24,  27,  28,  2010  561  U. S. 
of  death,  presented  to  Justice

ORDERS  1057 
561  U. S.  September  28,  2010 

No.  09-834.  Kasten

1058  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

September  28,  2010  561  U. S. 
presented  by  the  petition.  Cases  consolidated,  and  a  total  of  one hour  is  allotted  for  oral  argument.  Reported  below:  567  F.  3d 
1340. 

No.  09-1343.  J.

Reporter's

OPINIONS OF INDIVIDUAL JUSTICES  

IN CHAMBERS  

PHILIP  MORRIS  USA  INC.  et

1302  PHILIP MORRIS USA INC. v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 1301 (2010)  1303 

Opinion in Chambers 
the  allowable  alteration  of  normal  process  in  class  actions. This  is  a  fraud  case,  and  in  Louisiana  the  tort  of  fraud  nor-

mally  requires  proof  that  the  plaintiff  detrimentally  relied on  the  defendant's  misrepresentations.  949  So.  2d,  at  1277

.

1304  PHILIP MORRIS USA INC. v.Cite as: 561 U. S. 1301 (2010)  1305 

Opinion in Chambers 
will  not  likely  be  recoverable;  nor,  it  seems,  will  the $11,501,928  fee  immediately  payable  toward  administrative 

expenses in setting up the funded program. That  does  not  end the  matter.  A  stay will  not  issue sim-
ply  because  the  necessary  conditions  are  satisfied.  Rather, "sound  equitable  discretion  will  deny  the  stay  when  `a  de-
cided  balance  of  convenience' "  weighs  against  it.  Barnes,

1306  OCTOBER  TERM,  2009 

Opinion  in  Chambers 

LUX  et

Cite as: 561 U. S. 1306 (2010)  1307 

Opinion in Chambers 
Congress  must  obtain  1,000  signatures  from  voters  regis-tered in the relevant congressional district in order to appear 

on  the  ballot.  Va.  Code  Ann.  $ 24.2-506  (2010  Cum.  Supp.). That  same  provision  requires,  among  other  things,  that 
each  signature  be  witnessed  by  a  resident  of  that  district. 
Ibid.

1308  LUX  v.

1309
I N D E X
1312  INDEX 

CONSTITUTIONAL

INDEX  1313 
CONSTITUTIONAL
1314  INDEX 
ELECTIONS.

INDEX  1315 
INJUNCTIONS.
1316  INDEX 
PATENT

INDEX  1317 
SENTENCING.