

Cite as: 564 U. S. 50 (2011)  51 

Syllabus 
provided under $ 251(c)(3).  Treating entrance facilities as network ele-
ments,  the  FCC  concluded  that  competitive  LECs  are  not  impaired 
without access to such facilities.  The FCC again emphasized that com-
petitive  LECs'  $ 251(c)(2)  right  to  obtain  interconnection  had  not  been 
altered. 

In the Remand Order's wake, respondent AT&T notified competitive 
LECs  that  it  would  no  longer  provide  entrance  facilities  at  cost-based 
rates  for  either  backhauling  or  interconnection,  but  would  instead 
charge  higher  rates.  Competitive  LECs  complained  to  the  Michigan 
Public Service Commission that AT&T was unlawfully abrogating their 

$ 251(c)(2)  right  to  cost-based  interconnection.  The  Michigan  Public 
Service  Commission  agreed  and  ordered  AT&T  to  continue  providing 
entrance facilities for interconnection at cost-based rates.  AT&T chal-
lenged the ruling.  Relying on the Remand Order, the Federal District 
Court  ruled in  AT&T's  favor.  The  Sixth Circuit  affirmed, declining to 
defer  to  the  FCC's  argument  that  the  order  did  not  change  incumbent 
LECs'  interconnection obligations,  including  the obligation to lease  en-
trance facilities for interconnection. 

Held:  The  FCC  has  advanced  a  reasonable  interpretation  of  its  regula-

tions--i. e., that to satisfy its duty under $ 251(c)(2), an incumbent LEC 
must  make  its  existing  entrance  facilities  available  to  competitors  at 
cost-based rates if the facilities are to be used for interconnection--and 
this Court defers to the FCC's views.  Pp. 57-67. 

(a)  No  statute  or  regulation  squarely  addresses  the  question. 
Pp. 57-59. 

(b)  Absent an unambiguous statute or regulation, the Court turns to 
the  FCC's  interpretation  of  its  regulations  in  its  amicus  brief.  See, 
e. g.,  Chase  Bank  USA,  N.  A.  v.  McCoy, 562  U. S.  195,  207.  The  FCC 
proffers  a  three-step  argument  why  its  regulations  require  AT&T  to 
provide  access at  cost-based  rates  to  existing entrance  facilities for  in-
terconnection purposes.  Pp. 59-61. 

(1)  Interpreting 47 CFR $ 51.321(a), the FCC first contends that an 
incumbent LEC must lease "technically feasible" facilities for intercon-
nection.  Pp. 59-60. 

(2)  The FCC contends, second, that existing entrance facilities are 
part of an incumbent LEC's network, 47 CFR $ 51.319(e), and therefore 
are among the facilities that an incumbent LEC must lease for intercon-
nection, if technically feasible.  Pp. 60-61. 

(3)  Third, says the FCC, it is technically feasible to provide access 
to  the  particular  entrance  facilities  at  issue  in  these  cases--a  point 
AT&T does not dispute.  P. 61. 

54  TALK  AMERICA,  INC.  v.  MICHIGAN  BELL 

TELEPHONE  CO. 

Opinion of the Court 

carrier  without  basically  replicating  the  incumbent's  entire existing network. 

Ibid. 
The  1996  Act  addressed  that  barrier  to  market  entry  by requiring  incumbent  LECs  to  share  their  networks  with 

competitive LECs in several ways, two of which are relevant here.  First, 47 U. S. C. $ 251(c)(3) requires incumbent LECs 
to  lease  "on  an  unbundled  basis"--i. e.,  a  la  carte--network 
elements specified by the Commission.  This makes it easier for  a  competitor  to  create  its  own  network  without  having 

to  build  every  element  from  scratch.  In  identifying  which network  elements  must  be  available  for  unbundled  lease 
under  $ 251(c)(3),  the  Commission  is  required  to  consider 
whether access is "necessary" and whether failing to provide 
access  would  "impair"  a  competitor's  provision  of  service. 

$ 251(d)(2).  Second,  $ 251(c)(2)  mandates  that  incumbent 
LECs "provide . . . interconnection" between their networks 
and competitive LECs' facilities.  This ensures that custom-
ers  on  a  competitor's  network  can  call  customers  on  the  in-
cumbent's  network,  and  vice  versa.  The  interconnection 
duty  is  independent  of  the  unbundling  rules  and  not  sub-
ject  to  impairment  analysis.  It  is  undisputed  that  both 
unbundled  network  elements  and  interconnection  must  be 
provided  at  cost-based  rates.  See  $ 252(d)(1);  Brief  for 
Petitioner  in  No.  10-313,  p.  28;  Brief  for  Petitioners  in 
No. 10-329, p. 7; Brief for Respondent 4. 

These  cases concern  incumbent LECs'  obligation to  share 
existing  "entrance  facilities"  with  competitive  LECs.  En-
trance  facilities  are  the  transmission  facilities  (typically 
wires  or  cables)  that  connect  competitive  LECs'  networks 
with  incumbent  LECs'  networks.  The  FCC  recently 
adopted  a  regulation  specifying  that  entrance  facilities  are 
not among the network elements that $ 251(c)(3) requires in-
cumbents  to  lease  to  competitors  on  an  unbundled  basis  at 
cost-based  rates.  See  47  CFR  $ 51.319(e)(2)(i)  (2005).  The 
Commission noted, however, that it "d[id] not alter the right 
of competitive LECs to obtain interconnection facilities pur-

Cite as: 564 U. S. 50 (2011)  55 

Opinion of the Court 
suant to section 251(c)(2)."  In re Unbundled Access to Net-work Elements, 20 FCC Rcd. 2533, 2611, || 140 (2005) (Trien-

nial Review Remand Order). The  specific  issue  here  is  whether  respondent,  Michigan 
Bell  Telephone  Company,  d/ b/a  AT&T  Michigan  (AT&T), must  lease  existing  entrance  facilities  to  competitive  LECs 
at  cost-based  rates.  The  FCC  interprets  its  regulations  to require  AT&T  to  do  so  for  the  purpose  of  interconnection. 
We  begin  by  reviewing  the  Commission's  recent  actions  re-garding  entrance  facilities  and  then  explain  the  particular 
dispute that is before us today. 

A 
In 2003, the FCC decided, contrary to its previous orders, that  incumbent  LECs  were  not  obligated  to  provide  costbased  unbundled  access  to  entrance  facilities  under $ 251(c)(3). 

In re Review of Section 251 Unbundling Obliga-tions  of  Incumbent  Local  Exchange  Carriers,  18  FCC  Rcd. 

16978,  17202-17205,  |||| 365-367  (2003)  (Triennial  Review Order).  Explaining  that  its  previous  approach  had  been 
"misguided"  and  "overly  broad,"  id.,  |||| 366,  365,  the  Com-mission concluded that entrance facilities were not subject to 
the  unbundling  requirement  because  they  are  not  network elements at all.  See 

id., || 366 (entrance facilities "exist out-side the incumbent LEC's local network").  The Commission 

therefore did not conduct an impairment analysis. The  FCC  emphasized,  however,  the  limits  of  this  ruling. 
Entrance  facilities  are  used  for  two  purposes:  interconnec-tion  and  backhauling.

2  It  expressly  "d[id]  not  alter"  an  in-

2 Although the parties and their amici disagree over the precise defini-
tion of backhauling, they all appear to agree that backhauling is important 
to competitive LECs and occurs when a competitive LEC uses an entrance 
facility to transport traffic from a leased portion of an incumbent network 
to  the  competitor's  own  facilities.  Backhauling  does  not  involve  the  ex-
change of traffic between incumbent and competitive networks.  See, e. g., 
Brief for Petitioners in No. 10-329, p. 25; Brief for United States Telecom 
Association et  al. as  Amici  Curiae  32.  It thus  differs  from  interconnec-

56  TALK  AMERICA,  INC.  v.  MICHIGAN  BELL 

TELEPHONE  CO. 

Opinion of the Court 

cumbent LEC's obligation under $ 251(c)(2) to provide "facili-ties  in  order  to  `interconnect  with  the  incumbent  LEC's 

network.' "  Id.,  || 366  (brackets  omitted).  Thus,  although the Commission specified that $ 251(c)(3) did not require any 
unbundled  leasing  of  entrance  facilities,  it  determined  in practical  effect  only  that  "incumbent  LECs  [were  not  obli-
gated]  to  unbundle  [entrance  facilities]  for  the  purpose  of backhauling traffic." 

Id., || 365. On direct review, the D. C. Circuit questioned the Commis-

sion's determination that  entrance facilities are  not  network elements under $ 251(c)(3), but found the agency rulemaking 
record insufficient and remanded to the Commission for fur-ther  consideration.  See 

United  States  Telecom  Assn.  v. FCC,  359  F.  3d  554,  586,  cert.  denied,  543  U. S.  925  (2004). 

The court noted that if entrance facilities were in fact " `net-work elements,' " then "an analysis of impairment would pre-
sumably follow."  359 F. 3d, at 586. In  2005,  the  Commission  responded.  See  Triennial  Re-
view Remand Order |||| 136-141.  The Commission retreated from  its  view  that  entrance  facilities  are  not  network  ele-
ments  but  adhered  to  its  previous  position  that  cost-based unbundled  access  to  them  need  not  be  provided  under 

$ 251(c)(3).  Id.,  |||| 137-138.  Treating  entrance  facilities  as network  elements,  the  Commission  concluded  that  competi-
tive  LECs  are  not  impaired  without  access  to  them.  Ibid. The Commission again emphasized that it "d[id] not alter the 
right of competitive LECs to obtain interconnection facilities pursuant to section 251(c)(2)." 

Id., || 140. 

B 
In  the  wake  of  the  Triennial  Review  Remand  Order, AT&T notified competitive LECs that it would no longer pro-

vide  entrance  facilities  at  cost-based  rates  for  either  back-hauling or interconnection, but  would instead  charge higher 

tion--"the  linking  of  two  networks  for  the  mutual  exchange  of  traffic." 
47 CFR $ 51.5 (2010). 

Cite as: 564 U. S. 50 (2011)  57 

Opinion of the Court 
rates.  Competitive LECs complained to the Michigan Pub-lic Service Commission (PSC) that AT&T was unlawfully ab-

rogating  their  right  to  cost-based  interconnection  under $ 251(c)(2).  The  Michigan PSC  agreed with  the  competitive 
LECs  and  ordered  AT&T  to  continue  providing  entrance facilities for interconnection at cost-based rates. 

AT&T  challenged  the  Michigan  PSC's  ruling  in  the  Dis-trict Court, which, relying on the 

Triennial Review Remand Order,  ruled  in  AT&T's  favor.  The  Michigan  PSC  and  sev-

eral  competitive  LECs,  including  petitioner  Talk  America, Inc., appealed. 

The  Court  of  Appeals  for  the  Sixth  Circuit  affirmed  over a dissent. 

Michigan Bell Telephone Co. v.  Covad Communi-cations  Co.,  597  F.  3d  370  (2010).  At  the  court's  invitation, 

the  FCC  filed  a  brief  as  amicus  curiae,  arguing  that  the Triennial Review Remand Order did not change incumbent 
LECs'  interconnection  obligations,  including  the  obligation to  lease  entrance  facilities  for  interconnection.  The  Sixth 
Circuit  declined  to  defer  to  the  FCC's  views,  597  F.  3d,  at 375, n. 6, and also expressly disagreed with the Seventh and 
Eighth Circuits, id., at 384-386  (discussing  Illinois  Bell Tel. 
Co.  v.  Box, 526 F. 3d 1069 (2008), and Southwestern Bell Tel., L. P. v.  Missouri Pub. Serv. Comm'n, 530 F. 3d 676 (2008)).

3 

We  granted  certiorari,  562  U. S.  1104  (2010),  and  now reverse. 

II 
Petitioners  contend  that  AT&T  must  lease  its  existing entrance  facilities  for  interconnection  at  cost-based  rates. 

We agree.  A 

No  statute  or  regulation  squarely  addresses  whether  an incumbent  LEC  must  provide  access  to  entrance  facilities 
at  cost-based  rates  as  part  of  its  interconnection  duty 

3 The  Ninth  Circuit  has  since  joined  the  Seventh  and  Eighth  Circuits. 
Pacific Bell Tel. Co. v.  California Pub. Util. Comm'n, 621 F. 3d 836 (2010). 

58  TALK  AMERICA,  INC.  v.  MICHIGAN  BELL 

TELEPHONE  CO. 

Opinion of the Court 

under  $ 251(c)(2).  According  to  the  statute,  each  incum-bent LEC has: 

"The duty to provide, for the facilities and equipment of  any  requesting  telecommunications  carrier,  intercon-
nection with the local exchange carrier's network-- "(A)  for  the  transmission  and  routing  of  telephone 
exchange service and exchange access; "(B)  at any technically feasible point within the carri-
er's network; "(C)  that  is  at  least  equal  in  quality  to  that  provided 
by  the  local  exchange  carrier  to  itself  or  to  any  subsid-
iary,  affiliate,  or  any  other  party  to  which  the  carrier provides interconnection; and 

"(D)  on rates, terms, and conditions that are just, rea-sonable,  and  nondiscriminatory,  in  accordance  with  the 
terms  and conditions  of the  agreement  and the  require-ments of this section and section 252 of this title." 

Nothing in that language expressly addresses entrance facili-ties.  Nor  does  any  regulation  do  so.  See  Brief  for  United 
States as Amicus Curiae 22, n. 6. AT&T  contends  that  the  statute  makes  clear  that  an  in-
cumbent  LEC  need  not  provide  access  to  any  facilities-- much  less  entrance  facilities--to  provide  interconnection. 
The  company  points  out  that  $ 251(c)(2)  does  not  mention incumbent  LECs'  facilities,  but  rather  mandates  only  that 
incumbent  LECs  provide  interconnection  "for  the  facilities and  equipment  of  any  [competing]  carrier."  In  contrast, 
AT&T  notes,  $ 251(c)(3)  requires  that  incumbent  LECs  pro-
vide unbundled "access to [their] network elements." 

We  do  not  find  the  statute  so  clear.  Although  $ 251(c)(2) 
does not expressly require that incumbent LECs lease facili-
ties to provide interconnection, it also does not expressly ex-
cuse  them  from  doing  so.  The  statute  says  nothing  about 
what  an  incumbent  LEC  must  do  to  "provide . . . inter-
connection."  $ 251(c)(2).  "[T]he facilities and equipment of 

Cite as: 564 U. S. 50 (2011)  59 

Opinion of the Court 
any [competing] carrier" identifies the equipment that an in-
cumbent  LEC  must  allow  to  interconnect,  but  it  does  not 
specify what the incumbent LEC must do to make the inter-
connection possible.  Ibid. 

B 

In  the  absence  of  any  unambiguous  statute  or  regulation, 
we  turn  to  the  FCC's  interpretation  of  its  regulations  in  its 
amicus brief.  See, e. g., Chase  Bank USA, N. A. v.  McCoy, 
562  U. S.  195,  207  (2011).  As  we  reaffirmed  earlier  this 
Term,  we  defer  to  an  agency's  interpretation  of  its  regula-
tions,  even  in  a  legal  brief,  unless  the  interpretation  is 
" `plainly  erroneous  or  inconsistent  with  the  regulation[s]' " 
or there is any other " `reason to suspect that the interpreta-
tion  does  not  reflect  the  agency's  fair  and  considered  judg-
ment  on  the  matter  in  question.' "  Id.,  at  208,  209  (quoting 
Auer v.  Robbins, 519 U. S. 452, 461, 462 (1997)). 

The  Commission  contends  that  its  regulations  require 
AT&T  to  provide  access  at  cost-based  rates  to  its  existing 
entrance  facilities  for  the  purpose  of  interconnection.  The 
Commission's interpretation proceeds in three steps.  First, 
an incumbent LEC must lease "technically feasible" facilities 
for  interconnection.  Second,  entrance  facilities  are  among 
the  facilities  that  an  incumbent  must  make  available  for  in-
terconnection, if technically feasible.  Third, it is technically 
feasible to provide access to the particular entrance facilities 
at issue in these cases. 

1 

The  Commission  first  contends  that  an  incumbent  LEC 
must  lease,  at  cost-based  rates,  any  requested  facilities  for 
obtaining  interconnection  with  the  incumbent  LEC's  net-
work,  unless  it  is  technically  infeasible  to  do  so.  Section 
251(c)(2) mandates that an incumbent LEC provide intercon-
nection, at cost-based rates, "at any technically feasible point 
within the carrier's network."  The FCC has long construed 

$ 251(c)(2)  to  require  incumbent  LECs  to  provide,  at  cost-

60  TALK  AMERICA,  INC.  v.  MICHIGAN  BELL 

TELEPHONE  CO. 

Opinion of the Court 

based  rates,  "any  technically  feasible  method  of  obtaining interconnection  .  .  .  at  a  particular  point."  47  CFR 

$ 51.321(a) (2010). The requirement in $ 51.321(a) to provide a "method of ob-
taining  interconnection,"  the  Commission  argues,  encom-passes  a  duty  to  lease  an  existing  facility  to  a  competing 
LEC.  When  the  Commission  orig inally  promulgated $ 51.321(a),  it  explained  that  incumbent  LECs  would  be  re-
quired  to  "adapt  their  facilities  to  interconnection"  and  to "accept the novel use of, and modification to, [their] network 
facilities."  In  re  Implementation  of  Local  Competition 
Provisions in the Telecommunications Act of 1996, 11 FCC Rcd.  15499,  15605,  || 202  (1996) 

(Local  Competition  Order). Since then, as AT&T and its amici concede, incumbent LECs 

have  commonly  leased  certain  facilities  at  cost-based  prices to accommodate interconnection.  See Brief for Respondent 
28-29;  Brief  for  United  States  Telecom  Association  et  al.  as Amici Curiae 33-35. 

As  additional  support  for  its  assertion  that  incumbent LECs  are  obligated  to  lease  facilities,  the  FCC  highlights 
the examples in $ 51.321(b) of "[t]echnically feasible methods of obtaining interconnection," which include "[m]eet point in-
terconnection  arrangements."  In  a  meet-point  arrange-ment,  an  incumbent  LEC  "accommodat[es]"  interconnection 
by building a transmission facility from its network to a des-ignated point, where it connects with the competitor's corre-
sponding  transmission  facility.  Local  Competition  Order || 553.  Compared  to  that  requirement,  the  Commission  ar-
gues,  the  obligation  to  lease  existing  facilities  for  intercon-nection is quite modest. 

2 
Next,  the  Commission  contends  that  existing  entrance facilities  are  among  the  facilities  that  an  incumbent  LEC 

must  lease  for  interconnection.  According  to  the  FCC,  the 
Triennial Review Remand Order adopted a regulatory def-inition  that  reestablished  that  entrance  facilities  are  part  of 

Cite as: 564 U. S. 50 (2011)  61 

Opinion of the Court 
an  incumbent  LEC's  network.  See  || 137;  see  also  47  CFR $ 51.319(e).  The end of every entrance facility is therefore a 

"point  within  [an  incumbent]  carrier's  network"  at  which  a competing  LEC  could  request  interconnection,  47  U. S. C. 

$ 251(c)(2),  and  each  entrance  facility  potentially  provides  a "technically  feasible  method  of  obtaining  interconnection," 
47 CFR $ 51.321(a).  3 

Finally, the FCC contends that providing access to the en-trance  facilities  here  for  interconnection  purposes  is  techni-
cally  feasible.  Under  the  Commission's  regulations,  an  in-cumbent LEC bears the burden of showing that a requested 
method  or  point  of  interconnection  is  technically  infeasible. See  47  CFR  $$ 51.305(e),  51.321(d);  see  also  $$ 51.305(d), 
51.321(c)  (previously  successful  interconnection  is  "substan-tial  evidence"  of  technical  feasibility).  AT&T  does  not  dis-
pute technical feasibility here.4 

C 
The  FCC's  interpretation  is  not  "plainly  erroneous  or  in-consistent  with  the  regulation[s]."  Auer,  supra,  at  461  (in-

ternal  quotation  marks  omitted).  First,  we  disagree  with AT&T's  argument  that  entrance  facilities  are  not  a  part  of 

4 These cases concern only existing entrance facilities, and the Commis-
sion  expressly  declines  to  address  whether  it  reads  its  regulations  to  re-
quire incumbent LECs to build new entrance facilities for interconnection. 
Brief for United States as Amicus Curiae 25, n. 7.  The Commission sug-
gests here, as it has before, that additional considerations of cost or reason-
ableness might be appropriate if a competitive LEC were to request that 
an  incumbent  LEC  build  new  entrance  facilities  for  interconnection. 
Ibid. (noting that the Commission's Wireline Competition Bureau has de-
clined  to  require  an  incumbent  LEC  to  bear  the  entire  cost  of  building 
new entrance facilities); see also Local Competition Order || 553 (explain-
ing  with  respect  to  meet-point  arrangements  that  "the  parties  and  state 
commissions  are  in  a  better  position  than  the  Commission  to  determine 
the  appropriate  distance  that  would  constitute  the  required  reasonable 
accommodation of interconnection").  We express no view on the matter. 

62  TALK  AMERICA,  INC.  v.  MICHIGAN  BELL 

TELEPHONE  CO. 

Opinion of the Court 

incumbent LECs' networks.  Indeed, the Commission's view on  this  question  is  more  than  reasonable;  it  is  certainly  not 

plainly  erroneous.  The  Triennial  Review  Remand  Order responded  to  the  D.  C.  Circuit's  decision  questioning  the 
Commission's  earlier  finding  that  entrance  facilities  are  not network  elements.  It  revised  the  definition  of  dedicated 
transport--a  type  of  network  element--to  include  entrance 
facilities.  Triennial Review Remand Order |||| 136-137; see 47 CFR $ 51.319(e)(1) (defining dedicated transport to include 

"incumbent  LEC  transmission  facilities  .  .  .  between  wire centers or switches owned by incumbent LECs and switches 
owned by [competing] carriers").  Given that revised defini-tion,  it  is  perfectly  sensible  to  conclude  that  entrance  facili-
ties are a part of incumbent LECs' networks. Second,  we  are  not  persuaded  by  AT&T's  argument  that 
the  Commission's  views  conflict  with  the  definition  of  inter-
connection  in  $ 51.5.  That  regulation  provides:  "Intercon-nection  is  the  linking  of  two  networks  for  the  mutual  ex-

change  of  traffic.  This  term  does  not  include  the  transport and  termination  of  traffic."  AT&T  focuses  on  the  defini-
tion's  exclusion  of  "transport  and  termination  of  traffic." An entrance facility is a transport facility, AT&T argues, and 
it makes no sense to require an incumbent LEC to furnish a 
transport  facility  for  interconnection  when  the  definition  of 
interconnection expressly excludes transport. 

We  think  AT&T  reads  too  much  into  the  exclusion  of 
"transport."  The  regulation  cannot  possibly  mean  that  no 
transport can occur across an interconnection facility, as that 
would  directly  conflict  with  the  statutory  language.  See 

$ 251(c)(2)  (requiring  "interconnection  .  .  .  for  the  transmis-
sion  and  routing  of  [local]  telephone  exchange  service"). 
The very reason for interconnection is the "mutual exchange 
of traffic."  47 CFR $ 51.5; see also Competitive Telecommu-
nications Assn. v.  FCC, 117 F. 3d 1068, 1071-1072 (CA8 1997) 
("[T]he transmission and routing of telephone exchange serv-
ice" is "what the interconnection, the physical link, would be 
used for" (internal quotation marks omitted)). 

Cite as: 564 U. S. 50 (2011)  63 

Opinion of the Court 
The  better  reading  of  the  regulation  is  that  it  merely  re-flects  that  the  "transport  and  termination  of  traffic"  is  sub-

ject  to  different  regulatory  treatment  than  interconnection. Compensation for transport and termination--that is, for de-
livering local telephone calls placed by another carrier's cus-tomer--is  governed  by  separate  statutory  provisions  and 
regulations.  See  47  U. S. C.  $$ 251(b)(5),  252(d)(2);  47  CFR $ 51.701.  The Commission explains that a competitive LEC 
typically  pays  one  fee  for  interconnection--"just  for  having the  link"--and  then  an  additional  fee  for  the  transport  and 
termination of telephone calls.  Tr. of Oral Arg. 28; see also Brief for United States as 

Amicus Curiae 3, n. 1.  Entrance facilities, at least when used for the mutual exchange of traf-

fic,  seem  to  us  to  fall  comfortably  within  the  definition  of interconnection.  See  597  F.  3d,  at  388  (Sutton,  J.,  dissent-
ing)  (noting  that  entrance  facilities  are  "designed  for  the very  purpose  of  linking  two  carriers'  networks"  (internal 
quotation marks omitted)). In sum, the Commission's interpretation of its regulations 
is neither plainly erroneous nor inconsistent with the regula-tory text.  Contrary to AT&T's assertion, there is no danger 
that  deferring  to  the  Commission  would  effectively  "permit the  agency,  under  the  guise  of  interpreting  a  regulation,  to 
create  de  facto  a  new  regulation." 5  Christensen  v.  Harris County, 529 U. S. 576, 588 (2000). 

D 
Nor  is  there  any  other  "reason  to  suspect  that  the  inter-pretation  does  not  reflect  the  agency's  fair  and  considered 

5 There  is  no  merit  to  AT&T's  assertion  that  the  FCC  is  improperly 
amending the list of "[t]echnically feasible methods of obtaining intercon-
nection"  set  forth  in  47  CFR  $ 51.321(b).  By  its  own  terms,  that  list  is 
nonexhaustive.  See $ 51.321(b) ("[t]echnically feasible methods of obtain-
ing  interconnection . . . include,  but  are  not  limited  to,"  the  listed  ex-
amples);  see  also  $ 51.321(a)  ("[A]n  incumbent  LEC  shall  provide  .  .  . 
any  technically  feasible  method  of  obtaining  interconnection"  (emphasis 
added)). 

64  TALK  AMERICA,  INC.  v.  MICHIGAN  BELL 

TELEPHONE  CO. 

Opinion of the Court 

judgment  on  the  matter  in  question."  Auer,  519  U. S.,  at 
462.  We  are  not  faced  with  a  post-hoc  rationalization  by 
Commission  counsel  of  agency  action  that  is  under  judicial 
review.  See  ibid.;  see  also  Burlington  Truck  Lines,  Inc.  v. 
United States, 371 U. S. 156, 168-169 (1962) ("The courts may 
not  accept  appellate  counsel's  post  hoc  rationalizations  for 
agency action; [SEC v.]  Chenery [Corp., 332 U. S. 194 (1947),] 
requires that an agency's discretionary order be upheld, if at 
all, on the same basis articulated in the order by the agency 
itself ").  And  although  the  FCC  concedes  that  it  is  advanc-
ing a novel interpretation of its longstanding interconnection 
regulations, novelty alone is not a reason to refuse deference. 
The  Commission  explains  that  the  issue  in  these  cases  did 
not  arise  until  recently--when  it  initially  eliminated  unbun-
dled  access  to  entrance  facilities  in  the  Triennial  Review 
Order.  Until then, the Commission says, a competitive LEC 
typically  would  elect  to  lease  a  cost-priced  entrance  facil-
ity  under  $ 251(c)(3)  since  entrance  facilities  leased  under 

$ 251(c)(3)  could  be  used  for  any  purpose--i. e.,  both  inter-
connection  and  backhauling--but  entrance  facilities  leased 
under  $ 251(c)(2)  can  be  used  only  for  interconnection.  We 
see no reason to doubt this explanation. 

AT&T  suggests  that  the  Commission  is  attempting  to  re-
quire  under  $ 251(c)(2)  what  courts  have  prevented  it  from 
requiring  under  $ 251(c)(3)  and  what  the  Commission  itself 
said  was  not  required  in  the  Triennial  Review  Remand 
Order.  Tr. of Oral Arg. 50 ("[T]his is a rear guard effort to 
preserve  [cost-based]  pricing  for  things  that  the  [C]ommis-
sion has said should no longer be available . . . at [such] pric-
ing").  We do not think that AT&T is correct. 

1 
To  begin  with,  AT&T's  accusation  does  not  square  with 
the regulatory history.  The Commission was not compelled 
to eliminate the obligation to lease unbundled entrance facili-
ties at cost-based rates. 

Cite as: 564 U. S. 50 (2011)  65 

Opinion of the Court 
It  is  true  that,  prior  to  the  Triennial  Review  orders, the  Commission  twice  unsuccessfully  attempted  to  impose 

sweeping  unbundling  requirements  on  incumbent  LECs. See  Local  Competition  Order  || 278;  In  re  Implementation 
of  Local  Competition  Provisions  of  the  Telecommunica-
tions Act of  1996, 15  FCC Rcd.  3696, 3771-3904, |||| 162-464 (1999); see also 47 CFR $ 51.319 (1997); $ 51.319 (2000).  Each 

time,  the  Commission's  efforts  were  rejected  for  taking  an unreasonably broad view of "impair[ment]" under $ 251(d)(2). 
See Iowa Utilities Bd., 525 U. S., at 392; United States Tele-com Assn. v.  FCC, 290 F. 3d 415, 421-428 (CADC 2002), cert. 
denied,  538  U. S.  940  (2003).  In  the  Triennial  Review 
Order,  the  Commission  once  again  reinterpreted  the  "im-pair" standard and revised the list of network elements that 

incumbents must provide unbundled to competitors. The  Commission's  initial  decision  to  eliminate  the  obliga-
tion  to  unbundle  entrance  facilities,  however,  was  not  a  re-sult  of  the  narrower  view  of  impairment  mandated  by  this 
Court and the D. C. Circuit.  Instead, the Commission deter-mined  that  entrance  facilities  need  not  be  provided  on  an 
unbundled  basis  under  $ 251(c)(3)  on  the  novel  ground  that they  are  not  network  elements  at  all--something  no  court 
had ever suggested. Moreover,  since  its  initial  decision  to  eliminate  the  un-
bundling  obligation  for  entrance  facilities,  the  Commission has been committed to that position.  When the D. C. Circuit 
questioned  the  Commission's  finding  that  entrance  facilities are not network elements, the Commission responded by ob-
serving  that  the  court  "did  not  reject  our  conclusion  that incumbent  LECs  need  not  unbundle entrance  facilities,  only 
the  analysis  through  which  we  reached  that  conclusion." Triennial  Review  Remand  Order  || 137.  The  Commission 
then found another way to support that same conclusion. 

2 
More  importantly,  AT&T's  characterization  of  what  the Commission  has  done,  and  is  doing,  is  inaccurate.  The 

Tri-

66  TALK  AMERICA,  INC.  v.  MICHIGAN  BELL 

TELEPHONE  CO. 

Opinion of the Court 

ennial  Review  orders  eliminated  incumbent  LECs'  obli-gation  under  $ 251(c)(3)  to  provide  unbundled  access  to  en-

trance  facilities.  But  the  FCC  emphasized  in  both  orders that  it  "d[id]  not  alter"  the  obligation  on  incumbent  LECs 
under $ 251(c)(2) to provide facilities for interconnection pur-poses. 

Triennial  Review  Order  || 366;  Triennial  Review Remand  Order  || 140.  Because  entrance  facilities  are  used 

for  backhauling  and  interconnection  purposes,  the  FCC  ef-fectively eliminated only unbundled access to entrance facili-
ties for backhauling purposes--a nuance it expressly noted in the first Triennial  Review order.  Triennial Review Order 
|| 365.  That  distinction  is  neither  unusual  nor  ambiguous.6 In  these  cases,  the  Commission  is  simply  explaining  the  in-
terconnection obligation that it left undisturbed in the Trien-nial Review orders.  We see no conflict between the Trien-
nial  Review  orders  and  the  Commission's  views  expressed here.

7 

We are not concerned that the Triennial Review Remand 
Order  did  not  expressly  distinguish  between  backhauling and interconnection,  though AT&T makes  much of that fact. 

AT&T  argues  that  the  Commission's  holding  in  the  Trien-nial Review Remand Order is broader than that in the Tri-
ennial  Review  Order.  In  AT&T's  view,  the  Commission 

6 The Commission has long recognized that a single facility can be used 
for different functions and that its regulatory treatment can vary depend-
ing  on  its  use.  Unbundled  network  elements,  for  example,  may  not  be 
used  for the exclusive provision  of mobile  wireless  or long-distance  serv-
ices.  47  CFR  $ 51.309(b)  (2010).  Similarly,  interconnection  arrange-
ments  may  be  used  for  local  telephone  service  but  not  for  long-distance 
services.  $ 51.305(b). 

7 The  parties  and  their  amici  dispute  whether  an  incumbent  LEC  has 

any way of knowing how a competitive LEC is using an entrance facility. 
This  technical  factual  dispute  simply  underscores  the  appropriateness  of 
deferring  to  the  FCC.  So  long  as  the  Commission  is  acting  within  the 
scope of its delegated authority and in accordance with prescribed proce-
dures,  it  has  greater  expertise  and  stands  in  a  better  position  than  this 
Court to make the technical and policy judgments necessary to administer 
the complex regulatory program at issue here. 

Cite as: 564 U. S. 70 (2011)  73 

Opinion of the Court 
a  salt.1  Id.,  at  54,  180;  see  also  Brief  for  Individual  Physi-cians and Scientists as Amici Curiae 2-3 (hereinafter Physi-

cians  Brief).  Cocaine  is  derived  from  the  coca  plant  native to South America.  The  leaves of the coca  plant can be pro-
cessed  with  water,  kerosene,  sodium  carbonate,  and  sulfuric acid to produce a pastelike substance.  R. Weiss, S. Mirin, & 
R. Bartel, Cocaine 10 (2d ed. 1994).  When dried, the result-ing  "coca  paste"  can  be  vaporized  (through  the  application 
of  heat)  and  inhaled,  i. e.,  "smoked."  See  United  States Sentencing  Commission,  Special  Report  to  the  Congress: 
Cocaine  and  Federal  Sentencing  Policy  11-12  (1995) 
(hereinafter Commission Report).  Coca paste contains C

17H21NO4--that is, cocaine in its base form. Dissolving  coca  paste  in  water  and  hydrochloric  acid  pro-

duces  (after  several  intermediate  steps)  cocaine  hydro-
chloride,  which  is  a  salt  with  the  molecular  formula C

17H22NO4+Cl-.  Id.,  at  12;  Physicians  Brief  3.  Cocaine  hy-drochloride,  therefore,  is  not  a  base.  It  generally  comes  in 

powder  form,  which  we  will  refer  to  as  "powder  cocaine." It  is  usually  insufflated  (breathed  in  through  the  nose), 
though  it  can  also  be  ingested  or  diluted  in  water  and  in-jected.  Because  cocaine  hydrochloride  vaporizes  at  a  much 
higher  temperature  than  chemically  basic  cocaine  (at  which point  the  cocaine  molecule  tends  to  decompose),  it  is  gener-
ally  not  smoked.  See  Commission  Report  11,  n.  15,  12-13. Cocaine hydrochloride can be converted into cocaine in its 
base  form  by  combining  powder  cocaine  with  water  and  a base,  like  sodium  bicarbonate  (also  known  as  baking  soda). 
Id., at 14.  The chemical reaction changes the cocaine hydro-
chloride  molecule  into  a  chemically  basic  cocaine  molecule, 

1 There are more detailed theories of how acids and bases interact.  For 
our  purposes,  it  is  sufficient  to  note  the  fundamental  proposition  that  a 
base  and  an  acid  can  combine  to  form  a  salt,  and  all  three  are  different 
types  of  compounds.  See  generally  Brief  for  Individual  Physicians  and 
Scientists as  Amici Curiae 8;  A  Dictionary of  Chemistry 6-7,  62-63,  496 
(J. Daintith ed., 5th ed. 2004). 

74  DePIERRE  v.  UNITED  STATES 

Opinion of the Court 
Physicians  Brief  4,  and  the  resulting  solid  substance  can  be cooled  and  broken  into  small  pieces  and  then  smoked,  Com-

mission  Report  14.  This  substance  is  commonly  known  as "crack"  or  "crack  cocaine." 

2  Alternatively,  powder  cocaine 

can be dissolved in water and ammonia (also a base); with the addition  of  ether,  a  solid  substance--known  as  "freebase"-- 

separates  from  the  solution,  and  can  be  smoked.  Id.,  at  13. As with crack cocaine, freebase contains cocaine in its chemi-
cally basic form.  Ibid. Chemically,  therefore,  there  is  no  difference  between  the 
cocaine  in  coca  paste,  crack  cocaine,  and  freebase--all  are cocaine  in  its  base  form.  On  the  other  hand,  cocaine  in  its 
base  form  and  in  its  salt  form  (i. e.,  cocaine  hydrochloride) are  chemically  different,  though  they  have  the  same  active 
ingredient  and  produce  the  same  physiological  and  psycho-tropic  effects.  See  id.,  at  14-22.  The  key  difference  be-
tween them is the method by which they generally enter the body;  smoking  cocaine  in  its  base  form--whether  as  coca 
paste, freebase, or crack cocaine--allows the  body to absorb the  active  ingredient  quickly,  thereby  producing  a  shorter, 
more  intense  high  than  obtained  from  insufflating  cocaine hydrochloride. 

Ibid.;  see  generally  Kimbrough  v.  United States, 552 U. S. 85, 94 (2007). 

B 
In 1986, increasing public concern over the dangers associ-ated  with  illicit  drugs--and  the  new  phenomenon  of  crack 

cocaine in particular--prompted Congress to revise the pen-alties  for  criminal  offenses  involving  cocaine-related  sub-
stances.  See id., at 95-96.  At the time, federal law gener-ally  tied  the  penalties  for  drug  offenses  to  both  the  type  of 
drug and the quantity involved, with no provision for manda-tory  minimum  sentences.  See, 

e. g.,  $ 841(b)(1)  (1982  ed., Supp.  III).  After  holding  several  hearings  specifically  ad-

2 Though the terms "crack" and "crack cocaine" are interchangeable, in 
this opinion we adopt DePierre's practice and generally employ the latter. 

Cite as: 564 U. S. 70 (2011)  75 

Opinion of the Court 
dressing  the  emergence  of  crack  cocaine,  Congress  enacted the  Anti-Drug  Abuse  Act  of  1986  (ADAA),  100  Stat.  3207, 

wh i ch  prov ided  mandatory  mi ni mum  sentences  for controlled-substance  offenses  involving  specific  quantities  of 
drugs. As  relevant  here,  the  ADAA  provided  a  mandatory  10-
year sentence for certain drug offenses involving 5 kilograms or  more  of  "a  mixture  or  substance  containing  a  detectable 
amount  of "  various  cocaine-related  elements,  including  coca leaves,  cocaine,  and  cocaine  salts;  it  also  called  for  the  same 
sentence  for  offenses  involving  only  50  grams  or  more  of 
"a  mixture  or  substance . . .  which  contains  cocaine  base." $ 1002, 

id., at 3207-2 (amending $$ 841(b)(1)(A)(ii)-(iii)) 
(emphasis  added).  The  ADAA  also  stipulated  a  mandatory 
5-year  sentence  for  offenses  involving  500  grams  of  a  mix-ture  or  substance  containing  coca  leaves,  cocaine,  and  co-

caine  salts,  or  5  grams  of  a  mixture  or substance  containing "cocaine  base." 

Id.,  at  3207-3  (amending  $$ 841(b)(1)(B) 
(ii)-(iii)). Thus,  the  ADAA  established  a  100-to-1  ratio  for  the 

threshold  quantities  of  cocaine-related  substances  that  trig-gered the  statute's  mandatory  minimum penalties.  That  is, 
5  grams  or  more  of  "a  mixture  or  substance  .  .  .  which  con-
tains  cocaine  base"  was  penalized  as  severely  as  100  times that  amount  of  the  other  cocaine-related  elements  enumer-

ated  in  the  statute.  These  provisions  were  still  in  effect at  the  time  of  petitioner's  conviction  and  sentence.

3  See 

$$ 841(b)(1)(A)-(B) (2000 ed. and Supp. V). 

The  United  States  Sentencing  Commission  subsequently 
promulgated  Sentencing  Guidelines  for  drug-trafficking  of-

3 Due  to  a  recent  amendment,  the  quantity  ratio  in  $ 841(b)(1)  is  now 
roughly  18  to  1,  but  otherwise  the  relevant  statutory  provisions  are  un-
changed  from  those  in  effect  at  the  time  DePierre  was  sentenced.  See 
Fair  Sentencing Act of 2010, $ 2, 124 Stat.  2372 (changing  the quantity in 

$ 841(b)(1)(A)(iii)  from  50  to  280  grams  and  in  subparagraph  (B)(iii)  from 
5 to 28 grams). 

76  DePIERRE  v.  UNITED  STATES 

Opinion of the Court 
fenses.  Under  the  Guidelines,  the  offense  levels  for  drug crimes are tied to the drug type and quantity involved.  See 

United  States  Sentencing  Commission,  Guidelines  Manual $ 2D1.1(c)  (Nov.  2010)  (USSG).  The  Commission  originally 
adopted the ADAA's 100-to-1 ratio for offenses involving "co-caine" and "cocaine base," though instead of setting only two 
quantity  thresholds,  as  the  ADAA  did,  the  Guidelines  "set 
sentences  for  the  full  range  of  possible  drug  quantities." Commission  Report  1;  see  generally 

Kimbrough,  552  U. S., 
at 96-97.4 The  original  version  of  $ 2D1.1(c)  did  not  define  "cocaine 

base"  as used  in  that provision,  but  in  1993  the  Commission issued  an  amendment  to  explain  that  " `[c]ocaine  base,'  for 
the  purposes  of  this  guideline,  means  `crack,' "  that  is,  "the 
street  name  for  a  form  of  cocaine  base,  usually  prepared  by 
processing  cocaine  hydrochloride  and  sodium  bicarbonate, 
and  usually  appearing  in  a  lumpy,  rocklike  form."  USSG 
App. C, Amdt. 487 (effective Nov. 1, 1993); see also $ 2D1.1(c), 
n.  (D).  The  Commission  noted  that  "forms  of  cocaine  base 
other  than  crack  (e. g.,  coca  paste  .  .  .  )  will  be  treated  as 
cocaine."  App. C, Amdt. 487.5 

C 
In April 2005, petitioner Frantz DePierre sold two bags of 
drugs  to  a  Government  informant.  DePierre  was  subse-
quently indicted on a charge of distributing 50 grams or more 

4 In  2007,  the  Commission  increased  the  quantity  of  cocaine  base  re-
quired to trigger each offense level, reducing the cocaine-base-to-cocaine-
sentencing  ratio  under  the  Guidelines.  See  USSG  Supp.  App.  C,  Amdt. 
706  (effective  Nov.  1,  2007).  Unless  otherwise  noted,  we  cite  to  the  cur-
rent versions of the relevant Guidelines provisions. 

5 The Guidelines' Drug Quantity Table only lists "cocaine" and "cocaine 

base"  among  its  enumerated  controlled  substances,  but  the  application 
notes  make  clear  that  the  term  "cocaine"  includes  "ecgonine  and  coca 
leaves,"  as  well  as  "salts,  isomers,  [and]  salts  of  isomers"  of  cocaine. 

$ 2D1.1(c), and comment., n. 5. 

Cite as: 564 U. S. 70 (2011)  77 

Opinion of the Court 
of  cocaine  base  under  $$ 841(a)(1)  and  (b)(1)(A)(iii).6  At trial,  a  Government  chemist  testified  that  the  substance  in 

the  bags,  which  weighed  55.1  grams,  was  "cocaine  base." Tr. 488, 490.  She was not able to identify any sodium bicar-
bonate.  Id.,  at  499.  A  police  officer  testified  that  the  sub-stance in question was "off-white [and] chunky." 

Id., at 455. DePierre  asked  the  District  Court  to  instruct  the  jury 

that,  in  order  to  find  him  guilty  of  distribution  of  cocaine base,  it  must  find  that  his  offense  involved  "the  form  of  co-
caine  base  known  as  crack  cocaine."  App.  in  No.  08-2101 (CA1), p. 43.  His proposed jury instruction  defined "crack" 
identically  to  the  Guidelines  definition.  See  id.,  at  43-44; see  also  USSG  $ 2D1.1(c),  n.  (D).  In  addition,  DePierre 
asked the court to instruct the jury that "[c]hemical analysis cannot establish a substance as crack because crack is chemi-
cally identical to other forms of cocaine base, although it can reveal  the  presence  of  sodium  bicarbonate,  which  is  usually 
used in the processing of crack."  App. in No. 08-2101, at 44. The  court,  however,  instructed  the  jury  that  "the  statute 
that's  relevant  asks  about  cocaine  base.  Crack  cocaine  is  a form  of  cocaine  base,  so  you'll  tell  us  whether  or  not  what 
was involved is cocaine base . . . ."  Tr. 585 (paragraph break omitted).  The jury form asked whether the offense involved 
"over 50 grams of cocaine base."  App. to Pet. for Cert. 17a. The  jury  found  DePierre  guilty  of  distributing  50  grams  or 
more  of  cocaine  base,  and  the  court  sentenced  DePierre  to 120 months in prison as required by the statute. 

The  United  States  Court  of  Appeals  for  the  First  Cir-cuit  affirmed,  rejecting  DePierre's  argument  that  $ 841(b) 
(1)(A)(iii)  should  be  read  only  to  apply  to  offenses  involv-ing  crack  cocaine.  599  F.  3d  25,  30-31  (2010).  While 
noting the division on this question among the Courts of Ap-

6 DePierre  was  also  indicted  for  distribution  of  powder  cocaine  under 

$ 841(a)(1)  and  possession  of  a  firearm  with  an  obliterated  serial  number 
under 18 U. S. C. $ 922(k).  He was convicted by jury of the former offense 
and pleaded guilty to the latter prior to trial. 

78  DePIERRE  v.  UNITED  STATES 

Opinion of the Court 
peals, ibid., and nn. 3, 4, the First Circuit adhered to its own precedent  and  "read  the  statute  according  to  its  terms," 

holding  that  " `cocaine  base'  refers  to  `all  forms  of  cocaine base,  including  but  not  limited  to  crack  cocaine.' "  Id.,  at 
30-31  (quoting  United  States  v.  Anderson,  452  F.  3d  66, 86-87  (CA1  2006)).  We  granted  certiorari  to  resolve  the 
longstanding  division  in  authority  among  the  Courts  of  Ap-peals on this question.  562 U. S. 960 (2010). 

II 

A 
We  begin  with  the  statutory  text.  See  United  States  v. Ron  Pair  Enterprises,  Inc.,  489  U. S.  235,  241  (1989).  Sec-

tion  841(b)(1)(A)  provides  a  mandatory  10-year  minimum sentence for certain drug offenses involving 

"(ii)  5  kilograms  or  more  of  a  mixture  or  substance containing a detectable amount of-- 
"(I)  coca  leaves,  except  coca  leaves  and  extracts  of coca  leaves  from  which  cocaine,  ecgonine,  and  deriva-
tives of ecgonine or their salts have been removed; "(II)  cocaine,  its salts,  optical  and  geometric  isomers, 
and salts of isomers; "(III)  ecgonine,  its  derivatives,  their  salts,  isomers, 
and salts of isomers; or "(IV)  any  compound,  mixture,  or  preparation  which 
contains  any  quantity  of  any  of  the  substances  referred to in subclauses (I) through (III); [or] 

"(iii)  50 grams or more of  a  mixture  or substance  de-scribed in clause (ii) which contains cocaine base." 

7 

7 As  noted  earlier,  $ 841(b)(1)(B)  calls for  a  mandatory  minimum  5-year 
sentence for offenses involving exactly the same substances; the only dif-
ference in subparagraph (B) is that the threshold quantity in clause (ii) is 
500 grams, and in clause (iii) it is 5 grams.  Because the 100-to-1 ratio is 
a feature of both $$ 841(b)(1)(A) and (B), and those subparagraphs are iden-
tical in all other respects, throughout this opinion we use the terms "clause 
(ii)"  and  "clause  (iii)"  to  refer  to  those  clauses  as  present  in  either 
subparagraph. 

Cite as: 564 U. S. 70 (2011)  79 

Opinion of the Court 
We  agree  with  the  Government  that  the  most  natural reading  of  the  term  "cocaine  base"  is  "cocaine  in  its  base 

form"--i. e., C17H21NO4,  the  molecule  found in  crack cocaine, freebase, and coca paste.  On its  plain  terms, then, "cocaine 
base"  reaches  more  broadly  than  just  crack  cocaine.  In  ar-guing to the contrary, DePierre asks us to stray far from the 
statute's  text,  as  the  term  "crack  cocaine"  appears  nowhere in  the  ADAA  (or  the  United  States  Code,  for  that  matter). 
While the Government's reading is not without its problems,8 that  reading  follows  from  the  words  Congress  chose  to  in-
clude in the text.  See United States v.  Rodriquez, 553 U. S. 377,  384  (2008)  (eschewing  an  interpretation  that  was  "not 
faithful to the statutory text").  In short, the term "cocaine base"  is  more  plausibly  read  to  mean  the  "chemically  basic 
form of cocaine," Brief for United States 15, than it is "crack cocaine," Brief for Petitioner 24, 28.

9 

We  agree  with  DePierre  that  using  the  term  "cocaine base"  to  refer  to  C

17H21NO4  is  technically  redundant;  as noted earlier, chemically speaking cocaine is a base.  If Con-

gress meant in clause (iii) to penalize more severely offenses 

8 The Government urges us to give "cocaine base" its "settled, unambig-
uous scientific meaning," i. e., "the form of cocaine classified chemically as 
a  base,  with  the  chemical  formula  C17H21NO4  and  a  particular  molecular 
structure."  Brief  for  United  States  20;  cf.  McDermott  Int'l,  Inc.  v.  Wi-
lander,  498  U. S.  337,  342  (1991)  ("In  the  absence  of  contrary  indication, 
we assume that when a statute uses . . . a term [of art], Congress intended 
it to have its established meaning").  But the scientifically proper appella-
tion  for  C17H21NO4  is  "cocaine"  tout  court,  and  the  Government  cites  no 
source  that  uses  "cocaine  base"  to  refer  to  C17H21NO4  (save  lower  court 
opinions construing the statute at issue in this case).  Therefore, there is 
no "settled meaning"--scientific or otherwise--of "cocaine base" for us to 
apply to $ 841(b)(1). 

9 The  statute  itself  gives  us  good  reason  to  reject  DePierre's  reading. 

Substituting  "crack  cocaine"  for  "cocaine  base"  would  mean  that  clause 
(iii)  only  applies  to  a  "mixture  or  substance  .  .  .  which  contains  [crack 
cocaine]."  But  crack  cocaine  is  itself  a  "substance"  involved  in  drug  of-
fenses; it  is the  end product  that is  bought, sold, and consumed.  We are 
aware of no substance that "contains" crack cocaine. 

80  DePIERRE  v.  UNITED  STATES 

Opinion of the Court 
involving  "a  mixture  or  substance  . . . which  contains"  co-caine  in  its  base  form  it  could  have  simply  (and  more  cor-

rectly)  used the  word  "cocaine"  instead.  But  Congress  had good  reason  to  use  "cocaine  base"  in  the  ADAA--to  distin-
guish  the  substances  covered  by  clause  (iii)  from  other cocaine-related  substances.  For  example,  at  the  time  Con-
gress enacted the statute, the word "cocaine" was commonly used  to  refer  to  cocaine  hydrochloride, 

i. e.,  powder  cocaine. See, e. g., United States v.  Montoya de Hernandez, 473 U. S. 

531,  536,  544  (1985)  (repeatedly  referring  to  cocaine  hydro-chloride  as  "cocaine");  "Crack"  Cocaine,  Hearing  before  the 
Permanent  Subcommittee  on  Investigations  of  the  Senate Committee  on  Governmental  Affairs,  99th  Cong.,  2d  Sess., 
94  (1986)  (hereinafter  Crack  Cocaine  Hearing)  (prepared statement  of  David  L.  Westrate,  Assistant  Administrator, 
Drug Enforcement Admin., Dept. of Justice) (discussing pro-duction  of  "a  white,  crystalline  powder,  cocaine  hydrochlo-
ride, otherwise known simply as cocaine"). To make things more confusing, in the scientific and medi-
cal  literature  the  word  "cocaine"  is  often  used  to  refer  to 

all  cocaine-related  substances,  including  powder  cocaine. See, 

e. g.,  J.  Fay,  The  Alcohol/Drug  Abuse  Dictionary  and Encyclopedia  26-27  (1988);  Weiss  et  al.,  Cocaine,  at  15-25; 

R.  Lewis,  Hawley's  Condensed  Chemical  Dictionary  317 (15th ed. 2007).  Accordingly, Congress' choice to use the ad-
mittedly  redundant  term  "cocaine  base"  to  refer  to  chemi-cally  basic  cocaine  is  best  understood  as  an  effort  to 
make  clear  that  clause  (iii)  does  not  apply  to  offenses  in-volving  powder  cocaine  or  other  nonbasic  cocaine-related 

substances.  B 

Notwithstanding  DePierre's  arguments  to  the  contrary, reading  "cocaine  base"  to  mean  chemically  basic  cocaine 
is  also  consistent  with  $ 841(b)(1)'s  somewhat  confounding structure.  DePierre  is  correct  that  the  interpretation  we 
adopt  today  raises  the  question  why  Congress  included  the 

Cite as: 564 U. S. 70 (2011)  81 

Opinion of the Court 
word  "cocaine"  in  subclause  (II)  of  clause  (ii).  That  sub-clause lists "cocaine, its salts, optical and geometric isomers, 

and  salts  of  isomers"  as  elements  subject  to  clause  (ii)'s higher  quantity  threshold.  $$ 841(b)(1)(A)(ii)(II),  (B)(ii)(II) 
(emphasis  added).  If,  as  we  conclude,  the  terms  "cocaine" and  "cocaine  base"  both  mean  chemically  basic  cocaine,  of-
fenses involving a mixture or substance which contains such cocaine will always be penalized according to the lower quan-
tity  thresholds  of  clause  (iii),  and  never  the  higher  quantity thresholds clause (ii) establishes for mixtures and substances 
containing "cocaine." 10 

While  this  much  is  true,  we  do  not  agree  with  DePierre that  the  word  "cocaine"  in  subclause  (II)  is  therefore  super-

fluous.  For without the word "cocaine" subclause (II) makes no sense:  It would provide  a  minimum sentence  for offenses 
involving a specified quantity of simply "its salts, optical and geometric  isomers,  and  salts  of  isomers."  In  light  of  the 
structure  of  the  subclause,  the  word  "cocaine"  is  needed  as 
the reference point for "salts" and "isomers." The word "cocaine" in subclause (II) also performs another 

critical  function.  Clause  (iii)  penalizes  offenses  involving "a  mixture  or  substance 

described  in  clause  (ii)  which  con-
tains  cocaine  base."  $$ 841(b)(1)(A)(iii),  (B)(iii)  (emphasis added).  In  other  words,  clause  (ii)  imposes  a  penalty  for 

offenses  involving  cocaine-related  substances  generally,  and clause  (iii)  imposes  a  higher  penalty  for  a  subset  of  those 
substances--the ones that "contai[n] cocaine base."  For this 
structure  to  work,  however,  $ 841(b)(1)  must  "describ[e]  in clause  (ii)"  substances  containing  chemically  basic  cocaine, 

which then  comprise the  subset  described  in clause  (iii).  If 

10 DePierre  makes  a  similar  argument  with  respect  to  coca  leaves: 
Because  they  contain  chemically  basic  cocaine,  he  contends,  under  the 
Government's  interpretation  offenses  involving  coca  leaves  will never  be 
subject to the lower quantity threshold associated with subclause (I), ren-
dering that provision superfluous.  For reasons discussed later, see infra, 
at 85-87, we are not convinced. 

82  DePIERRE  v.  UNITED  STATES 

Opinion of the Court 
such  substances  were  not  present  in  clause  (ii),  clause  (iii) would only apply to substances that contain both chemically 

basic  cocaine  and  one  of  the  other  elements  enumerated  in clause (ii).  Presumably, the result would be that clause (iii) 
would  not  apply  to  crack cocaine,  freebase,  or  coca  paste  of-fenses,  as  there  is  no  indication  that,  in  addition  to  "cocaine 
base"  (i. e.,  C17H21NO4),  those  substances  contain  cocaine "salts"  (

e. g.,  cocaine  hydrochloride),  ecgonine,  or  any  of  the other  elements  enumerated  in  clause  (ii).  In  short,  the  ex-

clusion  of  "cocaine"  from  clause  (ii)  would  result  in  clause (iii) effectively describing a null set, which obviously was not 
Congress' intent. Of  course,  this  redundancy  could  have  been  avoided  by 
simply  drafting  clause  (iii)  to  penalize  offenses  involving "a mixture or substance which contains cocaine base," with-
out  reference  to  clause  (ii)--that  is,  Congress  could  have drafted clause (iii) to specify a 

separate set of cocaine-related substances, not a subset of those in clause (ii).  That we may 

rue inartful legislative drafting, however, does not excuse us from  the  responsibility  of  construing  a  statute  as  faithfully 
as  possible  to  its  actual  text.11  And  as  noted  earlier,  there 

11 At the time the ADAA was enacted, the definition of "narcotic drug" 
in  the  same  subchapter  of  the  United  States  Code  included,  as  relevant, 
the following: 

"(C)  Coca  leaves,  except  coca  leaves  and  extracts  of  coca  leaves  from 
which  cocaine,  ecgonine,  and  derivatives  of  ecgonine  or  their  salts  have 
been removed. 

"(D)  Cocaine,  its  salts,  optical  and  geometric  isomers,  and  salts  of 
isomers. 

"(E)  Ecgonine, its derivatives, their salts, isomers, and salts of isomers. 
"(F)  Any compound, mixture, or preparation  which contains any quan-
tity  of  any  of  the  substances  referred  to  in  [the  preceding]  subpara-
graphs . . . ."   21 U.  S.  C. $  802(17) (1982 ed., Supp. III). 

Accordingly,  the  likely  explanation  for  the  ADAA's  curious  structure  is 
that  Congress  simply  adopted  this  pre-existing  enumeration  of  cocainerelated  controlled  substances,  and  then  engrafted  clause  (iii)  to  provide 
enhanced  penalties  for  the  subset  of  offenses  involving  chemically  basic 
cocaine. 

Cite as: 564 U. S. 70 (2011)  83 

Opinion of the Court 
is  no  textual  support  for  DePierre's  interpretation  of  "co-caine base" to mean "crack cocaine." 

We  also  recognize  that  our  reading  of  "cocaine"  in  sub-clause  (II)  and  "cocaine  base"  in  clause  (iii)  to  both  refer 
to  chemically  basic  cocaine  is  in  tension  with  the  usual  rule that  "when  the  legislature  uses  certain  language  in  one 
part  of  the  statute  and  different  language  in  another,  the court  assumes  different  meanings  were  intended." 

Sosa v.  Alvarez-Machain,  542  U. S.  692,  711,  n.  9  (2004)  (internal 

quotation  marks  omitted).  However,  because  "Congress sometimes  uses  slightly  different  language  to  convey  the 
same  message,"  Deal  v.  United  States,  508  U. S.  129,  134 (1993)  (internal  quotation  marks  omitted),  we  must  be  care-
ful not to place too much emphasis on the marginal semantic divergence between the terms "cocaine" and "cocaine base." 
As  we  have  already  explained,  Congress  had  good  reason to employ the latter term in clause (iii), and the slight incon-
sistency  in  nomenclature  is  insufficient  reason  to  adopt DePierre's  interpretation.  Cf. 

Public  Lands  Council  v. Babbitt,  529  U. S.  728,  746-747  (2000)  (suggesting  that  a 

"statute's  basic  purpose"  might  support  the  conclusion  that "two sets of different words mean the same thing"). 

III 
DePierre  offers  four  additional  arguments  in  support  of his  view  that  the  term  "cocaine  base"  in  clause  (iii)  is 

best  read  to  mean  "crack  cocaine."  We  do  not  find  them convincing. 

A 
DePierre  first  argues  that  we  should  read  "cocaine  base" to mean "crack cocaine" because, in passing the ADAA, Con-

gress  in  1986  intended  to  penalize  crack  cocaine  offenses more severely than those involving other substances contain-
ing C17H21NO4.  As is evident from the preceding discussion, this  position  is  not  supported  by  the  statutory  text.  To  be 
sure, the records of the contemporaneous congressional hear-

84  DePIERRE  v.  UNITED  STATES 

Opinion of the Court 
ings  suggest  that  Congress  was  most  concerned  with  the particular  dangers  posed  by  the  advent  of  crack  cocaine. 

See,  e. g.,  Crack  Cocaine  Hearing  1  (statement  of  Chairman Roth) ("[We] mee[t] today to examine a frightening and dan-
gerous  new  twist  in  the  drug  abuse  problem--the  growing availability  and  use  of  a  cheap,  highly  addictive,  and  deadly 
form of cocaine known on the streets as `crack' "); see gener-
ally  Commission  Report  116-118;  Kimbrough,  552  U. S.,  at 95-96. 

It does not necessarily follow, however, that in passing the ADAA  Congress  meant  for  clause  (iii)'s  lower  quantity 
thresholds  to  apply  exclusively  to  crack  cocaine  offenses. Numerous  witnesses  at  the  hearings  testified  that  the  pri-
mary  reason  crack  cocaine  was  so  dangerous  was  because-- contrary  to  powder  cocaine--cocaine  in  its  base  form  is 
smoked, which was understood to produce a faster, more in-
tense,  and  more  addictive  high  than  powder  cocaine.  See, 
e. g.,  Crack  Cocaine  Hearing  20  (statement  of  Dr.  Robert 
Byck,  Yale  University  School  of  Medicine)  (stating  that  the ability  to  inhale  vapor  "is  the  reason  why  crack,  or  cocaine 

free-base, is so dangerous").  This is not, however, a feature unique  to  crack  cocaine,  and  freebase  and  coca  paste  were 
also acknowledged as dangerous, smokeable forms of cocaine. 
See,  e. g.,  id.,  at  70  (prepared  statement  of  Dr.  Charles  R. 
Schuster,  Director,  National  Institute  on  Drug  Abuse)  (re-
porting on the shift from snorting powder cocaine to "newer 
more  dangerous  routes  of  administration,  such  as  freebase 
smoking");  id.,  at  19-20  (statement  of  Dr.  Byck)  (describing 
the damaging effects of cocaine  smoking on people in Peru). 

Moreover, the testimony of witnesses before Congress did 
not clearly  distinguish between  these  base  forms  of cocaine; 
witnesses  repeatedly  used  terms  like  "cocaine  base,"  "free-
base," or "cocaine freebase" in  a manner that  grouped crack 
cocaine  with  other  substances  containing  chemically  basic 
forms  of  cocaine.  See,  e. g.,  Trafficking  and  Abuse  of 
"Crack" in New York City, Hearing before the House Select 
Committee  on  Narcotics  Abuse  and  Control,  99th  Cong.,  2d 

Cite as: 564 U. S. 70 (2011)  85 

Opinion of the Court 
Sess.,  258  (1986)  (statement  of  Robert  M.  Stutman,  Special Agent  in  Charge,  Drug  Enforcement  Admin.,  Dept.  of  Jus-

tice) ("[C]ocaine in its alkaloid form [is] commonly known on the  street  as  crack,  rock,  base,  or  freebase");  Crack  Cocaine 
Hearing  71  (statement  of  Dr.  Schuster)  ("In  other  words, `crack' is a street name for cocaine freebase").  In fact, prior 
to  passage  of  the  ADAA,  multiple  bills  were  introduced  in Congress that imposed enhanced penalties on those who traf-
ficked  in  "cocaine  base,"  e. g.,  S. 2787,  99th  Cong.,  2d  Sess., $ 1 (1986), as well as "cocaine freebase," 

e. g., H. R. 5394, 99th Cong., 2d Sess., $ 101 (1986); H. R. 5484, 99th Cong., 2d Sess., 

$ 608(a) (1986). Given  crack  cocaine's  sudden  emergence  and  the  similari-
ties it shared with other forms of cocaine, this lack of clarity is understandable, as is Congress' desire to adopt a statutory 
term that would encompass all forms.  Congress faced what it perceived to be a new threat  of massive scope.  See, 

e. g., Crack  Cocaine  Hearing  4  (statement  of  Sen.  Nunn)  ("[C]o-

caine use, particularly in the more pure form known as crack, is  at  near  epidemic  proportions");  id.,  at  21  (statement  of 
Dr.  Byck)  ("We  are  dealing  with  a  worse  drug  .  .  .  than  we have ever dealt with, or that anybody has ever dealt with in 
history").  Accordingly,  Congress  chose  statutory  language broad enough to meet that threat.  As we have noted, "stat-
utory prohibitions often go beyond the principal evil to cover reasonably  comparable  evils." 

Oncale  v.  Sundowner  Off-shore Services,  Inc., 523  U. S.  75,  79 (1998).  In the  absence 

of  any  indication  in  the  statutory  text  that  Congress  in-tended  only  to  subject  crack  cocaine  offenses  to  enhanced 
penalties,  we  cannot  adopt  DePierre's  narrow  construction. See 

Lewis  v.  Chicago,  560  U. S.  205,  215  (2010)  ("It  is  not for  us  to  rewrite  [a]  statute  so  that  it  covers  only  what  we 

think is necessary to achieve what we think Congress really intended"). 

B 
DePierre  also  argues  that  we  should  read  the  term  "co-caine  base"  to  mean  "crack  cocaine,"  rather  than  chemically 

86  DePIERRE  v.  UNITED  STATES 

Opinion of the Court 
basic cocaine, because the latter definition leads to an absurd result.  Cf.  EEOC  v.  Commercial  Office  Products  Co.,  486 

U. S.  107,  120  (1988)  (plurality  opinion).  He  contends  that, because  coca  leaves  themselves  contain  cocaine,  under  the 
Government's approach an offense involving 5 grams of coca leaves  will  be  subject  to  the  5-year  minimum  sentence  in 

$ 841(b)(1)(B)(iii),  even  though  those  leaves  would  produce only  0.05  grams  of  smokeable  cocaine.  See  Brief  for  Peti-
tioner 41-42.  While we agree that it would be questionable to treat 5 grams of coca leaves as equivalent to 500 grams of 
powder  cocaine  for  minimum-sentence  purposes,  we  are  not persuaded  that  such  a  result  would  actually  obtain  in  light 
of our decision today. To begin with, it is a matter of dispute between the parties 
whether coca leaves in their natural, unprocessed form actu-ally  contain  chemically  basic  cocaine.  Compare  Brief  for 
Petitioner  15,  17,  n.  10,  with  Brief  for  United  States  43. Even assuming that DePierre is correct as a matter of chem-
istry  that  coca  leaves  contain  cocaine  in  its  base  form,12  see Physicians  Brief  2,  11,  the  Government  has  averred  that  it 
"would  not  be  able  to  make  that  showing  in  court,"  Tr.  of Oral  Arg. 28,  and  that  "coca leaves  should not  be  treated  as 
containing  `cocaine  base'  for  purposes  of  Clause  (iii),"  Brief for United States 45. 

It  is  unsurprising,  therefore,  that  the  Government  in  its brief disclaimed awareness of any prosecution in which it had 
sought, or the defendant had received, a statutory-minimum sentence enhanced under clause (iii) for an offense involving 
coca  leaves.  Id.,  at  44.  And  although  this  question  is  not before  us  today,  we  note  that  Congress'  deliberate  choice 
to  enumerate  "coca  leaves"  in  clause  (ii)  strongly  indicates its  intent  that  offenses  involving  such  leaves  be  subject  to 
the  higher  quantity  thresholds  of  that  clause.  Accordingly, 

12 It appears that Congress itself is of the view that coca leaves contain 
"cocaine,"  as  subclause  (I)  exempts  offenses  involving  "coca  leaves  from 
which cocaine . . . ha[s]  been removed."  $$ 841(b)(1)(A)(ii)(I), (B)(ii)(I). 

Cite as: 564 U. S. 70 (2011)  87 

Opinion of the Court 
there  is  little  danger  that  the  statute  will  be  read  in  the "absurd" manner DePierre fears. 

C 
In  addition,  DePierre  suggests  that  because  the  Sentenc-ing  Commission  has,  since  1993,  defined  "cocaine  base"  to 

mean  "crack"  for  the  purposes  of  the  Federal  Sentencing Guidelines, we should do the same with respect to $ 841(b)(1). 
We do not agree.  We have never held that, when interpret-ing  a  term  in  a  criminal  statute,  deference  is  warranted  to 
the  Sentencing  Commission's  definition  of  the  same  term  in the  Guidelines.  Cf. 

Neal  v.  United  States,  516  U. S.  284, 290-296 (1996).  And we need not decide now whether such 

deference  would  be  appropriate,  because  the  Guidelines  do not  purport  to  interpret  $ 841(b)(1).  See  USSG  $ 2D1.1(c), 
n.  (D)  (" `Cocaine  base,'  for  the  purposes  of  this  guideline, means `crack' " (emphasis added)).

13 

We recognize that, because the definition of "cocaine base" in  clause  (iii)  differs  from  the  Guidelines  definition,  certain 

sentencing  anomalies  may  result.  For  example,  an  offense involving 5 grams of crack cocaine and one involving 5 grams 
of coca paste both trigger a minimum 5-year sentence under $ 841(b)(1)(B)(iii).  But  defendants  convicted  of  offenses  in-
volving  only  4  grams  of  each  substance--which  do  not  trig-ger  the  statutory  minimums--would  likely  receive  different 
sentences,  because  of  the  Guidelines'  differential  treatment of those substances with respect to offense level.

14  Compare 

13 We also disagree with DePierre's contention that Congress' failure to 
reject  the Guidelines definition of  "cocaine  base" means  that it has effec-
tively adopted that interpretation with respect to the statute.  See Kim-
brough  v.  United  States,  552  U. S.  85,  106  (2007)  ("Ordinarily,  we  resist 
reading congressional intent into congressional inaction"). 

14 In defining "cocaine  base" as  "crack," the Commission explained that 

"forms of cocaine base other than crack" are treated as "cocaine" for pur-
poses of the Guidelines.  USSG App. C, Amdt. 487 (effective Nov. 1, 1993). 
This  includes  coca  paste,  which  the  Commission  described  as  "an  in-
termediate  step  in  the  processing  of  coca  leaves  into  cocaine  hydrochlo-

88  DePIERRE  v.  UNITED  STATES 

Opinion of the Court 
USSG  $ 2D1.1(c)(9)  (providing  an  offense  level  of  22  for at  least  4  grams  of  "cocaine  base,"  i. e.,  "crack")  with 

$ 2D1.1(c)(14)  (providing  an  offense  level  of  12  for  less  than 25 grams  of "cocaine," which, under  the Guidelines, includes 
coca  paste).  As  we  have  noted  in  previous  opinions,  how-
ever, such disparities are the inevitable result of the dissimi-lar  operation  of  the  fixed  minimum  sentences  Congress  has 

provided  by  statute  and  the  graduated  sentencing  scheme established by the Guidelines.  See 

Kimbrough, 552 U. S., at 
107-108; Neal,  516 U. S., at 291-292.  Accordingly, we reject DePierre's  suggestion  that  the  term  "cocaine  base"  as  used 

in  clause  (iii)  must  be  given  the  same  definition  as  it  has under the Guidelines. 

D 
Finally, DePierre argues that, because $ 841(b)(1) is at the 
very least ambiguous, the rule of lenity requires us to inter-pret  the  statute  in  his  favor.  See 

United  States  v.  Santos, 
553 U. S. 507, 514 (2008) (plurality opinion) ("The rule of len-ity  requires  ambiguous  criminal  laws  to  be  interpreted  in 

favor of the defendants subjected to them").  As evinced by 
the  preceding  discussion,  we  cannot  say  that  the  statute  is crystalline.  The rule, however, is reserved for cases where, 

"after seizing every thing from which aid can be derived, the Court  is  left  with  an  ambiguous  statute." 

Smith  v.  United 
States,  508  U. S.  223,  239  (1993)  (internal  quotation  marks and brackets omitted).  Applying the normal rules of statu-

tory  construction  in  this  case,  it  is  clear that  Congress  used the  term  "cocaine  base"  in  clause  (iii)  to  penalize  more  se-
verely not only offenses involving "crack cocaine," but those involving  substances  containing  chemically  basic  cocaine 
more  generally.  There  is  no  persuasive  justification  for 
reading  the  statute  otherwise.  Because  the  statutory  text 

ride."  Ibid.  As we have  explained, however, coca paste is  a smokeable 
form of cocaine in its own right, and we see no reason why, as a statutory 
matter, it should be subject to lesser penalties than crack or freebase. 

Cite as: 564 U. S. 91 (2011)  97 

Opinion of the Court 
curring),  the  same  factual  questions  underlying  the  PTO's original  examination  of  a  patent  application  will  also  bear 

on  an  invalidity  defense  in  an  infringement  action,  see,  e. g., 383  U. S.,  at  17  (describing  the  "basic  factual  inquiries"  that 
form  the  "background"  for  evaluating  obviousness);  Pfaff, 525 U. S., at 67-69 (same, as to the on-sale bar). 

In  asserting  an  invalidity  defense,  an  alleged  infringer must  contend  with  the  first  paragraph  of  $ 282,  which  pro-
vides  that  "[a]  patent  shall  be  presumed  valid"  and  "[t]he burden of  establishing  invalidity  .  . .  rest[s] on the  party  as-
serting such invalidity." 1  Under the Federal Circuit's read-ing  of $ 282,  a  defendant seeking  to  overcome  this  presump-
tion  must  persuade  the  factfinder  of  its  invalidity  defense by  clear  and  convincing  evidence.  Judge  Rich,  a  principal 
drafter of the 1952 Act, articulated this view for the court in 
American  Hoist  &  Derrick  Co.  v.  Sowa  &  Sons,  Inc.,  725 F.  2d  1350  (CA  Fed.  1984).  There,  the  Federal  Circuit  held 

that  $ 282  codified  "the  existing  presumption  of  validity  of patents," 

id.,  at  1359  (internal  quotation  marks  omitted)-- what,  until  that  point,  had  been  a  common-law  presumption 

based  on  "the  basic  proposition  that  a  government  agency such as the [PTO] was presumed to do its job," ibid.  Rely-
ing on this Court's pre-1952 precedent as to the "force of the presumption," 

ibid. (citing Radio Corp. of America v.  Radio Engineering  Laboratories,  Inc.,  293  U. S.  1  (1934)  (RCA)), 

Judge Rich concluded: 

"[Section]  282  creates  a  presumption  that  a  patent  is valid  and  imposes  the  burden  of  proving  invalidity  on 

the  attacker.  That  burden  is  constant  and  never changes  and  is  to  convince  the  court  of  invalidity  by 
clear evidence."  725 F. 2d, at 1360. 
1 As  originally  enacted  in  1952,  the  first  paragraph  of  $ 282  read: 
"A patent shall be presumed valid.  The burden of establishing invalidity 
of  a  patent  shall  rest  on  a  party  asserting  it."  66  Stat.  812.  Congress 
has  since  amended  $ 282,  inserting  two  sentences  not  relevant  here  and 
modifying the language of the second sentence to that in the text. 

Cite as: 564 U. S. 91 (2011)  99 

Opinion of the Court 
stead, "if an instruction on the `clear and convincing' burden were  [to  be]  given,"  App.  124a,  n.  8,  Microsoft  requested 

the following: 

" `Microsoft's  burden  of  proving  invalidity  and  unen-forceability  is  by  clear  and  convincing  evidence.  How-

ever,  Microsoft's  burden  of  proof  with  regard  to  its defense  of  invalidity  based  on  prior  art  that  the  exam-
iner  did  not  review  during  the  prosecution  of  the patent-in-suit  is  by  preponderance  of  the  evidence.' " 
Ibid. 
Rejecting  the  hybrid standard of proof that Microsoft advo-cated, the District Court instructed the jury that "Microsoft 

has the burden of proving invalidity by clear and convincing evidence."  App. to Pet. for Cert. 195a. 

The  jury  found  that  Microsoft  willfully  infringed  the  i4i patent  and  that  Microsoft  failed  to  prove  invalidity  due  to 
the on-sale bar or otherwise.  Denying Microsoft's post-trial motions,  the  District  Court  rejected  Microsoft's  contention 
that  the  court  improperly  instructed  the  jury  on  the  stand-ard  of  proof.  The  Court  of  Appeals  for  the  Federal  Circuit 
affirmed.2  598 F. 3d 831, 848 (2010).  Relying on its settled interpretation of $ 282, the court explained that it could "dis-
cern [no] error" in the jury instruction requiring Microsoft to prove its invalidity defense by clear and convincing evidence. 
Ibid.  We granted certiorari.  562 U. S. 1060 (2010). 

II 
According to Microsoft, a defendant in an infringement ac-tion need  only  persuade  the  jury  of an  invalidity  defense  by 

a preponderance of the evidence.  In the alternative, Micro-soft  insists  that  a  preponderance  standard  must  apply  at 
least  when  an  invalidity  defense  rests  on  evidence  that  was 

2 Although not relevant here, the Court of Appeals modified the effective 
date of the permanent injunction that the District Court entered in favor 
of i4i.  598 F. 3d, at 863-864. 

Cite as: 564 U. S. 91 (2011)  101 

Opinion of the Court 
Our  statutory  inquiry,  however,  cannot  simply  end  there. We begin, of course, with "the assumption that the ordinary 

meaning  of  [the]  language"  chosen  by  Congress  "accurately expresses  the  legislative  purpose."  Engine  Mfrs.  Assn.  v. 
South  Coast  Air  Quality  Management  Dist.,  541  U. S.  246, 252  (2004)  (internal  quotation  marks  omitted).  But  where 
Congress  uses  a  common-law  term  in  a  statute,  we  assume the  "term  .  .  .  comes  with  a  common  law  meaning,  absent 
anything pointing another way."  Safeco Ins. Co. of America v. 

Burr,  551  U. S.  47,  58  (2007)  (citing  Beck  v.  Prupis,  529 U. S. 494, 500-501 (2000)).  Here, by stating that a patent is 

"presumed valid," $ 282, Congress used a term with a settled meaning in the common law. 

Our decision in RCA, 293 U. S. 1, is authoritative.  There, tracing  nearly  a  century  of  case  law  from  this  Court  and 
others,  Justice  Cardozo  wrote  for  a  unanimous  Court  that "there  is  a  presumption  of  validity,  a  presumption  not  to  be 
overthrown except by clear and cogent evidence."  Id., at 2. Although  the  "force"  of  the  presumption  found  "varying 
expression"  in  this  Court  and  elsewhere,  id.,  at  7,  Justice Cardozo explained, one "common core of thought and truth" 
unified the decisions: 

"[O]ne  otherwise  an  infringer  who  assails  the  validity of  a  patent  fair  upon  its  face  bears  a  heavy  burden  of 

persuasion,  and  fails  unless  his  evidence  has  more  than a dubious  preponderance.  If that is true  where the as-
sailant connects himself in some way with the title of the true inventor, it is so 

a fortiori where he is a stranger to the  invention,  without  claim of  title  of his  own.  If  it  is 

"standard of proof" specifies how difficult it will be for the party bearing 
the  burden  of  persuasion  to  convince  the  jury  of  the  facts  in  its  favor. 
Various  standards  of  proof  are  familiar--beyond  a  reasonable  doubt,  by 
clear  and  convincing  evidence,  and  by  a  preponderance  of  the  evidence. 
See generally 21B C. Wright & K. Graham, Federal Practice & Procedure 

$ 5122,  pp.  405-411  (2d  ed.  2005)  (hereinafter  Fed.  Practice)  (describing 
these and other standards of proof). 

Cite as: 564 U. S. 91 (2011)  103 

Opinion of the Court 
U. S. 1, 23 (1999); see also id., at 21 (" `Where Congress uses terms that  have  accumulated settled meaning under . . . the  

common  law,  [we]  must  infer,  unless  the  statute  otherwise dictates, that Congress means to incorporate the established 
meaning of those terms' " (quoting Nationwide Mut. Ins. Co. v. 

Darden,  503  U. S.  318,  322  (1992)));  Standard  Oil  Co.  of 
N.  J.  v.  United Sates,  221  U. S.  1,  59  (1911)  ("[W]here words 
are  employed  in  a  statute  which  had  at  the  time  a  well-known meaning at common law or in the law of this country 

they  are  presumed  to  have  been  used  in  that  sense  .  .  .  "). "On  the  contrary,  we  must 

presume  that  Congress  intended 
to incorporate" the heightened standard of proof, "unless the 
statute  otherwise  dictates."  Neder,  527  U. S.,  at  23  (inter-
nal quotation marks omitted). 

We  recognize  that  it  may  be  unusual  to  treat  a  presump-
tion  as  alone  establishing  the  governing  standard  of  proof. 
See, e. g., J. Thayer, Preliminary Treatise on Evidence at the 
Common  Law  336-337  (1898)  (hereinafter  Thayer)  ("When 
. . . we  read that the contrary of any particular presumption 
must  be  proved  beyond  a  reasonable  doubt,  .  .  .  it  is  to  be 
recognized  that  we  have  something  superadded  to  the  rule 
of  presumption,  namely,  another  rule  as  to  the  amount  of 
evidence  which  is  needed  to  overcome  the  presumption"). 
But given how judges, including Justice Cardozo, repeatedly 
understood and explained the presumption of patent validity, 
we  cannot  accept  Microsoft's  argument  that  Congress  used 
the  words  "presumed  valid"  to  adopt  only  a  procedural  de-
vice for "shifting  the burden of production," or for  "shifting 
both the burden of production and the burden of persuasion." 
Brief for Petitioner 21-22 (emphasis deleted).  Whatever the 
significance of a presumption in the abstract, basic principles 
of statutory construction require us to assume that Congress 
meant  to  incorporate  "the  cluster  of  ideas"  attached  to  the 
common-law term it adopted.  Beck, 529 U. S., at 501 (inter-
nal  quotation  marks  omitted).  And  RCA  leaves  no  doubt 
that  attached  to  the  common-law  presumption  of  patent  va-

Cite as: 564 U. S. 91 (2011)  105 

Opinion of the Court 
sumed  to  be valid  until  the  presumption  has  been  overcome by convincing evidence of error" (emphasis added)).  Nor do 

they appear in any of our cases as express limitations on the application  of  the  heightened  standard  of  proof.  Cf.,  e. g., 
Smith  v.  Hall,  301  U. S.  216,  233  (1937)  (citing  RCA  for  the proposition that a "heavy burden of persuasion . . . rests upon 
one  who  seeks  to  negative  novelty  in  a  patent  by  showing prior use"); 

Mumm v.  Jacob E. Decker & Sons, 301 U. S. 168, 171 (1937) ("Not only is the burden to make good this defense 

upon  the  party  setting  it  up,  but  his  burden  is  a  heavy  one, as  it  has  been  held  that  every  reasonable  doubt  should  be 
resolved  against  him"  (internal  quotation  marks  omitted)). In  fact,  Microsoft  itself  admits  that  our  cases  "could  be 
read  as  announcing  a  heightened  standard  applicable  to  all 
invalidity  assertions."  Brief  for  Petitioner  30  (emphasis deleted). 

Furthermore,  we  cannot  agree  that  Microsoft's  proposed limitations  are  inherent--even  if  unexpressed--in  our  pre-
1952  cases.  As  early  as  1874  we  explained  that  the  burden of  proving  prior  inventorship  "rests  upon  [the  defendant], 
and every reasonable doubt should be resolved against him," without tying that rule to the vagaries and manipulability of 
oral  testimony.  Coffin  v.  Ogden,  18  Wall.  120,  124  (1874). 
And,  more  than  60  years  later,  we  applied  that  rule  where the evidence in support of a prior-use defense included docu-

mentary  proof--not  just  oral  testimony--in  a  case  present-ing  no  priority  issues  at  all.  See 

Smith,  301  U. S.,  at  221, 
233.  Thus,  even  if  Congress  searched  for  some  unstated limitations on the heightened standard of proof in our cases, 

it would have found none.7 

7 In  a  similar  vein,  Microsoft  insists  that  there  simply  was  no  settled 
presumption of validity for Congress  to codify  in 1952.  Microsoft  points 
to a handful of District Court decisions, which "question[ed] whether any 
presumption of validity was warranted," or which "required the patentee 
to  prove  the  validity  of  his  patent  by  a  preponderance  of  the  evidence." 
Brief for Petitioner 24 (emphasis deleted; brackets and internal quotation 

Cite as: 564 U. S. 91 (2011)  109 

Opinion of the Court 
clear-and-convincing  standard  would  ever  apply  to  an  inva-
lidity defense raised in an infringement action.  To the con-
trary, the Court spoke on this issue directly in RCA, stating 
that because the heightened standard of proof applied where 
the  evidence  before  the  court  was  "different"  from  that 
considered  by  the  PTO,  it  applied  even  more  clearly  where 
the  evidence  was  identical.  293  U. S.,  at  8.  Likewise,  the 
Court's statement that a "dubious preponderance" will never 
suffice  to  sustain  an  invalidity  defense,  ibid.,  admitted  of 
no  apparent  exceptions.  Finally,  this  Court  often  applied 
the  heightened  standard  of  proof  without  any  mention  of 
whether the relevant prior-art evidence had been before the 
PTO  examiner,  in  circumstances  strongly  suggesting  it  had 
not.  See, e. g., Smith, 301 U. S., at 227, 233.9 

Nothing  in  $ 282's  text  suggests  that  Congress  meant  to 
depart from that understanding to enact a standard of proof 
that would rise and fall with the facts of each case.  Indeed, 
had  Congress  intended  to  drop  the  heightened  standard  of 
proof  where  the  evidence  before  the  jury  varied  from  that 
before the PTO--and thus to take the unusual and impracti-
cal  step  of  enacting  a  variable  standard  of  proof  that  must 
itself  be  adjudicated  in  each  case,  cf.  Santosky  v.  Kramer, 

9 Microsoft cites numerous Court of Appeals decisions as support for its 
claim  that  a  preponderance  standard  must  apply  in  the  event  that  the 
evidence  in  the  infringement  action  varies  from  that  considered  by  the 
PTO.  We see no hint of the hybrid standard of proof that Microsoft advo-
cates  in  these  cases.  Indeed,  in  some  of  these  cases  it  appears  that  the 
court  even  evaluated  the  evidence  according  to  a  heightened  standard  of 
proof.  See  Jacuzzi  Bros.,  Inc.  v.  Berkeley  Pump  Co.,  191  F.  2d  632,  634 
(CA9  1951)  ("Although  it  is  not  expressly  stated  that  th[e]  conclusion  [of 
invalidity] is based upon evidence establishing the thesis beyond a reason-
able  doubt,  the  Trial  Court  expressed  no  doubt.  And  the  record  shows 
that  such  conclusion  was  supported  by  substantial  evidence");  Western 
Auto Supply Co. v.  American-National Co., 114 F. 2d 711, 713 (CA6 1940) 
(concluding that the patent was invalid where the court "entertain[ed] no 
doubt" on the question). 

Cite as: 564 U. S. 91 (2011)  111 

Opinion of the Court 
"When new evidence touching validity of the patent not considered  by  the  PTO is  relied on, the  tribunal consid-

ering  it  is  not  faced  with  having  to  disagree  with  the PTO  or  with  deferring  to  its  judgment  or  with  taking 
its expertise into account.  The evidence may, therefore, carry  more  weight  and  go  further  toward  sustaining 

the  attacker's  unchanging  burden."  Ibid.  (emphasis deleted). 

See  also  SIBIA  Neurosciences,  Inc.  v.  Cadus  Pharmaceuti-
cal  Corp.,  225  F.  3d  1349,  1355-1356  (CA  Fed.  2000)  ("[T]he alleged  infringer's  burden  may  be  more  easily  carried  be-

cause  of  th[e]  additional  [evidence]");  Group  One,  Ltd.  v. Hallmark  Cards,  Inc.,  407  F.  3d  1297,  1306  (CA  Fed.  2005) 
(similar). Simply  put,  if  the  PTO  did  not  have  all  material  facts  be-
fore  it,  its  considered  judgment  may  lose  significant  force. Cf. 

KSR,  550  U. S.,  at  427.  And,  concomitantly,  the  chal-lenger's burden to persuade the jury of its invalidity defense 

by  clear  and  convincing  evidence  may  be  easier  to  sustain. In this respect, although we have no occasion to endorse any 
particular formulation, we note that a jury instruction on the effect  of  new  evidence  can,  and  when  requested,  most  often 
should,  be  given.  When  warranted,  the  jury  may  be  in-structed to consider that it has heard evidence that the PTO 
had  no  opportunity  to  evaluate  before  granting  the  patent. When  it  is  disputed  whether  the  evidence  presented  to  the 
jury  differs  from  that  evaluated  by  the  PTO,  the  jury  may be  instructed  to  consider  that  question.  In  either  case,  the 
jury may be instructed to evaluate whether the evidence be-fore it is materially new, and if so, to consider that fact when 
determining  whether  an  invalidity  defense  has  been  proved by  clear  and  convincing  evidence.  Cf., 

e. g.,  Mendenhall  v. 
Cedarapids,  Inc.,  5  F.  3d  1557,  1563-1564  (CA  Fed.  1993); see  also  Brief  for  International  Business  Machines  Corp.  as 

Amicus  Curiae  31-37.  Although  Microsoft  emphasized  in its  argument  to  the  jury  that  S4  was  never  considered  by 

Cite as: 564 U. S. 91 (2011)  113 

Opinion of the Court 
optimal  level.  They  explain  that  limits  on  the  reexamina-tion process reflect a judgment by Congress as to the appro-

priate  degree  of  interference  with  patentees'  reliance  inter-ests.  Finally,  they  maintain  that  juries  that  are  properly 
instructed  as  to  the  application  of  the  clear-and-convincing-evidence  standard  can,  and  often  do,  find  an  invalidity  de-
fense established. We  find ourselves  in  no  position  to  judge  the  comparative 
force  of  these  policy  arguments.  For  nearly  30  years,  the Federal  Circuit  has  interpreted  $ 282  as  we  do  today.  Dur-
ing this  period, Congress  has often  amended $ 282, see, e. g., Pub.  L.  104-141,  $ 2,  109  Stat.  352;  Pub.  L.  98-417,  $ 203,  98 
Stat. 1603; not  once, so  far as we  (and Microsoft)  are aware, has  it  even  considered  a  proposal  to  lower  the  standard  of 
proof,  see  Tr.  of  Oral  Arg.  10.  Moreover,  Congress  has amended the patent laws to account for concerns about "bad" 
patents,  including  by  expanding  the  reexamination  process to provide for inter partes proceedings.  See Optional Inter 
Partes  Reexamination  Procedure  Act  of  1999,  113  Stat. 1501A-567,  codified  at  35  U. S. C.  $ 311  et  seq.  Through  it 
all,  the  evidentiary  standard  adopted  in  $ 282  has  gone  un-touched.  Indeed, Congress has left the Federal Circuit's in-
terpretation  of $ 282  in  place  despite ongoing  criticism,  both from within the Federal Government and without.

11 

Congress specified the applicable standard of proof in 1952 when  it  codified  the  common-law  presumption  of  patent  va-

11 See, e. g., FTC, To Promote Innovation: The Proper Balance of Compe-
tition  and  Patent  Law  and  Policy  28  (Oct.  2003),  http://www.ftc.gov/os/ 
2003/10/innovationrpt.pdf  (recommending  that  "legislation  be  enacted 
specifying that challenges to the validity of a patent be determined based 
on  a  preponderance  of  the  evidence");  Alsup,  Memo  to  Congress:  A  Dis-
trict  Judge's  Proposal  for  Patent  Reform,  24  Berkeley  Tech.  L.  J.  1647, 
1655  (2009)  (same);  Lichtman  &  Lemley,  Rethinking  Patent  Law's  Pre-
sumption  of Validity,  60  Stan. L.  Rev. 45,  60  (2007) (proposing  "statutory 
amendment or . . . judicial reinterpretation of the existing statute and its 
associated case law" to lower the standard of proof to a preponderance of 
the evidence (footnote omitted)). 

Cite as: 564 U. S. 135 (2011)  139 

Opinion of the Court 
curb  the  practice.1  For  example,  the  Janus  Mercury  Fund 
prospectus dated February 25, 2002, stated that the fund was 
"not  intended  for  market  timing  or  excessive  trading"  and 
represented  that  it  "may  reject  any  purchase  request  .  .  .  if 
it believes that any combination of trading activity is attrib-
utable  to  market  timing  or  is  otherwise  excessive  or  poten-
tially  disruptive  to  the  Fund."  App.  141a.  Although  mar-
ket  timing  is  legal,  it  harms  other  investors  in  the  mutual 
fund. 

In  September  2003,  the  attorney  general  of  the  State  of 
New  York  filed  a  complaint  against  JCG  and  JCM  alleging 
that JCG entered into secret arrangements to permit market 
timing  in  several  funds  run  by  JCM.  After  the  complaint's 
allegations  became  public,  investors  withdrew  significant 
amounts  of  money  from  the  Janus  Investment  Fund  mutual 
funds.2  Because Janus Investment Fund compensated JCM 
based on the total value of the funds and JCM's management 

1 Market timing is a trading strategy that exploits time delay in mutual 
funds' daily valuation system.  The price for buying or selling shares of a 
mutual  fund  is  ordinarily  determined  by  the  next  net  asset  value  (NAV) 
calculation  after  the  order  is  placed.  The  NAV  calculation  usually  hap-
pens once a day, at the close of the major U. S. markets.  Because of cer-
tain  time  delays,  however,  the  values  used  in  these  calculations  do  not 
always  accurately  reflect  the  true  value  of  the  underlying  assets.  For 
example, a fund may value its foreign securities based on the price at the 
close of the foreign market, which may have occurred several hours before 
the calculation.  But events might have taken place after the close of the 
foreign market that could be expected to affect their price.  If the event 
were  expected  to  increase  the  price  of  the  foreign  securities,  a  markettiming  investor  could  buy  shares  of  a  mutual  fund  at  the  artificially  low 
NAV  and  sell  the  next  day  when  the  NAV  corrects  itself  upward.  See 
Disclosure Regarding Market Timing and Selective Disclosure of Portfolio 
Holdings, 68 Fed. Reg. 70402 (proposed Dec. 17, 2003). 

2 In 2004,  JCG and  JCM settled  these  allegations and  agreed  to reduce 

their  fees  by  $125  million  and  pay  $50  million  in  civil  penalties  and  $50 
million in disgorgement to the mutual fund investors. 

Cite as: 564 U. S. 338 (2011)  339 

Syllabus 
v.  Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, 467 U. S. 867, 876, and respond-
ents wish to sue for millions of employment decisions at once.  Without 
some  glue  holding  together  the  alleged  reasons  for  those  decisions,  it 
will  be  impossible  to  say  that  examination  of  all  the  class  members' 
claims will produce a common answer to the crucial discrimination ques-
tion.  Pp. 349-352. 

(b)  General  Telephone  Co.  of  Southwest  v.  Falcon,  457  U. S.  147, 
describes  the  proper  approach  to  commonality.  On  the  facts  of  this 
case,  the  conceptual  gap  between  an  individual's  discrimination  claim 
and  "the  existence  of  a  class  of  persons  who  have  suffered  the  same 
injury,"  id.,  at  157-158,  must  be  bridged  by  "[s]ignificant  proof  that  an 
employer operated under a general policy of discrimination," id., at 159, 
n. 15.  Such proof is absent here.  Wal-Mart's announced policy forbids 
sex  discrimination,  and  the  company  has  penalties  for  denials  of  equal 
opportunity.  Respondents'  only  evidence  of  a  general  discrimination 
policy  was  a  sociologist's  analysis  asserting  that  Wal-Mart's  corporate 
culture  made  it  vulnerable  to  gender  bias.  But  because  he  could  not 
estimate what percent of Wal-Mart employment decisions might be de-
termined by stereotypical thinking, his testimony was worlds away from 
"[s]ignificant  proof"  that Wal-Mart  "operated  under  a  general  policy  of 
discrimination."  Pp. 352-355. 

(c)  The  only  corporate  policy  that  the  plaintiffs'  evidence  convinc-
ingly  establishes  is  Wal-Mart's  "policy"  of  giving  local  supervisors  dis-
cretion  over  employment  matters.  While  such  a  policy  could  be  the 
basis  of  a  Title  VII  disparate-impact  claim,  recognizing  that  a  claim 
"can" exist does not mean that every employee in a company with that 
policy has a  common claim.  In a company of  Wal-Mart's  size  and geo-
graphical  scope,  it  is  unlikely  that  all  managers  would  exercise  their 
discretion in a common way without some common direction.  Respond-
ents'  attempt  to  show  such  direction  by  means  of  statistical  and  anec-
dotal evidence falls well short.  Pp. 355-360. 

2.  Respondents' backpay claims were improperly certified under Rule 
23(b)(2).  Pp. 360-367. 

(a)  Claims  for  monetary  relief  may  not  be  certified  under  Rule 
23(b)(2),  at  least  where  the  monetary  relief  is  not  incidental  to  the  re-
quested  injunctive  or  declaratory  relief.  It  is  unnecessary  to  decide 
whether monetary claims can ever be certified under the Rule because, 
at  a  minimum,  claims  for  individualized  relief,  like  backpay,  are  ex-
cluded.  Rule  23(b)(2)  applies  only  when  a  single,  indivisible  remedy 
would  provide  relief  to  each  class  member.  The  Rule's  history  and 
structure indicate that individualized monetary claims belong instead in 
Rule 23(b)(3), with its procedural protections of predominance, superior-
ity, mandatory notice, and the right to opt out.  Pp. 360-363. 

Cite as: 564 U. S. 338 (2011)  341 

Counsel 
Joseph  M.  Sellers  argued  the  cause  for  respondents. With  him  on  the  brief  were  Brad  Seligman,  Jocelyn  D. 

Larkin, Christine E. Webber, Jenny R. Yang, Kalpana Kota-gal,  Steven  Stemerman,  Elizabeth  A.  Lawrence,  Arcelia 
Hurtado,  Sheila  Y.  Thomas,  Stephen  Tinkler,  and  Merit 
Bennett.* 

*Briefs of amici curiae urging reversal were filed for Altria Group, Inc., 
et al. by Jeffrey A. Lamken, Robert K. Kry, and Martin V. Totaro; for the 
Association  of  Global  Automakers,  Inc.,  by  Donald  M.  Falk,  Dan  Him-
melfarb,  Archis  A.  Parasharami,  and  Kevin  Ranlett;  for  the  Atlantic 
Legal Foundation et al. by Martin S. Kaufman, Martin J. Newhouse, and 
John  Pagliaro;  for  the  California  Employment  Law  Council  by  Paul 
Grossman; for the Chamber of Commerce of the United States of America 
by  John  H.  Beisner,  Geoffrey  M.  Wyatt,  Robin  S.  Conrad,  and  Shane  B. 
Kawka;  for  Costco  Wholesale  Corp.  by  David  B.  Ross,  Kenwood  C.  Youmans,  David  D.  Kadue,  Thomas  J.  Wybenga,  and  Gerald  L.  Maatman, 
Jr.; for DRI-The Voice of the Defense Bar by R. Matthew Cairns, Carter 
G.  Phillips,  Jonathan  F.  Cohn,  and  Matthew  D.  Krueger;  for  the  Equal 
Employment Advisory Council by Rae T. Vann; for Intel Corp. by Roy T. 
Englert, Jr.,  Mark T.  Stancil, and A. Douglas Melamed; for  the Interna-
tional  Association  of  Defense  Counsel  by  Mary-Christine  Sungaila  and 
Troy  L.  Booher;  for  the  Pacific  Legal  Foundation  by  Timothy  Sandefur; 
for the Retail Litigation Center, Inc., by Lisa S. Blatt; for the Securities 
Industry  and  Financial  Markets  Association  by  E.  Joshua  Rosenkranz, 
Michael Delikat, Jill L. Rosenberg, John D. Giansello, Gary R. Siniscalco, 
and Patricia K. Gillette; for the Society for Human Resource Management 
et al. by Camille A. Olson and James M. Harris; and for the Washington 
Legal Foundation by Daniel J. Popeo and Richard A. Samp. 

Briefs  of  amici  curiae  urging  affirmance  were  filed  for  the  American 
Association  for  Justice  by  John  Vail;  for  the  American  Civil  Liberties 
Union et al.  by  Lenora M. Lapidus, Steven R. Shapiro, Marcia D. Green-
berger,  Dina  R.  Lassow,  and  Linda  Lye;  for  the  American  Sociological 
Association et al. by Michael B. Trister; for Civil Procedure Professors by 

Melissa Hart, Arthur R. Miller, and Paul M. Secunda, all pro se; for the 
Consumers  Union  of  United  States,  Inc.,  et  al.  by  Kevin  K.  Green  and 
Mark R. Savage; for the Institute for Women's Policy Research by Linda 
M.  Dardarian;  for  Law  and  Economics  Professors  by  Robert  S.  Libman 
and  Benjamin  Blustein;  for  the  NAACP  Legal  Defense  and  Educational 
Fund, Inc.,  et al. by John Payton and Debo P. Adegbile; for the National 
Employment Lawyers Association et al. by Cyrus Mehri, Pamela Coukos, 
Janelle  M.  Carter,  Rebecca  M.  Hamburg,  Michael  L.  Foreman,  James 

Cite as: 564 U. S. 338 (2011)  343 

Opinion of the Court 
Pay  and  promotion  decisions  at  Wal-Mart  are  generally committed to local managers' broad discretion, which is exer-

cised  "in  a  largely  subjective  manner."  222  F.  R.  D.  137, 145 (ND Cal. 2004).  Local store managers may increase the 
wages  of  hourly  employees  (within  limits)  with  only  limited corporate  oversight.  As  for  salaried  employees,  such  as 
store managers and their  deputies, higher corporate author-ities  have  discretion  to  set  their  pay  within  preestablished 
ranges. Promotions  work  in  a  similar  fashion.  Wal-Mart  permits 
store  managers  to  apply  their  own  subjective  criteria  when selecting  candidates  as  "support  managers,"  which  is  the 
first  step  on  the  path  to  management.  Admission  to  Wal-
Mart's management training program, however, does require 
that  a  candidate  meet  certain  objective  criteria,  including an above-average performance rating, at least one year's ten-

ure  in  the  applicant's  current  position,  and  a  willingness  to relocate.  But  except  for  those  requirements,  regional  and 
district managers have discretion to use their own judgment when  selecting  candidates  for  management  training.  Pro-
motion to higher office--e. g., assistant manager, co-manager, or  store  manager--is  similarly  at  the  discretion  of  the  em-
ployee's  superiors  after  prescribed  objective  factors  are 
satisfied.  B 

The  named  plaintiffs  in  this  lawsuit,  representing  the  1.5 
million  members  of  the  certified  class,  are  three  current  or 
former  Wal-Mart  employees  who  allege  that  the  company discriminated against them on the basis of their sex by deny-

ing  them  equal  pay  or  promotions,  in  violation  of  Title  VII of the  Civil Rights  Act of 1964, 78 Stat.  255, as amended, 42 
U. S. C. $ 2000e-1 et seq.1 

1 The  complaint  included seven  named  plaintiffs,  but only  three  remain 
part of the certified class as narrowed by the Court of Appeals. 

344  WAL-MART  STORES,  INC.  v.  DUKES 

Opinion of the Court 
Betty  Dukes  began  working  at  a  Pittsburg,  California, Wal-Mart in 1994.  She started as a cashier, but later sought 

and  received  a  promotion  to  customer  service  manager. After a series of disciplinary violations, however, Dukes was 
demoted  back  to  cashier  and  then  to  greeter.  Dukes  con-cedes she violated company policy, but contends that the dis-
ciplinary  actions  were  in  fact  retaliation  for  invoking  inter-
nal  complaint procedures  and  that  male  employees have  not been  disciplined  for  similar  infractions.  Dukes  also  claims 

two  male  greeters  in  the  Pittsburg  store  are  paid  more than she is. 

Christine  Kwapnoski  has  worked  at  Sam's  Club  stores  in 
Missouri  and  California  for  most  of  her  adult  life.  She  has 
held a  number of positions, including a supervisory position. 
She claims that a male manager yelled at her frequently and 
screamed  at  female  employees,  but  not  at  men.  The  man-
ager  in  question  "told  [her]  to  `doll  up,'  to  wear  some 
makeup, and to dress a little better."  App. 1003a. 

The  final  named  plaintiff,  Edith  Arana,  worked  at  a  WalMart  store  in  Duarte,  California,  from  1995  to  2001.  In 
2000,  she  approached  the  store  manager  on  more  than  one 
occasion  about  management  training,  but  was  brushed  off. 
Arana  concluded  she  was  being  denied  opportunity  for  ad-
vancement  because  of  her  sex.  She  initiated  internal  com-
plaint  procedures, whereupon  she  was  told  to apply  directly 
to  the  district  manager  if  she  thought  her  store  manager 
was being unfair.  Arana, however, decided against that and 
never  applied  for  management  training  again.  In  2001,  she 
was fired  for failure to comply  with Wal-Mart's  timekeeping 
policy. 

These  plaintiffs,  respondents  here,  do  not  allege  that 
Wal-Mart  has  any  express  corporate  policy  against  the  ad-
vancement  of  women.  Rather,  they  claim  that  their  local 
managers'  discretion  over  pay  and  promotions  is  exercised 
disproportionately  in  favor  of  men,  leading  to  an  unlaw-
ful  disparate  impact  on  female  employees,  see  42  U. S. C. 

Cite as: 564 U. S. 338 (2011)  345 

Opinion of the Court 

$ 2000e-2(k).  And,  respondents say, because  Wal-Mart is  aware  of  this  effect,  its  refusal  to  cabin  its  managers'  au-

thority  amounts  to  disparate  treatment,  see  $ 2000e-2(a). Their complaint seeks injunctive and declaratory relief, puni-
tive  damages,  and  backpay.  It  does  not  ask  for  compensa-tory damages. 

Importantly  for  our  purposes,  respondents  claim  that  the discrimination to which they have been subjected is common 
to  all  Wal-Mart's  female  employees.  The  basic  theory  of their  case  is  that  a  strong  and  uniform  "corporate  culture" 
permits  bias  against  women  to  infect,  perhaps  subcon-sciously,  the  discretionary  decisionmaking  of  each  one  of 
Wal-Mart's  thousands  of  managers--thereby  making  every woman at the company the victim of one common discrimina-
tory  practice.  Respondents  therefore  wish  to  litigate  the Title VII claims of all female employees at Wal-Mart's stores 
in a nationwide class action. 

C 
Class  certification  is  governed  by  Federal  Rule  of  Civil Procedure  23.  Under  Rule  23(a),  the  party  seeking  certifi-

cation must demonstrate, first, that 

"(1)  the  class is so numerous that  joinder  of all  mem-bers is impracticable; 

"(2)  there are  questions of law or fact common to the class; 
"(3)  the  claims or  defenses  of  the  representative  par-ties are typical of the claims or defenses of the class; and 
"(4)  the  representative  parties  will  fairly  and  ade-quately protect the interests of the class." 

Second,  the  proposed  class  must  satisfy  at  least  one  of  the three  requirements  listed  in  Rule  23(b).  Respondents  rely 
on Rule 23(b)(2), which applies when "the party opposing the class has acted or refused to act on grounds that apply gener-
ally to the class, so that final injunctive relief or correspond-

346  WAL-MART  STORES,  INC.  v.  DUKES 

Opinion of the Court 
ing  declaratory  relief  is  appropriate  respecting  the  class  as a whole." 

2 

Invoking these provisions, respondents moved the District Court  to  certify  a  plaintiff  class  consisting  of  " `[a]ll  women 

employed at any Wal-Mart domestic retail store at any time since December 26, 1998 who have been or may be subjected 
to  Wal-Mart's  challenged  pay  and  management  track  pro-
motions  policies  and  practices.' "  222  F.  R.  D.,  at  141-142 (quoting  Plaintiff 's  Motion  for  Class  Certification  in  Case 

No.  3:01-cv-02252-CRB  (ND  Cal.),  Doc.  99,  p.  37).  As  evi-dence that  there  were indeed  "questions  of law  or  fact  com-
mon to" all the women of Wal-Mart, as Rule 23(a)(2) requires, respondents relied chiefly on three forms of proof: statistical 
evidence  about  pay  and  promotion  disparities  between  men and women at the company, anecdotal reports of discrimina-
tion from about 120 of Wal-Mart's female employees, and the 
testimony of a sociologist, Dr. William Bielby, who conducted a  "social  framework  analysis"  of  Wal-Mart's  "culture"  and 

personnel  practices,  and  concluded  that  the  company  was "vulnerable"  to  gender  discrimination.  603  F.  3d  571,  601 
(CA9 2010) (en banc). Wal-Mart unsuccessfully moved to strike much of this evi-
dence.  It also offered its own countervailing statistical and other  proof  in  an  effort  to  defeat  Rule  23(a)'s  requirements 

2 Rule 23(b)(1) allows a class to be maintained where "prosecuting sepa-
rate actions by or against individual class members would create a risk of" 
either "(A) inconsistent or varying adjudications," or "(B) adjudications . . .  
that,  as  a  practical  matter,  would  be  dispositive  of  the  interests  of  the 
other  members  not  parties  to  the  individual  adjudications  or  would 
substantially  impair  or  impede  their  ability  to  protect  their  interests." 
Rule  23(b)(3)  states  that  a  class  may  be  maintained  where  "questions  of 
law  or  fact  common  to  class  members  predominate  over  any  questions 
affecting only individual members," and a class action would be "superior 
to  other  available  methods  for  fairly  and  efficiently  adjudicating  the  con-
troversy."  The  applicability  of  these  provisions  to  the  plaintiff  class  is 
not before us. 

Cite as: 564 U. S. 338 (2011)  347 

Opinion of the Court 
of commonality, typicality, and adequate representation. Wal-Mart  further  contended  that  respondents'  monetary 

claims for backpay could not be certified under Rule 23(b)(2), first because that Rule refers only to injunctive and declara-
tory relief, and second because the backpay claims could not be  manageably  tried  as  a  class  without  depriving  Wal-Mart 
of its right to present certain statutory defenses.  With one limitation  not  relevant  here,  the  District  Court  granted  re-
spondents' motion and certified their proposed class.3 

D 
A divided en banc Court of Appeals substantially affirmed the District Court's certification order.  603 F. 3d 571.  The 

majority concluded that respondents' evidence of commonal-ity  was  sufficient  to  "raise  the  common  question  whether 
Wal-Mart's  female  employees  nationwide  were  subjected  to a  single  set  of  corporate  policies  (not  merely  a  number  of 
independent  discriminatory  acts)  that  may  have  worked  to unlawfully  discriminate  against  them  in  violation  of  Title 
VII."  Id.,  at  612  (emphasis  deleted).  It  also  agreed  with the District Court that the named plaintiffs' claims were suf-
ficiently  typical  of  the  class  as  a  whole  to  satisfy  Rule 23(a)(3),  and  that  they  could  serve  as  adequate  class  repre-
sentatives, see Rule 23(a)(4).  Id., at 614-615.  With respect to  the  Rule  23(b)(2)  question,  the  Ninth  Circuit  held  that 

respondents'  backpay  claims  could  be  certified  as  part  of  a (b)(2)  class  because  they  did  not  "predominat[e]"  over  the 
requests  for  declaratory  and  injunctive  relief,  meaning  they were  not  "superior  in  strength,  influence,  or  authority"  to 

3 The District Court excluded backpay claims based on promotion oppor-
tunities that had not been publicly posted, for the reason that no applicant 
data could exist for such positions.  222 F. R. D. 137, 182 (ND Cal. 2004). 
It also decided to afford class members  notice of the action and the right 
to  opt  out  of  the  class  with  respect  to  respondents'  punitive-damages 
claim.  Id., at 173. 

348  WAL-MART  STORES,  INC.  v.  DUKES 

Opinion of the Court 
the  nonmonetary  claims.  Id.,  at  616  (internal  quotation marks and brackets omitted).

4 

Finally,  the  Court  of  Appeals  determined  that  the  action could be manageably tried as a class action because the Dis-

trict  Court  could  adopt  the  approach  the  Ninth  Circuit  ap-proved  in 

Hilao v.  Estate  of  Marcos,  103  F.  3d  767,  782-787 (1996).  There  compensatory  damages  for  some  9,541  class 

members were calculated by selecting 137 claims at random, referring  those claims  to a  special  master  for valuation,  and 
then  extrapolating  the  validity  and  value  of  the  untested claims from the sample set.  See 603 F. 3d, at 625-626.  The 
Court  of  Appeals  "s[aw]  no  reason  why  a  similar  procedure to  that  used  in  Hilao  could  not  be  employed  in  this  case." 
Id., at 627.  It would allow Wal-Mart "to present individual defenses  in  the  randomly  selected  `sample  cases,'  thus  re-
vealing the approximate percentage of class members whose unequal  pay  or  nonpromotion  was  due  to  something  other 
than gender discrimination."  Ibid., n. 56 (emphasis deleted). We granted certiorari.  562 U. S. 1091 (2010). 

II 
The  class  action  is  "an  exception  to  the  usual  rule  that litigation  is  conducted  by  and  on  behalf  of  the  individual 

named  parties  only."  Califano  v.  Yamasaki,  442  U. S.  682, 700-701  (1979).  In  order  to  justify  a  departure  from  that 
rule,  "a  class  representative  must  be  part  of  the  class  and `possess the same interest and suffer the same injury' as the 

4 To enable that result, the Court of Appeals trimmed the (b)(2) class in 
two  ways:  First,  it  remanded  that  part  of  the  certification  order  which 
included  respondents'  punitive-damages  claim  in  the  (b)(2)  class,  so  that 
the District Court might consider whether that might cause the monetary 
relief  to  predominate.  603  F.  3d,  at  621.  Second,  it  accepted  in  part 
Wal-Mart's  argument  that  since  class  members  whom  it  no  longer  em-
ployed had no standing to seek injunctive or declaratory relief, as to them 
monetary  claims  must  predominate.  It  excluded  from  the certified  class 
"those  putative  class  members  who  were  no  longer  Wal-Mart  employees 
at the time Plaintiffs' complaint was filed," id., at 623 (emphasis added). 

Cite as: 564 U. S. 338 (2011)  349 

Opinion of the Court 
class  members."  East  Tex.  Motor  Freight  System,  Inc.  v. Rodriguez,  431  U. S.  395,  403  (1977)  (quoting  Schlesinger  v. 

Reservists Comm. to Stop the War, 418 U. S. 208, 216 (1974)). Rule 23(a) ensures that the named plaintiffs are appropriate 
representatives  of  the  class  whose  claims  they  wish  to  liti-gate.  The  Rule's  four  requirements--numerosity,  common-
ality,  typicality,  and  adequate  representation--"effectively `limit  the  class  claims  to  those  fairly  encompassed  by  the 
named plaintiff 's claims.' "  General Telephone Co. of South-
west  v.  Falcon,  457  U. S.  147,  156  (1982)  (quoting  General Telephone  Co.  of  Northwest  v.  EEOC,  446  U. S.  318,  330 

(1980)).  A 

The  crux  of  this  case  is  commonality--the  rule  requir-ing  a  plaintiff  to  show  that  "there  are  questions  of  law 
or  fact  common  to  the  class."  Rule  23(a)(2).5  That  lan-guage  is  easy  to  misread,  since  "[a]ny  competently  crafted 
class complaint literally raises common `questions.' "  Naga-reda,  Class  Certification  in  the  Age  of  Aggregate  Proof,  84 
N. Y.  U.  L.  Rev.  97,  131-132  (2009).  For  example:  Do  all  of us  plaintiffs  indeed  work  for  Wal-Mart?  Do  our  managers 
have  discretion  over  pay?  Is  that  an  unlawful  employment practice?  What  remedies  should  we  get?  Reciting  these 
questions is not sufficient to obtain class certification.  Com-

5 We have previously stated in this context that "[t]he commonality and 
typicality requirements of Rule 23(a) tend to merge.  Both serve as guide-
posts for determining whether under the particular circumstances mainte-
nance  of  a  class  action  is  economical  and  whether  the  named  plaintiff's 
claim  and  the  class  claims  are  so  interrelated  that  the  interests  of  the 
class  members  will  be  fairly  and  adequately  protected  in  their  absence. 
Those  requirements  therefore  also  tend  to  merge  with  the  adequacy-of-
representation  requirement,  although  the  latter  requirement  also  raises 
concerns  about the  competency of class  counsel and  conflicts of interest." 
General Telephone Co. of Southwest v.  Falcon, 457 U. S. 147, 157-158, n. 13 
(1982).  In light of our disposition of the commonality question, however, 
it is unnecessary to resolve whether respondents have satisfied the typical-
ity and adequate-representation requirements of Rule 23(a). 

350  WAL-MART  STORES,  INC.  v.  DUKES 

Opinion of the Court 
monality  requires the plaintiff  to demonstrate  that the  class members "have suffered the same injury," 

Falcon, supra, at 
157.  This does not mean merely that they have all suffered a violation of the same provision of law.  Title VII, for exam-

ple,  can  be  violated  in  many  ways--by  intentional  discrimi-nation, or by hiring and promotion criteria that result in dis-
parate impact, and by  the use of these  practices  on the  part 
of many different superiors in a single company.  Quite obvi-ously, the mere claim by employees of the same company that 

they  have  suffered  a  Title  VII  injury,  or  even  a  disparate-impact  Title  VII  injury,  gives  no  cause  to  believe  that  all 
their  claims  can  productively  be  litigated  at  once.  Their claims  must  depend  upon  a  common  contention--for  exam-
ple,  the  assertion  of  discriminatory  bias  on  the  part  of  the same supervisor.  That common contention, moreover, must 
be of such a nature that it is capable of classwide resolution-- 
which  means  that  determination  of  its  truth  or  falsity  will resolve an issue that  is central  to the validity  of each one of 

the claims in one stroke. 

"What matters to class certification . . . is  not the  raising 
of common `questions'--even in droves--but, rather, the capacity of a class-wide proceeding to generate common 

answers  apt  to  drive  the  resolution  of  the  litigation. Dissimilarities  within the  proposed  class  are  what  have 
the  potential  to  impede  the  generation  of  common  an-swers."  Nagareda, 

supra, at 132. 

Rule  23  does  not  set  forth  a  mere  pleading  standard.  A 
party  seeking  class  certification  must  affirmatively  demon-
strate his compliance with the Rule--that is, he must be pre-
pared  to  prove  that  there  are  in  fact  sufficiently  numerous 
parties,  common  questions  of  law  or  fact,  etc.  We  recog-
nized in Falcon that "sometimes it may be necessary for the 
court to probe behind the pleadings before coming to rest on 
the certification question," 457 U. S., at 160, and that certifi-
cation  is  proper  only  if  "the  trial  court  is  satisfied,  after  a 

Cite as: 564 U. S. 338 (2011)  351 

Opinion of the Court 
rigorous  analysis,  that  the  prerequisites  of  Rule  23(a)  have 
been satisfied," id., at 161; see id., at 160 ("[A]ctual, not pre-
sumed, conformance with Rule 23(a) remains . . . indispensa-
ble").  Frequently  that  "rigorous  analysis"  will  entail  some 
overlap  with  the  merits  of  the  plaintiff 's  underlying  claim. 
That  cannot  be  helped.  " `[T]he  class  determination  gener-
ally involves considerations that are enmeshed in the factual 
and  legal  issues  comprising  the  plaintiff 's  cause  of  action.' " 
Id., at 160 (quoting Coopers & Lybrand v.  Livesay, 437 U. S. 
463,  469  (1978);  some  internal  quotation  marks  omitted).6 
Nor  is  there  anything  unusual  about  that  consequence:  The 
necessity of touching aspects of the merits in order to resolve 

6 A  statement  in  one  of  our  prior  cases,  Eisen  v.  Carlisle  &  Jacquelin, 
417  U. S.  156,  177  (1974),  is  sometimes  mistakenly  cited  to  the  contrary: 
"We find nothing in either the language or history of Rule 23 that gives a 
court any authority to  conduct  a  preliminary inquiry  into  the merits of  a 
suit in order to determine whether it may be maintained as a class action." 
But  in  that  case,  the  judge  had  conducted  a  preliminary  inquiry  into  the 
merits  of  a  suit,  not  in  order  to  determine  the  propriety  of  certification 
under  Rules  23(a)  and  (b)  (he  had  already  done  that,  see  id.,  at  165),  but 
in  order  to  shift  the  cost  of  notice  required  by  Rule  23(c)(2)  from  the 
plaintiff to the defendants.  To the extent the quoted statement goes be-
yond the permissibility of a merits inquiry for any other pretrial purpose, 
it is the purest dictum and is contradicted by our other cases. 

Perhaps the  most common example of considering a merits question at 
the  Rule  23  stage  arises  in  class-action  suits  for  securities  fraud.  Rule 
23(b)(3)'s requirement that "questions of law or fact common to class mem-
bers  predominate  over  any  questions  affecting  only  individual  members" 
would  often  be  an  insuperable  barrier  to  class  certification,  since  each  of 
the individual  investors would have to  prove reliance  on the alleged mis-
representation.  But the problem dissipates if the plaintiffs can establish 
the applicability of the so-called "fraud on the market" presumption, which 
says  that  all  traders  who  purchase  stock  in  an  efficient  market  are  pre-
sumed  to  have  relied  on  the  accuracy  of  a  company's  public  statements. 
To  invoke  this  presumption,  the  plaintiffs  seeking  23(b)(3)  certification 
must prove that their shares were traded on an efficient market, Erica P. 
John Fund, Inc. v.  Halliburton Co., 563 U. S. 804, 809 (2011), an issue they 
will surely have to prove again at trial in order to make out their case on 
the merits. 

352  WAL-MART  STORES,  INC.  v.  DUKES 

Opinion of the Court 
preliminary  matters,  e. g.,  jurisdiction  and  venue,  is  a  famil-iar feature of litigation.  See Szabo v.  Bridgeport Machines, 

Inc., 249 F. 3d 672, 676-677 (CA7 2001) (Easterbrook, J.). In  this  case,  proof  of  commonality  necessarily  overlaps 
with  respondents'  merits  contention  that  Wal-Mart  engages in  a 

pattern  or  practice  of  discrimination.7  That  is  so  be-cause,  in  resolving  an  individual's  Title  VII  claim,  the  crux 

of  the  inquiry  is  "the  reason  for  a  particular  employment decision," Cooper v.  Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, 467 
U. S.  867,  876  (1984).  Here  respondents  wish  to  sue  about literally millions of employment decisions  at once.  Without 
some glue holding the alleged reasons for all those decisions together, it  will be  impossible  to say  that  examination  of all 
the  class  members'  claims  for  relief  will  produce  a  common answer to the crucial question 

why was I disfavored. 

B 
This Court's opinion in Falcon describes how the common-ality  issue  must  be  approached.  There  an  employee  who 

claimed  that  he  was  deliberately  denied  a  promotion  on  ac-count  of  race  obtained  certification  of  a  class  comprising  all 
employees  wrongfully  denied  promotions  and  all  applicants wrongfully denied jobs.  457 U. S., at 152.  We re jected 
that  composite  class  for  lack  of  commonality  and  typicality, explaining: 

"Conceptually,  there  is  a  wide  gap  between  (a)  an  indi-vidual's  claim  that  he  has  been  denied  a  promotion  [or 
7 In a pattern-or-practice case, the plaintiff tries to "establish by a pre-
ponderance  of  the  evidence  that  .  .  .  discrimination  was  the  company's 
standard operating procedure[,] the regular rather than the unusual prac-
tice."  Teamsters  v.  United  States,  431  U. S.  324,  336  (1977);  see  also 
Franks v.  Bowman Transp. Co., 424 U. S. 747, 772 (1976).  If he succeeds, 
that  showing  will  support  a  rebuttable  inference  that  all  class  members 
were victims of the discriminatory practice, and will justify "an award of 
prospective  relief,"  such  as  "an  injunctive  order  against  continuation  of 
the discriminatory practice."  Teamsters, supra, at 361. 

Cite as: 564 U. S. 338 (2011)  353 

Opinion of the Court 
higher  pay]  on  discriminatory  grounds,  and  his  other-wise unsupported allegation that the company has a pol-

icy  of  discrimination,  and  (b)  the  existence  of  a  class  of persons who have suffered the same injury as that indi-
vidual,  such  that  the  individual's  claim  and  the  class claims  will  share  common  questions  of  law  or  fact  and 
that  the  individual's  claim  will  be  typical  of  the  class claims." 

Id., at 157-158. 

Falcon  suggested  two  ways  in  which  that  conceptual  gap might  be  bridged.  First,  if  the  employer  "used  a  biased 

testing  procedure  to  evaluate  both  applicants  for  employ-ment  and  incumbent  employees,  a  class  action  on  behalf  of 
every applicant or employee who might have been prejudiced by  the  test  clearly  would  satisfy  the  commonality  and  typi-
cality  requirements  of  Rule  23(a)."  Id.,  at  159,  n.  15.  Sec-ond,  "[s]ignificant  proof  that  an  employer  operated  under  a 
general  policy  of  discrimination  conceivably  could  justify  a class  of  both  applicants  and  employees  if  the  discrimination 
manifested  itself  in  hiring  and  promotion  practices  in  the same general fashion, such as through entirely subjective de-
cisionmaking  processes."  Ibid.  We  think  that  statement precisely  describes  respondents'  burden  in  this  case.  The 
first manner of bridging the gap obviously has no application here;  Wal-Mart  has  no  testing  procedure  or  other  companywide evaluation method that can be charged with bias.  The whole point of permitting discretionary decisionmaking is to 
avoid evaluating employees under a common standard. The second manner of bridging the gap requires "[s]ignifi-
cant  proof "  that  Wal-Mart  "operated  under  a  general  pol-icy  of  discrimination."  That  is  entirely  absent  here.  Wal-
Mart's announced policy forbids sex discrimination, see App. 1567a-1596a,  and  as  the  District  Court  recognized  the  com-
pany  imposes  penalties  for  denials  of  equal  employment opportunity,  222  F.  R.  D.,  at  154.  The  only  evidence  of 
a  "general  policy  of  discrimination"  respondents  produced was  the  testimony  of  Dr.  William  Bielby,  their  sociological 

354  WAL-MART  STORES,  INC.  v.  DUKES 

Opinion of the Court 
expert.  Relying on "social framework" analysis, Bielby tes-tified  that  Wal-Mart  has  a  "strong  corporate  culture,"  that 

makes  it  "vulnerable"  to  "gender  bias."  Id.,  at  152.  He could not, however, "determine with any specificity how reg-
ularly stereotypes play a meaningful role in employment de-cisions  at  Wal-Mart.  At  his  deposition  .  .  .  Dr.  Bielby  con-
ceded  that  he  could  not  calculate  whether  0.5  percent  or  95 percent  of  the  employment  decisions  at  Wal-Mart  might  be 
determined by stereotyped thinking."  222 F. R. D. 189, 192 (ND Cal. 2004).  The parties dispute whether Bielby's testi-
mony  even  met  the  standards  for  the  admission  of  expert testimony under Federal Rule of Evidence 702 and our 

Dau-
bert  case,  see  Daubert  v.  Merrell  Dow  Pharmaceuticals, Inc.,  509  U. S.  579  (1993).

8  The  District  Court  concluded 

that Daubert did not apply to expert testimony at the certi-fication  stage  of  class-action  proceedings.  222  F.  R.  D.,  at 

191.  We  doubt  that  is  so,  but  even  if  properly  considered, Bielby's  testimony  does  nothing  to  advance  respondents' 
case.  "[W]hether  0.5  percent  or  95  percent  of  the  employ-ment decisions  at Wal-Mart might be determined by stereo-
typed  thinking"  is  the  essential  question  on  which  respond-ents'  theory  of  commonality  depends.  If  Bielby  admittedly 
has  no  answer  to  that  question,  we  can  safely  disregard 

8 Bielby's  conclusions  in  this  case  have  elicited  criticism  from  the  very 
scholars on whose  conclusions he relies for his social-framework  analysis. 
See  Monahan,  Walker,  &  Mitchell,  Contextual  Evidence  of  Gender  Dis-
crimination: The Ascendance of "Social Frameworks," 94 Va. L. Rev. 1715, 
1747 (2008) ("[Bielby's] research into conditions and behavior at Wal-Mart 
did not meet the standards expected of social scientific research into stere-
otyping and discrimination"); id., at 1745, 1747 ("[A] social framework nec-
essarily  contains  only  general  statements  about  reliable  patterns  of  rela-
tions among  variables . . .  and  goes  no further.  . . . Dr.  Bielby claimed to 
present  a  social  framework,  but  he  testified  about  social  facts  specific  to 
Wal-Mart");  id.,  at  1747-1748  ("Dr.  Bielby's  report  provides  no  verifiable 
method  for  measuring  and  testing  any  of  the  variables  that  were  crucial 
to his conclusions and reflects nothing more than Dr. Bielby's `expert judg-
ment'  about  how  general  stereotyping  research  applied  to  all  managers 
across all of Wal-Mart's stores nationwide for the multi-year class period"). 

Cite as: 564 U. S. 338 (2011)  355 

Opinion of the Court 
what  he  has  to  say.  It  is  worlds  away  from  "[s]ignificant proof "  that  Wal-Mart  "operated  under  a  general  policy  of 

discrimination."  C 

The only corporate policy that the plaintiffs' evidence con-vincingly  establishes  is  Wal-Mart's  "policy"  of  allowing  dis-
cretion  by  local  supervisors  over  employment  matters.  On its  face,  of  course,  that  is  just  the  opposite  of  a  uniform 
employment  practice  that  would  provide  the  commonality needed  for  a  class  action;  it  is  a  policy 

against  having  uni-form  employment  practices.  It  is  also  a  very  common  and 

presumptively  reasonable  way  of  doing  business--one  that we  have  said  "should  itself  raise  no  inference  of  discrimina-
tory conduct," Watson v.  Fort Worth Bank & Trust, 487 U. S. 977, 990 (1988). 

To  be  sure,  we  have  recognized  that,  "in  appropriate cases,"  giving  discretion  to  lower-level  supervisors  can  be 
the  basis of Title VII  liability under  a  disparate-impact the-ory--since "an employer's undisciplined system of subjective 
decisionmaking  [can  have]  precisely  the  same  effects  as  a system  pervaded  by  impermissible  intentional  discrimina-
tion."  Id.,  at  990-991.  But  the  recognition  that  this  type of Title VII claim "can" exist does not lead to the conclusion 
that every  employee  in  a company  using a  system  of discre-tion  has  such  a  claim  in  common.  To  the  contrary,  left  to 
their  own  devices  most  managers  in  any  corporation--and surely  most  managers  in  a  corporation  that  forbids  sex  dis-
crimination--would  select  sex-neutral,  performance-based criteria  for hiring and promotion that produce no  actionable 
disparity  at  all.  Others  may  choose  to  reward  various  at-tributes  that  produce  disparate  impact--such  as  scores  on 
general  aptitude  tests  or  educational  achievements,  see 
Griggs  v.  Duke  Power  Co.,  401  U. S.  424,  431-432  (1971). And  still  other  managers  may  be  guilty  of  intentional  dis-

crimination  that  produces  a  sex-based  disparity.  In  such  a company,  demonstrating  the  invalidity  of  one  manager's  use 

356  WAL-MART  STORES,  INC.  v.  DUKES 

Opinion of the Court 
of discretion will do nothing to demonstrate the invalidity of another's.  A party seeking to certify a nationwide class will 

be  unable  to  show  that  all  the  employees'  Title  VII  claims will in fact depend on the answers to common questions. 

Respondents  have  not  identified  a  common  mode  of  exer-cising  discretion  that  pervades  the  entire  company--aside 
from their reliance on Dr. Bielby's social-framework analysis 
that we have rejected.  In a company of Wal-Mart's size and geographical scope, it is quite unbelievable that all managers 

would  exercise  their  discretion  in  a  common  way  without some common direction.  Respondents attempt to make that 
showing  by  means  of  statistical  and  anecdotal  evidence,  but 
their evidence falls well short. 

The  statistical  evidence  consists  primarily  of  regression 
analyses  performed  by  Dr.  Richard  Drogin,  a  statistician, 
and Dr. Marc Bendick, a labor economist.  Drogin conducted 
his  analysis  region  by  region,  comparing  the  number  of 
women  promoted  into  management  positions  with  the  per-
centage  of  women  in  the  available  pool  of  hourly  workers. 
After  considering  regional  and  national  data,  Drogin  con-
cluded  that  "there  are  statistically  significant  disparities 
between  men  and  women  at  Wal-Mart  . . . [and]  these 
disparities  .  .  .  can  be  explained  only  by  gender  discrimina-
tion."  603 F. 3d, at 604 (internal  quotation marks omitted). 
Bendick compared work-force data  from Wal-Mart and com-
petitive  retailers  and  concluded  that  Wal-Mart  "promotes  a 
lower percentage of women than its competitors."  Ibid. 

Even  if they  are  taken  at face  value, these  studies  are in-
sufficient to establish that respondents' theory can be proved 
on  a  classwide  basis.  In  Falcon,  we  held  that  one  named 
plaintiff 's  experience  of  discrimination  was  insufficient  to 
infer  that  "discriminatory  treatment  is  typical  of  [the  em-
ployer's employment] practices."  457 U. S., at 158.  A simi-
lar  failure  of  inference  arises  here.  As  Judge  Ikuta  ob-
served in her dissent, "[i]nformation about disparities at the 
regional  and  national  level  does  not  establish  the  existence 

Cite as: 564 U. S. 338 (2011)  357 

Opinion of the Court 
of  disparities  at  individual  stores,  let  alone  raise  the  infer-ence  that  a  company-wide  policy  of  discrimination  is  imple-

mented  by  discretionary  decisions  at  the  store  and  district level."  603  F.  3d,  at  637.  A  regional  pay  disparity,  for  ex-
ample,  may  be  attributable  to  only  a  small  set  of  Wal-Mart stores,  and  cannot  by  itself  establish  the  uniform,  store-by-
store disparity upon which the  plaintiffs' theory of common-
ality depends. There  is  another,  more  fundamental,  respect  in  which  re-

spondents'  statistical  proof  fails.  Even  if  it  established  (as it does not) a pay or promotion pattern that differs from the 
nationwide  figures  or  the  regional  figures  in  all  of  Wal-
Mart's  3,400  stores,  that  would  still  not  demonstrate  that 
commonality of issue exists.  Some managers will claim that 
the  availability  of  women,  or  qualified  women,  or  interested 
women,  in  their  stores'  area  does  not  mirror  the  national  or 
regional  statistics.  And  almost  all  of  them  will  claim  to 
have  been  applying  some  sex-neutral,  performance-based 
criteria--whose  nature  and  effects  will  differ  from  store  to 
store.  In  the  landmark  case  of  ours  which  held  that  giving 
discretion to lower-level supervisors can be the basis of Title 
VII  liability  under  a  disparate-impact  theory,  the  plurality 
opinion conditioned that holding on the corollary that merely 
proving  that  the  discretionary  system  has  produced  a  racial 
or sexual disparity is not enough.  "The plaintiff must begin 
by  identifying the  specific employment  practice that  is  chal-
lenged."  Watson,  supra,  at  994;  accord,  Wards  Cove  Pack-
ing  Co.  v.  Atonio,  490  U. S.  642,  656  (1989)  (approving  that 
statement),  superseded  by  statute  on  other  grounds,  42 
U. S. C.  $ 2000e-2(k).  That  is  all  the  more  necessary  when 
a class of plaintiffs is sought to be certified.  Other than the 
bare  existence  of  delegated  discretion,  respondents  have 
identified  no  "specific  employment  practice"--much  less  one 
that ties all their 1.5 million claims together.  Merely show-
ing  that  Wal-Mart's  policy  of  discretion  has  produced  an 
overall sex-based disparity does not suffice. 

360  WAL-MART  STORES,  INC.  v.  DUKES 

Opinion of the Court 
regional  policies  that  all  differed . . .  .  Some  thrived while others did poorly.  They have little in common but 

their  sex  and  this  lawsuit."  603  F.  3d,  at  652  (dissent-ing opinion). 

III 
We  also  conclude  that  respondents'  claims  for  backpay were improperly certified under Federal Rule of Civil Proce-

dure 23(b)(2).  Our opinion in Ticor Title Ins. Co. v.  Brown, 511  U. S.  117,  121  (1994)  (per  curiam),  expressed  serious 
doubt about whether claims for monetary relief may be certi-fied  under  that  provision.  We  now  hold  that  they  may  not, 
at least where (as here) the monetary relief is not incidental to the injunctive or declaratory relief. 

A 
Rule  23(b)(2)  allows  class  treatment  when  "the  party  op-posing  the  class has  acted  or  refused  to act  on  grounds  that 

apply generally to the  class, so that  final injunctive relief or corresponding  declaratory  relief  is  appropriate  respecting 
the class as a whole."  One possible reading of this provision is  that  it  applies 

only to  requests  for  such  injunctive  or  de-claratory relief and does not authorize the class certification 

of  monetary  claims  at  all.  We  need  not  reach  that  broader question  in  this  case,  because  we  think  that,  at  a  minimum, 
claims  for  individualized  relief  (like  the  backpay  at  issue here) do  not  satisfy the  Rule.  The  key to the  (b)(2)  class  is 
"the  indivisible  nature  of  the  injunctive  or  declaratory  rem-edy  warranted--the  notion  that  the  conduct  is  such  that  it 
can  be  enjoined  or  declared  unlawful  only  as  to  all  of the  class  members  or  as  to  none  of  them."  Nagareda,  84 
N.  Y.  U.  L.  Rev.,  at  132.  In  other  words,  Rule  23(b)(2)  ap-plies  only  when  a  single  injunction  or  declaratory  judgment 
would  provide  relief  to  each  member  of  the  class.  It  does not  authorize  class  certification  when  each  individual  class 
member would be entitled to a different injunction or declar-atory judgment against the defendant.  Similarly, it does not 

Cite as: 564 U. S. 338 (2011)  361 

Opinion of the Court 
authorize  class  certification  when  each  class  member  would be entitled to an individualized award of monetary damages. 

That  interpretation  accords  with  the  history  of  the  Rule. Because Rule 23 "stems from equity practice" that predated 
its codification, Amchem Products, Inc. v.  Windsor, 521 U. S. 591,  613  (1997),  in  determining  its  meaning  we  have  pre-
viously  looked  to  the  historical  models  on  which  the  Rule was based, 

Ortiz v.  Fibreboard Corp., 527 U. S. 815, 841-845 (1999).  As  we  observed  in  Amchem,  "[c]ivil  rights  cases 

against  parties  charged  with  unlawful,  class-based  discrimi-nation  are  prime  examples"  of  what  (b)(2)  is  meant  to  cap-
ture.  521  U. S.,  at  614.  In  particular,  the  Rule  reflects  a series  of  decisions  involving  challenges  to  racial  segrega-
tion--conduct that was remedied by a single classwide order. 
In  none  of  the  cases  cited  by  the  Advisory  Committee  as examples  of  (b)(2)'s  antecedents  did  the  plaintiffs  combine 

any  claim  for  individualized  relief  with  their  classwide  in-junction.  See Advisory Committee's  Note, 28 U. S. C. App., 
pp. 1260-1261 (1964 ed., Supp. II) (citing cases); e. g., Potts v. 
Flax,  313  F. 2d  284,  289, n. 5 (CA5  1963);  Brunson  v.  Board 
of  Trustees  of  School  Dist.  No. 1,  Clarendon  Cty.,  311  F.  2d 107, 109 (CA4 1962) 

(per curiam); Frasier v.  Board of Trust-
ees of Univ. of N. C.,  134  F.  Supp.  589,  593  (MDNC  1955) 
(three-judge  court),  aff 'd,  350  U. S.  979  (1956)  (per  curiam). Permitting  the  combination  of  individualized  and  classwide relief in a (b)(2) class is also inconsistent with the struc-ture  of  Rule  23(b).  Classes  certified  under  (b)(1)  and  (b)(2) 
share the most traditional justifications for class treatment-- that individual adjudications would be impossible or unwork-
able, as in a (b)(1) class,11  or that the relief sought must per-

11 Rule  23(b)(1) applies  where  separate  actions by  or against  individual 
class  members  would  create  a  risk  of  "establish[ing]  incompatible  stand-
ards  of  conduct  for  the  party  opposing  the  class,"  Rule  23(b)(1)(A),  such 
as  "where  the  party  is  obliged  by  law  to  treat  the  members  of  the  class 
alike,"  Amchem  Products,  Inc.  v.  Windsor,  521  U. S.  591,  614  (1997),  or 
where individual adjudications "as a practical matter, would be dispositive 

362  WAL-MART  STORES,  INC.  v.  DUKES 

Opinion of the Court 
force affect the entire class at once, as in a (b)(2) class.  For that reason these are also mandatory classes: The Rule  pro-

vides no opportunity for (b)(1) or (b)(2) class members to opt out,  and  does  not  even  oblige  the  District  Court  to  afford 
them  notice  of  the  action.  Rule  23(b)(3),  by  contrast,  is  an "adventuresome  innovation"  of  the  1966  amendments, 

Am-chem,  521  U. S.,  at  614  (internal  quotation  marks  omitted), 

framed for situations "in which `class-action treatment is not as clearly called for,' " id., at 615 (quoting Advisory Commit-
tee's  Notes,  28  U. S. C.  App.,  p.  697  (1994  ed.)).  It  allows class  certification  in  a  much  wider  set  of  circumstances  but 
with  greater  procedural  protections.  Its  only  prerequisites are that "the questions of law or fact common to class mem-
bers  predominate  over  any  questions  affecting  only  individ-ual  members,  and  that  a  class  action  is  superior  to  other 
available  methods  for  fairly  and  efficiently  adjudicating  the controversy."  Rule  23(b)(3).  And  unlike  (b)(1)  and  (b)(2) 
classes, the  (b)(3)  class  is  not  mandatory;  class  members  are entitled  to receive  "the  best  notice  that  is  practicable under 
the  circumstances"  and  to  withdraw  from  the  class  at  their option.  See Rule 23(c)(2)(B). 

Given  that structure, we  think  it  clear  that individualized monetary  claims  belong  in  Rule  23(b)(3).  The  procedural 
protections attending the (b)(3) class--predominance, superi-ority,  mandatory  notice,  and  the  right  to  opt  out--are  miss-
ing from (b)(2) not because the Rule considers them unneces-sary,  but  because  it  considers  them  unnecessary  to  a  (b)(2) 
class.  When  a  class  seeks  an  indivisible  injunction  benefit-ing  all its members  at once,  there is  no reason to undertake 
a case-specific inquiry into whether class issues predominate or whether class  action is  a superior method of adjudicating 

of the interests of the other members not parties to the individual adjudi-
cations  or  would  substantially  impair  or  impede  their  ability  to  protect 
their  interests,"  Rule  23(b)(1)(B),  such  as  in  " `limited  fund'  cases,  . . . in  
which numerous persons make claims against a fund insufficient to satisfy 
all claims," id., at 614. 

Cite as: 564 U. S. 338 (2011)  363 

Opinion of the Court 
the dispute.  Predominance and superiority are self-evident. But with respect to each class member's individualized claim 

for  money,  that  is  not  so--which  is  precisely  why  (b)(3)  re-quires  the  judge  to  make  findings  about  predominance  and 
superiority  before  allowing  the  class.  Similarly,  (b)(2)  does not  require  that  class  members  be  given  notice  and  opt-out 
rights, presumably because it is thought (rightly or wrongly) that notice has no purpose when the class is mandatory, and 
that  depriving  people  of  their  right  to  sue  in  this  manner complies  with  the  Due  Process  Clause.  In  the  context  of  a 
class action predominantly for money damages we have held that absence of notice and opt out violates due process.  See 
Phillips  Petroleum  Co.  v.  Shutts,  472  U. S.  797,  812  (1985). While we have never held that to be so where the monetary 
claims do not predominate, the serious possibility that it may be so provides an additional reason not to read Rule 23(b)(2) 
to include the monetary claims here. 

B 
Against  that  conclusion,  respondents  argue  that  their claims  for  backpay  were  appropriately  certified  as  part  of  a 

class  under  Rule  23(b)(2)  because  those  claims  do  not  "pre-dominate" over their requests for injunctive and declaratory 
relief.  They rely upon the Advisory Committee's statement that  Rule  23(b)(2)  "does  not  extend  to  cases  in  which  the 
appropriate final relief relates exclusively or predominantly to  money  damages."  28  U. S. C.  App.,  p.  1260  (1964  ed., 
Supp.  II)  (emphasis  added).  The  negative  implication,  they argue, is that it does extend to cases in which the appropriate 
final  relief  relates  only  partially  and  nonpredominantly  to money damages.  Of course it is the Rule itself, not the Ad-
visory  Committee's  description  of  it,  that  governs.  And  a mere negative inference does not in our view suffice to estab-
lish  a  disposition  that  has  no  basis  in  the  Rule's  text,  and that  does  obvious  violence  to  the  Rule's  structural  features. 
The mere "predominance" of a proper (b)(2) injunctive claim 

364  WAL-MART  STORES,  INC.  v.  DUKES 

Opinion of the Court 
does  nothing  to  justify  elimination  of  Rule  23(b)(3)'s  proce-dural  protections:  It  neither  establishes  the  superiority  of 

class adjudication over individual adjudication nor cures the notice  and  opt-out  problems.  We  fail  to  see  why  the  Rule 
should be read to nullify these protections whenever a plain-tiff  class,  at  its  option,  combines  its  monetary  claims  with  a 
request--even a "predominating request"--for an injunction. 

Respondents'  predominance  test,  moreover,  creates  per-verse incentives for class representatives to place at risk po-

tentially  valid  claims  for  monetary  relief.  In  this  case,  for example, the named plaintiffs declined to include employees' 
claims  for  compensatory  damages  in  their  complaint.  That 
strategy of including only backpay claims made it more likely 
that  monetary  relief  would  not  "predominate."  But  it  also 
created  the  possibility  (if  the  predominance  test  were  cor-
rect)  that  individual  class  members'  compensatory-damages 
claims  would  be  precluded  by  litigation  they  had  no  power 
to  hold  themselves  apart  from.  If  it  were  determined,  for 
example,  that  a  particular  class  member  is  not  entitled  to 
backpay  because  her  denial  of  increased  pay  or  a  promotion 
was  not  the  product  of  discrimination,  that  employee  might 
be collaterally estopped from independently seeking compen-
satory damages based on that same denial.  That possibility 
underscores the need for plaintiffs with individual monetary 
claims  to  decide  for  themselves  whether  to  tie  their  fates 
to  the  class  representatives'  or  go  it  alone--a  choice  Rule 
23(b)(2) does not ensure that they have. 

The  predominance  test  would  also  require  the  District 
Court to reevaluate the roster of class members continually. 
The  Ninth  Circuit  recognized  the  necessity  for  this  when  it 
concluded  that  those  plaintiffs  no  longer  employed  by  WalMart  lack  standing  to  seek  injunctive  or  declaratory  relief 
against its employment practices.  The Court of Appeals' re-
sponse  to  that  difficulty,  however,  was  not  to  eliminate  all 
former  employees  from  the  certified  class,  but  to  eliminate 
only  those  who  had  left  the  company's  employ  by  the  date 

Cite as: 564 U. S. 338 (2011)  365 

Opinion of the Court 
the complaint was filed.  That solution has no logical connec-tion to the problem, since those who have left their Wal-Mart 

jobs  since  the  complaint  was  filed  have  no  more  need  for prospective relief than those who left beforehand.  As a con-
sequence,  even  though  the  validity  of  a  (b)(2)  class  depends on whether "final injunctive relief  or corresponding  declara-
tory  relief  is  appropriate  respecting  the  class  as  a  whole," Rule  23(b)(2)  (emphasis  added),  about  half  the  members  of 
the  class  approved  by  the  Ninth  Circuit  have  no  claim  for injunctive  or  declaratory  relief  at  all.  Of  course,  the  alter-
native  (and  logical)  solution  of  excising  plaintiffs  from  the class  as  they  leave  their  employment  may  have  struck  the 
Court  of  Appeals  as  wasteful  of  the  District  Court's  time. Which  indeed  it  is,  since  if  a  backpay  action  were  properly 
certified  for  class  treatment  under  (b)(3),  the  ability  to  liti-gate a plaintiff 's backpay claim as part of the class would not 
turn on the irrelevant question whether she is still employed at  Wal-Mart.  What  follows  from  this,  however,  is  not  that 
some arbitrary limitation on class membership should be im-posed  but  that  the  backpay  claims  should  not  be  certified 
under Rule 23(b)(2) at all. Finally,  respondents  argue  that  their  backpay  claims  are 
appropriate for a (b)(2) class action because a backpay award is equitable in nature.  The latter may be true, but it is irrel-
evant.  The  Rule  does  not  speak  of  "equitable"  remedies generally but of injunctions and declaratory judgments.  As 
Title  VII  itself  makes  pellucidly  clear,  backpay  is  neither. See  42  U. S. C.  $ 2000e-5(g)(2)(B)(i)  and  (ii)  (distinguishing 
between  declaratory  and  injunctive  relief  and  the  payment of "backpay," see $ 2000e-5(g)(2)(A)). 

C 
In  Allison  v.  Citgo  Petroleum  Corp.,  151  F.  3d  402,  415 (CA5  1998),  the  Fifth  Circuit  held  that  a  (b)(2)  class  would 

permit the certification of monetary relief that is "incidental to  requested  injunctive  or  declaratory  relief,"  which  it  de-

366  WAL-MART  STORES,  INC.  v.  DUKES 

Opinion of the Court 
fined as "damages that flow directly from liability to the class 
as  a  whole  on  the  claims  forming  the  basis  of  the  injunc-
tive  or  declaratory  relief."  In  that  court's  view,  such  "inci-dental damages should not require additional hearings to re-

solve the disparate merits of each individual's case; it should neither introduce new and substantial legal or factual issues, 
nor  entail  complex  individualized  determinations."  Ibid. 
We need not decide in this case whether there are any forms of  "incidental"  monetary  relief  that  are  consistent  with  the 

interpretation  of  Rule  23(b)(2)  we  have  announced  and  that comply  with  the  Due  Process  Clause.  Respondents  do  not 
argue  that  they  can  satisfy  this  standard,  and  in  any  event 
they cannot. 

Contrary to the Ninth Circuit's view, Wal-Mart is entitled 
to  individualized  determinations  of  each  employee's  eligibil-
ity  for  backpay.  Title  VII  includes  a  detailed  remedial 
scheme.  If  a  plaintiff prevails  in  showing that  an employer 
has discriminated against him in violation of the statute, the 
court "may enjoin the respondent from engaging in such un-
lawful  employment  practice,  and  order  such  affirmative  ac-
tion as may be appropriate, [including] reinstatement or hir-
ing of employees, with or without back pay . . . or any other 
equitable  relief  as  the  court  deems  appropriate."  $ 2000e- 
5(g)(1).  But  if  the  employer  can  show  that  it  took  an  ad-
verse employment action against an employee for any reason 
other than discrimination, the court cannot order the "hiring, 
reinstatement, or promotion of an individual as an employee, 
or the payment to him of any back pay."  $ 2000e-5(g)(2)(A). 

We  have  established  a  procedure  for  trying  pattern-or-
practice  cases  that  gives  effect  to  these  statutory  require-
ments.  When  the  plaintiff  seeks  individual  relief  such  as 
reinstatement  or  backpay  after  establishing  a  pattern  or 
practice of discrimination, "a district court must usually con-
duct  additional  proceedings . . . to  determine  the  scope  of 
individual  relief."  Teamsters,  431  U. S.,  at  361.  At  this 
phase,  the  burden  of  proof  will  shift  to  the  company,  but  it 

380  BOROUGH  OF  DURYEA  v.  GUARNIERI 

Syllabus 
School  Dist.  205,  Will  Cty.,  391  U. S.  563,  568.  Although  cases  might 
arise in which special Petition Clause concerns would require a distinct 
analysis,  public  employees'  retaliation  claims  do  not  call  for  this  diver-
gence.  The close connection between the rights of speech and petition 
has  led  Courts  of  Appeals  other  than  the  Third  Circuit  to  apply  the 
public  concern  test  to  public  employees'  Petition  Clause  claims.  This 
approach is justified by the substantial common ground in the definition 
and delineation of these rights.  Pp. 386-389. 

(b)  The  substantial  government  interests  that  justify  a  cautious  and 
restrained  approach  to  protecting  public  employees'  speech  are  just  as 
relevant in  Petition Clause  cases.  A  petition, no  less than speech,  can 
interfere  with  government's  efficient  and  effective  operation  by,  e. g., 
seeking  results  that  "contravene  governmental  policies  or  impair  the 
proper  performance  of  governmental  functions,"  Garcetti  v.  Ceballos, 
547 U. S. 410, 419.  A petition taking the form of a lawsuit against the 
government employer may be particularly disruptive, consuming public 
officials'  time  and  attention,  burdening  their  exercise  of  legitimate  au-
thority,  and  blurring  the  lines  of  accountability  between  them  and  the 
public.  Here, for example, Guarnieri's  attorney invited the jury to  re-
view  myriad  details  of  government  decisionmaking.  It  is  precisely  to 
avoid  this sort of intrusion into internal  governmental  affairs that this 
Court has held that, "while the First Amendment invests public employ-
ees  with  certain  rights,  it  does  not  empower  them  to  `constitutional-
ize  the  employee  grievance.' "  Id.,  at  420.  Interpreting  the  Petition 
Clause to apply  even where matters of public concern  are not involved 
would be unnecessary, or even disruptive, when there is already protec-
tion  for  the  public  employees'  rights  to  file  grievances  and  litigate. 
Adopting  a  different  rule  for  Petition  Clause  claims  would  provide  a 
ready  means  for  public  employees  to  circumvent  the  public  concern 
test's protections and aggravate potential harm to the government's in-
terests  by  compounding  the  costs  of  complying  with  the  Constitution. 
Pp. 389-393. 

(c)  Guarnieri's claim that applying the public concern test to the Peti-
tion Clause would be inappropriate in light of the private nature of many 
petitions for redress lacks merit.  Although the Clause undoubtedly has 
force  and  application  in  the  context  of  a  personal  grievance  addressed 
to the government, petitions to the government assume an added dimen-
sion when they seek to advance political, social, or other ideas of interest 
to the community as a whole.  The Clause's history reveals the frequent 
use  of  petitions  to  address  a  wide  range  of  political,  social,  and  other 
matters of great public import and interest.  Pp. 394-398. 

Cite as: 564 U. S. 379 (2011)  383 

Opinion of the Court 
of  public  concern,  as  that  term  is  defined  in  the  precedents of this and other courts.  Here the issue is whether that test 

applies when the employee invokes the Petition Clause. Alone among the Courts of Appeals to have addressed the 
issue,  the  Court  of  Appeals  for  the  Third  Circuit  has  held that  the  public  concern  test  does  not  limit  Petition  Clause 
claims  by  public  employees.  For  the  reasons  stated  below, this conclusion is incorrect. 

I 
Charles  Guarnieri  filed  a  union  grievance  challenging  his termination  as  chief  of  police  for  the  borough  of  Duryea,  a 

town  of  about  4,600  persons  in  northeastern  Pennsylvania. His grievance proceeded to arbitration pursuant to the police 
union collective-bargaining agreement.  The  arbitrator found that the borough council, Duryea's legislative body and 
the entity responsible for Guarnieri's termination, committed procedural  errors  in  connection  with  the  termination;  and 
the  arbitrator  also  found  that  Guarnieri  engaged  in  miscon-duct, including "attempting to intimidate Council members." 
App.  37,  38.  The  arbitrator  ordered  Guarnieri  reinstated after a disciplinary suspension. 

Id., at 38. Upon  Guarnieri's  return  to  the  job,  the  council  issued  11 

directives  instructing  Guarnieri  in  the  performance  of  his duties.  The  council's  attorney  explained  that  the  council 
"wanted to be sure that the chief understood what was going to  be  expected  of  him  upon  his  return."  Tr.  19:12-14  (Apr. 
16, 2008).  One directive prohibited Guarnieri from working overtime  without  the  council's  "express  permission."  App. 
59, || 1.  Another indicated that "[t]he police car is to be used for  official  business  only." 

Id.,  at  60,  || 9.  A  third  stated that  the  "Duryea  municipal  building  is  a  smoke  free  build-

ing"  and  that  the  "police  department  is  not  exempt."  Id., at  61,  || 10.  Guarnieri  testified  that,  because  of  these  and 
other directives, his "coming back wasn't a warm welcoming feeling."  Tr.  65:7-8  (Apr.  15,  2008).  Guarnieri  filed  a  sec-
ond  union  grievance  challenging  the  directives.  The  arbi-

384  BOROUGH  OF  DURYEA  v.  GUARNIERI 

Opinion of the Court 
trator instructed  the  council  to modify  or withdraw  some of the  directives  on  the  grounds  that  they  were  vague,  inter-

fered  with  the  authority  of  the  mayor,  or  were  contrary  to the collective-bargaining agreement. 

Guarnieri  filed  this  lawsuit  against  the  borough,  the  bor-ough  council,  and  individual  members  of  the  council  under 
Rev.  Stat.  $ 1979,  42  U. S. C.  $ 1983.  Guarnieri  claimed  that 
his first union grievance was a petition protected by the Peti-tion Clause of the First Amendment, and he alleged that the 

directives issued upon his reinstatement were retaliation for that protected activity. 

After  this  suit  was  filed,  the  council  denied  a  request  by 
Guarnieri for $338 in  overtime.  The United States Depart-
ment of Labor investigated and concluded that Guarnieri was 
entitled  to  be  paid.  The  council  offered  Guarnieri  a  check 
for the amount, but Guarnieri refused to accept it.  Instead, 
Guarnieri amended his complaint to encompass the denial of 
overtime.  Guarnieri  alleged  that  his  $ 1983  lawsuit  was  a 
petition  and  that  the  denial  of  overtime  constituted  retalia-
tion for his having filed the lawsuit. 

Under the law of the Circuit, the defendants could not ob-
tain judgment as a matter of law on the basis that the lawsuit 
and grievances were not on a matter of public concern.  The 
case  proceeded  to  a  jury.  Guarnieri's  attorney  argued  that 
the  council  was  "sending  a  message  to"  Guarnieri  through 
the  directives  and  the  denial  of  overtime:  "You  might  have 
won  your  arbitration,  but  we  control  you."  Tr.  53:24-25 
(Apr. 17, 2008).  The District Court instructed the jury that 
the lawsuit and union grievances were "protected activity . . . 
under  the  constitution,"  and  that  the  jury  could  find  de-
fendants  liable  if  it  found  an  adequate  connection  between 
the  protected  activity  and  the  alleged  retaliation.  Id.,  at 
61:17-20;  62.  The  jury  found  in  favor  of  Guarnieri.  The 
jury  awarded  $45,000  in  compensatory  damages  and  $24,000 
in  punitive  damages  for  the  directives,  as  well  as  $358  in 
compensatory  damages  and  $28,000  in  punitive  damages  for 

Cite as: 564 U. S. 379 (2011)  385 

Opinion of the Court 
the denial of overtime.  The District Court awarded $45,000 in attorney's fees and denied defendants' renewed motion for 

judgment as a matter of law. Defendants appealed on the ground that Guarnieri's griev-
ances and lawsuit did not address matters of public concern. Courts  outside  the  Third  Circuit  have  held  that  allegedly 
retaliatory  actions  by  government  employers  against  gov-
ernment  employees  may  not  give  rise  to  liability  under  the Petition  Clause  unless  the  employee's  petition  related  to  a 

matter of public concern.  See, e. g., Kirby v.  Elizabeth City, 388  F.  3d  440,  448-449  (CA4  2004); 

Tang  v.  Rhode  Island, 
Dept.  of  Elderly  Affairs,  163  F.  3d  7,  11-12  (CA1  1998); 
White  Plains  Towing  Corp.  v.  Patterson,  991  F.  2d  1049, 
1059 (CA2 1993).  These courts rely on a substantial overlap 
between  the  rights  of  speech  and  petition  to  justify  the  ap-
plication  of  Speech  Clause  precedents  to  Petition  Clause 
claims.  They  reason  that,  whether  the  grievance  is  consid-
ered  under  the  Speech  Clause  or  the  Petition  Clause,  the 
government  employer  is  entitled  to  take  adverse  action 
against the employee unless the dispute involves a matter of 
public concern. 

Rejecting  that  view,  the  Court  of  Appeals  here  affirmed 
the award of compensatory damages, although it found insuf-
ficient  evidence  to  sustain  the  award  of  punitive  damages. 
The  Court  of  Appeals  concluded  that  " `a  public  employee 
who has petitioned the government through a formal mecha-
nism such as the filing of a lawsuit or grievance is protected 
under  the  Petition  Clause  from  retaliation  for  that  activity, 
even  if  the  petition  concerns  a  matter  of  solely  private  con-
cern.' "  364  Fed.  Appx.  749,  753  (CA3  2010)  (quoting  Fora-
ker  v.  Chaffinch,  501  F.  3d  231,  236  (CA3  2007)).  The  deci-
sion  of  the  Court  of  Appeals  was  consistent  with  the  rule 
adopted and explained by that court in San Filippo v.  Bongi-
ovanni, 30 F. 3d 424, 442 (1994).  This Court granted certio-
rari  to  resolve  the  conflict  in  the  Courts  of  Appeals.  562 
U. S. 960 (2010). 

386  BOROUGH  OF  DURYEA  v.  GUARNIERI 

Opinion of the Court 

II 
When  a  public  employee  sues  a  government  employer under  the  First  Amendment's  Speech  Clause,  the  employee 

must  show  that  he  or  she  spoke  as  a  citizen  on  a  matter  of public concern. 

Connick v.  Myers, 461 U. S. 138, 147 (1983). If  an  employee  does  not  speak  as  a  citizen,  or  does  not  ad-

dress  a  matter  of  public  concern,  "a  federal  court  is  not  the appropriate  forum  in  which  to  review  the  wisdom  of  a  per-
sonnel decision taken by a public agency allegedly in reaction to  the  employee's  behavior." 

Ibid.  Even  if  an  employee does  speak  as  a  citizen  on  a  matter  of  public  concern,  the 

employee's  speech  is  not  automatically  privileged.  Courts balance  the  First  Amendment  interest  of  the  employee 
against "the interest of the State, as an employer, in promot-ing  the  efficiency  of  the  public  services  it  performs  through 
its  employees."  Pickering  v.  Board  of  Ed.  of  Township 
High  School  Dist.  205,  Will  Cty.,  391  U. S.  563,  568  (1968). This  framework  "reconcile[s]  the  employee's  right  to  en-

gage in speech and the government employer's right to pro-tect  its  own  legitimate  interests  in  performing  its  mission." 
San  Diego  v.  Roe,  543  U. S.  77,  82  (2004)  (per  curiam). There  are  some  rights  and  freedoms  so  fundamental  to  lib-
erty  that  they  cannot  be  bargained  away  in  a  contract  for public  employment.  "Our  responsibility  is  to  ensure  that 
citizens  are  not  deprived  of  [these]  fundamental  rights  by virtue of working for the government." 

Connick, supra, at 147; see also Keyishian v.  Board of Regents of Univ. of State 

of N. Y., 385  U. S. 589,  605-606  (1967).  Nevertheless,  a citi-zen  who  accepts  public  employment  "must  accept  certain 
limitations on his or her freedom."  Garcetti v.  Ceballos, 547 U. S. 410, 418  (2006).  The government  has a substantial in-
terest  in  ensuring  that  all  of  its  operations  are  efficient  and effective.  That  interest may  require  broad  authority  to su-
pervise  the  conduct  of  public  employees.  "When  someone who is paid a salary so that she will contribute to an agency's 
effective  operation  begins  to  do  or  say  things  that  detract 

Cite as: 564 U. S. 379 (2011)  387 

Opinion of the Court 
from  the  agency's  effective  operation,  the  government  em-ployer  must  have  some  power  to  restrain  her." 

Waters  v. 
Churchill, 511  U. S. 661,  675  (1994)  (plurality  opinion).  Re-straints are justified by the consensual nature of the employ-

ment  relationship  and  by  the  unique  nature  of  the  govern-ment's interest. 

This case arises under the Petition Clause, not the Speech 
Clause.  The  parties  litigated  the  case  on  the  premise  that Guarnieri's grievances and lawsuit are petitions protected by 

the  Petition  Clause.  This  Court's  precedents  confirm  that the Petition Clause protects the right of individuals to appeal 
to  courts  and  other  forums  established  by  the  government 
for  resolution  of  legal  disputes.  "[T]he  right  of  access  to 
courts for redress of wrongs is an aspect of the First Amend-
ment  right  to  petition  the  government."  Sure-Tan,  Inc.  v. 
NLRB, 467 U. S. 883, 896-897 (1984); see also BE&K Constr. 
Co.  v.  NLRB,  536  U. S.  516,  525  (2002);  Bill  Johnson's  Res-
taurants, Inc. v.  NLRB, 461 U. S. 731, 741 (1983); California 
Motor  Transport  Co.  v.  Trucking  Unlimited,  404  U. S.  508, 
513 (1972).  Although retaliation by a government employer 
for a  public employee's  exercise  of the  right  of access  to the 
courts  may  implicate  the  protections  of  the  Petition  Clause, 
this case provides no necessity to consider the correct appli-
cation of the Petition Clause beyond that context. 

Although  this  case  proceeds  under  the  Petition  Clause, 
Guarnieri just as easily could have alleged that his employer 
retaliated  against  him  for  the  speech  contained  within  his 
grievances and lawsuit.  That claim would have been subject 
to the public concern test already described.  Because Guar-
nieri  chose  to  proceed  under  the  Petition  Clause,  however, 
the Court of Appeals applied a more generous rule.  Follow-
ing  the  decision  of  the  Court  of  Appeals  in  San  Filippo, 
supra,  at  443,  Guarnieri  was  deemed  entitled  to  protection 
from  retaliation  so  long  as  his  petition  was  not  a  "sham." 
Under  that  rule,  defendants  and  other  public  employers 
might  be  liable  under  the  Petition  Clause  even  if  the  same 

388  BOROUGH  OF  DURYEA  v.  GUARNIERI 

Opinion of the Court 
conduct  would  not  give  rise  to  liability  under  the  Speech Clause.  The question presented by this case is whether the 

history  and  purpose  of  the  Petition  Clause  justify  the  im-position  of  broader  liability  when  an  employee  invokes  its 
protection  instead  of  the  protection  afforded  by  the  Speech Clause. 

It is not necessary to say that the two Clauses are identical 
in their mandate or their purpose and effect to acknowledge that the rights of speech and petition share substantial com-

mon  ground.  This  Court  has  said  that  the  right  to  speak and  the  right  to  petition  are  "cognate  rights." 

Thomas  v. 
Collins,  323  U. S.  516,  530  (1945);  see  also  Wayte  v.  United 
States,  470  U. S.  598,  610,  n. 11  (1985).  "It  was  not  by  acci-
dent or coincidence that the rights to freedom in speech and 
press  were  coupled  in  a  single  guaranty  with  the  rights  of 
the people peaceably to assemble and to petition for redress 
of  grievances."  Thomas,  323  U. S.,  at  530.  Both  speech 
and petition are integral to the democratic process, although 
not  necessarily  in  the  same  way.  The  right  to  petition 
allows citizens to express their ideas, hopes, and concerns to 
their government and their elected representatives, whereas 
the  right  to  speak  fosters  the  public  exchange  of  ideas  that 
is integral to deliberative democracy as well as to the whole 
realm  of  ideas  and  human  affairs.  Beyond  the  political 
sphere,  both  speech  and  petition  advance  personal  expres-
sion,  although  the  right  to  petition  is  generally  concerned 
with expression directed to the government seeking redress 
of a grievance. 

Courts  should  not  presume  there  is  always  an  essential 
equivalence in the two Clauses or that Speech Clause prece-
dents  necessarily  and  in  every  case  resolve  Petition  Clause 
claims.  See  ibid.  (rights  of  speech  and  petition  are  "not 
identical").  Interpretation  of  the  Petition  Clause  must  be 
guided  by  the  objectives  and  aspirations  that  underlie  the 
right.  A petition  conveys the special concerns of its author 
to the government and, in its usual form, requests action by 

Cite as: 564 U. S. 379 (2011)  389 

Opinion of the Court 
the  government  to  address  those  concerns.  See  Sure-Tan, 
Inc., supra, at 896-897. 

This  Court's  opinion  in  McDonald  v.  Smith,  472  U. S.  479 (1985),  has  sometimes  been  interpreted  to  mean  that  the 

right  to  petition  can  extend  no  further  than  the  right  to speak; but 

McDonald held only that speech contained within 
a  petition  is  subject  to  the  same  standards  for  defamation 
and  libel  as  speech  outside  a  petition.  In  those  circum-stances the Court found "no sound basis for granting greater 

constitutional  protection  to  statements  made  in  a  petition .  .  .  than  other  First  Amendment  expressions." 

Id.,  at  485. 
There may arise cases where the special concerns of the Peti-
tion Clause would provide a sound basis for a distinct analy-
sis;  and if  that  is  so,  the  rules  and principles  that  define  the 
two rights might differ in emphasis and formulation. 

As  other  Courts  of  Appeals  have  recognized,  however, 
claims  of retaliation by public  employees  do not  call for this 
divergence.  See  supra,  at  385.  The  close  connection  be-
tween these rights has led Courts of Appeals other than the 
Third  Circuit  to  apply  the  public  concern  test  developed  in 
Speech Clause cases to Petition Clause claims by  public em-
ployees.  As will be explained further, this approach is justi-
fied  by  the  extensive  common  ground  in  the  definition  and 
delineation  of  these  rights.  The  considerations  that  shape 
the  application  of  the  Speech  Clause  to  public  employees 
apply  with  equal  force  to  claims  by  those  employees  under 
the Petition Clause. 

The  substantial  government  interests  that  justify  a  cau-
tious and restrained approach to the protection of speech by 
public employees are just as relevant when public employees 
proceed  under  the  Petition  Clause.  Petitions,  no  less  than 
speech,  can  interfere  with  the  efficient  and  effective  opera-
tion of government.  A petition may seek to achieve results 
that "contravene governmental policies or impair the proper 

performance of governmental functions."  Garcetti, 547 
U. S.,  at  419.  Government  must  have  authority,  in  appro-

390  BOROUGH  OF  DURYEA  v.  GUARNIERI 

Opinion of the Court 
priate  circumstances,  to  restrain  employees  who  use  peti-tions  to  frustrate  progress  toward  the  ends  they  have  been 

hired to achieve.  A petition, like other forms of speech, can bring  the  "mission  of  the  employer  and  the  professionalism 
of  its  officers  into  serious  disrepute."  Roe,  543  U. S.,  at  81. A public employee might, for instance, use the courts to pur-
sue  personal vendettas or to harass  members of the  general 
public.  That  behavior  could  cause  a  serious  breakdown  in public  confidence  in  the  government  and  its  employees. 

And if speech or petition were directed at or concerned other public  employees,  it  could  have  a  serious  and  detrimental 
effect on morale. 

When  a  petition  takes  the  form  of  a  lawsuit  against  the 
government  employer,  it  may  be  particularly  disruptive. 
Unlike  speech  of  other  sorts,  a  lawsuit  demands  a  response. 
Mounting  a  defense  to  even  frivolous  claims  may  consume 
the  time  and  resources  of  the  government  employer.  Out-
side the context of public employment, this Court has recog-
nized  that  the  Petition  Clause  does  not  protect  "objectively 
baseless" litigation that seeks to " `interfere directly with the 
business relationships of a competitor.' "  Professional Real 
Estate Investors, Inc. v.  Columbia Pictures Industries, Inc., 
508  U. S.  49,  60-61  (1993)  (quoting  Eastern  Railroad  Presi-
dents Conference v.  Noerr Motor Freight, Inc., 365 U. S. 127, 
144 (1961)).  In recognition of the substantial costs imposed 
by litigation, Congress has also required civil rights plaintiffs 
whose suits  are  "frivolous,  unreasonable, or  without  founda-
tion"  to pay attorney's fees incurred  by  defendants.  Chris-
tiansburg  Garment  Co.  v.  EEOC,  434  U. S.  412,  421  (1978); 
see  also  Fed.  Rule  Civ.  Proc.  11  (providing  sanctions  for 
claims  that  are  "presented  for  [an]  improper  purpose,"  friv-
olous,  or  lacking  evidentiary  support).  The  government 
likewise  has  a  significant  interest  in  disciplining  public  em-
ployees who abuse the judicial process. 

Unrestrained  application  of  the  Petition  Clause  in  the 
context  of  government  employment  would  subject  a  wide 

Cite as: 564 U. S. 379 (2011)  391 

Opinion of the Court 
range of government operations to invasive judicial superin-tendence.  Employees  may  file  grievances  on  a  variety  of 

employment matters, including working conditions, pay, dis-cipline, promotions, leave, vacations, and terminations.  See 
Brief for National School Boards Association as Amicus Cu-
riae 5.  Every government action in response could present 
a  potential  federal  constitutional  issue.  Judges  and  juries, 
asked  to  determine  whether  the  government's  actions  were in  fact  retaliatory,  would  be  required  to  give  scrutiny  to 

both  the  government's  response  to  the  grievance  and  the government's  justification  for  its  actions.  This  would  occa-
sion  review  of  a  host  of  collateral  matters  typically  left  to 
the  discretion  of  public  officials.  Budget  priorities,  person-
nel  decisions,  and  substantive  policies  might  all  be  laid 
before  the  jury.  This  would  raise  serious  federalism  and 
separation-of-powers  concerns.  It  would  also  consume  the 
time  and  attention  of  public  officials,  burden  the  exercise  of 
legitimate  authority,  and  blur  the  lines  of  accountability  be-
tween officials and the public. 

This case illustrates these risks and costs.  Guarnieri's at-
torney  invited  the  jury  to  review  myriad  details  of  govern-
ment decisionmaking.  She questioned the council's decision 
to issue directives in writing, rather than orally, Tr. 66 (Apr. 
14,  2008);  the  council's  failure  to  consult  the  mayor  before 
issuing the directives, id., at 105 (Apr. 15, 2008); the amount 
of  money  spent  to  employ  "Philadelphia  lawyers"  to  defend 
Guarnieri's  legal  challenges,  id.,  at  191  to  193:7-10  (Apr.  14, 
2008), 152-153 (Apr. 16, 2008); and the wisdom of the council's 
decision to spend money to install Global Positioning System 
devices  on  police  cars,  id.,  at  161-162  (same).  Finally,  the 
attorney  invited  the  jury  to  evaluate  the  council's  decisions 
in light of an emotional appeal on behalf of Guarnieri's "little 
dog  Hercules,  little  white  fluffy  dog  and  half  Shitsu."  Id., 
at  49:13-14  (Apr.  14,  2008).  It  is  precisely  to  avoid  this  in-
trusion  into  internal  governmental  affairs  that  this  Court 
has  held  that,  "while  the  First  Amendment  invests  public 

392  BOROUGH  OF  DURYEA  v.  GUARNIERI 

Opinion of the Court 
employees  with  certain  rights,  it  does  not  empower  them to  `constitutionalize  the  employee  grievance.' " 

Garcetti, 
547 U. S., at 420 (quoting Connick, 461 U. S., at 154). If  the  Petition  Clause  were  to  apply  even  where  matters 

of  public  concern  are  not  involved,  that  would  be  unneces-sary, or even disruptive, when there is already protection for 
the  rights  of  public  employees  to  file  grievances  and  to  liti-
gate.  The  government  can  and  often  does  adopt  statutory and  regulatory  mechanisms  to  protect the  rights  of  employ-

ees against improper retaliation or discipline, while preserv-ing important government interests.  Cf. 

Garcetti, supra, at  
425 (noting a "powerful  network of legislative enactments"). 
Employees  who  sue  under  federal  and  state  employment 
laws  often  benefit  from  generous  and  quite  detailed  antiretaliation  provisions.  See,  e. g.,  Pa.  Stat.  Ann.,  Tit.  43, 

$ 1101.1201(a)(4)  (Purdon  2009);  $ 1101.1302.  These  statu-
tory  protections  are  subject  to  legislative  revision  and  can 
be  designed  for  the  unique  needs  of  State,  local,  or  Federal 
Governments, as well as the special circumstances of particu-
lar  governmental offices  and agencies.  The  Petition Clause 
is  not  an  instrument  for  public  employees  to  circumvent 
these legislative enactments when  pursuing claims based on 
ordinary workplace grievances. 

In light of the government's interests in the public employ-
ment context, it would be surprising if Petition Clause claims 
by public employees were not limited as necessary to protect 
the  employer's  functions  and  responsibilities.  Even beyond 
the  Speech  Clause,  this  Court  has  explained  that  "govern-
ment  has  significantly  greater  leeway  in  its  dealings  with 
citizen  employees  than  it  does  when  it  brings  its  sovereign 
power  to  bear  on  citizens  at  large."  Engquist  v.  Oregon 
Dept.  of  Agriculture,  553  U. S.  591,  599  (2008);  see  also 
NASA v.  Nelson, 562 U. S. 134, 148-149 (2011).  The govern-
ment's  interest  in  managing  its  internal  affairs  requires 
proper  restraints  on  the  invocation  of  rights  by  employees 
when the workplace or the government employer's responsi-

Cite as: 564 U. S. 379 (2011)  393 

Opinion of the Court 
bilities  may  be  affected.  There  is  no  reason  to  think  the Petition Clause should be an exception. 

The  public  concern  test  was  developed  to  protect  these substantial  government  interests.  Adoption  of  a  different 
rule for Petition Clause claims would provide a ready means for  public  employees  to  circumvent  the  test's  protections. 
Consider Sheila Myers, who was the original plaintiff in Connick.  She circulated "a questionnaire soliciting the views of her  fellow  staff  members"  on  various  office  matters.  461 

U. S.,  at  141.  The  Court  held  that  Myers'  claim  for  retalia-tion failed the public concern  test because the questionnaire 
was  "most  accurately  characterized  as  an  employee  griev-
ance  concerning  internal  office  policy."  Id.,  at  154.  It 
would  undermine  that  principle  if  a  different  result  would 
have  obtained  had  Myers  raised  those  same  claims  using  a 
formal  grievance  procedure.  Myers'  employer  "reasonably 
believed [Myers' complaints] would disrupt the office, under-
mine his authority, and destroy close working relationships." 
Ibid.  These concerns would be no less significant in the con-
text  of  a  formal  grievance.  Employees  should  not  be  able 
to  evade  the  rule  articulated  in  the  Connick  case  by  wrap-
ping their speech in the mantle of the Petition Clause. 

Articulation  of  a  separate  test  for  the  Petition  Clause 
would  aggravate  potential  harm  to  the  government's  inter-
ests by compounding the costs of compliance with the Consti-
tution.  A  different  rule  for  each  First  Amendment  claim 
would  require  employers  to  separate  petitions  from  other 
speech in order to afford them different treatment; and that, 
in turn, would add to the complexity and expense of compli-
ance  with  the  Constitution.  Identifying  petitions  might  be 
easy  when  employees  employ  formal  grievance  procedures, 
but  the  right  to  petition  is  not  limited  to  petitions  lodged 
under  formal  procedures.  See,  e. g.,  Brown  v.  Louisiana, 
383 U. S. 131 (1966).  Indeed, the employee in Connick could 
have  made  a  colorable  argument  that  her  questionnaire 
ought to be viewed as a petition for redress of grievances. 

394  BOROUGH  OF  DURYEA  v.  GUARNIERI 

Opinion of the Court 
Guarnieri  claims  application  of  the  public  concern  test  to the  Petition  Clause  would  be  inappropriate  in  light  of  the 

private  nature  of  many  petitions  for  redress  of  grievances. The  Petition  Clause  undoubtedly  does  have  force  and  appli-
cation  in  the  context  of  a  personal  grievance  addressed  to the  government.  See, 

e. g.,  Trainmen  v.  Virginia  ex  rel. 
Virginia  State Bar, 377 U. S. 1 (1964); Thomas, 323  U. S., at 
530-531.  At  the  founding,  citizens  petitioned  on  a  wide range of subjects, including matters of both private and pub-

lic  concern.  Petitions  to  the  colonial  legislatures concerned topics as diverse as debt actions, estate distributions, divorce 
proceedings, and requests for modification of a criminal sen-tence.  Higginson, A Short History of the Right To Petition 
Government for the Redress of Grievances, 96 Yale L. J. 142, 146 (1986).  Although some claims will be of interest only to 
the individual making the appeal, for that individual the need 
for  a  legal  remedy  may  be  a  vital  imperative.  See,  e. g., 
M.  L.  B.  v.  S.  L. J.,  519  U. S.  102  (1996);  Boddie  v.  Connecti-
cut,  401  U. S.  371  (1971).  Outside  the  public  employment context,  constitutional  protection  for  petitions  does  not  nec-

essarily  turn  on  whether  those  petitions  relate  to  a  matter of public concern. 

There is, however, no merit to the suggestion that the pub-
lic  concern  test  cannot  apply  under  the  Petition  Clause  be-
cause  the  majority  of  petitions  to  colonial  legislatures  ad-
dressed  matters  of  purely  private  concern.  In  analogous 
cases  under  the  Speech  Clause,  this  Court  has  noted  the 
"Constitution's  special  concern  with  threats  to  the  right  of 
citizens to participate in political affairs," Connick, supra, at 
145,  even  though  it  is  likely  that,  in  this  and  any  other  age, 
most  speech  concerns  purely  private  matters.  The  proper 
scope  and  application  of  the  Petition  Clause  likewise  cannot 
be determined merely by tallying up petitions to the colonial 
legislatures.  Some effort must be made  to identify the his-
toric and fundamental principles that led to the enumeration 
of the right to petition in the First Amendment, among other 
rights fundamental to liberty. 

Cite as: 564 U. S. 379 (2011)  395 

Opinion of the Court 
Petitions  to  the  government  assume  an  added  dimension when they seek to advance political,  social, or other  ideas of 

interest  to  the  community  as  a  whole.  Petition,  as  a  word, a concept, and an essential safeguard of freedom, is of ancient 
significance in the English law and the Anglo-American legal tradition.  See, 

e. g.,  1  W.  Blackstone,  Commentaries  *143. 
The  right  to  petition  applied  to  petitions  from  nobles  to  the 
King,  from  Parliament  to  the  King,  and  from  the  people  to the Parliament, and it concerned both discrete, personal inju-

ries and great matters of state. The  right  to  petition  traces  its  origins  to  Magna  Carta, 
which  confirmed  the  right  of  barons  to  petition  the  King. W.  McKechnie,  Magna  Carta:  A  Commentary  on  the  Great 
Charter  of  King  John  467  (rev.  2d  ed.  1958).  The  Magna Carta  itself  was  King  John's  answer  to  a  petition  from  the 
barons.  Id.,  at  30-38.  Later, the  Petition  of Right  of 1628 
drew upon centuries of tradition and Magna Carta as a model for the Parliament to issue a plea, or even a demand, that the 

Crown  refrain  from  certain  actions.  3  Car.  1,  ch.  1  (1627), 5  Statutes  of  the  Realm  23.  The  Petition  of  Right  stated 
four principal grievances: taxation without consent of Parlia-ment; arbitrary imprisonment; quartering or billeting of sol-
diers;  and  the  imposition  of  martial  law.  After  its  passage 
by  both  Houses  of  Parliament,  the  Petition  received  the 
King's  assent  and  became  part  of  the  law  of  England.  See 
S. Gardiner, The First Two Stuarts and the Puritan Revolu-
tion, 1603-1660, pp. 60-61 (1886).  The Petition of Right oc-
cupies  a  place  in  English  constitutional  history  superseded 
in  importance,  perhaps,  only  by  Magna  Carta  itself  and  the 
Declaration of Right of 1689. 

The  following  years  saw  use  of  mass  petitions  to  address 
matters of public  concern.  See 8 D. Hume, History of Eng-
land from the Invasion of Julius Caesar to the Revolution in 
1688, p. 122 (1763) ("Tumultuous petitioning . . . was an admi-
rable expedient . . . for spreading discontent, and for uniting 
the  nation  in  any  popular  clamour").  In  1680,  for  instance, 
more  than  15,000  persons  signed  a  petition  regarding  the 

396  BOROUGH  OF  DURYEA  v.  GUARNIERI 

Opinion of the Court 
summoning  and dissolution  of Parliament,  "one  of the major political  issues  agitating  the  nation."  Knights,  London's 

`Monster'  Petition,  36  Historical  Journal  39,  40-43  (1993). Nine  years  later,  the  Declaration  of  Right  listed  the  illegal 
acts  of  the  sovereign  and  set  forth  certain  rights  of  the King's  subjects,  one  of  which  was  the  right  to  petition 
the sovereign.  It stated that "it is the Right of the Subjects 
to  petition  the  King  and  all  Commitments  and  Prosecutions for  such  Petitioning  are  Illegall."  1  W.  &  M.,  ch.  2,  6  Stat-

utes  of  the  Realm  143;  see  also  L.  Schwoerer,  The  Declara-tion of Rights, 1689, pp. 69-71 (1981). 

The Declaration of Independence of 1776 arose in the same 
tradition.  Af ter listing other specific grievances and 
wrongs, it complained,  "In every  stage of these Oppressions 
We  have  Petitioned  for  Redress  in  the  most  humble  terms: 
Our repeated Petitions have been answered only by repeated 
injury."  The Declaration of Independence || 30. 

After independence, petitions on matters of public concern 
continued to be an essential part of contemporary debates in 
this country's early history.  Two  years before the adoption 
of  the  Constitution,  James  Madison's  Memorial  and  Remon-
strance  against  Religious  Assessments,  an  important  docu-
ment  in  the  history  of  the  Establishment  Clause,  was  pre-
sented  to  the  General  Assembly  of  the  Commonwealth  of 
Virginia as a petition.  See 1 D. Laycock, Religious Liberty: 
Overviews and History 90 (2010); Arizona Christian School 
Tuition Organization v.  Winn, 563 U. S. 125, 140-141 (2011). 
It  attracted  over  1,000  signatures.  Laycock,  supra,  at  90, 
n.  153.  During  the  ratification  debates,  Antifederalists  cir-
culated petitions urging delegates not to adopt the Constitu-
tion absent modification by a bill of rights.  Boyd, Antifeder-
alists  and  the  Acceptance  of  the  Constitution:  Pennsylvania, 
1787-1792,  9  Publius,  No.  2,  pp.  123,  128-133  (Spring  1979). 

Petitions to the National Legislature also played a central 
part  in  the  legislative  debate  on  the  subject  of  slavery  in 
the  years  before  the  Civil  War.  See  W.  Miller,  Arguing 

Cite as: 564 U. S. 379 (2011)  397 

Opinion of the Court 
About  Slavery  (1995).  Petitions  allowed  participation  in democratic  governance  even  by  groups  excluded  from  the 

franchise.  See  Mark,  The  Vestigial  Constitution:  The  His-tory  and  Significance  of  the  Right  to  Petition,  66  Ford. 
L. Rev. 2153, 2182 (1998).  For instance, petitions by women seeking  the  vote  had  a  role  in  the  early  woman's  suffrage 
movement.  See Cogan  & Ginzberg, 1846 Petition  for Wom-
an's Suffrage, New York State Constitutional Convention, 22 Signs  427,  437-438  (1997).  The  right  to  petition  is  in  some 

sense  the  source  of  other  fundamental  rights,  for  petitions have  provided  a  vital  means  for  citizens  to  request  recogni-
tion  of  new  rights  and  to  assert  existing  rights  against  the 
sovereign. 

Petitions to the  courts and similar bodies  can likewise ad-
dress matters of  great  public import.  In  the  context of the 
civil  rights  movement,  litigation  provided  a  means  for  "the 
distinctive contribution of a minority group to the ideas and 
beliefs  of  our  society."  NAACP  v.  Button,  371  U. S.  415, 
431 (1963).  Individuals may also "engag[e] in litigation as a 
vehicle  for  effective  political  expression  and  association,  as 
well  as  a  means  of  communicating  useful  information  to  the 
public."  In re Primus, 436 U. S. 412, 431 (1978).  Litigation 
on matters of public concern may facilitate the informed pub-
lic  participation  that  is  a  cornerstone  of  democratic  society. 
It  also  allows  individuals  to  pursue  desired  ends  by  direct 
appeal to government officials charged with applying the law. 

The  government  may  not  misuse  its  role  as  employer  un-
duly  to  distort  this  deliberative  process.  See  Garcetti,  547 
U. S., at 419.  Public employees are "the members of a com-
munity  most  likely  to  have  informed  and  definite  opinions" 
about a wide range of matters related, directly or indirectly, 
to their  employment.  Pickering, 391 U. S., at 572.  Just  as 
the public has a right to hear the views of public employees, 
the public has a right to the benefit of those employees' par-
ticipation  in  petitioning  activity.  Petitions  may  "allow  the 
public  airing  of  disputed  facts"  and  "promote  the  evolution 

398  BOROUGH  OF  DURYEA  v.  GUARNIERI 

Opinion of the Court 
of the law by supporting the development of legal theories," 
BE&K  Constr.  Co.,  536  U. S.,  at  532  (internal  quotation 
marks omitted), and these and other benefits may not accrue if  one  class  of  knowledgeable  and  motivated  citizens  is  pre-

vented from engaging in petitioning activity.  When a public employee  seeks  to  participate,  as  a  citizen,  in  the  process  of 
deliberative democracy, either through speech or petition, "it 
is  necessary  to  regard  the  [employee]  as  the  member  of  the general public he seeks to be." 

Pickering, supra, at 574. 
The  framework  used  to  govern  Speech  Clause  claims  by public  employees,  when  applied  to  the  Petition  Clause,  will 

protect  both  the  interests  of  the  government  and  the  First Amendment right.  If a public employee petitions as an em-
ployee on a matter of purely private concern, the employee's First  Amendment  interest  must  give  way,  as  it  does  in 
speech cases.  Roe, 543 U. S., at 82-83.  When a public em-
ployee  petitions  as  a  citizen  on  a  matter  of  public  concern, the  employee's  First  Amendment  interest  must  be  balanced 

against the countervailing interest of the government in the effective  and  efficient  management  of  its  internal  affairs. 
Pickering,  supra,  at  568.  If  that  balance  favors  the  public employee,  the  employee's  First  Amendment  claim  will  be 
sustained.  If the interference with the government's opera-
tions  is  such  that  the  balance  favors  the  employer,  the  em-
ployee's  First  Amendment  claim  will  fail  even  though  the 
petition is on a matter of public concern. 

As  under  the  Speech  Clause,  whether  an  employee's  peti-
tion relates to a matter of public concern will depend on "the 
content,  form,  and  context  of  [the  petition],  as  revealed  by 
the whole record."  Connick, 461 U. S., at 147-148, and n. 7. 
The  forum  in  which  a  petition  is  lodged  will  be  relevant  to 
the determination of whether the petition relates to a matter 
of public concern.  See Snyder v.  Phelps, 562 U. S. 443, 454- 
455 (2011).  A petition filed with an employer using an inter-
nal grievance procedure in many cases will not seek to com-
municate to the public or to advance a political or social point 
of view beyond the employment context. 

Cite as: 564 U. S. 462 (2011)  463 

Syllabus 
courts may enter final judgments in "all core proceedings arising under 
title  11,  or  arising  in  a  case  under  title  11."  $$ 157(a),  (b)(1).  In  noncore  proceedings,  by  contrast,  a  bankruptcy  judge  may  only  "submit 
proposed  findings  of  fact  and  conclusions  of  law  to  the  district  court." 

$ 157(c)(1).  Section 157(b)(2) lists 16 categories of core proceedings, in-
cluding  "counterclaims  by  the  estate  against  persons  filing  claims 
against the estate."  $ 157(b)(2)(C). 

The  Bankruptcy  Court  concluded  that  Vickie's  counterclaim  was  a 
core  proceeding.  The  District  Court  reversed,  reading  this  Court's 
precedent in Northern Pipeline Constr. Co. v.  Marathon Pipe Line Co., 
458  U. S.  50,  to  "suggest[ ]  that  it  would  be  unconstitutional  to  hold 
that any  and  all  counterclaims are core."  The  court held  that Vickie's 
counterclaim  was  not  core  because  it  was  only  somewhat  related  to 
Pierce's claim, and it accordingly treated the Bankruptcy Court's judg-
ment  as  proposed,  not  final.  Although  the  Texas  state  court  had  by 
that time conducted a jury trial on the merits of the parties' dispute and 
entered  a  judgment  in  Pierce's  favor,  the  District  Court  went  on  to 
decide  the  matter  itself,  in  Vickie's  favor.  The  Court  of  Appeals  ulti-
mately  reversed.  It  held  that  the  Bankruptcy  Court  lacked  authority 
to enter final judgment on  Vickie's counterclaim because the claim was 
not "so closely  related to [Pierce's] proof of claim  that the resolution of 
the counterclaim is necessary to resolve the allowance or disallowance of 
the claim itself."  Because that holding made the Texas probate court's 
judgment  the  earliest  final  judgment  on  matters  relevant  to  the  case, 
the Court of Appeals held that the District Court should have given the 
state judgment preclusive effect. 

Held:  Although  the  Bankruptcy  Court  had  the  statutory  authority  to 

enter judgment on Vickie's counterclaim, it lacked the constitutional au-
thority to do so.  Pp. 473-503. 

1.  Section 157(b) authorized the Bankruptcy Court to enter final judg-
ment on Vickie's counterclaim.  Pp. 475-482. 

(a)  The Bankruptcy Court had the statutory authority to enter final 
judgment  on  Vickie's  counterclaim  as  a  core  proceeding  under 

$ 157(b)(2)(C).  Pierce argues that $ 157(b) authorizes bankruptcy courts 
to  enter  final  judgments  only  in  those  proceedings  that  are  both  core 
and  either  arise  in  a  Title  11  case  or  arise  under  Title  11  itself.  But 
that  reading  necessarily  assumes  that  there  is  a  category  of  core  pro-
ceedings  that  do  not  arise  in  a  bankruptcy  case  or  under  bankruptcy 
law,  and  the  structure  of  $ 157  makes  clear  that  no  such  category  ex-
ists.  Pp. 475-478. 

(b)  In  the  alternative,  Pierce  argues  that  the  Bankruptcy  Court 
lacked jurisdiction to resolve Vickie's counterclaim because his defama-

464  STERN  v.  MARSHALL 

Syllabus 
tion claim is a "personal injury tort" that the Bankruptcy Court lacked 
jurisdiction  to  hear  under  $ 157(b)(5).  The  Court  agrees  with  Vickie 
that  $ 157(b)(5) is  not jurisdictional,  and  Pierce consented  to  the  Bank-
ruptcy  Court's  resolution  of  the  defamation  claim.  The  Court  is  not 
inclined to interpret statutes as creating a jurisdictional bar when they 
are not framed as such.  See generally Henderson v.  Shinseki, 562 U. S. 
428; Arbaugh v.  Y  & H Corp.,  546 U. S. 500.  Section 157(b)(5) does not 
have the hallmarks of a jurisdictional decree, and the statutory context 
belies  Pierce's  claim  that  it  is  jurisdictional.  Pierce  consented  to  the 
Bankruptcy  Court's  resolution  of  the  defamation  claim  by  repeatedly 
advising  that  court  that  he  was  happy  to  litigate  his  claim  there. 
Pp. 478-482. 

2.  Although  $ 157  allowed  the  Bankruptcy  Court  to  enter  final  judg-
ment  on  Vickie's  counterclaim,  Article  III  of  the  Constitution  did  not. 
Pp. 482-503. 

(a)  Article III is "an inseparable element of the constitutional sys-
tem of  checks and balances" that "both defines the power  and protects 
the  independence  of  the  Judicial  Branch."  Northern  Pipeline,  458 
U. S.,  at  58  (plurality  opinion).  Article  III  protects  liberty  not  only 
through  its  role in  implementing  the  separation  of  powers,  but  also  by 
specifying  the  defining  characteristics  of  Article  III  judges  to  protect 
the integrity of judicial decisionmaking. 

This is not the first time the Court has faced an Article III challenge 
to a bankruptcy court's resolution of a debtor's suit.  In Northern Pipe-
line,  the  Court  considered  whether  bankruptcy  judges  serving  under 
the  Bankruptcy  Act  of  1978--who  also  lacked  the  tenure  and  salary 
guarantees of Article III--could "constitutionally be vested with juris-
diction to decide [a] state-law contract claim" against an entity that was 
not otherwise part of the bankruptcy proceedings.  Id., at 53, 87, n. 40 
(plurality opinion).  The plurality in Northern Pipeline recognized that 
there  was  a  category  of  cases  involving  "public  rights"  that  Congress 
could  constitutionally  assign  to  "legislative"  courts  for  resolution.  A 
full majority of the Court, while not agreeing on the scope of that excep-
tion, concluded that the doctrine did not encompass  adjudication of the 
state law claim at issue in that case, and rejected the debtor's argument 
that  the  Bankruptcy  Court's  exercise  of  jurisdiction  was  constitutional 
because  the  bankruptcy  judge  was  acting  merely  as  an  adjunct  of  the 
district court or court of appeals.  Id., at 69-72; see id., at 90-91 (Rehn-
quist, J., concurring in judgment).  After the decision in Northern Pipe-
line,  Congress  revised  the  statutes  governing  bankruptcy  jurisdiction 
and bankruptcy  judges.  With respect  to  the "core" proceedings listed 
in  $ 157(b)(2),  however,  the  bankruptcy  courts  under  the  Bankruptcy 
Amendments and Federal Judgeship Act of 1984 exercise the same pow-

Cite as: 564 U. S. 462 (2011)  465 

Syllabus 
ers  they  wielded  under  the  1978  Act.  The  authority  exercised  by  the 
newly  constituted  courts  over  a  counterclaim  such  as  Vickie's  exceeds 
the bounds of Article III.  Pp. 482-488. 

(b)  Vickie's  counterclaim  does  not  fall  within  the  public  rights 
exception,  however  defined.  The  Court  has  long  recognized  that,  in 
general,  Congress  may  not  "withdraw  from  judicial  cognizance  any 
matter  which,  from  its  nature,  is  the  subject  of  a  suit  at  the  common 
law,  or  in  equity,  or  admiralty."  Murray's  Lessee  v.  Hoboken  Land  & 
Improvement Co., 18 How. 272, 284.  The Court has also recognized that 
"[a]t the same time there are matters, involving public rights, . . . which 
are  susceptible  of  judicial  determination,  but  which  congress  may  or 
may not bring within the cognizance of the courts of the United States, 
as  it  may  deem  proper."  Ibid.  Several  previous  decisions  have  con-
trasted cases within the reach of the public rights exception--those aris-
ing  "between  the  Government  and  persons  subject  to  its  authority  in 
connection  with  the  performance  of  the  constitutional  functions  of  the 
executive or legislative departments"--and those that are instead mat-
ters "of private right, that is, of the liability of one individual to another 
under the law as defined."  Crowell v.  Benson, 285 U. S. 22, 50, 51. 

Shortly after Northern Pipeline, the Court rejected the limitation of 
the  public  rights  exception  to  actions  involving  the  Government  as  a 
party.  The  Court  has  continued,  however,  to  limit  the  exception  to 
cases  in  which  the  claim  at  issue  derives  from  a  federal  regulatory 
scheme,  or  in  which  resolution  of  the  claim  by  an  expert  Government 
agency  is  deemed  essential  to  a  limited  regulatory  objective  within 
the  agency's  authority.  In  other  words,  it  is  still  the  case  that  what 
makes a right "public" rather than private is that the right is integrally 
related  to  particular  Federal  Government  action.  See  United  States 
v.  Jicarilla  Apache  Nation,  ante,  at  174;  Thomas  v.  Union  Carbide 
Agricultural  Products  Co.,  473  U. S.  568,  584;  Commodity  Futures 
Trading Comm'n v.  Schor, 478 U. S. 833, 844, 856. 

In  Granfinanciera,  S.  A.  v.  Nordberg,  492  U. S.  33,  the  most  recent 
case considering the public rights exception, the Court rejected a bank-
ruptcy  trustee's  argument  that  a  fraudulent  conveyance action  filed on 
behalf  of  a  bankruptcy  estate  against  a  noncreditor  in  a  bankruptcy 
proceeding  fell  within  the  exception.  Vickie's  counterclaim  is  similar. 
It  is  not  a  matter  that  can  be  pursued  only  by  grace  of  the  other 
branches,  as  in  Murray's  Lessee,  supra,  at  284;  it  does  not  flow  from 
a  federal  statutory  scheme,  as  in  Thomas,  supra,  at  584-585;  and  it 
is  not  "completely  dependent  upon"  adjudication  of  a  claim  created  by 
federal  law,  as  in  Schor,  supra,  at  856.  This  case  involves  the  most 
prototypical  exercise  of  judicial  power:  the  entry  of  a  final,  binding 

judgment by a court  with  broad substantive jurisdiction, on a common 

466  STERN  v.  MARSHALL 

Syllabus 
law  cause  of  action,  when  the  action  neither  derives  from  nor  depends 
upon  any  agency  regulatory  regime.  If  such  an  exercise  of  judicial 
power  may  nonetheless  be  taken  from  the  Article  III  Judiciary  simply 
by  deeming  it  part  of  some  amorphous  "public  right,"  then  Article  III 
would be transformed from the guardian of individual liberty and sepa-
ration of powers the Court has long recognized into mere wishful think-
ing.  Pp. 488-495. 

(c)  The  fact  that  Pierce  filed  a  proof  of  claim  in  the  bankruptcy 
proceedings did not give the Bankruptcy Court the authority to adjudi-
cate Vickie's counterclaim.  Initially, Pierce's defamation claim does not 
affect the nature of Vickie's tortious interference counterclaim as one at 
common law that simply attempts to augment the bankruptcy estate-- 
the  type  of  claim  that,  under  Northern  Pipeline  and  Granfinanciera, 
must  be  decided  by  an  Article  III  court.  The  cases  on  which  Vickie 
relies,  Katchen  v.  Landy,  382  U. S.  323,  and  Langenkamp  v.  Culp,  498 
U. S. 42 (per curiam), are inapposite.  Katchen permitted a bankruptcy 
referee  to  exercise  jurisdiction  over  a  trustee's  voidable  preference 
claim  against  a  creditor  only  where  there  was  no  question  that  the 
referee was required to decide whether there had been a voidable pref-
erence  in  determining  whether  and  to  what  extent  to  allow  the  credi-
tor's  claim.  The  Katchen  Court  "intimate[d]  no  opinion  concerning 
whether" the bankruptcy referee would have had "summary jurisdiction 
to  adjudicate  a  demand  by  the  [bankruptcy]  trustee  for  affirmative  re-
lief,  all  of  the  substantial  factual  and  legal  bases  for  which  ha[d]  not 
been  disposed  of  in  passing  on  objections  to  the  [creditor's  proof  of] 
claim."  382  U. S.,  at  333,  n.  9.  The  per  curiam  opinion  in  Langen-
kamp  is  to  the same effect.  In  this  case, by  contrast,  the Bankruptcy 
Court--in  order  to  resolve  Vickie's  counterclaim--was  required  to  and 
did  make  several  factual  and  legal  determinations  that  were  not  "dis-
posed  of  in  passing  on  objections"  to  Pierce's  proof  of  claim.  In  both 
Katchen  and  Langenkamp,  moreover,  the  trustee  bringing  the  prefer-
ence  action  was  asserting  a  right  of  recovery  created  by  federal 
bankruptcy law.  Vickie's claim is instead a state tort action that exists 
without regard to any bankruptcy proceeding.  Pp. 495-499. 

(d)  The bankruptcy courts under the 1984 Act are not "adjuncts" of 
the district courts.  The new bankruptcy courts, like the courts consid-
ered  in  Northern  Pipeline,  do  not  "ma[k]e  only  specialized,  narrowly 
confined factual  determinations regarding a particularized  area of law" 
or engage in "statutorily channeled factfinding functions."  458 U. S., at 
85 (plurality opinion).  Whereas the adjunct agency in Crowell v.  Ben-
son  "possessed  only  a  limited  power  to  issue  compensation  orders . . .  
[that]  could  be  enforced  only  by  order  of  the  district  court,"  458  U. S., 

Cite as: 564 U. S. 462 (2011)  469 

Opinion of the Court 
Pierce  in  her  bankruptcy  proceeding.1  To  determine whether the Court of Appeals was correct in that regard, we 

must  resolve  two  issues:  (1)  whether  the  Bankruptcy  Court had the statutory authority under 28 U. S. C. $ 157(b) to issue 
a  final  judgment  on  Vickie's  counterclaim;  and  (2)  if  so, 
whether conferring that  authority  on the  Bankruptcy Court is constitutional. 

Although  the  history  of  this  litigation  is  complicated,  its resolution ultimately turns on very basic principles.  Article 
III,  $ 1,  of  the  Constitution  commands  that  "[t]he  judicial Power  of  the  United  States,  shall  be  vested  in  one  supreme 
Court, and in such inferior Courts as the Congress may from time  to  time  ordain  and  establish."  That  Article  further 
provides  that  the  judges  of  those  courts  shall  hold  their  of-fices  during  good  behavior,  without  diminution  of  salary. 
Ibid.  Those  requirements  of  Article  III  were  not  honored 
here.  The Bankruptcy Court in this case exercised the judi-cial  power  of  the  United  States  by  entering  final  judgment 

on a common law tort claim, even though the judges of such courts enjoy neither tenure during good behavior nor salary 
protection.  We  conclude  that,  although  the  Bankruptcy Court  had  the  statutory  authority  to  enter  judgment  on 
Vickie's  counterclaim,  it  lacked  the  constitutional  authority to do so. 

I 
Because  we  have  already  recounted  the  facts  and  proce-
dural history of this case in detail, see Marshall v.  Marshall, 547  U. S.  293,  300-305  (2006),  we  do  not  repeat  them  in  full 

here.  Of current relevance are two claims Vickie filed in an attempt to secure half of J. Howard's fortune.  Known to the 
public  as  Anna  Nicole  Smith,  Vickie  was  J.  Howard's  third 
wife and married him about a year before his death.  Id., at 

1 Because both Vickie and Pierce passed away during this litigation, the 
parties  in  this  case  are  Vickie's  estate  and  Pierce's  estate.  We  continue 
to refer to them as "Vickie" and "Pierce." 

470  STERN  v.  MARSHALL 

Opinion of the Court 
300;  see  In  re  Marshall,  392  F.  3d  1118,  1122  (CA9  2004). Although J. Howard bestowed on Vickie many monetary and 

other  gifts  during  their  courtship  and  marriage,  he  did  not include her in his will.  547 U. S., at 300.  Before J. Howard 
passed  away,  Vickie  filed  suit  in  Texas  state  probate  court, asserting  that  Pierce--J.  Howard's  younger  son--fraudu-
lently  induced  J.  Howard  to  sign  a  living  trust  that  did  not 
include  her,  even  though  J.  Howard  meant  to  give  her  half his property.  Pierce denied any fraudulent activity and de-

fended  the  validity  of  J.  Howard's  trust  and,  eventually,  his will.  392 F. 3d, at 1122-1123, 1125. 

After  J.  Howard's  death,  Vickie  filed  a  petition  for  bank-
ruptcy  in  the  Central  District  of  California.  Pierce  filed  a 
complaint  in  that  bankruptcy  proceeding,  contending  that 
Vickie had defamed him by inducing her lawyers to tell mem-
bers of the press that he had engaged in fraud to gain control 
of his father's assets.  547 U. S., at 300-301; In re Marshall, 
600 F. 3d 1037, 1043-1044 (CA9 2010).  The complaint sought 
a  declaration  that  Pierce's  defamation  claim  was  not  dischargeable  in  the  bankruptcy  proceedings.  Ibid.;  see  11 
U. S. C.  $ 523(a).  Pierce  subsequently  filed  a  proof  of  claim 
for the defamation action, meaning that he sought to recover 
damages  for  it  from  Vickie's  bankruptcy  estate.  See 

$ 501(a).  Vickie  responded  to  Pierce's  initial  complaint  by 
asserting  truth  as  a  defense  to  the  alleged  defamation  and 
by  filing  a  counterclaim  for  tortious  interference  with  the 
gift  she  expected  from  J.  Howard.  As  she  had  in  state 
court,  Vickie  alleged  that  Pierce  had  wrongfully  prevented 
J.  Howard  from  taking  the  legal  steps  necessary  to  provide 
her with half his property.  547 U. S., at 301. 

On  November  5,  1999,  the  Bankruptcy  Court  issued  an 
order  granting  Vickie  summary  judgment  on  Pierce's  claim 
for defamation.  On September 27, 2000, after a bench trial, 
the Bankruptcy Court issued a judgment on Vickie's counter-
claim  in  her  favor.  The  court  later  awarded  Vickie  over 
$400 million in compensatory damages and $25 million in pu-

Cite as: 564 U. S. 462 (2011)  471 

Opinion of the Court 
nitive  damages.  600  F.  3d,  at  1045;  see  253  B.  R.  550,  561- 562  (Bkrtcy.  Ct.  CD  Cal.  2000);  257  B.  R.  35,  39-40  (Bkrtcy. 

Ct. CD Cal. 2000). In  post-trial  proceedings,  Pierce  argued  that  the  Bank-
ruptcy  Court  lacked  jurisdiction  over  Vickie's  counterclaim. In particular, Pierce renewed a claim he had made earlier in 
the litigation, asserting that the Bankruptcy Court's author-
ity over the counterclaim was limited because Vickie's coun-terclaim  was  not  a  "core  proceeding"  under  28  U. S. C. 

$ 157(b)(2)(C).  See  257  B.  R.,  at  39.  As  explained  below, bankruptcy  courts  may  hear  and  enter  final  judgments  in 
"core  proceedings"  in  a  bankruptcy  case.  In  noncore  pro-
ceedings,  the  bankruptcy  courts  instead  submit  proposed 
findings  of  fact  and  conclusions  of  law  to  the  district  court, 
for that  court's review and  issuance of final judgment.  The 
Bankruptcy  Court  in  this  case  concluded  that  Vickie's  coun-
terclaim  was  "a  core  proceeding"  under  $ 157(b)(2)(C),  and 
the  court  therefore  had  the  "power  to  enter  judgment"  on 
the counterclaim under $ 157(b)(1).  Id., at 40. 

The  District  Court  disagreed.  It  recognized  that  "Vick-
ie's counterclaim for tortious interference falls within the lit-
eral language" of the statute designating certain proceedings 
as  "core,"  see  $ 157(b)(2)(C),  but  understood  this  Court's 
precedent  to  "suggest[ ]  that  it  would  be  unconstitutional  to 
hold that any and all counterclaims are core."  264 B. R. 609, 
629-630 (CD Cal. 2001) (citing Northern Pipeline Constr. Co. 
v.  Marathon Pipe Line Co., 458 U. S. 50, 79, n. 31 (1982) (plu-
rality  opinion)).  The  District  Court  accordingly  concluded 
that  a  "counterclaim  should  not  be  characterized  as  core" 
when it "is only somewhat related to the claim against which 
it  is  asserted,  and  when  the  unique  characteristics  and  con-
text  of  the  counterclaim  place  it  outside  of  the  normal  type 
of  set-off  or  other  counterclaims  that  customarily  arise." 
264 B. R., at 632. 

Because  the  District  Court  concluded  that  Vickie's  coun-
terclaim  was  not  core,  the  court  determined  that  it  was  re-

472  STERN  v.  MARSHALL 

Opinion of the Court 
quired  to  treat  the  Bankruptcy  Court's  judgment  as  "pro-posed[,]  rather  than  final,"  and  engage  in  an  "independent 

review" of the record.  Id., at 633; see 28 U. S. C. $ 157(c)(1). Although  the  Texas  state  court  had  by  that  time  conducted 
a jury trial on the merits of the parties' dispute and entered a  judgment  in  Pierce's  favor,  the  District  Court  declined  to 
give  that  judgment  preclusive  effect  and  went  on  to  decide 
the matter itself.  271 B. R. 858, 862-867 (CD Cal. 2001); see 275  B.  R.  5,  56-58  (CD  Cal.  2002).  Like  the  Bankruptcy 

Court,  the  District  Court  found  that  Pierce  had  tortiously interfered with Vickie's expectancy of a gift from J. Howard. 
The  District  Court  awarded  Vickie  compensatory  and  puni-
tive  damages,  each  in  the  amount  of  $44,292,767.33.  Id., 
at 58. 

The  Court  of  Appeals  reversed  the  District  Court  on  a 
different ground, 392 F. 3d, at 1137, and we--in the first visit 
of  the  case  to  this  Court--reversed  the  Court  of  Appeals 
on  that  issue.  547  U. S.,  at  314-315.  On  remand  from  this 
Court,  the  Court  of  Appeals  held  that  $ 157  mandated 
"a two-step approach" under which a bankruptcy judge may 
issue a final judgment in a proceeding only if the matter both 
"meets  Congress'  definition  of  a  core  proceeding  and  arises 
under or arises in title 11," the Bankruptcy Code.  600 F. 3d, 
at  1055.  The  court  also  reasoned  that  allowing  a  bank-
ruptcy  judge  to  enter  final  judgments  on  all  counterclaims 
raised in bankruptcy proceedings "would certainly run afoul" 
of this  Court's  decision  in  Northern  Pipeline.  600  F.  3d,  at 
1057.  With those concerns in mind, the court concluded that 
"a  counterclaim  under  $ 157(b)(2)(C)  is  properly  a  `core'  pro-
ceeding `arising in a case under' the [Bankruptcy] Code only 
if the counterclaim is so closely related to [a creditor's] proof 
of  claim  that  the  resolution  of  the  counterclaim  is  necessary 
to  resolve the  allowance  or disallowance  of  the  claim  itself." 
Id., at 1058 (internal quotation marks omitted; second brack-
ets  added).  The  court  ruled  that  Vickie's  counterclaim  did 
not  meet  that  test.  Id.,  at  1059.  That  holding  made  "the 

Cite as: 564 U. S. 462 (2011)  473 

Opinion of the Court 
Texas  probate  court's  judgment  .  .  .  the  earliest  final  judg-ment  entered  on  matters  relevant  to  this  proceeding,"  and 

therefore  the  Court  of  Appeals  concluded  that  the  District Court should have "afford[ed] preclusive effect" to the Texas 
"court's  determination  of  relevant  legal  and  factual  issues." 
Id., at 1064-1065.2 We again granted certiorari.  561 U. S. 1058 (2010). 

II  

A  

With  certain  exceptions  not  relevant  here,  the  district courts  of  the  United  States  have  "original  and  exclusive  ju-

risdiction  of  all  cases  under  title  11."  28  U. S. C.  $ 1334(a). Congress has divided bankruptcy proceedings into three cat-
egories: those that "aris[e] under title 11"; those that "aris[e] in" a Title 11 case; and those that are "related to a case under 
title 11."  $ 157(a).  District courts may refer any or all such proceedings to the bankruptcy judges of their district, 

ibid., which is how the Bankruptcy Court in this case came to pre-

side  over  Vickie's  bankruptcy  proceedings.  District  courts also  may  withdraw  a  case  or  proceeding  referred  to  the 
bankruptcy  court  "for  cause  shown."  $ 157(d).  Since  Con-gress  enacted  the  Bankruptcy  Amendments  and  Federal 
Judgeship Act of 1984 (1984 Act), bankruptcy judges for each district have  been  appointed  to 14-year  terms by  the courts 
of  appeals  for  the  circuits  in  which  their  district  is  located. $ 152(a)(1). 

The  manner  in  which  a  bankruptcy  judge  may  act  on  a referred matter depends on the type of proceeding involved. 

2 One  judge  wrote  a  separate  concurring  opinion.  He  concluded  that 
"Vickie's  counterclaim  .  .  .  [wa]s  not  a  core  proceeding, so  the  Texas  pro-
bate  court judgment  preceded  the district  court  judgment  and  controls." 
600  F.  3d,  at  1065  (Kleinfeld,  J.).  The  concurring  judge  also  "offer[ed] 
additional grounds" that he believed required judgment in  Pierce's favor. 
Ibid.  Pierce  presses only one of  those  additional  grounds here; it  is dis-
cussed below, in Part II-C. 

474  STERN  v.  MARSHALL 

Opinion of the Court 
Bankruptcy  judges  may  hear  and  enter  final  judgments  in "all  core  proceedings  arising  under  title  11,  or  arising  in  a 

case  under  title  11."  $ 157(b)(1).  "Core  proceedings  in-clude,  but  are  not  limited  to,"  16  different  types  of  matters, 
including  "counterclaims  by  [a  debtor's]  estate  against  per-sons filing claims against the  estate."  $ 157(b)(2)(C).

3  Par-

3 In full, $$ 157(b)(1)-(2) provides: 
"(1)  Bankruptcy judges may hear and determine all cases under title 11 
and all  core proceedings arising  under title 11, or arising in a case  under 
title 11, referred under subsection (a) of this section, and may enter appro-
priate  orders  and  judgments,  subject  to  review  under  section  158  of  this 
title. 

"(2)  Core proceedings include, but are not limited to-- 
"(A)  matters concerning the administration of the estate; 
"(B)  allowance  or  disallowance  of  claims  against  the  estate  or  exemp-
tions from property of the estate, and estimation of claims or interests for 
the  purposes  of  confirming  a  plan  under  chapter  11,  12,  or  13  of  title  11 
but not the liquidation or estimation of contingent or unliquidated personal 
injury  tort  or  wrongful  death  claims  against  the  estate  for  purposes  of 
distribution in a case under title 11; 

"(C)  counterclaims  by  the  estate  against  persons  filing  claims  against 
the estate; 

"(D)  orders in respect to obtaining credit; 
"(E)  orders to turn over property of the estate; 
"(F)  proceedings to determine, avoid, or recover preferences; 
"(G)  motions to terminate, annul, or modify the automatic stay; 
"(H)  proceedings  to  determine,  avoid,  or  recover  fraudulent 
conveyances; 

"(I)  determinations as to the dischargeability of particular debts; 
"(J)  objections to discharges; 
"(K)  determinations of the validity, extent, or priority of liens; 
"(L)  confirmations of plans; 
"(M)  orders approving the use or lease of property, including the use of 
cash collateral; 

"(N)  orders approving the sale of property other than property result-
ing from claims brought by the estate against persons who have not filed 
claims against the estate; 

"(O)  other proceedings affecting the liquidation of the assets of  the es-
tate or the adjustment of the debtor-creditor or the equity security holder 
relationship, except personal injury tort or wrongful death claims; and 

"(P)  recognition of foreign proceedings and other matters under chapter 
15 of title 11." 

Cite as: 564 U. S. 462 (2011)  475 

Opinion of the Court 
ties  may  appeal  final  judgments  of  a  bankruptcy  court  in core  proceedings  to  the  district  court,  which  reviews  them 

under  traditional  appellate  standards.  See  $ 158(a);  Fed. Rule Bkrtcy. Proc. 8013. 

When  a  bankruptcy  judge  determines  that  a  referred "proceeding . . . is not a core proceeding but . . .  is  otherwise 
related to a case under title 11," the judge may only "submit proposed  findings  of  fact  and  conclusions  of  law  to  the  dis-
trict court."  $ 157(c)(1).  It is the district court that enters final  judgment  in  such  cases  after  reviewing 

de  novo  any matter to which a party objects.  Ibid. 

B 
Vickie's  counterclaim  against  Pierce  for  tortious  inter-ference  is  a  "core  proceeding"  under  the  plain  text  of 

$ 157(b)(2)(C).  That  provision  specifies  that  core  proceed-ings include "counterclaims by the estate against persons fil-
ing  claims against  the  estate."  In past  cases,  we have  sug-gested  that  a  proceeding's  "core"  status  alone  authorizes  a 
bankruptcy judge, as a statutory matter, to enter final judg-ment  in  the  proceeding.  See, 

e. g.,  Granfinanciera,  S.  A.  v. Nordberg,  492  U. S.  33,  50  (1989)  (explaining  that  Congress 

had designated certain actions as " `core proceedings,' which bankruptcy  judges  may  adjudicate  and  in  which  they  may 
issue final judgments, if a district court has referred the mat-ter  to  them"  (citations  omitted)).  We  have  not  directly  ad-
dressed  the  question,  however,  and  Pierce  argues  that  a bankruptcy  judge  may  enter  final  judgment  on  a  core  pro-
ceeding  only  if  that  proceeding  also  "aris[es]  in"  a  Title  11 case or "aris[es] under" Title 11 itself.  Brief for Respondent 
51 (internal quotation marks omitted). Section  157(b)(1)  authorizes  bankruptcy  courts  to  "hear 
and  determine  all  cases  under  title  11  and  all  core  proceed-ings  arising  under  title  11,  or  arising  in  a  case  under  title 
11."  As  written,  $ 157(b)(1)  is  ambiguous.  The  "arising under"  and  "arising  in"  phrases  might,  as  Pierce  suggests, 
be read  as referring to a  limited category of those  core pro-

476  STERN  v.  MARSHALL 

Opinion of the Court 
ceedings  that  are  addressed  in  that  section.  On  the  other hand,  the  phrases  might  be  read  as  simply  describing  what 

core  proceedings  are:  matters  arising  under  Title  11  or  in  a Title 11 case.  In this case the structure and context of $ 157 
contradict Pierce's interpretation of $ 157(b)(1). As an initial matter, Pierce's reading of the statute neces-
sarily  assumes  that  there  is  a  category  of  core  proceedings 
that neither arise under Title 11 nor arise in a Title 11 case. The  manner  in  which  the  statute  delineates  the  bankruptcy 

courts' authority, however, makes plain that no such category exists.  Section  157(b)(1)  authorizes  bankruptcy  judges  to 
enter final judgments in "core proceedings arising under title 
11, or arising in a case under title 11."  Section 157(c)(1) in-
structs  bankruptcy  judges  to  instead  submit  proposed  find-
ings  in  "a  proceeding  that  is  not  a  core  proceeding  but  that 
is otherwise related to a case under title 11."  Nowhere does 

$ 157  specify what bankruptcy  courts  are  to do  with respect 
to the category of matters that Pierce posits--core proceed-
ings  that  do  not  arise  under  Title  11  or  in  a  Title  11  case. 
To the contrary, $ 157(b)(3) only instructs a bankruptcy judge 
to "determine, on the judge's own motion or on timely motion 
of  a  party,  whether  a  proceeding  is  a  core  proceeding  under 
this  subsection  or  is  a  proceeding  that  is  otherwise  related 
to  a  case  under  title  11."  Two  options.  The  statute  does 
not suggest that any other distinctions need be made. 

Under  our  reading  of  the  statute,  core  proceedings  are 
those that arise in a bankruptcy case or under Title 11.  The 
detailed list of core proceedings in $ 157(b)(2) provides courts 
with  ready  examples  of  such  matters.  Pierce's  reading  of 

$ 157,  in  contrast,  supposes  that  some  core  proceedings  will 
arise  in  a  Title  11  case  or  under  Title  11  and  some  will  not. 
Under that reading, the statute provides no guidance on how 
to tell which are which. 

We think it significant that Congress failed to provide any 
framework for identifying or adjudicating the asserted cate-
gory  of  core  but  not  "arising"  proceedings,  given  the  other-

Cite as: 564 U. S. 462 (2011)  477 

Opinion of the Court 
wise detailed provisions governing bankruptcy court author-ity.  It  is  hard  to  believe  that  Congress  would  go  to  the 

trouble  of  cataloging  16  different  types  of  proceedings  that should receive "core" treatment, but then fail to specify how 
to  determine  whether  those  matters  arise  under  Title  11  or in a bankruptcy case if--as Pierce asserts--the latter inquiry 
is determinative of the bankruptcy court's authority. 

Pierce argues that we should treat core matters that arise neither  under  Title  11  nor  in  a  Title  11  case  as  proceedings 

"related to" a Title 11 case.  Brief for Respondent 60 (inter-nal quotation marks omitted).  We think that a contradiction 
in terms.  It does not make sense to describe a "core" bank-
ruptcy  proceeding  as  merely  "related  to"  the  bankruptcy 
case;  oxymoron  is  not  a  typical  feature  of  congressional 
drafting.  See Northern  Pipeline, 458  U. S., at  71  (plurality 
opinion) (distinguishing "the restructuring of debtor-creditor 
relations,  which  is  at  the  core  of  the  federal  bankruptcy 
power, . . .  from  the  adjudication  of  state-created  private 
rights"); 1 Collier on Bankruptcy || 3.02[2], p. 3-26, n. 5 (16th 
ed.  2010)  ("The  terms  `non-core'  and  `related'  are  synony-
mous");  see  also  id.,  at  3-26  ("The  phraseology  of  section 
157  leads  to  the  conclusion  that  there  is  no  such  thing  as  a 
core  matter  that  is  `related  to'  a  case  under  title  11.  Core 
proceedings are, at most, those that arise in title 11 cases or 
arise  under  title  11"  (footnote  omitted)).  And,  as  already 
discussed, the statute simply does not provide for a proceed-
ing  that  is  simultaneously  core  and  yet  only  related  to 
the  bankruptcy  case.  See  $ 157(c)(1)  (providing  only  for 
"a proceeding that is not a core proceeding but that is other-
wise related to a case under title 11"). 

As we explain in Part III, we agree with Pierce that desig-
nating all counterclaims as "core" proceedings raises serious 
constitutional  concerns.  Pierce  is  also correct  that  we  will, 
where possible, construe federal statutes so as "to avoid seri-
ous  doubt  of  their  constitutionality."  Commodity  Futures 
Trading Comm'n v.  Schor, 478 U. S. 833, 841 (1986) (internal 

478  STERN  v.  MARSHALL 

Opinion of the Court 
quotation  marks  omitted).  But  that  "canon  of  construction does  not  give  [us]  the  prerogative  to  ignore  the  legislative 

will in order to avoid constitutional adjudication."  Ibid.  In this  case,  we  do  not  think  the  plain  text  of  $ 157(b)(2)(C) 
leaves any room for the canon of avoidance.  We would have to  "rewrit[e]"  the  statute,  not  interpret  it,  to  bypass  the 
constitutional  issue  $ 157(b)(2)(C)  presents.  Id.,  at  841  (in-ternal quotation marks omitted).  That we may not do.  We 
agree with Vickie that $ 157(b)(2)(C) permits the bankruptcy court  to  enter  a  final  judgment  on  her  tortious  interference 
counterclaim.  C 

Pierce  argues, as another  alternative  to reaching the  con-stitutional question, that the Bankruptcy Court lacked juris-
diction  to  enter  final  judgment  on  his  defamation  claim. Section  157(b)(5)  provides  that  "[t]he  district  court  shall 
order  that  personal  injury  tort  and  wrongful  death  claims shall  be  tried  in  the  district  court  in  which  the  bankruptcy 
case  is  pending,  or  in  the  district  court  in  the  district  in which  the  claim  arose."  Pierce  asserts  that  his  defamation 
claim is a "personal injury tort," that the Bankruptcy Court therefore  had  no  jurisdiction  over  that  claim,  and  that  the 
court  therefore  necessarily  lacked  jurisdiction  over  Vickie's counterclaim as well.  Brief for Respondent 65-66. 

Vickie  objects  to  Pierce's  statutory  analysis  across  the board.  To  begin,  Vickie  contends  that  $ 157(b)(5)  does  not 
address  subject  matter  jurisdiction  at  all,  but  simply  speci-fies  the  venue  in  which  "personal  injury  tort  and  wrongful 
death  claims"  should  be  tried.  See  Reply  Brief  for  Peti-tioner 16-17, 19; see also Tr. of Oral Arg. 23 (Deputy Solicitor 
General)  (Section  "157(b)(5)  is,  in  [the  United  States']  view, not  jurisdictional").  Given  the  limited  scope  of  that  provi-
sion,  Vickie  argues,  a  party  may  waive  or  forfeit  any  objec-tions  under  $ 157(b)(5),  in  the  same  way  that  a  party  may 
waive or  forfeit  an objection  to the  bankruptcy  court finally resolving a noncore claim.  Reply Brief for Petitioner 17-20; 

Cite as: 564 U. S. 462 (2011)  479 

Opinion of the Court 
see  $ 157(c)(2)  (authorizing  the  district  court,  "with  the  con-sent of all the parties to the proceeding," to refer a "related 

to"  matter  to  the  bankruptcy  court  for  final  judgment). Vickie asserts that in this case Pierce consented to the Bank-
ruptcy  Court's  adjudication  of  his  defamation  claim,  and forfeited  any  argument  to  the  contrary,  by  failing  to  seek 
withdrawal  of  the  claim  until  he  had  litigated  it  before  the Bankruptcy  Court  for  27  months. 

Id.,  at  20-23.  On  the merits,  Vickie  contends  that  the  statutory  phrase  "personal 

injury tort and wrongful death claims" does not include non-physical torts such as defamation.  Id., at 25-26. 

We need not determine what constitutes a "personal injury tort"  in  this  case  because  we  agree  with  Vickie  that 

$ 157(b)(5)  is  not  jurisdictional,  and that  Pierce  consented to the  Bankruptcy  Court's  resolution  of  his  defamation  claim.

4 

Because  "[b]randing  a  rule  as  going  to  a  court's  subject-matter jurisdiction alters the normal operation of our adver-

4 Although  Pierce  suggests  that  consideration  of  "the  157(b)(5)  issue" 
would facilitate an "easy" resolution of the case, Tr. of Oral Arg. 47-48, he 
is  mistaken.  Had  Pierce  preserved  his  argument  under  that  provision, 
we would  have been  confronted  with  several questions on  which there  is 
little  consensus  or  precedent.  Those  issues  include:  (1)  the  scope  of  the 
phrase  "personal  injury  tort"--a  question  over  which  there  is  at  least  a 
three-way  divide,  see  In  re  Arnold,  407  B.  R.  849,  851-853  (Bkrtcy.  Ct. 
MDNC  2009);  (2)  whether,  as  Vickie  argued  in  the  Court  of  Appeals, 
the  requirement  that  a  personal  injury  tort  claim  be  "tried"  in  the  dis-
trict court nonetheless permits the bankruptcy court to resolve the claim 
short  of  trial,  see  Appellee's/Cross-Appellant's  Supplemental  Brief  in 
No. 02-56002 etc. (CA9), p. 24; see also In re Dow Corning Corp., 215 B. R. 
346, 349-351 (Bkrtcy. Ct. ED Mich. 1997) (noting divide over whether, and 
on  what  grounds,  a  bankruptcy  court  may  resolve  a  claim  pretrial);  and 
(3) even if Pierce's defamation claim could be considered only by the Dis-
trict Court, whether the Bankruptcy Court might retain jurisdiction over 
the  counterclaim,  cf.  Arbaugh  v.  Y &  H Corp.,  546  U. S.  500,  514  (2006) 
("when  a  court  grants  a  motion  to  dismiss  for  failure  to  state  a  federal 
claim,  the  court  generally  retains discretion  to  exercise  supplemental  ju-
risdiction, pursuant to 28 U. S. C. $ 1367, over pendent state-law claims"). 
We  express  no  opinion  on  any  of  these  issues  and  simply  note  that  the 

$ 157(b)(5) question is not as straightforward as Pierce would have it. 

480  STERN  v.  MARSHALL 

Opinion of the Court 
sarial  system,"  Henderson  v.  Shinseki,  562  U. S.  428,  434 (2011),  we  are  not  inclined  to  interpret  statutes  as  creating 

a jurisdictional bar when they  are  not  framed as such.  See generally 

Arbaugh  v.  Y &  H Corp.,  546  U. S.  500, 516  (2006) 
("when Congress does not rank a statutory limitation on cov-erage as jurisdictional, courts should treat the restriction as 

nonjurisdictional in character"). 

Section 157(b)(5) does not have the hallmarks of a jurisdic-tional decree.  To begin, the statutory text does not refer to 

either  district  court  or  bankruptcy  court  "jurisdiction,"  in-stead  addressing  only  where  personal  injury  tort  claims 
"shall be tried." 

The  statutory  context  also  belies  Pierce's  jurisdictional 
claim.  Section  157  allocates  the  authority  to  enter  final 
judgment  between  the  bankruptcy  court  and  the  district 
court.  See  $$ 157(b)(1),  (c)(1).  That  allocation  does  not 
implicate questions of subject matter jurisdiction.  See 

$ 157(c)(2)  (parties  may  consent  to  entry  of  final  judgment 
by  bankruptcy  judge  in  noncore  case).  By  the  same  token, 

$ 157(b)(5)  simply  specifies  where  a  particular  category  of 
cases  should  be  tried.  Pierce  does  not  explain  why  that 
statutory limitation may not be similarly waived. 

We  agree  with  Vickie  that  Pierce  not  only  could  but  did 
consent  to the  Bankruptcy  Court's  resolution  of his  defama-
tion  claim.  Before  the  Bankruptcy  Court,  Vickie  objected 
to  Pierce's  proof  of  claim  for  defamation,  arguing  that 
Pierce's  claim  was  unenforceable  and  that  Pierce  should  not 
receive any amount for it.  See 29 Court of Appeals Supple-
mental  Excerpts  of  Record  6031,  6035  (hereinafter  Supple-
mental  Record).  Vickie  also  noted  that  the  Bankruptcy 
Court could defer ruling on her objection, given the litigation 
posture of Pierce's claim before the Bankruptcy Court.  See 
id.,  at  6031.  Vickie's  filing  prompted  Pierce  to  advise  the 
Bankruptcy  Court  that  "[a]ll  parties  are  in  agreement  that 
the amount of the contingent Proof of Claim filed by [Pierce] 
shall be determined by the adversary proceedings" that had 

Cite as: 564 U. S. 462 (2011)  481 

Opinion of the Court 
been  commenced  in  the  Bankruptcy  Court.  31  id.,  at  6801. Pierce  asserted  that  Vickie's  objection  should  be  overruled 

or, alternatively, that any ruling on the objection "should be continued until the  resolution of the  pending adversary pro-
ceeding  litigation."  Ibid.  Pierce  identifies  no  point  in  the record  where  he  argued  to  the  Bankruptcy  Court  that  it 
lacked the authority to adjudicate his proof of claim because 
the claim sought recompense for a personal injury tort. Indeed, Pierce apparently did not object to any court that 

$ 157(b)(5)  prohibited  the  Bankruptcy  Court  from  resolving his  defamation  claim  until  over  two  years--and  several 
adverse  discovery  rulings--after  he  filed  that  claim  in  June 
1996.  The  first  filing  Pierce  cites  as  raising  that  objection 
is  his  September  22,  1998  motion  to  the  District  Court  to 
withdraw the reference of the case to the Bankruptcy Court. 
See Brief for Respondent 26-27.  The District Court did ini-
tially  withdraw  the  reference  as  requested,  but  it  then  re-
turned  the  proceeding  to  the  Bankruptcy  Court,  observing 
that  Pierce  "implicated  the  jurisdiction  of  that  bankruptcy 
court.  He chose to be a party to that litigation."  App. 129. 
Although Pierce had objected in July 1996 to the Bankruptcy 
Court's exercise of jurisdiction over Vickie's counterclaim, he 
advised the court at that time that he was "happy to litigate 
[his]  claim"  there.  29  Supplemental  Record  6101.  Counsel 
stated  that  even  though  Pierce  thought  it  was  "probably 
cheaper  for  th[e]  estate  if  [Pierce's  claim]  were  sent  back  or 
joined  back  with  the  State  Court  litigation,"  Pierce  "did 
choose"  the  Bankruptcy  Court  forum  and  "would  be  more 
than  pleased  to  do  it  [t]here."  Id.,  at  6101-6102;  see  also 
App. to  Pet. for  Cert.  266,  n. 17  (District Court  referring  to 
these statements). 

Given  Pierce's  course  of  conduct  before  the  Bankruptcy 
Court,  we  conclude  that  he  consented  to that  court's  resolu-
tion  of  his  defamation  claim  (and  forfeited  any  argument  to 
the contrary).  We have recognized "the value of waiver and 
forfeiture  rules"  in  "complex"  cases,  Exxon  Shipping  Co.  v. 

482  STERN  v.  MARSHALL 

Opinion of the Court 
Baker,  554  U. S.  471,  487-488,  n.  6  (2008),  and  this  case  is no  exception.  In  such  cases,  as  here,  the  consequences  of 

"a  litigant  .  .  .  `sandbagging'  the  court--remaining  silent about his objection and belatedly raising the error only if the 
case does not conclude in his favor," Puckett v.  United States, 556  U. S.  129,  134  (2009)  (some  internal  quotation  marks 
omitted)--can  be  particularly  severe.  If  Pierce  believed that the Bankruptcy Court lacked the authority to decide his 
claim  for  defamation,  then  he  should  have  said  so--and  said so promptly.  See 

United States v.  Olano, 507 U. S. 725, 731 (1993)  (" `No  procedural  principle  is  more  familiar  to  this 

Court than that a constitutional right,' or a right of any other sort,  `may  be  forfeited  .  .  .  by  the  failure  to  make  timely 
assertion of the right before a tribunal having jurisdiction to determine it' " (quoting 

Yakus v.  United States, 321 U. S. 414, 444 (1944))).  Instead, Pierce repeatedly stated to the Bank-

ruptcy  Court  that  he  was  happy  to  litigate  there.  We  will not consider his claim to the contrary, now that he is sad. 

III 
Although  we  conclude  that  $ 157(b)(2)(C)  permits  the Bankruptcy  Court  to  enter  final  judgment  on  Vickie's  coun-

terclaim, Article III of the Constitution does not. 

A 
Article  III,  $ 1,  of  the  Constitution  mandates  that  "[t]he judicial  Power  of  the  United  States,  shall  be  vested  in  one 

supreme Court, and in such inferior Courts as the Congress may from time to time ordain and establish."  The same sec-
tion  provides  that  the  judges  of  those  constitutional  courts "shall hold their Offices during good Behaviour" and "receive 
for  their  Services[ ]  a  Compensation[ ]  [that]  shall  not  be  di-minished" during their tenure. 

As  its  text  and  our  precedent  confirm,  Article  III  is  "an inseparable  element  of  the  constitutional  system  of  checks 

Cite as: 564 U. S. 462 (2011)  483 

Opinion of the Court 
and balances" that "both defines the power and protects the 
independence  of  the  Judicial  Branch."  Northern  Pipeline, 
458 U. S., at 58 (plurality opinion).  Under "the basic concept 
of  separation  of  powers  .  .  .  that  flow[s]  from  the  scheme  of 
a  tripartite  government"  adopted  in  the  Constitution,  "the 
`judicial  Power  of  the  United  States' . . . can no  more  be 
shared"  with  another  branch  than  "the  Chief  Executive,  for 
example, can share with the Judiciary the veto power, or the 
Congress  share  with  the  Judiciary  the  power  to  override  a 
Presidential  veto."  United  States  v.  Nixon,  418  U. S.  683, 
704 (1974) (quoting U. S. Const., Art. III, $ 1). 

In establishing the system of divided power in the Consti-
tution,  the  Framers  considered  it  essential  that  "the  judi-
ciary  remain[ ]  truly  distinct  from  both  the  legislature  and 
the  executive."  The  Federalist  No.  78,  p.  466  (C.  Rossiter 
ed.  1961)  (A.  Hamilton).  As  Hamilton  put  it,  quoting  Mon-
tesquieu,  " `there  is  no  liberty  if  the  power  of  judging  be 
not  separated  from  the  legislative  and  executive  powers.' " 
Ibid. (quoting 1 Montesquieu, Spirit of Laws 181). 

We  have  recognized  that  the  three  branches  are  not  her-
metically sealed from one another, see Nixon v.  Administra-
tor  of  General  Services,  433  U. S.  425,  443  (1977),  but  it  re-
mains  true  that  Article  III  imposes  some  basic  limitations 
that  the  other  branches  may  not  transgress.  Those  limita-
tions  serve  two  related  purposes.  "Separation-of-powers 
principles  are  intended,  in  part,  to  protect  each  branch  of 
government from incursion by the others.  Yet the dynamic 
between  and  among  the  branches  is  not  the  only  object  of 
the  Constitution's  concern.  The  structural  principles  se-
cured  by  the  separation  of  powers  protect  the  individual  as 
well."  Bond v.  United States, ante, at 222. 

Article  III  protects  liberty  not  only  through  its  role  in 
implementing  the  separation  of  powers,  but  also  by  specify-
ing  the  defining  characteristics  of  Article  III  judges.  The 
colonists  had  been  subjected  to  judicial  abuses  at  the  hand 

484  STERN  v.  MARSHALL 

Opinion of the Court 
of the Crown, and the Framers knew the main reasons why: 
because  the  King  of  Great  Britain  "made  Judges  dependent 
on  his  Will  alone,  for  the  tenure  of  their  offices,  and  the 
amount  and  payment  of  their  salaries."  The  Declaration  of 
Independence  || 11.  The  Framers  undertook  in  Article  III 
to  protect  citizens  subject  to  the  judicial  power  of  the  new 
Federal Government from a repeat of those abuses.  By ap-
pointing judges to serve without term limits, and restricting 
the ability of the other branches to remove judges or dimin-
ish  their  salaries,  the  Framers  sought  to  ensure  that  each 
judicial decision would  be rendered, not  with  an eye toward 
currying  favor  with  Congress  or  the  Executive,  but  rather 
with  the  "[c]lear  heads  .  .  .  and  honest  hearts"  deemed  "es-
sential  to  good  judges."  1  Works  of  James  Wilson  363  (J. 
Andrews ed. 1896). 

Article  III  could  neither  serve  its  purpose  in  the  system 
of checks and balances  nor  preserve the  integrity  of judicial 
decisionmaking if the other branches of the Federal Govern-
ment  could  confer  the  Government's  "judicial  Power"  on 
entities  outside  Article  III.  That  is  why  we  have  long  rec-
ognized  that,  in  general,  Congress  may  not  "withdraw  from 
judicial cognizance  any matter which, from  its nature, is  the 
subject  of  a  suit  at  the  common  law,  or  in  equity,  or  admi-
ralty."  Murray's  Lessee  v.  Hoboken  Land  &  Improvement 
Co.,  18  How.  272,  284  (1856).  When  a  suit  is  made  of  "the 
stuff  of  the  traditional  actions  at  common  law  tried  by  the 
courts at Westminster in 1789," Northern Pipeline, 458 U. S., 
at 90 (Rehnquist, J., concurring in judgment), and is brought 
within  the  bounds  of  federal  jurisdiction,  the  responsibility 
for deciding that suit rests with Article III judges in Article 
III courts.  The Constitution assigns that job--resolution of 
"the  mundane  as  well  as  the  glamorous,  matters  of  common 
law  and  statute  as  well  as  constitutional  law,  issues  of  fact 
as  well  as  issues  of  law"--to  the  Judiciary.  Id.,  at  86-87, 
n. 39 (plurality opinion). 

Cite as: 564 U. S. 462 (2011)  485 

Opinion of the Court 

B 
This is not the first time we have faced an Article III chal-lenge  to  a  bankruptcy  court's  resolution  of  a  debtor's  suit. 

In  Northern  Pipeline,  we  considered  whether  bankruptcy judges  serving  under  the  Bankruptcy  Act  of  1978--ap-
pointed  by  the  President  and  confirmed  by  the  Senate,  but lacking  the  tenure  and  salary  guarantees  of  Article  III-- 
could  "constitutionally  be  vested  with  jurisdiction  to  decide [a]  state-law  contract  claim"  against  an  entity  that  was  not 
otherwise  part  of  the  bankruptcy  proceedings.  Id., at 53,  87,  n.  40  (plurality  opinion);  see  id.,  at  89-92  (Rehnquist,  J., 
concurring in judgment).  The Court concluded that assign-ment  of  such  state  law  claims  for  resolution  by  those 

judges "violates Art. III of the Constitution."  Id., at 52, 87 (plurality  opinion);  id.,  at  91  (Rehnquist,  J.,  concurring  in 
judgment). The  plurality  in 

Northern  Pipeline  recognized  that  there was  a  category  of  cases  involving  "public  rights"  that  Con-

gress could constitutionally assign to "legislative" courts for resolution.  That opinion concluded that this "public rights" 
exception  extended  "only  to  matters  arising  between"  indi-viduals  and  the  Government  "in  connection  with  the  per-
formance  of  the  constitutional  functions  of  the  executive  or legislative departments . . .  that historically could have been 
determined  exclusively  by  those"  branches.  Id.,  at  67-68 (internal  quotation  marks  omitted).  A  full  majority  of  the 
Court, while not agreeing on the scope of the exception, con-
cluded  that  the  doctrine  did  not  encompass  adjudication  of the  state  law  claim  at  issue  in  that  case. 

Id.,  at  69-72;  see 
id.,  at  90-91  (Rehnquist,  J.,  concurring  in  judgment)  ("None of the [previous cases addressing Article III power] has gone 

so far as to sanction the type of adjudication to which Mara-thon  will  be  subjected  .  .  .  .  To  whatever  extent  different 
powers  granted  under  [the  1978]  Act  might  be  sustained 
under  the  `public  rights'  doctrine  of  Murray's  Lessee  . . .  

Cite as: 564 U. S. 462 (2011)  487 

Opinion of the Court 
which are binding and enforceable even in the absence of an appeal."  458 U. S., at 85-86 (plurality opinion).  And, as in 

Northern Pipeline, the district courts review the judgments of  the  bankruptcy  courts  in  core  proceedings  only  under 

the usual limited appel late  standards.  That  requires marked  deference  to,  among  other  things,  the  bankruptcy 
judges'  findings  of  fact.  See  $ 158(a);  Fed.  Rule  Bkrtcy. Proc.  8013  (findings  of  fact  "shall  not  be  set  aside  unless 
clearly erroneous").  C 

Vickie  and the  dissent  argue  that the  Bankruptcy  Court's entry  of  final  judgment  on  her  state  common  law  counter-
claim was constitutional, despite the similarities between the bankruptcy  courts  under  the  1978  Act  and  those  exercising 
core  jurisdiction  under  the  1984  Act.  We  disagree.  It  is clear  that  the  Bankruptcy  Court  in  this  case  exercised  the 
"judicial  Power  of  the  United  States"  in  purporting  to  re-solve and enter final judgment on a state common law claim, 
just  as  the  court  did  in  Northern  Pipeline.  No  "public right"  exception  excuses  the  failure  to  comply  with  Article 
III in doing so, any more than in Northern Pipeline.  Vickie argues  that  this  case  is  different  because  the  defendant  is  a 
creditor  in  the  bankruptcy.  But  the  debtors'  claims  in  the cases  on  which  she  relies  were  themselves  federal  claims 
under  bankruptcy  law,  which  would  be  completely  resolved in  the  bankruptcy  process of  allowing or  disallowing  claims. 
Here  Vickie's  claim  is  a  state  law  action  independent  of  the federal  bankruptcy  law  and  not  necessarily  resolvable  by  a 
ruling on the creditor's proof of claim in bankruptcy.  North-
ern Pipeline and our subsequent decision in Granfinanciera, 492  U. S.  33,  rejected  the  application  of  the  "public  rights" 

exception in such cases. Nor can the bankruptcy courts under the 1984 Act be dis-
missed as mere adjuncts of Article III courts, any more than could  the  bankruptcy  courts  under  the  1978  Act.  The  judi-
cial  powers  the  courts  exercise  in  cases  such  as  this  remain 

488  STERN  v.  MARSHALL 

Opinion of the Court 
the  same,  and  a  court  exercising  such  broad  powers  is  no mere adjunct of anyone. 

1 
Vickie's counterclaim cannot be deemed a matter of "public right"  that  can  be  decided  outside  the  Judicial  Branch.  As 

explained above, in Northern Pipeline we rejected the argu-ment that the public rights doctrine permitted a bankruptcy 
court  to  adjudicate  a  state  law  suit  brought  by  a  debtor against  a  company  that  had  not  filed  a  claim  against  the  es-
tate.  See 458 U. S., at 69-72 (plurality opinion); id., at 90-91 (Rehnquist,  J.,  concurring  in  judgment).  Although  our  dis-
cussion  of  the  public  rights  exception  since  that  time  has not been entirely consistent, and the exception has been the 
subject  of some  debate,  this  case  does  not  fall  within any  of the  various  formulations  of  the  concept  that  appear  in  this 
Court's opinions. We  first  recognized  the  category  of  public  rights  in 

Mur-ray's  Lessee  v.  Hoboken  Land  &  Improvement  Co.,  18  How. 

272  (1856).  That  case  involved  the  Treasury  Department's sale  of  property  belonging  to  a  customs  collector  who  had 
failed  to transfer  payments to the  Federal Government that he  had  collected  on  its  behalf.  Id.,  at  274,  275.  The  plain-
tiff,  who  claimed  title  to  the  same  land  through  a  different transfer,  objected  that  the  Treasury  Department's  calcula-
tion  of  the  deficiency  and  sale  of  the  property  was  void,  be-cause  it  was  a  judicial  act  that  could  not  be  assigned  to  the 
Executive under Article III.  Id., at 274-275, 282-283. "To  avoid  misconstruction  upon  so  grave  a  subject,"  the 
Court laid out the principles guiding its analysis.  Id., at 284. It  confirmed  that  Congress  cannot  "withdraw  from  judicial 
cognizance any matter which, from  its nature, is the  subject of  a  suit  at  the  common  law,  or  in  equity,  or  admiralty." 
Ibid.  The  Court  also  recognized  that  "[a]t  the  same  time there  are  matters,  involving  public  rights,  which  may  be 
presented  in  such  form  that  the  judicial  power  is  capable  of acting on them, and which are susceptible of judicial determi-

Cite as: 564 U. S. 462 (2011)  489 

Opinion of the Court 
nation, but which congress may or may not bring within the cognizance of the courts of the United States, as it may deem 

proper."  Ibid. As an example of such matters, the Court referred to "[e]q-
uitable claims to land by the inhabitants of ceded territories" and  cited  cases  in  which  land  issues  were  conclusively  re-
solved  by  Executive  Branch  officials.  Ibid.  (citing  Foley  v. 
Harrison,  15  How.  433  (1854);  Burgess  v.  Gray,  16  How.  48 (1854)).  In those cases "it depends upon the will of congress 

whether  a  remedy  in  the  courts  shall  be  allowed  at  all,"  so Congress  could  limit  the  extent  to  which  a  judicial  forum 
was available.  Murray's Lessee, 18 How., at 284.  The chal-lenge in 

Murray's Lessee to the Treasury Department's sale of the collector's land likewise fell within the "public rights" 

category  of  cases,  because  it  could  only  be  brought  if  the Federal  Government  chose  to  allow  it  by  waiving  sovereign 
immunity.  Id.,  at  283-284.  The  point  of  Murray's  Lessee was simply that Congress may set the terms of adjudicating 
a suit when the suit could not otherwise proceed at all. Subsequent  decisions  from  this  Court  contrasted  cases 
within  the  reach  of  the  public  rights  exception--those arising "between the Government and persons subject to its 
authority  in  connection  with  the  performance  of  the  consti-tutional  functions  of  the  executive  or  legislative  depart-
ments"--and  those  that  were  instead  matters  "of  private right,  that  is,  of  the  liability  of  one  individual  to  another 
under the law as defined."  Crowell v.  Benson, 285 U. S. 22, 50, 51 (1932).

6  See Atlas Roofing Co. v.  Occupational Safety 

6 Although the Court in Crowell went on to decide that the facts of the 
private dispute before it could be determined by a non-Article III tribunal 
in the first instance, subject to judicial review, the Court did so only after 
observing  that  the  administrative  adjudicator  had  only  limited  authority 
to make specialized, narrowly confined factual determinations regarding a 
particularized area of law and to issue orders that could be enforced only 
by action of the District Court.  285 U. S., at 38, 44-45, 54; see Northern 
Pipeline  Constr.  Co.  v.  Marathon  Pipe  Line  Co.,  458  U. S.  50,  78  (1982) 
(plurality  opinion).  In  other  words,  the agency  in  Crowell  functioned  as 

490  STERN  v.  MARSHALL 

Opinion of the Court 
and  Health  Review  Comm'n,  430  U. S.  442,  458  (1977)  (ex-ception extends to cases "where the Government is involved 

in  its  sovereign  capacity  under  .  .  .  [a]  statute  creating  en-forceable  public  rights,"  while  "[w]holly  private  tort,  con-
tract,  and  property  cases,  as  well  as  a  vast  range  of  other cases . . . are not at all implicated"); 

Ex parte Bakelite Corp., 279  U. S.  438,  451-452  (1929).  See  also  Northern  Pipeline, 

458  U. S.,  at  68  (plurality  opinion)  (citing  Ex  parte  Bakelite Corp.  for the proposition that the doctrine extended "only to 
matters  that  historically  could have  been  determined  exclu-sively by" the Executive and Legislative Branches). 

Shortly  after  Northern  Pipeline,  the  Court  rejected  the limitation  of the public rights exception to actions  involving 
the Government as a party.  The Court has continued, how-ever,  to  limit  the  exception  to  cases  in  which  the  claim  at 
issue  derives  from  a  federal  regulatory  scheme,  or  in  which resolution  of  the  claim  by  an  expert  Government  agency  is 
deemed essential to a limited regulatory objective within the agency's  authority.  In  other  words,  it  is  still  the  case  that 
what  makes  a  right  "public"  rather  than  private  is  that  the right is integrally related to particular Federal Government 

a  true  "adjunct"  of  the  District  Court.  That  is  not  the  case  here.  See 
infra, at 500-501. 

Although the dissent suggests that we understate the import of Crowell 
in this regard, the dissent itself recognizes--repeatedly--that Crowell by 
its  terms  addresses  the  determination  of  facts  outside  Article  III.  See 
post, at 508  (Crowell "upheld  Congress' delegation  of primary factfinding 
authority  to  the  agency");  post,  at  515  (quoting  Crowell,  285  U. S.,  at  51, 
for the proposition that " `there is  no requirement that, in order to main-
tain  the  essential  attributes  of  the  judicial  power,  all  determinations  of 
fact in constitutional courts shall be made by judges' ").  Crowell may well 
have additional significance in the context of expert administrative agen-
cies  that  oversee  particular  substantive  federal  regimes,  but  we  have  no 
occasion to and do not address those issues today.  See infra, at 493-494. 
The United States apparently agrees that any broader significance of Cro-
well  is  not  pertinent  in  this  case, citing  to  Crowell  in  its  brief  only  once, 
in  the  last  footnote,  again  for  the  limited  proposition  discussed  above. 
Brief for United States as Amicus Curiae 32, n. 5. 

Cite as: 564 U. S. 462 (2011)  491 

Opinion of the Court 
action.  See United States v.  Jicarilla Apache Nation, ante, at  174  ("The  distinction  between  `public  rights'  against  the 

Government  and  `private  rights'  between  private  parties  is well established" (citing 

Murray's Lessee and Crowell)). 
Our  decision  in  Thomas  v.  Union  Carbide  Agricultural 
Products  Co.,  for  example,  involved  a  data-sharing  arrange-
ment  between  companies  under  a  federal  statute  providing 
that  disputes  about  compensation  between  the  companies would be decided by binding arbitration.  473 U. S. 568, 571- 

575 (1985).  This Court held that the scheme did not violate Article  III,  explaining that  "[a]ny  right  to compensation . .  . 
results from [the  statute] and does not  depend on or replace 
a  right  to  such  compensation  under  state  law."  Id.,  at  584. 

Commodity Futures Trading Comm'n v.  Schor concerned 
a  statutory  scheme  that  created  a  procedure  for  customers 
injured  by  a  broker's  violation  of  the  federal  commodities 
law to seek reparations from the broker before the Commod-
ity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC).  478 U. S., at 836. 
A  customer  filed  such  a  claim  to  recover  a  debit  balance  in 
his  account,  while  the  broker  filed  a  lawsuit  in  Federal  Dis-
trict Court to recover the same amount as lawfully due from 
the  customer.  The  broker  later  submitted  its  claim  to  the 
CFTC, but after that agency ruled against the customer, the 
customer  argued  that  agency  jurisdiction  over  the  broker's 
counterclaim  violated  Article  III.  Id.,  at  837-838.  This 
Court  disagreed,  but  only  after  observing  that  (1)  the  claim 
and the counterclaim concerned a "single dispute"--the same 
account  balance;  (2)  the  CFTC's  assertion  of  authority  in-
volved only "a narrow class of common law claims" in a " `par-
ticularized  area  of  law' ";  (3)  the  area  of  law  in  question 
was  governed  by  "a  specific  and  limited  federal  regulatory 
scheme"  as  to  which  the  agency  had  "obvious  expertise"; 
(4) the parties had freely elected to resolve their differences 
before  the  CFTC;  and  (5)  CFTC  orders  were  "enforceable 
only  by  order  of  the  district  court."  Id.,  at  844,  852-856 
(quoting  Northern  Pipeline,  supra,  at  85);  see  478  U. S.,  at 

492  STERN  v.  MARSHALL 

Opinion of the Court 
843-844,  849-857.  Most  significantly,  given  that  the  cus-tomer's reparations claim before the agency and the broker's 

counterclaim were competing claims to the same amount, the Court  repeatedly  emphasized  that  it  was  "necessary"  to 
allow  the  agency  to  exercise  jurisdiction  over  the  broker's claim,  or  else  "the  reparations  procedure  would  have  been 
confounded."  Id., at 856. 

The  most  recent  case  in  which  we  considered  application of  the  public  rights  exception--and  the  only  case  in  which 

we have  considered  that doctrine in the  bankruptcy  context since 

Northern  Pipeline--is  Granfinanciera,  S.  A.  v.  Nord-
berg,  492  U. S.  33  (1989).  In  Granfinanciera  we  rejected  a bankruptcy trustee's argument that a fraudulent conveyance 

action  filed  on  behalf  of  a  bankruptcy  estate  against  a  non-creditor  in  a  bankruptcy  proceeding  fell  within  the  "public 
rights" exception.  We explained that, "[i]f a statutory right 
is not closely intertwined with a federal regulatory program Congress  has  power  to  enact,  and  if  that  right  neither  be-

longs  to  nor  exists  against  the  Federal  Government,  then  it must be adjudicated by an Article III court." 

Id., at 54-55. 
We reasoned that fraudulent conveyance suits were "quintes-sentially  suits  at  common  law  that  more  nearly  resemble 

state law contract claims brought by a bankrupt corporation to  augment  the  bankruptcy  estate  than  they  do  creditors' 
hierarchically ordered claims to a pro rata share of the bank-
ruptcy  res."  Id.,  at  56.  As  a  consequence,  we  concluded that  fraudulent  conveyance  actions  were  "more  accurately 

characterized  as  a  private  rather  than  a  public  right  as  we have  used  those  terms  in  our  Article  III  decisions." 

Id., 
at 55.7 

7 We  noted  that  we  did  not  mean  to  "suggest  that  the  restructuring  of 
debtor-creditor relations is in fact a public right."  492 U. S., at 56, n. 11. 
Our conclusion was that, "even if one accepts this thesis," Congress could 
not constitutionally  assign resolution of the  fraudulent conveyance action 
to a non-Article III court.  Ibid.  Because neither party asks us to recon-
sider the public rights framework for bankruptcy, we follow the same ap-
proach here. 

Cite as: 564 U. S. 462 (2011)  493 

Opinion of the Court 
Vickie's  counterclaim--like the fraudulent  conveyance claim  at  issue  in  Granfinanciera--does  not  fall  within  any 

of  the  varied  formulations  of  the  public  rights  exception  in this  Court's  cases.  It  is  not  a  matter  that  can  be  pursued 
only  by  grace  of  the  other  branches,  as  in  Murray's  Lessee, 18  How.,  at  284,  or  one  that  "historically  could  have  been 
determined  exclusively  by"  those  branches,  Northern  Pipe-
line,  458  U. S.,  at  68  (citing  Ex  parte  Bakelite  Corp.,  279 U. S., at 458).  The claim is instead one under state common 

law  between  two  private  parties.  It  does  not  "depend[ ] upon  the  will  of  congress,"  Murray's  Lessee,  supra,  at  284; 
Congress has nothing to do with it. In  addition,  Vickie's  claimed  right  to  relief  does  not  flow 
from  a  federal  statutory  scheme,  as  in  Thomas,  supra, at  584-585, or 

Atlas Roofing, 430 U. S., at 458.  It is not "com-pletely  dependent  upon"  adjudication  of  a  claim  created  by 

federal  law,  as  in  Schor,  478  U. S.,  at  856.  And  in  contrast to  the  objecting  party  in  Schor,  id.,  at  855-856,  Pierce  did 
not truly consent to resolution of Vickie's claim in  the bank-ruptcy  court  proceedings.  He  had  nowhere  else  to  go  if  he 
wished  to  recover  from  Vickie's  estate.  See  Granfinan-
ciera, supra, at 59, n. 14 (noting that "[p]arallel reasoning [to Schor]  is  unavailable  in  the  context  of  bankruptcy  proceed-

ings, because creditors lack an alternative forum to the bank-ruptcy court in which to pursue their claims").

8 

Furthermore,  the  asserted  authority  to  decide  Vickie's claim  is  not  limited  to  a  "particularized  area  of  the  law,"  as 

in  Crowell,  Thomas,  and  Schor.  Northern  Pipeline,  458 U. S.,  at  85  (plurality  opinion).  We  deal  here  not  with  an 

8 Contrary  to  the  claims  of  the  dissent,  see  post,  at  516,  Pierce  did  not 
have another forum in which to pursue his claim to recover from Vickie's 
prebankruptcy  assets,  rather  than  take  his  chances  with  whatever  funds 
might  remain  after  the  Title  11  proceedings.  Creditors  who  possess 
claims that do not satisfy the requirements for nondischargeability under 
11 U. S. C. $ 523 have no choice but to file their claims in bankruptcy pro-
ceedings  if  they  want  to  pursue  the  claims  at  all.  That  is  why,  as  we 
recognized  in  Granfinanciera,  the  notion  of  "consent"  does  not  apply  in 
bankruptcy proceedings as it might in other contexts. 

494  STERN  v.  MARSHALL 

Opinion of the Court 
agency but with a court, with substantive jurisdiction reach-ing any area of the 

corpus juris.  See ibid.; id., at 91 (Rehn-
quist, J., concurring in judgment).  This is not a situation in which Congress devised an "expert and inexpensive method 

for dealing with a class of questions of fact which are particu-larly suited to examination and determination by an adminis-
trative  agency  specially  assigned  to  that  task."  Crowell, 
285 U. S., at 46; see Schor, supra, at 855-856.  The "experts" in the federal system at resolving common law counterclaims 

such  as  Vickie's  are  the  Article  III  courts,  and  it  is  with those courts that her claim must stay. 

The  dissent  reads  our  cases  differently,  and  in  particular 
contends  that  more  recent  cases  view  Northern  Pipeline  as 
" `establish[ing]  only  that  Congress  may  not  vest  in  a  nonArticle  III  court  the  power  to  adjudicate,  render  final  judg-
ment,  and  issue  binding  orders  in  a  traditional  contract  ac-
tion arising under state law, without consent of the litigants, 
and  subject  only  to  ordinary  appellate  review.' "  Post,  at 
510 (quoting Thomas, 473 U. S., at 584).  Just so: Substitute 
"tort"  for  "contract,"  and  that  statement  directly  covers 
this case. 

We  recognize  that  there  may  be  instances  in  which  the 
distinction  between  public  and  private  rights--at  least  as 
framed by some of our recent cases--fails to provide concrete 
guidance  as  to  whether,  for  example,  a  particular  agency 
can  adjudicate  legal  issues  under  a  substantive  regulatory 
scheme.  Given the extent to which this case is so markedly 
distinct  from  the  agency  cases  discussing  the  public  rights 
exception  in  the  context  of  such  a  regime,  however,  we  do 
not  in  this  opinion  express  any  view  on  how  the  doctrine 
might apply in that different context. 

What is plain here is that this case involves the most pro-
totypical exercise of judicial power: the entry of a final, bind-
ing judgment by a court with broad substantive jurisdiction, 
on  a  common  law  cause  of  action,  when  the  action  neither 
derives  from  nor  depends  upon  any  agency  regulatory  re-

Cite as: 564 U. S. 462 (2011)  495 

Opinion of the Court 
gime.  If such an exercise of judicial power may nonetheless be taken from the Article III Judiciary simply by deeming it 

part  of  some  amorphous  "public  right,"  then  Article  III would be transformed from the guardian of individual liberty 
and separation of powers we have long recognized into mere wishful thinking. 

2 
Vickie  and  the  dissent  next  attempt  to  distinguish  North-
ern Pipeline and Granfinanciera on the ground that Pierce, unlike the defendants in those cases, had filed a proof of claim 

in the bankruptcy proceedings.  Given Pierce's participation in  those  proceedings,  Vickie  argues,  the  Bankruptcy  Court 
had  the  authority  to  adjudicate  her  counterclaim  under  our decisions  in 

Katchen  v.  Landy,  382  U. S.  323  (1966),  and Langenkamp v.  Culp, 498 U. S. 42 (1990) (per curiam). 

We  do  not  agree.  As  an  initial  matter,  it  is  hard  to  see why  Pierce's  decision to  file  a  claim should make  any  differ-
ence with respect to the characterization of Vickie's counter-claim.  " `[P]roperty  interests  are  created  and  defined  by 
state  law,'  and  `[u]nless  some federal  interest  requires a  dif-ferent  result,  there  is  no  reason  why  such  interests  should 
be  analyzed  differently  simply  because  an  interested  party is  involved  in  a  bankruptcy  proceeding." 

Travelers  Cas-ualty  &  Surety  Co.  of  America  v.  Pacific  Gas  &  Elec.  Co., 

549  U. S.  443,  451  (2007)  (quoting  Butner  v.  United  States, 440  U. S.  48,  55  (1979)).  Pierce's  claim  for  defamation  in  no 
way  affects  the  nature  of  Vickie's  counterclaim  for  tortious interference  as  one  at  common  law  that  simply  attempts  to 
augment the bankruptcy estate--the very type of claim that we  held  in 

Northern  Pipeline  and  Granfinanciera  must  be decided by an Article III court. 

Contrary to Vickie's contention, moreover, our decisions in 
Katchen and Langenkamp do not suggest a different result. Katchen  permitted  a  bankruptcy  referee  acting  under  the 

Bankruptcy  Acts  of  1898  and  1938  (akin  to  a  bankruptcy court today) to exercise what was known as "summary juris-

496  STERN  v.  MARSHALL 

Opinion of the Court 
diction"  over  a  voidable  preference  claim  brought  by  the bankruptcy  trustee  against  a  creditor  who  had  filed  a  proof 

of claim in the bankruptcy proceeding.  See 382 U. S., at 325, 327-328.  A  voidable  preference claim asserts that  a debtor 
made  a  payment  to  a  particular  creditor  in  anticipation  of bankruptcy, to in effect increase that creditor's proportionate 
share of the estate.  The preferred creditor's claim in bank-
ruptcy  can  be  disallowed  as  a  result  of  the  preference,  and the  amounts  paid  to  that  creditor  can  be  recovered  by  the 

trustee.  See id., at 330; see also 11 U. S. C. $$ 502(d), 547(b). Although the creditor in 

Katchen objected that the prefer-
ence issue should be resolved through a "plenary suit"  in an 
Article III court, this Court concluded that summary adjudi-
cation  in  bankruptcy  was  appropriate,  because  it  was  not 
possible for the referee to rule on the creditor's proof of claim 
without  first  resolving  the  voidable  preference  issue.  382 
U. S., at 329-330, 332-333, and n. 9, 334.  There was no ques-
tion that the bankruptcy referee could decide whether there 
had  been  a  voidable  preference  in  determining  whether  and 
to  what  extent  to  allow  the  creditor's  claim.  Once  the  ref-
eree did that, "nothing remains for adjudication in a plenary 
suit"; such a suit "would be  a meaningless gesture."  Id.,  at 
334.  The  plenary  proceeding  the  creditor  sought  could  be 
brought  into  the  bankruptcy  court  because  "the  same  issue 
[arose]  as  part  of  the  process  of  allowance  and  disallowance 
of claims."  Id., at 336. 

It  was  in  that  sense  that  the  Court  stated  that  "he  who 
invokes  the  aid  of  the  bankruptcy  court  by  offering  a  proof 
of  claim  and  demanding  its  allowance  must  abide  the  conse-
quences  of  that  procedure."  Id.,  at  333,  n.  9.  In  Katchen, 
one  of  those  consequences  was  resolution  of  the  preference 
issue as part of the process of allowing or disallowing claims, 
and  accordingly  there  was  no  basis  for  the  creditor  to  insist 
that  the  issue  be  resolved  in  an  Article  III  court.  See  id., 
at  334.  Indeed,  the  Katchen  Court  expressly  noted  that  it 
"intimate[d] no opinion concerning whether" the bankruptcy 

Cite as: 564 U. S. 462 (2011)  497 

Opinion of the Court 
referee would have  had "summary jurisdiction to adjudicate a  demand  by  the  [bankruptcy]  trustee  for  affirmative  relief, 

all  of  the  substantial  factual  and  legal  bases  for  which  ha[d] not  been  disposed  of  in  passing  on  objections  to  the  [credi-
tor's proof of] claim."  Id., at 333, n. 9. Our 

per  curiam  opinion  in  Langenkamp  is  to  the  same 
effect.  We explained there that a preferential transfer claim 
can be heard in bankruptcy when the allegedly favored credi-tor  has  filed  a  claim,  because 

then  "the  ensuing  preference 
action by the trustee become[s] integral to the restructuring of the debtor-creditor relationship."  498 U. S., at 44.  If, in 

contrast, the creditor has not filed a proof of claim, the trust-
ee's preference action does not "become[ ] part of the claimsallowance  process"  subject  to  resolution  by  the  bankruptcy 
court.  Ibid.; see id., at 45. 

In  ruling  on  Vickie's  counterclaim,  the  Bankruptcy  Court 
was required to and did make several factual and legal deter-
minations  that  were  not  "disposed  of  in  passing  on  objec-
tions"  to  Pierce's  proof  of  claim  for  defamation,  which  the 
court  had  denied  almost  a  year  earlier.  Katchen,  supra,  at 
332,  n.  9.  There  was  some  overlap  between  Vickie's  coun-
terclaim  and  Pierce's  defamation  claim  that  led  the  courts 
below to conclude that the counterclaim was compulsory, 600 
F. 3d, at 1057, or at least in an "attenuated" sense related to 
Pierce's  claim,  264  B.  R.,  at  631.  But  there  was  never  any 
reason  to  believe  that  the  process  of  adjudicating  Pierce's 
proof  of  claim  would  necessarily  resolve  Vickie's  counter-
claim.  See  id.,  at  631,  632  (explaining  that  "the  primary 
facts at issue on Pierce's claim were the relationship between 
Vickie  and  her  attorneys  and  her  knowledge  or  approval  of 
their statements," and "the counterclaim raises issues of law 
entirely  different  from  those  raise[d]  on  the  defamation 
claim").  The  United  States  acknowledges  the  point.  See 
Brief  for  United  States  as  Amicus  Curiae,  p.  (I)  (question 
presented concerns authority of a bankruptcy court to enter 
final  judgment  on  a  compulsory  counterclaim  "when  adjudi-

498  STERN  v.  MARSHALL 

Opinion of the Court 
cation  of  the  counterclaim  requires  resolution  of  issues  that are not implicated by the claim against the estate"); 

id., at 26. 
The only  overlap  between the  two claims  in  this  case was the question whether Pierce had in fact tortiously taken con-

trol of his father's estate in the manner alleged by Vickie in her  counterclaim  and  described  in  the  allegedly  defamatory 
statements.  From the outset, it was clear that, even assum-
ing  the  Bankruptcy  Court  would  (as  it  did)  rule  in  Vickie's favor  on  that  question,  the  court  could  not  enter  judgment 

for  Vickie  unless  the  court  additionally  ruled  on  the  ques-tions  whether  Texas  recognized  tortious  interference  with 
an expected gift as a valid cause of action, what the elements 
of  that  action  were,  and  whether  those  elements  were  met 
in this case.  275 B. R., at 50-53.  Assuming Texas accepted 
the  elements  adopted  by  other  jurisdictions,  that  meant 
Vickie  would  need  to  prove,  above  and  beyond  Pierce's  tor-
tious  interference,  (1)  the  existence  of  an  expectancy  of  a 
gift;  (2)  a  reasonable  certainty  that  the  expectancy  would 
have been realized but for the interference; and (3) damages. 
Id.,  at  51;  see  253  B.  R.,  at  558-561.  Also,  because  Vickie 
sought  punitive  damages  in  connection  with  her  counter-
claim, the  Bankruptcy  Court could not  finally  dispose of the 
case  in  Vickie's  favor  without  determining  whether  to  sub-
ject  Pierce  to  the  sort  of  "retribution,"  "punishment[,]  and 
deterrence,"  Exxon  Shipping  Co.,  554  U. S.,  at  492,  504  (in-
ternal  quotation  marks  omitted),  those  damages  are  de-
signed  to  impose.  There  thus  was  never  reason  to  believe 
that  the  process  of  ruling  on  Pierce's  proof  of  claim  would 
necessarily  result  in  the  resolution  of  Vickie's  counterclaim. 

In  both  Katchen  and  Langenkamp,  moreover,  the  trustee 
bringing  the  preference  action  was  asserting  a  right  of 
recovery  created  by  federal  bankruptcy  law.  In  Langen-
kamp,  we  noted  that  "the  trustee  instituted  adversary  pro-
ceedings  under  11  U. S. C.  $ 547(b)  to  recover,  as  avoidable 
preferences,"  payments  respondents  received  from  the 
debtor  before  the  bankruptcy  filings.  498  U. S.,  at  43;  see, 

Cite as: 564 U. S. 462 (2011)  499 

Opinion of the Court 
e. g.,  $ 547(b)(1)  ("the  trustee  may  avoid  any  transfer  of  an interest  of  the  debtor  in  property--(1)  to  or  for  the  benefit 

of  a  creditor").  In  Katchen,  "[t]he  Trustee  .  .  .  [asserted] that  the  payments  made  [to  the  creditor]  were  preferences 
inhibited by Section 60a of the Bankruptcy Act."  Memoran-dum  Opinion  (Feb.  8,  1963),  Tr.  of  Record  in  O.  T.  1965, 
No.  28,  p.  3;  see  382  U. S.,  at  334  (considering  impact  of  the 
claims allowance process on "action by the trustee under $ 60 to  recover  the  preference");  11  U. S. C.  $ 96(b)  (1964  ed.) 

($ 60(b)  of  the  then-applicable  Bankruptcy  Act)  ("preference may be avoided by the trustee if the creditor receiving it or 
to be benefited thereby . . . has, at the time when the transfer 
is made, reasonable cause to believe that the debtor is insol-
vent").  Vickie's claim, in contrast, is in no way derived from 
or  dependent  upon  bankruptcy  law;  it  is  a  state  tort  action 
that  exists  without  regard  to  any  bankruptcy  proceeding. 

In  light  of  all  the  foregoing,  we  disagree  with  the  dissent 
that  there  are  no  "relevant  distinction[s]"  between  Pierce's 
claim  in  this  case  and  the  claim  at  issue  in  Langenkamp. 
Post,  at  517.  We  see  no  reason  to  treat  Vickie's  counter-
claim  any  differently  from  the  fraudulent  conveyance  action 
in Granfinanciera.  492 U. S., at 56.  Granfinanciera's dis-
tinction  between  actions  that  seek  "to  augment  the  bank-
ruptcy  estate"  and  those  that  seek  "a  pro  rata  share  of  the 
bankruptcy  res,"  ibid.,  reaffirms  that  Congress  may  not  by-
pass Article III simply because a proceeding may have some 
bearing  on  a  bankruptcy  case;  the  question  is  whether  the 
action  at  issue  stems  from  the  bankruptcy  itself  or  would 
necessarily  be  resolved  in  the  claims  allowance  process. 
Vickie  has  failed  to  demonstrate  that  her  counterclaim  falls 
within  one  of  the  "limited  circumstances"  covered  by  the 
public  rights  exception,  particularly  given  our  conclusion 
that, "even with respect to matters that arguably fall within 
the  scope  of  the  `public  rights'  doctrine,  the  presumption  is 
in  favor  of  Art.  III  courts."  Northern  Pipeline,  458  U. S., 
at 69, n. 23, 77, n. 29 (plurality opinion). 

500  STERN  v.  MARSHALL 

Opinion of the Court 

3 
Vickie  additionally  argues  that  the  Bankruptcy  Court's final judgment was constitutional because bankruptcy courts 

under  the  1984  Act  are  properly  deemed  "adjuncts"  of  the district  courts.  Brief  for  Petitioner  61-64.  We  rejected  a 
similar  argument  in  Northern  Pipeline,  see  458  U. S.,  at 84-86 (plurality opinion); 

id., at 91 (Rehnquist, J., concurring in judgment), and our reasoning there holds true today. 

To  begin,  as  explained  above,  it  is  still  the  bankruptcy court  itself  that  exercises  the essential  attributes  of  judicial 
power  over  a  matter  such  as  Vickie's  counterclaim.  See 
supra, at 487-488.  The new bankruptcy courts, like the old, do not "ma[k]e only specialized, narrowly confined factual de-

terminations  regarding  a  particularized  area  of  law"  or engage  in  "statutorily  channeled  factfinding  functions." 
Northern  Pipeline,  458  U. S.,  at  85  (plurality  opinion).  In-stead,  bankruptcy  courts  under  the  1984  Act  resolve  "[a]ll 
matters  of  fact  and  law  in  whatever  domains  of  the  law  to which"  the  parties'  counterclaims  might  lead. 

Id.,  at  91 (Rehnquist, J., concurring in judgment). 

In addition, whereas the adjunct agency in Crowell v.  Ben-son  "possessed  only  a  limited  power  to  issue  compensation 
orders  .  .  .  [that]  could  be  enforced  only  by  order  of  the  dis-trict  court,"  Northern  Pipeline,  supra,  at  85,  a  bankruptcy 
court  resolving  a  counterclaim  under  28  U. S. C.  $ 157(b) (2)(C)  has  the  power  to  enter  "appropriate  orders  and  judg-
ments"--including  final  judgments--subject  to  review  only if  a  party  chooses  to  appeal,  see  $$ 157(b)(1),  158(a)-(b).  It 
is thus no less the case here than it was in Northern Pipeline that "[t]he authority--and the responsibility--to make an in-
formed,  final  determination  .  .  .  remains  with"  the  bank-ruptcy judge, not the district court.  458 U. S., at 81 (plural-
ity opinion) (internal quotation marks omitted).  Given that authority, a bankruptcy court can no more be deemed a mere 
"adjunct"  of  the  district  court  than  a  district  court  can  be deemed  such  an  "adjunct"  of  the  court  of  appeals.  We  cer-

Cite as: 564 U. S. 462 (2011)  501 

Opinion of the Court 
tainly  cannot  accept  the  dissent's  notion  that  judges  who have  the  power  to  enter  final,  binding  orders  are  the  "func-

tional[ ]"  equivalent  of  "law  clerks[ ]  and  the  Judiciary's  ad-ministrative  officials."  Post,  at  515.  And  even  were  we 
wrong  in  this  regard,  that  would  only  confirm  that  such judges  should  not  be  in  the  business  of  entering  final  judg-
ments in the first place. It does not affect our  analysis  that, as  Vickie notes, bank-
ruptcy  judges  under  the  current  Act  are  appointed  by  the Article III courts, rather than the President.  See Brief for 
Petitioner  59.  If--as  we  have  concluded--the  bankruptcy court  itself  exercises  "the  essential  attributes  of  judicial 
power  [that]  are  reserved  to  Article  III  courts,"  Schor,  478 U. S.,  at  851  (internal  quotation  marks  omitted),  it  does  not 
matter  who  appointed  the  bankruptcy  judge  or  authorized the  judge  to  render  final  judgments  in  such  proceedings. 
The constitutional bar  remains.  See  The  Federalist No. 78, at  471  ("Periodical  appointments,  however  regulated,  or  by 
whomsoever  made,  would,  in  some  way  or  other,  be  fatal  to [a judge's] necessary independence"). 

D 
Finally, Vickie and her amici predict as a practical matter that  restrictions  on  a  bankruptcy  court's  ability  to  hear  and 

finally  resolve  compulsory  counterclaims  will  create  signifi-cant  delays  and  impose  additional  costs  on  the  bankruptcy 
process.  See,  e. g.,  Brief  for  Petitioner  34-36,  57-58;  Brief for United States as 

Amicus Curiae 29-30.  It goes without saying  that  "the  fact  that  a  given  law  or  procedure  is  effi-

cient,  convenient,  and  useful  in  facilitating  functions  of  gov-ernment,  standing  alone,  will  not  save  it  if  it  is  contrary  to 
the Constitution."  INS v.  Chadha, 462 U. S. 919, 944 (1983). In addition, we are not convinced that the practical conse-
quences  of  such  limitations  on  the  authority  of  bankruptcy courts  to  enter  final  judgments  are  as  significant  as  Vickie 
and the dissent suggest.  See post, at 519-520.  The dissent 

502  STERN  v.  MARSHALL 

Opinion of the Court 
asserts that it  is important that counterclaims  such as Vick-ie's  be  resolved  "in  a  bankruptcy  court,"  and  that,  "to  be 

effective,  a  single  tribunal  must  have  broad  authority  to restructure  [debtor-creditor]  relations." 

Post,  at  518,  519 
(emphasis  deleted).  But  the  framework  Congress  adopted in  the  1984  Act  already  contemplates  that  certain  state  law 

matters in bankruptcy cases will be resolved by judges other 
than those of the bankruptcy courts.  Section 1334(c)(2), for example, requires that bankruptcy courts abstain from hear-

ing  specified  noncore,  state  law  claims  that  "can  be  timely adjudicated[ ]  in  a  State  forum  of  appropriate  jurisdiction." 
Section  1334(c)(1)  similarly  provides  that  bankruptcy  courts 
may  abstain  from  hearing  any  proceeding,  including  core 
matters,  "in  the  interest  of  comity  with  State  courts  or  re-
spect for State law." 

As  described  above,  the  current  bankruptcy  system  also 
requires the  district  court to review de  novo  and  enter final 
judgment  on  any  matters  that  are  "related  to"  the  bank-
ruptcy proceedings, $ 157(c)(1), and permits the district court 
to  withdraw  from  the  bankruptcy  court  any  referred  case, 
proceeding, or part thereof, $ 157(d).  Pierce has not argued 
that  the  bankruptcy  courts  "are  barred  from  `hearing'  all 
counterclaims"  or  proposing  findings  of  fact  and  conclusions 
of  law  on  those  matters,  but  rather  that  it  must  be  the  dis-
trict court that "finally decide[s]" them.  Brief for Respond-
ent  61.  We  do  not  think the  removal  of counterclaims  such 
as  Vickie's  from  core  bankruptcy  jurisdiction  meaningfully 
changes  the  division  of  labor  in  the  current  statute;  we 
agree  with  the  United  States  that  the  question  presented 
here  is  a  "narrow" one.  Brief  for  United  States  as  Amicus 
Curiae 23. 

If  our  decision  today  does  not  change  all  that  much,  then 
why  the  fuss?  Is  there  really  a  threat  to  the  separation  of 
powers where Congress has conferred the judicial power out-
side  Article  III  only  over  certain  counterclaims  in  bank-
ruptcy?  The  short  but  emphatic  answer  is  yes.  A  statute 

Cite as: 564 U. S. 552 (2011)  559 

Opinion of the Court 
lated records containing prescriber-identifiable informa-tion, nor permit the use of regulated records containing 

prescriber-identifiable information  for marketing or promoting  a  prescription  drug,  unless  the  prescriber 
consents . . . .  Pharmaceutical  manufacturers  and pharmaceutical marketers shall not  use prescriberidentifiable  information  for  marketing  or  promoting  a prescription  drug  unless  the  prescriber  consents  .  .  .  ." 

The quoted  provision has  three  component  parts.  The pro-vision begins by prohibiting pharmacies, health insurers, and 
similar  entities  from  selling  prescriber-identifying  informa-tion,  absent the  prescriber's consent.  The  parties here  dis-
pute  whether  this  clause  applies  to  all  sales  or  only  to  sales for marketing.  The provision then goes on to prohibit phar-
macies,  health  insurers,  and  similar  entities  from  allowing prescriber-identifying information to be used for marketing, 
unless  the  prescriber  consents.  This  prohibition  in  effect bars pharmacies from disclosing the information for market-
ing  purposes.  Finally,  the  provision's  second  sentence  bars pharmaceutical  manufacturers  and  pharmaceutical  market-
ers  from  using  prescriber-identifying  information  for  mar-keting, again absent the prescriber's consent.  The Vermont 
attorney  general  may  pursue  civil  remedies  against  viola-tors.  $ 4631(f). 

Separate  statutory  provisions  elaborate  the  scope  of  the prohibitions set out in $ 4631(d).  "Marketing" is defined to in-
clude "advertising, promotion, or any activity" that is "used to influence  sales  or  the  market  share  of  a  prescription  drug." 

$ 4631(b)(5).  Section  4631(c)(1)  further  provides  that  Ver-mont's Department of Health must allow "a prescriber to give 
consent  for  his  or  her  identifying  information  to  be  used for  the  purposes"  identified  in  $ 4631(d).  Finally,  the  Act's 
prohibitions  on  sale,  disclosure,  and  use  are  subject  to  a  list of exceptions.  For example, prescriber-identifying informa-
tion may be disseminated or used for "health care research"; to  enforce  "compliance"  with  health  insurance  formularies 

Cite as: 564 U. S. 552 (2011)  561 

Opinion of the Court 
goals  of  the  state"  and  that  the  "marketplace  for  ideas  on medicine  safety  and  effectiveness  is  frequently  one-sided  in 

that brand-name companies invest in expensive pharmaceuti-cal  marketing  campaigns  to  doctors."  $$ 1(3),  (4).  Detail-
ing,  in  the  legislature's  view,  caused  doctors  to  make  deci-sions  based on "incomplete  and biased  information."  $ 1(4). 
Because  they  "are  unable  to  take  the  time  to  research  the quickly  changing  pharmaceutical  market,"  Vermont  doctors 
"rely on information provided by pharmaceutical representa-tives."  $ 1(13).  The  legislature  further  found  that  detail-
ing  increases  the  cost  of  health  care  and  health  insurance, $ 1(15);  encourages  hasty  and  excessive  reliance  on  brandname  drugs,  before  the  profession  has  observed  their  effec-tiveness  as  compared  with  older  and  less  expensive  generic 
alternatives,  $ 1(7);  and  fosters  disruptive  and  repeated marketing  visits  tantamount  to  harassment,  $$ 1(27)-(28). 
The legislative findings further noted that use of prescriber-identifying  information  "increase[s]  the  effect  of  detailing 
programs"  by  allowing  detailers  to  target  their  visits  to particular  doctors.  $$ 1(23)-(26).  Use  of  prescriberidentifying  data  also  helps  detailers  shape  their  messages by  "tailoring"  their  "presentations  to  individual  prescriber 
styles, preferences, and attitudes."  $ 1(25). 

B 
The  present  case  involves  two  consolidated  suits.  One was  brought  by  three  Vermont  data  miners,  the  other  by 

an association of pharmaceutical manufacturers that produce brand-name drugs.  These entities are the respondents here. 
Contending  that  $ 4631(d)  violates  their  First  Amendment rights  as  incorporated  by  the  Fourteenth  Amendment,  re-
spondents  sought  declaratory  and  injunctive  relief  against petitioners,  the  Attorney  General  and  other  officials  of  the 
State of Vermont. After  a  bench  trial,  the  United  States  District  Court  for 
the  District  of  Vermont  denied  relief.  631  F.  Supp.  2d  434 

Cite as: 564 U. S. 604 (2011)  605 

Syllabus 
(1)  State  tort  law  requires  a  manufacturer  that  is,  or  should  be, 
aware of its drug's danger to label it in a way that renders it reasonably 
safe.  Respondents  pleaded  that  the  Manufacturers  knew,  or  should 
have known, both that the long-term use of their products carried a high 
risk of tardive dyskinesia and that their labels did not adequately warn 
of  that  risk.  Taking  these  allegations  as  true,  the  state-law  duty  re-
quired the Manufacturers to use a different, stronger label than the one 
they actually used.  Pp. 611-612. 

(2)  On  the other  hand, federal drug regulations,  as interpreted  by 
the  FDA,  prevented  the  Manufacturers  from  independently  changing 
their generic drugs' safety labels.  A manufacturer seeking federal ap-
proval to market a new drug must prove that it is safe and effective and 
that  the  proposed  label  is  accurate  and  adequate.  Although  the  same 
rules  originally  applied  to  all  drugs, the  1984  law  commonly  called  the 
Hatch-Waxman  Amendments  allows  a  generic  drug  manufacturer  to 
gain  FDA  approval  simply  by  showing  that  its  drug  is  equivalent  to 
an already-approved brand-name drug, and that the safety and efficacy 
labeling  proposed  for  its  drug  is  the  same  as  that  approved  for  the 
brand-name drug.  Respondents contend that federal law nevertheless 
provides  avenues through  which  the  Manufacturers  could have  altered 
their metoclopramide labels in time to prevent the injuries here.  These 
include:  (1)  the  FDA's  "changes-being-effected"  (CBE)  process,  which 
permits drug manufacturers, without preapproval, to add or strengthen 
a  warning  label;  and  (2)  sending  "Dear  Doctor"  letters  providing  addi-
tional  warnings  to  prescribing  physicians  and  other  healthcare  profes-
sionals.  However, the FDA denies  that the Manufacturers could have 
used  either of these processes  to unilaterally strengthen their  warning 
labels.  The  Court  defers  to  the  FDA's  views  because  they  are  not 
plainly  erroneous  or  inconsistent  with  the  regulations,  and  there  is  no 
other  reason  to  doubt  that  they  reflect  the  FDA's  fair  and  considered 
judgment.  Auer v.  Robbins, 519 U. S. 452,  461, 462.  Assuming,  with-
out deciding, that the FDA is correct  that federal  law nevertheless re-
quired the Manufacturers to ask for the agency's assistance in convinc-
ing  the  brand-name  manufacturer  to  adopt  a  stronger  label,  the  Court 
turns to the pre-emption question.  Pp. 612-617. 

(b)  Where state and federal law directly conflict, state law must give 
way.  See,  e. g.,  Wyeth  v.  Levine,  555  U. S.  555,  583.  Such  a  conflict 
exists  where  it  is  "impossible  for  a  private  party  to  comply  with  both 
state  and  federal  requirements."  Freightliner  Corp.  v.  Myrick,  514 
U. S. 280, 287.  Pp. 617-621, 623-626. 

(1)  The  Court  finds  impossibility  here.  If  the  Manufacturers  had 
independently  changed  their  labels  to  satisfy  their  state-law  duty  to 
attach  a  safer  label  to  their  generic  metoclopramide,  they  would  have 

606  PLIVA,  INC.  v.  MENSING 

Syllabus 
violated  the  federal  requirement  that  generic  drug  labels  be  the  same 
as the corresponding brand-name drug labels.  Thus, it was impossible 
for them  to comply with  both state and  federal  law.  And even if  they 
had fulfilled their federal duty to ask for FDA help in strengthening the 
corresponding  brand-name  label,  assuming  such  a  duty  exists,  they 
would not have satisfied their state tort-law duty.  State law demanded 
a safer label; it did not require communication with the FDA about the 
possibility of a safer label.  Pp. 618-619. 

(2)  The  Court  rejects  the  argument  that  the  Manufacturers'  pre-
emption  defense  fails  because  they  failed  to  ask  the  FDA  for  help  in 
changing the corresponding brand-name label.  The proper question for 
"impossibility"  analysis  is  whether  the  private  party  could  independ-
ently  do  under  federal  law  what  state  law  requires  of  it.  See  Wyeth, 
supra, at 573.  Accepting respondents' argument would render conflict 
pre-emption  largely  meaningless  by  making  most  conflicts  between 
state  and  federal  law  illusory.  In  these  cases,  it  is  possible  that,  had 
the Manufacturers asked the FDA for help, they might have eventually 
been able to strengthen their warning label.  But it is also possible that 
they  could  have  convinced  the  FDA  to  reinterpret  its  regulations  in  a 
manner  that  would  have  opened  the  CBE  process  to  them,  persuaded 
the FDA to rewrite its generic drug regulations entirely, or talked Con-
gress into amending the Hatch-Waxman Amendments.  If these conjec-
tures  sufficed  to  prevent  federal  and  state  law  from  conflicting,  it  is 
unclear  when,  outside  of  express  pre-emption,  the  Supremacy  Clause 
would  have  any  force.  That  Clause--which  makes  federal  law  "the 
supreme Law of the Land . . . any Thing in the Constitution or Laws of 
any  State  to  the  Contrary  notwithstanding,"  U.  S.  Const.,  Art.  VI, 
cl. 2--cannot be read to permit an approach to pre-emption that renders 
conflict  pre-emption  all  but  meaningless.  Here,  it  is  enough  to  hold 
that  when  a  party  cannot  satisfy  its  state  duties  without  the  Federal 
Government's  special  permission  and  assistance,  which  is  dependent 
on  the  exercise  of  judgment  by  a  federal  agency,  that  party  cannot 
independently  satisfy  those  state  duties  for  pre-emption  purposes. 
Pp. 619-621, 623-624. 

(3)  Wyeth is not to the contrary.  The Court there held that a state 
tort  action  against  a  brand-name  drug  manufacturer  for  failure  to 
provide  an  adequate warning  label  was  not  pre-empted  because  it  was 
possible for the manufacturer to comply with both state and federal law 
under  the FDA's  CBE  regulation.  555 U. S., at 572-573.  The  federal 
statutes and regulations that apply to brand-name drug manufacturers 
differ, by Congress' design, from those applicable to generic drug manu-
facturers.  And different federal statutes and regulations may, as here, 
lead  to  different  pre-emption  results.  This  Court  will  not  distort  the 

Cite as: 564 U. S. 604 (2011)  609 

Opinion of the Court 
vide  adequate  warning  labels  for  generic  metoclopramide. The  question  presented  is  whether  federal  drug  regulations 

applicable  to  generic  drug  manufacturers  directly  conflict with,  and  thus  pre-empt,  these  state-law  claims.  We  hold 
that they do.  I 

Metoclopramide is a drug designed to speed the movement of  food  through  the  digestive  system.  The  Food  and  Drug 
Administration  (FDA)  first  approved  metoclopramide  tab-lets,  under  the  brand  name  Reglan,  in  1980.  Five  years 
later,  generic  manufacturers  also  began  producing  meto-clopramide.  The  drug  is  commonly  used  to  treat  digestive 
tract  problems  such  as  diabetic  gastroparesis  and  gastro-esophageal reflux disorder. 

Evidence  has  accumulated that long-term metoclopramide use can cause tardive dyskinesia, a severe neurological disor-
der.  Studies  have  shown  that  up  to  29%  of  patients  who take metoclopramide for several years develop this condition. 
McNeil v.  Wyeth, 462 F. 3d 364, 370, n. 5 (CA5 2006); see also Shaffer,  Butterfield,  Pamer,  &  Mackey,  Tardive  Dyskinesia 
Risks  and  Metoclopramide  Use  Before and  After  U. S.  Mar-ket  Withdrawal  of  Cisapride,  44  J.  Am.  Pharmacists  Assn. 
661,  663  (2004)  (noting  87  cases  of  metoclopramide-related tardive  dyskinesia  reported  to  the  FDA's  adverse  event  re-
porting system by mid-2003). Accordingly,  warning  labels  for  the  drug  have  been 
strengthened and clarified several times.  In 1985, the label was  modified  to  warn  that  "[t]ardive  dyskinesia  .  .  .  may 
develop  in  patients  treated  with  metoclopramide,"  and  the drug's  package  insert  added  that  "[t]herapy  longer  than  12 
weeks has not been evaluated and cannot be recommended." Physician's  Desk  Reference  1635-1636  (41st  ed.  1987);  see 
also  Brief  for  Petitioner  PLIVA  et  al.  21-22  (hereinafter PLIVA  Brief).  In  2004,  the  brand-name  Reglan  manufac-
turer  requested,  and  the  FDA  approved,  a  label  change  to add that "[t]herapy should not exceed 12 weeks in duration." 

610  PLIVA,  INC.  v.  MENSING 

Opinion of the Court 
Brief  for  United  States  as  Amicus  Curiae  8  (hereinafter U.  S.  Brief).  And  in  2009,  the  FDA  ordered  a  black  box 

warning--its strongest--which states: "Treatment with met-oclopramide  can  cause  tardive  dyskinesia,  a  serious  move-
ment disorder that is often  irreversible. . . . Treatment with metoclopramide  for  longer  than  12  weeks  should  be  avoided 
in all but rare cases."  See Physician's Desk Reference 2902 
(65th ed. 2011) (Warning Box). Gladys  Mensing  and  Julie  Demahy,  the  plaintiffs  in  these 

consolidated cases, were prescribed Reglan in 2001 and 2002, respectively.  Both  received  generic  metoclopramide  from 
their  pharmacists.  After  taking  the  drug  as  prescribed  for 
several years, both women developed tardive dyskinesia. 

In  separate  suits,  Mensing  and  Demahy  sued  the  generic 
drug  manufacturers  that  produced  the  metoclopramide  they 
took  (Manufacturers).  Each  alleged,  as  relevant  here,  that 
long-term metoclopramide use caused her tardive dyskinesia 
and that the Manufacturers were liable under state tort law 
(specifically,  that  of  Minnesota  and  Louisiana)  for  failing  to 
provide  adequate  warning  labels.  They  claimed  that  "de-
spite  mounting  evidence  that  long  term metoclopramide  use 
carries a risk of tardive dyskinesia far greater than that indi-
cated  on  the  label,"  none  of  the  Manufacturers  had  changed 
their  labels  to  adequately  warn  of  that  danger.  Mensing  v. 
Wyeth, Inc., 588 F. 3d 603, 605 (CA8 2009); see also Demahy 
v.  Actavis, Inc., 593 F. 3d 428, 430 (CA5 2010). 

In  both  suits,  the  Manufacturers  urged  that  federal  law 
pre-empted  the  state  tort  claims.  According  to  the  Manu-
facturers,  federal  statutes  and  FDA  regulations  required 
them  to  use  the  same  safety  and  efficacy  labeling  as  their 
brand-name counterparts.  This means, they argued, that it 
was  impossible  to  simultaneously  comply  with  both  federal 
law and any state tort-law duty that required them to use a 
different label. 

The  Courts  of  Appeals  for  the  Fifth  and  Eighth  Circuits 
rejected  the  Manufacturers'  arguments  and  held  that  Men-

Cite as: 564 U. S. 604 (2011)  611 

Opinion of the Court 
sing  and  Demahy's  claims  were  not  pre-empted.  See  588 
F.  3d,  at  614;  593  F.  3d,  at  449.  We  granted  certiorari,  562 
U. S.  1104  (2010),  consolidated  the  cases,  and  now  reverse 
each. 

II 

Pre-emption  analysis  requires  us  to  compare  federal  and 
state  law.  We  therefore begin  by  identifying the  state  tort 
duties  and  federal  labeling  requirements  applicable  to  the 
Manufacturers. 

A 

It is undisputed that Minnesota and Louisiana tort law re-
quire  a  drug  manufacturer  that  is  or  should  be  aware  of  its 
product's danger to label that product in a way that renders 
it  reasonably  safe.  Under  Minnesota  law,  which  applies  to 
Mensing's lawsuit, "where the manufacturer . . . of a product 
has actual or constructive knowledge of danger to users, the 
.  .  .  manufacturer  has  a  duty  to  give  warning  of  such  dan-
gers."  Frey  v.  Montgomery  Ward &  Co.,  258  N. W.  2d 782, 
788  (Minn.  1977).  Similarly, under Louisiana law applicable 
to  Demahy's  lawsuit,  "a  manufacturer's  duty  to  warn  in-
cludes  a  duty  to  provide  adequate  instructions  for  safe  use 
of  a  product."  Stahl  v.  Novartis  Pharmaceuticals  Corp., 
283  F.  3d  254,  269-270  (CA5  2002);  see  also  La.  Rev. 
Stat. Ann. $ 9:2800.57 (West 2009).  In both States, a duty to 
warn  falls  specifically  on  the  manufacturer.  See  Marks  v. 
OHMEDA, Inc., 2003-1446, pp. 8-9 (La. App. 3 Cir. 3/31/04), 
871 So. 2d 1148, 1155; Gray v.  Badger Min. Corp., 676 N. W. 
2d 268, 274 (Minn. 2004). 

Mensing  and  Demahy  have  pleaded  that  the  Manufactur-
ers  knew  or  should  have  known  of  the  high  risk  of  tardive 
dyskinesia  inherent  in  the  long-term  use  of  their  product. 
They  have  also  pleaded  that  the  Manufacturers  knew  or 
should have known that their labels did not adequately warn 
of  that  risk.  App.  437-438,  67-69,  94-96.  The  parties  do 

612  PLIVA,  INC.  v.  MENSING 

Opinion of the Court 
not  dispute  that,  if  these  allegations  are  true,  state  law required the Manufacturers to use a different, safer label. 

B 
Federal  law  imposes  far  more  complex  drug  labeling  re-quirements.  We  begin  with  what is  not  in  dispute.  Under 

the 1962 Drug Amendments  to the  Federal Food, Drug,  and Cosmetic  Act,  76  Stat.  780,  21  U. S. C.  $ 301 

et  seq.,  a  manu-facturer  seeking  federal  approval  to  market  a  new  drug 

must prove that it is safe and effective and that the proposed label  is  accurate  and  adequate.

1  See,  e. g.,  21  U. S. C. 

$$ 355(b)(1),  (d);  Wyeth  v.  Levine,  555  U. S.  555,  567  (2009). Meeting those requirements involves costly and lengthy clin-

ical  testing.  $$ 355(b)(1)(A),  (d);  see  also  D.  Beers,  Generic and  Innovator  Drugs:  A  Guide  to  FDA  Approval  Require-
ments $ 2.02[A] (7th ed. 2008). Originally,  the  same  rules  applied  to  all  drugs.  In  1984, 
however,  Congress  passed  the  Drug  Price  Competition  and Patent Term Restoration Act, 98 Stat. 1585, commonly called 
the  Hatch-Waxman Amendments.  Under this  law, "generic drugs"  can  gain  FDA  approval  simply  by  showing  equiva-
lence  to  a  reference  listed  drug  that  has  already  been  ap-proved by the FDA.

2  21 U. S. C. $ 355( j)(2)(A).  This allows 

manufacturers  to  develop  generic  drugs  inexpensively, without  duplicating  the  clinical  trials  already  performed 

on  the  equivalent  brand-name  drug.  A  generic  drug  appli-cation  must  also  "show  that  the  [safety  and  efficacy]  label-
ing  proposed  .  .  .  is  the  same  as  the  labeling  approved 

1 All relevant events in these cases predate the Food and Drug Adminis-
tration Amendments Act of 2007, 121 Stat. 823.  We therefore refer exclu-
sively to the pre-2007 statutes and regulations and express no view on the 
impact of the 2007 Act. 

2 As  we  use  it  here,  "generic  drug"  refers  to  a  drug  designed  to  be  a 

copy  of  a  reference  listed  drug  (typically  a  brand-name  drug),  and  thus 
identical  in  active  ingredients,  safety,  and  efficacy.  See,  e. g.,  United 
States  v.  Generix  Drug  Corp.,  460  U. S.  453,  454-455  (1983);  21  CFR 

$ 314.3(b) (2006) (defining "reference listed drug"). 

Cite as: 564 U. S. 604 (2011)  613 

Opinion of the Court 
for the [brand-name] drug. "  $ 355( j)(2)(A)(v); see  also 

$ 355( j)(4)(G); Beers, supra, $$ 3.01, 3.03[A]. 

As  a  result,  brand-name  and  generic  drug  manufacturers 
have  different  federal  drug  labeling  duties.  A  brand-name 
manufacturer  seeking  new  drug  approval  is  responsible  for 
the accuracy and adequacy of its label.  See, e. g., 21 U. S. C. 

$$ 355(b)(1),  (d); Wyeth,  supra, at  570-571.  A  manufacturer 
seeking generic drug approval, on the other hand, is respon-
sible  for  ensuring  that  its  warning  label  is  the  same  as  the 
brand  name's.  See,  e. g.,  $ 355( j)(2)(A)(v);  $ 355( j)(4)(G);  21 
CFR $$ 314.94(a)(8), 314.127(a)(7). 

The  parties  do  not  disagree.  What  is  in  dispute  is 
whether, and to what extent, generic  manufacturers may 
change their labels after initial FDA approval.  Mensing and 
Demahy  contend  that  federal  law  provided  several  avenues 
through  which  the  Manufacturers  could  have  altered  their 
metoclopramide  labels  in  time  to  prevent  the  injuries  here. 
The FDA, however, tells us that it interprets its regulations 
to require that the warning labels of a brand-name drug and 
its generic copy must always be the same--thus, generic 
drug  manufacturers  have  an  ongoing  federal  duty  of  "same-
ness."  U.  S.  Brief  16;  see  also  57  Fed.  Reg.  17961  (1992) 
("[T]he  [generic  drug's]  labeling  must  be  the  same  as  the 
listed drug product's labeling because the listed drug product 
is the basis for [generic drug] approval").  The FDA's views 
are "controlling unless plainly erroneous or inconsistent with 
the  regulation[s]" or there is  any other  reason to doubt that 
they reflect the FDA's  fair and considered judgment.  Auer 
v.  Robbins, 519  U. S. 452,  461, 462  (1997) (internal quotation 
marks omitted).3 

3 The brief filed by the United States represents the views of the FDA. 
Cf.  Talk  America,  Inc.  v.  Michigan  Bell  Telephone  Co.,  ante,  at  53,  n.  1. 
Although we defer to the agency's interpretation of its regulations, we do 
not  defer  to  an  agency's  ultimate  conclusion  about  whether  state  law 
should be pre-empted.  Wyeth v.  Levine, 555 U. S. 555, 576 (2009). 

614  PLIVA,  INC.  v.  MENSING 

First,  Mensing 

Opinion of the Court 

1 
and  Demahy  urge  that  the  FDA's "changes-being-effected"  (CBE)  process  allowed  the  Manu-

facturers  to  change  their  labels  when  necessary.  See  Brief for Respondents 33-35; see also 593 F. 3d, at 439-444; 

Gaeta v.  Perrigo  Pharmaceuticals  Co.,  630  F.  3d  1225,  1231  (CA9 

2011);  Foster  v.  American  Home  Prods.  Corp.,  29  F.  3d  165, 170  (CA4  1994).  The  CBE  process  permits  drug  manufac-
turers to "add or strengthen a contraindication, warning, [or] precaution,"  21  CFR  $ 314.70(c)(6)(iii)(A)  (2006),  or  to  "add 
or  strengthen  an  instruction  about  dosage  and  administra-tion  that  is  intended  to  increase  the  safe  use  of  the 
drug  product,"  $ 314.70(c)(6)(iii)(C).  When  making  labeling changes  using  the  CBE  process,  drug  manufacturers  need 
not  wait  for  preapproval  by  the  FDA,  which  ordinarily  is necessary  to  change  a  label. 

Wyeth,  supra,  at  568.  They need only simultaneously file a supplemental application with 

the FDA.  21 CFR $ 314.70(c)(6). The  FDA  denies  that  the  Manufacturers  could  have  used 
the  CBE  process  to  unilaterally  strengthen  their  warning labels.  The  agency  interprets  the  CBE  regulation  to  allow 
changes  to  generic  drug  labels  only  when  a  generic  drug manufacturer  changes  its  label  to  match  an  updated  brandname  label  or  to  follow  the  FDA's  instructions.  U.  S.  Brief 15,  16,  n.  7  (interpreting  21  CFR  $ 314.94(a)(8)(iv));  U.  S. 
Brief 16, n. 8.  The FDA argues that CBE changes unilater-ally  made  to  strengthen  a  generic  drug's  warning  label 
would  violate  the  statutes  and  regulations  requiring  a  ge-neric  drug's  label  to  match  its  brand-name  counterpart's. 
Id.,  at  15-16;  see  also  21  U. S. C.  $ 355( j)(4)(G);  21  CFR $$ 314.94(a)(8)(iii),  314.150(b)(10)  (approval  may  be  with-
drawn  if  the  generic  drug's  label  "is  no  longer  consistent with that for [the brand-name]"). 

We  defer  to  the  FDA's  interpretation  of  its  CBE  and  ge-
neric  labeling  regulations.  Although  Mensing  and  Demahy 

Cite as: 564 U. S. 604 (2011)  615 

Opinion of the Court 
offer  other  ways  to  interpret  the  regulations,  see  Brief  for Respondents  33-35,  we  do  not  find  the  agency's  interpreta-

tion  "plainly  erroneous  or inconsistent  with the  regulation," Auer,  supra,  at  461  (internal  quotation  marks  omitted). 
Nor do Mensing and Demahy suggest there is any other rea-son  to  doubt  the  agency's  reading.  We  therefore  conclude 
that the CBE process was not open to the Manufacturers for the sort of change required by state law. 

2 
Next, Mensing and Demahy contend that the Manufactur-ers could have used "Dear Doctor" letters to send additional 

warnings to prescribing physicians and other healthcare pro-fessionals.  See  Brief  for  Respondents  36;  21  CFR  $ 200.5. 
Again, the FDA disagrees, and we defer to the agency's views. The  FDA  argues  that  Dear  Doctor  letters  qualify  as  "la-
beling."  U. S. Brief 18; see also 21 U. S. C. $ 321(m); 21 CFR $ 202.1(

l)(2).  Thus,  any  such  letters  must  be  "consistent with and not contrary to [the drug's] approved . . . labeling." 

21 CFR $ 201.100(d)(1).  A Dear Doctor letter that contained substantial new warning information would not be consistent 
with  the  drug's  approved  labeling.  Moreover,  if  generic drug  manufacturers,  but  not  the  brand-name  manufacturer, 
sent such letters, that would inaccurately imply a therapeutic difference  between  the  brand  and  generic  drugs  and  thus 
could  be  impermissibly  "misleading."  U. S.  Brief  19;  see 21  CFR  $ 314.150(b)(3)  (FDA  may  withdraw  approval  of  a 
generic  drug if  "the  labeling  of the  drug  .  . .  is  false  or mis-leading in any particular"). 

As with the CBE regulation, we defer to the FDA.  Men-sing  and  Demahy  offer  no  argument  that  the  FDA's  inter-
pretation  is  plainly  erroneous.  See  Auer,  supra,  at  461. Accordingly, we conclude that federal law did not permit the 
Manufacturers  to  issue  additional  warnings  through  Dear 
Doctor letters. 

616  PLIVA,  INC.  v.  MENSING 

Opinion of the Court 

3 
Though  the  FDA  denies  that  the  Manufacturers  could have  used  the  CBE  process  or  Dear  Doctor  letters  to 

strengthen  their  warning  labels,  the  agency  asserts  that  a different  avenue  existed  for  changing  generic  drug  labels. 
According  to  the  FDA,  the  Manufacturers  could  have  pro-posed--indeed, were required to propose--stronger warning 
labels  to  the  agency  if  they  believed  such  warnings  were needed.  U.  S.  Brief  20;  57  Fed.  Reg.  17961.  If  the  FDA 
had agreed that a label change was necessary, it would have worked  with  the  brand-name  manufacturer  to  create  a  new 
label for both the brand-name and generic drug.  Ibid. The agency traces this duty to 21 U. S. C. $ 352(f)(2), which 
provides  that a  drug  is  "misbranded  .  . .  [u]nless  its labeling bears  .  .  .  adequate  warnings  against  .  .  .  unsafe  dosage  or 
methods or duration of administration or application, in such manner  and  form,  as  are  necessary  for  the  protection  of 
users."  See  U.  S.  Brief  12.  By  regulation,  the  FDA  has interpreted  that  statute  to  require  that  "labeling  shall  be 
revised  to  include  a  warning  as  soon  as  there  is  reasonable evidence  of  an  association  of  a  serious  hazard  with  a  drug." 
21 CFR $ 201.57(e). According  to  the  FDA,  these  requirements  apply  to  ge-
neric  drugs.  As  it  explains,  a  " `central  premise  of  federal drug regulation [is] that the manufacturer bears responsibil-
ity  for  the  content  of  its  label  at  all  times.' "  U.  S.  Brief 12-13 (quoting Wyeth, 555 U. S., at 570-571).  The FDA rec-
onciles this duty to have adequate and accurate labeling with the  duty  of  sameness  in  the  following  way:  Generic  drug 
manufacturers  that  become  aware  of  safety  problems  must ask  the agency  to  work toward  strengthening  the  label  that 
applies to both the generic and brand-name equivalent drug. U. S. Brief 20. 

The  Manufacturers  and  the  FDA  disagree  over  whether this  alleged  duty  to  request  a  strengthened  label  actually 
existed.  The FDA argues that it explained this duty in the 

Cite as: 564 U. S. 604 (2011)  619 

Opinion of the Court 
The federal duty to ask the FDA for help in strengthening 
the  corresponding  brand-name  label,  assuming  such  a  duty 
exists,  does  not  change  this  analysis.  Although  requesting 
FDA  assistance  would  have  satisfied  the  Manufacturers' 
federal  duty,  it  would  not  have  satisfied  their  state  tort-law 
duty  to  provide  adequate  labeling.  State  law  demanded  a 
safer label; it did not instruct the Manufacturers to communi-
cate with the FDA about the possibility of a safer label.  In-
deed, Mensing and Demahy deny that their state tort claims 
are  based  on  the  Manufacturers'  alleged  failure  to  ask  the 
FDA  for  assistance  in  changing  the  labels.  Brief  for  Re-
spondents 53- 54; cf.  Buckman Co. v.  Plain t i ffs' Legal 
Comm.,  531  U. S.  341  (2001)  (holding  that  federal  drug  and 
medical device laws pre-empted a state tort-law claim based 
on failure to properly communicate with the FDA). 

B 

1 

Mensing  and  Demahy  contend  that,  while  their  state-law 
claims  do  not  turn  on  whether  the  Manufacturers  asked  the 
FDA for assistance in changing their labels, the Manufactur-
ers'  federal  affirmative  defense  of  pre-emption  does.  Men-
sing and Demahy argue that if the Manufacturers had asked 
the FDA for help in changing the corresponding brand-name 
label,  they  might  eventually  have  been  able  to  accomplish 
under  federal  law  what  state  law  requires.  That  is  true 
enough.  The Manufacturers "freely concede" that they 
could  have  asked  the  FDA  for  help.  PLIVA  Brief  48.  If 
they  had  done  so,  and  if  the  FDA  decided  there  was  suffi-
cient  supporting  information,  and  if  the  FDA  undertook 
negotiations  with  the  brand-name  manufacturer,  and  if 
adequate  label  changes  were  decided  on  and  implemented, 
then  the  Manufacturers  would  have  started  a  Mouse  Trap 
game  that  eventually  led  to  a  better  label  on  generic 
metoclopramide. 

620  PLIVA,  INC.  v.  MENSING 

Opinion of the Court 
This raises the novel question whether  conflict  pre-emption  should  take  into  account  these  possible  actions  by 

the  FDA  and  the  brand-name  manufacturer.  Here,  what federal  law  permitted  the  Manufacturers  to  do  could  have 
changed,  even  absent  a  change  in  the  law  itself,  depending on the actions of the FDA and the brand-name manufacturer. 
Federal law  does not  dictate  the  text  of each generic  drug's 
label,  but  rather  ties  those  labels  to  their  brand-name  coun-terparts.  Thus,  federal  law  would  permit  the  Manufactur-

ers  to  comply  with  the  state  labeling  requirements  if,  and only if, the FDA and the brand-name manufacturer changed 
the brand-name label to do so. 

Mensing  and  Demahy  assert  that  when  a  private  party's 
ability  to  comply  with  state  law  depends  on  approval  and 
assistance from the FDA, proving pre-emption requires that 
party to demonstrate  that the FDA  would not have  allowed 
compliance  with  state  law.  Here,  they  argue,  the  Manufac-
turers cannot  bear  their  burden of  proving impossibility be-
cause  they  did  not  even  try  to  start  the  process  that  might 
ultimately have allowed them to use a safer label.  Brief for 
Respondents  47.  This  is  a  fair  argument,  but  we  reject  it. 

The  question  for  "impossibility"  is  whether  the  private 
party  could  independently  do  under  federal  law  what  state 
law  requires  of  it.  See  Wyeth,  555  U. S.,  at  573  (finding  no 
pre-emption  where  the  defendant  could  "unilaterally"  do 
what state law required).  Accepting Mensing and Demahy's 
argument  would  render  conflict  pre-emption  largely  mean-
ingless  because  it  would  make  most  conflicts  between  state 
and federal law illusory.  We can often imagine  that a third 
party  or  the  Federal  Government  might  do  something  that 
makes it  lawful for  a private party to accomplish  under fed-
eral  law  what  state  law  requires  of  it.  In  these  cases,  it  is 
certainly  possible  that,  had  the  Manufacturers  asked  the 
FDA  for  help,  they  might  have  eventually  been  able  to 
strengthen their warning label.  Of course, it is also possible 
that  the  Manufacturers  could  have  convinced  the  FDA  to 

Cite as: 564 U. S. 604 (2011)  625 

Opinion of the Court 
We  recognize  that  from  the  perspective  of  Mensing  and Demahy,  finding  pre-emption  here  but  not  in  Wyeth  makes 

little  sense.  Had  Mensing  and  Demahy  taken  Reglan,  the brand-name  drug  prescribed  by  their  doctors,  Wyeth  would 
control  and  their  lawsuits  would  not  be  pre-empted.  But because  pharmacists,  acting  in  full  accord  with  state  law, 
substituted  generic  metoclopramide  instead,  federal  law pre-empts  these  lawsuits.  See, 

e. g.,  Minn.  Stat.  $ 151.21 (2010)  (describing  when  pharmacists  may  substitute  generic 

drugs);  La.  Rev.  Stat.  Ann.  $ 37:1241(A)(17)  (West  2007) (same).  We acknowledge  the unfortunate hand that federal 
drug regulation has dealt Mensing, Demahy, and others simi-larly situated.

9 

But "it is not this Court's task to decide whether the statu-tory  scheme  established  by  Congress  is  unusual  or  even  bi-

zarre."  Cuomo v.  Clearing  House Assn., L. L. C., 557 U. S. 

law, and in the absence of clear evidence that Wyeth could not have accom-
plished  what  state law  required of it,  found  no  pre-emption.  The Wyeth 
Court held that, because federal law accommodated state-law duties, "the 
mere possibility of impossibility" was "not enough."  Post, at 635; see also 
Rice v.  Norman Williams Co., 458 U. S. 654, 659 (1982) (rejecting "hypo-
thetical" impossibility).  But here, "existing" federal law directly conflicts 
with state law.  Post, at 639 ("Conflict analysis necessarily turns on exist-
ing  law").  The  question  in  these  cases  is  not  whether  the  possibility  of 
impossibility  establishes pre-emption,  but rather  whether the possibility 
of possibility defeats pre-emption.  Post, at 634-635. 

9 That  said,  the  dissent  overstates  what  it  characterizes  as  the  "many 

absurd  consequences"  of  our  holding.  Post,  at  643.  First,  the  FDA  in-
forms  us  that  "[a]s  a  practical  matter,  genuinely  new  information  about 
drugs  in  long  use  (as  generic  drugs  typically  are)  appears  infrequently." 
U. S. Brief 34-35.  That is because patent  protections ordinarily prevent 
generic drugs from arriving on the market for a number of years after the 
brand-name  drug  appears.  Indeed,  situations  like  the  one  alleged  here 
are apparently so rare that the FDA has no "formal regulation" establish-
ing  generic drug  manufacturers'  duty  to initiate  a  label change,  nor  does 
it have any regulation setting out that label-change process.  Id., at 20-21. 
Second,  the  dissent  admits  that,  even  under  its  approach,  generic  drug 
manufacturers  could  establish  pre-emption  in  a  number  of  scenarios. 
Post, at 637. 

722  ARIZONA  FREE  ENTERPRISE  CLUB'S  FREEDOM 

CLUB  PAC  v.  BENNETT 

Syllabus 

Held:  Arizona's  matching  funds  scheme  substantially  burdens  political 

speech and is not sufficiently justified by a compelling interest to survive 
First Amendment scrutiny.  Pp. 734-755. 

(a)  The matching funds provision imposes a substantial burden on the 
speech  of  privately  financed  candidates  and  independent  expenditure 
groups.  Pp. 734-747. 

(1)  Petitioners  contend  that  their  political  speech  is  substantially 
burdened  in  the  same  way  that  speech  was  burdened  by  the  so-called 
"Millionaire's  Amendment"  of  the  Bipartisan  Campaign  Reform  Act  of 
2002, which was invalidated in Davis v.  Federal Election Comm'n, 554 
U. S. 724.  That law--which permitted the opponent of a candidate who 
spent  over  $350,000  of  his  personal  funds  to  collect  triple  the  normal 
contribution amount, while the candidate who spent the personal funds 
remained  subject  to  the  original  contribution  cap--unconstitutionally 
forced  a  candidate  "to  choose  between  the  First  Amendment  right  to 
engage  in  unfettered  political  speech  and  subjection  to  discriminatory 
fundraising  limitations."  Id.,  at  739.  This  "unprecedented  penalty" 
"impose[d] a substantial burden on the exercise of the First Amendment 
right to use personal funds for campaign speech" that was not justified 
by  a  compelling  government  interest.  Id.,  at  739-740.  Pp.  734-736. 

(2)  The  logic  of  Davis  largely  controls  here.  Once  a  privately  fi-
nanced candidate has raised or spent more than the State's initial grant 
to  a  publicly  financed  candidate,  each  personal  dollar  the  privately  fi-
nanced  candidate  spends  results  in  an  award  of  almost  one  additional 
dollar  to  his  opponent.  The  privately  financed  candidate  must  "shoul-
der a special and potentially significant burden" when choosing to exer-
cise  his  First  Amendment  right  to  spend  funds  on  his  own  candidacy. 
554  U. S.,  at  739.  If  the  law  at  issue  in  Davis  imposed  a  burden  on 
candidate speech, the Arizona law unquestionably does so as well. 

The  differences  between  the  matching  funds  provision  and  the  law 
struck down in Davis make the Arizona law more constitutionally prob-
lematic,  not  less.  First,  the  penalty  in  Davis  consisted  of  raising  the 
contribution  limits  for  one  candidate, who  would  still  have  to raise  the 
additional  funds.  Here,  the  direct  and  automatic  release  of  public 
money  to  a  publicly  financed  candidate  imposes  a  far  heavier  burden. 
Second,  in  elections  where  there  are  multiple  publicly  financed  candi-
dates--a frequent occurrence in Arizona--the matching funds provision 
can  create  a  multiplier  effect.  Each  dollar  spent  by  the  privately 
funded  candidate  results  in  an  additional  dollar  of  funding  to  each  of 
that  candidate's  publicly  financed  opponents.  Third,  unlike  the  law  in 
Davis,  all  of  this is  to  some  extent  out of  the  privately  financed  candi-
date's hands.  Spending by independent expenditure groups to promote 
a  privately  financed  candidate's  election  triggers  matching  funds,  re-

Cite as: 564 U. S. 721 (2011)  723 

Syllabus 
gardless  whether  such  support  is  welcome  or  helpful.  Those  funds  go 
directly  to  the  publicly  funded  candidate  to  use  as  he  sees  fit.  That 
disparity in control--giving money directly to a publicly financed candi-
date,  in  response  to  independent  expenditures  that  cannot  be  coordi-
nated  with  the  privately  funded  candidate--is  a  substantial  advantage 
for the publicly funded candidate. 

The burdens that matching funds impose on independent expenditure 
groups  are  akin  to  those  imposed  on  the  privately  financed  candidates 
themselves.  The  more  money  spent  on  behalf  of  a  privately  financed 
candidate  or  in  opposition  to  a  publicly  funded  candidate,  the  more 
money  the  publicly funded  candidate  receives  from the  State.  The  ef-
fect of a dollar spent on election speech is a guaranteed financial payout 
to  the  publicly  funded  candidate  the  group  opposes,  and  spending  one 
dollar can result in the flow of dollars to multiple candidates.  In some 
ways,  the  burdens  imposed  on  independent  groups  by  matching  funds 
are more severe than the burdens imposed on privately financed candi-
dates.  Independent groups, of course, are not eligible for public financ-
ing.  As a result, those groups can only avoid matching funds by chang-
ing  their  message  or  choosing  not  to  speak  altogether.  Presenting 
independent  expenditure  groups  with  such  a  choice--trigger  matching 
funds, change your message, or do not speak--makes the matching funds 
provision particularly burdensome to those groups and certainly contra-
venes "the fundamental rule of protection under the First Amendment, 
that a speaker has the autonomy to choose the content of his own mes-
sage."  Hurley  v.  Irish-American  Gay,  Lesbian  and  Bisexual  Group 
of Boston, Inc., 515 U. S. 557, 573.  Pp. 736-740. 

(3)  The  arguments  of  Arizona,  the  Clean  Elections  Institute,  and 
amicus United States attempting to explain away the existence or sig-
nificance  of  any  burden  imposed  by  matching  funds  are  unpersuasive. 

Arizona  correctly  points  out  that  its  law  is  different  from  the  law 
invalidated in Davis, but there is no doubt that the burden on speech is 
significantly greater here than in Davis.  Arizona argues that the pro-
vision  actually  creates  more  speech.  But  even  if  that  were  the  case, 
only the speech of publicly financed candidates is increased by the state 
law.  And burdening the speech of some--here privately financed candi-
dates  and  independent  expenditure  groups--to  increase  the  speech  of 
others  is  a  concept "wholly  foreign  to the First  Amendment," Buckley 
v. Valeo, 424 U. S. 1, 48-49; cf. Miami Herald Publishing Co. v. Tornillo, 
418 U. S. 241, 244, 258.  That no candidate or group is forced to express 
a  particular  message does  not  mean  that  the  matching  funds  provision 
does  not  burden  their  speech,  especially  since  the  direct  result  of  that 
speech  is  a  state-provided  monetary  subsidy  to  a  political  rival.  And 
precedents  upholding  government  subsidies  against  First  Amendment 

724  ARIZONA  FREE  ENTERPRISE  CLUB'S  FREEDOM 

CLUB  PAC  v.  BENNETT 

Syllabus 

challenge provide no support  for matching funds; none  of the subsidies 
at  issue  in  those  cases  were  granted  in  response  to  the  speech  of 
another. 

The burden on privately financed candidates and independent expend-
iture groups also cannot be analogized to the burden placed on speakers 
by the disclosure and disclaimer requirements upheld in Citizens United 
v.  Federal Election Comm'n, 558 U. S. 310.  A political candidate's dis-
closure of his funding resources does not result in a cash windfall to his 
opponent, or affect their respective disclosure obligations. 

The  burden  imposed  by  the matching  funds  provision  is  evident  and 
inherent  in  the  choice  that  confronts  privately  financed  candidates  and 
independent  expenditure  groups.  Indeed  every  court  to  have  consid-
ered  the  question  after  Davis  has  concluded  that  a  candidate  or  inde-
pendent group might not spend money if the direct result of that spend-
ing  is  additional  funding  to  political  adversaries.  Arizona  is  correct 
that the candidates do not complain that providing a lump-sum payment 
equivalent to the maximum state financing that a candidate could obtain 
through  matching  funds  would  be  impermissible.  But  it  is  not  the 
amount of funding that the State provides that is constitutionally prob-
lematic.  It is the manner in which that funding is provided--in direct 
response to the political speech of privately financed candidates and in-
dependent expenditure groups.  Pp. 740-747. 

(b)  Arizona's matching funds provision is not " `justified by a compel-
ling state interest,' " Davis, supra, at 740.  Pp. 748-753. 

(1)  There  is  ample  support  for  the  argument  that  the  purpose  of 
the  matching  funds  provision  is  to  "level the  playing  field"  in terms  of 
candidate  resources.  The clearest evidence  is that the  provision  oper-
ates  to  ensure  that  campaign  funding  is  equal,  up  to  three  times  the 
initial  public funding  allotment.  The  text of  the  Arizona  Act  confirms 
this  purpose.  The  provision  setting  up  the  matching  funds  regime  is 
titled "Equal funding of candidates," Ariz. Rev. Stat. Ann. $ 16-952; and 
the  Act  and  regulations  refer  to  the  funds  as  "equalizing  funds,"  e. g., 

$ 16-952(C)(4).  This  Court  has repeatedly  rejected the  argument that 
the government has a compelling state interest in "leveling the playing 
field" that can justify undue burdens on political speech, see, e. g., Citi-
zens United, supra, at 350, and the burdens imposed by matching funds 
cannot be justified by the pursuit of such an interest.  Pp. 748-750. 

(2)  Even if the objective of the matching funds provision is to com-
bat corruption--and not "level the playing field"--the burdens that the 
matching funds provision  imposes on protected political  speech are not 
justified.  Burdening a candidate's expenditure of his own funds on his 
own campaign does not further the State's anticorruption interest.  In-
deed,  "reliance  on  personal  funds  reduces  the  threat  of  corruption." 

Cite as: 564 U. S. 721 (2011)  725 

Syllabus 
Davis, 554 U. S., at 740-741; see Buckley, supra, at 53.  The burden on 
independent  expenditures  also  cannot  be  supported  by  the  anticorrup-
tion  interest.  Such  expenditures  are  "political  speech  .  .  .  not  coor-
dinated  with  a  candidate."  Citizens  United,  558  U. S.,  at  360.  That 
separation  negates  the  possibility  that  the  expenditures  will  result  in 
the sort of quid pro quo corruption with which this Court's case law is 
concerned.  See,  e. g.,  id.,  at  357-361.  Moreover,  "[t]he  interest  in 
alleviating  the  corrupting  influence  of  large  contributions  is  served  by 
. . . contribution limitations."  Buckley, supra, at 55.  Given Arizona's 
contribution  limits,  some  of  the  most  austere  in  the  Nation,  its  strict 
disclosure  requirements,  and  the  general  availability  of  public  funding, 
it is hard to imagine what marginal corruption deterrence could be gen-
erated by the matching funds provision. 

The State and the Clean Elections Institute contend that even if the 
matching funds provision does not directly serve the anticorruption in-
terest, it indirectly does so by ensuring that enough candidates partici-
pate  in  the  State's  public  funding  system,  which  in  turn  helps  combat 
corruption.  But  the  fact  that  burdening  constitutionally  protected 
speech might indirectly serve the State's anticorruption interest, by en-
couraging  candidates  to  take  public  financing,  does  not  establish  the 
constitutionality of the matching funds provision.  The matching funds 
provision substantially burdens speech,  to an even greater extent  than 
the  law  invalidated  in  Davis.  Those  burdens  cannot  be  justified  by  a 
desire to "level the playing field," and much of the speech burdened by 
the  matching  funds  provision  does  not  pose  a  danger  of  corruption. 
The  fact  that  the  State  may  feel  that  the  matching  funds  provision  is 
necessary  to  allow  it  to  calibrate  its  public  funding  system  to  achieve 
its  desired  level of participation--without  an undue  drain on  public re-
sources--is not a sufficient justification for the burden. 

The  flaw  in  the  State's  argument  is  apparent  in  what  its  reasoning 
would allow.  By the State's logic it could award publicly financed candi-
dates  five  dollars  for  every  dollar  spent  by  a  privately  financed  candi-
date,  or  force  candidates  who  wish  to  run  on  private  funds  to  pay  a 
$10,000  fine,  in  order  to  encourage  participation  in  the  public  funding 
regime.  Such  measures  might  well  promote  such  participation,  but 
would clearly suppress or unacceptably alter political speech.  How the 
State  chooses  to  encourage  participation  in  its  public  funding  system 
matters, and the Court has never held that a State may burden political 
speech--to the extent the matching funds provision does--to ensure ad-
equate participation in a public funding system.  Pp. 750-753. 

(c)  Evaluating  the  wisdom  of  public  financing  as  a  means  of  fund-
ing  political  candidacy  is  not  the  Court's  business.  But  determining 
whether laws governing campaign finance violate the First Amendment 

728  ARIZONA  FREE  ENTERPRISE  CLUB'S  FREEDOM 

CLUB  PAC  v.  BENNETT 

Opinion of the Court 

in  direct  response  to  the  campaign  activities  of  privately  fi-nanced  candidates  and independent  expenditure groups. 

Once  a  set  spending  limit  is  exceeded,  a  publicly  financed candidate  receives  roughly  one  dollar  for  every  dollar  spent 
by  an  opposing  privately  financed  candidate.  The  publicly financed candidate also receives roughly one dollar for every 
dollar  spent  by  independent  expenditure  groups  to  support the  privately  financed  candidate,  or  to  oppose  the  publicly 
financed  candidate.  We  hold  that  Arizona's  matching  funds scheme substantially burdens protected political speech 
without serving a compelling state interest and therefore vi-olates the First Amendment. 

I  
A  

The  Arizona  Citizens  Clean  Elections  Act,  passed  by  ini-tiative  in  1998,  created  a  voluntary  public  financing  system 

to fund the primary and general election campaigns of candi-dates  for  state  office.  See  Ariz.  Rev.  Stat.  Ann.  $ 16-940 
et  seq.  (West  2006  and  Supp.  2010).  All  eligible  candidates for Governor, secretary of state, attorney general, treasurer, 
superintendent  of  public  instruction,  the  corporation  com-mission,  mine  inspector,  and  the  state  legislature  (both  the 
House and Senate) may opt to receive public funding.  $ 16- 950(D)  (West  Supp.  2010).  Eligibility  is  contingent  on  the 
collection  of  a  specified  number  of  five-dollar  contributions from Arizona voters, $$ 16-946(B) (West 2006), 16-950 (West 
Supp. 2010),1  and the acceptance of certain campaign restric-tions and obligations.  Publicly funded candidates must 

agree, among other things, to limit their expenditure of per-sonal funds to $500, $ 16-941(A)(2) (West Supp. 2010); partici-
pate  in  at  least  one  public  debate,  $ 16-956(A)(2);  adhere  to 

1 The number of qualifying contributions ranges from 200 for a candidate 
for the state legislature to 4,000 for a candidate for Governor.  Ariz. Rev. 
Stat. Ann. $ 16-950(D) (West Supp. 2010). 

Cite as: 564 U. S. 721 (2011)  729 

Opinion of the Court 
an  overall  expenditure  cap,  $ 16-941(A);  and  return  all  un-spent public moneys to the State, $ 16-953. 

In  exchange  for  accepting  these  conditions,  participating candidates  are  granted  public  funds  to  conduct  their  cam-
paigns.2  In  many  cases,  this  initial  allotment  may  be  the whole  of  the  State's  financial  backing  of  a  publicly  funded 
candidate.  But  when  certain  conditions  are  met,  publicly funded  candidates  are  granted  additional  "equalizing"  or 
matching funds.  $$ 16-952(A), (B), and (C)(4)-(5) (providing for "[e]qual funding of candidates"). 

Matching funds are available in  both primary and general elections.  In a primary, matching funds are triggered when 
a privately financed candidate's expenditures, combined with the  expenditures  of  independent  groups  made  in  support  of 
the privately financed candidate or in opposition to a publicly financed candidate, exceed the primary election allotment of 
state funds to the publicly financed candidate.  $$ 16-952(A), (C).  During  the  general  election,  matching  funds  are  trig-
gered when the amount of money a privately financed candi-date  receives  in  contributions,  combined  with  the  expendi-
tures of independent groups made in support of the privately financed  candidate  or  in  opposition  to  a  publicly  financed 
candidate,  exceed  the  general  election  allotment  of  state funds  to  the  publicly  financed  candidate.  $ 16-952(B).  A 
privately  financed  candidate's  expenditures  of  his  personal funds  are  counted  as  contributions  for  purposes  of  calculat-
ing  matching  funds  during  a  general  election.  See  ibid.; Citizens  Clean  Elections  Commission,  Ariz.  Admin.  Code, 
Rule R2-20-113(B)(1)(f ) (Sept. 2009). Once  matching  funds  are  triggered,  each  additional  dollar 
that  a  privately  financed  candidate  spends  during  the  pri-mary  results  in  one  dollar  in  additional  state  funding  to  his 

2 Publicly  financed  candidates  who  run  unopposed,  or  who  run  as  the 
representative  of  a  party  that  does  not  have  a  primary,  may  receive 
less  funding  than  candidates  running  in  contested  elections.  See  $$ 16- 
951(A)(2)-(3) and (D) (West 2006). 

730  ARIZONA  FREE  ENTERPRISE  CLUB'S  FREEDOM 

CLUB  PAC  v.  BENNETT 

Opinion of the Court 

publicly financed opponent (less a 6% reduction meant to ac-count  for  fundraising  expenses).  $ 16-952(A).  During  a 

general  election,  every  dollar  that  a  candidate  receives  in contributions--which  includes  any  money  of  his  own  that  a 
candidate  spends  on  his  campaign--results  in  roughly  one dollar in additional state funding to his publicly financed op-
ponent.  In  an  election  where  a  privately  funded  candidate 
faces multiple publicly financed candidates, one dollar raised or  spent  by  the  privately  financed  candidate  results  in  an 

almost  one  dollar  increase  in  public  funding  to  each  of  the publicly financed candidates. 

Once  the  public  financing  cap  is  exceeded,  additional  ex-
penditures  by  independent  groups  can  result  in  dollar-for-
dollar  matching  funds  as  well.  Spending  by  independent 
groups on behalf of a privately funded candidate, or in oppo-
sition  to  a  publicly  funded  candidate,  results  in  matching 

funds.  $ 16-952(C).  Independent expenditures made in 
support of a publicly financed candidate can result in match-
ing  funds  for  other  publicly  financed  candidates  in  a  race. 
Ibid.  The  matching  funds  provision  is  not  activated,  how-
ever, when independent expenditures are made in opposition 
to  a  privately  financed  candidate.  Matching  funds  top  out 
at two times the initial authorized grant of public funding to 
the publicly financed candidate.  $ 16-952(E). 

Under  Arizona  law,  a  privately  financed  candidate  may 
raise  and  spend  unlimited  funds,  subject  to  state-imposed 
contribution  limits  and  disclosure  requirements.  Contribu-
tions  to  candidates  for  statewide  office  are  limited  to  $840 
per contributor per election cycle and contributions to legis-
lative candidates are limited to $410 per contributor per elec-
tion cycle.  See $$ 16-905(A)(1), 16-941(B)(1); Ariz.  Dept.  of 
State,  Office  of  the  Secretary  of  State,  2009-2010  Contri-
bution  Limits  (rev.  Aug.  14,  2009),  http://www.azsos.gov/ 

election/2010/Info/Campaign_Contribution_Limits_2010.htm 
(all Internet materials as visited June 24, 2011, and available 
in Clerk of Court's case file). 

Cite as: 564 U. S. 721 (2011)  733 

Opinion of the Court 
lenging the constitutionality of the matching funds provision. The  candidates  and  independent  expenditure  groups  argued 

that  the  matching  funds  provision  unconstitutionally  penal-ized their speech and burdened their ability to fully exercise 
their First Amendment rights. 

The  District  Court  agreed  that  this  provision  "consti-
tute[d]  a  substantial  burden"  on  the  speech  of  privately  fi-
nanced  candidates  because  it  "award[s]  funds to  a  [privately 
financed]  candidate's  opponent"  based  on  the  privately  fi-
nanced candidate's speech.  App. to Pet. for Cert. in No. 10- 

239,  p.  69  (internal  quotation  marks  omitted).  That  court 
further  held  that  "no  compelling  interest  [was]  served  by 
the"  provision  that  might  justify  the  burden  imposed.  Id., 
at  69,  71.  The  District  Court  entered  a  permanent  injunc-
tion  against  the  enforcement  of  the  matching  funds  provi-
sion,  but  stayed  implementation  of  that  injunction  to  allow 
the State to file an appeal.  Id., at 76-81. 

The Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit stayed the Dis-
trict  Court's  injunction  pending  appeal.  Id.,  at  84-85.4 
After hearing the action on the merits, the Court of Appeals 
reversed  the  District  Court.  The  Court  of  Appeals  con-
cluded  that  the  matching  funds  provision  "imposes  only  a 
minimal  burden  on  First  Amendment  rights"  because  it 
"does not actually prevent anyone from speaking in the first 
place  or  cap  campaign  expenditures."  611  F.  3d  510,  513, 
525  (2010).  In  that  court's  view,  any  burden  imposed  by 
the matching funds provision was justified because the provi-
sion  "bears  a  substantial  relation  to  the  State's  important 

4 Judge  Bea  dissented  from  the  stay  of  the  District  Court's  injunction, 
stating that the Arizona public financing system unconstitutionally prefers 
publicly financed candidates and that under the matching funds scheme "it 
makes  no  more  sense  for  [a  privately  financed  candidate  or  independent 
expenditure group] to spend money now than for a poker  player to  make 
a  bet  if  he  knows  the  house  is  going  to  match  his  bet  for  his  opponent." 
App. to Pet. for Cert. in No. 10-239, p. 87; see id., at 89. 

Cite as: 564 U. S. 721 (2011)  735 

Opinion of the Court 
corporations from making independent expenditures for elec-
tioneering  communication,  Citizens  United,  supra,  at  372. 

At  the  same  time,  we  have  subjected  strictures  on 
campaign-related  speech that we have  found less onerous  to 
a lower level of scrutiny and upheld those restrictions.  For 
example,  after  finding  that  the  restriction  at  issue  was 
"closely  drawn"  to  serve  a  "sufficiently  important  interest," 
see,  e. g.,  McConnell  v.  Federal  Election  Comm'n,  540  U. S. 
93,  136  (2003)  (internal  quotation  marks  omitted);  Nixon  v. 
Shrink  Missouri  Government  PAC,  528  U. S.  377,  387-388 
(2000)  (internal  quotation  marks  omitted),  we  have  upheld 
government-imposed  limits  on  contributions  to  candidates, 
Buckley, supra, at 23-35, caps on coordinated party expendi-
tures,  Federal  Election  Comm'n  v.  Colorado  Republican 
Federal  Campaign  Comm.,  533  U. S.  431,  437  (2001)  (Colo-
rado II ), and requirements that political funding sources dis-
close their identities, Citizens United, supra, at 371. 

Although the speech of the candidates and independent ex-
penditure groups that brought this suit is not directly capped 
by Arizona's matching funds provision, those parties contend 
that  their  political  speech  is  substantially  burdened  by  the 
state law in the same way that speech was burdened by the 
law  we  recently  found  invalid  in  Davis  v.  Federal  Election 
Comm'n,  554  U. S.  724  (2008).  In  Davis,  we  considered  a 
First  Amendment  challenge  to  the  so-called  "Millionaire's 
Amendment"  of  the  Bipartisan  Campaign  Reform  Act  of 

2002,  2  U. S. C.  $ 441a-1(a).  Under  that  Amendment,  if  a 
candidate  for  the  United  States  House  of  Representatives 
spent more than $350,000 of his personal funds, "a new, asym-
metrical  regulatory  scheme  [came]  into  play."  554  U. S.,  at 
729.  The opponent of the candidate who exceeded that limit 
was permitted to collect individual contributions up to $6,900 
per  contributor--three  times  the  normal  contribution  limit 
of  $2,300.  See  ibid.  The  candidate  who  spent  more  than 
the personal funds limit remained subject to the original con-

736  ARIZONA  FREE  ENTERPRISE  CLUB'S  FREEDOM 

CLUB  PAC  v.  BENNETT 

Opinion of the Court 

tribution  cap.  Davis  argued  that  this  scheme  "burden[ed] 
his exercise of his First Amendment right to make unlimited 
expenditures  of  his  personal  funds  because"  doing  so  had 
"the effect of enabling his opponent to raise more money and 
to  use  that  money  to  finance  speech  that  counteract[ed]  and 
thus  diminishe[d]  the  effectiveness  of  Davis'  own  speech." 
Id., at 736. 

In  addressing  the  constitutionality  of  the  Millionaire's 
Amendment, we acknowledged that the provision did not im-
pose an outright cap on a candidate's personal expenditures. 
Id., at 738-739.  We nonetheless concluded that the Amend-
ment  was  unconstitutional  because  it  forced  a  candidate  "to 
choose between the First Amendment right to engage in un-
fettered  political  speech  and  subjection  to  discriminatory 
fundraising  limitations."  Id.,  at  739.  Any  candidate  who 
chose  to  spend  more  than  $350,000  of  his  own  money  was 
forced  to  "shoulder  a  special  and  potentially  significant  bur-
den" because that choice gave fundraising advantages to the 
candidate's adversary.  Ibid.  We determined that this con-
stituted  an  "unprecedented  penalty"  and  "impose[d]  a  sub-
stantial  burden  on  the  exercise  of  the  First  Amendment 
right  to  use  personal  funds  for  campaign  speech,"  and  con-
cluded  that  the  Government  had  failed  to  advance  any  com-
pelling  interest  that  would  justify  such  a  burden.  Id.,  at 
739-740. 

A 

1 

The  logic  of  Davis  largely  controls  our  approach  to  this 
action.  Much like the burden placed on speech in Davis, the 
matching  funds  provision  "imposes  an  unprecedented  pen-
alty  on  any  candidate  who  robustly  exercises  [his]  First 
Amendment  right[s]."  Id.,  at  739.  Under  that  provision, 
"the  vigorous  exercise  of  the  right  to  use  personal  funds  to 
finance campaign speech" leads to "advantages for opponents 
in the competitive context of electoral politics."  Ibid. 

Cite as: 564 U. S. 721 (2011)  737 

Opinion of the Court 
Once  a  privately  financed  candidate  has  raised  or  spent more than the State's initial grant to a publicly financed can-

didate,  each  personal  dollar  spent  by  the  privately  financed candidate results in an award of almost one additional dollar 
to  his  opponent.  That  plainly  forces  the  privately  financed candidate  to  "shoulder  a  special  and  potentially  significant 
burden"  when  choosing  to  exercise  his  First  Amendment 
right  to  spend  funds  on  behalf  of  his  candidacy.  Ibid.  If the  law  at  issue  in 

Davis  imposed  a  burden  on  candidate 
speech, the Arizona law unquestionably does so as well. The  penalty  imposed  by  Arizona's  matching  funds  provi-

sion  is  different  in  some  respects  from  the  penalty  imposed 
by the law we struck down in Davis.  But those differences 
make the Arizona law more constitutionally problematic, not 
less.  See  Green  Party  of  Conn.  v.  Garfield,  616  F.  3d  213, 
244-245  (CA2  2010).  First,  the  penalty  in  Davis  consisted 
of  raising  the  contribution  limits  for  one  of  the  candidates. 
The  candidate  who  benefited  from  the  increased  limits  still 
had to go out and raise the funds.  He may or may not have 
been  able  to  do  so.  The  other  candidate,  therefore,  faced 
merely  the  possibility  that  his  opponent  would  be  able  to 
raise  additional  funds,  through  contribution  limits  that  re-
mained  subject  to  a  cap.  And  still  the  Court  held  that  this 
was  an  "unprecedented  penalty,"  a  "special  and  potentially 
significant  burden"  that  had  to  be  justified  by  a  compelling 
state  interest--a  rigorous  First  Amendment  hurdle.  554 
U. S.,  at  739-740.  Here  the  benefit  to  the  publicly  financed 
candidate is the direct and automatic release of public money. 
That is a far heavier burden than in Davis. 

Second, depending on the specifics of the election at issue, 
the  matching  funds  provision  can  create  a  multiplier  effect. 
In the Arizona Fourth District House election previously dis-
cussed,  see  supra,  at  731-732,  if  the  spending  cap  were  ex-
ceeded,  each  dollar  spent  by  the  privately  funded  candidate 
would  result  in  an  additional  dollar  of  campaign  funding  to 
each of that candidate's publicly financed opponents.  In such 

738  ARIZONA  FREE  ENTERPRISE  CLUB'S  FREEDOM 

CLUB  PAC  v.  BENNETT 

Opinion of the Court 

a  situation,  the  matching  funds  provision  forces  privately 
funded  candidates  to  fight  a  political  hydra  of  sorts.  Each 
dollar  they  spend  generates  two  adversarial  dollars  in  re-
sponse.  Again,  a  markedly  more  significant  burden  than  in 
Davis. 

Third,  unlike  the  law  at  issue  in  Davis,  all of  this is to  
some  extent  out  of the  privately  financed  candidate's  hands. 
Even  if  that  candidate  opted  to  spend  less  than  the  initial 
public  financing  cap,  any  spending  by  independent  expendi-
ture  groups  to  promote  the  privately  financed  candidate's 
election--regardless  whether  such  support  was  welcome  or 
helpful--could  trigger  matching  funds.  What  is  more,  that 
state  money  would  go  directly  to  the  publicly  funded  candi-
date to use as he saw fit.  That disparity in  control--giving 
money  directly  to  a  publicly  financed  candidate,  in  response 
to independent expenditures that cannot be coordinated with 
the  privately  funded  candidate--is  a  substantial  advantage 
for  the  publicly  funded  candidate.  That  candidate  can  allo-
cate  the  money  according  to  his  own  campaign  strategy, 
which the privately financed candidate could not do with the 
independent group expenditures that triggered the matching 
funds.  Cf. Citizens United, 558 U. S., at 357 (" `The absence 
of  prearrangement  and  coordination  of  an  expenditure  with 
the  candidate  or  his  agent  .  .  .  undermines  the  value  of  the 
expenditure  to  the  candidate' "  (quoting  Buckley,  424  U. S., 
at 47)). 

The  burdens  that  this  regime  places  on  independent  ex-
penditure groups are akin to those imposed on the privately 
financed  candidates themselves.  Just  as with  the candidate 
the  independent  group  supports,  the  more  money  spent  on 
that  candidate's  behalf  or  in  opposition  to  a  publicly  funded 
candidate,  the  more  money  the  publicly  funded  candidate 
receives  from  the  State.  And  just  as  with  the  privately 
financed  candidate,  the  effect  of  a  dollar  spent  on  elec-
tion  speech  is  a  guaranteed  financial  payout  to  the  publicly 

Cite as: 564 U. S. 721 (2011)  741 

Opinion of the Court 
for Respondent Clean Elections Institute 55.  In the State's view,  this  promotion  of  First  Amendment  ideals  offsets  any 

burden the law might impose on some speakers. Not  so.  Any  increase  in  speech  resulting  from  the  Ari-
zona  law  is  of  one  kind  and  one  kind  only--that  of  publicly financed  candidates.  The  burden  imposed  on  privately  fi-
nanced  candidates  and  independent  expenditure  groups  re-duces their speech; "restriction[s] on the  amount  of money a 
person or group can spend on political communication during a  campaign  necessarily  reduces  the  quantity  of  expression." 
Buckley, 424  U. S.,  at 19.  Thus, even if the  matching funds provision did result in more speech by publicly financed can-
didates  and  more  speech  in  general,  it  would  do  so  at  the expense of impermissibly burdening (and thus reducing) the 
speech of privately financed  candidates and independent ex-penditure  groups.  This  sort  of  "beggar  thy  neighbor"  ap-
proach to free speech--"restrict[ing] the speech of some ele-ments of our society in order to enhance the relative voice of 
others"--is  "wholly  foreign  to  the  First  Amendment."  Id., at 48-49.

7 

We  have  rejected  government  efforts  to  increase  the speech of some at the expense of others outside the campaign 

finance  context.  In  Miami  Herald  Publishing  Co.  v.  Tor-nillo, 418 U. S. 241, 244, 258 (1974), we held unconstitutional 
a Florida law that required any newspaper assailing a politi-cal  candidate's  character  to  allow  that  candidate  to  print  a 
reply.  We have explained that while the statute in that case 

7 The  dissent  also  repeatedly  argues  that  the  Arizona  matching  funds 
regime  results  in  "more  political  speech,"  post,  at  763-764  (emphasis  in 
original);  see  post,  at  756,  763,  767,  769,  784,  but--given  the  logic  of  the 
dissent's position--that is  only as  a  step to  less speech.  If  the matching 
funds provision achieves its professed goal and causes candidates to switch 
to public financing, post, at 778, 781, there will be less speech: no spending 
above  the  initial  state-set  amount  by  formerly  privately  financed  candi-
dates,  and  no  associated  matching  funds  for  anyone.  Not  only  that,  the 
level  of  speech  will  depend  on  the  State's  judgment  of  the  desirable 
amount, an amount tethered to available (and often scarce) state resources. 

742  ARIZONA  FREE  ENTERPRISE  CLUB'S  FREEDOM 

CLUB  PAC  v.  BENNETT 

Opinion of the Court 

"purported  to  advance  free  discussion,  .  .  .  its  effect  was  to deter  newspapers  from  speaking  out  in  the  first  instance" 

because  it  "penalized  the  newspaper's  own  expression." 
Pacific  Gas  &  Elec.  Co.  v.  Public  Util. Comm'n  of  Cal.,  475 
U. S. 1, 10 (1986) (plurality opinion).  Such a penalty, we con-cluded,  could  not  survive  First  Amendment  scrutiny.  The 

Arizona  law  imposes  a  similar  penalty:  The  State  grants 
funds  to  publicly  financed  candidates  as  a  direct  result  of the speech of privately financed candidates and independent 

expenditure groups.  The argument that this sort of burden promotes  free  and  robust  discussion  is  no  more  persuasive 
here than it was in Tornillo.8 Arizona asserts that no "candidate or independent expend-
iture  group  is  `obliged  personally  to  express  a  message  he disagrees  with' "  or  " `required  by  the  government  to  subsi-
dize  a  message  he  disagrees  with.' "  Brief  for  State  Re-spondents  32  (quoting 

Johanns  v.  Livestock  Marketing 
Assn.,  544  U. S.  550,  557  (2005)).  True  enough.  But  that 
does  not  mean  that  the  matching  funds  provision  does  not 
burden speech.  The direct result of the speech of privately 
financed candidates and independent expenditure groups is a 
state-provided  monetary  subsidy  to  a  political  rival.  That 
cash subsidy, conferred in response to political speech, penal-
izes  speech  to  a  greater  extent  and  more  directly  than  the 

8 Along the same lines, we have invalidated government mandates that a 
speaker "help disseminate hostile views" opposing that speaker's message. 
Pacific  Gas  &  Elec.  Co.  v.  Public  Util.  Comm'n  of  Cal.,  475  U. S.  1,  14 
(1986) (plurality  opinion).  In  Pacific Gas, we found  a public  utility  com-
mission order forcing a utility company to disseminate in its billing enve-
lopes views that the company opposed ran afoul of the First Amendment. 
That case is of course distinguishable from the instant action on its facts, 
but  the  central  concern--that  an  individual  should  not  be  compelled  to 
"help disseminate hostile views"--is implicated here as well.  Ibid.  If a 
candidate uses his own money to engage in speech above the initial public 
funding  threshold,  he  is  forced  to  "help  disseminate  hostile  views"  in  a 
most  direct  way--his  own  speech  triggers  the  release  of  state  money  to 
his opponent. 

Cite as: 564 U. S. 721 (2011)  743 

Opinion of the Court 
Millionaire's  Amendment  in  Davis.  The  fact  that  this  may 
result  in  more  speech  by  the  other  candidates  is  no  more 
adequate  a  justification  here  than  it  was  in  Davis.  See  554 
U. S., at 741-742. 

In  disagreeing  with  our  conclusion,  the  dissent  relies  on 
cases in which we have upheld government subsidies against 
First  Amendment  challenge,  and  asserts  that  "[w]e  have 
never,  not  once,  understood  a  viewpoint-neutral  subsidy 
given  to  one  speaker  to  constitute  a  First  Amendment  bur-
den  on  another."  Post,  at  769.  But  none  of  those  cases-- 
not  one--involved  a  subsidy  given  in  direct  response  to  the 
political  speech  of  another,  to  allow  the  recipient  to  counter 
that  speech.  And  nothing  in  the  analysis  we  employed  in 
those  cases  suggests  that  the  challenged  subsidies  would 
have  survived  First  Amendment  scrutiny  if  they  were  trig-
gered by someone else's political speech.9 

The State also argues, and the Court of Appeals concluded, 
that  any  burden  on  privately  financed  candidates  and  inde-
pendent  expenditure  groups  is  more  analogous  to  the  bur-
den  placed  on  speakers  by  the  disclosure  and  disclaimer  re-
quirements  we  recently  upheld  in  Citizens  United  than  to 
direct  restrictions  on  candidate  and  independent  expendi-
tures.  See  611  F.  3d,  at  525;  Brief  for  State  Respondents 
21, 35; Brief for Respondent Clean Elections Institute 16-17. 
This analogy is not even close.  A political candidate's disclo-
sure of his funding resources does not result in a cash wind-
fall  to  his  opponent,  or  affect  their  respective  disclosure 
obligations. 

9 The dissent cites  Buckley v.  Valeo, 424 U. S. 1  (1976) (per curiam), in 
response, see post, at  765, n. 3, but  the funding in Buckley  was of course 
not triggered by the speech of a publicly funded candidate's political oppo-
nent, or the speech of anyone else for that matter.  See 424 U. S., at 91-95. 
Whether  Arizona's  matching  funds  provision  comports  with  the  First 
Amendment is not simply a question whether the State can give a subsidy 
to a candidate to fund that candidate's election, but whether that subsidy 
can be triggered by the speech of another candidate or independent group. 

744  ARIZONA  FREE  ENTERPRISE  CLUB'S  FREEDOM 

CLUB  PAC  v.  BENNETT 

Opinion of the Court 

The  State  and  the  Clean  Elections  Institute  assert  that the  candidates  and  independent  expenditure  groups  have 

failed to "cite specific instances in which they decided not to raise  or  spend  funds,"  Brief  for  State  Respondents  11;  see 
id.,  at  11-12,  and  have  "failed  to  present  any  reliable  evi-dence  that  Arizona's  triggered  matching  funds  deter  their 
speech,"  Brief  for  Respondent  Clean  Elections  Institute  6; 
see  id.,  at  6-8.  The  record  in  this  action,  which  we  must review  in  its  entirety,  does  not  support  those  assertions. 

See  Bose  Corp.  v.  Consumers  Union  of  United  States,  Inc., 466 U. S. 485, 499 (1984). 

That  record  contains  examples  of  specific  candidates  cur-
tailing  fundraising  efforts,  and  actively  discouraging  sup-
portive independent expenditures, to avoid triggering 

matching  funds.  See,  e. g.,  App.  567  (Rick  Murphy),  578 
(Dean  Martin);  App.  to  Pet.  for  Cert.  in  No.  10-239,  at  329 
(John  McComish),  300  (Tony  Bouie).  The  record  also  in-
cludes examples of independent expenditure groups deciding 
not  to  speak  in  opposition  to  a  candidate,  App.  569  (Arizona 
Taxpayers  Action  Committee),  or  in  support  of  a  candidate, 
id.,  at  290  (Club  for  Growth),  to  avoid  triggering  matching 
funds.  In  addition,  Dr.  David  Primo,  an  expert  involved  in 
the  action,  "found  that  privately  financed  candidates  facing 
the  prospect  of  triggering  matching  funds  changed  the  tim-
ing of their fundraising activities, the timing of their expend-
itures,  and,  thus,  their  overall  campaign  strategy."  Reply 
Brief for Petitioner Arizona Free Enterprise Club's (AFEC) 
Freedom  Club  PAC  et  al.  12;  see  also  id.,  at  11-17  (listing 
additional sources of evidence detailing the burdens imposed 
by  the  matching  funds  provision);  Brief  for  Petitioner 
AFEC's  Freedom  Club  PAC  et  al.  14-21  (AFEC  Brief) 
(same);  Brief  for  Petitioner  McComish  et  al.  30-37  (same). 

The  State  contends  that  if  the  matching  funds  provision 
truly  burdened  the  speech  of  privately  financed  candidates 
and  independent  expenditure  groups,  spending  on  behalf  of 
privately  financed  candidates  would  cluster  just  below  the 

Cite as: 564 U. S. 721 (2011)  745 

Opinion of the Court 
triggering level, but no such phenomenon has been observed. Brief  for  State Respondents 39;  Brief  for  Respondent Clean 

Elections Institute 18-19.  That should come as no surprise. The  hypothesis  presupposes  a  privately  funded  candidate 
who  would  spend  his  own  money  just  up  to  the  matching funds threshold,  when  he could  have  simply  taken  matching 
funds in the first place. 

Furthermore, the Arizona law takes into account all man-ner  of uncoordinated  political activity in awarding matching 

funds.  If a privately funded candidate wanted to hover just below  the  triggering  level,  he  would  have  to  make  guesses 
about how much he will receive in  the form of contributions 
and  supportive  independent  expenditures.  He  might  well 
guess wrong. 

In  addition,  some  candidates  may  be  willing  to  bear  the 
burden of spending above the cap.  That a candidate is will-
ing  to  do  so  does  not  make  the  law  any  less  burdensome. 
See  Davis,  554  U. S.,  at  739  (that  candidates  may  choose  to 
make  "personal  expenditures  to  support  their  campaigns" 
despite  the  burdens  imposed  by  the  Millionaire's  Amend-
ment  does  not  change  the  fact  that  "they  must  shoulder  a 
special  and  potentially  significant  burden  if  they  make  that 
choice").  If the State made privately funded candidates pay 
a  $500  fine  to  run  as  such,  the  fact  that  candidates  might 
choose to pay it does not make the fine any less burdensome. 

While  there  is  evidence  to  support  the  contention  of  the 
candidates  and  independent  expenditure  groups  that  the 
matching  funds  provision  burdens  their  speech,  "it  is  never 
easy to prove a negative"--here, that candidates and groups 
did not speak or limited their speech because of the Arizona 
law.  Elkins  v.  United  States,  364  U. S.  206,  218  (1960).  In 
any  event,  the  burden  imposed  by  the  matching  funds  pro-
vision  is  evident  and  inherent  in  the  choice  that  confronts 
privately  financed  candidates  and  independent  expenditure 
groups.  Cf.  Davis,  supra,  at  738-740.  Indeed  even  candi-
dates  who  sign  up  for  public  funding  recognize  the  burden 

746  ARIZONA  FREE  ENTERPRISE  CLUB'S  FREEDOM 

CLUB  PAC  v.  BENNETT 

Opinion of the Court 

matching  funds  impose  on  private  speech,  stating  that  they participate in the program because "matching funds . . . dis-

courage[ ]  opponents,  special  interest  groups,  and  lobby-ists  from  campaigning  against"  them.  GAO,  Campaign  Fi-
nance Reform: Experiences of Two States That Offered Full Public  Funding  for  Political  Candidates  27  (GAO-10-390, 
2010).  As  in  Davis,  we  do  not  need  empirical  evidence 
to  determine  that  the  law  at  issue  is  burdensome.  See 554  U. S.,  at  738-740  (requiring  no  evidence  of  a  burden 

whatsoever). It  is  clear  not  only  to  us  but  to  every  other  court  to  have 
considered the question after Davis that a candidate or inde-
pendent group might not spend money if the direct result of 
that  spending  is  additional  funding  to  political  adversaries. 
See,  e. g.,  Green  Party  of  Conn.,  616  F.  3d,  at  242  (matching 
funds  impose  "a  substantial  burden  on  the  exercise  of  First 
Amendment rights" (internal quotation marks omitted)); 611 
F.  3d,  at  524  (case  below)  (matching  funds  create  "potential 
chilling  effects"  and  "impose  some  First  Amendment  bur-
den"); Scott v.  Roberts, 612 F. 3d 1279, 1290 (CA11 2010) ("we 
think it is obvious that the [matching funds] subsidy imposes 
a  burden  on  [privately  financed]  candidates");  id.,  at  1291 
("we  know  of  no  court  that  doubts  that  a  [matching  funds] 
subsidy  like  the  one  at  issue  here  burdens"  the  speech  of 
privately  financed  candidates);  see  also  Day  v.  Holahan,  34 
F. 3d 1356, 1360 (CA8 1994) (it is "clear" that matching funds 
provisions infringe on "protected speech because of the chill-
ing effect" they have "on the political speech of the person or 
group  making  the  [triggering]  expenditure"  (cited  in  Davis, 
supra,  at  739)).  The  dissent's  disagreement  is  little  more 
than disagreement with Davis. 

The  State  correctly  asserts  that  the  candidates  and  inde-
pendent  expenditure  groups  "do  not  .  .  .  claim  that  a  single 
lump  sum  payment  to  publicly  funded  candidates,"  equiva-
lent to the maximum amount of state financing that a candi-
date  can  obtain  through  matching  funds,  would  impermissi-

748  ARIZONA  FREE  ENTERPRISE  CLUB'S  FREEDOM 

CLUB  PAC  v.  BENNETT 

Opinion of the Court 

B 
Because  the  Arizona  matching  funds  provision  imposes  a 
substantial burden on the speech of privately financed candi-
dates  and  independent  expenditure  groups,  "that  provision 
cannot stand unless it is `justified by a compelling state inter-
est,' "  id.,  at  740  (quoting  Massachusetts  Citizens  for  Life, 
479 U. S., at 256). 

There  is  a  debate  between  the  parties  in  this  action  as  to 
what  state  interest  is  served  by  the  matching  funds  provi-
sion.  The  privately  financed  candidates  and  independent 
expenditure  groups  contend  that  the  provision  works  to 
"level[ ] electoral opportunities" by equalizing candidate "re-
sources and influence."  Brief for Petitioner McComish et al. 
64; see AFEC Brief 23.  The  State and the Clean Elections 
Institute  counter  that  the  provision  "furthers  Arizona's 
interest in preventing corruption and the appearance of cor-
ruption."  Brief  for  State  Respondents  42;  Brief  for  Re-
spondent Clean Elections Institute 47. 

1 
There  is  ample  support  for  the  argument  that  the  match-
ing funds provision seeks to "level the playing field" in terms 
of  candidate  resources.  The  clearest  evidence  is  of  course 
the very operation of the provision: It ensures that campaign 
funding is  equal,  up to three  times the  initial public  funding 
allotment.  The  text  of  the  Citizens  Clean  Elections  Act  it-
self  confirms  this  purpose.  The  statutory  provision  setting 
up  the  matching  funds  regime  is  titled  "Equal  funding  of 
candidates."  Ariz.  Rev.  Stat.  Ann.  $ 16-952  (West  Supp. 
2010).  The Act refers to the funds doled out after the Act's 
matching  mechanism  is  triggered  as  "equalizing  funds." 
See $$ 16-952(C)(4), (5).  And the  regulations implementing 
the matching funds provision refer to those funds as "equal-
izing funds" as well.  See Citizens Clean Elections Commis-
sion, Ariz. Admin. Code, Rule R2-20-113. 

Cite as: 564 U. S. 721 (2011)  749 

Opinion of the Court 
Other  features  of  the  Arizona  law  reinforce  this  under-
standing  of  the  matching  funds  provision.  If  the  Citizens 
Clean Election Commission cannot provide publicly financed 
candidates  with  the  moneys  that  the  matching  funds  provi-
sion  envisions  because  of  a  shortage  of  funds,  the  statute 
allows a publicly financed candidate to "accept private contri-
butions to bring the total monies received by the candidate" 
up  to  the  matching  funds  amount.  Ariz.  Rev.  Stat.  Ann. 

$ 16-954(F)  (West  2006).  Limiting  contributions,  of  course, 
is the  primary means  we  have  upheld to  combat corruption. 
Buckley,  424  U. S.,  at  23-35,  46-47.  Indeed  the  State  ar-
gues that  one of the principal ways that the  matching funds 
provision combats corruption is by eliminating the possibility 
of  any  quid  pro  quo  between  private  interests  and  publicly 
funded candidates by eliminating contributions to those can-
didates altogether.  See Brief for State Respondents 45-46. 
But when confronted with a choice between fighting corrup-
tion  and  equalizing  speech,  the  drafters  of  the  matching 
funds  provision  chose  the  latter.  That  significantly  under-
mines any notion that the "Equal funding of candidates" pro-
vision is meant to serve some interest other than an interest 
in equalizing funds.10 

We  have  repeatedly  rejected  the  argument  that  the  gov-
ernment has a compelling state interest in "leveling the play-
ing  field" that can  justify undue burdens on political speech. 
See,  e. g.,  Citizens  United,  558  U. S.,  at  350.  In  Davis,  we 
stated that discriminatory contribution limits meant to "level 
electoral  opportunities  for  candidates  of  different  personal 

10 Prior  to  oral  argument  in  this  action,  the  Citizens  Clean  Elections 
Commission's  Web  site  stated,  " `The  Citizens  Clean  Elections  Act  was 
passed  by  the  people  of  Arizona  in  1998  to  level  the  playing  field  when 
it  comes  to  running  for  office.' "  AFEC  Brief  10,  n.  3  (quoting  http:// 
www.azcleanelections.gov/about-us/get-involved.aspx); Tr. of Oral Arg. 48. 
The Web site now says, "The Citizens Clean Elections Act was passed by 
the people of Arizona in 1998 to restore citizen participation and confidence 
in our political system." 

750  ARIZONA  FREE  ENTERPRISE  CLUB'S  FREEDOM 

CLUB  PAC  v.  BENNETT 

Opinion of the Court 

wealth"  did  not  serve  "a  legitimate  government  objective," let alone a compelling one.  554 U. S., at 741 (internal quota-

tion  marks  omitted).  And  in  Buckley,  we  held  that  limits on overall campaign expenditures could not be justified by a 
purported  government  "interest  in  equalizing  the  financial resources of candidates."  424  U. S., at 56;  see 

id., at  56-57. After all, equalizing campaign resources "might serve not to 

equalize  the  opportunities  of  all  candidates,  but  to  handicap a candidate who lacked substantial name recognition or expo-
sure  of  his  views  before  the  start  of  the  campaign."  Id., at 57. 

"Leveling  electoral  opportunities  means  making  and  im-plementing judgments about which strengths should be per-
mitted  to  contribute  to  the  outcome  of  an  election,"  Davis, 
supra,  at  742--a  dangerous  enterprise  and  one  that  cannot justify burdening protected speech.  The dissent essentially 

dismisses  this  concern,  see  post,  at  780-782,  but  it  needs  to be taken seriously; we have, as noted, held that it is not legit-
imate  for  the  government  to  attempt  to  equalize  electoral opportunities  in  this  manner.  And  such  basic  intrusion  by 
the government into the debate over who should govern goes to the heart of First Amendment values. 

"Leveling  the  playing  field"  can  sound  like  a  good  thing. But in a democracy, campaigning for office is not a game.  It 
is  a critically  important  form  of speech.  The  First Amend-ment embodies our choice as a Nation that, when it comes to 
such  speech,  the  guiding  principle  is  freedom--the  "unfet-tered  interchange  of  ideas"--not  whatever  the  State  may 
view  as  fair.  Buckley,  supra,  at  14  (internal  quotation marks omitted). 

2 
As already noted, the State and the Clean Elections Insti-tute  disavow  any  interest  in  "leveling  the  playing  field." 

They  instead  assert  that  the  "Equal  funding  of  candidates" provision,  Ariz.  Rev.  Stat.  Ann.  $ 16-952  (West  Supp.  2010), 
serves  the  State's  compelling  interest  in  combating  corrup-

752  ARIZONA  FREE  ENTERPRISE  CLUB'S  FREEDOM 

CLUB  PAC  v.  BENNETT 

Opinion of the Court 

already  has  some  of  the  most  austere  contribution  limits  in 
the  United  States.  See  Randall  v.  Sorrell,  548  U. S.  230, 
250-251  (2006)  (plurality  opinion).  Contributions  to  state-
wide candidates are limited to $840 per contributor per elec-
tion cycle and contributions to legislative candidates are lim-
ited  to  $410  per  contributor  per  election  cycle.  See  Ariz. 
Rev.  Stat.  Ann.  $$ 16-905(A)(1),  16-941(B)(1);  Ariz.  Dept.  of 
State,  Office  of  the  Secretary  of  State,  2009-2010  Contribu-
tion  Limits,  see  supra,  at  730.  Arizona  also  has  stringent 
fundraising disclosure requirements.  In the face of such as-
cetic  contribution  limits,  strict  disclosure  requirements,  and 
the  general availability of public  funding, it  is  hard  to imag-
ine what marginal corruption deterrence could be generated 
by the matching funds provision. 

Perhaps  recognizing  that  the  burdens  the  matching  funds 
provision places on speech cannot be justified in and of them-
selves,  either  as  a  means  of  leveling  the  playing  field  or  di-
rectly fighting corruption, the State and the Clean Elections 
Institute offer another argument: They contend that the pro-
vision indirectly serves the anticorruption interest, by ensur-
ing  that  enough  candidates  participate  in  the  State's  public 
funding  system,  which  in  turn  helps  combat  corruption.11 
See Brief for State Respondents 46-47; Brief for Respondent 
Clean Elections Institute 47-49.  We have said that a volun-
tary system of "public financing as a means of eliminating the 
improper  influence  of  large  private  contributions  furthers  a 
significant  governmental  interest."  Buckley,  supra,  at  96. 
But the fact that burdening constitutionally protected speech 

11 The  State  claims  that  the  Citizens  Clean  Elections  Act  was  passed 
in  response  to  rampant  corruption  in  Arizona  politics--elected  officials 
"literally taking duffle bags full of cash in exchange for sponsoring legisla-
tion."  Brief for State Respondents 45.  That may be.  But, as the candi-
dates  and  independent  expenditure  groups  point  out,  the  corruption  that 
plagued  Arizona  politics  is  largely  unaddressed  by  the  matching  funds 
regime.  AFEC Brief 11, n. 4.  Public financing does nothing to prevent 
politicians from accepting bribes in exchange for their votes. 

Cite as: 564 U. S. 786 (2011)  789 

Opinion of the Court 

I 
California  Assembly  Bill  1179  (2005),  Cal.  Civ.  Code  Ann. $$ 1746-1746.5 (West 2009) (Act), prohibits the sale or rental 

of "violent video  games" to minors, and requires their  pack-aging  to  be  labeled  "18."  The  Act  covers  games  "in  which 
the  range  of  options  available  to  a  player  includes  killing, maiming,  dismembering,  or  sexually  assaulting  an  image  of 
a  human  being,  if  those  acts  are  depicted"  in  a  manner  that "[a]  reasonable  person,  considering  the  game  as  a  whole, 
would  find  appeals  to  a  deviant  or  morbid  interest  of minors,"  that  is  "patently  offensive  to  prevailing  standards 
in the community as to what is suitable for minors," and that "causes  the  game,  as  a  whole,  to  lack  serious  literary,  artis-
tic, political,  or scientific value  for  minors."  $ 1746(d)(1)(A). Violation  of  the  Act  is  punishable  by  a  civil  fine  of  up  to 
$1,000.  $ 1746.3. Respondents,  representing  the  video-game  and  software 
industries, brought a preenforcement challenge to the Act in the  United  States  District  Court  for  the  Northern  District 

dall, and Thomas G. Hentoff; for the National Association of Broadcasters 
by Robert A. Long, Jr., Stephen A. Weiswasser, Mark W. Mosier, Jane E. 
Mago, and Jerianne Timmerman; for the National Cable & Telecommuni-
cations Association by H. Bartow Farr  III, Rick Chessen,  Neal M. Gold-
berg,  Michael  S.  Schooler,  and  Diane  B.  Burstein;  for  the  Progress  & 
Freedom  Foundation  et  al.  by  Cindy  Cohn;  for  Social  Scientists  et  al.  by 
Patricia A. Millett and Michael C. Small; for the Thomas Jefferson Cen-
ter for the Protection of Free Expression  et al. by Robert  M. O'Neil and 
J.  Joshua  Wheeler;  and  for  Vindicia,  Inc.,  by  Alan  Gura  and  Laura 
Possessky. 

Briefs of amici  curiae  were  filed  for the Cato  Institute by John P. El-
wood,  Ilya  Shapiro,  and  Thomas  S.  Leatherbury;  for  the  Comic  Book 
Legal  Defense  Fund  by  Robert  Corn-Revere  and  Ronald G.  London;  for 
Common Sense Media by Theodore M. Shaw  and Kevin W. Saunders; for 
the First Amendment Coalition by Gary L. Bostwick and Jean-Paul Jassy; 
for  the  Reporters  Committee  for  Freedom  of  the  Press  et  al.  by  Lucy 
Dalglish,  Gregg  P.  Leslie,  Kevin  M.  Goldberg,  David  Greene,  Mickey  H. 
Osterreicher,  Bruce  W.  Sanford,  Bruce  D.  Brown,  and  Laurie  A.  Babin-
ski; and for the Rutherford Institute by John W. Whitehead. 

790  BROWN  v.  ENTERTAINMENT  MERCHANTS  ASSN. 

Opinion of the Court 
of  California.  That  court  concluded  that  the  Act  violated the First Amendment and permanently enjoined its enforce-

ment.  Video  Software  Dealers  Assn.  v.  Schwarzenegger, No.  C-05-04188  RMW  (2007),  App.  to  Pet.  for  Cert.  39a. 
The  Court  of  Appeals  affirmed,  Video  Software  Dealers 
Assn.  v.  Schwarzenegger,  556  F.  3d  950  (CA9  2009),  and  we granted certiorari, 559 U. S. 1092 (2010). 

II 
California  correctly  acknowledges  that  video  games  qual-ify  for  First  Amendment  protection.  The  Free  Speech 

Clause exists principally to protect discourse  on public  mat-ters, but we have long recognized that it is difficult to distin-
guish  politics  from  entertainment,  and  dangerous  to  try. "Everyone  is  familiar  with  instances  of  propaganda  through 
fiction.  What  is  one  man's  amusement,  teaches  another's doctrine." 

Winters  v.  New  York,  333  U. S.  507,  510  (1948). Like  the  protected  books,  plays,  and  movies  that  preceded 

them, video games communicate ideas--and even social mes-sages--through many familiar literary devices (such as char-
acters,  dialogue,  plot,  and  music)  and  through  features  dis-tinctive to the medium (such as the player's interaction with 
the  virtual  world).  That  suffices  to  confer  First  Amend-ment protection.  Under our Constitution, "esthetic and 
moral  judgments  about  art  and  literature  .  .  .  are  for  the individual  to  make,  not  for  the  Government  to  decree,  even 
with the mandate or approval of a majority."  United States v.  Playboy  Entertainment  Group,  Inc.,  529  U. S.  803,  818 
(2000).  And whatever the challenges of applying the Consti-tution  to ever-advancing  technology, "the  basic principles  of 
freedom of speech and the press, like the First Amendment's command,  do  not  vary"  when  a  new  and  different  medium 
for communication appears.  Joseph Burstyn, Inc. v.  Wilson, 343 U. S. 495, 503 (1952). 

The  most  basic  of  those  principles  is  this:  "[A]s  a  general matter, . . . government  has  no power  to restrict expression 

Cite as: 564 U. S. 786 (2011)  791 

Opinion of the Court 
because  of  its  message,  its  ideas,  its  subject  matter,  or  its 
content."  Ashcroft v.  American Civil Liberties Union, 535 
U. S.  564,  573  (2002)  (internal  quotation  marks  omitted). 
There  are  of  course  exceptions.  " `From  1791  to  the  pres-
ent,' . . .  the  First  Amendment  has  `permitted  restrictions 
upon  the  content  of  speech  in  a  few  limited  areas,'  and  has 
never  `include[d]  a  freedom  to  disregard  these  traditional 
limitations.' "  United  States  v.  Stevens,  559  U. S.  460,  468 
(2010)  (quoting  R.  A.  V.  v.  St.  Paul,  505  U. S.  377,  382-383 
(1992)).  These  limited  areas--such  as  obscenity,  Roth  v. 
United States, 354 U. S. 476, 483 (1957), incitement, Branden-
burg v.  Ohio, 395 U. S. 444, 447-449 (1969) (per curiam), and 
fighting words, Chaplinsky v.  New Hampshire, 315 U. S. 568, 
572  (1942)--represent  "well-defined  and  narrowly  limited 
classes  of  speech,  the  prevention  and  punishment  of  which 
have  never  been  thought  to  raise  any  Constitutional  prob-
lem," id., at 571-572. 

Last Term, in Stevens, we held that new categories of un-
protected speech may not be added to the list by a legislature 
that concludes certain speech is  too harmful  to be tolerated. 
Stevens  concerned  a  federal  statute  purporting  to  criminal-
ize  the  creation,  sale,  or  possession  of  certain  depictions  of 
animal  cruelty.  See  18  U. S. C.  $ 48  (amended  2010).  The 
statute covered depictions "in which a living animal is inten-
tionally  maimed,  mutilated,  tortured,  wounded,  or  killed"  if 
that  harm  to  the  animal  was  illegal  where  "the  creation, 
sale,  or  possession  t[ook]  place,"  $ 48(c)(1).  A  saving  clause 
largely  borrowed  from  our  obscenity  jurisprudence,  see 
Miller v.  California, 413 U. S. 15, 24 (1973), exempted depic-
tions with "serious religious, political, scientific, educational, 
journalistic,  historical,  or  artistic  value,"  $ 48(b).  We  held 
that statute to be an impermissible content-based restriction 
on  speech.  There  was  no  American  tradition  of  forbidding 
the  depiction  of  animal  cruelty--though  States  have  long 
had laws against committing it. 

792  BROWN  v.  ENTERTAINMENT  MERCHANTS  ASSN. 

Opinion of the Court 
The Government argued in Stevens that lack of a historical 
warrant  did  not  matter;  that  it  could  create  new  categories 
of unprotected  speech by  applying a  "simple balancing test" 
that  weighs  the  value  of  a  particular  category  of  speech 
against  its  social  costs  and  then  punishes  that  category  of 
speech  if  it  fails  the  test.  Stevens,  559  U. S.,  at  470.  We 
emphatically rejected that "startling  and dangerous" propo-
sition.  Ibid.  "Maybe  there  are  some  categories  of  speech 
that  have  been  historically  unprotected,  but  have  not  yet 
been  specifically  identified  or  discussed  as  such  in  our  case 
law."  Id.,  at  472.  But  without  persuasive  evidence  that  a 
novel  restriction  on  content  is  part  of  a  long  (if  heretofore 
unrecognized) tradition of proscription, a legislature may not 
revise the "judgment [of] the American people," embodied in 
the  First  Amendment,  "that  the  benefits  of  its  restrictions 
on the Government outweigh the costs."  Id., at 470. 

That holding controls this case.1  As in Stevens, California 
has tried to make violent-speech regulation look like obscen-
ity regulation by appending a saving clause required for the 
latter.  That  does  not  suffice.  Our  cases  have  been  clear 
that  the  obscenity  exception  to  the  First  Amendment  does 

1 Justice

Cite as: 564 U. S. 786 (2011)  793 

Opinion of the Court 
not cover whatever a legislature finds shocking, but only de-pictions  of  "sexual  conduct,"  Miller,  supra,  at  24.  See  also 

Cohen  v.  California, 403  U. S.  15,  20  (1971);  Roth,  supra,  at 487, and n. 20. 

Stevens  was  not  the  first  time  we  have  encountered  and rejected a State's attempt to shoehorn speech about violence 
into obscenity.  In Winters, we considered a New York crim-inal statute "forbid[ding] the massing of stories of bloodshed 
and  lust in  such  a  way  as  to incite  to  crime  against  the  per-son,"  333  U. S.,  at  514.  The  New  York  Court  of  Appeals 
upheld  the  provision  as  a  law  against  obscenity.  "[T]here can  be  no  more  precise  test  of  written  indecency  or  obscen-
ity," it said, "than the continuing and changeable experience of  the  community  as  to  what  types  of  books  are  likely  to 
bring  about  the  corruption  of  public  morals  or  other  analo-gous  injury  to  the  public  order.  "  Ibid.  (internal  quotation 
marks omitted).  That is of course the same expansive view of  governmental  power  to  abridge  the  freedom  of  speech 
based  on  interest  balancing  that  we  rejected  in  Stevens. Our opinion in Winters, which concluded that the New York 
statute failed a heightened vagueness standard applicable to restrictions  upon  speech  entitled  to  First  Amendment  pro-
tection, 333 U. S., at 517-519, made clear that violence is not part of the obscenity that the Constitution permits to be reg-
ulated.  The  speech  reached  by  the  statute  contained  "no indecency or obscenity in any sense heretofore known to the 
law."  Id., at 519. Because  speech  about  violence  is  not  obscene,  it  is  of  no 
consequence  that  California's  statute  mimics  the  New  York statute  regulating  obscenity  for  minors  that  we  upheld  in 
Ginsberg  v.  New  York,  390  U. S.  629  (1968).  That  case  ap-proved a prohibition on the sale to minors of sexual material 
that would be obscene from the perspective of a child.2  We 

2 The  statute  in  Ginsberg  restricted  the  sale  of  certain  depictions  of 
" `nudity,  sexual  conduct,  sexual  excitement,  or  sado-masochistic  abuse' " 
that  were  " `[h]armful  to  minors.' "  A  depiction  was  harmful  to  minors 
if it: 

794  BROWN  v.  ENTERTAINMENT  MERCHANTS  ASSN. 

Opinion of the Court 
held  that  the  legislature  could  "adjus[t]  the  definition  of  ob-scenity  `to  social  realities  by  permitting  the  appeal  of  this 

type of material to be assessed in terms of the sexual inter-ests . . . ' of . . . minors." 

Id., at 638 (quoting Mishkin v.  New 
York,  383  U. S.  502,  509  (1966)).  And  because  "obscenity  is not  protected  expression,"  the  New  York  statute  could  be 

sustained so long as the legislature's judgment that the pro-
scribed materials were harmful to children "was not irratio-nal."  390 U. S., at 641. 

The California Act is something else entirely.  It does not adjust the boundaries of an existing category of unprotected 
speech  to  ensure  that  a  definition  designed  for  adults  is  not uncritically  applied  to  children.  California  does  not  argue 
that  it  is  empowered  to  prohibit  selling  offensively  violent works 

to  adults--and  it  is  wise  not  to,  since  that  is  but  a 
hair's  breadth  from  the  argument  rejected  in  Stevens.  In-
stead,  it  wishes  to  create  a  wholly  new  category  of  contentbased regulation that is permissible only for speech directed 
at children. 

That  is  unprecedented  and  mistaken.  "[M]inors  are  enti-
tled to a significant measure of First Amendment protection, 
and only in relatively narrow and well-defined circumstances 
may government bar public dissemination of protected mate-
rials  to  them."  Erznoznik  v.  Jacksonville,  422  U. S.  205, 
212-213  (1975)  (citation  omitted).  No  doubt  a  State  pos-
sesses legitimate power to protect children from harm, Gins-
berg,  supra,  at  640-641;  Prince  v.  Massachusetts,  321  U. S. 
158,  165  (1944),  but  that  does  not  include  a  free-floating 
power  to  restrict  the  ideas  to  which  children  may  be  ex-

"(i)  predominantly appeals to the prurient, shameful or morbid interest 
of minors, and 

"(ii)  is  patently  offensive  to  prevailing  standards  in  the  adult  commu-
nity as  a  whole  with respect  to what  is suitable  material  for minors,  and 

"(iii)  is  utterly  without  redeeming  social  importance  for  minors."  390 
U. S.,  at  646  (Appendix  A  to  opinion  of  the  Court)  (quoting  N. Y.  Penal 
Law $ 484-h(1)(f)). 

Cite as: 564 U. S. 786 (2011)  795 

Opinion of the Court 
posed.  "Speech that is neither obscene as to youths nor sub-ject  to  some  other  legitimate  proscription  cannot  be  sup-

pressed solely to protect the young from ideas or images that a  legislative  body  thinks  unsuitable  for  them."  Erznoznik, 
supra, at 213-214.3 California's  argument  would  fare  better  if  there  were  a 
longstanding tradition in this country of specially restricting children's access  to depictions  of violence, but there  is none. 
Certainly  the  books  we  give  children  to  read--or  read  to 

3 Justice

796  BROWN  v.  ENTERTAINMENT  MERCHANTS  ASSN. 

Opinion of the Court 
them  when  they  are  younger--contain  no  shortage  of  gore. Grimm's Fairy Tales, for example, are grim indeed.  As her 

just  deserts  for  trying  to  poison  Snow  White,  the  wicked queen is made to dance in red hot slippers "till she fell dead 
on the floor, a sad example of envy and jealousy."  The Com-
plete Brothers Grimm Fairy Tales 198 (2006 ed.).  Cinderel-la's  evil  stepsisters  have  their  eyes  pecked  out  by  doves. 

Id.,  at  95.  And  Hansel  and Gretel  (children!)  kill  their  cap-tor by baking her in an oven. 

Id., at 54. 
High-school reading lists are full of similar fare.  Homer's Odysseus blinds Polyphemus the Cyclops by grinding out his 

eye  with  a  heated  stake.  22  The  Odyssey  of  Homer,  Book IX, p. 125 (S. Butcher & A. Lang transls. 1909) ("Even so did 
we  seize the  fiery-pointed  brand  and  whirled  it  round  in  his 
eye,  and  the  blood  flowed  about  the  heated  bar.  And  the breath  of  the  flame  singed  his  eyelids  and  brows  all  about, 

as the ball of the eye burnt away, and the roots thereof crack-led  in  the  flame").  In  the  Inferno,  Dante  and  Virgil  watch 
corrupt  politicians  struggle  to  stay  submerged  beneath  a lake  of  boiling  pitch,  lest  they  be  skewered  by  devils  above 
the surface.  Canto XXI, pp.  187-189 (A. Mandelbaum transl. Bantam Classic ed. 1982).  And Golding's Lord of the 
Flies recounts how a schoolboy called Piggy is savagely mur-dered 

by  other  children  while  marooned  on  an  island.  W. 
Golding, Lord of the Flies 208-209 (1997 ed.).4 

4 Justice

Cite as: 564 U. S. 786 (2011)  797 

Opinion of the Court 
This  is  not  to  say  that  minors'  consumption  of  violent  en-
tertainment has never encountered resistance.  In the 
1800's,  dime  novels  depicting  crime  and  "penny  dreadfuls" 
(named  for  their  price  and  content)  were  blamed  in  some 
quarters for juvenile delinquency.  See Brief for Cato Insti-
tute  as  Amicus  Curiae  6-7.  When  motion  pictures  came 
along,  they  became  the  villains  instead.  "The  days  when 
the police looked upon dime novels as the most dangerous of 
textbooks in the school for crime are drawing to a close. . . . 
They  say  that  the  moving  picture  machine  .  .  .  tends  even 
more  than  did  the  dime  novel  to  turn  the  thoughts  of  the 
easily  influenced  to  paths  which  sometimes  lead  to  prison." 
Moving  Pictures  as  Helps  to  Crime,  N.  Y.  Times,  Feb.  21, 
1909,  quoted  in  Brief  for  Cato  Institute  8.  For  a  time,  our 
Court did permit broad censorship of movies because of their 
capacity to be "used for  evil," see  Mutual Film Corp. v.  In-
dustrial  Comm'n  of  Ohio,  236  U. S.  230,  242  (1915),  but  we 
eventually  reversed  course,  Joseph  Burstyn,  Inc.,  343  U. S., 
at  502;  see  also  Erznoznik,  supra,  at  212-214  (invalidating 
a  drive-in  movies  restriction  designed  to  protect  children). 
Radio dramas were next, and then came comic books.  Brief 
for  Cato  Institute  10-11.  Many  in the  late  1940's  and  early 
1950's  blamed  comic  books  for  fostering  a  "preoccupation 
with violence and horror" among the young, leading to a ris-
ing  juvenile  crime  rate.  See  Note,  Regulation  of  Comic 
Books,  68  Harv. L. Rev. 489,  490  (1955).  But  efforts  to 
convince  Congress  to  restrict  comic  books  failed.  Brief  for 
Comic  Book  Legal  Defense  Fund  as  Amicus  Curiae  11-15.5 

of free speech as the best of literature."  Winters v.  New York, 333 U. S. 
507, 510 (1948). 

5 The  crusade  against  comic  books  was  led  by  a  psychiatrist,  Frederic 

Wertham,  who  told  the  Senate  Judiciary  Committee  that  "as  long  as  the 
crime comic books industry exists in its present forms there are no secure 
homes."  Juvenile  Delinquency  (Comic  Books):  Hearings  before  the  Sub-
committee  to  Investigate  Juvenile  Delinquency,  83d  Cong.,  2d  Sess.,  84 
(1954).  Wertham's objections  extended even to Superman  comics,  which 
he described as "particularly injurious to the ethical development of chil-

798  BROWN  v.  ENTERTAINMENT  MERCHANTS  ASSN. 

Opinion of the Court 
And,  of course,  after  comic books  came  television and  music lyrics. 

California  claims  that  video  games  present  special  prob-lems  because  they  are  "interactive,"  in  that  the  player  par-
ticipates  in  the  violent  action  on  screen  and  determines  its outcome.  The  latter  feature  is  nothing  new:  Since  at  least 
the  publication  of  The  Adventures  of  You:  Sugarcane  Island in 1969, young readers of choose-your-own-adventure stories 
have  been  able  to  make  decisions  that  determine  the  plot by  following  instructions  about  which  page  to  turn  to. 
Cf.  Interactive  Digital  Software  Assn.  v.  St.  Louis  County, 329 F. 3d 954, 957-958 (CA8 2003).  As for the argument that 
video  games  enable  participation  in  the  violent  action,  that seems to us more a matter of degree than of kind.  As Judge 
Posner  has  observed,  all  literature  is  interactive.  "[T]he better it is, the more interactive.  Literature when it is suc-
cessful  draws  the  reader  into  the  story,  makes  him  identify with  the  characters,  invites  him  to  judge  them  and  quarrel 
with  them,  to  experience  their  joys  and  sufferings  as  the reader's  own."  American  Amusement  Machine  Assn.  v. 
Kendrick,  244  F.  3d  572,  577  (CA7  2001)  (striking  down  a similar restriction on violent video games). 

Justice

Cite as: 564 U. S. 786 (2011)  799 

Opinion of the Court 
video  games  he  has  discovered  that  have  a  racial  or  ethnic motive  for  their  violence--" `ethnic  cleansing'  [of] . . .  

African-Americans, Latinos, or Jews."  To what end does he relate this?  Does it somehow increase the "aggressiveness" 
that  California  wishes  to  suppress?  Who  knows?  But  it does  arouse  the  reader's  ire,  and  the  reader's  desire  to  put 
an  end  to  this  horrible  message.  Thus,  ironically,  Justice

800  BROWN  v.  ENTERTAINMENT  MERCHANTS  ASSN. 

Opinion of the Court 
risk of uncertainty, see Playboy, supra, at 816-817, ambigu-ous proof will not suffice. 

The  State's  evidence  is  not  compelling.  California  relies primarily  on  the  research  of  Dr.  Craig  Anderson  and  a  few 
other  research  psychologists  whose  studies  purport  to  show a  connection  between  exposure  to  violent  video  games  and 
harmful  effects  on  children.  These  studies  have  been  re-jected  by  every  court  to  consider them,

6  and  with  good  rea-

son:  They  do  not  prove  that  violent  video  games  cause minors to 

act aggressively (which would at least be a begin-ning).  Instead, "[n]early all of the research is based on cor-

relation,  not  evidence  of  causation,  and  most  of  the  studies suffer from significant, admitted flaws in methodology."  556 
F.  3d,  at  964.  They  show  at  best  some  correlation  between exposure to violent entertainment and minuscule real-world 
effects, such as children's feeling more aggressive or making louder noises in the few minutes after playing a violent game 
than after playing a nonviolent game.7 Even  taking  for  granted  Dr.  Anderson's  conclusions  that 
violent  video  games  produce  some  effect  on  children's  feel-ings of aggression, those effects are both small and indistin-

6 See  Video  Software  Dealers  Assn.  v.  Schwarzenegger,  556  F.  3d  950, 
963-964  (CA9  2009);  Interactive  Digital  Software  Assn.  v.  St.  Louis 
County, 329 F. 3d 954 (CA8 2003); American Amusement Machine Assn. 
v.  Kendrick,  244 F. 3d 572,  578-579 (CA7  2001); Entertainment  Software 
Assn. v.  Foti, 451 F. Supp. 2d 823, 832-833 (MD La. 2006); Entertainment 
Software  Assn.  v.  Hatch,  443  F.  Supp.  2d  1065,  1070  (Minn.  2006),  aff'd, 
519  F.  3d  768  (CA8  2008);  Entertainment  Software  Assn.  v.  Granholm, 
426 F. Supp. 2d 646, 653 (ED Mich. 2006); Entertainment Software Assn. 
v.  Blagojevich,  404  F.  Supp.  2d  1051,  1063  (ND  Ill.  2005),  aff'd,  469  F.  3d 
641 (CA7 2006). 

7 One study, for example, found that children who had just finished play-

ing  violent  video  games  were  more  likely  to  fill  in  the  blank  letter  in 
"explo_e"  with  a  "d"  (so  that  it  reads  "explode")  than  with  an  "r"  ("ex-
plore").  App. 496, 506 (internal  quotation marks  omitted).  The preven-
tion of this phenomenon, which might have been anticipated with common 
sense, is not a compelling state interest. 

Cite as: 564 U. S. 786 (2011)  801 

Opinion of the Court 
guishable from effects produced by other media.  In his tes-
timony  in  a  similar  lawsuit,  Dr.  Anderson  admitted  that  the 
"effect  sizes"  of  children's  exposure  to  violent  video  games 
are  "about  the  same"  as  that  produced  by  their  exposure  to 
violence  on television.  App. 1263.  And he  admits that the 
same effects have been found  when children watch  cartoons 
starring  Bugs  Bunny  or  the  Road  Runner,  id.,  at  1304,  or 
when  they  play  video  games  like  Sonic  the  Hedgehog  that 
are rated "E" (appropriate for all ages), id., at 1270, or even 
when they "vie[w] a picture of a gun," id., at 1315-1316.8 

Of  course,  California  has  (wisely)  declined  to  restrict  Sat-
urday  morning  cartoons,  the  sale  of  games  rated  for  young 

8 Justice

802  BROWN  v.  ENTERTAINMENT  MERCHANTS  ASSN. 

Opinion of the Court 
children, or the distribution of pictures of guns.  The conse-quence  is  that  its  regulation  is  wildly  underinclusive  when 

judged against its asserted justification, which in our view is alone enough to defeat it.  Underinclusiveness raises serious 
doubts  about  whether  the  government  is  in  fact  pursuing the  interest  it  invokes,  rather  than  disfavoring  a  particular 
speaker or viewpoint.  See City of Ladue v.  Gilleo, 512 U. S. 
43, 51 (1994); Florida Star v.  B.  J.  F.,  491 U. S. 524, 540 (1989). Here,  California  has  singled  out  the  purveyors  of  video 

games  for  disfavored  treatment--at  least  when  compared to  booksellers,  cartoonists,  and  movie  producers--and  has 
given no persuasive reason why. 

The  Act  is  also  seriously  underinclusive  in  another  re-
spect--and a respect that renders irrelevant the contentions 
of  the  concurrence  and  the  dissents  that  video  games  are 
qualitatively  different  from  other  portrayals  of  violence. 
The  California  Legislature  is  perfectly  willing  to  leave  this 
dangerous,  mind-altering  material  in  the  hands  of  children 
so  long  as  one  parent  (or  even  an  aunt  or  uncle)  says  it's 
OK.  And  there  are  not  even  any  requirements  as  to  how 
this  parental  or  avuncular  relationship  is  to  be  verified;  ap-
parently  the  child's  or  putative  parent's,  aunt's,  or  uncle's 
say-so suffices.  That is not how one addresses a serious so-
cial problem. 

California claims that the Act is justified in aid of parental 
authority:  By  requiring  that  the  purchase  of  violent  video 
games can be made only by adults, the Act ensures that par-
ents can decide what games are appropriate.  At the outset, 
we  note  our  doubts  that  punishing  third  parties  for  convey-
ing  protected  speech  to  children  just  in  case  their  parents 
disapprove  of  that  speech  is  a  proper  governmental  means 
of aiding parental authority.  Accepting  that position would 
largely  vitiate  the  rule  that  "only  in  relatively  narrow  and 
well-defined  circumstances  may  government  bar  public  dis-
semination  of  protected  materials  to  [minors]."  Erznoznik, 
422 U. S., at 212-213. 

Cite as: 564 U. S. 786 (2011)  803 

Opinion of the Court 
But  leaving  that  aside,  California  cannot  show  that  the Act's  restrictions  meet  a  substantial  need  of  parents  who 

wish to restrict their children's access to violent video games but  cannot  do  so.  The  video-game  industry  has  in  place  a 
voluntary rating system designed to inform consumers about the content of games.  The system, implemented by the En-
tertainment  Software  Rating  Board  (ESRB),  assigns  age-specific  ratings  to  each  video  game  submitted:  EC  (Early 
Childhood);  E  (Everyone);  E10+  (Everyone  10  and  older);  T (Teens);  M  (17  and  older);  and  AO  (Adults  Only--18  and 
older).  App.  86.  The  Video  Software  Dealers  Association encourages retailers to prominently display information 
about the ESRB system in their stores; to refrain from rent-ing or selling adults-only games to minors; and to rent or sell 
"M" rated games to minors only with parental consent.  Id., at 47.  In 2009, the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) found 
that,  as  a  result  of  this  system,  "the  video  game  industry outpaces  the  movie  and  music  industries"  in  "(1)  restrict-
ing  target-marketing  of  mature-rated  products  to  children; (2) clearly and prominently disclosing rating information; and 
(3)  restricting  children's  access  to  mature-rated  products  at retail."  FTC,  Report  to  Congress,  Marketing  Violent  En-
tertainment  to  Children  30  (Dec.  2009),  online  at  http:// www.ftc.gov/os/2009/12/P994511violententertainment.pdf  (as 
visited  June  24,  2011,  and  available  in  Clerk  of  Court's  case file)  (FTC  Report).  This  system  does  much  to  ensure  that 
minors  cannot  purchase  seriously  violent  games  on  their own, and that parents who care about the matter can readily 
evaluate  the  games  their  children  bring  home.  Filling  the remaining  modest  gap  in  concerned  parents'  control  can 
hardly be a compelling state interest.9 

9 Justice

804  BROWN  v.  ENTERTAINMENT  MERCHANTS  ASSN. 

Opinion of the Court 
And  finally,  the  Act's  purported  aid  to  parental  authority is vastly  overinclusive.  Not all of the children who are for-

bidden  to  purchase  violent  video  games  on  their  own  have parents  who  care  whether  they  purchase  violent  video 
games.  While some of the legislation's effect may indeed be in  support  of  what  some  parents  of  the  restricted  children 
actually want, its entire effect is only in support of what the State thinks parents 

ought to want.  This is not the narrow tailoring  to  "assisting  parents"  that  restriction  of  First 

Amendment rights requires. 

* * * 
California's  effort  to  regulate  violent  video  games  is  the latest  episode  in  a  long  series  of  failed  attempts  to  censor 

violent  entertainment  for  minors.  While  we  have  pointed out above that some of the evidence brought forward to sup-
port  the  harmfulness  of video  games  is  unpersuasive, we  do not mean to demean or disparage the concerns that underlie 
the attempt to regulate them--concerns that may and doubt-less  do  prompt  a  good  deal  of  parental  oversight.  We  have 
no  business  passing  judgment  on  the  view  of  the  California Legislature that violent video games (or, for that matter, any 
other forms of speech) corrupt the young or harm their moral development.  Our  task  is  only  to  say  whether  or  not  such 
works constitute a "well-defined and narrowly limited clas[s] of  speech,  the  prevention  and  punishment  of  which  have 
never  been  thought  to  raise  any  Constitutional  problem," 
Chaplinsky, 315  U. S.,  at 571-572  (the answer  plainly  is  no); and  if  not,  whether  the  regulation  of  such  works  is  justified 

by that high degree of necessity we have described as a com-pelling state interest (it is not).  Even where the protection 

about  18%  of  retailers  still  sell  alcohol  to  those  under  the  drinking  age. 
Brief  for  State  of  Rhode  Island  et  al.  as  Amici  Curiae  18.  Even  if  the 
sale of violent video games to minors could be deterred further by increas-
ing regulation, the government does not have a compelling interest in each 
marginal percentage point by which its goals are advanced. 

Cite as: 564 U. S. 786 (2011)  805 
Alito,
806  BROWN  v.  ENTERTAINMENT  MERCHANTS  ASSN. 

Alito,

Cite as: 564 U. S. 786 (2011)  807 
Alito,
808  BROWN  v.  ENTERTAINMENT  MERCHANTS  ASSN. 

Alito,

Cite as: 564 U. S. 786 (2011)  809 
Alito,
810  BROWN  v.  ENTERTAINMENT  MERCHANTS  ASSN. 

Alito,

Cite as: 564 U. S. 786 (2011)  811 
Alito,
812  BROWN  v.  ENTERTAINMENT  MERCHANTS  ASSN. 

Alito,

Cite as: 564 U. S. 786 (2011)  813 
Alito,
814  BROWN  v.  ENTERTAINMENT  MERCHANTS  ASSN. 

Alito,

Cite as: 564 U. S. 786 (2011)  815 
Alito,
816  BROWN  v.  ENTERTAINMENT  MERCHANTS  ASSN. 

Alito,

Cite as: 564 U. S. 786 (2011)  817 
Alito,
818  BROWN  v.  ENTERTAINMENT  MERCHANTS  ASSN. 

Alito,

Cite as: 564 U. S. 786 (2011)  819 
Alito,
820  BROWN  v.  ENTERTAINMENT  MERCHANTS  ASSN. 

Alito,

Cite as: 564 U. S. 786 (2011)  821 

Thomas,
822  BROWN  v.  ENTERTAINMENT  MERCHANTS  ASSN. 

Thomas,
Cite as: 564 U. S. 786 (2011)  823 

Thomas,
824  BROWN  v.  ENTERTAINMENT  MERCHANTS  ASSN. 

Thomas,
Cite as: 564 U. S. 786 (2011)  825 

Thomas,
826  BROWN  v.  ENTERTAINMENT  MERCHANTS  ASSN. 

Thomas,
Cite as: 564 U. S. 786 (2011)  827 

Thomas,
828  BROWN  v.  ENTERTAINMENT  MERCHANTS  ASSN. 

Thomas,
Cite as: 564 U. S. 786 (2011)  829 

Thomas,
830  BROWN  v.  ENTERTAINMENT  MERCHANTS  ASSN. 

Thomas,
Cite as: 564 U. S. 786 (2011)  831 

Thomas,
832  BROWN  v.  ENTERTAINMENT  MERCHANTS  ASSN. 

Thomas,
Cite as: 564 U. S. 786 (2011)  833 

Thomas,
834  BROWN  v.  ENTERTAINMENT  MERCHANTS  ASSN. 

Thomas,
Cite as: 564 U. S. 786 (2011)  835 

Thomas,
836  BROWN  v.  ENTERTAINMENT  MERCHANTS  ASSN. 

Thomas,
Cite as: 564 U. S. 786 (2011)  837 

Thomas,
838  BROWN  v.  ENTERTAINMENT  MERCHANTS  ASSN. 

Thomas,
Cite as: 564 U. S. 786 (2011)  839 

Thomas,
840  BROWN  v.  ENTERTAINMENT  MERCHANTS  ASSN. 

Breyer,
Cite as: 564 U. S. 786 (2011)  841 

Breyer,
842  BROWN  v.  ENTERTAINMENT  MERCHANTS  ASSN. 

Breyer,
Cite as: 564 U. S. 786 (2011)  843 

Breyer,
844  BROWN  v.  ENTERTAINMENT  MERCHANTS  ASSN. 

Breyer,
Cite as: 564 U. S. 786 (2011)  845 

Breyer,
846  BROWN  v.  ENTERTAINMENT  MERCHANTS  ASSN. 

Breyer,
Cite as: 564 U. S. 786 (2011)  847 

Breyer,
848  BROWN  v.  ENTERTAINMENT  MERCHANTS  ASSN. 

Breyer,
Cite as: 564 U. S. 786 (2011)  849 

Breyer,
850  BROWN  v.  ENTERTAINMENT  MERCHANTS  ASSN. 

Breyer,
Cite as: 564 U. S. 786 (2011)  851 

Breyer,
852  BROWN  v.  ENTERTAINMENT  MERCHANTS  ASSN. 

Breyer,
Cite as: 564 U. S. 786 (2011)  853 

Breyer,
854  BROWN  v.  ENTERTAINMENT  MERCHANTS  ASSN. 

Breyer,
Cite as: 564 U. S. 786 (2011)  855 

Breyer,
856  BROWN  v.  ENTERTAINMENT  MERCHANTS  ASSN. 

Breyer,
Cite as: 564 U. S. 786 (2011)  857 

Breyer,
858  BROWN  v.  ENTERTAINMENT  MERCHANTS  ASSN. 

Appendix A to opinion of Breyer,

Cite as: 564 U. S. 786 (2011)  859 
Appendix A to opinion of Breyer,
860  BROWN  v.  ENTERTAINMENT  MERCHANTS  ASSN. 

Appendix A to opinion of Breyer,

Cite as: 564 U. S. 786 (2011)  861 
Appendix A to opinion of Breyer,
862  BROWN  v.  ENTERTAINMENT  MERCHANTS  ASSN. 

Appendix A to opinion of Breyer,

Cite as: 564 U. S. 786 (2011)  863 
Appendix A to opinion of Breyer,
864  BROWN  v.  ENTERTAINMENT  MERCHANTS  ASSN. 

Appendix A to opinion of Breyer,

Cite as: 564 U. S. 786 (2011)  865 
Appendix A to opinion of Breyer,
866  BROWN  v.  ENTERTAINMENT  MERCHANTS  ASSN. 

Appendix A to opinion of Breyer,

Cite as: 564 U. S. 786 (2011)  867 
Appendix A to opinion of Breyer,
868  BROWN  v.  ENTERTAINMENT  MERCHANTS  ASSN. 

Appendix A to opinion of Breyer,

Cite as: 564 U. S. 786 (2011)  869 
Appendix B to opinion of Breyer,
870  BROWN  v.  ENTERTAINMENT  MERCHANTS  ASSN. 

Appendix B to opinion of Breyer,

Cite as: 564 U. S. 786 (2011)  871 
Appendix B to opinion of Breyer,
872  BROWN  v.  ENTERTAINMENT  MERCHANTS  ASSN. 

Appendix B to opinion of Breyer,

OCTOBER  TERM,  2010  873 

Syllabus 

J.  McINTYRE

874  J.  McINTYRE  MACHINERY,  LTD.  v.Cite as: 564 U. S. 873 (2011)  875 

Syllabus 
(b)  Nicastro has not established that J. McIntyre engaged in conduct 
purposefully  directed  at  New  Jersey.  The  company  had  no  office  in 
New Jersey; it neither paid taxes nor owned property there; and it nei-
ther  advertised  in,  nor  sent  any  employees  to,  the  State.  Indeed,  the 
trial  court  found  that  petitioner did  not have  a  single contact  with the 
State apart from the fact that the machine in question ended up there. 
Neither these facts, nor the three on which Nicastro centered his juris-
dictional claim, show that J. McIntyre purposefully availed itself  of the 
New Jersey market.  Pp. 885-887. 

Justice

876  J.  McINTYRE  MACHINERY,  LTD.  v.Cite as: 564 U. S. 873 (2011)  877 

Opinion of Kennedy,
878  J.  McINTYRE  MACHINERY,  LTD.  v.Cite as: 564 U. S. 873 (2011)  879 

Opinion of Kennedy,
880  J.  McINTYRE  MACHINERY,  LTD.  v.Cite as: 564 U. S. 873 (2011)  881 

Opinion of Kennedy,
882  J.  McINTYRE  MACHINERY,  LTD.  v.Cite as: 564 U. S. 873 (2011)  883 

Opinion of Kennedy,
884  J.  McINTYRE  MACHINERY,  LTD.  v.Cite as: 564 U. S. 873 (2011)  885 

Opinion of Kennedy,
886  J.  McINTYRE  MACHINERY,  LTD.  v.Cite as: 564 U. S. 873 (2011)  887 

Breyer,
888  J.  McINTYRE  MACHINERY,  LTD.  v.Cite as: 564 U. S. 873 (2011)  889 

Breyer,
890  J.  McINTYRE  MACHINERY,  LTD.  v.Cite as: 564 U. S. 873 (2011)  891 

Breyer,
892  J.  McINTYRE  MACHINERY,  LTD.  v.Cite as: 564 U. S. 873 (2011)  893 

Ginsburg,
894  J.  McINTYRE  MACHINERY,  LTD.  v.Cite as: 564 U. S. 873 (2011)  895 

Ginsburg,
896  J.  McINTYRE  MACHINERY,  LTD.  v.Cite as: 564 U. S. 873 (2011)  897 

Ginsburg,
898  J.  McINTYRE  MACHINERY,  LTD.  v.Cite as: 564 U. S. 873 (2011)  899 

Ginsburg,
900  J.  McINTYRE  MACHINERY,  LTD.  v.Cite as: 564 U. S. 873 (2011)  901 

Ginsburg,
902  J.  McINTYRE  MACHINERY,  LTD.  v.Cite as: 564 U. S. 873 (2011)  903 

Ginsburg,
904  J.  McINTYRE  MACHINERY,  LTD.  v.Cite as: 564 U. S. 873 (2011)  905 

Ginsburg,
906  J.  McINTYRE  MACHINERY,  LTD.  v.Cite as: 564 U. S. 873 (2011)  907 

Ginsburg,
908  J.  McINTYRE  MACHINERY,  LTD.  v.Cite as: 564 U. S. 873 (2011)  909 

Ginsburg,
910  J.  McINTYRE  MACHINERY,  LTD.  v.Cite as: 564 U. S. 873 (2011)  911 

Appendix to opinion of Ginsburg,
912  J.  McINTYRE  MACHINERY,  LTD.  v.Cite as: 564 U. S. 873 (2011)  913 

Appendix to opinion of Ginsburg,
914  J.  McINTYRE  MACHINERY,  LTD.  v.OCTOBER  TERM,  2010  915 

Syllabus 

GOODYEAR  DUNLOP  TIRES  OPERATIONS,  S.  A., 

et

916  GOODYEAR DUNLOP TIRES OPERATIONS, S. A. 

v.
Cite as: 564 U. S. 915 (2011)  917 

Syllabus 
Measured  against Helicopteros

918  GOODYEAR  DUNLOP  TIRES  OPERATIONS,  S.  A. 

v.
Cite as: 564 U. S. 915 (2011)  919 

Opinion of the Court 
ton,

920  GOODYEAR  DUNLOP  TIRES  OPERATIONS,  S.  A. 

v.
Cite as: 564 U. S. 915 (2011)  921 

Opinion of the Court 
ture  tires  primarily  for  sale  in  European  and  Asian  mar-kets.  Their  tires  differ  in  size  and  construction  from  tires 

ordinarily  sold  in  the  United  States.  They  are  designed  to carry  significantly  heavier  loads,  and  to  serve  under  road 
conditions  and  speed  limits  in  the  manufacturers'  primary markets.

1 

In  contrast  to  the  parent  company,  Goodyear  USA,  which does not contest the North Carolina courts' personal jurisdic-

tion  over  it,  petitioners  are  not  registered  to  do  business  in North Carolina.  They have no place of business, employees, 
or  bank  accounts  in  North  Carolina.  They  do  not  design, 
manufacture,  or  advertise  their  products  in  North  Carolina. And  they  do  not  solicit  business  in  North  Carolina or  them-

selves sell or ship tires to North Carolina customers.  Even so, a small percentage of petitioners' tires (tens of thousands 
out of tens of millions manufactured between 2004 and 2007) 
were  distributed  within  North  Carolina  by  other  Goodyear USA  affiliates.  These  tires  were  typically  custom  ordered 

to  equip  specialized  vehicles  such  as  cement  mixers,  waste haulers,  and  boat  and  horse  trailers.  Petitioners  state, 
and  respondents  do  not  here  deny,  that  the  type  of  tire  in-volved in the accident, a Goodyear Regional RHS tire manu-
factured  by  Goodyear  Turkey,  was  never  distributed  in North Carolina. 

Petitioners  moved  to  dismiss  the  claims  against  them  for 
want  of  personal  jurisdiction.  The  trial  court  denied  the motion,  and  the  North  Carolina  Court  of  Appeals  affirmed. 

Acknowledging  that  the  claims  neither  "related  to,  nor  .  .  . ar[o]se from, [petitioners'] contacts with North Carolina," the 
Court  of  Appeals  confined  its  analysis  to  "general  rather 

1 Respondents portray Goodyear USA's structure as a reprehensible ef-
fort to "outsource" all manufacturing, and correspondingly, tort litigation, 
to  foreign  jurisdictions.  See  Brief  for  Respondents  51-53.  Yet  Turkey, 
where  the  tire  alleged  to  have  caused  the  accident-in-suit  was  made,  is 
hardly a strange location for a  facility that primarily supplies markets in 
Europe and Asia. 

922  GOODYEAR  DUNLOP  TIRES  OPERATIONS,  S.  A. 

v.
Cite as: 564 U. S. 915 (2011)  923 

Opinion of the Court 
denied discretionary review.  Brown

924  GOODYEAR  DUNLOP  TIRES  OPERATIONS,  S.  A. 

v.
Cite as: 564 U. S. 915 (2011)  925 

Opinion of the Court 
ida may maintain breach-of-contract action in Florida against 
Michigan  franchisees,  where  agreement  contemplated  ongo-
ing  interactions  between  franchisees  and  franchisor's  head-
quarters);  Asahi

926  GOODYEAR  DUNLOP  TIRES  OPERATIONS,  S.  A. 

v.
Cite as: 564 U. S. 915 (2011)  927 

Opinion of the Court 
accident)  occurred  outside  the  forum.  See  199  N.  C.  App., at 61, n. 6, 681 S. E. 2d, at 390, n. 6.

4 

The  North  Carolina  court's  stream-of-commerce  analysis elided the essential difference between case-specific and  allpurpose  (general)  jurisdiction.  Flow  of  a  manufacturer's products  into  the  forum,  we  have  explained,  may  bolster 
an  affiliation  germane  to  specific

928  GOODYEAR  DUNLOP  TIRES  OPERATIONS,  S.  A. 

v.
Cite as: 564 U. S. 915 (2011)  929 

Opinion of the Court 
systematic  general  business  contacts . . .  found  to  exist  in Perkins,"  and  were  insufficient  to  support  the  exercise  of 

jurisdiction over a claim that neither "ar[o]se out of . . . no[r]  related  to"  the  defendant's  activities  in  Texas.  Id.,

930  GOODYEAR  DUNLOP  TIRES  OPERATIONS,  S.  A. 

v.
Cite as: 564 U. S. 915 (2011)  931 

Opinion of the Court 
ents  44.  Respondents  have  therefore  forfeited  this  conten-tion,  and  we  do  not  address  it.  This  Court's  Rule  15.2; 

Granite

932   OCTOBER  TERM,  2010 

Per  Curiam 

UNITED  STATES  v.

Cite as: 564 U. S. 932 (2011)  933 

Per Curiam 
plied to juveniles adjudicated as delinquent before SORNA's enactment.  We  conclude  that  the  Court  of  Appeals  had  no 

authority to enter that judgment because it had no live con-troversy before it. 

I 
Respondent Juvenile Male was 13 years old when he began sexually  abusing  a  10-year-old  boy  on  the  Fort  Belknap  In-

dian  Reservation  in  Montana.  The  abuse  continued  for  ap-proximately  two years,  until respondent  was 15  and  his  vic-
tim  12.  In  2005,  respondent  was  charged  in  the  District  of Montana with delinquency under the Federal Juvenile Delin-
quency  Act,  18  U. S. C.  $ 5031  et

934  UNITED  STATES  v.Cite as: 564 U. S. 932 (2011)  935 

Per Curiam 
Facto Clause."  Id.,

936  UNITED  STATES  v.Cite as: 564 U. S. 932 (2011)  937 

Per Curiam 
At the time of the Ninth Circuit's decision in this case, the 
District  Court's  order  of  juvenile  supervision  had  expired, 
and  respondent  was  no  longer  subject  to  the  sex-offender-
registration conditions that he sought to challenge on appeal. 
560  U. S.,  at  560.  As  a  result,  respondent's  challenge  was 
moot  before  the  Ninth  Circuit  unless  he  could  "show  that  a 
decision invalidating" the District Court's order would likely 
redress  some  collateral  consequence  of  the  registration  con-
ditions.  Ibid.

938  UNITED  STATES  v.Cite as: 564 U. S. 932 (2011)  939 

Per Curiam 
ment  of  the  Court of  Appeals  is  vacated,  and  the  case  is  re-manded with instructions to dismiss the appeal. 

It

940  OCTOBER  TERM,  2010 

Per  Curiam 

LEAL  GARCIA,  aka

Cite as: 564 U. S. 940 (2011)  941 

Per Curiam 
of  execution  on  the  ground  that  his  conviction  was  obtained in violation of the Vienna Convention on Consular Relations 

(Vienna Convention), Apr. 24, 1963, 21 U. S. T. 77, T. I. A. S. No.  6820.  He  relies  on 

Case

942  LEAL  GARCIA  v.Cite as: 564 U. S. 940 (2011)  943 

Breyer,
944  LEAL  GARCIA  v.Cite as: 564 U. S. 940 (2011)  945 

Breyer,
946  LEAL  GARCIA  v.Cite as: 564 U. S. 940 (2011)  947 

Breyer,
948  LEAL  GARCIA  v.

Reporter's
ORDERS  FOR  JUNE  13  THROUGH  SEPTEMBER  28,  2011  

June

1002  OCTOBER  TERM,  2010 

June  13,  2011  564  U. S. 
nied,  and  certiorari  dismissed.  See  this  Court's  Rule  39.8.  As petitioner  has  repeatedly  abused  this  Court's  process,  the  Clerk 
is directed not to accept any further petitions in noncriminal mat-ters  from  petitioner  unless  the  docketing  fee  required  by  Rule 
38(a) is paid and the petition is submitted in compliance with Rule 33.1.  See  Martin

ORDERS  1003 
564  U. S.  June  13,  2011 

No.  D-2587.  In

1004  OCTOBER  TERM,  2010 

June  13,  2011  564  U. S. 
sion.

ORDERS  1005 
564  U. S.  June  13,  2011 

No.  10-1260.  Gard

1006  OCTOBER  TERM,  2010 

June  13,  2011  564  U. S. 
No.  10-9209.  Purvis

ORDERS  1007 
564  U. S.  June  13,  2011 

No.  10-9926.  Macias

1008  OCTOBER  TERM,  2010 

June  13,  2011  564  U. S. 
No. 10-9969.  Jones

ORDERS  1009 
564  U. S.  June  13,  2011 

No.  10-10079.  Kafatia

1010  OCTOBER  TERM,  2010 

June  13,  2011  564  U. S. 
No.  10-10388.  Bucklon

ORDERS  1011 
564  U. S.  June  13,  2011 

No. 10-10447.  Jordan

1012  OCTOBER  TERM,  2010 

June  13,  2011  564  U. S. 
No.  10-10503.  Jackson

ORDERS  1013 
564  U. S.  June  13,  2011 

No. 10-1124.  Turlock

1014  OCTOBER  TERM,  2010 

June  13,  15,  16,  2011  564  U. S. 
No.  10-9067.  Adams

ORDERS  1015 
564  U. S.  June  16,  20,  2011 
sented  to  Justice

1016  OCTOBER  TERM,  2010 

June  20,  2011  564  U. S. 
practice  of  law  in  this  Court,  and  a  rule  will  issue,  returnable within  40  days,  requiring  him  to  show  cause  why  he  should  not 
be  disbarred  from  the  practice  of  law  in  this  Court. 

No.  D-2589.  In

ORDERS  1017 
564  U. S.  June  20,  2011 

No.  D-2596.  In

1018  OCTOBER  TERM,  2010 

June  20,  2011  564  U. S. 
No. 10-10576.  In

ORDERS  1019 
564  U. S.  June  20,  2011 

No.  10-803.  Banjo

1020  OCTOBER  TERM,  2010 

June  20,  2011  564  U. S. 
No.  10-1270.  Dotch

ORDERS  1021 
564  U. S.  June  20,  2011 
Inc.

1022  OCTOBER  TERM,  2010 

June  20,  2011  564  U. S. 
No.  10-7164.  Ethingor

ORDERS  1023 
564  U. S.  June  20,  2011 

No.  10-9399.  Begay

1024  OCTOBER  TERM,  2010 

June  20,  2011  564  U. S. 
No.  10-10031.  Ranstrom

ORDERS  1025 
564  U. S.  June  20,  2011 

No.  10-10072.  Arflack

1026  OCTOBER  TERM,  2010 

June  20,  2011  564  U. S. 
No. 10-10222.  Robinson

ORDERS  1027 
564  U. S.  June  20,  2011 

No.  10-10489.  King

1028  OCTOBER  TERM,  2010 

June  20,  2011  564  U. S. 
No.  10-10571.  Davis

ORDERS  1029 
564  U. S.  June  20,  2011 

No.  10-10597.  Ramos

1030  OCTOBER  TERM,  2010 

June  20,  2011  564  U. S. 
denied.  Justice

ORDERS  1031 
564  U. S.  June  20,  21,  2011 

No.  10-10643.  McCall

1032  OCTOBER  TERM,  2010 

June  21,  23,  27,  2011  564  U. S. 
Certiorari

ORDERS  1033 
564  U. S.  June  27,  2011 

No.  10-1091.  Colorado

1034  OCTOBER  TERM,  2010 

June  27,  2011  564  U. S. 
requiring him to show cause why he should not be disbarred from the  practice  of  law  in  this  Court. 

No. D-2599.  In

ORDERS  1035 
564  U. S.  June  27,  2011 

No.  10M117.  Savich

1036  OCTOBER  TERM,  2010 

June  27,  2011  564  U. S. 
No.  10-1195.  Mims

ORDERS  1037 
564  U. S.  June  27,  2011 
Certiorari

1038  OCTOBER  TERM,  2010 

June  27,  2011  564  U. S. 
No.  10-1036.  Zarnow,

ORDERS  1039 
564  U. S.  June  27,  2011 

No.  10-1311.  Blue

1040  OCTOBER  TERM,  2010 

June  27,  2011  564  U. S. 
No.  10-8448.  Bowes

ORDERS  1041 
564  U. S.  June  27,  2011 

No.  10-10101.  McKaughan

1042  OCTOBER  TERM,  2010 

June  27,  2011  564  U. S. 
No.  10-10155.  Book

ORDERS  1043 
564  U. S.  June  27,  2011 

No.  10-10205.  Dennis

1044  OCTOBER  TERM,  2010 

June  27,  2011  564  U. S. 
No.  10-10567.  Sawyer

ORDERS  1045 
564  U. S.  June  27,  2011 

No.  10-10667.  Betemit

1046  OCTOBER  TERM,  2010 

June  27,  2011  564  U. S. 
No.  10-537.  Osage

ORDERS   1047 
564  U. S.   June  27,  2011 

No.  10-1303.  Heydt-Benjamin

1048   OCTOBER  TERM,  2010 

Scalia,

ORDERS  1049 
564  U. S.  June  27,  2011 
ACCA's  residual  clause,  Sykes

1050  OCTOBER  TERM,  2010 

June  27,  28,  2011  564  U. S. 
No.  10-9000.  Lewis

ORDERS  1051 
564  U. S.  June  28,  2011 
Webster

1052  OCTOBER  TERM,  2010 

June  28,  2011  564  U. S. 
manded  for  further  proceedings.  Reported  below:  355  Fed. Appx.  1. 

Certiorari

ORDERS  1053 
564  U. S.  June  28,  29,  July  7,  19,  2011 

No.  10-1012.  Ducasse

1054  OCTOBER  TERM,  2010 

July  19,  20,  22,  2011  564  U. S. 
death,  presented  to  Justice

ORDERS  1055 
564  U. S. 

July

1056  OCTOBER  TERM,  2010 

July  25,  2011  564  U. S. 
No.  10-9430.  Cooper

ORDERS  1057 
564  U. S.  July  25,  28,  29,  August  9,  2011 

No.  10-9320.  Bisson

1058  OCTOBER  TERM,  2010 

564  U. S. 
August

ORDERS  1059 
564  U. S.  August  15,  2011 

No.  10-1254.  Parker

1060  OCTOBER  TERM,  2010 

August  15,  2011  564  U. S. 
No.  10-9572.  Heinonen

ORDERS  1061 
564  U. S.  August  15,  18,  23,  September  2,  2011 

No.  10-10601.  Hines

1062  OCTOBER  TERM,  2010 

September  2,  2011  564  U. S. 
No. 11A85.  Zangara

ORDERS  1063 
564  U. S.  September  2,  9,  13,  15,  2011 

No.  10-10551.  Cummings,

1064  OCTOBER  TERM,  2010 

September  20,  21,  22,  26,  27,  2011  564  U. S. 

September

ORDERS  1065 
564  U. S.  September  27,  2011 

No.  09-1158.  Douglas,

1066  OCTOBER  TERM,  2010 

September  27,  2011  564  U. S. 
to  participate  in  oral  argument  as  amicus

ORDERS  1067 
564  U. S. 

September

1068  OCTOBER  TERM,  2010 

Breyer,

ORDERS  1069 
564  U. S.  September  28,  2011 
of  reconciling  the  imposition  of  the  death  penalty  as  currently administered  with  procedures  necessary  to  ensure  that  the 
wrong  person  is  not  executed. Because  this  case  may  well  raise  these  questions  and  because 
I  believe  the  Court  should  consider  them,  I  vote  to  grant  the application  for  stay. 

No.  11-6239  (11A289).  Valle

Reporter's

OPINION OF INDIVIDUAL JUSTICE  IN CHAMBERS  

GRAY  v.

1302  GRAY  v.Cite as: 564 U. S. 1301 (2011)  1303 

Opinion in Chambers 
view,  see  Application  for  Stay  4  (citing  Barefoot

ST
ATEMENT

I N D E X
1306  INDEX 
BANKRUPTCY--Continued.  
state-law counterclaim filed by petitioner estate against respondent estate  
in  petitioner  estate's  bankruptcy  proceedings,  Article  III  of  Constitution  
did not.  Stern v. Marshall, p. 462.  

CALIFORNIA.

INDEX  1307 
CONSTITUTIONAL
1308  INDEX 
CONSTITUTIONAL

INDEX  1309 
FEDERAL
1310  INDEX 
NEVADA.

INDEX  1311 
SELF-INCRIMINATION.
1312  INDEX 
SUPREME