The Supreme Court of the State of Florida interpretedits elections statutes in proceedings brought to requiremanual recounts of ballots, and the certification of the recount results, for votes cast in the quadrennial Presidentialelection held on November 7, 2000. Governor George W.Bush, Republican candidate for the Presidency, filed a peti-tion for certiorari to review the Florida Supreme Court decision. We granted certiorari on two of the questions pre-sented by petitioner: whether the decision of the FloridaSupreme Court, by effectively changing the State's electorappointment procedures after election day, violated the DueProcess Clause or 3 U. S. C. $ 5, and whether the decision ofthat court changed the manner in which the State's electorsare to be selected, in violation of the legislature's power todesignate the manner for selection under Art. II, $ 1, cl. 2, ofthe United States Constitution.Post, p. 1004.On November 8, 2000, the day following the Presidentialelection, the Florida Division of Elections reported thatGovernor Bush had received 2,909,135 votes, and respondent Democrat Vice President Albert Gore, Jr., had received2,907,351, a margin of 1,784 in Governor Bush's favor.Under Fla. Stat. $ 102.141(4) (2000), because the margin ofvictory was equal to or less than one-half of one percentof the votes cast, an automatic machine recount occurred.The recount resulted in a much smaller margin of victoryfor Governor Bush. Vice President Gore then exercised hisCalifornia, Richard Blumenthal of Connecticut, Earl I. Anzai of Hawaii,Karen M. Freeman-Wilson of Indiana, Andrew Ketterer of Maine, J. Joseph Curran, Jr., of Maryland, Thomas F. Reilly of Massachusetts, JosephP. Mazurek of Montana, Frankie Sue Del Papa of Nevada, Patricia A.Madrid of New Mexico, Drew Edmondson of Oklahoma, Hardy Myersof Oregon, and Sheldon Whitehouse of Rhode Island; for the AmericanCivil Rights Union by John C. Armor and Peter Ferrara; for the Coalitionfor Local Sovereignty by Kenneth B. Clark; and for the DisenfranchisedVoters in the USA et al. by Ilise Levy Feitshans.531US1 Unit: $$U7 [04-13-02 14:41:43] PAGES PGT: OPIN74 BUSH v. PALM BEACH COUNTY CANVASSING BD.Per Curiamstatutory right to submit written requests for manual re-counts to the canvassing board of any county. See $ 102.166.He requested recounts in four counties: Volusia, Palm Beach,Broward, and Miami-Dade.The parties urged conflicting interpretations of the Flor-ida Election Code respecting the authority of the canvassing boards, the Secretary of State (hereinafter Secretary),and the Elections Canvassing Commission. On November14, in an action brought by Volusia County, and joined bythe Palm Beach County Canvassing Board, Vice PresidentGore, and the Florida Democratic Party, the Florida CircuitCourt ruled that the statutory 7-day deadline was mandatory, but that the Volusia board could amend its returns at alater date. The court further ruled that the Secretary, after"considering all attendant facts and circumstances," App. toPet. for Cert. 49a, could exercise her discretion in decidingwhether to include the late amended returns in the statewide certification.The Secretary responded by issuing a set of criteria bywhich she would decide whether to allow a late filing. TheSecretary ordered that, by 2 p.m. the following day, November 15, any county desiring to forward late returns submit awritten statement of the facts and circumstances justifying a later filing. Four counties submitted statements, and,after reviewing the submissions, the Secretary determinedthat none justified an extension of the filing deadline. OnNovember 16, the Florida Democratic Party and Vice President Gore filed an emergency motion in the state court, arguing that the Secretary had acted arbitrarily and in contempt of the court's earlier ruling. The following day, thecourt denied the motion, ruling that the Secretary had notacted arbitrarily and had exercised her discretion in a reasonable manner consistent with the court's earlier ruling.The Democratic Party and Vice President Gore appealedto the First District Court of Appeal, which certified thematter to the Florida Supreme Court. That court accepted531US1 Unit: $$U7 [04-13-02 14:41:43] PAGES PGT: OPIN75Cite as: 531 U. S. 70 (2000)Per Curiamjurisdiction and sua sponte entered an order enjoining theSecretary and the Elections Canvassing Commission fromfinally certifying the results of the election and declaring awinner until further order of that court.The Supreme Court, with the expedition requisite for thecontroversy, issued its decision on November 21.PalmBeach County Canvassing Bd. v. Harris, 772 So. 2d 1220(2000). As the court saw the matter, there were two princi-pal questions: whether a discrepancy between an originalmachine return and a sample manual recount resulting fromthe way a ballot has been marked or punched is an "errorin vote tabulation" justifying a full manual recount; and howto reconcile what it spoke of as two conflicts in Florida'selection laws: (a) between the timeframe for conducting amanual recount under Fla. Stat. $ 102.166 (2000) and thetimeframe for submitting county returns under $$ 102.111and 102.112, and (b) between $ 102.111, which provides thatthe Secretary "shall . . . ignor[e]" late election returns, and$ 102.112, which provides that she "may . . . ignor[e]" suchreturns.With regard to the first issue, the court held that, underthe plain text of the statute, a discrepancy between a samplemanual recount and machine returns due to the way in whicha ballot was punched or marked did constitute an "error invote tabulation" sufficient to trigger the statutory provisionsfor a full manual recount.With regard to the second issue, the court held that the"shall . . . ignor[e]" provision of $ 102.111 conflicts with the"may . . . ignor[e]" provision of $ 102.112, and that the "may. . . ignor[e]" provision controlled. The court turned to thequestions whether and when the Secretary may ignore latemanual recounts. The court relied in part upon the rightto vote set forth in the Declaration of Rights of the FloridaConstitution in concluding that late manual recounts could berejected only under limited circumstances. The court thenstated: "[B]ecause of our reluctance to rewrite the Florida531US1 Unit: $$U7 [04-13-02 14:41:43] PAGES PGT: OPIN76 BUSH v. PALM BEACH COUNTY CANVASSING BD.Per CuriamElection Code, we conclude that we must invoke the equitable powers of this Court to fashion a remedy . . . ." 772So. 2d, at 1240. The court thus imposed a deadlineof November 26, at 5 p.m., for a return of ballot counts.The 7-day deadline of $ 102.111, assuming it would haveapplied, was effectively extended by 12 days. The courtfurther directed the Secretary to accept manual counts submitted prior to that deadline.As a general rule, this Court defers to a state court's interpretation of a state statute. But in the case of a law enactedby a state legislature applicable not only to elections to stateoffices, but also to the selection of Presidential electors, thelegislature is not acting solely under the authority given itby the people of the State, but by virtue of a direct grant ofauthority made under Art. II, $ 1, cl. 2, of the United StatesConstitution. That provision reads:"Each State shall appoint, in such Manner as the Legislature thereof may direct, a Number of Electors, equalto the whole Number of Senators and Representativesto which the State may be entitled in the Congress . . . ."Although we did not address the same question petitionerraises here, in McPherson v. Blacker, 146 U. S. 1, 25 (1892),we said:"[Art. II, $ 1, cl. 2,] does not read that the people or thecitizens shall appoint, but that `each State shall'; and ifthe words `in such manner as the legislature thereof maydirect,' had been omitted, it would seem that the legislative power of appointment could not have been successfully questioned in the absence of any provision in thestate constitution in that regard. Hence the insertionof those words, while operating as a limitation upon theState in respect of any attempt to circumscribe the legislative power, cannot be held to operate as a limitationon that power itself."531US1 Unit: $$U7 [04-13-02 14:41:43] PAGES PGT: OPIN77Cite as: 531 U. S. 70 (2000)Per CuriamThere are expressions in the opinion of the Supreme Courtof Florida that may be read to indicate that it construedthe Florida Election Code without regard to the extent towhich the Florida Constitution could, consistent with Art. II,$ 1, cl. 2, "circumscribe the legislative power." The opinionstates, for example, that "[t]o the extent that the Legislaturemay enact laws regulating the electoral process, those lawsare valid only if they impose no `unreasonable or unneces-sary' restraints on the right of suffrage" guaranteed by theState Constitution. 772 So. 2d, at 1236. The opinion alsostates that "[b]ecause election laws are intended to facilitatethe right of suffrage, such laws must be liberally construedin favor of the citizens' right to vote . . . ."Id., at 1237.In addition, 3 U. S. C. $ 5 provides in pertinent part:"If any State shall have provided, by laws enactedprior to the day fixed for the appointment of the elec-tors, for its final determination of any controversy orcontest concerning the appointment of all or any of theelectors of such State, by judicial or other methods orprocedures, and such determination shall have beenmade at least six days before the time fixed for the meeting of the electors, such determination made pursuantto such law so existing on said day, and made at leastsix days prior to said time of meeting of the electors,shall be conclusive, and shall govern in the counting ofthe electoral votes as provided in the Constitution, andas hereinafter regulated, so far as the ascertainment ofthe electors appointed by such State is concerned."The parties before us agree that whatever else may be theeffect of this section, it creates a "safe harbor" for a Stateinsofar as congressional consideration of its electoral votesis concerned. If the state legislature has provided for finaldetermination of contests or controversies by a law madeprior to election day, that determination shall be conclusive if made at least six days prior to said time of meeting531US1 Unit: $$U7 [04-13-02 14:41:43] PAGES PGT: OPIN78 BUSH v. PALM BEACH COUNTY CANVASSING BD.Per Curiamof the electors. The Florida Supreme Court cited 3 U. S. C.$$ 1-10 in a footnote of its opinion, 772 So. 2d, at 1238, n. 55,but did not discuss $ 5. Since $ 5 contains a principle offederal law that would assure finality of the State's determination if made pursuant to a state law in effect beforethe election, a legislative wish to take advantage of the "safeharbor" would counsel against any construction of the Elec-tion Code that Congress might deem to be a change in thelaw.After reviewing the opinion of the Florida Supreme Court,we find "that there is considerable uncertainty as to theprecise grounds for the decision."Minnesota v. NationalTea Co., 309 U. S. 551, 555 (1940). This is sufficient reasonfor us to decline at this time to review the federal questionsasserted to be present. See ibid."It is fundamental that state courts be left free and un-fettered by us in interpreting their state constitutions.But it is equally important that ambiguous or obscureadjudications by state courts do not stand as barriersto a determination by this Court of the validity underthe federal constitution of state action. Intelligent exercise of our appellate powers compels us to ask forthe elimination of the obscurities and ambiguities fromthe opinions in such cases." Id., at 557.Specifically, we are unclear as to the extent to which theFlorida Supreme Court saw the Florida Constitution as circumscribing the legislature's authority under Art. II, $ 1,cl. 2. We are also unclear as to the consideration the FloridaSupreme Court accorded to 3 U. S. C. $ 5. The judgment ofthe Supreme Court of Florida is therefore vacated, and thecase is remanded for further proceedings not inconsistentwith this opinion.