Respondent was convicted of second-degree robbery in aMissouri court. During jury selection, he objected to theprosecutor's use of peremptory challenges to strike twoblack men from the jury panel, an objection arguably basedon Batson v. Kentucky, 476 U. S. 79 (1986). The prosecutorexplained his strikes:"I struck [ juror] number twenty-two because of his longhair. He had long curly hair. He had the longest hairof anybody on the panel by far. He appeared to me tonot be a good juror for that fact, the fact that he hadlong hair hanging down shoulder length, curly, unkempthair. Also, he had a mustache and a goatee type beard.And juror number twenty-four also has a mustache andgoatee type beard. Those are the only two people onthe jury . . . with the facial hair . . . . And I don't likethe way they looked, with the way the hair is cut, bothof them. And the mustaches and the beards look suspi-cious to me." App. to Pet. for Cert. A-41.The prosecutor further explained that he feared that jurornumber 24, who had had a sawed-off shotgun pointed at himduring a supermarket robbery, would believe that "to havea robbery you have to have a gun, and there is no gun in thiscase." Ibid.The state trial court, without explanation, overruled respondent's objection and empaneled the jury. On direct ap-peal, respondent renewed hisBatson claim. The MissouriCourt of Appeals affirmed, finding that the "state's explanation constituted a legitimate `hunch' " and that "[t]hecircumstances fail[ed] to raise the necessary inference ofracial discrimination." State v. Elem, 747 S. W. 2d 772, 775(Mo. App. 1988).Respondent then filed a petition for habeas corpus under28 U. S. C. $ 2254, asserting this and other claims. Adoptingthe Magistrate Judge's report and recommendation, the Dis514us3$59K 05-27-98 19:06:29 PAGES OPINPGT767Cite as: 514 U. S. 765 (1995)Per Curiamtrict Court concluded that the Missouri courts' determina-tion that there had been no purposeful discrimination was afactual finding entitled to a presumption of correctness under$ 2254(d). Since the finding had support in the record, theDistrict Court denied respondent's claim.The Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit reversed andremanded with instructions to grant the writ of habeas corpus. It said:"[W]here the prosecution strikes a prospective jurorwho is a member of the defendant's racial group, solelyon the basis of factors which are facially irrelevant tothe question of whether that person is qualified to serveas a juror in the particular case, the prosecution must atleast articulate some plausible race-neutral reason forbelieving those factors will somehow affect the person'sability to perform his or her duties as a juror. In thepresent case, the prosecutor's comments, `I don't like theway [he] look[s], with the way the hair is cut. . . . Andthe mustach[e] and the bear[d] look suspicious to me,' donot constitute such legitimate race-neutral reasons forstriking juror 22." 25 F. 3d 679, 683 (1994).It concluded that the "prosecution's explanation for strikingjuror 22 . . . was pretextual," and that the state trial courthad "clearly erred" in finding that striking juror number 22had not been intentional discrimination. Id., at 684.Under ourBatson jurisprudence, once the opponent of aperemptory challenge has made out a prima facie case of ra-cial discrimination (step one), the burden of production shiftsto the proponent of the strike to come forward with a raceneutral explanation (step two). If a race-neutral explanation is tendered, the trial court must then decide (step three)whether the opponent of the strike has proved purposefulracial discrimination. Hernandez v. New York, 500 U. S.352, 358-359 (1991) (plurality opinion); id., at 375 (O'Connor,J., concurring in judgment); Batson, supra, at 96-98. The514us3$59K 05-27-98 19:06:29 PAGES OPINPGT768 PURKETT v. ELEMPer Curiamsecond step of this process does not demand an explanationthat is persuasive, or even plausible. "At this [second] stepof the inquiry, the issue is the facial validity of the prosecu-tor's explanation. Unless a discriminatory intent is inherentin the prosecutor's explanation, the reason offered will bedeemed race neutral." Hernandez, 500 U. S., at 360 (plu-rality opinion);id., at 374 (O'Connor, J., concurring injudgment).The Court of Appeals erred by combiningBatson's secondand third steps into one, requiring that the justification ten-dered at the second step be not just neutral but also at leastminimally persuasive, i. e., a "plausible" basis for believingthat "the person's ability to perform his or her duties as ajuror" will be affected. 25 F. 3d, at 683. It is not until thethird step that the persuasiveness of the justification becomes relevant--the step in which the trial court determineswhether the opponent of the strike has carried his burdenof proving purposeful discrimination. Batson, supra, at 98;Hernandez, supra, at 359 (plurality opinion). At that stage,implausible or fantastic justifications may (and probably will)be found to be pretexts for purposeful discrimination. Butto say that a trial judge may choose to disbelieve a silly orsuperstitious reason at step three is quite different from saying that a trial judge must terminate the inquiry at step twowhen the race-neutral reason is silly or superstitious. Thelatter violates the principle that the ultimate burden of persuasion regarding racial motivation rests with, and nevershifts from, the opponent of the strike. Cf. St. Mary'sHonor Center v. Hicks, 509 U. S. 502, 511 (1993).The Court of Appeals appears to have seized on our admonition in Batson that to rebut a prima facie case, the proponent of a strike "must give a `clear and reasonably specific'explanation of his `legitimate reasons' for exercising the challenges," Batson, supra, at 98, n. 20 (quoting Texas Dept. ofCommunity Affairs v. Burdine, 450 U. S. 248, 258 (1981)),and that the reason must be "related to the particular case514us3$59K 05-27-98 19:06:29 PAGES OPINPGT769Cite as: 514 U. S. 765 (1995)Per Curiamto be tried," 476 U. S., at 98. See 25 F. 3d, at 682, 683. Thiswarning was meant to refute the notion that a prosecutorcould satisfy his burden of production by merely denyingthat he had a discriminatory motive or by merely affirminghis good faith. What it means by a "legitimate reason" isnot a reason that makes sense, but a reason that does notdeny equal protection. SeeHernandez, supra, at 359; cf.Burdine, supra, at 255 ("The explanation provided must belegally sufficient to justify a judgment for the defendant").The prosecutor's proffered explanation in this case--thathe struck juror number 22 because he had long, unkempthair, a mustache, and a beard--is race neutral and satisfiesthe prosecution's step two burden of articulating a nondiscriminatory reason for the strike. "The wearing of beardsis not a characteristic that is peculiar to any race." EEOCv. Greyhound Lines, Inc., 635 F. 2d 188, 190, n. 3 (CA3 1980).And neither is the growing of long, unkempt hair. Thus, theinquiry properly proceeded to step three, where the statecourt found that the prosecutor was not motivated by discriminatory intent.In habeas proceedings in federal courts, the factual findings of state courts are presumed to be correct, and may beset aside, absent procedural error, only if they are "not fairlysupported by the record." 28 U. S. C. $ 2254(d)(8). SeeMarshall v. Lonberger, 459 U. S. 422, 432 (1983). Here theCourt of Appeals did not conclude or even attempt to conclude that the state court's finding of no racial motive wasnot fairly supported by the record. For its whole focus wasupon the reasonableness of the asserted nonracial motive(which it thought required by step two) rather than the genuineness of the motive. It gave no proper basis for overturning the state court's finding of no racial motive, a findingwhich turned primarily on an assessment of credibility, seeBatson, 476 U. S., at 98, n. 21. Cf. Marshall, supra, at 434.Accordingly, respondent's motion for leave to proceed informa pauperis and the petition for a writ of certiorari are514us3$59K 05-27-98 19:06:29 PAGES OPINPGT770 PURKETT v. ELEMStevens, J., dissentinggranted. The judgment of the Court of Appeals is reversed,and the case is remanded for further proceedings consistentwith this opinion. It is so ordered.Justice Stevens, with whom Justice Breyer joins,dissenting.In my opinion it is unwise for the Court to announce alaw-changing decision without first ordering full briefing andargument on the merits of the case. The Court does thistoday when it overrules a portion of our opinion in Batsonv. Kentucky, 476 U. S. 79 (1986).1In Batson, the Court held that the Equal ProtectionClause of the Fourteenth Amendment forbids a prosecutorto use peremptory challenges to exclude African-Americansfrom jury service because of their race. The Court articu-lated a three-step process for proving such violations.First, a pattern of peremptory challenges of black jurors mayestablish a prima facie case of discriminatory purpose. Second, the prosecutor may rebut that prima face case by ten-dering a race-neutral explanation for the strikes. Third, thecourt must decide whether that explanation is pretextual.Id., at 96-98. At the second step of this inquiry, neither amere denial of improper motive nor an incredible explanationwill suffice to rebut the prima facie showing of discrimina-tory purpose. At a minimum, as the Court held inBatson,the prosecutor "must articulate a neutral explanation relatedto the particular case to be tried." Id., at 98.21 This is the second time this Term that the Court has misused its summary reversal authority in this way. See Duncan v. Henry, 513 U. S. 364,367 (1995) (Stevens, J., dissenting).2 We explained: "Nor may the prosecutor rebut the defendant's casemerely by denying that he had a discriminatory motive or `affirm[ing] [his]good faith in making individual selections.' Alexander v. Louisiana, 405U. S., at 632. If these general assertions were accepted as rebutting adefendant's prima facie case, the Equal Protection Clause `would be but avain and illusory requirement.' Norris v. Alabama, [294 U. S. 587, 598514us3$59K 05-27-98 19:06:29 PAGES OPINPGT771Cite as: 514 U. S. 765 (1995)Stevens, J., dissentingToday the Court holds that it did not mean what it said inBatson. Moreover, the Court resolves a novel proceduralquestion without even recognizing its importance to the un-usual facts of this case.IIn the Missouri trial court, the judge rejected the defend-ant'sBatson objection to the prosecutor's peremptory chal-lenges of two jurors, juror number 22 and juror number 24,on the ground that the defendant had not made out a primafacie case of discrimination. Accordingly, because the defendant had failed at the first step of the Batson inquiry, thejudge saw no need even to confirm the defendant's assertionthat jurors 22 and 24 were black; 3 nor did the judge requirethe prosecutor to explain his challenges. The prosecutornevertheless did volunteer an explanation,4 but the judgeevaluated neither its credibility nor its sufficiency.(1935)]. The prosecutor therefore must articulate a neutral explanationrelated to the particular case to be tried. The trial court then will havethe duty to determine if the defendant has established purposeful discrimination." Batson v. Kentucky, 476 U. S., at 97-98 (footnotes omitted).3 The following exchange took place between the defense attorney andthe trial judge:"MR. GOULET: Mr. Larner stated that the reason he struck was because of facial hair and long hair as prejudicial. Number twenty-four, Mr.William Hunt, was a victim in a robbery and he stated that he could givea fair and impartial hearing. To make this a proper record if the Courtwould like to call up these two individuals to ask them if they are blackor will the Court take judicial notice that they are black individuals?"THE COURT: I am not going to do that, no, sir." App. to Pet. forCert. A-42.4 The prosecutor stated:"I struck number twenty-two because of his long hair. He had long curlyhair. He had the longest hair of anybody on the panel by far. He appeared to me to not be a good juror for that fact, the fact that he had longhair hanging down shoulder length, curly, unkempt hair. Also, he had amustache and a goatee type beard. And juror number twenty-four alsohas a mustache and a goatee type beard. Those are the only two peopleon the jury, numbers twenty-two and twenty-four with facial hair of any514us3$59K 05-27-98 19:06:29 PAGES OPINPGT772 PURKETT v. ELEMStevens, J., dissentingThe Missouri Court of Appeals affirmed, relying partlyon the ground that the use of one-third of the prosecutor'speremptories to strike black veniremen did not require anexplanation, State v. Elem, 747 S. W. 2d 772, 774 (1988),and partly on the ground that if any rebuttal was necessarythen the volunteered "explanation constituted a legitimate`hunch,' " id., at 775. The court thus relied, alternatively, onsteps one and two of the Batson analysis without reachingthe question whether the prosecutor's explanation mighthave been pretextual under step three.The Federal District Court accepted a Magistrate's recommendation to deny petitioner's petition for habeas corpuswithout conducting a hearing. The Magistrate had reasoned that state-court findings on the issue of purposeful discrimination are entitled to deference. App. to Pet. for Cert.A-27. Even though the trial court had made no such findings, the Magistrate treated the statement by the MissouriCourt of Appeals that the prosecutor's reasons "constituteda legitimate `hunch' " as a finding of fact that was supportedby the record.5 When the case reached the United StatesCourt of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit, the parties apparently assumed that petitioner had satisfied the first step ofthe Batson analysis.6 The disputed issue in the Court ofkind of all the men and, of course, the women, those are the only two withthe facial hair. And I don't like the way they looked, with the way thehair is cut, both of them. And the mustaches and the beards look suspicious to me. And number twenty-four had been in a robbery in a supermarket with a sawed-off shotgun pointed at his face, and I didn't wanthim on the jury as this case does not involve a shotgun, and maybe hewould feel to have a robbery you have to have a gun, and there is no gunin this case." Id., at A-41.5 The Magistrate stated: "The Court of Appeals determined that theprosecutor's reasons for striking the men constituted a legitimate `hunch'. . . . The record supports the Missouri Court of Appeals' finding of nopurposeful discrimination." Id., at A-27.6 In this Court, at least, the State does not deny that the prosecutor'spattern of challenges established a prima facie case of discrimination.514us3$59K 05-27-98 19:06:29 PAGES OPINPGT773Cite as: 514 U. S. 765 (1995)Stevens, J., dissentingAppeals was whether the trial judge's contrary finding wasacademic because the prosecutor's volunteered statementsatisfied step two and had not been refuted in step three.The Court of Appeals agreed with the State that excludingjuror 24 was not error because the prosecutor's concernabout that juror's status as a former victim of a robbery wasrelated to the case at hand. 25 F. 3d 679, 681, 682 (1994).The court did, however, find a Batson violation with respectto juror 22. In rejecting the prosecutor's "race-neutral" explanation for the strike, the Court of Appeals faithfully ap-plied the standard that we articulated inBatson: The explanation was not " `related to the particular case to be tried.' "25 F. 3d, at 683, quoting 476 U. S., at 98 (emphasis in Courtof Appeals opinion).Before applying the Batson test, the Court of Appealsnoted that its analysis was consistent with both the MissouriSupreme Court's interpretation of Batson in State v. Antwine, 743 S. W. 2d 51 (1987) (en banc), and this Court's intervening opinion in Hernandez v. New York, 500 U. S. 352(1991). 25 F. 3d, at 683. Referring to the second stage ofthe three-step analysis, the Antwine court had observed:"We do not believe, however, that Batson is satisfiedby `neutral explanations' which are no more than faciallylegitimate, reasonably specific and clear. Were faciallyneutral explanations sufficient without more, Batsonwould be meaningless. It would take little effort forprosecutors who are of such a mind to adopt rote `neutral explanations' which bear facial legitimacy but con-ceal a discriminatory motive. We do not believe theSupreme Court intended a charade when it announcedBatson." 743 S. W. 2d, at 65.In Hernandez, this Court rejected a Batson claim stemming from a prosecutor's strikes of two Spanish-speakingLatino jurors. The prosecutor explained that he struck thejurors because he feared that they might not accept an inter514us3$59K 05-27-98 19:06:29 PAGES OPINPGT774 PURKETT v. ELEMStevens, J., dissentingpreter's English translation of trial testimony given in Span-ish. Because the prosecutor's explanation was directly related to the particular case to be tried, it satisfied the secondprong of theBatson standard. Moreover, as the Court ofAppeals noted, 25 F. 3d, at 683, the plurality opinion in Hernandez expressly observed that striking all venirepersonswho speak a given language, "without regard to the particular circumstances of the trial," might constitute a pretextfor racial discrimination. 500 U. S., at 371-372 (opinion ofKennedy, J.).7 Based on our precedent, the Court of Appeals was entirely correct to conclude that the peremptorystrike of juror 22 violated Batson because the reason givenwas unrelated to the circumstances of the trial.87 True, the plurality opinion in Hernandez stated that explanations unrelated to the particular circumstances of the trial "may be found by thetrial judge to be a pretext for racial discrimination," 500 U. S., at 372, andthus it specifically referred to the third step in the Batson v. Kentucky,476 U. S. 79 (1986), analysis. Nevertheless, if this comment was intendedto modify the Batson standard for determining the sufficiency of theprosecutor's response to a prima facie case, it was certainly an obtusemethod of changing the law.8 In my opinion, it is disrespectful to the conscientious judges on theCourt of Appeals who faithfully applied an unambiguous standard articulated in one of our opinions to say that they appear "to have seized on ouradmonition in Batson . . . that the reason must be `related to the particularcase to be tried,' 476 U. S., at 98." Ante, at 768-769. Of course, they"seized on" that point because we told them to. The Court of Appealswas following Batson's clear mandate. To criticize those judges for doingtheir jobs is singularly inappropriate.The Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit is not the only court tohave taken our admonition in Batson seriously. Numerous courts haveacted on the assumption that we meant what we said when we requiredthe prosecutor's neutral explanation to be "related to the particular caseto be tried." See, e. g., Jones v. Ryan, 987 F. 2d 960, 974 (CA3 1993); Exparte Bird, 594 So. 2d 676, 682-683 (Ala. 1991); State v. Henderson, 112Ore. App. 451, 456, 829 P. 2d 1025, 1028 (1992); Whitsey v. State, 796 S. W.2d 707, 713-716 (Tex. Crim. App. 1989); Jackson v. Commonwealth, 8 Va.App. 176, 186-187, 380 S. E. 2d 1, 6-7 (1989); State v. Butler, 731 S. W. 2d514us3$59K 05-27-98 19:06:29 PAGES OPINPGT775Cite as: 514 U. S. 765 (1995)Stevens, J., dissentingToday, without argument, the Court replaces the Batsonstandard with the surprising announcement that any neutralexplanation, no matter how "implausible or fantastic," ante,at 768, even if it is "silly or superstitious," ibid., is sufficientto rebut a prima facie case of discrimination. A trial courtmust accept that neutral explanation unless a separate "stepthree" inquiry leads to the conclusion that the peremptorychallenge was racially motivated. The Court does not attempt to explain why a statement that "the juror had abeard," or "the juror's last name began with the letter `S' "should satisfy step two, though a statement that "I had ahunch" should not. Seeante, at 769; Batson, 476 U. S., at98. It is not too much to ask that a prosecutor's explanationfor his strikes be race neutral, reasonably specific, and trialrelated. Nothing less will serve to rebut the inference ofrace-based discrimination that arises when the defendant hasmade out a prima facie case. Cf.Texas Dept. of CommunityAffairs v. Burdine, 450 U. S. 248, 253 (1981). That, in anyevent, is what we decided in Batson.IIThe Court's peremptory disposition of this case overlooksa tricky procedural problem. Ordinarily, a federal appealscourt reviewing a claim of Batson error in a habeas corpusproceeding must evaluate, with appropriate deference, thefactual findings and legal conclusions of the state trial court.But in this case, the only finding the trial judge made wasthat the defendant had failed to establish a prima facie case.Everyone now agrees that finding was incorrect. The statetrial judge, holding that the defendant had failed at step one,265, 271 (Mo. App. 1987); Slappy v. State, 503 So. 2d 350, 355 (Fla. App.1987); Walker v. State, 611 So. 2d 1133, 1142 (Ala. Crim. App. 1992); Huntley v. State, 627 So. 2d 1011, 1012 (Ala. Crim. App. 1991). This Courttoday calls into question the reasoning of all of these decisions withouteven the courtesy of briefing and argument.514us3$59K 05-27-98 19:06:29 PAGES OPINPGT776 PURKETT v. ELEMStevens, J., dissentingmade no finding with respect to the sufficiency or credibilityof the prosecutor's explanation at step two. The question,then, is whether the reviewing court should (1) go on to de-cide the second step of theBatson inquiry, (2) reverse andremand to the District Court for further proceedings, or (3)grant the writ conditioned on a proper step-two and (if nec-essary) step-three hearing in the state trial court. ThisCourt's opinion today implicitly ratifies the Court of Appeals'decision to evaluate on its own whether the prosecutor hadsatisfied step two. I think that is the correct resolution ofthis procedural question, but it deserves more considerationthan the Court has provided.In many cases, a state trial court or a federal district courtwill be in a better position to evaluate the facts surroundingperemptory strikes than a federal appeals court. But Iwould favor a rule giving the appeals court discretion, basedon the sufficiency of the record, to evaluate a prosecutor'sexplanation of his strikes. In this case, I think review isjustified because the prosecutor volunteered reasons for thechallenges. The Court of Appeals reasonably assumed thatthese were the same reasons the prosecutor would havegiven had the trial court required him to respond to theprima facie case. The Court of Appeals, in its discretion,could thus evaluate the explanations for their sufficiency.This presents a pure legal question, and nothing is gained byremand if the appeals court can resolve that question on thefacts before it.Assuming the Court of Appeals did not err in reachingstep two, a new problem arises when that court (or, as intoday's case, this Court) conducts the step-two inquiry anddecides that the prosecutor's explanation was sufficient.Who may evaluate whether the prosecutor's explanation waspretextual under step three of Batson? Again, I think thequestion whether the Court of Appeals decides, or whetherit refers the question to a trial court, should depend on thestate of the record before the Court of Appeals. Whatever514us3$59K 05-27-98 19:06:29 PAGES OPINPGT777Cite as: 514 U. S. 765 (1995)Stevens, J., dissentingprocedure is contemplated, however, I think even this Courtwould acknowledge that some implausible, fantastic, and sillyexplanations could be found to be pretextual without anyfurther evidence. Indeed, inHernandez the Court explained that a trial judge could find pretext based on nothingmore than a consistent policy of excluding all Spanish-speaking jurors if that characteristic was entirely unrelatedto the case to be tried. 500 U. S., at 371-372 (plurality opin-ion ofKennedy, J.). Parallel reasoning would justify afinding of pretext based on a policy of excusing jurors withbeards if beards have nothing to do with the pending case.In some cases, conceivably the length and unkempt character of a juror's hair and goatee type beard might give rise toa concern that he is a nonconformist who might not be a goodjuror. In this case, however, the prosecutor did not identifyany such concern. He merely said he did not " `like the way[the juror] looked,' " that the facial hair " `look[ed] suspicious.' " Ante, at 766. I think this explanation may well bepretextual as a matter of law; it has nothing to do with thecase at hand, and it is just as evasive as "I had a hunch."Unless a reviewing court may evaluate such explanationswhen a trial judge fails to find that a prima facie case hasbeen established, appellate or collateral review of Batsonclaims will amount to nothing more than the meaninglesscharade that the Missouri Supreme Court correctly understood Batson to disfavor. Antwine, 743 S. W. 2d, at 65.In my opinion, preoccupation with the niceties of a threestep analysis should not foreclose meaningful judicial reviewof prosecutorial explanations that are entirely unrelated tothe case to be tried. I would adhere to the Batson rule thatsuch an explanation does not satisfy step two. Alternatively, I would hold that, in the absence of an explicit trialcourt finding on the issue, a reviewing court may hold thatsuch an explanation is pretextual as a matter of law. TheCourt's unnecessary tolerance of silly, fantastic, and implausible explanations, together with its assumption that there is514us3$59K 05-27-98 19:06:29 PAGES OPINPGT778 PURKETT v. ELEMStevens, J., dissentinga difference of constitutional magnitude between a statementthat "I had a hunch about this juror based on his appearance," and "I challenged this juror because he had a mus-tache," demeans the importance of the values vindicated byour decision in Batson.I respectfully dissent.514us3$60Z 06-15-98 09:38:29 PAGES OPINPGT779OCTOBER TERM, 1994SyllabusU. S. TERM LIMITS, INC., et al. v. THORNTONet al.certiorari to the supreme court of arkansasNo. 93-1456. Argued November 29, 1994--Decided May 22, 1995*Respondent Hill filed this suit in Arkansas state court challenging theconstitutionality of $ 3 of Amendment 73 to the Arkansas Constitution,which prohibits the name of an otherwise-eligible candidate for Congress from appearing on the general election ballot if that candidate hasalready served three terms in the House of Representatives or twoterms in the Senate. The trial court held that $ 3 violated Article I ofthe Federal Constitution, and the Arkansas Supreme Court affirmed.A plurality of the latter court concluded that the States have no authority "to change, add to, or diminish" the age, citizenship, and residencyrequirements for congressional service enumerated in the QualificationsClauses, U. S. Const., Art. I, $ 2, cl. 2, and Art. I, $ 3, cl. 3, and rejectedthe argument that Amendment 73 is constitutional because it is formulated as a ballot access restriction rather than an outright disqualification of congressional incumbents.Held: Section 3 of Amendment 73 to the Arkansas Constitution violatesthe Federal Constitution. Pp. 787-838.(a) The power granted to each House of Congress to judge the "Qualifications of its own Members," Art. I, $ 5, cl. 1, does not include thepower to alter or add to the qualifications set forth in the Constitution'stext. Powell v. McCormack, 395 U. S. 486, 540. After examiningPowell's analysis of the Qualifications Clauses' history and text, id., at518-548, and its articulation of the "basic principles of our democraticsystem," id., at 548, this Court reaffirms that the constitutionalqualifications for congressional service are "fixed," at least in the sensethat they may not be supplemented by Congress. Pp. 787-798.(b) So too, the Constitution prohibits States from imposing congressional qualifications additional to those specifically enumerated in itstext. Petitioners' argument that States possess control over qualifications as part of the original powers reserved to them by the TenthAmendment is rejected for two reasons. First, the power to add qualifications is not within the States' pre-Tenth Amendment "original powers," but is a new right arising from the Constitution itself, and thus is*Together with No. 93-1828, Bryant, Attorney General of Arkansas v.Hill et al., also on certiorari to the same court.514us3$60Z 06-15-98 09:38:29 PAGES OPINPGT780 U. S. TERM LIMITS, INC. v. THORNTONSyllabusnot reserved. Second, even if the States possessed some original powerin this area, it must be concluded that the Framers intended the Constitution to be the exclusive source of qualifications for Members of Congress, and that the Framers thereby "divested" States of any power toadd qualifications. That this is so is demonstrated by the unanimityamong the courts and learned commentators who have considered theissue; by the Constitution's structure and the text of pertinent constitutional provisions, including Art. I, $ 2, cl. 1, Art. I, $ 4, cl. 1, Art. I, $ 6,and Art. I, $ 5, cl. 1; by the relevant historical materials, including therecords of the Constitutional Convention and the ratification debates, aswell as Congress' subsequent experience with state attempts to imposequalifications; and, most importantly, by the "fundamental principle ofour representative democracy . . . `that the people should choose whomthey please to govern them,' " Powell, 395 U. S., at 547. Permittingindividual States to formulate diverse qualifications for their congressional representatives would result in a patchwork that would be inconsistent with the Framers' vision of a uniform National Legislature representing the people of the United States. The fact that, immediatelyafter the adoption of the Constitution, many States imposed term limitsand other qualifications on state officers, while only one State imposedsuch a qualification on Members of Congress, provides further persuasive evidence of a general understanding that the qualifications in theConstitution were unalterable by the States. Pp. 798-827.(c) A state congressional term limits measure is unconstitutionalwhen it has the likely effect of handicapping a class of candidates andhas the sole purpose of creating additional qualifications indirectly.The Court rejects petitioners' argument that Amendment 73 is validbecause it merely precludes certain congressional candidates from beingcertified and having their names appear on the ballot, and allows themto run as write-in candidates and serve if elected. Even if petitioners'narrow understanding of qualifications is correct, Amendment 73 mustfall because it is an indirect attempt to evade the Qualifications Clauses'requirements and trivializes the basic democratic principles underlyingthose Clauses. Nor can the Court agree with petitioners' related argument that Amendment 73 is a permissible exercise of state power underthe Elections Clause, Art. I, $ 4, cl. 1, to regulate the "Times, Placesand Manner of holding Elections." A necessary consequence of thatargument is that Congress itself would have the power under the Elections Clause to "make or alter" a measure such as Amendment 73, aresult that is unfathomable under Powell. Moreover, petitioners' broadconstruction is fundamentally inconsistent with the Framers' view ofthe Elections Clause, which was intended to grant States authority toprotect the integrity and regularity of the election process by regulating514us3$60Z 06-15-98 09:38:29 PAGES OPINPGT781Cite as: 514 U. S. 779 (1995)Syllabuselection procedures, see, e. g., Storer v. Brown, 415 U. S. 724, 730, 733,not to provide them with license to impose substantive qualificationsthat would exclude classes of candidates from federal office. Pp. 828-836.(d) State imposition of term limits for congressional service wouldeffect such a fundamental change in the constitutional framework thatit must come through a constitutional amendment properly passed underthe procedures set forth in Article V. Absent such an amendment,allowing individual States to craft their own congressional qualificationswould erode the structure designed by the Framers to form a "moreperfect Union." Pp. 837-838.316 Ark. 251, 872 S. W. 2d 349, affirmed.Stevens, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which Kennedy,Souter, Ginsburg, and Breyer, JJ., joined. Kennedy, J., filed a concurring opinion, post, p. 838. Thomas, J., filed a dissenting opinion, inwhich Rehnquist, C. J., and O'Connor and Scalia, JJ., joined, post,p. 845.J. Winston Bryant, Attorney General of Arkansas, pro se,argued the cause for petitioner in No. 93-1828. With himon the briefs were Jeffrey A. Bell, Deputy Attorney General,Ann Purvis and David R. Raupp, Assistant Attorneys General, Griffin B. Bell, Paul J. Larkin, Jr., Richard F. Hatfield,andCleta Deatherage Mitchell. John G. Kester argued thecause for petitioners in No. 93-1456. With him on the briefswas H. William Allen. Robert H. Bork, Theodore B. Olson,and Thomas G. Hungar filed briefs for Representative JayDickey et al., and Edward W. Warren filed briefs for theRepublican Party of Arkansas et al., as respondents underthis Court's Rule 12.4.Louis R. Cohen argued the cause for respondents in bothcases. With him on the brief for respondents in No. 93-1828were W. Hardy Callcott, Peter B. Hutt II, and Elizabeth J.Robben. Henry Maurice Mitchell, Sherry P. Bartley, RexE. Lee, Carter G. Phillips, Ronald S. Flagg, Mark D. Hop-son, Joseph R. Guerra, and Jeffrey T. Green filed a brief forrespondent Thornton in No. 93-1456.Solicitor General Days argued the cause for the UnitedStates as amicus curiae urging affirmance. With him on514us3$60Z 06-15-98 09:38:29 PAGES OPINPGT782 U. S. TERM LIMITS, INC. v. THORNTONOpinion of the Courtthe brief were Assistant Attorneys General Dellinger andHunger, Deputy Solicitor General Bender, Paul R. Q. Wolfson, and Douglas N. Letter.#Justice Stevens delivered the opinion of the Court.The Constitution sets forth qualifications for membershipin the Congress of the United States. Article I, $ 2, cl. 2,which applies to the House of Representatives, provides:#Briefs of amici curiae urging reversal in both cases were filed for theState of Nebraska et al. by Don Stenberg, Attorney General of Nebraska,and L. Steven Grasz, Deputy Attorney General, and by the Attorneys General for their respective States as follows: Daniel E. Lungren of California, Gale A. Norton of Colorado, Richard Blumenthal of Connecticut,Charles M. Oberly III of Delaware, Robert A. Butterworth of Florida,Michael J. Bowers of Georgia, Robert A. Marks of Hawaii, Robert T. Stephan of Kansas, Chris Gorman of Kentucky, Scott Harshbarger of Massachusetts, Joseph P. Mazurek of Montana, Jeffrey R. Howard of NewHampshire, Lee Fisher of Ohio, Mark Barnett of South Dakota, CharlesW. Burson of Tennessee, and Joseph B. Meyer of Wyoming; for the Stateof Washington by Christine O. Gregoire, Attorney General, James K.Pharris and William B. Collins, Senior Assistant Attorneys General, andJeffrey T. Even, Assistant Attorney General; for Citizens for Term Limitset al. by Ronald A. Zumbrun, Anthony T. Caso, Deborah J. La Fetra, andJohn M. Groen; for the Citizens United Foundation by William J. Olsonand John S. Miles; for Congressional Term Limits Coalition, Inc., by JohnC. Armor and Lowell D. Weeks; for the Mountain States Legal Foundationet al. by William Perry Pendley; for People's Advocate, Inc., et al. byJayna P. Karpinski; for the United States Justice Foundation by JamesV. Lacy; for Virginians for Term Limits et al. by Charles A. Shanor,Zachary D. Fasman, Margaret H. Spurlin, and G. Stephen Parker; andfor the Washington Legal Foundation et al. by Timothy E. Flanigan,Daniel J. Popeo, and Paul D. Kamenar.Briefs of amici curiae urging reversal in No. 93-1456 were filed for theAlaska Committee for a Citizen Congress et al. by Jeanette R. Burrage;for the Allied Educational Foundation by Bertram R. Gelfand and JeffreyC. Dannenberg; and for Governor John Engler by Stephen J. Safranek.Briefs of amici curiae urging affirmance in both cases were filed for theAmerican Civil Liberties Union et al. by Kevin J. Hamilton and StevenR. Shapiro; for the California Democratic Party by Daniel H. Lowensteinand Jonathan H. Steinberg; for the League of Women Voters of the UnitedStates et al. by Frederic C. Tausend and Herbert E. Wilgis III; and forHenry J. Hyde by Charles A. Rothfeld.514us3$60I 06-15-98 09:38:29 PAGES OPINPGT783Cite as: 514 U. S. 779 (1995)Opinion of the Court"No Person shall be a Representative who shall nothave attained to the Age of twenty five Years, and beenseven Years a Citizen of the United States, and whoshall not, when elected, be an Inhabitant of that Statein which he shall be chosen."Article I, $ 3, cl. 3, which applies to the Senate, similarlyprovides:"No Person shall be a Senator who shall not have at-tained to the Age of thirty Years, and been nine Yearsa Citizen of the United States, and who shall not, whenelected, be an Inhabitant of that State for which he shallbe chosen."Today's cases present a challenge to an amendment to theArkansas State Constitution that prohibits the name of anotherwise-eligible candidate for Congress from appearing onthe general election ballot if that candidate has alreadyserved three terms in the House of Representatives or twoterms in the Senate. The Arkansas Supreme Court heldthat the amendment violates the Federal Constitution. Weagree with that holding. Such a state-imposed restriction iscontrary to the "fundamental principle of our representativedemocracy," embodied in the Constitution, that "the peopleshould choose whom they please to govern them." Powellv. McCormack, 395 U. S. 486, 547 (1969) (internal quotationmarks omitted). Allowing individual States to adopt theirown qualifications for congressional service would be inconsistent with the Framers' vision of a uniform National Legis-lature representing the people of the United States. If thequalifications set forth in the text of the Constitution are tobe changed, that text must be amended.IAt the general election on November 3, 1992, the votersof Arkansas adopted Amendment 73 to their State Constitution. Proposed as a "Term Limitation Amendment," itspreamble stated:514us3$60I 06-15-98 09:38:29 PAGES OPINPGT784 U. S. TERM LIMITS, INC. v. THORNTONOpinion of the Court"The people of Arkansas find and declare that electedofficials who remain in office too long become preoccupied with reelection and ignore their duties as repre-sentatives of the people. Entrenched incumbency hasreduced voter participation and has led to an electoralsystem that is less free, less competitive, and less representative than the system established by the Found-ing Fathers. Therefore, the people of Arkansas, exercising their reserved powers, herein limit the terms ofelected officials."The limitations in Amendment 73 apply to three categoriesof elected officials. Section 1 provides that no elected official in the executive branch of the state government mayserve more than two 4-year terms. Section 2 applies to thelegislative branch of the state government; it provides thatno member of the Arkansas House of Representatives mayserve more than three 2-year terms and no member of theArkansas Senate may serve more than two 4-year terms.Section 3, the provision at issue in these cases, applies to theArkansas Congressional Delegation. It provides:"(a) Any person having been elected to three or moreterms as a member of the United States House of Representatives from Arkansas shall not be certified as a can-didate and shall not be eligible to have his/her nameplaced on the ballot for election to the United StatesHouse of Representatives from Arkansas."(b) Any person having been elected to two or moreterms as a member of the United States Senate fromArkansas shall not be certified as a candidate and shallnot be eligible to have his/her name placed on the ballotfor election to the United States Senate from Arkansas."Amendment 73 states that it is self-executing and shall applyto all persons seeking election after January 1, 1993.On November 13, 1992, respondent Bobbie Hill, on behalfof herself, similarly situated Arkansas "citizens, residents,514us3$60I 06-15-98 09:38:29 PAGES OPINPGT785Cite as: 514 U. S. 779 (1995)Opinion of the Courttaxpayers and registered voters," and the League of WomenVoters of Arkansas, filed a complaint in the Circuit Court forPulaski County, Arkansas, seeking a declaratory judgmentthat $ 3 of Amendment 73 is "unconstitutional and void."Her complaint named as defendants then-Governor Clinton,other state officers, the Republican Party of Arkansas, andthe Democratic Party of Arkansas. The State of Arkansas,through its Attorney General, petitioner Winston Bryant, in-tervened as a party defendant in support of the amendment.Several proponents of the amendment also intervened, in-cluding petitioner U. S. Term Limits, Inc.On cross-motions for summary judgment, the CircuitCourt held that $ 3 of Amendment 73 violated Article I ofthe Federal Constitution.1With respect to that holding, in a 5-to-2 decision, the Arkansas Supreme Court affirmed. U. S. Term Limits, Inc. v.Hill, 316 Ark. 251, 872 S. W. 2d 349, 351 (1994). Writing fora plurality of three justices, Justice Robert L. Brown concluded that the congressional restrictions in Amendment 73are unconstitutional because the States have no authority"to change, add to, or diminish" the requirements for con-gressional service enumerated in the Qualifications Clauses.Id., at 265, 872 S. W. 2d, at 356. He noted:"If there is one watchword for representation of the various states in Congress, it is uniformity. Federal legis-lators speak to national issues that affect the citizens ofevery state. . . . The uniformity in qualifications man1 The Circuit Court also held that $ 3 was severable from the other provisions of the amendment, but that the entire amendment was voidunder state law for lack of an enacting clause. App. to Pet. for Cert. inNo. 93-1456, p. 60a. The Arkansas Supreme Court affirmed the CircuitCourt's decision regarding severability, U. S. Term Limits, Inc. v. Hill, 316Ark. 251, 270, 872 S. W. 2d 349, 359 (1994), and reversed its decision regarding the enacting clause, id., at 263, 872 S. W. 2d, at 355. The decisionof the Arkansas Supreme Court with respect to those issues of state lawis not before us.514us3$60I 06-15-98 09:38:29 PAGES OPINPGT786 U. S. TERM LIMITS, INC. v. THORNTONOpinion of the Courtdated in Article 1 provides the tenor and the fabric forrepresentation in the Congress. Piecemeal restrictionsby State would fly in the face of that order." Ibid.Justice Brown's plurality opinion also rejected the argu-ment that Amendment 73 is "merely a ballot access amendment," concluding that "[t]he intent and the effect of Amend-ment 73 are to disqualify congressional incumbents fromfurther service." Id., at 265-266, 872 S. W. 2d, at 356-357.Justice Brown considered the possibilities that an excludedcandidate might run for Congress as a write-in candidate orbe appointed to fill a vacancy to be "glimmers of opportunity. . . [that] are faint indeed--so faint in our judgment thatthey cannot salvage Amendment 73 from constitutional attack." Id., at 266, 872 S. W. 2d, at 357. In separate opin-ions, Justice Dudley and Justice Gerald P. Brown agreed thatAmendment 73 violates the Federal Constitution.Two justices dissented from the federal constitutionalholding. Justice Hays started from "the premise that all po-litical authority resides in the people, limited only by thoseprovisions of the federal or state constitutions specifically tothe contrary."Id., at 281, 872 S. W. 2d, at 367. Becausehis examination of the text and history of the QualificationsClauses convinced him that the Constitution contains no ex-press or implicit restriction on the States' ability to imposeadditional qualifications on candidates for Congress, JusticeHays concluded that $ 3 is constitutional. Special Chief Justice Cracraft, drawing a distinction between a measure that"impose[s] an absolute bar on incumbent succession" and ameasure that "merely makes it more difficult for an incum-bent to be elected,"id., at 284, 872 S. W. 2d, at 368, concludedthat Amendment 73 does not even implicate the Qualifications Clauses, and instead is merely a permissible ballotaccess restriction.The State of Arkansas, by its Attorney General, and theintervenors petitioned for writs of certiorari. Because ofthe importance of the issues, we granted both petitions and514us3$60I 06-15-98 09:38:29 PAGES OPINPGT787Cite as: 514 U. S. 779 (1995)Opinion of the Courtconsolidated the cases for argument. See 512 U. S. 1218(1994). We now affirm.IIAs the opinions of the Arkansas Supreme Court suggest,the constitutionality of Amendment 73 depends critically onthe resolution of two distinct issues. The first is whetherthe Constitution forbids States to add to or alter the qualifications specifically enumerated in the Constitution. Thesecond is, if the Constitution does so forbid, whether the factthat Amendment 73 is formulated as a ballot access restric-tion rather than as an outright disqualification is of constitutional significance. Our resolution of these issues drawsupon our prior resolution of a related but distinct issue:whether Congress has the power to add to or alter the quali-fications of its Members.Twenty-six years ago, in Powell v. McCormack, 395 U. S.486 (1969), we reviewed the history and text of the Qualifications Clauses 2 in a case involving an attempted exclusion2 As we explained, that term may describe more than the provisionsquoted, supra, at 783:"In addition to the three qualifications set forth in Art. I, $ 2, Art. I, $ 3,cl. 7, authorizes the disqualification of any person convicted in an impeachment proceeding from `any Office of honor, Trust or Profit under theUnited States'; Art. I, $ 6, cl. 2, provides that `no Person holding any Officeunder the United States, shall be a Member of either House during hisContinuance in Office'; and $ 3 of the 14th Amendment disqualifies anyperson `who, having previously taken an oath . . . to support the Constitution of the United States, shall have engaged in insurrection or rebellionagainst the same, or given aid or comfort to the enemies thereof.' It hasbeen argued that each of these provisions, as well as the Guarantee Clauseof Article IV and the oath requirement of Art. VI, cl. 3, is no less a `qualification' within the meaning of Art. I, $ 5, than those set forth in Art. I,$ 2." Powell v. McCormack, 395 U. S. 486, 520, n. 41 (1969).In Powell, we saw no need to resolve the question whether those additional provisions constitute "qualifications," because "both sides agree thatPowell was not ineligible under any of these provisions." Ibid. We similarly have no need to resolve that question today: Because those additionalprovisions are part of the text of the Constitution, they have little bearing514us3$60I 06-15-98 09:38:29 PAGES OPINPGT788 U. S. TERM LIMITS, INC. v. THORNTONOpinion of the Courtof a duly elected Member of Congress. The principal issuewas whether the power granted to each House in Art. I, $ 5,cl. 1, to judge the "Qualifications of its own Members" 3 in-cludes the power to impose qualifications other than thoseset forth in the text of the Constitution. In an opinion byChief Justice Warren for eight Members of the Court,4 weheld that it does not. Because of the obvious importance ofthe issue, the Court's review of the history and meaning ofthe relevant constitutional text was especially thorough.We therefore begin our analysis today with a full statementof what we decided in that case.The Issue in PowellIn November 1966, Adam Clayton Powell, Jr., was electedfrom a District in New York to serve in the United StatesHouse of Representatives for the 90th Congress. Allega-tions that he had engaged in serious misconduct while serving as a committee chairman during the 89th Congress ledto the appointment of a Select Committee to determine hiseligibility to take his seat. That committee found that Pow-ell met the age, citizenship, and residency requirements setforth in Art. I, $ 2, cl. 2. The committee also found, however,that Powell had wrongfully diverted House funds for the useof others and himself and had made false reports on expendi-tures of foreign currency. Based on those findings, theHouse after debate adopted House Resolution 278, excludingon whether Congress and the States may add qualifications to those thatappear in the Constitution.3 Art. I, $ 5, cl. 1, provides in part: "Each House shall be the Judge ofthe Elections, Returns and Qualifications of its own Members, and aMajority of each shall constitute a Quorum to do business . . . ."4 Justice Stewart dissented on procedural grounds, arguing that the caseshould have been dismissed as moot. See 395 U. S., at 559-561. Otherthan expressing agreement with the characterization of the case as raisingconstitutional issues which " `touch the bedrock of our political system[and] strike at the very heart of representative government,' " id., at 573,Justice Stewart did not comment on the merits.514us3$60I 06-15-98 09:38:29 PAGES OPINPGT789Cite as: 514 U. S. 779 (1995)Opinion of the CourtPowell from membership in the House, and declared his seatvacant. See 395 U. S., at 489-493.Powell and several voters of the district from which hehad been elected filed suit seeking a declaratory judgmentthat the House Resolution was invalid because Art. I, $ 2,cl. 2, sets forth the exclusive qualifications for House membership. We ultimately accepted that contention, conclud-ing that the House of Representatives has no "authority toexclude 5 any person, duly elected by his constituents, whomeets all the requirements for membership expressly prescribed in the Constitution." 395 U. S., at 522 (emphasis inoriginal); see alsoid., at 547.6 In reaching that conclusion,we undertook a detailed historical review to determine theintent of the Framers. Though recognizing that the Consti-tutional Convention debates themselves were inconclusive,see id., at 532, we determined that the "relevant historicalmaterials" reveal that Congress has no power to alter thequalifications in the text of the Constitution, id., at 522.Powell's Reliance on HistoryWe started our analysis in Powell by examining the Brit-ish experience with qualifications for membership in Parliament, focusing in particular on the experience of JohnWilkes. While serving as a member of Parliament, Wilkeshad published an attack on a peace treaty with France. This5 The Powell Court emphasized the word "exclude" because it had beenargued that the House Resolution depriving Powell of his seat should beviewed as an expulsion rather than an exclusion. Having rejected thatsubmission, the Court expressed no opinion on issues related to theHouse's power to expel a Member who has been sworn in and seated.6 Though Powell addressed only the power of the House, the Courtpointed out that its rationale was equally applicable to the Senate: "SinceArt. I, $ 5, cl. 1, applies to both Houses of Congress, the scope of the Senate's power to judge the qualification of its members necessarily is identical to the scope of the House's power, with the exception, of course, thatArt. I, $ 3, cl. 3, establishes different age and citizenship requirements formembership in the Senate." Id., at 522, n. 44.514us3$60I 06-15-98 09:38:29 PAGES OPINPGT790 U. S. TERM LIMITS, INC. v. THORNTONOpinion of the Courtliterary endeavor earned Wilkes a conviction for seditiouslibel and a 22-month prison sentence. In addition, Parliament declared Wilkes ineligible for membership and orderedhim expelled. Despite (or perhaps because of) these difficulties, Wilkes was reelected several times. Parliament,however, persisted in its refusal to seat him. After severalyears of Wilkes' efforts, the House of Commons voted toexpunge the resolutions that had expelled Wilkes and haddeclared him ineligible, labeling those prior actions " `sub-versive of the rights of the whole body of electors of thiskingdom.' " Id., at 528, quoting 22 Parliamentary Historyof England 1411 (1782) (Parl. Hist. Eng.). After reviewingWilkes' "long and bitter struggle for the right of the Britishelectorate to be represented by men of their own choice,"395 U. S., at 528, we concluded in Powell that "on the eve ofthe Constitutional Convention, English precedent stood forthe proposition that `the law of the land had regulated thequalifications of members to serve in parliament' and thosequalifications were `not occasional but fixed.' " Ibid., quot-ing 16 Parl. Hist. Eng. 589, 590 (1769).Against this historical background, we viewed the Conven-tion debates as manifesting the Framers' intent that thequalifications in the Constitution be fixed and exclusive. Wefound particularly revealing the debate concerning a proposal made by the Committee of Detail that would havegiven Congress the power to add property qualifications.James Madison argued that such a power would vest " `animproper & dangerous power in the Legislature,' " by whichthe Legislature " `can by degrees subvert the Constitution.' "395 U. S., at 533-534, quoting 2 Records of the Federal Convention of 1787, pp. 249-250 (M. Farrand ed. 1911) (herein-after Farrand).7 Madison continued: " `A Republic may be7 Though we recognized that Madison was responding to a proposal thatwould have allowed Congress to impose property restrictions, we notedthat "Madison's argument was not aimed at the imposition of a property514us3$60I 06-15-98 09:38:29 PAGES OPINPGT791Cite as: 514 U. S. 779 (1995)Opinion of the Courtconverted into an aristocracy or oligarchy as well by limitingthe number capable of being elected, as the number authorised to elect.' " 395 U. S., at 534, quoting 2 Farrand 250.We expressly noted that the "parallel between Madison'sarguments and those made in Wilkes' behalf is striking."395 U. S., at 534.The Framers further revealed their concerns about con-gressional abuse of power when Gouverneur Morris suggested modifying the proposal of the Committee of Detail togrant Congress unfettered power to add qualifications. Wenoted that Hugh Williamson "expressed concern that if a ma-jority of the legislature should happen to be `composed ofany particular description of men, of lawyers for example,. . . the future elections might be secured to their own body.' "Id., at 535, quoting 2 Farrand 250. We noted, too, that Madi-son emphasized the British Parliament's attempts to regulate qualifications, and that he observed: " `[T]he abuse theyhad made of it was a lesson worthy of our attention.' " 395U. S., at 535, quoting 2 Farrand 250. We found significantthat the Convention rejected both Morris' modification andthe Committee's proposal.We also recognized in Powell that the post-Convention rat-ification debates confirmed that the Framers understood thequalifications in the Constitution to be fixed and unalterableby Congress. For example, we noted that in response to theantifederalist charge that the new Constitution favored thewealthy and well born, Alexander Hamilton wrote:" `The truth is that there is no method of securing tothe rich the preference apprehended but by prescribingqualifications of property either for those who may elector be elected. But this forms no part of the power tobe conferred upon the national government. . . . Thequalification as such, but rather at the delegation to the Congress of thediscretionary power to establish any qualifications." Id., at 534.514us3$60I 06-15-98 09:38:29 PAGES OPINPGT792 U. S. TERM LIMITS, INC. v. THORNTONOpinion of the Courtqualifications of the persons who may choose or be chosen, as has been remarked upon other occasions, aredefined and fixed in the Constitution, and are unalterable by the legislature.' " 395 U. S., at 539, quoting TheFederalist No. 60, p. 371 (C. Rossiter ed. 1961) (emphasisadded) (hereinafter The Federalist).We thus attached special significance to "Hamilton's expressreliance on the immutability of the qualifications set forth inthe Constitution." 395 U. S., at 540. Moreover, we re-viewed the debates at the state conventions and found thatthey "also demonstrate the Framers' understanding that thequalifications for members of Congress had been fixed in theConstitution."Ibid.; see, e. g., id., at 541, citing 3 Debateson the Adoption of the Federal Constitution 8 (J. Elliot ed.1863) (hereinafter Elliot's Debates) (Wilson Carey Nicholas,Virginia).8The exercise by Congress of its power to judge the qualifications of its Members further confirmed this understand-ing. We concluded that, during the first 100 years of itsexistence, "Congress strictly limited its power to judge thequalifications of its members to those enumerated in theConstitution." 395 U. S., at 542.As this elaborate summary reveals, our historical analysisin Powell was both detailed and persuasive. We thus conclude now, as we did in Powell, that history shows that, with8 Our examination of the history also caused us to reject the argumentthat the negative phrasing of the Clauses indicated that the Framers didnot limit the power of the House to impose additional qualifications formembership. Id., at 537 (noting that the Committee of Style, whichedited the Qualifications Clauses to incorporate "their present negativeform," had " `no authority from the Convention to make alterations of substance in the Constitution as voted by the Convention, nor did it purportto do so' "); id., at 539, quoting C. Warren, The Making of the Constitution422, n. 1 (1947) (hereinafter Warren); see also 2 Farrand 553 (the Committee of Style was appointed "to revise the stile and arrange the articleswhich had been agreed to").514us3$60I 06-15-98 09:38:29 PAGES OPINPGT793Cite as: 514 U. S. 779 (1995)Opinion of the Courtrespect to Congress, the Framers intended the Constitutionto establish fixed qualifications.9Powell's Reliance on Democratic PrinciplesIn Powell, of course, we did not rely solely on an analysisof the historical evidence, but instead complemented thatanalysis with "an examination of the basic principles of ourdemocratic system."Id., at 548. We noted that allowingCongress to impose additional qualifications would violatethat "fundamental principle of our representative democracy. . . `that the people should choose whom they please togovern them.' " Id., at 547, quoting 2 Elliot's Debates 257(A. Hamilton, New York).Our opinion made clear that this broad principle incorpo-rated at least two fundamental ideas.10 First, we empha9 The text of the Qualifications Clauses also supports the result wereached in Powell. John Dickinson of Delaware observed that the enumeration of a few qualifications "would by implication tie up the handsof the Legislature from supplying omissions." 2 Farrand 123. JusticeStory made the same point:"It would seem but fair reasoning upon the plainest principles of interpretation, that when the constitution established certain qualifications, asnecessary for office, it meant to exclude all others, as prerequisites. Fromthe very nature of such a provision, the affirmation of these qualificationswould seem to imply a negative of all others." 1 J. Story, Commentarieson the Constitution of the United States $ 625 (3d ed. 1858) (hereinafterStory). See also Warren 421 ("As the Constitution . . . expressly set forththe qualifications of age, citizenship, and residence, and as the Conventionrefused to grant to Congress power to establish qualifications in general,the maxim expressio unius exclusio alterius would seem to apply").As Dickinson's comment demonstrates, the Framers were well aware ofthe expressio unius argument that would result from their wording ofthe Qualifications Clauses; they adopted that wording nonetheless. Therethus is no merit either to the dissent's suggestion that Story was the firstto articulate the expressio unius argument, see post, at 868-869, or to thedissent's assertion that that argument is completely without merit.10 The principle also incorporated the more practical concern that reposing the power to adopt qualifications in Congress would lead to a selfperpetuating body to the detriment of the new Republic. See, e. g.,514us3$60I 06-15-98 09:38:29 PAGES OPINPGT794 U. S. TERM LIMITS, INC. v. THORNTONOpinion of the Courtsized the egalitarian concept that the opportunity to beelected was open to all.11 We noted in particular Madison'sstatement in The Federalist that " `[u]nder these reasonablelimitations [enumerated in the Constitution], the door of thispart of the federal government is open to merit of everydescription, whether native or adoptive, whether young orold, and without regard to poverty or wealth, or to any par-ticular profession of religious faith.' "Powell, 395 U. S., at540, n. 74, quoting The Federalist No. 52, at 326. Similarly,we noted that Wilson Carey Nicholas defended the Constitu-tion against the charge that it "violated democratic principles" by arguing: " `It has ever been considered a great secu-rity to liberty, that very few should be excluded from theright of being chosen to the legislature. This Constitutionhas amply attended to this idea. We find no qualificationsrequired except those of age and residence.' " 395 U. S., at541, quoting 3 Elliot's Debates 8.Second, we recognized the critical postulate that sovereignty is vested in the people, and that sovereignty conferson the people the right to choose freely their representativesto the National Government. For example, we noted that"Robert Livingston . . . endorsed this same fundamentalprinciple: `The people are the best judges who ought to represent them. To dictate and control them, to tell themwhom they shall not elect, is to abridge their naturalPowell, 395 U. S., at 533-534, quoting 2 Farrand 250 (Madison) (" `If theLegislature could regulate [the qualification of electors or elected], it canby degrees subvert the Constitution. A Republic may be converted intoan aristocracy or oligarchy as well by limiting the number capable of beingelected, as the number authorised to elect' "); 395 U. S., at 535-536 (citingstatements of Williamson and Madison emphasizing the potential for legislative abuse).11 Contrary to the dissent's suggestion, post, at 879, we do not understand Powell as reading the Qualifications Clauses "to create a personalright to be a candidate for Congress." The Clauses did, however, furtherthe interest of the people of the entire Nation in keeping the door to theNational Legislature open to merit of every description.514us3$60I 06-15-98 09:38:29 PAGES OPINPGT795Cite as: 514 U. S. 779 (1995)Opinion of the Courtrights.' " 395 U. S., at 541, n. 76, quoting 2 Elliot's Debates292-293. Similarly, we observed that "[b]efore the NewYork convention . . . , Hamilton emphasized: `The true princi-ple of a republic is, that the people should choose whom theyplease to govern them. Representation is imperfect in pro-portion as the current of popular favor is checked. Thisgreat source of free government, popular election, should beperfectly pure, and the most unbounded liberty allowed.' "395 U. S., at 540-541, quoting 2 Elliot's Debates 257. Quot-ing from the statement made in 1807 by the Chairman of theHouse Committee on Elections, we noted that "restrictionsupon the people to choose their own representatives must belimited to those `absolutely necessary for the safety of thesociety.' " 395 U. S., at 543, quoting 17 Annals of Cong. 874(1807). Thus, in Powell, we agreed with the sentiment ex-pressed on behalf of Wilkes' admission to Parliament: " `Thatthe right of the electors to be represented by men of theirown choice, was so essential for the preservation of all theirother rights, that it ought to be considered as one of the mostsacred parts of our constitution.' " 395 U. S., at 534, n. 65,quoting 16 Parl. Hist. Eng. 589-590 (1769).Powell thus establishes two important propositions: first,that the "relevant historical materials" compel the conclusionthat, at least with respect to qualifications imposed by Con-gress, the Framers intended the qualifications listed in theConstitution to be exclusive; and second, that that conclusionis equally compelled by an understanding of the "fundamental principle of our representative democracy . . . `that thepeople should choose whom they please to govern them.' "395 U. S., at 547.Powell's HoldingPetitioners argue somewhat half-heartedly that the nar-row holding in Powell, which involved the power of theHouse to exclude a Member pursuant to Art. I, $ 5, does notcontrol the more general question whether Congress has the514us3$60I 06-15-98 09:38:29 PAGES OPINPGT796 U. S. TERM LIMITS, INC. v. THORNTONOpinion of the Courtpower to add qualifications. Powell, however, is not suscep-tible to such a narrow reading. Our conclusion that Congress may not alter or add to the qualifications in the Consti-tution was integral to our analysis and outcome. See, e. g.,id., at 540 (noting "Framers' understanding that the qualifi-cations for members of Congress had been fixed in the Constitution"). Only two Terms ago we confirmed this under-standing ofPowell in Nixon v. United States, 506 U. S. 224(1993). After noting that the three qualifications for membership specified in Art. I, $ 2, are of "a precise, limited na-ture" and "unalterable by the legislature," we explained:"Our conclusion in Powell was based on the fixedmeaning of `[q]ualifications' set forth in Art. I, $ 2. Theclaim by the House that its power to `be the Judge ofthe Elections, Returns and Qualifications of its ownMembers' was a textual commitment of unreviewableauthority was defeated by the existence of this separateprovision specifying the only qualifications which mightbe imposed for House membership."Id., at 237.1212 Justice Thomas' dissent purports to agree with the outcome of Powell, but rejects the reasoning in the opinion. The dissent treats Powellas simply an application of the "default rule" that if "the Constitution issilent about the exercise of a particular power--that is, where the Constitution does not speak either expressly or by necessary implication--theFederal Government lacks that power and the States enjoy it." Post, at848, 876, 885-886. However, there is not a word in the Court's opinionin Powell suggesting that the decision rested on the "default rule" thatundergirds the dissent's entire analysis. On the contrary, as the excerptfrom Nixon quoted in the text plainly states, our conclusion in Powell wasbased on our understanding of the "fixed meaning of `[q]ualifications' setforth in Art. I, $ 2." We concluded that the Framers affirmatively intended the qualifications set forth in the text of the Constitution to beexclusive in order to effectuate the principle that in a representative democracy the people should choose whom they please to govern them.Moreover, the Court has never treated the dissent's "default rule" asabsolute. In McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316 (1819), for example,Chief Justice Marshall rejected the argument that the Constitution's silence on state power to tax federal instrumentalities requires that States514us3$60I 06-15-98 09:38:29 PAGES OPINPGT797Cite as: 514 U. S. 779 (1995)Opinion of the CourtUnsurprisingly, the state courts and lower federal courtshave similarly concluded that Powell conclusively resolvedthe issue whether Congress has the power to impose additional qualifications. See, e. g., Joyner v. Mofford, 706 F. 2d1523, 1528 (CA9 1983) ("In Powell . . . , the Supreme Courtaccepted this restrictive view of the Qualifications Clause--at least as applied to Congress"); Michel v. Anderson, 14F. 3d 623 (CADC 1994) (citing Nixon's description of Powell'sholding); Stumpf v. Lau, 108 Nev. 826, 830, 839 P. 2d 120,122 (1992) (citing Powell for the proposition that "[n]ot evenCongress has the power to alter qualifications for theseconstitutional federal officers").13have the power to do so. Under the dissent's unyielding approach, itwould seem that McCulloch was wrongly decided. Similarly, the dissent's approach would invalidate our dormant Commerce Clause jurisprudence, because the Constitution is clearly silent on the subject of statelegislation that discriminates against interstate commerce. However,though Justice Thomas has endorsed just that argument, see, e. g., Oklahoma Tax Comm'n v. Jefferson Lines, Inc., ante, p. 175 (Scalia, J., concurring in judgment, joined by Thomas, J.), the Court has consistently rejected that argument and has continued to apply the dormant CommerceClause, see, e. g., ante, at 179-180; Bendix Autolite Corp. v. MidwescoEnterprises, Inc., 486 U. S. 888 (1988).13 Our decision in Powell and its historical analysis were consistent withprior decisions from state courts. For example, in State ex rel. Johnsonv. Crane, 65 Wyo. 189, 197 P. 2d 864 (1948), the Wyoming Supreme Courtundertook a detailed historical analysis and concluded that the Qualifications Clauses were exclusive. Several other courts reached the same result, though without performing the same detailed historical analysis.See, e. g., Hellmann v. Collier, 217 Md. 93, 141 A. 2d 908 (1958); Stateex rel. Chandler v. Howell, 104 Wash. 99, 175 P. 569 (1918); State ex rel.Eaton v. Schmahl, 140 Minn. 219, 167 N. W. 481 (1918); see generally Stateex rel. Johnson v. Crane, 65 Wyo., at 204-213, 197 P. 2d, at 869-874 (citingcases).The conclusion and analysis were also consistent with the positionstaken by commentators and scholars. See, e. g., n. 9, supra; see also Warren 412-422 (discussing history and concluding that "[t]he elimination ofall power in Congress to fix qualifications clearly left the provisions of theConstitution itself as the sole source of qualifications").514us3$60I 06-15-98 09:38:29 PAGES OPINPGT798 U. S. TERM LIMITS, INC. v. THORNTONOpinion of the CourtIn sum, after examining Powell's historical analysis andits articulation of the "basic principles of our democratic system," we reaffirm that the qualifications for service in Con-gress set forth in the text of the Constitution are "fixed," atleast in the sense that they may not be supplemented byCongress.IIIOur reaffirmation of Powell does not necessarily resolvethe specific questions presented in these cases. For petitioners argue that whatever the constitutionality of addi-tional qualifications for membership imposed by Congress,the historical and textual materials discussed in Powell donot support the conclusion that the Constitution prohibitsadditional qualifications imposed by States. In the absenceof such a constitutional prohibition, petitioners argue, theTenth Amendment and the principle of reserved powersrequire that States be allowed to add such qualifications.Before addressing these arguments, we find it appropriateto take note of the striking unanimity among the courts thathave considered the issue. None of the overwhelming arrayof briefs submitted by the parties andamici has called toour attention even a single case in which a state court orfederal court has approved of a State's addition of qualifica-tions for a Member of Congress. To the contrary, an impressive number of courts have determined that States lackthe authority to add qualifications. See,e. g., Chandler v.Howell, 104 Wash. 99, 175 P. 569 (1918); Eckwall v. Stadelman, 146 Ore. 439, 446, 30 P. 2d 1037, 1040 (1934); Stocktonv. McFarland, 56 Ariz. 138, 144, 106 P. 2d 328, 330 (1940);State ex rel. Johnson v. Crane, 65 Wyo. 189, 197 P. 2d 864(1948);Dillon v. Fiorina, 340 F. Supp. 729, 731 (N. M. 1972);Stack v. Adams, 315 F. Supp. 1295, 1297-1298 (ND Fla. 1970);Buckingham v. State, 42 Del. 405, 35 A. 2d 903, 905 (1944);Stumpf v. Lau, 108 Nev. 826, 830, 839 P. 2d 120, 123 (1992);Danielson v. Fitzsimmons, 232 Minn. 149, 151, 44 N. W. 2d484, 486 (1950); In re Opinion of Judges, 79 S. D. 585, 587,514us3$60I 06-15-98 09:38:29 PAGES OPINPGT799Cite as: 514 U. S. 779 (1995)Opinion of the Court116 N. W. 2d 233, 234 (1962). Courts have struck downstate-imposed qualifications in the form of term limits, see,e. g., Thorsted v. Gregoire, 841 F. Supp. 1068, 1081 (WD Wash.1994);Stumpf v. Lau, 108 Nev., at 830, 839 P. 2d, at 123,district residency requirements, see, e. g., Hellmann v. Collier, 217 Md. 93, 100, 141 A. 2d 908, 911 (1958); Dillon v.Fiorina, 340 F. Supp., at 731; Exon v. Tiemann, 279 F. Supp.609, 613 (Neb. 1968); State ex rel. Chavez v. Evans, 79 N. M.578, 581, 446 P. 2d 445, 448 (1968)(per curiam), loyalty oathrequirements, see, e. g., Shub v. Simpson, 196 Md. 177, 199,76 A. 2d 332, 341, appeal dism'd, 340 U. S. 881 (1950);In reO'Connor, 173 Misc. 419, 421, 17 N. Y. S. 2d 758, 760 (Super.Ct. 1940), and restrictions on those convicted of felonies, see,e. g., Application of Ferguson, 57 Misc. 2d 1041, 1043, 294N. Y. S. 2d 174, 176 (Super. Ct. 1968); Danielson v. Fitzsimmons, 232 Minn., at 151, 44 N. W. 2d, at 486; State ex rel.Eaton v. Schmahl, 140 Minn. 219, 220, 167 N. W. 481 (1918)(per curiam). Prior to Powell, the commentators were similarly unanimous. See, e. g., 1 W. Blackstone, Commentaries,Appendix 213 (S. Tucker ed. 1803) ("[T]hese provisions, asthey require qualifications which the constitution does not,may possibly be found to be nugatory"); 1 Story $ 627 (eachMember of Congress is "an officer of the union, deriving hispowers and qualifications from the constitution, and neithercreated by, dependent upon, nor controllable by, the states");1 J. Kent, Commentaries on American Law 228, n. a (3d ed.1836) ("[T]he objections to the existence of any such power[on the part of the States to add qualifications are] . . . toopalpable and weighty to admit of any discussion"); G. McCrary, American Law of Elections $ 322 (4th ed. 1897) ("It isnot competent for any State to add to or in any mannerchange the qualifications for a Federal office, as prescribedby the Constitution or laws of the United States"); T. Cooley,General Principles of Constitutional Law 268 (2d ed. 1891)("The Constitution and laws of the United States determinewhat shall be the qualifications for federal offices, and state514us3$60I 06-15-98 09:38:29 PAGES OPINPGT800 U. S. TERM LIMITS, INC. v. THORNTONOpinion of the Courtconstitutions and laws can neither add to nor take away fromthem"); C. Burdick, Law of the American Constitution 160(1922) ("It is clearly the intention of the Constitution that allpersons not disqualified by the terms of that instrumentshould be eligible to the federal office of Representative");id., at 165 ("It is as clear that States have no more right toadd to the constitutional qualifications of Senators than theyhave to add to those for Representatives"); Warren 422 ("Theelimination of all power in Congress to fix qualificationsclearly left the provisions of the Constitution itself as thesole source of qualifications").14 This impressive and uniform body of judicial decisions and learned commentary indi-cates that the obstacles confronting petitioners are formidable indeed.Petitioners argue that the Constitution contains no express prohibition against state-added qualifications, and thatAmendment 73 is therefore an appropriate exercise of aState's reserved power to place additional restrictions on thechoices that its own voters may make. We disagree for twoindependent reasons. First, we conclude that the power toadd qualifications is not within the "original powers" of theStates, and thus is not reserved to the States by the TenthAmendment. Second, even if States possessed some original power in this area, we conclude that the Framers in14 More recently, the commentators have split, with some arguing thatstate-imposed term limits are constitutional, see, e. g., Gorsuch & Guzman,Will the Gentlemen Please Yield? A Defense of the Constitutionality ofState-Imposed Term Limitation, 20 Hofstra L. Rev. 341 (1991); Hills, ADefense of State Constitutional Limits on Federal Congressional Terms,53 U. Pitt. L. Rev. 97 (1991); Safranek, Term Limitations: Do the Winds ofChange Blow Unconstitutional?, 26 Creighton L. Rev. 321 (1993), and others arguing that they are not, see, e. g., Lowenstein, Are CongressionalTerm Limits Constitutional?, 18 Harv. J. L. & Pub. Policy 1 (1994); Eid &Kolbe, The New Anti-Federalism: The Constitutionality of State-ImposedLimits on Congressional Terms of Office, 69 Denver L. Rev. 1 (1992); Comment, Congressional Term Limits: Unconstitutional by Initiative, 67 Wash.L. Rev. 415 (1992).514us3$60I 06-15-98 09:38:29 PAGES OPINPGT801Cite as: 514 U. S. 779 (1995)Opinion of the Courttended the Constitution to be the exclusive source of qualifi-cations for Members of Congress, and that the Framersthereby "divested" States of any power to add qualifications.The "plan of the convention" as illuminated by the historical materials, our opinions, and the text of the Tenth Amendment draws a basic distinction between the powers of thenewly created Federal Government and the powers retainedby the pre-existing sovereign States. As Chief Justice Mar-shall explained, "it was neither necessary nor proper to define the powers retained by the States. These powers pro-ceed, not from the people of America, but from the peopleof the several States; and remain, after the adoption of theconstitution, what they were before, except so far as theymay be abridged by that instrument." Sturges v. Crowninshield, 4 Wheat. 122, 193 (1819).This classic statement by the Chief Justice endorsed Hamilton's reasoning in The Federalist No. 32 that the plan of theConstitutional Convention did not contemplate "[a]n entireconsolidation of the States into one complete national sover-eignty," but only a partial consolidation in which "the Stategovernments would clearly retain all the rights of sover-eignty which they before had, and which were not, by thatact, exclusively delegated to the United States." The Federalist No. 32, at 198. The text of the Tenth Amendmentunambiguously confirms this principle:"The powers not delegated to the United States bythe Constitution, nor prohibited by it to the States, arereserved to the States respectively, or to the people."As we have frequently noted, "[t]he States unquestionablydo retain a significant measure of sovereign authority. Theydo so, however, only to the extent that the Constitution hasnot divested them of their original powers and transferredthose powers to the Federal Government." Garcia v. SanAntonio Metropolitan Transit Authority, 469 U. S. 528, 549(1985) (internal quotation marks and citation omitted) (em514us3$60I 06-15-98 09:38:29 PAGES OPINPGT802 U. S. TERM LIMITS, INC. v. THORNTONOpinion of the Courtphasis added); see also New York v. United States, 505 U. S.144, 155-156 (1992).Source of the PowerContrary to petitioners' assertions, the power to add quali-fications is not part of the original powers of sovereigntythat the Tenth Amendment reserved to the States. Peti-tioners' Tenth Amendment argument misconceives the nature of the right at issue because that Amendment could only"reserve" that which existed before. As Justice Story recognized, "the states can exercise no powers whatsoever,which exclusively spring out of the existence of the nationalgovernment, which the constitution does not delegate tothem. . . . No state can say, that it has reserved, what itnever possessed." 1 Story $ 627.Justice Story's position thus echoes that of Chief JusticeMarshall in McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316 (1819).In McCulloch, the Court rejected the argument that theConstitution's silence on the subject of state power to taxcorporations chartered by Congress implies that the Stateshave "reserved" power to tax such federal instrumentalities.As Chief Justice Marshall pointed out, an "original right totax" such federal entities "never existed, and the questionwhether it has been surrendered, cannot arise."Id., at 430.See also Crandall v. Nevada, 6 Wall. 35, 46 (1868). In language that presaged Justice Story's argument, Chief JusticeMarshall concluded: "This opinion does not deprive theStates of any resources which they originally possessed." 4Wheat., at 436.1515 Thus, contrary to the dissent's suggestion, post, at 856-857, JusticeStory was not the first, only, or even most influential proponent of theprinciple that certain powers are not reserved to the States despite constitutional silence. Instead, as Chief Justice Marshall's opinion in McCulloch reveals, that principle has been a part of our jurisprudence for over175 years.514us3$60I 06-15-98 09:38:29 PAGES OPINPGT803Cite as: 514 U. S. 779 (1995)Opinion of the CourtWith respect to setting qualifications for service in Congress, no such right existed before the Constitution was ratified. The contrary argument overlooks the revolutionarycharacter of the Government that the Framers conceived.Prior to the adoption of the Constitution, the States hadjoined together under the Articles of Confederation. In thatsystem, "the States retained most of their sovereignty, likeindependent nations bound together only by treaties." Wesberry v. Sanders, 376 U. S. 1, 9 (1964). After the Constitutional Convention convened, the Framers were presentedwith, and eventually adopted a variation of, "a plan notmerely to amend the Articles of Confederation but to createan entirely new National Government with a National Executive, National Judiciary, and a National Legislature." Id.,at 10. In adopting that plan, the Framers envisioned a uniform national system, rejecting the notion that the Nationwas a collection of States, and instead creating a direct linkbetween the National Government and the people of theUnited States. See, e. g., FERC v. Mississippi, 456 U. S.742, 791 (1982) (O'Connor, J., concurring in judgment in partand dissenting in part) ("The Constitution . . . permitt[ed]direct contact between the National Government and theindividual citizen"). In that National Government, representatives owe primary allegiance not to the people ofa State, but to the people of the Nation. As Justice Storyobserved, each Member of Congress is "an officer of theunion, deriving his powers and qualifications from the constitution, and neither created by, dependent upon, nor controllable by, the states. . . . Those officers owe their existence andfunctions to the united voice of the whole, not of a portion,of the people." 1 Story $ 627. Representatives and Senators are as much officers of the entire Union as is the President. States thus "have just as much right, and no more, toprescribe new qualifications for a representative, as theyhave for a president. . . . It is no original prerogative of state514us3$60I 06-15-98 09:38:29 PAGES OPINPGT804 U. S. TERM LIMITS, INC. v. THORNTONOpinion of the Courtpower to appoint a representative, a senator, or presidentfor the union." Ibid.16We believe that the Constitution reflects the Framers' general agreement with the approach later articulated by Justice Story. For example, Art. I, $ 5, cl. 1, provides: "EachHouse shall be the Judge of the Elections, Returns and Qualifications of its own Members." The text of the Constitutionthus gives the representatives of all the people the final sayin judging the qualifications of the representatives of anyone State. For this reason, the dissent falters when it statesthat "the people of Georgia have no say over whom the people of Massachusetts select to represent them in Congress."Post, at 859.Two other sections of the Constitution further support ourview of the Framers' vision. First, consistent with Story'sview, the Constitution provides that the salaries of representatives should "be ascertained by Law, and paid out ofthe Treasury of the United States," Art. I, $ 6, rather thanby individual States. The salary provisions reflect the viewthat representatives owe their allegiance to the people, andnot to the States. Second, the provisions governing elections reveal the Framers' understanding that powers overthe election of federal officers had to be delegated to, ratherthan reserved by, the States. It is surely no coincidencethat the context of federal elections provides one of the fewareas in which the Constitution expressly requires action bythe States, namely that "[t]he Times, Places and Manner ofholding Elections for Senators and Representatives, shall be16 The Constitution's provision for election of Senators by the state legislatures, see Art. I, $ 3, cl. 1, is entirely consistent with this view. Thepower of state legislatures to elect Senators comes from an express delegation of power from the Constitution, and thus was not at all based onsome aspect of original state power. Of course, with the adoption of theSeventeenth Amendment, state power over the election of Senators waseliminated, and Senators, like Representatives, were elected directly bythe people.514us3$60I 06-15-98 09:38:29 PAGES OPINPGT805Cite as: 514 U. S. 779 (1995)Opinion of the Courtprescribed in each State by the Legislature thereof." Art.I, $ 4, cl. 1. This duty parallels the duty under Article IIthat "Each State shall appoint, in such Manner as the Legis-lature thereof may direct, a Number of Electors." Art. II,$ 1, cl. 2. These Clauses are express delegations of powerto the States to act with respect to federal elections.17This conclusion is consistent with our previous recognitionthat, in certain limited contexts, the power to regulate theincidents of the federal system is not a reserved power ofthe States, but rather is delegated by the Constitution.Thus, we have noted that "[w]hile, in a loose sense, the rightto vote for representatives in Congress is sometimes spokenof as a right derived from the states, . . . this statement istrue only in the sense that the states are authorized by theConstitution, to legislate on the subject as provided by $ 2 ofArt. I." United States v. Classic, 313 U. S. 299, 315 (1941).Cf. Hawke v. Smith, No. 1, 253 U. S. 221, 230 (1920) ("[T]hepower to ratify a proposed amendment to the Federal Constitution has its source in the Federal Constitution. The actof ratification by the State derives its authority from theFederal Constitution to which the State and its people havealike assented").In short, as the Framers recognized, electing representa-tives to the National Legislature was a new right, arisingfrom the Constitution itself. The Tenth Amendment thusprovides no basis for concluding that the States possess reserved power to add qualifications to those that are fixed inthe Constitution. Instead, any state power to set the qualifications for membership in Congress must derive not fromthe reserved powers of state sovereignty, but rather fromthe delegated powers of national sovereignty. In the ab-sence of any constitutional delegation to the States of powerto add qualifications to those enumerated in the Constitution,such a power does not exist.17 The Clauses also reflect the idea that the Constitution treats both thePresident and Members of Congress as federal officers.514us3$60I 06-15-98 09:38:29 PAGES OPINPGT806 U. S. TERM LIMITS, INC. v. THORNTONOpinion of the CourtThe Preclusion of State PowerEven if we believed that States possessed as part of theiroriginal powers some control over congressional qualifications, the text and structure of the Constitution, the relevanthistorical materials, and, most importantly, the "basic principles of our democratic system" all demonstrate that theQualifications Clauses were intended to preclude the Statesfrom exercising any such power and to fix as exclusive thequalifications in the Constitution.Much of the historical analysis was undertaken by theCourt in Powell. See supra, at 789-793. There is, however, additional historical evidence that pertains directly tothe power of the States. That evidence, though perhaps notas extensive as that reviewed in Powell, leads unavoidablyto the conclusion that the States lack the power to addqualifications.The Convention and Ratification DebatesThe available affirmative evidence indicates the Framers'intent that States have no role in the setting of qualifications.In Federalist Paper No. 52, dealing with the House of Repre-sentatives, Madison addressed the "qualifications of the electors and the elected." The Federalist No. 52, at 325. Madi-son first noted the difficulty in achieving uniformity in thequalifications for electors, which resulted in the Framers'decision to require only that the qualifications for federalelectors be the same as those for state electors. Madisonargued that such a decision "must be satisfactory to everyState, because it is comfortable to the standard already es-tablished, or which may be established, by the State itself."Id., at 326. Madison then explicitly contrasted the statecontrol over the qualifications of electors with the lack ofstate control over the qualifications of the elected:"The qualifications of the elected, being less carefullyand properly defined by the State constitutions, andbeing at the same time more susceptible of uniformity,514us3$60I 06-15-98 09:38:29 PAGES OPINPGT807Cite as: 514 U. S. 779 (1995)Opinion of the Courthave been very properly considered and regulated bythe convention. A representative of the United Statesmust be of the age of twenty-five years; must have beenseven years a citizen of the United States; must, at thetime of his election be an inhabitant of the State he isto represent; and, during the time of his service mustbe in no office under the United States. Under thesereasonable limitations, the door of this part of the federal government is open to merit of every description,whether native or adoptive, whether young or old, andwithout regard to poverty or wealth, or to any particu-lar profession of religious faith."Ibid.1818 The dissent places a novel and implausible interpretation on this paragraph. Consistent with its entire analysis, the dissent reads Madison assaying that the sole purpose of the Qualifications Clauses was to set minimum qualifications that would prevent the States from sending incompetent representatives to Congress; in other words, Madison viewed theClauses as preventing the States from opening the door to this part of thefederal service too widely. See post, at 900-902.The text of The Federalist No. 52 belies the dissent's reading. First,Madison emphasized that "[t]he qualifications of the elected . . . [were]more susceptible of uniformity." His emphasis on uniformity would bequite anomalous if he envisioned that States would create for their representatives a patchwork of qualifications. Second, the idea that Madisonwas in fact concerned that States would open the doors to national servicetoo widely is entirely inconsistent with Madison's emphasizing that theConstitution kept "the door . . . open to merit of every description,whether native or adoptive, whether young or old, and without regard topoverty or wealth, or to any particular profession of religious faith." TheFederalist No. 52, at 326.Finally the dissent argues that "Madison could not possibly have beenrebuking the States for setting unduly high qualifications for their representatives in Congress," post, at 901, and suggests that Madison's comments do not reflect "an implicit criticism of the States for setting undulyhigh entrance barriers," post, at 902. We disagree. Though the dissentattempts to minimize the extensiveness of state-imposed qualifications byfocusing on the qualifications that States imposed on delegates to Congress and the age restrictions that they imposed on state legislators, thedissent neglects to give appropriate attention to the abundance of property, religious, and other qualifications that States imposed on state514us3$60I 06-15-98 09:38:30 PAGES OPINPGT808 U. S. TERM LIMITS, INC. v. THORNTONOpinion of the CourtMadison emphasized this same idea in The Federalist No. 57:"Who are to be the objects of popular choice? Everycitizen whose merit may recommend him to the esteemand confidence of his country. No qualification ofwealth, of birth, of religious faith, or of civil professionis permitted to fetter the judgment or disappoint theinclination of the people." The Federalist No. 57, at351 (emphasis added).The provisions in the Constitution governing federal elec-tions confirm the Framers' intent that States lack power toadd qualifications. The Framers feared that the diverse in-terests of the States would undermine the National Legislature, and thus they adopted provisions intended to minimizethe possibility of state interference with federal elections.For example, to prevent discrimination against federal elec-tors, the Framers required in Art. I, $ 2, cl. 1, that the qualifications for federal electors be the same as those for stateelectors. As Madison noted, allowing States to differentiatebetween the qualifications for state and federal electors"would have rendered too dependent on the State governments that branch of the federal government which ought tobe dependent on the people alone." The Federalist No. 52,at 326. Similarly, in Art. I, $ 4, cl. 1, though giving theStates the freedom to regulate the "Times, Places and Manner of holding Elections," the Framers created a safeguardagainst state abuse by giving Congress the power to "byLaw make or alter such Regulations." The Convention de-bates make clear that the Framers' overriding concern wasthe potential for States' abuse of the power to set theelected officials. As we describe in some detail, infra, at 823-826, nearlyevery State had property qualifications, and many States had religiousqualifications, term limits, or other qualifications. As Madison surely recognized, without a constitutional prohibition, these qualifications could beapplied to federal representatives. We cannot read Madison's commentson the "open door" of the Federal Government as anything but a rejectionof the "unduly high" barriers imposed by States.514us3$60I 06-15-98 09:38:30 PAGES OPINPGT809Cite as: 514 U. S. 779 (1995)Opinion of the Court"Times, Places and Manner" of elections. Madison notedthat "[i]t was impossible to foresee all the abuses that mightbe made of the discretionary power." 2 Farrand 240. Gou-verneur Morris feared that "the States might make falsereturns and then make no provisions for new elections."Id., at 241. When Charles Pinckney and John Rutledgemoved to strike the congressional safeguard, the motionwas soundly defeated. Id., at 240-241. As Hamilton laternoted: "Nothing can be more evident than that an exclusivepower of regulating elections for the national government,in the hands of the State legislatures, would leave the existence of the Union entirely at their mercy." The FederalistNo. 59, at 363. See alsoibid. (one justification for Times,Places and Manner Clause is that "[i]f we are in a humor topresume abuses of power, it is as fair to presume them onthe part of the State governments as on the part of thegeneral government").19The Framers' discussion of the salary of representativesreveals similar concerns. When the issue was first raised,Madison argued that congressional compensation should befixed in the Constitution, rather than left to state legisla-tures, because otherwise "it would create an improper dependence." 1 Farrand 216. George Mason agreed, noting19 The dissent attacks our holding today by arguing that the Framers'distrust of the States extended only to measures adopted by "state legislatures," and not to measures adopted by "the people themselves." Post,at 889. See also post, at 889-890 ("These delegates presumably did notwant state legislatures to be able to tell Members of Congress from theirState" how to vote) (emphasis added). The novelty and expansiveness ofthe dissent's attack is quite astonishing. We are aware of no case thatwould even suggest that the validity of a state law under the FederalConstitution would depend at all on whether the state law was passed bythe state legislature or by the people directly through amendment of thestate constitution. Indeed, no party has so argued. Quite simply, in ourview, the dissent's distinction between state legislation passed by the statelegislature and legislation passed by state constitutional amendment isuntenable. The qualifications in the Constitution are fixed, and may notbe altered by either States or their legislatures.514us3$60I 06-15-98 09:38:30 PAGES OPINPGT810 U. S. TERM LIMITS, INC. v. THORNTONOpinion of the Courtthat "the parsimony of the States might reduce the provisionso low that . . . the question would be not who were most fitto be chosen, but who were most willing to serve." Ibid.When the issue was later reopened, Nathaniel Gorhamstated that he "wished not to refer the matter to the StateLegislatures who were always paring down salaries in sucha manner as to keep out of offices men most capable of exe-cuting the functions of them."Id., at 372. Edmund Ran-dolph agreed that "[i]f the States were to pay the membersof the Nat[ional] Legislature, a dependence would be createdthat would vitiate the whole System." Ibid. Rufus King"urged the danger of creating a dependence on the States,"ibid., and Hamilton noted that "[t]hose who pay are the mas-ters of those who are paid," id., at 373. The Conventionultimately agreed to vest in Congress the power to set itsown compensation. See Art. I, $ 6.20In light of the Framers' evident concern that States wouldtry to undermine the National Government, they could nothave intended States to have the power to set qualifications.Indeed, one of the more anomalous consequences of petitioners' argument is that it accepts federal supremacy over theprocedural aspects of determining the times, places, andmanner of elections while allowing the States carte blanchewith respect to the substantive qualifications for membership in Congress.The dissent nevertheless contends that the Framers' distrust of the States with respect to elections does not pre-clude the people of the States from adopting eligibility requirements to help narrow their own choices. See post, at888-889. As the dissent concedes,post, at 893, however, theFramers were unquestionably concerned that the Stateswould simply not hold elections for federal officers, andtherefore the Framers gave Congress the power to "make20 The Framers' decision to reject a proposal allowing for States to recalltheir own representatives, see 1 Farrand 20, 217, reflects these sameconcerns.514us3$60I 06-15-98 09:38:30 PAGES OPINPGT811Cite as: 514 U. S. 779 (1995)Opinion of the Courtor alter" state election regulations. Yet under the dissent'sapproach, the States could achieve exactly the same resultby simply setting qualifications for federal office sufficientlyhigh that no one could meet those qualifications. In ourview, it is inconceivable that the Framers would provide aspecific constitutional provision to ensure that federal elections would be held while at the same time allowing Statesto render those elections meaningless by simply ensuringthat no candidate could be qualified for office. Given theFramers' wariness over the potential for state abuse, wemust conclude that the specification of fixed qualifications inthe constitutional text was intended to prescribe uniformrules that would preclude modification by either Congress orthe States.21We find further evidence of the Framers' intent in Art. I,$ 5, cl. 1, which provides: "Each House shall be the Judge ofthe Elections, Returns and Qualifications of its own Mem-bers." That Art. I, $ 5, vests a federal tribunal with ultimate authority to judge a Member's qualifications is fullyconsistent with the understanding that those qualificationsare fixed in the Federal Constitution, but not with the under-standing that they can be altered by the States. If theStates had the right to prescribe additional qualifications--21 The dissent's arguments concerning these provisions of the Constitution, see post, at 889-895, simply reinforce our argument that the constitutional provisions surrounding elections all reveal the Framers' basic fearthat the States might act to undermine the National Legislature. Forexample, as the dissent concedes, the Framers feared that States woulduse the control over salaries to influence the votes of their representative.See post, at 889-890. Similarly, the dissent concedes that the Times,Places and Manner Clause reflects the Framers' fear that States wouldnot conduct federal elections at all. See post, at 894. We believe thatthe dissent's reading of the provisions at issue understates considerablythe extent of the Framers' distrust. However, even under the dissent'sreading of the provisions, the text of the Constitution unquestionably reveals the Framers' distrust of the States regarding elections, and thusprovides powerful evidence supporting our view that the qualificationsestablished in the Constitution are exclusive.514us3$60I 06-15-98 09:38:30 PAGES OPINPGT812 U. S. TERM LIMITS, INC. v. THORNTONOpinion of the Courtsuch as property, educational, or professional qualifications--for their own representatives, state law would provide thestandard for judging a Member's eligibility. As we con-cluded in Murdock v. Memphis, 20 Wall. 590 (1875), federalquestions are generally answered finally by federal tribunalsbecause rights which depend on federal law "should be thesame everywhere" and "their construction should be uni-form."Id., at 632. The judging of questions concerningrights which depend on state law is not, however, normallyassigned to federal tribunals. See id., at 636. The Consti-tution's provision for each House to be the judge of its ownqualifications thus provides further evidence that the Fram-ers believed that the primary source of those qualificationswould be federal law.We also find compelling the complete absence in the ratification debates of any assertion that States had the power toadd qualifications. In those debates, the question whetherto require term limits, or "rotation," was a major source ofcontroversy. The draft of the Constitution that was submitted for ratification contained no provision for rotation.22 Inarguments that echo in the preamble to Arkansas' Amendment 73, opponents of ratification condemned the absence ofa rotation requirement, noting that "there is no doubt thatsenators will hold their office perpetually; and in this situa-tion, they must of necessity lose their dependence, and theirattachments to the people." 23 Even proponents of ratifica22 A proposal requiring rotation for Members of the House was proposedat the Convention, see 1 Farrand 20, but was defeated unanimously, seeid., at 217. There is no record of any debate on either occasion.23 2 Elliot's Debates 309-310 (N. Y., Smith). See also id., at 287-288(N. Y., G. Livingston) (Senators will enjoy "a security of their re-election,as long as they please. . . . In such a situation, men are apt to forgettheir dependence, lose their sympathy, and contract selfish habits. . . . Thesenators will associate only with men of their own class, and thus becomestrangers to the condition of the common people"); id., at 30-31 (Mass.,Turner) ("Knowing the numerous arts that designing men are prone to, tosecure their election, and perpetuate themselves, it is my hearty wish that514us3$60I 06-15-98 09:38:30 PAGES OPINPGT813Cite as: 514 U. S. 779 (1995)Opinion of the Courttion expressed concern about the "abandonment in every in-stance of the necessity of rotation in office."24 At severalratification conventions, participants proposed amendmentsthat would have required rotation.25The Federalists' responses to those criticisms and propos-als addressed the merits of the issue, arguing that rotationwas incompatible with the people's right to choose. As wenoted above, Robert Livingston argued:a rotation may be provided for"); id., at 62 (Mass., Kingsley) ("[W]e aredeprived of annual elections, have no rotation, and cannot recall our members; therefore our federal rulers will be masters, and not servants"); Samuel Bryan, "Centinel I," Independent Gazetteer (Phil., Oct. 5, 1787), 1 Debate on the Constitution 52, 61 (B. Bailyn ed. 1990) (hereinafter Bailyn)("[A]s there is no exclusion by rotation, [Senators] may be continued forlife, which, from their extensive means of influence, would follow ofcourse"); Letter from George Lee Turberville to Madison (Dec. 11, 1787),1 Bailyn 477, 479 ("Why was not that truely republican mode of forcingthe Rulers or sovereigns of the states to mix after stated Periods withthe people again--observed"); Mercy Otis Warren, "A Columbian Patriot"(Boston, Feb. 1788), 2 Bailyn 284, 292 ("There is no provision for a rotation,nor any thing to prevent the perpetuity of office in the same hands forlife. . . . By this neglect we lose the advantages of that check to the overbearing insolence of office, which by rendering him ineligible at certainperiods, keeps the mind of man in equilibrio, and teaches him the feelingsof the governed").24 Letter of Dec. 20, 1787, from Thomas Jefferson to James Madison. 1id., at 209, 211. In 1814, in another private letter, Jefferson expressedthe opinion that the States had not abandoned the power to impose termlimits. See Letter of Jan. 31, 1814, to Joseph C. Cabell, in 14 Writingsof Thomas Jefferson 82 (A. Lipscomb ed. 1904). Though he noted thathis reasoning on the matter "appears to me to be sound," he went on tonote:"but, on so recent a change of view, caution requires us not to be tooconfident, and that we admit this to be one of the doubtful questions onwhich honest men may differ with the purest of motives; and the morereadily, as we find we have differed from ourselves on it." Id., at 83.The text of Jefferson's response clearly belies the dissent's suggestion thatJefferson "himself did not entertain serious doubts of its correctness."Post, at 874, n. 14.25 See n. 40, infra.514us3$60I 06-15-98 09:38:30 PAGES OPINPGT814 U. S. TERM LIMITS, INC. v. THORNTONOpinion of the Court"The people are the best judges who ought to representthem. To dictate and control them, to tell them whomthey shall not elect, is to abridge their natural rights.This rotation is an absurd species of ostracism." 2Elliot's Debates 292-293.Similarly, Hamilton argued that the representatives' need forreelection rather than mandatory rotation was the more ef-fective way to keep representatives responsive to the people,because "[w]hen a man knows he must quit his station, lethis merit be what it may, he will turn his attention chiefly tohis own emolument." Id., at 320.26Regardless of which side has the better of the debate overrotation, it is most striking that nowhere in the extensiveratification debates have we found any statement by eithera proponent or an opponent of rotation that the draft constitution would permit States to require rotation for the representatives of their own citizens. If the participants in thedebate had believed that the States retained the authorityto impose term limits, it is inconceivable that the Federalistswould not have made this obvious response to the argumentsof the pro-rotation forces. The absence in an otherwisefreewheeling debate of any suggestion that States had thepower to impose additional qualifications unquestionablyreflects the Framers' common understanding that Stateslacked that power.In short, if it had been assumed that States could add additional qualifications, that assumption would have providedthe basis for a powerful rebuttal to the arguments beingadvanced. The failure of intelligent and experienced advocates to utilize this argument must reflect a general agree26 George Washington made a similar argument:"The power under the Constitution will always be in the People. It isentrusted for certain defined purposes, and for a certain limited period, torepresentatives of their own chusing; and whenever it is executed contraryto their Interest, or not agreeable to their wishes, their Servants can, andundoubtedly will be, recalled." 1 Bailyn 305, 306-307.514us3$60I 06-15-98 09:38:30 PAGES OPINPGT815Cite as: 514 U. S. 779 (1995)Opinion of the Courtment that its premise was unsound, and that the power toadd qualifications was one that the Constitution denied theStates.2727 Petitioners set forth several other arguments to support their contention that the Convention and ratification debates reveal that the qualifications in the Qualifications Clauses were not intended to be exclusive. Wefind none of these persuasive.Petitioners first observe that the notes of Edmund Randolph, who wasa member of the Committee of Detail, reveal that an early draft of theQualifications Clause provided:"The qualifications of (a) delegates shall be the age of twenty-five yearsat least. and citizenship: (and any person possessing these qualificationsmay be elected except)." 2 Farrand 139 (footnote omitted).Petitioners suggest that the deletion of the parenthetical material fromthe Clause suggests that the Framers did not intend the QualificationsClause to be exclusive. We reject this argument. First, there is no evidence that the draft in Randolph's notes was ever presented to the Convention, and thus the deletion of the Clause tells us little about the viewsof the Convention as a whole. Moreover, even assuming that the Convention had seen the draft, the deletion of the language without comment isat least as consistent with a belief--as suggested by Dickinson, see n. 9,supra--that the language was superfluous as with a concern that the language was inappropriate. Finally, contrary to the rather ingenious argument advanced in the dissent, see post, at 887-888, it seems to us irrelevant that the draft in question did not include a comparable parentheticalclause referring to "elected" Senators because the draft contemplated thatSenators, unlike Representatives, would not be chosen by popular election.Nor is there merit to the argument that the inclusion in the Committee'sfinal draft of a provision allowing each House to add property qualifications, see 2 Farrand 179, is somehow inconsistent with our holding today.First, there is no conflict between our holding that the qualifications forCongress are fixed in the Constitution and a provision in the Constitutionitself providing for property qualifications. Indeed, that is why our analysis is consistent with the other disqualifications contained in the Constitution itself. See n. 2, supra. The Constitution simply prohibits the imposition by either States or Congress of additional qualifications that are notcontained in the text of the Constitution. Second, of course, the propertyprovision was deleted, thus providing further evidence that the Framerswanted to minimize the barriers that would exclude the most able citizensfrom service in the National Government.Respondent Republican Party of Arkansas also argues that the negativephrasing of the Qualifications Clauses suggests that they were not meant514us3$60I 06-15-98 09:38:30 PAGES OPINPGT816 U. S. TERM LIMITS, INC. v. THORNTONOpinion of the CourtCongressional ExperienceCongress' subsequent experience with state-imposed qualifications provides further evidence of the general consensuson the lack of state power in this area. In Powell, we examined that experience and noted that during the first 100years of its existence, "Congress strictly limited its power tojudge the qualifications of its members to those enumeratedin the Constitution." 395 U. S., at 542. Congress first confronted the issue in 1807 when it faced a challenge to thequalifications of William McCreery, a Representative fromMaryland who allegedly did not satisfy a residency requirement imposed by that State. In recommending that McCreery be seated, the Report of the House Committee onElections noted:" `The committee proceeded to examine the Constitution, with relation to the case submitted to them, andfind that qualifications of members are therein determined, without reserving any authority to the StateLegislatures to change, add to, or diminish those qualifications; and that, by that instrument, Congress is constituted the sole judge of the qualifications prescribedby it, and are obliged to decide agreeably to the Constitutional rules . . . .' " Powell, 395 U. S., at 542, quoting17 Annals of Cong. 871 (1807) (emphasis added).28The Chairman of the House Committee on Elections elaborated during debate:to be exclusive. Brief for Respondents Republican Party of Arkansaset al. 5-6. This argument was firmly rejected in Powell, see 395 U. S.,at 537-539, and n. 73; see also Warren 422, n. 1, and we see no need torevisit it now.28 We recognize that the "Committee of Elections were not unanimousin these sentiments," and that a "minority advocated the right of the StateLegislature to prescribe additional qualifications to the members from therespective States." 17 Annals of Cong. 873 (1807).514us3$60I 06-15-98 09:38:30 PAGES OPINPGT817Cite as: 514 U. S. 779 (1995)Opinion of the Court" `The Committee of Elections considered the qualifica-tions of members to have been unalterably determinedby the Federal Convention, unless changed by an au-thority equal to that which framed the Constitution atfirst; that neither the State nor the Federal Legislaturesare vested with authority to add to those qualifications,so as to change them.' " Powell, 395 U. S., at 542-543,quoting from 17 Annals of Cong. 872 (1807).As we noted in Powell, the congressional debate over thecommittee's recommendation tended to focus on the "narrowissue of the power of the States to add to the standing quali-fications set forth in the Constitution," 395 U. S., at 543.The whole House, however, did not vote on the committee'sReport, and instead voted only on a simple resolution: "Re-solved, That William McCreery is entitled to his seat in thisHouse." 17 Annals of Cong. 1238 (1807). That resolutionpassed by a vote of 89 to 18.Ibid.Though the House Debate may be inconclusive, commentators at the time apparently viewed the seating of McCreeryas confirmation of the States' lack of power to add qualifications. For example, in a letter to Joseph Cabell, ThomasJefferson noted the argument that "to add new qualificationsto those of the Constitution would be as much an alterationas to detract from them"; he then added: "And so I think theHouse of Representatives of Congress decided in some case;I believe that of a member from Baltimore." Letter of Jan.31, 1814, to Joseph C. Cabell, in 14 Writings of Thomas Jef-ferson 82 (A. Lipscomb ed. 1904).Similarly, for over 150 years prior to Powell, commenta-tors viewed the seating of McCreery as an expression of theview of the House that States could not add to the qualifica-tions established in the Constitution. Thus, for example, referring to the McCreery debates, one commentator noted,"By the decision in this case, [and that in another contestedelection], it seems to have been settled that the States havenot a right to require qualifications from members, different514us3$60I 06-15-98 09:38:30 PAGES OPINPGT818 U. S. TERM LIMITS, INC. v. THORNTONOpinion of the Courtfrom, or in addition to, those prescribed by the constitution."Cases of Contested Elections in Congress 171 (M. Clarke &D. Hall eds. 1834) (emphasis in original). Other commenta-tors viewed the incident similarly. See,e. g., G. Paschal, TheConstitution of the United States 66 (1876) (citing McCreeryto support the proposition that "[t]he Constitution havingfixed the qualifications of members, noadditional qualifications can rightfully be required by the States") (emphasis inoriginal); G. McCrary, American Law of Elections $ 323 (4thed. 1897) (citing McCreery and stating "A state law requiringthat a Representative in Congress shall reside in a particulartown and country within the district from which he is chosenis unconstitutional and void"); W. Sutherland, Notes on theConstitution of the United States 40 (1904) (citing McCreeryto support statement that "[t]his clause fixes the qualifications of members so far as state action is concerned, and noadditional qualifications can be required by the state"); C.Burdick, Law of the American Constitution 160 (1922) (citingMcCreery to support the proposition that state-imposed"limitations have been held . . . not to be effective"). Finally, it is clear that in Powell we viewed the seating ofMcCreery as the House's acknowledgment that the qualifications in the Constitution were fixed. See 395 U. S.,at 542-543.The Senate experience with state-imposed qualificationsfurther supports our conclusions. In 1887, for example, theSenate seated Charles Faulkner of West Virginia, despite thefact that a provision of the West Virginia Constitution purported to render him ineligible to serve. The Senate Committee on Privileges and Elections unanimously concludedthat "no State can prescribe any qualification to the office ofUnited States Senator in addition to those declared in theConstitution of the United States." S. Rep. No. 1, 50thCong., 1st Sess., 4 (1887). The Senate Committee on Rulesand Administration reached the same conclusion in 1964when faced with a challenge to Pierre Salinger, who had514us3$60I 06-15-98 09:38:30 PAGES OPINPGT819Cite as: 514 U. S. 779 (1995)Opinion of the Courtbeen appointed to serve as Senator from California. SeeS. Rep. No. 1381, 88th Cong., 2d Sess., 5 ("It is well settledthat the qualifications established by the U. S. Constitutionfor the office of U. S. Senator are exclusive, and a Statecannot, by constitutional or statutory provisions, add to orenlarge upon those qualifications").We recognize, as we did in Powell, that "congressionalpractice has been erratic"29 and that the precedential valueof congressional exclusion cases is "quite limited." Powell,395 U. S., at 545-546. Nevertheless, those incidents lendsupport to the result we reach today.Democratic PrinciplesOur conclusion that States lack the power to impose quali-fications vindicates the same "fundamental principle of ourrepresentative democracy" that we recognized in Powell,namely, that "the people should choose whom they pleaseto govern them." Id., at 547 (internal quotation marksomitted).As we noted earlier, the Powell Court recognized that anegalitarian ideal--that election to the National Legislatureshould be open to all people of merit--provided a criticalfoundation for the constitutional structure. This egalitariantheme echoes throughout the constitutional debates. In TheFederalist No. 57, for example, Madison wrote:"Who are to be the objects of popular choice? Everycitizen whose merit may recommend him to the esteemand confidence of his country. No qualification ofwealth, of birth, of religious faith, or of civil professionis permitted to fetter the judgment or disappoint theinclination of the people." The Federalist No. 57, at351.Similarly, hoping to persuade voters in New York that theConstitution should be ratified, John Stevens, Jr., wrote:29 See, e. g., Powell, 395 U. S., at 544-546 (noting examples).514us3$60I 06-15-98 09:38:30 PAGES OPINPGT820 U. S. TERM LIMITS, INC. v. THORNTONOpinion of the Court"[N]o Government, that has ever yet existed in the world,affords so ample a field, to individuals of all ranks, for thedisplay of political talents and abilities. . . . No man who hasreal merit, let his situation be what it will, need despair." 1Bailyn 487, 492. And Timothy Pickering noted that, "whileseveral of the state constitutions prescribe certain degreesof property as indispensable qualifications for offices, thiswhich is proposed for the U. S. throws the door wide openfor the entrance of every man who enjoys the confidence ofhis fellow citizens." Letter from T. Pickering to C. Tillinghast (Dec. 24, 1787), 1 Bailyn 289, 290 (emphasis in original).30Additional qualifications pose the same obstacle to open elections whatever their source. The egalitarian ideal, so val-ued by the Framers, is thus compromised to the same degreeby additional qualifications imposed by States as by thoseimposed by Congress.Similarly, we believe that state-imposed qualifications, asmuch as congressionally imposed qualifications, would undermine the second critical idea recognized in Powell: that anaspect of sovereignty is the right of the people to vote forwhom they wish. Again, the source of the qualification isof little moment in assessing the qualification's restrictiveimpact.Finally, state-imposed restrictions, unlike the congressionally imposed restrictions at issue in Powell, violate a thirdidea central to this basic principle: that the right to choose30 See also 2 Farrand 123 (it is "improper that any man of merit shouldbe subjected to disabilities in a Republic where merit was understood toform the great title to public trust, honors & rewards") (Dickinson); TheFederalist No. 36, at 217 ("There are strong minds in every walk of lifethat will rise superior to the disadvantages of situation and will commandthe tribute due to their merit, not only from the classes to which theyparticularly belong, but from the society in general. The door ought tobe equally open to all") (Hamilton); N. Webster, "A Citizen of America,"(Phil., Oct. 17, 1787), 1 Bailyn 129, 142 ("[M]oney is not made a requisite--the places of senators are wisely left open to all persons of suitable ageand merit").514us3$60I 06-15-98 09:38:30 PAGES OPINPGT821Cite as: 514 U. S. 779 (1995)Opinion of the Courtrepresentatives belongs not to the States, but to the people.From the start, the Framers recognized that the "great andradical vice" of the Articles of Confederation was "the principle of LEGISLATION for STATES or GOVERNMENTS, intheir CORPORATE or COLLECTIVE CAPACITIES, andas contradistinguished from the INDIVIDUALS of whomthey consist." The Federalist No. 15, at 108 (Hamilton).Thus the Framers, in perhaps their most important contribution, conceived of a Federal Government directly responsibleto the people, possessed of direct power over the people, andchosen directly, not by States, but by the people. See, e. g.,supra, at 802-804. The Framers implemented this idealmost clearly in the provision, extant from the beginning ofthe Republic, that calls for the Members of the House of Representatives to be "chosen every second Year by the Peopleof the several States." Art. I, $ 2, cl. 1. Following theadoption of the Seventeenth Amendment in 1913, this idealwas extended to elections for the Senate. The Congress ofthe United States, therefore, is not a confederation of nationsin which separate sovereigns are represented by appointeddelegates, but is instead a body composed of representativesof the people. As Chief Justice John Marshall observed:"The government of the Union, then, . . . is, emphatically,and truly, a government of the people. In form and in substance it emanates from them. Its powers are granted bythem, and are to be exercised directly on them, and for theirbenefit." McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat., at 404-405.31Ours is a "government of the people, by the people, for thepeople." A. Lincoln, Gettysburg Address (1863).31 Cf. Hawke v. Smith (No. 1), 253 U. S. 221, 226 (1920) ("The Constitution of the United States was ordained by the people, and, when dulyratified, it became the Constitution of the people of the United States").Compare U. S. Const., Preamble ("We the People"), with The Articles ofConfederation, reprinted in 2 Bailyn 926 ("we the under signed Delegatesof the States").514us3$60I 06-15-98 09:38:30 PAGES OPINPGT822 U. S. TERM LIMITS, INC. v. THORNTONOpinion of the CourtThe Framers deemed this principle critical when they dis-cussed qualifications. For example, during the debates onresidency requirements, Morris noted that in the House, "thepeople at large, not the States, are represented." 2 Farrand217 (emphasis in original) (footnote omitted). Similarly,George Read noted that the Framers "were forming aNati[ona]l Gov[ernmen]t and such a regulation wouldcorrespond little with the idea that we were one people."Ibid. (emphasis in original). James Wilson "enforced thesame consideration."Ibid.Consistent with these views, the constitutional structureprovides for a uniform salary to be paid from the nationaltreasury, allows the States but a limited role in federal elections, and maintains strict checks on state interference withthe federal election process. The Constitution also providesthat the qualifications of the representatives of each Statewill be judged by the representatives of the entire Nation.The Constitution thus creates a uniform national body repre-senting the interests of a single people.Permitting individual States to formulate diverse qualifi-cations for their representatives would result in a patchworkof state qualifications, undermining the uniformity and thenational character that the Framers envisioned and soughtto ensure. Cf. McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat., at 428-429 ("Those means are not given by the people of a particularState, not given by the constituents of the legislature, . . .but by the people of all the States. They are given by all,for the benefit of all--and upon theory, should be subjectedto that government only which belongs to all"). Such apatchwork would also sever the direct link that the Framersfound so critical between the National Government and thepeople of the United States.3232 There is little significance to the fact that Amendment 73 was adoptedby a popular vote, rather than as an Act of the state legislature. See n. 19,supra. In fact, none of the petitioners argues that the constitutionalityof a state law would depend on the method of its adoption. This is proper,514us3$60I 06-15-98 09:38:30 PAGES OPINPGT823Cite as: 514 U. S. 779 (1995)Opinion of the CourtState PracticePetitioners attempt to overcome this formidable array ofevidence against the States' power to impose qualificationsby arguing that the practice of the States immediately afterthe adoption of the Constitution demonstrates their understanding that they possessed such power. One may prop-erly question the extent to which the States' own practice isa reliable indicator of the contours of restrictions that theConstitution imposed on States, especially when no court hasever upheld a state-imposed qualification of any sort. Seesupra, at 798-799. But petitioners' argument is unpersuasive even on its own terms. At the time of the Convention,"[a]lmost all the State Constitutions required members oftheir Legislatures to possess considerable property." SeeWarren 416-417.33 Despite this near uniformity, only onebecause the voters of Arkansas, in adopting Amendment 73, were actingas citizens of the State of Arkansas, and not as citizens of the NationalGovernment. The people of the State of Arkansas have no more powerthan does the Arkansas Legislature to supplement the qualifications forservice in Congress. As Chief Justice Marshall emphasized in McCulloch, "Those means are not given by the people of a particular State, notgiven by the constituents of the legislature, . . . but by the people of allthe States." 4 Wheat., at 428-429.The dissent concedes that the people of the Nation have an interest inpreventing any State from sending "immature, disloyal, or unknowledgeable representatives to Congress," post, at 869, but does not explain whythe people of the Nation lack a comparable interest in allowing every Stateto send mature, loyal, and knowledgeable representatives to Congress.In our view, the interest possessed by the people of the Nation and identified by the dissent is the same as the people's interest in making surethat, within "reasonable limitations, the door to this part of the federalgovernment is open to merit of every description, whether native or adoptive, whether young or old, and without regard to poverty or wealth, orto any particular profession of religious faith." The Federalist No. 52,at 326.33 See, e. g., 7 Federal and State Constitutions, Colonial Charters, andOther Organic Laws of the States, Territories, and Colonies 3816 (F.Thorpe ed. 1909) (hereinafter Thorpe) (Virginia) (members of state legislature must be freeholders); 4 id., at 2460, 2461 (New Hampshire) (freehold514us3$60I 06-15-98 09:38:30 PAGES OPINPGT824 U. S. TERM LIMITS, INC. v. THORNTONOpinion of the CourtState, Virginia, placed similar restrictions on Members ofCongress, requiring that a representative be, inter alia, a"freeholder." See 1788 Va. Acts, ch. 2, $ 2.34 Just 15 yearsafter imposing a property qualification, Virginia replacedthat requirement with a provision requiring that representa-tives be only "qualified according to the constitution of theUnited States." 1813 Va. Acts, ch. 23, $ 2. Moreover, sev-eral States, including New Hampshire, Georgia, Delaware,and South Carolina, revised their Constitutions at around thetime of the Federal Constitution. In the revised Constitutions, each State retained property qualifications for its ownestate of 200 pounds for state senators; estate of 100 pounds, at least halfof which is freehold, for state representatives); 3 id., at 1691, 1694 (Maryland) (real and personal property of over 500 pounds for House of Delegates; real and personal property of 1,000 pounds for Senate); id., at 1897,1898 (freehold estate of 300 pounds or personal estate of 600 pounds forstate senators; freehold estate of 100 pounds or ratable estate of 200pounds for state representatives); 1 id., at 562 (Delaware) (state legislatorsmust be freeholders); 5 id., at 2595 (New Jersey) (members of LegislativeCouncil must be freeholders and must have real and personal property of1,000 pounds; members of Assembly must have real and personal propertyof 500 pounds); id., at 2631 (New York) (state senators must be freeholders); id., at 2790 (North Carolina) (100 acres of land for House; 300 acresof land in Senate); 2 id., at 779 (Georgia) (150 acres of land or property of250 pounds); 6 id., at 3251 (South Carolina) (freehold estate of 2,000 poundsfor state senate).34 Judge Tucker expressed doubt about the constitutionality of the provisions of the Virginia statute, noting that "these provisions, as they requirequalifications which the constitution does not, may possibly be found to benugatory." 1 W. Blackstone, Commentaries Appendix 213 (S. Tucker ed.1803). Judge Tucker noted the two primary arguments against the powerto add such a qualification:"First, that in a representative government, the people have an undoubted right to judge for themselves of the qualification of their delegate,and if their opinion of the integrity of their representative will supply thewant of estate, there can be no reason for the government to interfere, bysaying, that the latter must and shall overbalance the former."Secondly; by requiring a qualification in estate it may often happen,that men the best qualified in other respects might be incapacitated fromserving their country." Ibid.514us3$60I 06-15-98 09:38:30 PAGES OPINPGT825Cite as: 514 U. S. 779 (1995)Opinion of the Courtstate elected officials yet placed no property qualification onits congressional representatives.35The contemporaneous state practice with respect to termlimits is similar. At the time of the Convention, Stateswidely supported term limits in at least some circumstances.The Articles of Confederation contained a provision for termlimits.36 As we have noted, some members of the Conven-tion had sought to impose term limits for Members of Congress.37 In addition, many States imposed term limits on35 See 4 Thorpe 2477, 2479 (New Hampshire) (100 pounds for House; 200pounds for Senate); 2 id., at 786 (Georgia) (200 acres of land or 150 poundsfor House; 250 acres of land or 250 pounds for Senate); 6 id., at 3259 (SouthCarolina) (500 acres and 10 slaves or 150 pounds sterling for House; 300pounds sterling for Senate); 1 id., at 570, 571 (Delaware) (freehold forHouse; freehold estate of 200 acres or real and personal property of 1,000pounds for Senate). Pennsylvania amended its Constitution in 1790.Neither the old constitution nor the amended one contained property qualifications for state representatives. See 5 id., at 3084; id., at 3092-3093.Several State Constitutions also imposed religious qualifications onstate representatives. For example, New Hampshire's Constitution of1784 and its Constitution of 1792 provided that members of the State Senate and House of Representatives be "of the protestant religion." 4 id., at2460, 2461-2462 (1784 Constitution); id., at 2477, 2479 (1792 Constitution).North Carolina's Constitution provided that "no clergyman, or preacher ofthe gospel, of any denomination, shall be capable of being a member ofeither the Senate, House of Commons, or Council of State," 5 id., at 2793,and that "no person, who shall deny the being of God or the truth of theProtestant religion . . . shall be capable of holding any office or place oftrust or profit in the civil department within this State," ibid. Georgiaand South Carolina also had religious qualifications in their Constitutionsfor state legislators, see 2 id., at 779 (Georgia) ("of the Protestant religion"); 6 id., at 3252 (South Carolina) (must be "of the Protestant religion"), but deleted those provisions when they amended their Constitutions, in 1789, see 2 id., at 785, and in 1790, see 6 id., at 3258, respectively.Article VI of the Federal Constitution, however, prohibited States fromimposing similar qualifications on federal legislators.36 See 2 Bailyn 926, 927 ("[N]o person shall be capable of being a delegatefor more than three years in any term of six years").37 See 1 Farrand 20 ("Res[olved] that the members of the first branch ofthe National Legislature ought . . . to be incapable of re-election for the514us3$60I 06-15-98 09:38:30 PAGES OPINPGT826 U. S. TERM LIMITS, INC. v. THORNTONOpinion of the Courtstate officers,38 four placed limits on delegates to the Conti-nental Congress,39 and several States voiced support forterm limits for Members of Congress.40 Despite this wide-spread support, no State sought to impose any term limitson its own federal representatives. Thus, a proper assess-ment of contemporaneous state practice provides furtherpersuasive evidence of a general understanding that thequalifications in the Constitution were unalterable by theStates.41space of [blank] after the expiration of their term of service"). See alson. 22, supra.38 See, e. g., G. Wood, Creation of the American Republic, 1776-1787,p. 140 (1969) (noting that 7 of the 10 State Constitutions drafted in 1776-1777 provided for term limits on their state executives); see also App.to Brief for State Petitioner 1b-34b (describing provisions of StateConstitutions).39 3 Thorpe 1695-1697 (Maryland); 4 id., at 2467 (New Hampshire); 5 id.,at 3085 ((Pennsylvania); 5 id., at 2793 (North Carolina).40 New York attached to its ratification a list of proposed amendmentsand "enjoin[ed] it upon their representatives in Congress to exert all theirinfluence, and use all reasonable means, to obtain a ratification." 1 Elliot's Debates 329. One of the proposed amendments was "That no personbe eligible as a senator for more than six years in any term of twelveyears." Id., at 330. In Virginia, the Convention similarly "enjoin[ed] itupon their representatives," 2 Bailyn 564, to adopt "a Declaration or Billof Rights," id., at 558, which would include the statement that membersof the Executive and Legislative Branches "should at fixed periods bereduced to a private station, return into the mass of the people; and thevacancies be supplied by certain and regular elections; in which all or anypart of the former members to be eligible or ineligible, as the rules of theConstitution of Government, and the laws shall direct," id., at 559. TheNorth Carolina Convention proposed nearly identical language, see id., at566, though that Convention ultimately did not ratify the Constitution, see4 Elliot's Debates 250-251. Thus, at least three States proposed someform of constitutional amendment supporting term limits for Membersof Congress.41 Petitioners and the dissent also point out that Georgia, Maryland,Massachusetts, Virginia, and North Carolina added district residency requirements, and petitioners note that New Jersey and Connecticut established nominating processes for congressional candidates. They rely on514us3$60I 06-15-98 09:38:30 PAGES OPINPGT827Cite as: 514 U. S. 779 (1995)Opinion of the CourtIn sum, the available historical and textual evidence, readin light of the basic principles of democracy underlying theConstitution and recognized by this Court in Powell, revealthe Framers' intent that neither Congress nor the Statesshould possess the power to supplement the exclusive quali-fications set forth in the text of the Constitution.these facts to show that the States believed they had the power to addqualifications. We again are unpersuaded. First, establishing a nominating process is no more setting a qualification for office than is creatinga primary. Second, it seems to us that States may simply have vieweddistrict residency requirements as the necessary analog to state residencyrequirements. Thus, state practice with respect to residency requirements does not necessarily indicate that States believed that they hada broad power to add restrictions. Finally, we consider the number ofstate-imposed qualifications to be remarkably small. Despite the array ofproperty, religious, and other qualifications that were contained in StateConstitutions, petitioners and the dissent can point to only one instance ofa state-imposed property qualification on candidates for Congress, and fiveinstances of district residency requirements. The state practice seems tous notable for its restraint, and thus supports the conclusion that Statesdid not believe that they generally had the power to add qualifications.Nor are we persuaded by the more recent state practice involving qualifications such as those that bar felons from being elected. As we havenoted, the practice of States is a poor indicator of the effect of restraintson the States, and no court has ever upheld one of these restrictions.Moreover, as one moves away from 1789, it seems to us that state practiceis even less indicative of the Framers' understanding of state power.Finally, it is important to reemphasize that the dissent simply has nocredible explanation as to why almost every State imposed property qualifications on state representatives but not on federal representatives. Thedissent relies first on the obvious but seemingly irrelevant proposition thatthe state legislatures were larger than state congressional delegations.Post, at 913-914, n. 37. If anything, the smaller size of the congressionaldelegation would have made States more likely to put qualifications onfederal representatives since the election of any "pauper" would havehad proportionally greater significance. The dissent also suggests thatStates failed to add qualifications out of fear that others, e. g., Congress,believed that States lacked the power to add such qualifications. Ofcourse, this rationale is perfectly consistent with our view that the general understanding at the time was that States lacked the power to addqualifications.514US3 Unit: $U60 [01-06-00 07:07:25] PAGES PGT: OPIN828 U. S. TERM LIMITS, INC. v. THORNTONOpinion of the CourtIVPetitioners argue that, even if States may not add qualifi-cations, Amendment 73 is constitutional because it is notsuch a qualification, and because Amendment 73 is a per-missible exercise of state power to regulate the "Times,Places and Manner of holding Elections." We reject thesecontentions.Unlike $$ 1 and 2 of Amendment 73, which create absolutebars to service for long-term incumbents running for stateoffice, $ 3 merely provides that certain Senators and Repre-sentatives shall not be certified as candidates and shall nothave their names appear on the ballot. They may run aswrite-in candidates and, if elected, they may serve. Petitioners contend that only a legal bar to service creates an imper-missible qualification, and that Amendment 73 is thereforeconsistent with the Constitution.Petitioners support their restrictive definition of qualifications with language from Storer v. Brown, 415 U. S. 724(1974), in which we faced a constitutional challenge to provisions of the California Elections Code that regulated the pro-cedures by which both independent candidates and candidates affiliated with qualified political parties could obtainballot position in general elections. The code required candidates affiliated with a qualified party to win a primaryelection, and required independents to make timely filing ofnomination papers signed by at least 5% of the entire votecast in the last general election. The code also denied ballotposition to independents who had voted in the most recentprimary election or who had registered their affiliation witha qualified party during the previous year.InStorer, we rejected the argument that the challengedprocedures created additional qualifications as "wholly without merit." Id., at 746, n. 16. We noted that petitioners"would not have been disqualified had they been nominatedat a party primary or by an adequately supported independ-ent petition and then elected at the general election." Ibid.514us3$60I 06-15-98 09:38:30 PAGES OPINPGT829Cite as: 514 U. S. 779 (1995)Opinion of the CourtWe concluded that the California Code "no more establishesan additional requirement for the office of Representativethan the requirement that the candidate win the primary tosecure a place on the general ballot or otherwise demonstrate substantial community support." Ibid. See alsoJoyner v. Mofford, 706 F. 2d, at 1531; Hopfmann v. Connolly,746 F. 2d 97, 103 (CA1 1984), vacated in part on othergrounds, 471 U. S. 459 (1985). Petitioners maintain that,under Storer, Amendment 73 is not a qualification.We need not decide whether petitioners' narrow under-standing of qualifications is correct because, even if it is,Amendment 73 may not stand. As we have often noted," `[c]onstitutional rights would be of little value if they couldbe . . . indirectly denied.' " Harman v. Forssenius, 380 U. S.528, 540 (1965), quotingSmith v. Allwright, 321 U. S. 649,664 (1944). The Constitution "nullifies sophisticated as wellas simple-minded modes" of infringing on constitutional pro-tections. Lane v. Wilson, 307 U. S. 268, 275 (1939); Harmanv. Forssenius, 380 U. S., at 540-541.In our view, Amendment 73 is an indirect attempt to accomplish what the Constitution prohibits Arkansas from ac-complishing directly. As the plurality opinion of the Arkansas Supreme Court recognized, Amendment 73 is an "effortto dress eligibility to stand for Congress in ballot accessclothing," because the "intent and the effect of Amendment73 are to disqualify congressional incumbents from furtherservice." 316 Ark., at 266, 872 S. W. 2d, at 357.42 We must,of course, accept the state court's view of the purpose of itsown law: We are thus authoritatively informed that the solepurpose of $ 3 of Amendment 73 was to attempt to achieve aresult that is forbidden by the Federal Constitution. In42 Justice Dudley noted in his concurrence: "I am reassured by the styleof this case, U. S. Term Limits, Inc. That name implies just what thisamendment is: A practical limit on the terms of the members of the Congress." 316 Ark., at 276, 872 S. W. 2d, at 364 (opinion concurring in partand dissenting in part).514us3$60I 06-15-98 09:38:30 PAGES OPINPGT830 U. S. TERM LIMITS, INC. v. THORNTONOpinion of the Courtdeed, it cannot be seriously contended that the intent behindAmendment 73 is other than to prevent the election of incumbents. The preamble of Amendment 73 states explicitly: "[T]he people of Arkansas . . . herein limit the terms ofelected officials." Sections 1 and 2 create absolute limits onthe number of terms that may be served. There is no hintthat $ 3 was intended to have any other purpose.Petitioners do, however, contest the Arkansas SupremeCourt's conclusion that the amendment has the same practical effect as an absolute bar. They argue that the possibilityof a write-in campaign creates a real possibility for victory,especially for an entrenched incumbent. One may reasonably question the merits of that contention.43 Indeed, weare advised by the state court that there is nothing morethan a faint glimmer of possibility that the excluded candidate will win.44 Our prior cases, too, have suggested that43 The uncontested data submitted to the Arkansas Supreme Court indicate that, in over 1,300 Senate elections since the passage of the Seventeenth Amendment in 1913, only 1 has been won by a write-in candidate.In over 20,000 House elections since the turn of the century, only 5 havebeen won by write-in candidates. App. 201-202. Indeed, it is for thisreason that the Arkansas Supreme Court found the possibility of awrite-in victory to be a mere "glimme[r] of opportunity for those disqualified." 316 Ark., at 266, 872 S. W. 2d, at 357; see also id., at 276, 872S. W. 2d, at 364 (Dudley, J., concurring in part and dissenting in part) ("asa practical matter, the amendment would place term limits on service inthe Congress").44 Contrary to the dissent, post, at 919-920, we read a majority of theArkansas Supreme Court as holding that Amendment 73 has the samepractical effect as an absolute bar. See 316 Ark., at 266, 872 S. W. 2d, at357 (plurality opinion) (the "intent and the effect of Amendment 73 are todisqualify congressional incumbents from further service"); id., at 276, 872S. W. 2d, at 364 (Dudley, J., concurring in part and dissenting in part)("That name implies just what this amendment is: A practical limit on theterms of the members of the Congress"). However, as we note in thetext, infra, at 831, we do not rely on the state court's finding on this point.See also infra, at 836.514us3$60I 06-15-98 09:38:30 PAGES OPINPGT831Cite as: 514 U. S. 779 (1995)Opinion of the Courtwrite-in candidates have only a slight chance of victory.45But even if petitioners are correct that incumbents may occasionally win reelection as write-in candidates, there is no de-nying that the ballot restrictions will make it significantlymore difficult for the barred candidate to win the election.In our view, an amendment with the avowed purpose andobvious effect of evading the requirements of the Qualifica-tions Clauses by handicapping a class of candidates cannotstand. To argue otherwise is to suggest that the Framersspent significant time and energy in debating and craftingClauses that could be easily evaded. More importantly,allowing States to evade the Qualifications Clauses by"dress[ing] eligibility to stand for Congress in ballot accessclothing" trivializes the basic principles of our democracythat underlie those Clauses. Petitioners' argument treatsthe Qualifications Clauses not as the embodiment of a grandprinciple, but rather as empty formalism. " `It is inconceiv-able that guaranties embedded in the Constitution of theUnited States may thus be manipulated out of existence.' "Gomillion v. Lightfoot, 364 U. S. 339, 345 (1960), quotingFrost & Frost Trucking Co. v. Railroad Comm'n of Cal., 271U. S. 583, 594 (1926).45 We noted in Lubin v. Panish, 415 U. S. 709 (1974), that "[t]he realitiesof the electoral process . . . strongly suggest that `access' via write-in votesfalls far short of access in terms of having the name of the candidate onthe ballot." Id., at 719, n. 5; see also Anderson v. Celebrezze, 460 U. S.780, 799, n. 26 (1983) ("We have previously noted that [a write-in] opportunity is not an adequate substitute for having the candidates name appearon the printed ballot"); United States v. Classic, 313 U. S. 299, 313 (1941)("Even if . . . voters may lawfully write into their ballots, cast at thegeneral election, the name of a candidate rejected at the primary and havetheir ballots counted, the practical operation of the primary law . . . issuch as to impose serious restrictions upon the choice of candidates by thevoters"); Burdick v. Takushi, 504 U. S. 428, 437, n. 7 (1992) ("If the dissentwere correct in suggesting that requiring primary voters to select a specific ballot impermissibly burdened the right to vote, it is clear under ourdecisions that the availability of a write-in option would not provide anadequate remedy").514us3$60I 06-15-98 09:38:30 PAGES OPINPGT832 U. S. TERM LIMITS, INC. v. THORNTONOpinion of the CourtPetitioners make the related argument that Amendment73 merely regulates the "Manner" of elections, and that theamendment is therefore a permissible exercise of statepower under Article I, $ 4, cl. 1 (the Elections Clause), toregulate the "Times, Places and Manner" of elections.46 Wecannot agree.A necessary consequence of petitioners' argument is thatCongress itself would have the power to "make or alter" ameasure such as Amendment 73. Art. I, $ 4, cl. 1. SeeSmiley v. Holm, 285 U. S. 355, 366-367 (1932) ("[T]he Con-gress may supplement these state regulations or may substitute its own"). That the Framers would have approved ofsuch a result is unfathomable. As our decision in Powelland our discussion above make clear, the Framers wereparticularly concerned that a grant to Congress of the authority to set its own qualifications would lead inevitably tocongressional self-aggrandizement and the upsetting of thedelicate constitutional balance. See supra, at 790-791, andn. 10,supra. Petitioners would have us believe, however,that even as the Framers carefully circumscribed congressional power to set qualifications, they intended to allow Con-gress to achieve the same result by simply formulating theregulation as a ballot access restriction under the ElectionsClause. We refuse to adopt an interpretation of the ElectionsClause that would so cavalierly disregard what the Framersintended to be a fundamental constitutional safeguard.Moreover, petitioners' broad construction of the ElectionsClause is fundamentally inconsistent with the Framers' viewof that Clause. The Framers intended the Elections Clauseto grant States authority to create procedural regulations,not to provide States with license to exclude classes of candi46 Article I, $ 4, cl. 1, provides:"The Times, Places and Manner of holding Elections for Senators andRepresentatives, shall be prescribed in each State by the Legislaturethereof; but the Congress may at any time by Law make or alter suchRegulations, except as to the Places of chusing Senators."514us3$60I 06-15-98 09:38:30 PAGES OPINPGT833Cite as: 514 U. S. 779 (1995)Opinion of the Courtdates from federal office. During the Convention debates,for example, Madison illustrated the procedural focus of theElections Clause by noting that it covered "[w]hether theelectors should vote by ballot or viva^ voce, should assembleat this place or that place; should be divided into districts orall meet at one place, sh[oul]d all vote for all the representatives; or all in a district vote for a number allotted to thedistrict." 2 Farrand 240. Similarly, during the ratificationdebates, proponents of the Constitution noted: "[T]he powerover the manner only enables them to determinehow theseelectors shall elect--whether by ballot, or by vote, or by anyother way." 4 Elliot's Debates 71 (Steele statement atNorth Carolina ratifying convention) (emphasis in original).47Hamilton made a similar point in The Federalist No. 60,in which he defended the Constitution's grant to Congressof the power to override state regulations. Hamiltonexpressly distinguished the broad power to set qualifications from the limited authority under the Elections Clause,noting that"there is no method of securing to the rich the prefer-ence apprehended but by prescribing qualifications ofproperty either for those who may elect or be elected.But this forms no part of the power to be conferred uponthe national government. Its authority would be ex-pressly restricted to the regulation of thetimes, theplaces, and the manner of elections." The FederalistNo. 60, at 371 (emphasis in original).As Hamilton's statement suggests, the Framers understoodthe Elections Clause as a grant of authority to issue procedural regulations, and not as a source of power to dictate47 See also "The Republican," Connecticut Courant (Hartford, Jan. 7,1788), 1 Bailyn 710, 713 ("The constitution expressly provides that thechoice shall be by the people, which cuts off both from the general andstate Legislatures the power of so regulating the mode of election, as todeprive the people of a fair choice").514us3$60I 06-15-98 09:38:30 PAGES OPINPGT834 U. S. TERM LIMITS, INC. v. THORNTONOpinion of the Courtelectoral outcomes, to favor or disfavor a class of candidates,or to evade important constitutional restraints.Our cases interpreting state power under the ElectionsClause reflect the same understanding. The ElectionsClause gives States authority "to enact the numerous requirements as to procedure and safeguards which experienceshows are necessary in order to enforce the fundamentalright involved." Smiley v. Holm, 285 U. S., at 366. However, "[t]he power to regulate the time, place, and mannerof elections does not justify, without more, the abridgmentof fundamental rights." Tashjian v. Republican Party ofConn., 479 U. S. 208, 217 (1986). States are thus entitled toadopt "generally applicable and evenhanded restrictions thatprotect the integrity and reliability of the electoral processitself." Anderson v. Celebrezze, 460 U. S. 780, 788, n. 9(1983). For example, in Storer v. Brown, 415 U. S. 724(1974), the case on which petitioners place principal reliance,we upheld the validity of certain provisions of the CaliforniaElections Code. In so doing, we emphasized the States' interest in having orderly, fair, and honest elections "ratherthan chaos." Id., at 730. We also recognized the "States'strong interest in maintaining the integrity of the politicalprocess by preventing interparty raiding," id., at 731, andexplained that the specific requirements applicable to independents were "expressive of a general state policy aimed atmaintaining the integrity of the various routes to the ballot,"id., at 733. In other cases, we have approved the States'interests in avoiding "voter confusion, ballot overcrowding,or the presence of frivolous candidacies," Munro v. SocialistWorkers Party, 479 U. S. 189, 194-195 (1986), in "seeking toassure that elections are operated equitably and efficiently,"Burdick v. Takushi, 504 U. S., at 433, and in "guard[ing]against irregularity and error in the tabulation of votes,"Roudebush v. Hartke, 405 U. S. 15, 25 (1972). In short, wehave approved of state regulations designed to ensure that514us3$60I 06-15-98 09:38:30 PAGES OPINPGT835Cite as: 514 U. S. 779 (1995)Opinion of the Courtelections are " `fair and honest and . . . [that] some sort oforder, rather than chaos, . . . accompan[ies] the democraticprocesses.' " Burdick v. Takushi, 504 U. S., at 433, quotingStorer, 415 U. S., at 730.The provisions at issue in Storer and our other ElectionsClause cases were thus constitutional because they regulatedelection procedures and did not even arguably impose anysubstantive qualification rendering a class of potential candidates ineligible for ballot position. They served the stateinterest in protecting the integrity and regularity of theelection process, an interest independent of any attempt toevade the constitutional prohibition against the imposition ofadditional qualifications for service in Congress. And theydid not involve measures that exclude candidates from theballot without reference to the candidates' support in theelectoral process. Our cases upholding state regulations ofelection procedures thus provide little support for the con-tention that a state-imposed ballot access restriction is constitutional when it is undertaken for the twin goals of disad-vantaging a particular class of candidates and evading thedictates of the Qualifications Clauses.4848 Nor does Clements v. Fashing, 457 U. S. 957 (1982), support petitioners. In Clements, the Court rejected First and Fourteenth Amendmentchallenges to Texas' so-called "resign-to-run" provision. That provisiontreated an elected state official's declaration of candidacy for anotherelected office as an automatic resignation from the office then held. Wenoted that the regulation was a permissible attempt to regulate state officeholders. See id., at 972 ("Appellees are elected state officeholders whocontest restrictions on partisan political activity") (emphasis deleted); id.,at 974, n. 1 (Stevens, J., concurring in part and concurring in judgment)("The fact that appellees hold state office is sufficient to justify a restriction on their ability to run for other office that is not imposed on the publicgenerally"). As the Ninth Circuit recognized in upholding a similarresign-to-run statute from Arizona: "The burden on candidacy . . . is indirect and attributable to a desire to regulate state officeholders and not toimpose additional qualifications to serving in Congress." Joyner v. Mofford, 706 F. 2d 1523, 1528 (1983); see also Signorelli v. Evans, 637 F. 2d514us3$60I 06-15-98 09:38:30 PAGES OPINPGT836 U. S. TERM LIMITS, INC. v. THORNTONOpinion of the CourtWe do not understand the dissent to contest our primarythesis, namely, that if the qualifications for Congress arefixed in the Constitution, then a state-passed measure withthe avowed purpose of imposing indirectly such an additionalqualification violates the Constitution. The dissent, instead,raises two objections, challenging the assertion that the Arkansas amendment has the likely effect of creating a qualifi-cation,post, at 917-919, and suggesting that the true intentof Amendment 73 was not to evade the Qualifications Clausesbut rather to simply "level the playing field," post, at 922.Neither of these objections has merit.As to the first, it is simply irrelevant to our holding today.As we note above in n. 45, our prior cases strongly suggestthat write-in candidates will have only a slim chance ofsuccess, and the Arkansas plurality agreed. However, weexpressly do not rest on this Court's prior observations regarding write-in candidates. Instead, we hold that a stateamendment is unconstitutional when it has the likely effectof handicapping a class of candidates and has the sole pur-pose of creating additional qualifications indirectly. Thus,the dissent's discussion of the evidence concerning the possibility that a popular incumbent will win a write-in electionis simply beside the point.As to the second argument, we find wholly unpersuasivethe dissent's suggestion that Amendment 73 was designedmerely to "level the playing field." As we have noted,supra, at 829-830, it is obvious that the sole purpose ofAmendment 73 was to limit the terms of elected officials,both state and federal, and that Amendment 73, therefore,may not stand.853, 859 (CA2 1980) ("New York's purpose is to regulate the judicial officethat [the candidate] holds, not the Congressional office he seeks"). Moreover, as now-Chief Judge Newman observed while upholding similar restrictions imposed by New York, such provisions "plac[e] no obstacle between [a candidate] and the ballot or his nomination or his election. Heis free to run and the people are free to choose him." Id., at 858.514us3$60I 06-15-98 09:38:30 PAGES OPINPGT837Cite as: 514 U. S. 779 (1995)Opinion of the CourtVThe merits of term limits, or "rotation," have been thesubject of debate since the formation of our Constitution,when the Framers unanimously rejected a proposal to addsuch limits to the Constitution. The cogent arguments onboth sides of the question that were articulated during theprocess of ratification largely retain their force today. Overhalf the States have adopted measures that impose such lim-its on some offices either directly or indirectly, and the Nation as a whole, notably by constitutional amendment, hasimposed a limit on the number of terms that the Presidentmay serve.49 Term limits, like any other qualification foroffice, unquestionably restrict the ability of voters to votefor whom they wish. On the other hand, such limits mayprovide for the infusion of fresh ideas and new perspectives,and may decrease the likelihood that representatives willlose touch with their constituents. It is not our province toresolve this longstanding debate.We are, however, firmly convinced that allowing the several States to adopt term limits for congressional servicewould effect a fundamental change in the constitutionalframework. Any such change must come not by legislationadopted either by Congress or by an individual State, butrather--as have other important changes in the electoralprocess50--through the amendment procedures set forth inArticle V. The Framers decided that the qualifications forservice in the Congress of the United States be fixed in theConstitution and be uniform throughout the Nation. Thatdecision reflects the Framers' understanding that Membersof Congress are chosen by separate constituencies, but that49 See U. S. Const., Amdt. 22 (1951) (limiting Presidents to two 4-yearterms).50 See, e. g., Amdt. 17 (1913) (direct elections of Senators); Amdt. 19(1920) (extending suffrage to women); Amdt. 22 (1951) (Presidential termlimits); Amdt. 24 (1964) (prohibition against poll taxes); Amdt. 26 (1971)(lowering age of voter eligibility to 18).514us3$60I 06-15-98 09:38:30 PAGES OPINPGT838 U. S. TERM LIMITS, INC. v. THORNTONKennedy, J., concurringthey become, when elected, servants of the people of theUnited States. They are not merely delegates appointed byseparate, sovereign States; they occupy offices that are inte-gral and essential components of a single National Government. In the absence of a properly passed constitutionalamendment, allowing individual States to craft their ownqualifications for Congress would thus erode the structureenvisioned by the Framers, a structure that was designed,in the words of the Preamble to our Constitution, to form a"more perfect Union."The judgment is affirmed.