Pro se petitioner Fertel-Rust seeks leave to proceed informa pauperis under Rule 39 of this Court. We deny thisrequest pursuant to Rule 39.8. Fertel-Rust is allowed untilJuly 12, 1999, within which to pay the docketing fee re-quired by Rule 38 and to submit her petition in compliance with this Court's Rule 33.1. We also direct the Clerknot to accept any further petitions for certiorari fromFertel-Rust in noncriminal matters unless she pays thedocketing fee required by Rule 38 and submits her petitionin compliance with Rule 33.1.Fertel-Rust has abused this Court's certiorari process.Four times in the last five years, we invoked Rule 39.8 todeny Fertel-Rustin forma pauperis status. See FertelRust v. Dane County Social Servs., 513 U. S. 1145 (1995);Fertel-Rust v. Ambassador Hotel, 513 U. S. 1013 (1994);Fertel-Rust v. Milwaukee Police Dept., 513 U. S. 1013 (1994);Fertel-Rust v. Milwaukee Police Dept., 513 U. S. 945 (1994).Before these four denials, Fertel-Rust had filed three peti-tions for certiorari, all of which were both patently frivolousand denied without recorded dissent. The instant petition527US1 Unit: $U83 [05-02-01 19:11:02] PAGES PGT: OPIN470 FERTEL-RUST v. MILWAUKEE COUNTY MENTALHEALTH CENTERStevens, J., dissentingfor certiorari thus brings Fertel-Rust's total number of frivo-lous filings to eight.We enter the order barring prospective filings for thereasons discussed in Martin v. District of Columbia Courtof Appeals, 506 U. S. 1 (1992) (per curiam). Fertel-Rust'sabuse of the writ of certiorari has been in noncriminal cases,and so we limit our sanction accordingly. The order there-fore will not prevent Fertel-Rust from petitioning to challenge criminal sanctions which might be imposed on her,nor will it prevent her from filing appropriate petitions foran extraordinary writ. The order, however, will allow thisCourt to devote its limited resources to the claims of petitioners who have not abused our process. It is so ordered.Justice Stevens, dissenting.For reasons previously stated, see Cross v. Pelican BayState Prison, 526 U. S. 811, 812 (1999) (Stevens, J., dis-senting);Martin v. District of Columbia Court of Appeals,506 U. S. 1, 4 (1992) (Stevens, J., dissenting), and cases cited,I respectfully dissent.527US2 Unit: $U84 [05-09-01 13:03:18] PAGES PGT: OPIN471OCTOBER TERM, 1998SyllabusSUTTON et al. v. UNITED AIR LINES, INC.certiorari to the united states court of appeals forthe tenth circuitNo. 97-1943. Argued April 28, 1999--Decided June 22, 1999Petitioners, severely myopic twin sisters, have uncorrected visual acuityof 20/200 or worse, but with corrective measures, both function identically to individuals without similar impairments. They applied torespondent, a major commercial airline carrier, for employment as commercial airline pilots but were rejected because they did not meet respondent's minimum requirement of uncorrected visual acuity of 20/100or better. Consequently, they filed suit under the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (ADA), which prohibits covered employers fromdiscriminating against individuals on the basis of their disabilities.Among other things, the ADA defines a "disability" as "a physical ormental impairment that substantially limits one or more . . . major lifeactivities," 42 U. S. C. $ 12102(2)(A), or as "being regarded as havingsuch an impairment," $ 12102(2)(C). The District Court dismissed petitioners' complaint for failure to state a claim upon which relief couldbe granted. The court held that petitioners were not actually disabledunder subsection (A) of the disability definition because they could fullycorrect their visual impairments. The court also determined that petitioners were not "regarded" by respondent as disabled under subsection (C) of this definition. Petitioners had alleged only that respondentregarded them as unable to satisfy the requirements of a particularjob, global airline pilot. These allegations were insufficient to state aclaim that petitioners were regarded as substantially limited in themajor life activity of working. Employing similar logic, the Tenth Circuit affirmed.Held: Petitioners have not alleged that they are "disabled" within theADA's meaning. Pp. 477-494.(a) No agency has been delegated authority to interpret the term"disability" as it is used in the ADA. The EEOC has, nevertheless,issued regulations that, among other things, define "physical impairment" to mean "[a]ny physiological disorder . . . affecting . . . specialsense organs," "substantially limits" to mean "[u]nable to perform amajor life activity that the average person in the general populationcan perform," and "[m]ajor [l]ife [a]ctivities [to] mea[n] functions suchas . . . working." Because both parties accept these regulations asvalid, and determining their validity is not necessary to decide this527US2 Unit: $U84 [05-09-01 13:03:18] PAGES PGT: OPIN472 SUTTON v. UNITED AIR LINES, INC.Syllabuscase, the Court has no occasion to consider what deference they aredue, if any. The EEOC and the Justice Department have also issuedinterpretive guidelines providing that the determination whether an individual is substantially limited in a major life activity must be madeon a case by case basis, without regard to mitigating measures such asassistive or prosthetic devices. Although the parties dispute the guidelines' persuasive force, the Court has no need in this case to decide whatdeference is due. Pp. 477-480.(b) Petitioners have not stated a $ 12102(2)(A) claim that they havean actual physical impairment that substantially limits them in one ormore major life activities. Three separate ADA provisions, read inconcert, lead to the conclusion that the determination whether an individual is disabled should be made with reference to measures, suchas eyeglasses and contact lenses, that mitigate the individual's impairment, and that the approach adopted by the agency guidelines is animpermissible interpretation of the ADA. First, because the phrase"substantially limits" appears in subsection (A) in the present indicativeverb form, the language is properly read as requiring that a personbe presently--not potentially or hypothetically--substantially limited inorder to demonstrate a disability. A "disability" exists only where animpairment "substantially limits" a major life activity, not where it"might," "could," or "would" be substantially limiting if corrective measures were not taken. Second, because subsection (A) requires that disabilities be evaluated "with respect to an individual" and be determinedbased on whether an impairment substantially limits the individual's"major life activities," the question whether a person has a disabilityunder the ADA is an individualized inquiry. See Bragdon v. Abbott,524 U. S. 624, 641-642. The guidelines' directive that persons be judgedin their uncorrected or unmitigated state runs directly counter to thismandated individualized inquiry. The former would create a system inwhich persons would often be treated as members of a group havingsimilar impairments, rather than as individuals. It could also lead tothe anomalous result that courts and employers could not consider anynegative side effects suffered by the individual resulting from the useof mitigating measures, even when those side effects are very severe.Finally, and critically, the congressional finding that 43 million Americans have one or more physical or mental disabilities, see $ 12101(a)(1),requires the conclusion that Congress did not intend to bring underthe ADA's protection all those whose uncorrected conditions amount todisabilities. That group would include more than 160 million people.Because petitioners allege that with corrective measures their vision is20/20 or better, they are not actually disabled under subsection (A).Pp. 481-489.527US2 Unit: $U84 [05-09-01 13:03:18] PAGES PGT: OPIN473Cite as: 527 U. S. 471 (1999)Syllabus(c) Petitioners have also failed to allege properly that they are "regarded as," see $ 12102(2)(C), having an impairment that "substantiallylimits" a major life activity, see $ 12102(2)(A). Generally, these claimsarise when an employer mistakenly believes that an individual has asubstantially limiting impairment. To support their claims, petitionersallege that respondent has an impermissible vision requirement thatis based on myth and stereotype and that respondent mistakenly believes that, due to their poor vision, petitioners are unable to work as"global airline pilots" and are thus substantially limited in the major lifeactivity of working. Creating physical criteria for a job, without more,does not violate the ADA. The ADA allows employers to prefer somephysical attributes over others, so long as those attributes do not riseto the level of substantially limiting impairments. An employer is freeto decide that physical characteristics or medical conditions that arenot impairments are preferable to others, just as it is free to decidethat some limiting, but not substantially limiting, impairments makeindividuals less than ideally suited for a job. In addition, petitionershave not sufficiently alleged that they are regarded as substantially limited in the major life activity of working. When the major life activityunder consideration is that of working, the ADA requires, at least, thatone's ability to work be significantly reduced. The EEOC regulationssimilarly define "substantially limits" to mean significantly restrictedin the ability to perform either a class of jobs or a broad range of jobsin various classes as compared to the average person having comparabletraining, skills and abilities. The Court assumes without deciding thatwork is a major life activity and that this regulation is reasonable. Itobserves, however, that defining "major life activities" to include workhas the potential to make the ADA circular. Assuming work is a majorlife activity, the Court finds that petitioners' allegations are insufficientbecause the position of global airline pilot is a single job. Indeed, anumber of other positions utilizing petitioners' skills, such as regionalpilot and pilot instructor, are available to them. The Court also rejectspetitioners' argument that they would be substantially limited in theirability to work if it is assumed that a substantial number of airlines havevision requirements similar to respondent's. This argument is flawedbecause it is not enough to say that if the otherwise permissible physicalcriteria or preferences of a single employer were imputed to all similaremployers one would be regarded as substantially limited in the majorlife activity of working only as a result of this imputation. Rather, anemployer's physical criteria are permissible so long as they do not causethe employer to make an employment decision based on an impairment, real or imagined, that it regards as substantially limiting a major527US2 Unit: $U84 [05-09-01 13:03:18] PAGES PGT: OPIN474 SUTTON v. UNITED AIR LINES, INC.Syllabuslife activity. Petitioners have not alleged, and cannot demonstrate, thatrespondent's vision requirement reflects a belief that their vision substantially limits them. Pp. 489-494.130 F. 3d 893, affirmed.O'Connor, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which Rehnquist,C. J., and Scalia, Kennedy, Souter, Thomas, and Ginsburg, JJ., joined.Ginsburg, J., filed a concurring opinion, post, p. 494. Stevens, J., filed adissenting opinion, in which Breyer, J., joined, post, p. 495. Breyer, J.,filed a dissenting opinion, post, p. 513.Van Aaron Hughes argued the cause for petitioners.With him on the briefs wereTucker K. Trautman andShawn D. Mitchell.Deputy Solicitor General Kneedler argued the cause forthe United States asamicus curiae urging reversal. On thebriefs were Solicitor General Waxman, Acting AssistantAttorney General Lee, Deputy Solicitor General Under-wood, James A. Feldman, Jessica Dunsay Silver, Seth M.Galanter, Philip B. Sklover, and Carolyn L. Wheeler.Roy T. Englert, Jr., argued the cause for respondent.With him on the brief were Lisa Hogan and Patrick F.Carrigan.**Briefs of amici curiae urging reversal were filed for AIDS Action et al.by Claudia Center and Guy Wallace; for the American Civil LibertiesUnion by Louis M. Bograd, Chai R. Feldblum, Steven R. Shapiro, andMatthew A. Coles; for the American Federation of Labor and Congress ofIndustrial Organizations by Jonathan P. Hiatt, Marsha S. Berzon, andLaurence Gold; and for the National Employment Lawyers Associationby Gary Phelan and Paula A. Brantner.Briefs of amici curiae urging affirmance were filed for the Air Transport Association of America, Inc., by John J. Gallagher, Neal D. Mollen,and Margaret H. Spurlin; and for the Equal Employment Advisory Council et al. by Ann Elizabeth Reesman, Corrie L. Fischel, Stephen A. Bokat,Robin S. Conrad, and J. Walker Henry.Briefs of amici curiae were filed for LPA, Inc., by Daniel V. Yager; forthe Society for Human Resource Management by Peter J. Petesch, ThomasJ. Walsh, Jr., Timothy S. Bland, and David S. Harvey, Jr.; and for SenatorTom Harkin et al. by Arlene B. Mayerson.527US2 Unit: $U84 [05-09-01 13:03:18] PAGES PGT: OPIN475Cite as: 527 U. S. 471 (1999)Opinion of the CourtJustice O'Connor delivered the opinion of the Court.The Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (ADA or Act),104 Stat. 328, 42 U. S. C. $ 12101et seq., prohibits certain em-ployers from discriminating against individuals on the basisof their disabilities. See $ 12112(a). Petitioners challengethe dismissal of their ADA action for failure to state a claimupon which relief can be granted. We conclude that thecomplaint was properly dismissed. In reaching that result,we hold that the determination of whether an individual isdisabled should be made with reference to measures thatmitigate the individual's impairment, including, in this in-stance, eyeglasses and contact lenses. In addition, we holdthat petitioners failed to allege properly that respondent"regarded" them as having a disability within the meaningof the ADA. IPetitioners' amended complaint was dismissed for failureto state a claim upon which relief could be granted. SeeFed. Rule Civ. Proc. 12(b)(6). Accordingly, we accept theallegations contained in their complaint as true for purposesof this case. See United States v. Gaubert, 499 U. S. 315,327 (1991).Petitioners are twin sisters, both of whom have severemyopia. Each petitioner's uncorrected visual acuity is 20/200 or worse in her right eye and 20/400 or worse in her lefteye, but "[w]ith the use of corrective lenses, each . . . hasvision that is 20/20 or better." App. 23. Consequently,without corrective lenses, each "effectively cannot see to conduct numerous activities such as driving a vehicle, watchingtelevision or shopping in public stores,"id., at 24, but withcorrective measures, such as glasses or contact lenses, both"function identically to individuals without a similar impair-ment,"ibid.In 1992, petitioners applied to respondent for employmentas commercial airline pilots. They met respondent's basicage, education, experience, and Federal Aviation Adminis527US2 Unit: $U84 [05-09-01 13:03:18] PAGES PGT: OPIN476 SUTTON v. UNITED AIR LINES, INC.Opinion of the Courttration certification qualifications. After submitting theirapplications for employment, both petitioners were invitedby respondent to an interview and to flight simulator tests.Both were told during their interviews, however, that a mistake had been made in inviting them to interview becausepetitioners did not meet respondent's minimum vision re-quirement, which was uncorrected visual acuity of 20/100 orbetter. Due to their failure to meet this requirement, peti-tioners' interviews were terminated, and neither was offereda pilot position.In light of respondent's proffered reason for rejectingthem, petitioners filed a charge of disability discriminationunder the ADA with the Equal Employment OpportunityCommission (EEOC). After receiving a right to sue letter,petitioners filed suit in the United States District Court forthe District of Colorado, alleging that respondent had discriminated against them "on the basis of their disability,or because [respondent] regarded [petitioners] as having adisability" in violation of the ADA. App. 26. Specifically,petitioners alleged that due to their severe myopia they actually have a substantially limiting impairment or are regardedas having such an impairment, see id., at 23-26, and are thusdisabled under the Act.The District Court dismissed petitioners' complaint forfailure to state a claim upon which relief could be granted.See Civ. A. No. 96-5-121 (Aug. 28, 1996), App. to Pet. forCert. A-27. Because petitioners could fully correct theirvisual impairments, the court held that they were not actually substantially limited in any major life activity and thushad not stated a claim that they were disabled within themeaning of the ADA. Id., at A-32 to A-36. The court alsodetermined that petitioners had not made allegations sufficient to support their claim that they were "regarded" byrespondent as having an impairment that substantially limitsa major life activity. Id., at A-36 to A-37. The court observed that "[t]he statutory reference to a substantial limi527US2 Unit: $U84 [05-09-01 13:03:18] PAGES PGT: OPIN477Cite as: 527 U. S. 471 (1999)Opinion of the Courttation indicates . . . that an employer regards an employeeas handicapped in his or her ability to work by finding theemployee's impairment to foreclose generally the type ofemployment involved." Ibid. But petitioners had allegedonly that respondent regarded them as unable to satisfy therequirements of a particular job, global airline pilot. Consequently, the court held that petitioners had not stated a claimthat they were regarded as substantially limited in the majorlife activity of working. Employing similar logic, the Courtof Appeals for the Tenth Circuit affirmed the District Court'sjudgment. 130 F. 3d 893 (1997).The Tenth Circuit's decision is in tension with the decisions of other Courts of Appeals. See, e. g., Bartlett v.New York State Bd. of Law Examiners, 156 F. 3d 321, 329(CA2 1998) (holding self-accommodations cannot be consid-ered when determining a disability), cert. pending, No. 98-1285; Baert v. Euclid Beverage, Ltd., 149 F. 3d 626, 629-630(CA7 1998) (holding disabilities should be determined without reference to mitigating measures); Matczak v. FrankfordCandy & Chocolate Co., 136 F. 3d 933, 937-938 (CA3 1997)(same); Arnold v. United Parcel Service, Inc., 136 F. 3d 854,859-866 (CA1 1998) (same); see also Washington v. HCAHealth Servs. of Texas, Inc., 152 F. 3d 464, 470-471 (CA51998) (holding that only some impairments should be evalu-ated in their uncorrected state), cert. pending, No. 98-1365.We granted certiorari, 525 U. S. 1063 (1999), and now affirm.IIThe ADA prohibits discrimination by covered entities,including private employers, against qualified individualswith a disability. Specifically, it provides that no coveredemployer "shall discriminate against a qualified individualwith a disability because of the disability of such individualin regard to job application procedures, the hiring, advancement, or discharge of employees, employee compensation,job training, and other terms, conditions, and privileges527US2 Unit: $U84 [05-09-01 13:03:18] PAGES PGT: OPIN478 SUTTON v. UNITED AIR LINES, INC.Opinion of the Courtof employment." 42 U. S. C. $ 12112(a); see also $ 12111(2)("The term `covered entity' means an employer, employmentagency, labor organization, or joint labor-management committee"). A "qualified individual with a disability" is identified as "an individual with a disability who, with or withoutreasonable accommodation, can perform the essential functions of the employment position that such individual holdsor desires." $ 12111(8). In turn, a "disability" is defined as:"(A) a physical or mental impairment that substantially limits one or more of the major life activities ofsuch individual;"(B) a record of such an impairment; or"(C) being regarded as having such an impairment."$ 12102(2).Accordingly, to fall within this definition one must have anactual disability (subsection (A)), have a record of a disability (subsection (B)), or be regarded as having one (subsection (C)).The parties agree that the authority to issue regulationsto implement the Act is split primarily among three Government agencies. According to the parties, the EEOC hasauthority to issue regulations to carry out the employmentprovisions in Title I of the ADA, $$ 12111-12117, pursuant to$ 12116 ("Not later than 1 year after [the date of enactmentof this Act], the Commission shall issue regulations in anaccessible format to carry out this subchapter in accordancewith subchapter II of chapter 5 of title 5"). The AttorneyGeneral is granted authority to issue regulations with respect to Title II, subtitle A, $$ 12131-12134, which relatesto public services. See $ 12134 ("Not later than 1 year after[the date of enactment of this Act], the Attorney Generalshall promulgate regulations in an accessible format thatimplement this part"). Finally, the Secretary of Transportation has authority to issue regulations pertaining to thetransportation provisions of Titles II and III. See $ 12149(a)527US2 Unit: $U84 [05-09-01 13:03:18] PAGES PGT: OPIN479Cite as: 527 U. S. 471 (1999)Opinion of the Court("Not later than 1 year after [the date of enactment of thisAct], the Secretary of Transportation shall issue regulations, in an accessible format, necessary for carrying out thissubpart (other than section 12143 of this title)"); $ 12164 (substantially same); $ 12186(a)(1) (substantially same); $ 12143(b)("Not later than one year after [the date of enactment ofthis Act], the Secretary shall issue final regulations to carryout this section"). See also $ 12204 (granting authority tothe Architectural and Transportation Barriers ComplianceBoard to issue minimum guidelines to supplement the exist-ing Minimum Guidelines and Requirements for AccessibleDesign). Moreover, each of these agencies is authorized tooffer technical assistance regarding the provisions they administer. See $ 12206(c)(1) ("Each Federal agency that hasresponsibility under paragraph (2) for implementing thischapter may render technical assistance to individuals andinstitutions that have rights or duties under the respectivesubchapter or subchapters of this chapter for which suchagency has responsibility").No agency, however, has been given authority to issueregulations implementing the generally applicable provisionsof the ADA, see $$ 12101-12102, which fall outside TitlesI-V. Most notably, no agency has been delegated authority to interpret the term "disability." $ 12102(2). JusticeBreyer's contrary, imaginative interpretation of the Act'sdelegation provisions, see post, at 514-515 (dissenting opinion), is belied by the terms and structure of the ADA. TheEEOC has, nonetheless, issued regulations to provide additional guidance regarding the proper interpretation ofthis term. After restating the definition of disability givenin the statute, see 29 CFR $ 1630.2(g) (1998), the EEOCregulations define the three elements of disability: (1) "physical or mental impairment," (2) "substantially limits,"and (3) "major life activities." See $$ 1630.2(h)-( j). Underthe regulations, a "physical impairment" includes "[a]nyphysiological disorder, or condition, cosmetic disfigurement,527US2 Unit: $U84 [05-09-01 13:03:18] PAGES PGT: OPIN480 SUTTON v. UNITED AIR LINES, INC.Opinion of the Courtor anatomical loss affecting one or more of the following bodysystems: neurological, musculoskeletal, special sense organs,respiratory (including speech organs), cardiovascular, repro-ductive, digestive, genito-urinary, hemic and lymphatic, skin,and endocrine." $ 1630.2(h)(1). The term "substantiallylimits" means, among other things, "[u]nable to perform amajor life activity that the average person in the generalpopulation can perform"; or "[s]ignificantly restricted as tothe condition, manner or duration under which an individualcan perform a particular major life activity as compared tothe condition, manner, or duration under which the averageperson in the general population can perform that samemajor life activity." $ 1630.2( j). Finally, "[m]ajor [l]ife [a]ctivities means functions such as caring for oneself, performing manual tasks, walking, seeing, hearing, speaking, breathing, learning, and working. " $ 1630.2(i). Because bothparties accept these regulations as valid, and determiningtheir validity is not necessary to decide this case, we haveno occasion to consider what deference they are due, if any.The agencies have also issued interpretive guidelines toaid in the implementation of their regulations. For instance, at the time that it promulgated the above regulations, the EEOC issued an "Interpretive Guidance," whichprovides that "[t]he determination of whether an individual is substantially limited in a major life activity must bemade on a case by case basis, without regard to mitigatingmeasures such as medicines, or assistive or prosthetic devices." 29 CFR pt. 1630, App. $ 1630.2( j) (1998) (describing$ 1630.2( j)). The Department of Justice has issued a similarguideline. See 28 CFR pt. 35, App. A, $ 35.104 ("The question of whether a person has a disability should be assessedwithout regard to the availability of mitigating measures,such as reasonable modification or auxiliary aids and services"); pt. 36, App. B, $ 36.104 (same). Although the partiesdispute the persuasive force of these interpretive guidelines,we have no need in this case to decide what deference is due.527US2 Unit: $U84 [05-09-01 13:03:18] PAGES PGT: OPIN481Cite as: 527 U. S. 471 (1999)Opinion of the CourtIIIWith this statutory and regulatory framework in mind,we turn first to the question whether petitioners havestated a claim under subsection (A) of the disability defi-nition, that is, whether they have alleged that they possessa physical impairment that substantially limits them in oneor more major life activities. See 42 U. S. C. $ 12102(2)(A).Because petitioners allege that with corrective measurestheir vision "is 20/20 or better," App. 23, they are not actually disabled within the meaning of the Act if the "dis-ability" determination is made with reference to these measures. Consequently, with respect to subsection (A) of thedisability definition, our decision turns on whether disabilityis to be determined with or without reference to correctivemeasures.Petitioners maintain that whether an impairment is sub-stantially limiting should be determined without regard tocorrective measures. They argue that, because the ADAdoes not directly address the question at hand, the Courtshould defer to the agency interpretations of the statute,which are embodied in the agency guidelines issued by theEEOC and the Department of Justice. These guidelinesspecifically direct that the determination of whether an individual is substantially limited in a major life activity bemade without regard to mitigating measures. See 29 CFRpt. 1630, App. $ 1630.2( j); 28 CFR pt. 35, App. A $ 35.104(1998); 28 CFR pt. 36, App. B $ 36.104.Respondent, in turn, maintains that an impairment doesnot substantially limit a major life activity if it is corrected.It argues that the Court should not defer to the agencyguidelines cited by petitioners because the guidelines conflictwith the plain meaning of the ADA. The phrase "substan-tially limits one or more major life activities," it explains,requires that the substantial limitations actually and pres-ently exist. Moreover, respondent argues, disregardingmitigating measures taken by an individual defies the statu527US2 Unit: $U84 [05-09-01 13:03:18] PAGES PGT: OPIN482 SUTTON v. UNITED AIR LINES, INC.Opinion of the Courttory command to examine the effect of the impairment onthe major life activities "of such individual." And even ifthe statute is ambiguous, respondent claims, the guidelines'directive to ignore mitigating measures is not reasonable,and thus this Court should not defer to it.We conclude that respondent is correct that the approachadopted by the agency guidelines--that persons are to beevaluated in their hypothetical uncorrected state--is an im-permissible interpretation of the ADA. Looking at the Actas a whole, it is apparent that if a person is taking measuresto correct for, or mitigate, a physical or mental impairment,the effects of those measures--both positive and negative--must be taken into account when judging whether that person is "substantially limited" in a major life activity and thus"disabled" under the Act. Justice Stevens relies on thelegislative history of the ADA for the contrary propositionthat individuals should be examined in their uncorrectedstate. See post, at 499-501 (dissenting opinion). Becausewe decide that, by its terms, the ADA cannot be read in thismanner, we have no reason to consider the ADA's legislative history.Three separate provisions of the ADA, read in concert,lead us to this conclusion. The Act defines a "disability" as"a physical or mental impairment that substantially limitsone or more of the major life activities" of an individual.$ 12102(2)(A) (emphasis added). Because the phrase "substantially limits" appears in the Act in the present indicative verb form, we think the language is properly read asrequiring that a person be presently--not potentially or hypothetically--substantially limited in order to demonstrate adisability. A "disability" exists only where an impairment"substantially limits" a major life activity, not where it"might," "could," or "would" be substantially limiting if mitigating measures were not taken. A person whose physicalor mental impairment is corrected by medication or othermeasures does not have an impairment that presently "sub527US2 Unit: $U84 [05-09-01 13:03:18] PAGES PGT: OPIN483Cite as: 527 U. S. 471 (1999)Opinion of the Courtstantially limits" a major life activity. To be sure, a personwhose physical or mental impairment is corrected by mitigating measures still has an impairment, but if the impair-ment is corrected it does not "substantially limi[t]" a majorlife activity.The definition of disability also requires that disabilitiesbe evaluated "with respect to an individual" and be determined based on whether an impairment substantially limitsthe "major life activities of such individual." $ 12102(2).Thus, whether a person has a disability under the ADA is anindividualized inquiry. SeeBragdon v. Abbott, 524 U. S.624, 641-642 (1998) (declining to consider whether HIV infection is a per se disability under the ADA); 29 CFRpt. 1630, App. $ 1630.2( j) ("The determination of whetheran individual has a disability is not necessarily based onthe name or diagnosis of the impairment the person has,but rather on the effect of that impairment on the life ofthe individual").The agency guidelines' directive that persons be judged intheir uncorrected or unmitigated state runs directly counterto the individualized inquiry mandated by the ADA. Theagency approach would often require courts and employersto speculate about a person's condition and would, in manycases, force them to make a disability determination basedon general information about how an uncorrected impairment usually affects individuals, rather than on the individual's actual condition. For instance, under this view, courtswould almost certainly find all diabetics to be disabled, because if they failed to monitor their blood sugar levels andadminister insulin, they would almost certainly be substantially limited in one or more major life activities. A diabeticwhose illness does not impair his or her daily activities wouldtherefore be considered disabled simply because he or shehas diabetes. Thus, the guidelines approach would create asystem in which persons often must be treated as membersof a group of people with similar impairments, rather than527US2 Unit: $U84 [05-09-01 13:03:18] PAGES PGT: OPIN484 SUTTON v. UNITED AIR LINES, INC.Opinion of the Courtas individuals. This is contrary to both the letter and thespirit of the ADA.The guidelines approach could also lead to the anomalousresult that in determining whether an individual is disabled,courts and employers could not consider any negative sideeffects suffered by an individual resulting from the use ofmitigating measures, even when those side effects are verysevere. See, e. g., Johnson, Antipsychotics: Pros and Consof Antipsychotics, RN (Aug. 1997) (noting that antipsychoticdrugs can cause a variety of adverse effects, including neuro-leptic malignant syndrome and painful seizures); Liver RiskWarning Added to Parkinson's Drug, FDA Consumer (Mar.1, 1999) (warning that a drug for treating Parkinson's diseasecan cause liver damage); Curry & Kulling, Newer Antiepileptic Drugs, American Family Physician (Feb. 1, 1998) (cataloging serious negative side effects of new antiepileptic drugs).This result is also inconsistent with the individualized approach of the ADA.Finally, and critically, findings enacted as part of the ADArequire the conclusion that Congress did not intend to bringunder the statute's protection all those whose uncorrectedconditions amount to disabilities. Congress found that"some 43,000,000 Americans have one or more physical ormental disabilities, and this number is increasing as the population as a whole is growing older." $ 12101(a)(1). Thisfigure is inconsistent with the definition of disability pressedby petitioners.Although the exact source of the 43 million figure is notclear, the corresponding finding in the 1988 precursor to theADA was drawn directly from a report prepared by the National Council on Disability. See Burgdorf, The Americanswith Disabilities Act: Analysis and Implications of a SecondGeneration Civil Rights Statute, 26 Harv. Civ. Rights-Civ.Lib. L. Rev. 413, 434, n. 117 (1991) (reporting, in an articleauthored by the drafter of the original ADA bill introducedin Congress in 1988, that the report was the source for a527US2 Unit: $U84 [05-09-01 13:03:18] PAGES PGT: OPIN485Cite as: 527 U. S. 471 (1999)Opinion of the Courtfigure of 36 million disabled persons quoted in the versionsof the bill introduced in 1988). That report detailed thedifficulty of estimating the number of disabled persons dueto varying operational definitions of disability. NationalCouncil on Disability, Toward Independence 10 (1986). Itexplained that the estimates of the number of disabledAmericans ranged from an overinclusive 160 million under a"health conditions approach," which looks at all conditionsthat impair the health or normal functional abilities of anindividual, to an underinclusive 22.7 million under a "workdisability approach," which focuses on individuals' reportedability to work. Id., at 10-11. It noted that "a figure of35 or 36 million [was] the most commonly quoted estimate."Id., at 10. The 36 million number included in the 1988 bill'sfindings thus clearly reflects an approach to defining disabilities that is closer to the work disabilities approach than thehealth conditions approach.This background also provides some clues to the likelysource of the figure in the findings of the 1990 Act. Roughlytwo years after issuing its 1986 report, the National Councilon Disability issued an updated report. See On the Threshold of Independence (1988). This 1988 report settled on amore concrete definition of disability. It stated that 37.3million individuals have "difficulty performing one or morebasic physical activities," including "seeing, hearing, speaking, walking, using stairs, lifting or carrying, getting aroundoutside, getting around inside, and getting into or out ofbed." Id., at 19. The study from which it drew this datatook an explicitly functional approach to evaluating disabilities. See U. S. Dept. of Commerce, Bureau of Census,Disability, Functional Limitation, and Health InsuranceCoverage: 1984/85, p. 2 (1986). It measured 37.3 million persons with a "functional limitation" on performing certainbasic activities when using, as the questionnaire put it,"special aids," such as glasses or hearing aids, if the personusually used such aids. Id., at 1, 47. The number of dis527US2 Unit: $U84 [05-09-01 13:03:18] PAGES PGT: OPIN486 SUTTON v. UNITED AIR LINES, INC.Opinion of the Courtabled provided by the study and adopted in the 1988 report,however, includes only noninstitutionalized persons withphysical disabilities who are over age 15. The 5.7 milliongap between the 43 million figure in the ADA's findings andthe 37.3 million figure in the report can thus probably beexplained as an effort to include in the findings those whowere excluded from the National Council figure. See,e. g.,National Institute on Disability and Rehabilitation Re-search, Data on Disability from the National Health Interview Survey 1983-1985, pp. 61-62 (1988) (finding approxi-mately 943,000 noninstitutionalized persons with an activitylimitation due to mental illness; 947,000 noninstitutionalizedpersons with an activity limitation due to mental retardation; 1,900,000 noninstitutionalized persons under 18 with anactivity limitation); U. S. Dept. of Commerce, Bureau of theCensus, Statistical Abstract of the United States 106 (1989)(Table 168) (finding 1,553,000 resident patients in nursingand related care facilities (excluding hospital-based nursinghomes) in 1986).Regardless of its exact source, however, the 43 millionfigure reflects an understanding that those whose impairments are largely corrected by medication or other devicesare not "disabled" within the meaning of the ADA. The estimate is consistent with the numbers produced by studiesperformed during this same time period that took a similarfunctional approach to determining disability. For instance,Mathematica Policy Research, Inc., drawing on data fromthe National Center for Health Statistics, issued an estimateof approximately 31.4 million civilian noninstitutionalizedpersons with "chronic activity limitation status" in 1979.Digest of Data on Persons with Disabilities 25 (1984). The1989 Statistical Abstract offered the same estimate basedon the same data, as well as an estimate of 32.7 million noninstitutionalized persons with "activity limitation" in 1985.Statistical Abstract, supra, at 115 (Table 184). In bothcases, individuals with "activity limitations" were those who,527US2 Unit: $U84 [05-09-01 13:03:18] PAGES PGT: OPIN487Cite as: 527 U. S. 471 (1999)Opinion of the Courtrelative to their age-sex group could not conduct "usual" ac-tivities:e. g., attending preschool, keeping house, or livingindependently. See National Center for Health Statistics,U. S. Dept. of Health and Human Services, Vital and HealthStatistics, Current Estimates from the National Health Interview Survey, 1989, Series 10, pp. 7-8 (1990).By contrast, nonfunctional approaches to defining disability produce significantly larger numbers. As noted above,the 1986 National Council on Disability report estimated thatthere were over 160 million disabled under the "health condi-tions approach." Toward Independence,supra, at 10; seealso Mathematica Policy Research, supra, at 3 (arriving atsimilar estimate based on same Census Bureau data). Indeed, the number of people with vision impairments alone is100 million. See National Advisory Eye Council, U. S. Dept.of Health and Human Services, Vision Research--A NationalPlan: 1999-2003, p. 7 (1998) ("[M]ore than 100 million peopleneed corrective lenses to see properly"). "It is estimatedthat more than 28 million Americans have impaired hearing."National Institutes of Health, National Strategic ResearchPlan: Hearing and Hearing Impairment v (1996). And therewere approximately 50 million people with high blood pressure (hypertension). Tindall, Stalking a Silent Killer; Hypertension, Business & Health 37 (August 1998) ("Some 50million Americans have high blood pressure").Because it is included in the ADA's text, the finding that43 million individuals are disabled gives content to the ADA'sterms, specifically the term "disability." Had Congress intended to include all persons with corrected physical limitations among those covered by the Act, it undoubtedly wouldhave cited a much higher number of disabled persons in thefindings. That it did not is evidence that the ADA's coverage is restricted to only those whose impairments are notmitigated by corrective measures.The dissents suggest that viewing individuals in their corrected state will exclude from the definition of "disab[led]"527US2 Unit: $U84 [05-09-01 13:03:18] PAGES PGT: OPIN488 SUTTON v. UNITED AIR LINES, INC.Opinion of the Courtthose who use prosthetic limbs, see post, at 497-498 (opinionof Stevens, J.), post, at 513 (opinion of Breyer, J.), or takemedicine for epilepsy or high blood pressure, see post, at 507,509 (opinion of Stevens, J.). This suggestion is incorrect.The use of a corrective device does not, by itself, relieve one'sdisability. Rather, one has a disability under subsection (A)if, notwithstanding the use of a corrective device, that individual is substantially limited in a major life activity. Forexample, individuals who use prosthetic limbs or wheelchairsmay be mobile and capable of functioning in society but stillbe disabled because of a substantial limitation on their abilityto walk or run. The same may be true of individuals whotake medicine to lessen the symptoms of an impairment sothat they can function but nevertheless remain substantiallylimited. Alternatively, one whose high blood pressure is"cured" by medication may be regarded as disabled by a covered entity, and thus disabled under subsection (C) of thedefinition. The use or nonuse of a corrective device doesnot determine whether an individual is disabled; that determination depends on whether the limitations an individualwith an impairment actually faces are in fact substantiallylimiting.Applying this reading of the Act to the case at hand, weconclude that the Court of Appeals correctly resolved theissue of disability in respondent's favor. As noted above,petitioners allege that with corrective measures, their visualacuity is 20/20, App. 23, Amended Complaint || 36, and thatthey "function identically to individuals without a similar impairment," id., at 24, Amended Complaint || 37e. In addition, petitioners concede that they "do not argue that theuse of corrective lenses in itself demonstrates a substantiallylimiting impairment." Brief for Petitioners 9, n. 11. Accordingly, because we decide that disability under the Act isto be determined with reference to corrective measures, weagree with the courts below that petitioners have not stated527US2 Unit: $U84 [05-09-01 13:03:18] PAGES PGT: OPIN489Cite as: 527 U. S. 471 (1999)Opinion of the Courta claim that they are substantially limited in any major lifeactivity.IVOur conclusion that petitioners have failed to state a claimthat they are actually disabled under subsection (A) of thedisability definition does not end our inquiry. Under sub-section (C), individuals who are "regarded as" having a disability are disabled within the meaning of the ADA. See$ 12102(2)(C). Subsection (C) provides that having a disability includes "being regarded as having," $ 12102(2)(C),"a physical or mental impairment that substantially limitsone or more of the major life activities of such individual,"$ 12102(2)(A). There are two apparent ways in which individuals may fall within this statutory definition: (1) a coveredentity mistakenly believes that a person has a physical impairment that substantially limits one or more major lifeactivities, or (2) a covered entity mistakenly believes thatan actual, nonlimiting impairment substantially limits oneor more major life activities. In both cases, it is necessarythat a covered entity entertain misperceptions about theindividual--it must believe either that one has a substantially limiting impairment that one does not have or that onehas a substantially limiting impairment when, in fact, theimpairment is not so limiting. These misperceptions often"resul[t] from stereotypic assumptions not truly indicativeof . . . individual ability." See 42 U. S. C. $ 12101(7). Seealso School Bd. of Nassau Cty. v. Arline, 480 U. S. 273, 284(1987) ("By amending the definition of `handicapped individ-ual' to include not only those who are actually physically impaired, but also those who are regarded as impaired and who,as a result, are substantially limited in a major life activity,Congress acknowledged that society's accumulated mythsand fears about disability and disease are as handicapping asare the physical limitations that flow from actual impair-ment"); 29 CFR pt. 1630, App. $ 1630.2(l) (explaining that thepurpose of the regarded as prong is to cover individuals "re527US2 Unit: $U84 [05-09-01 13:03:18] PAGES PGT: OPIN490 SUTTON v. UNITED AIR LINES, INC.Opinion of the Courtjected from a job because of the `myths, fears and stereo-types' associated with disabilities").There is no dispute that petitioners are physically im-paired. Petitioners do not make the obvious argument thatthey are regarded due to their impairments as substantiallylimited in the major life activity of seeing. They contendonly that respondent mistakenly believes their physical impairments substantially limit them in the major life activityof working. To support this claim, petitioners allege thatrespondent has a vision requirement that is allegedly basedon myth and stereotype. Further, this requirement substantially limits their ability to engage in the major life activity of working by precluding them from obtaining the jobof global airline pilot, which they argue is a "class of employment." See App. 24-26, Amended Complaint || 38. Inreply, respondent argues that the position of global airlinepilot is not a class of jobs and therefore petitioners have notstated a claim that they are regarded as substantially limitedin the major life activity of working.Standing alone, the allegation that respondent has a visionrequirement in place does not establish a claim that respondent regards petitioners as substantially limited in the majorlife activity of working. See Post-Argument Brief forRespondent 2-3 (advancing this argument); Post-ArgumentBrief for United States et al. as Amici Curiae 5-6 ("[U]nderthe EEOC's regulations, an employer may make employmentdecisions based on physical characteristics"). By its terms,the ADA allows employers to prefer some physical attributesover others and to establish physical criteria. An employerruns afoul of the ADA when it makes an employment decision based on a physical or mental impairment, real orimagined, that is regarded as substantially limiting a majorlife activity. Accordingly, an employer is free to decide thatphysical characteristics or medical conditions that do not riseto the level of an impairment--such as one's height, build, orsinging voice--are preferable to others, just as it is free to527US2 Unit: $U84 [05-09-01 13:03:18] PAGES PGT: OPIN491Cite as: 527 U. S. 471 (1999)Opinion of the Courtdecide that some limiting, but not substantially limiting, im-pairments make individuals less than ideally suited for a job.Considering the allegations of the amended complaint intandem, petitioners have not stated a claim that respondentregards their impairment as substantially limiting theirability to work. The ADA does not define "substantiallylimits," but "substantially" suggests "considerable" or "specified to a large degree." See Webster's Third New Inter-national Dictionary 2280 (1976) (defining "substantially" as"in a substantial manner" and "substantial" as "considerablein amount, value, or worth" and "being that specified to alarge degree or in the main"); see also 17 Oxford EnglishDictionary 66-67 (2d ed. 1989) ("substantial": "[r]elating toor proceeding from the essence of a thing; essential"; "ofample or considerable amount, quantity or dimensions").The EEOC has codified regulations interpreting the term"substantially limits" in this manner, defining the term tomean "[u]nable to perform" or "[s]ignificantly restricted."See 29 CFR $$ 1630.2( j)(1)(i), (ii) (1998).When the major life activity under consideration is thatof working, the statutory phrase "substantially limits" re-quires, at a minimum, that plaintiffs allege they are unableto work in a broad class of jobs. Reflecting this requirement, the EEOC uses a specialized definition of the term"substantially limits" when referring to the major life activity of working:"significantly restricted in the ability to perform eithera class of jobs or a broad range of jobs in various classesas compared to the average person having comparabletraining, skills and abilities. The inability to performa single, particular job does not constitute a substantial limitation in the major life activity of working."$ 1630.2( j)(3)(i).The EEOC further identifies several factors that courtsshould consider when determining whether an individual is527US2 Unit: $U84 [05-09-01 13:03:18] PAGES PGT: OPIN492 SUTTON v. UNITED AIR LINES, INC.Opinion of the Courtsubstantially limited in the major life activity of working,including the geographical area to which the individual hasreasonable access, and "the number and types of jobs utiliz-ing similar training, knowledge, skills or abilities, within thegeographical area, from which the individual is also disqualified." $$ 1630.2( j)(3)(ii)(A), (B). To be substantially limitedin the major life activity of working, then, one must be precluded from more than one type of job, a specialized job, ora particular job of choice. If jobs utilizing an individual'sskills (but perhaps not his or her unique talents) are avail-able, one is not precluded from a substantial class of jobs.Similarly, if a host of different types of jobs are available,one is not precluded from a broad range of jobs.Because the parties accept that the term "major life activities" includes working, we do not determine the validity ofthe cited regulations. We note, however, that there may besome conceptual difficulty in defining "major life activities"to include work, for it seems "to argue in a circle to say thatif one is excluded, for instance, by reason of [an impairment, from working with others] . . . then that exclusion constitutes an impairment, when the question you're asking is,whether the exclusion itself is by reason of handicap." Tr. ofOral Arg. in School Bd. of Nassau Co. v. Arline, O. T. 1986,No. 85-1277, p. 15 (argument of Solicitor General). Indeed,even the EEOC has expressed reluctance to define "majorlife activities" to include working and has suggested thatworking be viewed as a residual life activity, considered, asa last resort, only "[i]f an individual is not substantially limited with respect to any other major life activity." 29 CFRpt. 1630, App. $ 1630.2( j) (1998) (emphasis added) ("If an individual is substantially limited in any other major life activity,no determination should be made as to whether the individual is substantially limited in working" (emphasis added)).Assuming without deciding that working is a major lifeactivity and that the EEOC regulations interpreting theterm "substantially limits" are reasonable, petitioners have527US2 Unit: $U84 [05-09-01 13:03:18] PAGES PGT: OPIN493Cite as: 527 U. S. 471 (1999)Opinion of the Courtfailed to allege adequately that their poor eyesight is re-garded as an impairment that substantially limits them inthe major life activity of working. They allege only thatrespondent regards their poor vision as precluding themfrom holding positions as a "global airline pilot." See App.25-26, Amended Complaint || 38f. Because the position ofglobal airline pilot is a single job, this allegation does notsupport the claim that respondent regards petitioners ashaving asubstantially limiting impairment. See 29 CFR$ 1630.2( j)(3)(i) (1998) ("The inability to perform a single,particular job does not constitute a substantial limitation inthe major life activity of working"). Indeed, there are anumber of other positions utilizing petitioners' skills, such asregional pilot and pilot instructor to name a few, that areavailable to them. Even under the EEOC's InterpretativeGuidance, to which petitioners ask us to defer, "an individualwho cannot be a commercial airline pilot because of a minorvision impairment, but who can be a commercial airline copilot or a pilot for a courier service, would not be substantially limited in the major life activity of working." 29 CFRpt. 1630, App. $ 1630.2 (1998).Petitioners also argue that if one were to assume that asubstantial number of airline carriers have similar vision requirements, they would be substantially limited in the majorlife activity of working. See Brief for Petitioners 44-45.Even assuming for the sake of argument that the adoptionof similar vision requirements by other carriers would represent a substantial limitation on the major life activity ofworking, the argument is nevertheless flawed. It is notenough to say that if the physical criteria of a single employer were imputed to all similar employers one would beregarded as substantially limited in the major life activity ofworking only as a result of this imputation. An otherwisevalid job requirement, such as a height requirement, doesnot become invalid simply because it would limit a person'semployment opportunities in a substantial way if it were527US2 Unit: $U84 [05-09-01 13:03:18] PAGES PGT: OPIN494 SUTTON v. UNITED AIR LINES, INC.Ginsburg, J., concurringadopted by a substantial number of employers. Becausepetitioners have not alleged, and cannot demonstrate, thatrespondent's vision requirement reflects a belief that peti-tioners' vision substantially limits them, we agree with thedecision of the Court of Appeals affirming the dismissal ofpetitioners' claim that they are regarded as disabled.For these reasons, the judgment of the Court of Appealsfor the Tenth Circuit is affirmed.