Petitioner's motion to suppress evidence seized in awarrantless search of a "homicide crime scene" was deniedon the ground that the police were entitled to make athorough search of any crime scene and the objects found*Petitioner sought a writ directed to the West Virginia Supreme Courtof Appeals. That court, however, merely declined to exercise discretionary review. The last state court to rule on the merits of this case wasthe Circuit Court of West Virginia, Fayette County, to which the writ istherefore addressed.528US1 Unit: $$U6 [08-17-00 07:59:25] PAGES PGT: OPIN12 FLIPPO v. WEST VIRGINIAPer Curiamthere. Because the rule applied directly conflicts with Mincey v. Arizona, 437 U. S. 385 (1978), we reverse.One night in 1996, petitioner and his wife were vacationingat a cabin in a state park. After petitioner called 911 toreport that they had been attacked, the police arrived to findpetitioner waiting outside the cabin, with injuries to his headand legs. After questioning him, an officer entered thebuilding and found the body of petitioner's wife, with fatalhead wounds. The officers closed off the area, took petitioner to the hospital, and searched the exterior and environsof the cabin for footprints or signs of forced entry. When apolice photographer arrived at about 5:30 a.m., the officersreentered the building and proceeded to "process the crimescene." Brief in Opposition 5. For over 16 hours, they tookphotographs, collected evidence, and searched through thecontents of the cabin. According to the trial court, "[a]t thecrime scene, the investigating officers found on a table inCabin 13, among other things, a briefcase, which they, in theordinary course of investigating a homicide, opened, whereinthey found and seized various photographs and negatives."Indictment No. 96-F-119 (Cir. Ct. Fayette County, W. Va.,May 28, 1997), App. A to Pet. for Cert., p. 2.Petitioner was indicted for the murder of his wife andmoved to suppress the photographs and negatives discoveredin an envelope in the closed briefcase during the search.1He argued that the police had obtained no warrant, and thatno exception to the warrant requirement justified the searchand seizure.1 The photographs included several taken of a man who appears to betaking off his jeans. He was later identified as Joel Boggess, a friendof petitioner and a member of the congregation of which petitioner wasthe minister. At trial, the prosecution introduced the photographs as evidence of petitioner's relationship with Mr. Boggess and argued that thevictim's displeasure with this relationship was one of the reasons thatpetitioner may have been motivated to kill her.528US1 Unit: $$U6 [08-17-00 07:59:25] PAGES PGT: OPIN13Cite as: 528 U. S. 11 (1999)Per CuriamIn briefs to the trial court, petitioner contended thatMincey v. Arizona, supra, rejects a "crime scene exception" to the warrant requirement of the Fourth Amendment.The State also cited Mincey; it argued that the police mayconduct an immediate investigation of a crime scene to preserve evidence from intentional or accidental destruction,id., at 394, and characterized the police activity in this caseas "crime scene search and inventory," Brief in Opposition 12. The State also relied on the "plain view" exception, Mincey, supra, at 393 (citing Michigan v. Tyler, 436U. S. 499, 509-510 (1978)), noting only, however, that thebriefcase was unlocked.In denying the motion, the trial court said nothing aboutinventory or plain view, but instead approved the search asone of a "homicide crime scene":"The Court also concludes that investigating officers,having secured, for investigative purposes, the homicidecrime scene, were clearly within the law to conduct athorough investigation and examination of anything andeverything found within the crime scene area. The examination of [the] briefcase found on the table near thebody of a homicide victim in this case is clearly something an investigating officer could lawfully examine."App. A to Pet. for Cert., at 3.After hearing an oral presentation of petitioner's petition forappeal of this ruling, and with the full record before it, theSupreme Court of Appeals of West Virginia denied discretionary review. No. 982196 (Jan. 13, 1999), App. B to Pet.for Cert.A warrantless search by the police is invalid unless it fallswithin one of the narrow and well-delineated exceptions tothe warrant requirement, Katz v. United States, 389 U. S.347, 357 (1967), none of which the trial court invoked528US1 Unit: $$U6 [08-17-00 07:59:25] PAGES PGT: OPIN14 FLIPPO v. WEST VIRGINIAPer Curiamhere.2 It simply found that after the homicide crime scenewas secured for investigation, a search of "anything andeverything found within the crime scene area" was "withinthe law." App. A to Pet. for Cert., at 3.This position squarely conflicts with Mincey v. Arizona,supra, where we rejected the contention that there is a"murder scene exception" to the Warrant Clause of theFourth Amendment. We noted that police may make warrantless entries onto premises if they reasonably believe aperson is in need of immediate aid and may make promptwarrantless searches of a homicide scene for possible othervictims or a killer on the premises, id., at 392, but we rejected any general "murder scene exception" as "inconsistent with the Fourth and Fourteenth Amendments-- . . . thewarrantless search of Mincey's apartment was not constitutionally permissible simply because a homicide had recently occurred there." Id., at 395; see also Thompson v.Louisiana, 469 U. S. 17, 21 (1984) (per curiam). Minceycontrols here.Although the trial court made no attempt to distinguishMincey, the State contends that the trial court's ruling issupportable on the theory that petitioner's direction of thepolice to the scene of the attack implied consent to search as2 The State suggests that the trial court's finding that the search was"within the law" could be read as premised on the theories of plainview, exigent circumstances, and inventory that the State advanced below.No trace of this reasoning appears in the trial court's opinion, which instead appears to undermine the State's interpretation. It seems implausible that the court found that there was a risk of intentional or accidentaldestruction of evidence at a "secured" crime scene or that the authoritieswere performing a mere inventory search when the premises had beensecured for "investigative purposes" and the officers opened the briefcase"in the ordinary course of investigating a homicide." Nor does the court'svalidation of "investiga[ting] and examin[ing] . . . anything and everythingfound within the crime scene area," including photographs inside a closedbriefcase, apparently rest on the plain-view exception. App. A to Pet. forCert., at 2, 3.528US1 Unit: $$U6 [08-17-00 07:59:25] PAGES PGT: OPIN15Cite as: 528 U. S. 11 (1999)Per Curiamthey did. As in Thompson v. Louisiana, supra, at 23, how-ever, we express no opinion on whether the search heremight be justified as consensual, as "the issue of consent isordinarily a factual issue unsuitable for our consideration inthe first instance." Nor, of course, do we take any positionon the applicability of any other exception to the warrantrule, or the harmlessness vel non of any error in receivingthis evidence. Any such matters, properly raised, may beresolved on remand. 469 U. S., at 21; see also United Statesv.Matlock, 415 U. S. 164 (1974).The motion for leave to proceed in forma pauperis andthe petition for a writ of certiorari are granted, the judgmentof the Circuit Court of West Virginia, Fayette County, is reversed, and the case is remanded for further proceedings notinconsistent with this opinion.