The writ of certiorari is dismissed as improvidentlygranted.*Anthony T. Caso and Ronald A. Zumbrun filed a brief for the PacificLegal Foundation as amicus curiae urging reversal.Briefs of amici curiae were filed for the National Education Associationet al. by Robert H. Chanin, Bruce R. Lerner, and Jeremiah A. Collins;for the State Bar of Wisconsin by John S. Skilton and William M. Conley;and for David P. Frankel et al. by Mr. Frankel, pro se, and Joseph W.Little.502us1$11J 08-21-96 15:26:30 PAGES OPINPGT105OCTOBER TERM, 1991SyllabusSIMON & SCHUSTER, INC. v. MEMBERS OF THENEW YORK STATE CRIME VICTIMS BOARDet al.certiorari to the united states court of appeals forthe second circuitNo. 90-1059. Argued October 15, 1991--Decided December 10, 1991Among other things, New York's "Son of Sam" law provides that an "entity" contracting with a person "accused or convicted of a crime" for theproduction of a book or other work describing the crime must pay torespondent Crime Victims Board any moneys owed to that person underthe contract; requires the Board to deposit such funds in an escrowaccount for payment to any victim who, within five years, obtains a civiljudgment against the accused or convicted person and to the criminal'sother creditors; and defines "person convicted of a crime" to include"any person who has voluntarily and intelligently admitted the commission of a crime for which such person is not prosecuted." After it discovered that petitioner publisher had signed an agreement with an author who had contracted with admitted organized crime figure HenryHill for the production of a book about Hill's life, the Board, inter alia,determined that petitioner had violated the Son of Sam law and orderedit to turn over all money payable to Hill. Petitioner then brought suitunder 42 U. S. C. $ 1983, seeking a declaration that the law violates theFirst Amendment and an injunction barring the law's enforcement.The District Court found the law to be consistent with the Amendment,and the Court of Appeals affirmed.Held: The Son of Sam law is inconsistent with the First Amendment.Pp. 115-123.(a) Whether the First Amendment "speaker" is considered to be Hill,whose income the New York law places in escrow because of the storyhe has told, or petitioner, which can publish books about crime with theassistance of only those criminals willing to forgo remuneration for atleast five years, the law singles out speech on a particular subject for afinancial burden that it places on no other speech and no other incomeand, thus, is presumptively inconsistent with the Amendment. Leathers v. Medlock, 499 U. S. 439, 447; Arkansas Writers' Project, Inc. v.Ragland, 481 U. S. 221, 230. The fact that the law escrows speechderived income, rather than taxing a percentage of it outright as did thelaw invalidated in Arkansas Writers' Project, cannot serve as the basisfor disparate treatment under the Amendment, since both forms offinancial burden operate as disincentives to speak. Moreover, the502us1$11J 08-21-96 15:26:30 PAGES OPINPGT106 SIMON & SCHUSTER, INC. v. MEMBERS OFN. Y. STATE CRIME VICTIMS BD.SyllabusBoard's assertion that discriminatory financial treatment is suspect onlywhen the legislature intends to suppress certain ideas is incorrect, sincethis Court has long recognized that even regulations aimed at propergovernmental concerns can restrict unduly the exercise of rights underthe Amendment. Furthermore, the Board's claim that the law is permissible under the Amendment because it focuses generally on an "entity" rather than specifically on the media falters, first, on semanticgrounds, since any entity that enters into a contract with a convictedperson to transmit that person's speech becomes by definition a mediumof communication, and, second, on constitutional grounds, since thegovernmental power to impose content-based financial disincentives onspeech does not vary with the identity of the speaker. Accordingly,in order to justify the differential treatment imposed by the law, theState must show that its regulation is necessary to serve a compellingstate interest and is narrowly drawn to achieve that end. Id., at 231.Pp. 115-118.(b) The State has a compelling interest in compensating victims fromthe fruits of crime. Cf. Caplin & Drysdale, Chartered v. United States,491 U. S. 617, 629. However, contrary to the Board's assertion, theState has little if any interest in limiting such compensation to the proceeds of the wrongdoer's speech about the crime. The Board cannotexplain why the State should have any greater interest in compensatingvictims from the proceeds of criminals' "storytelling" than from any oftheir other assets, nor offer any justification for a distinction betweenthis expressive activity and any other activity in connection with itsinterest in transferring the fruits of crime from criminals to their victims. Cf., e. g., Arkansas Writers' Project, supra, at 231. Like thegovernmental entities in the latter and similar cases, the Board hastaken the effect of the statute and posited that effect as the State'sinterest. Pp. 118-121.(c) The New York law is not narrowly tailored to achieve the State'sobjective of compensating victims from the profits of crime. The lawis significantly overinclusive, since it applies to works on any subjectprovided that they express the author's thoughts or recollections abouthis crime, however tangentially or incidentally, and since its broad definition of "person convicted of a crime" enables the Board to escrow theincome of an author who admits in his work to having committed acrime, whether or not he was ever actually accused or convicted. Thesetwo provisions combine to encompass a wide range of existing and potential works that do not enable a criminal to profit from his crime whilea victim remains uncompensated. Pp. 121-123.916 F. 2d 777, reversed.502us1$11J 08-21-96 15:26:30 PAGES OPINPGT107Cite as: 502 U. S. 105 (1991)SyllabusO'Connor, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which Rehnquist,C. J., and White, Stevens, Scalia, and Souter, JJ., joined. Blackmun,J., post, p. 123, and Kennedy, J., post, p. 124, filed opinions concurring inthe judgment. Thomas, J., took no part in the consideration or decisionof the case.Ronald S. Rauchberg argued the cause for petitioner.With him on the briefs wereCharles S. Sims and Mark C.Morril.Howard L. Zwickel, Assistant Attorney General of NewYork, argued the cause for respondents. With him on thebrief were Robert Abrams, Attorney General, O. Peter Sherwood, Solicitor General, and Susan L. Watson, Assistant At-torney General.**Briefs of amici curiae urging reversal were filed for the AmericanCivil Liberties Union et al. by Leon Friedman, Steven R. Shapiro, JohnA. Powell, and Arthur N. Eisenberg; for the Association of American Publishers, Inc., by R. Bruce Rich; and for the Motion Picture Association ofAmerica, Inc., by Richard M. Cooper, David E. Kendall, and Walter J.Josiah, Jr.Briefs of amici curiae urging affirmance were filed for the State ofFlorida et al. by Robert A. Butterworth, Attorney General of Florida, andLouis F. Hubener and Charles A. Finkel, Assistant Attorneys General,and by the Attorneys General for their respective States as follows:Jimmy Evans of Alabama, Charles E. Cole of Alaska, Daniel E. Lungrenof California, Gale E. Norton of Colorado, Richard Blumenthal of Connecticut, Charles M. Oberly III of Delaware, Michael J. Bowers of Georgia,Larry EchoHawk of Idaho, Roland W. Burris of Illinois, Linley E. Pearsonof Indiana, Robert T. Stephan of Kansas, J. Joseph Curran, Jr., of Maryland, Scott Harshbarger of Massachusetts, Frank J. Kelley of Michigan,Hubert H. Humphrey III of Minnesota, Mike Moore of Mississippi, William L. Webster of Missouri, Marc Racicot of Montana, Don Stenberg ofNebraska, Frankie Sue Del Papa of Nevada, John P. Arnold of NewHampshire, Robert J. Del Tufo of New Jersey, Lacy H. Thornburg ofNorth Carolina, Lee Fisher of Ohio, Robert H. Henry of Oklahoma, ErnestD. Preate, Jr., of Pennsylvania, T. Travis Medlock of South Carolina, MarkBarnett of South Dakota, Charles W. Burson of Tennessee, Paul Van Damof Utah, Jeffrey L. Amestoy of Vermont, Mary Sue Terry of Virginia, andJoseph B. Meyer of Wyoming; and for the Council of State Governmentset al. by Richard Ruda and Randal S. Milch.Briefs of amici curiae were filed for the United States by SolicitorGeneral Starr, Assistant Attorneys General Gerson and Mueller, Deputy502us1$11J 08-21-96 15:26:30 PAGES OPINPGT108 SIMON & SCHUSTER, INC. v. MEMBERS OFN. Y. STATE CRIME VICTIMS BD.Opinion of the CourtJustice O'Connor delivered the opinion of the Court.New York's "Son of Sam" law requires that an accused orconvicted criminal's income from works describing his crimebe deposited in an escrow account. These funds are thenmade available to the victims of the crime and the criminal'sother creditors. We consider whether this statute is con-sistent with the First Amendment.IAIn the summer of 1977, New York was terrorized by aserial killer popularly known as the Son of Sam. The huntfor the Son of Sam received considerable publicity, and bythe time David Berkowitz was identified as the killer andapprehended, the rights to his story were worth a substan-tial amount. Berkowitz's chance to profit from his notorietywhile his victims and their families remained uncompensateddid not escape the notice of New York's Legislature. TheState quickly enacted the statute at issue, N. Y. Exec. Law$ 632-a (McKinney 1982 and Supp. 1991).The statute was intended to "ensure that monies receivedby the criminal under such circumstances shall first be madeavailable to recompense the victims of that crime for theirloss and suffering." Assembly Bill Memorandum Re: A9019, July 22, 1977, reprinted in Legislative Bill Jacket, 1977N. Y. Laws, ch. 823. As the author of the statute explained:"It is abhorrent to one's sense of justice and decency that anindividual . . . can expect to receive large sums of money forhis story once he is captured--while five people are dead,[and] other people were injured as a result of his conduct."Solicitor General Shapiro, and Ronald J. Mann; for the Crime VictimsLegal Clinic by Judith Rowland; for the National Organization for VictimAssistance et al. by Charles G. Brown III; and for the Washington LegalFoundation et al. by Daniel J. Popeo, Richard A. Samp, and Jonathan K.Van Patten.502us1$11J 08-21-96 15:26:30 PAGES OPINPGT109Cite as: 502 U. S. 105 (1991)Opinion of the CourtMemorandum of Sen. Emanuel R. Gold, reprinted in NewYork State Legislative Annual, 1977, p. 267.The Son of Sam law, as later amended, requires any entitycontracting with an accused or convicted person for a depiction of the crime to submit a copy of the contract to respondent New York State Crime Victims Board (Board), and toturn over any income under that contract to the Board.This requirement applies to all such contracts in any mediumof communication:"Every person, firm, corporation, partnership, association or other legal entity contracting with any person orthe representative or assignee of any person, accused orconvicted of a crime in this state, with respect to thereenactment of such crime, by way of a movie, book,magazine article, tape recording, phonograph record,radio or television presentation, live entertainment ofany kind, or from the expression of such accused or convicted person's thoughts, feelings, opinions or emotionsregarding such crime, shall submit a copy of such con-tract to the board and pay over to the board any moneyswhich would otherwise, by terms of such contract, beowing to the person so accused or convicted or his representatives." N. Y. Exec. Law $ 632-a(1) (McKinney1982).The Board is then required to deposit the payment in anescrow account "for the benefit of and payable to any victim. . . provided that such victim, within five years of the dateof the establishment of such escrow account, brings a civilaction in a court of competent jurisdiction and recovers amoney judgment for damages against such [accused or convicted] person or his representatives." Ibid. After fiveyears, if no actions are pending, "the board shall immediatelypay over any moneys in the escrow account to such personor his legal representatives." $ 632-a(4). This 5-year period in which to bring a civil action against the convicted502us1$11J 08-21-96 15:26:30 PAGES OPINPGT110 SIMON & SCHUSTER, INC. v. MEMBERS OFN. Y. STATE CRIME VICTIMS BD.Opinion of the Courtperson begins to run when the escrow account is established,and supersedes any limitations period that expires earlier.$ 632-a(7).Subsection (8) grants priority to two classes of claimsagainst the escrow account. First, upon a court order, theBoard must release assets "for the exclusive purpose of re-taining legal representation." $ 632-a(8). In addition, theBoard has the discretion, after giving notice to the victimsof the crime, to "make payments from the escrow account toa representative of any person accused or convicted of acrime for the necessary expenses of the production of themoneys paid into the escrow account." Ibid. This provision permits payments to literary agents and other such representatives. Payments under subsection (8) may not exceed one-fifth of the amount collected in the account. Ibid.Claims against the account are given the following priorities: (a) payments ordered by the Board under subsection (8);(b) subrogation claims of the State for payments made tovictims of the crime; (c) civil judgments obtained by victimsof the crime; and (d) claims of other creditors of the accusedor convicted person, including state and local tax authorities.N. Y. Exec. Law $ 632-a(11) (McKinney Supp. 1991).Subsection (10) broadly defines "person convicted of acrime" to include "any person convicted of a crime in thisstate either by entry of a plea of guilty or by conviction aftertrial and any person who has voluntarily and intelligentlyadmitted the commission of a crime for which such personis not prosecuted." $ 632-a(10)(b) (emphasis added). Thusa person who has never been accused or convicted of a crimein the ordinary sense, but who admits in a book or otherwork to having committed a crime, is within the statute'scoverage.As recently construed by the New York Court of Appeals,however, the statute does not apply to victimless crimes.Children of Bedford, Inc. v. Petromelis, 77 N. Y. 2d 713, 726,573 N. E. 2d 541, 548 (1991).502us1$11J 08-21-96 15:26:30 PAGES OPINPGT111Cite as: 502 U. S. 105 (1991)Opinion of the CourtThe Son of Sam law supplements pre-existing statutoryschemes authorizing the Board to compensate crime victimsfor their losses, see N. Y. Exec. Law $ 631 (McKinney 1982and Supp. 1991), permitting courts to order the proceeds ofcrime forfeited to the State, see N. Y. Civ. Prac. Law $$ 1310-1352 (McKinney Supp. 1991), providing for orders of restitution at sentencing, N. Y. Penal Law $ 60.27 (McKinney 1987),and affording prejudgment attachment procedures to ensurethat wrongdoers do not dissipate their assets, N. Y. Civ. Prac.Law $$ 6201-6226 (McKinney 1980 and Supp. 1991). The escrow arrangement established by the Son of Sam law enhances these provisions only insofar as the accused or convicted person earns income within the scope of $ 632-a(1).Since its enactment in 1977, the Son of Sam law has beeninvoked only a handful of times. As might be expected, theindividuals whose profits the Board has sought to escrowhave all become well known for having committed highlypublicized crimes. These include Jean Harris, the convictedkiller of "Scarsdale Diet" Doctor Herman Tarnower; MarkDavid Chapman, the man convicted of assassinating JohnLennon; and R. Foster Winans, the former Wall Street Journal columnist convicted of insider trading. Ironically, thestatute was never applied to the Son of Sam himself; DavidBerkowitz was found incompetent to stand trial, and thestatute at that time applied only to criminals who had actually been convicted. N. Y. Times, Feb. 20, 1991, p. B8, col. 4.According to the Board, Berkowitz voluntarily paid his shareof the royalties from the book Son of Sam, published in 1981,to his victims or their estates. Brief for Respondents 8,n. 13.This case began in 1986, when the Board first becameaware of the contract between petitioner Simon & Schusterand admitted organized crime figure Henry Hill.502us1$11J 08-21-96 15:26:30 PAGES OPINPGT112 SIMON & SCHUSTER, INC. v. MEMBERS OFN. Y. STATE CRIME VICTIMS BD.Opinion of the CourtBLooking back from the safety of the Federal Witness Pro-tection Program, Henry Hill recalled: "At the age of twelvemy ambition was to be a gangster. To be a wiseguy. Tome being a wiseguy was better than being president of theUnited States." N. Pileggi, Wiseguy: Life in a Mafia Family19 (1985) (hereinafter Wiseguy). Whatever one might thinkof Hill, at the very least it can be said that he realized hisdreams. After a career spanning 25 years, Hill admittedengineering some of the most daring crimes of his day,including the 1978-1979 Boston College basketball pointshaving scandal, and the theft of $6 million from LufthansaAirlines in 1978, the largest successful cash robbery inAmerican history. Wiseguy 9. Most of Hill's crimes weremore banausic: He committed extortion, he imported and distributed narcotics, and he organized numerous robberies.Hill was arrested in 1980. In exchange for immunity fromprosecution, he testified against many of his former col-leagues. Since his arrest, he has lived under an assumedname in an unknown part of the country.In August 1981, Hill entered into a contract with authorNicholas Pileggi for the production of a book about Hill's life.The following month, Hill and Pileggi signed a publishingagreement with Simon & Schuster, Inc. Under the agree-ment, Simon & Schuster agreed to make payments to bothHill and Pileggi. Over the next few years, according to Pi-leggi, he and Hill "talked at length virtually every singleday, with not more than an occasional Sunday or holidayskipped. We spent more than three hundred hours together; my notes of conversations with Henry occupy morethan six linear file feet." App. 27. Because producing thebook required such a substantial investment of time and ef-fort, Hill sought compensation.Ibid.The result of Hill and Pileggi's collaboration was Wiseguy,which was published in January 1986. The book depicts, incolorful detail, the day-to-day existence of organized crime,502us1$11J 08-21-96 15:26:30 PAGES OPINPGT113Cite as: 502 U. S. 105 (1991)Opinion of the Courtprimarily in Hill's first-person narrative. Throughout Wise-guy, Hill frankly admits to having participated in an astonishing variety of crimes. He discusses, among other things,his conviction of extortion and the prison sentence he served.In one portion of the book, Hill recounts how members ofthe Mafia received preferential treatment in prison:"The dorm was a separate three-story building outsidethe wall, which looked more like a Holiday Inn than aprison. There were four guys to a room, and we hadcomfortable beds and private baths. There were twodozen rooms on each floor, and each of them had mobguys living in them. It was like a wiseguy convention--the whole Gotti crew, Jimmy Doyle and his guys,`Ernie Boy' Abbamonte and `Joe Crow' Delvecchio, Vinnie Aloi, Frank Cotroni."It was wild. There was wine and booze, and it waskept in bath-oil or after-shave jars. The hacks in thehonor dorm were almost all on the take, and eventhough it was against the rules, we used to cook in ourrooms. Looking back, I don't think Paulie went to thegeneral mess five times in the two and a half years hewas there. We had a stove and pots and pans and silverware stacked in the bathroom. We had glasses andan ice-water cooler where we kept the fresh meats andcheeses. When there was an inspection, we stored thestuff in the false ceiling, and once in a while, if it wasconfiscated, we'd just go to the kitchen and get new stuff."We had the best food smuggled into our dorm fromthe kitchen. Steaks, veal cutlets, shrimp, red snapper.Whatever the hacks could buy, we ate. It cost me two,three hundred a week. Guys like Paulie spent five hun-dred to a thousand bucks a week. Scotch cost thirtydollars a pint. The hacks used to bring it inside thewalls in their lunch pails. We never ran out of booze,because we had six hacks bringing it in six days a week.Depending on what you wanted and how much you were502us1$11J 08-21-96 15:26:31 PAGES OPINPGT114 SIMON & SCHUSTER, INC. v. MEMBERS OFN. Y. STATE CRIME VICTIMS BD.Opinion of the Courtwilling to spend, life could be almost bearable." Wise-guy 150-151.Wiseguy was reviewed favorably: The Washington Postcalled it an " `amply detailed and entirely fascinating bookthat amounts to a piece of revisionist history,' " while NewYork Daily News columnist Jimmy Breslin named it " `thebest book on crime in America ever written.' " App. 5.The book was also a commercial success: Within 19 monthsof its publication, more than a million copies were in print.A few years later, the book was converted into a film calledGoodfellas, which won a host of awards as the best film of1990.From Henry Hill's perspective, however, the publicity gen-erated by the book's success proved less desirable. TheCrime Victims Board learned of Wiseguy in January 1986,soon after it was published.COn January 31, the Board notified Simon & Schuster: "Ithas come to our attention that you may have contracted witha person accused or convicted of a crime for the paymentof monies to such person." App. 86. The Board orderedSimon & Schuster to furnish copies of any contracts it hadentered into with Hill, to provide the dollar amounts anddates of all payments it had made to Hill, and to suspend allpayments to Hill in the future. Simon & Schuster compliedwith this order. By that time, Simon & Schuster had paidHill's literary agent $96,250 in advances and royalties onHill's behalf, and was holding $27,958 for eventual paymentto Hill.The Board reviewed the book and the contract, and on May21, 1987, issued a proposed determination and order. TheBoard determined that Wiseguy was covered by $ 632-a ofthe Executive Law, that Simon & Schuster had violated thelaw by failing to turn over its contract with Hill to the Boardand by making payments to Hill, and that all money owed to502us1$11J 08-21-96 15:26:31 PAGES OPINPGT115Cite as: 502 U. S. 105 (1991)Opinion of the CourtHill under the contract had to be turned over to the Boardto be held in escrow for the victims of Hill's crimes. TheBoard ordered Hill to turn over the payments he had alreadyreceived, and ordered Simon & Schuster to turn over allmoney payable to Hill at the time or in the future.Simon & Schuster brought suit in August 1987, under 42U. S. C. $ 1983, seeking a declaration that the Son of Sam lawviolates the First Amendment and an injunction barring thestatute's enforcement. After the parties filed cross-motionsfor summary judgment, the District Court found the statuteto be consistent with the First Amendment. 724 F. Supp.170 (SDNY 1989). A divided Court of Appeals affirmed.Simon & Schuster, Inc. v. Fischetti, 916 F. 2d 777 (CA21990).Because the Federal Government and most of the Stateshave enacted statutes with similar objectives, see 18 U. S. C.$ 3681; Note, Simon & Schuster, Inc. v. Fischetti: Can NewYork's Son of Sam Law Survive First Amendment Challenge?, 66 Notre Dame L. Rev. 1075, n. 6 (1991) (listing statestatutes), the issue is significant and likely to recur. We accordingly granted certiorari, 498 U. S. 1081 (1991), and wenow reverse.IIAA statute is presumptively inconsistent with the FirstAmendment if it imposes a financial burden on speakers because of the content of their speech. Leathers v. Medlock,499 U. S. 439, 447 (1991). As we emphasized in invalidatinga content-based magazine tax: "[O]fficial scrutiny of the content of publications as the basis for imposing a tax is entirelyincompatible with the First Amendment's guarantee of freedom of the press." Arkansas Writers' Project, Inc. v. Ragland, 481 U. S. 221, 230 (1987).This is a notion so engrained in our First Amendment jurisprudence that last Term we found it so "obvious" as to502us1$11J 08-21-96 15:26:31 PAGES OPINPGT116 SIMON & SCHUSTER, INC. v. MEMBERS OFN. Y. STATE CRIME VICTIMS BD.Opinion of the Courtnot require explanation. Leathers, supra, at 447. It is butone manifestation of a far broader principle: "Regulationswhich permit the Government to discriminate on the basisof the content of the message cannot be tolerated under theFirst Amendment." Regan v. Time, Inc., 468 U. S. 641, 648-649 (1984). See also Police Dept. of Chicago v. Mosley, 408U. S. 92, 95 (1972). In the context of financial regulation, itbears repeating, as we did in Leathers, that the government'sability to impose content-based burdens on speech raises thespecter that the government may effectively drive certainideas or viewpoints from the marketplace. 499 U. S., at 448-449. The First Amendment presumptively places this sortof discrimination beyond the power of the government. Aswe reiterated in Leathers: " `The constitutional right of freeexpression is . . . intended to remove governmental restraints from the arena of public discussion, putting the decision as to what views shall be voiced largely into the handsof each of us . . . in the belief that no other approach wouldcomport with the premise of individual dignity and choiceupon which our political system rests.' " Id., at 448-449(quoting Cohen v. California, 403 U. S. 15, 24 (1971)).The Son of Sam law is such a content-based statute. Itsingles out income derived from expressive activity for aburden the State places on no other income, and it is directedonly at works with a specified content. Whether the FirstAmendment "speaker" is considered to be Henry Hill, whoseincome the statute places in escrow because of the story hehas told, or Simon & Schuster, which can publish books aboutcrime with the assistance of only those criminals willing toforgo remuneration for at least five years, the statute plainlyimposes a financial disincentive only on speech of a particular content.The Board tries unsuccessfully to distinguish the Son ofSam law from the discriminatory tax at issue in ArkansasWriters' Project. While the Son of Sam law escrows all ofthe speaker's speech-derived income for at least five years,502us1$11J 08-21-96 15:26:31 PAGES OPINPGT117Cite as: 502 U. S. 105 (1991)Opinion of the Courtrather than taxing a percentage of it outright, this differencecan hardly serve as the basis for disparate treatment underthe First Amendment. Both forms of financial burden oper-ate as disincentives to speak; indeed, in many cases it willbe impossible to discern in advance which type of regulationwill be more costly to the speaker.The Board next argues that discriminatory financial treatment is suspect under the First Amendment only when thelegislature intends to suppress certain ideas. This assertionis incorrect; our cases have consistently held that "[i]llicitlegislative intent is not thesine qua non of a violation ofthe First Amendment." Minneapolis Star & Tribune Co.v. Minnesota Comm'r of Revenue, 460 U. S. 575, 592 (1983).Simon & Schuster need adduce "no evidence of an impropercensorial motive." Arkansas Writers' Project, supra, at228. As we concluded in Minneapolis Star: "We have longrecognized that even regulations aimed at proper governmental concerns can restrict unduly the exercise of rightsprotected by the First Amendment." 460 U. S., at 592.Finally, the Board claims that even if the First Amendment prohibits content-based financial regulation specificallyof the media, the Son of Sam law is different, because itimposes a general burden on any "entity" contracting witha convicted person to transmit that person's speech. Cf.Cohen v. Cowles Media Co., 501 U. S. 663, 670 (1991) ("[E]nforcement of . . . general laws against the press is not subjectto stricter scrutiny than would be applied to enforcementagainst other persons or organizations"). This argumentfalters on both semantic and constitutional grounds. Any"entity" that enters into such a contract becomes by definition a medium of communication, if it was not one already.In any event, the characterization of an entity as a memberof the "media" is irrelevant for these purposes. The government's power to impose content-based financial disincentives on speech surely does not vary with the identity ofthe speaker.502us1$11J 08-21-96 15:26:31 PAGES OPINPGT118 SIMON & SCHUSTER, INC. v. MEMBERS OFN. Y. STATE CRIME VICTIMS BD.Opinion of the CourtThe Son of Sam law establishes a financial disincentive tocreate or publish works with a particular content. In orderto justify such differential treatment, "the State must showthat its regulation is necessary to serve a compelling stateinterest and is narrowly drawn to achieve that end." Arkansas Writers' Project, 481 U. S., at 231.BThe Board disclaims, as it must, any state interest in suppressing descriptions of crime out of solicitude for the sensibilities of readers. See Brief for Respondents 38, n. 38. Aswe have often had occasion to repeat: " `[T]he fact that society may find speech offensive is not a sufficient reason forsuppressing it. Indeed, if it is the speaker's opinion thatgives offense, that consequence is a reason for accordingit constitutional protection.' " Hustler Magazine, Inc. v.Falwell, 485 U. S. 46, 55 (1988) (quoting FCC v. PacificaFoundation, 438 U. S. 726, 745 (1978)). " `If there is a bedrock principle underlying the First Amendment, it is thatthe Government may not prohibit the expression of an ideasimply because society finds the idea itself offensive or disagreeable.' " United States v. Eichman, 496 U. S. 310, 319(1990) (quoting Texas v. Johnson, 491 U. S. 397, 414 (1989)).The Board thus does not assert any interest in limiting whatever anguish Henry Hill's victims may suffer from relivingtheir victimization.There can be little doubt, on the other hand, that the Statehas a compelling interest in ensuring that victims of crimeare compensated by those who harm them. Every State hasa body of tort law serving exactly this interest. The State'sinterest in preventing wrongdoers from dissipating theirassets before victims can recover explains the existence ofthe State's statutory provisions for prejudgment remediesand orders of restitution. See N. Y. Civ. Prac. Law $$ 6201-6226 (McKinney 1980 and Supp. 1991); N. Y. Penal Law502us1$11J 08-21-96 15:26:31 PAGES OPINPGT119Cite as: 502 U. S. 105 (1991)Opinion of the Court$ 60.27 (McKinney 1987). We have recognized the importance of this interest before, in the Sixth Amendment context. See Caplin & Drysdale, Chartered v. United States,491 U. S. 617, 629 (1989).The State likewise has an undisputed compelling interestin ensuring that criminals do not profit from their crimes.Like most if not all States, New York has long recognizedthe "fundamental equitable principle," Children of Bedfordv. Petromelis, 77 N. Y. 2d, at 727, 573 N. E. 2d, at 548, that"[n]o one shall be permitted to profit by his own fraud, or totake advantage of his own wrong, or to found any claim uponhis own iniquity, or to acquire property by his own crime."Riggs v. Palmer, 115 N. Y. 506, 511-512, 22 N. E. 188, 190(1889). The force of this interest is evidenced by the State'sstatutory provisions for the forfeiture of the proceeds andinstrumentalities of crime. See N. Y. Civ. Prac. Law$$ 1310-1352 (McKinney Supp. 1991).The parties debate whether book royalties can properly betermed the profits of crime, but that is a question we neednot address here. For the purposes of this case, we can assume without deciding that the income escrowed by the Sonof Sam law represents the fruits of crime. We need onlyconclude that the State has a compelling interest in depriving criminals of the profits of their crimes, and in using thesefunds to compensate victims.The Board attempts to define the State's interest morenarrowly, as "ensuring that criminals do not profit from storytelling about their crimes before their victims have ameaningful opportunity to be compensated for their injuries." Brief for Respondents 46. Here the Board is on farshakier ground. The Board cannot explain why the Stateshould have any greater interest in compensating victimsfrom the proceeds of such "storytelling" than from any of thecriminal's other assets. Nor can the Board offer any justification for a distinction between this expressive activity and502us1$11J 08-21-96 15:26:31 PAGES OPINPGT120 SIMON & SCHUSTER, INC. v. MEMBERS OFN. Y. STATE CRIME VICTIMS BD.Opinion of the Courtany other activity in connection with its interest in transfer-ring the fruits of crime from criminals to their victims.Thus even if the State can be said to have an interest inclassifying a criminal's assets in this manner, that interest ishardly compelling.We have rejected similar assertions of a compelling inter-est in the past. InArkansas Writers' Project and Minneapolis Star, we observed that while the State certainly has animportant interest in raising revenue through taxation, thatinterest hardly justified selective taxation of the press, asit was completely unrelated to a press/nonpress distinction.Arkansas Writers' Project, supra, at 231; MinneapolisStar, 460 U. S., at 586. Likewise, in Carey v. Brown, 447U. S. 455, 467-469 (1980), we recognized the State's interestin preserving privacy by prohibiting residential picketing,but refused to permit the State to ban only nonlabor picketing. This was because "nothing in the content-based labor-nonlabor distinction has any bearing whatsoever on privacy."Id., at 465. Much the same is true here. The distinctiondrawn by the Son of Sam law has nothing to do with theState's interest in transferring the proceeds of crime fromcriminals to their victims.Like the government entities in the above cases, the Boardhas taken the effect of the statute and posited that effect asthe State's interest. If accepted, this sort of circular defense can sidestep judicial review of almost any statute,because it makes all statutes look narrowly tailored. AsJudge Newman pointed out in his dissent from the opinionof the Court of Appeals, such an argument "eliminates theentire inquiry concerning the validity of content-based discriminations. Every content-based discrimination could beupheld by simply observing that the state is anxious toregulate the designated category of speech." 916 F. 2d, at785.In short, the State has a compelling interest in compensating victims from the fruits of the crime, but little if any interest in limiting such compensation to the proceeds of the502us1$11J 08-21-96 15:26:31 PAGES OPINPGT121Cite as: 502 U. S. 105 (1991)Opinion of the Courtwrongdoer's speech about the crime. We must therefore determine whether the Son of Sam law is narrowly tailored toadvance the former, not the latter, objective.CAs a means of ensuring that victims are compensated fromthe proceeds of crime, the Son of Sam law is significantlyoverinclusive. As counsel for the Board conceded at oralargument, the statute applies to works on any subject, provided that they express the author's thoughts or recollections about his crime, however tangentially or incidentally.See Tr. of Oral Arg. 30, 38; see also App. 109. In addition,the statute's broad definition of "person convicted of a crime"enables the Board to escrow the income of any author whoadmits in his work to having committed a crime, whetheror not the author was ever actually accused or convicted.$ 632-a(10)(b).These two provisions combine to encompass a potentiallyvery large number of works. Had the Son of Sam law beenin effect at the time and place of publication, it would haveescrowed payment for such works as The Autobiography ofMalcolm X, which describes crimes committed by the civilrights leader before he became a public figure; Civil Disobedience, in which Thoreau acknowledges his refusal to paytaxes and recalls his experience in jail; and even the Confessions of Saint Augustine, in which the author laments "mypast foulness and the carnal corruptions of my soul," oneinstance of which involved the theft of pears from a neighboring vineyard. See A. Haley & Malcolm X, The Autobiography of Malcolm X 108-125 (1964); H. Thoreau, Civil Disobedience 18-22 (1849, reprinted 1969); The Confessions ofSaint Augustine 31, 36-37 (Franklin Library ed. 1980).Amicus Association of American Publishers, Inc., has submitted a sobering bibliography listing hundreds of works byAmerican prisoners and ex-prisoners, many of which containdescriptions of the crimes for which the authors were incar502us1$11J 08-21-96 15:26:31 PAGES OPINPGT122 SIMON & SCHUSTER, INC. v. MEMBERS OFN. Y. STATE CRIME VICTIMS BD.Opinion of the Courtcerated, including works by such authors as Emma Goldmanand Martin Luther King, Jr. A list of prominent figureswhose autobiographies would be subject to the statute ifwritten is not difficult to construct: The list could include SirWalter Raleigh, who was convicted of treason after a dubiously conducted 1603 trial; Jesse Jackson, who was arrestedin 1963 for trespass and resisting arrest after attempting tobe served at a lunch counter in North Carolina; and BertrandRussell, who was jailed for seven days at the age of 89 forparticipating in a sit-down protest against nuclear weapons.The argument that a statute like the Son of Sam law wouldprevent publication of all of these works is hyperbole--somewould have been written without compensation--but the Sonof Sam law clearly reaches a wide range of literature thatdoes not enable a criminal to profit from his crime while avictim remains uncompensated.**Because the Son of Sam law is so overinclusive, we need not addressthe Board's contention that the statute is content neutral under our decisions in Ward v. Rock Against Racism, 491 U. S. 781 (1989), and Rentonv. Playtime Theatres, Inc., 475 U. S. 41 (1986). In these cases, we determined that statutes were content neutral where they were intended toserve purposes unrelated to the content of the regulated speech, despitetheir incidental effects on some speakers but not others. Even underWard and Renton, however, regulations must be "narrowly tailored" toadvance the interest asserted by the State. Ward, supra, at 798; Renton,supra, at 52. A regulation is not "narrowly tailored"--even under themore lenient tailoring standards applied in Ward and Renton--where, ashere, "a substantial portion of the burden on speech does not serve toadvance [the State's content-neutral] goals." Ward, supra, at 799. Thuswhether the Son of Sam law is analyzed as content neutral under Ward orcontent based under Leathers, it is too overinclusive to satisfy the requirements of the First Amendment. And, in light of our conclusion in thiscase, we need not decide whether, as Justice Blackmun suggests, theSon of Sam law is underinclusive as well as overinclusive. Nor does thiscase present a need to address Justice Kennedy's discussion of what isa longstanding debate, see G. Gunther, Constitutional Law 1069-1070 (12thed. 1991), on an issue which the parties before us have neither briefednor argued.502us1$11J 08-21-96 15:26:31 PAGES OPINPGT123Cite as: 502 U. S. 105 (1991)Blackmun, J., concurring in judgmentShould a prominent figure write his autobiography at theend of his career, and include in an early chapter a briefrecollection of having stolen (in New York) a nearly worth-less item as a youthful prank, the Board would control hisentire income from the book for five years, and would makethat income available to all of the author's creditors, despitethe fact that the statute of limitations for this minor incidenthad long since run. That the Son of Sam law can producesuch an outcome indicates that the statute is, to say the least,not narrowly tailored to achieve the State's objective of compensating crime victims from the profits of crime.IIIThe Federal Government and many of the States have en-acted statutes designed to serve purposes similar to thatserved by the Son of Sam law. Some of these statutes maybe quite different from New York's, and we have no occasionto determine the constitutionality of these other laws. Weconclude simply that in the Son of Sam law, New York hassingled out speech on a particular subject for a financial bur-den that it places on no other speech and no other income.The State's interest in compensating victims from the fruitsof crime is a compelling one, but the Son of Sam law is notnarrowly tailored to advance that objective. As a result, thestatute is inconsistent with the First Amendment.The judgment of the Court of Appeals is accordingly