Police officers entered petitioner's home, where they ar-rested and searched him. The officers had neither an arrestwarrant nor a search warrant. Without deciding whetherexigent circumstances had been present, the Louisiana Courtof Appeal concluded that the warrantless entry, arrest, andsearch did not violate the Fourth Amendment of the FederalConstitution because there had been probable cause to arrestpetitioner. 00-0190 (La. App. 11/15/00), 773 So. 2d 259.The court's reasoning plainly violates our holding in Payton536US2 Unit: $U79 [12-17-03 16:36:03] PAGES PGT: OPIN636 KIRK v. LOUISIANAPer Curiamv. New York, 445 U. S. 573, 590 (1980), that "[a]bsent exigentcircumstances," the "firm line at the entrance to thehouse . . . may not reasonably be crossed without a warrant."We thus grant the petition for a writ of certiorari and reverse the Court of Appeal's conclusion that the officers' ac-tions were lawful, absent exigent circumstances.*On an evening in March 1998, police officers observed peti-tioner's apartment based on an anonymous citizen complaintthat drug sales were occurring there. After witnessingwhat appeared to be several drug purchases and allowingthe buyers to leave the scene, the officers stopped one ofthe buyers on the street outside petitioner's residence. Theofficers later testified that "[b]ecause the stop took placewithin a block of the apartment, [they] feared that evidencewould be destroyed and ordered that the apartment be en-tered." 00-0190, at 2, 773 So. 2d, at 261. Thus, "[t]hey immediately knocked on the door of the apartment, arrestedthe defendant, searched him thereto and discovered the cocaine and the money." Id., at 4, 773 So. 2d, at 263. Al-though the officers sought and obtained a search warrantwhile they detained petitioner in his home, they only ob-tained this warrant after they had entered his home, arrested him, frisked him, found a drug vial in his underwear,and observed contraband in plain view in the apartment.Based on these events, petitioner was charged in a Louisi-ana court with possession of cocaine with intent to distribute.He filed a pretrial motion to suppress evidence obtained bythe police as a result of their warrantless entry, arrest, andsearch. After holding a suppression hearing, the trial courtdenied this motion. Petitioner was convicted and sentencedto 15 years at hard labor.On direct review to the Louisiana Court of Appeal, petitioner challenged the trial court's suppression ruling. Heargued that the police were not justified in entering his home*We also grant petitioner's motion for leave to proceed in formapauperis.536US2 Unit: $U79 [12-17-03 16:36:03] PAGES PGT: OPIN637Cite as: 536 U. S. 635 (2002)Per Curiamwithout a warrant absent exigent circumstances. TheCourt of Appeal acknowledged petitioner's argument: "[Petitioner] makes a long argument that there were not exigentcircumstances for entering the apartment without a warrant." Id., at 2, 773 So. 2d, at 261. The court, however,declined to decide whether exigent circumstances had beenpresent, because "the evidence required to prove that thedefendant possessed cocaine with the intent to distribute,namely the cocaine and the money, was not found in theapartment, but on his person." Ibid. The court concludedthat because "[t]he officers had probable cause to arrest andproperly searched the defendant incident thereto . . . [, t]hetrial court properly denied the motion to suppress."Id., at4, 773 So. 2d, at 263.The Louisiana Supreme Court denied review by a vote of 4to 3. In a written dissent, Chief Justice Calogero explained:"The Fourth Amendment to the United States constitution has drawn a firm line at the entrance to the home,and thus, the police need both probable cause to eitherarrest or search and exigent circumstances to justify anonconsensual warrantless intrusion into private premises. . . . Here, the defendant was arrested inside anapartment, without a warrant, and the state has notdemonstrated that exigent circumstances were present.Consequently, defendant's arrest was unconstitutional,and his motion to suppress should have been granted."App. to Pet. for Cert. 1-2.We agree with Chief Justice Calogero that the Court ofAppeal clearly erred by concluding that petitioner's arrest and the search "incident thereto," 00-0190, at 4, 773So. 2d, at 263, were constitutionally permissible. In Payton,we examined whether the Fourth Amendment was violatedby a state statute that authorized officers to "enter a privateresidence without a warrant and with force, if necessary, tomake a routine felony arrest." 445 U. S., at 574. We deter536US2 Unit: $U79 [12-17-03 16:36:03] PAGES PGT: OPIN638 KIRK v. LOUISIANAPer Curiammined that "the reasons for upholding warrantless arrests ina public place do not apply to warrantless invasions of theprivacy of the home." Id., at 576. We held that because"the Fourth Amendment has drawn a firm line at the entrance to the house . . . [, a]bsent exigent circumstances, thatthreshold may not reasonably be crossed without a warrant."Id., at 590. And we noted that an arrest warrant foundedon probable cause, as well as a search warrant, would sufficefor entry. Id., at 603.Here, the police had neither an arrest warrant for petitioner, nor a search warrant for petitioner's apartment, whenthey entered his home, arrested him, and searched him.The officers testified at the suppression hearing that thereason for their actions was a fear that evidence would bedestroyed, but the Louisiana Court of Appeal did not de-termine that such exigent circumstances were present.Rather, the court, in respondent's own words, determined"that the defendant's argument that there were no exigentcircumstances to justify the warrantless entry of the apart-ment was irrelevant" to the constitutionality of the officers'actions. Brief in Opposition 2-3. As Payton makes plain,police officers need either a warrant or probable cause plusexigent circumstances in order to make a lawful entry into ahome. The Court of Appeal's ruling to the contrary, andconsequent failure to assess whether exigent circumstanceswere present in this case, violated Payton.Petitioner and respondent both dispute at length whetherexigent circumstances were, in fact, present. We expressno opinion on that question, nor on respondent's argumentthat any Fourth Amendment violation was cured because thepolice had an "independent source" for the recovered evi-dence. Brief in Opposition 8. Rather, we reverse theCourt of Appeal's judgment that exigent circumstances werenot required to justify the officers' conduct, and remand forfurther proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.