The Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit reversed theDistrict Court's denial of habeas relief based on its speculation that the prosecution's failure to turn over the results ofa polygraph examination of a key witness might have had anadverse effect on pretrial preparation by the defense. TheCourt of Appeals assumed, and the parties do not dispute,that the results were inadmissible under state law both forsubstantive purposes as well as for impeachment. The decision below is a misapplication of our Brady jurisprudence,see Brady v. Maryland, 373 U. S. 83 (1963), and we accordingly reverse the judgment of the Court of Appeals and remand for further proceedings.IOn August 1, 1981, respondent Dwayne Bartholomewrobbed a laundromat in Tacoma, Washington. In the courseof the robbery, the laundromat attendant was shot and killed.Two shots were fired: One hit the attendant in the head; thesecond lodged in a counter near the victim's body. Fromthe beginning, respondent admitted that he committed therobbery and that the shots came from his gun.516us1$$1l 10-22-98 10:35:24 PAGES OPINPGT3Cite as: 516 U. S. 1 (1995)Per CuriamThe only issue at trial was whether respondent was guiltyof aggravated first-degree murder, which requires proof ofpremeditation; or of first-degree (felony) murder, which doesnot. Respondent's defense was that the gun, a single actionrevolver (one that must be cocked manually before eachshot), discharged by accident--twice.In addition to the physical evidence concerning the operation of the gun, the prosecution's evidence consisted of thetestimony of respondent's brother, Rodney Bartholomew,and of Rodney's girlfriend, Tracy Dormady. Both Rodneyand Tracy testified that on the day of the crime they hadgone to the laundromat in question to do their laundry, andthat respondent was sitting in his car in the parking lot whenthey arrived. While waiting for their laundry, Rodney satwith his brother in the car. Rodney testified that respondent told him that he intended to rob the laundromat and"leave no witnesses." According to their testimony, Rodneyand Tracy left the laundromat soon after the conversationand went to Tracy's house. Respondent arrived at thehouse a short time later, and when Tracy asked respondentif he had killed the attendant respondent said "he had puttwo bullets in the kid's head." Tracy also testified that shehad heard respondent say that he intended to leave no witnesses. Both Rodney and Tracy's testimony was consistentwith their pretrial statements to the police. State v. Bartholomew, 98 Wash. 2d 173, 176-178, 654 P. 2d 1170, 1173-1174 (1982).Respondent testified in his own defense. He admittedthreatening the victim with his gun and forcing him to liedown on the floor. Respondent said, however, that while hewas removing money from the cash drawer his gun accidently fired, discharging a bullet into the victim's head. Respondent further claimed that the gun went off a second timewhile he was running away. Respondent denied tellingRodney or Tracy that he intended to leave no witnesses.According to his testimony, moreover, Rodney had assisted516us1$$1l 10-22-98 10:35:24 PAGES OPINPGT4 WOOD v. BARTHOLOMEWPer Curiamin the robbery by convincing the attendant to open the laun-dromat's door after it had closed for the night, although Rodney left before the crime was committed. Ibid. In closingargument the defense sought to discredit Rodney and Tracy's testimony by suggesting that they were lying about theextent of Rodney's participation in the crime. 34 F. 3d 870,872 (CA9 1994).At the sentencing phase of the trial (respondent was sen-tenced to death but his sentence was overturned on appealand he was resentenced to life imprisonment without thepossibility of parole), the prosecution's first witness wasrespondent's cellmate, Stanley Bell. Bell testified that respondent told him that he made the victim lie on the floor,asked him his age, found out it was 17, replied "[t]oo bad,"and shot him. See State v. Bartholomew, supra, at 178, 654P. 2d, at 1174.Before trial, the prosecution requested that Rodney andTracy submit to polygraph examinations. The answers ofboth witnesses to the questions asked by the polygraph examiner were consistent with their testimony at trial. Aspart of the polygraph examination, the examiner asked Tracywhether she had helped respondent commit the robbery andwhether she had ever handled the murder weapon. Tracyanswered in the negative to both questions. The results ofthe testing as to these questions were inconclusive, but theexaminer noted his personal opinion that her responses weretruthful. The examiner also asked Rodney whether he hadassisted his brother in the robbery and whether at any timehe and his brother were in the laundromat together. Rodney responded in the negative to both questions, and theexaminer concluded that the responses to the questions indicated deception. Neither examination was disclosed to thedefense.After exhausting his state remedies, respondent filed a habeas action in the District Court for the Western District ofWashington, raising, inter alia, a Brady claim based on the516us1$$1l 10-22-98 10:35:24 PAGES OPINPGT5Cite as: 516 U. S. 1 (1995)Per Curiamprosecution's failure to produce the polygraph examinations.The District Court denied the writ, concluding that respondent "fails . . . to show that evidence was withheld. The in-formation withheld only possibly could have led to someadmissible evidence. He fails to show that disclosure of theresults of the polygraph to defense counsel would have hada reasonable likelihood of affecting the verdict." App. toPet. for Cert. B5 (emphasis in original).On appeal, the Ninth Circuit reversed. 34 F. 3d 870(1994). The Court of Appeals noted that under Washingtonlaw polygraphic examinations are inadmissible in evidence,even for impeachment purposes. Seeid., at 875 (citing Statev.Ellison, 36 Wash. App. 564, 676 P. 2d 531 (1984)). Thecourt nevertheless reversed the District Court's denial of thewrit, concluding that although the results would have beeninadmissible at trial, the information was material underBrady. The court reasoned that "[h]ad [respondent's] coun-sel known of the polygraph results, he would have had astronger reason to pursue an investigation of Rodney'sstory"; that he "likely would have taken Rodney's deposition" and that in that deposition "might well have succeededin obtaining an admission that he was lying about his participation in the crime" and "would likely have uncovered a vari-ety of conflicting statements which could have been usedquite effectively in cross-examination at trial." 34 F. 3d, at875-876.IIIf the prosecution's initial denial that polygraph examina-tions of the two witnesses existed were an intentional misstatement, we would not hesitate to condemn that misrepre-sentation in the strongest terms. But as we reiterated justlast Term, evidence is "material" under Brady, and the fail-ure to disclose it justifies setting aside a conviction, onlywhere there exists a "reasonable probability" that had theevidence been disclosed the result at trial would have beendifferent. Kyles v. Whitley, 514 U. S. 419, 433-434 (1995);516us1$$1l 10-22-98 10:35:24 PAGES OPINPGT6 WOOD v. BARTHOLOMEWPer CuriamUnited States v. Bagley, 473 U. S. 667, 682 (1985) (opinion ofBlackmun, J.); id., at 685 (White, J., concurring in part andconcurring in judgment). To begin with, on the Court ofAppeals' own assumption, the polygraph results were inadmissible under state law, even for impeachment purposes,absent a stipulation by the parties, see 34 F. 3d, at 875 (citingState v. Ellison, supra), and the parties do not contend otherwise. The information at issue here, then--the results ofa polygraph examination of one of the witnesses--is not "evidence" at all. Disclosure of the polygraph results, then,could have had no direct effect on the outcome of trial, because respondent could have made no mention of them eitherduring argument or while questioning witnesses. To getaround this problem, the Ninth Circuit reasoned that the information, had it been disclosed to the defense, might haveled respondent's counsel to conduct additional discovery thatmight have led to some additional evidence that could havebeen utilized. See 34 F. 3d, at 875. Other than expressinga belief that in a deposition Rodney might have confessed tohis involvement in the initial stages of the crime--a confession that itself would have been in no way inconsistent withrespondent's guilt--the Court of Appeals did not specifywhat particular evidence it had in mind. Its judgment isbased on mere speculation, in violation of the standards wehave established.At trial, respondent's strategy was to discredit Rodney'sdamaging testimony by suggesting that Rodney was lying inorder to downplay his own involvement in the crime. Id.,at 872. That strategy did not involve deposing Rodney. Itis difficult to see, then, on what basis the Ninth Circuit concluded that respondent's counsel would have prepared in adifferent manner, or (more important) would have discoveredsome unspecified additional evidence, merely by disclosure ofpolygraph results that, as to two questions, were consistentwith respondent's preestablished defense.516us1$$1l 10-22-98 10:35:24 PAGES OPINPGT7Cite as: 516 U. S. 1 (1995)Per CuriamIn speculating that the undisclosed polygraph resultsmight have affected trial counsel's preparation, and hencethe result at trial, the Ninth Circuit disagreed with, or disregarded, the view of respondent's own trial counsel. At theevidentiary hearing held in the Federal District Court in thishabeas action, respondent's habeas counsel questioned trialcounsel on the importance of the polygraph results:"Q: And you indicated that your cross-examination ofRodney was, I think, somewhat limited because ofconcern that--"A: It was limited in my own respect. Nobody tried tolimit me. In my opinion, as a trial lawyer, that was avery dangerous witness to me, and I wanted to get asmuch as I could out of him without recalling the crystalwords again. Leave no prisoners."Q: Do you think it would have been any help to you indoing that, if you had known of specific questions regarding the offense on which Mr. Rodney Bartholomewhad failed a polygraph examination? Would that haveperhaps affected the shape of your cross-examinationof him?"A: I think in retrospect they're almost parallel. Thequestions that he failed were his contribution or implication in the offense, the holdup, with Mr. Dwayne Bartholomew. I believe they were in gloves, so in retrospect they wouldn't have affected it. I would have likedto have known it, Mr. Ford, but I don't think it wouldhave affected the outcome of the case." Tr. 55-56.Trial counsel's strategic decision to limit his questioningof Rodney undermines the suggestion by the Court of Appeals that counsel might have chosen to depose Rodney hadthe polygraph results been disclosed. But of even greaterimportance was counsel's candid acknowledgment thatdisclosure would not have affected the scope of his cross516us1$$1l 10-22-98 10:35:24 PAGES OPINPGT8 WOOD v. BARTHOLOMEWPer Curiamexamination. That assessment is borne out by the best pos-sible proof: The Federal District Court below went so faras to permit respondent's habeas counsel, armed with theinformation about the polygraph examinations, to questionRodney under oath. Even though respondent's counsel waspermitted to refer to the polygraph results themselves--reference to which would not be permissible on retrial--counselobtained no contradictions or admissions out of Rodney.See id., at 84-87.In short, it is not "reasonably likely" that disclosure ofthe polygraph results--inadmissible under state law--wouldhave resulted in a different outcome at trial. Even withoutRodney's testimony, the case against respondent was over-whelming. To acquit of aggravated murder, the jury wouldhave had to believe that respondent's single action revolverdischarged accidently, not once but twice, by tragic coincidence depositing a bullet to the back of the victim's head,execution style, as the victim lay face down on the floor. Inthe face of this physical evidence, as well as Rodney andTracy's testimony--to say nothing of the testimony by Bellthat the State likely could introduce on retrial--it shouldtake more than supposition on the weak premises offered byrespondent to undermine a court's confidence in the outcome.Whenever a federal court grants habeas relief to a stateprisoner the issuance of the writ exacts great costs to theState's legitimate interest in finality. And where, as here,retrial would occur 13 years later, those costs and burdensare compounded many times. Those costs may be justifiedwhere serious doubts about the reliability of a trial infestedwith constitutional error exist. But where, as in this case, afederal appellate court, second-guessing a convict's own trialcounsel, grants habeas relief on the basis of little more thanspeculation with slight support, the proper delicate balancebetween the federal courts and the States is upset to adegree that requires correction.* * *516us1$$1l 10-22-98 10:35:24 PAGES OPINPGT9Cite as: 516 U. S. 1 (1995)Per CuriamThe petition for certiorari is granted, the judgment of theCourt of Appeals is reversed, and the case is remanded forfurther proceedings consistent with this opinion. The re-spondent's motion to proceed in forma pauperis is granted.