Petitioner LaRoyce Lathair Smith was convicted of capitalmurder and sentenced to death by a jury in Dallas County,Texas. Before the jury reached its sentence, the trial judge543US1 Unit: $$U3 [03-06-07 11:38:09] PAGES PGT: OPIN38 SMITH v. TEXASPer Curiamissued a supplemental "nullification instruction." Ex parteSmith, 132 S. W. 3d 407, 409 (Tex. Crim. App. 2004). Thatinstruction directed the jury to give effect to mitigation evidence, but allowed the jury to do so only by negating whatwould otherwise be affirmative responses to two special issues relating to deliberateness and future dangerousness.In Penry v. Johnson, 532 U. S. 782 (2001) (Penry II), we helda similar "nullification instruction" constitutionally inadequate because it did not allow the jury to give " `full consideration and full effect to mitigating circumstances' " inchoosing the defendant's appropriate sentence. Id., at 797(quoting Johnson v. Texas, 509 U. S. 350, 381 (1993) (O'Connor, J., dissenting)). Despite our holding in Penry II, theTexas Court of Criminal Appeals rejected petitioner's request for postconviction relief. The court reasoned that theinstruction either was irrelevant because petitioner did notproffer "constitutionally significant" mitigation evidence, orwas sufficiently distinguishable from the instruction in PenryII to survive constitutional scrutiny. 132 S. W. 3d, at 413,n. 21. We grant the petition for certiorari and petitioner'smotion for leave to proceed in forma pauperis, and reverse.IIn 1991, petitioner was convicted of brutally murderingone of his former co-workers at a Taco Bell in Dallas County.The victim and one of her co-workers were closing down therestaurant when petitioner and several friends asked to belet in to use the telephone. The two employees recognizedpetitioner and let him in. Petitioner then told his formerco-workers to leave because he wanted to rob the restaurant.When they did not leave, petitioner killed one co-worker bypistol-whipping her and shooting her in the back. Petitioneralso threatened, but did not harm, his other former coworker before exiting with his friends. The jury found petitioner guilty of capital murder beyond a reasonable doubt.543US1 Unit: $$U3 [03-06-07 11:38:09] PAGES PGT: OPIN39Cite as: 543 U. S. 37 (2004)Per CuriamAt the punishment phase, the jury was instructed on twospecial issues: first, whether the killing was deliberate; andsecond, whether the defendant posed a continuing danger toothers.1 Approximately two years prior to the trial, we hadheld that presenting only these two special issues, without additional instructions regarding the jury's duty to consider mitigation evidence, violated the Eighth Amendment.Penry v. Lynaugh, 492 U. S. 302, 328 (1989) (Penry I).Shortly af ter petiti oner 's trial, the Texas Leg islatureamended its capital sentencing scheme to require juries totake "into consideration all of the evidence, including the circumstances of the offense, the defendant's character andbackground, and the personal moral culpability of the defendant" in deciding whether there are sufficient mitigatingcircumstances to warrant a sentence of life imprisonmentrather than a death sentence. Penry II, supra, at 803 (quoting Tex. Code Crim. Proc. Ann., Art. 37.071(2)(e)(1) (VernonSupp. 2001)). Petitioner, however, did not receive the benefit of the new statutory instruction at his trial. Instead, justas in Penry II, petitioner was sentenced pursuant to a supplemental instruction provided to the jury by the trialjudge.2 That instruction read:1 The text of the special issues given to the jury was as follows: "(1) Wasthe conduct of the defendant that caused the death of the deceased committed deliberately, and with the reasonable expectation that the death ofthe deceased or another would result? (2) Is there a probability that thedefendant would commit criminal acts of violence that would constitute acontinuing threat to society?" Pet. for Cert. 5.2 The supplemental instruction in Penry II stated: " `You are instructedthat when you deliberate on the questions posed in the special issues, youare to consider mitigating circumstances, if any, supported by the evidencepresented in both phases of the trial, whether presented by the state orthe defendant. A mitigating circumstance may include, but is not limitedto, any aspect of the defendant's character and record or circumstances ofthe crime which you believe could make a death sentence inappropriate inthis case. If you find that there are any mitigating circumstances in thiscase, you must decide how much weight they deserve, if any, and there543US1 Unit: $$U3 [03-06-07 11:38:09] PAGES PGT: OPIN40 SMITH v. TEXASPer Curiam" `You are instructed that you shall consider any evi-dence which, in your opinion, is mitigating. Mitigatingevidence is evidence that reduces the Defendant's per-sonal or moral culpability or blameworthiness, and mayinclude, but is not limited to, any aspect of the Defend-ant's character, record, background, or circumstances ofthe offense for which you have found him guilty. Ourlaw does not specify what may or may not be consideredas mitigating evidence. Neither does our law providea formula for determining how much weight, if any, amitigating circumstance deserves. You may hear evidence which, in your judgment, has no relationship toany of the Special Issues, but if you find such evidenceis mitigating under these instructions, you shall considerit in the following instructions of the Court. You, andeach of you, are the sole judges of what evidence, if any,is mitigating and how much weight, if any, the mitigatingcircumstances, if any, including those which have no relationship to any of the Special Issues, deserves." `In answering the Special Issues submitted to youherein, if you believe that the State has proved beyonda reasonable doubt that the answers to the Special Issues are "Yes," and you also believe from the mitigatingevidence, if any, that the Defendant should not be sentenced to death, then you shall answer at least one ofthe Special Issues "No" in order to give effect to yourbelief that the death penalty should not be imposed dueto the mitigating evidence presented to you. In this regard, you are further instructed that the State of Texasfore, give effect and consideration to them in assessing the defendant'spersonal culpability at the time you answer the special issue. If you determine, when giving effect to the mitigating evidence, if any, that a lifesentence, as reflected by a negative finding to the issue under consideration, rather than a death sentence, is an appropriate response to the personal culpability of the defendant, a negative finding should be given toone of the special issues.' " 532 U. S., at 789-790 (emphasis added).543US1 Unit: $$U3 [03-06-07 11:38:09] PAGES PGT: OPIN41Cite as: 543 U. S. 37 (2004)Per Curiammust prove beyond a reasonable doubt that the deathsentence should be imposed despite the mitigating evidence, if any, admitted before you." `You are instructed that you may deliberate as abody about mitigating circumstances, but you are notrequired to reach a unanimous verdict as to their existence or weight. When you vote about the SpecialIssues, each of you must decide for yourself whethermitigating circumstances exist and, if so, how muchweight they deserve.' " 132 S. W. 3d, at 409.Employing the framework of special issues modified by thesupplemental nullification instruction, the jury considered avariety of mitigation evidence. Petitioner presented evidence that (1) he had been diagnosed with potentially organiclearning disabilities and speech handicaps at an early age;(2) he had a verbal IQ score of 75 and a full IQ of 78 and, asa result, had been in special education classes throughoutmost of his time in school; (3) despite his low IQ and learningdisabilities, his behavior at school was often exemplary;(4) his father was a drug addict who was involved with gangviolence and other criminal activities, and regularly stolemoney from family members to support a drug addiction; and(5) he was only 19 when he committed the crime.In response, the prosecution submitted evidence demonstrating that petitioner acted deliberately and cruelly. Theprosecution emphasized that petitioner knew his victim, yetstabbed her repeatedly in numerous places on her body.With respect to petitioner's future dangerousness, the prosecution stressed that petitioner had previously been convictedof misdemeanor assault and proffered evidence suggestingthat he had violated several drug laws.During closing arguments at the punishment phase, theprosecution reminded the jury of its duty to answer truthfully the two special issues of deliberateness and futuredangerousness.543US1 Unit: $$U3 [03-06-07 11:38:09] PAGES PGT: OPIN42 SMITH v. TEXASPer Curiam"Now, when we talked to you on voir dire, we talked toyou about--and we spent a lot of time talking to you todetermine whether or not you could follow the law.You told us two very important things when we talkedto you. First of all, you told us that in the appropriatecase that you could give the death penalty. Secondly,you said, `Mr. Nancarrow, Ms. McDaniel, if you prove tome that the answers to those special issues should beyes, then I can answer them yes.' If you wavered, ifyou hesitated one minute on that, then I guarantee you,you weren't going to be on this jury. We believed youthen, and we believe you now." Pet. for Cert. 6.The jury verdict form tracked the final reminders theprosecution gave the jury. The form made no mention ofnullification. Nor did it say anything about mitigation evi-dence. Instead, the verdict form asked whether petitionercommitted the act deliberately and whether there was aprobability that he would commit criminal acts of violencethat would constitute a continuing threat to society. Thejury was allowed to give "Yes" or "No" answers only. Thejury answered both questions "Yes" and sentenced petitionerto death. App. 4 to Pet. for Cert.On direct appeal, petitioner argued that our holding inPenry I rendered his jury instructions unconstitutional be-cause the special issues did not allow the jury to give effect to his mitigation evidence. The Texas Court of Crim-inal Appeals affirmed petitioner's sentence, reasoning thatthe nullification instruction provided an adequate vehiclethrough which the jury could consider petitioner's evidence.We denied certiorari on May 15, 1995. Smith v. Texas, 514U. S. 1112.Petitioner filed an original writ of habeas corpus in thetrial court in 1998. That suit was dismissed as untimely, butthe Texas Legislature amended its criminal code in such away as to allow petitioner to file a timely writ. Petitionerdid so, claiming that his jury was instructed in violation of543US1 Unit: $$U3 [03-06-07 11:38:09] PAGES PGT: OPIN43Cite as: 543 U. S. 37 (2004)Per Curiamthe Eighth Amendment. Before the Texas Court of Crimi-nal Appeals, petitioner argued that the jury instructions inhis case ran afoul of our holding in Penry II. The courtdenied petitioner's application on the merits. 132 S. W. 3d407 (2004).3 IIThe Texas Court of Criminal Appeals issued its opinionjust prior to our decision in Tennard v. Dretke, 542 U. S. 274(2004). In Tennard, we reversed the Fifth Circuit's refusalto grant a certificate of appealability to a defendant who wassentenced under the Texas capital sentencing scheme priorto the legislative revisions which took place in the aftermathof Penry I. Tennard, relying upon Penry I, argued thatTexas' two special issues--deliberateness and future dangerousness--did not allow the jury to give effect to his mitiga-tion evidence and that the trial court's failure to issue a supplemental mitigation instruction that would allow the juryto give full effect to his evidence rendered his death sentenceunconstitutional. The state court and the Fifth Circuit bothheld that the lack of an adequate mitigation instruction wasirrelevant. The courts both determined that Tennard hadfailed to satisfy the Fifth Circuit's threshold standard for" `constitutionally relevant' mitigating evidence, that is, evi-dence of a `uniquely severe permanent handicap with whichthe defendant was burdened through no fault of his own,'and evidence that `the criminal act was attributable to thissevere permanent condition.' " 542 U. S., at 281 (some inter-nal quotation marks omitted).Our rejection of that threshold test was central to our de-cision to reverse in Tennard. We held that "[t]he Fifth Circuit's test has no foundation in the decisions of this Court.Neither Penry I nor its progeny screened mitigating evi3 Four judges would have found petitioner's claim procedurally defaulted. See 132 S. W. 3d, at 417 (Hervey, J., concurring); id., at 428 (Holcomb, J., concurring). The majority of the court, however, declined toadopt this holding and reached petitioner's claims on the merits.543US1 Unit: $$U3 [03-06-07 11:38:09] PAGES PGT: OPIN44 SMITH v. TEXASPer Curiamdence for `constitutional relevance' before consideringwhether the jury instructions comported with the EighthAmendment." Id., at 284. Rather, we held that the jurymust be given an effective vehicle with which to weigh mitigating evidence so long as the defendant has met a "lowthreshold for relevance," which is satisfied by " ` "evidencewhich tends logically to prove or disprove some fact or circumstance which a fact-finder could reasonably deem to havemitigating value." ' " Id., at 284-285 (quoting McKoy v.North Carolina, 494 U. S. 433, 440 (1990)).The Texas Court of Criminal Appeals relied on preciselythe same "screening test" we held constitutionally inadequate in Tennard. 132 S. W. 3d, at 413 (holding that mitigation evidence requires a special instruction only when thatevidence passes the threshold test of "whether the defendant's criminal act was `due to the uniquely severe permanenthandicaps with which the defendant was burdened throughno fault of his own' " (quoting Robertson v. Cockrell, 325 F. 3d243, 251 (CA5 2003) (en banc))). Employing this test, thecourt concluded that petitioner's low IQ and placement inspecial-education classes were irrelevant because they didnot demonstrate that he suffered from a "severe disability."132 S. W. 3d, at 414. But, as we explained in Tennard, "[e]vidence of significantly impaired intellectual functioning is obviously evidence that `might serve as a basis for a sentenceless than death.' " 542 U. S., at 288 (quoting Skipper v.South Carolina, 476 U. S. 1, 5 (1986); some internal quotationmarks omitted). There is no question that a jury might wellhave considered petitioner's IQ scores and history of participation in special-education classes as a reason to impose asentence more lenient than death. Indeed, we have heldthat a defendant's IQ score of 79, a score slightly higher thanpetitioner's, constitutes relevant mitigation evidence. SeeWiggins v. Smith, 539 U. S. 510, 535 (2003); cf. Tennard,supra, at 288.543US1 Unit: $$U3 [03-06-07 11:38:09] PAGES PGT: OPIN45Cite as: 543 U. S. 37 (2004)Per CuriamThe state court also held that petitioner had offered "noevidence of any link or nexus between his troubled childhoodor his limited mental abilities and this capital murder." 132S. W. 3d, at 414. We rejected the Fifth Circuit's "nexus"requirement in Tennard, supra, at 287 (noting that none ofour prior opinions "suggested that a mentally retarded individual must establish a nexus between her mental capacityand her crime before the Eighth Amendment prohibition onexecuting her is triggered" and holding that the jury mustbe allowed the opportunity to considerPenry evidence evenif the defendant cannot establish "a nexus to the crime").That petitioner's evidence was relevant for mitigation pur-poses is plain under our precedents, even those predatingTennard. See, e. g., Penry I, 492 U. S., at 319-322; Payne v.Tennessee, 501 U. S. 808, 822 (1991); Boyde v. California, 494U. S. 370, 377-378 (1990); Eddings v. Oklahoma, 455 U. S.104, 114 (1982). The state court, however, erroneously relied on a test we never countenanced and now have un-equivocally rejected. We therefore hold that the state court"assessed [petitioner's legal] claim under an improper legalstandard."Tennard, supra, at 287. Because petitioner'sproffered evidence was relevant, the Eighth Amendment required the trial court to empower the jury with a vehiclecapable of giving effect to that evidence. Whether the "nullification instruction" satisfied that charge is the question towhich we now turn.IIIThe Texas Court of Criminal Appeals held that even ifpetitioner did proffer relevant mitigation evidence, the supplemental "nullification instruction" provided to the jury ad-equately allowed the jury to give effect to that evidence.The court found it significant that the supplemental instruc-tion in this case "told the jury that it `shall' consider all mitigating evidence, even evidence unrelated to the specialissues, [and] it also told the jury how to answer the specialissues to give effect to that mitigation evidence." 132 S. W.543US1 Unit: $$U3 [03-06-07 11:38:09] PAGES PGT: OPIN46 SMITH v. TEXASPer Curiam3d, at 416. The court also concluded that the nullificationinstruction made it clear to the jury that a "No" answer wasrequired if it "believed that the death penalty was not war-ranted because of the mitigating circumstances." Ibid.In Penry II, we held that "the key under Penry I is thatthe jury be able to `consider and give effect to [a defendant'smitigation] evidence in imposing sentence.' " 532 U. S., at797 (quotingPenry I, supra, at 319); see 532 U. S., at 797(" `[A] sentencer [must] be allowed to give full considerationand full effect to mitigating circumstances' " (quoting John-son v. Texas, 509 U. S., at 381 (O'Connor, J., dissenting);emphasis inJohnson)). We explained at length why thesupplemental instruction employed by the Texas courts didnot provide the jury with an adequate vehicle for expressinga "reasoned moral response" to all of the evidence relevantto the defendant's culpability. 532 U. S., at 796. Althoughthere are some distinctions between the Penry II supplemental instruction and the instruction petitioner's jury re-ceived, those distinctions are constitutionally insignificant.Penry II identified a broad and intractable problem--aproblem that the state court ignored here--inherent in anyrequirement that the jury nullify special issues containedwithin a verdict form."We generally presume that jurors follow their in-structions. Here, however, it would have been bothlogically and ethically impossible for a juror to followboth sets of instructions. Because Penry's mitigatingevidence did not fit within the scope of the special issues,answering those issues in the manner prescribed on theverdict form necessarily meant ignoring the commandof the supplemental instruction. And answering thespecial issues in the mode prescribed by the supplemen-tal instruction necessarily meant ignoring the verdictform instructions. Indeed, jurors who wanted to an-swer one of the special issues falsely to give effect tothe mitigating evidence would have had to violate theiroath to render a ` "true verdict." '543US1 Unit: $$U3 [03-06-07 11:38:09] PAGES PGT: OPIN47Cite as: 543 U. S. 37 (2004)Per Curiam"The mechanism created by the supplemental instruction thus inserted `an element of capriciousness' into thesentencing decision, `making the jurors' power to avoidthe death penalty dependent on their willingness' to elevate the supplemental instruction over the verdict forminstructions. There is, at the very least, `a reasonablelikelihood that the jury . . . applied the challenged instruction in a way that prevent[ed] the consideration' ofPenry's mental retardation and childhood abuse. Thesupplemental instruction therefore provided an inadequate vehicle for the jury to make a reasoned moral response to Penry's mitigating evidence." Id., at 799-800(citations omitted).It is certainly true that the mandatory aspect of the nullification instruction made petitioner's instruction distinctfrom Penry's. Indeed, the "shall" command in the nullification instruction resolved the ambiguity inherent in thePenry II instruction, which we held was either a nullificationinstruction or an instruction that " `shackled and confined' "Penry's mitigating evidence within the scope of the impermissibly narrow special issues. Id., at 798. That beingsaid, the clearer instruction given to petitioner's jury did notresolve the ethical problem described supra, at 46 and thispage.4 To the contrary, the mandatory language in the4 The concurring opinions below straightforwardly recognized this problem. See 132 S. W. 3d 407, 427 (Tex. Crim. App. 2004) (Hervey, J., concurring) (concluding that the " `nullification' instruction would, as a matter offederal constitutional law, suffer from the same defect as the one in PenryII had applicant presented any mitigating evidence that was beyond `theeffective reach of the sentencer' " and conceding that the instruction givento petitioner may have been inadequate "as a matter of federal constitutional law"); id., at 428 (Holcomb, J., concurring) ("The nullification instruction provided to Smith's jury contained the same defects the SupremeCourt identified in Penry II. Therefore, the jury was unconstitutionally precluded from considering and giving effect to Smith's mitigatingevidence").543US1 Unit: $$U3 [03-06-07 11:38:09] PAGES PGT: OPIN48 SMITH v. TEXASPer Curiamcharge could possibly have intensified the dilemma faced byethical jurors. Just as in Penry II, petitioner's jury was required by law to answer a verdict form that made no mentionwhatsoever of mitigation evidence. And just as in Penry II,the burden of proof on the State was tied by law to findingsof deliberateness and future dangerousness that had little, ifanything, to do with the mitigation evidence petitioner presented.5 Even if we were to assume that the jurors couldeasily and effectively have comprehended an orally deliveredinstruction directing them to disregard, in certain limitedcircumstances, a mandatory written instruction given at alater occasion, that would not change the fact that the "jurywas essentially instructed to return a false answer to a special issue in order to avoid a death sentence." Penry II, 532U. S., at 801.There is no principled distinction, for Eighth Amendmentpurposes, between the instruction given to petitioner's juryand the instruction in Penry II. Petitioner's evidence wasrelevant mitigation evidence for the jury under Tennard andPenry I. We therefore hold that the nullification instructionwas constitutionally inadequate under Penry II. The judgment of the Texas Court of Criminal Appeals is reversed,5 There is another similarity between this case and Penry II. In PenryII, we found it significant that the prosecutor admonished the jury to " `follow your oath, the evidence and the law' " prior to the deliberations inwhich the jury was required to fill out the verdict form. 532 U. S., at802. We held that this statement sent the jury "mixed signals" and "onlyreminded the jurors that they had to answer the special issues dishonestlyin order to give effect to Penry's mitigating evidence." Ibid. The prosecutor here similarly reminded the jury that each and every one of themhad promised to "follow the law" and return a "Yes" answer to the specialissues so long as the State met its burden of proof. Pet. for Cert. 6.Thus, the nullification instruction presented the same ethical dilemmahere and, what is more, it seems that despite the inclusion of the mandatory "shall" language, the nullification instruction may have been moreconfusing for the jury to implement in practice than the state courtassumed.543US1 Unit: $$U3 [03-06-07 11:38:09] PAGES PGT: OPIN49Cite as: 543 U. S. 37 (2004)Scalia, J., dissentingand the case is remanded for further proceedings not incon-sistent with this opinion.