The United States District Court for the District of Wyo-ming ordered that certain evidence which the Governmentproposed to use in respondent's pending criminal trial besuppressed. The Government appealed the order to theCourt of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit, but that court dis-missed the Government's appeal. It held that the 30-dayperiod in which to file an appeal began to run on the date ofthe District Court's original suppression order, rather thanon the date the District Court denied the Government's mo-tion for reconsideration. 920 F. 2d 702 (1990). We grantthe Government's petition for certiorari and vacate the judg-ment of the Court of Appeals.IRespondent was indicted for possession of cocaine with in-tent to distribute. The circumstances leading to the indictment are largely uncontested. Law enforcement officersstopped respondent's car for a suspected operating violation.The officers questioned respondent and asked for permissionto search the car. Respondent granted the request and abrief search was conducted but no cocaine was identified orseized. However, noting that neither respondent nor hispassenger had a valid operator's license, the officers im-pounded the car and transported respondent and his passenger to a Western Union office. The officers then went to thetowing service lot and searched the car a second time. Theyfound cocaine in the trunk. Respondent filed a pretrial mo-tion to suppress the evidence found in the second search.502us1$$1H 02-08-99 07:20:49 PAGES OPINPGT3Cite as: 502 U. S. 1 (1991)Per CuriamAmong the theories on which the Government originally contested the motion was that the second search had been conducted pursuant to respondent's continuing consent. However, before the District Court ruled on the suppressionmotion, the Government abandoned the continuing consenttheory in papers filed with the court, citing a lack of legalsupport for its position. On November 15, 1989, after anevidentiary hearing, the District Court granted the motionto suppress and noted in its order the Government's abandonment of the continuing consent theory. 725 F. Supp.1195, 1200 (Wyo. 1989). On December 13, 1989, the Government filed with the District Court a "Motion for Reconsideration of Suppression Order." The sole basis for the Government's motion was its reassertion of the continuing consenttheory. On January 3, 1990, the District Court denied themotion. The Government noticed its appeal on January 30,1990, less than 30 days after the denial of the motion forreconsideration but 76 days after the initial suppressionorder.A divided panel of the Tenth Circuit dismissed the appealas untimely, holding that the Government's motion to reconsider did not "toll" the 30-day period1 to appeal which began1 Federal Rule of Appellate Procedure 4(b) provides, inter alia:"When an appeal by the government is authorized by statute, the noticeof appeal shall be filed in the district court within 30 days after the entryof (i) the judgment or order appealed from or (ii) a notice of appeal byany defendant."Statutory authorization for the United States to appeal a suppressionorder is found at 18 U. S. C. $ 3731:"An appeal by the United States shall lie to a court of appeals froma decision or order of a district courts [sic] suppressing or excludingevidence.. . . . ."The appeal in all such cases shall be taken within thirty days after thedecision, judgment or order has been rendered and shall be diligentlyprosecuted."502us1$$1H 02-08-99 07:20:49 PAGES OPINPGT4 UNITED STATES v. IBARRAPer Curiamto run on the date of the initial order.2 In the course ofits opinion, the Court of Appeals rejected the Government'sargument that this Court's decisions in United States v.Healy, 376 U. S. 75 (1964), and United States v. Dieter, 429U. S. 6 (1976) (per curiam), controlled the decision.InUnited States v. Healy, supra, we said:"The question, therefore, is simply whether in a criminalcase a timely petition for rehearing by the Governmentfiled within the permissible time for appeal renders thejudgment not final for purposes of appeal until the Courtdisposes of the petition--in other words whether in suchcircumstances the 30-day period . . . begins to run fromthe date of entry of judgment or the denial of the peti-tion for rehearing." 376 U. S., at 77-78.The Court answered this question by saying that under the"well-established rule in civil cases,"id., at 78, the 30-dayperiod begins with the denial of the petition for rehearingand by further observing that this Court's consistent prac-tice had been to treat petitions for rehearing as having the2 The Court of Appeals' decision discusses the issue as a matter ofwhether the motion for reconsideration "tolled" the 30-day period that, byassumption, began to run with the District Court's first decision. We believe the issue is better described as whether the 30-day period began torun on the date of the first order or on the date of the order denying themotion for reconsideration, rather than as a matter of tolling. Principlesof equitable tolling usually dictate that when a time bar has been suspended and then begins to run again upon a later event, the time remaining on the clock is calculated by subtracting from the full limitations period whatever time ran before the clock was stopped. See Cada v. BaxterHealthcare Corp., 920 F. 2d 446 (CA7 1990) (discussing principles of equitable tolling). Thus, in the present case for example, a motion to reconsiderfiled after 20 days, if it tolled the 30-day period to appeal, would leave atmost only 10 days to appeal once the reconsideration motion was decided.However, we previously made clear that would-be appellants are entitledto the full 30 days after a motion to reconsider has been decided. UnitedStates v. Dieter, 429 U. S. 6, 7-8 (1976) (per curiam) ("[T]he 30-day limitation period runs from the denial of a timely petition . . . rather than fromthe date of the order itself").502us1$$1H 02-08-99 07:20:49 PAGES OPINPGT5Cite as: 502 U. S. 1 (1991)Per Curiamsame effect in criminal cases. Id., at 78-79. More than 12years later, we decided United States v. Dieter, supra (percuriam). There, too, the Court of Appeals for the TenthCircuit dismissed as untimely the Government's appeal froma District Court's order dismissing an indictment. Althoughthe Government's notice of appeal had been filed within 30days of a District Court order denying its "Motion to SetAside Order of Dismissal," it was not filed within 30 daysafter the order of dismissal itself. The Court of Appealsheld that our decision in Healy, supra, governed only in casesof claimed errors of law, whereas the basis of the Government's motion for reconsideration in Dieter was mistake orinadvertence.We vacated and remanded the decision of the Court of Appeals, saying that it "misconceived the basis of our decisionin Healy. We noted there that the consistent practice incivil and criminal cases alike has been to treat timely petitions for rehearing as rendering the original judgment nonfinal for purposes of appeal for as long as the petition is pending." 429 U. S., at 8. We pointed out the presumed benefitsof this rule--district courts are given the opportunity tocorrect their own alleged errors, and allowing them to doso prevents unnecessary burdens being placed on the courtsof appeals. We concluded that "the Court of Appeals' law/fact distinction--assuming such a distinction can be clearlydrawn for these purposes--finds no support in Healy."Ibid.The Court of Appeals in the present case nonetheless determined that the 30-day period was not affected by the Government's motion to reconsider. It instead created a specialrule for motions that seek reconsideration of previously disavowed theories because it concluded that suspending thetime to appeal upon such motions does not further the goalsdescribed in Dieter. Because such motions do not serve to502us1$$1Z 08-26-96 14:36:32 PAGES OPINPGT6 UNITED STATES v. IBARRAPer Curiampermit the district court to reconsider matters initially over-looked, the Court of Appeals thought that delaying the appellate process pending resolution of such motions is unlikelyto contribute to judicial efficiency. 920 F. 2d, at 706. It alsonoted that Government motions to reconsider a position con-ceded during appellate litigation are viewed with disfavorwhen filed before an appellate tribunal. Ibid. (citing UnitedStates v. Smith, 781 F. 2d 184 (CA10 1986)).IIWe think the Court of Appeals has misread our decisionsinHealy, supra, and Dieter, supra. The first of these deci-sions established that a motion for rehearing in a criminalcase, like a motion for rehearing in a civil case, renders anotherwise final decision of a district court not final until itdecides the petition for rehearing. In Dieter, we rejectedan effort to carve out exceptions to this general rule in thecase of petitions for rehearing which do not assert an allegederror of law. We think that the Court of Appeals' presenteffort to carve out a different exception to the general rulelaid down inHealy must likewise be rejected.It may be that motions to reconsider based on previouslyabandoned grounds are not apt to fare well either in the dis-trict court or on appeal to the court of appeals. But if sucha judgment as to the merits were allowed to play a part indeciding the time in which a denial of the motion may beappealed, it is difficult to see why a similar merits analysisshould not be undertaken for all motions for reconsideration.The result would be, as the dissenting judge below pointedout, to "graf[t] a merits inquiry onto what should be a brightline jurisdictional inquiry." 920 F. 2d, at 710 (Baldock, J.,dissenting).Undoubtedly some motions for reconsideration are so to-tally lacking in merit that the virtues of the rule establishedin Healy are not realized by delaying the 30-day period. Ifit were possible to pick them out in advance, it would be502us1$$1Z 08-26-96 14:36:33 PAGES OPINPGT7Cite as: 502 U. S. 1 (1991)Per Curiambetter if litigants pursuing such motions were made to gosooner, rather than later, on their fruitless way to the appellate court. But there is no certain way of deciding in ad-vance which motions for reconsideration have the requisitedegree of merit, and which do not. Given this, it is far bet-ter that all such motions be subsumed under one generalrule--the rule laid down in Healy. Without a clear generalrule litigants would be required to guess at their peril thedate on which the time to appeal commences to run. Pru-dent attorneys would be encouraged to file notices of appealfrom orders of the district court, even though the latter courtis in the course of considering a motion for rehearing of theorder. Cf. United States v. Ladson, 774 F. 2d 436, 438-439,n. 3 (CA11 1985). Less prudent attorneys would find themselves litigating in the courts of appeals whether a motionfor reconsideration filed in the district court had sufficientpotential merit to justify the litigant's delay in pursuing ap-pellate review. Neither development would be desirable.The Court of Appeals' opinion can be read to hold thatbecause the Government did not initially urge the argumentwhich it made in its motion for reconsideration, that motionwas not a "true" motion for reconsideration which would extend the time for appeal. But this method of analysis, too,would break down into subcategories the more general category of "motions for reconsideration" described in our previ-ous opinions. Here, the Government's motion before theDistrict Court sought to " `reconsider [a] question decided inthe case' in order to effect an `alteration of the rights adjudicated.' " Dieter, 429 U. S., at 8-9 (quoting Department ofBanking of Neb. v. Pink, 317 U. S. 264, 266 (1942)). That issufficient under Healy and Dieter.33 Two other concerns that animate the Tenth Circuit's decision are simply inapposite to the present case. First, there is no assertion that theGovernment's abandonment and reassertion of the consensual search theory was done in bad faith. We thus have no occasion to consider whetherinstances of bad faith might require a different result. See United States502us1$$1Z 08-26-96 14:36:33 PAGES OPINPGT8 UNITED STATES v. IBARRAPer CuriamThe petition for certiorari is granted, respondent's motionto proceed in forma pauperis is granted, the judgment ofthe Court of Appeals is vacated, and the case is remanded tothat court for further proceedings.